CHAPTER I

was a glorious morning in
Goarshausen. Griselda awoke.

wondering where she was.
When she remembered, she went to
the window. Beyond the garden, with
its clumps of acacias and laurels, the
Rhine rippled placidly. To the left,
to the right, were those round-backed
hills, all variegated and changing tints,

VOL. II. A

from the palest green to the deepest
violet, as the morning sunbeams or the
flitting shadows touched them.

One minute of wondering admiration,
then her thoughts fled to facts. She
rang her bell, and sent a scribbled
message by the chambermaid to Hugh.

How is he '. Are we to breakfast
together ? '

While she was brushing and plaiting
her fair locks, a pencilled message was
brought back, 

He has passed a most tranquil nights
seems almost himself. At the same
time, we must be strictly on guard. We
had better breakfast in the garden, in
about a half-an-hour from this. I trust
In you to remember that our talk must
exclude any and all reference to disturbing
events. H. B.'

Griselda felt relief,  peace. She put
on her prettiest dress. This was a
green-spotted muslin, trimmed with lace.
With her fair rose-tinted skin, she
looked a sweet siren,  even as the siren
of the dangerous Lorelei hard by might
have looked, could she have been
dressed in modern costume.

Going down, she saw her father
leaning on Hugh's arm, just reaching
the bottom of the staircase. ' Dear
food fellow that Hush is!' she gratefully
thought, with moistened eyes. * I
don't mind showing him my letters' 
she had them in her pocket  ' one bit.
And, if he does not like them, they
shall not go.'

However, when Hugh, after their
pleasant little out - of - door breakfast,
asked Griselda apart whether she had

accomplished her correspondence, and
she, in mute reply, handed him the
three letters, she greatly doubted
whether those specimens of her literary
incompetence '  she called it  would
ever be sent to England.

Sitting by her father on a bench
under the waving acacias, she watched
Hugh pace the narrow garden walks
reading her letters. He walked slowly
to the end of one path, then stood still,
carefully fastening the thin envelopes.
Then she felt an instinct to jump up and
run after him  he was stamping them.
Then, worse than all, he went to the
post-box that belonged to the hotel, and
dropped them in, without any further
ceremony.

He returned to them, and began ordinary
talk with Mr Black. She did

not dare to remark upon her letters,
lest her father should remember and
grow furious again. So she sat and
quietly endured her misgivings, while
the Vicar, who was growing steadily-better,
told them stories of the Rhine, 
how the fortress on Rheinfels opposite
them had bravely held out against
General Mallard and his twenty-four
thousand Frenchman in 1692,  how Mallard
had gone to his king previously,
and had boastfully capped the boastful
speeches of other courtiers by saying,
My new-year's offering to your Majesty
shall be the fortress of Rheinfels,'  how
the famous whirlpool beneath the
Lorelei rock lay hard by ; and how
many had been drawn to destruction
while gazing at the supposed vision of
the maiden and listening to the mystical

songs that were presumably uttered ber
her Hps.

Here the Vicar sighed.

It would seem that each one of us
had our special Lorelei,' he said dreamily.
*We are lured and lured on, only to
find ourselves vainly struggling in a
whirlpool.'

His two young companions exerted
themselves to change the current of his
thoughts. They pretended to disagree
as to whom should walk, and whether
Mr Black could accompany them in
the pony-chair belonging to the hotel.
Their squabble ended by Hugh going
off seemingly in a huff with Griselda,
and after whispering to her aside,
Talk about anything but his affairs.
I will come back and mount guard in
an hour or two. Then you can go.

Isn't that the best way ? ' Griselda
nodded significantly, then turned round
to her father, with a vexed expression.

Don't be angry with poor Hugh,'
he said, taking her arm, and walking
feebly towards the river bank.

Griselda protested that she was not
angry, but managed to say rather sharply
that she did not like ' prigs ' and ' dictatorial
people.'

But you two were such good friends
till I got ill,' said John Black, in mild
expostulation. ' Sometimes I almost
thought  but that doesn't matter.'

She flushed up. She knew very well
what her father meant.

Griselda,' he began again, ' I have
often wondered what you  would do 
if I died ? Tom and Harry are good
fellows, I believe ; but I have always

fancied that your organisation was superior
to theirs,  that you would not be
happy making your home with them.'

Don't talk of things which are not
likely to happen said his daughter,
fondly pressing his arm. ' You are not
likely to die, father.'

But if I were to die soon  answer
me, Griselda  do you care for any one
person more than another ? '

Had his brain been in good working
order, he would scarcely have talked
thus. His speech took Griselda entirely
by surprise.

Oh dear, no ! ' she cried, her face
aflame. ' You, and the boys, and
Jemima, of course, I love you all ; but
I only like other people.'

Then she stopped short, drew his
attention to a vineyard on the opposite

bank, and chattered on till, when Hugh
came back, she was almost at the end
of her conversational resources.

They had luncheon together, then
Hugh showed Griselda the map of the
excursions in the neighbourhood that
hung in the hall.

If you take my advice, you will
stroll towards the Swiss Valley,' he
said. ' You have four hours before
dinner, and you will see something of
the scenery, at all events. By-the-way,
dear,' he added, looking with fond admiration
into her eyes, ' those letters
were admirable,  capital ! I don't mean
that they were fine specimens of composition
or telegraphy ; but they were
just what was wanted at this point.'

Griselda looked almost distressed. At
no time did she like praise. And

Hugh's kind manner cut her to the
quick, she could not tell why. She
left him hastily, and hurriedly began
her walk.

At first this lay among the grey pebbles
of dry watercourses, or along goat-paths
at the edges of the crags. The ground
steadily rose, and presently she found herself
on a hill. Behind her, tiers of hills,
until the highest were actual mountains
faintly wreathed in pale mist ; beneath her,
the gleaming Rhine, with the ruin-crowned
gloomy hill, the Rheinfels ; and all around
was silence, In which the goat-bells were
distinctly heard tinkling here, there, above,
to the right and to the left.

She paused, delighting in the luxurious
silence ; then she followed the path
through a young forest of delicate larches.

She did not know which way she was

going, for the footpath wound from left
to right fantastically. She only knew she
was steadily ascending, and that after at
least half an-hour's carefully stepping
aside from old trunks that lay about and
across the path like bundles of petrified
snakes, and after manfully making her way
through twisted boughs that showered
their tiny green needles plentifully upon
her as she passed, she came to the top
of the wooded hill.

It was a green, fern-clad, circular clearing.
Great trunks of trees lay here and
there, green moss and fragile lichen
clinging to their peeling bark, ferns and
tender weeds springing up about them
from the fragrant earth.

The grassy knoll was deserted. There
were no footprints in the soft turf. With a
species of joy, Griselda felt that her kind

those odd creatures, as she thought
them, ordinary men and women  did not
generally deign to haunt this beautiful
spot.

It was the first time she had been alone
for so long ; yet no one loved solitude
better than Griselda. She had been
taught to love it in that curious childhood
when her mother was a confirmed invalid,
her father seldom at home, her brothers
cruel with the natural unchid cruelty of
boys running wild. That life among
them was a dull, sad solitude.

This solitude in this green ferny spot,
encircled by tender beautiful trees, with
God's blue heaven above, and nothing to
suggest wrong-doing, or suffering, or suspense,
or savagery anywhere  this solitude
was heavenly.

She sat on an old trunk carefully, that

not one frail weed should be disturbed ;
then she began to think.

She felt grateful that her father had
recovered so far,  that those letters were
safely despatched. But she felt uneasy
about Hugh.

She was but sixteen, and no man had as
yet dared to speak to her of love. But,
when Hugh looked so tenderly into her
eyes to-day, she had felt a certain sensation
of dismay.

What this was, or why she felt it, she
could not have told. But what did her
father really mean when he asked her
whether she ' cared for any one person
more than another ? '

Surely  he could not think  that she
could ever  marry  Hugh ?

She felt ashamed of having even thought
of such a thing, and began thinking of her

brothers. They had never, at any time,
been particularly kind to herself and
Jemima. But she had no doubt they
would get better as time went on.

While she was consoling herself with
this thought, she saw a man come leisurely
out of the wood opposite  a grey figure.

Hal ! '

The joyous cry was hardly out of her
lips before he was bounding towards her
over fallen trunks.

Griselda ! '

Their hands were clasped. They could
almost hear each other's hearts beat.

Griselda's lips quivered, her eyes were
wet, she hardly knew whether she was
sorry or glad, laughing or crying  and
he ?  oh, when he arrived at Goarshausen
and found out all about them, and that he
had been terrified about the Vicar without

much reasonable cause, when one written
line  even one message left for him 
would have spared him the pain  he had
been in a rage with this sweet, trembling,
little beauty !

Oh, you wretched little minx ! ' he said,
devouring her with his eyes ; ' you 
worse than horrible little mortal ! '

And he closed his hands warmly, tightly
round her slim wrists. She, feeling, knowing
that this was lover's passion, shrank
almost with fear for what he would do
next.

He felt one fierce desire to take her in
his arms there and then, and tell her that,
from the first moment he saw her again in
the old cathedral, he had known that she
was his love, the mistress of his thoughts,
and the dictator of his life and fortunes,
and that no one should come between

them  neither her father nor his parents
that, if she were not eventually his wife
then, as he had been restlessly repeating
to himself during his journey in pursuit, in
the words of an old rhyme, * He'd know
the reason why.'

But such rough and ready wooing might
frighten this simple maiden, though she
was daring as well as timid.

Why did you not write ? '

Oh, I couldn't ! It was such a scene
poor father ! '

I know all about it ; * I heard at the hotel
here. But he is all right now. Men of his
age do get brain fits like that when they
are overworked. He ought not to overwork.
But we'll talk about him presently.
We've got ourselves to think about now.
Oh, Griselda, if you were only half a quarter
as kind to me as you are to other people!'

' What have I done ? '

Leaving me  running away Hke that 
surely  you must know what I felt!
Have you forgotten that, long ago, you
promised to  '

Hal ! Loose my hands ! That was
silly nonsense ; we were children.'

All the more reason that we meant
what we said ; children and fools speak
the truth, they say,' said Hal, encouraged
by the flood of crimson that rushed to
Griselda's face, ears, neck. ' I spoke the
truth as a child then. I may be going to
speak it as a fool now ; but I'll speak it, all
the same. Come here, Griselda ! ' Still
holding her hands, he led her back to the
mossy trunk under a tree from which she
had sprung up to meet him. * Sit down.
No, not so far away. I am going to be
masterful, and I am going to catechise

VOL. II. B

you. First of all, what made you tremble
and half cry when you saw me ? '

You startled me.'

Griselda collected herself, and prepared
to be on the defensive.

Unpleasantly ? '

How can I tell ? '

Come '  Hal tried to see her face,
which she steadily turned from him, 
Griselda, you must answer me one question
 straight out. Do you hate me ? '

Certainly not.'

Are you indifferent to me ? '

A moment's pause ; then a feeble ' No.'
Then there is only one thing left,
Griselda. If you do not hate me, and
are not indifferent to me, you must' 
he drew a deep breath before he took
the plunge  ' you must feel just a little
towards me as I feel towards you.'

Griselda said nothing, but tried gently
to withdraw her hands.

Don't you want to know what I feel
for you ?'

Perhaps  most Hkely you do not know
yourself ! ' Griselda said.

She felt danger. This young lover suddenly
appearing and pouncing upon her
out of the bushes in tigerish fashion was
unnerving.

It is so many years since we met;
I have only seen you now and then ; you
don't even know me ; how can you .- *
It was but a poor, stumbling apology
for a speech. But Griselda felt she must
say something. ' Oh, do be sensible !
Are you all here ? Your mother and
father and sisters, I mean.'

All,' said Hal contemptuously. * Ah,
Griselda, you have a great deal to answer

for. When I went to your inn next
day, the landlord told me to ' get
out "  simply that ; something had happened
to your father  but what ? I felt
frenzied. I actually went to the heads
of the Police, fearing those "" Weissee
Rose " people had misbehaved in someway,
then an interpreter explained, and
I looked a fool, and the Police frowned
disgustedly at me as a warning not to
trifle with their dignity again. Then I
got into a rage, and quarrelled with my
mother and the courier, and made my
sister cry, and Sir Hubert thoroughly
uncomfortable ; and then a lucky inspiration
brought me here.'

How  curious ! '

*Well, not altogether so, for one of
the only speeches that surly Blunt chose
to honour me with that day we all met

in the cathedral was, whether I did not
think St Goar a good place to stop at.
I remembered that, and went to St Goar.
I inquired at the hotels ; you were not
there. Someone suggested you might
be at Goarshausen ! I took the ferry
across, and found you. I saw Blunt and
your father in the distance sitting in the
garden. I got hold of one of the waiters,
and found out which way you had gone,
and here I am, Griselda! If you won't
tell me what you feel for me, I don't
care, I will tell you what I feel for you.
I don't say I have pined for you since
we said good-bye, and I gave you my
chain, years ago. Boys don't pine, or,
if they do, they are not worthy to be
called boys at all. But, whenever I did
see you while we were both growing up,
all that love I had for you came back

and did not leave me again ; each time
it grew stronger. Then, when I came
upon you, so beautiful, so simple, so
good, standing at that altar, all the feeling
that had smouldered these long years
seemed to burst into a flame ; I wonder
I did not go down on my knees to you
there and then. Oh, don't snatch away
your hands ! You have been taught to
think, perhaps, that nothing sudden can
last ; perhaps the thing itself does not
last, but its effects are for ever. Is not
the sudden the most powerful ? Think of
electricity, of volcanic explosion.'

Hal  pray  please ! '

I will have my say out ! ' said the
impetuous young man, emboldened by
Griselda's pallor, and feeling all the keen
pleasure of subjugation. ' I have been
a fool to let my mother keep us apart

so long, for I believe it is she who has
done it ; but I will be a fool no longer
in that regard. I shall be of age directly,
and my own master ; now I am my own
master so far that I dare tell you that I
love you.'

Griselda sprang up and away from him.

Hal ! ' she cried, with a sudden outburst
which astonished even herself,
turning her glistening eyes full upon
him. 'Oh, Hal, do not break my heart!
You have been a sort of king to me for
all these years, but getting farther and
farther away. I never thought to hear
you talk to me like you do ; I never
dreamt it could happen. Don't come off
your throne and put your sceptre on my
poor neck and take me up to share it
with you for a while, and then cast
me off ! '

My darling ! ' Hal was down on his
knees before her on the grass. Sitting
there, pleading, her lovely face lit up with
a passion new to Griselda, she seemed to
him divine, and he honestly believed that
from that moment no other woman could,
would, or should have any beauty In his
eyes. ' I ever let you go when I have
once got you ? You, my Ideal, ever
since I first saw you sitting there, so
pretty and patient, In the orchard at
Crowsfoot ! I let you go ? Not very
likely ! Does a man let a big diamond
go when he succeeds in getting it ?
Don't  don't look at me like that, as If
you cannot believe a word I say ! Shall
I swear  promise  vow  '

No, no ! Oh, Hal, it makes me so
happy ; but how can I believe you ?
Think 'of what I am and what you are !

We are poor, and, I fear, almost In
disgrace because of that book my father
wrote ; and you  you will be Sir Henry
Romayne and very rich, with Feather's
Court, and the town-house, and a lot of
other places. Then your father and
mother  what would they say ? Oh, it
is Impossible  impossible ! Let me go,
Hal, dearest Hal, now, once and for
all, and let us forget this  this folly ! '

You forget, Griselda ; I promised your
mother  '

Griselda hid her face and sobbed. It
was hard  oh, so hard ! This great prize
to be laid at her feet  this young man
whom she knew now to have been her
most fondly, though secretly, loved hero, to
be pleading and insisting at her feet  and
she must turn away and resist  she must
dare to say no word but a strong, firm * No.'

But she could not say it. Hal took
her in his arms and kissed her  kissed
her with that first kiss of love so holy,
so pure, that it rises above and kills all
other emotion.

You are mine now,' he said  ' mine,
Griselda, for ever. Look at me, and say,
Yes." '

She raised her head and looked straight
into his eyes with an earnest, wistful look.

I am yours as far as this,' she said 
you will do as you please, take me or
leave me. But I  I will never marry
anyone but you. I am bound, but you
are free ! '

We were both bound, long ago,' said
Hal, * since that day when you gave me
this.*

He took a worn little leathern purse
from his breast-pocket, and showed her

that little sprig of musk she gave him
years ago, when they parted at her
mother's grave. He might not have
thought of his little love for many months
sometimes. He had had his escapades
like other young men with plenty of
money to fling about, and great expectations
in the future. But he had kept
that as superstitiously as a heathen keeps
some hideous little idol.

And Griselda confessed that she had
Hal's chain locked up in three differently-sized
boxes, from which it came out on
great occasions.

As they left the hill-top and went
slowly down the narrow overhung path
into the valley, Hal, as he carefully
guided Griselda's footsteps over the
gnarled tree-trunks, feeling a thrill in
his first hot young love when her little

hand lightly rested on his arm or his
shoulder, disclosed his brilliant plans 
plans as bright and cloudless as the
grand sunset sky which turned the noble
Rhine into a blood-red river and gleamed
between the fir branches like red lamps.

There should be no more trouble for
the Vicar. It would be a privilege to
pay his debts. Sir Hubert would persuade
him to listen to reason on this
point ; Hal would see to that. Then the
Vicar must write a second book, not in
refutation of his theories, but ' pitching
into everybody all round, like Byron did
in his English Bards and Scotch Reviewers!


The reviewers once settled  and
your father can settle them with a few
strokes of his pungent pen,' went on
Hal,  ' we can take high ground with

the bishop. In point of fact, we might
ignore the bishop altogether. What willa
man of mark like your father want with
a doddering old fellow like that } There
are always dozens of appointments open
to men like him and Coles, and fellows
that aren't afraid to speak out. That'll
be all right. Then  then I shall claim
you, Griselda! I'll sell out, If you wish
it, or you will have to put up with
barrack life Hallo ! What's that ? '

A man came leaping up the path as
they turned a corner.

He stared, as if amazed. It was Hugh.
He slightly saluted Romayne, then, turning
to Griselda, said that Mr Black had
been uneasy, and he had volunteered to
go to meet her.

Shall I go first ? ' he said, for the path
was too narrow to admit of more than two

walking, or, rather, picking their way
among the stones, abreast.

He had seen Griselda's bright smile,
her beautiful blush, her hand on Hal's
shoulder ; and, not having overheard
young Romayne's sanguine talk about
the Vicar, naturally attributed her beaming
happiness entirely to her preference
for her old playfellow.

So he went first, with a new bitterness
of heart, the sunset reflected upon his pale
sad face almost as if in mockery.

lOULD a new version of the
old, old story be retold in a
lovelier spot than Goarshausen
that bright summer time, when Griselda,
in spite of her sad childhood and serious
youth, was buoyant with the elasticity of
girlhood,  girlhood crowned with a happy
love ?

In itself the spot was so romantic.
Below the windows of the stone hotel,
the garden with its white paths among
the turf and flower-beds, with its straight
rows of acacias with their round bushy

green heads and slim stems, sloped down
to the broad, rapid-running Rhine. The
river was a marvel of loveliness. As it
streamed by the vine-clad mountains and
rocky heights, it had a fresh beauty each
hour of the day. Pale and mystic, it
murmured on in the grey light of dawn.
When the first red rays caught the
dancing wavelets, it changed from silvery
white to blood-red, then shone all colours,
like a gleaming pigeon's breast in the
sunshine ; at noon it surged onwards,
deeply blue, calmly unfathomable ; later,
its wavelets would foam into snowy
feathers, delightful to eyes that turned
from the afternoon sun-glare ; at evening
tide, it floated away into the distant
shadows with a soft murmur, as if echoing
its own tales and legends  legends
of hundreds of wonderful years, before

romance fled at the sound of the sullen roar
of the anti-romantic, ruthless steam-engine.

The river told different tales to different
minds. It was all things to all men. The
Vicar gazed from the window of his quiet
room, and gradually his harassed brain
and shattered nerves were refreshed. The
lovers, Hal and Griselda, read stories of
wonderful joys, of happiness undreamt of
by any human beings from Adam and
Eve until the very moment when they
met and loved.

Hal Romayne, his handsome dark face
aglow with success, his whole being
radiant with a certain insolence of the
conqueror which is so easy to forgive,
wandered through those green gardens
shading Griselda  who leant half timidly
on his arm  with a huge white parasol
he had purchased from one of the waiter

VOL. II. c

tribe who were always on the look-out
for unconsidered trifles when they scented
spooning or honeymooning. And Heaven
alone knows how many lovely lies were
cast off like beauteous bubbles under the
shade of that white parasol, which that
very season a bride had lost and had not
cared to reclaim, lest she might lessen
herself in the esteem of a young husband
who was still in possession of the proud
position of demi-god. Lovely lies, all of
which Griselda, with the patient beautiful
eyes, heard reverently, if wonderingly,
as she heard gospel truth. How Sir
Hubert Romayne, the bluff and proud,
would not only accept her as his son's
bride, but make her his darling. (He did
not think much of the girls, Hal added
parenthetically.) How Lady Romayne
would delight in supplying the place, as

far as she could  naturally, she could not
be expected to work miracles  of the
dear young mother Griselda had lost.
How Griselda's father, when his thoughts
were occupied with his daughter's engagement
and subsequent marriage, would
quite forget his fads about not being able
to believe this or that doctrine, and would
become, like any other reasonable incumbent
of a pretty country parish, in favour
with the powers that be and those whose
affairs those powers regulated.

I am so afraid he will mind ! '
Griselda ventured to say one afternoon,
as they were sitting under a spreading
tree on a grassy bank in the hotel garden.
Hall occupied in throwing a handful
of smooth white pebbles into the
river one by one. ' I am so afraid 
he  will mind ! '

'He! Who?'

Hal stopped and stared in astonishment,

My father.'

'Mind what?'

My  being  engaged to you
faltered Griselda, blushing.

It had been agreed upon, at Griselda's
instance, that her father was not to bespoken
to on the subject of her and Hal's
mutual love until a certain day. Tomorrow
was that day. Griselda's reason
for the postponement was that Mr Black
was not well enough to think of serious
matters for some little time, after that
sudden, strange illness at Cologne.

Do I  understand  that you think
your father will not be pleased to give
you to me?' said Hal, astounded; and,
although he spoke gently, there was a
dangerous light in his dark eyes. ' It

is awfully bad form to talk of one's
position in the world, of course. But
you are such a simple-minded darling !
You quite Ignore what your status in
society will be as my wife. Of course
there Is the title ; then Feather's Court
is not the only estate. The rent-roll'


Hal ! ' cried Griselda imploringly.
Pray, pray don't ! It is not that !
You don't understand ! It is just your
title and your money and your estates
that my father will object to  '

Then he is utterly unlike all other
fathers.'

He Is,' said Griselda simply. ' At
least, he Is unlike all other fathers who
want worldly dross for their children.
His heart is with the people  '

Excuse me, my dear, if I interrupt

you,' said Hal cynically. 'You are the
dearest girl, but you are utterly inexperienced.
I cannot allow you to lay
down the law to me about what this
man thinks or the other man does  '

'No, no, dear Hal  of course not!'
Griselda laid her pretty white hand on
his coat - sleeve, almost dismayed. * I
should not have doubted, I should not
have dreamt of such a thing  only  '

She hesitated. Hal threw a stone
viciously into the river.

Only what ? Don't hang your head
like that, Griselda ! ' he cried. ' Outwith
it ! Only  what } '

Only  Hugh spoke to me,' faltered
Griselda. ' You know, since he came
to the vicarage as a pupil, he has been
so kind and good, looking after my
father and advising me. Well, he

saw  at least  he got an idea into his
head how things were going with us 
I'm sure I don't know how or why, for
father hasn't noticed anything, I know.
Well, he spoke to me yesterday  '

'Very kind of Mr Blunt, I am sure,
to interfere with my affairs!' muttered
Hal, his cheek paling with jealous

ancrer.

Hal ! He never mentioned you.
He merely reminded me of my father's
opinions  of his painful position, with
the odium attached to that book and
the bishop's suspension ; then he talked
of Sir Hubert and Lady Romayne 
how proud they were  '

And you listen to an impertinent
jackanapes's opinion of my father and
mother,  the opinion of a fellow who
never spoke to either of them in his

life, and who, thank Heaven, is never
likely to ; upon my word, it's too
much ! '

Hal sprang up, went away, and leant
disgustedly against the tree. Griselda
followed him, anxious and penitent.

Poor Hugh ! All the time he has
been like a brother. I don't know 
what I should have done without him ! '

A tear fell on his hand, which she
had seized. Melted at once  what very
young man as wildly, passionately in
love as Hal was, would not be moved
at the touch of his adored one's tears ?
he said, with mild sarcasm, 

Brother ? A brother like Tom and
Harry ? '

Oh no, Hal ! Quite, quite different !

 Like young men generally are to
other people's sisters, I suppose .- '

Hal felt relieved by this sneer. He
had suspected that the Vicar's faithful
pupil, Hugh Blunt, was In love with
Griselda. Who could talk to her and
watch her sweet candid face for a whole
hour without being bewitched aud enchanted
?

The man who could see her, not
only day after day, but week after week,
and month after month, and not adore
her, would be a stock or a stone,' he told
himself. ' I must not be hard on the
poor unfortunate devil for his miserable
attempt at prevention of the inevitable.
I should have done worse in his
case.'

He was gazing half - fiercely, half-lovingly
at Griselda, and she was
wondering what the look meant.

You have no reason to be angry

with me, Hal,' she said, with gentle
dignity.

I know that. But, darling, you
must give me your promise, your word,
that no one shall come between us.
You owe It to me.'

I could not go against my father,.
Hal. And, even if he consents, and Is
pleased, as you seem to think he will
be, I could not go against your
parents.'

You are very complimentary, I must
say ! ' said Hal, all the more Irritably,
because Griselda's words embodied some
vague forebodings of his own. ' I never
have been contradicted and interfered
with, and I never mean to be. You
seem to forget that my will is pretty
well law In my family.'

Oh no, I don't ! '

Grlselda spoke as if the fact were a
dreadful one. Hal laughed ; Griselda's
awe of his spoilt state flattered him.

I see you know the family have made
to themselves a god, and that they bow
down to it,' he said good-humouredly.
Well, the god is generous. I am not half
so tyrannical as some family deities. But
it is ridiculous to talk of my father and
mother opposing any wish of mine. And,
as this is the case, you can imagine how
incensed I am at the daring of a rank outsider
presuming to meddle. Don't look
at me reproachfully, Griselda ! I shall take
no more notice of your Mr Blunt than I
should of a Cologne street cur who flew
out of the gutter and barked at me. But
matters must be placed on a secure footing
at once, so that I don't have a repetition of
this sort of thing.'

Hal did not let the grass grow under his
feet. Early next morning he knocked at
the Vicar's bedroom door.

Mr Black was reading in bed, propped
up with pillows. He looked worn and
thin, but smiled at Hal and laid down his
book. He liked talking with this bright,
handsome young fellow, who was so peculiarly
respectful and sympathetic.

Hal began the conversation cautiously.
Somehow the Vicar was expansive with
him. It was easy to steer the talk till it
reached the very core of John Black's
worries. Hal even gently introduced the
subject of the sceptical book. He repeated
conversations he had heard at his
father's dinner-table, which, because of the
Griselda interest, he had remembered.

Some were quite for you,' he went on.
One old fellow, a quaint pedantic scholar

I daresay you know him  Professor
Blackett, of Cambridge, who wrote those
celebrated Comparisons between Plato and
Aristotle  said, quite excitedly  I recollect
it well, because the fellows present
said they had never seen Blackett so
roused, before  '' How dare a man be a
preacher at all, if he does not intend to
encourage thought in others ? It is not
the thought, but the want of thought,
which is the mischief. No man who thinks
will ever do much harm." I remember
that speech very well, because it set me
thinking in my small way.'

So Blackett said a good word for me,
did he ? ' said the Vicar contentedly.
Well, now, there is something odd about
that. He is a man I revere for his learning
and his intense devotion to the subjects
he chose for his life-work. But,

although he is known to receive men interested
in science whenever they choose
to seek him, I have never succeeded in
meeting him. When I was first appointed
to Crowsfoot, I was invited to dine and
sleep at the bishop's, '* to meet Blackett."
I went, full of expectation. At the last
moment came a telegram from the professor.
He could not come. Some years
later, Serjeant Showman, the Q.C., was to
have some men at his rooms. He invited
me. Blackett was to be there. I was
in an ante-room, looking at some microscopes
Showman had recently bought,
when a tall old man passed through.
They said it was Blackett. I got into
the larger room just in time to see him
pass out. He had started all in a hurry,
suddenly  remembering some engagement,
not a surprising thing at all in so

absent a man, of course ! Well, the third
time, a young fellow I had helped a little
before his exam, came out first in the
Tripos, and insisted upon my going to
stay with him at his rooms at C. College.
Well, he found out this fancy of mine to
have a talk with Blackett, and left no
stone unturned to manage it for me. Of
course the prize-men, the mental athletes
who have been crowned at the contest,
carry all before them during the first
bloom of their triumph. So one of the
dons gave a dinner, and invited Blackett.
Would you believe it ? At the last moment
he sent an excuse. So we were
thirteen at table, and drank to the thirteenth,
who was to be promoted before
the year was out. It is curious, is it not
I mean the coincidence ? '

If it had been anyone else, I

should have said he purposely avoided
you.'

But in my case that could not be.
Blackett does not know me from Adam.
He sees hundreds of insignificant fellows
such as I am.'

But he certainly took great interest in
you,' said Hal musingly. ' I recollect now
he said that you should not defend your
opinions, either privately by letter or conversation,
or publicly by articles or letters in
the ecclesiastical papers. He thought you
ought to write another book strengthening
your position and establishing your views.'

I thought of that,' said the Vicar, sighing.


How lightly this young man spoke of
writing and publishing! There was the
cost, and, even if all went well, there was
that close heavy work. This brought

Griselda to his thoughts  Griselda, without
whose patient, constant help another
book  and a book which would require
such mental labour as well as tact and research
 could not be among the possibilities.
And he spoke of her to the
young man, little dreaming of what he
did, till Hal began. . . .

He told him of their childish friendship
; he lauded Griselda to the skies ;
he said that, whatever hope of lofty aims
and pure feelings he had, he owed to
the ideal she had given him of what a
human creature might be. He even went
so far as to say that, but for Griselda, he
should have followed the fast fellows in
his regiment, and have * gone to the bad.'

Now, now, my dear boy ! You are
extravagant ! '

But Hal would or could not see it just

VOL. II. D

then. For some months past his Hfe had
moved along dully, quietly, and he had
felt bored. The reaction had set in ; he
was the old passionate, impetuous Hal,
brooking no interference with, or contradiction
to, his wishes.

But you have not seen Griselda for
months ! ' The Vicar, for whom Griselda's
affairs had always a tinge of ' play ' about
them  she was but such a child after all !
was almost amused. ' Ah ! my dear
boy, live a few years longer, then talk as
you have talked just now about some fairer
and fitter damsel than my one little 
lamb ! ' Beginning his speech almost
jocosely, he felt suddenly touched v/hen
he thought of his devoted daughter.

Had he not been Griselda's father, Hal
would have resented John Black's talking
to him as if he were a raw lad in his teens.

But, being this  being in possession of
Griselda, as it were,  he repressed his
annoyance, he suppressed his turbulence.

But he sat down by the Vicar, and
pleaded long and earnestly. He said he
knew Griselda was not averse to accepting
him as her future husband.

He was detailing his plans for her
comfort, her pleasure, her happiness, when
a gentle knock came at the door, and
Griselda came in.

She wore a cotton dress, with a forget-me-not
pattern. Her fair cheeks, often
as pale as a white rose, bloomed pink
and fresh ; her golden hair was knotted
into a large soft yellow knot upon her
long slim neck.

To her boyish lover she looked like
some wood nymph coming straight from
the dewy woods with all the fragrance



IIISil\/ci;>iTV nr ii i omni

of the opening flowers, the sweetness of
the morning air, the gent of the early
sunlight about her as an atmosphere.

She had a cup of tea in her hand. She
started and looked somewhat anxiously
at Hal before she took this to her father's
bedside. Then she looked still more
anxiously at the Vicar.

Oh, Hal had told! There was a lookin
her father's eyes, half grave, half sympathetic,
which convinced her of that.

She sat down by the bed, and turned
her face as far away from both of them
as she could.

Hal went up to her eagerly.

I could not help telling your father,'
he said, almost apologetically.

Oh ! So you two have been talking
nonsense together as well ? Is it so,
Griselda ? '

Whatever has been talked of  I mean,
I talked against her wish  did I not,
Griselda ? '

If I had not wished to listen to you,
I should not have listened,' said Griselda.
Papa, is he wrong or right ?'

You are neither of you wrong or
right ; you are a foolish boy, Hal  and
Griselda  oh, I should not have thought
you so silly ! We may venture to talk of
such things, seriously  if we are still in
the same mind, remember  some years
hence. But now  well, children must
have their play, I suppose, like puppies
and kittens. There  go  both of you 
no, you go first, please, Mr Romayne.'

Hal was compelled to accept the Vicar's
banter, and to console himself with the
reflection that perhaps it was not all
banter ; only that, considering his and

Griselda's youth, and his position as
eldest of the young Romaynes, Mr Black
did not like to commit himself.

But, banter or no banter, the instant
the door closed upon him, the Vicar
began to interrogate his child. While
Hal was speaking, John Black had
thought somewhat bitterly of his poor
child's motherless position. He had
thought how Griselda would have gone
to her mother, and how the two would
have talked of a new love, a new care
coming into their lives, just as women
talked of their little pink babies, or
toddling children, or young broods of
yellow chicks and ducklings.

It was a dreadful responsibility for a
man to have to deal with a young
daughter's first love. He felt nonplussed.
It would have been easier to him, weak

though he was at that moment, to fire
off the cannon at the rock hard by, or
to deliver an extempore oration, in elegant
Latin about the beauties of the
Rhine from his bedroom window. As
the instants went on, he grew more
nervous. He felt he must say something,
so he blundered out with, 

Now  Griselda  what  what does all
this mean ? '

Griselda had recovered her composure,
and answered at once,

My best way will be to tell you all
from the beofinninor.'

Then she gave an accurate account of
her meeting and conversation with Hal
on the hill yesterday  at least, with the
one exception of the betrothal kiss.

Well,' said the Vicar judicially, ' do
you not think you are very foolish ? '

Grlselda paused, then said, * No.'
What ? My Griselda losing her common
sense ! '

Do you not think I could ever -oh,
father, might I not be Hal's wife some
day?'

I cannot say I wish to see that day,'
said the Vicar gravely. ' The Romaynes
rank far above us in the social scale, and
are as purse-proud as any persons I ever
met. Depend upon it, dear, it is best tomate
with equals. And for a man  I
know nothing about women  it would be
better, if he must do one or the other,
to marry beneath him rather than that
his wife and her family should look down
upon him.'

Then  then  you say -no ? '
My dearest child, how can I say either
yes " or " no '' until I have been asked ?

I cannot listen to an offer of marriage
to you from a young man under age.
You, such a child! You are talking
absurdities. There  kiss me and go 
and  Griselda '  she returned somewhat
reluctantly  ' not one word to Mr Romayne
till I come down  do you hear ? '

'Yes, father.'

Griselda flew upstairs to her room with
burning cheeks. On the landlnof she
came face to face with Hugh Blunt.

'What is the matter?' he asked.

Not much.'

She would have passed him and gone
on to her room ; but he detained her.

I would not pry into your secrets but
that I am still, so to say, on guard.'

There is nothing that you may not
know.'

I think I can cress,' said Hugh, seriously

but kindly. ' I have eyes. Sa
have others  so you must take care. Mr
Romayne has asked your father to let
you marry him, has he not . Ah  I see
yes! Well  he is very young. But
some are for young marriages. What
does your father say '. '
Laughs.'

Laughs  does he ? '

Hugh, who looked pale and tired,
gazed down the corridor, with its patches
of light coming from the side-windows,
and thought half stupidly that the passage
of life was something like that. First
a bit of dark shadow, then a patch of
light, then shadow again.

Laughs  does he ? ' he repeated absently.
' Well, I don't think I should
laugh, if I were he.'

What would you do ? '

I think I should be very angry at his
daring to speak to you on such a subject
don't shrink, Griselda! I may be
wrong. I must not hurt you  although
well, I may as well tell you  this has
hurt me very much. I did not expect
you to be so rash, so precipitate. But
you  what do you say in the matter '. '

If she had looked at him  if she had
seen his drawn face, the anxious, pained,
loving look in his eyes  instinct would
have checked the words before they left
her lips.

If I do not marry Mr Romayne, I
shall never marry.'

Hugh felt for the moment as if he
had received an ugly stab. Then, with
a slight shiver, he rallied himself.

*That is the right spirit,' he said
kindly. ' But excuse me if I say you are

very young, Griselda. Now, I want you
to promise me one thing  will you ? '

Certainly.'

Griselda started when she saw his ashen
face.

If you are in any trouble  I don't
care what the trouble may be  but any
trouble  whether it be night or day 
that you may want help  you will send
for me ? '

Griselda, wondering, sorry, promised.
Then she went to her room, worried,
perplexed, scarcely happy, as she had
expected to be.

Presently, when she thought her father
would be downstairs, she went down.

A waiter was hovering about the staircase,
watching for her. He beckoned
her mysteriously aside, and placed a
sealed envelope in her hands.

6i

For my father ? ' she asked.

Oh no! Of that he was certain. It
was most certainly for the Fraulein from
the Herr who had just left by the steamboat.


Griselda gazed vaguely at the man,
then at the envelope. Tearing it open,
she saw  foreign bank-notes ! She knew
the blue, greasy papers well.

Her heart sank. What did it mean ?
Collecting herself, she went into the .


HE ' Spelse-Saal' of the Goar-
shaken Hotel was quite a fine
saloon for a tourist halting-place
on the Rhine. It had the usual slippery
floor, huge mirrors, and somewhat gaudy
painting and gilding.

Griselda, glancing rapidly round the
long table, saw many strange faces 
scarcely one that she had noticed before
ladies well dressed, vulgarly dressed,
ill-dressed ; a sprinkling of bald-headed
Englishmen, a few Heidelberg students
with well-gashed faces  not one young

Englishman that looked like Hal Romayne
or Hugh Blunt.

Before her father came in, she must
know the contents of that envelope.

She had been too giddy and sick with
apprehension to see the name on the card
enclosed. As she sat growing paler and
paler  she had sunk into the corner of one
of the giant red velvet sofas  she twisted
the envelope with her trembling fingers.

One of them had gone away, and had
left her  yes, it was a horrid truth  had
left her, money.

Which one ?

She tore open the envelope desperately.
The notes and the card fell to the ground.
As the card fell she saw the name ' Hugh
Blunt'

In that instant of fear, lest the name
should be * Henry Romaine Griselda

knew that men might come and men
might go for ever ; but that there existed
but one man in the world she could
love, beside her father and brothers, and
that his name was Henry Romayne.

Her joy ! Her elation! Her passionate
inward thanksgiving ! She was down
on her knees, picking up that ' miserable
card,' as she thought it, and ' those
wretched German notes,' declining the
aid of old gentlemen and waiters alike
so sweetly that they felt quite annoyed
that so lovely a girl would not let them
help her.

One of the Heidelberg students, who
had noticed that * something went not
well with die Klein' as they had nicknamed
Griselda, looked benignly at her
through his spectacles, and was preparing
to leave the table and blandly afford his

assistance  a Heidelberg student would
scarcely go through the farce, to him, of
offering It  when Hal opened the door
of the Spelse-Saal, looked astonished to
see Griselda fumbling about under the
sofa for the .last fluttering dirty old note
and went towards her.

What Is it ? ' he said, while the student,
who had taken an inveterate dislike
to the young milord who was ordering
champagne and rhelnwein last night, and
actually leaving half-bottles for the unappreciative
Sellers while he remained
a thirsty student  sat down again la
disgust.

I don't know,' said Griselda vaguely.

Give me those papers, and come out.'

Hal gave her his arm, and, crunching
the notes In his unoccupied hand, took her
out, through the hall, Into a sort of con-vol.

II. E

servitors, where there were some shrubs
in clay pots and a rustic seat. Then he
released her, faced her, and stretched out
his hand.

Give me that  rubbish,' he said.
Who sent it ? '

Mr Blunt.'

*What for?'

This was quite another Hal, speaking
with the assumed calm of growing temper.

I  can't tell  till I have looked at the
card ; you have it there  among the
notes.'

Hal unclenched his fingers, carefully
taking out the card so that Griselda
might not see it, and read poor Hugh's
pencilled message.

'Griselda dear,  Do not think harshly
of me for leaving you ; but, seeing that
you have so able a protector, I feel my

place is at home with my mother, who is
ill, and to whom I ought to have gone
before. Use the enclosed, your father's
hardly-earned money. Accept nothing,
and remember your promise to me.'

Hal read the carefully-pencilled tiny
writing.

You have read this ? ' he said, in a
voice that was so unlike his own ; it hurt
Griselda, innocent as she felt.

'No.'

'Then the unpleasant duty of telling
you you have been grossly insulted devolves
upon me,' said Hal. ' Come,
Griselda, before you and I can make
any arrangements about the journey, or
your father, or anything, I must know
what  this  means.'

Means?'

I must know on what terms you have

been with this fellow. Have you been
engaged to him, and thrown him over ? *

'Hal! I engaged!'

'Well, then, this is a very serious affair
that is all I can say,' said Hal, handing
her the card.

Griselda read it. The tears rose to
her eyes.

Poor  kind  Hugh ! ' she said.

Hal's attitude and expression would
have done credit to any of the warlike
Heidelbergers in the Speise-Saal. At
first his wrath bid fair to burst out. If
it had  if that fair little head had bowed
down to the storm of Hal's anger  then
Griselda's patient pilgrimage through life
might have been a very, very different
one.

But that pure Marguerite-like girl looking
straight up at him with those fearless.

innocent, loving eyes, had the power in
these early days to tame the lion of ill-temper
within him. He softened.

I  I love you so,' he said, raising her
cold hand and kissing it, ' I cannot bear
anyone to think a rude, rough thought
about you, my darling.'

Then he took her in his arms and
looked at her with anxious inquiry. And,
while he tried to interpret her expression,
he spoke gently of the necessity of her
confiding in him absolutely and entirely,
and of his being head of the three until
the Vicar was safely back again in England,
his affairs settled, and he himself
once again in good health. He found out
that Hugh Blunt had told Griselda he
owed her father a great deal of money.

Then he can settle his accounts with
your father another time, Griselda/

You won't send those notes back unkindly,
Hal?' He has been so good, so
thoughtful, all through that dreadful time !
It seems so ungrateful.'

I will do all that is just and right,' said
Hal, almost grinding his teeth as he took
Griselda back to the Speise-Saal. And
with that promise she had to be satisfied.

Mr Black was awaiting them, sitting
alone where his party usually sat. The
waiters had ' known nothing' of the Fraulein's
movements when the Vicar inquired
for his daughter, gifted as they were
with the peculiar discretion that seems
part of the nature of a German waiter
of the superior class.

So John Black was waiting. He was
leaning back in his crimson-covered chair
with the gilt nails, outwardly in contemplation
of the fan - leafed plant in

the plated cooler before him, inwardly
thinking over the events of yesterday
and of this morning. His eyes were
partially open to the fact that Hugh
Blunt's devotion to him personally meant
interest in Griselda. Hal Romayne's
youthful enthusiasm had helped to this
conclusion. He could not quite comprehend
Griselda's attractiveness ; butin
this paternal denseness he was not
alone.

Of course he did not actually intend
to allow, of all persons, a mere
boy to mend his affairs. But Hal's
talk this morning had roused him.

Where is Blunt ? ' asked the Vicar,
as Romayne and Griselda seated themselves.


Hal shrugged his shoulders. The
waiter who had secretly conveyed

Hugh's sealed envelope to Griselda
and the waiter who had offered to
help her pick up the bank-notes exchanged
glances, as, a few minutes
ago, they had exchanged confidences
outside the Seal.

Sare ? ' said one, pretending not to
understand.

Gone out, I suppose,' said Hal,
reddening ; he noticed, or thought he
noticed, the waiter who had brought
that letter, manoeuvering to catch
Griselda's eve ; and it was bitter to
him to have * a low fellow like that '
making sipfns to his future wife.

Griselda drank her coffee in peace.
She had been accustomed to Tom's
overbearing ways towards herself and
Jemima, and those rows between the
brothers, when good - tempered Harry

usually gave in. So, with her ideas
of male temper, she had not thought
Hal as annoyed as he really was.

She was congratulating herself on
her father's evident improvement  he
was talking quite cheerfully to Romayne.
Even Hugh Blunt's sudden
departure and Hal's temper could not
prevent that being a real joy.

Still, I must not expect such happiness
to continue,' she was telling herself.
' I must make the best of it
while it lasts, for how well I know
those troubles that come down upon
one suddenly, when one feels like
some nail that was just struck by the
hammer.'

She had barely come to the end of
her little moralising when a waiter,
seemingly flicking a wasp from the

table hard by, slid a twisted note
close to Griselda's plate, and pretended
to pursue the enraptured Insect.

She saw 'Urgent  Private' written
In pencil, then slipped away so quietly
out of the room among some people
who had finished breakfast, and were
leaving the Spelse-Saal, that neither the
Vicar nor Hal Romayne noticed her.

A milady Anglaise waits to see
mademoiselle,' whispered the principal
waiter - intrigant, pointing mysteriously
upstairs. ' I take meets to milady when
she read the note.'

Then he turned his back upon this
calm young English ' meets,' who seemed
such a strange centre to these mysterious
proceedings, and to make her
feel at ease began moving cups and
saucers upon a side-table, although

there was not the remotest reason for
his doing so, while Griselda read, 

If you have any regard for Mr
H. Romayne see me at once.

A Friend

She did not recognise the handwriting,
which was a trembling scrawl ; so she
asked the conspirator if the lady had
left her name. And, to the little man's
horror  he was a neat, dapper, little
man, with white shirt, spotless tie, and
sleek, short hair  she asked the question
in her clear penetrating treble, which
might easily be heard in the Spenser
and without a shade of the
English milady's ' agitation when she
had slipped half a- sovereign into his
hand, and had almost pathetically implored

him to take her to some saloit
not In use, and to persuade Miss Black
to come to her unknown *to anyone.

Hush-sh-sh ! ' he said, frowning ;
then he ran upstairs, beckoning so
energetically that Griselda followed.

Who could it be  Lady Romayne ?

The conspirator opened the door of
a hot, stuffy room with crimson walls,
carpeting, and those ruddy velvet chairs,
and, closing it upon his captured
English meets,' stood waiting In the
corridor, as he had promised the milady
to do, to prevent the ladies being
disturbed.

The mysterious dame rose from her
seat as Griselda came in. She was
stout, with her grey hair well dressed
under a matronly bonnet, and gorgeous
skirts of pale Indian silken material.

She lifted her veil, and Griselda saw
the angry face of Lady Romayne.

Lady Romayne had been struggling
to be cool and composed with Griselda.
But, when she saw the fair beauty of
this self-possessed, innocent-faced girl,
and felt what a peculiar power this
combination of so many qualities in
one woman must necessarily have over
her son's ardent, tempestuous temperament,
it was difficult to be calm, and
her voice trembled as she said, 

'My son is here. Miss Black?'

Yes,' said Griselda. ' I hope nothing
is wrong ; do sit down.'

Then she seated herself quietly on a
chair near Hal's mother, accepting Lady
Romayne's actual rudeness of manner,
and folding her hands as quietly in
her lap as if she were talking to Doctor

Mayne at home at Crowsfoot, or to his
kind old wife.

Was this girl's behaviour daring, or
impertinence, or ignorance, or defiance ?
Lady Romayne trembled with mingled
fear and vindictiveness.

Her lips were so dry she could scarcely
articulate.

You ask me what Is wrong, Miss
Black ? Are you so lost to all sense of
propriety, or have you never learnt It ?
Our son leaves us, without a word,
without explanation or notice, and runs
away after you. If It had not been for
the sagacity of our good, honest courier,
we should have employed detectives to
find him. Think of the disgrace  ourson,
who is to be Sir Henry Romayne
some of these days, and will marry Into
some old family  being run after by detectives,

and everyone in society hearing
of it ! I wonder at you turning temptress
when you and your father ought to be
hiding your faces somewhere, after he
has behaved as he has  writing that
horrible book  '

Griselda, who had stared and had bitten
her lip during Lady Romayne's tirade,
rose at the mention of her father's name,
and peremptorily said ' Stop ! ' Then,
before Lady Romayne had had time to
see what Griselda was about, she had
rung the bell  a peal that could be
heard down below.

The remainder of our conversation had
better be with my father and Mr Romayne
here,' said Griselda quietly ; then the door
was opened, and the conspirator appeared,
somewhat scared by his sudden summons.
He had barely walked a few yards up and

down outside in the corridor, wondering
what this mystery all meant, before the
ring came, and Griselda said, as soon ashe
appeared, 

Please tell Mr Black and Mr Romayne
that Lady Romayne is here.'

You audacious girl ! ' sard milady, too
taken aback to negative the order.

She could have burst into hysterical
tears ; but with a superlative effort, controlled
herself, and only said falteringly, 
To think  that your good little mother's
daughter should turn out  thus ! '

Griselda paled. It was a hard thrust.
As Lady Romayne moved restlessly to
the window, two large, cold tears rose into
her eyes. She remembered that scene
at her mother's grave, and Hal, a little
boy, standing at her side, so chivalrous
and reverent. She wiped those tears

away as if they were sacred. And,
sitting there, still as some marble monument,
she told her sad soul that no part
of her being must disgrace that dear lost
mother, that dear living father, or her
promised husband, Hal ; and she said
God teach me ! ' in her heart, as she used
to say it years ago, at night, kneeling up
in her little bed, and wondering which
of the stars were mother's eyes watching
her to see if she took care of father and
the boys.

Then in came  first Hal, then John
Black  happily by no means dismayed by
his distinguished visitor. The Vicar bowed
gravely. Hal  pale, with a curious light
in his eyes  went across to his mother,
after a survey of Griselda which told him
at least a little of what her interview
with Lady Romayne had been.

VOL. II. F

What is this ? ' he said.

A charming way to receive me, your
mother, after all we have suffered ! ' and
at last Lady Romayne buried her face
in her pocket-handkerchief and sobbed
out an incoherent complaint  running
away after people  leaving his family 
scandal  detectives  the talk of the
county  loss of position, et caetera  Lady
Maria Wick's hand could not possibly be
asked for by Sir Hubert, and so on.

My mother is hysterical,' said Hal
contemptuously, turning to the Vicar.
This is no place for Griselda, Mr
Black.' Then he went to Griselda, and
said imploringly, * Dear love, you will
go with your father  just for a little
while, will you not . As soon as my
mother is better, I will bring her to
your room.'

Thank you,' said Griselda, with a
grateful look. But she did not take his
offered arm. She went to her father, who
was standing by the excited Lady Romayne,
and said, 'Father, what am I to do.'

Stay a while,' said John Black, in his
old, firm, resonant tones. As he stood
there, his strength seemed to have returned
to him. He was the truthful outspoken
pastor of Crowsfoot, rough to some,
tender to others. Those dark, grave eyes
were fixed upon the sobbing woman penetratingly.
He understood what this meant
at once, and at once he acted as he
had intended to act  when he had thought
what might come.

So soon ! ' he muttered. * Poor child !
But perhaps it is best so.'

Then he put his arm round Griselda, and
spoke firmly but not unkindly to Lady Romayne.

He expressed no regret that Hal
had left his parents, and had joined himself
and Griselda at Goarshausen, because he felt
none. He merely said that he was sorry
to see her so distressed, and wished to
know what he could do for her ladyship.
Meanwhile Hal, his hands thrust into his
pockets, was pacing the room and kicking
aside the chairs when they happened to
be in his way with such boyish rage that
the Vicar could not help smiling.

Do ? ' said Lady Romayne, with a
bitter glance at Griselda. ' You have
done enough already, Mr Black ! I will
not allude to painful matters. I will
merely state that you cannot expect Sir
Hubert and myself to consider you a
fitting acquaintance for our son. At
all events, until our good friend the
bishop  '

Here Hal, muttering an oath between
his teeth, sprang forward.

His eyes blazed, his hands were clenched.
He looked dangerous. Lady Romayne
sprang up with a little shriek. But the
Vicar had quickly stepped between them.

Don't behave like a schoolboy, or
worse he said, firmly grasping Romayne's
arm. ' Remember this Is your mother.
Remember what I said to you but an
hour or two ago. Only with your parents'
consent can you have anything to do with
me and mine.'

And that consent you will never have,'
cried Lady Romayne, less afraid of Hal
while John Black's thin but powerful hand
gripped his arm. ' Your father and I have
spent our lives planning and arranging
that you may occupy a foremost place in
society. Putting aside your ingratitude,

we are scarcely likely to allow ourselves
to fall at the last moment.' Then she
added, with a spiteful sneer, ' How can you
expect to be accepted into any noble family
when it is known that you ran all over
Germany after some girl ? '

All this time Griselda had stood close
to her father, pale but not unnerved.
Only when her lover's mother spoke her
taunt with such withering emphasis, she
gave a little shudder, and involuntarily
clasped her father's arm.

You had better not insult my future
wife,' cried Hal.

Here he stopped short, for Lady Romayne
actually screamed and put her hands
over her ears.

Oh, I see it all ! ' she went on. ' Oh,
the wicked, wicked plot ! I must  I must
claim your father's protection  '

Pray, accept mine meanwhile,' said
John Black, with a smile. There
seemed something so childish and pitiful
to him in this mother's altercation
with her son. ' And be perfectly at
ease on our account. Lady Romayne.
If my daughter should ever marry  which
is not very likely, for we have other
thoughts and aims in this life, she and
I  she will have to be asked for by
the parents of the man she loves with as
much ceremony as if she were a princess.
Her mother's daughter is too precious in
my sight to be lightly treated.'

John Black was thoroughly roused.
His temporarily clouded brain was
almost strong and clear as of old.

As he stood there, tall, with a certain
proud presence which was seldom seen
except by those he held in just contempt,

Lady Romayne's temper began
to subside. She even had an uncomfortable
sensation that she had not
made these people feel her grandeur
and her dignity as she had intended that
they should feel them.

She accepted the Vicar's arm, just
touching it with the tips of her fingers,
and said, more calmly, 

'Come, Hal!'

Hal started as if he had been stung.

'With you?' he said bitterly. 'Not if
I know it ! '

You cannot stay here, Mr Romayne.
If you stay, my daughter and I leave
by the next boat.'

'Griselda'  Hal went up to her 
what do you wish me to do ? '

Lady Romayne flushed a deep red.
He was her idol, that Hal of hers.

When she heard his voice, full of love
and tenderness, a few moments after it
had been insolently pitched when he
spoke to her  she had that acute punishment
of idol-makers when their living
idols turn upon them.

Oh, how she hated Griselda  even
when the girl gently said, ' You must
not stay, Hal!' What right had that
girl to look at her son with those big
eyes of hers, and to call him ' Hal '
before her very face ?

Then she gave a little jump, and
cried ' Ah ! ' For, after a long look at
Griselda, Hal came to her fiercely.

Do you see what you have done ? '
he cried. ' You have turned the only
being I really love against me. Are
you a fool  or are you playing into the
hands of Satan ?  if there be a Satan.

She would have made a good man
of me ; she would have kept me right.'

To think of leaning upon a woman is
confessing oneself a broken reed, Hal.'

The Vicar spoke kindly.

Were you a broken reed, sir ? Did
you not tell me what Mrs Black was
to you ? But it did not need telling !
Everyone knew  '

Yes,' said the Vicar hurriedly. ' But
but  I was a lone man, with no
responsibilities of wealth, of  of  old
family. You have these  and more.
Parents, sisters, younger brother  '

Then how do you explain that " a
man should leave father and mother and
cleave to his wife " } '

We will not open such a discussion,'
said John Black.

Scripture ! I should think not indeed

! ' said Lady Romayne emphatically.
She did not really mean to remind the
Vicar of his unfortunate treatise ; but
Griselda saw her father wince.

Father, let us go ! ' she said almost
passionately ; then she said ' Good-bye '
to Hal.

Heaven knew whether he would not
have kissed her there and then ; but
she was out of the room and away
before the three realised that she was
gone.

Hal sprang to follow her ; but John
Black stood in the doorway, and almost
thrust him back.

Understand,' he sternly said, ' both
you, Henry Romayne, and you, my
lady. If any communication be made
to my daughter by, or by the agency of,
any member of your family, I will never

allow her to speak to one of you  on
this earth again. Something tells me 
God knows what !  some instinct  that
the day will come, Lady Romayne,
when you will perhaps be begging my
daughter of me as wildly, maybe as
hopelessly, as the rich man begged
that drop of water of the beggar
Lazarus. Therefore remember my

words, and be advised not to widen
the gulf  for it is a gulf rather than a
breach  which will lie between myself
and my daughter  and you Romaynes
from this moment.'

He bowed, and left them.

That man is a prophet,' said Hal.
He was checked, impressed  therefore
collected. * Madam  for to call you
mother would be a mockery  I am
ready to accompany you as soon as you

please along that broad and pleasant
road which leads, in any case, to a
better place than this red room has
been since I entered it. Do you wish
to stay here. Lady Romayne, as you
have succeeded in hunting out as well
as insulting my friends ? '

His mother took refuge in tears.

Hal rung the bell, ordered rooms for
his mother, and notified their departure
the following morning. Then, taking
no further notice of Lady Romayne, he
sent for his despatch - box and wrote
letters -business letters to England  in
furtherance of the plans he was rapidly
making to be of assistance to John
Black and Griselda. The last letter
was for the Vicar himself.

My dear Sir,  I forgot to forward

you enclosed notes, which Mr Blunt  -
who was suddenly summoned home 
says, are your property. You were not
considered well enough to be told that
Mr Blunt had left Goarshausen so
suddenly. I had hoped to have been a
shield to you now. I may be  even
yet. Meanwhile, may God bless you,
and keep and cherish the one so inexpressibly
dear to us both  is the most
earnest prayer ever uttered by your
grateful Henry Romayne.'

Griselda came into the sitting-room,
her boxes packed, her little cloak on,
ready to start, when this letter of Hal's
was brought to Mr Black.

She had kept her composure well till
he handed it to her. Then she gave a
sad little cry.

Oh, father, what shall I do ? '

John Black drew the slender creature
on his knee, and held her head on
his shoulder. He heard her sob ; but
he merely stroked her head and let her
cry.

My lamb has taught me a lesson,'
he said caressingly. ' I faced the storm,
too self-reliant, and it beat me down,
ay, to the very ground. But she bends
to it  so it w411 pass over.'

Oh, I am glad, glad because you are
stronger ! ' said Griselda, raising her head,
and smiling through her tears. * Though
I do love Hal  father, ever since the
boys used to tell me that, if I waited
patiently, a prince would come for me ;
and one day, in the orchard, I was sitting
waiting, as usual, and Hal came,
so fine in his velvet and lace and finery,

that I thought he was a prince.' Then
she told the remainder of the childish
story, ending with  ' I would never,
never marry anyone else ! But it would
be wicked to mind Lady Romayne's talk
while I ought to be saying thanksgivings
all the time, for you are better, dear !
Oh, 1 know you are going to be well
now ! ' she went on, kneeling down, and
looking up into his face.

Your nursing  Hal's good-nature,
poor lad !  and Blunt's devotion,' said
the Vicar musingly ; ' then that arrogant
woman  one thing with another  has
brought about a reaction, thank God,
Griselda ! I was delirious ? Yes ! I
said nothing anyone could understand ?
Well, they might have heard whatever
I had to say. I must be careful, though,
my child. But we will go home, you

and I ? We will be peaceful and quiet,
and I will battle through. There maybe
hard times  but I will shield my
darling  by thinking of her first, even
as she thought of me.'

Then there was a bustle outside, and
shouting, whistling ; the steamer had
arrived.

It was a hard moment when the last
bell rang, and John Black and his daughter
stepped on board to begin their return
journey. Griselda resolutely sat with
her face towards St Goar, her back towards
Goarshausen. She had given one
pitiful glance at the beautiful spot where
she had toyed and sorrowed' so sharply,
so rapidly. The sun was shining ; the
people were sitting under the trees in
the hotel garden. Beyond lay the narrow
valley, the wooded hill, and above

VOL. II. G

was the tall mountain she and Hal had
talked of climbing together.

She saw it all, and knew she most
likely would never see it again, except
in her dreams.

And Hal saw her. He had chosen
a shady corner where he would not be
noticed. He felt very dejected, forlorn,
miserable. It would have been some
consolation, he thought, if she would
have looked back and waved her handkerchief.
How quickly the steamer went !
Wind and tide both in her favour,
she was almost shooting down stream.
In a few minutes she would steam
past that dark grey mountain where the
trailing vineyards looked like green trellis-work.
She had reached the first cottage
of that hamlet nestling below the pass.
Now her funnels were black against a

white bridge  now she was being covered
by a rocky prominence on the bank he
stood upon  then his eyes grew misty 
the vessel was gone. Griselda was  gone !

A gun was fired, and the echoes of
the shots reverberated from hill to hill
all along the valley, like a parting salute.

He turned away, and went uphill. He
got to the clearing where they had been
so gloriously happy together. The sunshine
played about the waving boughs. It
was all so peaceful  so beautiful  and he ?

He was, he told himself, more forlorn,
miserable, and forsaken than the poorest
beggar that ever picked up a living in
the gutter.

It was a bad half-hour. But what
would it have been if he could have
seen a vision of himself  as he would
be  but a few years later ?

CHAPTER IV.

ROWSFOOT again  ten years
ago, when Griselda was a
child, a mere straggling,
tumble-down village. Now the autumn
sunshine poured down upon pleasant,
wholesome dwelling-houses. There was
a whole new lane of red-brick, picturesque
cottages, each standing in its own neat
garden, each with its porch and verandah,
yet honest sanitary dwellings for the poor.
This was called ' the Vicar's street.' He
it was who had not rested till, by dint of
saving, scraping, subscription-getting, and

working in with building-funds, he saw
his old friends and their children ' decently
housed, as Christians should be.'
When he first became their pastor  young,
strong, with his beloved wife, healthy and
sound, at his side  he had valiantly
attacked the many-headed dragon of
Crowsfoot deficiencies. Ponds were filled
in, cesspools discovered and destroyed,
ventilation insisted upon. The Vicar 
our Vicar,' as his humble friends proudly
called him  had taught his people physical
as well as moral lessons. The result was
a thriving, neat population ; a schoolhouse
known amongst schoolhouses as
the one which produced the best scholars.
A church, a model of simplicity, crammed
full at each service till late-comers subsided
into the porch. A rapid increase
in numbers, for the Vicar advocated early

marriages, and always smiled upon honest
attachments, even among the very young.
And last, but not least, a whole crop of
enemies  sprung from John Black's success.
One-third of the whispers that
had reached the bishop's palace were
the whispers of clergy and parishes who
envied John Black, and said, *A man
might easily create a model village who
had somebody to back him up.' Who
the ' somebody ' was, no one knew. If
they had been told that the 'somebody'
was the Vicar's steadfast will and unflagging
energy, they would have smiled
incredulously.

In ten years the great chestnuts had
grown more spreading still, and the
village green kept its green beneath
their stately shade. The schoolmaster
and mistress were aged. Their schoolhouse

was barely visible, covered by
a great wistaria. The blacksmith was
darker, tougher, and brawnier. The
forge was enlarged, and some of those
who toddled to the infant-school ten
years ago were now his apprentices,
beating the glowing red iron till the
sparks flew around the busy anvils.
Doctor Mayne was bent and old, and
drove a pony-chaise instead of a gig.
He kept an assistant now, a young
fellow who had passed his second Mab.,
who could hardly hide his contempt
for country practice, and who took care
to let the ' educated people ' among
Doctor Mayne's patients be well aware
that he would not have temporarily
accepted the position but that ' in the
M.D. examination they had a way of
asking you questions which you could

not answer, however good a theorist
you might be, unless you had practice.'
Mrs Mayne took good care of this London
Hight of the profession, but could
not help disparaging him to her feminine
friends, especially when they took
a stroll in the churchyard, after Sunday-morning
church  a favourite time for
the tit-bits of village confidences.

And the vicarage ? But little change
there. The quaint little ' front garden '
neat as ever. Within, the Vicar's coats,
hats, guns, fishing-tackle, and curiosities
all in their places. The old clock ticked
solemnly in the passage, its round whiteface
reflected in the glass of the barometer
opposite. The ' red parlour ' or
dining-room, looking upon the lane, was
more cheerfully arranged than it used
to be when the young house-mistress

Griselda was a mere baby, her mother
a hopeless invaHd, and Jemima housekeeper.
There was a modern easy-chair
for the Vicar, and a Library table ; and
the table near the crimson sofa had an
embroidered cover, and held books and
a vase of flowers.

The little drawing-room looking upon
the garden was left as it was when
Mrs Black lay for the last time on the
sofa under the window ; Griselda had
made white covers for the furniture.
But her mother's work-box was on the
table by the sofa ; the footstool on which
Griselda used to sit, watching the invalid,
was in its place. Also the screen which
the schoolmistress and some of the head-scholars
had worked, and all the little
knickknacks offered by sympathisers to the
poor lady who died with such sad slowness.

John Black had avoided this room,
Griselda went in dally, to dust and replace
fresh flowers and rearrange, as if
this were a domestic chapel and she
the sacristan.

This early September day was bright ;
soft breezes played gently with the nodding
dahlias. A young robin hopped
about the gnarled old apple-trees in the
orchards, twittering snatches of songs,
as if he were not yet sure of what he
really thought of the world. The apples
were mostly gathered. Some late plums
were still ripening on the brick walls,
and now and then a ripe pear fell from
the laden boughs into the long grass.
The figures moving in the field beyond
the garden were Griselda and Jemima.
Part of the field was mown for a .
The old cow and the

rector's horse looked on gravely from
a distance. They were accustomed to
those rows of white flapping linen now.
Griselda and her faithful old servant
had been waiting for Tom and Harry
to depart their several ways to ' get
through their wash.' A woman came
to do the hard part of the work, and
Jemima, who was lame and purblind,
hated to see Griselda helping with the
drying and folding, and would have
done it all herself; but since her young
lady had come back from ' furrin' parts,
she'd been changed like,' Jemima would
tell her gossip and crony over the way,
the wife of old James, the captain's
farm-bailiff. * She's got a queenly way
wi' her, which ain't like her blessed
mother one bit, and which takes a
rheumatic old body like me aback like.

And I can't say yea and nay in the
right places. But she's as beautiful asa
brand-new shining pin, and as straight ;
only she don't look to me, so to say,
strong. And, there  I do object to her
carrying' about those heavy linen sheets,
and a pegging them on the line! I've
often a mind to get up at dawn, just
when the birds begin to twitter, and doit
all myself. But, Lor' bless you ! my
old bones ain't what they was, nor never
will be ! '

Griselda, in her blue frock, her sleeves
rolled up, was ' queening ' now  she was
unpegging some fine things into a small
basket, and sent off Jemima with it indoors.

You get those nicely starched, and,
when I've got this tuneful done, I'll
come in and make that plum-pie for
father's dinner.'

Jemima went meekly. Yes, there was
a change in Griselda, even in three
short weeks. There were those two
lines about the mouth which tell of
drooping and compressed lips. Her eyes
were hazy, her cheek-bones were sharp,
her skin pale, and her pretty bare
arms far less softly plump than they
had ever been. She worked away
packing the dry linen into the baskets
all the more briskly because she was
anxious.

When they first returned, John Black
heard that the bishop was shooting
grouse in the North ; that all the
heads of the Everest firm were holiday-making,
and that the tormenting publisher
was shortly expected home from
Norway.

So he waited to see those enemies of

his, and went about his parish, where
he found that the cloud that hung over
him was well known.

His people received him so warmly.
It was welcome to every house, to each
cottage. But, though they were full of
talk, and were loth to let him depart,
following him to the door and gazing
after him wistfully, no one asked any
questions about himself. They told him
that the mild curate who was doing his
church-work, and who lodged at the
mill, was ' well enow as young parsons
went ' ; but they did not inquire whether
his throat was better, or when he would
preach them one of his old stirring
sermons again.

No, they think me a blasphemer,' he
said bitterly to himself; 'they, whom
I have cherished as brethren  ay, even

as my very own children in flesh and
blood  pity me, my God ! I see it in
their faces ! '

He went home ; and Griselda, coaxing
and consenting him as she had dared todo
since they were so closely brought
together at Goarshausen, heard his complaint,
and tried to talk him out of his
ideas.

Ah, well ! ' he said with a sigh.
Time mends all.' But Crowsfoot was
a painful pleasure now. Each landmark
each familiar face, the cottages, the
schoolhouse, the church he had restored,
his wife's green grave  were so many
reproaches. As he went about, he
seemed to hear, 'Why have you forsaken
us ? Why could you not live and
love on in simple faith, and not turn to
the *' strange woman" of Doubt  not only

telling, but publishing to the world her
sayings  which you can never recall ? '

No, that was where the shoe pinched.
He had run up a flag, and he must stick
to it.

Time  time will bring us through,' he
almost feverishly repeated. He waited
eagerly to hear that the bishop had returned.
Then he was off to town. He
had been in town nearly a week when
Griselda was busy with her linen in the
drying-ground. She was thinking, half in
fear, half in hope, of what news he might
bring. When the lines were emptyonly
a peg or two hanging here and there  she
paused before carrying in the baskets, and
took the letter she had received from her
father that morning from her pocket.

Dearest,  I hope to be back with you

to-night, perhaps this afternoon. Then I
will tell you as much as I can of my
doings in this man-made metropolis, which
I would willingly turn my back upon once
and for all. Your Father.'

She had read it many times, trying to
guess facts from the spirit  the tone  of
the sentences. Was he sad  angered ?
He had so often said that old saying,
God made the country, man made the
town,' and hated bricks and mortar in
masses so, that his sentence about London
was no key to his frame of mind.

No ; she must be patient.

Then she read another letter, which had
arrived at the same time.

It was from Hugh Blunt. Her father
had told her to open all letters ; so she
opened this. It was the first they had

VOL. II. H

heard of Hugh Blunt since he left them so
suddenly at Goarshausen, and the letter
was to the Vicar.

My dear Sir,  I have been told you
are back at Crowsfoot. When can I
return to you ? And could you receive a
friend of mine who is very anxious to read
with you ? He does not mind about
quarters ; you could stow him away anywhere,
or he could share my room. He
is Lord Lisle's youngest son, and has
unmistakable ability for abstract science.
A line in return would oblige ; but, if this
finds you busy, we will take silence as
consent, and appear on the usual day. 
Always your grateful pupil,

Hugh Blunt.'

Pes.  It will be a charity to rid young

Bray of as much of his superfluity as you
will, for he is one of those uncomfortable
wealthy persons who do not know the
value of money till they can learn it. I
promise that, if you take Bray, he shall
not be the slightest trouble.'

Griselda thoughtfully folded and refolded
that letter. She had 'seen through'
kind Hugh's proposal. A rich pupil would
be a useful crutch just now. Would her
father take him ? She could detect that
Hugh, naturally rather rough and devoid
of tact, had worded that letter with minute
care, lest he should offend the Vicar's
sensibilities.

She replaced the letter in her pocket,
stroked the nose of the old horse, who
not having quite conquered his horror of
those oddly-shaped white things called
shirts, came up to salute her when the

clothes-lines were empty  then she bravely
lifted her basket and went staggering up
the garden-walks with it, brushing the
dewy cobwebs from the overgrown clumps
of fuchsia with her blue skirts, and, as she
panted, her pale face flushing till she
looked as ruddy as one of the tall hollyhocks,
her heart-beats were loud, and the
heavy basket creaked, so she did not hear
her father's footstep in the passage.

Griselda ! '

His cry startled her, she dropped
the basket. All the white linen went
tumbling down, some upon the gravel
walks, some upon the beds  crushing the
yellow escholtzias and the tender little
heartless.

There  she will do it, sir, and there's
no a saying of her nay ! '

Jemima, following her master, saw her

opportunity, and made a clean breast of
Griselda's self-will there and then.

There's many a strong lass in the
village as 'ud be thankful to earn a few-honest
pence ; look at miss, sir. She'll
be having a twisted spine of the back,
like poor Maria Brown.'

I will arrange all that, Jemima.'
I hope and trust that you will, sir.'
Jemima sniffed, and retired to the
kitchen. She had her own ideas as to
the Vicar's position in his own house.
Will you come to the parlour,

father

-i '

John Black said ' No, no ! ' emphatically.
He wanted no tea, he said, nor
dinner either  at least, not then.

I want air,' he said, eine out into the
sunlit garden, Griselda following, unrolling
her sleeves, and Jemima left picking

up the linen. ' Air  and home, and you.
Come, let us go into the orchard. Oh,.
Griselda '  he stood still in the long grass,
looking haggardly round at those trees,
each one a familiar friend, at the quiet
September sky, the blue background of
the foliage  ' if you could only know the
difference between this and that great
awful city  the roughness, the turbulence,
the riot ! Lies beset you and follow you,
and, beat them away as you might a cloud
of summer flies, they return and pester
doubly. The only honest thing is bare
open sin ; swearing, fighting  at' least,
these are true. But, if a man be civil to
you, he is secretly lying and thieving; if
help be offered you, it is capital offered
you at one hundred per cent. Thank God
for every acre of ground untrodden by
man ! If air did not blow up from the

great ocean and from unpolluted wilds,
we should be poisoned ; the end of the
world would be that all must be suffocated
and smothered by sin.'

Griselda never commented upon her
father's outbursts. Now she merely led
him silently to a rustic bench which of late
years had been removed from the garden
into the orchard ; and, sitting by him on
the very spot where Tom had been digging
when Hal Romayne came stepping down
upon the grass like a fairy-tale prince, she
said, 

How was it ? Good, bad, or indifferent
? '

The Vicar hesitated.

Well  indifferent.'

Did you go to the bishop ? '

First of all. He was stopping at his
usual hotel. I thought to catch him at

about eleven. He was not 'about." I
had to wait while he breakfasted.'
Was he  kind ? '

A little starchy and stand-off, until
he mentioned your letter. He said,
Don't look guilty ; it is all right. A
man who possesses a daughter like
yours, Black, ought to consider he
has enough." He said your letter
*' touched him." Then, of course, we
had a discussion.'

What was settled '. '

That matters are to remain in statu
qtio for the present, until I have tried a
second book. You must help me, darling,
as you did before, with those interminable
references. Then, whether I leave or stay
will be decided.'

Leave  or stay ' ' Griselda did not
understand.

Leave the Church of England or stay
in it.'

You, so fit to care for everyone ! Oh,
father, the bishop cannot know, he cannot
dream of what you really are ! '

I thought of reslofnine before, Gris-ella,
when they were first down upon
me.'

But, if you resigned, what then ? '

I should be an ordinary layman, taking
pupils.'

Griselda produced Hugh Blunt's letter.
The Vicar read it carefully, twice.

Hugh is very kind,' he began ; then
he looked at Griselda. She was perfectly
unconscious of the meaning of his inquiring
france.

I cannot make it out,' he went on
thoughtfully. ' You and I have a secret
friend, do you know ? '

Grlselda's face and neck flushed crimson.
She turned her head away.

I will tell you went on the Vicar.
I have as yet only told you about my
interview with the bishop. My next
important piece of business was to seethe
Everests. I had no difficulty in finding
them. They were far more civil
than I expected. They acknowledged
that they were still agreed to remain in
the same position towards me in regard
to the '* treatise which had caused so
much controversy." But they said that
a client of theirs was willing to supply
me with the ready money I required, at
a moderate percentage.'

Oh, father ! ' Griselda, knowing the
low state of the Vicar's finances, brightened
up. ' Oh, I am glad ! You can pay
those wretched publishers.'

But I could not accept it, dear.'

Why not ? '

They refused to tell me the name of
their amiable client. That settled the
affair.'

Griselda had learnt a little of her
father's position. She never wondered
when he exclaimed against subterfuge
and deceit. She knew he had never
rightly known who he was, or under
what parental tree he might battle with
his fellows.

She shook her head unconsciously. Oh,
that money! If only human beings could
grow out of the ground and bear their
fruit calmly, nourished by their mother
earth, and by rain out of the pure sky !

I am sure the earth must think far less
of us than of the trees and shrubs,' she
said, speaking her thoughts aloud.

'Why?'

They grow from her ; they are pure
and fresh and sweet. But, when we
human creatures mingle with her, we are
nothing but rottenness and corruption.'

Griselda, you have a curious way of
thinking. I shall not come to you for
similes.'

She shrugged her shoulders.

Are you going to take this rich young
man, father ? I don't knows how it is ; but
he reminds me of the "rich young man"
who went sorrowfully away.'

I hope he will not. I hope they will
both come, darling. Then I can pay
those publishers.'

Do they refuse to wait ? '

I crave them a bill.'

o

What is that ? '

It is equivalent to paying them the

money. But the less you know of these
things the better I shall be pleased. Only
I may tell you this for your comfort,
darling. If Hugh and his friend do come,
I do not see any reason why we shall not
steer through quite comfortably.'

Then with all my heart I wish they
may come ! ' said priselda devoutly. ' I
will do all I can to make them happy ; I
shall only be overwhelmed with gratitude
to them for coming ! '

If she could have known, poor innocent
child ! of what complications were
in store  of what would arise out of all
this, those words would have been the
very last she would have spoken  she
would have indeed been at her very wit's
end.

But she had no misgiving, she felt no
strange warning. No single black bird

GHselda.

flew over her head; no warning wind
howled in the chimney, when she went
to her tiny bed-chamber that night ; no
dream even troubled her young mind as
she lay calmly sleeping. She was as untroubled
by presentiments of her coming
sufferings as a new-born infant is untroubled
by thoughts of death.

October  clear, frosty, the columns
of smoke rising straight
into the air from the chimneys
of Crowsfoot village, the woods around
growing wet in the morning sunshine,
masses of gold, red  every shade from
pale yellow to ruddy chesnut  the sparkling
white veil that lay upon the meadows
at early dawn melting gradually away.

Breakfast-time at the Vicarage ; a smallwood
fire burning pleasantly In the crimson
parlour ; the bright copper kettle
hissing away on its trivet ; a few logs and

the tiny bellows lying just inside the old-fashioned
brass fender ; the great tabby
cat Tim sitting up on the tiger-skin rug,
purring and blinking contentedly at the
first fire of autumn, and at his beloved
mistress Griselda, alternately.

Griselda was flitting about arranging
the breakfast-table. She wore a brown
woollen dress, and looked less careworn,
in spite of her hard work the last few
weeks. The young men  the Vicar's old
pupil Hugh Blunt, and his new pupil
Mervyn Bray, the youngest son of the
rich Lord Lisle  arrived a month ago.
There was more housekeeping for Gris-ella
in consequence, and she was working
hard to help her father with that second
treatise on certain Epistles. She was up
early, to arrange household matters with
Jemima for the day. Then, while Blunt

and Bray were shut up with the Vicar in
his study all the morning, she would ferret
out passages from the learned tomes 
some of them ancient ecclesiastical works
in Latin and Greek  which her father
would require for his next few pages. In
the afternoon she visited in the parish, or
took a class in the school, or presided at
a Dorcas meeting with her old friend Mrs
Mayne, or had a hard afternoon's mending
and darning at home ; for Jemima's eyes
had to be spared. Griselda often told
herself with a sigh that she was one of
those whose firework was rather to save
than make. But in the evenings, when
Hugh  who never alluded to the events
that happened during that German tour,
but was the same cheerful brotherly friend
as of old  would smoke and play cards
with young Bray in their rooms upstairs,

VOL. II. I

or go for a stroll with him, GriseLda
worked with her father in the study. She
knew the first  the condemned treatise by
heart. She not only knew the letter, but
the spirit of it, only too well. She had a
clear brain. The Vicar found her a great
help. Her thoughts marched alongside
his, as it were, and fell out of their ranks
when wanted. Last night John Black had
encountered a knotty point. He ran his
fingers through his hair, he leant back
in his chair and closed his eyes, thinking
deeply, to no purpose. He closed the
books. * I can do no more,' he said,
with a sigh, ' until I see a passage, which
I believe to be in a certain work of
Thomas Aquinas. I must wait. I cannot
leave those young fellows and go upto
town  to the Museum  they have it
there. I must wait.'

Don't you know anyone who has the
book ? ' Griselda asked.

The vicar thought that perhaps one of
the antiquarian booksellers might lend it
to him. But this little check had discouraged
him. Hard work accompanied
by anxiety was not a tonic.

Griselda had lain tossing, dreaming ;
then thinking, half asleep and half awake,
of her father's difficulty.

When she awoke in the morning, her
first thought was that Mrs Mayne was
going to London to-day on some business
with her trustees. Why not accompany
her, and see if she could get
Aquinas' treatises ? She had her mother's
trinkets, too sacred to be worn, but not
too sacred to be used for such a purpose
as this ; she might leave them with the
bookseller as some sort of guarantee.

She was thinking of this as she flitted
round the breakfast-table, when her
father entered, drooping, preoccupied.
He kissed her, then went silently to the
fire and warmed his hands.
Those boys not down yet ? '

I expect they will be directly,' said
Griselda.

Then she asked her father, point-blank,
whether she might accompany Mrs Mayne
to town.

What for ? '

He looked surprised.

Shopping.'

I never care for you to be away without
me.'

Here the young men came in, followed
by Jemima with the ham and eggs.
Hugh looked older and thinner, perhaps
because he had let hair and beard grow

as they would. Mervyn Bray was a
short, awkwardly-made young man, with
a large head for so poorly developed a
body, with a white face carefully shaven,
short thin hair carefully cut and smoothed,
and watery blue eyes.

With a beautiful morning, With Black,'
he vouchsafed, standing awkwardly behind
his chair  he spoke with a lisp, and
held both the Vicar and his daughter inconsiderable
awe ; ' and  dear me 
thereto the othman ! '

He sat down as the old man with the
leathern bag announced himself by rapping
sharply at the Vicarage door with his
staff, comforted by the fact that he would
now escape notice. He was shyer here than
anywhere in his own particular little world.

There were several letters with coronets
and monograms for himself; one or two

more practical-looking envelopes directed
to Blunt, and one letter for the Vicar.

Griselda was pouring out the tea, after one
glance that assured her that this letter was
not a disagreeable business communication.

If she could have seen the contents of
the neat little envelope !

Will no amount of teaching make the
present Vicar of Crowsfoot into an honourable
man ? Ask yourself, sir, how you are
treating your motherless daughter, allowing
her, as you do, to reside under the same
roof as young men who are known to be
her admirers, without even an older lady to
guarantee the commonest respectability.'

This note, or message, was carefully
written in printed characters, on a slip of
paper without watermark.

It was the first personal anonymous
letter John Black had received. At first,.

he could hardly believe the testimony of
his own eyes. Then he suddenly smiled
to himself.

'Hal!' he said. 'Poor lad! It has
not done him good, as I thought it would.
But how could he ? He cannot help
being his mother's son, of course. That
coarse-minded woman ! '

Nevertheless, the communication had its
effect. As he put it carefully away among
other papers in his pocket, he uneasily
wondered whether others had had similar
ideas,  whether, indeed, his presence
only were sufficient shield for his darling's
purity and honour.

Did you not say you wanted to go to
London with Mrs Mayne.''

Yes.'

By what train '. '

The io"20, I think.

Then you had better make haste, and
I will walk to the station with you.'

This brief conversation set Griselda
wondering. Hugh Blunt was astonished;
and, as he saw Griselda's bright cheeks
and her eagerness to get away, he grew
grave.

He hung about the hall till she came
down, dressed for travelling, and holding a
small black bag.

Are you going to stay ', ' he asked
casually, as they walked out and stood on
the doorstep, waiting for the Vicar.

Oh no ! '

Again that flush as Griselda nervously
clutched the handle of her bag.

Could I not, by any possibility, save
you the journey ? I should be so glad of
a run up to town.'

Oh no ; thank you all the same ! '

Supposing I were to escort you and
Mrs Mayne ? Supposing that, when you
reached the terminus, you saw me jumping
out of the next carriage ? '

Griselda looked at him with a sort of
hunted look, as if she asked, ' No peace 
not even from you ? '

While the Vicar came out, and both
father and daughter went briskly up the
road towards the station, Hugh uneasily
asked himself what this meant.

Mr Black was generally so averse to his
daughter's going out alone. Hugh could
scarcely indeed recall a time when he met
her walking by herself since Goarshausen.
Trusting her with kindly, good-natured,
but unworldly Mrs Mayne, who suspected
no one, could not be brought to believe
ill of anybody, and said, ' Poor soul, poor
soul ! ' when she heard of the hanging of

some notorious criminal. Trusting Gris-ella
with a woman who had once refused
to give a pickpocket in charge, although
he had possessed himself of her purse containing
twenty pounds !

It is not like the Vicar,' he said to himself.
He would be wretchedly uneasy till
Griselda was safely home again. Hugh
loved her more dearly than ever  perhaps
all the more dearly because he buried that
love so deep down in his heart. He had
heard of the break with the Romaynes
And, although he did not know it himself,
he hoped that perhaps some day Griselda's
heart would dethrone its idol and incline
towards him.

Mrs Mayne was at the station when
Griselda walked in, and the Vicar, following,
came up to her.

Can I have a word with you ? ' he

asked. ' Griselda will take the tickets  go,
dear ; ' he had given Griselda money for
her shopping as they walked along, little
dreaming what that shopping was to be.

Mrs Mayne, red-faced, a little anxiously
peeping into her bag, or pinching her reticule,
or fumbling in her pockets to be quite
sure she had not forgotten anything, said,  

'Certainly, Mr Black! I am to have
dear Griselda with me. Delightful ! '

But her face changed when the Vicar
drew her aside and abruptly spoke to her
of a rumour he had heard that Griselda
was too young to preside at the Vicarage
while he received young men as pupils.

Goodness gracious, Mr Black ! Whoever
can have said that . '

Then it has never occurred to you ? '

I should think not ! Griselda of all
girls!'

Then Mrs Mayne suddenly thought that,
after all, there was something in this. All
who knew Mr Black and Griselda could not
somehow possibly think of them in the
same hour with impropriety; and one of the
pupils was Mr Hugh Blunt, that earnest,
staid fellow who was such a favourite, and
the other that poor little Mervyn Bray!
Still outsiders miorht think and talk.

Do you think there is any admiration
at least, there must be for a beautiful
girl like Griselda  I mean, do you think
either of them is in love with her ? '

Mrs Mayne, both these boys are
gentlemen.'

Hush  here she comes ! We must
talk this over another time ! ' said Mrs
Mayne hurriedly, and rapidly changing
the conversation.

But Griselda's thoughts were fixed upon

her errand ; and she kissed her father, and
helped Mrs Mayne arrange her parcels and
cloak and umbrella in the carriage so calmly,
in spite of the roar of the engine and the
bustle there always was at Crowsfoot Station
when a train condescended to stop there,
that the doctor's wife felt quite angry with
the author of that slur upon the Vicarage.

If the Queen herself had said such a
thing, I wouldn't forgive her, ' indignantly
thought the old lady, as  loyal subject
that she was  the very strongest inward
expression of her feelings she could \v.

There were other passengers  three
ladies  in the compartment the first half
of the journey, so Griselda and her chaperon
did not converse.

Griselda sat quietly gazing out upon the
autumn landscape. In her  until lately 
uneventful life, a railway journey was quite

an incident. And she loved the fair country
she was born in ; she was never tired of
watching the changes of the seasons.

Mrs Mayne was watching her. Once
or twice Griselda, looking up, saw a new
expression, a curious look on her old
friend's face ; but she did not suspect the
cause. The second or third time she
blushed, and, leaning across, asked Mrs
Mayne whether her hat was crooked, and
on Mrs Mayne's ' Oh dear, no!' she asked
if she were really tidy  she had hurried
her dressing rather not to miss the train.

My dear, I have never seen you
untidy yet.'

Mrs Mayne spoke a little sharply.
At that moment she felt annoyed with
Nature for having made this young
creature so beautiful. Her loveliness,
placed as she was, with only the protection

of ' that eccentric father of hers,'
was Literally but a drawback. It was of
no use. ' If she were awkward and
ugly, or even merely plain, life would
really be much easier for her,' thought
the doctor's wife.

A few stations farther on, their 
got out, and then Mrs
Mayne began to talk, and to ' probe '
Griselda with great wariness. She led
the conversation gradually towards the
subject of the vicarage, the Vicar, and
his pupils.

After twenty minutes' cross-questioning,
Mrs Mayne's conclusion was that,
whatever might be the condition of the
affections of Messrs Hugh Blunt and
Mervyn Bray, Griselda was heart-whole
so far as they were concerned.

What shopping is it you are

going to do ? ' asked the lady, after her
mind was relieved so far. 'My dear!
Do you mean to say you have only
come to run about London after some
musty old book ? Dear, dear ! I shall
pass half-a-dozen of those old library-shops
that no one ever goes into, and
who are always said to be buying
ancient books at ridiculous prices, while
you never hear of their selling anything.
I could have got it for you directly.'

Griselda explained that this particular
book might not be to be had at all.

Mrs Mayne shook her head. She
had heard of Thomas Aquinas, but
thought the name sounded Popish. Her
Bible and Prayer-book were enough for
her, she said aloud  inwardly adding that
it would have been a good thing for Griselda
if they had been enough for the Vicar.

Accustomed to have her own way to
a certain extent, she then insisted, after
she had concluded her City shoppings
upon going to Paternoster Row.

My dear,' she said in a tone which
was intended to be conclusive, ' if you
want a book, Paternoster Row is the
place to go to.'

So they spent a weary hour in that
narrow way which eventually leads many
a book to the only eternity letter-press
can have, going in and out of the
endless counting-houses through swinging
doors, and their questioning being answered
in various ways  gradations
between excessive politeness and the
reverse.

Never mind ! Never say die ! ' said
Mrs Mayne, manfully dodging a heavy
dray-cart which was struggling to get

VOL. II. K

out of the Row, and which, according to
the driver of a hansom with a kicking
horse, who looked as if he meant backing
into an adjacent plate-glass window,
' hadn't got no business to be
there at all.' ' As somebody says
somewhere, it's dogged that does it.
Let us be dogged, Griselda.'

Yes, where it is of use,' said Gris-ella
quite meekly. But she wanted to
tell what she thought the truth, that
they were wasting their time.

However, the hour in Paternoster
Row was not altogether wasted, although,
if Mrs Mayne and Griselda had
not paused for that superfluous search
for an ancient book among the world of
new works, it is quite possible that that
which came to pass that day might not
have happened.

At the last counting-house they
visited, a civil young clerk advised them
to go to the great antiquarian bookseller,
Mr Quatrefoil.

He knows  at least they say he
knows  the title and contents of all the
great works in the Museum, let alone
the Bodleian and the Vatican,' said the
young man in the vague way of the
general knower, as he bowed Griselda
and her companion out, with a glance of
admiration at the unconsciously beautiful
girl.

Let us go, dear Mrs Mayne,' said
Griselda, so fervently that the good
old lady hurried through a hasty luncheon
at a pastry cook's and drove off
with her charge in a four-wheeled cab
to the West End, where the learned
bibliomaniac interviewed customers in a

quiet bookshop which looked like a
great library in miniature.

Mr Quatrefoil, a grey - haired old
gentleman, who wore blue spectacles 
his eyes had been sorely tried by deciphering
manuscript and staring too
eagerly at thousands of title - pages 
happened to come into the shop from
his counting-house as Griselda and Mrs
Mayne entered.

The literary antiquarian was the very
reverse of a ' ladies' man,' but when he
heard Griselda asking for Aquinas'
treatise, he came forward, and somewhat
coldly said, 

There is no  good  translation.'

Griselda said eagerly she was seeking
the original.

It is difficult Latin, ' said Mr
Quatrefoil, with a slight smile.

Then you have the book ? '

Griselda was breathless. Her cheek
was flushed, her eyes sparkled.

This enthusiastic young lady was a
strange customer. Mr Quatrefoil was
puzzled, for this was before the advent
of the strong-minded sex, of Newnham
and Girton. He said he would see,
but it would take some little time. If
they were in a hurry, perhaps they
would leave their address ; he would let
them know. He spoke with the most
innocent look he could assume, knowing
as he did  the sinner !  that within
thirty seconds he might hold it in
his hand, and went into his office 
although, of course, the book was not
there.

Griselda waited eagerly till he came
back, and, looking at her rather oddly,

inquired if this book were required by
an ordinary customer.

I know my father has bought books
of you.'

Then Griselda told her story. Mr
Quatrefoil Hastened with a new interest.
When she came to the end, he said, 

Pray come into my office, Miss
Black,' so respectfully and kindly that
Griselda felt hopeful.

Your father shall have the book for
as long as he likes, with pleasure,' he
said, waiving Griselda's offer of security
with a ' My dear young lady, certainly
not ! ' Then he stroked his beard
thoughtfully, wondering if it would be
prudent or right to tell Griselda what a
curious coincidence her visit was.

What harm can there be .' ' he thought.
The man said nothing about secrecy

and he has gone over to the majority.'
So he said, ' I had heard something of
your father's book, Miss Black. But
of course I hear of so many books that
I should not have paid much attention
to it had not my interest been claimed
for the book by Professor Blackett,
who is, I presume, a great friend of
Mr Black's?'

Griselda shook her head.

My father has his books,' she said
doubtfully. ' But I have never heard him
speak of the professor as an acquaintance
even.'

Dear me, well, that is odd ! ' Mr
Quatrefoil seemed taken aback. * It was
only eight or nine days ago that Mr
Blackett was here  sitting on the corner
of that table  he is, or rather was, a lean,
lanky sort of man, and had that habit of

perching himself high  and talking of
your father's book. I can see him now,
his arms folded, and he swaying himself
backwards and forwards, a trick of his.
Why, I thought he must be an Intimate
friend, or that, at the very least, Mr Black
must have been a favourite pupil, such
was the animation, the keen interested
way In which he spoke. He even went
so far as to ask me to read it. Then,
after he had said good-bye, he came back
to say, '' Oh, Quatrefoll, if Black should
come to you for reference-books, let him
have them, will you ? " Which meant
asking a favour  the first time I have
known him do such a thing, although he
has been one of my best friends and
patrons. Ah, poor fellow, I lite thought
those would be the very last words I
should hear him speak ! '

He is surely not dead ? '

A telegram was sent to our club from
Cambridge last night to say he was found
dead in his chair a few hours previously.
Well, Miss Black, you see I have good
foundation for my readiness to lend you
the Thomas Aquinas.'

A few minutes later Griselda was on
her way to join Mrs Mayne  wondering,
but greatly pleased. She hugged that
volume. She anticipated her father's
expression when he saw it with eager
satisfaction.

Opening Messrs Rogers & Handley's
door, she looked around. Ladies thronged
the counters. There was a buzz of many
voices.

Can I serve you, madam .' '

Griselda explained that she was seeking
an old lady  describing Mrs Mayne.

She did not know in which department
she would be Hkely to find her. The
shop-walker escorted her on a fruitless
voyage of discovery. To all seeming,
Mrs Mayne had left the shop.

Would the young lady wait ? '

No. Griselda remembered that Mrs
Mayne had told her in the morning that,
should they by chance happen to miss
each other, they were to meet at the
bookstall at the railway-station. There
were two trains  the 4.45 and the
6.20.

She might catch the 4.45. Of course
Mrs Mayne must be at the station. She
took a cab, and, arriving at the station,
walked through. Plenty of people at the
bookstall buying papers  but still no Mrs
Mayne.

Presently the gates were shut, there

was a whistle, a slamming of doors, and
the 4.45 was gone.

Nearly two hours to wait ! How should
she spend the time ? She walked up and
down and about for a time, till people
began to stare at her, and she saw two
porters look at her, then at each other,
and laugh. Then she went into the
waiting-room. But it was full and stuffy ;
so out she went again, and came upon a
little recess in a corner where there was
a bench. Here she sat, and, opening the
old volume, began to read. The Latin
was old and crabbed and strange. But
Griselda had inherited the taste for research
and the spirit of literary venture
from her father. She forgot her journey,
Mrs Mayne, everything. She might have
been hundreds of miles away from the
noisy, busy railway station.

She was recalled by hearing her name
spoken in a husky whisper. She glanced
up, but she saw no one. It must have
been fancy, she thought, or there might
be plenty of other girls that were named
Griselda.

But, all the same, the reading spell was
broken. She closed the precious book,
and amused herself watching the men
beginning to light the lamps. Looking
at the clock, she saw it was drawing
nearer the time of departure. Should she
not go and see if Mrs Mayne were at the
trysting-place ?

She rose  when some one clutched her
arm.

She gave a little shriek of fright, then
turned.

It was Hal! At first she hardly knew
him. He was pale ; but it was not that

which altered him. It was the expression
of his face which had changed him. He
used to look careless, triumphant, defiant,
through his smiles. Now he looked 
well, the word ' wicked ' flashed through
Griselda's mind. Common-place greetings
died on her lips. She stared at him, her
eyes wet with grief and love.

He looked her over coolly, almost absently.
Then he asked whom she expected.

She stammered out about losing Mrs
Mayne, and waiting for the 6.20 train,
somewhat incoherently.

He stood twisting his moustache, as if
he hardly heard. Then he offered her his
arm. Griselda drew back.

Come with me,' he said.

Oh, but I cannot  I must not ! ' she
said. ' Let us talk here, if you want to
talk to me.'

He sneered slightly, but merely said
Come ! ' more impatiently.

Griselda looked round and about hopelessly,
helplessly ; and then, as if she were
in a dream or mesmerised, she found
herself walking out of the station and into
the London streets with Hal Romayne.

Hal Romayne led Griselda silently but
quickly out into the street. It had been
raining. The lamps were reflected on
the wet pavement. There was the increased
bustle and hurry that follows a
shower. Hal made his way among the
clusters of umbrellas, hailed a hansom,
then said to Griselda, 

Will you get in, if you please ? '

For one moment she hesitated. Then
again the feeling of submission was uppermost,
and presently she was driving away
with Hal, whither she could not tell.

She glanced at him timidly from time
to time. But he sat sternly silent with
folded arms. At last she ventured to
say pleadingly, 

Where are you taking me to ? You
will take me back in time for the 6.20
train, will you not ? Mrs Mayne will
be so frightened ! '

He laughed slightly.

'Oh, certainly ! ' he said. ' Your anxiety
about Mrs Mayne is superfluous, I
can assure you. The little I have
to say will take but a short time in
saying.'

He opened the little trap-door and
gave some directions to the driver,
while Griselda wondered  wondered what
had happened to change the impetuous,
excitable Hal, whose storms of passion
had even admitted of gleams of sunshine,

into this gloomy, sarcastic young
man.

She was nerving herself for an unpleasant
interview when the cab drew
up at a flight of wide steps ; and,
glancing through the window at her
right, she saw the rows of pillars,
the porticoes and facades, the grand
blackened stone pile surmounted by the
great dome  St Paul's.

Hal sprang out, paid the driver, held
out his hand peremptorily, and Griselda
alighted. What was he bringing her
here for ? It was a side-entrance.
One of the cathedral doors stood half
open. No one was on the steps, none
were passing in and out.

Hal offered her his arm, they ascended
the flight, he opened the inner baize
door for her to pass, and Griselda stood

in the vast solemn building, where the
sound and rays of light that travel in
seem captured, never again to know
the outer air and life.

Strange to say, she had not been
here before. John Black had not
cared to take his little daughter with
him when he paid his brief, busy visits
to the metropolis.

There was to be evening service
later on. Some of the lamps were
lighted. There were moving figures
in the chancel.

Why did you bring me here ? '

Griselda, reassured by the passive
protection of the place, grew brave
She spoke to Hal coldly, as he spoke
to her, and held her Thomas Aquinas
tightly. Hal might try her, might
make her suffer ; but she determined

VOL. II. L

not to forget her fathers book of reference,
not to be ' off guard ' and to
lose It.

What book is that ? '

Griselda opened the volume at the
title-page. Hal stooped and glanced
at it, then drew himself up contemptuously.
Since that scene at Goarshausen,
he had disliked and tormented his
parents. He had taken a savage
pleasure in exaggerating the dissipation
into which he had undoubtedly plunged,
to his mother. Her tears and prayers
had merely augmented his enjoyment
of his revenge  that evil passion inherent
in most human natures, especially
in spoilt human natures. Now he was
trying to hate Griselda's father. But
this was more difficult, for he respected
him deeply, and Hal the ill-regulated

could not really love where he could
not respect. However, he sarcastically-said,


Then Mr Black Is still floundering
in feeble Atheism ? Does he think
St Thomas will pull him out?'

Griselda made no reply.

Hal waited for her to reply. But
Griselda stood, motionless as one of
the sculptured figures on the monuments
that loomed blackly in the dimness.
Then there came a wailing musical
sound as if from afar, and the
great organ began to play, a simple
hymn that was to be sung at the
coming service, played softly through
by the organist. It touched Griselda,
but it aggravated Hal, who had a sense
of wrong done, of sin committed, who
had no honoured and respected conscience

as his staff, shield, belt  that
which a moral warrior wants. He
said to her, almost savagely, 

You asked me why I brought you
here. Because I fancied, in spite of
your vile behaviour to me, that you
had enough reverence left not to tell
lies here.'

What lies have I ever told you,
Hal?' she asked, in an undertone.

Your conduct proves that you have
never told me anything else.'

What conduct ? '

First, accepting me ; then throwing
me over at once, without a look or a
word, in the most heartless manner I
ever heard of; then rushing into the
arms of your former lover, Hugh
Blunt'

'Hal!' Griselda drew herself up,

and her eyes flashed. ' I cannot hear
your evil thoughts in a church.' And
she was moving to the door, when he
somewhat taken aback by the first
wrath  and he knew well enough justifiable
wrath  of the oirl he loved 
went quickly after and caught her hand.

Come and sit down, and we will
talk quietly. Griselda '  he looked
piteously at her.

If I do, will you say a little prayer
first?'

Griselda, forgive me ! '
I meant a real prayer. Oh, Hal,'
she said suddenly, forgetting all but
that this was her dearest, her adored,
who made the light of her life, and
for whose loss she had been sorrowing
each day, each hour, almost every
minute, ' if it had not been for the

mercy of God, I could not have borne
leaving you ! I had to  it was right
I knew God would help me ; but if
you could know how I have missed
you since Goarshausen  how I have
pined, and longed, and wearied just to
see you, even without your seeing me
how I have loathed everyone and
everything  how I was sorry when I
woke up in the morning, because there
was another day to work through, and
how I groaned when the work was
done, because there was the long dreary
night, when 1 tossed or turned or was
tormented by cruel dreams ! Oh, Hal,
after all that, how can you be unkind ? *
Her voice faltered. She bent forward
to hide her emotion. Great tears
welled up and overflowed. Hal, remorseful
and gentle once more, made

her seat herself on one of the chairs ;
then  his manner changed and softened
he pleaded for himself.

 Griselda, darling, forgive me ! ' he
began.

Then he made a full confession,
almost without reserve, only too certain
of his pardon. His life since their
parting had been a disgraceful episode
in his career ; Griselda, innocent as she
was, felt that. He had accompanied
his family back as far as Calais, whereat
the last moment, he announced his
intention of starting for Paris alone.

They were aghast,' he said. ' But I
think my mother consoled herself with
the idea that even Paris was better than
England  where she had taken the
trouble to find out that you already
were. I had of course been over to

Paris before  several times  but not
in the devilish humour I was in then.
Well, some fellows I knew were there 
a fast lot  even for the  th, which is
considered a fast regiment. I lived their
life, which is saying much. I lived their
life, but could not feel as they profess
to feel  that there is no such thing as
Good anywhere. Wherever I went,
whatever I did, in the wildest, noisiest
scenes  or alone and wretched in the
dead of the night  my memory was
haunted by you  you in the side-chapel
of the old cathedral  you pitying that
poor old dog  you as I found you at
the top of that hill  you promising to
be my wife  you rushing away from
me when my mother behaved so disgracefully
 your face, your touch, your
voice. I could not stand it ; I left

again suddenly for London. London
was a little better. I was getting more
patient when my mother announced to me
that she had heard you were re-engaged
to a Mr Blunt. *' I understood there was
a disagreement," she said, '' but that
Miss Black's father wisely asked Mr
Blunt to overlook his daughter's conduct.
If she will only keep straight now, she
has a fair chance of leading a respectable
life." I won't tell you about the
row we had. I am ashamed of it. But
she has paid for that speech handsomely.
She is ill now ; they have
taken her to Bournemouth.'

Don't tell me any more ! ' Griselda's
heart was in her mouth. And this washer
doing! 'But how could you believe
me to be bad  false  horrible?'  with
a shudder. ' Did I not promise you

that, if I could not marry you '  she
looked at him with a world of love in
her earnest eyes  ' I would never marry
anyone else ? '

'It is a common thing for women to
promise '  scornfully.

But I am not a woman  I am only a
girl said Griselda earnestly. ' And that
reminds me  you won't understand
what my worst torment has been, perhaps.
Well, it was thinking that I was a plain
ordinary country girl, just dressed anyhow,
the best way I could ; but that
you were among all the beautiful ladies
beings I have often imagined  tall,
small-waisted, with flowing silk or satin
dresses, and their hair beautifully done
up, and wearing reckless and rings and
bracelets. Oh, when I thought of those,
I was unhappy ! '

'You had no faith in me, then?'

'Hal!'

An irrepressible smile glinted upon
both their young faces. The strained,
ugly look had already left Hal's countenance.


Now, Griselda, you know what
jealousy means ! '

'Have you been jealous?' whispered
Griselda. ' Oh dear, oh dear, if I had
only known that, I would have told you
everything at once ! '

What  everything ? '

'That  everything  when I cannot
see you  is  hateful.'

My darling, we must understand each
other, once and for all,' said Hal. ' Weare
promised to each other, and as soon
as circumstances will permit, you and I
will be husband and wife. Meanwhile,

I have only one favour to ask you. Be
firm with your father, and demand that
he shall send those young-men pupils of
his away. You cannot understand, nor
do I wish you to understand, why I
insist upon this. But I can tell you
this much : If your father were not a
self-absorbed, opinionated man  you
would not be the lady of the house
where two strange young men are two
of the small family of four.'

Then he told Griselda that people
who studied conventionalities had talked
about the Vicar's neglect of her. Now
that he was softened, comforted, that
Griselda was true and pure-hearted, still
his ideal woman, he was gentler, and
said nothing absolutely to wound her
feelings. Still, while he talked, she felt
that something must be done, and a

vague idea of what she might do arose
in her mind. She determined to consult
Mrs Mayne.

That lady had proceeded to the
draper's, and had partly got through her
shopping, when she saw an old friend
just leaving the shop by another door 
a former schoolfellow she had an affection
for, but had not seen for years.
She stood just outside talking to her,
and thus missed Griselda. As time
went on, she thought her charge was
a long time at Mr Quatrefoll's inquiring
for Aquinas' treatise, so she ordered
her purchases to be securely packed and
she went to Quatrefoll's, which was buta
few doors from the great emporium.
The bookseller himself was out ; but his
assistant told her that the young lady
left ' nearly an hour ago.'

Mrs Mayne could hardly believe this,
her arrangement with Griselda that the
latter should join her at the draper's was
so clear. She felt puzzled. Returning
to the shop, she found on inquiry that
Griselda had been there. It was evident
that they had missed each other. * She
is waiting for me at the station,' thought
Mrs Mayne, and thither she proceeded
in a cab ; with her purchases. When
she did not see Griselda waiting at the
bookstall, she thought she must be in
the waiting-room ; and, while she was
going from one to the other, Hal had
succeeded in persuading the girl whose
love was so strong that she could not
resist him to leave the station for a
while with him.

If Mrs Mayne could have known this!
Without the knowledge, she was fidgety

and anxious enough. Where could the
girl be ? Griselda was behaving so unlike
Griselda. Poor Mrs Mayne, in her
distracted frame of mind, was a perfect
nuisance to the officials. She implored
the ticket-collectors to remember if a
young lady answering to Griselda's description
had started by the 4.45 train.
She cross-questioned all the porters, and
made the life of the young man who
served newspapers at the bookstall a
perfect burden to him. Whispers went
about that the old lady was an escaped
lunatic, with a delusion, and the glances
that followed her became so unpleasant
to the poor doctor's wife that she had
just given her search up in despair, and
had seated herself on the very bench
which Griselda had occupied shortly
before, when, looking across the station,

she saw the young lady walk calmly In
on the arm of a young man.

'Oh!'

Words could not describe that ' oh ' of
Mrs Mayne's. She rubbed her eyes,
hurried up to the couple who were going
towards the bookstall, and positively
clutched at Griselda's arm.

Hal turned, and, seeing who It was,
Mrs Mayne said, ' Oh ! ' again, and fora
moment or two was speechless.

Then she said, ' Well, Griselda ! ' and
her tone meant much. Hal gave a
short account of their meeting and visit
to St Paul's, ending with, 

It Is too strange not to be true,
Mrs Mayne ! Fancy, that our meeting
came about by a chance In a million.
I was carrying this cane, not an umbrella.
It began to rain. I had a new

hat. I actually tossed up whether I
should take a hansom or wait in the
station, and chance decided I should
wait'

Mrs Mayne could not help thinking"
her credulity was somewhat hardly
taxed. Still, she did not really doubt
the veracity of either of the young-people.
She had always liked Hal Romayne
 and who could doubt Griselda
who had known her, as Mrs Mayne
had  ever since she was born ?

So she accepted the situation, heard
Griselda's explanation, and allowed Hal
to carry her small parcels and to
summon a porter for the larger ones,
to find them a compartment, to settle
them comfortably therein, and to wait
until the train started, when he stood,
lifting his hat from his curly head, and

VOL. II. M

fixing his eyes upon Griselda with so
wistful, tender, and passionate a gaze,
that Mrs Mayne remembered her young
days and felt quite touched.

Poor young things ! ' she thought.
But she speedily repressed her overflow
of sympathy. Griselda was a motherless
girl, with a pedantic father, who
knew about as much of the world asa
baby.' She was, moreover, under her
own guardianship, and this meeting had
come about while she was responsible.
The old lady had gathered somewhat
from Griselda of the Goarshausen business.
But she was not rightly in possession
of the facts.

My dear,' she said to Griselda, kindly
but sternly, as soon as they were fairly
on their journey homewards, * I am seriously
concerned about this meeting of

yours with Mr Romayne. In fact, I
hardly know what I ought to do about
it. I must consult the Doctor this very
night.'

Then Griselda began from the beginnings

and told her all, from the romantic

childish affection which Mrs

Mayne remembered well  she fancied

she could see the pretty boy Hal now 

that day years ago when he came and

talked about Griselda to her,  to the

interview but an hour ago in St Paul's,

which had left them more closely bound

to each other than they had as yet

been.

Mrs Mayne's heart bid fair to bias
her judgment. It was all so romantic,
the love between these handsome young
people. Then Griselda told her tale so
artlessly, and looked so sweet, and in

the background there was Feather's Court,
the title, the town-house, and the other
estates. Surely a marriage such as this
might rank among the ' marriages made
in heaven ' ! Then she called herself to
order. Although she did not like Sir
Hubert and Lady Romayne, and had
much fault to find with the Vicar, her
first duty was to the parents.

I wish you both happiness together
with my whole heart,' she said. ' But,
my dear, that happiness cannot be unless
Sir Hubert and Lady Romayne
relent.'

Griselda agreed with her. Then she
told her of Hal's dislike to the present
arrangements at the vicarage.

Mrs Mayne admitted that dislike to
be very natural. Still, she could not see
what Griselda was to do.

ii

Then the girl confided her idea to her
old friend.

I thought perhaps Jemima could manage
for them, with a girl under her,'
she suoorested. ' And I could take a
resident governess's situation  to teach
young boys. I know I could prepare
them for school thoroughly. And I
think I understand boys.'

You have had experience enough, I
am sure, with those brothers of yours,'
said Mrs Mayne, somewhat taken aback.
But, my dear, if you were really to do
this, I fear it would be a lasting stumble
in the way of marrying into
the Romayne family. Lady Romayne
mioht be brought to acknowledge a
clergyman's daughter as her daughter-in-law,
but a governess! Never!'

It cannot be helped.'

Well, I will think it over. Go orr
as usual for a few days, Griselda ; then
come up to tea with me, and we will
talk it over.'

The Doctor and his wife sat up very
late that night talking of the Blacks''
affairs. Meanwhile, Griselda had had
the delight of seeing her father greatly
pleased with the book she had brought.
He was interested to hear that the professor,
so lately dead, had interested
himself so deeply In his writings.

Poor fellow,' he said ; ' I should
liked to have thanked him ! What an
eccentric man he was ! '

He told Griselda of the efforts he had
made, and others had made, for him to
meet and converse with the celebrated
Professor Blackett, and how curiously and
signally those efforts had failed.

Then, every available moment, John
Black was at work upon his new book.
It was his daughter's triumph to find the
required quotation. Griselda was hard
at work those next days, but the work
did not seem hard. The sight of her beloved
betrothed husband, his loving words
and looks, had been new life to her. Her
faith and trust in him were complete.
Sometimes she said to herself, * I am
too happy, too blest.' After that came
a morning that the Vicar received a
curious letter from Messrs Everest &
Everest. He said nothing to Griselda
at the breakfast-table. But, later on,
he came to her in the garden, where
she was trailing some late convolvulus
on a wire basket, and asked her what
she thought of it. The letter ran as
follows : 

'Dear Sir,  If you will favour us with
an interview at your earliest convenience,
to discuss matters relating to yourself and
to your sons and daughter, which are of
the utmost importance, you will greatly
oblige,  Your most obedient servants,
Everest & Everest.'

What can it mean ? ' said the Vicar,
half to himself, half to Griselda.

Perhaps '  she hesitated a little  ' the
bishop has felt sorry for being so  so 
intolerant, and wishes you to begin preaching
again  no, don't shake your head, you
dear father, and don't look so sad.' She
clung to him. ' Sometimes I feel almost
sure that some great good is going to
happen to you  that it must come sooner
or later. I did so the other day, when I
was in St Paul's, and the organ was playing,

and the hymn reminded me of you 
so true  so firm  so good  '

'St Paul's! Did Mrs Mayne take you
to St Paul's ? '

Griselda told her father about her meeting
with Hal.

There was no harm ? she added,
slightly alarmed, for he looked grave
and troubled.

No harm,' he said ; 'but I am sorry 
sorry  oh, Griselda, child,' he said, with
sudden passion, ' you are all I have now
you seem to be more hers than the
boys! You are like her too, I know you
are, in heart and soul, my darling ; and to
think of a word against you being said !
I cannot bear it ! And I am so tied and
bound,' he went on, shaking aside his
shaggy grey hair, and stroking his brow
with his thin hand. ' I cannot take care

of you as I would. That illness  that
ill-success  our poverty  they are so
many drags upon each step I take, so
many chains upon my hands. Griselda,
a few nights before your mother died I
had a dream. I dreamt I saw a big white
lily and a tiny one on the same stalk, and
as I looked at them, the big lily withered
and shrivelled as if it had been burnt, and
I had only the tiny one left. It was prophetic,
but not prophetic of how I should
grow to love and depend upon my white
blossom ! ' He took her face tenderly
between his hands. ' Nor did it prophesy
that I should first be careless, worse than
careless. Child, can you forgive me 1 ' he
said, in a slow dull way ; and there was a
look of anguish in his eyes which made
her heart ache. ' Can you forgive me for
having once, in my misery, thought that  '

He turned away. He could not say
it, this confession which had so often
risen to his Hps. His remorse for having
shunned the child Griselda as the innocent
and indirect cause of her mother's
death had been frequent and cruel.

Father '  she could not bear to hear
him speak thus  ' I know ; it was so
natural ! How could you help it ? If I
had not been born, she might not have
died. I cannot talk about forgiving you,
for I have such a feeling you have never
done wrong.'

And I to-day feel as if I were the
greatest sinner in the whole world,' said
John Black, his arms falling at his sides.
What this presentiment of some blow 
some sudden ending to this life of ours,
with nothing beyond  means to-day, I
cannot tell ; but there it is, weighing me

down. I once had a terrible interview
with those Everests, Griselda ! I was a
very young man, and I had lived as
worse than an orphan  for at least orphans
knew where their parents' bodies
rest, and can stand by their graves and
hope to meet them again  but no one
could ever tell me who I was, or who it
was that gave me my daily bread till I
could earn it for myself. Well, I went
to those lawyers and asked them boldly,
*' Who am I ? " Men ? They were as
stone. Could they be flesh and blood ;
could they be husbands with wives clinging
to them, fathers with children babbling
to them and climbing about their knees ?
They nearly broke my spirit and crushed
my life ; my child, they absolutely refused
to tell me one word ; they sent me out
into the world  utterly alone.'

It was the first time he had shown such
emotion to Griselda  the first time he
had spoken to her of his boyhood, his Hfe.
She bent her head, and, raising his hand,
reverently kissed it ; she could not speak.

I dread to-day,' he went on, with a
shuddering sob. ' Can it be because I
am physically weak ? I am a coward. I
cannot meet this blow  I fear It.'

Darling ! ' cried Griselda, as with a
sudden inspiration seizing his hand and
looking brightly into his face, ' I know,
I am sure this is only good news ! Oh,
do believe me  what else could It be ?
Why should they write about Tom and
Harry and me; and use the word 'important
? " And, even If It were not
altogether good news, you have us all to
love you and stick by you, and do every
mortal possible thing to make you bear

it. There, you must soon be going, or
you will have to wait till the two o'clock
train, and the offices will be shut before
you get there ; ' and she hurried him into
the house and brushed his coat, and hung
about him tenderly ; then, after he said
good-bye, stood smiling, and waving her
hand till he turned the corner of the lane,
and she saw him no more.

Then she felt suddenly lonesome and
miserable. Her spirits fell ; there had been
something in John Black's manner to-day
which his daughter had never  sensitive to
the slightest variation in her father's looks,
tones, and attitudes  noticed before.

Will  something  happen } ' she asked
herself, feeling dazed and strange.

At that moment she saw Hugh Blunt
hastening up the lane. When he saw her,
he ran, to save her from waiting at the door.

jHAT is wrong?' blurted out
Hugh Blunt to Griselda.
Your father met me just
now  stopped a moment  shook my hand
was going to speak  then turned away,
and went off with his fastest stride. It is
bad news ? '

It is  everything,' said Griselda, leaning
against the parlour door. ' Or 
excuse me  I am not fit to talk.'

Her voice faltered, and she turned away
her head.

'Nonsense!' said Hugh, in a bantering

tone, though he sympathised with her
deeply. * Come, let me hear all about it.'

Then he simply took her hand and led
her into the parlour, closed the door, and
stirred the logs on the hearth, which were
smouldering into grey ashes. After which
he stood on the hearth rug, and in a way
peculiarly his own contrived to find out
what he wanted to know, and a little
more  for, unnerved as Griselda was, she
somehow mentioned her intention to leave
home and to take a situation as governess.

'What?' cried Hugh, surprised into
vehemence. 'You  leave home  leave
us  what does it mean ? Griselda, are we
is poor Bray  or am I  hateful to you ?
If so, it is we who ought to leave  not
you. Oh, this cannot be serious ! Someone
has put this nonsensical notion into
your head. It cannot be yours ! Tell me  '

He walked uneasily to the window, and
back to the fireplace  uneasily, because he
felt certain that there was something unpleasant
at the root of this unexpected
whim of the girl he so fondly loved.

No one put the Idea into my head,'
said Griselda. ' It came there quite by
Itself, and I mean It to stay.'

You mean to leave  your father ? '
I mean to give my Idea consideration
and to discuss it.'

With your father, of course ? '
No ; with Mrs Mayne. I am going
to tea with her this afternoon.'

You  with your knowledge  are going
to be led by that good-natured old lady,
who is the embodiment of narrow Crows-foot
opinions ! What can have happened
to bring about this 't '

Nothing but facts.'

VOL. II. N

Hugh was disturbed, worried. Of
course, if Griselda had not been the
mainspring of his feelings, thoughts, and
actions, he might have regretted had she
gone into the world as a governess, but
would scarcely have cared. But, as he
loved her, he was stung to the quick.

Let me speak to you,' he began, in a
low earnest voice, going towards the little
red sofa where she was sitting, her elbow
on the sofa-arm, her head supported by
her hand. ' Let me  '

No, no ! ' Griselda, detecting something
that reminded her of Hugh as he
was at Goarshausen, sprung up, her cheeks
rosy red. ' Please not ; do you know I
have ever so much to do ? We dine
early, as usual, and I am going to tea
with Mrs Mayne, and poor Jemima will
not '' get through," as she calls it ; ' and,

taking her key-basket, she abruptly left
him.

Hugh thought, rapidly and decisively.

This shall not be,' he said to himself.
I must speak. When she knows how
utterly unworthy of her he is  how the
very fact that such a fellow dared to make
love to her blemishes her sweet purity 
surely she will be persuaded, if not to care
for me, at least to let me care for and
protect her.'

He made some resolutions, then quietly
joined Mervyn Bray, who was at work,
stupefying himself with a seemingly insoluble
problem, in the little sitting-room
under the sloping roof upstairs.

At the early dinner Hugh was quiet and
helpful, but showed no trace of the morning's
mental disturbance. Griselda had
leisurely dressed, had started, and had

nearly reached the cross-roads at the end
of the vicarage lane, when she heard
quick footsteps behind her. It was Hugh.
As he came up, he said,

I will walk with you to Mrs Mayne's.'
Griselda halted in consternation.

Oh, but you can't ! ' she said.

Why not ? '

She looked this way and that.

You see, Mrs Mayne does not exactly
expect you. I mean, she has not asked
you to tea to-day, although I am sure she
will be delighted to see you any other
day you choose to go.'

I only meant to accompany you to the
door.*

But that means going through the
village.'

I have been through the village with
you often before.'

Yes,' began Griselda ; then she reddened,
and stammered out. ' but not 
not without Mr Bray  or my father  or
both.'

Why this sudden prudery '. I can call
it nothing else.'

I have reasons  or rather a reason 
which I do not intend to tell you.'

That is very wrong  it is cruel,
Griselda!' said Hugh warmly. 'After
all these months that I have lived under
your father's roof  after our being together
as we were abroad  after the numbers of
times that I have walked to church or to
the school with you  you suddenly are
capricious, and take away a simple
privilege for nothing at all ! It is unworthy
of you.'

Come, then, if you please,' said
Griselda.

At first he walked by her side In
silence ; but then he began to speak.
He would not be stayed ; he would
have his say out. He told her of his
love. He promised her long unbroken
happiness If she would promise to be
his wife some day. He assured her of
a warm welcome from ' his people '  this
passion made him eloquent. Griselda's
heart beat faintly  her face was chill 
she was pale  she could not check that
torrent of words.

Don't ! ' she feebly said at last. ' I
cannot bear It;' and she looked as if she
would faint. One stormy interview after
another seemed to overwhelm her.

You are obdurate ? You steadily set
yourself against me, then?' said Hugh,
with rising anger. ' All my love  all my
devotion  go for nothing!'

 Do not say that,' dear friend,' said
Griselda, supporting herself against a
tree, and looking pleadingly at him. ' Do
you think I am ungrateful ? Do you
think I have not seen and known how
good, how thoughtful you have been for
us ? But '  she looked down, her voice
faltered  she was so unused to speak of
the one dominant presence in her mind
' you remember what I told you at
Goarshausen ? I may not, indeed most
likely I never shall, marry  but I  could
never  marry  anyone  but  Hal.'

Hush hesitated. He looked at the
slight graceful creature, so modest, so
gentle, who spoke of reckless  in his
opinion, bad  Hal Romayne half with
awe, as if she talked of some ineffably
sacred subject. He battled with his
anger and disgust. He struggled to feel

pity, sympathy. But a stern sensation
rose and got the ascendency  a dogged
determination to enlighten Griselda. It
was not really rivalry or any mean feeling
which made him speak out, and tell
the girl whose ideal was Hal Romayne
of what clay her idol was made ; how
he had been the fastest youth among
a fast set of young fellows, first and
foremost in any devilry ; how the worst
conduct which could be attributed to a
young man who was not openly going to
perdition had been attributed to him ;
how, worst of all, since she had given
him her maiden affection at Goarshausen,
he had returned to wallow in the mire
with redoubled carelessness as to past,
present, and future. It was justice  unscrupulous
justice, perhaps, but still justice
to himself, to her, to her father  to

tell his story, which was true in a manner
in all its naked ugliness.

When he stopped, he felt he had said
too much. He had talked to this girl
as if she were a man ; but what was to
be done ? He could not loss over vice.

He looked eagerly at Griselda. At
last, at last he had opened her eyes !

But Griselda merely said very quietly,
Thank you, Mr Blunt. Please leave
me '  as if they had been discussing the
most ordinary question.

She had listened, and she had heard.
But Hal had anticipated his enemy by
his free confession ; therefore Griselda
felt that he was injured by Hugh Blunt,
that she was his natural champion, and
that the prodigal who morally flung himself
at her feet a few days since in the
old church was as far superior to malicious

and maligning Hugh Blunt as the
Publican was to the Pharisee.

Before Blunt had rallied from his astonishment,
she had left him, and was
many yards along the lane.

He stood gazing after her, almost stupefied.
He had not anticipated this. He
could not understand how one so pure
could love one so vile.

Why are fellows of that sort born ? '
he asked himself, with sudden rage. ' Of
no use, but to torment, to drag others
down to their miserable level  to pollute
their womankind  for they degrade them
to the level of carrion hovering about
garbage  vice is spiritual garbage  they
are like that toad,' he went on, turning
round, and pursuing a path across a cornfield
which led to a copse, and pushing a
misshapen green and yellow toad into the

ditch with his stick. * What are those
noisome creatures for in the economy of
nature ? '

He looked vaguely about, as if for an
answer. The clear autumn sky was
patched with sunlit clouds ; the gold and
brown leaves went fluttering down, as if
they meant to play with their withered
brethren that lay in heaps about the
grassy hedgerows rather than to die. A
field-mouse flashed along and fled into a
hole ; then, as Hugh trod the stubble, a
covey of partridges flew up with a whirr.
Nature was smiling about him, and he saw
her not. For she  and natures such as
his,  who reason, calculate, and govern, 
are scarcely at one. The wild, passionate,
loving, and repentant are the children
of Nature, who is all furious storm,
raving and raging, casting her children

wildly hither and thither, hunting them
from her  even to death  one day ; while
the next she will be all stillness and sunshine,
drawing up the beaten flowers,
coaxing the storm-ridden creatures back
to bask upon her warm bosom, never
consistent in her moods except in their
inconsistency.

Hugh went on to the copse, and there
he flung himself upon the grass under
the nut-trees, and gave himself up to
anxious thought. Tiny insects crept in
and out of the grass ; the rabbits were
scudding about a green bank a little distance
away ; doves cooed now and then.
It was so still he could hear the heavy
breathing of a cart-horse munching in a
gratified beyond the hedge.

He thought  for long. Then he rose,
shook himself free of fallen leaves and

twigs, and went away, sternly but securely
comforted by a long course of reasoning.

If, he considered  if he waited and
hoped, and was constant in the role of
faithfully devoted pupil to the Vicar and
brotherly friend to Griselda  he would
tire out circumstances. The Romayne
complications must come to an end, and
the continued resistance of Sir Hubert
and Lady Romayne would at last kill
Hal's passion for Griselda, who would
then be free.

He calculated for all continuing on the
same level. Chances, as we term sudden
occurrences that shake and overthrow all
humanity's judgments of what will be
met with tomorrow or any tomorrow in
the future,  he forgot. Therefore he was
as one tossing on the sea without a
compass.

He went home to be reproached by
Mervyn Bray for having forgotten his
promise that they two should take a
long walk together.

Well, it is not too late now,' he said.

So they started out, went to the nearest
hill of the chain which was the background
to Feather's Court, watched a
beautiful golden autumn sunset, and returned
in the gloaming.

We might meet the Vicar, if we
went back by the station,' said Hugh,
glancing at his watch by the light of
the full moon, as they passed the first
cottage of the straggling village of Crows-foot.
* The 6. 20 will not be so very
long now.'

Bray assented ; so they turned down
the station-lane. Here there was some
excitement going on. Mothers with

babies in their arms and young children
clinging to their skirts, were standing
about in groups, all looking in one direction.
Men and boys were running and
shouting.

Fire ! ' suggested Mervyn Bray,
whose ideas were somewhat straggling,
especially when he was fatigued  and he
was more than that now ; after pounding
along the roads and rushing up and
downhill with Hugh, he was positively
footsore.

The sky looks so red, doesn't it,
old man ? ' said Hugh sarcastically.
He was not particular as to his sayings
when he was alone with good-natured
Bray. ' No ; most probably it
is a row There is not the slightest
doubt that, since the Vicar has left off
lecturing in the schoolroom as well as

preaching, those wretched public-houses
have done double business.'

They walked quickly down the lane.
If there really were a row, it was
on the station platform. There was a
surging crowd there. The murmur
could be heard some distance away.

A prize-fight, no doubt,' said Bray,
with pride at his brilliant inspiration.

But just then they reached the station,
and a man rushed out, wild, ghastly, clutching
madly at his hair, and shrieking, 

My only girl  my only girl ! '

Stop him, stop him ; he will kill
himself!' shouted a man and some
women, rushing after him.

The pursued and the pursuers went by
like a whirlwind. Bray gave a curious
little cry; he was frightened. Hugh
stood still and said hoarsely, 

No, no ; It is some accident ! '
The little booking - office was fulL
The policeman was carried hither and
thither, vaguely, by the crowd. He
was powerless. Hugh heard sobbing
and short sad cries on the platform
beyond. There was a continuous low
moan, such as the storm-wind utters ina
pine-forest. Everyone vociferated, but
no one took notice of any other. It
might have been a gathering of the
inmates of some lunatic asylum. But
suddenly the door of the waiting-room
opened, sending the people near reeling
back among the crowd, and Doctor
Mayne came out with the station-master,
who was blanched and trembling.

Hugh gave a vigorous push, and made
his way to their side.

The 6.20 run Into by the express, and

VOL. II. o

smashed,' said the station-master. * If we
could only clear the station ! Nothing can
be done till they will move.'

Hugh heard passively, as if in some
awful dream. Doctor Mayne clutched
his arm.

It has been telegraphed a quarter of
an hour,' he said, ' and look at the scene
now  what shall we do ? There is poor
Sir Hubert lying there in the waiting-room
; he came in the dog-cart to meet
his son ; we sent it off to Armchurch for
Doctor Strong there. He fainted. I fear
it is slight apoplexy.'

Sir  Hubert  Romayne ? ' Hugh
spoke strangely, as if he were drugged.

Yes  oh, poor fellow  poor Hal ! He
was in the train expected.'

Oh  but  my God !  the Vicar ! ' cried
Hugh distractedly.

'Hush, hush!' Doctor Mayne had
seemed to live ten years in those last
minutes. The accident and its impending
horrors were familiar to him, as if
he had known nothing but all this for
months. * Hush ! There she comes ! '

Hugh turned, and saw Griselda, who
came in, pale, staggering, as one buried
alive and released, into the outer air.

Hugh made one step towards her,
reeled, and leant back against the wall.
It was the worst moment of his life.

HE Vicar had gone on to London,
still in depressed spirits.
Yet London had seldom looked
to such advantage as on this bright, clear
autumn day. Last week's rain had dashed
the pavements white. Pure sunshine lay
upon the freshened roofs, and glinted on
the fast-falling foliage of the imprisoned
trees with the blackened trunks that grew
in the old City churchyards. The men
thronging the streets seemed to walk
more lightly, for a good two-thirds of the
busy crowd had just returned invigorated

by their annual holiday. Lincoln's Inn
Fields was unusually quiet. The many
windows, whose uncurtained, unblinded
condition meant offices on every floor,
had always seemed to look blank and
discouraging to John Black, perhaps because
hereabouts was the one great mystery
of his life, locked up, it might be,
in some old deed-box in Messrs Everests'
safes, or perhaps in the legal minds of
those gentlemen only. To-day, the staid,
empty look of the houses oppressed him
more than ever. He walked round the
square before he mounted the narrow
flight of stone steps leading to Messrs
Everests' office, thinking of that day
when he went to them to ask for a monetary
advance, soon after Doctor Mayne
had told him that his beloved wife must
shortly die. Those practical business

men had proposed an arrangement ta
him then which seemed to him most 
 to advance him money without
charging him interest, this money to
be paid back when convenient to himself,.
and not to affect his three thousand
pounds which they had invested for him,
the interest of which he was to continue
to draw as usual. He had never
understood that. Now they no longer
had any money of his, for, after insisting
a few years ago upon refunding the sum
they had so freely and generously lent
him, he had withdrawn and used the little
capital he had left  and not a shilling
of it remained.

Presently he chided himself for his ' cowardice,'
and went into the clerk's office.

He was immediately taken upstairs into
the great gaunt room. Here the lanky

Mr Walter Everest and his smaller but
senior brother and partner, Mr Henry,
were standing talking near the fireplace
to a bland old gentleman with white hair,
dressed in deep mourning, who, saluting
them with subdued but smiling deference,
immediately bowed himself out when he
saw the Vicar. Evidently his interview
with these representatives of the well-known
firm had been by no means an
unpleasant one.

The brothers turned, and shook hands
with John Black.

Be seated, I beg,' said Mr Henry.
I hope you have half-an-hour to spare ? '

Yes,' said the Vicar wonderingly, looking
towards Mr Walter, who had resumed
his chair at his office-table, and
who at once saw something out of window
which attracted his attention.

That Is well,' said the brisk Mr
Henry, who had grown very bald these
years, but who was as sharp In manner
as ever  * that Is well ; for this chat of
ours to-day Is not exactly  Indeed, I
think I may say, Mr Walter '  appealing
to his brother  ' can scarcely come under
the category of business at all  eh ? '

No  not  not exactly,' said Mr Walter,
who was arranging the neat piles of documents
and papers, in all stages of dusty
age, on his table.

No ; doubtless you noticed that  my
dear Vicar  from my letter.'

John shook his head.

It was, as usual, mystifying,' he said,
with a tinge of sarcasm.

Oh, my dear sir, we must not say
** mystifying," we must not indeed!' said
the little man, with a short laugh, crossing

and uncrossing his legs. ' We lawyers
never mystify. It is you clients who persist
in being mystified. The affairs we
take in hand are as clear as daylight.
If you clients cannot see in the daylight,
that is not our fault. However, hold to
your bad opinion of us by all means.
It does not harm us, and amuses you.
But I wish that you thought as well of
us, for instance, as the old gentleman
who has just left us, with a heavy cheque,
drawn in his favour by the firm, in his
pocket-book. I daresay you recognised
him. No . Not the celebrated undertaker,
Gillfly ? He has just buried a
very old and valued client of ours in
the good, honest, old-fashioned way,  no
foolery of flowers and gewgaws,  Professor
Blackett,' went on Mr Everest
loudly and slowly, gazing up at the ceiling

as if he were deciphering the name
there. ' Yes ; Professor Blackett.'

Ah, I was so sorry to hear of his
death ! ' said the Vicar, the memory of
the dead professor's interest in his condemned
book rousing him. ' He was a
learned man  ay, a very great man.
Was he really a client of yours ? '

He was,' said Mr Henry Everest,
coughing slightly, and then rubbing his
eyeglass softly and slowly with his bandana
handkerchief. ' And he did us the honour
to repose the greatest confidence in us.
My brother and I attended his funeral,
being, with the exception of his medical
adviser, the only mourners. His wish
was that it should be so.'

Surely he had relatives  friends ? '

He was quite a recluse  quite a recluse,'
said the little lawyer, pursing up

his lips  ' a philosopher, a peculiar man.
I should say now  if it be not irreverent
that one might paraphrase a certain
Scriptural sentence, and say of the professor,
his books were his mother, his
father, and his brethren. He had a
unique library  unique.'

So I have heard,' said the Vicar
wondering if there would be a sale, and
if so, if he could, by hook or by crook
manage to buy one or two books he
knew were in the collection  books
which would be everything to him. ' I
suppose  considering his public spirit 
that he has left his collection to his
college ? '

No,' said Mr Henry, settling his
collar. 'No. I cannot say that he has.
Hfs wull was a simple one, and will
create a certain surprise. He has left

everything, money, houses  he had invested
in house-property,  library, unpublished
manuscripts, all  to one person

A great, a very great proof of his
belief in that one person,' said the Vicar,
slightly disappointed that the chance of
the sale was gone. ' He must indeed
have been deeply attached to  to  the
person, and have had unlimited confidence
in him, or perhaps  her.'

The last suggestion was an afterthought.
The gaunt, grey-haired professor,
as the Vicar remembered him,
was scarcely one to charm the fair sex,
or to care whether he charmed or not.

I agree with you,' said Mr Henry
energetically. ' To my mind, the professor
has done a very noble thing. He
has lived frugally, has saved and amassed
for the sake of this person whom he has

made his heir. But I am forgetting '  
he rang the bell  ' I ordered a bottle of
some particular dry sherry to be opened
for you, to refresh you after your journey

The Vicar disclaimed needing any such
stimulant. He was just beginning to
wonder what this new aspect of the
Messrs Everest meant, and an uneasy
dread of he knew not what had come to
him as a sudden chill, when a neat maidservant
entered with a tray, decanters,
glasses, sandwiches, plates. The quickness
suggested that she mj'ght have been
waiting her summons in an ante-room,
which was the fact.

John Black stood up. He was getting
thoroughly uncomfortable. He wanted
neither their wine nor their sandwiches,
nor their new friendliness. One word
of truth, one word of kindliness, years

ago, would have altered his life. Now
they might do as they pleased. It was
too late.

Come, my dear sir,' said the little
man, pouring out three glasses of sherry,
and taking up his glass with a festive
air, as if he were at a wedding or a
christening  ' come ! I am sure you
will not refuse, as you seem interested
in the late lamented professor's affairs,
to drink the health of his heir, lucky
man ! '

The Vicar shook his head.

I am not a man who cares for these
customs,' he said. ' Custom has been set
aside so entirely in my life that you can
scarcely be surprised.'

Mr Walter, who had been very fidgety
during the conversation, looked at his
brother, who remained perfectly unembarrassed,

and who went on, while he
almost forced a glass of wine upon John
Black,

Then I will propose a toast you can
scarcely refuse to drink, my friend. Long
life to your sons and daughter, and may
you also live to enjoy their happiness ! '

It was a neatly managed little speech.
But like other innocent-seeming things,
it brought about a convulsion  it led to
the overturning and resettling of a life.

John Black grew deadly pale. The
wine-glass fell from his hand, the glass
shivered into glistening powder on the
faded hearthrug.

Stop ! ' he said, in a low, desperate
voice. ' I know now what your business
with me is. I know ! I see it in your
faces ! Don't speak,' he went on fiercely ;
I will not hear you ! You have

brought me here to offer me money, ta
tempt me with books  to forgive the
accursed man who has damned me with
disgrace. Now I see ! Now I understand
why he dare not look me in
the face. Devil ! ' he cried, throwing
up his arms as he seemed to see the
gaunt, white-haired man as he had seen
him once, hurrying through his friend's
rooms. ' It is well for you that you are
dead ! It is well for you that
you are dead ! '

Here he dropped heavily into a chair.
All grew dark before his eyes. But Mr
Walter Everest, who, outside his office
was the worn and meek father of a
dozen obstreperous children, forgot he was
within the legal precincts, and tended
the Vicar quite fraternally till he had
slightly recovered.

My dear Mr Blackett  for there Is no
need of further ceremony, since you have
arrived at the truth so cleverly  you
really must not allow yourself to be overcome
like this  you really must not,' said
Mr Henry, who was hovering uneasily
about this uncomfortable client who transgressed
all rule and precedent. ' You are
too emotional  indeed, far too emotional
Do consider. Be reasonable. Your respected
father was in a singular position.
No one knew of his marriage, and your
mother, to whom he was much attached,
lived but a few minutes after your birth.
 All was strictly lawful and regular.'

The Vicar was leaning back. His face
was of an ashen tint. His cold deathlike
hands lay one on each knee.

Proofs,' he said, turning his languid
eyes towards Mr Henry  ' proofs ! '

VOL. II.

Certainly, certainly,' said Mr Henry
reassuringly, while Mr Walter's long legs
made one stride to his table, and with one
movement of his long arm clutched a
packet of papers. ' You shall see them,
all in order, in the most satisfactory
manner.'

Here Mr Walter seated himself by the
Vicar, and sympathetically explained.

This,' he said, unfolding a sheet of
letter-paper, ' is the document wherein
John Blackett and Margaret Baird established
their marriage according to the law
of Scotland.'

The Vicar took the paper. His awakened
filial feeling for an unknown mother,
who had paid for his earthly existence with
her own, was urging him at least to protect
her memory. He scornfully turned
his eyes from the masculine declaration

heading the sheet, to fix them upon the uncertain
feminine handwriting below  Margaret
Baird's declaration. It was almost
a horrible minute  that minute when John
Blackett gazed at the faint, faded writing
which had been traced by the hand of his
mother. The closest tie united him to the
being who had penned those words ; yet,
until to-day, he had not even known her
name.

This is the certificate of the English
marriage.'

The Vicar saw that on a certain date,
very shortly after the Scottish marriage,
John Blackett and Margaret Baird were
married by licence at a certain church ina
London suburb. Then he glanced at
the certificate of his baptism two years
later, and that of his mother's death. But
he refused to look at the certificates

connected with his father, the late
professor.

I will have nothing to do with him or
his legacy,' he said. ' My one effort will be
to forget that he ever existed. But these
he said, looking towards Mr Walter with
so sad a smile, that the lawyer, hopelessly
off duty, felt a lump gather in his throat 
these, if you please, I will keep and bequeath
to my children as my most precious
possession.'

He folded the legal proofs of his
mother's wifehood with a reverent touch.
Meanwhile, Mr Walter suggested, in an
undertone to his brother, the advisability of
summoning a doctor. He did not like the
Vicar's death-like appearance.

We must ask him first,' was Mr
Henry's cautious whisper, looking at their
client as if he were a torpedo, and might

suddenly explode and scatter that quiet
legal dwelling to the four winds. Then he
gingerly suggested  did Mr Blackett feel
a little better ? He must remember that
it was not so very long since his convalescence.
Now there was a sharp young
practitioner just round the corner, a friend
of theirs, who would come in and prescribe
with the greatest pleasure in life.

A client of yours ? ' said the Vicar, with
a scornful glance. ' Thanks, Mr Everest'
heavily staggering to his feet  ' but 
but I have had experience with one client
of yours which does not encourage me to
have anything to do with the others.'

John Black, or legally speaking, Blackett,

was struggling to be himself; but his

breath left him as he spoke, and he clutched

at the mantelpiece.

Mr Walter suororested that he would


himself take the Vicar to his own home ta
be nursed by his wife, and that Miss
Blackett should be sent for, then matters
might be discussed quietly in a few
days. But the uncomfortable client was
an obstinate man. He negatived all
suggestions.

Still the brothers Everest were determined
not to trust him. Once, long ago,
a man had gone from their office and had
poisoned himself at his chambers.

When it came in their way now to make
private disclosures of a startling kind to a
client, they looked after him, and did not
let him go scot-free. So they suggested
that some friend should be sent for.

I have none,' grimly said John. * At
least none in your fine city  except Messrs
Cotton & Woolstone, of course. I am
sure *  sarcastically  ' they would leave

business of the most pressing character to
attend upon me.'

Then there was a discussion. John
Blackett insisted upon departing, and
they almost barred his way.

At last there was a compromise. Mr
Walter Everest would accompany him
and leave him in safety  somewhere 
but would only leave him with safety
guaranteed.

So they two departed in a hansom to
seek out an old college friend of the Vicar's
who had chambers in the Temple. They
alighted ; and while Mr Walter made inquiries
here and there about the tall,
quiet buildings, the Vicar sat on one of
the benches near the fountain. Children
were playing in a subdued fashion, lest
they should be turned out by the awful
gentleman in uniform ' who came sauntering

about. The feathery spray glittered
in the sunlight. The Thames rippled a
few hundred yards away. Picturesque
barges moved slowly by. Then came a
puffing steamer. A dog came up to the
Vicar, and, putting his head on his knee,
looked up wistfully in his face. Such a
look, he sadly thought, might have been
given to the dead professor in time gone
by  by his mother  the unacknowledged
wife. On parting, Mr Henry Everest had
placed in his hands a few private letters,
which, he said, would explain the situation.
He touched them as they lay in the
letter case in his breast-pocket  he longed,
yet dreaded to see them.

Then back came Mr Walter, unsuccessful.
He had found the friend's chambers,
but he was still out of town, and not expected
to return for weeks.

You must really come home with me ;
there is nothing else I can suggest, unless
you will allow me to accompany you
to Crowsfoot.'

But this the new legatee would not
hear of. What was to be done? In his
dilemma, John Black thought of Hal Romayne,
and, following the thought of Hal,
came the overwhelming recollection that,
if he accepted his father's legacy and the
situation altogether, Griselda could no
longer be Hal's inferior in the eyes of
the world.

He thrust the idea away, as a temptation.
But he mentioned Hal to Mr
Everest.

The very thing,' said that gentleman
We are no distance from Pall Mall.
If he is a young man about town, he will
scarcely have rubbed or breakfasted yet'

They drove to Pall Mall. Mr Henry
Romayne occupied a first floor. He
was at home, his ' man ' informed Mr
Everest, who went down and fetched the
Vicar, greatly relieved in his mind.

'That was a nasty bit of business
thought the lawyer, as he returned in
the hansom to tell his brother he had left
their eccentric client with one of the
most genial young fellows ' he had ever
met  ' a remarkably crooked and awkward
bit of business ! But Henry was quite upto
the mark ; he always is.' The lanky
Walter had a fatuous admiration for his
sharper brother. ' The man has such a
queer, exceptional character. Great ability
sound moral foundation, certainly, but
no common sense! No worldly wisdom !
Henry said that. He has always thoughtless
of John Black  Blackett, since he

took that one *'No" of ours, and made
no effort to find out his real status. Of
course he could have done so, if he had
gone about it in the right way ! '

He remembered well how irritated his
brother had been with the young man
whose peculiar father had determined not
to acknowledge him as his son, since the
day when he was born, and the young
wife, whose existence no one suspected,
died. In those days neither the professor
nor his son was a straightforward, satisfactory
client. Both were outside ordinary
calculation. Mr Henry Everest had
formed a pretty correct estimate when he
said to his brother, 

The professor thought his private
marriage justifiable, because, as a married
man, he must lose his fellowships and
cripple his income. He thought his repudiation

 for that is the correct term 
of his legitimate son justifiable for the
same reason. I daresay he feels he is
right. But the plain fact is, that he is
wrapt up in himself till all natural feeling
is dead. His passion for Margaret Baird
was utterly selfish, and, speaking as man
to man, his treatment of his son amounts
to a moral crime.'

Henry Everest had tried his best to
induce the professor at least to adopt the
child, or to see him from time to time.
But Professor Blackett meant to return to
his old life, and to keep the memory of
Margaret Baird, his sweet Scotch lassie,
buried in the ossified organ he called his
heart. The blooming blue-eyed young
creature had awakened that heart to life and
love ; but with her the life and love died
too. And he feared to have those feelings

reawakened by her child, the child he had
refused to look at and intended never to
see.

He had provided for John. He had
inquired now and then as to his welfare
and progress. When he read the crushing
condemnations of his son's book, he
was angry  angry with the critics for
their excessive severity, angry with John
for embarking upon troubled waters
among dangerous mental shoals ; angry
with the Everests because he had not
been told beforehand ; and, although he
did not know it, angry with himself when
he saw that his son had inherited his
power of thought, and that, if he had
been under his own guidance, that power
might have developed and shone upon
the world quite differently.

At first he went to the Everests to say,

No more money from me,' to stop John's
controversial tendency in the most effectual
way. But then he read John's book,
and was so possessed with admiration,
longing, regret, remorse, that his troubled,
obstinate mind wore upon his feeble body,
and his end was hastened.

It was true that he had saved from his
income, rigidly. The Vicar was heir to a
capital which, safely invested, would bring
him an income of between two and three
thousand pounds yearly. Then there
were houses in Cambridge, and, above all,
that choice library of books and valuable
manuscripts.

Hal Romayne was astonished, overwhelmed,
when Chancelll, his valet, announced
that the Reverend Mr Black
was below, and wished to see him. Wild

hopes  vague imaginations  Griselda
sending for him  the Vicar on their side
Sir Hubert and his mother relenting
made his blood course at fever-speed.
His shout, * Bring him up at once!' astonished
Chancelll, who had of late seen
his young master gloomy, or savage, or
irritable. He was just out of his bath ;
he rubbed and scrubbed and hustled on
his clothing, brushed his damp curly hair,
and came rushing through the folding-doors
into his sitting-room all glowing,
bright, animated.

His eager inquiry, * All right at home ?'
answered, he invited both lawyer and
client to breakfast ; and, before he gave
them time to say nay, he sent Chancelll
flying to order everything, anything 
whatever could be had and as soon as
possible, and particularly some of those

pints of champagne, ' you know  those
the Marquis d'Estrees sent me, Chancelll ! '
Little wonder that homely Walter Everest,
although declining his hospitality, thought
Hal Romayne one of the most genial young
fellows he had ever met, and left him feeling
safe that the Vicar was in the best possible
hands. Hal, too, was going to Feather's
Court that very night by the 6.20 train.

Poor, short-sighted human nature I
Poor Walter Everest ! Before that day
would be dead for ever  what was he
not destined to suffer at being the innocent
cause of his client's intent to journey
by that fated train !

As soon as Walter Everest left those
two  Griselda's father and Griselda's
lover  alone, Hal was struck by the
Vicar's pallor. Was he ill, or merely
disturbed, worried ? All the young

man's innate tenderness sprang up.
This was the father of his betrothed
wife, his cherished love. He had come
to him  to him  in his trouble. It
must be a trouble ! Hal gently insisted
upon the Vicar's resting in a large easy-chair.


He drew another chair close, and
talked, agreeably, as he knew how.
The Vicar gradually re-animated, as far
as he could, after that ugly shock.

Hal's room was a change of scene
indeed !

I should scarcely have guessed this to
be a bachelor's chamber,' said John Black,
presently looking round with a faint smile.
It is more like a fine lady's boudoir. Ah,
Hal, it is well that you are your father's
heir ! You would miss the purple and the
fine linen, my boy.'

VOL. II. Q

'A fit of effeminacy ! ' said John Black
bitterly. ' Hal, It Is not your fault that
you lack In manliness, that you are fitful
as a passionate woman. But, If you
were but a bit stronger  rude and
rough, If you please, but with the promise
of a man In you  I could give you
Griselda with some hope that you two
would be happy. I would make sacrifices
even which would secure your
parents' consent.'

Hal saw his advantage and seized It.
At this juncture Chancelll and a maidservant
brought In the two-o'clock
'breakfast.' So, while the Vicar was reluctantly
partaking of the delicacies provided
for him, there was no further
conversation on the subject of a nearer
and stronger tie between host and guest.
After Hal had insisted on John Black's

making somewhat of a meal, their talk
was resumed. The Vicar gradually succumbed
to his young friend's indefinable
charm. While he was coaxed into concessions,
he knew he was being coaxed ;
but he admired the handsome, winning
young fellow the more for that very
fact. Certainly Hal Romayne had not
the qualities he would wish to see in
Griselda's husband. He was erratic,
passionate, capricious ; but he was
generous, loving, and thoughtful when
he chose to be thoughtful. And, last,
but most important  so important as to
fairly outweigh all other considerations
Griselda loved him.

While Chancelll packed his master's
portmanteaux in the adjoining room, the
Vicar and Hal still talked 'Griselda'
over their coffee.

A soft mellow autumn haze was-settling
about St James's Park as they
started for the station in Hal's tilbury,
Chancelll and the luggage following in a
cab. The Vicar's morning storm was
succeeded by a calm. He felt peaceful.
He was at rest, as it were, he told
himself. The time had not yet come
for him to act. He enjoyed the old
city, so beautiful in her evening garb
of subdued lights, murmurs, subsiding
activity, and over all the glitter of tiny
fires, the lamps. The tide of life was
ebbing under the quiet starry sky.

Even London had her hour of peace
thought John Black. Perhaps his 
in life was reached ; there
would be no more turmoil for him !

Of course, if he chose to accept the
position of Professor Blackett's 

son and heir,
all or most of his difficulties would be
over ; and Griselda and the boys 

He shrank from active thought.

To-morrow, tomorrow ! ' he said to
himself.

And he said the same to Hal Romayne,
who broke the silence by some leading
question meant to probe the Vicar's
intentions with regard to his and
Griseldas affairs.

To - morrow, my boy ! ' he said.
There is plenty of time. You have
your life before you.'

*What if I had notes' said Hal, half
in jest, half in earnest. ' Do you know,
when I am shutting my eyes at night,
I often think I may not awake  of late
particularly .

Since you have been more reckless 

If you had really thought seriously, it
would have been a bad moment, Hal.'

Hal shook his head.

There is such a thing as being
desperate,' he said. ' You may talk to
one then of death and hell or heaven,
but they are mere words. They run
through the mind like water runs down
one's throat in fever, with as little
effect. I have often felt that, if I must
live in the humour I have been in
lately feeling no pleasure, only sick of
life  I would rather die.'

But we have not the choice,' said
John Black gravely. * In a moment a
wave of Eternity rushes upon us and
sweeps us away  all chances of doing
good, of helping others, of executing
our tiny atom of the great mosaic,
past recall.'

And those who wish to go are left
high and dry upon the shore,' said Hal.
Say what you will, it is an awful
puzzle.'

Here they drove up to the station.
The 6.20 train, which had travelled
safely to its destination day by day for
so many years, quietly dropping its
living freight at intervals along the way,
was drawn up at the platform. The
ticket-collectors were busily clipping the
tickets of the crowd that was hurrying
past the open gates, each one eagerly
rushing to his or her doom. It was
such an every - day affair, this going
home or down the line by the 6.20,
that the idea that so steady and sober
a means of locomotion  not only steady,
but so well-tried  would come to grief
on that particular day occurred to none,

to no passenger, to no official. No warning
ghost, no bad omen, no difficulty,
no ' coincidence ' gave a saving hint.
Those careless chatty passengers,  one
calling out for an evening paper, another
chaffing ' a guard, a third looking
for an own particular corner, others-regular
passengers  seeking the 'set'
they liked to travel with,  were presently
to be shot out of life into eternity as
suddenly and unceremoniously as if they
were a load of sand.

There were two minutes only before
the train started. Chancelll was having
Hal's luggage labelled. Hal rushed
off to the ticket - office. The Vicar
compared his watch with the illuminated
station - clock. His watch was a few
minutes slow.

The guard was impatiently pacing the

platform. The men were about to shut
the gates. ' Time's up, sir,' shouted one.
Hal Romayne came running up. He
and the Vicar hurried. They got into
a first-class smoking compartment, they
and the others to whom those carriages
would be the instruments of death.
Then the guard shut the door, and 
locked it.

CHAPTER I.

EW would ever forget that eventful
night at Crowsfoot Station,
after the terrible news had
been telegraphed that the 6.20 train from
London was run into by an express, and
was smashed, telescope, crushed.

The crowd of villagers  parents, children,
or wives, and their relatives  who
had beloved ones in the doomed train,
still wailed and cried, a surging ungoverned.

III. A

able crowd upon the platform. Doctor
Mayne and the station-master tried in vain
to calm and to disperse them.

Hugh Blunt  who had sickened to
faintness at the sight of his love Griselda
coming in to learn that not only her
beloved father, but Hal Romayne, whom
she so dearly loved, was a passenger in
the wrecked train  speedily recovered.
For Griselda glided through the crowd
like a ghost, and laid her hand upon his
arm.

Tell me, please,' she said.

She was perfectly composed. Hugh
marvelled  wondered.

Mr Black  may not  perhaps  most
likely, has not come by this  we don't
know  I should think not,' he faltered
and stammered out.

Papa was coming by this train. whatever

has happened, he is there. Now,
what is to be done ? '

Those great eyes looked searchingly
into his out of that beautiful face  oh, so
deadly pale !

How can we get to him ? '

'We cannot! It is forty miles down
the line!' cried Hugh.

Forty miles ! Cannot we catch a down
train to Cowbrook Junction, and get a
special . '

By that time he might be here  then
the traffic is suspended  then'  Hugh
drew a deep breath before he could stab
his darling to the heart. 'Griselda,' he said,
miserably, and for once the tears ran plentifully
from his eyes, 'dear Sir Hubert is
in there  the waiting-room  struck down,
poor father  he came to meet his son.'

Griselda was only a girl. She swerved ;

then Hugh caught her. She had fainted.
But her strong will overcame impressions.
In a few moments she struggled up.

'I know  I understand,' she said
pantlngly. ' There is the doctor. We
must not think of ourselves. Doctor
Mayne  Sir Hubert  poor Sir Hubert!
Let me help  '

She knows all,' said Hugh.

It will do her good to help,' said the
little doctor. ' Now, Griselda, my dear,
you will very likely have to be nurse for
some time to come ; so, before you really
perform  before the wounded and those
to help them arrive  you may have a
little practice. Sir Hubert is in there.
Come along ! '

Action is everything, ' he thought,
In such a crisis, in such suspense, to
pause to think means madness.'

He supported Griselda into the .
There, on an improvised
couch of a mattress and blankets, hastily
furnished by the station-master, lay Sir
Hubert Romayne.

The old man looked grander in the
semblance of death   stretched out stiff
and straight, his hands lying limply at
his sides, his regular features sunken,
livid, his grey hair wet with the cooling
lotion the station-master's wife, kneeling
at his side, was gently dabbing on his
pale brow  than in ruddy life, when he
had a half-shy, half-proud, and somewhat
undignified presence, born of his subservience
to his imperious wife.

Miss Black will take your place, Mrs
Wright. We shall want you and your
house directly,' said Doctor Mayne, ina
low tone. So Mrs Wright gave her

place to Griselda. Doctor Mayne gave
her his directions in the common-place
business-like way in which surgeons face
their awful responsibilities and fight
death ; and Hal Romayne's beloved was
alone with Hal Romayne's father in his
dire need and sore danger.

What a strange scene  the waiting-room,
with its drawn Venetian blinds,
heavy table, and coarse leather-covered
chairs on the cocoa-nut matting ! Sir
Hugh lay opposite the fireplace. Gris-ella's
eyes would rest upon a gaudy advertisement
of some provincial hotel.
There was the palatial building, with a
grand garden and a planted carriage-road,
with ladies on horseback careering
and prancing, and barouches and victorias
coming and going, and underneath
was the printed sentence,  ' The

Universal Hotel Company, Limited.
Capital, 500,000.'

How small, poor, and pitiful the pictured
scheme looked here now, In that
silent room, with one dim candle burning,
and that awful hum  wail, mingled
with the tread of many feet upon the
gravel outside !

In the midst of life we are in death
The well-known words were truths today,
she felt, as she watched the seemingly
dying man. A stupor, a mental drowsiness
was coming to numb her emotions  God's
merciful help to those In such straits.

Then she heard a shout, a roar, going
up from the crowd outside.

A pilot engine !

Outside, under the stars, the stationmaster
had called aside Hugh, Doctor
Mayne, and the curate, all of whom were

in the Romayne circle, and, as be was
doing their best to soothe and tranquillize
the relatives whose beloved ones were in
the wrecked train. He took them to the
end of the platform where late autumn
roses gleamed white in the darkness
against the low brick wall, and said, 

We shall know the worst directly. A
pilot is on the way.' At that moment, ' ting-ting
' went the electric bell. * There ! ' said
Mr Wright significantly, hurrying off. ' In
three minutes at the utmost.'

If Hugh had been forewarned of those
three minutes, he would have anticipated
exquisite mental torture.

As it was, no sooner had he heard that
the crucial moment was at hand than he
became calm, cool. His emotions were
petrified, his active power was keenly
alive, his will was a rock.

He did not know how, or why, or when
this happened. He only knew it was so,
and said, ' Thank God ! '

The others  Doctor Mayne and Mr
Vivian, the curate  seemed equally prepared
with himself.

During that three minutes they talked
commonplaces.

Everything is ready upstairs,' said the
doctor. ' Mrs Mayne came  I sent her
back for stores  she is here  with the
maid. I sent off a very good old widow,
Mrs Hood, to prepare Jemima for contingencies.
Ah, there are my colleagues ! '

He went off to meet three local doctors.

Has anyone sent for Lady Romayne
sent to Feather's Court .- '

It was the first thing I did,' lisped
Mr Vivian.

He was a younger son of people

not ' eccentrically philanthropic' His first
thought had been for Lady Romayne,
who had been an active agent in introducing
him to Crowsfoot, and Crowsfoot
to him.

The son of the miller with whom the
Reverend Mr Vivian lodged went off on
his father's heavy cob with a hastily-written
note, intended to prepare Lady Romayne
for the impending shock. When that
sullen, desperate roar went up from the
agonised crowd on the platform as the
pilot engine came dashing along the line,
and drew up at the station, Hal's mother
was on her way to learn the worst.

It has come ! ' muttered Hugh, involuntarily
clenching his fists in his effort
to prepare himself for the blow.

As the engine stopped, the two blackened
men  driver and stoker  were

rushed at by the white-faced, eager
crowd. Men and boys tried to clamber
upon the engine, to swarm upon it.
The engine-driver had borne this scene
whenever he had stopped.

Back  hold back, can't yer ? ' he
cried roughly. Then he made a sign
to the station-master, whom he knew.
Mr Wright struggled bravely to reach
him, but failed. The curate tried to
expostulate. Good people, pray be calm,'
he mildly said. But his voice was asa
whisper in a roaring whirlwind. Suddenly
Hugh skirted the crowd, and
sprang upon the engine.

Drive on a bit ! ' he cried.

The driver obeyed. The pilot was offa
hundred yards before anyone actually
knew that she was gone.

Now ! ' said Hugh fiercely.

Never saw such a sight, sir, and I've
been in many accidents. Train regular
smashed and minced into splinters no
bigger than this here little finger-nail o'
mine. Dead '. I'd rather be one of them
corpses than them poor unfortunate as have
got to lie in such mortal agonies as I
never see. It's enough to sicken a feller
for railways for his life. Fault ? Nobody's
fault, as far as I knows. Did I
recognise anyone ? Yes, I did  two  a
pal o' mine  a nephew of my wife's, who
was a-lying on the embankment lookin'
for all the world as if he was asleep and
a-dreamin' like my little 'un at home in his
bassinet ; he was stone dead, he was. I
recognised him, but only one other. Rest
seemed to me to be muddled up like, just
like a heap of Punches and Judas. No,
they didn't move, and there weren't much

noise. Did you recognise anyone, Bill ? '
to the stoker. ' No ? Well, he's fresh
on the line, sir. The other? It's a poor
tale to tell ; but t'other was the wally,
as they call 'em, to the young gentleman
at Feather's Court. He won't dead. He
wor in a second-class, front of the train.
He knew me, he did. He sent after me.
I come to him. " I'm a-doing," he ses.
I didn't say " nay." He wos a-dyin', if
ever a man wos. I ses, '' You hasn't got
no call to bother about anything as you
leave behind, old man ? " He ses, '' No " 
at least if you can call it a saying' ; for I see
his lips move, and didn't hear. I stoops
close, and he ses, " My young master 
and Mr Black. Take care of the luggage 
take care of the luggage*' Then he gave
a gasp like a fish wriggling on the grass,
and he was gone too. Them were his

last words, *' Take care of the luggage."
'

And  and  the gentlemen ? ' panted
Hugh.

Lor' bless you, sir ! They was in at
the back ; I giv' one look. That was
enough for me ! ' He turned aside, and
spat significantly. ' There's no call to tell
yer what I see. But it ain't no manner
of use bolstering up the truth. There
ain't a man at the rear of that train as'll
live to tell the tale, and that's about it.'

One instant's horrible silence  a transfiguration
of misery to Hugh ; then he
turned, wan and ghastly, and motioned
the driver to return to the platform.

The terrible tale was soon told. The
agitation gave way to a panic-stricken
hush. Some of the widows and orphans
were supported from the scene. These

were not a few, for the 6.20 train from
London picked up bricklayers, labourers,
and others all along the line who lived
at Crowsfoot, tempted there by the
advantages enjoyed by the Crowsfoot
people under John Black's ministration.


The curate and Doctor Mayne, aided
by practitioners from neighbouring villages,
and those clergymen who had heard the
bad news, did what they could. But little
Doctor Mayne's stern self-possession was
nearly upset when Mr Wright, the stationmaster,
said to him in a bitter sort of way,  -

Ah, it's all no go, sir ! They mean
well ; but we want him!

At the ' him ' he choked, and hurried
away. The Vicar, John Black  the one
who had moulded and led these people
for so many years, who knew their lives

almost as well as he knew his own  was
dead, or dying !

Hugh's one thought was  Griselda.
He must tell her, he must tell her, he
feverishly repeated to himself. Oh, would
his merciful God give him the strength to
crush that dear heart in the least cruel
way ? Trust the task to another ? Not
he! If It killed her  he must soften the
torture  he would be able to soften the
torture, he loved her so. But he must
have one moment alone, silent.

He made his way through the station,
and, crossing the yard, leaned up against
the paling of a copse known for Its
nightingales. It was now silent as
death. The nightingales had fled south ;
but he was glad. Their song just then
would have jarred upon him.

He drew a long breath, lifted his hat,

and let the cool niorht-wind blow about
his hair. He looked up at the shining
stars, each one a great world, a link in
the eternal chain of a blessed Eternity.
The thought of how short, how fleeting,
though how important was this life, with
its grinding cares, bitter disappointments,
sudden joys, and terrible catastrophes,
steadied him. Hugh was not religious,
according to the orthodox meaning of
the term. But he was deeply thinking,
and he knew that man's soul, with its
possibilities, could not be only for days,
weeks, months, or even years,  for, indeed,
any limited existence.

I must do it.'

He faced his duty. He turned to go
and perform it, when two red sparks
danced in the dark road to his left,
where he could just see the tall black

VOL. III. B

trees, blacker than their dusky background
; thin wheels grated on the
gravel, and a vehicle came dashing into
the station-yard.

The light dog-cart from Feather's
Court  Lady Romayne ! He hurried
forward. As the cart drew up, the
station door opened, a flood of light fell
upon the unfortunate mother. She was
white, panting  all dignity gone  she
almost fell out of the dog cart into
Hugh's arms.

My boy, my boy ! Where is he ? '
she gasped, clinging to Hugh. ' Oh, Mr
Blunt, have pity ! Take me to him ! '

Hush ! You must hope, we must
hope,' said Hugh vaguely. 'Oh, Doctor
Mayne'  with relief, as the doctor came
hurrying out,  ' here is Lady Romayne
! '

Ah, that's right ! ' said the doctor
cheeringly. * Now, my dear madam, we
must not exaggerate, we must bear up.
Come into Mrs Wright's room. Take
my arm.' Then, supporting the trembling
woman, he whispered, * Tell Gris-ella
all ; she will break it to her the
best. Bring her to Mrs Wright's room
at once.'

While Mrs Wright attended to Lady
Romayne and Doctor Mayne gave hera
composing draught, Hugh went to
Griselda.

She was still sitting there, waiting,
bathing Sir Hubert's forehead. She had
heard the bustle and the cries and the
sad hush outside. No one had come
to tell her what news had arrived. But
her life had taught her to wait.

She raised her eyes as Hugh came

in, and read all there was to read in his
grief-stricken face.

She rose  gestured to him to stay,
and stepped softly to him.

Both ? ' she asked.

We  cannot  hear. Perhaps 
neither.'

God will help us ! ' said the stricken
girl. And her eyes seemed lighted by
a supernatural ray as she looked upward.
Life  this life seemed to her
over  past, gone. They had begun another.
She and all those suddenly
bereaved had begun to follow.

Lady Romayne is here. Will you
tell her?'

'When I know what there is to tell.'
Hugh briefly narrated the arrival of
the pilot-engine and the driver's story.
*We might have hoped but for that

valet's last words,' he added. 'It is
certain they were in the train.'

Take me,' said Griselda, putting her
hand on Hugh's arm. He led her
through the stragglers waiting about
the station in vague expectation of they
knew not what, out upon the platform.
Here the station-master came up, a new
excitement barely veiled by his self-controlled
manner.

A special is signalled  Cowbrook
Junction.'

i\ny directions ? '

We don't know what she is yet. But
she may be bringing  some  home.'

You must prepare, Lady Romayne,
and be prepared yourself, for anything,'
said Hugh to Griselda desperately.
Then the door of the station-master's
sitting-room closed upon her.

How incongruous ! Lady Romayne,
in her fine silk dinner-dress, jewels on
throat and arms, and glittering rings in
her ears and on her fingers, lay back
in Mrs Wright's basket-chair by the
fire, sobbing, her handkerchief to her
eyes. Mrs Mayne kneeling by her,
Doctor Mayne standing on the hearth-rug,
vainly trying to soothe her before
taking her to her husband.

You know we cannot have this sort of
thing near Sir Hubert,' he said to Griselda,
as she came up to him. He spoke impatiently.
He thought Lady Romayne's
lack of self-control unpardonable selfishness.

Lady Romayne, suddenly looking up,
saw Griselda.

Ms he  is there news . ' she almost
shrieked. The girl's composure made
her hope. * Oh, tell me ! '

She clutched at Griselda's hands.
And Griselda only felt that this washer
beloved, lost Hal's mother. The
sight reanimated her, as the sight of her
fatherless children will sometime reanimate
a new-made widow.

Leave us, ' she said. Then she
knelt down by Lady Romayne, and,
caressing her hands, looked into her
swollen eyes with love and hope. She
talked in a firm, yet tender way, as to
an unreasonably frightened child. She
admitted that the accounts of the accident
were alarming. But they must
allow for exaggeration. ' My father
seems to have been with him,' she
said ; ' and he always travels in the
middle of the train. The 6.20 is a long
train, too.' She would not even admit
that, if not killed, their travellers must

be wounded. But Lady Romayne was
unreasonable. One minute she was
dissolved in tears, the next she sprang
up, wringing her hands, wailing out that
she could not bear it, she could not bear it.

'What should I do without Hal?'
was her cry.

You can do anything  we can bear
anything ! ' said Griselda. * Oh, Lady
Romayne, I have loved Hal ever since
I was a tiny child, and my one  great
pleasure was to see him  anywhere,
anyhow, even if he did not see me.
But I had to learn to do without him.
It seemed very hard. But, after I had
borne it a day, it seemed easier to bear
it a week, and, after I had borne it a
month, I knew I could bear it a year,
and even a lifetime ; and, if necessary,
you will feel this  '

Oh no, no, never ! ' cried the unhappy
woman, in a fresh agony. ' I
am not Hke you. After living with your
father in that poor, wretched way, you
might put up with anything. But I
have always had everything I wanted.
Oh, it is too hard  too cruel ! '

Hush ! ' said Griselda suddenly.

There was a rush of many feet, the
murmur of voices, then a shrill whistle,
and the hoarse panting of an engine.

The mother started up with a shriek.
She and Griselda were alone.

Why, it is a train ! They have come ! '
Someone looked in, banged the door,

and locked it on the outside.

They have locked us in ! ' Lady
Romayne flew to the door, shook it,
beat against it, screamed, ' Let me outlet
me out ! ' She was fairly maddened

by this, which she thought meant the
worst ; then she rushed to the window,
threw it open, and leant out.

Hastily-improvised torches were flaring,
the fitful light flickering upon the ghastly
sight of covered, still forms being lifted
from the compartments of a special train
of a few carriages. Griselda watched
with silent horror over her shoulder.

Lady Romayne was speechless now ;
and, when someone beckoned Doctor
Mayne and the station-master, and the
three together lifted a body out of a
first-class carriage covered with Hal's
travelling coat, she gave a low moan,
tottered back, and fell in a heap upon
the floor.

Griselda could not help her. Sick and
faint, she leant back against the windowsill.
The voices and sounds seemed to

recede, the lights to grow dim and ta
disappear, like lamps in a dense fog.

How long they remained thus she could
not have told. She felt chill. She afterwards
remembered noticing the scent of
some late mignonette in a flower-box on
the window-sill, and seeing Mrs Wright's
tabby cat jump up on a chair and rub
against her. That was all.

Then the door was roughly unlocked
and forms came flocking in ; and a voice
cried ' Mother ! ' and there was talking and
tramping about ; and she knew no more till
she felt warm drops tumbling on her face
and her hands being kissed by rough kisses ;
and she awoke to find her head resting on
her father's knee, and he, well, strong, bending
over his exhausted but happy child.

Then her tired eyes saw another face.
And Griselda felt  as if she were in heaven.

HE railway accident and those
horrible hours of suspense
were things of the past.
Their effects were being dealt with.
Crowsfoot and its inhabitants were busy.
The Vicars story of his and Hal's
escape was a strange one. The two
were locked into a first-class compartment,
and the doomed train was on
the point of starting, when the Vicar
suddenly found that he had left his
pocket-book containing the bundle of
letters given him by the lawyers when

they disclosed his true story to him at
Hal's chambers. To open the door with
his own railway - key was an instant's
work. Hal, startled, sprang out after
him. They had barely time to see
Chancelll  the unfortunate valet who
was to die in an hour or two  and shout
to him to wait at the station or proceed
to Feather's Court with the luggage,
and say they would arrive by a
later train  before the ill-fated 6.20
moved off and had started on her
death-journey.

They returned to Pall Mall, found the
pocket-book, and, after chatting over a
cup of coffee, strolled back to the station
to start by the 8.15 train.

The first shock was when Hal showed
the tickets at the barrier, and the man
informed him that ' there wouldn't be

no more trains on that there line that
night. The Hne was blocked.'

Bit by bit  for the officials were
reticent  they learned the dreadful truth.
Then both, agitated, thought of Griselda.
To do Hal justice, his second thought
was for his father. The Idea of the
mother, who had first spoiled and then
thwarted him, never once troubled him.

They went to the telegraph office.
Telegraphic communication was Interrupted.


What Is to be done ? ' said the Vicar,
in despair. It was not only his darling's
anxiety and suspense that wrung his
heart  It was the thought of so many
of his flock he Intimately knew in
pain. In danger  agony of body and
mind  and he not there to help.

We must have a special,' said Hal,

i

hurrying him off to the chief office of
the London terminus.

They were civilly received. But at
the idea of a private special the heads
of the official department looked doubtful.


You see we have no precedent,
gentlemen.'

Hal, in his passionate turmoil, strode
about the office and offered doubles
 the usual fee. But 

Money is no object at this juncture,'
gravely said the treasurer. ' Still, if you
will wait a minute, I will see what can
be done.'

He disappeared behind the scenes,
and presently came back to say that, if
they chose to be volunteers for the
special train which was on the point of
starting for the scene of the catastrophe

with doctors, nurses, and ambulance
necessities, he would smuggle them in.

They acquiesced with grateful alacrity,
and Hal insisted on leaving his name to
head any number of subscriptions which
might follow the disaster. Then they
started with the relieving contingent. They
gave active help to the few maimed survivors
at the Junction, the sickening scene
of the smash ; then they proceeded,
with the injured and the dead, along
the line to Crowsfoot. The body
covered with Hal's travelling - coat 
which Lady Romayne saw through the
window of the station-master's parlour
was that of poor Chancelll, Hal's faithful
valet.

The general bereavement brought
people to a level. No distinction was
made. While Sir Hugh lay in his

grand bed-chamber, gradually rallying-from
what proved to be a mild paralytic
seizure, poor labourers who had not
been too dangerously wounded to betaken
to Feather's Court occupied the
soft satin-hung beds in the guest chambers.
There was a staff of nurses,,
among whom Hal's younger sister, the
bright, fair-haired Mabel, and Griselda,.
were juniors,  and took orders from the
experienced as meekly as if they had
been two under-housemaids in the great
mansion. Lady Romayne, who was still
in a low nervous state, with occasional
bursts of hysterical tears, hovered about
and humbly offered her services. That
cruel night had changed the proud self-assertion
lady into a timid trembling
woman.

The chartering of the Court as a
VOL. in. c

hospital was Hal's doing. The scene 
when he was surrounded by the maimed,
the dead, and the dying, and knew that
but for some almost miraculous accident
that simple incident of the Vicar's
forgetfulness of his pocket-book  he
would have made one of the ghastly
crowd, was before him wherever he
went. He was haunted by the words,
One shall be taken, and the other left.'
He had never been so impressed  so
awe-stricken.

I cannot understand it,' he said, when
he brought himself to tell the Vicar of
his feelings. ' Here is my brother, a
steady-going serious fellow, who carries
off prizes by the half-dozen, and tells
the girls a parson's life is a sort of
heaven on earth which he longs to
enter, he would make a far better head

of the family than I ever can ! There
is a warp in me  I cannot settle down.
With one exception, I am changeable
as the wind. I like a thing to-day
which is hateful to me tomorrow ; I
hunt eagerly and closely for some fancy
which possesses me, like a child hunts
a butterfly ; but the moment I know I
may seize it, I turn aside, disgusted.
Yet I am left left. What for . I can
never do any good. I am doomed to
be a curse.'

The Vicar took Hal's talk at his own
valuation, and, if he did not exactly
preach, spoke sensibly of life and its
peculiarities.'

I know more about you than you do
yourself, my boy,' he said. ' I know
your grave faults and your noble
qualities. You, as it were, hold your

future in your own hands. You are the
scales to weigh the good and the bad
as they are to be  in your own Hfe
to come.'

The Vicar went from the stationmaster's,
where the hopeless cases were
elinor out their last breaths, to Doctor
Mayne's, where the complicated surgical
cases were domiciled, and from thereto
the Feather's Court hospital daily
sometimes twice. Yet no word of his
changed circumstances, his parentage,
his new name, had escaped him, even
to Griselda.

All personal matters, even in those
most wrapt up in self, seemed merged
in the general catastrophe. During these
days Hal, Griselda, Mabel, Hugh Blunt
were little else but comrades. Hush
Blunt had mentally resigned Griselda,

and, from his experience of the Romaynes
at this crisis, was inclined to
have less fear for her future. The
brother of that open-hearted generous
Mabel could not be actually a bad
fellow.

Lydia, Hal's elder and languid sister,
was in Scotland, staying with some
noble friends who rented a deer-forest.
Hal's brother was at school, and Gris-ella's
brothers, Tom and Harry, were
also away. Those four  Hal, Griselda,
Hugh, and Mabel, with Mervyn Bray
as an amiable but diffident fifth  shared
the burden of the sick men, talked
over the cases as their one joint interest
in life, hoped against hope, and
were cast down and had to be comforted
when one of the flickering life-flames
they were watching went out.

A week after the accident the dead
were buried in Crowsfoot churchyard.
Mr Vivian read the beautiful Burial
Service, amid the sobs of the mourners
who thronged the green peaceful little
spot.

Griselda and Mabel Romayne, escorted
by Hal, Hugh Blunt, and Mervyn Bray,
went amongst the mourners, trying to
comfort them. Griselda, Mabel, Hugh,
and Mervyn Bray were sufficiently composed
; but Hal, when he passed Mrs
Black's grave, and remembered the day
when he, as a young boy, stood there
and vowed fidelity to the quaint self-helpful
little motherless child, was overcome.


When the touching service was over,
he pleaded to Griselda to wait for him.
So Griselda stood bravely at the churchyard

gate, watching the mourners depart,
and then asked Mabel, as a favour,
to proceed to the vicarage, where she
was to have tea, and to wait for her.
And Hugh, in respect to her wishes,
offered his arm to the bright gentle girl,
telling Bray to follow. Griselda fancied
she would find Hal at her mother's
grave, and she was not wrong. He had
thrown himself upon the grass a few
yards away. It was a soft, sunny
autumn day. A robin was singing,
perched on a twig of the hedge close
by. The dead leaves lay among the
graves. It was not a day for happy
hopes or bright thoughts  rather for
humble faith and staunch, good resolves.

Hal rose as he saw her coming.

'Do you remember?' he asked, leading
her gently to the spot where, years

ago, they stood together. ' What would
she have thought of a calamity like
this? It would have broken her heart!'

'Oh no ! ' said Griselda, with sudden
fervour. ' She would have seen it in
the right light. She used to tell me,
when the death-bell tolled, that the gardener
of heaven had seen a plant here
fit to bloom above, and had transplanted
it. She said that none ever went who
were not fit to go.'

'No, that is just it,' said Hal. 'Oh,
Griselda, since that awful night I have
felt so bad  so worthless  yet I am no
worse than I was.' Then he went on,
pleading for himself, begging, entreating
her that their lives should be joined,
that he might grow pure and self-sacrificing
by and through her.

You know,' she softly said, ' that I

am willing. But your mother must
wish such a thing  ay, and tell my
father so  before there can be any real
talk of my being your wife.'

But, this granted, you would take
me, Griselda ? ' he asked, with more
spirit. 'You  beautiful, good  would
take what Death and the devil seem
to despise ? '

That is not like you,' said Griselda,
devotion  love  fervour in her great
violet eyes. ' But, Hal, you don't thrive
out of the sunshine! Oh, I thought
that long ago ; and I used to think
that perhaps my having been accustomed
to see trouble and anxiety and
worry of all sorts would make up in a
way for my want of beauty and family
and riches  for I could plan out my
life to stand between you and unpleasant

things. But what am I talking
about ? ' she cried, with a blush of
confusion.

You are talking like my beloved
wife, Griselda,' said Hal, placing her
hand on his arm. Then, silent, but
with a new sense of happiness, they
walked down the churchyard-path and
through the loch-gate together.

After that brief talk of they two
being made one, Hal said no more for
many days. He had determined that
the next conversation on the subject
of his marriage with Griselda should
be very different.

O Griselda became the wife of
one of the ' great matches ' of
the county. The first time
that Sir Hubert and My Lady called
at the vicarage to ask for Griselda as
their son's wife, they were met, much
to Lady Romayne's surprise, with a curt
refusal. Then came a stormy scene with
Hal. He rushed off to Crowsfoot, to find
Griselda and her father happy in their
new hopes, and no longer obdurate.

At Crowsfoot the Vicar and his
daughter were beloved ; so that the

opinion of the country round was that
Hal Romayne was not good enough
for that pure, beautiful young girl, who
seemed to live in an atmosphere of contented
peace, which she carried whither
she went.

Griselda's presence had seemed to
many like oil on the troubled waters
of their daily lives ; and, while feeling
that they would sorely miss her unconsciously
cheering and elevating influence,
the notion of ' fast Hal Romayne ' asher
husband was a slight shock.

Meanwhile, the idea of ' that good-looking
young Romayne, who might
have married anybody almost, going
and marrying a nobody  a governess !
No, well, some curate's daughter,' as
society put it, gave quite another sort
of shock to the titled dowagers and

eligible daughters, who amused themselves,
especially those who were likely
to be guests of Sir Hubert and Lady
Romayne, in planning how to bring the
interloper, Griselda, to discomfiture when
only they had the chance.

Of course Hal had carried his point.
His father and mother came to the
vicarage a second time, and asked
almost humbly for Griselda's hand.
This time the Vicar did not allow himself
the grim amusement of refusing her
ladyship, but was as amiable as if he
had forgotten all the wrongs and slights
endured by the orphan  the waif, John
Black, and had been the acknowledged
son of the great Professor Blackett and
in possession of a comfortable income
all his life.

Of course, one's knowing who he is,

and being the son of a celebrated man,
ready and able to settle a decent sum
upon his daughter, and all that, makes
a considerable difference,' Lady Romayne
acknowledged to her son, while trying
to ' look at the best side of things
And the man really seems more civilised
now that he knows who he is. It
must be very uncomfortable indeed not
to know who you are. Then, you see,
I will say Griselda managed that sensibly
 he is all right with his bishop.
The affair is not the same in any way.
Only one thing I must insist upon. We
must introduce the marriage to society
in a clerical light.'

It was of no use for Hal impatiently
to anathematise * society,' and to say he
wanted no society but Griselda's, and
chosen friends, who talked sense, et

caetera. Lady Romayne shook her head,
and said that, as she had yielded so
much, it would be unjust if she were
not allowed to arrange the wedding.

Hal, finding Griselda anxious to please
his mother in any way, acquiesced, but
with an ill grace.

They were married on Christmas Eve,
Griselda's birthday. Only a few were
at the church. The weather fell in with
Lady Romayne's plans. Snow lay on
the ground. The steeple caught a few
flakes, which fell rustling upon the ivy-clad
church wall as the bishop, who
had offered to marry Griselda, read the
Marriage Service in his well-pitched
sonorous voice.

Within, it was, as Lady Romayne
whispered to the bishop's wife, *an ideal
wedding.' The sun shone through the

great window, illumining the wreaths of
holly mingled with white flowers that
hung above the Communion-table and
just tenderly touching the bishop's
silvery hair before it fell upon the slim
figure of Griselda in her simple white
gown, with lilies upon her breast,  and
upon her light veil, which fell back.

It certainly is pretty,' whispered back
the bishop's wife. ' She looks so saintly
in that halo of sunshine. Like that
picture  the Christian Martyr  a girl
floating in the water, you know.'

Lady Romayne thought the word
martyr ' singularly inapplicable ; but she
only smiled sympathetically, for she
greatly counted upon this worthy lady's
help to launch Griselda upon ' society '
in a strong clerical light.

There was Dean Trevor, a dapper

priest, whose chapel in Belgravia was
thronged whenever he preached, assisting
the bishop and a neighbouring rector
to marry Griselda. The dean's sister
and the neighbouring rector's daughter
were two of the four bridesmaids  the
remaining two being Hal's sisters, Lydia
and Mabel. The four were in white
cashmere, trimmed with swansdown. But
it was the clergy and their wives that
Lady Romayne relied upon. She felt
that the John Blackett who stood there,
a noble figure, had never looked so well
as when he placed Griselda's hand in
Hal's giving her away to her handsome
son. Lady Romayne shed just one tear
about Hal, who, with his handsome
face, somewhat pale, his lips compressed,
stood there in his splendid uniform 
being sacrificed,' as his mother thought.

VOL. III. D

The little congregation felt somehow
that this bridegroom and bride were
much in earnest. This was a marriage
rather than a wedding ; Griselda was
very serious. She dimly felt that there
were far more dangerous rocks ahead
than she had encountered in her maiden
life, hard though this had been.

And Hal ? Why was he to all
appearance more impressed than he had
been perhaps ever before ?

He had never loved Griselda better
than when she came to him at the altar,
leaning on her tall father's arm, followed
by her bridesmaids. He had given her
an elated, passionate glance as they
were marshalled before the bishop by
the old clerk, who had been interested
in the babe so strangely born in the
snow, and had little dreamt that the

old-fashioned, demure little child who
used to toddle so quaintly into church
and climb into her place in the vicarage
pew would ever be made a great lady
of thus.

Yes, Hal had never felt more tender,
more loving, than now. But, in the
middle of the service a sudden thought
or was it an indescribable sensation ?
chilled, startled him.

It was as if some other than himself
had repeated that solemn oath after the
good bishop  as if some mocking, derisive
voice had uttered the words  * to
have and to hold, for better for worse,
for richer for poorer, in sickness and
in health, to love and to cherish, till
death us do part.'

Death  till death!

Nevermore the old freedom  

OF Million

more the acting upon impulses as they
arose  always another self to think of 
and although that self was Griselda 

Good heavens ! I never realised it ! '
he thought. Little wonder that he was
so distrait, as he led Griselda into the
vestry, that, when he was called upon to
sign the register, he stood, bewildered,
pen in hand  wondering what this meant.

Griselda, receiving her congratulations,
and trying not to hear Lady Romayne's
asides  ' Such a sweet, good child ! Weare
so thankful Hal will have such a
wife,' et caetera  saw a look on Hal's
face she had never seen before.

To her the marriage service had simply
meant blessing upon and grace to fulfil
all her resolutions, since she knew she
was to marry the man she loved. Her
experience of life had taught her to expect

but little joy, and that  marred. She
watched Hal anxiously. She was anxious
for him. Then she caught Hugh
Blunt's eyes gazing on her with an indescribable
expression.

She did not stop to wonder what Hugh's
expression meant. She went to him.

Could you hasten our carriage, do you
think .' she said pleadingly. 'I shall be
glad to get away, you know, and my
husband too.'

Your carriage shall be here in half
a minute,' said Hugh, seizing his hat
and going out, as he went through the
church thinking ' Good heavens ! what a
beginning ! '

He had watched Hal's emotion, and
had  such keenness of perception seemed
to have formed out of his great love for
Griselda  had almost read his thoughts.

Let us go, Hal said Griselda to her
pale young husband, who looked bewildered.
' The carriage is there. I shall
be so glad to be out of the bustle, you
know.'

Here Hugh Blunt returned, announced
that the bride and bridegroom's carriage
waited, then gave a hint aside to Hal to
offer his arm to his wife.

Many brides would have been overwhelmed
by such a bridegroom. But
Griselda took his arm smilingly, went
down the aisle with happy glances right
and left, nodded to the village folk hurrahing
outside, and bowed and smiled till
the carriage was fairly out of Crowsfoot
parish.

Then she threw up her veil and took
her husband's hand.

Darling,' she said, ' I see what it is 

you did not count the cost ! You have
been more generous than just in your
love for me ! But do not think I will bea
burden to you. It will not be ordinary
husband and wife with us ! Do you think
I shall interfere with you ? I am yours.
I will obey you  to the death  unless
conscience forbids me.'

She looked so lovely, so faithful ! Hal
took her in his arms, and kissed her
passionately  he hardly knew his own
feelings. They seemed all bitter remorse
and wild love  yet those meaning words
' till death '  rang in his ears.

Griselda,' he said, almost fiercely, ' you
are too good for me, and I know it now
 too late, too late ! 1 never realised ;
here I have vowed myself till death 
death  how am I to keep myself at that
that pitch of perfection ? Why, I

should have laughed at my giving my
word to Heaven like that to scorn, till
I  till I  knew we were to be man and
wife ! ' he went on, with a crimson blush.
Yet I have sworn, and I feel wretched,
for I seem to be at your mercy, and how
can I change so utterly. Who  who 
will help me ? '

I will,' said Griselda, with a lovely
glance of her sweet eyes. ' Hal  my
husband ; ' she nestled close to her strange
bridegroom as if he had been the least
selfish and most chivalrous being  ' don't
fear! If you will come tome, I will do
anything, anything  that is right.'

Hal kissed her forehead.

Oh, if only you were not so pure, so
good, that it seems a sacrilege, almost,
to take you into the world ! ' he said. ' I
fancy it is my feeling about your unworldliness

which overwhelms me he went on.
Still, you can go into the world, through
the world, and remain unspotted, my
adored,' he said, raising the corner of her
veil and kissing it. ' My love,' somehow
he could not bring himself to say ' my
wife, I am glad we chose Paris for our
honeymoon. I fancy Parisian life may
bring our tastes more together.'

Then he described the life of visitors
to the continental capital, till they drove
into the park of Feather's Court, under
the triumphal evergreen arch, and through
the snowy slopes where tenants and
villagers cheered and waved handkerchiefs
; then there was no more serious
talk. For there were the Feather's Court
lacqueys in new gay liveries and glistening
silk stockings, opening the great door of
the white mansion, and maids, with

favours in their pretty high caps, peeping
from among the banks of plants in the
hall. Feather's Court looked its best today,
the white stone terraces decorated
with evergreens in green pots  flags
waving from Venetian masts erected on
the slopes in the park. The turf was
all green and white patches  the snow
quickly melting under the bright winter
morning sun.

Griselda smiled and nodded to the
assembled servants, as she blushingly
ascended the wide staircase leading to
the drawing-rooms, on her husband's
arm.

It seems so unreal,' she said to him
Just like when you stepped down into-the
orchard in your green velvet suit all
those years ago.'

She looked with a certain awe at the

magnificent staircase hung with great
pictures  old sea-fights, solemn-looking
portraits of men in armour, and grandly-dressed
women with long taper fingers
and slim waists. How would she ever
live here and be a great lady ?

This item in her marriage-bond had
not occurred to her.

Hal thought she looked lovely, and
felt pacified as they entered the drawing-room,
where there were huge fires, and
the warm atmosphere was impregnated
with the odours of stephanotis and other
white waxen hot-house blooms in the vases.

Come, and let us have a look at you,
before all these nuisances arrive,' he said,
drawing her before one of the long mirrors,
Bother ! If there are not two carriages 
the bridesmaids and the men, of course, racing
along the drive  do you see ? It would

serve them right if the horses went down.
Look, Griselda ! ' he went on, his arm
around her, as they stood before the glass.
Griselda glanced timidly at the reflection
of her handsome husband. She seemed to
herself to look absolutely insignificant by
his side.

I don't like you so well in your uniform,
Hal,' she said. ' I liked your grey
suit ; I remember how I used to put my
cheek against your arm.'

She sighed. He took her in his arms
and kissed her, and had hardly settled the
folds of her veil before the bridesmaids
came in, followed by Hugh Blunt and
Mervyn Bray ; a staid major  the only
military friend Hal chose to invite to the
clerical wedding  and  the young Dean
Trevor, who was enchanted with the bride.

Upon my word, you are to be congratulated,

my boy,' he said to Hal, while
the bridesmaids bravely smothered those
little jealousies bridesmaids will feel, and
hovered prettily about the bride ; ' there is
something so Una-like about Mrs Romayne.
Don't start '  he laid his hand
on Hal's arm. ' I suppose I am lucky
enough to be the first to call the bride by
her married name ? Yes ! Do you know
that, while assisting our good bishop, I
could not help feeling as if this were the
profession of a nun, rather than the joining
of a man and woman in the bonds of matrimony
? If I am not utterly wrong, there
is something peculiarly saintly about Mrs
Romayne, Hal. By the way, the bishop
and Lady Romayne wish me to propose
your healths  the bishop hates speeches.
And you know, though I am not old, so to
say '  he ran his fingers through his prematurely

grey hair with a satisfied smile
I remember you all since I can remember
anything.'

Propose everybody all in a lump 
propose any mortal thing,' said Hal, who
was irritably fidgeting with his uniform ;
only, dean, don't propose that my wife is
a saint. I don't want to be laughed at ; '
and he walked away.

The dean looked after him with a
strange expression of pity. Then he shook
his head, and stood up smilingly as the
rest of the wedding-party came in.

Lady Romayne, looking handsome in
her lilac satin and purple velvet, went
about presiding and grouping her guests,
and settling everything like a fashionable
Juno. She had heard someone say that
Griselda ought to be painted by the
great portrait-painter, Rogers. And another

 Lady Romayne forgot whom ;
but, whoever it might be, he or she was a
remarkably sensible and far-seeing person
had come to her and said. ' Oh, Lady
Romayne, how L envy your privilege of
presenting your beautiful daughter-in-law !
She must be the belle of next season,'
et cetera, et ccEfeia. Lady Romayne's
clerical wedding promised to be a success.

She was already so triumphant that
she had failed to notice the swelling of
that vein on Hal's forehead  which meant
that Hal was in what his sisters called
one of his nasty tempers.' So, after
settling her nests for the few minutes'
wait before the breakfast, she went to
him full of confidence, and said, 

Oh, my dear boy, we are so fortunate !
The dear dean will drive us one of his eloquent
speeches. Of coarse it will be reported

in the newspapers. All the dean
says is reported  I don't know how or
why ; but it is so. Then Griselda  she is
really quite a success ! Every one thinks-her
so like a saint.'

Lady Romayne stopped short. Hal had
muttered something between his teeth that
she had frequently heard him mutter, and
which was like the low preliminary growl
of a coming thunderstorm.

Look here, mother ! ' he said, with the
old threatening gleam in his eyes. ' I've
always heard a man's wedding-day is
the worst in his life ; don't you help to-prove
the saying in my case.' And he
turned away and began to talk to his
former tutor, now a middle-aged clergyman
in possession of a fruitful vine and
many olive branches, who had begun
smiling  nervously and doubtfully,  when.

he arrived, and was still smiling  to conceal
how his doubts had already grown.
Poor Mr Withers ! He had seen race
in his former pupil's face, and made a
desperate effort to say something pleasant.
He talked of the bride's sweetness and
goodness, of how thankful he was for
Hal that he had been directed in his
choice of a wife.

You will no longer be tormented by
your old wild fancies, my dear Mr Romayne,'
he said, dropping the familiar
Hal,' now that this tempestuous Mr
Romayne had arrived at the dignity of
being a married man. * If you could have
seen the grief and affection of the Crows-foot
parishioners when Mrs Romayne drove
away! It was like the old tales of the
people clinging to a departing saint.'

Beg your pardon, Withers ; I am

VOL. HI. E

wanted.' Hal rushed off. ' If they would
only call her a she-deva, I believe I should
prefer it,' he said, as he went to his wife,
who was not looking after him, but was
seated on an ottoman, calmly conversing,
as if she had grown there to talk and be
talked to.

John Blackett was standing near to his
child. He tried not to look depressed for
her sake. But of late she had seemed so
to supply her mother's place  it was very
hard, this parting. He, too, began to
realise what this marriage meant for him
for her  for Hal.

We must not have you gloomy, Mr
Blackett,' said Lady Romayne, in a high
contralto voice, pitched that all might
hear. ' Your dear daughter will soon return.
We  indeed, society cannot spare
her. Ah, if only her distinguished grandfather,

the famous professor, could have
lived to be here to-day ! '

It was well that breakfast was announced,
and that Lady Romayne, who
had got through the programme of her
preprandlal behaviour in the drawing-room
 always somewhat of a difficult
time at weddings did not, as she stood
and fanned herself, waiting to follow her
guests, see the face of John Blackett, of
the bride's father.

Almost a passion of wrath arose within
him at this coarse mention of the facts of
his life most sacred to him. He  who
had hardly schooled himself yet to think
of the father who turned his back upo
him when he was born, that father who
had persistently shunned him and disclaimed
him, and had salved his conscience
hy post-mortem gifts  to have his parentage

flung vulgarly In his face by his old
enemy, Lady Romayne !

He calmed himself for Griselda's sake ;
so did Hal, as far as he could. So the
wedding-banquet went off to Lady Romayne's
satisfaction.

The white tables, with the gold plate
and glass centre-piece, all graceful forms
showed well against the polished walls
Griselda cut her cake with perfect composure,
and was only amused when a huge
piece of hard sugar tumbled Into her lap.
It was all a fairy tale  a bright dream to
her. To-morrow, she thought, with a
saddened smile, she might awake to a
long life of difficulties. At least to-day
she might be as happy as she pleased !

The dean's speech put the finishing
touch to Lady Romayne's content. It
was brief and graceful. He began by a

short history of his acquaintance with
Hal, putting his best points in the most
favourable light. He said truthfully that
the bridegroom had that gift of all gifts,
a good heart. His friend once, you were
his friend always. And he even believed,
personally, that a friend under a cloud
was dearer to Henry Romayne than the
friend who was basking in the hot sunshine
of success. He could speak from
personal experience. For, although he
had seen comparatively little of Henry
Romayne since he himself had been a
successful man  therefore a busy man,
whose real friends made a point of respecting
the value of his time  there had
been years, not so very long ago, when,
but for to-day's bridegroom and his timely
help, he might have died in a miserable
lodeinof for want of actual warmth and

food. No doubt many could tell a similar
tale, with Henry Romayne as its hero,
and would, if they only knew, say, to-day,
as heartily as he did  God bless him [
Not only that ; but these would join him
in congratulations at having so soon met
with so sweet a lady as the bride, as his
companion and helpmeet through life.
None, after a glance at Mrs Henry Romayne,
could but feel that in this cold, hard
world her husband had found a blossom
in the snow. Of course all present knew
how this lovely lady, whose health on this
her marriage-day it was his privilege to
propose, had bloomed in the snow one
Christmas-eve ; not a bright Christmas-eve
like this, but in the midst of a cruel
hurricane, a fearful storm. And no doubt
that many who were present would draw
a curious parallel, and would scarcely wonder

that a babe, born In a stable, although
without visible protecting angels, and born
at this holy time, might be destined to be
so gentle, so patient, that the almost worshipping
affection of her father's parishioners
which he had seen to-day would bea
matter of course. He concluded by an
allusion to the beautiful name of Griselda,
and mentioned his confident hope that in
no single instance would this Griselda's
fate be like her celebrated namesake's, so
quaintly told by the father of English
poetry. No ; he might say that, just as
Henry Romayne had been so fortunate
as to find a rare blossom  say, the Edel-
weiss  on his upward path of manly life, so
he would wear it upon his heart till death,
to find it again in the gardens of Paradise.
Although successful, Dean Trevor had
made the wedding party feel much as if

they had returned to church. However,
the bridesmaids and Lady Romayne soon
retired to help Griselda dress for her
journey ; and there were the chirps of
admiration over the traveling dress, which
was of shaded grey velvet trimmed with
white fur.

'It has been perfect!' said Lady Romayne,
as she warmly embraced her
Edelweiss,' as she intended to nickname
her daughter-in-law. 'Simply perfect!
Mind, love, you must come back much
sooner than Hal intends to. You must
assert yourself. You must not put up
with his tempers. You must begin as you
mean to go on. See how I manage Sir
Hubert! It is your duty to manage Hal
imitate me.'

Don't frighten her, mother,' said Lydia
compassionately.

When you have had enough of his
tempers you come home to us. Union is
strength,' said Mabel, who was busily
buttoning Griselda's gloves, while the
other bridesmaids were actively collecting
the satin slippers to be thrown after the
happy pair.

Meanwhile Hal was storming at his
valet in the gun-room, where several
items of luggage had been placed pro
tern, Hugh Blunt heard ; and, biting his
lips as he remembered that this man was
now lord and master of the girl whom he
believed to be the one and only love of
his life, he went into the gun-room to see
if he could coax Mr Romayne into a less
irritable frame of mind.

Oh, it is you, lucky fellow, come to
gloat over me, plunged into all this
bother!' said Hal, viciously kicking at a

portmanteau. ' Go. No, thanks ; you
can't help me. Who can help a man
who has made a fool of himselfe'

The passionate outburst had barely
left his lips before he turned, and saw
Griselda.

Hugh Blunt paled, and stepped aside.
What he felt he could not have told ; it
was indescribable.

Hal flushed to the roots of his hair
when he saw his young wife. Had she
overheard '. Had she ' thought anything
? ' Oh no ! Impossible ; she looked
cheerful, bright, in her slate - coloured
velvets and white furs, like a sunshiny
winter landscape.

But she had heard ; his speech had
seemed to stab her heart. Only she used
her gift of self-command. She had not
to be warned by Lady Romayne and her

sisters-in-law of what she might expect.
One day, not very long ago, she had told
herself that she knew Hal better than he
knew himself.

Good-bye,' she said, turning to Hugh
Blunt, with her gloved hand outstretched.

What was it  the look in her eyes 
that told him she knew, or suspected, the
life she was boldly embarking upon .
1 He could not tell. But added to his old
love for her came a great respect, a wonder
at one so weak, who could be so strong.

Then came the embracing and parting
words, and the waving of handkerchiefs,
as the carriage with the four greys drove
off. One of the leaders shied at a satin
slipper that flew upon his nose, but the
bride and bridegroom soon vanished from
view behind the great trees in the snowy
park, to meet their fate.

T was not an ordinary honeymoon.


Griselda saw that Hal was
already repenting his coolness and irritability.
She had silently forgiven him
in advance. They had barely driven out
of the park, the white turrets of Feather's
Court were still in sight, when she
clasped one of his hands in both hers,
and said, 

Oh, Hal, you are good to me  to leave
all this, and take me, such a poor companion!
I have crossed the sea, but never

stayed near It, And I have so longed,
so dreamed of the great, green, surging
water, and the sense of being cut off
from foreign nations by those roaring
waves  it seems impossible that in a
few hours I shall be there.'

And tossing about on those roaring
waves,' said Hal,  recovering himself ashe
thought, ' She can't have overheard
that speech of mine.'  ' For we must cross
to-nisfht. I can't stand those English
watering-places.'

However, when they reached Dover,

Griselda's innocent delight at the towers

)

ing cliffs crowned by the old castle, with
the great waves foaming as they rolled
in upon the beach, made Hal change his
mind. They stayed at Dover two. three
days  bright winter days, which were
landmarks in Griselda's life. It hardly

seemed like Christmas Day, dining alone
in the half-empty hotel. But their host
and the servants made much of them,
and Hal's state of mind was marvellous
to himself.

Wonders will never cease he thought
to himself, as he and Griselda fought
their way against a brisk sea-breeze,
laughing, and battling with the wind,
like two children. 'I to be amused, to
be made happy by this sort of thing !
Griselda is a witch.'

She was intensely devoted all through
that short winter day. But, during their
sea-side rambling, fresh visitors had arrived
at the hotel ; to his dismay, he
read the names of General and Lady
Hermione Grayburgh on piles of luggage
that were being carried into the
hall.

Griselda ran upstairs quickly ; the wind
had toasted her hair, she felt untidy,
and on the first landing knocked up
against a tall lady in brown velvet, who
abashed her with a surprised glance
from a pair of superb black eyes. If 
as Griselda went on to her room, where
her new maid had been expecting her,
and had a warm gown and slippers ready
she could have guessed how that
haughty dame would make her suffer,
even that very day !

For Hal had been petted and spoiled
by Lady Hermione, General Grayburgh's
young and beautiful wife. He had been
always ' hanging about the house ' till
lately. And since then Lady Hermione
had drooped somewhat, and on Hal's
marriage day her physician had told the
General that her ladyship required change

of scene immediately, and he must really
think of interior abroad.

All Hal's good humour fled at the
sight of those names. ' The question is
what to do ? ' he thought, as he went
into the empty billiard-room and paced
about, gazing absently at the maps, at
the railway guides, at the stands of cues.
Can't start to-night in this beastly gale.
Besides, there is something cowardly in
flying from her. She can't say anything
against me. No ; the best thing is to
stay and face it out. Surely I have a
right to marry when and how I please,
just the same as any other fellow ! '

So he went to Griselda, dio was sitting
before her fire in her blue wrapper,
while Marshall, the maid, was brushing
all her long, fair hair, and asked her to
dress and go into their draw-ing-room.

Some people I know are here,' he
said nonchalantly,  ' General and Lady
Hermlone Grayburgh. I must call in
and see them, and they will return the
visit, I suppose.'

Griselda assured him she would be
ready ; and he went off and called
upon the General and his wife  a
visit of mockery, he felt, but necessary ;
and he and Lady Hermione laughed and
chatted, and the General tried to make
some ponderous jokes ; then the three
adjourned to Hal's apartments, where
Griselda met them at the drawing-room
door, and welcomed her husband's friends
with a gentle dignity which made Lady
Hermione hate her with a cold, deadly
hate there and then.

Lady Hermione saw a girl dressed asa
young matron, in an exquisite costume

VOL. TIL F

Lady Romayne had ordered specially for
Griselda from Paris. This was a rich,
green satin polonaise embroidered with
sprigs of jasmine, the prettiest of striped
green and white silk.

Perfect taste ! ' savagely thought the
friend that had liked Hal Romayne not
wisely, but too well. Then her eyes
travelled upward to the fair oval face,
with its gentle dignified expression, but
with a certain anxiety in the lovely
eyes.

Some little school girl ! ' she thought,
with a rush of satisfaction at the thought
that at least she was superior to Hal's
wife. ' Some entanglement  some freak,
no doubt ! Poor Hal ! '

She held out her hand and shook
Griselda's with an affection of warmth.
Then she turned her languid dark eyes

upon Hal, and, with a little silvery laugh,
said, 

I don't think I was ever so surprised
in my life ! To think of the charming
little girl I ran up against in the passage
this morning being the wife of my old
friend Hal ! It seems incredible. Do
you know, Mrs Romayne, I looked after
you with envy, thinking, ' Ah, youth on
the prow, pleasure at the helm ! There
goes a child who is not weary and heartsick,
because she does not know the
world. The Dead Sea apples and the
bitter dregs are to come. Ah, Hal, you
have a heavy responsibility ! Who would
have thought that you, who have lived
through so many hot noons of life, would
dream of stealing a flower fresh with
mornings dew ? '

She had assumed a graceful, half-tired

attitude on a catiseuse near the uncomfortable
elbow-chair on which Griselda
had somewhat stiffly seated herself.
Griselda gazed on this beautiful lady,
who spoke with such ease and grace
that her speech sounded like Greek
verse  with dismay. Was this being,
who reminded her of a picture on a
Bordeaux plum-box Hugh Blunt had
given her one Christmas, an Oriental
beauty reclining on a divan, some bird
with a long chain gracefully perched on
her wrist,  a specimen of the women
Hal had known  whom she was to supplant
?

The old General, who liked pretty
young girls, luckily came to the rescue.
He did not quite understand his wife 
never had. But he knew when her
sweetly-modulated voice meant mischief

for then she spoke more slowly, more
like a well-practised chime of bells. And
he did not see why my lady should flout
that pretty young bride. So he got up
and stamped about a bit ; then, getting
rather red in the face, he slapped Romayne
on the back.

I tell you what, my boy,' he said in
his blunt way, ' I needn't to think much
of you when you were hanging about at
my lady's kettledrums ; I set you down
with the rest of the dawdle. But, 'pon
my honour, I see you're a man of sense,
and the very first time I can do-ou
and your young madam a service, I'll doit
 by Jove, I wall ! Now you two come
and dine with us to-night, and talk it
over  eh, my lady . '

My lady,' whose eyes had met Hal's
with an old look which appealed, ' See

how I am unappreciated by this savage ! '
was languidly charmed. She thought of
a certain toilette she had, and of how
fortunate it was that she had ordered a
Broadsword to be sent into their rooms
she had played more since she had
lost Hal as she called it.

I have played so much of your
favourite music since you cut us she
said to him with a meaning glance.
And I made a bargain with the General
that I should find a piano wherever we
stayed. Of course you play, Mrs Romayne
? '

The oroan  a little said Griselda
with a pang. This was worse and
worse. As she went to the door and
watched Lady Hermione gliding gracefully
along the corridor, Hal bending
over her, and the white-haired General,

with his gold-headed stick, stumping
along in the rear, she remembered a
saying which struck her very much 
was it Hugh Blunt's ?  ' Fighting itself
is of no good without an intimate knowledge
of the foe.'

And I '  she stopped short, dismayed
' oh, what will come of it all ? ' thought
poor Griselda.

RISELDA stood in the hotel
drawing-room, gazing blankly
at the huoe conventional furniture.
All  from the glittering chandeliers
pendant from the heavy ceiling to
the handsomely decorated walls, with a
few well-known prints hanging here and
there, seemed so desolate  so unhomelike.
The risings ease shrieked and howled without
; the big windows, well-secured as
seaside palatial hotel-windows usually are,
attempted a faint rattle. The coal-fire
in the big steel grate, which had burnt

low, shivered and collapsed, while a
gust of smoke blew across the fire-guard
into the room. Absently twisting her
wedding - ring and the pearl circlet
Hal had given her as ' keeper,' she
vaguely felt that the even flow of the
honeymoon had been checked since this
meeting with the kindly old General and
his beautiful young wife, Lady Hermione.
Those dark eyes  those pencilled brows !
Griselda had seen the eloquent glance,
half-sad, half-sympathetic, of those dark
orbs when they were fixed upon Hal.
Did every woman, would every woman 
look at her husband like that ? ' They
must have been great, great friends,'
Griselda thought, looking vaguely, with
a new pain, longing, fear of she knew
not what, at the prints on the walls 
Against the Tide,' a young couple ina

boat, who had evidently had a disagreeable
discussion and were struggling
up-stream, and ' With the Tide,' where
all, the lovers and their surroundings,
seemed sunshine and peace. Then she
caught sight of her travelling-desk, her
father's gift.

Hal will stop some time at their rooms,
I daresay,' she thought, with a sinking
heart. ' I will write to father.'

She opened the desk. In the bustle of
the wedding and the packing, Griselda
had had no time to unlock and examine
John Blackett's wedding-gift to his
daughter. As she looked over the desk
now, she was deeply touched to find that
all her little tastes as a scribe were not
only known to, but had been carefully
remembered by, her father. The pens
she had found the readiest, the writing-paper,

most of the materials she had
used In preference as his amanuensis,
were there to hand, and  that which she
seized almost with eager passion  a letter,
the superscription ' For Griselda.'

She tore It open with trembling fingers.
What would be his parting counsel
? Her father had said but little to
her that wedding-morn, a few days back,
which already seemed weeks  no  months

Griselda,' John Blackett had written
I wonder when you will find this ? Not
in your happiest moments, my child, I
expect. Whenever it may be, think first
that, although separated from your father,
to whom you are naturally the dearest on
earth, that earthly separation is a mere
term ; it Is actually but a waiting for our

near meeting. I am here, ready, when
you want me. Now a few words about
your present Hfe. I did not wish to
croak, like an old raven, when you were
on the threshold of your young happiness.
And pray do not take this as a croak
But I must warn you of that which Is
most young married people's stumbling-block
 the expecting too much from each
other. To live at a high pitch of any
sort Is difficult, and, In point of fact, unnatural.
Do not fancy that a yawn ora
short silence means bore, or the first
symptom of a man's being tired of his
wife. Only a man dislikes a chain as
much as that nobler animal, the dog. 
Ever your father, John Blackett.'

Griselda almost smiled. How like her
father, as he had been, since his life-burdens

had been lifted from his weary
shoulders !

She seized a sheet of note-paper and
wrote 

Father,  It is useless to add anything
to the word which means the
nearest, holiest tie, is it not ? I have
just found your dear letter. I will not
say whether it came at a moment of
difficulty ; but it certainly strengthened
me and reminded me of  '

My duty,' she would have written.
But the pen slipped from her fingers.

Hal had kicked open the door, which
was ajar, and stood there, looking disgustedly
at the smoke which was gracefully
floating in grey clouds just below
the ceiling.

What the deuce do they mean by this
sort of thing?' he said, with suppressed
anger. * Fire out too ! Why didn't you
ring ? ' Then he rang, and going to the
window, muttered something barely audible,
which sent the blood to Griselda's
cheeks, about ' unlucky devil,' etc.

What do you mean by this ? ' he thundered
at the waiter who had flown in
answer to No. 20's noisy summons. ' Putting
me into a room poisoned with smoke !
Bring me my bill and serve luncheon at
once. I cross by the next boat."

The startled waiter expostulated, murmuring
something about ' blowing oreat
guns ' and ' cone being hoisted.'

Do what I say, d'ye hear ? And send
my valet.'

The waiter flew.

See your maid, my dear, tell her to

pack, and change to your travelling-gown
at once, will you ? '

The thin veil of assumed tenderness
hurt Griselda more than if he had stormed
at her.

But  Hal  I thought  those people 
asked us to dinner  and you accepted  '

Hal, strolling about the room, his hands in
his pockets, laughed. It was a nasty laugh.
It meant much, and Griselda winced.

My dearest child, you will, of course,
have to write an excuse. You cannot
possibly go into society till you have
seen something of the world and have
had a little training from my mother. I
love your simplicity, dear,' he added more
kindly. ' Of course, you don't understand
; but you will by-and-by. Come
you are writing  just put that aside
and write a note I will dictate to you.'

Griselda obediently laid aside the half-covered
sheet, and began  according to
Hal's dictation 

Dear Lady Hermione  '

She looked up. It seemed rather
strange to address the regal lady of the
almond eyes thus ; but of course Hal
knew, so it must be all right.

Write your own bold manuscript hand,
said Hal. Then he dictated, ' I am so
sorry, but I have just received a telegram
from my father.'

Griselda glanced up. * Oh, Hal,' she
said, 'have you had one?'

Hal stamped his foot impatiently. This
was too silly !

Of course not,' he said. ' Don't you
understand ? I have been racking my
brains how to get off without offending
the General and Lady Hermione, and

that is the only excuse I could possibly
think of;

But it is not true. I will write anything
you like that is true ; but not a lie, Hal.'

Griselda ! '  Hal checked an unkind
speech ; but he felt choked with rage.

The beautiful Lady Hermione, who, in
days not so very long ago, had played
upon his sentiments, his whole nature, asa
consummate artist plays upon an intricate
musical instrument, had asserted
her supremacy, had overturned the simple,
almost childish joys of these first
days of dual solitude with his girlish wife.
He had felt, as Lady Hermione clasped
his hand and glanced one of her old
glances straight into his eyes, that his
safety was in flight  not only his safety,
but his loyalty to Griselda. It enraged
him that Griselda should be an obstacle,

VOL. III. G

when he was trying his best for her
sake.

*Then, if your conscience is so extremely
sensitive,' he said, in a strange
constrained voice, ' you must really find
your own excuses. What is that ? '

He saw Mr Blackett's letter lying half-open
on the table, and would have seized
it ; but Griselda put her hand firmly down
upon the paper.

That is a letter from my father,' she
said ; ' I found it in the desk  here.'

I thought there should be no secrets
between husband and wife.'

Hal's anger was at its height. But,
being at a white heat, he seemed calm.

I do not know whether he intended
anyone else to read it,' pleaded Griselda,
looking earnestly at her husband.

Curious, for a clergyman, who is supposed

to consider man and wife as
one ! '

Read my reply,' said Griselda eagerly.

Hal took the sheet, and, as he read,
an ugly sneer spread itself about his
mobile mouth.

Thank you,' he said drily. ' I compliment
you on your duplicity either to
myself or to your father. Yesterday, I
was your best beloved, according to your
own saying. To-day, because, as I am
forced to believe, you are meanly jealous
of one of the queens of society, the reason
being that I paid her the ordinary attentions
she is accustomed to,  your father
is  what ? '  he consulted the note.
Pah ! Romantic stuff! Tear it up! And
please tear up that you began to Lady
Hermione. I will explain matters myself.'

Here his valet, successor to poor Chancel,

who was killed in the eventful railway
accident, came in ; but Hal left
Griselda, giving his orders as he went
towards Lady Hermione's rooms.

He found her reclining in a shady
corner. She started as he came in. All
her old passion had rushed back  she had
been dreaming of bygone happy hours
never to return. Her eyes were tearful.

The General is  in his room she
stammered.

He was softened by her emotion. She
looked so gentle, so womanly ; and Hal's
excitement led him to feel an atmosphere
of love about this siren, who had formerly
held him in chains, and who had behaved, he
thought, at this crisis, with great gentleness
and magnanimity to her escaped captive.

I wanted to speak to you,' he said
falteringly, with some new emotion he

hardly understood. ' May I  may I sit
by you, as in the old '  he paused and
sighed  ' the old days ? '

She looked at him almost fearfully.
Then she bowed her head, and said,
Yes '  the sort of ' yes ' which is given
to some great, some vital question, rather
than the careless ' yes ' of ordinary life.

He sat down on a basket-chair by her
sofa. There was a bowl of hot-house
blooms on a tiny table beside him, a tiger-skin
at his feet. Lady Hermione travelled
with accessories  indispensable accessories,
as she considered them. Hal felt
the difference between this room and his
own  one so well arranged, so refined, the
other bare, cold, smoky  acutely. ' I have
come,' he began. Then he hesitated, and
the blood rushed to his forehead. He
leaned forward, clasping his hands, dumb.

You have come ! ' gently repeated
Lady Hermlone.

To tell you that I have changed my
plans. I shall cross this afternoon.' One
moment's silence.

In this gale ?' asked Lady Hermione ;
and her voice trembled. She was bitterly
disappointed. She believed that to-night
she might have gone far to re-establish
the old friendship.

Can you not understand that it is
better for me ? '

In his new anger with Griselda he spoke
almost with passion to this old love, who,
although almost his superior in worldly
position, and most certainly far above him
in intellect, as women's intellects go, had
never 'defied' him, as he chose to think
his young wife had done on the subject
of her father's letter.

'As you will. You know, Hal, I have
always thought you have acted for the
best. But, will you leave me, now, at
once ? ' she went on, suddenly rislno- from
her sofa, and holding out her delicate
white hands with an imploring gaze.
For Heaven's sake, go ! '

Hal rose, agitated. What ? There
were great tears in those large dark eyes
that he had seen look so coldly upon the
world, so scornfully upon gay crowds of
adulators, so adoring into his own.

For a few seconds they looked steadily
at each other ; and the past, that delirium
of Hal's, when he gave rein to impulse,
and had recklessly followed the promptings
of the moment  when he hung about
Lady Hermione, and no day passed without
that delicious talk, and those half-confidences,
half-suggestions, and whole

honos silences which mean more than words
or looks  the memory of those days passed
through the minds of both, as they saw a
procession of the thoughts, words, actions,
and Incidents of their lives review themselves
rapidly before those who are near
unto death.

Lady Hermione was not a bad woman,
and her affection for Hal had been the
strongest sentiment of her life. And
Hal ? Fiercely, bitterly he remembered
his doubts, his sudden terror, when he
had realised that he was bound to gentle,
innocent Griselda for life. Unthinking,
he had drifted to his fate, and here he
suddenly found himself, on one side Scylla,
on the other Charybdis.

Good-bye,' he said  merely the one
word ; but the anguish in his tone was
balm to Lady Hermione's disappointment.

Do be happy ! ' she earnestly said.
If I only know you are happy, my dear
boy, I do not care what becomes of
me!'

Happy ! ' said Hal, dropping her
hands ; and, with head bent, walking
respectfully from her presence, as if she
were a princess. Formerly, when he was
the spoilt darling, coming in and going
out of the ' gem of a town residence ' in
Mayfair when and how he pleased, he had
given himself airs there as he did in his
home, nettling Lady Hermione somewhat,
although she did not choose to show it.
Now she had become unattainable, an
impossibility  therefore, to Hal, inexpressibly
desirable.

Happy ! ' he savagely repeated to himself
with a Byronic bitterness as he went
downstairs to calm himself with a cigar.

What evil chance brought me to Griselda
that day at Cologne, again in London,
again after that accident ! What a fate for
us both  utterly unsuited to each other !
Poor child, poor child ! '

While Lady Hermione had stood
motionless where Hal had left her.

I used to think him gloriously handsome,'
she mused ; but never, never have
I imagined him as now  the ideal of a
fallen angel or Manfred. Well, I have
nothing to blame myself for ! '

She went to the great mirror over the
mantelpiece and gazed at her own beauty.
In the light of the great fire  the sky was
darkening with folds of dismal clouds, and
the flames half lit the room  she saw that,
If the freshness of youth were no longer
there, there was a grander, more imposing
splendour about her pathetic face and

moulded figure, which might be compared
to Griselda's peaceful loveliness as a
storm in a pine-forest, with lurid gleams
between the thunder-shower, to a lily-pond
in green fields under a smiling
spring sky.

Perhaps,' she thought. Then, after
one more glance, a triumphant expression
brightened her eyes.

Not perhaps,' she thought, remembering
some news her husband. General
Grayburgh, had read to her that very
morning from the leading daily paper.
Let them go honeymooning like little
Cupids among the roses  poor child,
should I grudge her her day ? He
has caused her trouble enough, I
know ! But it will be soon over. And
then  '

She stepped across the room and opened

the window. This new idea oppressed
her. She wanted air, light.

Then,' she went on to herself, gazing
out on the green, angry sea  * then my
turn will come ! I think I can afford to
wait.'

OW little did Griselda  as she
struggled on board the packet
bound for Calais, chilled, depressed,
for her three days' bridegroom
had been, at the best, morose, since the
unfortunate meeting with his old friends 
think how and by what she would be
befriended !

The afternoon sky was leaden, the sea a
dark blackish green, which, as the waves
seemed as if they had suddenly begun
civil war and were fighting furiously
among themselves, had an ominous deadly
look, like the green of some poisonous

plants. The wind seemed to blow from
all quarters at once, not as one wind, but
many. There was the great sea-breeze,
which seemed to rush with a gigantic rush
steadily through and beside and below and
above every obstruction, and sweep landwards
with a calm contempt of earth.
But there were also wandering gusts that
shrieked and walled on their own account,
and Icy little breezes that went about
rapidly, biting the nerves and hissing into
the ears like air-snakes, while they froze
fingers, toes, and crept under wraps to
stab where and how they could.

Roar, rage on the sea, screech, whistle
In the sky  no wonder the rattling and
shouting, as the heaving little black packet
was loaded by the struggling porters and
sailors as best they could, was lost in the
noise of the hurricane ! The captain,

whose hoarse shouts from the paddle-box
where he stood were barely heard, stared
to see an English gentleman with a
delicate young girl on his arm struggling
across the deck. He leaned down and
called to Hal as he passed, 

If it weren't for the mails, we shouldn't
go, sir, and we may have to put back.'

'All right!' shouted Hal in return;
then he went with Griselda and Marshall,
her maid, to the cabin. Leaving them to
the stewardess, who looked sulky, for, if
there had been no lady passengers, she
could have braved the dirty ' weather '
more comfortable'.

They say it's an ill wind that blows
nobody good, Griselda,' was Hal's temporary
farewell. ' Let's hope we are the
nobodies.'

Were they ? At all events, this gale

was Griselda's friend. For they tumbled
about the Channel for four mortal hours.
Four hours of physical torture to Hal,
who, though he supposed himself a good
sailor, found himself prostrate and wishing
that his valet  who was prostrate
also or the steward, or the captain, or
anybody  would throw him overboard.

Every woman he knew, Including
Griselda and Lady Hermlone, might have
died before his smarting eyes would
have turned to look at them. The gale
and the sea had come to Griselda's
rescue. She had sat calmly while the
boat reeled to Calais on the waves
like some rudderless, helpless cockle-shell
bathe her maid's head with eau de
Cologne, and comforting some crying
children whose mother was ' down ' In an
opposite berth, while she was the envy

of the sour stewardess, who said she
couldn't do nothing for no one, having
that pain in her head on these awful
journeys, when ladies who choose to
take the risk must really expect to look
after themselves.'

It came to her rescue, for it sobered
Hal, and sharply but decisively cured
his capricious fit of romance. When they
were in harbour, and Griselda met him
on deck leaning dejectedly upon the
steward's arm, she seemed like a special
mercy, standing there so straight and
fresh and smiling and ready, she was the
only member of the four capable of action.
She it was who helped the polite officers
of the ' Duane' in their examination of
the luggage. She hailed close conveyances
to drive to the station ; and when
her limp charges had struggled aimlessly

VOL. III. H

into the warm, bright refreshment-room,
where all was so neat,  well-dressed
French barmaid smiling in the freshest
of costumes behind the buffets, joyous-looking
French waiters rushing about ina
superior but sympathetic manner,  it
was she who enlisted one of the waiters
with a timely tip, and supplied both her
lord and master and their servants with
hot bouillon and tiny glasses of French
brandy.

You are a born nurse, Griselda,' was
Hal's speech of acknowledgment as they
took their seats in the railway carriage.

If that engine would only stop
screeching and whistling ! ' he added
pettishly.

Yes, that prosaic and painful crossing
seemed to have snapped the link between
Hal and his friend Lady Hermione

Grayburgh. She was In the past. And
in some way, as the train rattled through
the snowy landscape ornamented with
rows of blackened skeletons of trees,
Hal felt that she was done with, over,
that he was in a new mood  perhaps
not an agreeable one ; still, the future,
dreary as it might prove to be, could
not possibly contain the being who buta
few hours ago seemed to him almost
the central figure of his whole life.

'How should it.' he thought. 'Weare
not likely to meet again. No ; that
dream that fluctuated between the delights
of the haschish-drinker and the
fiendish illusions of the victims of
dcliriiun tremens is past, as the mere
dream that it was.'

The new, rational Hal Romayne chose
a quiet hotel, and settled himself and his

young wife in Paris in a deliberate, calculating
way.

We shall stay two or three months,'
he told Griselda. * As soon as you have
seen the sights and are accustomed to
the gaiety and everything, I will lookup
my old friends, the Duchess de M  ,
the Comtesse B  , Madame de S  .
French ladles have such extraordinary
savoir faire. And from the very contrast
between you, with your English
nature, and they, I believe you might
become quite an acquired taste in Parisian
salons. After that, my mother would find
your introduction to English society a
comparative easy matter.'

Griselda scarcely understood. But,
since she had seen Lady Hermione, the
old feeling she had in childhood, when
she made her first appearance at Feather's

Court, that she and those who peopled
the world in which Hal lived were utterly
different,  was strengthened.

I must change,' she told herself. But
how to accomplish this ? The old habit
of thinking deeply and continually was
simply unconquerable. She made a constant
and vigorous effort to throw herself
out of herself, as it were  to forget that
she was Griselda Romayne, born Griselda
Black, or rather Blackett  and to be
merely a spectator, a pleased and gratified
spectator of these new scenes, just as Hal
seemed to be.

Yes ; Hal was no longer the stormy
lover, and was past settling down into
a kind but imperious husband, sometimes
passionate, at other times petulant,
given to short ebullitions of rage when
matters went wrong, or the letters from

England did not please him, but taking
a larger view of life and a more vivid
interest in his surroundings, and, in
Griselda's opinion, far more adorable, if
that could be possible, than ever.

Of late  this was after they had spent
a month in Paris  she was beginning to
feel a greater respect for the handsome
husband, who could scarcely show himself
on the Boulevards, or in theatres
and restaurants, without being admiringly
stared at. Why this was she could not
tell. She used to nurse the idea in her
mind with a new satisfaction, tenderness,
hope, particularly when she was alone,
and Hal had gone for a walk ; of late
she had felt so much fatigue that she
was glad that Hal let her off expeditions
and sight-seeing.

She had visited the theatres gravely.

This wondering gravity and her blushing
face, when Hal took her to see those
pieces which are piquant to the Parisian
temperament, first annoyed, then amused
him and flattered his vanity For he
soon noticed that the volatile French
treated Griselda with a strange respect.
Some felt reminded of the ' Sainte Verge,'
by her modest bearing and gentle face.
Others glanced at Hal, and  why they
hardly knew  were filled with chivalry on
behalf of the 'petite dame Anglaise.' To
Griselda Frenchmen seemed all Bayards,
and Frenchwomen smiling' sisters. It
puzzled her.

Two months, and Paris suddenly flung
aside her white mantle of ice, the cold
mist lifted, and she blossomed into spring.
Flowers appeared In balconies, bouquets
of early violets and lilac - bloom and

orange-blossom from the south scented
the florists' shops ; white parasols and
coloured awnings defied a burning spring
sun on the Boulevards. Hal took his
wife to the supreme Parisian artist in
costumes. He had already called on his
titled friends, who had returned his visit,
paying their respects to Griselda at the
same time, and invitation-cards lay on
Griselda's writing-table  accepted.

The handsome middle-aged Duchesse
dea  had perhaps been most charmed
with Griselda. She had always liked
Hal ; but Griselda won her enthusiasm.
She burst into eulogy of his bride to Hal,
as he gave her his arm to her carriage
after her visit.

Ah, Monsieur de Romain,' she said,
with an eloquent look, as she was seated
in her carriage and he lingered at the

door, 'your fortune is made with a petite
feiiinie that is Hke some dream that one
has in church when the choir sings and
the organ plays ! I am an old woman ;
I know it, so I may say what my heart
says. You should no more think of
bonnes fortunes. You possess a diamond.
Look no more upon Palais Royal paste ! '

What do they all mean ? ' Hal asked
himself. He soon found out.

Griselda, at the Duchesse's soiree, was
a fitroie. French tact would not allow
this fact to be obstrusively apparent.
But, while the men, congregating as
they will in Parisian drawing - rooms
in corners, in the withdrawing - room
the bolder in the outskirts of the
principal reception room where the ladies
sit, sometimes demurely, and always
with a certain coquettishness, on the

sofas, divans, arm - chairs   eyed the
fair bride with a certain shyness, and
the few who were Introduced bowed,
made a few complimentary remarks,
and departed quickly  the ladies were
charmed, delighted. At parting, young
girls curtseyed and blushingly held
their foreheads to be kissed, and many
of the married ladles embraced her
or rather kissed her  on both cheeks.

As for the Duchesse, whose sharp
eyes had frequently been fixed on the
'belle dame of Monsieur de Romain,'  
despite her many duties  she conducted
Griselda to her bedchamber, a stately
apartment, which might have been a
modern Imitation of the royal bed-chambers
at Hampton Court  and there
became sweetly maternal in her manner.

Ckmmante enfant! ' she said effusively.

And with so handsome 2. petit niari !
But '  then she laid her exquisitely
gloved hand lightly on Griselda's shoulder
' where is madame votre mhe ? '

Actual tears glistened in her eyes
when she found that the young wife was
motherless. She exacted a promise that
Griselda would come to her often,
very often.

Griselda was pleased to do so. She
instinctively felt that this good old
French lady was  or certainly might
be  a friend in need.

During the month that followed she
was much with the Duchesse. It was
an exciting month. Hal was roused 
perhaps he had never been so roused,
as by the accounts in his Times of the
outbreak in India, the first alarm of
the terrible mutiny.

We are sure to be ordered out,' he
said one afternoon, when the Duchesse
was taking a cup of English tea with
Griselda at the hotel. ' It Is Inevitable.
For my part, I thirst to be at those
black fiends as If I were a blood-hound ! '

Griselda dropped her teaspoon. She
was pale.

Monsieur de Romain,' said the
Duchesse somewhat solemnly, as Hal
escorted her down the wide staircase
shortly after, ' you must pardon me.
I am grandsire ! But, if you say
about these creatures so terribly, these
Indians of your belle Aigleteiie who
like her not  why  your petite dame
ravissante may die ! You may kill not
only this sweet wife, who loves you to
distraction, but  '

She paused, and looked him straight



in the eyes. * Volts coin pre nez?' she
said meaningly.

Merci, madame ;' and Hal stooped
and kissed her hand.

Best bien alors,' said the Duchesse.
And as she drove off, she felt she
had done her duty.

And Hal remained where he was 
bareheaded as he was  dazed, confused,
and, yes  why, he hardly knew 
horrified !

CHAPTER VII.

OST lives seem to begin with
a faint prophecy of their progress
and end. Childhood is
the keynote, telling of the scale which
must follow. Griselda was born in a
barn, in the snow  an exceptional birth.
She was an exceptional child, girl,
woman, who would seem destined to
an exceptional fate.

It was scarcely an ordinary marriage,
this of hers, the simple daughter of a
country parson, with Henry Romayne,
heir to a baronetcy, to wealth, to land.

Her honeymoon was disturbed by a
ghost from her husband's past unscrupulous
life. Then came a sudden
elevation. That three months In Paris,
In the sunshine and gaiety, petted, admired,
almost warmed Into a new outburst
of fresh young life by the sympathy
of the buoyant, butterfly natures
of Hal Romayne's P>ench acquaintances,
was a brief exquisite dream, destined to
end in a gloomy, even terrible awakening.
One day they were about to drive to
the ' Bols.' Hal, In his faultless British
morning-dress  which was the envy of
the Parisian dandies, already in love as
they were with English tailoring  was
strolling carelessly down the grand staircase
to smoke a cigarette before the
carriage came, when a telegram was
handed to him.

He felt a momentary thrill. Although
the news from India was ambiguous
and, to say the least of it, threatening,
he had been reassured by the ease with
which his extension of furlough had been
granted. He did not dream that good
old General Grayburgh, knowing that the
regiment was bound to be ordered out
sooner or later, had made intercession at
head-quarters for him, thinking it * hard
lines' for the handsome young pair to
be separated so soon, so cruelly, but inevitably.
So that his thoughts flew, first, homewards.
His father. Sir Hubert ? Griselda's
father ? His mother ? What was it }

He went into the divine-saloon, which
was a desert of white tables, and opened
the telegram.

As he read, he staggered, paled, and
sank in a chair, stunned.

Recalled  at once  regiment under
sailing-orders for India!

He clenched and crumpled the paper.
Then he groaned. His head fell upon
his breast, his clutch loosened, and the
flimsy messenger of ill-tidings dropped
flutteringly to the floor, where a soft
spring breezelet from the open window
caught and played with It In a sunbeam,
as if In mockery.

Then he started, 

O2C est Monsieur Romayne ? ' Grl-
selma's sweet, girlish voice  that had a
new resonance born of this joyous,
careless life  without !

He heard some one tell her as he
rose stiffly to his feet, ground his teeth,
and, seizing a carafe of water, poured
out a glassful and swallowed it. Then
he faced her, as she gently pushed open

VOL. III. I

the door and stood there half shyly,
waiting for Hal's approval of a pale
green velvet costume which he had
chosen for her.

How divinely fair she looked in her
beautiful dress, the very embodiment
of happy well-being,  with a faint blush
on her exquisite skin, a half-smile on
her lips, as she buttoned her gloves !
She was looking down, so she did not
see her husband's deadly pallor  his
agitation.

Charming  a greater success than I
expected ! ' he said, forcing his voice.
Come  there is the carriage ! '

'You are in a hurry,' said she, laughing.
She felt supremely happy this
golden spring day. ' I haven't half
finished those dreadful buttons. What
is that paper ? ' she added, looking back

as she went out. ' It looks like a banknotes



As far as I know, I am not in the
habit of dropping bank - notes about,'
said Hal, as he put her into the carriage.
' But I'll go and see.'

He went back and secured the telegram.
Chilled, unnerved, he stood uncovered,
tears in his eyes  and prayed
a short swift prayer  that his wife,
his good angel, might be spared.

He well knew how and in what way
she loved him. He could not tell
whether lie had the faintest suspicion
of impending separation, suspense, and
perhaps the agony of loss. And, as
for that warning of his good friend,
the Duchesse dea  , it had seemed to
him, though he had dared to approach
the subject once or twice  as if it would

be unseemly that Griselda should be
awakened from a happy present to a
serious future, however sacred and
beautiful now, by him, at this terrible
crisis, which might end in her early
widowhood.

No ; those tenderest, holiest confidences
between husband and wife must
remain hidden within his heart, while he
must deal the blow, and acquaint Gris-ella
with coming contingencies, as if by
accident. For a mental shock given
carelessly and seemingly without intention,
falls, perhaps, less heavily than
one driven home by force of will.

They drove along the gay boulevards,
the sun brightening the lively scene. It
might have been an Oriental city, so
gorgeous were the crimsons and yellows
and greens of the shop - awnings, so

brilliant the dazzling jewels in the
velvet-lined shop-fronts, and the display
of decorated baskets and ingenious surprise
bonbonnieres in the windows, where
glistening sweets, fragrant chocolate, and
marrons glands tempted the pretty little
walking dolls, the Parisian children.
- The motley pedestrians  first, the men
who thought themselves models of
elegance with their tiny waists and long
twisted moustaches, their glossy boots,
tightly-gloved hands, and accessories of
cane tucked under arm, clear in mouth,
and curly-brimmed hat perched on one
side ; then the decorous ladies, accompanied
by children and bonnes in neat
white caps, carrying market-baskets or
children's playthings ; and the pretty
impertinent grisettes, or the red-faced
outriders in their blouses  most of these

not only glanced at Griselda as she
drove by, but stayed and stared after
her with the appreciative French stare,
a thing of itself quite apart from all
other stares prevalent in all other cities.

Hal saw, and was gratified even in
his new passion of grief  boyish grief.
A glance at Griselda, so placidly sweet
and smiling, and he was perilously near
a convulsive sobbing-fit. He roused his
courage. But speak to her, here, now .'*
It was impossible !

Suddenly he rose, knelt on the opposite
seat, and ordered the coachman
to drive into the country, He wanted
to go to some village  any pretty village
where Madame might see a farm
and wood, if possible  some village
vvhere one might almost forget Paris, if
one could.

The coachman, after some pondering,
decided upon his route, and informed
Hal with a certain gravity that he
would do his best. Then, as Hal resumed
his seat, the man whipped up his horses
and drove on at a rattling pace.

My dear  whatever is he doing ?
Griselda, clutching her husband, looked

alarmed.

Only driving a little faster,' said Hal
reassuringly. But his spirits sank as he
saw Griselda pale, her eyes very blue,
and a scared expression on her delicate
face.

I don't know what can have come
to me,' she said, with a faint blush of
shame, as she caught sight of her husband's
anxious eyes. ' Hal, Paris
seems to have transformed me. All my
old pluck has gone. I used to think

nothing of holding a child when Doctor
Mayne operated ; or to thread the
needles if he had to sew up a cut ; I
never seemed to think anything but
that I was doing a necessary duty 
but now ! Oh, Marshall brought me
the paper  I was in bed  she said
something about some atrocity in India
 oh, Hal, I am not fit to be a
soldier's wife ! I  Can you forgive
me ? I fainted.'

Her words simply roused Hal to desperation.
Now the state of desperation,
which is not despair  not recklessness,
not a negative, foolish kicking against
the pricks  is a sensation greatly underrated.
For in an unreal state of excitement
it is the friend in need  it tides
over bad minutes, it bridges over the
gulf of absolute hopelessness as no

other feeling possible to humanity
could.

The desperate are cold, hard as ice.
They seem callous. They think and
talk as wisely, perhaps more wisely, than
they ever did in their whole lives before.
No one suspects their wretched,
most wretched state.

When Hal heard his wife, in her
utter innocence, wondering at her own
weakness,  he could have groaned aloud.
But desperation helped him to behave
as wisely as any ancient sage.

My darling ! ' he said, turning a
radiant, if slightly haggard, face upon
her, ' I can explain all you feel, as, unselfish
as you are, you would not think
of doing to yourself. You are so bound
to Crowsfoot ! Your whole being resents
your lengthened absence. Well,

we will return at once, before we are
ordered off to India.'

His hands clasped hers. He looked
away at the road into which the
barouche had just turned  a road so
narrow that the ungainly weeds in the
ditch on Hal's side swept the carriage-wheels.
Rising from his stooping position,
he took one of her hands and
patted it to the time of a tune he was
whistling. He did not look at her.

A greyness crept over her beautiful
earnest face, a horror darkened her eyes.
One instant showed her her fate. She
did not see the young spring green of
the hedges and the budding trees  she
saw a sloping country where white fortresses
with many strange-looking domes
towered above the Eastern buildings,
above the tropical foliage that drooped in

the lurid heat under the cloudless
coppery sky. Not only this, she saw
men in Indian uniform struggling in
hand-to-hand fiorht, a few of the British
cavalry dashing hither and thither, sabre-king
right, left, front ; she saw black heads
falling among fountain-spirits of blood.

Then the moment's agony passed, and
with strained aching eyes she saw the
quiet French country again.

I thought that this summons would
come very soon, my dearest,' she said,
clasping her husband's arm. ' And it
has found you ready. Oh, my Hal, how
proud I am to see you so calm ! Why,
I never for one instant imagined you had
been sent for ! '

Half Hal's anguish drifted away before
Griselda's composure, as he listened
to her tender voice.

My brave darling,' he said, turning
towards her with passionate admiration, 
my true wife, how I pity all those
poor fellows out there who are fighting
to rescue a lot of frivolous dolls who are
all very well In times of peace ! Oh,
yes, I know some of the women have
behaved wonderfully ! Still  still  there
is only one Griselda in the world ! '

Perhaps there had never been such
perfect accord, or never would be again
In this world, between those two wedded
lovers, hitherto basking In the sunshine
of life, but now suddenly confronted by
a horrible future  as there was to-day
In that little French village. The people
at the Inn fell In love with the young
English couple, especially after the cocker
talked enthusiastically to the landlord
of his jeitJie capitaine, who, his valet

had said, must go with his brothers-harms
to be cut to pieces by the black
devils that Angleterre had been folle
enough to adopt. Madame  a fat good-natured
mother of the night capped brood
of little children, who were jabbering as
they played with stones in the gutter under
the bar-window  made an excuse to eo
into the parlour where the handsome
young monsieur and madame were resting.
This excuse was to propose they
should dine before returning to Paris.
In reality she had never dreamt that
such ' quality ' would accept her homely
fare.

She was astonished when Griselda
looked pleadingly at Hal, and he consented
in a sort of royal bantering way,
as a king out hunting might accept
some peasant's fare. Then afterwards

she stole out and watched them walking
slowly towards the wood.

It was horrible to think of that jeuiie
homme martinique to be killed  chopped
up, the coc/iei had said. And that
sweet petite dame ! I f perchance 

The good woman danced at the little
night - capped heads bobbing about 
sighed, and shook her head.

And Hal and Griselda wandered into
the young woods, he watching the green
lights play upon her soft green velvet
dress and upon her delicate face, with the
sad lino-elinor gaze of one who takes leave
of some beautiful object he may never see:;
again, while Griselda, with her old frankness,
spoke out freely, and tried to coax
Hal to discuss the situation. She coukl
not quite understand his taciturnity
wonder, fcr in speaking of the

journey out, and the perils of the Indian
campaign, she plainly showed that she
intended to be at his side even unto
death.

And he  he dared not take her.

Yet there was still the remote chance
that the brood old  Hal thought of her
now as meddlesome  duchesse might have
surmised wrongly. While his own observation
told him she had not,  he clung
to the forlorn hope that even with her
large experience she had for once made
an error of judgment,  as the drowning
clutch at the straws.

'Hal,' said Griselda at last, 'my love,
I think you joyous temperaments get
dreadful reactions. You are as " down" asa
man can be. Now I, so dull, so quiet
not only feel entirely hopeful, but'  here
she paused, and, raising her eyes to the

sky, her face had a glorified expression
' I feel that although we may have
cruel trials, all will be well at last. Something
tells me so. I seem to hear a voice
that says, "Peace! All is mine." '

Her strong faith influenced Hal. He castoff
his forebodings, and was happy with
the provisional happiness of one who enjoys
a short respite before the inevitable fight.

They wandered about, hand in hand ;
and, to Griselda's delight, they found
some field-flowers, and also a clearing,
with the felled trunks lying here and
there, not so unlike the memorable clearing
at Goarshausen where she and Hal
were lovers for the first time. This led
to talk of those days which to both
seemed ages back in the long past.
Charming talk  those confessions of how
Griselda thought and dreamt of and

longed for Hal, almost without knowing
it ; of how Hal was a very demon with
one idea  Griselda.

You have had such a power over me,
my love, that I believe, if I had to kill
our worst foe over there, and just as I
was about to strike he shouted " Griselda,"
my arm would fall to my side and he
would be spared

Griselda sighed. To her all killing was
murder ; and It would be long before she
could think of her husband as a slayer of
his kind without a shudder.

They had their simple dinner at the
auberge. Then they drove back to Paris,
clinging to each other like children, and,
like children, dreaming so lite of the
coming hideous episodes in their joint
lives that, when they slept, they smiled
unconsciously In their happy dreams.

VOL. III. , K

While Hal and Griselda were wandering
in the woods around Paris, the news
that Captain Romayne  for Hal had his
promotion  was ordered to India with
his regiment, had arrived at Feathers
Court. It seemed such a glorious day,
as if no pain, trouble, or dread could
triumph where nature was rejoicing in
her yearly revelation. The sun shone
on the great stone mansion in the park.
Birds sang loudly in the shrubberies,
heavy white blossoms were struggling
into full bloom on the chestnuts, and a
warm spring wind played with the nodding
tulips in the Italian gardens, and
carried the heavy perfume of hyacinths
into the great drawing-room, where the
long windows were opened to admit the
scented air.

Without, all so fresh, so joyous ; within,

a scene of excited lamentation. Lady
Romayne had resolutely thrust from her
mind all doubts or fears as to Hal's being
sent to India. She had chosen to be an
optimist in regard to the Mutiny. If any
dared to suggest that the evil was deep
rooted, had grown silently but steadily till
it was as a mortal cancer, its branches
reaching from end to end of England's
great dependency, she smiled disdainfully.
Therefore, when terrible accounts of new
uprisings, fresh rebellions of native regiments,
and outrages too atrocious to relate
arrived day after day  her false hopes
fled, and she sank into a nervous, unhinged
state of miserable foreboding.

Then came the deadly blow. Her
adored Hal was summoned. At first she
was as a mad woman, rushing from room
to room, tearing her hair, screaming.

Lydia had to pacify Sir Hubert, who,
in his helpless paralytic state, only half
understood what was going on. Mabel
sent off to Crowsfoot for Doctor Mayne
and Mr Blackett.

John Blackett was deeply impressed
by the news of Hal's summons to the seat
of war. A thoughtful man, he foresaw
greater evils to come before peace could
be restored, a peace bought by the
sacrifice of many promising and noble
lives, by the wreck of many English
homes.

Don't be so lugubrious, man ! ' said
the little Doctor, as he drove his old
friend, the parson, to the Court. ' That
young fellow's pull through safe enough,
and out there he will learn a lesson or
two that'll be a shower bath to any Don
Juan nonsense that may be left m him.

Besides, absence from Griselda will teach
him the value of his jewel.'

But, Griselda ? ' said the Vicar doubtful.
' Do you think for one instant she
will not insist upon sharing his danger ?'

 Blackett ! ' burst out the Doctor. ' Oh,
these philosophers, these extraordinary
thinkers ! Shadow of Swift, all honour
to you for your satire of the Papuans !
Griselda to accompany her husband !
Well, I suppose there is some commonsense
left about somewhere, though this
mismanagement in India wouldn't lead
one to think so.'

The Doctor felt enraged almost for a few
moments after Mr Blackett had spoken,
wondering whether he could have heard
aright. ' Women going out with their
husbands to meet those infuriated hordes,
indeed,' he thought.

'\ tell you what, Blackett he said, kindly
but decidedly, after they had driven into
the park, ' I am a neutral. Nor has
much learnlnor made me mad. If Gris-ella
dreams of going with Hal, I will use
heaven and earth to prevent it, that's all.'

John Blackett was in a meek humour, and

allowed Doctor Mayne to mildly bully him.

 It was well that he was meek, and that

the Doctor effervesced somewhat before

spending a day at Feather's Court. For

if ever two men were harried and worried,

it was they. Not till within an hour of

the expected arrival of Hal and Griselda

did Lady Romayne make any attempt at

self-command, and the house seemed all in

confusion  servants going aimlessly here

and there, the maids collecting in corners

to gossip, and apparently no rooms being

prepared for Mr and Mrs Romayne.

The Doctor came into the great hall
about seven o'clock with an air of relief.
At least, the day was over. John Blackett
was leaning against the hall door, looking
through a side-window. Mabel, in a
white gown, and Lydia, wearing a pretty
dinner-dress, stood silently by.

It is near the time,' said Lydia
mournfully.

Then where is your mother ? ' asked
the Doctor imperiously.

Lydia said she could not possibly
come down, of course. She would see
Hal alone first.

Will she .' ' asked Doctor Mayne,
going off upstairs, agile as a youth.

Doctor Mayne is very impetuous
to-day,' said Lydia dismally. Both girls
stared, when, a few minutes afterwards,
their mother came down the broad staircase,

leaning on his arm. The Doctor
had been impetuous to some purpose.

There Is the carriage,' said Doctor
Mayne. ' Come, come, let us try and
receive the bride and bridegroom as if
we were glad to see them.'

Men-servants drew back the solid
oaken doors. The brougham drove upto
the foot of the wide steps. Its lamps
yellow against the fading crimson of the
sky. Then a lithe active figure sprang
out, waved his hand, helped a lady to
alight, and both came buoyantly up to
the entrance.

The lamplight gleamed upon the two
bright glowing faces. There was an air
of delighted triumph about Hal, as he
lifted Griselda's veil and said, 

Don't kiss her all at once ; ' and no
one, glancing at the young wife, would

have believed that a tinge of sadness
could be veiled by that sweet joyousness
of manner as Griselda embraced
her father, Lady Romaine, and her
sisters-in-law, \vith almost equal ardour.

Mother, I hope dinner is ready ; weare
ferociously hungry  we die of hunger,
as the French say,' said Hal, throwing
aside his travelling-cloak. ' Make haste,
darling ; never mind dressing,' he called
after Griselda, who was going up-stairs
arm in arm with Mabel.

The two had brought an atmosphere
of vivid happy life into lugubrious
Feather's Court. John Blackett smiled,
Doctor Mayne was cheerily sarcastic,
and Lady Romayne felt slightly ashamed
of her undignified abandonment to a
possible grief.

Dinner passed off pleasantly. Hal

was gay, Griselda smiled. * I had no
idea she was so beautiful,' whispered
Mabel to Doctor Mayne.

Nor I, until to-day,' he answered,
in a significant tone. He had not lived
a life of perpetual observation and deduction
therefrom for nothing ; and he
saw that this young couple were meeting
their fate as simply and cheerfully
as all people should  ' only they don't,
or won't,' he added to himself.

Next morning came Important letters,
followed by a special messenger, Hal
was closeted for some time with him
in the library, while Lady Romayne
wandered from the drawing-room to her
boudoir, unable to keep still under this
ordeal to her impatient nature. Lydia
and Mabel went to Griselda's sitting-room,
which commanded a fine view of

the park and the hie hills beyond.
They had heard from their maid that
Marshall, Mrs Romayne's maid, was almost
as much at her wit's end about
starting for India without 'a proper outfit,
which couldn't  do what you mj'ght
be got, all in a hurry  at least for a
lady like Mrs. Romayne,' as about starting
for India at all.

The sisters found Griselda sittings ia
an easy-chair in a delicate grey ,
busy with some lacework.

She looked up with a grave smile as
they entered.

'Why,' Mabel burst out, 'we expected
to find you and Marshall up to
your ears in confections, and here you
are, doing lacework as if you were to
be a fixture, instead of going thousands
and thousands of miles away ! '

Lydia admired the work. Griselda was
transferring some old Brussels sprigs
that had belonged to her mother.

But these honos veils are not worn
now,' Lydia added, half inquiringly, with
a keen glance at her sister-in-law. An
idea had struck her, for quiet Lydia
could observe when she chose. ' I think
I understand the situation,' she thought,
just as Mabel said, 

Whatever are you to do about an
outfit, Griselda ? Of course you have
lots of pretty things. But you don't want
them  you will want woollens, and silk
underlings, and solar topers, whatever
those may be, and white umbrellas  '

We could see to those being sent after
you, dear,' said Lydia. ' Shall we goto
London for you to-day and get enough
things for your journey ? '

Griselda laid aside her work, and,
putting her slender hands on Lydia's
shoulders, looked up into her eyes with
a look which Lydia  who had a heart
beating with a touch of Romayne passion
beneath her quiet exterior  never
forgot. There was a depth of anguish,
appealing love, and desperate patience
she had seen but once before  in the
eyes of a pet spaniel who was struggling
in the agonies of death.

At that moment the door opened, and
Hal came in, pale, agitated. He did
not look at his wife ; but, after a few
commonplaces, he sent his sisters away.

I will come to mother presently,' he
said, as he opened the door for them ;
and they went out, scared and subdued.

He locked and bolted the door, went
to Griselda, and, kneeling down beside

her, encircled her with his arms, his
face hidden upon her shoulder. His
teeth chattered, his whole body trembled
convulsively.

My own,' he said, ' I feel as if I
were dying.'

Griselda soothed and comforted him.
She eave him a cordial that the kind
old duchess had given her at parting,
as a precious secret restorative which
would reanimate when all others failed.
Then she drew a low tabouret to his
side, and said, 

Do not worry about me, darling ! I
know  I guess  you leave to-day. But
I am prepared for it ! Before we left
Paris, I knew that I must not go with
you.'

He started, flushed, then drew her
sweet, blushing face to him and kissed

her. while a passionate prayer went up
from his soul to Heaven that his wild
youth might be forgiven for the sake
of wife  and child.

That night he went, calmly and bravely.
Griselda's hopes had been a consolation
to Lady Romayne, and Mr Blackett
blamed himself for not feeling so sorry
as he ought when Hal drove off in the
brougham, waving his adieux, till the
clump of trees hid the carriage from view.

She will be quite as well without
him,' he thought, as he supported
Griselda to her room, followed by Lady
Romayne, who was struggling for composure.
' There, I believe, he will distinguish
himself and forget his foppishness.
Here he would have sickened of
sweet indolence, and might have fallen
back into his old ways.'

Poor father, with his rdchattffd of
worldly wisdom, with his human arguments,
his human short-sightedness !

For a time all went well at Feather's
Court. Griselda was cheerful. Lady
Romayne was as fussy and devoted to
her Hal's young wife as she had been
to her Hal himself.

I am leading such a white-satin life,'
Griselda told her father one day, when
she was accompanying him through the
shrubberies, ' that I shall be fit for
nothing by-and-by. As for my patience,
that you used to say was my only good
point  don't shake your head, father,
you know you did  there seems nothing
to try it. It will wither and disappear
from actual disuse.'

Wait  wait, my dearest child,' said

the Vicar. He knew how cautiously all
the Indian news was investigated before
Griselda was allowed to see the newspapers,
how many white lies which he
would have scorned to tell were placidly
coined by Lady Romayne in her daughter-in-law's
behalf. Griselda had had but
one letter from Hal, a few lines written
hurriedly on the voyage when they
signalled a vessel homeward bound, 

Darling Wife  Dear Mother,  A
chance to send a line by passing ship.
All well, and as jolly as sand-boys.
Concerts, plays  there are some sharp
fellows in our ranks, I can tell you I
We have had some pretty hot weather ;
but our medico says I stand it splendidly,
and am in glorious trim for wholesale
execution of those 'brigands," as

VOL. III. L

the Parisians call them. Oh, my Gris-ella,

how are you ? Keep happy, for

my sake. And, mother, 1 feel doubly

about you and father  and all  since

well, let Griselda finish the sentence !

Fancy, when I come back to you, covered

with glory, viimis a leg, perhaps, or

with an empty sleeve  but what matters

that ? Colonel, or nothing !  that's mv

war-cry.' (Here came a word black

with ink-erasure). ' Excuse that blotted

word. It was " deuce," I think. The

gong sounded for letters to be handed

in. Ail revoir  au revoir, my own v.'ife

and all dear ones, Hal.'

After this brisk, boyish scribble, ' so
like Hal,' as his woman-kind said, with
Wistful fondness, came blank, unbroken
silence. News had come of the mutiny

at Lucknow, of the recapture of Allahabad.
Horrible, sickening accounts of
the massacres and mutilations of English
mothers, wives, sisters, daughters, had
fired the anger of every British man.
Civilians longed to join their military
brethren in exterminating the human
wild beasts who used their gift of
reason to invent devilries beyond and
above even the hell-torments imagined
by the painter Fra angelico. England's
blood was white-hot in her veins, as
perhaps it had never been,  and, by
God's help,  will never be again.

Then came the awful tale of Cawnpore,
read throughout the land with
pale horror, told with bated breath.
England, that memorable day, seemed
crushed, as if ready to sink into a
merciful sea which would drown her woes.

Lady Romayne read, aghast. But a
sudden spirit seemed to animate her.
Her boy  well, he was doubtless in
danger, and evidently cut off by the
enemy from communication with home.
But in this crisis she must sink ordinary
individual feelings, except her duty ta
her beloved son in protecting his wife
she must be an Englishwoman, calm
and strong in the honourable anger
which sins not.

It was well that she was nerved fora
moral battle, for a few minutes after
her maid came to say, as she handed
her a twisted note, 

The Doctor and Mr Blackett, my
lady, in Sir Hubert's office; they came
quite quiet-like through the stable-yard.'

How those common words brought
death to her forlorn hope, stabbed her

heart! She seemed to feel her life
stop, halt.

She staggered. Her maid, alarmed,
got her some sal-volatile. She drank
it. Then she went quickly down the
back-stair, and into the office Sir Hubert
used before he had his paralytic
stroke.

John Blackett and Doctor Mayne stood
near the window.

I have not read your letter, gentlemen,'
she said, almost defiantly, ' because
I know  my son is dead ! '

She had spoken more than she really
believed, in a sort of delirious agony.
What was this ? Both men were silent
Mr Blackett's head hung upon his
breast  Doctor Mayne took a step
forward.

Too late ! With a smothered cry, the

unhappy mother threw up her arms,
then fell backwards on the polished
flooring, as one dead  by Heaven's
mercy, rejoining her best-beloved child,
her lost Hal.

Doctor MAYNE and Mr

Blackett assisted Lady Romayne
to poor Sir Hubert's
great arm-chair, where he used to sit so
often building castles in the air of a great
future for his eldest born. How little
had he dreamt that one day, so soon,
his bereaved wife would lie there, insensible
with grief at the news that
brave, handsome Hal was dead, killed,
perhaps massacred, in India !

Lady Romayne's maid had followed her
mistress, and fetched restoratives so quietly,

that the household little thought what
news the old postman had brought in the
Feather's Court post-bag.

The unhappy mother's first cry was 
How  oh, when  was it?' Doctor
Mayne looked at Mr Blackett.

We have the news direct from General
Grayburgh,' the Vicar said, taking her
trembling hand kindly between his ; ' the
General wrote under cover to me. Mayne,
the letters, please.'

Doctor Mayne produced one of those
mysterious leathern instrument-cases which
his young patients held in such awe, and
handed Lady Romayne a letter.

She shrunk back, crying, ' No  no  
I can't see ; read it.' She could not face
the awful news ; she covered her face
with her hands.

John Blackett read, in a faltering voice,

which sounded tragical in the dead silence,
as the doctor and the maid stood by as
mourners stand by a grave : 

India, July  ///, '57.
My dear, good Lady Romayne,  Be
Worthy of that fine fellow, your son Hal,
who has yielded his life for his country
as a soldier should. I am writing to the
mother of a hero, so I need not mince
matters. Captain Romayne, after being
slightly wounded in a skirmish, volunteered
to go to the relief of Colonel S  ,
who was to have arrived here ten days
since, and about whom we had grave
misgivings. After a few days, a scout
arrived with the terrible intelligence that
Colonel S  had been beaten back into
a native fortress, and that the reinforcement
sent to his aid had been cut to
pieces by the rebels. The scout had

seen the remains of Captain Romaynes
company, and they arrived here yesterday
with full accounts of the catastrophe.
They were surprised in camp,
at night, and overpowered. The account
of the massacre is one on the long list
which daily increases, and almost each
hour princes news to add to it. I will
write again, and on our return, which can
scarcely be yet a while, I hope to find
that the Almighty has mercifully consoled
the good mother and the dear young
widow of one of the most daring and
brave young officers England has ever
lost.  I am, yours most faithfully,

Thomas Grayburgh
(General in Command, etc.)

Pes.  I have your son's watch and
chain, also a ring recognised as his, found

upon a Sepoy shot later on by our returning

men.

That letter had been written by the
good old General with a full heart. It
was read and heard in Sir Hubert's
little study at Feather's Court with a
grief too deep for tears.

All but one word was listened to by
Lady Romayne with a sort of incredulous
stupor ; and at that word ' widow,' she
started ; the truth came home to her.

As John Blackett read the General's
message, the afterthought of poor Hal's
watch and ring, she burst into passionate
sobs.

Poor soul ! Let her cry,' said Doctor
Mayne, almost desperately. Then going
away to the window, he gazed out into the
gardens, brilliant in the steady August

sunshine, and, while he unconsciously
rattled the money in his pockets  a trick
of his when he felt beaten by the skeleton
Death  he thought back upon many bad
half-hours, among them that Christmas Eve
when Griselda was born in the snow, and
that cruel summer night when Hal was
supposed killed in the railway accident.

But this beats all ! ' he thought. ' Here
Blackett and I have barely begun the
wretched business. There's Griselda to
be told ; then we know pretty well what
will follow that  '

Here he turned, arrested by the word
 Griselda.'

Lady Romayne, with a vague feeling
she must not be unworthy of her brave,
dead son, had controlled her sobs, and,
rising with Mr Blackett's support, said
brokenly, but eloquently, 

Griselda  our  Griselda.'

Doctor Mayne, re-animated by this attempt
at self-control, came briskly forward.

John Blackett proposed to break the
news to his child himself.

No, no, that will never do,' said the
Doctor, who fully appreciated Blackett,
but thought him deficient In tact. ' Remember
that Griselda Is my patient, and,
that we have such an ugly business before
us  dangerous, too  that we want
all our wits together to soften the shock.'

Then he proposed that Marshall, Grls-
ella's maid, should go to awaken her as
usual, and that, when she had breakfasted
and dressed. Doctor Mayne should fetch
her, ostensibly for a consultation as to
whether Mr Blackett, or Blunt, or someone,
should go out to Hal, who was dangerously
wounded.

John Blackett's face fell.

I hate lies,' he said ; * better the blow
better anything, than a lie ! ' He might
well feel thus  he, whose life had been
shrouded, banned, by the suppression of
truth !

She will guess it,' said Doctor Maine
bluntly  'that's one comfort.' Doctor-like,
his principal interest lay with his
patient, who was, as it were, to undergo
torture while his fingers pressed her pulse.
Now I'll go off and find the maid 
what's her name ?  Marshall, and coach
her up.'

Going into the servants' quarters, the
gentle clatter of breakfast preparation,
the sound of cheerful voices and laughter,
the Dutch picture, framed by the open
kitchen door, of glowing fire and bright
ranges of red copper and white tin, also

the savoury odours of peppery dishes,
dominated by coffee,  struck him as incongruous.


'Life and death elbow each other with
a vengeance on this incomprehensible
little globe,' he thought, as he paced the
stone passage, waiting for Marshall.

Marshall, a neat girl, with shining dark
hair, came out of the still-room with Mrs
Romayne's breakfast-tray'.

Go and put that down, there's a good
girl, and come here,' said Doctor Mayne.

Time pressed and would not admit of
ceremony.

Marshall did as she was told, and returned.


 There is bad news from India,' said
the Doctor, in an undertone: 'and your
mistress's life depends upon your discretion,
mv discretion  in fact, an incautious

word or look from anyone may spot!
everything.'

Marshall paled, but looked steadily at
Doctor Mayne.

I suppose the Captain is wounded
sir.'

Worse than that  the very worst ! '

Captain Romayne is not dead, sir ?
if you mean that,' said the girl calmly.
At least I cannot believe it, and I know
that Mrs Romayne will not.'

The Doctor stared. Was the girl
daft? He hastened to tell her the bad
news in detail. But she shook her
head.

I will tell you why I can't think
but that there is some mistake, sir,' she
went on. 'It is because Mrs Romayne
is so set upon it that, whatever may
happen to the Captain, he will get over

it. She has read all the most horrible
things, and she has told me of them.
But she always said at the end, with a
smile, " Ought I not to be thankful,
Marshall, that Captain Romayne will be
spared to me?" It used to make me
feel uncanny-like at first. But now
I've come to believe in it, just as
Mrs Romayne does herself.'

It was on the Doctor's lips to say,
You and Mrs Romayne are a couple
of idiots.' However he repressed the
speech, and lectured Marshall as to her
conduct. She said, ' You may depend
on me, sir,' and went upstairs with
her tray, as composedly as if nothing
had happened.

Curious,' thought the Doctor, looking
after her, and stroking his chin,  ' very
curious ! ' Then he went off to find

VOL. III. M

'the girls,' who ought to be told, or
rather prepared for their brother's loss
wondering, as he went, at the mysteries
of people's influence over one
another. ' The maternity influences Gris-ella,
and Griselda influences that girl,'
he told himself. Still, he had an uncomfortable
sensation of unreality. ' After
all, what if there were a possibility of
Hal's'

No, no! It would not do to start
forlorn hopes. As soon as he had told
the girls who seemed too crushed and
stunned to be either help or hindrance 
he went to Griselda's room and knocked.

She was orivintr some orders to Marshall,
but turned a pale grave face towards
the Doctor.

She suspects ! ' he thought. ' She
must know that the mail is in.'

She held out her hand silently. ' Good-morning,
Doctor,' she said. ' Who  who
is the patient ?'

He reddened under her scrutinising
gaze. Somehow, he felt as if in the
presence of a superior power that had
rebuked him for daring to take matters
into his own hands.

Lady Romayne is not very well this
morning. She has sent me to ask you
to come to see her in the drawing-room.'
The Doctor spoke kindly, but
not with his usual confidence.

In one moment.'

Griselda went into the adjoining room.
It was Kal's , dressing-room. After his
departure, she had locked it, and kept
the key in her pocket. The room was
as he had left it, the coat he had last
worn thrown aside, papers strewing the

floor, a hat lying where it had fallen,
trifles he had not taken standing about
on the chest of drawers and mantelpiece,
some cigar-ash in a tray on his writing-table,
torn letters in the waste - paper
basket, a glove, and a light bedroom
chair fallen aside where he had last
taken her in his arms for that passionate
parting embrace.

This room was her chapel, where she
prayed  had prayed with such prayers
that Heaven seemed to open and cast
down a pitiful * Yea ' upon her soul
before it fell in prostrate agonising craving
that all  all  might be taken from her,
except  except her  Hal's life.

As she stood there now, she pressed
her temples tightly with her fingers.
There is bad news,' she slowly thought 
bad news ; they  think  he  is  dead ! '

Then a sudden horror of the possibility
overwhelmed her, and her soul
seemed to leap up, imploring, begging
a sign from the Almighty Power.

One instant of agony  then it was
as if a flood of joy was let loose, and
as if everything  the very atoms in the
air, the inanimate objects around, the
living Nature without, basking in the
sun, joined in one great 'No!'

The effect was overpowering. She
almost believed that the shout must
have burst upon all ears like a thunderclap.


Thank God ! ' was her fervent prayer.
In danger  in many dangers he maybe,
but not  not dead!'

Doctor Mayne, waiting with impatient
eyes fixed upon the clock, saw her
coming quietly out, with a happy sunshiny

smile playing about her lips, 
and mentally groaned.

She does not suspect,' he thought
in dismay, as he followed her downstairs.
' What's to be done now ?
Another scene  two of them this time.
That unfortunate boy was always upsetting
everything when he was alive,
and it doesn't seem to be much better
now it's all over with him.'

He closed the drawing-room door after
they had entered, almost in despair,
thinking with professional feeling that
this sort of thing must kill somebody ;
and he had hoped to save all parties
concerned at Feather's Court.

And Griselda ? The instant she saw
her father standing gloomily on the
hearth-rug near to Lady Romayne, who
was pale, and who crouched upon,

rather than sat on, a couch near, her
head averted  she knew what had happened.


She went quickly to Lady Romayne,
knelt by her, took her hand, and affectionately
kissing it said, 

Mother, darling, the mail is a bad one,
I fear.'

Lady Romayne convulsively clasped
the young widow's hands, and choked.
She felt bursting, her lips trembled, her
face twitched.

Father, I must know all about it,
please,' said Griselda firmly, putting her
arm protecting round her Hal's mother,
and looking  almost sternly at John
Blackett with her clear candid eyes. ' I
know you meant it kindly ; but, if any
newspapers or letters came likely to
shock mother, I was the proper person

to have been told first, that I might
prepare her.'

Doctor Mayne scratched his head, incapable
of thought. John Blackett stared
first at his daughter, puzzled, bewildered,
then at Doctor Mayne, whose eyes looked
dull as with an opiate,  then at Lady
Romayne.

Tell her,' said she brokenly. * Oh,
my poor darling ! '

 We have had our bad news direct
from General Grayburgh,' said her father
firmly.

The letter, please, ' was Griselda's
reply, stretching out one hand.

Oh, no, no, ' sobbed Lady Romayne,
clasping Griselda closer.

Griselda half-smiled, whispered some
tender endearing words, and repeated her
demand.

Her father glanced at Doctor Mayne.

You must use your own judgment
said the Httle Doctor, walking away.

John Blackett handed General Gray-burgh's
letter to his child. Still kneeling,
still embracing Lady Romayne, she read
it  twice  thrice.

'Is this all?' she asked. 'This poor,
good, old man has lied  unconsciously 
but this news of his is a lie.'

My child  think  there is more, perhaps
 do not have false hopes,' began
John Blackett.

'Hush, hush!' said Doctor Mayne,
briskly returning, having consulted with
himself, and decided that this strange attitude
of Griselda's was the work of
Nature, who works miracles to protect
the young, and must be helped rather
than discouraged. * Mrs Romayne is

quite right. After all, what are the
proofs ? '

Lady Romayne shuddered.

There are none,' said Griselda, ' And,,
even if there were, I should not believe
Hal dead. He may be ill, suffering, in
danger  but not dead. That letter is a
message to me  I am to go to him.'

John Blackett gazed miserably at his
daughter. Had the idea of her husband's
death disorganised her brain ?

Humour her  it is the best things
to do, ' whispered Doctor Mayne. He
thought this mood was a prelude to
sudden illness.

But Griselda maintained her position
defended her opinion, not only that day,
but the days that followed. And while
Feather's Court was silent as a tomb, and
tears were shed openly and in secret

while mourning was talked of, and the
next occurrence expected was the arrival
of a milliner to superintend the horrors
of crape and the rest of the panoply of
woe, Griselda and her maid were busy
packing to start for India.

When it was discovered that Mrs Romayne
had taken berths in the next P.
& O. steamer for herself and her faithful
Marshall, there was a battle of words at
Feather's Court.

It was suddenly discovered that, in
point of fact, no one could actually prevent
Griselda from executing her wild
notion.

< She was legally a free agent, at liberty
to go or to stay when and how she chose.

Legally, but not morally,' said John
Blackett tenderly, but firmly, to his
daughter, who was to him a sudden problem

he could not solve. He talked,
argued, warned  all went for nothing.

Lady Romayne feared she was mad.

*What to do I don't know,' she said,
distractedly. ' No one seems to do anything,
and, if we do not keep her by force,
she will carry out her suicidal mania, for
that's what it is.'

Hal was dead  yet they knew no date,
they could not openly assert his death asa
certainty, and the official reports merely
mentioned him as killed in a sortie.

I'll tell you what to do,' Doctor Mayne
said, on the eve of Griselda's wild journey.
' Humour her. Take her yourself,
Blackett. This is merely a flash in the
pan. If I am not greatly mistaken, she will
not be well enough to start. If she starts,
she will either be ill on board, or you will
have to go on shore and remain there at

Gib or Valetta. We must prepare for
the worst, but hope for the best. She is
her mother's daughter with a vengeance !
Only her mother dared the snow to help
a fellow-creature, and she is going literally
through the fire, to what ? To a dead
husband ! '

As it seemed impossible to bring Gris-ella
to reason, John Blackett designed to
escort his daughter and her maid himself.

It was a sultry, rainy day as the three
left Feather's Court. Lady Romayne was
prostrate with nervous weakness in her
darkened room. The girls seemed scared.
The household generally was wrapped in
gloom, from Sir Hubert, who was more
fretful than usual, down to the dogs, who
lay in corners with limp tails, only noticing
the preparations for the departure by lazily
opening their dulled eyes as the servants

went to and fro. When Griselda kissed
her sisters-in-law and hurried to the carriage,
one old hound rose, stretched himself,
yawned, and, coming to the door,
sniffed, and with one half-disdainful look
after the carriage, retired to his mat.
There was an atmosphere of unbelief in
anything but the dullest misery, that
Griselda had keenly felt those days of
preparation  and, looking back at Feather's
Court, as they drove through the great
park gates, she clasped her hands, and
said, with a new passion unlike her old
self,

sat last at last thank God! The
moments have seemed days  it seems
countless ages since that morning when
you all began to persist that he was dead ! '

Her father sighed. Marshall, who was
a little excited, starting to ' rush into the

massacre, ' as the butler, who hoped
eventually to marry her, had termed it,
looked eloquently at her mistress. John
Blackett glanced out at the dull rainy
landscape, and sighed.

But the strong faith, hope, love, that
burned as a fierce fire in Griselda's soul, influenced
John Blackett in spite of himself.

Once fairly started on her quest, Gris-ella
was active, hopeful, even cheerful.
She showed no trace of fatigue during
the harassing day in London, followed by
the railway journey. Once on board, she
retired to her cabin and slept like an
infant. Her father grew anxious as day
followed day, as they touched at landing-stages
and steamed away again, and the
chances of the stoppage of Griselda's
pilgrimage grew less and less. Both she
and her maid seemed impervious to

changes of climate, to storms, raging seas,
parching heat, scorching sun.

It is just as if they had charmed Hves/
the Vicar thought, as he paced the deck
at night, taking his first long gaze at the
much-vaunted and disappointing constellation,
the Southern Cross. Then he meditated
on the strangeness of the fact, that
sometimes the weakest creatures brave
dangers to which the strongest succumb.
He felt uneasy now about himself. The
ship's surgeon had shaken his head when
he detailed his unpleasant symptoms to
him. The journey which had barely tired
Griselda and her maid had seriously
affected him. His temperature was high,
his pulse raced, he could neither eat nor
sleep. At Bombay he was stricken with
fever, and Griselda had to leave him
there with an English clergyman, an old

college-friend, and to pursue her journey
alone.

It was a cruel journey. But the small
band of native servants engaged for herby
her father's friends were faithful
through all dangers, except one.

The dangers were many. The mutiny
was now so firmly established, and so
cleverly hidden by Indian subtlety, that
proffers of help had to be discarded
throughout, lest the seeming courtesy
should veil the deadliest enmity. They
travelled mostly by night, Griselda In
one litter, or palanquin, her maid in another.
By day they rested In the shade,
or in a dak-bungalow, a small house for
travellers, where they may break their
journey for a while. They suffered from
heat, although the cool season was just
beginning. They met with dust-storms

VOL. III. N

storms that rage with fury, bending
and breaking trees, rooting up the great-leased
plants and carrying them miles, while
the darkness rivals that of the blackest
night. They ran the gauntlet of burning
visages, of bands of infuriated Sepoy,
armed with weapons that were red with
British blood. One servant was bitten
by a poisonous snake, and was left dying
at the hut of a friendly native. But until
a certain night in the jungle, when the
worst danger occurred, the servants were
staunch and brave in the cause of the
gentle 'mem-sahib,' whose wonderful journeying,
in her state, inspired them with
a superstitious reverence.

This night all seemed ofoino- on as usual;
Griselda, hushed by a peculiar chant of
the men who carried her litter, was dreamily
gazing at the beautiful scene she was

travelling through ; at the torchlight flickering
upon the rugged stems of the giant
palms, and the graceful festoons of flowering
creepers flung gracefully from tree to
tree ; was dreamily inhaling the warm
aromatic perfume of the moist, soft earth,
when her couch was suddenly let down
she heard wild yells, then found herself
in the dark, alone  but not for more thana
minute. She heard crashing and
crunching in the jungle, then some heavy
weight seemed swung over the thin roof
of the litter, and, with a roar which was
loud as thunder close overhead, a gigantic
tiger flunof himself across into the thick
vegetation, and disappeared.

For a moment she felt stunned. Then
she saw bobbing lights, and the terrified
servants flocked back, salaaming and chattering
excuses. They professed that they

knew the man-eater would fear the
mem-sahib, but would kill them. Thus
they saved themselves by leaving her
to conquer him by her divine power.

After this, what next ? ' wondered
Griselda. She was soon to know.

The very morning after, they came
upon the brow of a hill ; and, with a full
heart, but without fear or evil anticipation,
she saw her destination  a fortress,
a white Oriental pile, pure white in the
early morning air. A long low wall
above the shining river was surmounted
by battlements and projecting bastions.
Above, the red wall of the fort was
crowned with lofty towers and with pavilions
of white marble, the cupolas of
which seemed of burnished gold. la
this dream of a building, this sudden
embodiment of reminiscences of arabian

tales, Griselda was to learn her
fate.

Staunchly she bore up during the tedious
progress to General Grayburgh's
quarters. Her little band passed the
outer walls, the many courtyards and
groups of buildings which made the fortress
almost a city in itself, and passed
a great but gloomy palace of dark redstone,
into a square surrounded by turreted
pavilions of marble, the columns
and walls inlaid with precious stones.

Here the procession halted at a doorway
in a marble screen. Griselda's bearer
or chief servant of a superior caste 
was just assisting her to alight, when a
young officer in a shabby uniform, with
his arm in a sling, came out, and stood
still, staring at her in stupefied astonishment.


Griselda at once recognised the original
of a photograph in one of her husband's
albums. This worn, tattered-looking being
was a brother officer of Hal's.

I am Mrs Romayne,' she said hurriedly.
' Pray let me see General Gray-burgh
at once.'

Oh,' said the young man, in an indescribable
tone of mingled wonder, sympathy,
horror, and perplexity. He had
snatched off his cap with his left hand,
and stood nervously twitching the fringe
of his puggaree.

The General ' ' he repeated stupidly,
Of course ; I beg your pardon. I will
see.'

He returned into the cool, dark stone
chamber Griselda saw beyond the doorway.
She stepped to the door, and wondered,
with a dazed feeling, how she was

here. Was it all a dream ? It seemed
but yesterday she was in Feather's Court,
standing in Hal's dressing-room, importuning
Heaven for a sign that her darling
lived. And now she was standing where
he had stood, breathing the hot air he
had breathed, gazing on a strange Eastern
scene familiar to his eyes.

Footsteps, and the lieutenant came
along a passage.

If you will be so good as to come this
way, the General will see you,' he said.
He looked solemn, the tone of his
voice sounded ominous to the faithful
wife.

Still she followed him bravely along a
narrow passage barely lighted by oblong
holes in the thick walls, and stepped
beyond a curtain he lifted respectfully,
standing aside. She found herself in a

darkened chamber, with stone walls, Inlaid
flooring, and a high vaulted roof. At a
rough office table sat General Grayburgh,
leaning his head on his hand.

He came silently towards her, and led
her to a seat. He was frightfully changed.
Thin, haggard, with great bloodshot eyes,
that were like those of a starved, hunted
animal.

Poor, poor child ! ' he stammered, taking
one of her hands in both his trembling
ones. ' And you have come all
this way  '

To find my husband. I cannot but
believe that he is still alive,' said Griselda
boldly, her superhuman courage and
strength reasserting itself. ' Tell me  he
is not dead ! '

Then '  the General looked at her
with a stare that had a ferocity of grief

in Its wildness. It seemed to Griselda as
if he hardly knew her  as if his senses
left him then and there.

He staggered back, almost fell on the'
rough chair, and hiding his face, he
sobbed  hard, dry sobs.

M

T was a minute of fearful suspense,
that spent by Griselda
in the dimly-lit, solemn stone
chamber in the Indian fortress, while the
evidently broken-down old man, General
Grayburgh, struggled to overcome his
emotion.

Watching a ray of yellow light that
fell upon his head through the dulled
glass lozenges in a high window, upon
the dishevelled grey hair that told tales
of the neglect born of acute personal
suffering, she still hoped.

This could not be merely the grief for
lost comrades. There was a passion in
it  an agony.

Quick as thought, she went across
the slippery inlaid floor to the rough
writing-table which had been knocked
together for the General when he took
up his abode in this, the palace occupied
by generation after generation of native
princes,  and laid her hand lightly on
his arm. His chest moved less convulsively
now. He raised his miserable,
haggard face.

Do you know  all ? ' he asked, fixing
his eyes scrutinizingly upon her.

He is alive  tell me that he is alive ! '
cried Griselda, in a sudden fury of hope,
fear, kneeling down and grasping his
knee.

Yes  yes,' said the General, with

seeming astonishment. * Of course ! I
wrote it to you  that first letter was a
mistake.'

You only wrote he was dead she
cried, tears of joy streaming down her
face. ' Say it again. What does anything
matter now ? Oh thank God !
thank God ! '

The General looked with infinite pity
at the faithful loving wife who had dared
death in its cruellest form to join her
husband, if only his mutilated remains
in the grave ; then he gently assisted
her to rise, placed her in his chair,
fetched a curious old flagon and chased
silver goblet from a marble bracket that
jutted out from the wall, and said, 

Drink a little, my child ; it will do
you good.'

The iced concoction of champagne and

sparkling water which the General's ,
or native butler, had but just
brought from a deep cellar as Griselda
arrived, revived her. She looked

anxiously at the old man as she drank.
He was pacing the chamber, his hands
behind him, as if mentally revolving some
desperate battle or final sortie. He was
really at his wits' end how much or how
little to tell this young wife  who was so
soon to pass the threshold of motherhood
of what had befallen her husband.

You are a good, brave girl, are you
not ? ' he said abruptly at last, dashing
into the subject. ' But, of course, you
have proved it. Well, my first letter
was gospel truth to me when I wrote it.
We seemed to have conclusive evidence
that Romayne was  well, that all was
over with him. Two of his troop had

seen him cut down ; another said  ' He
stopped short. ' However, it is all right
now ; so I will not harrow you with
horrible details. Then they found one of
the rebels with his watch and ring, and
another wearing his uniform. But ' 
here the General paused, and, as a deep
red flush rose to his brow, he stammered
and went on hurriedly,  ' Lady Hermione,
who was with me, would not believe it.
You are aware she had known your
husband's family a long time. She 
she organised a search-party, and a few
days later I heard that, although he was
desperately wounded. there were hopes
of his recovery.'

Oh, where  where is he ? Let me
go to him ! ' implored Griselda.

He is not here,' said the General.
He Is  some miles off In a village which

is fortunately friendly to us. He Is In
one of the best bungalows  the residence
of a Government engineer, who luckily
sent his family home at the very beginning
of the Mutiny.'

But the last news ? '

The General was silent, thought for
moment, then said, 

Colonel Stone has the latest news,
I think. If you will wait here a few
minutes, I will step across the square to
his quarters and he shall come to you.'

Griselda was as mentally dazzled by
this great joy Into which she was suddenly
plunged after the strain she had
almost miraculously undergone, as a blind
man who regains his sight In the broad
daylight. She could hardly bear the
certainty that Hal lived, without some
outbreak of violent emotion. The Idea

that there was something sinister hidden
that she had yet to learn did not occur
to her. With trembling voice she expressed
her gratitude. Of course she
would be only too thankful to see Colonel
Stone  she had heard his name often
from her dear husband's lips. Then she
asked if her maid, who was waiting without,
might come to her.

Certainly,' said the General, going
off drearily.

Presently, In rushed Marshall ; and
in the two women's relief and joy the
positions of mistress and maid were forgotten.
Like sisters they embraced, and
wept, and uttered incoherent exclamations
of gratitude for safety, for peace.

The General, in his white helmet, his
hands thrust Into his pockets, skirted
the sunlit court, and, turning his tired

eyes away from the blinding glare of the

marble pavement, reached the doorway

in the wall. Passion under the magnificent

balcony, above which was a mass

of raised carvings in precious marbles, he

mounted a narrow stairway, and gained

a tower where Colonel Stone lived with

his wife and three children. Exterminate

first room, which, in spite of the

moistened parties, or grass blinds, was

hot and close,  he found the Colonel

seated on the floor, fanning his eldest

little daughter, who lay with her head

on his knee, her pale face thrown back.

Fever ? ' said the General sympathetically.


The Colonel nodded, and pointed to
a chair close by. In these days of trials,
deprivation, and suffering of every sort,
etiquette gave place to the dictates of

VOL. III. o

stricken hearts. There was scant ceremony,
and but Httle talk. Men spoke
by looks and by gestures, which were
only too eloquent, only too suggestive
of a great common woe.

The two officers talked in whispers.

The General told Griselda's tale in a
few words.

Colonel Stone, a grey-haired but still
young man, was the General's staunch
adherent and old attached friend. He
had been present at the late terrible
crisis of General Grayburgh's life, which
occurred shortly after the letter was
written and despatched containing the
announcement of the death of Captain
Romayne. Lady Hermione, who had
accompanied the regiment throughout,
had been much with Captain Romayne.
If she had petted him formerly, she

simply devoted herself entirely to him
now ; and he felt the old affection reviving:.
While he was fiorhtinof against
the rebels, he was succambino to a
deadly moral poison ; he went into battle
enervated and hopeless. He told himself
that his desperate feats were despair,
and that he had the luck of those
unfortunate in love. On the very eve
of that fateful skirmish he had been betrayed
into acknowledging to his Circe
that he was won back, that she was
victress, and for the future it would be
Hermione, not Griselda ; but a desperate
revulsion of feeling, when he found
General Grayburgh overwhelmed with
anxiety as to the fate of Colonel Solly,
led him to insist on oroine to the rescue
with a troop of picked men. He left
without a word or a message to Lady

Hermlone, and when he was cut down
and slashed, when he saw an infuriated
Sepoy raising his arm to deal the fatal
blow, he resigned his soul to God with
a great thankfulness that he was spared
saved, blessed.

Lady Hermione., after days of abject
misery alternating with passionate love
and rage,  as only such a woman in such
a position can know,  saw the returning
remnant of Hal's company, and, on hearing
the news of his death, rushed madly
into her husband's office, where he was
closeted with Colonel Stone ; and then
ensued a scene which mentally shattered
General Grayburgh, and filled the domesticated,
gentle Colonel, who had been
a good son to a widowed mother, and
who was a loving father and devoted
husband, with distress. Lady Hermione

flung herself about the room, upbraiding
her husband for having sent the only
being she loved to his death, confessing
their honos mutual love, and her hatred
of the General in that she was doomed
to be his wife. It was worse than a
death - blow to the kind old man ; and
Ashen, after Lady Hermione had started
to find Hal, or his corpse, Colonel Stone
attempted to soothe him by suggestions
that women will confess any imaginary
sin and wickedness in a sudden access
of hysteria, he merely shook his head
and said, 

I ask only one favour of you, Stone ;
never mention her to me again ! '

Colonel Stone did as he was asked.
But now it was the General who entered
upon the subject himself.

After the story of Griseldas journey

and arrival, there was a pause  then the
General forced himself to say, 

Stone, you are experienced  married,
I mean  you have a real wife ; tell me
what to do ? '

I must think,' said the Colonel.

Then there was silence in the hot
room, broken only by the tramp of the
sentry on the ramparts below, by the
moaning of the sick child, by a subdued
singing in the next room, as Mrs Stone
hushed her delicate young infant, born
since the regiment had occupied the
fortress.

After a minute's pause. Colonel Stone
said slowly, 

General, you have recurred to the
painful subject I gave you my word not
to allude to. I am glad you have given
me the opportunity to repeat emphatically

that on that occasion your wife was,
in my opinion, temporarily mad. There
may have' been some sentiment  women
will have their sentiments, especially about
young fellows half their age  but, as I
live, I firmly believe that all else but
the bare sentiment was delirious raving.
I am told that Lady Hermione has not
seen Romayne since he became conscious.*

The General sighed; a dark look passed
across his face.

What I wanted you to decide is
this,' he said. ' What is to be done
with this poor unfortunate girl in her
state ? Dare I let her go to that iniquitous
house, to a man who has been false
to his marriage vows ? Oh, don't interrupt
! Don't defend them ! I asked your
advice for this good faithful wife, not fora
traitress.'

' Let her go at once  to-day,' said
Colonel Stone, emphatically. ' Meanwhile,
let us make her as welcome as
we can. She must be an extraordinary
woman ! "

She is,' said the General, warmly.
'If all were like her, England would
abound with heroes, and hold her own
against the world. It is the mothers that
make the sons, the wives the husbands.'

But perhaps it might be said by
women, that they are what we make
them,' suggested the Colonel, meekly.

Then he called, and an ayah came
and took his place. He kissed his poor
little daughter, and went down and
across the court to the General's rooms.
Griselda rose and welcomed him ashe
entered. The Colonel was taken
aback as he saw this beautiful fair

creature, who had as it were dropped
from the clouds, radiant with blessedness.
What a cruel shame it would be,
he thought indignantly, if the General
were right, and Hal Romayne was 
yes, there was only one word that
fitted  a blackguard !

He bowed with the deepest respect
over Mrs Romayne's extended hand.

It seems as if the ae of miracles
had returned,' he said admiringly. ' To
think of your traversing this wretched
country, going through those crowds
of demons unharmed  it is a miracle!
Heaven grant you have brought a
blessing with you ! We are sadly forlorn
 God-forsaken  here. '

Then he told her how they had
suffered from want of food, want of
the most ordinary comforts  how they

had been parched with thirst, and how
the children had died of fever, so that
scarcely a day passed but there was a
burial In the mosque without the fort
which was used for Christian services.

 But we shall be able to take care
of you till evening,' he said cheerily,
I will go at once and see about It
Then I will accompany you to the
bungalow where your husband Is, I am
thankful to say, slowly recovering.'

He went away, wondering. After
this journey of Griselda's, he felt he
should never despair, never think the
wildest Idea unreasonable.

He borrowed an ayah from the widow
of a major lately killed, whose grief
had but enhanced her natural sympathies.
He had mattresses placed for
Griselda and her maid In the stone

chamber which the General willingly
resigned to the travellers.

Griselda slept heavily, dreamlessly, and
awoke in the late afternoon to see dusky
forms in strange dresses flitting about
in the half-lifht  her servants, brineinof
in dinner. After she and Marshall had
eaten, the General and Colonel Stone
came in ; and presently the little procession,
that had astonished the officers
by its unexpected arrival in the early
morning, left the gates,  watched and
saluted by many who had heard the
story of its brave progress, unscathed,
through untold dangers.

The Colonel walked by Griselda's
litter down the uneven road. Arrived
at the foot of the slope, they proceeded
along the river bank. To their right
towered the grand white pile of Oriental

buildings, the gilded cupolas glistening
in the setting sun  to the left, the
wooded hills above the blood red river
were already in the shadow. Long before
they reached the outlying cantonment
which skirted the native village,
the golden and crimson tints had faded
to dull yellow and pink. Then came a
luminous twilight, in which white objects
seemed brilliant, faces paled, and the
lights they were approaching were glowing
red specks, dazzling as fireflies.
Strange insects buzzed : frosts croaked
in their damp retreats. Then came a
road bordered by scattered bungalows
in their compounds, or rather square
buildings, with verandahs of different
sizes, standing in plots of ground more
or less cultivated, divided from each
other by mud walls or hedges of shrubs.

One of these was more pretentious
than the rest. Graceful trees were
planted to screen the compound from
the road. Two stood as dark sentinels
in the rising moonlight, guarding the
white posts of the open entrance to the
carriage-drive.

Here the Colonel gave the word to
halt.

After the noise of the footsteps had
subsided, they heard faint sounds of
music. Griselda listened, astonished.
Music, here  now ? She held out her
hand silently to the Colonel, alighted,
and listened.

Then she bent her head ; some one
was playing softly, sweetly, sadly, a
favourite sacred song of hers  the holy,
placid melody of Mendelssohn's, known
as ' Ye hills and vales.'

While she was thrilled with emotion,
the Colonel, who was absolutely unmusical,
was angered, disappointed. To
him that music meant fresh entanglement
between the unhappy young officer
and his general's unscrupulous wife.

You had better let me o-q first and
announce you,' he suggested to Griselda,
repressing his indignation.

No, no,' said she. ' Do not think
me ungrateful,' she went on pleadingly
' indeed I shall never forget your kindness
; but  I- feel  I know  it is better
I should go alone.'

The Colonel hesitated a moment. The
idea of the unsuspecting young wife
finding a species of deputy installed
under her husband's roof, shocked him.

I think  indeed I am sure  now I
have heard the music, that Lady Her-mine

Grayburgh is still there. She
found him, you know, and I am told
that he in a great measure owes his life
to her and her maid's nursing.'

He put it as neatly as he could. He
saw a strange smile come upon Griselda's
face, which looked unearthly in the
moonlight ; it reminded him of some
picture he had seen  an angel bearing
a little child to heaven.

I know Lady Hermione,' said Gris-ella
simply. "Colonel Stone, I think
people sometimes can talk better to each
other quite by themselves. You don't
mind?' she added apologetically.

Good heavens, no ! ' exclaimed the
Colonel, started into involuntary energy.
Then, after some conversation as to
what it would be best to do about
the servants, et caetera, he took leave

Griselda.

of Mrs Romayne with the deepest
respect.

She suspects, or knows,' he thought
as he made his way back to the fortress
in the moonlight, ' and behaves Hke a
true unselfish woman. She is a lesson
to any man. What hope ! what faith ! '

'-

RISELDA left her party, and
walked up the drive to the
bungalow alone. The moonlight
showed the graceful Indian corn,
the groves of strange dream-like plants,
in their full beauty of form without
colour. For paths, grass, trees, plants,
and bungalow alike, were dazzling, frosted
white. The shadows lay blackly on the
lawn. Near to the house was a well.
She heard the splash of the drops as
they fell from the little chartres, or
earthenware vessels that hung from the

VOL. III. p

wheel, Into the water deep down below.
The open doors showed the lighted
interior.

Stepping lightly Into the verandah,
she came to the long window of the
drawing-room, and stood hesitating 
for there was Lady Hermlone, seated
in a low wicker chair  alone. She was
dressed in white. Her magnificent black
hair was cut close to her head. She
looked pale, thin, miserable, as she sat
still, staring at vacancy.

Lady Hermlone ! '

She sprang up with a terrified stare
at the woman's figure in the doorway
and a stifled ' Ah ! '

I beg your pardon for having
startled you,' said Griselda. * I may
come in, may I not ? I am Griselda
Romaine.'

*Yes,' said Lady Hermione, In a dull,
stupefied way.

During these last days she had ceased
to care, almost to feel. She would have
welcomed any violent change, however
disastrous. There had been moments
when she thought that, if an overwhelming
force of the frantic hordes
were to break in upon the fort and
surrounding villages, she would awake
from this death in life with a fierce rejoicing
at the chance of a swift martyrdom
which might hurl her into a better
state. She told herself she had staked
her all  and that she had lost.

This sudden appearance of Griselda
was a slight relief. She would be free
to go  she knew not whither  to do
any desperate deed  she knew not what.

You were quite right to dare the

journey and to come, Mrs Romayne,'
she said in a dull, unemotional way.
Your husband mistook me for you
during his delirium, and, when he came
to his senses, was so disappointed not
to find his beloved wife, that he turned
his face to the wall and refused to be
comforted. Finding my presence unpleasant
to him, I have kept away
since then, only superintending the
nursing. He is orettino on well.'

By some subtle sympathy Griselda
knew this woman had dared all for
Hal, and he had repaid her  thus !
The tears rushed to her eyes. She
seized Lady Hermione's hand and
kissed it.

It was you who saved him,' she
said brokenly. * My poor thanks  what
are they ? God will repay you  you,

who have done the utmost one can do
for a friend  you, who have risked your
life for his ! '

'Life?' said Lady Hermione bitterly,
while her hand lay cold in Griselda's.
What a poor thing is life ! It is the
happy who value it ; but to the unhappy
it is a curse ! There is not much credit
in flinging away a curse, is there?' she
went on, with a sneering smile and a
flash of her dark eyes. ' But come to
your husband  or will you have wine 
food  before you go ? '

Griselda, affected by the despair of the
woman who, in her eyes  whatever she
might have done  was the preserver of
her Hal's life, briefly told her tale, then
followed Lady Hermione to her husband's
room.

At the door she halted. In her mingled

emotion this was an awful moment. He
had left her in full life, in bright  to her
almost glorious  manhood. What pitiful
wreck, what miserable remnant of a
human being lay beyond that closed door,
and was still her own husband, her childhood's
love, the little Prince who stepped
down into the orchard to her years ago
and took possession of her life ?

And, if it had not been for this devoted,
if reckless woman, there would have been
no Hal  only a grave, and a memory.

With a sudden passion of gratitude,
she held out her hand.

Let us go together, she said, with a
pleading tender look.

Lady Hermione shook her head A.vith
a bitter smile.

He must know  he must be told he
owes his life to you,' began Griselda.

Then suddenly she flung her arms
round the suffering beautiful creature,
and kissed her on the lips.

Thus Hals first kiss should be to
them both.

I will come back,' she said. ' Dear
Lady Hermione, I must see you soon
again ; ' then she opened the door and
went in boldly.

A dimly-lighted room ; a bed in the
coolest part, close under the swaying
frilled board, the punkah ; the odours of
pungent restoratives and disinfectants ; a
soldier sitting by the bedside.

He rose as she entered, saluted her,
and stared with amazement. But this
Corporal Haines, one of the young
captain's faithful military nurses, knew
without much thought that this could
be no other than the wife the sick man

had craved for with a weary persistence
painful to witness.

Captain,' he said cautiously, bending
over the form lying  oh, so still ! 
stretched upon the bed, ' here's a surprise
for you  a friend from home!'

He motioned to Griselda to stand back
in the shadow ; then he raised the sick
man In his arms

Could that be Hal  the thin livid
features, with a disfiguring scar across
one cheek  the great piteous eyes  all
the curls gone, and in their place bandages,
plaster  that white empty sleeve
rolled up ?

The loving wife sickened. How she
stepped across the room, knelt down,
and took him in her arms she could not
have told. Perhaps for a few moments
she tainted  she did not know. The

world seemed to sink away  the world,
with its anger, cruelty, revenge, turmoil
to sink away as the flood may suddenly
have stayed, sunk, and disappeared at
the voice of God  and they two, after
strup-o-le, dance-er, left alone, clinging to
each other as on some rock  saved.

Hal made slow but sure progress  the
new Captain Romayne ! Even Griselda
sometimes wondered and felt a sense of
unreality when she thought of the gay
impetuous Hal, and then looked at the
delicate invalid with the solemn eyes
that had such an unearthly searching
look in them

What the Captain wants now is
rousing, Mrs Romayne,' said the regimental
doctor who had ' patched up ' the
'ugly job,' as he had called Hal's casein

its beginning. 'If it were only
anxiety, even annoyance  Is he always
like this ? Does he never talk of the
past, or '  here the doctor hesitated,
but only for a moment  ' of future
hopes that should be cheering to a man,
should be a great object to live for?'

Griselda blushed, but this was no time
for feminine sensibility.

Not one word,' she said. *' He is
very good, wonderfully patient. I read
to him a little. But he only talks of
the small matters of the day itself  of
the Indian servants, their ways, the
weather, things like those. And, whenever
I turn my back for a moment, he
relapses into that dreamy state.'

I know  as if he were looking into
another world with those big eyes of his.
I've seen him. Of course, when you can

take him home, it will be all right  change
of scene and the sea-vovaoe. But that
can't be quite yet. Meanwhile I must
think of something.'

The doctor had thought already. He
knew the scandal about Lady Hermione.
It had grieved him, as it had grieved many
who where attached to the General, while
they had liked ' young Romayne,' and
admired the beautiful lady who had so unfortunately
fallen into hero-worship. He
attributed Hal's melancholy to a certain
remorse and a certain sense ol dishonour.
Now, as the doctor said to himself plausibly,
it was quite right for the young
fellow to regret having made mischief
between the General and his wife, so
long as the mischief was there. But
really, as everything was going well
now that his wife was here,

and he and she on the most loving
terms, while Mrs Romayne and Lady
Hermione corresponded or exchanged
messages daily, and the General seemed
quite content  a new man indeed  it
was high time that disagreeable bygones
should be bygones.

We should do with our mistakes
as with our dead leaves,' he went
on to himself, as he proceeded to
General Grayburgh's quarters to ask
him to come and see Hal. ' Malodorous
in themselves, they become almost
salutary in a bonfire.'

The General and his wife were reconciled.
And it came about thus. Lady
Hermione had remained in the bungalow
a few da's, at Griselda's instance. And
during those days she learnt the beauty of

meekness, the divinity ot forgiveness. In
the long talks between the two women,
Hermione found that there was scarcely
anything in her past relations with Captain
Romayne that was unknown to
his devoted wife, and that, without
doubt, whatever Griselda knew Griselda
had forgiven. During those days of utter
wretchedness, when Hal refused to see
her, would taste nothing her hands
had touched, and would shrink at the
very mention of her name, she had
been able to think of little but the
ofreat lost tenderness that had hitherto
come between her and the slightest
annoyance,  the vast protecting love
of her outraged husband.

General Gravburoh was a oreat, brood
man. Even on the terrible niorht, when in
her madness she had flung herself out of

his heart and outraged his honour, she
admired the nobility of his anger ; he had
made no expostulation, he had merely held
out his hand with a gesture of horror, and
had said one word,  ' Go ! '

During those calm hours in the
drawing-room with Griselda, when they
talked in a low voice while Hal slept in
his sick-room, she made a resolution.

If I do not get his pardon,' she
thought, ' at least I will ask it'

So one evening after she and Gris-ella
had dined, and Griselda had left
her to go to Hal, she went to her
room, put on a long dust-cloak and a
veil, and walked to the fort.

She did not know the pass word, and
the sentry hesitated to admit her. This
hesitation stung her to the quick, and
she imperiously flashed a well-known

ring of General Grayburgh's before his
eyes.

You forget yourself,' she said proudly,
and passed on.

Armed with this spirit of pride, she
gained his quarters, passed the sentry
there, and, flinging aside the curtain of
that stone chamber which was fraught
with so many strange troublous memories,
found herself standing face to
face with her gaunt, stern husband.

He rose as he saw her. They stood
gazing at each other for a few moments.
Then she said, with a desperate humility,
which was the subtlest pride 

I have come to ask your pardon
before I go away for ever.'

The General looked at her in wonder
then his head fell on his breast.

Oh, you poor, poor woman ! ' he

said falteringly. ' You come to me, a
man ! You ask me to right your soul 1
Go to your God ; he can forgive you 
not I, nor any man that has ever lived ! *

Then he went away into a corner,
where the rays of the lamps did not
reach, and leaned against a marble
pillar in his access of misery. Softened,
penitent, she followed him and fell weeping
against his shoulder.

You must forgive me first ! ' she sobbed.

And he took her into his arms, more
wretched than ever, and forgave her.

Poor girl ! I was too

old,' he said brokenly. I had no right
to bind you down.'

She had conquered. And the General
felt that he had lost many battles and
had been defeated otherwise, time aftertime,
elsewhere than in the field during

his long life ; but this was the first
occasion that he felt the utter littleness
of human glory, the utter abasement of
his erring human soul.

A few months later, Feather's Court,
in the gay beauty of the young summer,
was the scene of great rejoicing.

The new peal of bells presented to
the church by Hal as a thank-offering
were chiming merrily. For to-day, the
lusty boy who first saw light in the
Indian bungalow where his father had
struggled back to life, was to be publicly
received into the Church by his delighted
grandfather  whose first service this
would be since his return to England,
convalescent.

The new heir to the Romaynes was

a peculiar child, with fine, deep eyes.
VOL. III. Q

He was six months old that day, when
he sat up in his mother's arms and
looked steadily at the clergyman who
was admitting him into the Church.

Griselda had a new hope in this
world. What mattered the sad stormy
past ? Its dead were buried. This child,
this son of hers, had given her a new
life. She had awakened into a new
beauty ; she had at last something fresh
and pure from the hand of God to
live for.

Patience was over ! Now came the
reign of hopeful joy.

