CHAPTER I.

Fags

Jill introduces herself . . .1

CHAPTER II.
Foreign Travel . . . . .16

CHAPTER III.
/4 A Widow's Manoeuvres . . . .29

 CHAPTER IV.

'/ A Tight Curb . . . . .38

o

'J CHAPTER V.

y

 Breaking Loose . .54

 

i CHAPTER VI.

.

A Photograph . . . . .71

. CHAPTER VII.

OfA FEW London Prices . . . .86

CHAPTER VIII.

PAGE

A Street Incident . . . .104

CHAPTER IX.
A Nervous Lady . . . .113

CHAPTER X.
Change of Situation . . . .129

CHAPTER XL

An Unwelcome Admirer . . . 147

CHAPTER XII.
The Photograph Again . . .166

CHAPTER XIII.

Lord Clement . . . . .178

CHAPTER XIV.
At Ajaccio . . . . .194

CHAPTER XV.
A Driving Expedition through Corsica . 205

CHAPTER XVI.
Escaped Penitentiary . . . .221

JILL INTRODUCES HERSELF.

I HAVE heard people say that men are more apt
to be of an adventurous disposition than women ;
but that is an opinion from which I differ. I
suppose it has arisen because timidity and sensitiveness
are hostile to the spirit of enterprise,
checking its growth and development, and not
unfrequently proving altogether fatal to it ; and as
these qualities are especially characteristic of the
weaker sex, it follows naturally that noted female
adventurers are less common than male ones.
But that seems only to show that an unfavourable
soil has caused the plant to become blighted or
smothered, and is no conclusive proof that the
seed was never sown. It is my belief that the
aforesaid spirit is distributed by nature impartially
throughout the human race, and that she
implants it as freely in the breast of the female as
in that of the male. Once let it be implanted,
and let it have fair play, untrammelled by nervous,
VOL. I. B

hesitating, shrinking, home - clinging tendencies,
and it will infallibly lead its possessor to some
bold departure from the everyday routine of existence
that satisfies mortals of a more hum-drum
temperament. A craving for continual change
and excitement is a thing that is sure to assert itself
vigorously and insist on being gratified, provided
its possessor has also plenty of health and
courage, and is unrestrained by the fetters formed
from strong domestic attachments or other affection.
Of people thus positively and negatively endowed
it may be confidently predicted  whether their
gender be masculine or feminine  that adventures
will bestrew their road plentifully, meeting them
at every turn, and seeming to seek them out and
be attracted to them even as flies unto honey. I
am myself an instance of this, as I can see plainly
enough in reviewing my past career. At an earlier
period I was less clear-sighted, and failed to perceive
the restless spirit that had taken possession of
me and become the constraining power of my life ;
but the lapse of a few years is a wonderful aid to
discerning the true motives of former actions, and
reminds me in this way of the dark blue spectacles
which the man in charge of a smelting furnace
puts on when he wants to see what is going on in
his furnace. Without them he can distinguish

nothing in the fiery interior; but the spectacles
have the effect of softening the fierce, blinding
glare, rendering visible what was before invisible,
and enabling him to watch the progress of the
red-hot seething masses of ore and metal undergoing
fusion and transmutation under his care.
And in like manner does intervening time clear
the vision towards events, so that it is possible to
estimate them far more justly some while after
they have taken place, than it was at the moment
of their occurrence. A retrospect, therefore, gives
me a more correct notion of myself than I had
before. I see how often, when I imagined myself
to be solely impelled by some purely external
circumstance, I was, in reality, also obeying the
dictates of a longing for adventure and impatience
of sameness, which have always had a very strong
influence in determining my conduct. I detect
how love of variety manifested itself as the principal
cause of my actions, and made my course
deviate widely from that of other ladies in my
rank of life, and furnishes a reasonable explanation
for behaviour which would else seem unaccountable.
To a person of this disposition,
monotony, dulness, and boredom in every shape
are of course absolutely intolerable ; consequently
I do not believe that any position involving these

drawbacks will ever content me for long, even
though it may, in other respects, afford every
advantage that the heart of man (or woman) can
desire. And having supplied the reader with this
much clue to a comprehension of the character of
the individual whose story lies before him, I leave
all further judgment upon me to be pronounced
according to what is found in the pages of this
veracious history, wherein I purpose faithfully to
depict myself exactly as I appear in my own eyes,
and as my life shows me to be.

A person's identity is materially affected (as
regards both himself and others) by that of the
immediate ancestors without whom he or she
would not have existed at all; so the first step
towards my self-introduction must obviously be
to state my parentage.

My father, Sir Anthony Trecastle, a gentleman
of small fortune serving in the Life Guards, was
employed in London discharging the not very
onerous duties expected from an officer of Heavies
in time of peace, when he became acquainted and
enamoured with a daughter of Lord Gilbert's. Sir
Anthony's means were not sufficiently large for
him to be reckoned anything of a matrimonial
catch in that set of society to which both he and
the young lady he admired belonged. He had

enough to live upon, however, besides being a
tenth baronet, rather good-looking, and the representative
of a family whose name was to be found
in the Domesday Book ; therefore her relations
and friends considered him to be a respectable
though not brilliant match, made no attempt to
interfere either for or against his suit, and left
her perfectly free to please herself as to the answer
it should receive. It was long before she could
make up her mind in the matter ; but, after considering
it for more than a year, she at last determined
to accept him. What may have moved her
to do this of course I cannot say ; but all I know of
her character makes me think it more likely for the
decision to have resulted from a reasonable and
deliberate consideration of matrimonial pros and
cons than from any love for her husband. Those
who knew her well believed her to be so singularly
cold and indifferent as never to have warmed into
real love for any living creature during her whole
life. And not only do my own recollections of her
corroborate this opinion, but also I may say that
I myself am a living argument to prove it true,
inasmuch as I, too, am unusually exempt from
the affectionate, tender emotions to which most
men and women are liable ; and it seems
reasonable to suppose that this extraordinary

cold-heartiness of mine must have been inherited
from her.

I am sure it is an inheritance for which I have
had much reason to be thankful ; for I have no
doubt it has saved me from many a folly that
I should otherwise have committed. A warmhearted,
soft, affectionate disposition is a possession
which I have never coveted. It has generally
seemed to me to be a cause of weakness rather
than of strength to its owner ; and besides, it is
very apt to hinder and stunt the development of
that source of delight  the spirit of enterprise.

This, however, is somewhat of a digression, as
the extent to which my mother may have cared
for my father does not much concern this narrative;
at any rate she liked him sufficiently well to marry
him, and that is all with which we need trouble
ourselves here. He sold out of the army soon
afterwards, and took his bride to reside at Castle
Manor, as his country place was called ; there I,
their only child, was born. Had I been a boy
it was intended to call me Gilbert, in honour of
my maternal grandfather's title; as, however, I
was a girl, and as my parents still wished to adhere
as far as possible to their original intention of
naming their first-born after the Gilbert peerage,
the name was adapted to my sex by the addition

of three letters, and thus I received at my christening
the somewhat uncouth appellation of Libertine.
As this was obviously too much of a mouthful to be
convenient for common domestic use, an abbreviation
was inevitable, and the first one bestowed upon
me was Jill. But this did not find favour with
my mother. She declared it was ugly, and objectionable
suggestive of low, republican ideas, such'
as carrying pails of water, rough tumbles, and
cracked crowns ; therefore Jill was condemned
and Ina substituted, as a more graceful and aristocratic
manner of shortening my name.

Though I allude to this small matter, because
Jill was the name to which I afterwards returned,
yet I do not purpose to dwell long upon the history
of my life up to the age of eighteen, at which
period I launched out boldly upon an independent
career. Still, however, the earlier stages cannot
be left altogether unnoticed, as the events which
took place then naturally have a bearing upon subsequent
ones, and also may be thought interesting
for the part they probably played in the moulding
of my character.

Was I born destitute of the ordinary instincts of
filial affection  in which case, be it observed, that
it would be most unjust to blame me for what was
simply a natural deficiency ? Or is the fault of

my defect in that way to be charged to my parents
for having done nothing to develop the abovementioned
instinct? Anyhow, whatever the cause
may have been, certain it is that they and I were
mutually indifferent, and never saw more of one
another than we could possibly help. They went
their way, and I went mine, and the less we came
in contact the better was I pleased. I regarded
my mother as a sort of stranger whom the accident
of inhabiting the same house caused me to see
oftener than any other stranger, and who had an
authority over me and my affairs which was
decidedly irksome, because our opinions as to what
it was right and fitting that I should do or not do
were always at variance with one another. She
disliked untidiness, whereas I revelled in being ina
mess. Consequently she aggravated me continually
by insisting on my going off to wash my
face and hands or have my clothes put tidy, when I
thought they did very well as they were, and would
have preferred staying where I was. Again, mud-lurking,
and many other of my favourite occupations
which brought about a torn and dirty state
of garments, were strictly forbidden by her, to my
great annoyance. Imagining the restriction to be
imposed solely in the interests of my clothes, I
well remember how rejoiced I was one day when

T thought I had hit upon a plan for enjoying myself
after my own fashion without offending against
her code, and how disappointed I was when my
scheme proved a failure. I was about ten years old
at the time, and was standing at the edge of a
small stream, longing with my whole heart to go and
paddle about in it, when it suddenly struck me
that, as the edict against mud-larking and similar
amusements was grounded upon the harm they
did to my apparel, there could certainly be no
objection to them provided nothing suffered except
my own skin  that being an article which was
surely of no consequence to any one but myself.
Inspired by this brilliant idea, I immediately took
off my shoes, stockings, gloves, and drawers, turned
my sleeves back to the shoulder, wound my petticoats
round my waist, and plunged into the stream ;
there I waded about with the utmost satisfaction,
constructing mud-docks and sailing bark-boats
without in the least minding the cuts and bruises
inflicted on my bare feet by stones, or the numerous
scratches which my unprotected arms and
legs received from overhanging bushes and
brambles. What did that matter when I was
having such a glorious mud-lark? And I enjoyed
the fun all the more because I believed fondly that
I had a prospect of plenty more of the same kind

in the future, now that I had so cleverly discovered
the way to get over the objection that had hitherto
interfered with it. It must be clearly impossible
for any one to find fault with a proceeding which
exposed nothing but my own flesh to risks of rents
and dirt.

Alas ! however, I was destined speedily to be
undeceived. My mother, hearing how I had been
engaged, gave me a tremendous scolding, declaring
that she was quite shocked at me, and that if ever I
did such a thing again I should be punished. For
my part, I was perfectly amazed at this indignation,
which seemed to me totally unreasonable, as I
could not imagine what harm I had done. And
the incident, like all others connected with her,
strengthened the sulky injured feeling I had of
being always wrong in her eyes. No matter what
I might wish to do, she would forbid it, I thought.

I do not know that she was wilfully unkind tome,
perhaps ; but she certainly never was actively
kind ; and she stands out in my memory as a cold
hard figure with which I could not come in contact
without finding myself thwarted in some way or
other, and being deprived of some pleasure. " Don't
do that !" is a sentence odious in childish ears ;
and as that was the sentence that I heard oftener
than any other from her lips, I naturally got into

the habit of avoiding her company as much as
possible  which was all the easier to manage
because she had as little wish for my society as I
had for hers, and only endured me with her at all,
I think, out of regard to the convenances of English
life. Never once do I remember her to have taken
the trouble to supply me with any pleasures which
she approved of to replace those which she prohibited
; nor did she ever bestow upon me presents,
indulgences, or marks of affection. Though she
never attempted to teach me anything herself, yet
she had me do lessons, and insisted on my learning
needlework, which was my especial aversion ; and
I knew she was the source for the tasks I hated,
even though she did not personally impose them
on me.

Such being the terms on which she and I stood
to one another, is it to be wondered at that I should
have feared and disliked her ?

I was about twelve years old when she died.
As I had by that time read with great interest
a large number of juvenile story-books of the
exaggerated sentimental and goody kind, I was
thoroughly well up in the behaviour to be expected
from any girl-heroine on the occurrence of such
an event. I knew that her father would at once
become the great object of her life, and that she

would devote herself utterly to the task of comforting
him and endeavouring to replace Her (with
a capital H) who was gone. Though the girl
would of course be herself well-nigh crushed with
grief, and indulge in paroxysms of sobs and tears
whenever she was alone, yet she would heroically
repress any public manifestation of distress, lest
the knowledge and sight of it should increase that
of her surviving parent. Her zeal on his behalf
would know no bounds, and lead her to neglect
the most ordinary precautions against illness for
herself. This would appear in some absurd and
wholly uncalled for act of self-devotion  such as
sitting motionless for hours in a thorough draught
and wet through, lest the sound of her moving
might awake him as he slept in the next room, or
something equally ridiculous ; and by a few insane
performances of the same kind the way would easily
be paved for the invariably thrilling climax. A
pillow bedewed nightly with tears ; knife-like
stabs of pain returning with increasing frequency ;
blood-spitting neglected and kept secret; pangs
mental and bodily, concealed under a cheerful
exterior; there could be but one conclusion to
such symptoms as these. The overtaxed strength
would collapse suddenly; consumption, decline,
heart disease, or some other alarming illness, would

ensue; and then there would be either a few
harrowing deathbed scenes, or else a miraculous
recovery and happy marriage of the heroine ; in this
last case her spouse would of course be some paragon
young man, who should be in every respect ideally
perfect, and thoroughly able to appreciate and do
justice to the treasure whom he had been so fortunate
as to win for a wife.

So invariably did this style of thing take place
whenever the heroine lost her mother in the books
which I had devoured greedily without perceiving
how morbid and exaggerated they were, and without
doubting their being faithful representations
of human nature, that I had a sort of hazy impression
of its being the inevitable accompaniment
of that loss, whatever might have been the terms
hitherto existing between the parties concerned.
The folly of supposing that I could feel deep
regret for a person whom I had always avoided as
much as possible 'never occurred to me, and I was
disposed to believe that what was described in the
stories was an indispensable sequence of events
that came after one another as naturally as spring
follows winter, and summer follows spring. In
that case, I too, must expect to undergo the regular
course of emotions like every one else. It would
be a decidedly novel and mysterious experience,

and one that I was by no means sure would be
pleasant, and I looked out anxiously for the first
indications of its approach as though it had been
some kind of sickness with which I was threatened.
A gush of poignant grief for my mother, an intense
yearning over and pity for my father, sleepless
nights and untasted meals, were, I knew, the correct
preliminaries to the state of affairs that I was
anticipating. Two or three days passed, however,
and I found to my surprise that I had still no
inability to sleep and eat as usual ; no alteration
in my former feelings about my parents, either
living or deceased ; nor any other reason to think
I was about to behave in the same manner as those
sentimental young ladies about whom I had read.
Then I became perplexed as to the cause of this
difference between me and them. I had taken it
for granted that the stories showed exactly how
human beings in general thought, felt, and acted ;
but how came it then that I, who was unquestionably
a human being, should find my own experience
of a great occasion of this kind so different from
what the books depicted ? The only way of
accounting for it was by supposing either that
they were not as true to nature as I had believed,
or else that I must be unlike the rest of my
fellow-creatures ; and as it did not at all please

me to consider myself an abnormal variety of the
human species, I adopted the former theory as the
probable explanation of what puzzled me. No
one, thought I, ever dreams of judging fairy-tales
by the standard of real life ; and no doubt those
stories that I fancied were true are in reality only
fairy-tales in disguise. The characters are not real
men and women, but only make-believe ones ; and
they are really just as impossible as if they were
called ogres, gnomes, elves, magicians, or something
of that kind.

It was a relief to me to arrive at this conclusion,
and realise that there was no likelihood of my
following in the steps of the aforementioned
fictitious damsels; for, however attractive their
experiences might be to read about, I had had
very considerable misgivings as to whether I
should find them equally pleasant to undergo in
my own person. I may add that I am sure my
incapacity for imitating them was a most fortunate
circumstance for my father ; he would, I am convinced,
have been at his wits ends to know what
to do with a daughter of the story-book stamp, and
would have been unutterably taken aback and
annoyed at any hysterical demonstrations of devotion
or attachment on my part.

FOREIGN TRAVEL.

It is time to say a few words as to what my father
was like. Intensely selfish, and hating trouble,
he was also extremely sociable, jovially disposed,
easily amused, and endowed with an enviable
facility for shaking off whatever was disagreeable.
He seemed to consider everything unpleasant, dull,
sad, or gloomy, as a sort of poisonous external
application which must be got rid of promptly,
lest it should get absorbed into the system. Consequently
he never allowed anything to make a
deeper impression on him than he could help.
And in order to escape at once from the depressing
influences of his wife's death he resolved to
go abroad immediately after the funeral, and stay
away for a good long time, wandering from place
to place where his fancy took him, so as to distract
his mind from all possibility of melancholy by a
complete change of scene and life.

As he did not see the use of keeping up an

establishment in England during his absence, he
determined to let Castle Manor. Then came the
question of what was to be done with me under
these circumstances ? His relations assured him
that the best plan would be to send me to school
somewhere till he should again be settled in his
own home. After reflecting for a day on this
suggestion, he considerably astonished those who
had made it by announcing that he meant to take
me abroad with him. Such a determination was
certainly surprising on the part of one who could
not endure trouble, and had no affection for me.
But the. fact was that since his marriage he had
got so much accustomed to the feeling that there
was some one belonging to him always within
reach, that he did not now like to live quite alone
again ; and therefore he thought he might as
well have me handy as a last resource to fall back
upon for company when none other should be
attainable. Wherever he went, therefore, there I
went also ; and for that reason we were supposed
by many people to be wholly wrapped up in one
another, and a touching example of parental and
filial attachment. I accidentally overheard some
remarks to that effect made one day by a couple
of compatriots staying at the same hotel as ourselves
at Naples ; and, child as I was, I remember
VOL. L C

that I laughed cynically to think how wide of the
truth they were, and what fools people were to be
so ready to judge from appearances. For though
he chose to have me living under the same roof as
himself, yet he never had any wish for my society
if he could pick up any one else to talk to, and
walk, ride, drive, or make expeditions with ; and
as his sociability and geniality made it easy to
him to make acquaintance and fraternise with
strangers, he was not often dependent upon me
for companionship ; so that I was left very much
to myself, and spent the greater part of the time
in solitude, or with my attendant who was a sort
of cross between nursery-governess and maid.

We moved about from place to place for two
or three years, rarely staying long anywhere, and
not once returning to England. This roving existence
had a great charm for me, notwithstanding its
frequent loneliness, and was infinitely more to m}
taste than would have been the orthodox schoolroom
routine that falls to the lot of most girls
between the ages of twelve and fifteen. Doubtless,
too, it had a good deal of influence on the formation
of my character ; for the perpetual motion
and change of scene in which I delighted could
hardly fail to foster my inborn restlessness and
love of adventure, as well as to develop whatever

natural tendencies I possessed towards self-reliance,
independence, and intolerance of restraint,

Meanwhile my education, as may be supposed,
pursued a somewhat erratic course ; and my
standard of attainments would, I fear, have by
no means been considered satisfactory by Mrs.
Grundy. A life passed in hotels, pensions, and
lodgings is unfavourable to regular studies ; and,
besides that, there was no one, after my mother's
death, who cared sufficiently about my intellectual
or moral progress to take the trouble of insisting
on lessons being persevered with, whether I liked
them or not. Consequently I learnt anything
that took my fancy, and left alone everything else.
On some out-of-the-way subjects I was better
informed than the majority of my contemporaries ;
but then, on the other hand, I was ignorant of
much that every schoolgirl is expected to know.
My ideas, for instance, as to religious matters were
extremely vague. I was but slightly acquainted
with the contents of either the Bible or Prayer
Book ; never thought of religion as a thing with
which I, personally, had to do ; had not a notion
of what constituted the differences between one
form of religious belief and another; and never
attended any place of worship except when some
grand function was to come off. All I cared for

in such a place was to listen to the music, and
stare at the lights, vestments, decorations, ceremonial,
and crowd ; therefore I only went on
great festivals, or when some especially prized
relic was to be exhibited, or other unusual attraction
offered ; and, of course, I became more familiar
with the interior of Woman Catholic churches and
chapels than any other.

What accomplishments I possessed were such
as would have qualified me well enough for a
courier, and I think that I could have earned my
livelihood in that line of business without much
difficulty after I had been abroad for a while. 1
could speak several languages fluently, besides
having a smattering of a few more, and of two or
three patois ; I was well up in the relative values
of foreign coins, and capable of making a bargain
even with such slippery individuals as drivers,
poetasters, laqicais-de-jylace, or boatmen. Besides
that, I was so thoroughly at home in railway
stations that I could find my way about in any
hitherto-unvisited one almost by instinct ; I could
usually tell, to within a few minutes, the exact
time when any rapide or grande-vitesse was due to
start from Paris for Spain, Germany, Italy, or the
Mediterranean ; when it ought to reach its destination
; and at about what hour it would be at the

more important towns on its route; and I had
quite mastered the intricacies of the English and
Foreign Bradshaw, Livret-Chaix, and works of a
similarly perplexing kind, so as to be able to
discover easily whatever information they could
afford. M} expertness in this way was chiefly
owing to a happy thought that came into my head
at Bayonne one day when I happened to be left
alone for the afternoon with nothing to do, and no
book whatever available except a railway guide.
The prospect till night was not an exhilarating
one, and I was disconsolately wondering how to
get through the time, when it suddenly occurred
to me that I would play at being about to start
for St. Petersburg, or some other remote place,
and obliged to look out the best and fastest way
of getting there. I set to work accordingly with
the railway guide, and became so engrossed in the
game I had invented that I forgot all about the
passage of time, and was quite astonished to find
how quickly the afternoon slipped away whilst I
was settling various journeys to my satisfaction.
Such an easily-attainable means of amusement
was a glorious discovery to me, and one which I
commend to the notice of other travellers as a
resource for wet weather and dull moments.
Henceforth I had no dread of lacking amusement,

provided I had a time-table; and many a long hour
have I beguiled in planning skeleton tours to all
kinds of places  poring over the times of arrival
and departure of trains, diligences, steamers, and
other public conveyances, and weighing in my own
mind the prices and comparative merits of various
routes with every bit as much care and attention
as though the imaginary journey under consideration
were a reality, and I were the sole person
responsible to make arrangements for it. This
employment had for me something of the same
sort of fascination that working out a problem in
algebra has for some people  indeed I do not
think the two things are greatly unlike each other
in their natures.

Besides the accomplishments I have mentioned,
I had also some ideas as to foreign cookery, which
I picked up here and there on our travels  chiefly
on the rare occasions when we were in lodgings
anywhere. I do not think I ever met any mistress
of a lodging-house abroad who did not pride herself
particularly upon her cooking of some one
dish (sometimes more than that, but at least one),
and who was not willing to initiate into its
mysteries any lodger who evinced a proper appreciation
of its excellence. There was an old woman
at Genoa, I remember, at whose house we stayed

for some weeks, who knew several delicious ways
of dressing maccaroni and vegetables, and who not
only allowed me to watch her whilst she cooked,
and gave me her favourite recipes, but even
stretched her good nature so far as to let me try
my own hand in the kitchen till I could join
practice to theory, and produce a tolerably successful
result for my labours. She was a kindly,
motherly old soul, who was impressed with the
notion that there was something peculiarly forlorn
and provocative of pity in my condition ; she
generally called me covering (to my amusement),
and took me under her protection from an early
stage of our acquaintance.

See, Signorina' she said to me on the second
morning of our occupying her apartments, "you
will no doubt wish to buy velvet here  as all the
English do  and many other things also. But be
guided by me, and go not to buy alone, or you will
most certainly be cheated. No 1 when you see the
thing that you desire, come to me  take me to
where it is  point it out to me quietly. Then will
I go forward as though to buy it for myself, and
so shall you procure it at a reasonable price. You
who understand not the modes of our merchants,
would pay nearly, or perhaps even altogether  for
there is no saying how far the folly of an English

person may go !  the amount that they demand
for their goods. But as for me !  ah ! / know how
to arrange these people, and you shall see what I
will do ! I dare to flatter myself that there is nota
man or woman in the whole of Genoa who can
get the better of me in a bargain ! "

Experience soon showed me that this was no idle
vaunt. Though  to her great disappointment  I
declined to buy any velvet, yet I gladly availed
myself of her services for other purchases, and
never in my life, either before or since, have I met
with any one who was her match in bargaining.
She never bought anything at a shop or stall without
having taken a final farewell and departed
from it at least twice, and then suffered herself to
be brought back by the persuasions of the owner ;
I think she regarded this going away and returning
as quite a necessary part of the negotiation,
without which it could not possibly come to a
proper conclusion. At all events her efforts were
invariably successful, and she forced shopkeepers,
market-people, and sellers of every sort with idiom
she had dealings, to accept reductions of price
which seemed to me almost incredible. Meanwhile
I, in whose behalf she was exerting herself,
used merely to assist as a passive spectator, feeling
that my knowledge of mankind was being enlarged,

and that I was gaining a valuable insight into the
amount of dishonesty and cunning that was latent
in human beings in general, and Italians in particular.
This was especially my feeling when, as
more than once happened, I perceived that my
friend herself was not altogether exempt from the
failings of her country-people ; and that, relying
on my knowledge of Italian being less than it really
was, she was making a little profit at my expense
out of the transaction she was conducting for me.
This was a fresh revelation of the depravity of
human nature, and impressed upon my youthful
mind the folly of trusting absolutely to any professions
of friendship, however genuine they might
appear. But, after all, it was not to be expected
that she would take a great deal of trouble fora
stranger gratuitously and out of pure love ;
besides that, she allowed no one except herself to
cheat me, so that in the end my pocket was saved,
notwithstanding the commissions that she managed
adroitly to retain for her own benefit ; and as,
furthermore, I derived much instruction from her
in the art of barfraininsr, I saw that on the whole
I was a gainer by her help, and had nothing to
complain of So I let her act for me as before,
chuckling inwardly at her vehement denunciations
of the roguery that surrounded us, and not

telling her of what I had discovered regarding her
own.

I remember but little of most of the innumerable
people with whom my father was continually
making acquaintance ; they seemed to me to come
and go in endless succession, having to do with us
only for a few days or hours, and then vanishing
into space, with about as much likelihood of our
ever seeing them again as though we had all been
so many dead leaves whirled away by gales from
opposite directions. But there was one of these
stray acquaintances who made more impression
on me than the rest, and whom I mention here
because of the relations which she and I were
destined to have together in the future  little as
we then suspected it.

Kitty Mervyn, the individual in question, was
a girl of about a year older than myself, clever,
vivacious, and agreeable, and promising to be very
good-looking by the time she should be seventeen.
She and I were cousins in some far-off decree,
because her father. Lord Mervyn, was a cousin
many times removed of my grandfather. Lord
Gilbert. The cousinship, however, was so remote
that we did not know of each other's existence ; and
my father and the Mervin had never happened
to meet until they arrived one evening at the

hotel at which we were staying at Lugano. Then
the distant connection served as an introduction
between us ; and as the next day was a dreary
wet Sunday, the feeling of ennui and desire to kill
time that was common to us all, led to our seeing
more of one another than we should probably have
done otherwise. Kitty and I paired off' together
naturally, as being nearly of the same age. As
far as I can recollect, we spent most of the day in
watching and laughing at the performances of
some embryo bicyclists, who were too enthusiastic
to be deterred by either rain or frequent tumbles,
and who went on grinding perseveringly on their
bicycles up and down a bit of road in sight of
our windows which was their practice - ground.
We did not find it very lively, certainly ; but then
there was nothing else to do, unless we had struck
up a romantic friendship and exchanged sentimental
confidences  as some girls thus situated
*would have done  and neither she nor I were at
all disposed for that sort of thing. Our intercourse
lasted only for that one day, as next morning the
Mervin departed south, whilst we went to Como.
But in the short time I had been with Kitty she
had somehow made a stronger impression than
usual on ray unimpressionable mind, and the
recollection of her lingered in my memory longer

than that of any one else whom we met. Her
good looks attracted me ; her cleverness and liveliness
made her very good company. Notwithstanding
an incipient haughtiness about her, which
might develop as she grew older, perhaps, she
seemed at present to have a decided capacity for
being what I called jolly; and, altogether, she
had given me the idea of being remarkably likeable.
I was sorry that the chances of travel made
us separate so soon, and wondered if she was at
all inclined to return the liking which I had
taken to her. But she passed out of my head after
a while ; and it was only now and then that I
recollected her existence, and thought how pleasant
it would be if we happened to meet again some
day.

A widow's manoeuvres.

The life of travelling companion to my father
being very much to my taste, I was naturally disgusted
at its coming to a conclusion. This happened
when I was about fifteen, and was caused by an
event to which I objected strongly, and which was
destined to have a most important effect on my
subsequent existence.

AYe were making a tour through Holland and
Friesland, and, when at Amsterdam, happened to
make acquaintance with a Mrs. Grove, a widow,
accompanied by two daughters, who were respectively
two and three years older than me. I did
not take to her at all, and thought she seemed a
flattering, lying, pushing, cringing, vulgar individual
; but having carelessly thought that much
of her, I dismissed her from my mind as a person
with whom I had nothing to do, and whose character
was quite immaterial to me  little thinking what
a etc noire she was to prove to me afterwards !

She was on the look-out for a successor for the
deceased Mr. Grove ; and as my father appeared
to her to be a very suitable person for the vacancy,
she began at once to lay siege to his affections.
She did not, however, wish to show her hand too
plainly at first, by attaching herself to us so openly
as to make it obvious that she meant to pursue
us from place to place. Therefore, the plan she
adopted was, to discover, by apparently careless
questioning, whither Sir Anthony's wayward fancy
was likely to take him next ; having done this, she
would direct her own course to the same district,
go to some principal town in it which we should
be pretty sure to visit sooner or later, wait for us
there, and then pretend to be greatly surprised
when we arrived, and to consider the meeting a
purely accidental one. For instance, my father
intended to go from Friesland to Minster, which
he considered would be good headquarters whence
to go to the neighbouring town of Seest, where he
wanted to see the Wheen Circle, and other specimens
of Gothic architecture. He had spoken of
this in Mrs. Grove's presence, so that she was quite
aware of his intentions in the matter. Consequently
there occurred what she called a curious
coincidence, as she also was moved by the self-same
thirst for archaeological studies at that particular

time; and thus when we reached Minster from
Wainscoted, we foimd her already installed in the
former city before us. At Cassel and at Frankfort
did we again fall in with her ; and on the very first
night of our being at Heidelberg she and her
daughters joined us under the walls of the oldcastle,
as we sauntered about in the dark and
admired the brilliant fireflies.

Sir Anthony was too much a man of the world
to ascribe these perpetually recurring meetings
entirely to chance, and soon began to have a
shrewd suspicion of the widow's intentions. Then
he took to amusing himself with her, withholding
information as to his movements when she cross-questioned
him about them, putting her on a
wrong scent, and otherwise baffling her curiosity.
Once or twice he joked about the matter with me
(towards whom she affected extreme friendliness),
and asked me whether I thought she wanted him
as a match for herself or for one of the daughters ?
This behaviour of his calmed the state of perturbation
into which I had been previously thrown ;
for I was most indignant at the notion of her
wanting to marry him, and was in a terrible fright
lest she should succeed. For one thing the mere
idea of a stepmother was repugnant to me  be she
who she might ; and besides that, I had not the

slightest confidence in the sincerity of Mrs. Grove's
demonstrations of affection for me, which were, I
felt sure, only assumed in order to ingratiate herself
with my father; for I saw that she  like
every one else  was misled by appearances, and
took it for granted that a man who insisted on
taking his daughter with him wherever he went,
must be so devoted to her as to be certain to
entertain kindly feelings towards any one who
should appear fond of her. But my anxiety was
relieved when I found that he was by no means
blind to her designs, and was quite ready to laugh
at them openly, and to take a mischievous pleasure
in teasing her. That reassured me, and made me
feel satisfied that her labours were in vain, and
that I had nothing to apprehend from them.

This easy tranquillisation of my fears just
showed my youth and inexperience. Had I been
somewhat older I should have known what irresistible
power over men almost all widows possess
which is the natural result of the insight into
man's nature that they have acquired already,
during their first matrimonial experiences. Mrs.
Grove was no exception to the rule, and was as
dangerous a widow as need be  having a thorough
knowledge of the weaknesses of the male character
and of the way to humour them, and understanding

perfectly how to make herself agreeable to any
lord of creation whom fortune might throw in her
way.

It was no part of her tactics to leave Sir Anthony
long in doubt that it was for herself, and not for
either of her daughters, that she desired to captivate
his affections. She was certainly vulgar ; but
as, also, she was a comely, well-preserved woman
of little more than forty, who looked rather less
than her age, it tickled his vanity pleasantly to
find himself attractive to her ; and notwithstanding
his having ridiculed her for setting her cap at
him, he did not, nevertheless, altogether dislike it
in the bottom of his heart. It was true that he
had not previously contemplated marrying again ;
but then that was only because he had not yet
met any particular person to suggest the thought
to him since my mother's death ; and he had been
sufficiently occupied and amused with his travels
for the notion not to have occurred to him of itself.
Now, however, that the idea was thus put into his
head, he began to reflect upon the matter seriously ;
the more he considered it  being all the while
insensibly influenced in its favour by the flattering
attentions and blandishments of the widow  the
more favourably did he regard it, and presently
came to the conclusion that a wife was really

VOL. I. D

almost indispensable to his comfort. He could
forgive a little vulgarity provided she had money
to gild it ; and, feeling that Mrs. Grove's pecuniary
circumstances had become suddenly interesting to
him, he began putting out feelers on the subject
when talking to her. He imagined himself to be
going to york most diplomatically, and to have
artfully concealed the true motive of his questions
and remarks ; but the widow was more than a
match for him. She at once detected this curiosity,
and guessed the reason for it ; and managed
cleverly to impress him with the idea that her
jointure and settlements were considerably larger
than was the actual case. Whether or not she
would have accomplished her purpose without
this stratagem, it is impossible to say ; but, at any
rate, it did what she intended it to do, and brought
matters to a climax. The belief that a rich wife
was to be had, and that it would be foolish of him
to miss such an opportunity, put an end to his
irresolution. He proposed, and was accepted ;
and within two months from the time that they
were introduced to each other at Amsterdam, she
succeeded in attaining]: what she desired, and
became Lady Trecastle.

Her ladyship, being a thorough John Bull at
heart, had no great fondness for foreign places and

people. She lead come to the continent because
she believed it to be a likely hunting-ground
whereon to find a husband ; and as soon as she
had secured her prey she did not care about staying
abroad any longer. Another thing that made
her wish to return to her native land was, that she
was extremely proud of the newly acquired handle
to her name, and was burning to air it amongst
those who would properly appreciate it ; for what
country is there in Europe, Asia, or Africa (about
America I say nothing), where a title produces so
much effect, and is so bowed down to and worshipped
as in that abode of snobs  England ?
Therefore, as soon as she was encased to Sir
Anthony, she determined to endeavour to make
him give up his nomadic existence, return home,
and settle there. By way of paving the way in
this direction she would reproach him, half in jest
and half in earnest, for being an absentee, and
having no proper patriotic spirit ; or else she
would deliver a harangue upon the roguery of
most agents, and the folly of leaving property to
be managed by them instead of looking after it in
person ; and with these and similar observations,
she sought to bring him to wish himself to do the
thing that she desired should be done. Finding
him more inclined to listen to her than she had

expected, she grew bolder, and passed from hints
to a more direct expression of her desires. He
was evidently not greatly averse to discontinue
his foreign rambles, as I perceived with sorrow.
The fact was that he had only gone abroad because
my mother's death gave him gloomy and disagreeable
associations with his house, and on that
account he had taken a temporary dislike to it ;
but his facility for getting rid of whatever was
unpleasant had made him quite shake off that
feeling of dislike by now. Before long Mrs. Grove
had worked upon him so far that he began even
to feel eager to return home, and to look forward
with pleasurable anticipation to the idea of showing
the place to its new mistress, and introducing
her to the society of the neighbourhood.

I said what I could to oppose going back to
England whenever I had an opportunity ; but
alas ! what chance had I against the influence of
the widow ? Of course she carried her point without
difficulty ; and, to my great grief, notice to
quit was sent to the tenants of Castle Manor. It so
happened that there were accidental circumstances'
which made it convenient to the tenants to leave
at once, without waiting for the expiration of the
term of the notice, and thus the house was vacated
at an unexpectedly early date. No sooner was

this the case than Sir Anthony and Lady Trecastle
returned home and established themselves there,
accompanied by their joint families, which consisted
of Margaret Grove, aged eighteen; Jane
Grove, aged seventeen; and myself, aged rather
more than fifteen.

A TIGHT Curb.

When an indolent, easy-going, trouble-hating
man, such as my father, marries an energetic,
bustling, authority-loving woman, such as Mrs.
Grove, it is not hard to foresee which of the two
will bear rule in the establishment. A very brief
acquaintance with Sir Anthony sufficed to show
the widow that, with a little management on her
part, she would be able to govern the household as
she liked ; that as long as he was kept amused he
would not bother himself to interfere with her
arrangements ; and that all she need do in order
to keep the reins entirely in her own hands, was
to take care that her way and his were identical
in whatever affected his personal comfort  she
would then be free to please herself as far as all
other things were concerned. She was not, at
first, altogether easy in her mind as to how he
would bear the discovery of what the real state of
her money matters was ; which discovery, as she

knew, he must inevitably make soon, and might
possibly cause him to be seriously angry with her.
But she need not have feared this with a man of
his disposition, who never worried himself about
anything that could not be helped. Though he
was, undoubtedly, much annoyed to find how
much poorer she was than he had supposed, yet
he reflected, with his usual philosophy, that it was
no use making a fuss about it, now that he had
married her, and that what could not be altered
had better be made the best of. So he gulped
down the disappointment with a wry face or two,
and did not attempt to make her suffer for her
deceitfulness as she deserved.

As soon as she was satisfied on this head, and
felt that she was established in her seat securely,
she turned her attention to me  who would
infinitely have preferred being let alone. I had
never trusted to the sincerity of the professions of
affection she had lavished on me in the early
stages of our acquaintance, when she had imagined
me to be my father's especial pet ; and it speedily
became evident that this distrust of mine had
been well founded. She thought it quite worth
while taking trouble to keep the master of the
house in good humour, and would study and
humour his likes and dislikes in the most amiable

manner possible. But lie saw no reason for
extending the same consideration to a mere insignificant
nobody ; and when she had discovered
how little he cared for me, and that she might do
as she pleased regarding me and my affairs without
danger of interference from him, she proceeded
to take my education in hand, and conduct it
according to her own notions. As her ideas on
the subject and mine were entirely different, and
as the more she and I saw of one another the
more we disliked each other, the result of this
meddling of hers was fatal to my comfort. And
the two or three years following my father's second
marriage were so horribly dull and tedious to me
that I cannot recall them without a shudder.

Everything seemed to go against me from the
time of that wedding. In the first place, I resented
having a stepmother, and finding myself forced
suddenly into terms of intimacy with the three
strangers (her and her two daughters) who had
all at once become part of my family. Then came
the termination of the foreign wanderings that I
had found so pleasant. And now came the culminating
misery of being under the commands of
a selfish, vulgar, lying, bullying, stingy, pretentious,
plausible, tyrannical woman, whom I could
not endure, and who fully returned my dislike.

I had an unlucky knack of perpetually irritating
her, and was always sure to be in the wrong in
her eyes. Either I said or did something that
was contrary to her notions of what I ought to
have said or done ; or I scandalised her by displaying
grievous ignorance of some subject which
she deemed an essential branch of knowledge ; or
else I shocked her prejudices in some other w-ay.
She was not the woman to put up quietly with
offences of this kind in her own household, and
proceeded without delay to attempt to remedy my
deficiencies. Accordingly she informed my father
that she considered my mental condition to have
been neglected terribly ; that I had been allowed
to run wild till I was very nearly ruined ; and
that she saw no chance of my ever becoming a
properly behaved young lady and decent member
of society unless a governess were procured forme
immediately, and I were kept strictly to the
schoolroom until such time as I should come out.
Should she, therefore, engage a governess? My
father, as usual, made no objection to a proposal
which would in no way interfere with his own
comfort. All he said was that she could do just
as she thought best about it ; that he did not
himself see much to complain of in me, and had
thought I was not at all bad company, considering

my youth ; but that he had no doubt she understood
better than him what was necessary for girls,
and that whatever she did was sure to be right.

Armed with this permission, she at once took
steps to carry out her intention, and a few days
afterwards announced to me the contemplated
innovation.

Your father and I have agreed, Ina," she said,
that it is high time to make a change in your
present mode of life  you need to be put into
harness for a bit and broken in. Therefore, I have
engaged a governess for you, and she will be here
next week. What I wish to impress upon you
now is, that when she comes you must do what
she tells you, and that I shall expect you to pass
your time with her. I do not approve of your
fondness for sitting in your own room ; nor yet ot
your habit of appearing continually amongst us
elders when there are visitors here, just as if you
were grown up and already introduced into society !
The drawing-room is not the proper place for a
girl of your age. Eemember that in future you
are to remain always in the schoolroom when
indoors ; and that, when not at lessons, you must
employ yourself there in some quiet and ladylike
pursuit  needlework perhaps, or something of
that kind. And when you go out you will walk

with your governess, and not go climbing trees, or
digging out rabbits, or racing all over the place
like a wild thing, as you generally do."

The idea of being thus hampered and restrained
filled me with dismay ; and in my despair I
appealed to my father, in hopes that he would
protect my cherished liberty of action.

"Why should I have a governess at all?" I
exclaimed to him ; " I'm sure I've got on very
well without, for ever so long ! But even if I mn
to have one, surely I may be free of the hateful
thing out of lesson-time, mayn't I? Just think
how horrid it would be to be obliged to be always
with her  sitting in the room with her all day,
and only going for stupid, straight-on-end grinds
along the hard high road with her when I go out !
Do say that I'm not to be condemned to that, at
all events !"

No doubt I was a fool for my pains, and ought
to have known better than to suppose that I could
move him to oppose his wife on my behalf. So
the event proved, for he declined to interfere in
the matter ; and the only effect produced by my
appeal was to strengthen Lady Trecastle's hands by
increasing her conviction of the extreme unlikelihood
of my father's ever paying attention to any
complaint that I might make to him. From that

time forth, therefore, she felt more secure than
ever in her authority over me, and her tyranny
increased accordingly. When the governess arrived
I was kept immured in the schoolroom the greater
part of each day, and was surrounded by a variety
of petty restraints and restrictions which were
enough to have worried any girl, and were especially
vexatious and irksome to one who had had
the unusual amount of independence which I had
been enjoying of recent years. I found myself
deprived of freedom ; always under surveillance ;
obliged to learn uninteresting lessons ; bored ;
and constantly tacked on to the petticoats of an
individual whose office of governess made her
necessarily hateful in my eyes, however charming
even angelic  she might really be. Of course
such an existence was perfectly odious to me, and
I do not think that I could have anyhow managed
to endure it as long as I did, if I had not fortunately
hit upon a means whereby I could to some
extent relieve its dreary monotony. This resource
consisted in victimising, to the extent of my power,
any rash female who had undertaken to instruct
me, playing off upon her ill-natured pranks of all
kinds, and leavings no stone unturned to make her
life a burden to her till I had fairly driven her out
of the house.

What a dreadful confession of amiability !
some reader may, perhaps, here exclaim. Well  I
do not deny it. Be it remembered that the purpose
of this narrative is, not to set forth an imaginary
picture of virtue and excellence, but simply an
accurate likeness of myself ; and I should evidently
fail of accomplishing that purpose if I were to conceal
or gloss over those sentiments which I really
entertained and acted upon. But even if my
behaviour does lay me open to the charge of un-amiability,
I do not think that that need be
wondered at, when the peculiarities of my natural
disposition, of my bringing-up, and of my whole
circumstances, are taken into consideration.

The occupation of bullying and annoying my
governesses to the utmost possible extent had a
double recommendation in my eyes. Not only did
it supply an ample field for my ingenuity, and give
me something amusing to think about in the dreary
walks and long hours spent in the schoolroom, but
also it afforded me the satisfaction of retaliation.
I had a savage joy in knowing that I was able to
pay off my companion for some of the vexations
that she was the 'means of inflicting on me ; and
I relished the thought that even if I did have a
rough time myself, yet at all events I did not
suffer alone. Endless, therefore, were the tricks

and practical jokes wliicli I used to devise and
execute for the aggravation of whatever unlucky
individual happened to have taken charge of my
education ; and so skilful was I in my operations
that it was but seldom any piece of mischief could
be traced home to me, however greatly I might be
suspected of its authorship. I was an adept, too,
at the art of being extremely insulting and provoking
without saying anything that would seem
a just cause of irritation if repeated to a third
person. I knew how to speak with an offensiveness
of voice and manner which gave an injurious
significance to words that were in themselves innocent
; and by this method I have often succeeded
in making a governess willy angry, although I
had given her nothing tangible that could be taken
hold of and brought against me to substantiate a
charge of rudeness. If she complained that I had
been impertinent, I assumed an air of injured
innocence, repeated exactly what I had said, asked
wdiat harm there was in that ? and declared that
it was very unfair to blame me because Miss so-and-so
had chosen to fly into a passion about
nothing. In fact I was aggravating enough to
have provoked the patient Grizzled herself; and
as governesses are not much apt to be patient
Grizzle in their relations to their pupils (however

gentle and long-suffering they may make
themselves appear to the heads of the establishment),
our schoolroom was in a constant state of
turmoil and ferment, and there was a remarkable
difficulty in getting governesses to stay at Castle
Manor. About a month or six weeks was generally
enough to disgust them with the situation,
and they rarely failed to give notice at the end of
that time. This was an event that always gave
me a sensation of unmixed satisfaction ; as, for
one thing, I then felt that I had scored a fresh
victory and routed another enemy, and also, I
knew that the arrival of her successor could not
fail to bring some small amount of variety into
the monotonous routine of existence of which I
was so deadly tired.

But this constant change of governesses over
which I rejoiced, and which was chiefly my doing,
was by no means equally agreeable to Lady Forecastle.
When an instructress went, it was she
who had to procure a successor ; and she did not
find it at all amusing to be incessantly answering
advertisements, writing for characters, and that
sort of thing. And as, notwithstanding the difficulty
of ever actually j9?'om?zv7 a misdemeanour
against me, she had strong doubts of my innocence,
therefore she considered me responsible for the

bother she continually had about governesses,
and regarded me with increased disfavour on that
account. She had the sense to suspect that there
would not be such endless storms in the schoolroom
if the pupil were not unusually unmanageable
and turbulent; and, acting on that opinion, she
made several efforts to induce me to be more
tractable, in order that thereby she might be saved
the trouble that my conduct entailed upon her.

At one time she tried the effect of addressing
serious rebukes and admonitions to me ; but I
cared not one straw for them. Then she increased
the strictness of my confinement, and ordained
that every disturbance should always be followed
by the loss of the next half holiday or other
pleasure of which I might have a chance ; but
still I remained unsubdued. Then a third method
of overcoming me suddenly struck her, and she
one day wound up a lengthy scolding by declaring
that her patience was at an end, that she would
not stand the perpetual commotions I caused
any longer, and that the very next time one
occurred I should be packed off to some school at
once.

Now it was all very well for her to talk big of
sending me to school ; but in point of fact I felt
pretty sure that she would do nothing of the kind,

because it was very convenient to lier to have a
governess in the house on account of her own two
daughters, for whom she did not want to go to the
expense of masters, and who often needed assistance
in the various accomplishments she wished
them to acquire. This assistance they were in
the habit of receiving from whoever happened to
be in charge of me, though they were too old to
be regularly in the schoolroom ; and as my going
to school would remove the ostensible reason for
having a governess at Castle Manor, it was not at
all likely that she meant to do what she said.

But though she knew the threat to be an empty
one, that did not at all hinder her from uttering
it. Being at her wits' end for something to hold
over me in terrorem, it suddenly occurred to her
that a girl who had always lived with her own belongings,
as I had done, would probably dread the
notion of being sent away alone amongst strangers,
and that therefore the school project stood a very
good chance of awing me into submission.

Instead of that, however, I evinced such delight
at the prospect as took the wind out of her sails
completely. I had not in reality the slightest
objection to school, because it would be a change,
and anything in the shape of a change would be
welcome. And of course my manifestations of

VOL. I. E

delight were all the more exaggerated as I perceived
her annoyance at finding me look forward
joyfully to the thing she hoped I should have
feared. Thus she was thoroughly discomfited ;
and never again did I hear her say I was to go to
school, though I several times returned to the subject
of myself, asking to know when I was going,
saying I hoped it would be soon, etc. etc. I must
say that I greatly enjoyed having triumphed over
her so completely ; and I reflected with malicious
pleasure on the vexation and humiliation it must
be to her to know that I had detected the emptiness
of her threat, and could henceforth look down
upon her with all the contempt which an utterer
of such threats is sure to inspire.

But though I did what I could to procure a
little change and excitement by making myself
disagreeable, and plaguing my stepmother and
teachers, yet the tedium of my life was so great
as to be almost unendurable ; and aojain and again
did I consider the expediency of putting an end
to it by running away from home, and trusting to
my own resources for getting a livelihood. I used
to meditate seriously on how the thing was to be
done, arranging every detail, foreseeing and meeting
probable obstacles, providing for possible contingencies,
and working the whole scheme out from

beginning to end in my own mind. It seemed tome
quite feasible ; and as I was not a bit afraid
of failure, or of what might happen to me when
cast upon the world by myself, I should certainly
have put my idea into practice if there had not
been one consideration which deterred me and
kept me where I was. This was the thought that
I was very nearly seventeen. At that age I was
convinced that girls invariably came out, and
therefore took it for granted that I should do so
also. And as the yoke under which I groaned
would be broken before long in the natural course
of events, it seemed better to resign myself for the
short space during which I should still be subject
to it, rather than to anticipate the day of emancipation
by so desperate a measure as running away
from home.

But in my calculations as to the time of my
being brought out, I had quite omitted one most
important factor, viz. what might be my stepmother's
wishes in regard to that matter. These,
as it happened, were diametrically opposed to mine.
She had no fancy to go about with three young
ladies in tow, nor did she feel inclined to risk
spoiling the matrimonial chances of Margaret or
Jane by leaving either of them at home, and taking
me out with her instead. Therefore she intended


 .

to keep me back in a state of pupilage as long as
possible, and to endeavour to get one or both of
her own daughters married out of the way before
I should make my appearance in society. In consequence
of this private scheme of hers, the attainment
of the age of seventeen, from which I had
hoped such great things, produced no amelioration
in my condition. I was astonished and disgusted
to find that the days and weeks dragged heavily
on at lessons as before, and brought no indications
of the approach of that liberty to which I had
looked forward confidently. Of course, I was not
going to stand this without complaining, so I
remonstrated with Lady Trecastle, declaring that
I was being treated very unfairly, that every girl
came out at seventeen, and that I ought now to
be let to share equally with my step-sisters in
whatever invitations for balls, dinners, or other
gaieties might arrive at Castle Manor. Mj complaints
were unheeded, however, and my grievance
remained unredressed. I was not fit to go into
society, she said ; I was so untrained, stupid, disagreeable,
and bad-tempered, that she would be
ashamed to take me out, and I must positively
remain in the schoolroom till my manners and
temper should be improved. Chafing and fretting
under repeated disappointments, I managed to get

through another dreary year of monotony; but
when my eighteenth birthday arrived and found
me still a prisoner in the schoolroom, I resolved
not to stand this treatment any longer. It became
evident to me that her ladyship destined me to
play the part of Cinderella. As I had no fancy
for that role, and as I had not a fairy godmother
to come to my assistance, I must take the matter
into my own hands and act fairy godmother for
myself. Therefore I determined to execute the
plan which I had already reflected upon so often,
and to run away from home and take my chance
of what might afterwards befall me.

Breaking LOOSE.

Had running away from home been a brand new
idea that had never before occurred to me, I daresay
I should have had to postpone carrying it out
till I had had time to mature the design and consider
how it was to be accomplished. As it was,
however, there was no need for delay on that
account, for I had pondered on the subject often
enough to be thoroughly familiar with it, and to
have discovered a variety of methods for executing
the project. In all these schemes there was one
point which I had always kept steadily in view,
and that was the importance of so arranging my
flight as to secure myself a long start before my
absence should be discovered. I had but little
fear of managing to evade pursuit, if only I could
get a good way ahead of it at first. I saw that
the best means of ensuring this would be to have
the coast clear of authorities when I took myself
off. Therefore I determined to put off my departure

for a few days longer, in order to avail myself
of a particularly favourable opportunity which
would then occur, as my father, step-mother, and
two step-sisters would be going to stay away fora
ball and other gaieties at a friend's house.
When once they were out of the way, there would
be no one to interfere with me except my governess,
Miss Smith, and I thought it would be odd
indeed if I could not manage to get rid of her also
somehow or other. Several expedients whereby
this might be effected soon suggested themselves
to me, and after a little consideration T made up
my mind to try to impose upon her with a sham
telegram. She was a somewhat colourless individual,
much given to writing letters and reading
novels, nervous, easily fussed, sentimental, and
possessing a sister named Alice who kept a school
at Carlisle, and to whom it was evident that she
was very much attached. Now I felt certain that
if she believed this beloved sister to be in need of
her, nothing would induce her to stay away, and
that a telegraphic summons from Miss Alice Smith
would cause my Miss Smith to rush off to Carlisle
as fast as trains would take her there. Such a
summons, therefore, I must contrive that she should
receive. The only difficulty about forging the
telegram I required for my purpose was that I

had not the proper paper or envelope ; the latter
I might possibly contrive to do without, if necessary,
but the former was absolutely indispensable,
and if I could not get hold of a piece of it, I
should have to relinquish the telegram scheme
altogether and substitute some other.

In order to procure what I wanted I pretended
to be in need of stamps, and upon that pretext
went to the post-office at Greenlea, as our village
was called. The post-office was also a telegraph-office
and sort of general emporium, and was kept
by an old man named Jones, who had been therefor
years, and was certain not to dream it possible
that one of the ladies from Castle Manor should
have nefarious designs upon any of the stores over
which he presided. Having bought my stamps,
and made one or two friendly remarks to the proprietor,
I affected a sudden interest in the working
of the telegraph, and was, as I expected, promptly
invited behind the counter to inspect the machine
more closely. The blank forms and envelopes
requisite for sending out messages were lying close
by amongst some other papers, and somehow I
was awkward enough to upset the whole lot of
papers together on the ground. " Oh how very
stupid of me!" I exclaimed, penitently, kneeling
down as I spoke, and beginning to collect the

scattered papers ; " I'll pick them up again in a
moment, Jones ; don't you trouble !" What with
old age and rheumatism, Jones' joints were somewhat
stiff, and he was not sorry to be saved from
the necessity of stooping down in the rather confined
space behind the counter.

Well, indeed, 'tis a shame for you to be doing
that, Miss, and me looking on idle," he replied ;
but I'm much obliged to you, too, and I won't
say no to a good offer. We old folks bent quite
so flippant to move ourselves up and down as you
young 'uns be ; and it be a bit narrer in here
atween the wall and the counter, you see." So
he complacently received the papers from me and
restored them to their places as I handed them
up in instalments ; and he never missed the
telegraph form and envelope which I slipped
swiftly into my pocket whilst his eyes were turned
in another direction. I left his shop in triumph,
having thus supplied myself with the means to
which I trusted for removing Miss Smith off the
premises ; and I was now all ready to commence
operations as soon as m} stepmother and her
husband and daughters should take themselves
off upon their intended visit.

The eventful day arrived, and I stood looking
at them drive away from the house with a curious

mixture of feelings  partly gloomy and partly
cheerful. There went these people who constituted
my family, and I meant never to set eyes on them
again if I could help it. They were going to lark
about, dance, be jolly, and amuse themselves in
all kinds of ways, and it was a horrid shame that
I was not going too. I should have been, only that
Lady Trecastle would not let me have fair play,
and had chosen to spite me and to treat me like
a child when I was not one. I considered that she
had behaved infamously to me. Other young
people of my age and position could go to balls,
enjoy themselves, have lots of fun, and frolic to
their heart's content, and it was grossly unjust to
debar me from doing the same. I was an oppressed
and harshly-treated victim. I was being
defrauded of my rights and ousted from my proper
place through the enmity of a malevolent stepmother
and the negligence of a father, who was
too selfish and indolent to care what became of
me, or any one else, as long as he was himself
happy.

As I stood at the window watching the departing
carriage, and meditating: on the wrongs that
had rankled long in my breast, and had now at
last reached their culminating point, I felt a single
burning tear gather slowly in each eye and brim

over on the cheek beneath. Weeping is not a
weakness to wliicli I am given, for I am, as a rule,
one of the least tearful of mortals. But that tear
was an exceptional one, and was drawn from me
solely "by a feeling of bitter resentment for past
injuries, not by any foolish regrets or sentimentality
relating to my approaching separation from
both home and family.

Mingled with these disagreeable thoughts, however,
there was also present in my mind an exhilarating
idea, which soon dispelled the unpleasant
ones even as the sun disperses cloud. How could
I mind anything now that liberty was so close at
hand ? What did it matter that Lady Trecastle
had been able to convert my home into a hateful
prison, now that I was about to break my bonds
and cut myself adrift from it ? Those people
whose departure I had just watched should find
a little surprise awaiting them on their return, in
the shape of my disappearance ! Freedom, novelty,
and adventures lay before me. Without these
things life was not worth having, and I was on
the brink of enjoying them. Hurrah ! The wide
world was going to be open to me, and I was
about to enter on an unknown future, wherein
everything would be different from the past. The
thought of all this made my pulses throb with

excitement, and filled me with wild eagerness for
the first taste of the anticipated joys.

I did not mean to deliver the forged telegram
to Miss Smith till it should be nearly time for the
train, by which I expected that she would go to
Carlisle, to leave Sparkton  that being the name
of our nearest town. As that train did not start
till past four o'clock in the afternoon, and as Sir
Anthony and Lady Trecastle and her daughters
had left home in the morning, I had to control
my impatience for some hours longer. Part of
this time I employed in preparing the telegram.
Upon the blank form I scrawled in a feigned hand
as follows  " Alice Smith, Carlisle, to Miss Smith,
Castle Manor, Greenlea, Sparkton. Come ivitliout
losing a moment. I need your help immediately T
Having enclosed this in the proper envelope of
thin yellow paper, and directed it to Miss Smith,
I did not neglect also to fill in the blank spaces
on the outside with the requisite information as
to the time when the message was sent out, when
handed in, etc. I knew that she would probably
be far too much perturbed by the telegram to
notice any little irregularity about its appearance,
but, for all that, I meant to be on the safe side,
and to have everything in order, so that there
might be no possible ground for suspicion.

AVlieu the due time had arrived for me to
spring the mine that I had prepared for her I betook
myself to the schoolroom, where she was
engaged as usual in inditing epistles to some of
her numerous correspondents. The precious telegram
was in my hand, and I proceeded to deliver
it to her, and also to account for the unusual circumstance
of its being brought by me instead of
by a servant, according to the ordinary course of
things.

Here's something for you," I said ; " I went
out to pick some flowers just now, and as I was
coming back towards the house I overtook a child
from Greenlea with this in its hand. Of course
I saw at a france that it was a telegram  one can't
mistake the appearance of the article  and I asked
which of the household it was for. Its for you ;
and as I was comines straight in then I thought I
would bring it myself, and save the child having
to come any farther."

The mere sight of the telegram sufficed to
flutter Miss Smith's nerves, and her fingers shook
visibly as she opened it. The instant she had
perused its contents she jumped up in a tremendous
state of agitation, and exclaimed : '' Good
gracious ! it's from my sister Alice ! She wants
me immediately, but doesn't say what's the matter.

What can have happened ? Perhaps she's ill ! I
must go to her at once. What trains are there ?
Isn't there a Bradshaw somewhere ? That's not
it, nor that, nor that !''

As she spoke she hurriedly took up one after
another of the books lying near, and examined
their titles to see if either of them was a B7adshaiu,
although there was nothing in the room that bore
any resemblance whatever to the well-known work.
But she was a great deal too much upset to notice
that. I, however, needed no Bradshaw to enable
me to give her the information she wanted, as I
had already ascertained exactly the starting-time
of the next train that would suit her, and had it
at the tip of my tongue.

The last train to the North from Sparkton
starts at 4.20 in the afternoon, I know," I answered;
that's the one for you to go b} and if you go at
once you'll just have time to catch it. Better go
and get ready as fast as you can, and I'll order
the carriage to take you to the station."

"Yes, yes, that'll be the way; thank you so
much," she returned, beginning to hasten towards
the door. Before she had quite reached it a
sudden thought struck her, and she turned round
with a look of consternation, exclaiming, " Oh
dear ! I quite forgot that you'll be all alone ! I'm

afraid Lady Trecastle won't like it. How unlucky
for her just to have gone away ! But really what
can I do ? Head the telegram yourself, Ina ;
you'll see it's absolutely imitative I should go at
once. My poor, dear Alice ! I'm sure something
quite dreadful must have happened to make her
send for me like this. It can't be any trifle, I
know, for she is one of the calmest, least excitable
mortals on the face of the earth 1"

She's not much like you, then, was my inward
reflection, as I looked at the spectacle of pitiable
nervousness presented by my governess, with her
fingers twitching aimlessly to and fro, and her
face expressing feeble and helpless apprehension
of evil Indeed, I was not altogether free from a
feeling of compunction for being the means of
throwing her into such a state of distress, which
must continue, as I knew, till she should reach
Carlisle, and discover that the telegram had been
a sham. But then she had to be got out of the
way somehow or other, and it would never do
for a young woman who meant to make her own
way in the world, as I did, to be squeamish about
inflicting pain on other people if necessary ; and
after all it was partly her own fault for having
become the governess of a person who did not want
one at all. Besides that, the more miserable she

was now, the greater would be lier joy and relief
when she should learn that her fears were unfounded.
Eeally the bliss of that moment would
be so exquisite that I quite looked forward to it
on her account !

When she handed me the telegram I of course
affected to have no previous knowledge of its contents,
and even made believe to have a difficulty
in making out one or two of the words. Having
read it through, I said, '' Oh certainly, you're
bound to go at once; there can't be a doubt of
that. Don't bother yourself about Lady Trecastle ;
I'll tell her exactly how the matter was. You
know she and my father will be back in a couple
of days, and I shall be all right till their return.
But you'll lose your train if you don't look sharp
now."

Reassured by this speech, she hurried off to get
ready, whilst I rang the bell to order the carriage.
It was an object to me to have her out of the room
when I did this, as her absence enabled me at the
same time that I ordered the carriage to send word
to the cook that no dinner would be wanted that
night. Miss Smith, I said, had been called away
suddenly, and I meant to travel with her a short
distance, to the house of one of my aunt's, with
whom I should stay until Sir Anthony and Lady

Trecastle returned. There Alas nothing unlikely
about my paying a visit to my aunt when left
alone unexpectedly; and I made this announcement
to prevent the servants from becoming
alarmed at my disappearance, and bringing about
a premature discovery of my flight by communicating
at once with my father.

I next went to Miss Smith to tell her that I
was coming with her as far as the station to see
her off ; I said that I knew my father wanted to
have some things mended at a shop in Sparkton,
and that I thought I might as well avail myself of
this opportunity of taking them to the town, now
that the carriage was going there with her. Of
course the discrepancy between this statement and
the one which I had just made for the benefit of
the household would become apparent, and put
me into an awkward position, if she and the servants
should happen to compare notes as to what
I had been saying. But I felt I could reckon
confidently that no such comparison would take
place ; as, for one thing, my governess was a deal
too much flurried and taken up with her own
affairs to think of anything else ; and, for another
thing, my precaution of not delivering the telegram
till there was only just time to catch the
train, prevented her from having time for idle

VOL. I. F

conversation, even if she had happened to feel disposed
for such a thing.

I had had considerable difficulty in making up
my mind what to do about luggage. If I did not
take any, that would look odd to the servants, who
believed me to be going to stay with my aunt ;
but then Miss Smith, on the other hand, who
fancied that I was merely going to drive into
Sparkton to see her off, would be astonished at
any appearance of boxes, bags, or portmanteaux
that indicated an intended absence from home.
Besides that, it would not suit my plan of action
to be encumbered with anything that I could not
manage easily to carry through the streets with
my own hands.

I had considered this knotty point for sometime
before I could determine how to settle it.
What I finally resolved upon was to take a small
hand-bag which was just large enough to hold sufficient
wearing apparel for a two night's visit (so as to
impose upon the servants), and which was yet not
too large for me to be able to carry about easily.
Then, if my governess should make any remarks
about its presence in the carriage, and wonder
what I wanted it for, I could tell her that it contained
the things for my father that were going to
be mended. Into this hand-bag I had already

packed all the jewellery I possessed, and as many
clothes and other articles likely to come useful as
there was room for. Thus all my preparations
were completed, and I was ready for a start.

I did not wish to go away without bidding adieu
to Lady Trecastle, so I had written her a farewell
letter ; and whilst Miss Smith was putting on her
things, I placed it where my stepmother would be
certain to find it on her return. It ran thus 

'lady Trecastle  In my opinion it is high
time for me to see the world and enjoy myself
like other people, and as you seem resolved that
I shall do nothing of the kind, I am going to
settle the matter without asking your leave. I
have timed my departure to suit the sailing of a
vessel which is going where I wish to go, and by
the time you receive this I shall be out of England
and far away. You and I have hit it off together
so badly, that I have no doubt you will regard
my leaving as a subject for sincere congratulations
which permit me to offer to you. I fear that
you will not receive them from any one else, on
account of the hypocritical appearance of grief
under which you are sure to think it necessary to
conceal your real joy. I foresee also that you
will affect the utmost anxiety to recover me ; this

will, of course, involve a considerable amount of
expense, since you will find it difficult to satisfy
Mrs. Grundy of the sincerity of your protestations,
unless you employ detectives, and send out far and
wide in search of me. I reflect on all this with
pleasure, for I know well how you will grudge
every penny that is spent on so unworthy an object
as myself; and as I have no fear of being found, I
am sure that the money will be spent in vain.
Think of that, Lady Trecastle, you who hate waste
think of all that you'll have to throw away
on my account ! Sincerely trusting that you and
I may never meet again, and that Margaret and
Jane may be able to continue their studies without
the assistance which they have hitherto received
from the governesses who were supposed to be
engaged for my sole benefit  Believe me to remain,
yours in no sense at all, Ina Tkecastle."

It is not to be supposed from this letter that I
had any idea of going straight abroad ; on the
contrary, I had made up my mind to get to London
as quickly as possible, and there to hide myself,
and be lost to pursuit by the time that my flight
should be known. But I put in the bit about
leaving England on the chance of Lady Trecastle's
believing it to be my real intention, and being

thereby thrown on the wrong track, and caused
extra worry and expense. She being my especial
enemy, I wanted to annoy her as much as I could ;
and as my father always managed to slip out of
whatever was troublesome, I knew that all the
bother of the search after me would certainly fall
upon her shoulders, and that the more troublesome
and costly it was, the more my longing for revenge
would be gratified.

It cost me nothing to leave my father. Since
his second marriage he and I had seen but little
of each other  I having been kept closely in the
schoolroom, and he not having troubled himself to
alter whatever arrangements his wife thought fit

o o

to make. Whether I were at home or not would
make no difference to him I knew. I cared for
no one, and no one cared for me, exactly describes
the condition in which I was on that afternoon
when I drove off from Castle Manor with my
tearful and apprehensive governess, to catch the
4.20 train at Sparkton. I was leaving a home
wherein, was no person or thing that was dear tome,
where there was nothing for me to regret, to
which I was bound by no sweet or tender associations,
and which had no kind of hold over me.
And I was about to exchange dulness and dreary
monotony for action, adventures, excitement, and

an unknown state of existence, where I must be
always on the alert, ready for everything, and
trust to no one except myself. To all this I
looked forward with a delight that was not marred
by the faintest tinge of timidity, anxiety, or fear
of failing in what I had set myself to accomplish.
No wonder that I was radiant with joy, and found
some difficulty in preserving my usual demeanour
sufficiently not to arouse Miss Smith's suspicions.

A Photograph.

There are two railway stations in Sparkton, which
is a town of sufficient size and importance to have
two different railway companies competing for its
patronage ; and this circumstance rendered it all
the easier for me to escape without leaving traces
for any pursuers to follow. The train by which I
intended to go to London would not leave until
about two hours later than Miss Smith's train to
the north, and did not start from the same station.
What, therefore, I meant to do was to dismiss the
coachman, John, and send him home under the
impression that I had gone away with my governess,
according to the announcement of my plans
which I had made to our Castle Manor household.
Then, as soon as I had seen Miss Smith safely off,
I intended to take my bag in my hand, and proceed
on foot to the other station, there to await the
departure of the London train.

It would, of course, never do for Miss Smith to

see the carriage, wych she imagined was going to
take me home again, drive straight away directly
that it had deposited us at the station ; so, when
we got out, I told John to wait a minute, and then
accompanied her to the ticket-office. Some other
travellers who had arrived before us were blocking
up the entrance, and she had to wait her turn to
take her ticket. This delay greatly increased her
nervousness, and she began to be in a desperate
fidget lest she should be too late. I showed herby
the station-clock overhead, that she had fully
ten minutes to spare, but she was too much upset
to be calmed by reason. Pulling out her purse
she commenced fumbling at it hurriedly, and was
dismayed to find that she could not open it. " Oh,
Ina!" she exclaimed, helplessly, "what am I todo
? Something has happened to my purse, and I
can't get it open ! Dear ! dear 1 I know I shall be
too late ! Can you lend me some money ? "

The purse would not open for the very excellent
reason that she was tugging at the hinges instead
of at the clasp ; I doubt whether she would ever
have found this out for herself in the condition in
which lie then was ; but I quickly saw what was
the matter, and rectified it for her. As soon as I
had done so, I said, " By the by, there's a parcel
to be called for at a shop in the next street, which

John will have plenty of time to go and fetch whilst
I'm waiting to see you off. I forgot to tell him of
it before I left the carriage, so I'm just going to
send him there. I won't be a minute, and shall
be back before you've got your ticket."

The poor woman looked at me with a bewildered
air at first, as though she had hardly understood
what I said to her, and felt only alarmed at the idea
of being left alone in the crowded station. Then,
seeming to realise the position of affairs all of a
sudden, she answered quickly, " Oh, but I forgot,
hadn't you better go and do your shopping at once
without waiting for me to start? I'm afraid if
the horses were to catch cold or anything, Lady
Trecastle would be very much vexed ; and, perhaps,
she might think it was my fault. ]sot that
I want to lose your help, only I shouldn't like to
make her angry. If these people in front will
only be quick, I mai still be able to catch the
train perhaps !"

"Don't be afraid  you've heaps of time," I
returned ; " and I'm sure there's no chance of the
horses taking cold ; besides, they'll be kept moving
by going on this errand that I'm going to send
them off for. I mean to stay and see the last of
you, put you comfortably into your carriage, get
you some papers to amuse yourself with on the

journey, and see that you don't forget anything at
the last moment."

In her then condition of mental disorganisation
on account of her anxiety about her sister, she
was really hardly capable of looking after herself.
She seemed to be vaguely aware of this, and to
regard me as a sort of tower of strength which she
could rely upon, and her face brightened perceptibly
at the assurance that she would have the
benefit of my protecting presence until she was
fairly under weigh.

"Thank you, dear Ina," she said, gratefully.
I'm so much obliged. I can't tell you how kind
and good I think it of you to give yourself so
much trouble about me."

Oh, it's no trouble," I replied, repressing with
difficulty an inclination to laugh at the thoroughness
with which she was being humbugged. So
saying I left her, and hurried away to give John
his instructions. Though the situation struck meas
being ludicrous, yet I had an uncomfortable
sense of being in a false position, and did not feel
particularly anxious to listen to her expressions of
earnest gratitude. I had, for my own purposes,
deliberately thrown her into a state of serious
distress caused by what was absolutely false, and
I was now staying with her merely because it

suited me to do so, and not at all out of regard to
her necessities ; considering all this, it did seem a
little strong for me to be posing in the character
of her especial friend, and receiving thanks as
though I were remaining to see her off out of pure
good nature ! Yet, after all, I could not help
acting as I had done. I was bound to clear the
course for myself somehow or other ; and if the
process of being swept aside happened to be
unpleasant to any obstacle, why, that was.imfor-
tunate for the obstacle, but no reason why the
sweeping aside should be given up.

Having told John that he need not wait any
longer, I watched him drive away, and then returned
to my governess, who was, by that time,
again in need of assistance. She had paid for
her ticket with a 5 note, and received a considerable
amount of change, which she had managed tolet
slip through her trembling fingers as she was
transferring it to her purse, and it had rolled
hither and thither on the floor. Firmly convinced
that the train was on the very point of starting,
she Alas, when I arrived, just about to hurry off
and take her seat, and abandon the money to its
fate, though she could but ill have afforded to lose
it. Luckily I was in time to stop this folly, and
persuaded her to stay and join me in picking up

the scattered coins, which we soon accomplished.
Whilst thus employed, I could not help reflecting
on how differently she and I were constituted, and
on how much the most fit I was to look after
myself.

It must be a queer sensation, thought I, to
care for any one to such a pitch as she does.
fancy being in such a state of mind as she is at
the mere idea of some other person's being ill, orin
trouble of some kind or other ! Well, I thank
my stars I am somewhat tougher than that, and
not quite such a softy. Precious little chance I
should have, else, of shifting for myself, and fighting
my own way in the world, as I mean to do !

It was with a sense of pity, wherein (as is often
the case) there was a strong admixture of contempt,
that I escorted her to the train, found her
the right carriage, established her in it with such
travelling comforts as were to be had, repeated
over and over the names of the places where she
would have to change before reaching Carlisle,
for fear of her forgetting them, and paid her whatever
other little attentions I could think of. She,
poor woman, was quite overwhelmed at such
thoughtful politeness on my part, and received it
with the utmost gratitude, without dreaming for
an instant of the desire to make some kind of

amends for the anxiety I had brought upon her,
which was the real motive of my unwontedly civil
behaviour.

I tried hard to raise her spirits, and when the
train began to move I walked beside it for a step
or two saying cheerful parting words to her.
Faster and faster did the long line of carriages slip
along by the platform, and I stood still, watching
her wave me a farewell with her tear-besprinkled
handkerchief. In a minute more she had passed
out of sight, and I felt, that now the last link of
my chain was indeed broken, that I had got rid
of all the authorities whom I detested, and that I
was in very truth my own mistress.

The first thing for me to do now was to make
my way to the other station, and there await the
starting of my train for London. In order to
avoid the risk of being recognised by any one
in traversing the town, I had, before leaving home,
put into my pocket a thick veil ; this I now
donned, and then, with my bag in my hand, issued
out into the streets. Here I soon had cause to
congratulate myself on having taken the precaution
to wear a veil, for, on turning a corner, I
suddenly found myself confronted by our own
carriage, with John on the box, drawn up close
to the pavement. John was profiting by the

absence of his master's family to do some shopping
on his own account, and also to enjoy the society
of a female acquaintance, who was perched np
on the seat beside him, displaying manifold and
gaudy ribbons from that point of vantage with an.
air of immense complacency. Though he glanced
at me as I passed, he did not recognise me through
my thick veil, and I reached my destination in
safety, without meeting any one else whom I knew.

The train by which I was going was not due
to start for some time to come, and I could not
take a ticket for it yet. As I was anxious not to
attract observation by being seen hanging about
the station, I withdrew into the waiting-room with
a book in my hand, and settled myself there quietly,
as if to pass the time in reading. I was, in truth,
too much excited to fix my attention on my book,
but I wished to appear to be engrossed in it all
the same; and as it is obviously impossible to
read much through a thick veil, I threw mine
back when I began to pretend to study the volume
which I held.

I was undisturbed in my seclusion for a considerable
while ; but just as I was beginning to
think that it was getting near time for the train
to start, and that the ticket-office would soon be
open, two ladies entered the room, attended by a

footman laden with their rugs, bags, and etceteras.
These he deposited on the table and then retired,
touching his hat respectfully, and saying that the
tickets would not be given out for another five
minutes.

The lady nearest me was a middle-aged person.
I saw at a glance, as she entered the room, that
she was a complete stranger to me, and I looked
at her carelessly, without at first noticing her
younger companion. I had, for the moment, forgotten
that my veil was up ; but then, suddenly
remembering it, and also the expediency of concealing
my face before going to take my ticket, I
was just about to lower the odious stifling mass
of thick gauze, when the younger lady moved
towards the table to take something out of her
travelling-bag. She looked at me in passing, and
as our eyes met I felt a thrill of alarm, and a conviction
that she was some one I had met before,
though I coukl not recollect where or how, or
what her name was. Luckily she had evidently
no recollection of me, but passed on without a
gleam of recognition in her face, got what she
wanted out of the bag, and returned to her seat.
None the less, I was perfectly certain I knew her,
and all at once it flashed across me who she was.
She must be Kitty Mervyn, the girl whom I had

met and taken a strong fancy to at Lugano for
years ago. Since then we had both of ns grown
and altered considerably in appearance, and she
had developed into a tall, handsome, stately-looking
young woman. But it was so uncommon an event
for any one to make any great impression on me,
that I was not likely to forget whoever had been able
to work that miracle, and I felt positive that I could
not now be mistaken as to Kitty's identity. I perceived,
also, that she had no idea whatever of who
I was, which was most fortunate for me, as it would
have greatly interfered with my plans to be seen
there by any one who knew me. I was quite
aware of this, and rejoiced at my good luck ; and
yet'  strange creatures that we are !  even whilst
I rejoiced, I suffered a pang of keen mortification.
Hardly ever in my life had I felt disposed to honour
one of my fellow-creatures with any especial degree
of liking or approval ; and when, for once, I had
been moved to do so, it seemed as if the individual
thus distinguished ought certainly to have felt
some corresponding amount of inclination for me.
Yet this had not been the case, since Kitty Mervyn
had forgotten me, though I had not forgotten her.
And therefore I had a sense of annoyance and
humiliation at this forgetfulness, notwithstanding
its opportuneness, and the inconvenience that it

yollld have been to me to be recognised just then,
when it was my great object to leave no trace
that could show what had become of me after the
time that I had parted from Miss Smith.

As soon as the ticket-office was open, the footman
returned to inform the ladies of that fact ;
then they left the waiting-room attended by the
man carrying their impedimenta for them as before.
Having stayed a minute longer to let them get out
of the way, I was on the point of following them,
when I noticed a small article lying under the
table, and picked it up. It was one of those purses
that are purse and pocket-book combined, and I
guessed that it had probably fallen out of Miss
Mervyn's bag when she had opened it just now
to take out something else. What should I do
with the purse ? I had little doubt of who the
rightful owner was, and could easily restore it to
her if I chose. Only the question was whether I
did choose, for there was no one near to see me
find it, and I was free to do as I pleased. At
some other time I might, perhaps, have followed
the dictates of honesty, but at the present moment
I was out of charity with Kitty. I had not forgiven
her for the wound which she had unconsciously
inflicted on my self-esteem, and was much
more inclined to spite her, if I had a chance, than
VOL. I. G

to do her a good turn ; therefore, after hesitating
for a few moments, I pocketed what I had found,
postponing the examination of its contents to the
first opportunity when I should be at leisure and
unobserved.

Now that I was going to trust to my own
resources for a livelihood, money was a most important
object to me, and as I had no intention of
wasting it in needless luxury, I contented myself
with a humble third-class ticket. Having secured
this, I took my seat in the London train, and was,
in due course of time, whirled away from Sparkton
towards the metropolis, where I meant to seek my
fortune. At starting there were two or three other
passengers in the carriage with me, but they got
out at the first few stations where we stopped, and
when I found myself alone I thought I might as
well take that opportunity of seeing what Miss
Mervyn's purse contained.

I was glad to find in it several pounds in gold
and silver. Some extra cash would be extremely
handy to me in present circumstances, and would
no doubt be far more useful to me than to her, I
thought. Then I turned to the pocket-book half
of the purse, and began to explore that also. Here
there were some postage stamps, a set of directions
for some kind of fancy-work that was just then

all the fashion, and a letter addressed to the Hon.
Katherine Mervyn  which last was a conclusive
proof that my conjecture as to the ownership of
the purse was right. I took the liberty of unfolding
and reading the letter, which was a heavy hill
for gloves and fans. The largeness of the amount
caused me a surprise, which was soon changed into
envy as I reflected that I, too, might have been ina
state to require a similar profusion of these
articles, if my step-mother had not unjustly shut
me off from the privileges of my age and rank in
life. It was strange how the perusal of that bill,
and the thought that it had been incurred by a
girl no older than myself, irritated me afresh
against Lady Trecastle, and increased my former
sense of being a much injured and aggrieved
mortal !

The bill, stamps, and work directions appeared
at first sight to comprise the whole contents of the
pocket-book; I was about to shut it up under that
impression, when I bethought me that I was in
want of a new purse, as mine was a good deal worn,
and that if Kitty's was in good condition I had
better substitute it for my own. This idea made
me take up again the one I had found, and look
it over carefully. The close inspection revealed
an inner pocket underneath the flap of the other,

and ingeniously contrived so as not to attract
notice. Within this sly hiding-place was a piece
of cardboard wrapped in silver paper, which, on
being opened, disclosed the photograph of a very
good-looking young man in military uniform. My
curiosity was aroused as to who the original might
be, and I turned it round and round in hopes of
discovering some name or initial ; there was, however,
nothing of the kind except the name of the
photographer to be found, and so my curiosity
remained unsatisfied.

Whoever could that young man be ? I wondered,
and why was he so interesting to Kitty that she
carried his picture about with her, done up and
concealed with such care ? It was not a brother,
as I knew that she had none. Was she engaged
to be married, and was it the likeness of her future
husband ? Only in that case the portrait would
be more likely to be carried openly than to be
thus hidden away in the inmost recess of her purse,
as if it were a thing to be ashamed of.

As I mused over it, and over the desire for
secrecy that seemed to be conveyed by the place
where I had found it, the thought crossed my mind
whether it could be some unacknowledged lover,
whose addresses were being paid against the wishes
of her parents. Yet somehow I could hardly fancy

that to be very probable either. There was a
stateliness and haughtiness about her that gave the
impression of a person who would be most unlikely
ever to condescend to anything so mean and underhand
as a clandestine love affair ; she would have
too much self-respect and sense of dignity. Well !
be the young man who he might, I had no clue to
his identity or to his connection with her, and it
was no use my bothering myself with vain speculations
on the subject. At all events, she would
have to get a new copy of his photograph, as I had
no intention of returning the one that had fallen
into my hands. And with that reflection I dismissed
the matter from my mind, and applied
myself to the more practical consideration of what
my immediate future was to be.

A FEW LONDON PRICES.

I HAVE not, as yet, said anything about what I
meant to do on reaching London, and how I
intended to support myself; but it must not,
therefore, be supposed that I had not carefully
considered, and fully made up my mind upon
that important matter. Various ways by which
a young woman in my position might earn her
livelihood had suggested themselves to me ; and,
after mature deliberation, I had selected the avocations
of daily-governess, shop-assistant, or ,
as being those in which I was most
likely to succeed.

This reduced the limits of my choice to three.
For awhile I remained uncertain to which of the
three I should give the preference, but finally
came to the conclusion that the latter was the
one for which I was best fitted by my gifts  both
natural and acquired. Lack of training would, of
course, make it foolish for me to think of undertaking

the place of an ordinary stay-at-home
lady's-maid ; but that training was by no means
so essential for a travelling Abigail. What would
be chiefly wanted for such a situation was, a
knowledge of languages, a good head, a capacity
for looking after luggage, and such abilities as
would enable the maid to supply the place of
courier whenever necessary ; and in all these
respects I had little fear of being capable of giving
satisfaction to any employer. As far as needlework
was concerned, I could do plain sewing well
enough ; and though I did not know how to
make dresses, yet I anticipated no difficulty on
that score, because, as it would evidently be unreasonable
to expect a servant to have cultivated
both brains and fingers alike, therefore proficiency
in an inferior art, like dressmaking, was not to
be looked for in a person who had studied the
far higher branch of knowledge  languages.
And, besides that, people did not generally want
to have clothes made when they were on their
travels.

There was another part of a lady's-maid's
business which was much more likely to be
required, and of which, also, I was at present
ignorant; and that was hairdressing. But that
was a deficiency whicli could easily be remedied

by some lessons from a good hairdresser ; and the
first thing that I meant to do in London was to
inquire for an artist of this kind, and become his
pupil until I had learnt from him enough of the
art to fit me for a maid's place. Of course, paying
for the lessons, and finding myself meanwhile
in board and lodging, would cost money  and
expense was a consideration that was on no
account to be overlooked. But I was prepared
to practise strict economy; and, what with the
contents of Kitty Mervyn's purse and my own, I
had enough to live upon for some weeks at least,
and did not doubt that my resources would hold
out till I should have learnt sufficient hairdressing
for my purpose. Altogether I believed that I
should make a capital travelling-maid; and it
was an occupation especially attractive to me,
because well adapted to gratify my taste for
much change and amusement.

One thing which I did during the journey to
London was to effect a considerable change in my
appearance. The more I could make myself look
unlike what I had been when I left home, the
greater would be my security against pursuit, and
I did not neglect the opportunity for doing this
which was afforded by the solitude of the railway
carriage. I had not got the materials for a complete

disguise, but a good deal may be done with
a different neck - wrap and pair of gloves, and a
brush, comb, needle and thread. These things I
had stowed away in my bag, and by their aid I
soon contrived sufficiently to alter my exterior to
make it unlikely that I should be identified as
corresponding to any description that might be
given of the Gilbertina Trecastle who had seen off
her governess at Sparkton Station.

By the time we reached London night had set
in. As we steamed slowly into the spacious and
brilliantly lit-up terminus, the bustling, animated
scene which I beheld gave me a thrill of delight,
and a pleasant sense of having undoubtedly got
away from the tranquil duck-pond where I had
been vegetating, and having entered the rushing
stream of life  a stream which tolerates none of
the slimy scum and weed that are apt to accumulate
on the surface of stagnation, but speedily
washes away every vestige of them.

I saw railway officials of various grades hurrying
to and fro, and all intent on some business or
other. Loud shouts for hansoms and fourwheelers
besjan to echo through the glazed walls of the
great station even before the train had stopped.
Porters swarmed at the windows of carriages still
in motion, jumped on to the steps, opened the

doors, commenced taking out hand-bags, wraps,
umbrellas, and similar small articles, reiterated
eager exclamations of " Cab, sir ? Cab, mum ?
Any luggage ? Where from ?" etc., and vied with
one another in pressing their services upon all
passengers from whom a tip was likely to be
expected. Under this head the occupants of third-class
carriages were evidently not included, and
not one of the offers of assistance that were being
lavished so freely in other directions fell to my
share, as I emerged from my compartment with
the bag that contained all my goods in my hand.
It was a neglect, however, which I certainly did
not wish altered under the circumstances, as the
less notice I attracted, the better was my chance
of evading any enquiries that might subsequently
be made about me.

It was too late that night to set about hunting
for a lodging, but as hotels are usually to be found
in close proximity to railway stations, I had no
fear of having to go far for a bed. I was not mistaken
in this confidence. No sooner had I got
into the street than I saw just before me an immense
building with the words Railway Hotel
flaring in large coloured letters upon a gas transparency
over the door; and underneath this
inscription was another, in smaller sized letters,

stating that within this maomficeDt hotel travellers
of all classes were supplied with every comfort
and luxury at extremely moderate prices.

Turning my steps thither, I entered through the
open doors into a large, softly-carpeted, handsomely-furnished
hall, where a porter in a gorgeous livery
and sundry waiters were lounging about and talking.
To one of these I addressed myself, requesting
to be shown a room for the night, and adding that
I wished it to be as inexpensive a one as possible.
My request was referred to the presiding genius
in the hall, who was an elegantly attired young
lady, with the most nonchalant expression of countenance
that it was ever my fortune to behold.
She was deeply engaged in a book ; but on being
spoken to she put it down, glanced at a list of
rooms, rang a bell, uttered oracularly the single
word " 18," then resumed her volume, and at once
became as deeply absorbed in it again as though
her studies had never been interrupted at all.

Meanwhile, one of her satellites conducted me
up innumerable stairs to the chamber assigned tome
 lowness of price and of situation being in the
usual inverse proportions. At last we arrived at
No. 18, which proved to be a room small enough
to have done duty as a convent cell, and scantily
furnished with a table, a chair, a cracked and fly-spotted

little looking-glass, a washing-stand, a tiny
chest of drawers, and a short narrow bedstead,
whereon was an abominably hard and fusty-smelling
mattress.

The charge for one night's occupation of this
palatial apartment was 5s., and for that sum one
would have supposed that a little civility from the
hotel servants might well have been thrown into
the bargain, without there being any danger of the
visitor's receiving an unfair amount of return for
the money spent. Such, however, was by no
means the opinion of the waiters and chambermaids,
who were at no pains to hide the supreme
scorn with which they were inspired by the spectacle
of a traveller attempting to combine hotel-life
with economy. To their minds the two things
evidently were, and ought to be, absolutely incompatible
; and I am inclined to think that they
deemed it one of the objects for which they had
been put into the world, to make that incompatibility
as plainly apparent as possible.

Fortunately for me, I was as little affected by
their contempt as I was by the indifferent quality
of the accommodation provided. Neither the
nasty smell of my couch nor its hardness, nor yet
the sense of being an object of scorn to a pack of
waiters and chambermaids, had power to interfere

with my repose ; for I slept soundly all night, and
awoke in the morning as much refreshed as though
I had tenanted the most luxurious room imaginable.
Observing a tariff of hotel prices hanging
up over the washing-stand, I proceeded to read it
as soon as I was dressed. From this document I
learnt that a single cup of tea or coffee was to be
had for 6d. (would that include milk and sugar ? I
wondered), and that the cost of a breakfast, consisting
of tea or coffee and bread and butter, was
Is. 6d. Not bad that, thought I, for a place which
professes to supply every comfort and luxury at
extremely moderate prices ! I should rather like
to know what is the landlord's idea of moderate
ones.

Paying for food at this rate was not exactly
consistent with the rigid economy which my circumstances
imposed upon me, so I sallied forth to
procure breakfast elsewhere. This was not difficult
to accomplish, as there was a tidy little restaurant
only two doors off, where, for the sum of 6d.,
I was supplied with coffee, a good-sized roll, and
a pat of butter  all of excellent quality. The
small round table on which the food was served
was destitute of a cloth, but quite clean ; and I
ate my meal with as hearty a relish, and enjoyed it
every bit as much, as though it had cost 150 percent

more, and been consumed in the sumptuous
coffee-room of the hotel.

The proprietor of the restaurant was an Italian.
I was, just then, his sole customer, and, as he did
not seem particularly busy, I spoke to him in his
own language when I went to the counter to pay
for my breakfast, and asked him if he happened
to know of any one who gave lessons in hairdressing.
The chance of a conversation in his native
tongue appeared to please him ; for he became so
communicative that I think it would have needed
but little encouragement on my part to draw from
him, there and then, the whole history of his life.
With some difficulty, however, I managed to check
his confidences, and to keep him to the point on
which I required information.

Did he know any one to teach hairdressing ?
He must consider a moment. Yes, to be sure !
there was his friend. Monsieur Candot, a French
parrucchiere, who could do hair, make rosettes,
plaits, puffs, curls, wigs, everything. He was not
certain that Monsieur Candot gave lessons ; but
thought it highly probable.

Had Monsieur Candot much practice ? I asked ;
because otherwise he would not suit me, as I
wished only to learn of a really high-class and
fashionable hairdresser. Then, seeing the Italian's

face clouding over at the idea of my venturing to
doubt the superior talent of a man whom he
recommended and called his friend, I hastened
to smooth down his ruffled feelings by adding that
I felt sure he would excuse my asking the question,
because  as he well knew  there were wigs and
wigs, and the mere fact of making them did not
necessarily imply that they were made well ; that,
in short, if it were permissible to take liberties
with Giusti's epigram about book making, one
might say 

II far' nil' parriicca e nieno che niente,
Se parriicca facta non place la geiite."

This pacified the Italian's rising ire. There could
be no possible doubt, he said, of his friend's
wonderful talent. Monsieur Candot was a genuine
artist, who never executed any work of art that
was not first-rate, because, if it fell short of the
perfection at which he aimed, he would destroy it
unhesitatingly, and make another and more successful
one in its place. His merit was appreciated
everywhere ; he was in request in the very highest
circles, and made wigs " anche per le duchesses

There was no resisting such a recommendation
as this, so T procured Monsieur Candot's address,
and set off to find him. He resided in a small

street near Edgeways Road, and when I got to his
abode I was fortunate enough to find him disengaged,
and to be admitted without delay to his
presence. I told him I was a maid who was
anxious to learn hairdressing, and asked if he gave
lessons in that art. He replied in the affirmative,
saying also that he was constantly having applications
like mine, and that he had no doubt of being
able to make an expert coiffeiise of me in about a
month  however ignorant of the matter I might
now be. Was I going to take the lessons on my own
account, or was it by the wish of my mistress ?

At the time I could not conceive what was the
motive of this question ; but I subsequently discovered
it to be, that his price for lessons given to
a maid at her mistress's expense was nearly double
what it was when the maid paid for them out of
her own pocket. I, in my present state of life,
highly approved of this practice ; and, as my
answer showed me to be entitled to the benefit of
the lower rate of payment, our terms were soon
arranged, and the interview came to a satisfactory
termination.

So far, so good ; and now to find myself a cheap
habitation not far from Monsieur Candot's residence.
After wandering about for some time in the
neighbouring streets, I discovered a lodging that

seemed likely to be suitable. The landlady, however
 either because a long experience of lodgers
had made her distrust them as a body, or else
because there was something she objected to in my
appearance  did not evince much eagerness to let
her room. She hesitated and eyed me doubtfully,
demanding what was my name and occupation,
and whether I could pay a week in advance  i.e.
fifteen shillings.

I had already determined that, whenever I
should be asked for my name, I would adopt the
abbreviation that had been bestowed upon me in
my earliest years ; so I replied that I was a lady's-maid
called Caroline Jill ; that I had recently left
a situation ; and that I did not intend looking out
for another until I had had some hairdresser?
lessons. And, as I spoke, I laid upon the table
the rent in advance which she had asked for.

There was nothing at all improbable in my
story, and the sight of the money gave her confidence,
so she consented to receive me as a lodger.
I then bethought me that she would be almost sure
to expect a lady's-maid to be accompanied by at
least one big box, and that her distrust might very
likely be reawakened at sight of the extremely
modest amount of luggage which I had to bring ;
so I mentioned, casually, that I had left almost all

VOL, I. H

my goods at home in the country, and had only a
very small bag with me, as it was so inconvenient
to be moving about with a lot of heavy things.
And having thus prepared her mind for the
diminutive size of my bag, I set off to fetch it
from the hotel.

The hairdressing lessons were not to take place
till the evenings, or late in the afternoons, so that
I should be idle during the greater part of each
day ; and, as I returned to the hotel, I began considering
how to employ profitably all the spare
time that I should have on my hands. Evidently
the thing to suit me would be a temporary engagement
as daily-governess, as I should then be
adding to my slender stock of money even whilst
paying for Candot's instructions. I would endeavour
to get such an engagement as soon as possible;
and, in order to lose no time about it, I would go
straight to the hotel reading-room, where I should
be sure to find the day's newspapers, wherein I
might perhaps meet with some advertisements
that it would be worth my while to answer.

On reaching the hotel, therefore, I turned along
a passage over which was a notice to the effect
that it led to the reading-room. A waiter outside
stared at me with wrathful surprise, as if he
thought that the luxuries of that apartment were

unlawful for any one badly off for money, and
that it was the height of presumption for so
humble a person as myself to attempt to enjoy
them. But I knew well that whoever stays at a
hotel has a right to profit by its reading-room ; so
I Walked calmly in, without heeding his indignant
looks. Daily and weekly newspapers, journals,
and periodicals of various kinds, were spread on
the table, and T proceeded diligently to study the
advertisements for daily governesses which they
contained. It was not every such place which
would do for me, as I wanted one situated in
London, and where only morning work was
required ; therefore I had some difficulty in discovering
an advertisement that was at all likely
to suit. At last, however, I hit upon a couple in
the Morning Post that seemed tolerably promising ;
and as it Alas too late to think of going to apply
for them on that day, I copied the addresses for
use on the morrow, and then left the room.

As I entered the hall on my way upstairs a
gentleman who had come to call upon some one
staying at the hotel was in the act of leaving his
card. It was a strange coincidence that that
particular individual should have happened to be
there at the very moment when I was passing
through ; for I immediately saw that he was the

original of the mysterious photograph which had
been put away so snugly in Miss Mervyn's purse,
and as to which I had felt inquisitive. Surely
now I should be able to gratify my curiosity sofar
as to find out his name, I thought ; and, so
thinking, lingered in the hall in hopes of an
opportunity for attaining that object.

jSTot far from the door there were a lot of
pigeon-holes for the purpose of receiving any
letters and cards that might arrive for visitors at
the hotel; and in one of these receptacles the
gentleman's card was deposited by the servant to
whom he gave it. This afforded me the chance I
wanted. Pretending that 1 thought there might
be a letter for me, I went to the pigeon-holes and
inspected the bit of pasteboard just placed there,
and thus learnt that its owner's name was Edward
Norroy, and that he was a captain in the Fusiliers.

Well, that was something to have discovered
about him, certainly, but not very much; I had
never heard the name before, and was still as far
off as ever from knowing what he and Kitty had todo
with one another, and why she should care to
carry his picture about in her pocket. It was no
business of mine, of course, as I very well knew.
Yet the singular attractiveness which she had forme
made me feel more interest in her concerns

than in those of the generality of human-kind. It
was strange, too, considering that I had seen her
but twice in my life, and was by no means of an
impressionable nature, nor yet particularly inquisitive.
But that did not prevent me from
speculating about her to an extent at which I
myself was astonished ; I had an idea that I should
like to be able to observe her, and study her
character.

Reflecting how queer it was to take so much
interest in the affairs of a person with whom I had
absolutely nothing to do, and wondering whether
it did not show a tendency to reprehensible weak-mindedness,
I left the hall, and climbed up to my
bedroom. I had very little packing-up to get
through, so I was soon ready to depart, and then
I rang the bell and asked for my bill.

It might, not unreasonably, have been supposed
that the 5s. which was the price of the room I had
occupied would have fully paid for all that I had
had from the hotel, and left a pretty fair margin
for profit as well. Not so, however, was the
opinion of the manager ; for a tiny foot-tub and
jug of water which I had used to wash myself in
on rising were dignified in the bill by the name
of "bath ;" and for that, and for " attendance," an
extra half-crown was tacked on to my expenses.

I had had quite enough experience of hotel bills
to know that " attendance " was an inevitable item
on them, and that it was no use grumbling at the
charge. Still, I had found the article so unusually
conspicuous by its absence in the present instance,
that I could not resist the desire I felt to give a
little bit of my mind on the subject to the chambermaid
who had brought me the bill, and was now
waiting for its payment.

"What an odd thing it is," said I, gravely,
that attendance and nothing should be two words
that have precisely the same meaning. Don't you
think so?"

I spoke with the utmost seriousness, and I think
that she imagined I Avas going to dispute the bill.

Do I think what ? " she returned, pertly ; " I
don't know what you're talking about."

Why," replied I, " if you look at this bill, you
will see that attendance is charged just as if it were
something extra which had really been supplied
to me ; that is not the case, as you are perfectly
well aware, so the natural inference is that the
word must mean nothing, you see. Otherwise one
would be obliged to suppose that those three
syllables had some special privilege attached to
them to enable housekeepers to rob people openly
and with impunity ; for there certainly isn't any

other article  such as dinner, wine, drawing-room,
etc.  which a visitor can be made to pay for if he
hasn't had it. I thought you might have been
struck by the' singularity of this circumstance,
but probably you are too much accustomed to it to
think it odd. Here's the money ; I wish to have
the receipt as soon as possible, if you please."

The woman coloured angrily, and looked as if
she had an uncivil reply at the tip of her tongue.
Just as I finished speaking, however, a bell rang
which she was called to go and answer; so she
was compelled to deny herself the pleasure of a
retort. She hurried away, muttering something
about having no time to waste in listening to all
the rubbish that fools found time to talk ; and the
receipted bill was presently brought to me by
another of the servants.

Taking my little bag in my hand, I descended
the stairs and bade adieu to the grand Railway
Hotel, without feeling the very slightest inclination
ever again to make proof of the accommodation
which it offered '' at extremely moderate prices "
to " travellers of all classes." Yet I myself told
lies unhesitatingly whenever I found them convenient
; so what right had I to complain of other
people for doing the same ?

A STREET INCIDENT.

Before going to bed that night I wished to
arrange my plans for the next day, and to makeup
my mind which of the two daily-governess
situations that I had in view I would apply for
first. For this purpose I carefully compared the
advertisements together to see if either one contained
anything that made it seem likely to be
preferable to the other. As, however, there did
not appear to be a pin's point to choose between
them, I left the selection to chance, and settled
the question by tossing. The result of this appeal
to hazard was to decide me to try first for the
place of A. G., who required personal application
to be made between noon and two o'clock in the
afternoon, at a given address somewhere in the
Bayswater district.

It was no use going there before the hour
specified, and I did not feel in the humour to
settle down to any steady occupation till it was

time to start, so I spent most of the following
morning in watcliinor what went on in the street
below my window, and making guesses as to
the characters and employments of the various
passers-by. Amongst these there was one to whom
my attention was particularly attracted. This
was a little girl of about nine or ten years old,
with a basket containing some bunches of common
flowers for sale. It was quite early in the morning
when first I noticed her, and afterwards I saw her
pass my window again and again ; for though, at
intervals, she made excursions into other neighbouring
streets, yet after each of these excursions
she returned to the one wherein my lodging was
situated. At first she looked tolerably bright and
smiling as she ran here and there, making assiduous
efforts to dispose of her stock in trade. But she
was not in luck's way, and failed to sell a single
bunch; and she evidently took this ill-success
greatly to heart, for all the smiles and cheerfulness
gradually died away from her face, and she looked
increasingly sad and melancholy each time that I
saw her pass.

Presently a big coarse-looking woman, who was
also selling flowers, came into the street. She and
the child met, and stopped to talk, just opposite
my window ; and though I could not hear what

they said, yet their looks and gestures enabled me
to make a very fair guess at what they were talking
about. The little girl, I could see, was timidly
asking some favour which the woman refused. The
child, though apparently much in awe of the other,
yet seemed to screw up her courage to urge the
petition ; evidently she desired very much to have
it granted, as I could see by the pitifully earnest
wistfulness expressed in her countenance, as she
looked up with quivering lips, and eyes brimful
of tears. Whatever her request was, however, the
woman had no mind to grant it ; and, seeming to
become impatient at the child's persistency, pushed
her away roughly and left the street. For a
minute or so after her departure the little girl
stood sobbing, and looking a picture of disappointment
and misery. Then, using the corner of her
shawl as a pocket-handkerchief, she dried her eyes,
blew her nose, and mournfully resumed her former
occupation.

She did not again come in sight of my window,
so I saw no more of her till it was time for me to
start on my situation-hunting expedition.

I was walking down towards Oxford Street,
with my head full of my own affairs, when I heard
a shrill, quavering, little voice pipe out close at my
elbow : " Flowers, lady ! bootifle fresh flowers.

AVon't you please buy a buucli ?" Looking clown,
I saw beside me the same little girl whom I had
previously been watching. The contents of her
basket were still undiminished, and she was sitting
wearily on a door-step, but now started up to offer
me her wares, and try to induce me to become a
customer. Though I could do very well without
flowers, yet I liked them, and thought they would
be a considerable improvement to my dingy little
lodging ; besides, I pitied the child for the bad
luck she had hitherto had that morning ; so altogether
I had half a mind to buy of her. But then
the warning voice of prudence interfered, saying
that I had no money to waste on vanities like
flowers, and that the more I departed from my
strict rule of denying myself every superfluity, the
more irksome it would be to keep to it at all. I
thought prudence was perfectly right, so I followed
her counsel, and replied to the little flower-seller ;
Xo, thank you ; I don't want any."

She, however, was unwilling to take a refusal,
and exclaimed ; " Oh, but do please 'ave some, dear
lady. Sitcli bootifle flowers, they be ! Jest one
bunch !"

I was not going to offend my inward monitor
by disregarding her advice, so I merely shook my
head, and walked on.

For a few steps the child trotted beside me,
continuing lier importunities, but desisted when
she found I was not to be moved. I looked back
to see what she was doing when I reached the
corner of the street, and saw that she had buried
her face in her shawl, and was crying bitterly.

I was provoked at such a very unpractical proceeding
; and, thinking that at all events a word
of good advice would cost me nothing to give, and
that perhaps she might be the better for it, I
returned to her, and said : " Now, you know, its
excessively silly of you to behave like that, and
you'd much better dry your eyes. You're just as
likely as not to be losing a chance of a customer
while you're crying; and you don't want to do
that, do you?"

Oh, indeed but I can't 'help crying," she replied,
between her violent sobs ; " its cos I've so 'angry 
so defile 'angry."

What makes you so hungry ? " said I. " Didn't
you have enough breakfast ? "

I 'isn't 'ad none at all," she returned. " When
mother sent me out this morning', she said as I
shouldn't 'ave no brexshus till I'd got the money
for it with these 'ere flowers ; and she felled me
the same a bit ago, when I met 'er and axed 'er tolet
me 'ave a penny to buy suthun to eat, cos no

one wouldn't buy none of the flowers, and I was
jest starved. She ses as its all my fault for not
selling' of 'em, and that if I wasn't idle, I could get
rid of 'em fast snuff. But that's not true, for I've
done my best  indeed I 'as !"

It really did seem a hard case. I knew, from
personal observation, that the charge of idleness
was undeserved ; and it was very unfair to make
the poor little thing suffer for a slackness of trade
which she could not help. To keep a growing
child running about all the morning in the open
air without giving it a morsel of food to appease
its hunger till nearly twelve o'clock, was a piece
of barbarity that quite shocked me. For, however
hard I may be by nature, and however apt to
drive my own barrow through the world without
troubling myself about the toes that happen to be
in the way and to get pinched, yet I do not think
I have ever been guilty of gratuitous cruelty to
either man or beast ; indeed, the mere sight of it
always fills me with disgust.

The mention of breakfast gave me a sudden
bright idea of how to assist the child without
laying myself open to the reproaches of prudence.
Had I not saved a shilling the day before by
breakfasting at the restaurant instead of at the
hotel ? and was not a penny saved a penny gained?

I lead never calculated on beii]g able to begin
gaining anything as yet, so that that shilling was
an addition to my funds which I had not reckoned
upon, and which I was clearly entitled to regard
as an extra  a thing that I could throw away ordo
what I pleased with  an accidental item which
need not be entered on my receipts at all, so that
prudence had no right to expect to be consulted
as to what was done with it. And, feeling quite
certain of the soundness of this argument, I did
not wait to hear whether prudence took the same
view of the matter or not, but instantly presented
the coin to the child, recommending her to spend
part of it now in getting breakfast, and to reserve
the remainder against some future emergency.

The sight and feel of the shilling checked her
tears with surprising quickness, and her wan,
melancholy, little physiognomy brightened up
wonderfully. Holding her basket towards me, she
offered either to let me pick out the best flowers for
myself, or else to do it for me if I liked ; adding,
with a slight hesitation, that perhaps there might
be one or two old flowers since yesterday that had
Got mixed among; this mornin(:j's lot, and if so,
she would be more likely to know the fresh ones
than I should. The touch of confusion with which
this was said, made me suspect that the contents

of her basket were by no means so fresh as she
professed them to be, and that she, being well
aware of that fact, was moved by an impulse of
gratitude to proffer her services as chooser in order
that I might not be cheated.

Evidently it would be prudent to accept her
offer if I wanted to have anything out of her
basket. But that was just what I felt rather
doubtful about doing. I had intended the shilling
as a free gift, and had had no idea of receiving
anything in return ; besides that, it would be a
nuisance to have a handful of flowers to carry
about with me, and they would probably have
begun to fade by the time I got home ; so, altogether,
I at first thought I would refuse them.
On second thoughts, however, I changed my mind.
The flowers would certainly brighten up my room,
and I knew that I should like them if I could
have them transported there without trouble ; and,
after all, it was just as well to have some value
for one's money; and as she took it for granted
that I should do so, there would be no disappointment
to her in my having them. I said
therefore 

Will you pick me out a couple of good, fresh
bunches, take them to a house that is not far off,
and leave them there, with a message that Miss

Caroline Jill wishes to have them put in water
till she comes back ? "

'Miss, lady," she answered ; " I'll pick you the
weary beset and freshest as I 'as  and thank
you kindly for what you've give me. What's the
'ouse as I'm to take 'em to ?"

I gave her the address of my lodging, and then
we separated ; she disappearing into the nearest
baker's shop, and I continuing my way to A. G.
My experience of life had not given me enough
confidence in human nature to make me think it
very likely that a street child was to be relied upon
to keep a promise ; and consequently I thought it
highly problematical that I should find any flowers
awaiting me on my return. But yet I did not the
least regret the shilling I had thrown away upon
her. It was a satisfaction to think that her hunger
was being appeased, at any rate ; indeed, if I had
not known that that had been done, I should have
exposed myself to the risk of feeling uncomfortable
whenever I thought of her ravenous condition all
day. So I had evidently acted for my own interest
as well as hers.

A NERVOUS LADY.

One of the numerous omnibuses running down
Oxford Street deposited me pretty near where I
wanted to go; and, after alighting, I had no difficulty
in finding some one to direct me to the address I
was in search of. This proved, to my surprise, to
be a small green grocer's shop, where one would
certainly not expect that there would be any
demand for a governess. However, it was unmistakably
the address that had been given in the
advertisement, so I edged my way in, past the
piles of earthy baskets by which the entrance
was almost choked, and spoke to the owner of
the shop  a jolly-looking, burly, middle-aged
man.

Excuse my troubling you," said I, politely ;
"but IVe called in consequence of an advertisement
for a daily governess by A. G. in yesterday's
Morning Post. Is this the right place ?" And as
I spoke it flashed across my mind whether perhaps

VOL. L I

the initials in the advertisement represented the
words " a greengrocer."

As soon as the man heard the object of my
visit, his face twinkled with amusement in a way
that seemed to imply there must be some capital
joke connected with the affair. " Oh yes, Miss"'
he answered, " this be the right place, sure enough!
Perhaps you ain't used to green grocers as requires
daily-guesses vere you comes from  be you
now?"

The man looked so perfectly good-tempered
that it was impossible to take offence at his enjoyment
of the unknown joke, and I laughed as I
replied, "No, I can't say that we do often have
that happen."

Ah, well, so I thought," he returned, chuckling.
And that just brings us to the weary pint as 'as
to be considered in this 'ere bizness. That is 
no offence my skin'  but vere do you come
from, Miss?"

I told him the address of my lodging.
'wealthy district, Miss, is it?" he enquired.

"Yes, as far as I know," replied I, feeling
rather astonished at the question, and reflecting
that my assertion was a perfectly safe one, seeing
that I knew nothing whatever about the matter.

Any illness in the 'ouse, Miss " he continued.

holding up this fingers and checking off on them
the name of each successive disease as he enumerated
it ; " any silver, diptheery, colder, measles,
mumps, small-pox, chicking-pox,'oopin'-corf, nettle-rash
 that's only nine ; there's a tenth as I was
to ax about, I Ivuows ; what the juice was it now ?
Oh yes ! the one as is a flower and a colour  callers
 rose-taller ! Dashed if I can say it right."

Is roseola the word you want ?" I suggested.

"That's it, Miss, thanks!" he exclaimed joyfully,
but without venturing on a second attempt
at pronouncing the word ; "now, be there any of
these 'ere as I've mentioned at the 'ouse vere
you're living' ? or any other infexshus complaint as
I 'haven't mentioned, as perhaps may be some bran
new invention of the doctors since the old list was
made out ?"

I had never thought of making any inquiries
of the kind at my lodging, so I answered " no "
boldly. Even if there were any illness, at all
events I did not know of it, so my negative was
obviously not to be considered as wilfully misleading,
whatever the state of sanitary affairs might
be. " Merry good," he returned ; " then if you'll
be so good as go round the corner of the street
over the vay, you'll find yourself in Fairy Avenue,
and at Xo. 114 you'll find A. Gr., that's to say.

Mrs. Green. You see she's mortal afeard of what
she calls juris, and 's allers thinking as strange
people 's sure to have 'em in their pockets or their
clothes, or some-verses about 'em, ready to turn
loose on whoever they meets. So when she advertised
for a guess or a servant, she mostly axes
me to let 'em come 'ere must, that I may make sure
as they don't come from no infexshus place afore
they goes to 'er 'ouse. Did you ever 'ear of pitch
a ridiklus fancy 'afore in all your born days ? It
makes me fit to split with larfin sometimes. But
there ! it ain't but weary little trouble to me, and
I don't mind obliging' a good customer like 'er, as
takes a sight of wedgebuttles and fruits and sitcli
things. ' I considers 'em particular 'wholesome
articles of dite,' ses lie to me often. ' So do I
too, mum,' ses I back to 'er. And good reason
vy I should encourage the notion, seen' as she
buys 'em all from me ! "

Thanking the man for his information, and
feeling that I had gained an insight into Mrs.
Green's character which might come useful to mein
my dealings with her, I proceeded to 114 Fairy
Avenue. On ringing the bell and saying that I
had come about the governess' situation, I was
requested to wait in the hall, whilst the servant
went to see if Mrs. Green was disengaged.

It was very evident that that lady took care no
one should enter her doors without undergoing
some amount of fumigation, as in the middle of
the hall there stood a sort of small brazier, wherein
some kind of disinfecting compound was smouldering,
and sending out light curls of smoke which
impregnated the air with a sickly smell. By the
odour of this smoke, combined with that of carbolic
acid, the whole house was pervaded, as the floors
were scrubbed with carbolic soap twice a week
regularly, and carbolic acid was freely applied to
whatever incoming thing could, by any stretch of
imagination, be regarded as a possible medium for
the introduction of those " germs of disease " which
Mrs. Green held in horror. In the efficacy of any
inodorous disinfectant she had no belief at all.
How, she would say, could stuff that was not strong
enough to be perceptible to the nose be strong
enough to be relied on to purify the atmosphere,
and affect any germs that might be floating about
in it ? Don't tell her to use a thing like Candy's
fluid, that had not any smell at all ! No, give her
carbolic acid or chloride of lime, which made
difference enough in the air for one's nose to take
cognisance of  then there could be no mistake
about their presence, and one could feel satisfied.

She did not admit me to her room till she had

sent the servant back to inquire whether I had
been to the green grocer's and been forwarded to
her by him. My answer being satisfactory, I was
ushered into her sitting-room and invited to take
a seat near the door, and a good way off from herself.
We then proceeded to talk business, and I
found that she wanted a governess to come every
morning to instruct and take charge of her little
girl of ten years old, and that the amount of knowledge
necessary to satisfy her demands was not
beyond the limits of my acquirements. Having
discovered this much I lost no time in asking
what salary she gave, for I did not want lier to
anticipate this question by asking me how much
I expected to receive, as the fact was that I had
not an idea of what daily governesses were generally
paid, and feared exposing my ignorance. The
terms she offered were so far beyond what I had
thought likely, that I was delighted, and at once
determined not to let slip the situation if I could
help it. Consequently I became very anxious to
ingratiate myself with her, and looked out for an
opportunity of doing so by manifesting sympathy
with the dread of infection which I knew to be a
weak point of hers. For if people have any
specially absurd craze, they are sure to regard an
indication of the same mania on the part of another

person as a strong recommendation and reason for
thinking well of that person. I had not long to
wait for the opportunity I desired, as she said ;
There is one thing I must tell you, Miss Jill, and
that is, that I insist upon every member of my
establishment, without exception, conforming to
the regulations I make in order to guard against
the introduction of infection to the house. Shoukl
you be prepared to do this?"

Most certainly," I replied ; though in truth
I had no intention of troubling my head about the
matter more than I had done heretofore  that is
to say, not at all. " I shall be only too glad to do
so. For I must confess that on that point I am
what some people call quite foolishly nervous."

It is impossible to be too nervous about it,"
she returned, " and I am glad to find that you have
a proper appreciation of the necessity of a carefulness
which is a duty no less to society than to
one's self and one's family. A fresh case of illness
means the setting up of a fresh manufactory of
horrible, insidious, deadly germs of disease, which,
once set going in the world, cannot be recalled,
and can only with difficulty be destroyed. How
many deaths might not be caused by germs made
in and issuing from this house, if we were to have
some infectious illness here ? And if the illness

had been admitted through any negligence of
mine, should not I be responsible for all of those
deaths?"

"Quite true' answered 1, gravely. "I never
was struck by that before, but I see how unanswerably
correct your reasoning is. How I
wish that every one else had an equally sensitive
conscience!"

Yes, it is indeed sad," she replied, sighing, " to
see what an amount of culpable carelessness and
foolhardiness exists in the world ! I do my best
to make these things appear in their true light,
but it is not often that I can succeed in inspiring
my own spirit of prudence into any one else. I
assure you that I have even heard of my precautions
being laughed at and called ridiculous."

I kept my countenance heroically ; and as she
paused, as though expecting me to make some
remark, I exclaimed, "It seems hardly credible!"

So one would have thought," she returned
sadly, " and especially in the face of the outbreak
of scarlet fever which has recently occurred in so
many parts of London, and which every one must
have read of in the papers. However, to return
to business. Will you kindly let me have the
address of your last situation ? Should the answer
to my inquiries there prove satisfactory, I shall be

olacl to euo-acre you, as, from what I have seen of
you, I have every reason to think you will suit me."

Now, of course, I had foreseen that no one would
be likely to engage me without knowing (or supposing
themselves to know, \\liich would come to
the same thing) something about who I was, and
I foresaw also that it might be against me not to
be able to give the name of any one who could be
inquired of about me, either personally or by letter.
To meet this difficulty I had concocted a story
which would, I hoped, be accepted as a sufficient
explanation of the matter. But I had never
dreamt of any one's being so absurdly afraid of
infection as Mrs. Green was ; and the discovery
of her foible inspired me with the brilliant idea of
offering her a personal reference which she would
be certain not to avail herself of.

I replied, therefore, that as I had been a little
out of sorts I had been living quietly at home for
the last six months, in order to regain my health,
and that I had been previously teaching in the
family of Mr. Thomson  mentioning the name of
a clergyman in the east of London whose parish
I remembered having read about not long before
in a newspaper as being pretty nearly decimated
by scarlet fever. This gentleman, I said, had been
most kind to me, having not only given me a

written testimonial to character, but also promised
that he would at any time write to, or see, any
person on my behalf. I only hoped, I put in
parenthetically, that he was not overworking himself
in the terrible visitation of scarlet fever that
had lately come upon his parish ; but he was such
an excellent man, and so indefatigable in his
labours amongst the poor, that I feared it was but
too likely he would sacrifice himself to them. If
anything should happen to him I should feel I had
lost one of my best friends. But, however busy
he might be, I felt sure he would keep his promise,
and would certainly find time to answer any
inquiries that Mrs. Green might wish to make
about me, whether in person or by post.

She, however, would as soon have thought of
walkins] into a blazing furnace as into Mr. Thorn-son's
parish in its then condition, and, as I expected,
thought epistolary communication with him was
but little less perilous,

"Ahem!" she answered, "I am afraid Mr.
Thomson is not a very easy person to refer to just
at present, and I do not quite see how it is to be
managed. I could not think of going to see him,
and I am doubtful that it would be prudent to
write to him either, especially since he is so
devoted to his parishioners, as you say. Men of

that kind are almost invariably careless about
proper precautions. Perhaps he would write mean
answer when actually in a sick-room ; and then
imagine how that letter, full of contagion, would
be mixed in the post with other letters, impart to
them its fatal properties, and thus scatter sickness
and, perhaps, death far and wide ! No, never will
/ wilfully run the risk of causing disasters in this
way, whatever other people may do."

I have the testimonial he wrote me at the
time I discontinued teaching in his family, if you
would think that sufficient, madam," I replied,
beginning to fumble in my pocket as though in
search of the document in question. Of course I
had no such thing about me in reality, but I knew
that I could easily pretend to have forgotten it,
and then write a sham one and send it by post.

She raised her hand hastily to check my producing
the paper. " Wait one moment," she cried,
looking somewhat uneasy. " How long is it since
the testimonial was written?"

Just six months ago," answered I.

"Was there any fever or infectious illness in
the parish at that time?" she inquired.

Not that I am aware of," I returned,

Still it might have been there without your
knowledge, might it not?" she continued.

I allowed that this was not impossible, but
added that I did not believe the district to have
been at all unhealthy then.

What makes me anxious for certainty about
this," she said, " is, that supposing Mr. Thomson
had visited some sick person just before writing
your testimonial, he would have probably had
germs of disease clinging to him ; and those germs,
being communicated to the writing-paper, would
be lingering there still, and be a source of peril to
whoever comes in contact with that piece of paper.
Possibly, however, you have taken the precaution
of disinfecting it by fumigation, or in some other
way ?"

Into, I have not," I answered ; " I am ashamed
to say that I did not think of it  a most reprehensible
omission on my part ! "

Ah, well," she replied, with an air of indulgence,
" it was an oversight, no doubt ; but then
you are still very young, and one can hardly
expect young people to be as thoughtful as old
ones. But we will remedy the omission at once.
There is some disinfecting powder in that square
box on the table beside you. I shall be obliged
if you will sprinkle it thoroughly over the paper
before oivin< it me to read."

I recommenced feeling in my pocket, and then

exclaimed, " Oli how very stupid of nie ! I made
sure that I had brought that testimonial with me,
but I must have left it on my table, as I find I
have not got it after alL Will you allow me to
post it to you as soon as I get home ? Should you
think it satisfactory, and write me word when
you wish me to commence my duties, I will come
at whatever time you appoint."

The look of relief that came over her face on
hearing that I had not got the testimonial showed
me that she regarded it with considerable distrust,
and was not greatly desirous of touching it.

Yes, you can post it to me as you propose,"
she said ; " and I will let you know my decision
by letter also. Of course you will disinfect the
paper carefully before sending it. I shall be glad
if you will take some of this powder for the purpose,
as it is a disinfectant on which I can rely
thoroughly, and has so strong a smell that if you
were to forget to use it, my nose would immediately
inform me of that fact, and I should be thus
warned against opening the paper. By the by,
in the event of my engaging you, should you be
likely to continue the engagement for any length
of time? or to break it off again shortly? My
reason for asking is, that I am most averse to
constant changes in my establishment, because

that means constant fresh risk of infection from
strangers ; and therefore I prefer not entering
into an engagement with any one who likes to be
perpetually moving about from place to place."

It will be remembered that my intention was
merely to take a governess's place temporarily, to
eke out my means till I had learnt hairdresser
and could get a travelling-maid's situation. But
I really did not see that she had a right to expect
me to confide all my private little schemes to her,
so I said nothing about this, and only assured her
that I had a horror of perpetual changes, and that
a permanent situation was exactly what I was
hoping to find.

"There is one thing more that I forgot to
mention," she continued. "I should object to
your making use of an omnibus or tram-car incoming
to give my daughter her daily lessons.
I consider public conveyances of that kind most
unsafe, on account of their liability to contain
germs of disease left by some one or other of
the great variety of passengers who travel in
them."

I quite agree with you," I answered, " and
hardly ever go in one of those conveyances on
that account. I should hope to come here on
foot as a rule ; and if the weather should make

that impossible, I should take a hansom, as being
the least dangerous vehicle available."

I felt I was pretty safe in making this promise,
though I meant to come by omnibus all the same.
There was not much chance of her inspecting the
passengers in the numerous omnibuses running
down Oxford Street and the Bayswater Road ; and
they did not pass up Fairy Avenue, so I should
have no choice about walking the last part of my
journey. Thus she would see me arrive daily on
foot ; her mind would be at ease ; I should be
perfectly free to use the convenient omnibus as
much as I chose ; and so Ave should both be
happy.

Everything being settled, I took leave of her,
and had reached the door of the room to 2;o, when
she spoke again. " On the whole, bliss Jill," sbe
said, " I do not think I need trouble you to send
me that testimonial. From what I have seen of
you, I have very little doubt that we shall suit
each other ; and I feel satisfied to engage you at
once, as the peculiar circumstances of the case
render it impossible to hold any communication
with the person who is your reference. Can you
begin the lessons tomorrow morning at nine
o'clock ? "

Certainly, madam," I replied ; " you may

depend upon my being here then, and I am much
obliged to you."

Who would have thought that a letter six months
old could have inspired her with so much fear as
to induce her to dispense with every shadow of
precaution about ascertaining the character of an
individual to whose care she was willing to commit
her child ?

Marvelling greatly at her folly, and congratulating
myself on my success, I returned to my lodging,
where I found that the little cirl of whom I had
bought the flowers, had duly left them for me.
It was more than I had expected her to do,
certainly ; and the only way I could account for
such astonishing honesty was by supposing that
no one else had wanted to buy them, so that there
had been no temptation to her to break her promise
and defraud me of my nosegay. But I believe I
judged her with too much cynicism ; for, long
afterwards, she proved that she had been really
grateful for the breakfast I had given her, and
was anxious to show her gratitude in deeds.

CHANGE OF SITUATION.

1 WAS naturally rather curious to know how my
family would take the discovery of my flight, and
for some time afterwards I used to look in the
newspapers with a half - expectation of seeing a
paragraph headed " Mysterious disappearance of a
young lady ;" or else an offer of a reward for information
concerning me; or else, perhaps (but
this I considered as being merely possible, and not
at all likely), an entreaty to me to return, and
all should be forgiven. As nothing of the kind
appeared, however, I perceived that my relatives
had the good sense to understand the wisdom of
washing their dirty clothes at home, and that they
did not intend to draw a needless amount of attention
to the fact that I had run away from them.
It was inevitable that my having done so would
be a nine day's wonder and topic of gossip in the
immediate neighbourhood of Castle Manor ; but it
did not follow that our domestic want of harmony
VOL. I. IC

need be proclaimed to all the world and his wife
also ; and so the matter was not published in the
papers.

Mrs. Green's little girl Fanny, to whom I was
engaged to give instruction, was heavy and uninteresting
enough to have driven well-nigh distracted
any governess who cared about shoving on her
pupils, and deriving credit from them ; so it was
lucky that I was less energetic and devoted to my
work. As it was for only a very brief period that
I meant to superintend Fanny's studies, it was
perfectly immaterial to me whether she progressed
in them or not ; and I did not attempt to teach her
anything beyond what was to be got into her head
without much trouble  which limitation reduced
our educational labours to a surprisingly small
compass. Her stupidity did not prevent us from
getting on together most harmoniously ; for though
I did not do much towards increasing her stock of
knowledge, yet I atoned for that deficiency by
opening her mind with an amount of general and
varied entertainment with which no previous
governess had ever provided her. Sometimes I
told her any marvellous stories that I knew, adding
touches, as I went on, to heighten the interest of
whatever parts seemed to astonish her especially.
Or else I would say or do something extravagantly

absurd, just as gravely as though it were the most
matter-of-fact speech or action possible, and amuse
myself by watching the look of absolute bewilderment
that would come over her face at first, and
speculating on how long an interval would elapse
before it would be followed by the succeeding grin
which betokened that her slowly-working brain
had at last awakened to the fact of there being a
joke afoot. By such methods as these I contrived
to find amusement for both myself and her, and I
have very little doubt that she approved of me
highly, and regarded me as being far and away the
pleasantness teacher she had ever had to do with.

That portion of my time which was not occupied
either in giving or receiving lessons I spent chiefly
in attending to the necessities of my wardrobe,
loafing about in the parks and streets, and doing
whatever sight-seeing was to be had gratuitously.
I did not indulge in any amusement costing money,
except theatres, to which I allowed myself a few
visits as a treat and reward for my self-denial in
other respects  theatrical performances being a
form of entertainment to which I have always been
particularly partial.

Thus three or four weeks passed quickly away,
and by the end of that time I had mastered the
art of hairdressing sufficiently to enable me to

undertake the duties of a lady's-maid ; for I was
far more industrious in the capacity of pupil than
in that of teacher, and laboured a great deal more
zealously to profit by M. Candot's instructions
than I did to make Fanny Green profit by mine.
It is wonderful how much easier it is to take
trouble when one wishes to secure value for money
spent, than it is when the object of one's exertions is
merely to give an equivalent for money received !
Having qualified myself for the calling I meant
to adopt, the next thing was to take steps to hear
of a situation ; and to that end I put an advertisement
in the Times, Morning Post, and Guardian,
offering C. J.'s services to any lady going abroad
who required a thoroughly efficient maid, capable
of acting as courier if necessary. This notice
bore fruit speedily in the shape of a note addressed
to C. J., which I found awaiting me on
my return from Mrs. Green's one afternoon, and
which ran as follows : 

"2000 Eaton Square, Thursday.

Lady Mervyn writes in answer to C. J.'s advertisement,
as she wishes to meet with a good
travelling-maid. Lady Mervyn will be glad if C.
J. will call at her house tomorrow evening at 5.30
punctually!'

How strange that my notice should happen to
have been seen and answered by Lady Mervyn 
a person between whom and myself there was a
remote connection, and whom I had met years ago
when I was a child ! Would it be safe for me to
enter her service ? or should I be running too great
a risk of recognition ? No, I did not think I
need be afraid. Kitty was the only one of the
family who was at all likely to remember me, as
I had been much more in her company than in
theirs on the occasion of our previous meeting at
Lugano. And that she had no recollection of me
I had already proved at Sparkton Station ; which
forgetfulness on her part, by the by, I did not
now feel the least bit inclined to resent, having
quite got over the little soreness and irritation
which it had caused me at the moment.

Yes ; I believed I should be as safe from discovery
at Lady Mervyn's as anywhere else, and
determined that I would take the situation. I was
pleased with the idea of being under the same roof
as Kitty Mervyn, on account of the opportunities
which I should then have of observing this girl,
whose character had interested me and excited my
curiosity. And then, too, I might reasonably look
forward to discovering some explanation of her
having chosen to keep Captain Edward Norroy's

photograph hidden away in her purse as she had
done. A carte-de-visite is ordinarily stuck into an
album, and I wanted to know why she should
have treated this particular carte differently to that
of any other acquaintance.

These anticipations were checked by the sudden
recollection that I was counting my chickens before
they were hatched ; that I had not yet got the
place I was looking forward to ; and that perhaps
Lady Mervyn might not think fit to engage me after
all. When did she say I was to go there ? Looking
again at the note I saw that it was dated the
day before. Yesterday was Thursday, and to-day
Friday, so I must wait upon her ladyship this very
same afternoon, and had no time to lose in providing
myself with that necessary article  a character.

About two months before there had died a
certain Lady Brown, who was rather a well-known
person on account of her having lived much abroad
and published a large number of books containing
her experiences of the Eiviera, the Dolomites, the
Alps, the Thine, and other foreign places. Her
husband, Sir Bartholomew Brown, had gone to the
East since her death, and was supposed to be
wandering about somewhere in Persia at the
present moment. As, therefore, no reference was
possible to either the deceased Lady Brown or her

husband, and as they had been childless, it occurred
to me that if I asserted myself to have been her
maid up to the time of her death, there was no one
to disprove the statement. Accordingly, I indited
a character purporting to be written by Sir
Bartholomew, wherein it was set forth that Caroline
Jib had been for two years in his late wife's service;
had only left an account of that lady's death ; had
given entire satisfaction during the whole time of
her service ; was a first-rate traveller ; and was a
trustworthy, sober, steady, exemplary, and .


I wasted several sheets of paper over this composition
before I could please myself ; and when
I had succeeded in getting it to my mind I copied
it out in a feigned hand  bold, rather scrawling,
legible, and masculine-looking. Of course there
was a danger of the forgery being detected, if Lady
Mervyn should happen to be acquainted with Sir
Bartholomew's handwriting. But then it was
quite likely that she was not ; and I would try
to find out if she knew him before I produced the
character ; and, even if the worst came to the
worst, the chances were that she would not take
the trouble to prosecute me, and I should have
just as good a prospect as before of obtaining a
situation with some one else.

By the time my preparations were completed
it was later than I thought, and as the undermining
of the word "punctually" in the note made me
think it important not to be late, I started off
in such a hurry that I tumbled downstairs and
bruised myself unpleasantly. However, I did not
stay to doctor my hurts then, but hurried on, and
arrived at my destination just as the Eaton Square
Church clock was striking half-past five.

It then appeared that my fear of being late
had been quite uncalled-for, and that I might have
spared myself the bruises which my haste had
caused me, for Lady Mervyn had not yet returned
from driving. The fact was she had followed the
usual plan of fashionable ladies and gentlemen,
who, when they make an appointment with an
inferior, take care that they themselves shall not
be kept waiting, but do not the least object to
inflicting that annoyance on the other party. No
doubt such people consider that the time of a
servant, tradesman, farmer, or poor person is much
less valuable than their own, and a thing of so
little importance that it may be wasted at pleasure.

On stating the object of my visit, and that Lady
Mervyn had directed me to call at that time, I was
told to sit down and wait till she came in. It was
past 6 o'clock when she returned, and even then

she did not send for me immediately, but delayed
doing so till she had leisurely examined the cards
that had been left for her whilst she was out,
refreshed herself with a cup of tea, and written
a couple of notes. Having accomplished these
tidings, she at last gave orders for me to be shown
into her presence.

She was about middle height, slightly made,
and aristocratic looking. As she was rather shortsighted
she wore a 2'ince-nez, and this she put up,
and coolly stared at me through, as soon as I
entered the room. After a prolonged survey she
dropped it, but had recourse to it again several
times during the interview, always putting it up
with an air of having suddenly bethought her of
some feature, limb, or other part of me which she
had hitherto omitted to study sufficiently, and at
which she wanted to have another good look. I
must say I thought that she used the pince-nez
in a manner which would have been considered
intolerably rude if it had been directed at anyone
in her own rank of life ; but then she regarded
a servant as being a different sort of animal from
herself, and would have laughed at the idea of
a maid's not liking to be stared at as if she were
made of wood or stone, instead of flesh and blood.

She began by inquiring my name and age ; to

wych I replied that I was called Caroline Jill*
and that I was just twenty-two. For, though my
real age was eighteen, yet I thought that that
seemed rather too young for a person representing
herself as having been a lady's-maid for the last
two years, and that therefore I had better give
myself credit for a few more years than I was
actually entitled to.

"Twenty-two !" she repeated; "you don't look
your age. I should not have thought you so old
as that. How long were you in your last situation
? and what was the cause of your leaving ?"

I was there two years, and I only left on
account of the lady's death," I replied. " Did your
ladyship know the late Lady Brown ?"

She shook her head.

"Perhaps your ladyship may have heard of her,"
I continued; "she was the wife of Sir Bartholomew
Brown, and used to write books sometimes ?"

Oh yes ; I did not know her, but I know
who you mean now," answered Lady Mervyn ;
was her's your last place ? "

"Yes," I replied, feeling that the ground was
safe, and that I might produce my false testimonial.
Ever since her death, two months ago, Sir Bartholomew
has been away from England; but,
before going, he kindly gave me a character, for

fear of my having any difficulty about getting
another situation through there being no one from
my last place for me to refer to. Here is what
he wrote. He was good enough to tell me, when
last I saw him, that he considered me to be the
best maid his wife had ever had to travel with,
and that I did just as well as a courier." 

So saying I handed over my forgery to Lady
Mervyn, who perused it carefully, and then returned
it to me.

I always prefer a personal reference if possible,"
she said ; " but perhaps I might consent
to dispense with it for once, in an exceptional
case like this, where it evidently cannot be had.
Certainly Sir Bartholomew speaks of you in very
high terms. I do not want you for myself, but
for one of my daughters, who is going abroad with
my sister, Mrs. Eollin. You would have to attend
partly on Mrs. Eollin also ; but she will not want
much done for her, as she does not care about a
maid's assistance in most things. As they do not
intend taking a courier, they must have a really
efficient travelling-maid, who can see to their
luggage, take tickets, and all that sort of thing.
I suppose you have had plenty of experience in
that way with Lady Brown ? Can you talk French
and German pretty easily ?"

I replied in the affirmative, that I also knew
Italian, Spanish, a little Dutch, and a few words of
Greek, and that I could keep accounts in some
foreign coins.

En verite, vous ne vous nantes pas mal !" she
returned, looking insultingly sceptical as to my
accomplishments being as extensive as I claimed
them to be. " Voyons d'abord pour le francis."
And she then continued the conversation in French,
whilst I replied in the same tongue. The question
of wages was propounded next. I had no intention
of depreciating my value by demanding too
little for my services, and I knew that courier-maids
were always paid very high, so I said that
I should not like to take less than what I had
received from Lady Brown, which was 35 and all
found. That was very high Lady Mervyn said ;
still, she would not object to give it to a maid who
was really worth it. After a few more questions
she observed that my French was satisfactory, at
all events ; and that, as she was not herself a
very good German scholar, she would get her
eldest daughter to test my proficiency in that
line. Singing the bell she told the footman, who
answered it, to request Miss Mervyn to come to
her. When that young lady arrived her mother
desired her to find out how I talked German. As

I came triumphantly out of her examination, and
also translated accurately an Italian quotation
which happened to be in one of the newspapers
lying on the table, Lady Mervyn's incredulity as
to my accomplishments evidently diminished. I
could see that she began to think my pretensions
to knowledge were better founded than she had at
first supposed them to be, and that she was now
inclined to take upon trust the skill in foreign
moneys, and in Spanish, Dutch, and Greek, to
which I laid claim.

She hesitated, considered and reconsidered, and
scrutinised me through the 2J''ce-nez for some time
before she could make up her mind whether to
engage me or not, and finally decided to do so.
Mrs. Eollin and Miss Mervyn were going abroad
in another ten days, she said, and as it would be
well for them and me to have a few days at home
in which to get used to one another before starting
on our travels, she wished me to return to her
house and begin my engagement on that day
week. This I was quite ready to do, as I had no
doubt of quickly getting free from Mrs. Green
whenever I chose.

One thing which I had evolved during the conversation
with Lady Mervyn was a grievous disappointment
to me ; and that was, that I was not

at all events for a while  to become a member
of her own establishment. I had been confidently
reckoning on being brought near Kitty ; but it
appeared that this was not to be my destiny after
all, unless, by some piece of luck, she should
chance to be the daughter who was to accompany
Mrs. Eollin, and whose especial attendant I was
to be. My mind was set at rest on this point
before I left Lady Mervyn's room, for, just as I
was about to depart, she exclaimed, "Wait a
moment ! I forgot that the young lady whom you
will wait on may like to see you if she is at home.
Perhaps, however, she is not, as she was to dine
out early to-night before going to the theatre.
Has Kitty started yet, do you know?" she continued,
turning to the daughter who had been
experimenting on my German.

Yes," was the answer ; " she went ten minutes
ago, just before I came to you."

Ah, never mind then, Jill ; you can go now,"
returned Lady Mervyn. Whereupon I took myself
off, nightly pleased at having discovered that the
Miss Mervyn whom I was to serve was just the
one whom I wanted it to be.

The next thing was to terminate my engagement
with Mrs. Green, and I meant to make her do
this herself For this purpose I informed her next

morning that I was sorry to say that I found the
daily walk to her house was more than I could
manage, therefore I must ask her to permit me to
come by omnibus in future.

She replied (as I had felt very sure she would
do) that she could not on any account consent to
expose herself and her household to such a risk of
infection. Could I not change my residence, and
come to live nearer her house ? I answered that
I did not wish to do that, as I was quite comfortable
in my lodging, and should probably have a
difficulty in finding another to suit me equally
well.

She returned that it was most annoying, and
that in that case there was no choice but to conclude
our connection together. That would necessitate
her looking out for another governess, which
she greatly disliked doing because there was always
some danger of infection from strangers coming to
the premises, notwithstanding all the precautions
she could take. She would never have engaged
me if she had thought there was a chance of the
engagement lasting so short a time; but I had
seemed so anxious for a permanent place that she
thought I was as averse to constant changes as
she was herself. However, there was no help for
it if I declined to change my abode, for it was

out of the question for her to allow any one coming
daily to her house to make use of an omnibus.

Poor woman ! I think she would have had a fit
if she had known that I had done that very thing
day after day since I had been teaching her child ;
and she was certainly an excellent illustration of
the truth of the old proverb, " Where ignorance is
bliss 'tis folly to be wise." Yet I don't think she
was very singular in this after all. How many of
us are there  especially of those who are heads of
houses  whose peace of mind might not be considerably
disturbed if we did but know the extent
to which other people are in the habit of setting
at nought and ignoring some particular pet prejudice
of our own ?

It amused me to affect deep sympathy with a
piece of folly which I was laughing at in my
sleeve all the time ; so I replied that I fully recognised
the truth of what she said, and that I was
truly grieved to be the means of exposing her to
fresh peril from germs of disease clinging to the
clothes of applicants for my situation ; but that
since she objected to my coming by a 'bus, and /
objected to leave my present lodging, there was
unfortunately no option about my ceasing to
instruct Fanny.

She sighed, and answered that she was afraid

that was true. At the same time, she could not
in justice omit to say that she considered me to
have behaved very well in at once telling her
honestly of my inability to continue to attend to
my duties without travelling by that dangerous
conveyance which she had expressly prohibited
me from using. She feared there were some
people who would have been less straightforward,
and who would, in such a case, have slily disobeyed
her, and endeavoured to conceal from her
what they were doing. But then no one was
likely to be guilty of such unprincipled conduct
as that whose views were as sound as she knew
mine to be on the subject of infection ! Could I
go on coming to her house as before for a few days
longer? If so she would be very glad, as, perhaps,
by then she might be able to hear of a
successor for me. But if the walk was too far forme
to manage, why, of course, the engagement
must come to an end at once, as she could not
consent to my coming by omnibus for even one
single day.

To this I made answer, with perfect truth,
that I should be most happy to go on coming
in the same way as I had hitherto done till the
following Thursday. After that, however, I could
undertake it no longer, and supposed, therefore,

VOL. I. L

that she would wish our engagement to conclude
then.

She assented to this, and we parted on the best
of terms with one another.

Perhaps it may be thought odd that I did not
pursue the ordinary method of simply giving notice,
and taking myself off, when I wanted to go to
another situation. Of course I could easily have
done so if I had liked ; but in that case I should
have lost all the fun that I got out of the matter
by the other plan. It amused me to make her act
as I chose, and herself dismiss me when I wished
her to do so ; and I enjoyed feeling that her weak
point rendered her in my hands an unsuspecting
puppet, that would kick or not, according to how
I chose to pull the strings. Be it remembered
that love of fun has always been a much stronger
element in my character than amiability.

AN UNWELCOME Admire.

So now I was going to be a lady's-maid. I knew
that the customs, ideas, traditions, and general
mode of thought prevailing in the rank of life I
was about to enter, would be likely to differ in
many ways from those to which I had hitherto
been accustomed ; and this knowledge naturally
made me rather anxious as to how easy I might
find it to adapt myself to my novel position, and
to the people with whom I should have to associate.
I felt that I was on the brink of a completely
new experience, and looked forward with more
trepidation than I had expected to my initiation
therein on joining Lord Mervyn's household as a
servant. Under these circumstances I laid down
two rules for my guidance, to which I determined
to adhere as far as possible : these were  first,
carefully to avoid making enemies amongst my
fellow-domestics ; and secondly, to try and discover
and conform to whatever unwritten laws of etiquette

might be generally established amongst
them. And in accordance with the second of these
rules, I determined that on the day when I was
due at 2000 Eaton Square, I would not make my
appearance there till towards supper time ; for I
had often noticed at home that whenever a new
servant was coming, he or she was sure not to turnup
till as late in the day as possible ; and from
this I inferred that to arrive early at a new place
was probably not considered the right thing.

It was, therefore, quite late in the evening when
I drove up to Lord Mervyn's door. The various
articles I had had to purchase in order to equip
myself properly, had caused my possessions to outgrow
the modest little bag that had sufficed to
contain them when I came to London a few weeks
before ; and so I was now accompanied by a box
large enough to make a respectable show as it
stood on the roof of the cab which brought me.

That cab, by the by, is always a sore recollection
to me ; for I cannot forget that it was the means,
indirectly, of my vanity receiving a sharp blow.
The way of it was this.

As I knew that Lady Mervyn would defray my
expenses in getting to her house, of course I did
not hesitate about comines in a cab ; and of course

CD 7

also, in charging the fare to her, I put it down as

being just double what I had really paid. When
she came to settle her accounts with me she demurred
to this item, saying thirst the charge was
far beyond what it ought to have been for the
distance from my lodging to Eaton Square. I
replied innocently that I had thought it seemed a
good deal, and had said so to the cabman at the
time ; but that as he had declared it was not a
penny more than he was entitled to, and as I had
supposed he must know the proper fare better
than I did, I had given him what he asked.

Lady Mervyn accepted the explanation as satisfactory,
and passed on to the next item without
further question. But, when paying me, she remarked
contemptuously that T must be uncommonly
silly to let myself be cheated so easily, and
that in future she advised me to remember that
the word of a London cabman was not always to
be relied on implicitly.

As if / needed any advice of that kind ! Was
it possible to hear myself credited with such folly,
and yet not refute the insulting accusation instantly?
sto be considered such a greenhorn  /
who prided myself on being anything but soft and
easy to take in !

Stung to the quick by her scornful words, my
self-esteem would hardly consent to submit to the

affront in silence. It urged me to remind her of
the fact that there could, in any case, be no question
of my having let myself be cheated, since it
was not / who was the person by whom the fare
was eventually tobe paid. But such a retort,
though gratifying to my injured feelings, would
have evidently been to the last degree unbecoming
to my position as lady's - maid. Luckily my
sense of this sufficed to keep me from answering
her as I longed to do, and I managed to listen
humbly to the unmerited reproach of gullibility,
just as though I acquiesced in the justice of it.
But it was only by a desperate effort that I could
thus control myself, for I was wounded in a point
where I was peculiarly sensitive. The thought of
the slur that had been cast on my knowledge of
the world and hard-headdress rankled in my
breast for long afterwards, irritating me to such
an extent that I could not help feeling that my
dishonesty in overcharging Lady Mervyn was
punished after all, and that I had only come off
second best in the affair. For the amount of
pecuniary profit I gained by it was absolutely insignificant,
and certainly inadequate to counterbalance
the mortification which it entailed upon
my pride.

The thought of this annoyance has led me away

from the proper course of my narrative. I apologise
for the digression, and return to the evening
when I and my chattels were deposited by the cab
at 2000 Eaton Square.

The dignity of the post I was to fill exonerated
rae from having to join the common herd who
supped in the servants' hall, and gave me standing
in the higher and more select society occupying
the housekeeper's room. Here we fared most
sumptuously, for Lady Mervyn had had a small
dinner-party that night, and on these occasions it
was customary for the servants to finish up the
relics of the feast if they ca*d to do so. Bearing
this in mind, the cook never omitted to make the
dishes of a liberal size, or to concoct a sufficient
amount of whatever sauce was required for the
various <?7ire5, puddings, etc., to be able to keep back
some of it when they were sent up to the diningroom.
By this means it was easy after arts to
renovate most of them for downstairs must, even
though the sauce might have been popular with
the gentry, and wholly consumed upstairs  at
least, as much of it as ever went there. Our meal,
therefore, was little inferior to, and almost identical
with, that which had been set before the guests
overhead. It terminated with some capital ice-pudding
and dessert ices, of which there was an

ample supply, in well frozen condition;  this was
thanks to the care of the butler, who had helped
the ladies and gentlemen with a very sparing hand,
and then at once sent the remainder to be preserved
for us in the refrigerator.

My companions seemed so well inclined to be
civil and to welcome me amongst them, that I
began to slake off my nervousness, and to think
that I was going to get on swimmingly. It was
evidently considered that in the presence of a newcomer
like me, the first appropriate topic of conversation
to bring forward was the character of our
employers ; and as every one in the room delivered
his or her opinion on the subject with perfect freedom,
I soon picked up a good deal of highly interesting
information.

Lady Mervyn was described as being "regular
out and out worldly, a good bit more of a Turlv
than you would think from the quiet looks of hera
bit mean, too, and one of those ladies who go
poking their noses into a larder to see what's there
pretty near every morning." I could see that the
cook considered the last mentioned custom to be
highly objectionable, and an amount of surveillance
which was both uncalled for and
aggravating.

The verdict on the eldest daughter was that

she was "not much to look at, and a bit of a screw,
but better tempered than Lady M."

The most popular member of the family was
evidently Kitty, who was pronounced to be
'handsome, merry, spirit, and pleasant-spoken to
both 'high and low. For all that, though, you can
see that she'll never be satisfied without being first
fiddle, or pretty near it, wherever she is, and that
in 'er 'art she likes 'high folk and swells better than
them as isn't. She don't show 'er pride on the
outside, perhaps, so much as some do ; but it's there
all the same, and you won't often find an 'mortier
young lady, go where you will. She's 'er ma's
favourite, she is, and bound to marry a top-sawyer
some day  she'd never be 'happy with any one as
wasn't."

I took the opportunity of enquiring whether
there was supposed to be any particular individual
in the wind, and I half expected that in the answer
I should hear something about Captain Norroy.
This, however, was not the case, nor was his name
ever once mentioned during the whole conversation.
I evolved that she had plenty of admirers,
and was very gracious to them all, just as she was
to every one else ; but that whenever any of them
had been cheated by her amiable manner into the
belief that he had a chance of becoming her

husband, lie had speedily been undeceived, and
learnt, to his cost, that her readiness to be great
friends with him was no indication of a disposition
to be anything more. The most desirable of her
many admirers was, in the opinion of my informants,
a certain Lord Clement, who was clearly at
her disposal if she chose to have him, but whose
affection she showed no signs of reciprocating.

Her obduracy in this matter was quite inexplicable,
I was told, he being a rich young earl not
more than eight years her senior, of good family
and irreproachable character, an excellent match
in every respect, and whose wife's rank and position
would be high enough to content any reasonable
woman. There was no doubt that her family
approved cordially of his suit, and that his relations,
also, had no objection to it. One would
have thought that any girl would have been glad
to get such a husband, and more particularly a
girl like her who set store on being a nob. Yet,
for some reason or other, she seemed not to know
he had any attractions at all to offer, and turned
up her nose at him as if she didn't care a straw
about such things. Not that she was what you
could call uncivil to him,  oh no, it was not her
nature to be that to any one,  but she certainly
contrived to give him more cold shoulder than encouragement.

Whether or not he had ever ventured
to declare himself to her, in spite of this, was
a matter as to which opinions varied. The housekeeper
did not believe he had proposed ; whereas
the butler took a contrary view in consequence of
what he had heard from a waiter friend of his who
lead had opportunities of observing his lordship
and Miss Kitty together at several parties. But
it was mere conjecture, and every one agreed that
there was no certainty about the matter either one
way or other.

It can easily be imagined that gossip of this
kind was extremely interesting to a person in my
position, anxious to learn all I could regarding the
lay of the land which I had come to inhabit. The
communicativeness of my new associates, and the
facility with which I was getting on with them at
starting, reassured me greatly. I began to wonder
at my former qualms, lest in descending to a lower
social grade 1 should find things to put up with
that were distasteful and unpleasant. Entering
service was, after all, no such formidable ordeal as
1 had imagined ; there was nothing that I should
not quickly grow accustomed to in my unfamiliar
surroundings ; nothing to shock the prejudices
or fastidiousness of any reasonable person ; no
reason whatever why I should not be able to

fraternise, and make myself at home, just as well
in that class of life as in any other. Alas for
these couleur de rose anticipations of mine ! They
were destined to be of but very brief duration,
and were soon ruthlessly destroyed by the following
most vexatious occurrence.

As there is no accounting for tastes, and as
even the ugliest of women need not despair of
meeting with some man in whose eyes she will
appear beautiful, or nice-looking at the very least,
therefore I might obviously have foreseen the
possibility of my encountering some male fellow-servant
or other who would consider me sufficiently
attractive to flirt with. Of course, I ought to
have taken this into my calculations when I was
contemplating the various chances and events to
which I should be liable on entering service. But
it was a contingency which, somehow or other,
never once occurred to me ; I suppose I was too
destitute of vanity about my own charms to think
of it.

Now amongst my new companions was Lord
Mervyn's valet, Perkins, a pale-faced, sandy-haired,
thick-lipped, abominably-scented man, who wore
flowing whiskers of inordinate length which he
greatly cherished; who believed himself to be
universally acceptable to the weaker sex, and

who was conceited, cowardly, and revengeful.
As bad luck would have it, I happened to take
this fancy at first sight; and it all of a sudden
dawned upon me, to my amazement and dismay,
that he was actually making me the object of very
marked and unmistakable attentions.

Scandalised at the notion of a man-servant
taking the liberty to raise his eyes to a lady, I
could hardly trust to the evidence of my own
senses at first. But then the matter seemed less
unlikely when I remembered that he had not a
suspicion of there being any inequality of rank
between him and me ; and that, as far as that
went, I was in his eyes just the same as any other
maid in the house.

What he should find to admire in me, who had
certainly done nothing to attract him, was beyond
my power to imagine ; but that did not alter the
very unpleasant fact that he did regard me with
favour, for he made it too plain for there to be a
doubt about the matter. I shuddered to think
that I must endure being made love to by a valet:
it was an odious and degrading idea. Had I
realised the possibility of it beforehand, I hardly
knew whether I should ever have placed myself
where I should be exposed to the risk of anything
so disagreeable. Disgusted and angry at the

admiration which I deemed an insult, and was
yet powerless to resent, I endeavoured to nip it in
the bud by energetic snubbing. Alas ! he only
thought that I was affecting coyness in order to
draw him on, and persisted in his objectionable
attentions all the more.

To add to my annoyance, I perceived that I
was meanwhile incurring the bitter enmity of
Lady Mervyn's maid, Robinson, to whom Perkins
had, before my coming, devoted himself chiefly,
and who strongly objected to any transfer of his
affections. Too much blinded by jealousy to see
how unwelcome his vulgar compliments were tome,
she attributed the fickle conduct of her swain
entirely to my wiles, and thought that I alone was
to blame for his deserting: her.

Unluckily the man had a smattering of French,
and though his accent was as bad as a Corsican's
(which is saying a grcoi deal), he was immensely
proud of his acquirements as a linguist, and aired
them on every possible opportunity. Knowing
that I, too, was supposed to be accomplished in
this line, he kept on addressing me in the one
foreign tongue which he believed himself to know,
whenever he could recollect enough of it to translate
any remark that he wanted to make. By
this proceeding the flames of Robinson's wrath

were constantly being fanned higher and higher ;
for she  understanding not a word of any language
except her own  jumped to the conclusion that
whatever French observation he addressed to me
must necessarily be something of an extra-tender
description, which would be unsuited to the ears
of the general public.

I  anxious not to quarrel with her, and recoiling
\\'ith horror from the idea that any one could
possibly suspect me of having the faintest approach
to a private understanding with Perkins  invariably
answered his speeches in English. But my
efforts to undeceive her were in vain, and by the
time we retired to bed she had begun to express
her hostility in various unmistakable ways  such
as darting angry glances in my direction, giving
vent to frequent sniffs betokening great mental
irritation, and making half-audible observations
as to the rudeness of talking secrets in company,
and the intense objection she had to meddlesome
strangers who intruded and made mischief amongst
friends.

A nice kettle of "fish this is ! thought I, in
reviewing the events of the day before I went to
sleep. I certainly do not see how I am to keep to
my intention of not making enemies at this rate.
And just when I was beginning to feel sure that

everything was going to be so comfortable, too !
Why could not that wretch Perkins have let me
alone, I wonder ? faugh ! The idea of supposing
that I could be pleased with what he considers
pretty speeches. I think it's a great pity that there
are any men at all in the world,  or, anyhow, any
except gentlemen.

There was something worse than mere pretty
speeches in store for me. On the day after my
arrival I was going upstairs from dinner when I
suddenly saw Perkins coming towards me. No
one else was in sight, and he evidently thought ita
good opportunity for prosecuting his courtship
vigorously.

Miss Jill, my dear," whispered he, leering at
me detestably ; " I'm dying for a kiss from them
sweet lips of yours. Do give me one now 
there's no one to see."

I was too much taken aback to be able to think
of any answer which would adequately express
the intense horror and indignation with which his
insolent speech inspired me, so I pretended not to
have heard what he said. But I suspect that my
face showed something of what I felt, for he was
not deceived by my affectation of deafness, and
continued, with a conceited snigger, whilst he
stroked his beloved whiskers complacently :

Wh at  not j must yet, my little partridge ! Tray
Hang ! This evening, or tomorrow, then, eh ?
Only I really can't wait long, mind ; and if you goon
being 'ard-parted, I shall take that kiss without
asking leave. That's just what you want, I essay.
Bless you ! / know the way to please the ladies.
You're all the same  lonoinf? to be courted and
kissed, and yet making believe that you can't
abide nothing of the kind, all the time."

I reached my room in a state of fury that was
mixed with alarm, lest he should attempt to
execute his threat. Being stronger than me,
there was a chance that he might succeed in spite
of all I could do to prevent it. And since it made
me frantic merely to think of such a humiliation,
what should I do supposing the monster actually
did manage to profane my face with his lips ?
Should I kill him on the spot, or should I expire
from sheer disgust ? How unutterably horrible it
was to have to associate with a creature who had
such coarse, boorish ideas of what was the proper
way for a man to make himself agreeable to a
woman ! This, verily, was a degradation for which
I had not bargained. It was a comfort that I was
going abroad so soon ; if I could escape for a few
days more, I should be out of reach of the danger.
And with this reflection I consoled myself as well

VOL. I. M

as I could, determining to be constantly on my
guard as long as I was in that house, lest the
dreaded and hateful salute should come upon me
unawares, from some obscure corner or lurking-place.


My apprehensions were but too well-founded,
as I experienced on the following evening. It was
after dark, and I was proceeding along the passage
near the pantry, with a lighted candle in my hand,
when my enemy suddenly sprung out from some
recess where he had been lying in ambush. He
endeavoured to throw his arms around me, exclaiming,
as he did so : " Now's our time, my pet ! I
can't possibly wait no longer ; and no one's looking,
so you needn't portend not to like it."

Moved by rage and fright to defend myself at
all hazards, I had recourse to the only weapon
available ; and against the odious face and lips
that were approaching mine I thrust the candle
that I carried. He tried to avoid the impending
peril by blowing out the light ; but either he was
too much confused, or else I was too quick for him,
and he failed to extinguish it. In another instant
there was a strong smell of burning hair, and one
of his cherished whiskers was on fire. He let go
of me with an oath, and an exclamation of pain
and fear  for he was a shocking coward ; and I

passed on, quivering with excitement, and divided
between exultation at my escape and self-hatred
for having subjected myself to the disgrace of
being thus forced into a sort of romping struggle
with a valet.

When next I saw him he bore considerable
traces of the contest. The hairy appendages to
his face, in which he delighted, were gone ; for the
whisker I had set on fire had been so much
destroyed that it had had to be shaved off, and
then of course its companion had been obliged to
follow suit. And besides this, there were on his
lips and cheek sundry inflamed and angry-looking
burns and blisters, which I regarded with vindictive
satisfaction.

Alien the other servants commented on the
change in his appearance, and inquired into the
cause thereof, he accounted for it by a story 
which I did not trouble myself to contradict 
about his having had an accident with an unusually
explosive match, the head of which had flown off
and burnt him. There was nothing so abominably
dangerous, he said, with savage emphasis, as an
ill-made thin"; like that, "'oinCT off all of a sudden,
and flaring and skipping about like mad, when it
looked as safe and quiet as possible. Regular
man traps, he considered them to be ; and if he

could have his way, they should be burnt, or got
rid of somehow, every one of them.

As he spoke he cast a malignant glance at me,
which convinced me that I had incurred his
undying resentment, and that in his abuse of the
imaginary match he was conveying his opinion
about my deserts.

To that, however, I was indifferent ; for in my
eyes his hatred was infinitely preferable to his
love ; I did not at all suppose he could do me any
harm, and only rejoiced to find what a wholesome
effect my violence had produced. He could by
no means forgive the loss of his whiskers and
disfigurement which I had inflicted on him ; and
after the encounter above recorded he took no
notice of me, except when he thought he saw an
opening for saying or doing anything likely to
annoy me  of which he always availed himself.

Some of the ways by which he tried to show
his spite were highly ludicrous, and all the more
so because they failed completely of having the
effect he desired. For instance, in helping the
vegetables he would omit to supply my wants in
the proper order of precedence belonging to my
position, and would serve some inferior domestic
with potatoes before me. This, as I subsequently
learnt, was intended as a mortal offence, which

ought to have wounded my feelings desperately.
But I was happily ignorant of it at the time, and
had no suspicion of the intended insult. As long
as I had enough potatoes, it was all the same tome
whether I had them first or last ; and when
at dinner, he passed over me, and handed the dish
to the second housemaid before me, I was all
unconscious of the affront that was being offered,
so that my peace of mind was in no wise affected
by it.

But though, since he had given up making love
to me, I was impervious to most of his methods
of annoyance, none the less did I find the prevailing
state of things uncomfortable in 2000 Eaton
Square ; and it was with sincere joy that I found
myself at last fairly off from London, and accompanying
Mrs. Eollin and Kitty to the Continent.
T hoped that I had seen the last of Perkins ; or
that, at all events, if he and I should be destined
to inhabit the same house again when I returned
from abroad, he would have got over his present
bad temper sufficiently to keep the peace with me.
Certainly T never suspected the implacable enmity
of which  as I was to find by experience  he
was capable.

THE PHOTOGRAPH AGAIN.

When fingers are set to work for the first time
at dressing and undressing any one else than their
natural owner, they are apt to feel uncommonly
as if they were all thumbs ; such, at least, was the
conclusion I came to at the outset of my career as
lady's-maid. But a very little practice sufficed to
make the awkward sensation wear ofi'; and, after
that, I was able easily to fulfil the duties of my
post. To these duties I had no dislike, and much
preferred being engaged in performing them to
spending my time amongst other domestics ; for
I could wait on two ladies without shocking my
self-respect in any way, whereas I felt ashamed
and degraded at the mere idea of being liable to
be persecuted by a man like Perkins. I tried
hard to conquer this squeamishness, telling myself
that it was ridiculous and inconsistent for a
woman like me to be so particular, after having
deliberately elected to knock about in the world,

and take what came. But my endeavours to
reason myself into a sensible view of the
matter were in vain, and completely failed to
uproot the feeling that to be taken liberties
with by a man-servant was a humiliation not to
bo endured.

The Perkins incident having put me out of
charity with the whole class  females and males
alike  to which he belonged, it was a satisfaction
to me that I was to be the sole attendant accompanying
Mrs. Eollin and Kitty Mervyn abroad.
This obviated all danger, at all events for the
present, of my having to associate with obnoxious
comrades. On the score of being dull for want of
company I felt no uneasiness, for I knew by experience
that I could amuse myself perfectly well
when left to my own devices. Besides  had I
not now the opportunity which I had desired for
observing Kitty Mervyn, and trying to make out
her character ? I habitually regarded every one
with indifference ; but she had for me a strange
fascination, which was strong enough to overcome
that indifference, and I was quite astonished at
the extent to which she interested me. Let me
enumerate some of the attractions and qualities,
both bodily and mental, of this young lady, who
was at once my mistress, and also  though she

would have been very greatly surprised to be told
so  my connection.

In appearance she was tall, handsome, and ,
with a bright and open expression
of countenance. Her disposition was upright,
proud, honourable, and averse to everything mean.
In conversation she was clever, quick-witted,
lively, and pleasant. And as, furthermore, she was
endowed with great social talent and a remarkable
knack of pleasing all with whom she came in contact,
she won hearts right and left, and was considered
charming wherever she went. She was,
however, far from faultless. The germ of worldliness,
which inevitably creeps into an education
amongst fashionable people, had begun to develop
itself, and to taint her nature ; and the conclave
in her father's housekeeper's room had certainly
not erred in attributing to her pride and ambition.
So marked was her inclination to haughtiness that,
when first I knew her, it sometimes puzzled me
why she should take the trouble she did to make
herself universally agreeable  even to people for
whom she did not care, from whom there was
nothing to be gained in return, and who were
nobodies in her estimation. As, however, I came
to understand her better, I discovered the key to
this enigma, and perceived that she was actuated

whether consciously or only instinctively I do
not know -by a strong desire for two things which
seemed almost as indispensable to her as the air
she breathed. These two things were popularity
and power, and without them she was never
really happy.

Her frank genial manner was well adapted to
make people believe her to be an unreserved, easily-read
individual ; but the more attentively I studied
her, the less inclined did I feel to think that impression
a correct one. I had doubts whether she
ever showed much of her real self; whether there
were not recesses, of unsuspected depth, hidden
within her where no mortal eye could penetrate ;
and whether she did not often make use of unreserve
as a mask to conceal its opposite. The
possibility of this made her all the more attractive
to me. Curiosity as to what might lie beneath
the surface she presented to the world, served to
increase the drawing towards her that I had always
felt ; and had I been so placed as to have a chance
of making friends with her, I should certainly have
tried to do so. But it was, as I well knew, hopeless
to attempt such a thing in my present position ;
for she was not the sort of girl to condescend to
familiar intercourse with social inferiors, and in
her eyes I was simply a maid. Under the circumstances,

it would obviously be ridiculous if I were tolet
myself become fond of her, and I resolved firmly
not to be guilty of any sentimental folly of the
kind. Yet, in spite of this prudent resolution, I
must confess that I sometimes had hard work not
to yield to the indefinable charm which she had
for me ; and had she vouchsafed me any special
marks of favour, I am afraid I should inevitably
have made a fool of myself, and become romantically
devoted to her. As, however, I had no particular
attraction for her, such as she had for me,
that fact contributed greatly to restrain my liking
within reasonable limits. To indulge in an unrequited
attachment had always seemed to me
decidedly weak and contemptible (notwithstanding
that such a man as the author of the Vita Nova
had done it) ; and it would have discomposed me
immensely to detect in myself any symptoms of
being capable of that weakness.

In short, I was sufficiently smitten with Kitty to
have cast prudence to the winds, and let my whole
heart go out to her, if she had held up her finger
to me. But that little word " if" made just all the
difference. My sense of dignity might safely be
reckoned on to assist reason and prudence in fighting
against an infatuation for any person who did
not care for me in return.

From London we proceeded to Paris ; thence
we travelled slowly across France, stopping at
various places of interest, and presently reached
Cannes, where my two ladies meant to make a stay
of a week or so before journeying on into Italy.

So far, I had seen and heard nothing to confirm
the gossip about Lord Clement's admiration for
Kitty, which had been communicated to me by
the servants. But I received ample proof of its
truth on the day after our arrival at Cannes ; and
this happened in the following manner :

I was engaged in brushing the dust off a dress
which Kitty had been wearing, when I found in
the pocket a letter which she had received that
morning from England. I did not hesitate to read
it. When letters have secrets in them, people do
not leave them about, thought I ; so, since Kitty
has not troubled to take this one out of her pocket,
of course there are no private matters in it, and
there is no reason why I should not see if the contents
are amusing.

The epistle was from Lady Mer'n, and the
portion of it which most interested me ran thus :

Lord Clement told me last week that he
thought he should go yachting to the Eiviera at
once, and as I have little doubt what is the attraction
that takes him there, I daresay you will see

something of him before long. I do hope, dearest
Kitty, that you will not set yourself against him,
and that you will try and reconsider the answer
you gave him before. I am, as you know, the last
person to try to over-persuade you into a marriage
against your own inclinations; but yet I cannot
resist putting in a good word for him, for it touches
me to see how truly he loves you, and how constant
to you he is, in spite of your refusal. Besides
that, he really is a man in a thousand, and one to
whom any mother would trust her daughter joyfully.
Not only has he the recommendations of
rank and wealth, but moreover he is unusually
amiable, high-minded, conscientious, steady, and
superior to the temptations to folly and extravagance
to which young men in his position are so
peculiarly open. With the exception of yourself,
I doubt there being a single girl in London  or in
England either  who would not accept him gladly,
if only he asked her. And I'm sure one can't
wonder at his being so run-after as he is, when
one remembers what his money and position are,
what immense influence they give him, what an
excellent character he bears, and how thoroughly
good he is in every way. However, you know
already how high he stands in my good graces, and
I had better drop the subject for fear of boring you

by going over the same old tale again. Only do
remember, my darling, that it is only the earnest
wish I have to secure your happiness which makes
me so anxious for you not to dismiss him without
well considering what you do. Otherwise you may,
perhaps, some day find yourself repenting your
past decision, and regretting that you were so persistent
in rejecting one of the few men of whom it
may truly be said, that he is all that a husband
should be."

Xot badly done, my lady, thought I, as I refolded
the letter, and restored it to its place. You
knew what a tempting bait power is to Kitty when
you put in that bit about the influence which the
young man's position gives him. And you understood
who you were writing to when you reminded
her of his attractiveness to other people  she's
likely enough to value goods at the price the rest
of the world put upon them. Evidently you, like
the servants, are puzzled to account for her indisposition
to receive the proposals of this rich, titled,
desirable, and altogether delightful suitor. Well !
it rather puzzles me too. Can it be that she prefers
some one else ? No one seems to suspect such
a thing; but yet it might be true for all that.
What if that photograph I found in her purse
were the explanation of the mystery? There is

no impossibility in the idea of a tendresse existing
between her and Captain Norroy, which they have
hitherto managed to conceal from other people. I
wish I could see them together, and then I should
have some chance of discovering whether this conjecture
of mine is right or not.

Whilst speculating thus, a brilliant idea suddenly
flashed into my mind. This was, that I
might avail myself of the surreptitiously-obtained
carte-de-visite (which I had carefully preserved),
in order to find out what I wanted to know. I
would produce it unexpectedly, when there was no
chance of Kitty's being particularly on guard, and
watch for any signs of emotion that she might show
on seeing it.

Wrapped up exactly as it had been when in her
purse, and even in the self same bit of paper, I put
it into a blank envelope, which I presented next
time I went to wait on her.

I picked this up on the floor, just outside,"
said I. " I was going to take it to the landlord ;
but then I thought perhaps it might be something
of yours, as I found it close to the door of your
room, so I had better ask you about it first."

The envelope was not fastened, as I had feared
that if it were closed she would scruple to open it,
which would be fatal to the success of my stratagem.

Thank you," she answered, taking it from me
carelessly. '' I don't think it belongs to me, but
I can soon see."

I was doing her hair at the time, and commanded
an excellent view of her face reflected in the 
opposite which she sat. Her expression
of insouciance vanished like magic when she had
undone the paper and seen what it contained.
The colour rushed into her face, which softened
for a moment in a way I had never before seen it
do ; then came a stern, rigid, haughty, resolute
look, as though she would defy the whole world
to discover whatever secret she chose to conceal.

She did not speak at first, but turned round the
photograph again and again, examining both it
and the paper in which it had been wrapped.

At last she said : " This certainly is my property ;
but I can't imagine how it came to be where you
found it. I fully believed it to have been lost
some time ago."

"Don't you think," I suggested, "that when
you thought you had lost it, you had perhaps
really only slipped it into your writing-case, or
into some book or papers which you haven't happened
to open since then until now ? Then it fell
out without your noticing it, and either you were
at that time at the place where I picked it up, or

else some one's dress may have swept it therefrom
your room. It was very near to the door."

That is possible, no doubt," she returned,
thoughtfully. " Yet still, I can hardly believe it to
have happened so. I felt as positive as one can
be about anything, that it was not in an envelope
at all, and that I had put it"  she hesitated a
moment, and then finished, " somewhere else."

As she did not seem inclined to mention where
she really had put it, I thought I had better pretend
to suppose that its destination had been a
photograph-album.

It would be very easy to be mistaken about
what you had done with it, though," said I.
"Probably when it was given you it was in an
envelope, and then you were interrupted just as
you were going to stick it into your book, 'and
after that you forgot all about it, and it got
mislaid."

"Well, you may be right," she replied. 'indeed
I don't see any other way of accounting for
the matter. But it is odd how I can have been
so completely wrong in the impression I had as to
what I had done with it."

The theory I had propounded seemed sufficiently
plausible to content her, and she did not again
allude to the affair. But I had little doubt that

she thought about it a good deal for all that,
because of a new look which I noticed in her face
occasionally during the next day or two, and which
was different from any other that I had seen there
hitherto. A fleam of soft limit would flash out
from her eyes, accompanied by an expression of
countenance which was curious, half ashamed,
tender, and wistful, and gave the impression rather
of unhappiness than of the joy a girl would be
likely to feel when thinking of her lover. This
look of sadness would last perhaps for a minute,
and then invariably be succeeded by one that Meas
scornful, hard, and impenetrable.

It was "beyond me to interpret these signs
satisfactorily. That Captain Norroy had power to
excite emotions of some kind in her breast I felt
sure ; but whether these emotions were pleasurable
or the reverse, I was unable to make out.

VOL. I.

LORD CLEMENT.

Lady Mervyn's prediction regarding Lord Clement's
movements proved to be correct. His
yacht, La Catalina, arrived at Cannes two or
three days after we did, and that event was
speedily followed by the appearance of her noble
owner at the hotel where we were staying.

The interest with which Kitty's affairs inspired
me had led to my speculating a good deal on the
subject of this young lord ; and I had made up
my mind that he was almost sure to have something
or other disagreeable about him which would
counterbalance his many charms, and afford some
explanation of her unwillingness to accept him.
No doubt, thought I, he is loutish, silly, ugly,
untidy, bad mannered, eccentric, or in some other
way objectionable. This anticipation, however,
turned out to be wrong, and I soon perceived that
he had none of the defects with which my lively
imagination had credited him.

He was rather below middle height, dressed
well and quietly, and could never by any accident
be mistaken for anything but a gentleman  which,
indeed, he certainly was in every respect. Neither
handsome nor ugly, his face was amiable and mild,
but possessed no other very marked expression of
any kind. One would not suppose him to be
powerful or weak, distinguished or insignificant, a
genius or a fool. If there was nothing specially
attractive about his appearance, neither was there
the reverse.

His intellect was not in any way brilliant, but
he had good sense and fair average abilities, was
eminently painstaking, and would work as laboriously
at whatever he thought it his duty to do as
though his livelihood had depended on his exertions.
In short, I think that the most appropriate
description of him is mediocrity, in respect of
everything except moral qualities ; but where these
were concerned he was by no means mediocre,
being far more conscientious and anxious to do
right than are the majority of rich young men who
have the world at their feet.

The most trying thing about him was a tendency
to make a fuss about trifles, and to attach a needless
importance to all the minor proprieties of life,
which was sometimes rather irritating. But, after

all, fidgettiness and extra deference to Mrs. Grundy
are only very small defects in the eyes of most
people. I could understand that Kitty might
occasionally be aggravated by these failings, yet
they alone were not, in my opinion, sufficient to
account for his being refused by a girl who was
ambitious, and who had enough perspicacity and
worldly wisdom to appreciate what an excellent
match he was, and what an opening for ambition
would be afforded by the position of his wife.

I was curious to know how Kitty treated him,
and profited by every opportunity I had of watching
them together. From these observations I
came to the conclusion that he had inspired her
neither with affection nor aversion, and that she
was struggling to bring herself to accept him. 1
thought that her reason and judgment were pleading
for him, and expatiating on his attractions, asher
mother had done, and that she was lending a
willing ear to these advocates, and doing all she
could to let herself be convinced by their arguments.
Yet I had a great idea, too, that the effort
went against the grain with her, and that she often
could not help keeping him at arm's length, even
in spite of her own wish. It was as if she had
been conscious of the grasp of an invisible hand,
from which she could not wrench herself free, and

which constantly drew her back when she strove
to approach nearer to her suitor.

Is it Captain ISTorroy's hand that restrains her ?
I asked myself, as I pondered over this result of
my observations. Yet, if so, it seems very odd
that no one except me should have discovered
their attachment for one another. From all that
I have seen and heard I should have thought that a
young couple in society would never have managed
to become spoons to any serious degree without
giving rise to some amount of suspicion as to the
true state of affairs between them. How ever can
these two have contrived to deceive the lynx eyes
of gossip-loving servants, and to hoodwink the
worldly and wide-awake Lady Mervyn, whose
heart is set on securing a brilliant match for her
favourite daughter ?

o

Lord Clement's behaviour towards Kitty after his
arrival at Cannes seemed to me that of a man who
felt himself to be on trial  was nervous lest she
should think him over eacer in his addresses, and
objected to getting himself talked about with a girl
who perhaps would not marry him after all. His
first proceeding was to get introduced to Mrs.
Rollin, who had till then been a stranger to him.
The introduction was easily effected, and after that
he had no lack of opportunities of meeting the object

of his affections ; for Mrs. Colin responded cordially
to his advances, inviting him to join in all the
excursions to neighbouring lions which she and
Kitty made, and letting it be apparent that he
was most welcome whenever he chose to pay them
a visit, and to accompany them anywhere.

I have no doubt that this civility of hers resulted,
in the first instance, from something said
by Lady Mervyn as to his admiration for Kitty,
and the desirability of encouraging him as much
as possible. But though this may have been the
original motive of the empressement with which
Mrs. Rollin received him, there was no fear of her
not welcoming him for his own sake when once
she had made acquaintance with him and discovered
what he was like. For she was a person
who held that the most important matter in life
was to stand well in the world's opinion, and consequently
she was quite charmed with his scrupulous
regard for convenances and extreme horror of
doing anything that could shock Mrs. Grundy.

"There's nothing of more consequence," Mrs.
Eollin would declare, '' than to keep up appearances,
because, provided one does that, one is quite
safe to be thought perfect. And that's what
every one wishes to be thought, or, if they don't,
they ought to. I call it quite wicked of any one

to pretend that it doesn't matter what the world's
opinion about them is. Depend upon it, that
whatever the whole world thinks cant be wrong ;
and that if a person is generally condemned or
praised, there's always some good reason for the
blame or the approval."

Keeping up appearances in the eyes of the world
was, therefore, her standard of perfection ; and she
strove zealously never to fall short of that standard,
and always to fulfil its requirements punctiliously.
Nevertheless, it would be a mistake to deduce from
this that she was such an abject slave of the
world's opinion as to let herself be governed by
it in things which it did not see. On the contrary,
she drew a line between her public and private
actions, and did not allow it to interfere at all
with the latter. If she had tastes and inclinations
to which it objected, she did not, on that account,
sacrifice them, if it was possible that they could
be indulged in secret. How she would act, under
such circumstances, was illustrated by her behaviour
regarding French novels. These she preferred
to any other kind of reading, and greedily
devoured as many as she could lay hold of. But
as she knew that the world sometimes thinks fit
to frown at an indiscriminate study of these books
(who shall say whether that disapprobation is real

or feigned ?), therefore she was careful not to
reveal her partiality for them. Yet she did not
rush to the opposite extreme and disclaim any
acquaintance whatsoever with that class of literature.
She had no idea of hiding her light under
a bushel, and not being duly credited with as
many accomplishments as she possessed, and
therefore liked to have it known that she understood
a foreign language well enough to read and
enjoy works written in it. So what she did was,
to profess to read French novels solely with the
laudable object of keeping up her French ; while,
at the same time, she was most cautious in talking
about them in public, and never betrayed the
slightest knowledge of the contents of any that
were not fairly decorous and proper.

But / knew better than that. It was a matter
in which her maid could not be deceived as easily
as the rest of the world.

Boheraianism being an open setting-at-defiance
of the world's opinion, was quite detestable to her,
with all that savoured thereof; and the very
correct Lord Clement was, of course, a man after
her own heart. There was, however, a wide difference
between the respective ways in which he
and she regarded Mrs. Grundy. For while the
gentleman had a genuine esteem for that great

social authority, and paid her homage in all
sincerity, Mrs. Rollin did it only in appearance,
and was moved thereto chiefly by fear.

The room in which I slept was immediately
over Mrs. Eollin's sitting-room ; and by sitting at
the open window in my room I could hear  when
the weather was calm  most things that were said
by people on the balcony beneath. Thus I overheard
an interesting conversation as to plans
which took place after we had been at Cannes for
about as long a time as my two ladies intended to
stay there. Where to go next, was the question
they were debating. And as Lord Clement happened
to call just then, Mrs. Rollin appealed to
him to assist them with his advice in the matter.

His manner of complying with this request
was eminently characteristic of him. Kitty's
society was the object of his keenest desires at
that moment, and he was averse to the idea of any
movement that would involve his being separated
from her. Under these circumstances, and considering
the amount of encouragement he had
received  especially from the young lady's chaperone
 some men would have taken it for granted
that their companionship was acceptable, and that
it was a matter of course for them to accompany
the two ladies to their next destination. Not so,

however, would Lord Clement behave. Thus
openly to attach himself to them as a travelling
companion would inevitably give rise to gossip ;
and to do anything likely to be talked about as
unusual was quite contrary to his ideas of propriety.
Though the real object of his visit to the
Mediterranean might have been Kitty, yet the
ostensible reason had been yachting ; and this
pretext he had no intention of renouncing by
leaving his vessel. In taking part in the discussion
as to what our future movements were to be,
he gave no indication of being personally interested
in the matter in any way, and assumed the air of
a strictly impartial adviser. At the same time,
however, his opinion as to the desirability of
J)] aces was in such remarkably exact proportion
to their availability from the sea, that I listened
with much amusement, and thought that the
disinterestedness of his counsels might very fairly
be doubted.

Various localities had been suggested and talked
over without any determination being arrived at,
when Kitty observed, "Now I've quite a new
place to propose ; and that's Corsica. I saw it
looking just like a purple cloud resting on the sea
the other day, and I have a great fancy to go and
see it close. For one thing, there's no railway

there yet ; and I should like, for once in my life,
to feel that I was in a land through which locomotives
have never puffed. It would be an
absolutely new sensation to me, and one which
the present rate of civilisation will soon render
unattainable, I expect ; so I vote we experience it
while we can. Besides, I'm sure it would be a good
place for sketching. What do you say, Aunt Georgia
? Don't you think it '11 be pleasant to get away
from this cockney old Eiviera, and go a little bit out
of the regular beaten track where every one goes ?"

"Kitty, Kitty!" remonstrated her aunt, "it
quite distresses me to hear you talk like that !
You really shouldn't speak contemptuously of the
beaten track, and be so anxious to get away from
it. Eemember that the fact of its being worn by
many feet is also a sure proof of its being smoother,
pleasant, and in every way preferable to other
tracks."

All right, aunty," laughed Kitty ; " I won't
abuse your favourite walk since it vexes you !
But doesn't it strike you that I should appreciate
its merits all the more if I were to see with my
own eyes  just for once you know  how horrid
some other route can be ? And isn't that a good
reason for going to Corsica ? Do let's go there ;
I've quite set my heart on it."

Kitty rarely failed to get her own way with
Mrs. Eollin, who was as susceptible as the rest of
the world to the girl's powers of fascination. But
the hesitating, reluctant tone in which the elder
lady answered, showed me that she had no great
fancy for this Corsican visit. "Well, I hardly
know what to say," she returned slowly ; " to
begin with, How does one get there ? and in the
next place, What's it like when one is there ? I
think I've heard you say you were there once,
Lord Clement ; do help me to make up my mind
about this, and advise me whether or not to do
what this rash niece of mine wishes."

Corsica naturally found favour in the young
man's eyes as being convenient for yachting purposes.
" Oh, if you ask me, I decidedly advise
you to go," he replied ; " it's really a pretty sort
of country, besides being interesting as the birthplace
of Napoleon. By the by you should read
Boswell's tour if you go. As for getting there, you
could go by steamer either from Marseilles to
Ajaccio, or else from Leghorn or Genoa to Bastia.
But I hope that you will allow me the pleasure
of taking you over in La Catalina, which you'll
find far more comfortable than either of the regular
steamers  they're all nasty, dirty, uneasy little
boats, I believe."

I'm sure we are greatly obliged to you for so
good an offer," answered Mrs. Rollin, " and I think
we should gladly avail ourselves of it if we were
:o decide upon going. But I fancy I've heard it
said that one can't get anything to eat there 
which wouldn't suit me at all. And then, too,
there are the dangers from vendettas and banditti
to be taken into consideration."

Oh now, don't go being a perverse aunty, and
making difficulties out of nothing!" exclaimed
Kitty. "How could the natives exist if there
wasn't something to eat? And a vendetta is a

o

strictly private family affair, which doesn't affect
strangers one atom. And as for banditti, its not
Corsica but Sicily that is full of them ; my belief
is that you've gone and mixed the two islands
together in your head. The Corsicans are always
supposed to be a particularly amiable and friendly
set of people as far as ever / heard. Except, of
course, when there's a vendetta to excite them,
and that wouldn't matter to outsiders like you
md me."

I assure you that that is true, Mrs. Eollin,"
added Lord Clement, "and that you have really
no cause of apprehension from robbers. The only
hanger of that kind which I ever heard mentioned
luring my stay there was from escaped convicts.

Now and then a few manage to get out of the
prison', I believe, and support themselves a la
brigand on the mountains, till they are either
retaken or else contrive to get across to Sardinia
tof join some of the banditti there. But that only
happens so very seldom that it really is not worth
taking into consideration."

How about the hotels?" inquired Mrs. Eollin ;
"are there any good ones to be met with?"

Oh, they are not at all bad at the two chief
seaports  Ajaccio and Bastia," he replied, "and
there would not be any necessity for you to sleep
anywhere else. I could take you from the one
town to the other in my yacht, and from those
places you could make inland expeditions within
the limits of a day, which would enable you to see
a great deal of the country without having to
rough it at all, I can't say much for the hotel
accommodation anywhere except at the two chief
towns, and shouldn't recommend you to go travelling
about in the interior. But of course you
would not care to visit the more wild and out-of-the-way
parts."

"You mustn't be too sure of that," said Kitty,
laughing. " Whatever a place may be, it's attractive
to me if it's different from any other that I've
ever seen before. And Aunt Georgia isn't qidU

SO miserable when beyond reach of luxuries as
you might think to hear her talk. I've even
known her go without five o'clock tea and yet be
happy ! For my part I begin to feel an intense
desire arising in my breast to hunt up an escaped
convict and fraternise with him, or at least to go
and inspect his lair. "What a novel subject for a
sketch it would be ! And I'm sure that you'll like
to do whatever pleases me, aunty, for you always
do. Now isn't that true?"

Well, well, perhaps I do my dear, but only
within reasonable limits, please to remember,"
returned her aunt, who was considerably influenced
by Lord Clement's support of the Corsican scheme.
People of my age don't regard ' roughing it ' with
the same enthusiasm as some of the young ones,
who don't really know what that process implies,
and for whom it has all the charm of novelty. I
should certainly draw the line a long way before
the escaped convict you wish to meet. However,
joking apart, from what Lord Clement says, there
does not seem to be anv reason against running
over to the island and gratifying your whim to
have a peep at it, though I quite agree with him
as to its being undesirable to penetrate into any
remote and inaccessible parts, where neither pleasure
nor advantage are to be stained. I never can

see the good of going to places where no one else
goes. There's no one one knows there ; and besides
that, as no one knows anything about them, there's
no chance of finding them necessary, or even useful,
as topics of conversation in society. So that
visiting such places is mere waste of time and
money in my opinion !"

Well, then we may consider Corsica to be our
next destination anyhow," said Kitty triumphantly.
That's the first thing to settle, and there is no
need to make up our minds as to anything further
just yet. Time enough for that by and by, when
we get there."

After a little more discussion it was decided
that wee should be conveyed to Ajaccio in La Catalina
; which vessel, though not containing berths
enough for us to have slept a night on board, was
yet quite capable of accommodating us very comfortably
for the time requisite to perform the
passage between Cannes and Ajaccio. What our
plans should be after reaching the island was left
quite uncertain ; for though Mrs. Eollin was well
inclined to stay only at the two chief towns and
move from one to the other in the yacht, as Lord
Clement had proposed, yet Kitty was not to be
induced to consist herself to any definite approval
of this scheme, and without her approval it was

impossible to feel sure of its being carried out, for
she generally got her own way about things she
cared for. All she should say was, that perhaps
it might be a good plan and perhaps not, and that
there was not the least need to settle the matter
positively yet.

Lord Clement was evidently happy to have had
his offer of the yacht accepted  for the voyage
across at all events. But I think that his satisfaction
was somewhat marred by a dread of Kitty's
takinij the bit between her teeth when once she
should be at Corsica, running away with her aunt
all over the island, and o-ettinsj out of his reach
from the sea ; if the whim to do it came to her,
there was but small probability that she would not
accomplish her purpose.

VOL. I.

AT AJACCIO.

The inevitable Mediterranean roll was in less force
than usual when we crossed to Corsica, and as we
were all pretty fair sailors we had a pleasant
passage, notwithstanding the anticipations to the
contrary of our especial waiter at the Cannes
hotel. He was a brisk, cheery little fellow, with
such a power of sympathising with other people
that he always identified himself with those guests
who were under his particular care, and took their
affairs to heart almost as though they were his
own. Going to sea and being seasick meant
precisely the same thing to him ; consequently,
from the moment he heard of our contemplated
trip he became full of compassion for the sufferings
we must undergo, and was good-naturedly
eager to think of, and suggest, every possible
alleviation for the misery which he confidently
predicted for us. As we departed from the hotel
his final words were to impress upon my two

ladies that, last thing before going to sea, one
should always eat a hearty meal, because, " (facility
 et sans 9a, c'est si fatigante." I am sorry
to have to add, however, that this well-intentioned
speech was received in by no means as friendly a
spirit as that in which it was offered. For it was
quite contrary to Mrs. Eollin's notions of propriety
that one who was a man, and an inferior, should
presume publicly to give her advice as to the
management of her interior ; so, instead of making
the amicable response that was evidently expected,
she swept past him with a freezing look and an
audible remark to Kitty about the atrocious
vulgarity of foreign servants dio had never been
taught to know their place.

A\nien we arrived at Ajaccio we separated from
Lord Clement, he remaining on board La Catalina,
whilst wee proceeded to a hotel. During the voyage
Kitty had been more civil to him than usual, 
perhaps as a reward for his assistance in persuading
her aunt to come to Corsica,  and this favourable
humour still continued on reaching terra firma. A
question hazarded by him as wee left the yacht, as
to what should be done next day, was replied to by
her with a graciousness which made it apparent that
his company would be acceptable, if he chose to join
her and her aunt in whatever they might be doing.

Accordingly, I was not surprised to see him
appear at our hotel first thing next morning.
Shortly afterwards they all three sallied forth to
see the pictures at the College Fetch ; then they
ordered a basket to be packed with provisions,
and, the weather being splendid, hired a carriage
and drove off for a day's outing beyond Pisciatella.
The special object of the two younger people was
sketching, to which Kitty was greatly addicted,
and for which she had a decided talent. Lord
Clement, on the contrary, had no natural gift in
that line ; but, none the less, he strove laboriously
to acquire the art, because he regarded drawing
as a highly moral, elevating, correct, and unexceptionable
amusement, and therefore one to be cultivated
and encouraged as much as possible. As
for Mrs. EoUin, she had a French novel in her
pocket, and would be perfectly happy to bask in
the sun and read whilst her companions sketched
or flirted, as might seem good in their own eyes.

My employers being thus disposed of for the
day, I was left alone with nothing particular todo.
The streets where too filthy to be very inviting,
so, being a good walker, I went for a stretch along
the road towards the Isles Sanguinary. It was
a lovely day, and I thoroughly enjoyed the beauty
of the walk, and the contrast between winter.

represented by snow-covered honte Oro in the
distance, and summer, felt in the hot sunshine
that warmed me through and through, and sparkled
on the brilliant blue sea beside the road. And
when I got beyond the limits of the town there
were wild hillsides rising on my right, all covered
with low bushes of some kind of cistus, which,
though now brown and scrubby-looking, would be
beautiful, I thought, when in full bloom.

But I must not expatiate on the scenery, as
that has nothing to do with my story. What I
saw in the course of that walk, to which I now
wish particularly to call attention, is this : Near
the outskirts of the town I came to a number of
small houses standing pretty close together on one
side of the road. Each was in the middle of a
little plot of ground, which was surrounded either
by a wall, or else by strong iron railings ; and
this enclosure was only to be entered by a gate,
whence a short drive led to the door of the house
within. Some, but not all, had a family name
stuck up at the entrance ; and some of the plots
of ground were merely turfed over, whilst others
were nicely laid out in flower-beds and borders.

One would naturally have concluded these
buildings to be villas, if it had not been for the
curious fact of their beinc, destitute of windows.

This puzzled Die ; for I did not suppose that
Corsicans could be different from the rest of the
world in disliking to live in windowless habitations.

Whilst I was staring at these mysterious houses,
and wondering what they were for, a funeral came
along the main road, and turned into the gate of
the outer enclosure of one of them. This excited
my curiosity still more, so I addressed myself to a
respectable looking passer-by, and asked him what
those little villas were, and to whom they belonged.
He replied that they were " chapelle tortures,"
or, in other words, private burial places, and that
each one belonged to a different family. On
questioning further, I learnt that these " chapelle
tortures" were by no means peculiar to the
neighbourhood of towns, but were found in remote
parts of the island also, as the possession of them
was quite customary amongst all Corsicans.

I thanked the man for his information, and
continued my walk. I thought it seemed a quaint
idea to build villa residences for the dead, and
then dismissed the subject from my mind. Certainly
it never entered my head that I myself was
destined before long to make acquaintance with
the interior of one.

That evening I discovered that Kitty had a
new scheme in her head. What instigated her toit

I cannot say. It may have been the spirit of
perversity, or else a guide-book which she had
been studying diligently; or else, perhaps, that
she was tired of being civil to Lord Clement, and
wanted to escape from him for a while. But anyhow,
for some reason or other, it had been borne
in upon her that it would be the most delightful
thing possible to make a fortnight's driving-tour
through the island for the purpose of seeing the
country and sketching. Knowing that she would
probably have a difficulty in getting her aunt to
consent to this scheme, she did not intend to propound
it until she had first ascertained that it
was really feasible, and also found out whatever
information might be requisite for its execution.

Her first step, therefore, was to impart the
project to me, telling me that she wished me to
make inquiries as to various matters connected
with it  such as what sort of inns were to be found
at the small inland towns ; whether the roads
were in good condition for travelling on ; whether
they were likely to be blocked by snow in the
mountainous districts ; what it would cost to hire
a carriage ; who was the best job master in Ajaccio,
etc.

I was charmed at a plan which harmonised so
well with my own love of change and adventure,

and entered into it readily. Being curious to know
whether lie contemplated being accompanied by
Lord Clement or not, I put a fishing question to
that effect. "What sized carriage am I to ask
about ?" said I ; " how many must it hold ?"

Why, my aunt and I, and you, of course" she
answered rather sharply, as if not well pleased at
my having entertained a doubt on the subject.
'' I should have thought you might have known
that yourself. We should only take a couple of
carpet bags with us, and leave the heavy luggage
behind, so as to travel as light as possible ; therefore
we shouldn't want at all a big carriage. It
should be an open one, and have a hood to put up
in case of rain."

Oh, thought I, on hearing this, evidently then
my lord is meant to be left to himself; his fairweather
has not lasted long after all. I suppose
that she has been putting a strain on herself to
be civil to him, that now comes the reaction, and
that she is going to fly off at a tangent from the
line of conduct which was dictated by worldly
policy, and not by natural inclination. Well, it
does not matter to me whether she marries him or
not, so I do not want to interfere one way or other ;
I have only to look on at the play and be amused.
I hope she will be able to carry out this driving-tour

scheme anyhow ; for it is just the sort of thing I
should like myself.

I lost no time in performing her commission
to the best of my ability. Entering into casual
conversations with sundry natives  waiters, for
instance, a couple of talkative shopkeepers, and
the driver of a fiacre who was sunning himself on
the steps of his vehicle  I cautiously led up to
the topics which I had been told to find out about,
knowing that a stranger was more likely to arrive
at an honest opinion in this indirect way than by
blunt, straightforward inquiries. By means of
questions that were apparently purposeless, I
elicited a good deal of information as to the relative
merits of different hostelries and individuals,
which might very likely have been withheld if I
had let it be seen that I had any especial reason
for wishing to know. Thus I learnt too who was
reputed the best patron les voiture, and how much
would be the probable difference between what he
would ask and what he would take for the hire of
a carriage ; this difference being a sum of from 8
to 12 francs a day, according to the opinion he
happened to form of the hard-headdress and
determination not to be cheated of whoever ensjao-ed
him.

Having found out as much as I could, I passed

it all on to Kitty, who, armed with this knowledge,
took the opportunity of hair-brushing time that
same evening to suggest the driving-tour to Mrs.
EolKn. That lady at once pronounced the scheme
wild and impracticable. On being asked why,
she brought forward all the objections she could
think of, every one of which was met and answered
by Kitty with a readiness that quite staggered her
aunt. Mrs. Eollin had been far too much engrossed
in one of Zola's novels to notice the attention
with which her niece had recently been perusing
books of Corsican travel ; and the unexpected and
intimate acquaintance with the subject suddenly
displayed by Kitty almost took away the aunt's
breath. Evidently it had never occurred to her
that there was a possibility of Kitty's thus making
up her mind, and finding out all requisite particulars,
without having given a single hint of what
she was thinking of. Yet here was the plan, all
cut and dried and ready, with every detail gone
into.

Certainly the girl made the most of what she
had read and heard ; and no one, to hear her talk,
would have believed that this was her first visit
to the island. She discoursed learnedly about
where the best scenery was ; what towns had
good accommodation ; what were the names of

the various inns ; and what the cost of living and
of the carriage would be. She had got up her
subject thoroughly ; had an answer ready for all
difficulties that it was possible to suggest ; made
everything look couletcr- de-rose ; and quoted, as a
precedent for what she wanted to do, which would
have weight with her hearer, the example of an
English lady of rank and fashion, who had been
travelling about in Corsica a few years before, and
of whom she had just happened to hear. Kitty's
energy, skill in pleading her cause, and powers of
persuasion, were more than her admiring and less
strong-willed relative could resist. The scheme,
as thus set forth, appeared quite delightful ; Lord
Clement was on board his yacht, beyond reach of
being taken into consultation ; and so the end of
the matter was, that Mrs. Eollin assented to all
that Kitty wished, and that I consequently received
orders to go out the first thing next morning and
arrange for hiring a carriage.

This I accordingly did ; and as I passed through
the streets towards the residence of the patron des
voiture, I met Lord Clement on his way to the
hotel, looking just as usual  that is to say, the
essence of propriety, clean, well-dressed, placid,
gentlemanlike, English, and (to my mind,) uninteresting.
I did not dislike him, but his intense

love of respectability and correctness aggravated
me ; and I thought, maliciously, that his present
placid satisfaction would be ruffled by the news
of the contemplated expedition, and that I should
like to see his face when he heard of it. For it
could hardly be expected that a man who had
brought the object of his affections to a place where
he hoped to be able to be with her daily, would
relish the sudden discovery that she was going to
leave him in the lurch, and take herself off out of
his reach for a fortnight at least, if not longer.

A DRIVING EXPEDITION IN Corsica.

My position as a servant gave me no opportunity
of knowing whether or not Lord Clement made
any attempt to oppose the projected driving-tour.
If he did, however, his interference certainly produced
no effect; for the orders I had received
were not countermanded, and on the following
day we three unprotected females departed from
Ajaccio, and set out upon our travels into the
interior of the island. Our conveyance was a light
open carriage, with a head that could be raised or
lowered at pleasure. As the trap only held two
people comfortably inside, I sat on the box by
the driver; and the very moderate amount of
luggage that accompanied us was fastened securely
at the back of the vehicle.

It was a beautiful morning, and everything
seemed to promise well for our expedition. Driving
in an open carriage was a thing which Mrs.
Pollen greatly affectioned, and always declared it

to be impossible for her ever to tire of; and
as she was rendered additionally complacent by-having
been able to procure a sufficient stock of
French novels to obviate all risk of duchess, she
was in a happy and contented frame of mind,
which Kitty and I  ourselves in the highest
spirits, and ready to make the best of everything
were most anxious she should retain.

The scenery was much admired, especially the
lovely views that were to be had, looking back
over Ajaccio and the blue waters of its bay. The
small, jet-black, silky-looking sheep were noticed
and commented on; so were the vineyards which
we passed; the chestnut, fig, almond, and olive
trees ; and, beyond everything, the arbutus bushes,
which called forth many exclamations of admiration
and delight. Into wonder ; for it really was a sight
to see acres and acres of them growing wild in
luxuriant profusion, and covered with magnificent
luscious-looking fruit, whose size and brilliancy of
colouring far exceeded that of any arbutus berries
which I have ever seen elsewhere.

A drive of about three hours brought us to
Cauro, where there was some idea that we should
sleep that night, if the inn looked inviting ; if not,
we were to go on to St. Marie Sicche. Corsican
inns are generally extremely clean, and the one at

Cauro was no exception to the rule. But alas ! it
could supply neither milk nor butter, and nothing
in the shape of meat except " merles."

I was not at all astonished at this, because I
had already been told in Ajaccio that travellers
in the island could not rely on finding meat
everywhere, and that at the present time of
winter butter and milk would certainly be unattainable,
except at one or two of the very largest
towns. This piece of information had been duly
communicated by me to Kitty ; but somehow or
other it had not reached the ears of her aunt, and
that good lady was disagreeably surprised at a
scarcity of luxuries for which Kitty and I were
quite prepared. She at once voted for not sleeping
2; at Cauro, but croinc on to St. Marie Sicche,
where she had no doubt there would be a better
stock of provisions. Of course Kitty and I were
not equally sanguine as to this ; but we did not
tell her that fact, as she would find out the state of
affairs quite soon enough for herself, and there was
obviously no use in damping her spirits just at
the outset of the expedition. Accordingly, we
refreshed ourselves with coffee, eggs, bread, and
fruit, and then continued our journey as soon as
the horses were baited.

In crossing the Col de San Giorgio there were

fine views over the surrounding country which
excited Kitty's artistic instincts ; so the carriage
was stopped for her to make a sketch, and meanwhile
Mrs. Eollin buried herself in one of her
beloved novels, and I beguiled the time by talking
to the driver, and drawing out his notions as to
things in general connected with his country. I
found that he was a pleasant, conversational individual,
who avowed his mercenariness with unblushing
frankness, and laughed at the idea of being
expected to entertain any political opinions of his
own. " Celui qui donne le pain a un Corse, c'est
son pere," said he ; '' that's one of our proverbs.
I'm imperialist, royalist, republican, or anything
else, according to who my employer is. Just now
I'm whatever pleases your two ladies, as it is they
who pay me." Perceiving that he carried pistols,
I asked him if he did so because of a vendetta 
thinking that in that case it might be a little
awkward for us if he should happen to fall in with
an enemy whilst he was in our service ; and that
it was as well to know what one had to expect.
However, the unmistakable sincerity with which
he disclaimed anything of the kind put me quite
at my ease again. "A vendetta !" he exclaimed ;
no indeed ! neither I nor my family have a quarrel
with any living creature. For all that, I never go

unarmed on this sort of expedition because of the
penitentiary, who manage to get out of prison now
and then."

'Too wretches," said I; "I should have thought
that they'd be more afraid of you than you of
them. Did they ever do you any harm ?"

Xo," he answered; "I've never had any trouble
with them myself, but they have been known to
attack carriages, and to be very awkward customers,
too ; and as I like to be on the safe side, I always
take arms with me, as you see."

Why, one might think these escaped prisoners
were regular banditti to hear you talk," I returned,
rather scornfully ; for I did not believe in there
being any real ground for alarm on account of
jpenitenciers.

Well, and so they are," he replied ; " there's
plenty of room for any number of people to hide
amongst the various kinds of bushes  mag suis as we
call them  which grow wild over the hills and large
tracts of uninhabited waste land. They form almost
impenetrable thickets, where d penitence has little
trouble in keeping out of the way ; there he lives
as best he can, subsisting chiefly on the quails and
woodcocks, of which the maqiois is full, and helping
himself to the property of other people whenever he
gets a chance. For he is sure to be a vaurien

VOL. I. p

I shrugged my shoulders, thinking it would
be a long while before / should take the trouble
to carry arms for fear of some Mrs. Harris of
a penitence, who probably had no existence
save in the imaginations of the timid and the
credulous. Our conversation ended there, as Kitty
had completed her sketch, and we resumed our
course. That evening I told her of the driver's
absurd precautions, and found she was as much
amused at the idea as I was, and we had a good
laugh at the man's excessive prudence. It was,
however, a joke which was not imparted to Mrs.
Eollin, as she, being somewhat inclined to be nervous,
might possibly not have regarded the matter
in the same light that we did ; and the knowledge
of the driver's thinking it necessary to carry pistols
would perhaps have put uncomfortable notions
into her head. Of course anything likely to do
that was to be avoided most carefully ; as, if she
became alarmed or disgusted in any way, she might
insist on cutting short the expedition, and returning
at once to more civilised places, which would
have been a great bore. I was far more afraid of
this happening than of any perils im. penitentiary ;
and I eagerly seconded Kitty's efforts to make
everything smooth and pleasant, and to keep her
aunt contented.

I began to foresee, however, that there would
be some difficulty in doing this for long ; and I
felt considerable misgivings as to whether Mrs.
Eollin would be induced to carry out the driving-tour
programme in its entirety. The good humour
in which she had started in the morning already
showed signs of diminishing. In spite of the
cleanliness of the inns, they were a good deal
rougher than she liked ; and though at the hostelry
at St. Marie Sicche there was fortunately some
meat, yet she was again obliged to put up with
milkless coffee and bitterness bread. It was the
latter of these two grievances to which she especially
objected.

Though I like cafe cm lait best myself," she
said, " still I don't so much mind drinking black
coffee, because that is quite correct, and a thing
that numbers of people do  especially after dinner.
But as for dry bread !  why, that's what paupers
in the workhouse have to eat ! I do hope, Kitty,
that you won't mention to our friends at home that
we had to put up with such mean food ; I shouldn't
like it to be said that I went travelling in places
where the people were so poor or so stingy as not
even to afford themselves butter !"

We both did what we could to pacify her ; Kitty
by promising inviolable secrecy, and I by making

the landlord rummage out some confitures, which,
though but indifferent, would at all events save
her from the reproach of having had to breakfast
on dry bread, whether she liked it or no. This
appeased her partially; but still I saw that her
wonted serenity was not altogether restored.

Up to this point we had been travelling along
the highroad used by the diligences, the route
nationale, royale, or imperial, as it is called,
according to which party happens to be in power.
But we turned off from it next day, on leaving St.
Marie Sicche, and took to smaller and inferior
roads by which we ascended to higher ground,
until we reached the town of Zicavo, perched on
the side of a steep hill and surrounded by chestnut
trees.

Unluckily the picturesqueness of its situation
did not suffice to reconcile Mrs. Eollin to its
deficiency of milk and butter, or to the roughness
of its inn, and she expressed much astonishment
that a town of its importance did not provide
better accommodation for travellers. Another
thing that was beginning to .annoy her was the
republican equality and disregard for class distinctions
which she found prevailing everywhere,
and which were by no means to her taste. The
Corsicans, though perfectly civil and well behaved.

were no respecters of rank, and each one seemed
to consider himself quite as good as any one else.
Ashen the driver came in the evening to ask for
his orders for next day, he sat down while talking
to the ladies, as a matter of course ; and the landlords
of the inns took the same liberty in their
presence, all of which was much to Mrs. Eollin's
disgust. Then, too, she had to do without a private
sitting-room, for the inns had only one room that
was not a bedroom, and that one was a big public
room, which served as sitting-room and diningroom
to all classes alike ; so that she was obliged
either to stay altogether in her sleeping apartment,
or else to condescend to sit at the same table with
the landlord, his family, the driver, me, and any
coins-voyageur, shopkeeper, peasant, or other
person who might happen to come in. Besides
this, the inquisitiveness which is characteristic of
Corsicans offended her. She could not bear the
freedom with which people whom she considered
inferiors would cross-examine herself and Kitty
as to their age; whether they were married; if
not, why not ; what they did with themselves ;
what relatives they had ; where they were going ;
and similar personal matters. And as I perceived
her growing irritation at these various petty
annoyances, I became more and more doubtful

whether we should be able to reconcile her to them
sufficiently to induce her to put up with them fora
whole fortnight.

One of the reasons which had brought us to
Zicavo was the fact that it was only five or six
kilometers from the baths of Guitera, where there
are warm sulphurous springs. Mrs. Eollin, who
never willingly lost an opportunity of bathing in
mineral waters, was very anxious to see what the
Guitera baths were like ; and if they proved satisfactory,
we should probably remain for a few days
a;t Zicavo, whence she could drive over and have
a daily bathe. Accordingly, on the day after we
got to Zicavo, she and Kitty went to inspect the
bathing establishment at Guitera. However, they
found it so wretched looking a little place, and of
so uninviting an exterior, that she at once declared
nothing would induce her to set foot inside it, and
that, as there was nothing to stay for at Zicavo,
we had better go on again immediately in hopes
of finding better quarters elsewhere. It was
decided, therefore, that we should next day proceed
across the Serra Scopomeno to St. Lucia di
Gallant. We must allow plenty of time for the
journey, we were told, as the roads were heavy,
and it was not impossible we might be hindered
by snow. Consequently my mistresses determined

to get off early in the morning, in order to
have the whole day before them. And after giving
directions to that effect, Mrs. Eollin secluded
herself and Kitty in their own bedrooms, and
remained there for the rest of the evening, beyond
reach of contamination from the company in the
public room.

I, however, was less particular, and sat there
till I went to bed, fraternising with the landlord's
wife, watching all that went on, and enjoying the
opportunity of seeing a little of the manner of life
of a foreign race. It was a novel experience, and
that is a thing that I always like.

What made it still more interesting was that
the landlord was also maire of the commune, and
as he used the public room as his hicreaic in which
to carry on official transactions, I heard all that
went on between him and the different people who
came to see him on business. He seemed to be a
good sort of fellow enough, only with rather an
excessive estimate of his own importance and
omniscience. Just as one of the visitors was going
away, he suddenly bethought him of something
that had hitherto slipped his memory, and turned
back at the door.

By the by," said he to the maire, " some one
said yesterday that they heard there were one or

two escaped penitentiary about again somewhere
or other. Have yon heard anything about it, and
do you suppose it's true ?"

True' repeated the haire ; " of course not !
People are always setting about some foolish
report in order to have something to talk about,
and so pretend that they know more than others !
No  Fve not heard of it, because it's well known
that I make it a rule to pay no attention to absurd
tales unsupported by reliable evidence, and that
makes the tattlers somewhat shy of bringing their
stories to mc. A pretty state the country would
come to if the important officials were to believe
all they're told, and go disturbing themselves
about every idle rumour I"

I was amused at the maire's evident annoyance
at some one else's having heard this piece of gossip
a whole day sooner than he had. Otherwise I
paid no attention to the matter, as I was not
in the least degree apprehensive of penitentiary.
When a danger occurs but rarely, the chances are
so great against its occurring to any given person
that one is apt to regard it as non-existent.

Before going to bed that night I repeated the
orders that had been given to have breakfast, our
bill, and the carriage, in readiness for an early
start next day, and took care to make sure that

they had been thoroughly understood. Consequently
I was provoked to find, when I left my
room in the morning, that the whole household
had overslept itself, and there was no sign of preparation
for our departure.

It was not to be endured that I should incur
the stigma of being a neglectful or incompetent
travelling maid  I, who prided myself on my
talents as a courier ! so I instantly set to work to
arouse the establishment from its sloth. Hunting
about till I discovered where a servant slept, I
dragged her forcibly out of bed, and set her to light
the kitchen fire and prepare food. Then I woke
the driver, and insisted on his beginning at once
to get ready the horses and carriage. In short,
I flew hither and thither, helping, hustling, and
exclaiming "Depeche!" with such vigour that I
managed fairly to startle the leisurely Corsicans
into a little activity, and to procure breakfast for
the two ladies, and get under weigh only half an
hour later than had been originally intended.
The poor driver was quite alarmed at my unexpected
display of energy ; he did not even venture
to wait to break his fast before starting, but hastily
crammed some food into his pocket for consumption
on the road. I am sure it was a relief to
him to find that my severity relaxed when once

we were off, and that in order for him to eat his
breakfast in comfort, I was even willing to take the
reins and drive, as I sat beside him on the box.

The weather was still propitious. Enough
snow had fallen in the night to whiten the tops of
the hills surrounding Zicavo, but now the sun was
shining, and warming the keen, delicious mountain
air as we drove down the valley.

We had not gone far before we met a funeral,
which was so perfectly simple, matter-of-fact, and
devoid of anything ostentatious or needless, that I
thought it a model worthy of imitation in less
primitive places. Two mules drew a rough cart, in
which lay the corpse, unconfined, and covered over
with a gaudy-coloured shawl, which allowed the
outlines of the human form beneath to be plainly
visible. After the cart walked a dozen or so of
people, betraying no emotion, but looking serious
and stolid. No vestige of black was to be seen.
They were dressed in their ordinary everyday
garments, carrying the bright-hued umbrellas
which are popular in the island, and the men
having the customary wine-gourds slung round
their bodies. About the whole thing there was an
absence of fuss, ceremony, and demonstrativeness,
combined with perfect gravity and propriety of
demeanour, which made me wish that all arranges

of funerals would come and take a lesson at
Zicavo.

The only stop we made during the morning
was at a tiny little village, where we waited a few
minutes for the horses to be watered. Whilst this
was done, the two ladies and I did not get out of
the carriage, but sat where we were, drawn up
outside a miserable tumble-down sort of hovel that
did duty as an inn. The loungers of the hamlet
soon gathered round to stare at us, and were joined
by two men who issued from the house. They
both had guns, as I saw ; but there was nothing in
the least remarkable about that, because a Corsican
almost always carries a gun or an umbrella, and
sometimes both, so that their being armed did not
at all astonish me. Nor did I think it in any way
peculiar when I heard them ask our driver who we
were, and where we were going. For I had by
this time seen enough of Corsican inquisitiveness
to regard such inquiries as a mere matter of
course, and demonstrations of curiosity seemed
to me more natural than their absence.

The two men left the inn almost immediately
after their questions had been answered. I saw
them leave the village, and a little way farther on
I caught a glimpse of them again turning off the
road, and plunging into the thick bushes on either

side. I concluded that they were a couple of
"chasseurs," such as one sees perpetually in
Corsica, and then thought no more about them.

Our course at this period of the journey was
very tortuous and indirect, in consequence of
numerous narrow valleys which were too steep for
anything on wheels to cross in a straight line.
Therefore the road often had to go round for miles,
in order to get from one side to another of a valley
which was, perhaps, not a mile broad ; and the
distance from point to point that had to be traversed
by whoever kept to the road was generally many
times more than it would have been to the proverbial
crow. Hence it evidently followed that
a pedestrian, climbing straight up and down the
precipitous hillsides would be able to get over
the ground as quickly as a carriage could do. And
if this is borne in mind, it will assist the reader
in comprehending the events which I have now
to relate.

ESCAPED Penitentiary.

The horses were to be taken out of the carriage to
have a thorough rest, once in the course of the day,
so we halted for that purpose between twelve and
one o'clock. We were then exactly at the head
of one of the long narrow valleys I have already
mentioned. It was a Avild desolate spot, where
not a habitation was to be seen, nor any human
being except ourselves. The view before us consisted
of the sky overhead, and of two steep hillsides
 at some places appearing to be barely a gunshot
apart  which converged from the entrance
of the valley to the point where we were. These
were clothed from top to bottom with a dense
mass of trees and maquis, whose sobre green tints,
were only broken by a sharply-cut, thin, yellowish
line, which marked, on one hand, the road we had
just traversed, and, on the other, that by which we
should presently continue the journey. The sun
had quite sufficient power to make shade acceptable,

so we seated ourselves under an ilex by the
side of a clear bubbling spring of water, and ate the
lunch that we had brought with us from Zicavo.

We were not long over the meal, and as soon
as it was finished the driver was asked when he
would be ready to resume the journey. He
answered that the horses ought to have more than
an hour longer of rest, and that then they would
go on quite fresh to the end of the day. On hearing
this Mrs. Eollin sent me to the carriage to fetch
a couple of cushions, with which she established
herself comfortably on the ground, and then opened
one of Xavier de Montepin's novels. Meanwhile
Kitty had got out her drawing materials.

I think that I'll walk on, and see if I can't
find a sketch somewhere," she said. " As there's
only one road, I can't possibly lose my way ; then
you can pick me up when you overtake me in
the carriage." But her aunt was not prepared to
assent readily to this proposal.

Oh, you'd better not go on all by yourself, my
dear," she said uneasily. " Do try and find something
to draw near here  a cloud or a tree, or a
bit of the road, .or something. It's not the thing
for a girl of your age to be seen walking about
the roads alone, you know."

"I don't think that need trouble us in these

solitudes," answered Kitty laughing. "There's
nothing except kites and crows to see what I do,
and I don't imagine that tlicy will be much shocked
at my proceedings."

"Don't you be too sure of there being only
kites and crows," returned Mrs. Eollin ; "people
often turn up so unexpectedly ! There might be
some acquaintance of ours travelling here now;
and if so, he or she would be sure to meet us just
when we didn't want to be met, and then go home
and say that I let you go about alone just as you
pleased, and that I took no care whatever of you !
Besides, supposing your sketching where to take
you off the road, perhaps we should not see where
you were, and go past without knowing it, I
should be in such a fidget for fear of that happening,
that I know I shouldn't enjoy the drive a hit
till I had you all safe with me again."

"You needn't be uneasy on that score," said
Kitty, looking at her watch ; " the jingling of the
horses' bells could hardly fail to inform me of your
approach ; but I won't trust only to that. I'll
keep an eye on the time, and as I can reckon certainly
on your not leaving here for another hour,
I can calculate when to return to the road if I
should turn off' it anywhere. I assure you I haven't
the least intention of doing anything so silly as tolet

myself be left behind, so you can drive along
with a perfectly tranquil mind, and an absolute
certainty that I am somewhere on ahead, until
you see me waiting for you."

Here I took the liberty of joining in their conversation.
Having been sitting still and cramped
up on the box for some time, I felt much disposed
to stretch my legs ; so I said,

"I shall be very glad to accompany Miss Mervyn
if she has no objection. Then I could stay on the
road near where she is, if she happens to leave it ;
and that would make it quite impossible for the
carriage to go past her by mistake."

Of course, that's the way to manage it," exclaimed
Mrs. EoUin ; " how stupid of me not to
have thought of it at first ! Yes, Kitty  you take
Jill with you ; it will look so much better than for
you to be wandering on by yourself; and then my
mind will be quite easy about not passing you by
accident."

Very well," returned Kitty ; " I'm afraid it'll
be rather dull for her dawdling about at my heels
only I daresay it won't be very lively to stay
here with nothing to do either ; so she may as
well come. We'll start at once, Jill, please ; for I
want to have as much time as possible for sketching
before the carriage overtakes us."

Accordingly she and I walked off briskly along
the road which led towards our destination, leaving
Mrs. EoUin, the driver, and carriage, to follow in
course of time when the horses should be sufficiently
refreshed. We must have tramped, I
should think, about two miles before Kitty came
to a place which inspired her with a desire to
make a sketch. Of course the next thing to be
done was to discover the most satisfactory point
of view from which the sketch was to be taken.
After a little reconnoitring she found a spot that
was to her mind. It was a short distance below
the road, and in order to get to it we had to
scramble down through a mass of arbutus, and of
an immense kind of heath, growing taller than our
heads  which two shrubs constituted the chief
part of the scrub (or maquis) at that place.

Having accompanied Kitty to the spot she had
selected, and seen her comfortably settled down to
her drawing, I looked at my watch. This showed
me that there was still a long while to elapse before
the carriage would be in motion again, and that,
therefore, there was no need for me to be in a
hurry about getting back to the road yet. Watching
Kitty sketch was not particularly amusing, so
I left her and wandered off through the bushes.
About fifty yards from where she was I came to

VOL. I. Q

a bit of broken rocky ground, somewhat resembling
a tiny quarry, and completely overgrown by arbutus.
Here I tucked myself away snugly into a corner
under one of these bushes, and lay lazily contemplating
its splendid red and yellow berries, which
were as big as good-sized plums. They looked
most delicious ; and as I knew the arbutus is
not poisonous, I gathered a berry to ascertain
whether the taste at all corresponded to the
appearance ; I was disappointed to find, however,
that this was not the case, as the flavour, though
rather sweet, was insipid, watery, and vapid.

My curiosity respecting arbutus fruit being
thus satisfied, and I having nothing particular todo,
I next began amusing myself by endeavouring
to work out a rule-of-three sum in my head. But
before my calculations had advanced far they were
interrupted by a crackling rustling noise that
issued from the bushes growing above, between
me and the road. It sounded as if some heavy
body were making its way through them ; and
the noise approached nearer and nearer, till it
reached quite close to the recess in which I was ensconced.
Then the crackling ceased, and I heard
a male voice speaking in low and cautious tones.
A bit of rock, on which grew the bush under
which I was seated, intervened between me and

the speaker, so that I could not see him ; but
he was near enough for every one of his words to
be distinctly audible to me. He spoke in Italian
that being the language which the people of the
country almost always use amongst themselves
when they do not talk Corsican, though French is
the official tongue, and the one generally employed
in communications with foreigners.

'' But where are they, Cesar?" said the voice,
with a somewhat impatient accent. "You say
that from the top of the hill you plainly saw two
of them who left the carriage to repose itself, and
went on alone. Is it not droll how those English
always desire to walk ? In that case they ought
to be somewhere about here now, yet we have
looked both up and down the road, and they are
not there. What then has become of them ?
May be that they have turned and gone back
again."

Diavolo ! that would be too provoking,"
answered Cesar. " It was unlucky that I lost
sight of them as I descended the hill, Jut it could
not possibly be helped, for the bushes were too
thick to see through."

Well, there is sure to be fine spoil to be had
out of these rich English," said the first speaker,
and we must try to get hold of it somehow. If

we fail to find these two by themselves, I suppose
we must do what we thought of at first  manage
to upset the carriage at that sharp corner of the
road further on, and attack when all is in confusion."


"But what if the carriage should not upset
after all ?" objected Cesar ; " or what if the driver
should carry arms and show fight ? Then perhaps
we should be wounded, captured, and shut up
again in prison. Bah ! I hate that prison ! Have
we not been used like dogs there, and compelled
to beat the maquis near Chiavari for anglers,
when some English milord wanted a chasse ? And
is it not an altogether detestable place ? Truly I
have no fancy to go there again, and I much
prefer this second plan to the first one that we
thought of. We shall have no danger to fear in
dealing with only two women. Let us on no
account be foolhardy, Napoleon."

Certainly not," answered Napoleon ; " I have
no more wish than you have either to go back to
prison or to encounter needless peril ! Still, it
will be a pity if we cannot secure the golden prize
that destiny throws in our way. Those two mist
be somewhere not far off at this very moment,
unless by bad luck they should have turned back
just after you first saw them. Do you think they

can have gone off from the road?" "It is possible,"
returned Cesar ; " anyhow, it is too soon
yet to despair of finding them. Do you. Napoleon,
go and watch on the road, whilst I search the
inquit on each side, first below and then above.
Whichever of us discovers them can summon the
other by a whistle."

'G-ood," replied Napoleon. And with that
the two men separated and went off in different
directions, as I knew by the rustling of the bushes.

Here, then, where two villains in search of Kitty
and me, with evil intentions towards us, and we
were quite defenceless. Truly, a pleasant predicament
to be in ! What was I to do now ?

Had I been able to reason out at leisure what
course a person ought to pursue in such a situation,
I feel sure that my answer to the above
question would have been : Take care of your own
safety, keep out of the men's clutches the best
way you can, and do not bother yourself about anyone
else. But when the situation actually occurred,
I acted on the impulse of the moment, because
there was no time to think the matter over carefully,
and take counsel with reason. And the
consequence of being in such a hurry was, that I
did not behave with that prudent regard to my
own interests which was generally characteristic

of me. I was frightened I must candidly confess,
and I desired ardently to be anywhere in security,
and to avoid meeting either Napoleon or Cesar.
Yet, strange to say, I was influenced at that
moment by something else than care for myself.
My predominant anxiety  the one object on
which my mind was fixed  was, to get to Kitty
as quickly as possible, to warn her of the danger,
to stand by her, to try to save her. It was certainly
very unlike me to have felt like that, and
I do not know what occasioned so extraordinary
a departure from my usual sentiments. However,
there the feeling was, and " d'etat plus fort que
moi" Consequently, I only waited where I was
till the men were far enough off for me to leave
my hiding-place without danger of being discovered,
and then instantly set out to rejoin her.
Taking the utmost pains to move quietly, lest the
shaking of the bushes should betray my presence,
I crept through the medicis. Meanwhile I mentally
reviewed the situation, and considered how
we could extricate ourselves from it.

I inferred, from what the men had said, that
they were not particularly brave, and would probably
not venture to attack the carriage if they
found its occupants prepared to receive them.
Therefore, if we could get safely back to our

driver and put him on his guard, there would not
be much to fear from the rascals. But then the
question was, could we get back safely ? could we,
by crawling through bushes, dodging behind trees,
and keeping out of sight as much as possible,
retrace our steps to the carriage unperceived ?
On the whole, I thought it was to be managed 
provided, of course, that I could reach Kitty and
get her away before either of our enemies had
found her. As they did not know that they were
detected, they would expect to meet us going
about carelessly and openly, without the least
attempt at concealment. This was all in our
favour, as it would prevent them from looking for
us as closely as they would otherwise have done.
Besides, if they did not find us in that immediate
neighbourhood, they would discontinue the search,
under the impression that we must have returned
to the carriage almost directly after leaving it.
Therefore it would be only necessary for us to
keep in hiding till we had got some distance from
where we then were ; after that, we could leave
the maquis, and take to the road, where we should
be able to run along at full speed, without troubling
to keep out of sight.

As I thought of all this, it seemed to me that
we had a very reasonable prospect of escape 

unless, by bad luck, I should fail to get to Kitty
before one of the men had found her  everything
appeared to me to depend upon that.

I had left her on a small open space which
jutted out a little from the hillside, so as to forma
sort of diminutive plateau. Great was my relief,
when I came to the edge of this place, to see her
still sketching happily, and evidently without a
suspicion of danger. She glanced towards me for
an instant, and then at once resumed her work,
thinking that I was come to fetch her away, and
that she must make the most of every remaining
moment. Thus her eyes were upon the drawing,
and so she did not see the gesture which I made to
her to be silent, lest an enemy should be within
hearing.

Is it time to go, already ?" she said, speaking
out loud, as it was natural she should do. " Isn't
your watch "

By that time I was within reach of her, and
stopped further utterance forcibly by covering her
mouth with my hand. Looking up in surprise and
wrath at so unceremonious a proceeding on the
part of her maid, she saw by my face that there
was something seriously amiss. I began to tell
her in a whisper, as fast as I could, what was the
state of affairs.

Unluckily the few words she had spoken had
wrought the mischief I feared, and showed our
whereabouts to one of the villains who were hunting
for us. Consequently, I had hardly commenced
my hurried communication in her ear, when a low
whistle sounded close by, and next moment a man
with a gun in his hand stepped out of the bushes,
and on to the little plateau where we were. This,
then, was no doubt the rogue named Cesar, whom
I had heard undertake to explore the maquis for
us. As I looked at him, I recognised him to be
one of the two men whom I had noticed inquiring
about us two or three hours before, at the inn
where the horses had been watered. That at once
made the whole matter clear to me.

I have already mentioned that the nature of
the ground was such as to enable a pedestrian to
travel from point to point as fast as a carriage could
do. Knowing this, Cesar and his companion must
have made up their minds to hurry on in front,
and lie in wait for us at some spot which we had
not yet reached, and which they deemed especially
favourable for an attack on the carriage. But on
their way to the place that they had chosen for an
ambush, they had evidently caught sight of Kitty
and me leaving the carriage, and been diverted
from their first scheme by the hope of securing the

coveted booty in a less hazardous manner than the
one they had originally contemplated. It was allas
plain as a pike-staff to me now.

Cesar accosted us in French, saying, in the regular
beggar's whine, " Will the ladies have the goodness
to give something to a poor man?"

Though I had not had time fully to explain
things to Kitty, she had picked up enough to know
that we were in danger from two escaped penitentiary,
and when she saw Cesar she guessed that
he was one of them.

This sudden confronting with peril, however,
produced in her no trepidation, sign of cowardice,
or inclination to quail. She was too proud for
that. Her compressed lips, flashing eyes, and hard,
resolute, disdainful, undaunted expression, showed
a nature that would set its back to the wall (not
that there was one handy on the present occasion,
however), and fight to the last gasp, but would
never flinch an atom, come what might.

I have nothing for you," she replied, speaking
as haughtily as though we had been in no way in
the man's power.

But I feel sure that Madame deceives herself,"
insisted Cesar, who apparently did not wish to
proceed to extremities till the arrival of his comrade
Napoleon ; " if she will have the complaisance

to seek, she will without doubt discover money,
a watch, rings, brooches, chains, or some such little
thing that would keep a poor man from dying of
hunger."

At this point in the conversation, it occurred
to me that a good loud scream for help might be
introduced with singular appropriateness ; and I
proceeded to put my idea into execution. Cesar,
however, was of a different opinion, and evidently
considered the interruption an untimely one ; for
no sooner did I uplift my voice, than he aimed his
gun at me, exclaiming savagely, " Silence at once,
or I'll kill you!"

I had no option about obeying this order,
because just at that moment, Napoleon  who was
hastening up in obedience to his companion's
summons  came through the bushes behind where
I stood, and clapped his hand roughly over my
mouth.

Cesar grinned mockingly when he saw me thus
reduced to silence, and lowered his gun again.

That was an atrocious noise ! " he remarked.
"Permit me to inform you, madame  first, that
screams cannot assist you, since there is no one
but us within hearing; secondly, that my friend
and myself have inconceivably tender hearts and
sensitive nerves. Consequently we cannot endure

the least sound of distress ; and if you should utter
another cry in our presence, we should be compelled,
most reluctantly, to cut your throat in
order to spare the exquisite sensibility of our
natures. And having given you this caution, let
us return to the more pleasing subject of the little
souvenirs which you generous ladies are going to
bestow upon us. Will you like us to save you
trouble by helping ourselves to them?"

Kitty was as composed as though she had been
seated in her father's drawing-room in Eaton
Square, and now said to me in English :

I'm afraid he's right about there beings no one
in hearing to help us, Jill, so it's no good screaming.
As resistance is useless, we may as well give
up our purses and trinkets quietly." Then she
continued in French, replying to what the man
had said last : " No  you need not help yourselves.
We will hand over to you all we have."

Accordingly we pulled out our money, and took
off the few things of any value we happened to be
wearing  such as watches, chains, and collar and
sleeve studs. These, however, were worth but
little, all put together. People do not take valuable
jewellery with them on a rough driving-tour ;
and as Mrs. EoUin was our treasurer, Kitty and I
had barely ten francs between us in our purses.

The two robbers, therefore, who had been reckoning
confidently on making a large haul, were greatly
dissatisfied and disappointed at the insignificance
of the booty they had secured.

This won't do at all" grumbled Cesar ; " the
idea of capturing a couple of the rich English, and
then not getting more than this out of them ! It
is ridiculous ! Let us see what is to be done  only
first they must be kept from running away."

And then, after making fast our hands and feet,
they drew a few steps aside, and proceeded to confer
together in a low voice.

Though they had spoken to us in French, yet
in their communications to one another they used
Italian. Noticing this, it occurred to me that if
they were to suppose us both to be ignorant of
that tongue, they would probably talk more freely
before us than they would do if they thought we
understood what was said ; in this way we might,
perhaps, pick up valuable information ; or at least
T might  for Kitty's knowledge of Italian was
very limited. I at once imparted my idea to her,
and suggested we should pretend that we understood
only French. I expected she would assent
to this as a matter of course ; but, to my surprise,
she hesitated, and her face showed that the proposition
was distasteful to her.

Well  I don't know," she replied, after a
minute's consideration, " I can't allow a couple of
scamps to make me degrade myself by telling a
lie. If they ask me whether I understand them
or not, I shall most certainly tell them the truth."

I was dismayed at this clinging to principles
of scrupulous honour in dealing with the two
rogues who had us in their power. Her sentiments
were very chivalrous and noble, no doubt; but
they appeared to me both uncalled-for and out of
place at the present moment, and I endeavoured
to combat them. " Surely," I said, " you don't
deny the truth of the old saying that all is fair in
love and war?"

Her lip curled scornfully as she replied, " That
has nothing to do with it. To my mind a lie
would be none the less mean because it might be
fair. I should lose my self-respect if I were to
tell one."

Even whilst smarting at the reproof which was
thus conveyed to me for having advocated lying,
I could not help admiring the indomitable pride
which was unaffected by considerations of expediency,
and would under no circumstances consent
to do what was contrary to its sense of dignity.
The hankering after her good opinion which I
always felt made me wonder uneasily what she

would think of me if she knew how many untruths
my self-respect had managed to put up with during
my existence. And then I felt half disgusted
with my past conduct, and it flashed upon me that
I had a great mind to turn over a new leaf in the
matter in future, and behave more according to
the principles which she approved of and practised.
That, however, should be reserved for further consideration,
as the present was obviously not a
favourable occasion for inaugurating any reform
of the kind. Havens arrived at which conclusion,
I silently resolved to carry out my plan for deceiving
our captors, if possible, in spite of her
objection. Consequently, when one of them, speaking
in Italian, asked which of us two ladies was
the most important one, I affected to be utterly
unconscious of having been addressed. Kitty,
fortunately, was seated farther off from the man
than I was, and did not hear what he said, or
discover that he was not still continuing the conversation
with his comrade.

The man repeated his question a second time
in Italian. Finding that we both remained mute,
he asked in French how long it would be before
he had an answer. I hastened to reply to this,
speaking quickly and in a low tone, lest Kitty
should hear what I said, and be prompted by her

inconveniently high-flown sentiments to contradict
me flatly. I made believe to be quite astonished
to find he had been speaking to us, and most
anxious to deprecate his wrath  assuring him that
we neither of us understood Italian, and begging
him to excuse us, therefore, for the involuntary
rudeness of which we had been guilty in not
responding to his question. Luckily my precaution
of speaking, indistinctly, and the fact of
Kitty's being a few yards off, prevented her from
catching what passed between me and my interlocutor.
The two men then came and stood in
front of us, and ISTapoleon said in French, "We
want to know which of you two ladies is of the
most importance  the chief one ?"

I am," answered Kitty.

Good," he returned ; " then it is to you that I
will speak. We know that you cannot be travelling
about with no more money than 10 francs,
and that you English are always rolling in gold.
It follows, therefore, that your riches must be in
the keeping of that other lady who stayed with
the carriage. Now, those riches we must and will
have, and we propose that you shall earn your
liberty by helping us to get them. Will you
do this?"

"Tell me what you want me to do, first," answered

Kitty ; " then I will tell you whether I will do it
or not."

Very reasonable !" replied Napoleon. "Our
plan is this. You must write to your friend in
the carriage such a note as will induce her to
follow the bearer at once, in order to join you.
The note will be entirely in French, and contain
not a word of English, so as to make sure that you
say nothing in it that we do not approve of. One
of us will take it to her ; then he will conduct her
to a safe spot, and relieve her of the money and
trinkets that she has. Should the worth of these
be sufficient to satisfy our just expectations, you
will none of you be detained any longer."

And supposing the spoil is less than you anticipate,"
inquired Kitty, "what then?"

"Ah  but that cannot be, I feel sure!" he
returned ; " our expectations are most moderate ;
it cannot be that three ladies would travel about
so far from their own country without having
with them as much money as would satisfy us !"

Still  I repeat my question," she said ; " what
would you do if not ? And, in any case, what
certainty have I that you would keep your word
and release us afterwards ?"

If madame will not rely on our word of
honour," answered he, smiling disagreeably, " I

VOL. I. R

fear she will have to content herself without that
certainty which she desires. She is hardly in the
position to enforce any other guarantee of good
faith ; and ive shall not insult ourselves by assuming
such a thing to be necessary. And as for the
quite unlikely event of your friend's purse being
insufficient to meet our wants  why  ahem ! when
the case arises, it will be then ample time to settle
what is to be done. Here are paper and a pencil.
There is no time to lose. Will madame be so
good as to write?"

Kitty looked at him steadily, without attempting
to take the writing materials he proffered. " And
do you suppose, then," she said, " that I shall consent
to bait a trap to bring my aunt to be robbed ?
If so, you are very greatly mistaken. And what
inducement have you to offer that should make
me do so vile a thing? The mere chance that
your thirst for plunder might then be satiated,
and that you might think fit to set us free ! I
do not trust to your honour, nor will I do what
you wish. I believe that the plan is merely a
ruse to enable you to secure a fresh victim, and
that if you could get my aunt also into your
hands, you would keep us all three prisoners."

This accusation was met with vehement denials ;
and our captors again endeavoured to persuade her

to assist them by assuring lier it would be to her
advantage to do so, and threatening her with evil
consequences if she persisted in her refusal. Finding,
however, that she remained unmoved by whatever
they said, they bethought them that perhaps
I might be made to write such a letter as they
required, and applied to me accordingly. Kitty,
on this, gave me peremptory orders that I was on
no account to comply with their request ; and I
obeyed her in the matter all the more willingly
because I had very little doubt that her surmise
was correct as to the treachery which the scoundrels
had in contemplation.

But however much Mrs. Eollin might benefit
from our refusal to lend ourselves to their designs,
it certainly did not help us in any way. The two
men had made up their minds that they were
going to get enormous spoils out of "these rich
English," and had no idea of resigning their hopes
merely because Kitty and I would not aid them
to execute their first scheme. Therefore, when
they saw they had no chance of carrying their
point about that, they determined to adopt another
line of action, which was announced to us by
Cesar.

People so unaccommodating and perverse as
we were, he said angrily, deserved to be got rid

of altogether; and in such a case as this, most
gentlemen of the road would not be troubled with
ns any longer, but cut our throats without ceremony,
and so make an end of the business at once. He
and his friend, however, being of so gentle a disposition
as never to resort to violence if it could he
helped, would give us a chance of escape. It was
their intention to communicate with our friends,
and offer to restore us uninjured on payment of a
specified sum, which would have to be handed
over with such precautions as would ensure the
safety of the recipients. Till that was received
we should reside under their care in the hills.
But," added the ruffian menacingly, and addressing
himself especially to Kitty, " we cannot wait
for ever for the answer, you know; so we shall
tell your friends that if the ransom is not forthcoming
pretty quickly, we shall try to hasten its
arrival by sending some little reminder, such as
an ear, a nose, a hand, or a foot; and of course
these souvenirs would, in the first place, be furnished
by you, since you are of more consequence than
your companion. Hers would come later."

When I heard this I could not repress a shudder
at the peril awaiting my cherished members 
though, as those of Kitty were destined to be
sacrificed first, the danger to mine was only a

reversionary one. She, however, who was more
immediately threatened than I was, neither
trembled, changed colour, nor gave any other
indication of emotion, but remained as unmoved
and haughtily composed as before.

I did not forget that she had been affected by
some feeling too strong to be concealed when I
had suddenly showed her the photograph of Captain
Xorroy. And the difference between her demeanour
then and now made me wonder more than
ever what the feeling could have been which had
had power to upset the self-command of a person
so high-courage, strong, and proudly imperturbable
as she most certainly was.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

A Chapelle Mortuaire . . . .1

CHAPTER II.
A New Use for a Bier . . . .20

CHAPTER III.
Off from Corsica . . . .40

CHAPTER IV.
Captain Norroy Appears . . .58

CHAPTER V.
A Newspaper Paragraph . . .70

CHAPTER VI.
Notice to Quit . . . . .85

CHAPTER VII.
A Doggy Place . . . . .99

CHAPTER Vii

PAGE

A Discovery . . . .112

CHAPTER IX.

The Last of Perkins . . . .131

CHAPTER X.
An Accident . . . . .152

CHAPTER XL
In Hospital . . . . .168

CHAPTER Nil
Sister Helena . . . . .189

CHAPTER XIII.
A Catastrophe . . . . .206

CHAPTER XIV.
A Change of Fortune . . . .222

A CHAPELLE MORTUAIKE.

Immediate preparations were made for our departure
from the spot where we were. A couple
of coarse handkerchiefs were tied across the lower
part of our faces, so as to stifle our voices if we
should uplift them on the remote chance of anyone
being in hearing who would assist us. Next
our feet were untied to enable us to walk. We
were warned that if we attempted to escape or to
call out, we should be instantly stabbed. And in
order to convince us that this was no empty threat,
a wicked-looking, dagger-like article, known in
Corsica as a vendetta-knife, was flashed before our
eyes, and we were shown that each of our captors
had one of these knives stowed away in a little
inside coat-pocket, where it was ready to hand at
a moment's notice.

Then we moved off in single file. Napoleon
went in front, with Kitty close at his heels ; I
came third, and Cesar brought up the rear.

TOL. II. B

The robbers naturally selected to travel through
the mathias rather than along the open road ; and
we two captives, whose hands were bound, sorely
missed the assistance of those members to push
aside the numerous boughs and twigs by which
our progress was impeded. Now and then the
man in front stopped to hold back obstacles in
some very thick place, where we should otherwise
have probably altogether stuck fast ; but such an
attention was exceptional, and, as a rule, we were
left to make our way unaided as best we could,
regardless of the scratches and bruises which we
continually received, and whereby the discomfort
and fatigue of the journey was greatly increased.
Napoleon led us first down to the mouth of the
valley; then branched off in a direction away from
that which the carriage and Mrs. Eollin would
take; then climbed a steep hill, and proceeded
along the ridge of it for some distance ; then descended
abruptly into another valley, and we were
kept trudging over hill and dale alternately in this
way during the whole afternoon. Many of the
places we passed were such as might have roused
a lover of fine scenery to enthusiasm ; but neither
Kitty nor I were in a humour to appreciate that
sort of thing just then, and the beauties of the
landscape were quite wasted upon us, as we toiled

wearily along obscure and seldom-used tracks,
through desolate wild districts, without ever once
approaching a human dwelling.

My having made the men believe that neither
of us understood Italian caused them to converse
together in that language as unreservedly as if
they had been alone, and, thanks to this, I was
able to discover what were their intentions for
disposing of us for the present. I learnt that we
were being taken to a cave up in the hills, which
had been their headquarters since their escape
from prison. Here we were to be left under care
of one of the robbers, whilst the other descended
to the lower lands to seek out Mrs. Eollin, and
open negotiations with her on the important subject
of the ransom.

This cave of theirs, wherever it might be, was
evidently an unpleasantly long way off from the
scene of our capture. On and on we went without
ever pausing for a moment ; and I grew so tired
that I could hardly drag myself along, and began
to speculate on the chances of having to be carried
before the appointed resting-place would be
reached. A slackening of speed or a halt would
have been a most welcome relief to me ; but of
that there was no hope, as our progress was
already too slow to satisfy the robbers, who kept

constantly urging us to hurry on faster, lest we
should all be benighted on the way. As daylight
diminished, so did their impatience increase, and
many were the angry oaths they uttered at the
distance still to be traversed before attaining the
cave.

Suddenly Napoleon stood still, and looked back
at his comrade joyfully. " Cesar," cried he, '' I
have a good idea ! At the rate we go now, we
shall not get home till midnight ; whereas if you
and I were alone, and not hampered by these
women, we should arrive in half the time. Is not
that so?"

Obviously," grumbled Cesar ; "but what's the
use of stopping to tell me wdiat I know already?"

Why this," returned the other ; " that I propose
we should disembarrass ourselves of them at
once."

Stupid !" rejoined Cesar, irritably; " don't you
see that the only way of doing that is to kill
them, or else to let them go ; and that in either
of those cases we should be throwing away all
chance of deriving further gain from them ?"

Ah, but I have thought of another method of
getting rid of them," answered ISTapoleon  "a
method which will enable us to keep them alive,
and in our power too. I did a good deal of

business in this part of the country formerly, and
learnt to know it well ; thus I came to know of a
place near here, which I have only just recollected,
and which will be most convenient to us at this
moment. It is not exactly such a place as I
would myself care to stay at, but it will do admirably
for shutting up these two women in, and
when we have disposed of them there, you and I
can travel home as fast as we please. A famous
safe prison it is, where there will be no need for
one of us to stay and keep guard over them, as
there would be if they were housed in the cave.
Thus we shall be free to go together and see about
the business with the ransom  which will, of
course, be a great advantage, since two heads are
better than one, you know."

Cesar seemed still incredulous. " I believe you
are talking nonsense," said he ; " I cannot think of
any possible prison about here to answer to your
description."

"Nonsense, indeed I" retorted his companion;
no, in truth ! A short distance from here, on the
side of a hill, far from any inhabited house or
public road, I remember that there is an old
mortuary chapel. Years ago the family to whom
it belonged left their country-house and went to
live in Ajaccio ; and since then it has never been

used. This is the place in which I propose to
imprison our captives. There will be no chance
of their being heard, however much noise they
may make ; for the walls are thick, and there is
nothing to bring any one into the vicinity. And
as they will certainly not be able to get out unaided,
we shall have no need to trouble ourselves
more about them, except to supply them with
food."

"A deserted mortuary chapel!" said Cesar,
reflectively ; " 'tis a good idea, no doubt. Only 
it is getting late ; and  well, to say the truth, I
am not at any time over-fond of the company of
the dead, and like it least of all by night. Still 
it would be very convenient to do what you propose
 the light is not gone yet  the chapel is
close by, you say. Yes ! there will be time to
shut up the women, and remove ourselves to a
pleasant neighbourhood before dark. Go on,
then, and let us get the job over as soon as
possible."

Our course was resumed accordingly. The
thought of the grim kind of hotel that Napoleon
had found for us reminded me forcibly of Schubert's
song Das Wirthsliaus, and I seemed to hear
its wild plaintive melody sounding in my ears as
we hurried over the broken ground through the

fast-increasing dusk. Horrible as was the idea of
being immured alive in a tomb, yet I shrank from
it less then than I should have done ordinarily.
And for these two reasons : First, because the
long march had reduced me to such a state of
exhaustion that the prospect of rest was welcome
anywhere  even in a chapelle mortuaire.
Secondly, because it seemed safer and in every
way preferable to be with the dead than with the
two ruffians who had us in their powder, and whom
I regarded with the most profound distrust.

The chapel being near at hand, we reached it
while there was still sufficient light to show something
of the exterior of our prison.

We came first to a high wall, with no other
opening in it than an iron gate, which was wide
enough to admit a carriage. The bolt by which
the gate was fastened was forced back without
difficulty, and then a short straight bit of road
brought us to the door of the chapel itself. This
door was situated exactly opposite to the gate in
the outer wall, and was secured by a great iron bar
across the outside, and also by a chain and rusty
padlock. With the help of a stone the men easily
broke open the padlock, and then they lifted the
ponderous external bar off its supports. There was
now no further obstacle to opening the door before

wliicli we stood, but our captors  being not insensible
to superstitious fears  did not wish to keep
the entrance to the charnel-house open longer than
was absolutely necessary, and therefore postponed
unclosing it till the last moment.

They set our hands at liberty, and delivered tous
such provisions as they had with them  consisting
of a morsel of sausage, a slice of rye-bread,
a good-sized piece of extremely strong-smelling
cheese, a couple of onions and apples, and a gourd
half-full of wine. Having thus provided us against
famine, Cesar made us a profound bow of mocking
deference, and said in French : " Adieu for the
present, ladies. You see our desire to treat you
with distinguished consideration induces us to
place you here, with a good roof and strong walls
to shelter you, rather than to take you to the rough
cave which serves us for a habitation. We do not
intend remaining to share this splendid dwelling
with you, lest we should intrude on your privacy ;
therefore we shall now, however unwillingly, tear
ourselves away ; but first thing tomorrow morning
we will return with a supply of food, before
departing to seek out and communicate with the
other lady." Then, addressing himself to his
comrade, he said : " Look sharp, ISTapoleon ; open
a bit of the door, and in with them ! "

The door, wliicli only opened outwards, was
pulled just far enough apart to admit a human
body. The men, without adventuring their own
persons an inch within the building, thrust Kitty
and me roughly in, and at once closed the entrance
behind us again. Then came a scraping, grating
noise, which told that the great iron bar was being
replaced on its supports outside, and immediately
afterwards we heard the steps of Cesar and
Napoleon hurrying away at full speed from the
uncanny neighbourhood of the tomb to which they
had consigned us.

At first we stood without moving from the spot
to which we had been pushed, just inside the door,
waiting to see if we should be able to distinguish

o o

anything when our eyes had become accustomed
to the darkness ; for the interior of the building
was perfectly dark. Meanwhile we profited by
the liberty that had been restored to our hands
to remove the handkerchiefs across our mouths,
which had hitherto prevented us from speaking.

Kitty's knowledge of Italian being limited, she
had not comprehended what the men had been
saying to one another ; consequently she did not
now know the nature of our abode, as I discovered
from the first words she uttered when her mouth
was free of its gag :

I wonder what sort of place this is," she said ;
"don't you? It's a bore to have no light; however,
I'm going on a bit further, to explore without it,
as we can't possibly have it."

I laid my hand upon her arm, and checked her
as she was about to advance.

You had better be careful how you move," I
said ; " we are shut up in a clia'pdU mortimer

A chaigdle mortuaire " she echoed, interrogatively
; " let me see  what is that ? Oh I remember
! Wasn't that the name of those buildings
which you told me you had seen near Ajaccio, and
which you called ' villa residences for the dead'"

Yes," I replied, doing my best to speak unconcernedly
and carelessly, and to conceal from
her the feeling of disgust and aversion with which
the place inspired me, and which was growing
stronger every moment; "rather an appropriate
place for me too, I think, seeing that I'm nearly
dead with fatigue. I haven't the least wish to move
about, and intend to sit down just where I am now.
The door will make a capital back to lean against."

I was not sure but what the knowledge of
where she was might perhaps prove a shock to
Kitty's nerves. But there was no trace of discomposure
to be detected in her voice or manner
as she answered me. " So it will," she said, " and

I vote that we have dinner at once. Those wretches
never offered us any five o'clock tea ; and what
with that and the long walk, I'm quite ravenous !
You've no idea what a relief to my mind it was
to find that they didn't intend to leave us all night
without food'*

Of course we both wanted to seem as happy and
as much at our ease as possible, in order thus to
help to keep up each other's spirits. I, however,
was not very successful in the effort; for though
I was perfectly free from any dread of the supernatural,
yet there were material horrors attached
to the position which I could not forget. I thought
of the sights that would be revealed if there were
light ; of the grinning skulls, mouldering bodies,
crumbling cof&ns, and ghastly relics of mortality,
which might be expected in a tomb ; and I remembered
that these things must be so close to me that
I aright perhaps at any moment strike my hand
against them. There was a gruesomeness and
weariness about the place, to which my state of
bodily exhaustion rendered me unwontedly susceptible,
and I felt more nervous and creepy than
I had ever done in my life before.

I don't think that I can eat in this terrible
place," I said, with an involuntary shiver, in
response to Kitty's suggestion of dinner.

Whether or not she was at all inclined to be
affected by our dismal surroundings, as I was, I
do not know ; at all events she did not show it,
and redoubled her efforts to raise my spirits when
she perceived how much disposed I was to breakdown.


Oh yes  you'll not think of where you are
in a few minutes more, when you've got used toit,"
she returned, seating herself beside me, and
proceeding to distribute the food. " What a funny
idea to have a picnic in the dark  quite novel,
too ; I daresay no one ever did it before. Where
is the bread? Oh you've got it. As for the cheese,
there's no need to ask where that is, because one's
nose may safely be trusted to supply the requisite
information. I must say a knife would be rather
handy ; but I'm afraid we must do the best we
can without, for I left my pocket-knife where I
was sketching, and Messieurs Cesar and Napoleon
have omitted to provide for our wants in that
respect. How lucky that my aunt is not with us,
and obliged to dine in this primitive fashion,
without any proper appurtenances ! If she were,
I verily believe she'd be unhappy lest any acquaintance
should behold her in the act of committing
such an enormity  even though the fact of the
spectator would involve light to see by, and a

chance of assistance ; both of which / should consider
to be most desirable things at this moment."
Thus she ran on, joking, laughing, making light
of every discomfort, and chatting to me as if she
had thought me her equal, as if the tomb had been
a leveller of ranks to the living as well as to the
dead, and as if in entering it all social differences
between her and me had been annihilated. She
could have devised nothing better adapted to
accomplish her object, and help me to shake off
the gloomy influences that oppressed me. Her
example of bright good humour and courage was
irresistible, and before our unilluminated repast
had progressed far I became myself again, and
eager to show a spirit as brave as her own. To
this desirable result, too, the creature comforts of
which I partook tended not a little to contribute.
Though the victuals were hardly to be called choice,
and the wine had acquired a nasty flavour from
the gourd in which it was contained, nevertheless
they revived me as well as the most sumptuous
Gates could have done ; and when dinner was at
an end I was a different creature from what I
had been before. Kitty made no comment
on the change in me, but I have little doubt
that she perceived it, all the same, as she now,
for the first time, turned the conversation seriously

to the predicament in which we found
ourselves.

It seems to me, Jill," she said, " that you and
I are having to do penance, with a vengeance, for
our disbelief in escaped penitentiary ! We must
give our minds now to what we are to do next ;
but before entering on that subject I want to tell
you how very sorry I am to have been the means
of bringing you into this scrape. I can't help feeling
that it is all my doing, and that if I had not gone
on to sketch, or had not taken you with me, you,
at all events, would be in safety at this moment."

Proud as she might be, pride had not yet taken
enough hold of her to crush the naturally generous
disposition which was more distressed at being the
cause of another person's sufferings than at having
to suffer itself. I was touched at the thoughtfulness
on my account evinced by her last speech ;
and as I did not wish her to blame herself unfairly,
I assured her that I had accompanied her quite as
much for my own pleasure as hers. And in order
to prove that we should not in any case have got
off scot-free, I repeated to her the conversation I
had overheard before we were captured, from which
it appeared that the carriage would have been
attacked if she and I had not separated from it
and walked on alone.

Thank you," she said, when I had completed
my tale. " I can't tell you what a comfort it is tome
to know all that, and to think that I am not
the sole cause of this bother ! And now to consider
our next proceedings. The two things chiefly borne
in upon my mind at this moment are  first, that
it's no use blinking the fact of our being in an extremely
awkward position; and second that it won't
do to be afraid, because fear, as Solomon says, ' is
nothing else but a betraying of the succours which
reason offereth.'"

This was no doubt true. But, unluckily, no
amount of calmness and courage would show us
any reasonable prospect of escape  look at the
situation in what way we would.

It was no use to hope that our friends would
rescue us, since it was manifestly impossible for
them to have an idea where we were. When Mrs.
Rollin continued her journey from the place where
we had left her, she would, we knew, have reckoned
on my remaining on the road, whether Kitty did
or not. Consequently she would have gone on driving
contentedly towards St. Lucre di Gallant without
the least fear of leaving us behind ; and there
was no saying how long it might have been before
either she or the driver became uneasy at not overtaking
us. Then, when they did take alarm  as

they must have done, sooner or later  there was
nothing to make them suspect what had really
happened. They would probably suppose we had
simultaneously expired, tumbled over cliffs, sprained
our ankles, or fallen victims to some other likely or
unlikely catastrophe ; and then they would have
begun hunting about vaguely for us, without the
slightest clue to where we were. Thus it was in
vain to trust to external aid reaching us, and the
question was. Could we anyhow manage to escape
by our own unassisted exertions ? Alas ! the prospect
was no better in that direction either. The
door through which we had entered was the only
outlet apparent; and that was, as we knew, fastened
on the outside by a great heavy bar, which rendered
exit in that way impossible. Shouting was of no
avail, because the place was so solitary that we
might have screamed till we were hoarse without
a chance of producing any other effect.

Altogether, therefore, we saw no possible means
of getting away from our prison, and came reluctantly
to the conclusion that we had no alternative
but to resign ourselves to stay where we were, and
await the course of events patiently. This was by
no means a satisfactory termination of our deliberations,
and, having arrived at it, we sat in melancholy
silence for a minute. The silence was broken

bv Kitty who said cheerily : " I'm sure we shall
both be the better for some rest, so let us lie
down and go to sleep."

"Lie down!" repeated I; "surely that won't
be safe, will it ? It's too dark to see, and there
might be  well  things that one wouldn't care to
touch, knocking about in a place of this kind, you
know. I should think we'd best try and go to sleep
without changing our present position."

No ; we shouldn't rest nearly as well sitting
upright, as we should lying down," answered Kitty ;
and it won't do for us to play tricks with our
strength in any way, or to risk losing an atom of
it that is to be had. Very likely there may be
nothing disagreeable up the middle of the floor, or,
at all events, nothing that we cannot easily clear
away. Let us stoop down and feel our way straight
before us till we have a space to lie down in."

There seemed a tacit agreement between us
that the ghastly objects by which we knew we
must surely be surrounded were not to be defined
in words, but to be kept strictly to ourselves, lest
the imagination of one should supply some additional
detail which had not occurred to that of the
other, by which means the horrors of the situation
might have been considerably increased. I am
sure this was a wise precaution. As it was, I know

VOL. II. C

I found my imagination vivid enough to picture a
good deal more than was at all agreeable to think
of; and it would, no doubt, have been still more
troublesome if supplemented by that of Kitty also.

I did not by any means relish her proposal that
we should clear sufficient space to lie down on ;
for I could not help shuddering at the thought of
the things one might expect to come in contact
with when groping about without light in a chapelle
mortuaire. Still, I was not going to have her
despise me as a fool or a coward, so I made no
objection, and set to work heroically to perform my
share of the unpleasant task.

The only suspicious thing which I met within
the course of my explorations was some small-sized
object, whose substance was cold and clammy,
and whose identity I could not at all determine
by touch. An exclamation of disgust rose to my
lips when my fingers came against this unknown
horror ; but I managed to restrain any outward
manifestation of emotion, and merely pushed the
obstruction aside quietly, without letting Kitty
know that I had found anything unpleasant.

As I made this effort to spare her feelings, I
was struck by the quaint probability of her being
at the same instant engaged in a similar endeavour
to spare mine ; and I realised that the common

danger to which we were exposed was a link which
united ns so firmly that our separate identities
were, for the time being, well-nigh merged into
one. Whatever affected the condition of one of
us must necessarily affect that of the other also ;
whence it followed that the bodily and mental
welfare of both was a matter of mutually vital
consequence, and that each was as anxious to
shield the other as herself from any annoyance or
shock that could possibly be avoided. Truly a
queer sort of selfish unselfishness !

It did not take us long to make sure that we
had room to lie down without fear of coming
against any repulsive relics of mortality ; then
we extended ourselves upon the ground, pressing
closely together for warmth, as the night was cold.
Hard and rough as was the couch, and perilous as
was our situation, we were too tired to be kept
waking by either discomfort or anxiety, and were
speedily asleep.

A NEW USE FOR A BIER.

As I had no means of knowing the time, I cannot
say exactly how long my slumbers lasted, but, as
near as I can guess, it must have been about a
couple of hours before I awoke. On opening my
eyes I saw, with much surprise, that the moon
had found its way into the tomb, as there was a
patch of yellow light shining upon the opposite
wall, and relieving the profound obscurity that
reigned elsewhere. This was a most cheering and
hope-inspiring spectacle ; for, as the door was
still closed as before, the moonlight certainly could
not be entering in that way ; and the obvious deduction
was, that the chapel walls must have some
second opening which we had not yet discovered.
Whatever it was, might we not escape through it ?
I aroused the still sleeping Kitty to point out
to her the pleasant sight, and we got upon our
feet to examine into the matter more nearly. The
light was evidently admitted through some aperture

situated in the gable of the roof just above the
doorway, and the shadows by which the patch of
light was traversed proved that the aperture was
defended by bars. What the object of the opening
may have been I know not,  perhaps ornament,
perhaps ventilation, perhaps some whim of the
architect's. Anyhow, there it was ; and though
darkness had prevented our seeing it on our first
arrival at the chapel, yet now the friendly moon
had come to our assistance, and was indicating it
as a possible means of regaining liberty. Never
in my life had I felt such a sincere admiration for
the moon, and such a conviction of its utility to
the world, as I did then.

We were at that time standing where we had
lain down, close to the door, and the aperture was
too immediately over our heads for us to see it
very well, so we advanced cautiously a few steps
farther towards the middle of the floor, in order to
obtain a better view. On looking up from this
new point of observation, we saw that though the
hole was small, it nevertheless appeared to be
large enough for an ordinary sized person to be
able to squeeze through, provided the bars were
out of the way. This was encouraging. But it
remained to be proved, first, whether we could getup
so high without having any ladder or other

means of raising ourselves ; and secondly, whether,
if we surmounted that difficulty, we should be
able to remove the obstructing bars without having
tools to assist us.

It was very certain that the window was too high
up for us to get at it from the ground, since it was
above the door, and I, who was taller than Kitty,
could only just touch the top of the door with my
finger-tips when I stretched out my arm to its
fullest extent. How on earth, then, were we to
elevate ourselves to the height of the window?
The first suggestion was, that if one of us was
lifted up, perhaps she might be able to reach the
desired niche, and we at once put the idea into
execution. I, being the strongest and heaviest of
the two, was naturally appointed to be the lifter ;
so I took hold of Kitty round the knees, and
raised her up as far as I could. My utmost efforts,
however, failed to get her to the required height,
and I had to set her down again without having
advanced an atom towards the accomplishment of
our purpose.

"I'm sure I wasn't far short of touching the
ledge of the window," she said, whilst I stood
panting after my exertions ; ''if only I could get
hold of that, and you were to help me by shoving,
I expect I could pull myself right up, and manage

to hitch on somehow to examine the bars. What
we want is some kind of elevation for you to stand
on when you lift me. Do try and invent some
hoisting contrivance or other; it would be too
provoking not to get up to the window now we've
found it."

For a while we racked our brains vainly without
discovering any solution of the problem. At last
an idea flashed across my mind. No !  I would
not mention such a thing  it was too horrible.
Yet what I had thought of was a method whereby
we might perhaps supply such an elevation as we
wanted. And the unpleasantness of that method
was no sufficient reason for being silent about it,
when the urgent peril in which we were made it
absurd to allow mere sentimental considerations
to stand in the way of any possible chance of
escape. Therefore I conquered my repugnance for
the idea that had occurred to me, and said : " There
must be coffins in this place. Very likely they
are all more or less fallen to pieces, for Napoleon
said that it had not been used for a long time ;
but yet some of the wood may still be sound, and
perhaps if we grope about we may be able to
collect enough boards to make a stage that would
serve our purpose."

Kitty did not answer immediately. I daresay

that she recoiled from the idea at first, as I had
done. But if so, no doubt second thoughts showed
her, as they had me, the imperative necessity of
regarding matters from an exclusively practical,
stern, and unimaginative point of view, and of
absolutely ignoring any fanciful objections to whatever
promised to aid our flight. She replied, after
a short pause :

Well, it is not a very attractive plan, certainly ;
but as there doesn't seem to be any other, I suppose
we had better try it, and endeavour to forget its
unpleasantness by looking forward to the delights
of liberty if it succeeds. So now let's go to work.
It's a pity neither of us was ever inside a camille
mortuaire before, isn't it ? because then we should
have some notion of how such places are generally
arranged, which would be a great assistance to us
just now in this pitchy darkness. As it is, however,
I suppose we must imagine what the plan of
the interior is likely to be like, and then proceed
according to that idea. If I were an undertaker I
think I should first deposit the coffins in a row
along the wall, then pile them up, two or three
deep perhaps, and only take up the middle of the
floor when the sides were all occupied. Therefore
I recommend our exploring the sides first, as likely
to afford the largest supply of wood. Do you goto

the right, whilst I take the left  unless you
have anything better to suggest?"

I had not ; so we separated, and went off to the
right and left respectively, as she wished. But
I had hardly got a yard away from the door when
she exclaimed, "Come here, Jill; I want you !"

"Yes; what is it?" inquired I, as I crossed
over to her.

I've found something that seems to me promising,"
she replied eagerly. " I struck my hand
against it directly I had got beyond the doorway.
What it is I don't know ; but it's pretty big anyhow,
and it's not part of a coffin, and it's made of
wood. I want you to help me feel it over, and see
if we can make it out."

We began carefully investigating the unknown
object with our fingers, and endeavouring to recognise
by touch its shape and construction. For a
while it puzzled us ; then suddenly Kitty had an
idea and said :

Do you think it's a bier ? I never handled one
before, but I daresay it would feel something like
this does. And it's not unlikely that it might have
been left here and forgotten after the last funeral,
is it?"

No ; that's it, depend upon it ! " cried I ; " and
it's a grand discovery, for a bier will help to raise

US capitally, if only it's not got rotten, lying here
so long."

To ascertain its condition was our first anxiety.
Accordingly we took hold of the handles, lifted it
off the ground, and gave it a smart shake, though
not without considerable misgivings lest it should
come to pieces in our hands. Fortunately it stood
the test tolerably well, and did not break down.
At the same time, however, it quivered and cracked
in a way that did not give the impression of its
being in very first-rate order ; and we decided that
it would be imprudent to expose it to the trial of
bearing both of us simultaneously. If it would
support one at a time, we would make no further
demands upon its powers of endurance ; and consequently
we must utilise it in some other way
than by my standing on it and lifting Kitty up to
the window, as was our first idea.

Instead of that we raised it lengthwise, and
placed it so that the handles at one end rested on
the ground, whilst those at the other were against
the door. When thus erected the upper part of
the body of the bier was, of course, a good deal
elevated, and made a foothold whence the window
could easily be attained. To mount to this foothold
was now our intention ; and Kitty, being the
lightest, was selected to ascend first. The only

question was, How was she to get her foot to the
top of the bier, which was too high up for any
legs of ordinary length to step up to from the
ground. But this obstacle was quickly smoothed
away by my stooping down and converting myself
into a stepping-stone. Mounted on me, and
steadying herself against the door, she put one foot
cautiously on the edge of the bier, and began to
press upon it. The heavier she leant on it, the
more ominously did it crack and tremble; still
it did not give way, even when she at last stood
upon it altogether, and it had to bear the whole of
her weight. Hurrah ! now we should know what
the window looked like, at close quarters; and
whether the bars were wooden or iron, loose or
tight, removable or not.

Kitty's report was satisfactory. She said that
the window had a ledge on the inside which was
broad and deep enough for a person to sit on by
crouching a good deal, and that the bars were
only wooden.

Are they breakable ? " I asked anxiously.

Don't know yet," she returned ; " I shall be
able to tell better if I get right up on the ledge.
They don't fed very solid ; but I'm afraid of trying
them from here. You see I'm not very confident of
the stability of my present foothold, and don't care

to indulge in violent exertions till I get to a safer
situation. Wrestling with the bars where I am now
might lead to an upset. If you'll help me by pushing
below, I will draw myself up on to the ledge."

By dint of our united efforts, the further ascent
was accomplished successfully. The ledge did not
afford a very comfortable resting-place, as she had
to sit bent nearly double, with her feet hanging
down against the wall. But the position, though
cramped and inconvenient, was secure, and was
a firm point of vantage from which to attack the
bars. She took hold of one, and shook it. Being
completely rotted through, it came in two in her
hand at once. The next offered a more obstinate
resistance ; in this also, however, as well as in the
others, decay had begun, and had gone too far for
the wood to withstand her vigorous jerks, pushes,
pulls, shakes, and blows. Therefore it was not
very long before she announced triumphantly that
there was now nothing to hinder our egress through
the window, which was, as we had thought, big
enough for us to pass through.

There's one thing I don't quite see, though,"
she said, after poking out her head and reconnoitring
the exterior ; " that is, how we're to get down
on the other side. It looks to me rather far for a
drop. I should say it would be a toss up whether

we did it safely, or whether we broke our legs. Of
course we must risk it if there's nothing else to be
done ; but if there is any other way of descending 
why, I think it would be better."

Is there room for us both to be on the ledge
at the same time?" I inquired, after a moment's
reflection ; " because if I were up there by you, I
might break the fall considerably by reaching down
and holding you up when you drop. And then
when you are down, you may be able to find someway
of breaking the fall for me. Even if not, it
would not matter so much for me. I think I could
drop the distance without hurting myself ; for
when I was a child I used to do a deal of jumping
and climbing, and was always good at falling light."

Well  we might try that, at all events," she
answered, " if the ledge is large enough to hold us
both at the same time. I'm doubtful whether it is
but we can soon see. AVait a moment and I'll
make more room by turning round, aud sitting
with my feet out instead of in. There  now they're
out of the way. Come and stand on the top of the
bier, and see if you can stow yourself away up
here by my side."

It now for the first time struck us that it was
by no means sure whether I should be able to get
to the top of the bier without having any one to

assist me from below as I had assisted Kitty. Yet
if I failed to reach that point, I must give up the
idea of reaching the window; and as that was
equivalent to resigning my hopes of liberty, it was
evidently of the utmost importance that I should
accomplish the ascent.

Kitty was the first to suggest a way out of the
difficulty.

Can you alter the position of the bier," said
she, ''so as to make it slant, instead of standing
almost upright as it does now ? Because then you
might manage to creep up it."

I've no doubt I can, only I hadn't thought of
it," replied I, proceeding to drag the two lower
handles away from the door, till the steepness of
the incline was much less than before. Then I
grasped the upper edge of the bier, and tried,
partly by pulling and partly by crawling, to bring
my feet up to where my hands were. Alas ! the
woodwork that was firm enough to support Kitty,
standing upon it quietly, had not strength to bear
a person of my greater weight, scrambling up it as
I was doing. Collapsing altogether, it brought me
violently to the ground with a crash which alarmed
Kitty, who, on her perch overhead, half in and
half out, could not see what was happening in the
darkness beneath.

"Oil, Jill!" she exclaimed, "what is it? Are
yoa hurt?"

"Xo," I answered, feeling ready to cry with
vexation, as I rose, and cleared away the debris of
broken wood with which I was covered. " I wasn't
far enough off the ground for that. But the old
bier has smashed all to pieces ; and however I'm
to get up to the window now, I'm sure I don't
know ! "

Are you certain," she returned, "that there isn't
any sound corner still holding together, which
would do for you to stick up, and stand on ? It's
worth while for you to feel about on chance of such
a thing, at all events."

This was true ; and I explored carefully amongst
the splintered fragments in hopes of discovering
some solid bit. But my efforts were in vain.

It's no use," said I, ruefully ; " the thing is '
gone to pieces completely."

Neither of us spoke for a while after this.
First I exhausted my ingenuity in vain endeavours
to discover some means of raising myself to the
window. Then, when I made up my mind that I
was doomed to remain a captive, I began to reflect
enviously on the superior good fortune of Kitty.
The only thing between her and freedom was the
trivial difficulty of getting down safely on the

other side. Once that was overcome, she would
be off, and leave me by myself in this abominable
place. I did not at all like the idea of her going.
Eor one thing, I preferred having a companion in
misfortune to being solitary. And for another
thing, her absence would greatly aggravate my
danger, as the penitentiary would be sure to be
rendered furious by her having given them the
slip, and would vent their wrath upon me. Of
course, if she were to fall in with efficient succour,
and return before they did, it would be a different
matter. But then the chance of that seemed too
remote to be worth reckoning on ; and I thought
it was decidedly more to my interest that she
should stay with me than that she should regain
her liberty alone.

Why did she sit up there silently without
saying anything about her departure ? I wondered.
Ah I probably she hadn't yet discovered a satisfactory
method of managing the descent outside,
which she seemed to think difficult. / could tell
her how it was to be done, if I chose  but then I
wasn't going to chose anything of the kind. If
her own wits couldn't show her how to profit by
her advantages, then let her stay where she was,
and keep me company !

These were the thoughts that first crossed my

mind, vhen I recognised the melancholy fact that
I had no chance of escape. Yet, somehow or
other, I did not eventually hold my tongue, as I
had intended to do, about the means by which her
descent might be accomplished. What induced
me to change my mind about it I don't exactly
know. Perhaps the fancy that I had for her may
have been stronger than I realised, and have made
it impossible for me to refrain from doing whatever
I could to get her out of the power of two
such ruffians as Cesar and Napoleon. Or perhaps
I may have been influenced by the obvious unreasonableness
of allowing two people to be exposed
to a danger from which one of them might escape.
Anyhow, the upshot of it was that I said  though
not without an effort :

I've thought of a way for you to get down from
the window without damaging yourself. We'll tie
our dresses, jackets  petticoats too, if need be  into
a rope which must be long enough to go through
the window and dangle down outside, whilst I
keep hold of one end in here. The outside end
must have a loop for you to put your feet in ;
and with the help of that, I'm pretty sure we can
make the drop safe. Then, if you should be
lucky about falling in with respectable people
soon, perhaps you may be able to come back and

VOL. u. D

get me away before the penitentiary reappear in
the morning."

As I believed her to be only staying there
because she did not know how to get away, I
took it for granted that she would be delighted
at my suggestion, and be in a desperate hurry to
avail herself of it. Instead of that, however, she
only said coolly :

Thank you, Jill ; but I think it's perfectly
impossible that I should find help and return
in time to rescue you, so I don't at all contemplate
going off alone, and leaving you to face
the indignation of Cesar and Napoleon at my
departure. Goodness knows what they wouldn't
do to you ! Neo ; I was the means of getting you
into this scrape, and I don't seem to see leaving
you to shift for yourself now. If there's no alternative
between deserting you or taking up my
abode again inside the chapel  why, I prefer the
latter. But it's too soon to despair yet. Having
got one of us up here is something ; and it won't
do to abandon that advantage until we're quite
positive that we can't turn it to account. There's
your first plan of trying to get enough wood
to make a platform  why not take to that
again ?"

Tor two reasons," said I, with a thrill of indescribable

happiness and comfort at finding that she
was too staunch and plucky for there to be a chance
of her deserting me. "In the first place there
isn't time, because I should only get on at half
the pace by myself that we should have done
working together. And besides that, I think that
the rottenness of the bier and bars is a conclusive
proof that there isn't likely to be any sound wood
discoverable here."

True," she returned. Immediately afterwards
she added, exultingly, " What idiots we are ! As
the men hadn't a key, they can't possibly have
locked us in, and there can't be any fastening
except the bar across the outside of the door. We
never thought of that ! As soon as I get down
and take away the bar, you can march out without
trouble. Off with your dress, and let's make that
rope you talked of to let me down with !"

It seems extraordinary that neither of us had
remembered this simple solution of the difficulty
sooner; yet so it was. Now that it had at last
occurred to us, however, we lost no time in micro
work. Our garments were instantly put into
requisition, and twisted and knotted into as good
an imitation of a rope as we could construct out of
such materials. The end which had a loop to it
was hun,gj out of window, whilst I retained the

other end in my hands, and Kitty, placing her
feet in the loop, began to lower herself gently.

As long as she could keep hold of the window
her weight was thrown partly on her hands ; thus
I had not the whole of it to support until during
the last few seconds, when, taking her feet out of
the loop, letting go of the window, and clinging
only to the rope, she descended as near as she
could to the ground. I held on to the rope with
might and main, till the tension relaxed with a
sudden jerk that threw me down, and informed
me that she had regained terra firma.

Sprained ankle, broken bones, or anything of
that kind ?" I asked, anxiously.

No, not hurt a bit," was the welcome response.
111 get the door open as quickly as I can ; will
you begin undoing the rope meanwhile ? "

All right ! " I returned, commencing to restore
it to its normal condition of clothes as fast as I
could in the dark. As I worked I listened hopefully
to the scratching and fumbling that went on
outside, and expected every moment to hear the
downfall of the bar. But the minutes passed on,
and still the looked-for sound did not come. I
could not understand what could be causing so
much delay about so simple a matter as removing
a bar from across a door, and I began to grow

feverishly nervous lest any unforeseen obstacle
should even now intervene, and deprive me of the
freedom I had begun to anticipate confidently. My
alarm was not unfounded, for, to my dismay, she
called out :

This bar is so dreadfully heavy that I can't
raise it. I can only move one end at a time, and
lift it up a very small way above the support
it stands on ; but not high enough for what I
want."

Then it was all over with me, and I was fated
to stay there alone to be cut to pieces, or murdered
in any way that might seem good to those two
ruffians ! And when I had thought, too, that I
was so sure of getting away ! The bitterness of
the disappointment seemed to choke me for a
minute, so that I could not speak. However,
when I could control my voice, I shouted to her :

There's no help for it ! You can't get back
inside again now, even if you wish to. So you've
no choice about going away. Goodbye !"

I'm not at an end of my resources yet," she
replied. " I've thought of something fresh. I'm
going away for a few minutes, but I shall be back
directly."

The sound of her steps gave me notice of her
departure from and return to the chapel. Then

ensued much scraping, scratching, and other noises,
to which I listened with intense anxiety, longing
to know what she was about, yet fearing to ask,
lest, if I interrupted her with questions, I might
perhaps hinder my deliverance.

Her operations meanwhile, as I afterwards
learnt, were as follows :  First, she went to fetch
a supply of stones of various sizes. Returning
with these, she put her shoulder underneath one
end of the bar, and exerting all her strength,
raised it as high as she could above the broad
projecting piece of iron on which it rested. Then,
before removing her shoulder, she inserted between
the iron support and the bar enough stones to
maintain the latter at the place to which she had
raised it. This performance many times repeated,
at last elevated that end so far above the other
that the bar was all slanting, and only needed one
vigorous push to set it in motion, sliding downwards
across the iron projection on which the
opposite end was supported. Moving slowly at
first, the massive bar went faster and faster every
instant as its own weight gave it additional impetus,
till it dashed on to the ground with a
resounding clang that seemed to me the sweetest
music that ever gladdened the ears of mortal manor
woman. I immediately pushed against the door.

It yielded slowly, and next minute I was emancipated
from that horrible chapelle morhcaire, and
standing beside Kitty, free in the open air once
more.

To describe the rapture of that moment is
beyond my powers. If any one wants to know
true bliss for once in their lives, I recommend
them to go through a similar experience. Only
they must take into account the possibility of riot
escaping after all ; which is evidently a serious
drawback, since a failure in that respect would be
quite fatal to the object of the experiment.

OFF From CORSICA.

We had no means of knowing how far advanced
the night might be, but we knew that our enemies
intended to return early in the morning ; we saw
that the moon was waning, and we naturally
wished to get away from the vicinity of the
chapel mortuaire with all possible expedition.
Having been obliged to partially undress ourselves
in order to find materials for the rope, we began
hastily resuming such articles of attire as had
been taken off ; whilst thus engaged Kitty said :

It seems to me rather a chance that we don't
run straight into the arms of those two villains
when we leave this place. I don't the least know
which way to go ; for, except that we're in Corsica,
I have uncommonly Kettle notion of where we are.
Have you?"

Well, only this much," I replied ; " in coming
here we travelled a good deal more uphill than
down, so I expect we must be in rather high

-  .-tsar . TtmK i hag t.

ground. And when our captors left us I heard
them say they were going to a cave in the mountains,
so they will be coming here from somewhere
above. Therefore, I think, we must obviously
guide ourselves by the rule of going always downhill,
if we want to reach a safe district, and keep
out of harm's way."

"Yes; there's sense in that," answered she.
"Downhill shall be our rule, as you say. But
first of aU, here's this enclosing wall to be got out
of. We shall have to find some way of climbing
over it, unless we can open the gate."

Luckily, however, the gate had only been
swung to, and not fastened ; so we had no difficulty
in passing through it. Outside there was a
roughly made road, much overgrown in consequence
of long disuse, and going in two opposite
directions.

Come along," said Kitty ; " roads almost
always lead someiohee, and it is to be hoped this
one is no exception ; then we shall find ourselves
at some inhabited locality or other at last. The
way to the right goes downwards, I think."

Off we set to the right, therefore, at full speed,
and ran ourselves out of breath ; then we walked
till we had got enough fresh wind to begin running
again ; then ran till we were blown again ; and soon,

recommencing as before, and ever and anon
listening anxiously for any sounds of pursuit. For
though it was not yet the time when the robbers
had announced they would return to us, yet our
fears suggested the possibility of their having
changed their minds, and gone back to the chapelle
sooner than they had intended. Presently the
moon set; and after that the unevenness of the
track and the darkness combined caused us to
stumble, slip, and fall several times. But we did
not slacken pace on that account, and continued
our headlong flight, till at last we came to a road
which was so much broader and better than the
one we had hitherto been following, that we had
little doubt of its being the route nationale.

We had now a comfortable sensation of being
once more within reach of protection ; and shortly
afterwards we were yet further cheered by a sound
behind us of wheels, horses' feet, and iindincf bells,
which announced that some vehicle was approaching.
We hailed it as soon as it came up to us ;
but found, to our disgust, that our shouts produced
no effect ; for no one paid the slightest attention
to them, and the thing lumbered heavily past in
the darkness, giving a general impression of length
and bulk which made us guess it to be a diligence,
though we could not see it clearly. Having no

fancy to be thus ignored and left behind, we gave
chase, and quickly overtook the slowly-moving
conveyance as it crawled up a hill. Being one of
the mail diligences it had a letter-box hanging at
the back, just above a broad low step, which it
was easy to mount and descend from whilst the
vehicle was in motion ; thus any one with letters
to post could jump up, consign them to the box,
and get down again without causing any stoppage,
so that the diligence was a sort of moving postoffice.
This step was most convenient to us at
this moment. There was room enough for us both
to sit upon it, and we very soon established
ourselves in this muddy but not uncomfortable
situation, rejoicing greatly at the welcome rest and
security which it afforded. None of the people
inside the diligence attempted to dislodge us, or
took any notice of us, so I imagine either that our
proceeding must have been too ordinary a one to
attract attention, or else that they were all fast
asleep. On the horses trotted again when the top
of the hill was reached; the mud-splashes bespattered
us freely, and we had to hold tight for
fear of being shaken off by some severer jolt than
usual; but we maintained our position till the
carriage, after travelling some distance, came to a
standstill, and some one began to get down. Then,

fearing lest gratuitous conveyance might be objected
to, we got off and stood aside to reconnoitre
before showing ourselves.

It appeared that the reason of the halt was our
having reached an inn at which some one in the
diligence was going to alight. The house door
stood wide open, which indicated, I suppose, that
accommodation might be had within by any one
who could manage to awake one of the inhabitants ;
but otherwise there was no sign of readiness for
guests ; the premises were totally unlighted ; there
was no guardian  human or canine  to give notice
of the arrival of either friend or foe, nor was there
any bell or other means of summons.

The diligence having drawn up opposite to this
primitive hotel, one of the passengers got out with
a bag in his hand, and the conducted descended
from his perch bearing a lantern. Then they
entered the house, and as they did so the lantern
went out, and we heard them go stumbling and
groping their way in the dark upstairs to the first
floor. Here there was a fastened door, which prevented
a further advance, and a considerable
amount of knocking, kicking, and bawling ensued,
till some inmate was at last aroused to come and
see what was wanted. Up to this moment the
conduce had appeared to consider himself as to

some extent bound to look after the passenger
whom his vehicle had conveyed there ; but the
instant his ears had assured him of the fact of
there being a living person in the inn, he evidently-felt
that his duty in the matter was at an end,
and all responsibility for the traveller henceforth
transferred to the landlord. No sooner, therefore,
were the first sounds audible of some one stirring
within than the concUicteur left his charge to take
care of himself, and came clattering downstairs
and out into the road again, without troubling
himseK to wait for the inner door to be opened,
in order to find out whether the new-comer could
be accommodated, or whether, perhaps, the little
hostelry might be already full  in which case the
-visitor would have had no option about passing
the rest of the night in the street, unless he had
preferred going on again in the diligence.

Xot much like English ideas of travelling and
arriving at a hotel, is it?" whispered Elitty tome,
with much truth.

As soon as the conducted returned to the road,
we stepped up to him, and Kitty asked if he would
kindly tell us the name of this place, and also
what was the destination of the diligence, as we
were strangers who had got lost, and did not know
where we were. He looked at us with no little

surprise, and answered that our present situation
was St. Marie Sicche, and that the diligence was
on its way to Ajaccio.

This was a welcome piece of information. St.
Marie Sicche was, it will be remembered, the
village where we had slept on the first night of
our driving-tour ; consequently we were not in an
altogether strange district, and knew that we were
within three or four hours of Ajaccio, where the
best part of our luggage was left, and where we
were more at home than in any other part of the
island. There could be no doubt that the best
thing for us to do was to get there and make ourselves
comfortable at the hotel as soon as possible ;
and then, when the telegraph offices should be open
in the morning, we would find out where Mrs.
EoUin was, and relieve her mind as to our safety.
The only obstacle was that we had no money to
pay for our conveyance to Ajaccio ; for the ;penitentiary
had carried off everything valuable that
we possessed ; and, therefore, unless we could get
credit, we must evidently be involved in a good
deal of bother and delay before we should be able
to leave our present situation, or do anything that
we wanted to do.

In this difficulty Kitty appealed to the conducteur,
telling him that as we had been robbed, we

were at that moment penniless ; and asking Mm
whether he would take us in his diligence to
Ajaccio, and let us pay for our places after
arriving there. She also told him the name of the
hotel where our baggage was left, and assured him
that we should have no difficulty in having our
respectability guaranteed there. The man hesitated,
hummed and hawed, looked suspiciously at
us  muddy and untidy as we were  and did not
seem much inclined to believe her story. But
after some trouble, she persuaded him to consent
to her request by promising to pay double the
ordinary fare.

Having thus settled the matter satisfactorily
with him, we anticipated no further difficulty, and
were about to enter the interior of the vehicle 
both coupe and hanciuctte being full  when we were
unexpectedly opposed by one of the passengers
already established there. The conversation had
roused him from his slumbers ; and when Kitty
attempted to get in, he started forward and protested
energetically against our admission. It was
a shame to take up any one else, he said, when he
and his fellows were already 'presses comme des
anchors" ; they had been crowded to the very verge
of possibility by the person who had just alighted ;
it was absurd to think of cranomincr us two individuals

into the space that that one had occupied ;
he objected  he would complain to the authorities
it was disgraceful to treat travellers in that way.
Another diligence was due in about ten or twelve
hours, and we ought to wait, and take our chance
of finding places in that.

The prospect of waiting at St. Marie Sicche for
another ten or twelve hours was by no means to our
mind, and we were alarmed to see that the conducteur
seemed inclined to listen to the irate passenger.
But Kitty showed herself equal to the emergency.
Turning promptly to the condudeicr, she whispered
to him that she hardly supposed he was going to
leave us for the benefit of any rival vehicle ; and
that as it was important to her to get to Ajaccio
at once, she would give him treble the proper fare
if he took us, instead of only double, as previously
agreed. He was evidently quite alive to the fact
that an extra high fare would give him the opportunity
of pocketing a nice little profit, by only paying
the diligence company a single fare and keeping
the rest for himself ; and her increased offer
put an end to his hesitation about introducing us
into the already full conveyance. Therefore he
turned a deaf ear to the other man's expostulations
thoroughly well-founded though they were  proceeded
to make room somehow or other, and finally

stowed us away without heeding the discontented
sleepy grunts and growls of the victims whom we
had forced to compress themselves into an unnaturally
small space. Then he shut us all in,
climbed back to his place, and the journey was
resumed.

The interior of a hot, crowded, stuffy diligence,
packed closely with garlic-eating Corsicans clad
in strong-smelling garments, would not generally
be deemed a very inviting haven of repose. Yet
it seemed so to us just then ; for we were tired
enough to find rest anywhere delicious, and were
too full of joy at having escaped from serious
danger to grumble at such trifling annoyances as
mere discomfort and unpleasant odours.

A couple of hours' jolting brought us to Cauro,
where the horses were changed ; thence we continued
our course to Ajaccio, which was reached
soon after seven in the morning. Stiff and fatigued
as we were, we should have been glad of ?i fiacre
to take us from the diligence-hicreaic to the hotel ;
but no fiacre was to be had at that early hour, so
we set off walking, accompanied (I need hardly
say) by an envoy sent by the conducteur to find
out whether the account we had given of ourselves
was a true one.

As we were going up the street I saw a couple

VOL. 11. E

of smart-looking sailors coming towards us. The
sight of them suddenly reminded me that there
was a chance of Lord Clement's being still at
Ajaccio, which possibility I had till then forgotten.
If he were within reach, would Kitty turn willingly
to him as a protector and counsellor, I wondered ?

Those two look like sailors from a yacht," said
I ; "if they should happen to belong to La Catalina,
I suppose you will send word by them to Lord
Clement that you have returned, won't you ?"

No ! what would be the good of that ?" she
answered sharply, and not at all as if she was in
any hurry to meet her noble admirer again. But
second thoughts made her change her mind, for
she added: "Well, yes; perhaps it would be as
well to let him know we're back, if he does happen
to be still here. Both you and I are dead tired ;
and he could go and see to telegraphing, and all
that's got to be done, while we rest. Besides that,
in spite of the principles of equality of these republicans,
I strongly suspect that a person who is
rich, a man, and an earl, stands a better chance
of being attended to by the authorities than a
mere commonplace woman. So, on the whole, I
daresay he would be useful just now to act as agent
for me."

When we were close to the sailors we saw that

they were part of the crew of La Catalina, as her
name was visible upon their hats and jerseys.

Is Lord Clement onboard La Catalina?" asked
Kitty.

The two tars stopped and stared in evident surprise
at being accosted in their own tongue in the
streets of Ajaccio at that early hour in the morning.

Ay, ay," answered one of them.

Just go back to the yacht at once then," returned
Kitty, " and tell him that Miss Mervyn has
returned here, and has gone to the hotel where she
was staying before, and will be glad to see him
there as soon as possible."

The men, who did not in the least recognise
us, stared more than ever at hearing themselves
ordered about in this fashion by one of two strange
women presenting the extraordinary appearance
which Kitty and I did at that moment. For it
must be remembered that we had been splashed
with mud from head to foot as we sat on the step
of the diligence ; that our clothes were torn,
rumpled, and put on anyhow ; that our hair was
horribly dishevelled ; and that we were altogether
as untidy-looking objects as could well be imagined.

Evidently the sailors did not know what to
make of us, and were undecided, for a moment,
whether to do what they were told, or to be 

Ofi
IIIJNOIS Library

pertinent. But Kitty bore the stamp of high birth
and breeding marked too plainly for it to be concealed
by disreputable externals; and she spoke
with the calmly-commanding manner of a person
who is accustomed to be obeyed. The sailors were
not insensible to this influence, and could not help
recognising her as a legitimate authority, notwithstanding
the peculiarity of her appearance. When,
therefore, she repeated what she had said before,
and again told them to be off at once, they looked
at one another sheepishly, touched their hats, and
departed obediently in the direction of the harbour.
And that they executed their commission faithfully
was proved by the promptitude with which Lord
Clement arrived at our hotel and asked for Miss
Mervyn.

Poor young man ! thought I, as I watched him
going upstairs to her room. I do not suppose you
will be very pleased at what you are going to hear ;
for your Mrs. Grundy-loving nature is sure to abhor
eccentric adventures ; and I do not expect you will
enjoy that your lady-love should be known to have
been the heroine of such an unusual experience as
Kitty has just gone through! Judging by the
annoyed and disturbed expression on his countenance
when the interview with her was over, and
he left the hotel, I imagine that my anticipations

were not far wrong, and that his sense of propriety
and of the fitness of things was greatly shocked at
what had occurred to the young lady whom he
desired to marry. His annoyance, however, did
not prevent him from taking all trouble off her
shoulders as far as possible ; and he made himself
useful by telegraphing to various places till he had
discovered Mrs. EolUn ; then informing her that
we were safe at Ajaccio ; and also giving notice to
the police of the nefarious proceedings of Csar
and Napoleon.

Our loss had thrown Mrs. Eollin into a state of
anxiety, nervousness, and discomposure, which
none of the French novels she had with her had
sufficed to calm. She had gone on hourly exciting
herself more and more against Corsica and all its
people, until she had worked herself into an unreasoning
aversion to it and them. Consequently,
when she rejoined us at Ajaccio, which she did on
the evening of the day that we had returned there,
the one fixed idea in her mind was, that she would
never know a moment's ease or happiness as long
as she remained in the island, and that we must
get away from it immediately.

On hearing our adventures she declared that
what had happened was fearful, ghastly, and shocking,
but yet no more than was to be expected in

an out-of-the-way, uncivilised, poverty-stricken
country where nobody went, where the inhabitants
lived without milk and butter, and where
every one was a savage or thief, or both. She
very deeply regretted having let herself be overpersuaded
to come to this Corsica; but, at all
events, no power on earth should induce her to
stay in such a vile, odious, unsafe, abominable
place any longer. Besides, though the two penis
would probably never be captured, yet
still, supposing by any accident that they were
caught, and Kitty was within reach, then the girl
would be wanted to give evidence against them,
and that was another reason for taking flight at
once. Else there would be the risk of Kitty's
having to appear in a police-court, take oaths, be
cross-examined and badgered by vulgar lawyers,
and all that sort of thing, which was quite unfit
for a lady to undergo. And what depths the vulgarity
of lawyers in a republican country might
reach, she, Mrs. EoUin, was afraid to think ! Of
course she by no means expected that the robbers
would be taken ; but as there was a possibility of
such a thing, it was her duty to provide for it.

When she stopped to take breath, Kitty inquired
why she was so certain that the culprits
would not be recaptured, and that set her off

again. She had seen, she said, enough of Corsicans
by this time to convince her that they were
all rogues alike, and all in collusion with one
another. In hopes of keeping us staying on and
on, and spending money amongst them, they might
perhaps talk big, and declare that the offenders
would soon be under lock and key ; but meanwhile
they would be let to escape quietly ; or, if
caught, good care would be taken that they should
not be convicted. But she wasn't going to be so
silly as to be made a fool of by these Corsicans,
and to play into their hands by remaining there
longer. No, thank you ! She had discovered that
there would be a steamer to Marseilles on the following
day, and by that steamer she intended to go.
And besides everything else, there was yet another
reason, she averred, why she must now begin to
make her way homewards. She found, from letters
she had just received, that matters of business made
it necessary for her to return to England sooner
than she had expected. She must positively have
a week's shopping in Paris on the way back, and
she would not have time for this unless she started
at once. Therefore it was, in every respect, out of
the question that we should prolong our visit to
this detestable island.

Her mind was made up too firmly to be shaken,

and on the next day we quitted Ajaccio in La
Catalina  Lord Clement having again placed that
vessel at my two ladies' disposal. I am afraid,
however, that this act of civility did not bring
him the satisfaction that he probably expected.
For Kitty, instead of making herself agreeable
during the voyage, professed to be headachy, and
remained alone in a cabin; and as soon as Marseilles
was reached, she and her anne said goodbye
to him, and set off for Paris by the next
rapide. Very possibly he would have liked to
accompany them there. But then yachting was
his ostensible occupation at the present time ;
and if he deserted his yacht to go to Paris, people
would be sure to talk, shrug shoulders, and say
that there certainly was something on between
him and Kitty, Though all this would not matter
supposing it to be followed promptly by the announcement
that they were engaged, yet, under
other circumstances, it would in his eyes be
highly undesirable ; therefore he stuck to La
Catalina.

As for me, I was a good deal disappointed, for
I had been looking forward with vindictive pleasure
to the chance of bearing witness against Messrs.
Cesar and Napoleon, and I grudged the hasty
departure from Corsica which deprived me of this

chance. A few days later I saw in a newspaper
that they had been caught, and relegated to their
former quarters in prison at Chiavari. That was
some comfort, no doubt ; but nothing like as satisfactory
as it would have been to have contributed,
in my own person, to bring about their punishment.


CAPTAIN NOREOY APPEARS.

I HAVE already said that the circumstances connected
with the photograph which I had found
in Kitty's purse had made me fancy that there
was some secret reason for her regarding Captain
Edward Norroy differently from the rest of mankind
; and I have said, also, that I was hoping
some day to see him and her together, on chance
that I might then succeed in discovering a clue to a
right comprehension of what the relations between
them were. This opportunity which I desired
came unexpectedly on the day after our arrival in
Paris, and was brought about in the following
manner.

Mrs. EoUin was determined that she and Kitty
must be photographed by a Paris photographer
named Ptaoul, who was at that time so much the
rage amongst fashionable people that to be in his
town and not profit by the opportunity of having
her likeness done by him, would have been a sin

of omission which would have lain heavy on her
conscience for the rest of her existence  or, at
all events, for as long as he continued to be the
fashion. It was, of course, necessary in the first
place to ascertain when it would suit the great
man to take the photograph. For this purpose
she had intended to go to his studio in person on
the day after reaching Paris ; but as she happened
to be a little out of sorts on that day, she preferred
to stay at home reading Rocambole, and send
Kitty in her stead, under my escort, to make the
requisite appointment. At the studio we found a
polite assistant, who was quite in despair to think
that the ladies should be obliged to wait ; but as
his patron was just then engaged, he feared it was
inevitable that they should do so, unless their
business was of a nature which he, the assistant,
could transact for them. If so, he should be proud
and honoured to receive their commands.

Now Mrs. EoUin, having been much exercised
in her mind as to whether it would be more chic
to be done in morning or evening attire, had particularly
instructed Kitty to refer the matter to
Eaoul, and find out his opinion about it. Consequently
she declined the assistant's offer of his
services with thanks, and said that she would
wait till Monsieur Eaoul was disengaged. On this

we were shown into the waiting-room, which was
as dreary as the rest of its kind, and where we
endeavoured to find amusement by inspecting the
various specimens of the patrons art that were
dispersed on the table.

We were thus employed, and I was standing
with my back to the door, when it opened to admit
some one ; at the same instant I saw Kitty  who
was looking that way  flush violently and suddenly,
and, on turning round, I perceived that
the new-comer was Captain Norroy.

I need hardly say that I was immediately all
eyes and ears for what would take place ; and that
my subsequent inspection of photographs was a
mere pretence, which I kept up in order that the
young couple might not suspect how attentively I
was studying them.

They shook hands, exchanged greetings, and
then went on to talk of the weather, the state of
the streets, the hotels at which they were staying,
etc., just as any ordinary acquaintances would do.
There was not the faintest trace of consciousness
about Captain Norroy's manner ; and he was so evidently
free from any kind of special emotion connected
with Kitty, that I doubted, for a moment,
whether my surmises might after all have been
wrong. But then, again, I felt confirmed in them

by Kitty, who was certainly not as cool and unembarrassed
as was the captain. The first flush caused
by his entrance had nearly died out; but there
still lingered a tinge of unwonted colour on her
cheeks, and a more than commonly brilliant light
in her eyes. In both her look and manner of
speaking I could detect a shade of nervousness,
of pleasure, of restraint, of something different to
usual, which I was unable to interpret. It was a
difference so slight as to have been, probably, imperceptible
to any one who did not know her well ;
but to me it was so plainly visible that I felt sure
I was not mistaken about it.

As it happened, the conversation presently took
a turn which supplied me with such a clue as I
wanted in order to read the riddle which had been
perplexing me, and to arrive at some idea of how
matters stood between these two people, in whom
my interest had been excited.

The captain, looking at his watch, observed that
Eaoul was not very punctual, as it was already
twenty minutes past the time when he had said
that he would be ready to photograph the captain.

"What! are you actually going to be photographed?"
said Kitty, laughing. "I can hardly
believe it possible when I remember the vehemence
with which I have heard you declare that, having

gone through the operation once, you never would
again. You professed to think it an intolerable
bore."

Yes  so I did, and so I do still," he replied ;
but I'm going to sacrifice myself nobly for the
sake of other people. You see almost every one,
now-a-days, has a carte-de-visite book, which they
are desirous of filling by hook or by crook. Consequently,
one is constantly being entreated for a
photo by even one's most casual acquaintances.
One don't like to be always refusing to do what
one's asked, because it makes one feel such an ill-natured
brute ; but at present I can't help saying
no when I'm asked for a photo of myself, for the
very excellent reason that I haven't such a thing
to give."

"Why not?" inquired Kitty. "Haven't you
the photos which were taken on the solitary occasion
when you were done ?"

"Ah ! that attempt had no chance, as the French
say," he answered. " My batch of copies fell into
the fire directly they arrived, and were all burnt
except four, which I managed to rescue, and of
which I gave three to my mother and sisters, and
the fourth to Lady Cantern, who was just then
perfectly ravenous for photos, because she and her
sister were in the midst of a race as to which could

get her photo-book filled the quickest. Of course
this left me destitute of cartes, so I at once ordered
a fresh lot from the photographer ; but the fates
were evidently against me, for the original plate
had been accidentally cracked, so that no more
copies could be struck from it. Curiously enough,
too, the bad luck which attended that photographic
effort pursued even the copy I gave Lady Cantern.
You remember that time you and I, and a lot of
other people, were staying with her last winter for
balls, don't you ? What a pleasant visit it was !
and especially that last cotillion you and I danced
together  wasn't it delightful?"

As Kitty assented, I noticed that she looked
down somewhat nervously, as if she wished to
avoid all risk of having the recollections evoked
by the mention of that visit read in her face.

Well," he continued, " she says that she missed
my photo out of her book on the very day after
her guests departed ; and as she is positive it was
in its place just before, she declares some one of
them must have taken a fancy to it and carried it
off. At first she accused me of being the thief 
as if it was likely I should care to have such a
caricature of myself as I considered it to be ! I
can't imagine how she could suppose that any one
would wish for such an unflattering presentment

of himself as long as looking-glasses continue
plentiful! However, I undeceived her on that
point ; and then she said that if it wasn't I who
had appropriated the thing, it must have been
some one else. My own idea is that she must
have put it away somewhere, and forgotten what
she'd done with it. But, anyhow, she hadn't discovered
it when last I saw her, and I don't believe
she will  that batch had no chance, as I said
before. Ah! here comes Eaoul to lead off his
victim. I shall have a few moments of grace
whilst you and he fix the date of your execution ;
and then "

Eaoul's entrance terminated this conversation,
to which I  whilst making believe to be engrossed
in the study of photographs  had listened with
the greatest attention. It seemed to me to throw
fresh light upon the matter that had been perplexing
me hitherto.

Evidently Kitty possessed a photograph of
Captain Norroy of which there were only four
copies in existence. As neither of them had been
given to her, she must have come by it surreptitiously
; and her possession of it was, no doubt,
to be explained by the mysterious disappearance
of Lady Cantern s copy immediately after Kitty
had been staying in her house.

But tlioiioh I tlioiicht there could be no doubt
as to EJitty's having been the person who purloined
this precious carte-dc-visite, I was sorely puzzled
to conjecture what possible motive she could have
had for doing so. After reflecting deeply on the
problem, I could find no solution of it except one,
which did not seem to me to be altogether likely.
It was this. Had the handsome young captain
perhaps touched her heart more deeply than was
expedient ? and could she have fallen in love with
him ? If so, that might explain the things that
now puzzled me : her stealing the photograph ;
the care with which it was concealed ; 4:he emotion
she had betrayed when I suddenly produced it ;
and also the nervousness and peculiarity of manner
I had noticed in her when she met him at
Eaoul's.

But however probable this theory might have
appeared in the case of some girls, it hardly seemed
admissible when Kitty was the person concerned.
For as it was quite plain that the captain's sentiments
towards her were simply those of an ordinary
acquaintance, it followed that to suppose her to
have a fancy for him involved supposing that she
cared for a man who did not return the compliment.
And her pride seemed to make such an
idea impossible. Kitty Mervyn to have an unreal.

II. F

quite attachment, indeed ! It was absurd even
to think of such a thing.

Yet again, on the other hand, who could tell
what caprice might not rule an article so notoriously
wayward as a woman's heart ? And if love
overcomes bolts and bars, why should it not
conquer the stiffest pride also ? Clearly it was
foolish of me to think I could be sure of how any
person would act, when there was a possibility of a
strange and unknown quantity like love manifesting
itself, upsetting the best-founded calculations,
and altering the whole aspect of affairs.

Still, I could scarcely bring myself to believe
that Kitty would have bestowed her affections on
any one who did not seek them. Ah ! but then
there was the question  had she perhaps imagined
that they lucre sought ? This good-looking Captain
Norroy was as pleasant in manner as he was in
personal appearance ; his voice was soft and
caressing; he gave me the idea of being a lazy,
good-humoured, susceptible man, who would enjoy
popularity with women and take pains to be agreeable
in their eyes ; and who would unintentionally
put an appearance of earnestness into a mere
passing flirtation, which would make it dangerous
to the other party. And possibly he had admired
Kitty, and flirted with her mildly, without meaning

anything serious ; and possibly she had been deceived
by his attentions into supposing he was in
love with her, and not discovered her error until
her heart was already touched.

If that were so, I could not help pitying her ;
for I knew that the knowledge of her own weakness
and folly must be terribly galling to her, and
that she must be in a continual state of anxiety
lest any one should discover, or even suspect it.
Yet I could imagine, too, that the bitterness would
be mingled with sweetness, in that she would be
always hoping he might some day return her love.
It was a hope that it would be most natural for
her to entertain ; for she could not fail to know
how generally attractive she was to his sex ; and
as he was but a man like other men, was it not
reasonable to suppose that he too might be affected
by charms which his fellows seemed to find irresistible
? And then the recollection of the numerous
admirers she had had, and for whom she
cared nothing, took my thoughts for a moment
into a fresh channel, as I wondered whether those
victims would not have thought it a no more than
just retribution for her to give her affections without
return. For I was aware that some ill-natured
people had been known to term her a regular flirt ;
and I had heard of rejected suitors of hers who

had complained bitterly of the impartial amiability
with which she behaved to every one, and had
declared that she did it with malicious intent to
lead men on to propose, in order that she might
have the pleasure of refusing them.

Assuming her to be in love with Captain Norroy,
I thought I could form a pretty good guess as to
what her feeling about Lord Clement would be.
Her pride would be all in his favour ; for pride
would be up in arms at the idea of her waiting to
see if the captain would condescend to throw his
handkerchief to her, and would urge her to terminate
so humiliating a situation by marrying
some one else. And thus pride would be a powerful
auxiliary to the soaring ambition and desire to
be amongst the great ones of the earth, which were
marked features of her character. All this would
evidently prompt her to accept Lord Clement and
the high rank and position he had to offer ; and I
could only account for her not having done so
already, by supposing that the voice of natural
inclination had made itself heard on the other
side. Perhaps it had pleaded with her not to be
in a hurry, and not rashly to render impossible
a happiness that might still be hers if she would
have the patience to wait a while longer. Perhaps
the struggle between pride and love was going on

within her now, and she had not yet determined
which voice to listen to. If so, I could by no
means hazard an opinion as to what the issue was
likely to be ; and it seemed to me an even chance
which would gain the mastery.

How far were all these speculations and conjectures
of mine right ? That remained to be
proved ; and I felt as if fate had kindly assigned
to me a good situation in the front row whence to
watch the progress of a play which it amused me
to look on at. Yet, as it must interfere With
one's enjoyment of a play to get excited about its
termination, I should certainly have preferred for
some other than Kitty to be the chief performer.
For I was half afraid that I might find I cared for
her too much to remain an altogether indifferent
spectator where her happiness was seriously concerned.


A NEWSPAPER PARAGRAPH.

Of course Mrs. Eollin and Kitty had a deal of
shopping to do in Paris ; for to be in that town
and not buy clothes is  to most feminine minds 
an unpardonable sinning of one's mercies. The
dressmaker whom they elected to give their orders
to was a certain Madame Jarrot, much patronised
by the fashionable world ; and having made an
appointment with her at her own residence, they
proceeded thither to keep it one day soon after
the visit to the photographer which was related in
the last chapter.

Now I liked much better to sit in their drawing-room
than in the poky little garret which was my
bedroom ; and when they did not want the sitting-room
themselves, I never saw any reason why I
should not avail myself of it. ]o sooner, therefore,
were they safe off than I betook myself there, and
proceeded to make myself comfortable, according
to my usual practice, during their absence. Lying

on the table were some English newspapers that
had just arrived, and I began to read them. Ina
column devoted to fashionable intelligence, I
presently came upon the following paragraph  tome
most entirely unexpected.

The Duke of Yorkshire and his family, who
are at present in the French metropolis, will probably
return at an early date to their ancestral halls,
in order to make preparations for the marriage of
his Grace's eldest daughter, Lady Emma, to Captain
Edward Xorroy of the Scots Fusilier Guards. The
engagement of the young couple has just been
announced, and the wedding is, we understand, to
take place shortly."

Ashen I had read this I laid down the paper,
feeling perfectly dazed. Captain Norroy going to
be married to this Lady Emma ! In my speculations
about Kitty and her love affairs I had 
without being aware of it  invariably put aside as
absurd the idea of its being possible that any one
whom she might honour with her preference could
remain indifferent to her ; and therefore I had all
along been unconsciously taking it for granted
that Captain K'orroy must inevitably fall in love
with her sooner or later ; and that if she did not
eventually become his wife, it would not be at
any rate for want of the opportunity. I knew

well enough that I myself should have been at her
feet if she had hut held up her little finger to me.
And as one is apt to consider it a matter of course
that attractions by which one is oneself fascinated
must be equally irresistible to other people, it was
consequently not much to be wondered at that I
should now be utterly taken aback at finding the
man whom I believed her to care for was going to
marry some one else.

The thing seemed to me hardly credible. He
must be blind  a dolt and fool  to have a prize
like Kitty within his reach, and let it slip ! Why,
there was no one so attractive and charming as she
was ; she was (in my eyes) quite incomparable.
And though I had never seen this Lady Emma,
and knew nothing whatever about her, I was none
the less firmly convinced that she could not hold
a candle to Kitty in any single respect.

How would Kitty take the news, I wondered ?
Had she any expectation of it ? Had the possibility
of such a thing ever occurred to her ? ]Neo ;
I had an intuitive conviction to the contrary.
When she had met him at Eaoul's her manner had
shown not only shyness and nervousness, there
had been something more  something indefinable,
of pleasure and hope  which made me feel sure
that she had believed him to be heart-whole, and

not the property of any other girl, or about to
become so. Had she been in England, she would
no doubt have heard some of the gossip by which
the engagements of people conspicuous in society
are usually preceded; but her recent absence
abroad had, of course, prevented any rumours of a
flirtation between Captain Korroy and Lady Emma
from reaching her ears; and she must now be
totally unprepared to hear they were going to be
married. Of course, it would not matter to her an
atom if she were fancy-free about him, and if the
romance I had constructed was a baseless one.
But then I was almost positive that it was not
baseless, and that the news would be a blow to
her, though she would doubtless strain every nerve
to conceal that fact.

My poor Kitty, thought I sorrowfully; and,
immediately afterwards, laughed at my own folly.
How could I be so silly as to prefix the possessive
pronoun singular to the name of a person who was
not mine at all? Though she had always been
kind and courteous to me, yet her manner showed
plainly that she regarded me as one of an inferior
order, between whom and herself existed, naturally,
an impassable barrier; and knowing this, why
should I concern myself about her troubles, as if
she and I had been on terms of equality and

intimate friendship ? It would be ridiculous todo
anything of the kind. Had I not resolved
before now that I would put a check upon the
inclination to be fascinated by her, of which I was
conscious ? Certainly I had ; and yet how was I
keeping that resolution if I let myself take her
affairs to heart, and feel sorry for her, and indignant
with Captain Norroy, as I was inclined to be at
that moment ? Provoked to see in myself such a
disposition to be weakly sentimental, I was glad
when my common-sense and turn for ridicule bestirred
themselves, and applied mentally a douche
of cold water which cooled down my first absurd
impulse to be her ardent partisan.

After all, her affairs were no business of mine,
and it was mere folly to let myself be vexed about
them in any way. It could do no possible good,
and I should be simply making myself uncomfortable
for nothing. Besides, if she could see into
my mind, I might be very sure that she would not
approve of her maid's presuming to take so much
interest in her affairs, and would consider me
impertinent and officious.

Sensible reflections of this kind effectually
repressed my previous tendency to a foolish soft-heartiness
; and I resumed my interrupted perusal
of the newspaper, and amused myself placidly

during the rest of the afternoon till nearly dinner-time,
when my mistresses returned.

I went to dress Kitty, wondering whether or
not she had yet heard of Captain Norroy's engagement.
Anyhow, if she had, it had not troubled
her at all, for she was evidently in excellent spirits;
and in that respect presented a marked contrast to
her aunt, who came into her room during toilette
operations, and who  as it was easy to see  had
something on her mind which disturbed her. At
first, I took it into my head, from this uneasiness,
that Mrs. Eollin must have some suspicion of her
niece's being attached to Captain ISTorroy, and that,
having heard of his engagement to Lady Emma,
she must now be worrying herself as to how Kitty
would take the news, and as to the unhappiness
the girl might suffer on account of it. But, from
what was said, I speedily discovered that Mrs.
Eollin's disquietude arose from a very different
cause  neither more nor less than a pair of stays.

Do you know, Kitty," she said, " that I've been
thinking, ever since we left Jarrot's, of your flat
refusal to have anything to do with that pair of
stays she wanted you to wear. I cannot feel satisfied
that you decided wisely. It's still not too late to
change your mind, you know. Are you sure you
won't give them a trial, and see how you like them ?"

Kitty laughed as if the scene at the dressmaker's
was an amusing one to recollect.

Yes, I'm quite positive I won't," she answered;
they were at least three inches too small for me,
and I really coulclrCt consent to such a wholesale
diminution of the circumference of my waist ! I
suppose you are moved to plead for them by the
recollection of Jarrot's horror and distress when she
found my objection to them was quite invincible.
Eeally I don't wonder. Her look of shocked and
surprised grief would have been pathetic if the
cause hadn't made it comic ; and I was quite sorry
to have to wound her feelings so deeply."

"Oh no, my dear, of course, it isn't tliat'
returned Mrs. Eollin, somewhat pettishly ; " what
have I got to do with a dressmaker's feelings?
But what I was thinking of was, her declaring
that small waists are becoming so much the rage
as to be almost indispensable ; and that no lady
who cares to be hen mise ever thinks of objecting
to have her waist reduced to the smallest size
possible. Jarrot is safe to be a good authority on
the subject, because she is employed by quite the
crime de la crime of society. I am afraid you
think only of what you like ; and forget that people
who don't do the same as their fellows are sure to
be rash, even if not wrong."

'' Only, then, one must draw a line somewhere,"
replied Kitty ; " and I draw it at having my
internal arrangements shoved out of their places.
Not even to possess a small waist will I endure
that ! Jarrot regarded it as a mere temporary
inconvenience, to which I should soon get reconciled,
because she thought that what is comfortable
is simply whatever one was used to. But there I
don't agree with her. It amused me to see how
confidently she quoted il faut souffrir four etre
belle, as if that must certainly settle the question.
Somehow or other, even that argument failed to
persuade me to make myself ill, though I am nota
whit more deficient in vanity and care for my
personal appearance than the rest of my sex."

Mrs. EoUin sighed. " If you won't, you won't,
of course," she said ; " still I should have thought
you might have made the attempt to do as others
do, just for a little bit, as she wanted you to."

You see I'm too fond of my precious comfort,"
answered Kitty, merrily ; " and, do you know,
aunty, I've a great idea that I'm not the only
person in the family with that weakness ; and
that you, too, sometimes like to go your own way,
even if it isn't exactly the cut-and-dried path
followed by every one else."

'kitty, Kitty, you shouldn't say things like

that," expostulated her aunt ; " you know that I
consider being different from other people to be a
proof of an ill-regulated mind ; and that, therefore,
to accuse me of eccentric tastes is equivalent to
saying I deserve blame. Please remember that I
strongly object to your speaking in such a most
inconsiderate manner."

All right, aunt," said Kitty, good humoured ;
"I'm sorry 1 vexed you  I'll be more careful
another time. I didn't for a moment mean to
imply that you aren't all you should be, you know."

But though she said this, I don't think it
followed that she believed Mrs. EoUin's mind to
be always in absolute conformity with its own
standard of perfection. Anyhow, there was a
twinkle in Kitty's eye, which made me doubtful
on the subject.

Their toilettes being now completed, they
descended to dinner, leaving me quite satisfied
that Kitty had no secret grief oppressing her. It
must be one of two things, then, I thought, as I
watched her going downstairs : either my theory
is wrong from beginning to end, or else she as yet
knows nothing of this approaching marriage.
However, it is very likely that she may not have
had time to look at the papers yet, as they had
only just come before she went out.

When next I saw her it was very different ;
and I no longer doubted that I had been right in
thinking she cared for Captain Norroy. About
an hour after dinner was over I was in her room
arranging some clothes, when the door opened,
and she entered. Her head was drooping, instead
of being carried proudly thrown back as usual ;
her face was deadly pale, and wore an expression
of misery. On seeing her like this, I felt sure
that she must have just read the paragraph concerning
him, and had rushed off to be alone, so
that she might be relieved from the irksome
restraint imposed by the presence of other people,
and might let her features relax for a while into
whatever expression of pain came natural to
them.

In taking refuge in her own room she had
evidently forgotten the possibility of any one
being there; for as soon as she saw me she
started violently, and seemed to strive to replace
the mask, and look the same as usual for a few
moments longer.

"You can leave those things for the present,
Jill," she said, controlling her voice with an effort ;
I have come to lie down, as I have rather a bad
headache."

I saw she longed to have me gone, and as I

did not want to add to lier troubles, I prepared to
take myself off as quickly as possible. But I was
bound to play my part of lady's-maid ; and as I
knew that it would be an unheard-of solecism for
such an official not to profess sympathy  whether
she really felt it or not  with her mistress' ailments,
I was obliged to pause a moment before
departing, that I might express concern for her
headache, and ask if I should bring her a cup of
tea or coffee, or if there was anything else I could
do for her. My offer, however, was not accepted.

All I want is to be left quiet," she said, rather
impatiently ; " if I want you I will ring."

I withdrew accordingly. She stayed in her
room by herself during the remainder of the evening,
saying that her headache was still bad. At
bedtime she summoned me to assist her as usual,
and I thought she looked perfectly wretched.
She meant, however, to keep up appearances, for
when her aunt came in to inquire how she was,
and say good night, she exerted herself to seem as
lively as usual. She declared that her headache
was all the fault of those stays Jarrot had wanted
her to have. The mere idea of such an enormity
of tininess had so shocked her nerves, liver, lungs,
brain, and organs in general, that they had felt
bound to make some forcible demonstration of

disgust; and the demonstration had taken the
shape of a headache. A night's rest would put
her all right, she said, if she did not dream about
those horrid stays ; but if she were to have a
nightmare about wearing them, she really could not
say v:hcd might be the consequences to her health.
This nonsense was uttered with enough of her
customary vivacity to deceive Mrs. Eollin, who
went away, quite satisfied that there was nothing
the matter except an ordinary headache. But /
thought differently. I had seen Kitty's lips
quivering while she spoke, and had seen unmistakable
traces of tears in her eyes ; I had felt
that her head was burning hot, and the rest of
her body like ice ; and these things made me
believe that there was something more amiss with
her than a mere commonplace headache.

When I had performed my duties for the night,
and gone to my own room, my heart vjoulcl keep
aching for her, in spite of my efforts to restore it
to its habitual condition of sensible hardness. Our
recent adventures in Corsica had taught me that
she would face death and danger unflinchingly ;
and I knew her to be exceptionally proud, strong,
and brave. Yet for all her strength, courage, and
pride, she seemed to be almost broken down tonight.
And it naturally moves one more to see

VOL. 11. G

such a person as that give way than to witness
the upsetting of a weaker mortal

Anxiety about her, as I pictured to myself her
solitary suffering, and longed to be able to comfort
her, kept me awake and restless. What if she
were to have a brain fever, or a nervous fever, or
some other kind of illness such as I had heard
of being brought on by a sudden mental shock ?
Perhaps at that very moment she was ill, and in
need of assistance. So uneasy did I become, that
at last I could stay away from her no longer, but
determined to relieve my mind by going at once
to assure myself of her well-being.

I got up accordingly, put on a dressing-gown,
and stole quietly to the door of her room, where
I stood listening for a minute, and wondering
whether she had had the good fortune to fall
asleep. No ; for I heard a deep sigh, followed by
an inarticulate, moaning sound, which  though so
low as to be hardly audible  had something about
it that seemed to me unutterably sad and forlorn.
An uncontrollable impulse seized me to go to her
and try if I could not find some way of being of
use or comfort to her. But I could not enter the
room unless she choose to admit me, for she always
kept her door locked at night when in a hotel. I
knocked gently, and she responded, " Qui est-ce V

It is Jill," I replied; " may I come in ? I came
to see if your head is still bad ? and if so, if I shall
bathe it with eau de cologne, or fetch you anything,
or try and read you to sleep, or do anything else
for you?"

Oh no, thanks," she answered in a weary voice;
pray go to bed and leave me, for I am better to
be quite alone. You know if I want anything I
can ring."

Was the reminder of the bell intended as a
gentle hint that it was officious to disturb her with
an offer of services which she could command if
she required them ? That was the light in which
I regarded it, at all events; and I left her door,
feeling that I had been a fool for my pains, and
richly deserved the snub I had received. I asked
myself scornfully what had made me try to obtain
admittance into the room ? what good it could have
been? and what I supposed I should have done
had she opened the door to me ? Should I have
flung my arms around her, and told her that I
knew all, and was come to comfort her, or behaved
in some similarly gushing manner? Most certainly
not ! I knew better than to imagine that an absurd
demonstration of that kind would gratify her from
any one, and, least of all, from a servant. Besides,
when she was doing all she could to keep her

trouble and its cause a profound secret, it would
hardly have been a happy method of consolation
to go and inform her that her efforts had failed,
and that her secret was no - secret at all. What,
then, should I have done ? I had not the remotest
notion, and was forced to confess that my impulse
to be with her had been simply a piece of sentimental,
impractical folly, which it was very lucky
I had not been able to indulge. I could not possibly
have done anything to help her, and it would
clearly have been wiser and kinder of me to have
left her in peace ; and, laughing at myself bitterly,
and feeling decidedly small and ridiculous in my
own eyes, I retired to bed.

NOTICE TO QUIT.

My fears lest Kitty's health might be affected by
what had happened proved unfounded. By next
morning she had got herself once more in hand,
and I did not again see the expression of utter
abandonment to misery which, had been visible on
her face the previous night at the moment when
she entered her room, and before she was aware
of my presence there. If ever she allowed herself
to look like that again, I expect it was not until
she had made quite sure first that there was no
human being within reach to see what her countenance
might betray.

Some change in her, however, it was impossible
that there should not be, after the great and sudden
mental commotion which she had experienced. I
observed that she was paler than her wont, and
had black marks under her eyes, which, when commented
on by her aunt, she accounted for as being
the results of her violent headache. I saw, too,

that when she was not laughing or talking, and
her features were in repose, they settled into a
hard stern expression which they had not worn
before ; and that there was in her eyes a new look
of haughty defiance, as though they were challenging
the whole world to penetrate one hair's-breadth
further than she chose into the locked casket of
her inner self. In other respects she was outwardly
unaltered, and went about and conducted herself
in much the same, way as usual. The first shock
of the blow had made her stagger for an instant,
but she had never broken down altogether, and
was now prepared to stand firm, and give no sign
of pain. Natures like hers, endowed with strength,
pluck, and indomitable pride, are generally more
likely to be embittered than crushed when trouble
and disappointment comes upon them.

Just at this period my studies of Kitty's character
were cut short abruptly, and my own concerns
forced themselves unpleasantly into the foreground,
and demanded exclusive attention.

Whilst I had been abroad my mind had been
fully occupied with the various incidents of our
travels, and I had forgotten all about my quondam-admirer
Perkins, Lord Mervyn's valet. Unluckily,
however, he had not been equally oblivious of me ;
for, in rejecting his attentions and causing the loss

of his cherished whiskers, I had inflicted an injury
that he could neither forgive nor forget, and for
which he had vowed vengeance. When, therefore,
chance unkindly enabled him to discover an opportunity
for doing me a bad turn, he lost no time in
profiting by it; and the effect which his malice
had upon my fortunes I was now to experience.


The day before we were to leave Paris and return
to England, I Alas up in my room, beginning
to pack my box, when a housemaid came to tell
me to go to Kitty, who was in her bedroom, and
wished to see me. I obeyed the summons immediately,
without a suspicion of impending trouble ;
but my tranquillity vanished as soon as I reached
her room, and caught sight of her face. She was
sitting by the writing-table, and looked up at me,
on my entrance, with an air of cold dignified displeasure,
which showed me plainly there was something
wrong, and that I was in her black books
for some cause or other. AMiat the dickens is the
matter ? I thought. I began hastily considering
what recent actions of mine to which she was
likely to object could have come to her ears ; but
I could not recollect any misdemeanour important
enough to make her look so displeased. I wished
I could guess what sort of accusation was going

to be brought against me, so that I might know
whether to prepare denial, excuse, or frank confession.
For which of these three would be the best
defence for me to offer must obviously depend
upon what likelihood there was that the real
truth would be ascertained.

I have to speak to you, Jill," she said, " about
a most disagreeable matter. A letter which I have
just received from my mother tells me that she
has seen Sir Bartholomew Brown, who has lately
returned to London, and that when she questioned
him about you he denied all knowledge of any one
of your name, or answering to your description ;
declared that no such person had ever been in his
service ; and that the character, purporting to have
been written by him, which you produced in applying
for our situation, was a forgery. What have
you to say to this ? "

That was just what I did not know myself; for
I was completely dumb foundered by this sudden
attack from a quarter where I had anticipated no
danger. Why on earth could not Sir Bartholomew
have stayed in the East, as he had been supposed
to be going to do ? In vain did I rack my brains
for some way of extricating myself from this
dilemma. Not a single idea would occur to me,
so I simply remained silent  a course which had,

at all events, the recommendation of not committing
me one way or other.

Kitty-waited for a little while ; and then, perceiving
that I did not intend to answer, she said :

Am I to understand by your silence that you
are unable to contradict the truth of what Sir
Bartholomew said ?"

Oh, if you choose to understand it so, i'm, of
course I can't help that," replied I, shrugging my
shoulders, and still evading a direct admission of
the charge which it was evidently useless for me
to dispute.

I do not choose it at all," she returned
quickly ; " on the contrary, I should greatly prefer
to find that you are able to clear yourself.
But I wish to have a definite answer from you,
either yes or no, when I ask  Is the thing true ?"

I hesitated for a moment. Then, seeing that I
could gain nothing by denying, and that to tell a
lie about it would only sink me yet lower in her
eyes without doing me the least good, I replied
desperately, " Well  yes."

For a few minutes she did not speak, and sat
with her head resting on her hand, and apparently
reflecting about something. At last she said :

I have been considering what to do. My mother
thinks that you should at once be given in charge

of the police ; but that I do not feel inclined todo,
after what we went through together in Corsica
the other day, and the way in which you behaved
then. Besides, I have had no cause of complaint
since you have been with me, and I think you
have served me well  whatever you may have
done elsewhere. Therefore, though of course I
dismiss you, yet I wish to treat you with no needless
harshness. I propose, then, that you should
continue to be my maid for a day longer, so as not
to leave me till we arrive in London. Thus you
will not be turned adrift in a foreign country, as
would be the case if I discharged you here, on the
spot,; you will also have been brought back to
whence you came, and be left in no worse position
than you were before entering our service. As
for your wages, I shall, of course, pay them to
you fully. If you like this arrangement  which
is, I think, as favourable a one as you can expect
I am quite willing to make it. I daresay some
people would say I ought not to let you stay an
hour longer in my service ; and that all the thanks
I shall get is to be laughed at, and perhaps robbed,
by a person who has already shown herself to bea
forger. But I would rather take my chance of
that than have to reproach myself with having
wronged you."

I did not like her to think worse of me than I
deserved, and for a moment I felt very much
inclined to tell her who I was, in order that she
might see that circumstances had really compelled
me to act as I had done. For if I had not forged
a character to start with, how could I ever have
obtained a chance of earning one honestly? I
think I should inevitably have yielded to the
inclination, and imparted my history to her there
and then, if there had been anything in her
manner to make me believe that I had won a
footing, however low down, in her affection  that
she cared about me just one little bit. But there
was no such indication. She would not defraud
me of one atom that might be due for the services
I had rendered, because it would have wounded
her own self-respect to do that. But I saw (or
imagined myself to see) that the consideration
she showed for me was dictated solely by a sense
of justice, and not by any softer feeling ; and the
rising impulse to confide in her was frozen back by
the cold, haughty severity of her demeanour towards
one whom she regarded as a mere common cheat and
forger. Consequently I only replied stiffly that I
was much obliged for her offer, which T should be
glad to accept ; and that she might depend upon it
I would not give her cause to repent of her kindness.

Very well," she returned ; " then we will consider
the matter settled so, and you will leave me
when we get to Charing Cross. By the by, I
may as well let you know that I have not told
my aunt of what I heard to-day, and that I shall
not do so till after you have left. It would only
fuss her needlessly."

Then I withdrew, feeling extremely provoked
at the turn affairs had taken, and heartily anathematising
Sir Bartholomew for having come back
to England so inopportunely, instead of staying in
the East, as he had been expected to do. How
unlucky, too, that Lady Mervyn should have
happened to meet him, and to have had nothing
better to talk about than me ! The more I thought
about it, the more extraordinary did it seem that
she should have ever troubled herself to mention
me to him : for, from what I knew of her ladyship,
I should have thought that a lady's-maid was far
too insignificant to be honoured by being made a
topic of her conversation with a stranger  that is to
say, unless there had been some special reason for
it ; and I did not think any such reason was likely
to have existed in this instance. Very likely the
letter she had written to Kitty about me would
contain some enlightenment on this point. If
only I could get hold of that document, I would

see ; but the chances were that I should not be
able to lay hands on it, as Kitty rarely left correspondence
about  a carefulness which deprived her
maids of a good deal of the amusement they might
otherwise have had. On this occasion, however,
fortune favoured my desires. When Kitty changed
her dress that evening, in taking her handkerchief,
purse, and other et-ceteras out of her pocket, she
dropped a letter on the floor without noticing its
fall ; I, who was standing close by and helping
her, instantly covered it with my dress, in hopes
it might be the epistle I wanted to see ; I managed
to keep it under my feet and dress till she was
looking in another direction, and then shoved it
under the skirts of the toilette-table, where it was
safely out of sight. She finished dressing, and
went down to dinner, without having perceived
the loss ; and as soon as the coast was clear, I
rushed to the table, and extracted the letter, which
I had hidden there. On opening it, I found, to
my delight, that it was the one from Lady Mervyn
about me ; the contents sufficiently explained why
she should have condescended to discuss so humble
an individual as myself with Sir Bartholomew,
showing that it was all owing to the interference
of Perkins, and that I had only him to thank for
the misfortune by which I was now overtaken.

After relating what I already had heard from
Kitty, Lady Mervyn went on to say :

It was only by the merest accident that we
came to hear anything about the matter. Your
father's valet, Perkins, is member of some club or
other (fancy one's servants having clubs, like
gentlemen ! I can't think why parliament doesn't
make them illegal), to which a man who used to
be with Sir Bartholomew belongs also. With this
man Perkins happened to make acquaintance, and,
on hearing where he had been in service, asked him
if he knew Lady Brown's last maid, Jill, who was
now abroad with you."

Ah, thought I, when I had read so far, I can
quite believe that that spiteful wretch Perkins,
directly he thought he had met an old fellow-servant
of mine, lost no time in going spying and sniffing
about, and trying to rake up some ill-natured
story against me! / know his tricks and his
manners, as the doles dressmaker in Our Mutual
Friend used to say.

When Perkins said that, however," continued
the letter, " the man stared at him, and declared
he was talking nonsense. Lady Brown's last
maid, the man asserted, had been called Smith ;
had married a man named Roberts soon after
her mistress's death; and had then gone with

her husband to live at Liverpool, where she had
been ever since, to his positive knowledge. This
seemed very odd to Perkins, and made him
suspect there was something amiss, so he, very
properly, told me of what he had heard. As it
happened that Sir Bartholomew had returned to
England, I had no difficulty in learning the truth
from the fountainhead ; and now that I have just
had an interview with him, I Tite at once to tell
you the result. Of course you will not lose a
moment about handing the odious woman over to
the police as a forger and impostor. I shan't bea
bit surprised to find that they want her already,
and know lots of other things against her ; goodness
only knows what she is  thief, coiner, swindler,
incendiary, or anything ! It is so lucky that we
should have found her out in time. Mind that
you see all your things are quite right, and if they
are not, have her boxes searched. Don't pay her
anything, by the by. I should not think a
person who gets a situation as she has done
can claim wages  it would be getting money
under false pretences, I fancy. At any rate,
there's no need to hurry about paying until we
find out whether we are legally bound to or not."
Having perused the letter I folded it up, and
replaced it where Kitty had let it fall on the floor,

SO that she might find it there whenever she missed
it, and went to search for it.

One thing, at all events, the letter proved clearly,
and that was that Lady Mervyn's servants had
spoken with perfect truth when they said she was
mean ; for how contemptibly mean and petty washer
suggestion about withholding my wages ! It
seemed to me that as I had earned them honestly
I was unquestionably entitled to them, whatever
my character might be. And I might conclude
that Kitty, who was not so little-minded as her
mother, and whose pride made her incapable of
an ignoble action, took the same view of the matter
that I did ; for I knew that if she had intended
obeying her mother's instructions about dismissing
me unpaid, she would certainly not have mentioned,
as she had done, that I was to receive the
full amount due to me. Honour and truth were
integral parts of her character, and apparent in all
her dealings ; and though I was not myself sensitively
particular about those things, yet I could
not help admiring them in her all the same.

Well, I had not deserved badly of her, I
thought ; and in reviewing my past conduct it
seemed to me that, on the whole, she had not much
reason to complain of me. No doubt, my acquisition
of her purse at the railway station had been

somewhat questionable ; but, after all, it had only
been picked up  not stolen ; and my subsequent
retention of it had been caused chiefly by pique,
because my feelings had been hurt for the moment,
when I found that she had forgotten me. Since I
had been her maid I had, I considered, served her
faithfully enough ; and so I would continue to do
during the short remaining period of being in her
service. This resolution, be it said, was prompted
by no ulterior views of self-interest, as I was quite
aware of the impossibility of my ever referring to
her for a character. But she had declined to rob
me of my wages and send me to prison, as her
mother would have had her do, and had also
troubled herself to soften the dismissal in someway,
and I wished to show that I appreciated the
consideration with which she had treated me, and
was not ungrateful for it. Consequently I omitted
nothing that it was in my power to do for her
comfort on the journey back to England, and performed
my duties as her maid up to the last
moment of quitting her every bit as zealously as
though I had hoped to gain some advantage by
my attentions.

At Charing Cross Station we separated, to the
intense astonishment of her aunt, who as yet knew
nothing of what had taken place. They went one

VOL. II. H

way and I went another ; and thus I was cut off
from the first person I had ever come across who
possessed the gift of arousing the sluggish capacity
for affection which lay dormant in my cold-blooded
nature. Our being parted was entirely the doing
of that abominable Perkins ; and, as I looked after
her with a sigh, I relegated him to the same place
as my stepmother amongst my enemies, and regarded
him with sentiments of similar detestation.

A DOGGY PLACE.

When first cut adrift from Kitty, I felt disgusted
with service and had a great mind not to be a
maid again, because I knew I should hate waiting
on any other mistress. But people who have to
earn their own living cannot afford to be fanciful,
and reflection soon showed me the unwisdom of
throwing up in a pet a profession in which I had
now acquired some little experience ; so, within a
couple of days after my return to London, I was
once more advertising for a place as travelling-maid.


The next consideration was how I was to get
myself a character, as I certainly could not apply
to my late employers for one. Of course it was
open to me to supply myself with it in the same
way I had done before ; but though I had then
thought it a good joke and laughed at the deception
I practised, yet somehow I did not find myself
taking to the idea nearly as kindly now. I had

been in the habit of making fools of people for the
mere fun of the thing, and had regarded a falsehood
much as the historian Green says that Queen Elizabeth
did, i.e. as an intellectual means of meeting
a difficulty. But my views seemed to have undergone
an alteration of late, and I was conscious of
a certain amount of repugnance for what was
untrue, which perhaps showed that my intercourse
with Kitty had had some effect in educating my
conscience, and that I had imbibed something of
her contempt for lies. Therefore I hesitated about
writing a false character ; and no doubt my scruples
were all the more lively in consequence of my
recent detection and narrow escape of prosecution
for forgery ; for I had a horror of going to prison.
Consider as I might, however, I could see no.
honest way out of the difficulty. A character I
must have, as without one I had no chance of a
situation, and without a situation I should starve.
And as I had no one to give me a character, I was
bound to give it myself. Sowith a sigh for my
own roguery  I took a pen and indited an epistle,
highly recommending Caroline Jill, from a lady
with whom she had lived two years and eight
months, and who, before departing for the Cape
(where she did not want to be accompanied by a
maid) had written this character for the aforesaid

Jill. I flatter myself it was an artistic com230sitioii,
decidedly complimentary, and yet not ascribing tome
such perfection as might arouse suspicion by its
incompatibility with the frailty of human nature.

After waiting for two or three weeks without
receiving a single answer to my advertisement, and
searching the papers diligently during that time
without discovering any place advertised of the
kind that I wanted, I came to the conclusion that
travelling-maids were at a discount just at present.
Living in lodgings and earning nothing was too
expensive a process to be continued long, so it
seemed to me that I had better alter my plans,
and try and be something which was not at a
discount. Should I go in for being a shop woman ?
But that was a monotonous existence, I thought,
with not enough chance of variety and amusement
to suit me. And then it struck me that I might
let my talents as courier-maid lie idle for a while,
and try for an ordinary lady's-maid's situation. I
knew that my lack of dressmaking knowledge was
much against that scheme ; but still I might have
the luck to meet with one of those ladies who
always have their dresses made out. At any rate
I determined to make the attempt.

As soon as possible next morning I procured
one or two newspapers, copied the addresses of as

many advertisers for ladies-maids as I should be
able to go and see in the day, and set off to call
upon these ladies. At every place, however, I
found that dressmaking was an indispensable qualification,
and I returned to my lodgings weary and
unsuccessful. ISText day I repeated the process
with no better result ; and on the third day also
it was just the same story over again. Wherever
I went there was a universal demand for dressmaking
on the part of the maid ; and I began to
wonder if, in all England, there existed such a
person as a struggling dressmaker ; and if so, why
she did not instantly take to lady's-aiding.

Though discouraged by these repeated failures,
I thought I would still persevere a little longer
before giving up, and accordingly started on a
fourth day's round as before. In the course of
them I came to the house of a Mrs. Torwood, who
lived in Chester Square. My ring at her bell was
not answered for several minutes, and I was thinking
of repeating it when a noise something like
a miniature steam-engine approaching from within
the house made me pause to see what was coming.
Directly afterwards the door was opened, and I
perceived that the puffing and blowing I had
heard proceeded from a fat, apoplectic-looking
man-servant, to whom stairs were evidently antipathetic,

and aa'Iio was panting tremendously after
his ascent from the inferior regions to the front-door.
Being too much out of breath to waste words,
he only nodded affirmatively when I inquired
whether his mistress was at home and disengaged.

Then please will you go and tell her," I said,
that I have called about the maid's place, and
ask if she can see me now ?"

By this time he had recovered sufficiently to
be able to speak.

Why it's another of 'em ! Is this lever going
to lend ? " he groaned in a melancholy voice, when
he heard what my errand was. Then, some happy
thought seemed to occur to him, for his face
brightened, and he muttered to himself, " But why
shouldn't she and me settle it? Fll soon see if
its any good her going further." And without
stirring from the spot, or giving the slightest indication
of any intention of taking my message, he
addressed me thus :

'Sense me basking, miss, but was your father,
or any near relaue of yours, a 'huntsman ?"

Xo," I answered ; whereupon his countenance
fell a little, and he resumed :

Or a gamekeeper, perhaps ?"

I repeated the negative, and he looked still
more disappointed, but continued :

No offence, miss, if I asks one more question,
and that is, 'ave you lever, in any way, bin habitually
brought in contact with kennels, or packs of
'pounds?"

I shook my head ; feeling not a little astonished
at all this questioning.

Hah, then there's not a ghost of a chance as
you'll take the place," he exclaimed regretfully,
and you may as well say good day, for I can't
in conscience advise you to go a wasting of your
valuable time with seeing the missis ! I'm sorry
very ; for I'm quite sick of a opening this old
door to maids come about the situation, and I
did 'ope as you might 'ave done, and put a lend
to it. But its no use ; from what you've told me,
I can see plainly as you won't do."

That the man was a character was evident ; but
as I was getting tired of standing talking to him,
and did not at all wish to receive his confidences
about his employers, I politely reiterated my former
request that he would go and find out if his mistress
would see me.

Well ; but 'haven't I just told you as it's no
good ? " he returned, looking at me with an air of
aggrieved surprise. " When I tells you as I knows
as you hasn't the individual for the place, can't
you go hoff again quietly, without a giving no more

trouble ? If you 'haven't no consideration for yourself,
you might 'ave some for me, and not give me
all the wear and tear of toiling hup a lot of steps
just for nothing."

The seriousness with which he seemed to expect
that I should accept his opinion, and be satisfied
to go away without having seen the lady of the
house, was intensely ludicrous, and I had some
difficulty in keeping my countenance.

I am quite grieved to be so troublesome," I
said, "but I have a strange fancy for always making
sure for myself whether a place will suit me or not,
and I'm afraid I really must ask you to be so good
as to let the lady know I am here."

He did not at all resent this (to him, probably,
incomprehensible) pertinacity on my part, but only
put on a sort of resigned-martyr air, saying :

Come along then, since you insists upon
it. But you'll soon find as I was right, and perhaps
that'll make you less incredulous of my words
another time. If you only snowed what a lot
of maids I've a took hup these 'ere blessed stairs
and down again, all for nothing ! Putting a
unfair strain upon a man's lungs, / considers
it ; but there !  people are so thoughtless."

He took care to reduce the strain upon his lungs
to a minimum by making me accompany him as

far as the first landing on the stairs, and wait there
whilst he proceeded to the drawing-room. Thus,
when he had ascertained that his mistress would
see me, it was only necessary for him to lean over
the bannisters and beckon, whereby he avoided
having to descend any steps to fetch me, and could
wait placidly till I joined him on the first floor to
be ushered into Mrs. Torwood's presence.

There were dogs dispersed about the room in all
directions, and my entrance was the signal for a
sudden chorus of sharp barks, which gave me some
clue to a comprehension of the butler's enigmatical
allusions to a kennel. It would have been impossible
to hear oneself speak had the clamour continued
; but it subsided as quickly as it had arisen,
and, with two exceptions, the dogs took no more
notice of me. One exception was a terrier, who
uttered subdued yaps at intervals, as if half ashamed
of it ; and the other was a collie, who thought he
would like my umbrella (which I held in my hand),
and who kept sidling up with an innocent air, and
giving unobtrusive tugs at the coveted object from
time to time, apparently in hopes of getting possession
of it at some unguarded moment when I might
be too much engrossed in talking to his mistress
to notice his proceedings. The rest of the dogs,
however, evidently thought that they had done

their duty conscientiously when they had proclaimed
my advent, and that there was no need to
pursue the subject further. Very possibly they
considered barking to be the proper canine equivalent
to the human practice of announcing a
visitor's name, which is only done on the visitor's
entrance, and not repeated afterwards.

Mrs. Torwood looked to me pretty, elegantly
dressed, and silly, and I guessed her age to be about
thirty. She began by asking me my name ; after I
had told her that, I expected the usual queries as to
qualifications would follow, and waited with dread
for the mention of that abominable dressmaking
which had so often been my rock ahead. But her
next remark was quite unlike anything I had anticipated.
She hesitated a moment, and then said :

You see these dogs of mine ? Well, I can
assure you that they are the nicest, best-behaved
darlings possible, and not a bit of trouble. Why
any one should mind doing anything for them, I
can't conceive ; but so many maids do object to it,
for some unaccountable reason or other, that I had
better tell you at once that I expect my maid to
brush and comb these dogs every morning and
take them out walking, besides washing them once
a week. So if you would dislike that, of course it
is no use my thinking of engaging you."

Certainly this was rather a variety on the
ordinary ideas of what a lady's-maid's duties
would be ; but as I had always been fond of
animals, I did not feel averse to the notion. Still,
as Mrs. Torwood evidently thought it likely that
I should make difficulties about undertaking the
dogs, I would not be in too great a hurry to consent,
and would appear to make rather a favour
of it. So I paused to consider, and then asked :
How many dogs are there to look after, mem ?"

There are six at present," she replied ; " but
of course, if I were to get any new ones, you
would have them also."

It flashed upon me that here was an excellent
opportunity for escaping the demand for dressmaking
which had hitherto been my stumbling-block
at every place for which I had applied.

I have never been expected to take care of
any lower animals before," I said, speaking as like
a dignified lady's-maid as I could ; " still, I would
not object to oblige you by doing so, provided no
dressmaking is required."

"Why not?" she inquired, looking surprised.

Because I know I should not have time for
it," I answered.

Oh, but the dogs won't take you the whole
day," she returned. " I don't say you would have

time for a great deal of dressmaking. But surely
you might manage just a little  especially if you
weren't hurried about it?"

"There will be you to wait upon, and your
clothes to keep in order, mem," said I, " and that,
with washing, combing, and taking out six dogs,
is quite as much as I could think of undertaking
to get through in the day ; because if I undertook
anything more, I know I should only fail to give
you satisfaction."

She hesitated. She had, however, met with so
many maids who had from the first moment flatly
refused to have to do with her pets, that one like
me, who had no objection to them, seemed to hera
rara avis. Besides, her present maid was just
going away, and she was in a hurry to secure
another. And therefore, after a little more opposition,
my firmness carried the day, and the
obnoxious dressmaking was conceded. Then we
discussed other details, and I had to produce the
character with which I was provided. This, and
the account of myself which I gave, being deemed
satisfactory, the interview terminated in my
engagement as her maid  upon which office I was
to enter in another three days.

She rang the bell when I left the room, and in
the hall I found the fat butler waiting to see that

I left the premises without committing any depredations
on the plate or other portable property.

Well ; so now you knows as I was right, I
repose, and that you might as well 'ave gone away
at once when I told you," he observed.

Not exactly," I returned, " seeing that I have
taken the situation."

"You don't say so!" he cried joyfully, elevating
his eyebrows in extreme surprise. "Thank
goodness for that ; and I only 'opes as you'll
keep it, so as I shan't 'ave no more dorrit with
maids coming about the place ! What aggravated
me, you see, was knowing all the time as
they was sure not to take it, and that I was justa
trotting hup and down them beastly old stairs,
all for nothing. A man doesn't like to think ashe's
being sacrificed in vain; and that there's
no object in heggsershuns pitch as may land him
in a consumption or a hastma."

But you made sure once too often," I said,
laughing ; " you declared that it was no use showing
me upstairs, and yet you were wrong, you see."

'Not a bit of it," he retorted severely ; " no
young 'woman need think as she'll make me out
wrong so easy as all that. Did you never 'ear
tell of the egg sep shun as proves the rule ? Because
that's what yoic are, let me tell you ; and I doesn't

form my judgement by egg sep shuns but by rules !
Precious slow those egg sep shuns are in showing
themselves, too, sometimes. I've known one keep
a man waiting till he's just wore out, instead of
'hurrying to the fore sharp dien 'twas wanted, as
it might 'a done."

Having thus refuted the charge of error, and
given me a pretty broad hint that I  by not
making my appearance on the scene sooner  had
incurred the responsibility of his numerous needless
journeys up and downstairs on behalf of
aspirant maids, he relaxed his severity, and bid
me good-bye with a graciousness which showed
he bore no malice for the injuries I had done him.

I returned his farewell civilly, little dreaming
that this man would ever give me a means of
annoying my hated stepmother; then I went
straight to buy a dog-whistle, which seemed to mea
most essential article for Mrs. Torwood's maid
to possess.

It was on that same day, I remember, that the
papers announced the engagement of the Hon. K.
Mervyn to Lord Clement. I had not expected it
to come quite so soon, but otherwise I was not at
all surprised ; for I had never doubted that the
Earl's chance of winning her would go up as soon
as Captain iSTorroy was out of the question.

A DISCOVERY.

Mrs. Torwood was lady-like, good-natured, indolent,
rather foolish, easily-influenced, not difficult
to get on with, and thinking more of her clothes,
her appearance, and her dogs, than anything else.
She spoilt these last terribly, and let them do
whatever they pleased. But I liked them for all
that ; indeed, if it had not been for them, I doubt
whether I should not have found myself too much
bored in the situation to stay there, for their
mistress was very uninteresting in my eyes, and
did not move about enough to please me. Her
pets, however, had considerably more individuality
than she had, and afforded me sufficient amusement
and occupation to keep me contented. As
my ignorance of dressmaking had prevented me
from getting other places that I had tried for, and
as it was through the dogs that I had at last surmounted
that obstacle, mere gratitude would have
prompted me to do well by them, even if the work

A Discovery. 113

of looking" after them had been distasteful to meo



But this was not the case, thanks to my fondness
for animals ; and it was not long before they and
I were on the best of terms together.

In some respects, however, they caused me a
good deal of anxiety. The chief of these causes
was the daily airing Which it Alas my duty to give
them ; and I was always thankful to find myself
safely at home again without either of my charges
being lost or stolen, or having got into any mischief.
I used to take them out singly and in a chain just
at first ; and as soon as our acquaintance was
sufficiently advanced for me to discard the chain,
I took them two at a time. But I did not venture
to go beyond that number Dien in toYn, as all
the dear creatures had some little characteristic
peculiarity or other, Ydiich made it necessary to
keep a sharp look-out upon each individual during
the Ydiole Y'alk, if one did not Y'ant to lose them
or get into a scrape. If I enumerate these little
peculiarities, I think it Yell be evident that my
precaution of not taking more than tvo together
was not uncalled-for.

I will begin Yth Dart, a terrier Ydiose mouth
always Watered after the calves of children's legs,
though he only wanted to enjoy the feel of the
flesh between his teeth, and lead not the least wish

YOL. II. I

to do any real harm. As soon as he saw a pair of
these tempting objects anywhere near, he would
go and join the owner, wagging his tail, smoothing
back his ears, smiling, wriggling his body, and
altogether looking sweet enough to inspire confidence
in the breast of the most distrustful infant.
Then, turning his head insidiously as he walked
along, he would seize the nearest calf, give it a
good squeeze, and depart hastily, leaving the victim
more frightened than hurt, howling dismally, kicking,
and struggling. Of course it was easy to prevent
the catastrophe by recalling him the instant
he assumed an expression of extra-amiability, and
set off in the direction of a barelegged child ; but,
as barelegged children are plentiful in London, it
was obviously well for whoever had charge of
Dart to keep an eye upon him constantly.

Yarrow, again, was a collie who had a rooted
conviction that his constitution required carriage
exercise, and who never failed to do his best to
give effect to that idea by trying to get into any
carriage, cab, or 'bus whose door he saw open.
This habit of his sometimes gave rise to laughable
scenes, as, for instance, one day when he skipped
up the steps of an extremely grand barouche, just
as the gorgeously-apparelled footman was holding
the door open for his mistress to get in, whilst a

dignified butler, and a couple more men in gorgeous
liveries were respectfully attending her to the door
of the house she was leaving. The flunkey at the
carriage nearly fell backwards with horror, but did
not venture to interfere with the audacious intruder,
so Yarrow settled himself in triumph on the front
seat, and sat there at ease with his tongue hanging
out, and shedding drops on the smart cushions
which he was profaning. He looked blandly at
the dismayed servants  not one of whom dared lay
a finger on him  and at the lady standing laughing
on the doorstep of the house ; and how the scene
would have terminated if I had not arrived to the
rescue and dislodged him, I cannot imagine. He
was complete master of the situation as far as the
servants were concerned ; but I suppose one of
them would eventually have called a policeman if
I had not intervened.

A third member of my pack was Eoyal, a fat
King Charles, who always made me wish I had
eyes in the back of my head. He was the veriest
dawdle that ever existed, and was possessed with
the idea that whoever took him out was walking
too fast, and that it was his duty to protest against
such haste ; therefore, no matter how slowly one
went, he was sure to lag far behind. His dilatoriness
was especially provoking, because of his being

SO handsome and well-bred as to be unusually
attractive to dog-stealers ; and many a collision
have I had with other street passengers in consequence
of walking backwards so as not to lose sight
of that precious animal.

I come next to Sue, a spaniel of inordinate
appetite, who, like Eoyal, kept me in a continual
state of alarm during her walks lest she should be
stolen. As she never thought she had had enough
to eat, she was sure to follow any one who carried
food, and would also constantly stop to sniff about
in the gutter in search of something to satisfy her
cravings ; for she was not in the least dainty, and
devoured everything edible with relish. She was a
shocking thief, too ; and now and then, before I
could stop her, she would manage to whip a beefsteak
or mutton-chop off some butcher's tray that
had been left unguarded by the area-rails whilst
the butcher was below enjoying a gossip with the
cook. On these occasions I felt a little puzzled
how to act. To let Sue carry off her prize quietly
would be robbing the butcher, and I did not want
to be dishonest if I could help it. Yet, if the man
knew what had happened, he would probably
make a bother and claim damages, and I did not
want that either. So I adopted the middle course
of running: after Sue, taking the meat from her

and restoring it to the tray, and getting clear off
from the spot as quickly as possible before the
return of the owner. This arrangement seemed tome
fair to all parties, as it saved me from unpleasantness,
and, at the same time, did no wrong to
the butcher. No doubt his customers would not
buy the meat if they knew it had been in the dog's
mouth, and would declare it to be disgusting and
uneatable ; but then the idea is everything in
matters of taste ; and as the little accident with
Sue would be unknown, the meat would be eaten
without a qualm, and was therefore deteriorated
in value, I argued ; for I was sure it was not really
any the worse. Sue often aggravated me also in
respect of poor working men eating an al fresco
breakfast or dinner. As soon as ever she saw one
of these men, off she would go, and sit up on her
hind-lecfs in front of him, bcOTng with cplisteninof
eyes, slobbering mouth, and an eagerness that
might have made one think she was starving, if
her sleek sides had not told a different tale. Her
beseeching face and manner generally produced an
effect, and I have seen many a man, who looked
ill able to afford a morsel out of his scanty meal,
throw her a scrap. I always interfered with this
little game of hers, and prevented her from being
given anything if I could get to the spot in time ;

for I felt quite ashamed to be in charge of an
evidently well-fed dog like her, who went sponging
upon poor people who probably had not enough
for themselves  I almost wondered she had not
too much self-respect to do it.

Chose was a light-hearted French poodle, with
a strong taste for sport, which had, unluckily, never
been developed in the right direction. Sheep
appeared to him to be quite legitimate game, and
he never could see them without trying to sneak
off in their direction, with a drooping tail and
general air of depression, which may have been
caused by a consciousness of wrongdoing, or else
by fear of being recalled before he was out of reach,
and thus deprived of the chasse on which his heart
was set. As for birds, he considered all to be fair
game alike, and rushed madly after any feathered
creature that was sitting or running on the ground,
or flying low anywhere near him. Repeated failure
did not discourage him ; he evidently believed it
to be his mission to catch birds, and dashed off
accordingly in frantic pursuit of rooks, swallows,
chaffinches, sparrows, and other birds on the wing,
though he had no more chance of catching them
than he had of jumping over the moon. This was
all very well when he hunted wild birds that could
fly away ; but it was a more serious matter when

poultry were concerned, and the scrapes he got
into with ducks and chickens in the course of his
career would require a chapter to enumerate.

Finally, I come to Jumbo, a diminutive terrier,
with a mania for digging, who was the abomination
of all the gardeners in his neighbourhood. Soft,
freshly-turned earth was an irresistible temptation
to him ; and if not watched carefully, he was sure
to slip off to the nearest flower-bed in park, square,
or garden, and there dig gigantic graves in a surprisingly
short space of time. I expect he thought
that, considering what a lot of moles, rabbits, rats,
and mice had holes underground, he must infallibly
light upon some one of these creatures at last, if
he persevered in his researches long enough. He
had also a weakness for flowers, and liked to pick
them for himself; so, altogether, I don't wonder
he was not loved by gardeners, one of whom once
remarked to me indignantly :

That 'ere dawn o' your is the weary justest
little beast I ever see! I'd just like to take and
give 'im to one o' them 'ere willysectin doctors,
that I would!"

Well, those six dogs gave me a good bit of
trouble in one way or other, no doubt ; and all
the more because their mistress spoilt them, and
did not try to get them out of their bad ways, and

they were not with me long enough for me to be
able to undo the effect of her spoiling. But they
amused me and I liked them, notwithstanding their
troublesomeness ; and when I went near them it
pleased me to hear the thump thump of tails against
the ground, which showed that I was welcome.

The Torwoods kept no indoor man-servant except
the butler already mentioned, who rejoiced
in the name of Eliezer Scroggins ; and as he was
a respectable, steady-going married man, I found,
to my great satisfaction, that I was in no danger
of suffering from persecutions like those of the
detestable Perkins. I got on very well with
Scroggins, and was often amused by his peculiarities
; for he was (as I had guessed at first) somewhat
of a character, though a very good sort of
fellow, for all that. His prejudices were very
strong, and he was sure to cling with pigheaded
obstinacy to whatever idea he had taken into his
head. I soon discovered that amongst his pet
aversions were people who, in his opinion, gave
themselves airs, and presumed to push their way
up to a station above that in which they had been
born. Such people he hated as he hated stairs 
perhaps more ; and no matter whether they moved
in his mistress's sphere of life or his own, they
irritated him as the proverbial red rag does the

bull. Indeed, I rather suspect that he sometimes
had premeditated accidents when any of these
objects of his dislike were dining at the Torwoods,
and that any visitor of theirs who was considered
by him to be what he called a " parvenyoo " was
not at all unlikely to receive a bath of soup, sauce,
tea, coffee, or wine, or to suffer from some similar
misadventure, caused by the intentional clumsiness
of the butler.

His bitterness on the subject of people who had
risen above their natural position was so great that
I had little doubt of there being some particular
reason for it ; and idle curiosity moved me to try
and find out what that reason was, though I never
for an instant supposed that the history could be
one in any way specially concerning me. However,
he did not choose to confide his private family
affairs to a complete stranger ; and so, though he
dropped occasional dark hints, whence I concluded
that he had a step-sister whom he detested, yet it
was not till I had been nearly a year in Mrs.
Torwood's service that I at last was permitted to
know the cause of his inveterate spite against the
whole race of parvenus.

His mother, it appeared, had been twice married,
and he was her child by the second marriage. Her
first husband was a clerk named Brown, who had

died before he was thirty, leaving only one child,
a daughter named Mary. He had had rather
exalted ideas about education, and had no opinion
of home teaching, and consequently had sent his
daughter to a cheap boarding-school as soon as
ever she was old enough to leave home.

After Brown's death his young widow had
married into a social position a shade below that
of the clerk, and become the spouse of a grocer in
the East End, named Joshua Scroggins, to whom
in due time she presented my friend Eliezer, and
sundry other children.

On the second marriage the grocer, a good-hearted
conscientious man, had declared that it
would be a shame for her daughter Mary not to
have the same education as her own father would
have given her, so he generously went on paying
for her at the school where she had been already
placed. Here the girl picked up a fair education,
and also many ridiculous and fine ideas. She took
to spell her name with an "e" at the end ; would
sooner have died than let her school-fellows know
that she was connected with a small retail shopkeeper
bearing a name so odiously vulgar as
Scroggins; and brooded over the grievance of having
so unpresentable a stepfather, until she became
convinced he had done her a mortal injury

by marrying her mother, and got into the habit of
disliking and despising him in spite of the kindness
and liberality with which he always treated
her. Now Scroggins was an honest hard-working
man, who minded his shop in person, with the
assistance of his wife and children; though he
had managed to defray Mary's schooling, yet the
expense had now and then pressed on him a little
heavily, and he had not the least intention of keeping
her as an idle fine lady when she left school
for good and came to live at home, but expected
her to take her turn in the shop, as the rest of the
household did. Her disgust at this was intense,
and she showed it by doing her work as badly as
she dared, scolding and flouncing about the house,
and losing no opportunity of making herself generally
disagreeable.

The Scroggins family  consisting of father and
mother, and four children, of whom my friend
Eliezer was the eldest  had hitherto lived in unbroken
peace and harmony, and now groaned sorely
under the infliction of the new-comer, with her airs
and graces and tantrums. The recollection of her
being fatherless kept them from resenting her
nonsense as it deserved, and made them more
gentle and patient with her than they would perhaps
have been otherwise ; but it was felt by all

to be a blessed relief when the disturbing element
was removed by marriage to a city gent. He was
in business, but did not keep a shop, and so she
graciously condescended to accept him as a means
of escape from the intolerable humiliation of serving
behind her step-father's counter. The city gent
proved a good speculation. A few lucky ventures
gave him a rise in the world ; and when, in the
course of years, he left her a widow, her social
position was very considerably better than it had
been when she first became his wife. By the time
he died, all intercourse between her and the
Scrogginses had long been at an end. Though
she had not hesitated to receive a dowry from her
step-father, yet she had never evinced the smallest
gratitude for that, or any of the numerous other
benefits he had bestowed upon her. On the contrary,
she took no trouble to conceal her aversion
to him ; declared that vulgarity was necessarily
attached to such a name as Scroggins ; and, after
her marriage, saw less and less of the family, and
rudely checked all friendly advances on their part,
till at last she succeeded in altogether cutting the
connection. Mrs. Scroggins  a peace-loving, kindly
soul, who could not bear to be mixed up in any
kind of dissension  was grieved by this, and by the
separation from her daughter, though it was no

fault of hers, and she could not possibly help it.
But she bore no malice, and when the news came
of her son-in-law's death, she thought only of her
daughter's present distress, and forgot the many
slights and insults that had been cast upon her
and hers. Full of unaffected hearty sorrow and
sympathy, she set off immediately to visit the
bereaved Mary, hoping to be able to comfort her
and be of use to her. What took place on the
occasion of this visit Eliezer never exactly knew.
But he knew well that the reception of his good-hearted
and forgiving mother must have been both
unseemly and unpleasant, when he saw her return
home in tears, thoroughly upset, and saying that
she could not have believed any woman would have
behaved so rudely to her own mother ; and that,
unless she was sent for, she would never again try
to see Mary. This had made a deep impression
on Eliezer, who adored his mother ; and the bitter
enmity he had ever since cherished against the
person who had treated her so badly, and whom
he regarded as an upstart, had extended to the
whole race of " purveyors."

Do you know what has become of your step-sister
? " I asked carelessly ; " and do you ever see
her?"

''See 'er!" he ejaculated wrathfully; "not if I

knows it. I'm none so fond of raising my corruption
by looking at what I 'ages ! But I 'ears tell
on 'er now and again ; ske married some swell with
a 'angle to 'is name some years back. Mary Grove's
clever enough  you may trust 'er to do well for
'herself wherever she is."

In telling his tale he had not before mentioned
the name of his step-sister's husband; but when
he spoke of Mary Grove, I pricked up my ears
with a sudden recollection that that had been the
name of my step-mother. " Was Grove the name
of the city gent ?" I enquired eagerly.

Scroggins nodded.

"Had they any children?" I continued.

A couple o' gals named Jane and Margaret there
was," he returned; " I don't know what they be like
now, for I ain't seen 'em  not since they was little
mites o' things."

Jane and Margaret ! these had been the names
of my step-sisters, and I felt almost sure that his
step-sister and my step-mother must be one and
the same person. One more question would make
the matter absolutely certain, so I said : " What
was the name of Mary Grove's second husband 
do you know it ?"

Oh yes, I knows it ; but I can't lay tongue toit
at this moment. What lever is it now ? Sir

Anthony something or other  I should know it
if I was to 'ear it."

Was it anything like " I began, and then

paused. Never once had my own name passed
my lips since I left home, and somehow now, when
I tried to say it, it seemed to stick in my throat.
Overcoming this feeling, however, I completed my
sentence  " like Trecastle ?" It was strange how,
in spite of my first hesitation about uttering the
word, yet when once it was out, my tongue clung
lovingly to it, and I should have liked to repeat
it over and over again. I thought it sounded
better than any other name I had ever heard, and
felt a thrill of pride to think that it was mine by
right.

That's the very thing!" he exclaimed triumphantly
; " Sir Anthony Trecassel, and I wishes 'im
joy of 'is bargain ! 'Ow lever did you come to
think of 'im?"

Oh, I had heard of a Sir Anthony Trecastle
before," I replied, " and so when you started me
with the first name, the second suggested itself
quite naturally."

Here our conversation was interrupted, and I
retired to meditate complacently on the means of
being revenged on my step-mother, which fortune
had so kindly thrown in my way. There was

nothing really to be ashamed of in such a connection
as the Scrogginses, who were evidently highly
respectable and excellent individuals. Yet few
people in society would altogether enjoy having a
mother named Scroggins, who sold soap and tallow
candles in the East End; and, least of all, the former
Mary Brown, who had striven so indefatigably and
successfully to cut herself free from every trace of
the grocer's shop. It would be gall and wormwood
to her to have her secret revealed ; and I chuckled
with delight to think that it had fallen into my
hands, and that the whole world would know it
when I chose.

But I would not be in too great a hurry with
my vengeance. I would take time about it  prolong
her torment by keeping her in suspense, and
letting her see the blow coming before it actually
felL Therefore I commenced operations by posting
to her an anonymous letter in a feigned hand,
stating that the writer was a benevolent individual
to whom the spectacle of domestic discord was
inexpressibly shocking, and who was much inclined
to undertake the good work of endeavouring to
bring about a public reconciliation between the
Scrogginses and one of their family who had long
been estranged from them.

This Avould suffice to alarm her and make her

anxious as to what the writer's real intentions
where. Perhaps she would think he meant only to
extort money  from which idea her parsimonious
soul would shrink with horror; or perhaps she
would think that he meant to execute his threat,
which she would regard as a still more terrible
possibility. Either way she would be made miserable,
and so my object would be gained.

After leaving some weeks for the digestion of
this missive, I despatched another, stating that
the writer considered it part of a wife's duty to
introduce her husband to her parents ; and that if
any wife failed to perform that duty, it behoved
some one else to do it in her place.

This I presently followed by a third and still
more menacing letter, so as continually to increase
her terrors, and keep her perpetually with a sword
hanging over her head. At every epistle I sent
off I gloated over the thought of the state of disquietude
in which she must be ; and as I remembered
how uncomfortable she had once made me,
I regretted that I could not be present when the
letters arrived, so as to have the pleasure of seeing
my shafts take effect and wound her. The execution
of the threats should come soon, I thought.
My intention was to play with her and keep heron
tenterhooks for a while, and then to send

VOL. II. K

anonymous letters containing information of her
antecedents to my father, his family, the county
people, and others with whom she had formerly
been intimate. I should of course give the
address of the Scroggins' shop, so that it would
be easy for the recipients of the letters to verify
my statement if they cared to do so ; and there
could be little doubt that all her bosom friends
would give themselves that much trouble, even if
mere chance acquaintances did not think it worth
while. Therefore there was no danger of the history
being hushed up and kept quiet, and of her being
spared the humiliation she dreaded.

Before, however, I had brought my operations
to a climax, they were interrupted by an unforeseen
event, which must be related in the next
chapter.

THE LAST OF PERKINS.

I DARESAY my readers will take it for granted that
I adopted a fresh name when I went into Mrs.
Torwood's service. So I most certainly ought to
have done after my previous forgery of a character
having been detected. But sometimes one is
astonishingly stupid ; and the idea of making
that very necessary alteration never entered my
head. Caroline Jill I had dubbed myself when I
dropped the secretly venerated name of Trecastle,
and Caroline Jill I  like an idiot  continued to
be, without having the wits to see how foolish it
was of me to stick to a name upon which I had
brought discredit. I was now to feel the consequences
of this imprudence, the penalty being
brought about, indirectly, by three of the dogs
under my care.

One morning when I went as usual to call Mrs.
Torwood, she said she should stay in bed a little
longer, as she had a headache, and that I was to

leave her to sleep till half past ten, when she
meant to get up. It so happened that I was
particularly desirous of getting through my work
early on that day, and as by taking out the six
doo's in two instead of three detachments, I should
have just time to give the whole lot their daily
airing before the hour when I was to return to
my mistress, I determined to break my rule for
once, and take them out three together, instead of
in couples, as usual.

Behold me, then, sallying forth at about 9.30
A.M., accompanied by the greedy Sue, the vivacious
and sport-loving Chose, and the dawdling Eoyal.
Our progress was characteristic of my three companions.
First went Chose, trotting ahead of us,
and keeping a bright look-out for a chance of a
chasse. E"ext came Sue and I  she making occasional
foraging excursions into the gutter, and I
continually walking backwards and wringing my
neck, in order not to lose sight of Eoyal. Finally
came Eoyal, lagging far behind, with his customary
leisurely imperturbability. All went well till we
came to where a footman had lounged out from
his master's house, leaving the front door open
behind him, and was standing a few yards off
chatting with a friend. I and my pack had passed
there before often enough for the footman to know

US by sight ; and I knew him in the same way,
and knew also that his employers had a pet in the
shape of a magnificent Persian cat. Now this cat
had taken advantage of the open door to come out
upon the pavement, where she was sunning herself
tranquilly when Chose, who, as I have mentioned,
headed our party, drew near to that spot. At sight
of puss he stopped short with uplifted paw and
quivering tail, and for a second or so the two
animals stood motionless and gazing at each other.
Then the cat, distrusting his appearance, whisked
round, and flew like lightning up the doorsteps
into the house. Had she stayed still. Chose might
very likely have let her alone ; but the instant he
saw her run he became convinced she was game,
and therefore to be hunted. I whistled and called
to him in vain ; without a moment's hesitation,
and paying no attention to me, he dashed after
her in hot pursuit across the hall and up the
front staircase. Of course it would never do
to have him hunting a pet cat all over its
owner's house; so I said to the footman, who
was looking on and laughing without seeming
to think there was any need for him to interfere
; " I'd better run in and fetch the dog back,
hadn't I ?"

All right," answered he, knowing that I was

not to be suspected of designs on the spoons ; and
in I went without more ado.

The family to whom the house belonged would
doubtless have been considerably astonished to see
a stranger invading their premises in this unceremonious
manner; but luckily they were still in
their bedrooms, and I met with none of them as I
rushed after my truant. I followed him upstairs,
through the drawing-room, and into a little boudoir
on the first floor. Here I found him standing on
his hind legs upon a light-blue satin sofa (which
bore marks of his dirty feet), and vainly endeavouring
to get to the top of a high cabinet where puss
had taken refuge. She, feeling herself in security,
was indulging in a candid and emphatic expression
of opinion respecting her pursuer by growling,
spitting, arching her back, swelling out her tail to
three or four times its usual size, and now and
then striking viciously in his direction with her
paw. I imagine this last action was merely meant
to relieve her feelings in the same way that fist-shaking
relieves those of human beings, for she
must have been perfectly well aware that the
poodle was quite out of reach from her perch.

Chose was one of those dogs who are always
completely subdued directly they find themselves
captured, so I had no more trouble with him now

that I had come to close quarters ; he followed
me downstairs unresisting, feebly wagging the
very tip of his tail, and looking a touching picture
of apologetic meekness and penitence.

That smell-feast of a Sue meanwhile had profited
by the commotion to get into a little mischief on
her own account. Having accompanied me as far
as the hall, she had then immediately sniffed out
the dining-room, and turned in there in preference
to going on with me upstairs, and I, having my
head full of Chose, did not attend to her proceedings.
In the dining-room there were preparations
for breakfast, and Sue's nose guided her
unerringly to a side-table whereon some cold meat
had been set out. By help of a conveniently
placed chair she speedily mounted on to this table,
took up a cold chicken of which she thought she
could fancy a morsel, jumped down again to the
floor, and made off for some safer place where she
might hope to enjoy her fowl peacefully.

The footman, thinking it time to go and see
what was taking place indoors, bade adieu to his
friend, and entered the house just as Sue was in
the act of issuing from the dining-room door with
the bird in her mouth. He immediately armed
himself with a riding whip that lay in the hall,
barred her exit from the house, and tried to make

her give up what she had stolen. In this, however,
he was unsuccessful ; for though he hit her smartly-enough
to make her squeak, yet she still clung
resolutely to her booty. Consequently, when I
came downstairs with the recently-disobedient but
now abjectly-submissive Chose at my heels, congratulating
myself on being out of this bother, the
first thing I saw was Sue, carrying a chicken,
rummaging from side to side of the hall, and
endeavouring to avoid the footman's whip and
dodge past him in the street. Very much disgusted
at her having thus got into mischief the instant
my attention was taken off, I swooped down upon
her from the rear ; and as she was only thinking
of the foe in front and did not notice my approach,
I was easily able to catch hold of her, and enforce
the surrender of the bird.

Provoked as I felt with these two dogs for their
bad behaviour, I could not stop to scold them much
at that moment ; for I was disturbed by the possibility
that Eoyal, too, might have taken it into
his head to get into a scrape on this unlucky
morning, and I wanted to have him safe under my
wing again as soon as possible. Hastily telling the
footman that I hoped the chicken was not much
the worse, and that I was sorry the dogs had been
so troublesome, I hurried off to look for the King

Charles. Even such a slow-coach as Eoyal had
had plenty of time to overtake us by now, and it
would not be at all like him to exert himself needlessly
by going an inch along the road in advance
of the person who had taken him out. Therefore,
as he had not made his appearance in the house, I
made sure that he must be waiting for me outside.

To my dismay, however, he was nowhere to be
seen ; look which way I would, not a hair of the
precious animal was visible. " Did ever any one
see such a handful as these dogs are ?" ejaculated I
mentally ; " and oh, what a fool I was to take out
more than two of them at a time !"

I had not the slightest idea in which direction
to look for Eoyal, and was wondering what I had
better do, when a ragged little girl whom I had
not before observed, ran up and said :

"Please, 'as yer lasted suthin?"

Yes ; a little dog," I returned ; " can you tell
me where it is ?"

I seed a man picked hup and put'n in a bastik,
and I thought it wasn't his, neither," she exclaimed,
pointing down the street ; " hem jest gone
long the must turn to the right there. Eun quick
and you'll ketch 'im perhaps."

I delayed not a moment, but set off at full speed ;
and the two dogs ran with me, greatly excited at

my sudden haste, and mystified as to the cause of
it. As for Close, lie forgot all about his penitence,
was immediately in the highest spirits, and bounded
along with an up-in-the-air, elastic, springing action
which implied an unlimited stock of suppressed
energy ready to display itself the instant he should
succeed in discovering what game I was in pursuit
of, and he was to go for.

On reaching the turning indicated, I saw a
respectably dressed man with a basket on his arm
at some little distance off. When first I saw him
he was walking fast in the same direction as I was;
at the sound of my footsteps he looked round, and
then began to run. Close to the other end of the
street was a crowded thoroughfare where it would
be easy enough for him to give me the slip ; so I
strained every nerve to come up with him before
he could get out of the street in which we then
were. But it was not an equal race between us ;
for he had a start and was quite fresh, whilst I
was already a little bit out of breath with running ;
and I soon perceived that he would escape unless
I could procure assistance.

Thinking Chose might be useful, I tried to incite
him to rush on and tackle the man. But he only
responded by barking, springing higher than ever
in the air, and looking wildly about to find out

what he was being set at. Evidently it never
entered his head that he could be meant to hunt a
human being.

Two or three times I called out "Stop thief I"
But that was mere waste of breath ; for the street
was empty, and though the cry attracted some of
the inhabitants to their doors and windows to see
what was going on, no one made any attempt to
come to my aid. I suppose they wanted to know
the rights of the matter first  and I had not time
to stop and explain it just then.

The man had almost gained the end of the
street, and I was giving up all hopes of success,
when, in the very nick of time, a policeman came
in sight just in front of him. My shouts and
gesticulations made the policeman comprehend that
I wanted the runner stopped. The latter tried to
bolt past the official, but was foiled ; and, to my
joy, I beheld the fugitive captured and held fast.
When I came up, I found him expostulating with
his captor with an assumption of much virtuous
indignation, declaring that he was hurrying to
catch a train, that it would be ruin to him to miss
it, and that he should hold any one who stopped
him responsible for whatever loss he had to suffer
in consequence.

"Please look in his basket," I panted to the

policeman, " and see if there isn't a King Charles
spaniel in it that he has just stolen."

In corse there's a dawn," exclaimed the fugitive
with an air of injured innocence, whilst the policeman
lifted up the lid of the basket, and discovered
Eoyal ensconced underneath, " and why not ? It's
my own dawn as I'm a takin' with me, and 'as I'm
'obliged to carry when I'm in a 'hurry cos he can't
go fast enough to keep hup. Does the good lady
think as no vun 'as a right to 'ave a dawn besides
'herself?"

Certainly not," replied I, " but that dog is not
yours for all that, as you know well enough. He
belongs," I continued, addressing the policeman,
to a lady living in Chester Square, whose maid I
am. Come there with me, and you will soon see
whether this man's story is true or not."

"Oh, hof corse you ses that," grumbled the
thief, "when I've jest a told you as I can't afford
to miss my train, not on no consideration ! But
there ! what's the lost of a dawn to the lost of a
fortin ? Take 'im, then, since you insists ! Do
anything you pleases, only don't keep me 'ere
no longer."

But the policeman was not to be gammoned.
He said we must both go along with him to
Chester Square to find out if my story was true ;

and added with gentle satire, that as the man
claimed the dog and was so unwilling to be parted
from it, he might have the pleasure of continuing
to can it in the basket till the real ownership
should be proved. And so we all set out together
for the Torwood's house, notwithstanding the
prisoner's fluent remonstrances and protestations.

As I rather prided myself on being habitually
wide-awake and capable of performing whatever
I undertook to do, I should have felt it was a
disgrace to me to lose one of the dogs ; and therefore
I was sincerely thankful to the little girl by
whose means I had been saved from incurring
such a slur. I saw her loitering at the end of the
street, watching the result of my chase; and as
we passed back that way, I went up to thank her
for her timely information. So grateful did I feel,
that I was pulling out my purse to express my
sentiments in a substantial form, when, to my
surprise, she stopped me by saying :

Don't do that ! I 'on't take nothing' for tellin'
what you wanted to know, cos I was only pain'
a debt as I've oweded you this long time."

Seeing my look of astonishment, she continued :

'Twas you as bought flowers off o' me so as I
could get brexhus, one morning' two years back and
more, when I was that 'angry I didn't know what

to do ; and I've often thought as I'd like to pay
you back for it, and wondered if I should lever get
a chance. When I seen the chap grab the dawn I
didn't mean to say nothing' 'bout it at must  for I
doesn't never care to go getting' coves into trouble ;
but then I see you come out o' the 'ouse, lookin'
like as you'd lasted suthin ; and I 'membered your
face all of a sudden, and I thought if the dsiwg
was yours, I'd tell you where 'twas gone, to pay
back what you done for me afore."

I recollected the girl now, and saw she was the
same whose breakfasted condition had excited my
compassion one day long ago, just after I had runaway
from home and come to London. Certainly
she more than repaid what I had done for her then.
Value for value, I should have had very much the
best of the bargain if the dog had  as she supposed
belonged to me ; for I knew that 30 had been
offered and refused for Eoyal, whereas the amount
that I had given her was only a shilling. " I should
like to be able to invest all my shillings at that
rate of interest !" thought I, as I nodded good-bye
to her, and hurried to join the policeman and his
prisoner.

Mrs. Torwood regarded dog-stealers with much
the same antipathy that some sporting squires
seem to feel towards poachers  deeming them

natural enemies to the common weal, who might
advantageously be extirpated, root and branch.
She had, therefore, no idea of letting slip the
excellent opportunity which now presented itself
for the punishment of one of these abominated
miscreants, and the prosecution of Eoyal's thief
was a matter of course. When the trial came on,
naturally I was a principal witness ; and thus the
police reports in the paper contained the name of
Caroline Jill, lady's-maid to Mrs. Torwood, of 
Chester Square," as having given evidence in a
dog-stealing case.

As luck would have it, this caught the eye of
my old enemy Perkins, and set him wondering
whether the person referred to could be the same
individual who had once presumed to reject his
advances so rudely. Though he had already been
the means of turning me out of one place, yet still
his spite was not satisfied ; so (as I suppose) he
hung about Chester Square till he had seen me
pass, and ascertained my identity ; then he came
to our house, and had an interview with Mrs.
Torwood.

It happened that I was looking out of thevrindow
when he left the house. I was extremely astonished
to see him, and still more astonished at the
state he was in, for he looked deadly pale, and all

wild and frightened, and was shaking visibly.
The sight of him made me uneasy ; for though I
had no notion of the object of his visit, still I
was sure that his appearance in my vicinity was
not likely to bode any good to me.

I took the first opportunity of trying to find
out from my friend Eliezer, what the man's business
with our mistress had been. But Eliezer
could tell me nothing about it ; all he knew was
that the party had asked to speak to her, saying
that he had something important to say, and that
he had left her again after a not very long
interview.

She must have frightened him pretty well,
whatever it may have been about," said I; "he
looked worse than if he'd seen a ghost, when he
went away."

Ah, he did that," returned Eliezer, chuckling
at the remembrance, " but it was, so to say, himself
as he was 'feared on. I never see pitch a coward
in hall my born days, 'afore."

This naturally excited my curiosity; and I
made Eliezer tell me what had taken place to
give Perkins a fright, which, I need scarcely say,
was not an unpleasant hearing to one who owed
him a grudge, as I did.

The collie Yarrow, it appeared, had been lying

on a mat in the hall when the visitor departed ;
and the latter, not seeing the dog, had inadvertently
trodden heavily on his toe. Now Yarrow's
temper was, like that of many collies, a little
uncertain ; and as, furthermore, he had always a
particular objection to have his toes walked upon
or hurt, he lost not an instant in retaliating by
biting his injurer in the leg. Perkins, startled at
first to find himself stumbling over a dog which
he had not seen, seemed completely overcome by
terror when the stumble was followed promptly
by a severe bite ; he staggered back against the
wall, turning as pale as ashes, and hardly able to
speak. When he had recovered himself a little,
Eliezer discovered that the cause of this great
fright was, that Perkins had a sort of craze about
hydrophobia, and held it in such intense horror
that he was really not capable of being reasonable
where it was concerned.

Eliezer being the only person handy at the
moment, was besieged by Perkins with flurried
questions. Wasn't it as bad to be bitten by an
animal that was angry as by one that was mad ?
How long was it before madness showed in a
person who had been bitten by a mad dog? Was
it a certain cure to have the place burnt out?
Was there any other less painful remedy? It

VOL. II. L

would be so horrid to have one's flesh burnt 1 but
still  hydrophobia would be worse. Whatever
should he do ?

These and similar questions were poured into
the ears of Eliezer as though he had been an
authority upon madness, because Perkins was in
that state of absurd panic which made him long
to hear a word of comfort from any one  no
matter who. But he did not get any consolation
from Eliezer, who had a hearty contempt for
cowards, and rarely lost a chance of tormenting
them by playing upon their weakness. Therefore
the butler carefully abstained from saying anything
reassuring, shook his head and sighed, and affected
to think the bite an extremely serious matter.
Finally, the victim departed in a state of the utmost
disquietude, divided between anxiety to try and
put himself in safety by undergoing cauterisation,
and fear of the pain which it would cause him.

Whichever way he settled it, he was sure to
make himself miserable lest he was going mad fora
very long while to come, Eliezer opined, laughing
contemptuously at the idea of a man's torturing
himself gratuitously in that ridiculous fashion.
And my anxiety as to what had brought Perkins
there did not prevent my joining in the laugh at
his absurd terror and folly.

A day or so elapsed, during which I heard
nothing unpleasant from Mrs. Torwood, and I
began to hope that, after all, the visit that had
alarmed me might have had nothing to do with
my affairs. This, however, was not the case.
Perkins had told her that I was an impostor, who
had been dismissed from my last place because
the character with which I obtained it was a
forgery. But she was reluctant to have to part
with a maid who suited her and spot on with the
dogs as well as I did, and was not inclined to
credit so startling an accusation brought against
me by a man whom she had never seen before
and knew nothing of. When her husband came
home, however, she told him what she had heard,
and was advised by him to wait, and say nothing
about the matter, till Lady Mervyn had been
communicated with to find out whether the story
was true or not. That lady, of course, confirmed
it entirely ; and as the date of my being sent away
by her was only a few weeks before I had entered
the service of my present mistress, it was very
evident to the Torwoods that my second character
was as unreliable as my first one, and that the
lady who had recommended Caroline Jill before
going to the Cape had had no existence save in
my own imagination.

Thereupon my fancied security was scattered
rudely to the winds. Mrs. Torwood at once informed
me of what she had discovered, and said
it was impossible that she should allow me to
remain in the house a day longer. Her husband,
she added, had thought she ought to prosecute
me; but she refused to do that, because during
the whole time I had been with her (over a year)
I had given her no cause of complaint, and had
always taken excellent care of the dogs. Therefore
she should content herself with insisting on my
immediate departure.

It was hopeless for me to deny the misdeeds
with which I was charged, so there was nothing
for it but to pack up my things and take myself
off as soon as might be.

Eeally, I thought, as I made the requisite preparations,
it is very provoking that my employers will
not be satisfied to judge me by their own personal
knowledge ! First there was Kitty, and now there's
Mrs. Torwood. I am sure they both of them were
well-disposed in my favour, and believed that I
served them satisfactorily. Yet they let their own
experience go for nothing, and are afraid to keep
me in their service, just because I am not provided
with the proper conventional, often quite unreliable,
certificate of somebody else's opinion of me !

I call it very silly of people to have so little confidence
in their own judgment.

As for Eliezer, he was aghast at my sudden
flitting, and began ruefully anticipating the
many futile journeys up and down stairs that
would probably be inflicted upon his cherished
lungs before a satisfactory successor to me would
be found.

I confess I thought his anticipations very likely
to be realised ; for though the place suited me well
enough, it was not one that many maids would
care to take. The general run of abigail study
dressmaking as an art, are ambitious of displaying
their skill in that line, and naturally turn up their
noses at the idea of throwing away their talents
by spending the best part of their time in attending
to dogs. Whereas I, who had neither taste nor
capacity for any form of millinery, regarded the
animals as far the most congenial and interesting
occupation of the two.

As I reflected indignantly on the behaviour of
the mean, spiteful, meddlesome, cowardly Perkins,
who had thus a second time been the means of
turning me adrift, I rejoiced to think that dear
Yarrow had avenged me to some extent at all
events, though not perhaps as completely as 1. could
have wished. The pain of a bite was not-miifch

of a set-off against the harm he had done me, to
be sure ; but then I might add to his sufferings an
unknown amount of terror, because of his beincr
such an abject coward as he was ; and there was
the chance too of his having thought it necessary
to have the bitten place cauterised. Altogether, I
thought Yarrow was a most discriminating dog,
and my last act before leaving the house was to
caress him and give him one of his favourite
biscuits.

It proved, however, that he had avenged me
more thoroughly than I had imagined, and that
Perkins' interference was to cost him his lite.
His horror of hydrophobia made him take a hot
poker and try to burn the bite on his leg ; but
his dread of pain made him timid and clumsy,
and, letting the poker slip accidentally, he inflicted
a really very severe burn upon himself. Being ina
bad state of blood at the time, the wound would
not heal ; and after a good deal of festering and
inflammation, blood poisoning set in, and finally
caused his death.

I learnt these particulars from the newspapers,
which reported the inquest that was held upon
him ; and as this was not till some time after I
was dismissed by Mrs. Torwood, I am anticipating
the proper course of events by introducing it

here. But I do so because I think that this
is the best place to relate what eventually became
of him, and in the next chapter I will
return to an account of my proceedings in due
chronological order.

 AN ACCIDENT.

Evidently the first thing to be done when I was
turned out of the Torwood's house was to find a
habitation for myself somewhere else ; and the
search for a suitable lodging occupied me till late
in the evening. When at last I had succeeded, I
told the landlady that my name was Charlotte
Jackson ; for I had learnt wisdom by experience,
and, having now perceived the folly of continuing
to call myself Caroline Jill, I substituted for it the
first name that occurred to me whose initials would
correspond to the C. J. with which my linen was
marked.

By the time I had taken possession of my new
quarters I felt quite ready for supper, and betook
myself, therefore, to a neighbouring coffee-tavern,
where, for the sum of twopence, I procured a
satisfying and not extravagant meal, consisting of
a large hunch of good bread and a basin of thick pea-soup,
which  though perhaps somewhat coarsely

flavoured  was undeniably savoury and nourishing.
Then I returned to my lodging and composed
another of the anonymous letters with which I
was harassing my stepmother. I took especial
pains to make it as unpleasant and likely to alarm
her as I could, because it was the last that I intended
sending her. I meant to let about a week
more elapse, and then to put my threats into
execution and proceed to the final act of vengeance,
by making known to her husband and
friends the whole history of her Scroggins connection.


Having written this letter and directed it all
ready to post next day, I proceeded to consider
my present situation, and what my next effort fora
livelihood should be. But I suppose the pea-soup
must have been indigestible, for I was out of
sorts somehow, took a gloomy view of things in
general, and was unwontedly dispirited about my
prospects. My mind seemed to have no elasticity
or variety, and would keep reverting to the difficulty
of getting a place without a character, and
the impossibility of getting a character without
forging it. The pitcher that goes often to the well
gets broken at last, thought I ; and though, hitherto,
the detection of my forgeries has brought no worse
consequences than dismissal from my situations.

yet I cannot reckon on always escaping so easily.
If I do not mind what I am about, I may find myself
in prison some fine day ; and to that I should
object most strongly. It would be too horribly
disgraceful ; I should never be able to hold up my
head again afterwards 1

I could arrive at no settled determination whatever,
and finally went to bed in a very bad humour
with myself for being so irresolute and inclined to
be disheartened.

When I woke next morning I was more cheerfully
disposed, and thought I would get a newspaper
and give a look at the advertisements. There
could be no reason why I should not do that, at
all events, as reading them did not by any means
necessarily involve answering them. Accordingly
I procured a newspaper and proceeded to study it.
Here a temptation to recklessness at once presented
itself in the shape of a notice setting forth that
excellent situations for courier-maids were to be
heard of on application to Mrs. Asterisk's registry
office. The idea of going abroad again made my
mouth water ; and, putting aside the character
difficulty for future consideration, I proceeded
immediately to Mrs. Asterisk's, paid. the preliminary
fee without which her lips were sealed, received
in return the addresses of a couple of ladies in

want of travelling-maids, and set off to call at one
of these addresses.

The way to this place took me near the chief
approach to a large railway station, whence a train
was shortly about to start ; and I had to pause
before crossing the road in order to let a string of
luggage-laden cabs and carriages go past. In the
line of vehicles coming towards where I stood,
there was a brougham which exhibited signs of
wealth combined with perfect taste, which made
me notice it particularly, and wonder who the
fortunate owners could be. The colouring, liveries,
etc., were as quiet as possible, and there was
nothing showy about the turn-out except the
splendid pair of high-stepping horses by which it
was drawn. But, though not showy, none the less
was every detail of its appointments faultless, and
I lingered to see if the occupants were as well
worth looking at as their equipage was. As the
fiery horses came slowly abreast of me, tossing
their heads, snorting, and champing their bits with
impatience at being delayed, I saw that there was
an earl's coronet on the harness, and that a lady
and gentleman were in the carriage. In a moment
more it was near enough for me to recognise who
they were, and then I saw that they were Lord
and Lady Clement.

I had not before set eyes on Kitty since I parted.
from her at Charing Cross ; but I had often and
often thought of her, and wondered whether her
marriage had brought her happiness ; and now I
gazed at her eagerly, trying to guess this from her
countenance. Impossible, however, to read the
secrets of a face as impenetrable as hers ! All I
could tell was, that she looked handsomer than
ever, and just a trifle more stern ; and I had an
idea, too, that the haughty immovable expression
which had been always somewhat characteristic of
her had become intensified. Her husband addressed
some remark to her, and she answered
him promptly with a gracious pleasant smile,
that showed them to be on thoroughly good terms
together. Yet I fancied it was a smile of conventionality
rather than of affection ; it seemed only
to come from the lips  the eyes and rest of the face
had nothing to do with it ; and I hardly thought
it was such a smile as a young wife would be likely
to bestow upon a husband who possessed her heart.
Yet after all, what did I know of the matter ? It
would be absurd for me to think I could form any
opinion as to her happiness from a mere glimpse
of her like this.

It was strange how the old charm which she
had always had for me reasserted itself the instant

I beheld lier again. In lier I seemed to recognise
the sole human being in the world whose affection
I would have taken trouble to obtain ; and as I
looked wistfully after her, thinking that I might
possibly have had a chance of it, if it had not been
for my stepmother and Perkins, I felt a fresh access
of resentment towards them. My stepmother, by
making home intolerable, had exiled me from the
sphere of life where I could, perhaps, have made
friends with Kitty as an equal ; and Perkins, by
spitefully driving me out of her service, had
deprived me of the opportunities I might have
had of winning her regard as an inferior. How
curious it was that, notwithstanding what untoward
circumstances had done to separate us, there
yet existed between her and me the sort of half-bond
which is involved in the possession of a
mutual secret. For had not I discovered the love
for Captain ISTorroy which she had striven zealously
to conceal? and did not I know that about her
which she believed herself to have kept secret
from the whole world ?

The carriage went on into the station, and I
continued my course without dreaming that
the trivial incident of waiting to see Kitty
Clement drive by had affected my destiny
materially. Such, however, was in truth the

case ; and the way in which it happened was
this :

The sight of Kitty had, as I have just said,,
reminded me of my stepmother ; and that made
me think of the letter I had written on the previous
night. I had put it in my pocket when I came
out, and afterwards forgotten all about it till the
present moment. Iow, however, that I had remembered
it, I thought I would post it at once
so as to make sure of not forgetting it again, and
accordingly looked about for a post-office. At the
corner of a small side street was a pillar-box, which
was only a few steps out of my way, so I walked
up to it and posted the letter there.

]Near by a groom was capering and careering
about on an obstreperous horse ; and just as I
turned away from the box, the steed sprang on to
the pavement in spite of all the rider's efforts to
restrain him. There he set to plunging and kicking
so close to me, that I was obliged to jump
hastily into the road in order to get out of reach
of his hoofs. Thinking only of the danger from
the animal prancing on the pavement, I did not
observe a hansom that was dashing up the side
street. It came shaving round the corner at full
speed, and in another instant I was knocked down,
run over, and stunned.

Then comes a confused recollection of acute
pain which made me groan ; of being moved ; of
wishing to know what was happening to me, and
feeling absolutely incapable of rousing myself sufficiently
to find out. And then I must have lost
consciousness altogether ; for the next thing I
remember is, becoming gradually aware that I was
in bed. That one fact was as much as my mind
was equal to take in at first ; I was not altogether
sure of my own identity, and recollected nothing
whatever of the accident. After lying thus inert
for a short time, I opened my eyes and looked at
as much as was to be seen without moving my
head, which I felt far too languid to do. The
result of my observations was, that there were
other beds near me, and that I was in a large airy
room; I perceived also a prevailing odour of
carbolic acid in the place. Had I been in my
ordinary condition of energy, I should have been
wild to know where I was, and how I came there ;
but, as it was, I was too limp both in body and
mind to be curious or astonished at anything.
Therefore I closed my eyes with a vague impression
that there was something a little odd about

o

my situation ; but that as long as I could lie still
and do nothing I had all that I desired.

This transient dream of consciousness was

succeeded by an interval during which I can only
recollect nightmare visions and miseries. The
next thing that my memory recalls definitely is
a short conversation between two people whose
voices sounded to me as though coming from some
remote distance, though in reality, as I knew
afterwards, they were close to my bedside.

What is this case ?" said the first voice.

It's a woman who was run over by a cab,"
replied the second ; " her leg is broken, and she
has other injuries also. She was brought in
yesterday morning, and hasn't recovered her senses
properly yet."

Indeed !" returned the former speaker. "How
did you find out her name, then ? I see you've
got it stuck up over the bed."

Oh, there was an envelope in her pocket
addressed to Caroline Jill, No.  Chester Square,"
was the answer. " We sent to the address to ask
if she was known there, and to say she had been
brought to the hospital. It appeared that she had
been lady's-maid at the house, and been dismissed
the day before, and they knew nothing of who her
belongings were, or where she lived, or anything
about her."

As I heard no more, I conclude that here the
speakers moved away from my bed. The few

words they had said, however, had sufficed to
enlighten my cloudy state of mind. At first I had
listened without having an idea that / could bethe
person referred to ; but when the name of
Caroline Jill was spoken I remembered all about
myself, knew clearly who I was, and realised what
had occurred to me. Yes ; I had gone to a pillar-box
to post the letter to my stepmother, and there
had been an unmanageable horse to be avoided.
Then there had come suddenly a rattle, a violent
concussion, confusion, pain, and utter blank ; and
I comprehended that I had been run over and
brought to the accident ward of a hospital. I
recollected, too, my prudent design of dropping
the name of Jill ; and as I realised that that intention
was frustrated for the present, I felt a faint
trace of amusement at the persistency with which
the old childish name had stuck to me.

Was it true that my leg was broken, as those
two people had just said ? Very likely. Anyhow
I would take their word for it, for I certainly did
not feel inclined to stir hand or foot to verify the
statement. And as my head ached, and I was
quite exhausted with the effort of so much consecutive
thought, I speedily relapsed into my
former comatose condition.

When next I recovered my senses, my head
VOL. II. M

was clear ; I remembered directly how I came to
be in a hospital, and looked around me. It was
night, and by the dim light of a shaded lamp I
could see the nurse in charge of the ward sitting
in an upright-backed wooden chair, where she had
fallen fast asleep notwithstanding the hardness
and discomfort of her seat. I could see, too, a
glass containing lemonade standing on a table near
the head of my bed, and, as I was parching with
thirst, I managed slowly, and with difficulty, to
draw one hand out from under the bed-clothes,
and stretch it out towards the tempting drink.
Alas ! the glass was out of my reach. The sight
of the delicious liquid made my thirst grow worse
and worse, till it seemed quite unendurable, and I
was impelled to try and wake the nurse, to ask
her to give it to me. Accordingly I called out to
her as loudly as I could. But my utmost efforts
produced only a wheezing feeble sound, which
was powerless to produce any impression on her
slumbers. The amount of fatigue which it cost
me to uplift my voice was quite disproportionate
to the insignificance of the result, and I was so
tired with the attempt to make myself heard, and
the exertion of getting my hand out of bed and
reaching after the glass of lemonade, that I realised
it was useless to think of waking the nurse, and

that I must resign myself to bear the thirst as
best I could, till she should wake of herself.
Mortification at my helplessness, and profound
pity for my poor dear self, caused tears to rise to
my eyes and moisten my cheeks. I lay still and
watched her so anxiously that one might almost
have thought the mere ardour of my gaze ought to
have disturbed her repose. Still she slumbered on
blissfully. Oh, why would not she wake when I
was so very very thirsty !

Suddenly I heard a door open at the other end
of the room, and, on looking round, saw a woman
enter whose dress showed her to belong to some
Sisterhood. I had never thought well of Sisters
in my life. They always had seemed to me to be
useless, so eccentric as to be well-nigh mad, and 
though otherwise harmless  yet objectionable on
the ground that their mere existence conveyed a
continual tacit reproach and assumption of superiority
to more self-indulgent mortals, who shrank
from the strictness and hardness which the Sisters
imposed upon themselves voluntarily. Hence the
fact of the new-comer's wearing a Sister's habit
sufficed to prejudice me against her; and on an
ordinary occasion I should not have spoken to 
far less asked a favour of  her.

But the present was not an ordinary occasion.

All I cared for was to have the thh-st that tormented
me relieved with the least possible delay ;
and no sooner did I see her than I made a frantic
effort to call out loud enough for her to hear. The
cry, feeble as it was, reached her ears ; and as she
was not sure from which bed it proceeded, she
advanced slowly up the room, saying, in a low
voice, "Who called me ?"

I held up my hand to show it was I who had
summoned her ; she came straight to the bedside
and asked what I wanted. "Drink ! " I gasped, with
some difficulty ; for my throat was so dry that I
could scarcely articulate the word intelligibly.

With one hand she took up the coveted draught,
and, putting the other arm under my pillow, raised
me to exactly the right height at which I could
drink comfortably, and then held the glass to my
lips. Never was nectar more delicious and refreshing
than that lemonade tasted to me ! When I had
drained the last drop I begged eagerly for more,
and she quickly replenished the tumbler from a
jug on the table, and again gave me the liquid for
which I craved. At last my burning thirst was
quenched, and when she had gently restored me
to my former position in the bed, I could not help
feeling beholden to her, notwithstanding that it
was a shock to my previous notions to think a

Sister could be useful, and notwithstanding, also,
that one never altogether relishes the upsetting of
any of one's preconceived cherished ideas.

I could speak better now, so I said : " Thank you.
I am sorry to have troubled you, but I was so dreadfully
thirsty, and the glass was out of my reach."

No trouble," she replied kindly ; " the only
object of my being here is to help people if I can.
But why didn't you call to the nurse in charge of
this ward ? She would have attended to you at
once."

I did call to her more than half an hour ago
by the clock," I replied, " but I couldn't call loud
enough to wake her."

In consequence of my having drawn the Sister's
attention to myself directly she entered the room,
she had not yet noticed that the nurse was asleep.
Now, however, she perceived it. A look of displeasure
came over her face, and she at once proceeded
to wake the sleeper, who was evidently
much disconcerted at having been caught napping,
and started up with a great pretence of liveliness
when she saw the Sister standing by her.

This is against all rules, Nurse Mary, as you
know very well," said the Sister ; " it is a serious
offence for a nurse to sleep when on duty, and I
shall have to report you."

"I knew it was very wrong, Sister, and I'm
quite shocked that I should have been so careless,"
replied the culprit. "But indeed you mustn't
think as there's any harm done. It was only five
minutes back as I was going about, and seeing as
every one was all right ; and then I sat down and
dropped off into a bit of a doze somehow. I
wasn't regularly asleep  only dozing so light that
I should have heard directly if any one made a
sound."

"Don't make your fault worse by falsehood,"
said the Sister severely ; " I found the woman over
there," pointing to me, " in great want of something
to drink ; and she told me she had been thirsty fora
long time, and unable to wake you when she
tried. You must attend to your duty better than
this. If I find you asleep again when I visit your
ward, you must expect to be dismissed."

The Sister continued her rounds through the
hospital to see that everything was right ; and as
soon as she was gone the nurse came towards me.
I regarded her approach with awe. I saw by her
face that she did not feel particularly amiable
towards the individual who had been the means
however innocent  of procuring her a wigging ;
and as a nurse has it in her power to make a
patient very miserable if she chooses, I was

naturally dismayed at having been so unlucky as
to get into lier black books. The desire which I
felt at that moment to ingratiate myself with her,
if possible, was quite degrading ; and when she
rebuked me sharply for having got part of one
arm uncovered, and told me not to do so again, I
promised obedience with the most servile meekness,
though I was quite sure that there was no
real harm whatever in what I had done. My bedclothes
were as tidy as need be ; but she pretended
to think they wanted straightening, and twitched
them about in a vigorous and jerky manner which
was not comfortable, and kept me alarmed all the
time lest I should be hurt. When she had completed
this unnecessary process, she left me alone,
to my great relief, and nothing short of the extremest
necessity would have induced me to recall
her to my bed. I felt frightened, helpless, and in
the power of a person who had taken a dislike
to me ; and the only comfort I had was to think
that the Sister's protecting influence would perhaps
save me from anything more serious than petty
annoyances. But even petty annoyances are bad
enough in all conscience when one is as sick,
weak, and miserable as I was then.

IN HOSPITAL.

Certainly nursing is very far superior, now-a-days,
to what it was in the regime of the untrained
Sairey Gamp confraternity ; but while gladly recognising
that fact, I am inclined to think that
there is still some room for improvement. For
one thing, I doubt whether any particular care is
taken to impress upon nurses the important fact
that no two human beings are exactly the same ;
and that people's characteristic peculiarities are
never in greater need of being studied and
humoured, than when pain and sickness have
weakened the will and rendered the nerves unwontedly
sensitive and irritable. If this were
insisted upon as it might be in the training of
nurses, I do not imagine it would be as common
as it is to find them performing their duties
mechanically, and apparently regarding patients
as machines to be wound up, regulated, and treated
according to fixed principles applying to all alike,

instead of as living men and women, possessing
widely - differing peculiarities of both mind and
body. I think that one or two of my own experiences
whilst at the hospital will show that
there is some reason for this criticism.

The prolonged thirst from which I had suffered,
and the exertion involved in my endeavour to
relieve it, fatigued me greatly in my enfeebled
condition. Then came the mental wear and tear
of terror which I underwent during Nurse Mary's
alarmingly vigorous bedclothes-straightening process
; and thus, what with one thing and another,
by the time she left me to myself again I felt
completely worn out, and anxious for nothing so
much as sleep. In vain, however, did I try to
compose myself to slumber. I was feverish; I
ached all over ; and, turn which way I would, I
could get no ease. Each new position that I tried
seemed more uncomfortable than the last ; and
though the cradle in which my broken leg was
fixed prevented me from moving far, yet within
the narrow space to which I was thus restricted,
I kept shifting my place, and twisting to and fro
incessantly.

Of course this restlessness was by no means
conducive to my welfare; and when the doctor
visited me in the morning he pronounced me to

be in a very exhausted state, and said I was to
have nourishment and stimulants every two hours.

I cannot say that I took kindly to the idea
of being stuffed like this ; for I was so far from
being hungry that my gorge rose at the mere
thought of food. And when the nurse who had
succeeded ]Nurse Mary in charge of the ward came
up to me with a cup of broth in her hand, I had
about the same amount of inclination for it that
fair Rosamond may be supposed to have had for
the potion presented to her by Queen Eleanor.

But I had fully made up my mind to get well as
soon as possible, and had the sense to know that
I certainly could not recover without eating, so I
struggled to overcome the internal rising of which
I was conscious. Perhaps, too, the broth would
tempt my appetite, so that after I had got down a
mouthful or so, I should find the aversion to food
pass away, and be able to go on eating easily.
And thus resolved to do my best to obey the
doctor's orders, I took a sip out of the cup.

But the first taste was a shock to me. It was
not in the least like wdiat I expected, somehow,
though I was not just then clear-headed enough
to discover immediately what was wrong with it.
I did not believe it was broth at all ; at all events,
if it was, it was the nastiest that I had ever tasted

in my life. I could hardly swallow even the small
quantity I had taken ; and as for getting down
any more of it  pah ! the thing was impossible.
My loathing for food became more violent than
ever, and I pushed away the cup feebly, saying :
Take the nasty stuff away ! I ca7iH eat it ; and
it'll only make me sick to try."

"Nasty indeed!" returned the nurse; "why,
what better would you have than beautiful 
like this ? You can drink it well enough
if you like ; it's only your fancy as you can't."

"I don't think it beautiful at all," replied I;
indeed, indeed, it's nasty. Do pray let me alone ;
perhaps I shall be hungrier by and by."

Rubbish I" she answered, again advancing the
cup towards me ; " its the doctor's orders for you
to be fed, and fed you shall be  even if I have to
drench you. Come now; down with it !"

At this moment, when I was ruefully contemplating
the broth and wondering if it would be
anyhow possible for me to gulp it down, the Sister
whom I had seen in the night came into the room.
She was general superintendant of the nursing all
through the hospital, and had a keen eye for anything
amiss. My unhappy look at once attracted
her attention, and she came to us and asked the
nurse what she was giving me.

Clicking broth, with a tablespoon of whisky
in it, Sister," responded the woman ; " that's what
the doctor ordered for her. But she's making as
much fuss as if it was  I don't know what, and
declaring as it'll make her sick."

I can quite understand your objecting to eat,"
said the Sister, addressing me gently ; " people so
often do when they're ill. But it's the beginning is
the great difficulty with them, and after that they
generally get on much better ; I daresay you'll find
it so if you try. Or is broth a thing to which you
have any special dislike ? and do you think you
would fancy some other kind of food more ? "

"No; I like broth well enough in general,"
answered I, " and I have tried to eat what the
nurse brought me. But I couldn't, indeed  it is
too nasty."

Well, suppose I see if / can find anything the
matter with it," she said, taking the cup from the
nurse. " Why ! did you ask to have it cold ?"

"No," replied I.

Did the doctor say it was to be given cold ?"
she inquired, turning to the nurse.

"He didn't say nothing one way or other,"
answered the latter ; " and as I had a jugful cold,
ready by me, I just took and poured some into the
cup to give as it was  not thinking as it mattered."

Oh, but it does matter, very much " returned
the Sister ; " broth is far nicer hot than cold. Go
and warm this, and then see if the patient doesn't
find it easier to get down. And don't forget in
future that broth should always be given hot,
unless there are special orders to the contrary."

iTow surely the woman might have known that
of herself, if she had taken the trouble to think fora
moment, and might have perceived that cold
chicken broth, with whisky in it, was a thing that
no ordinary human palate could be expected to
relish. But no; the doctor had not specified it
was to be hot; she had some cold to hand; the
question of trying to make it palatable never
entered her head ; and therefore, though the warming
would have been but very little trouble, she
just brought it me as it was. In that condition I
doubt whether I could possibly have eaten it ;
when warmed, however, I was able to get through
the requisite portion  though even then not without
considerable difficulty, in consequence of my
aversion to food of any kind.

Thus a second time was the conviction forced
upon me that the existence in the world of Sisters
might perhaps not be so altogether devoid of
utility as I had previously imagined.

I daresay the food did me good ; but yet it did

not procure me the rest for which I craved, and I
had to endure hours more of miserable tossing
about before my weary body at last hit upon the
posture which would best accommodate its numerous
aches and bruises. With a sigh of satisfaction
I gave myself up to repose, intending not to stir
hand or foot as long as I remained comfortable,
lest, if I once lost the position which had been so
hard to find, I might not again succeed in discovering
it. Soon a delicious sense of drowsiness stole
over me, and I was on the point of falling sound
asleep, when I was aroused by the voice of a nurse,
telling me it was time to feed again. If my repugnance
to eating had made all the previous
feeding-times during the day objectionable to me,
it may be imagined that the present summons was
doubly odious, coming at the very moment when
I could not bear the idea of stirring so much as a
hair's-breadth from where I lay, and would have
given the world to be left in peace. Dismayed at
the prospect of immediate movement, and loath to
be parted from the long-sought rest which I had
at length attained, I appealed for a reprieve 
however brief. I was so miry tired of being
uncomfortable, I said. I had had such a
weary tossing about all night and all day till
now. And now that I had at last found some

comfort, might not I stay as I was for just five
minutes more ?

But the nurse would not hear of such a thing.
The doctor's orders, she said, were for me to have
food every two hours. The last time had been at
1.25  there it was marked on the slate by the bed
and now it was 3.25. Her business was to obey
the doctor's orders exactly ; and I must just take
what she had brought me that instant, and make no
more fuss about it.

So my appeal was disregarded, and I was, then
and there, ruthlessly routed up to be fed. And
as my nervous system was by no means robust
enough at that moment to bear the shock of any
abrupt disturbance, I immediately afterwards relapsed
into the same state of miserable, feverish
restlessness as before.

Now, though it seems unreasonable to blame
any one for strict obedience to orders, yet I think
in a case like this the woman might well have
departed from them so far as to grant the five
minutes delay for which I pleaded. It would
have softened the blow to have time to make up
my mind gradually to the moving which I dreaded;
and I think her own sense might have told her that
I was in a condition when rest was essential, and
when everything unpleasant should be smoothed

over to me as much as possible. But though she
was not wilfully harsh or unkind, yet the advisability
of making small concessions to an invalid's
weakness  fancifulness, as she called it  never
entered her head. All she thought of was that
she was there to carry out the doctor's orders, and
that provided they were obeyed to the letter, come
what might, she would have nothing to reproach
herself with. As for the idea of there being any
special necessity for a nurse to be quick in reading,
understanding, and making allowances for the
fancies, infirmities, and idiosyncracies of human
nature, because she is professionally brought into
constant contact with it when in its greatest need
of sympathy  why, I do not suppose such a notion
had ever occurred to her. But might it not have
formed a part of her professional education ?

I hope that my criticisms will not be misunderstood.
If I venture to point out defects which
seem to me remediable, it does not therefore follow
that I fail to do justice to the enormous benefits
which we derive from trained nurses. On the
contrary, when I look back upon my sojourn at
the hospital, I feel grateful for and astonished at
the punctilious care and attention which was
shown towards a mere friendless, helpless, unknown
nobody such as I was, from whom no return

could be expected. It may be that I have known
nurses act hastily under provocation; that I think
them apt to be hard, because too mechanical ; and
that I doubt whether they always bring their brains
to bear as much as might be on the performance
of their duty. But none the less do I believe that
they are, as a body, a thoroughly conscientious,
well-meaning, and valuable set of women; and
that a nurse who behaves with deliberate cruelty,
or wantonly neglects a patient, is hardly ever to
be met with.

In speaking well, however, of the hospital
attendants and the treatment I received from
them, I must except Nurse Mary. She was a
careless, good-for-nothing nurse, unfit for her post,
constantly asleep on duty, bad tempered to the
patients, and quite regardless of truth in what she
said. I was unfortunate enough to be an especial
object of her animosity, because she had been
reprimanded and fined for her neglect of me and
false excuses on the nicfht when I had first become

o

acquainted with her. As it had been on account
of me that she had got into hot water, she took a
dislike to me then and there, and took advantage
of our relative positions to make me feel her displeasure.
A nurse has plenty of opportunities for
thwarting, bullying, and inflicting small miseries
VOL. II. N

on a patient ; and ISTnrse Mary always availed
herself of these opportunities as freely as she dared.
Whatever she had to do for me was sure to be
done as roughly and disagreeably as possible, and
I looked forward with dread to the periods when
the ward I inhabited was under her charge.

Unluckily for me, it was on one of these occasions
that it fell to my lot to have to take a dose
of castor oil. Now, that is a physic to which I
have always had an intense antipathy. The mere
smell of it makes me feel qualms, even at the
best of times ; and it stood to reason that I should
dislike it ten times more when my stomach was
in an unusually squeamish condition, so that I
found it difficult to eat even food that I liked.
Hence I looked forward to the impending dose
with much trepidation, and reflected anxiously on
the probability of my being unable to keep down
the nauseous stuff, even when swallowed. It
would evidently be a help to avoid having the
nasty smell beforehand if possible, as I knew that
would make me feel poorly to start with; so I
asked Nurse Mary if she would mind pouring out
the oil at some distance off, and not bringing it to
my bedside till all ready to be taken.

She refused roughly, saying she had no time to
be bothered with all kinds of fads and whims like

that ; and, instead of trying to spare me any preliminary
unpleasantness, she measured out the dose
quite close to my nose, so as to give me a full
benefit of the odour. It seemed to me, too, that
she was purposely slow in her proceedings, and
kept the bottle uncorked for a most needless
length of time  but that may possibly have only
been my excited fancy.

The oil having been poured into a glass with
water in it, I was sat up in bed, the glass was put
into my hands, and I raised it towards my mouth.
Being already qualms from the effect of the smell,
and very nervous lest I should be actually sick,
I was altogether in an unsteady condition; and
just before the glass had touched my lips, an
involuntary convulsive shiver of disgust that came
over me made me for the moment unable to control
my muscles. My shaky hand lost its grasp
of the glass, which toppled over, and spilled all
the contents over me and the bed.

The nurse was as indignant at this catastrophe
as if I had done it on purpose. She had not the
least pity for the horrible plight I was in, nor did
it seem to occur to her how improbable it was for
any human being to bring him or herself into such
a state willingly. "Troublesome, mischievous,
awkward, careless, stupid," were the kindest and

least offensive words lie uttered whilst preparing
a fresh jorum of oil. As for me, I simply endured
existence in silent misery as best I could whilst
the second dose was being got ready. All I wanted
was to take that, and get it over as quickly as
possible, so that everything which the filthy oil
had contaminated might be removed, and I might
be washed, and made sweet, dry, and comfortable
again.

When the draught was presented to me, I made
a heroic effort, flung it down my throat, and
returned the empty glass, murmuring faintly : " Oh
please, do make haste to rid me of all this mess ! "
But what was my dismay to find that she had no
intention of doing anything of the kind ! Since I
had chosen to spill the oil, she said, I might just
stop in it and see how I liked it ; and perhaps that
would teach me not to play tricks of that kind
again. What? fetch a clean night-dress and
sheet, and a sponge to wipe my face and chest !
Not she, indeed ! She had plenty of other work todo
without extras of that kind ; and she had not
time to stop forgetting with me any longer 
I had delayed her quite long enough, as it was. So
saying, she coolly walked away, and left me helpless
in a sort of castor-oil purgatory.

My misery may be imagined. The cold, clammy.

wet line chilled me ; every movement risked
bringing me in fresh contact with the loathsome
stuff, which I could not touch without a shudder ;
and the surrounding air was impregnated with its
abominable smell. I would have done anything
to escape ; and if my leg had not been fixed in
the cradle, I believe I should have rolled out of
bed on to the floor, and as far away as I could go
from the hateful spot. But I was powerless to do
that, or to lessen my wretchedness by any other
means ; for I was not strong enough even to pull
off my night-dress unaided, nor yet to fold back
the wet part of the sheet, and shove it away to
the far end of the bed.

Astor was this all I had to suffer ; for the smell
made my quaintness increase every minute, and
I foresaw with dismay that being sick would
probably involve a repetition of the dose.

Oh, why could not I escape from this abominable
odour ? and could I anyhow manage to avoid the
consequences with which it threatened me? I
remembered having heard it said that sickness
may sometimes be checked by a strong effort of
will. Let me see if mine would help me in this
emergency. I told myself resolutely that the
unpleasant sensations which I felt were purely
imaginary, and that I need not give way to them

unless I chose. And then I tried to turn my
mind to various agreeable and interesting subjects,
such as Kitty ; Mrs. Torwood's dogs ; my plan for
being revenged on my stepmother, and how I
would complete it as soon as I was well again; 
anything under the sun to take my thoughts off
from this beastly oil ! But it was no use. The
qualms sensation forced itself to the front in spite
of all I could do ; I felt that the dreaded climax
was a mere matter of time, and lay awaiting it in
terror with my eyes shut. Suddenly I heard someone
say : " What a smell of castor oil ! Where does
it come from ?"

The speaker's nose naturally answered this
question, and on opening my eyes I saw the good
Sister approaching me. This sight gave me a ray
of hope that I might still be saved, and she seemed
to me to be a very guardian angel. Never would
I have believed that the quaint dress which I had
often laughed at and considered ugly, obtrusive,
and absurd, could have appeared to my eyes so
lovely and acceptable as it did at that moment !

She perceived at a glance that the case was
urgent, and went to work to relieve me without
an instant's delay. Instead of stopping to ask
questions (which would have been a needless prolongation
of my sufferings) as to how I came to

be in such an oily plight, she immediately despatched
the nurse to fetch clean things, and herself
brought some strong aromatic vinegar and held it
to my nose. This neutralised the smell of the oil,
revived me, and enabled me to conquer the feeling
of nausea. Her timely aid averted the catastrophe
I had been dreading, and in a wonderfully short
space I enjoyed the felicity of feeling myself
purified, and restored to a dry, sweet, and comfortable
condition. Xot till this had been accomplished
did she seem to think of anything else. But then
she proceeded to inquire how I had come to be in
the state in which she had found me, and to take
the nurse to task for having left me so.

The delinquent tried to excuse herself by saying
that she had been so exceedingly busy that she
had had no choice about leaving me to go and
attend to some one else. Besides that, she added
spitefully, the accident had been all my own
doing, for I had deliberately upset the glass out of
mischief.

I was commencing an indignant denial of this
falsehood when the Sister interrupted me. She said
it was quite immaterial whether the glass had been
overturned by accident or not, as there were no circumstances
which could justify a nurse for letting
a patient remain an instant longer than could be

helped in such a state as I had been in  all in a
mess, and in wet things that might cause a chill.
The alleged press of business was no excuse either ;
for all the nurses knew perfectly well that they
were to ask for assistance if they had too much todo,
but were on no account to neglect a patient.
She was extremely displeased at Disburse Mary's
conduct, and proceeded to rebuke her sharply.

Considering the barbarity with which that
nurse had just been behaving to me, it will not be
wondered at that to hear her being scolded gave
me a sensation of acute satisfaction.

But my gratification was speedily diminished
as I recollected that she would probably object tome
more than ever, now that I had again been the
unlucky means of getting her into a scrape. I
was filled with alarm at the idea. If she had
bullied me hitherto, what was she likely to do in
the future ? And what chance had I of defending
myself from her malice ? I would confide my
troubles to the Sister who had already befriended
me so often, and ask her to take care of me, I
thought. Only I must mind not to let the nurse
suspect that I was complaining of her, or she would
be still angrier than before with me. I would
wait till her turn of duty was over, and some other
nurse had taken her place.

After the next change of nurses, therefore, I
watched anxiously for the Sister to appear in our
ward. At last she arrived there, and I made signs
to her to come to my bedside. Then, whispering
in a very low voice, so that no one else should hear
and report what I said to my enemy, I begged her
to protect me from Nurse Mary, who hated me,
and treated me so badly that I was afraid of her.

In what way, and on what occasions, have you
been treated badly?" asked the Sister.

It was a most natural question to ask, but it
was one that I was puzzled to answer satisfactorily.
Though perfectly convinced that I needed to be
defended, yet when I began recalling to mind (in
order to tell the Sister) the numerous trifling persecutions
to which I had been subjected, I found
it was by no means easy to discover any grievance
that seemed important and tangible enough to take
hold of and bring forward in support of my assertions,
except the recent castor oil affair, and that
she knew of already. I could not recollect anything
else that seemed worth erecting into a formal
accusation, so I only answered that I could not
think of any particular case to mention just then,
but that indeed what I had said was true, that the
nurse was unkind to me always, and that I was
afraid to see her come near me.

Oh, if that is all," replied the Sister kindly,
I should hope your fears have no real foundation ;
probably you have taken into your head one of
those prejudices that people are very apt to have
when they are ill ; you must try and get over it,
instead of indulging it. But, in any case, you
may be sure that I am looking after you, and will
see that no one hurts you, so don't alarm yourself
about it."

Though she spoke cheerfully and pleasantly,
yet still I did not consider my complaint had met
with a very encouraging reception ; and I was
desperately afraid that what I had said would be
altogether forgotten, and I should be no better off
than before. But she was a person who never
turned a deaf ear to any cry for help ; and I soon
saw that my appeal had not passed unheeded, and
that  whether she believed me to be mistaken or
not  from that time forth her protecting wing
overshadowed me with especial closeness (yet not
so ostensibly as to make the fact generally conspicuous)
when my enemy was in command of the
ward. Not only did the Sister take to coming in
and out with extra frequency at these times, but I
could perceive also that I was then sure to receive
a larger share of her attention than I did on other
occasions. And as this kindly, unobtrusive, vigilance

made it impossible for me to be made to suffer
seriously without her discovering it, my peace of
mind was gradually restored.

Thus, thanks to the restraining presence of the
Sister, Disburse Mary could not make me as miserable
as she would evidently have liked to do ; but I
know very well that I should have been sadly at
her mercy if the Sister had not been there to look
after me, for to appeal to the doctor would almost
certainly have been worse than useless. I have
Mown people rash enough to do that when they
were dissatisfied with their nurses, and the result
of their appeals was invariably the same. That is
to say, the patient was pooh-poohed with more or
less politeness, according to the disposition of the
doctor ; no attempt was made to investigate the
truth of the complaint, and things went on exactly
as before, except that the nurses certainly did not
increase in amiability towards the individuals who
had presumed to find fault with them.

I must say, I think it would be in the interests
of the sick, if, in both private and public cases, the
doctors would beware of the blind confidence which
they, as a rule, are inclined to repose in nurses.
My experience is, that if a patient complains of
his nurse to the doctor for neglect, roughness, or
any other fault, she is apt either to relate what

took place so as make it appear that she could not
possibly have acted otherwise than she did ; or else
to deny the charge absolutely ; or else to say, with
affected compassion, that the poor fellow sometimes
wanders in his mind and does not know things
rightly, so that it is useless to think of attending
to all he says. And the doctor invariably accepts
her version as the true one, and takes it for granted
that she is all right, and there is no necessity for
his interference.

That a doctor should trust much to a nurse is
only natural, seeing that there are cases in illness
where as much depends upon her as upon him 
perhaps even more. But her importance does not
make her infallible ; and though it is all very well
to have confidence in her, yet it is carrying confidence
to excess to make it a rule always to think
her word better than that of her patient. If a sick
person's account of his symptoms differed materially
from that given by the nurse, I suppose the doctor
would hardly think it wise totally to ignore what
had been told him by the former, and to act solely
upon the information received from the latter.
And ought not the same rule to apply to other
statements also ?

Sister HELENA.

My progress towards restored health was but slow ;
and poor I  an individual who had always regarded
with mortal aversion confinement and monotony
in every shapes-was forced to undergo the tedium
of a protracted illness and convalescence. Terribly
weary did I get of the long days and nights as
they dragged on without bringing anything to
amuse me, and to enliven the dulness of existence.
Other patients had friends and acquaintances who
came to see them on visiting days, but I had not
even that mild excitement to look forward to, for
I was utterly solitary and unknown. Unluckily,
too, the literary resources of the place were but
limited. For though there was a so-called library
yet its stock of books was lamentably small, and,
as. it seemed to me, uninteresting. And though
odd numbers of old magazines and newspapers
would drop in upon us at intervals, yet their
appearance was nothing like as regular and frequent

as I should have liked, or as I think it
would have been if benevolently disposed people
had realised what a boon it is to many hospital
patients to know something of what goes on in the
outside world from which they are excluded.

My mind, then, having but few distractions,
was all the more ready to occupy itself with whatever
person or thing happened to come prominently
before it. And thus I found myself continually
engaged in studying and thinking about the Sister,
who, for the time being, filled a position of conspicuous
importance in my life, as a sort of
guardian angel in whom I felt a serene confidence
that she would see I was never seriously wronged
or ill-used in any way.

She was the first Sister with whom I had ever
come in contact, and, by my acquaintance with
her, the prejudice I had previously entertained
against all sisters was speedily swept away. Sister
Helena, as she was called, must, I think, have been
between thirty and thirty-five years old, and was tall
and graceful in figure. She had handsome features ;
a high broad forehead ; a keen eye that seemed
to notice everything within its range ; a square
chin, and a firm mouth ; and no one who saw her
could doubt that she possessed both power and
intelligence above the average. Her face was

pale, and her expression  except when she smiled
grave to the verge of austerity. But it was the
gravity of thoughtfulness, not of gloom and sadness
; and whatever tendency to austerity she may
have had was reserved exclusively for herself.
Most certainly it was never visible in her behaviour
to the sick ; for she always showed them the kindliest
sympathy and tenderness, devoting herself to
them absolutely, and treating them with a loving
gentleness and tenderness that was enough to
make one suppose they were her dearest friends.

As she was general superintendent of the hose
and arrangements for the relief of the
sick, she had usually too much to do with looking
after her subordinates and seeing that they did
their duty, to be able to officiate in person as
nurse. But she was thoroughly capable of doing
so in case of need, and whenever circumstances
happened to make it necessary for her to bandage,
sew up, or dress wounds, or perform any other
services of the kind for patients, she was sure todo
whatever was required as gently, skilfully, and
efficiently as any one  or indeed more so.

One very marked distinction between her and
the ordinary professional nurses was, that she was
unmistakably a lady by' birth, and possessed naturally
 without effort or thinking about it  the

subtle charm of refinement. I  who had fondly-imagined
myself to be superior to the influence
of any sentimental vanity of that kind  was
astonished and disappointed to find how quickly I
detected this in her, and how attractive it was tome.
I could not disguise from myself that I was
highly susceptible to the charm to which I had
believed I was indifferent ; and that it was infinitely
preferable to me to have to do with the person
in whom I instinctively recognised an equal than
with those who were inferiors. Refined associates
were more congenial to me than vulgar ones, in
spite of all my knocking about ; and even though
provoked at my own folly, I sometimes could not
repress a sigh to think that I had left my own
rank of life in favour of a lower one.

Well ; the more I observed and thought about
Sister Helena, the [more did I wonder what her
previous history could have been. Here was a
woman, evidently well born and bred, good-looking,
below middle age, clever, amiable, sensible, capable,
and in every way qualified to make her mark and
be popular in society. Why on earth, then, should
she be spending her existence in hard work amongst
the painful sights and scenes of a hospital, instead
of enjoying herself in the sphere to which she
belonged naturally ? For the fact that she was at

the hospital I was profoimclly thaulvful, because I
vrsis myself a gainer by it ; but none the less was
it an inexplicable mystery to me, and one which
I was constantly endeavouring to find plausible
theories to account for.

As, therefore, I was intensely curious about her,
admired, liked, and was grateful to her, and through
her could enjoy the, to me, pleasant feeling of
association with a cultivated and refined lady, it
followed naturally that I sought eagerly for opportunities
of having to do with her, and never failed
to profit by any excuse for making her occupy
herself about me. The pleasure her company gave
me was too evident to escape her quick observation,
and when she perceived it her kindness of
heart prompted her to gratify my wishes as far as
might be ; for she was one of those to whom
nobody ever held out their hands in vain. Therefore,
though her multifarious avocations made it
impossible, as a rule, for her to bestow much
individual attention on any particular person
whose case was not so critical and special as to
give it precedence over ordinary business, yet she
would always  unless in a t'ery great hurry  stop
and say a kind word to me in passing through the
ward ; and sometimes, on the rare occasions when
she had a few minutes to spare, she would even

VOL. II.

come in on purpose to chat with me. I do not
know whether or not she had the same intuitive
consciousness that I had of our both belonging to
the same social order; but, at all events, there
sprung up between us by degrees an intimacy
beyond that which is ordinarily produced by the
relations of nurse and patient.

As it was not in her nature to see any kind of
suffering without trying to relieve it, she tried to
hit upon some means of varying the unchanging
sameness of life by which she perceived me to be
oppressed. It was not possible to do much for mein
this way whilst I was tied by the leg in bed,
but when at last I was able to get up and crawl
about a little with the help of sticks, she asked me
if I thought I could get as far as her room, which
was on the same floor as the ward, and only a
short distance from it. On my replying in the
affirmative, she filled me with delight by inviting
me to go and have tea there with her that afternoon.
Oh how impatiently I counted the minutes
till tea-time came ! and how welcome and refreshing
was the change to her room from the dreary
old ward of which I was so tired !

From that date our intimacy advanced much
more rapidly than before ; for, as she saw how I
enjoyed the visit to her room, hardly a day passed

on wych I was not invited there at some time or
other. It was not often that she was able to be
with me all the time, for she was almost always
called off elsewhere on business. But when this
happened she did not expect me to go back to the
ward unless I chose, and if I preferred  as I invariably
did  to stay where I was, and amuse myself
with books, work, or my own thoughts whilst
awaiting her return, I was at liberty to do so.
Indeed, if she had not been willing to trust mein
her room without her, it would generally not
have been worth while my going there at all ; for
the demands upon her time were perpetual, and
she hardly ever had any leisure. It was Sister
here and Sister there from morning till night ;
and, as far as I could see, she had not a single
minute in the day which she could call her own,
and reckon on as secure from interruption.

I have already said that one object which I had
had for desiring to know her was, that I wanted to
learn her past history, wherein I believed must lie
some mysterious reason which had caused her to
adopt her present hard, untempting, self-denying
life. But as our acquaintance progressed and I
came to know her more and more, I perceived
with surprise that there was no hidden mystery at
all about the matter, and that instead of any thrilling

romance or tragedy such as I had imagined,
the reason for her life was simply the love of God,
and desire to serve Him in the best way she could.
That was the sole motive for every deed, word,
and thought of hers  the one compass by which
her course was steered.

The reason why this discovery amazed me as
it did was, that I had never dreamt of its being
possible for any one with respectable mental abilities
to take religion thus an grand sSrieitx. I cannot
say I had ever troubled my head much about
religion at all ; but still I had a vague idea of it
as a thing which people of weak intellect sometimes
made a fuss about, but which the wiser part
of the world treated as a mere unreal conventionality
 a sort of outer garment which was assumed
and respected solely out of deference to Mrs.
Grundy.

It was startling to me, therefore, to meet with
such a living contradiction of this idea 'as Sister
Helena. She was no fool, as I knew, but very
much the reverse ; and in her management of the
hospital she gave daily proofs of good sense,
shrewdness, and sound judgment, which made it
impossible to think she would be led away by
visionary notions, or act lightly and without due
consideration. Nor was she a person who ever

bestowed a tlioiiglit upon Mrs. Grundy, or who
could be suspected of any taint of humbug and
unreality in either word or deed. Yet to this
sensible, intelligent, absolutely honest woman, religion
was a fact of such vital importance as to bethe
mainspring of her life  the one thing to be
put before everything else ! So extraordinary did
it seem to me, that I should certainly have refused
to believe in the phenomenon at all if I had not
beheld it with my own eyes.

It appeared evident to me that it must need a
very powerful engine to be the motive force of such
steady, self-sacrificing, practical goodness as hers,
and I thought I should like to understand somewhat
of the nature of that engine. With this object
in view I directed constant questions towards the
subject that interested me, and thus it came about
that religion was the theme upon which we conversed
more frequently than any other. I do not
recapitulate our conversations, because I consider
they would be out of place in a book of this kind;
but this much I will say, that they made a strong
impression on me, and caused me to think of
religion very differently from what I had done
hitherto. She was the first person I had ever met
whose deeds really harmonised with her professions,
and all that she said had weight with me,

because lier life was an unmistakable proof that
she honestly and fully did believe the things she
professed to believe. I began to contemplate the
possibility of there being a real meaning in the
creeds and prayers which I had often heard and
joined in when at church without attaching any
sense at all to them. I began, too, to have an idea
that perhaps church membership might be something
more than a mere empty form, and that
there might be some real advantage in belonging
to that Church of which I had been a member all
my life as a matter of course, and without ever
supposing it could make the slightest difference tome,
one way or other. And, more than all, in proportion
as I became inclined to believe in the truth
and reality of religion, so also did the conviction
grow upon me that I myself was not exactly altogether
what I should be, and that it behoved me
to set about reforming.

I really did want to amend what was amiss,
and to become better than I was ; but still I did
not want to be too good. Such goodness as Sister
Helena's, for instance, was, I knew, far beyond my
powers ; and besides that, my hearty admiration
for it in her did not lead me to desire it for myself,
because I was quite sure that even if it were
possible for me to attain to such a pitch of self-denying

excellence, I should not enjoy it, as I was
a deal too fond of worldly comforts and joys ever
to be happy without them.

Certainly it was very singular that there should
be so wide a difference between one person's sense
of duty and another's. "Alien first this difference
struck me, I was inclined to be somewhat uneasy
at the comparatively diminutive proportions of my
own virtue ; but then there occurred to me a very
comfortable and reassuring way of accounting for
it. People's bodies were predisposed towards
measles, whooping cough, and other illnesses in
varying degrees, and had them lightly or severely
according to the extent of that predisposition ; and
some people even never had these illnesses at all
being apparently endowed with some constitutional
peculiarity which acted as an antidote to
the poison of disease. And from this I argued
that probably people's minds varied in a similar
fashion in regard to virtue  some being more, and
some less receptive of it. I supposed that a person
could only be affected by religion and goodness
according to the degree of his mental predisposition
towards such things, and that some people could
never be influenced by them at all. I thought
this supposition a perfectly reasonable one, and
highly satisfactory also. For in that case it was

obviously absurd to expect much goodness from a
person whose mind was so constituted as to be
antagonistic to virtuous influences ; and of course
no one could be blamed for what was merely a
natural defect.

I propounded my theory triumphantly to Sister
Helena one day when she was insisting upon the
necessity of some virtue or other which I thought
ordinary mortals need not trouble themselves
about. But she refused absolutely to agree with
me ; declared that goodness was equally attainable
by all who chose; and laughed at the idea of
people having a natural liability towards or
against it, like they might have towards or against
a fever.

All very well for you to talk," answered I ;
"but I should like to know how else it's to be
accounted for that some people should be so much
better than others as to become sisters, monks,
and nuns, and all that sort of thing ? I'm sure it
must need a very special and uncommon predisposition
towards goodness to make any one give
up every mortal thing that can make them happy
as they do !"

Not at all," she replied quickly ; " you'll find
good and earnest people in the world, just as much
as in convents. It's a question of vocation  not

of superior goodness. Some people have such a
natural inclination for a conventual life that
they are happier there than they would be in the
world ; and some people, on the other hand, are
happier in the world. Each set seeks happiness
in its own way. And for any one to join a religious
community without having a real vocation
for it is 'a very great mistake, and not a good or
desirable thing at all."

"AVell, then," said I, "you believe that people
are born monks and nuns, just as they are born
poets, painters, musicians, or sculptors. Nascitur
non fit. After all, I don't see that that's so very
unlike my predisposition theory."

Why, there's this great difference," she said
smiling; "according to you, some people would
have no chance of goodness at all ; and / maintain,
on the contrary, that every one has an equal
chance. Goodness certainly manifests itself differently
in different individuals ; but you can't argue
from that that it exists in them in different degrees.
Eemember that it is no great hardship
for a person who doesn't care for society to give
it up; and that you mustn't judge the merit of
an action by its effects, but by how much it costs
the doer."

And then a knock at the door, and an urgent

request for the Sister to go and see after something
or other immediately, terminated our conversation
abruptly as usual ; and I remained alone, musing
on the fresh proof I had just received of the erroneousness
of my original ideas regarding Sisters.
Never for an instant had I doubted that they enjoyed
 whether legitimately or not  a profound
sense of superiority to the general run of humanity ;
and now that my old prejudice against them was
overcome, I had arrived at the conclusion that, as
they really were immeasurably better than the rest
of the world (judging by Sister Helena), they had
a perfect right to pique themselves thereon. Yet,
instead of that, Sister Helena had not only refused
to acquiesce in my ascription of honour and glory
to them, but had argued with evident sincerity to
prove that there was no special merit whatever in
being a Sister ! If / had been one, I should not
have thought anything of the sort, I knew very
well.

As the spark latent in flint needs a blow to
bring it out, so, I suppose, whatever capacity. I
possessed for faith and virtue must have lain dormant
in me till quickened to life by Sister Helena.
They are elements which cannot possibly begin to
mix actively in any one's existence without producing
a commotion in that person's previous ways

of going on, and so I soon found myself sorely
troubled in mind respecting my uncompleted project
for being revenged upon my step-mother. Upto
the present time I had only disquieted her with
threatening letters, and had not yet arrived at the
finishing touch of making known her humble
origin to her husband and her friends. That had
necessarily been deferred by my being laid up in
hospital ; but I had not given it up for a moment,
and had meant that the execution of my threats
against her should be one of the first things I
would do when I should be able to get about again.
In my opinion she richly deserved punishment for
the undutifulness to her mother, ingratitude to her
step-father, absurd vanity, and bad behaviour in
general, of which she had been guilty. And as my
own personal enmity for her gave me an especial
willingness to be the instrument whereby justice
was to overtake her, I looked forward with extreme
satisfaction to the completion of my scheme,
and regarded it as a most righteous and proper
proceeding.

All of a sudden, however, this pleasant prospect
was disturbed by my newly awakened conscience
insisting on taking a very different view of the
matter, and declaring that as forgiveness was a
duty and revenge was wrong, therefore I ought to

give up the intention that I was cherishing. I
opposed this conviction  struggled, argued, and
tried to evade the conclusion that was so distasteful
to me. But it was no use; conscience was
too strong, and stuck firmly to its point, till I was
forced, at last, reluctantly to abandon my beloved
scheme.

So far, therefore, virtue was victorious ; but its
power did not extend far enough to prevent my
regretting bitterly that I had not fully accomplished
my designs against Lady Trecastle before
any new ideas had come to interfere. Since conscience
declared positively that I ought to overcome
the old grudge which I bore her, I should
have to do so ; but it would now be a hard matter
to accomplish, whereas I was sure that I could
have done it sweetly and with hardly any effort
at all, if only I had had the satisfaction of feeling
that my plan of revenge had been carried out fully.
For forgiveness is a duty whose performance is
marvellously facilitated by the knowledge that
the offender has had to suffer in some way or other
for his wrongdoing.

I was quite in earnest about desiring to be
true to such light as I had arrived at, and
therefore did not exactly wish to return to my
previous unenlightened condition. Yet I sighed

as it dawned upon my mind that these new ideas
might involve new restraints, and that perhaps
henceforth I should be less my own mistress than
before.

It would be so much easier to take to religion
if it did not seem likely to deprive me of freedom,
thought I, ruefully.

A Catastrophe.

At last I was pronounced fit to be discharged
from the hospital, and on the morrow I was to
depart. I was still far from strong enough to
think of undertaking any employment involving
hard work and exertion ; and how to keep from
starving when once more turned adrift to earn my
own livelihood was a problem which I should
have been puzzled to solve if left to myself. Sister
Helena, however, had come to my aid, and procured
me a light place as assistant to the owner
of a small newspaper-shop, who, on account of
advancing years, wanted extra help and was wilKng
to engage me on her recommendation. Thus was
added another to the many benefits for which I
was already indebted to that excellent woman,
whose life was one long series of acts of kindness
done, without thought of return, for whoever was
in need. No wonder that I had learnt to admire,
love, trust, and look up to her as though she had

belonged to some higher order of beings ! For
she was certainly immeasurably superior to any
other of the human race with whom I had ever
been acquainted.

My last day, then, in hospital had arrived.
The desire to have a farewell talk with the Sister
in peace and comfort had made me ask her if she
could not manage that we should have a quiet
half hour together for once, without any of the
tiresome interruptions by which our conversations
were usually cut short. She had said it was
impossible for her to promise such a thing certainly,
as it must depend on what work had to be
done ; but that she would do her best to arrange
matters as I wished, and if successful would come
and fetch me to her room when she was at leisure.
All day, therefore, did I hope for the expected
summons, and was greatly disappointed as hour
after hour passed on without my seeing or hearing
anything of her. At last, quite late in the evening,
she entered the ward looking unusually fagged,
and came and sat down by me.

I've been so sorry not to be able to come for
you as I'd hoped," she said kindly, " but you know
business nncst have precedence of everything else,
and I was kept so unexpectedly long with one
case that all my arrangements were upset. It

was a man who was brought in yesterday with a
couple of slight scalp wounds that had to be sewn
up, and who didn't seem to have much the matter
with him. But twice to-day he got so odd that
there was a doubt whether he was not going out
of his mind ; and I stayed with him to see whether
he was or not. If he had been, and if he had
become violent, it would have been an awkward
job to manage hii, for he's immensely powerful.
I never saw any one so extraordinarily sensitive to
loud sounds and commotion of any kind as he
seems to be. There was an unusually loud noise
going on both times when his oddness came on,
and as the noise diminished so did he calm down
again. I'm sure he has a highly irritable nervous
system, which is excited to an almost ungovernable
pitch by any fuss, and can then only be pacified
by perfect tranquillity."

Is he all right now ?" I asked.

Yes, I hope so. The unfavourable symptoms
didn't return, and the doctor thought him going
on quite satisfactorily. But I stayed with the
man a long time, because it was so important for
him to be watched attentively whilst we were
uncertain about his sanity, that I did not like to
leave the responsibility to any one else. Then,
when I could trust him to a nurse alone, I had

such an accumulation of work to get through that
I've been hard at it ever since, and not had a
moment to myself till now ; so you see I had no
choice about giving up the quiet talk with you
that we had proposed having. I'm on my way
back to him now, as I want to hear the nurse's
account of him during my absence."

Humph ! " grunted I, feeling that I need not
fear saying what I thought, now that I was on
the verge of quitting the hospital ; " you won't be
much the wiser for that, if it's Nurse Mary that's
looking after him. If you knew her as well as I
do, and knew how sleepy she is, how constantly
she neglects her business, and what a wonderful
facility she has for inventing false excuses when
she's blamed, you'd never believe a word she
tells you."

It wasn't her I left him with, but one of the
others," replied the Sister. " To tell you the truth,
I should not have trusted such a case as that in
her hands alone. For though I don't think quite
so badly of her as you do, yet still I am by no
means satisfied with her. You are not the only
patient who has, either directly or indirectly, intimated
she is not what she should be; and I
have myself noticed things tending to confirm
these complaints."

VOL. II. p

Why don't you get rid of her, then, when you
yourself allow that you've no confidence in her ? "
asked I.

The Sister hesitated a moment, and then
answered : " Had the matter rested solely with
me, I believe I should very likely have done so.
But when I told the authorities what I thought of
her, the doctor took her part so strongly that
nothing came of it. He declared that he saw no
reason whatever to be dissatisfied with her ; and
that sick people were always so fanciful, exacting,
and peevish, that it was ridiculous to take any
notice of their imaginary grievances. And as he
was quite positive of being right, whilst I spoke
more from suspicion than actual knowledge of the
woman's behaviour, he carried the day. Perhaps
it's as well so after all. To dismiss her would very
possibly have ruined her professional prospects ;
and I should never forgive myself if I thought I
had been the means of inflicting so severe a penalty
on any one without sufficient cause."

"Oh Sister!" exclaimed I, abruptly; "is that
the man you were talking of?"

In order to enable my readers to understand
what ensued, I must delay my narrative for a
moment to explain how we were all placed.

Sister Helena and I were sittings at a table about

the middle of a very long room, having a door at
each end, and beds ranged down both sides. In
the bed nearest to us was a poor woman who had
been badly burnt in an explosion ; and by her side
stood the nurse of the ward, employed in changing
the dressings of the burns. I was the only patient
who was still up and dressed ; the rest were in bed,
and one or two of them already asleep. They were
all women who had been injured severely in someway
or other ; and as I, though well enough to be
discharged from the hospital, was still extremely
weak after my long illness, it will be seen that
Sister Helena and the nurse were the only two
able-bodied individuals in the ward.

The cause of the exclamation I had uttered was
this. I  who was facing one of the doors towards
which the Sister had her back  suddenly saw that
door pushed partially open, and a man's head poked
in as though for the purpose of reconnoitring.
After a hasty survey the owner followed his head
quickly into the room, closed the door cautiously
behind him, executed a fantastic pirouette, advanced
a yard or so in a kind of polka-step, came
to a stand-still by a chair near the door, and
commenced bowing and smiling with extravagant
gestures. On his shoulder he carried an implement
used for breaking and piercing ice, which was

rather like a hammer, with a sharp, triangular, steel
spike at one end of the head. He was big, broad-shouldered,
and muscular; his head was bound up
in bandages ; and he was clad in shirt, trousers,
and socks. In consequence of having no shoes on,
his movements were noiseless ; and this noiselessness
considerably enhanced the uncanny and startling
effect produced by the sudden appearance
amongst us of so strange a figure, demeaning itself
in so eccentric a manner.

Sister Helena looked round at my exclamation,
and a momentary expression of horror crossed her
face, and showed me that my conjecture had been
right, and that our visitor was the man of whom
she had been speaking. But that one transient
look of horror was the only sign of nervousness
she gave, and she did not lose her self-possession
and composure for an instant. "Yes," she answered
me quietly, turning towards the nurse who, as I
have said, was employed not far from us. " jSTurse ! "
she said, softly. The woman looked up from her
occupation and saw the intruder, whom she at once
recognised as the patient whose sanity had been
considered doubtful. His present appearance left
very little doubt about the matter, and she was
naturally filled with consternation at the sight of
an armed madman like him in the midst of a lot

of helpless women. Dropping the dressings she
had in her hand, she started violently, and was
about to break forth into exclamations, when the
Sister checked her by continuing in the same low,
steady voice :

Hush ! make no fuss or he'll get worse. Go for
help. As long as you're in the ward, walk quietly,
as if nothing was the matter ; and as soon as you're
outside, run as fast as you can. I'll stay here, and
try to prevent his doing any harm till help comes."

"Indeed, 'isn't safe for you to stay. Sister,"
whispered the frightened nurse ; " he's raving mad
by the looks of him, and goodness only knows what
he mayn't do !"

All the more reason some one should stay and
take care of the sick," returned the other. " Off
with you ! mind not to hurry till you're out of the
ward ; and then, the faster you go the better."

Judging by the nurse's appearance, I should say
it was fortunate for her character for obedience
that she was not told to remain in the ward instead
of to leave it ; for I am inclined to doubt whether
any power on earth would have induced her voluntarily
to stay in so unsafe a neighbourhood. As
it was, however, her orders exactly corresponded
to her inclinations, and she promptly set out
towards the door opposite to that near which the

man had taken up his position. He had left off
bowing and smiling by this time, and was seated
in the chair, leaning forward meditatively and
scratching the floor with the point of his weapon,
and apparently unconscious of the presence of anyone
else.

If he'll stay like that till help comes, we shall
do," whispered the Sister to me. "I'm sure he's a
man for whom quiet is everything ; what I dread
is any fuss or noise to irritate him. It's lucky all
the patients are in bed, so that he doesn't see
people moving about."

This was all very well ; but then there was no
certainty of his continuing to stay quiet. And
supposing he were to become mischievous, what
chance had any of us in the ward of defending
ourselves against a powerful, armed madman ? So
strongly was this borne in upon me that I felt an
ignominious desire to get up and follow the retreating
nurse, and was only prevented from doing
so by my affection for Sister Helena. For some
inexplicable reason or other I did not like to go
away and leave her in danger, even though I was
perfectly aware that I was too feeble to have a
chance of being of any assistance if the man did
become violent. Besides that, I saw how anxious
she was to keep everything as quiet as possible ;

and perceived also that as the departure of two
people would necessarily create more disturbance
than that of one, therefore my going away must
certainly be contrary to her wishes. On no account
would I cause her one atom of additional worry and
annoyance ; I could sit still, at least, though there
was no other way in which I could help her. So,
notwithstanding my state of inward trepidation, I
stayed where I was, and hoped that the nurse might
be fortunate in meeting with succour speedily.

Unluckily I was not the only person on whom
the preservation of tranquillity in the ward depended.
The other patients, having heard nothing
of the possibility of the presence of a lunatic in
the building, had at first had no suspicion of the
real state of affairs when they beheld the stranger's
entrance. Still, they were uneasy, because what
was taking place was evidently altogether unusual;
and what is out of the common is, for that reason
alone, presumed to be alarming by the majority of
mankind. And they found confirmation for their
apprehensions in the ominous haste with which the
nurse went out of the ward ; for, in spite of the
caution she had received, she made her exit in a
manner that was decidedly suggestive of flight.

From one bed after another issued whisperings,
timid cries, or eager demands to know what was

the matter ; and the murmurs and outcries were
rising swiftly to an uproar when they were repressed
by the Sister. Speaking loud enough to
be heard by all, she said that she would take care
of every one there, but that she insisted on strict
silence. That sufficed to quell the gathering storm;
for there was not a soul in the place but had confidence
in Sister Helena.

The noise made, however, had already taken
effect on the maniac, and aroused him from his
previous meditative condition. Springing up and
flourishing the ice-hammer in the air wildly, he
mounted upon the seat of the chair in which he
had been sitting, and began to speak.

Sister Helena had been hitherto standing quiet
in pursuance of her policy of keeping everything
as absolutely still as possible. But on seeing his
increased excitement, she began to advance gently
towards him  moving slowly and apparently carelessly,
but getting steadily nearer to him. Forgetting
my uselessness and my fear of the man, I
rose instinctively to accompany her when she set
out ; but she motioned me back, saying quickly :

No ; stay quiet. It's my business to protect
the patients  not yours!'

All this takes time to write down ; but in actual
fact it occupied very few seconds, and it was still

too soon to look for succour to arrive, unless the
nurse's search for it should have been unexpectedly
fortunate.

The idea which had seized the madman appeared
to be, that he was in the middle of delivering a lecture
on anatomy or some subject of that kind ; and
he seemed most intent upon the theme which he
imagined himself to be pursuing, as he shouted out :

"And now, ladies and gents, I come to that,
wonderful horgin  the brain. Wait one moment
whilst I get one to show you ; for illustrations is
indispensable to the lecturer ! "

With these words, he jumped off the chair,
brandishing his weapon, and approached the nearest
bed, wherein lay a woman whose leg and ribs had
been broken, and whose injured limb was fixed ina
cradle. She  perceiving that he had sinister
designs upon her  began to scream dismally, and
to make unavailing efforts to extricate herself from
the bed and try to escape. Her screams were
echoed by many of the other patients, who, convinced
they were all going to be murdered, and
filled with dismay on their own account as well as
hers, either forgot or ignored the command which
had been given for silence. Sister Helena, rushing
forward to the rescue, reached the bedside just intime
to interpose herself between the shrieking.

struggling, fear-distraught woman calling piteously
for help, and the man who was on the point of
attacking her.

Get out of the way there ! " exclaimed he
fiercely to the Sister, "or I'll take your brain
instead. I'm bound to have one for my letter ! "

Oh no ! " she replied calmly ; " the lecture is
put off till tomorrow, so you won't want a brain
till then."

The tranquillity of her looks and manner seemed
to produce an impression on him ; for he lowered
his weapon, and looked perplexed, and as if doubting
whether to believe her or not. If only the
other inmates of the ward had obeyed her instructions
and kept quiet, I think that even then she
would have been able to restrain him. But the
clamour they made served to excite him afresh and
add fuel to his frenzy.

"nonsense !" he shouted; "I'm wanted to go
hon with the letter at once. Don't you hear 'em
calling me back ? If you hinder me, I'll kill you ! "

Pushing her aside so roughly that she staggered
and nearly fell, he returned to his original victim,
whom he caught hold of with one hand, while with
the other he raised the hammer to strike. The
blow was about to fall when it was arrested by
Sister Helena, who recovered her equilibrium intime

to spring back and seize his uplifted arm.
Shaking her off as if she had been a feather, he
turned upon her with a savage cry, and raised his
weapon once more. In another moment it descended,
and was buried with all his force in the
centre of her forehead. She sunk to the ground
with one shuddering groan at the very instant that
the nearest door was burst open, and two or three
men rushed in. Flinging themselves upon the
maniac before he had well realised their presence,
they succeeded  after a short furious struggle  in
overpowering him and carrying him off. But they
were too late, alas, to save the life of the best and
noblest human being I have ever known ; for the
sharp spike of the ice-hammer had penetrated to
her brain, and killed her instantaneously. And so
ended the life of one who died as she had lived, 
that is to say, devoting herself voluntarily and unreservedly
to the good of others. Characteristic of
her, also, was the manner of disposal of her body,
which was burnt in a crematorium, in accordance
with her own frequently expressed wishes on the
subject. For it was horrible to her to think
that her material part might possibly, after death,
be the means of bringing death and sorrow to the
fellow-creatures whom she loved so well, by poisoning
the air they breathed or the water they drank ;

and, therefore, lie had always been a steady upholder
of cremation.

When the history of the catastrophe which had
caused her untimely end was investigated, it came
out that the person in charge of the man when he
made his escape had been Nurse Mary after all,
and that what had happened was owing to her
negligence. The way of it was this : The nurse
with whom he had been left, being taken ill
suddenly, and thinking that an hour's quiet would
put her right again, had had recourse to one of
her fellows to replace her whilst she went to lie
down, and that other individual had happened to
be Nurse Mary. Before going away the nurse
who was ill had not neglected to caution her substitute
of the special reason that existed for watching
the patient carefully, and Nurse Mary had
assured her she might be quite easy on that score
which assurance, however, had in no wise prevented
her who gave it from acting in her usual
manner, and going to sleep when so inclined.
Thus, when the man's insanity returned, there was
no one to hinder his roaming off wherever the
fancy took him. And this was how he came to
arrive at our ward, armed with the ice-hammer,
which he had happened to see and pick up on the
way.

Had Nurse Mary had her deserts and been dismissed
from the hospital long before, Sister Helena's
life would not have been cut short by the madman.
But she was sacrificed, in my opinion, partly
to the nurse's inefficiency, and partly to the folly
of the doctor, who had refused to believe it possible
for patients to have any real cause of complaint
against a nurse, and had not hesitated to condemn
their assertions as unfounded without inquiry, and
had therefore opposed the dismissal of the nurse
they had complained of.

Brief as was my acquaintance with Sister
Helena, it sufficed to make an indelible impression
on my life ; and it is owing to her influence,
and to the seed she sowed, that I am no longer the
unprincipled, heathen, scampish individual that I
was before I knew her  a woman whose life was
more in harmony with the Saviour's precept than
that of any one else whom I have ever known,
A new commandment I give unto you, That ye
love one another."

A CHANGE OF FORTUNE.

On leaving the hospital I straightway entered the
situation as assistant newspaper-seller which Sister
Helena had procured for me. I did not contemplate
staying there long, because, as the work was
light, the pay was proportionately small ; so as soon
as my health should be thoroughly re-established, I
meant to give up vending papers, and look out for
some more remunerative employment; providing
always that it was one which I could obtain
honestly, for I was quite determined not to have
recourse to any more false testimonials in future.
But an undreamt of surprise was in store for me,
and all my schemes were destined to be completely
altered before I had been many weeks at my new
post.

When, as sometimes happened, business was
slack, I had nothing to do but to wait idly for
customers to appear; and on these occasions I
usually beguiled the time by studying some of the

papers which composed our stock in trade. One
day whilst thus engaged I was astonished to come
across an advertisement commencing thus : " Gilbertina,
daughter of the late Sir Anthony Trecastle
of Castle Manor  " Having read so far, I put
down the paper. The late Sir Anthony! Then
my father must have died whilst I was in the
hospital, for I had heard of him as alive and well
shortly before that. He and I had never cared for
one another, but notwithstanding this mutual indifference,
it gave me a shock to learn thus suddenly
that he was dead. So many thoughts and recollections
of old days rushed into my mind, that it was
some little time before I remembered that I had
not yet finished reading the advertisement, and that
as it began with my name, I had probably better
see what it was all about.

This was how the whole ran :  " Gilbertina,
daughter of the late Sir Anthony Trecastle of
Castle Manor, is requested to communicate with
Messrs. Fox and Snail, Lincoln's Inn Fields, from
whom she will hear of something greatly to her
advantage."

What could Messrs. Fox and Snail, who had
been, as I knew, my father's solicitors, have to tell
me, I wondered ? and should I answer this advertisement
of theirs or not ? If I did, I must evidently

surrender the " incog." which I had hitherto preserved
so successfully, and in that case I saw that I
could not reckon certainly on being able to resume
it again. Therefore the question which I put before
myself to be decided upon was this : Am I inclined
to take a step which may involve my leaving the
independent career on which I am launched, and
going back to my original station of life ?

Well ! I had by this time discovered that people
who were by birth and education my equals were,
as a rule, more congenial associates to me than my
inferiors ; I knew, too, that I had an innate and
ineradicable prejudice in favour of the name of
Trecastle, which would make it pleasant to me
once more to call myself by it openly ; for even
though I had voluntarily discarded it, yet I had
always felt a secret pride in thinking that it was
mine, and that I had the right to bear it if I chose.
Besides this, my experiences had taught me to
appreciate better than formerly the comfort of
having my bread and butter found for me, instead
of being obliged to find it for myself, and I had
learnt that there are sometimes drawbacks attendant
upon earning one's own livelihood, notwithstanding
the halo of adventure and enterprise
surrounding that process, which constituted its
principal attraction in my eyes. Furthermore,

Messrs. Fox and Snail promised to tell me of what
would be greatly to my advantage, and it is not inhuman
nature to feel averse to hearing of anything
that answers to that description, or to learn that
such information is to be had, without being curious
to know exactly what it may be. Altogether, therefore,
there was clearly a good deal to be said in
favour of my complying with the request in the
advertisement, and consenting to become Libertine
Trecastle once more.

But then, on the other hand, it seemed to me
that however desirable this course might be in
some ways, its advantages would be more than
counterbalanced if it involved anything derogatory
to my dignity. Upon no account whatever would
I condescend to take any step which could be
construed into a confession of failure and defeat,
or be considered equivalent to taking cap in hand,
and suing humbly for reinstatement. No, indeed !
I had supported myself by my own exertions ever
since I had left home, and saw no reason to doubt
my being able to continue to do so. Therefore I
had neither failed nor been defeated, and it was
not likely that I was going to do anything to give
rise to a contrary supposition.

After careful consideration of the advertisement,
however, I came to the conclusion that there was

VOL. II. Q

nothing to compromise dignity in responding to
such an invitation as it contained, and that I could
do so without any fear of injuring my self-respect,
or appearing to humiliate myself either in my own
eyes, or in those of other people. And, my pride
being thus satisfied, I went next day to the office
in Lincoln Inn Fields, announced who I was,
and inquired what Messrs. Fox and Snail had to
tell me.

The information I received in reply was this.
Before my father left England, immediately after
my mother's death, he made a will and deposited
it with his solicitors. He seems to have thought
of altering it after his second marriage, for he
observed to them casually once, that he should not
wonder if he were to make a fresh will some day
or other when he had not anything else to do, and
happened to be in the humour for it. But whatever
his intentions on the subject may have been,
that day was still to come when he died suddenly.
The only wil he left was the one already mentioned,
and as in that he bequeathed everything
he had to me, it was now only necessary that I
should prove my identity in order to enter into
possession of my inheritance without further
obstacle. I had but little difficulty in establishing
satisfactorily that I really was Gilbertina Trecastle,

and as soon as that had been done, my fortunes
changed for the better as suddenly as though a
benevolent magician had waved his wand over
them. Instead of being an ill-paid shop assistant
at the beck and call of an employer, I found
myself raised all at once to a position of ease and
independence, with ample means, and no one to
dictate to or interfere with me. And this latter
condition was, as may be imagined, decidedly preferable
to the former one.

Considering the manner of my departure from
home, and the antipathy that had always existed
between my step-mother and me, I certainly anticipated
that she would now disapprove of me more
strongly than ever, and avoid having to do with
me as much as possible. But it seemed that the
transformation of my circumstances had worked
an equally marvellous transformation in her opinion
of me ; for the tone she adopted towards me was
totally different from what it had been in the days
of my insignificance, when I could be snubbed and
bullied to any extent with impunity. Then she
had been all verjuice, gall, and vinegar : now she
was all honey, oil, and butter. Then she had
pronounced me ignorant, stupid, evil-disposed,
tiresome, all that was objectionable, and utterly
unfit to be admitted into society : now she sang

my praises unweariedly whenever she had an
opportunity, and declared me to be clever, amusing,
witty, agreeable, and in every way charming
and delightful. How she can have thought it
likely for any one of ordinary intelligence to betaken
in by such palpable and unblushing humbug,
I cannot imagine. Certainly the chief effect it
had upon me was to make me feel more disgusted
with her than ever, and wonder whether there
was any limit to her capacity for toadying and
cringing when she thought it suited her game todo
so.

Of course I knew very well that she would not
be thus anxious to curry favour with me for
nothing; and that there was sure to be some
secret motive for all the lying compliments and
fulsome flattery with which she sought to impress
me favourably, and to make me forget her former
conduct. Very soon this motive became apparent;
for the hints she gave showed plainly that, as she
found Castle Manor an extremely comfortable
abode, she did not at all want to leave it, and was
in hopes of being able to establish herself there
permanently.

I really must not be offended at her frankness,
she said ; but I had such a place in her affection
and esteem, and she was so anxious for my welfare.

that she could not resist giving me a word of
advice, even at the risk of being thought interfering.
In her opinion I was too young and inexperienced
to live alone, and I should find the
management of property a great tie and worry.
She did hope, therefore, that I would get some
older person to live with me, whom I could regard
as a friend; who would set me free to amuse
myself by relieving me of business cares when I
liked ; and who would be always at hand to be
consulted in case of need. There would certainly
be plenty of candidates for the post of companion
to an individual so attractive and popular as I
was, to associate with whom would be a constant
pleasure and privilege ; so I might reckon on a
wide field to choose from, as soon as I should
make known what I wanted. Till then, was there
any way in which she could be useful ? Would I
not like her to stay for a while and help me to settle
down comfortably ? I had only to say the word,
and she would be most happy to fall in with any
arrangement of the kind that I might propose.

I, however, had not the slightest wish to have
her as an inmate of my house on any terms at all.
To forgive her was one thing; to live with her
was another. Having learnt that it was a duty
to forgive her, I had made up my mind to do so,

and had therefore renounced all intention of
revealing her early history and plebeian connections,
or making any other attempt to pay her off
for past injuries. But beyond that point, it seemed
to me I was not bound to go ; and I saw no kind
of necessity for inviting her to live with me. She
could not be in want of money, as she still possessed
whatever she had had when she married
my father. And if she disliked solitude, she could
go and domicile herself with one of her own
daughters  both of whom had got married during
my absence from home. Evidently, therefore,
there was no possible reason for me to think that
I ought to inflict her company upon myself; and
I might, with a clear conscience, turn a deaf ear
to her overtures. So, instead of responding as she
hoped, I took the liberty of giving her plainly to
understand that the sooner she cleared out of
Castle Manor the better, as I was in a hurry to
occupy my house, and only waited for her departure
in order to do so.

I really did try hard not to do anything needlessly
harsh by her. But she would not go till I
put my foot down firmly and unmistakably ; and
it was scarcely to be expected that I should, of
my own free will and without any feeling of
obligation in the matter, ever choose to live in the

same house with her again. So I do not know
that I could well have acted otherwise than I did.

finding that I stuck firmly to my point, she
took herself off at last ; whereupon I went straight
home, and have lived there the greater part of the
time since  endeavouring to the best of my ability
to perform the duties of my new position as a lady
squire. What with looking after the interests 
both physical and moral  of my tenants and
poorer neighbours, and managing my house and
estate, I have plenty of occupation to keep my
brain active and to interest me ; and, consequently,
I have taken to this quiet country existence much
more kindly than I should have imagined possible
in the days when I had not become acquainted,
by personal experience, with the feelings of a
landowner. But that does not prevent me from
contemplating another foreign trip before long;
for my natural spirit of restlessness and adventure
is too vigorous to rest satisfied without an occasional
indulgence.

My present age is just twenty-four ; but I often
find it hard to realise that I am not a great deal
older than that, when I come in contact with other
young ladies of the same age. I seem to have
knocked about the world and seen so much more
of it than they have, as a rule, that I can hardly

fancy it possible for the length of their lives and
mine to be identical  unless they have wasted
their opportunities sadly !

As Kitty Clement has played a somewhat prominent
part in these pages, it may be well that I
should tell all I know of her career up to this time.
Since my restoration I have seen her several times
at parties in London, and have, on these occasions,
studied her only from a distance ; because, as I am
not anxious to be recognised as her former maid,
Jill, I do not intend to claim kindred, renew
the old acquaintance begun at Lugano, or do anything
else that would direct her attention to me.
But the strange charm which she always had forme
is not yet wholly dead ; and I still cannot help
observing her course with an interest which I do
not feel in that of any one else. Her great object
evidently is, to make her husband a conspicuous
figure in the political world. She has persuaded
the Premier to appoint him to some government
office of minor importance ; receives at her parties
hosts of members of parliament, fashionables, and
lions, once a week regularly ; and does all she canto
increase the influence and popularity of his
name in every way possible. If he had anything
like her ability, strength, and wits, and were as
much above the common run of men as she is

above that of women, her help would certainly
make him Prime Minister before long. But, unluckily
for her schemes, his talents are in no
respect above the average ; and though he discharges
the duties of his office in a most painstaking
and praiseworthy manner, yet devotion to
work alone will never enable a man to rank as a
great leader. Even, however, if her ambition
should not be fully gratified, she may at all events
congratulate herself on being an extremely great
lady, and enjoying a position that many women
would deem the acme of felicity. She interchanges
dinners with royalties ; her parties are thronged ;
and as I frequently see her goings and comings
chronicled in the newspapers, I imagine that she
has attained sufficient celebrity for the general
public to wish to be informed of her movements.
And what more than that does the heart of an
ordinary woman desire ?

She has presented her husband with an heir to
the title, and other children also ; she is spoken of
as an exemplary wife and mother ; no breath of
slander has ever touched her ; and she is  to all
appearance  as perfectly contented with her lot
as she certainly has cause to be. As for the feeling
she once had for Captain Norroy, I have no
doubt it has been crushed to nothing, and that

when he and his wife are amongst her guests, she
behaves to them exactly as she does to every one
else  that is to say, with a stately graciousness
and aplomb which seem as though beyond the
power of human beings or events to ruffle.

Yet the expression of her face strikes me as
being strangely hard and cold for a person so
admired and popular as she is, and who is so
successful in making herself generally agreeable.
It is not the look of a woman who has all she
wants, but of one who has incased herself in impervious
armour, which she never lays aside, and
which no soft emotion can penetrate either from
within or from without. And notwithstanding all
her prosperity and appearance of contentment, I
cannot help doubting whether she is really and in
her secret soul happy. Does ambition fill and
satisfy her life entirely ? Or is there room for any
lurking regret for the dream of love that came to
her once  the romance that might have been,
which is now buried far out of sight, and can never
come to life asjain ?

And sometimes, too, I wonder, whether her
nature was always as stony as it is now (for even
to her husband and children she is rather kind
than loving), whether her softness towards Captain
Norroy was only the exception that proved the

rule, and whether she ever has felt or could feel
genius, warm affection for other people. She
seems incapable of tenderness now ; but I am not
sure whether before her marriage she may not have
had a capacity for loving which she has now lost 
perhaps killed deliberately for fear of its proving
troublesome to her. And if so, and if in those
days she and I had been thrown together (as might
very likely have happened, had it not been for my
step-mother) as equals instead of as mistress and
maid, should we have become friends, I wonder ?

Who can say ! Now, as always, she is an
enigma hard to read.

