OF THL

University

or ILLINOIS

DG422r

V. 1

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

,UtT <i 1 P98fl

JUM51!
DEC 2 W

FEB 2 9 , .

AUG 2 1 199;
 1AV 1 1 1998

L161 O-1096

LADY FLORENCE DIXIE,

Author of ** AM At'nsed" " IV'aifs and Strays," " Across Patagonia,
In the Land of Misfortune" " The Young Castaways," etc.

AV THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:

HENRY AND COMPANY,

6,'bouverie street, Eg.

1889.



v/.

FRANCIS DOUGLAS,

THE BROTHER OF MY Childhood's Dreams,

, 5i3ic:itc this, mx) <i:irsl aobcl,

/ memory of the bright and promising young life that was cut off' at the early

age of seventeen years. Killed on the hitherto unconquered Matlerhorn

Friday, the nth of July, 1865.

Where ether gilds the Alpine steeps

Beyond the verge whence mortals stray,

Calm on yon berg young Douglas sleeps,
Whence none may bear his corse away.

For monarch neer had tomb so grand,

However potent was his sway,
No conqueror led a nobler band

Than perished on that fatal day.

Tkerc stars will ever shed their light,

The sun-mHI gild each rising n)orn.
His winding sheet  the glacier bright !

His monument  Thk Mattekhokn I

CHAPTER I

A BRIGHT blue sky, a gleaming,
sultry day, with the mirage trembling
above the purple moors and hills of
a glorious Scottish scene. A winding river
glinting in the sunshine, making its way
in foaming eagerness over dark boulders
of rugged rocks and stones, beautiful in
its ever-changing form. In marked contrast
to the rough and turbulent waters
are the quiet pools into which the salmon
glide, when weary of the strife outside

VOL. I. I

those peaceful shelters. Here and there
wooded heights, sloping downwards to the
river's edge, hang their luxuriant foliage
over its dark cool waters, reflecting their
emerald beauty in the glassy pools.

A scene of extreme beauty, yet withal
a very lonely one ! So thought Oswald
St. Mar as, sketch-book in hand, he
settled himself in the shade of an overhanging
rock, and made preparations for
committing it to paper. He was a young-man
struggling towards fame, an artist
who depended on his pencil and brush fora
livelihood, and at the time our story
opens, engaged on a walking and sketching
tour through the western highlands of
Scotland.

He thought the scene a lonely one,

bereft, as it apparently was, of any living
form ; but he had not sketched long, when
he became aware that he was not the only
human being intruding on these solitudes.
A shrill whistle, followed by a clear, ringing
shout, made him look up, when he
perceived a small party advancing across
a heathery flat, that stretched away towards
the moors beyond, on the opposite side
of the river. The party consisted of a
boy and girl, both carrying guns, two
keepers, and a lad who, with a small
luncheon basket slung across his shoulders,
was with difficulty restraining two eager
young Irish setters that he held coupled
together. Two other setters were ranging
to and fro, while a handsome black
retriever followed close at one of the

'' You greedy girl," laughed Ronald, as he
turned towards the grassy bank on which
Donald had spread out the luncheon. "Who
was it told me that Mr. Disraeli said * he
couldn't abide a woman who was fond of
eating ' ? "

"Well, I'm not a woman yet," answered
the girl, " but I hope I shall never lose my
appetite, and, consequently, my health. I'm
sorry Mr. Disraeli should have such a diseased
fancy. What's appetite but Nature,
Ronald ? "

Nothing else, Maeva, of course ; so let's
to lunch, and forget Mr. Disraeli's fads.
Have you and Donald and Patsy got your
lunch all right, Angus ? " continued Ronald,
turning to the head keeper.

"Yes, yes, my lord, we've a' we want,"

replied the man, "and we'll just gang wa
toon alongside the river and hae it there."

** Very well, Angus ; but we mustn't be
too long, for I and Lady Maeva want to
have a good afternoon at the grouse before
going home."

'' And ye shall have it, my lord, and a
gude ane, too," answered Angus, as he
hastened away to join Donald and Patsy
by the river's edge.

While the girl and boy are busy at their
luncheon, let us take a nearer view of them.
They are, apparently, much the same age,
being respectively thirteen and fourteen
years old. Ronald Dhu, Earl of Angus, is
a very handsome boy, with a noble carriage
and aristocratic bearing. His dark, curling
hair clusters round a large white forehead

** You greedy girl," laughed Ronald, as he
turned towards the grassy bank on which
Donald had spread out the luncheon. "Who
was it told me that Mr. Disraeli said ' he
couldn't abide a woman who was fond of
eating ' ? "

Well, I'm not a woman yet," answered
the girl, *' but I hope I shall never lose my
appetite, and, consequently, my health. I'm
sorry Mr. Disraeli should have such a diseased
fancy. What's appetite but Nature,
Ronald ? "

Nothing else, Maeva, of course ; so let's
to lunch, and forget Mr. Disraeli's fads.
Have you and Donald and Patsy got your
lunch all right, Angus ? " continued Ronald,
turning to the head keeper.

*eyes, yes, my lord, we've a' we want,"

replied the man, "and we'll just gang wa
toon alongside the river and hae it there."

'every well, Angus; but we mustn't be
too long, for I and Lady Maeva want to
have a good afternoon at the grouse before
going home."

And ye shall have it, my lord, and a
gude ane, too," answered Angus, as he
hastened away to join Donald and Patsy
by the river's edge.

While the girl and boy are busy at their
luncheon, let us take a nearer view of them.
They are, apparently, much the same age,
being respectively thirteen and fourteen
years old. Ronald Dhu, Earl of Angus, is
a very handsome boy, with a noble carriage
and aristocratic bearing. His dark, curling
hair clusters round a large white forehead

of remarkable beauty, while a perfect wealth
of eyelashes shelter eyes that a god might
have envied, so large and lustrous and full
of fire are they. He is dressed in the plain,
undress costume of a Highlander, which becomes
him well, and shows off to advantage
his slim, graceful figure. Like her companion,
the girl, too, has a noble bearing.
Not exactly beautiful, her face is, nevertheless,
extremely striking. There is a depth
of thought and intelligence in her grey
eyes peculiarly noticeable, while the ever-changing
expression in her features keeps
the eye fascinated and attracted. Masses
of rich golden curls toss and play in bewildering
confusion upon and around a
forehead that, like the boy's, is large, and
white, and beautiful. Her dress is very

simple. A short-kilted skirt of dark tartan
reaching just below the knee, tartan stockings
to match, a pair of strong brogues
fastened by silver buckles, a silver-grey
silken shirt, and a loose grey tweed shooting
jacket and stalking cap. Such is the
sporting attire of Ronald's playmate, companion,
earliest and best friend. Lady Maeva
Down, only child and heiress of Frederick
Down, twelfth Marquis of Ettrick.

They are a happy pair as they sit therein
their golden youth with the sunshine
playing upon them, thoughtless, for the
time being, of the future, of the world
and its cares, and of aught beyond the
pleasures of that glorious day which they
are evidently bent on enjoying to the
fullest extent possible. Happy, too, ina

companionship which the prim rules of
fashion and society have not so far interfered
with, or sought to mar with their
punctilious and unnatural restrictions. For
that girl and boy are sitting there on equal
terms. So far their lives have moved in
the same groove. No distinction has been
made between them. In all matters appertaining
to their education, pleasures, pastimes,
and pursuits, they have been treated alike.
It is a wise hand and far-seeing mind that
has hitherto guided those children's lives.
The result is apparent in their whole appearance
and manners. The ruddy glow of
health on their cheeks tells of strong frames
that have not been pampered and coddled,
but that have been allowed the invigorating
influence of Nature's care, while their whole

conversation, as they lie side by side enjoying
their substantial though simple lunch,
evinces an intelligence and independence of
thought that does not ill-become them, though
unusual in children of their age.

And it is but natural that they should
be fast friends, that boy and girl. Around
their lives there hangs a halo of romance,
which it may be as well to glance at ere
proceeding further. It is a retrospect, but
necessary for the elucidation of this book's
tale.

T3 Donald's grandfather, afterwards
seventh earl, had made at school
the friendship of a boy much his own age,
young Malcolm Stuart of Abercrombie.
This boyish friendship, ripening as years
went on, developed into the firm and
lasting attachment of a life. The two
friends were inseparable. They entered
the army together, fought side by side at
Waterloo ; both were wounded, and both
gained distinction and laurels. Later on,
when Lord Angus, hitherto known as
Lord Dhuvale, succeeded to his ancestral
estates, the two left the army, and started

on a voyage of adventure round the world.
After two years' absence, during which they
had made acquaintance with all kinds and
manners of strange countries and men,
Malcolm Stuart received news of the death
of his father, which forced him to hurry
homewards accompanied by his friend. On
arrival in Great Britain they at once proceeded
direct to Leven Towers, one of the
beautiful seats of the Stuart family, where
they found Lady Madeline Stuart alone
in her widowhood. The meeting between
mother and son was a sad one, the husband
and father who had passed away
being dearly beloved by both. It was
decided that Lady Madeline should leave
Leven Towers for a time, and take up
her abode at Abercrombie Castle with her

son, for two reasons. First, that Leven
Towers was too much associated with the
beloved dead one ; and secondly, that Aber-crosbie
Castle and estates joined in with
those of Dhuvale Fortress, the magnificent
ancestral home of the Earls of Angus. It
was but natural that the two friends should
wish to be near each other after a life of
such inseparable companionship. And so
for a time they settled down in their
respective homes, which really became
more and more like one, so mutual was
the interchange of friendship and daily
intercourse.

Side by side these two men studied the
world and its ways, and the whirligig of
Fashion strained hard to win their friendship.
Many a worldly dame and chaperone

angled for these catches, and hung their
daughters into the busy exchanging mart
charged to do their best to win the prizes.
Poor girls ! Trained to such work, they
did their best ; it was not for want of
trying that they failed. But Angus and
Stuart where of one mind in this matter,
and were not to be won by such material
as this. And thus it came about that later
on the world of Fashion stood aghast, when
the following announcement appeared in
the Morning Post : 

** Marriages have been arranged, and
will take place on October 4th, between
Ronald Dhu, Earl of Angus, and Miss
Lorna Cameron, and Captain Malcolm
Stuart of Abercrombie, and Miss Larva
Cameron, the twin daughters of Mr. Archibald

Cameron, factor to Sir James Fraser
of Achnerboisdale."

'good God!" cried Fashion, "what a
mesalliance I Fancy, Lord Angus and
Captain Stuart marrying a factor's daughters!
And with so many nice girls going this
season. What can they be about ? Who
is this Mr. Archibald Cameron?"

Nothing and nobody else, proud Fashion,
but Mr. Archibald Cameron, a poor Scottish
gentleman, who, not being gifted with
wealth and large properties, has nevertheless
worked hard and honestly to earn his
livelihood, and provide in the future for his
two little motherless girls, whom hard fate
deprived of a mother at an early age.
They have grown up bright and bonnie
lasses too, with sufficient of independence,

and sense, and healthy beauty to have

captivated and won the hearts of such menas

Ronald Angus and Malcolm Stuart.

And thus it came about that on the stated

October 4th, Lorna and Garva Cameron

became Lady Angus and Mrs. Stuart of

Abercrombie, and after a short honeymoon

returned home to settle down at Dhuvale

Fortress and Abercrombie Castle. In

course of time Lady Angus presented her

husband with a fine boy, and little Lord

Dhuvale was christened Rory. To Stuart

was also born a child  but a girl. They

called her Lorna, after her aunt, Lady Angus.

But we must hurry on with our story,

as it narrows to a painful close. Some six

months after the birth of little Rory, Lord

and Lady Angus, with Malcolm Stuart,
VOL. L 2

Started one day for a sail together in a tiny
yawl along the coast, which runs northwards
from Ardnamurchan Point. They
had announced their intention of being
home by teatime, about which hour Garva
was expected at Dhuvale to join her husband,
and remain for a few days' stay. She
arrived, but although later than arranged,
there were no signs of the Angles and
Malcolm. The afternoon wore on, and was
succeeded by evening ; still no sign of the
absent ones. Then Garva became seriously
alarmed, and an anxious search was made
along the coast in hopes of sighting the
little yawl. In vain. Not a trace of the
boat could be discovered. Half wild with
grief, the unhappy woman put out to sea
in Lord Angus's steam yacht, and for miles

around, In every inlet and bay, the search
was pursued. Still all in vain. It was not
until six days had elapsed that the terrible
news was brought in that the boat had
been picked up at sea off the Irish coast,
floating face downwards. But of trace of
Ronald and Lorna and Malcolm none could
be discovered, and the exact fate that overtook
them lies buried in the eternal mystery
of that trackless deep, in which no doubt
now remained that they had perished. It
was thus that, at the age of six months,
Rory Dhu, Lord Dhuvale, became eighth
Earl of Angus and an orphan, while Garva
Stuart lost the two dearest objects of her
life  her husband and twin sister. Let us
draw a veil over a grief which it would
be vain to attempt to portray, so heartrending

was it in its utter loneliness and
desolation. Yet Garva met the heavy blow
with a courage and lofty spirit worthy of
her heroic heart. Two things were yet
left to her to love, direct links of the
dead ones gone. These were her child
Lorna and her little nephew Rory, ove
whom the will of the late earl and his
wife had appointed her sole guardian, as
indeed she was, by nature and right, over
her own child. Quitting Abercrombie Castle,
she moved with her charges to Leven
Towers, where dwelt the mother of her
dead husband. Lady Madeline. And here,
varied by occasional visits to his own
home at Dhuvale, the early years of little
Rory were spent in happy companionship
with his cousin Lorna. They were an

inseparable pair these two happy, merry
little people. Side by side they learnt to
swim, to ride, and to shoot, to climb trees
and rocks, to row a boat or manage a
sail, as even side by side they performed
their daily studies with Garva. No distinction
was made between the two ; what
one did the other did as well. Their lives
where all in all to each other  apparently
inseparable. But Garva had a duty to
perform in the early training of her little
ward. The late earl had repeatedly, in her
hearing, declared that his boy must receive
the first schooling of his life at sea, and
she knew well that it was her duty to see
these wishes carried out. Rory, therefore,
at the age of twelve, was sent on to a
training ship, and in course of time joined

one of Her Majesty's ships as a naval
cadet. Lorna felt the parting terribly. It
was the first distinction which had been
made between them, the first great step
which brought forcibly to her mind the
relative positions of man and woman in
this world.

*' Oh, Rory ! " she exclaimed, as side by
side they paced the broad terrace in front
of Leven Towers, on the eve of his departure
to join his ship, " why can't I go
with you ? Why must I remain at home
inactive, while you are off into the world ?
We have always done the same things
together ; why should it not be always so ?
Who was it, I wonder, who first made
these dreadful rules that shut a girl out
of every hope of fame and power ? "

REDEEMED IN BLOOD. 23

Perhaps It was Adam," said the boy
bitterly, " or some noodle like him. At
any rate, whoever made such rules was an
ass. It seems to me that Nature intended
the boy and girl, the woman and man, to
be companions to each other, instead of
which these rules do their best to separate
them. Oh, Lorna darling ! 1 shall miss
you terribly. What shall I do without
you :

"God knows what I shall do without
yoic, Rory. Life will be a blank altogether
when you are gone," replied the girl.

They walked up and down in silence,
their hands clasped in each other's. Thoughts
were rushing through that girl's brain which
would have startled perhaps a philosopher
of much maturer years. There was a

bitter expression on the beautiful face which
made it for the time look years older.
Suddenly she stopped, and a triumphant
smile lit up her countenance as she confronted
her cousin.

I have it, Rory. Oh ! hurrah, hurrah !
A brilliant idea has struck me. There's the
Erl Koenig lying idle. Why not fit her
out ? And mother and I will follow you
round the world in her, and put in at
all the ports you do, and see you in this
way very, very often. And I am sure
Captain Morton will give you plenty of
leave, and you and I and some of your
brother miss can have some splendid expeditions
together. Is it not a good idea ?
How was it we never thought of it before ?"

*' You're a trump, Lorna ! Bravo ! It is

a first-rate idea indeed," shouted Rory.
*' Come, we will go and talk it over with
Aunt Garva."

Like lightning they turned and sprung
through one of the large windows, that
opened from the drawing-room of Leven
Towers on to the terrace. Though it was
summer, a large log fire burned cheerily
on the hearth, and cast a bright light
throughout the handsome room, throwing
into the shade the more subdued light of
several lamps encased in coloured globes, and
cunningly peeping forth from amidst a wealth
of flowers and ferns.

Not far from the fire, and busily engaged
at a writing table strewn with papers of
all sorts, sat a lady. Fourteen years had
not passed so heavily upon her, but that

one could not recognise In the graceful figure
and beautiful features the person of Garva
Stuart. She is thirty-four years of age now,
but those looking upon her for the first
time would confidently declare her to be
not more than twenty-five. She is a very
active woman ; and perhaps the great amount
of exercise daily indulged in, as well asa
naturally extremely healthy constitution,
has operated, to a great extent, in the
maintenance of her youthful aspect. To be
as she has been through all these years,
the almost continual companion and preceptor
of these two children, must have
called forth considerable energy ; added to
which, the personal supervision of the affairs
of her own and her nephew's vast estates
have left her no time to be idle. For Lorna,

although heiress of her father's property,
had no shadow of claim thereto during the
lifetime of her mother. To Garva, young
Stuart of Abercrombie had left all that he
possessed, to be inherited only by his daughter
at her mother's death. " It is a monstrous
law," he had always said, " to let the child
step in at the father's death, and take the
place of its parents, while the mother is
denied the position she formerly held. Thank
God, I have such power over my estates,
that I can give the ' knock down ' to so
unfair a law. No child of mine shall supersede
the parent to whom it owes, more than
to any other, its being, its fosterage, and
its bringing up." Thus it was that Garva
became possessed of the magnificent Aber-crosbie
estate, to which her daughter stood

in the position of heiress ; and the wisdom
of her dead husband's opinions was manifested
in the careful and able manner in
which the wife administered the property,
which the husband had not feared to
declare should be hers through life.

"Mother, dear mother," burst out Lorna
as she hurried across to where Garva sat,
*' Rory and I have come to discuss with
you a matter of urgent importance, and to
beg the dear bothering to grant the
great request we are about to make.

*' And what may it be, my darlings?"
said the mother, as she laid her hand
caressingly on the eager girl's shoulder.

'' Oh, bothering ! it's just this. Rory
and I can't be parted. It would just break
our hearts altogether. We couldn't bear

it, mother. And we have thought of a
splendid plan whereby we can see lots of
each other. It's just that you shall have
the Erl Koenig nicely fitted out, and then
you and I can go to sea in her, and follow
Rory in his voyage round the world.
Whenever he gets leave we can join him
on shore, and have many a happy, happy
day together. Say, dear mother, shall it be
so ? Oh ! do not say no to Rory and I."

The mother started, and was silent.
Her thoughts flew back across the fourteen
years of her widowed life. They recalled
a day when a very similar plan had been
projected by Rory's father. " There is
nothing like the navy for an early training,"
he had said, " and Rory shall begin
his life at sea. I can see plenty of him,

too, for Lorna and I will cruise about In
the yacht, and have an eye on our little
middy wherever he goes."

Yes," had answered Garva's husband,
*' and you must find berths for I and
Garva and little Lorna ; won't you, Angus ?
Meanwhile, can't we project a preliminary
voyage round the world In the Erl Koenig,
and show Garva and Lorna some of the
countries and people amongst which we
have already knocked about?"

And so It had been arranged. The preliminary
voyage was projected and mapped
out. It was the old story, however, of
Man proposes, God disposes."

The voyage in question never took
place, the hand of death, as we have seen,
having intervened.

Now after fourteen years the widow
heard just such a similar plan proposed
by the children of these two men. It
startled her. It seemed like the voice of
the dead rising up from the far past, and
filled her with strange emotion. The
young earl was the first to break the
silence.

'' Say yes, Aunt Garva. Do, do, for
Rory's sake." He said it very softly, but
she heard him. The tears sprang to her
eyes as she looked at the handsome, pleading
face of the boy. Then, in a firm
voice, she uttered the single word,
'' Yes."

"Hip, hip, hurrah!" shouted Rory, ashe
rushed off, waving his cap and cheering
lustily, followed by two or three pet doss

that had hitherto been laying lazily before
the log-wood fire. But Lorna remained
beside her mother, whose tears she had
noticed, and bending down, tenderly
kissed her on the forehead.

Dear mother, what are you thinking
of?" she said.

*' Of the dead past, my darling," whispered
Garva. '' I have never set foot on
the Erl Koenig since that awful day
when I searched in vain for your father,
and Rory's, and my own dear sister. But
do not let us talk of that. Your proposal
awoke strange memories That was all.
No more at present. Leave me, my child,
for awhile ; but rest assured, your request
is granted. We will go."

Very gently Lorna turned away. she

knew now of what her mother was thinking,
and feeling that solitude alone could
ease the aching heart that spoke forth in
that mother's words, she left her.

But it all came about as Rory and
Lorna desired. The Erl KcEuig was fitted
out, and simultaneously with the announcement
that H.M.S. Emeraldis had started
on a training cruise round the world,
another announcement made its appearance
in the papers, to the effect that the fine
steam yacht of the youthful Earl of Angus
had proceeded to sea, having on board
Mrs. and Miss Stuart of Abercrombv, who
were also purposing to make the tour of
the world, the young owner being himself
a naval cadet on board the Emeraldis.

The man-of-war spent nearly three
VOL. I. 3

years on this voyage, and wherever she
went there too went the Erl Koenig.
Lorna proved no false prophet in her prediction
of the happy hours she and her
cousin would spend together. In truth,
they saw many a glorious scene, and
enjoyed many a pleasant hour in each
other's company. It was a voyage of
instruction for both as well ; and during
those three years of travel, Lorna and
Rory received an education which years of
book-learning and study would never have
afforded them. When the Emeraldis and
Erl Koenig turned their heads homewards
Rory was seventeen, and Lorna just entering
on her seventeenth year. Yet young as
she was, the girl's mind was stored with
much useful knowledge and experience,

while her tame as a sportswoman and
energetic traveller had preceded her. Prude
Fashion marvelled how it was possible fora
girl to have done all recorded of her.
The stories of her prowess with gun and
rifle, of her great endurance, pluck, and
hair-breadth escapes read like a romance,
and were received  true though they were
by the fire-side, stick-at-home bodies as
incredible. In Lorna's eyes they seemed
nothing unusual or out of the way. Her
life had been so free and unfettered by
congeniality, or the rules of Fashion, that
nothing but a severe training in that school
would have possibly opened her eyes to
the fact that her freedom of action and
natural unrestrained existence, was regarded
in the light of the incomprehensible terms

"fast" and '' unfeminine." She had yet
to learn the Hfe which her sex is condemned
to lead, and to discover that some
of its severest gaolers rank among that sex.
After this voyage Rory left the navy,
and began studying for the army.
A Highland chieftain himself, he was
determined to enter a Highland regiment,
and Lorna having gone through a
London season, and carried wonder and
astonishment to Fashion's heart by her
many (so Fashion called them) eccentricities,
was ever his constant companion. Thus,
when this season came to a close, the
cousins, with Garva, went northward to
Dhuvale Fortress. So time sped on. Rory,
in due course, joined his regiment, the
gallant 78th, and soon after came of age.

There were great doings at Dhuvale on
that occasion, when Garva handed over
the cares and reins of government to the
young Earl. It had been left to her discretion,
in his parents' will, to postpone this
resignation until their child attained the age
of twenty-five if she saw fit ; but Garva had
brought up her charge too well for such
restriction to be necessary. She knew that
her care had not been thrown away, and
that she could entrust to him duties which
for twenty years she had well and nobly
performed. The estate was in splendid
condition, and few could boast of a finer
inheritance than young Angus.

'' Lorna, dear, come for a stroll," he had
said to his cousin on the eve of his coming
of age, and linked arm-in-arm, Garva saw

them wander down the lordly avenue of
Dhuvale Fortress.

Lorna, darling, I want to say something
to you," broke in Rory, after they had proceeded
in silence for some time. '' It's something
I have been wanting to tell you for
more than a year, but I determined to wait
till now. Lorna dear, don't be angry, don't
laugh at me, but I do love you, and  and
1 want you to say you will marry me."

Silence, just for one moment after the
boy lover had spoken, then Lorna turned
and laid her hand on his shoulder.

Rory, why should I be angry with or
laugh at you for loving me ? Oh no, dear,
dear Rory, nothing of the sort ; but I cannot
say yes to what you ask. Listen, dearest,
to what I have to say. To begin with, you

are only just twenty-one. How can you
know your own mind yet ? "

*' I know it well," answered the young
man. '' All through last season I tried to
find one woman who could in any way
match you, Lorna. I failed. I never saw
one like you, and never shall, except perhaps
Aunt Garva ; but then she is your
mother. And now here I am in this great
and lonely place. Who will look after it
for me ? Who will be my companion as
we have always been to each other ? "

As we have always been to each other,
so I hope we shall ever be, Rory," answered
Lorna. '' I will take care of Dhuvale
Fortress for you, and we will be Rory and
Lorna as much as ever, until some day
you bring a Lady Angus home. You have

your regimental duties to engross you now,
while studying for that political life which
I hope some day you will enter upon, so
you should be busy, darling, and try and
forget this fancy. '

It is not a fancy, Lorna," almost sobbed
Rory, as he beheld his daybreak vanishing.
You are my first love ; there will never
be anything like it again. Refusal comes
lightly to you, however, I suppose, who
have always a dozen fellows at your feet."

Rory ! " Her voice was very low, but
there was a world of reproach in its tone.

'' Oh ! forgive me, Lorna ; I don't know
half I am saying," said the young fellow.

'' But you will thank me some day.
Ah, Rory ! how could we marry ? Are
we not first cousins ? Is not this next

door to brother and sister, as Indeed weare
and always have been ? Not only
that, however ; we are something more.
We are friends. Remember that, dear.
In every sense of the word we are friends;
and what Is more, through life Lorna Is
your first and best. Rory, my darling,
with the exception of mother, you shall
ever be my first thought."

She could promise this safely. Amidst
the many faces which had looked their
love, the many lips which had spoken It,
there was but one to which Lorna's heart
made any response, and this was Rory's.
Well she knew that she loved him, and
that even as he had said, nothing In the
future could usurp the place of that first
love. But Lorna, who had thought deeply

on many social and natural questions, felt
strongly that the marriage of first cousins
should not be. Her high sense of duty
forbade her to yield to any secret inclination
to make an exception in her own-case,
and so she kept that secret which
her heart held, and kept it to herself, that
Rory's pain might not be increased in anyway.
It was a sacrifice which only the
heroic girl knew the extent of.

They walked back in silence up the
avenue, and on reaching the fortress the
young earl broke it.

*' Good-night, Lorna darling," he said
very gently ; " we will begin again tomorrow,
and try and be the old Rory
and Lorna once more."

She pressed his hand, but could not

trust herself to reply. She knew that a
word would bring him to her feet. She
felt that as she loved him, it must not
be. PVeely and ungrudgingly Lorna made
this sacrifice on the altar of her love.

She drew his face to hers and kissed
it, and then they turned away and went
to their rooms, there in silence and secret
to battle with themselves. We will not
follow them.

They were a good deal together after
this. If they had their secret they kept
it well, for no one noticed any difference
in their behaviour to each other. The
world, looking on with its usual prying
gaze, never guessed at the truth, and the
match-making portion of society angled
away as hard as ever for the golden fish

that SO far had not taken its bait. When,
therefore, Rory's regiment was ordered to
India, Fashion declared that he would of
course exchange or sell out ; so desirable a
young man would surely never go and bury
himself in that far-away country. But Rory
apparently had a different opinion, for he
neither exchanged nor sold out ; and when
the day arrived for his regiment to embark
he was at his post. Lorna went with him
to see him off. It was to be a brief
parting, they hoped, as she and Garva
meditated a voyage to India the following
summer, when of course Rory would bethe
first to be visited.

"Good-bye, Lorna darling," he whispered,
when the time arrived for the anchor to
be weighed ; "it is our first real parting.

You won't forget poor old Rory, will
you ? "

Forget him ! Ah ! could Rory but have
read her heart, he would never have said
that, thought Lorna ; but she only answered,
"It is not likely, Rory."

It was not likely. The woman who
in childhood had been called a "Tomboy,"
who in later years Fashion had decided
was eccentric, and masculine, and fast, simply
because she would not be a slave to its puny
customs and regulations, had a heart and
a power of loving which the callous and
hardened brood that revelled in Sham and
the Unnatural could neither appreciate nor
understand. Lorna had loved. It was not
likely that in such a gallant heart as hers
that love could ever be extinguished.

'' One kiss then, Lorna, and then we
must part," said Rory, as the loud order
was heard requesting all to leave the
troopship who were not bound for India.

He put his arm round her, and she,
with a sudden impulse, threw hers around
his neck. For a moment locked in each
other's arms they gave that parting kiss,
into which all the intensity of a life companionship
and love about to be severed
was imparted. The next moment Lorna
was gone with a cold chill at her heart,
and a great dull blank before her, and
Rory, with a bursting heart and burning
tears in his eyes, went below to his cabin.

A few months passed away after that
leave-taking, when the mail brought home
a thick letter for Lorna in Rory's handwriting.

She was at Dhuvale Fortress,
busily employed in making arrangements
with the estate agent previous to her
departure for India, and had been eagerly
awaiting this letter ; for though a telegram
had announced his arrival, this was the
first communication she had received from
him. It was a very long letter, but there
was one portion of it that Lorna read
over and over again with a beating heart.
This is what it was :

I made the acquaintance on the voyage
of the regimental chaplain's daughter. His
name was Menzies, and hers was naturally
the same too. It is changed now, and I
will tell you how it all came about. After
I had said good-bye to you I was very
miserable and down in the mouth, and

Menzies, no doubt seeing this, did his best

to cheer me up. He Introduced me to his

daughter Rhona, a very pretty girl, who

reminded me something of you, darling

Lorna. Next to you she Is one of the

most natural and sensible women I have

ever met, and a real good companion. It

was awfully sad, however, for nearing India,

within a few days of arrival, Menzies was

taken suddenly 111 and died. God only

knows of what, for the doctor did not.

The poor girl was dumb with grief. I

never saw any one look so unhappy before.

I did all I could to console her and cheer

her up, but she fretted sadly. This Is her

second loss within two years, for exactly

that period ago her mother died, and

by her fathers death she has now been

left absolutely friendless and penniless. I

was at my wits' ends what to do for her,

when at last what do you think I did do,

Lorna ? Try and guess ! No. You give

it up ? Well, I proposed marriage to her.

She said no at first, declared she would

not take advantage of my generosity, and

all that sort of thing ; but I could safely

tell her that I cared for her, for I had

grown fond of the girl there is no denying ;

and, Lorna, you cannot tell how lonely

I felt at the loss of you, which made me

snatch at any comfort. However, to cut

the matter short, she said ' yes ' at last,

and so we were married quite privately in

the Roman Catholic Church here, and

Rhona is now Lady Angus. I write, of

course, to tell you the first of all, my
VOL I. 4

darling. I suppose it is just as well. You
would not have me, Lorna, and so it did
not matter who I married. But, of course,
you know that only once has Rory loved,
and, like that love, he can never love
again."

Lorna laid the letter down, her heart
throbbing with a strange thrill. "It is as
well," she murmured to herself, and then a
long gasping sob rose to her throat as she
stood and looked out on the hills, where
Rory and she had roamed as children.

A few months later, and Rory read the
following announcement in the Morning
Post :

'' On Monday, the , a very quiet

wedding was solemnised in the private
chapel at Abercrombie, between Frederick

Down, twelfth Marquis of Ettrick, and
Miss Lorna Stuart, the only daughter and
heiress of Mrs. Stuart, of Abercrombie.
Lord and Lady Ettrick have left in their
splendid steam yacht for India."

'then I shall see her soon," said Rory
to himself, a strange sensation of joy
thrilling his heart. '' I wonder why she
did not write and tell me?"

Ah, Rory ! will you ever know the
reason ?

It was 1857. The Indian Mutiny had
broken out, and Rory's regiment, with
others, was busy. He had been obliged to
leave his wife close on her confinement at
Cawnpore, but had since heard of the
birth of a fine boy, for whom the mother
had obtained the services of a native nurse.

while she herself was very fit and welland
hoping soon to be able to come and
join her husband, and enter on her self-imposed
duties of nurse amongst the
wounded. But again the truth of the
maxim, " Man proposes, God disposes,"
was exemplified ; for at the very time that
Rory was expecting his wife, news arrived
of the investment of Cawnpore by Nana
Sahib, and later of the terrible massacre
and the awful fate of the British women
and children therein. Terrible indeed was
such news, and poor Rory felt like one
stunned. Alas ! poor boy, his case was
but one of many ; his heart was not the
only one torn with anguish and horror
during that period of awful savagery. But,
like others, little time was given him for

mourning. His regiment had hard and
earnest work to do under the gallant
Havelock, in connection with the relief of
Lucknow.

Time passed on, and Havelock, with his
noble brother-in-arms. Sir James Outran.
had fought their way to the relief of the
struggling garrison. But they, in turn, were
hemmed in, and amongst them was Rory.
Time passed on, and amidst prodigies of
valour and self-sacrifice, the soldiers of
Havelock held out. The morning dawned
on the ill-fated day when the men lost
their beloved general. Still the grim resistance
was maintained, as the besieged
watched for the coming of the Campbell,

watched long and eagerly, with hope often
deferred.

They came at last! Amidst the roar of
cannon, amidst the thunder of the besieged,
besiegers, and the rescuers, relief for a
second time dawned upon Lucknow. But
the day that brought it brought death to
many, and eyes which had eagerly watched
for it were closed when it finally came.

Let us hark back to that time, and
gaze on a scene enacted within those
walls. It was midday, and the hot sun
blazed fiercely through the unprotected
windows of a small room. Stretched on
a low bed within it was a young man
apparently asleep, and close by were
standing a nurse and a tall slim young
officer,

Does the doctor give no hope, Mrs.
Randal ? " inquired the latter.

'deed, sir, it is the surgeon attends
his lordship, and he says the wound will
prove fatal, and he may die any moment.
Tis terrible, sir."

The officer did not reply, but bent over
the bed. Presently he lifted his head and
observed,

I will sit by him for a bit, Mrs.
Randal. I daresay you have your hands
full. He is an old friend of mine, and will
be glad to see me when he awakes."

'' Very well, sir," replied the nurse ;
*' only when you leave him, please to let
me know."

'that I certainly will' answered the
young officer, and Mrs. Randal left the room.

No sooner was she gone than the visitor
bent over the sleeping man and passionately
kissed his pale, damp forehead. Then
he took the white emaciated hand in his
and held it lovingly. This movement
awoke the sleeper, and he opened his eyes
and stared vacantly at the young officer.

'' Who are you ? Where am I ? Where
is Lorna ? Oh ! why does she not
come?" he murmured almost incoherently;
and then consciousness appeared suddenly
to come upon him. " Ah ! I remember ;
she is not here. But who are you?" he
again repeated inquiringly.

Rory, my darling, don't you know
me ? " And the young officer, removing his
cap, bent over the sick man.

A loud glad cry burst from the latter.

as with flushed cheeks and glittering eyes
he threw his arms round the neck of his
visitor. ''Oh God, Lorna ! is it you?
Is it you ? Thank God, thank God ! But
I might have known as much. I might
have known you would find out poor Rory
before he died. Kiss me, darling, again.
Oh, Lorna ! you cannot tell how happy
you have made me." He fell back on his
pillow, the hectic, flushed cheeks burning
brighter than ever.

She bent over him again, for the young
officer was no other than Lorna, and kissed
him very tenderly. '' Hush, my darling,"
she said, 'you must not excite yourself."

Then come and sit by me, Lorna, and
tell me how you got in here, and I will
be quite still. I only want to hear your

voice, and know that you are near,"
murmured Rory.

'' Don't you know, darling, that Lucknow
is received ? " Then, as Rory shook his
head, she went on. '' But it is, though, and
by Sir Colin Campbell ; and now I'll tell
you how I got here. When we arrived in
India I set up as hospital nurse, and we
moved about the country as well as we
could in that capacity. Lord Ettrick got

appointed to staff duty in General 's

service, and I moved on to . One

day a young lieutenant whom I knew was
brought in mortally wounded. He was the
bearer of despatches to Sir Colin Campbell,
but the enemy had got at him, and ' done
for him,' as he expressed it. Poor fellow,
he was very plucky and cheery over his

fate. He gave me his despatches to
denver to the authorities, and desired me
to send his sword to his mother, and his
uniform also, if possible. From him I
learnt that you were laying wounded in
Lucknow. He died that night, and, sitting
by his bedside, the thought came into my
head that I would take his place, deliver
his despatches, and try thus to get to you.
So I went home, put on his uniform, and
came on here. I presented his despatches
to Sir Colin, who believes I am young
Howard, and took part in the relief of this
place. Directly we got inside I found
out where you were, and came straight to
you. So now, Rory, you know all about
how I got in here ; but, my darling, it is
terrible to find you in this state."

He was half wandering again, but she
heard him murmur, " I might have known
she would come." He lay silent for a
long time, and Lorna, fearing to disturb
him, sat very quiet and still. At last he
spoke again, this time in a very low voice,
Lorna."

'' What is it, my darling ? " she whispered.


"I'm afraid I'm going fast," he said.
I must tell you one or two things before
I die. Listen, Lorna! No doubt you
heard of poor Rhona's fate in that dreadful
Cawnpore massacre. The little boy
was just born, you know, and I thought,
of course, he went too ; but it appears
that his native nurse hid him, and stained
his face and hands, and passed him off

as her child, so he escaped. Poor Rhona
had given her full particulars where to
find me if she escaped, and the nurse
sent on word to me. I sent her money
and a large reward, and told her to take
him to Calcutta. They are safe there now.
And, Lorna, I have made you his sole
guardian. I know that you will bring
him up as a man should be. Call him
Ronald, Lorna, and in caring for him think
sometimes of Rory."

You know well I will care for him
more than all the world," answered Lorna.
Oh, my darling, my darling ; would
that I could have died for you ! God
knows I would have willingly given my
life for yours to be spared, my love, my
only love''

He started up in the bed, and looked
at her with a wistful, longing look, as
though he would read into her very soul.
The intensity of her voice seemed to
have awoke a world of understanding
within him.

'* I see it all now," he gasped. " Oh,
darling ! why did you hide it from me ? "

'' It was best so," answered Lorna. '' I
did what was right."

Another long silence. Once more Rory
broke it.

** You'll give my love to them all, won t
you ? Tell Aunt Garva her boy remembered
her, and see all the tenants, and
tell them I couldn't come back to take
the welcome they promised me. God
bless them all ! And you'll look after all

the old pets, and teach Ronald to care
for them, won't you ? And  and, Lorna,
kiss me, darling, City darling!' His voice
grew husky and very low.

She bent over him and put her arms
around him. One long, long kiss. All
the passionate, controlled love that had
been forbidden them, came forth in that
one embrace. He lay back smiling on the
pillow.

I am so happy now," he whispered.
*' Lorna, let us say one prayer ; you
know it."

She knelt down beside him, and buried
her face in the bedclothes. Together
they uttered the old prayer of their childhood.
Suddenly Lorna felt Rory's hand
tighten very gently on hers. She looked

Up. Hectic before she had knelt down,

his cheeks were now of a deathly pallor,

the grey shade had crept across them, and

he was gone.

#   # #

The sun was shining brightly when he
died. It waned and sank, and the pale
moon came out, and still beside the deathbed
of the young soldier Lorna watched
and prayed. At length the nurse
looked in.

*' Is he sleeping, sir?" she inquired.


*' He is dead," answered the kneeling

figure huskily, as it rose and walked to
the window. The nurse uttered an exclamation,
and rushed off for the doctor.
Then Lorna turned to the bedside once
more. 'good-bye, darling," she said very

softly ; " only while here though, for we
shall meet again. It is not death that can

separate us for ever."

* # # *

And now fourteen years have rolled
away since Rory died, and there, amidst
the heath and the bracken, lays his son
Ronald, with Lorna's daughter and only
child, Maeva, by his side. They are the
same constant and loving companions to
each other as were Rory and Lorna, for
Lady Ettrick, as we shall now call this
latter, has brought them up together, and
lives over again in these young people's
happiness the bright halcyon days of her
youth, when she and Ronald's father were
all in all to each other. Time has not
dimmed the memory of him whom she

VOL. 1. 5

loved SO well, and nothing can take the
place of that first great love.

As a woman of letters, and as a great
traveller, Lady Ettrick Is known to fame.
Very deeply read, and widely travelled,
her experiences have made her what she
is, broad-minded and far-seeing. The
political factions of the day have not won
her adherence ; she has no sympathy with
the sham that surrounds them. Her chief
thought is how to raise the condition of
the people, and bring about a nobler
state of things in society than exists ; and
towards solving this problem all her
energies are bent. She is not exactly a
favourite amongst women of her own class.
The frivolous nonsense of Fashion finds no
approval in her eyes, the entire code of

laws governing it she pertinaciously resists,
and she keenly feels the degradation to
which her sex is condemned in obeying
them. By the poor and oppressed she is
loved reverently and devotedly, because
her sympathies are all with them.
Struggling nationalities look to her for
advocacy and sympathy, knowing they will
not look in vain. Such is Lorna, Lady
Ettrick, at the time our story opens, when
Maeva and Ronald are thirteen and fourteen
years old.

'time's up, Maeva," cried Ronald,
pulling out his watch. '' We've been idling
over lunch for more than half an hour ;
that's not the way to get a bag."

'i'm ready," answered the girl, springing
up. "Come on, Angus and Donald.

Patrie can pack up and take the things
to the pony."

''A' right, my teddy," replied the keeper
addressed, and picking up their guns the
children set forth in search of another bag.
Oswald St. Mar watched them until they
were out of sight, then, taking up his
pencil, determined to introduce into his
sketch that scene from life of which he
had just been an unobserved spectator.
'' The painting will look less lonely now,"
he observed.

' IV/r OTHER, we made the fifty brace,
Ronald and I," triumphantly exclaimed
a young voice, as Maeva and her
companion just mentioned raced up the
broad flight of stone steps which led from
the hall door of Ettrick Castle to the wide
carriage-sweep below.

'' Well done, young people; but you must
have worked hard and shot well, for I
know those beats are not overstocked,"
answered Lady Ettrick, as she laid both
hands caressingly on the shoulders of the
eager boy and girl.

Quite enough for real sport, mother.

replied Ronald. (He always called her
mother.) " But the birds were wild, I can
tell you ; and if it had not been that Maeva
shot straight as a dart, I should have had
a poor show to make. I can't think," he
added, " what is the matter with me. I
made some very bad misses."

*' I hope, my darling, no wounded birds
have got away," said Lady Ettrick gently.
It had always been her aim to teach these
children that true sport did not consist in
making long and careless shots and wounding
animals, and then, either not following
them up, or neglecting to look for them,
as is so greatly the habit with latter-day
sportsmen.

*' Not one, mother," answered Maeva.
*' Dear old Dhu took care of that."

'* That's all right then," said the mother.
But come, you are pretty late, dears, and
the tea, and scones, and oatcake will begetting
cold. Then Lord Ettrick and the
Prince will be shortly arriving, and all
the flood of visitors also."

Oh, what a bore ! " laughed Maeva.
"I do love peace and quietude. Just what
father doesn't," she added mischievously.

'* Who is coming, mother ? " inquired
Ronald.

Well," said Lorna, *' there is the
Duchess of Mannerton and Lord Devon-dale,
Lord and Lady de Fontaine, Lord
and Lady Dudley, Colonel and Lady
Mary Corner, Sir Anthony and Lady
Sykes, Captain Frazer, Mrs. and Miss
Chambertown, and Lord Rashness."

'* I know them all but the last one,"
exclaimed Maeva. " But who, mother, is
Lord Rashness?"

Why, he's Lord Wrathness, of course,
Maeva," laughed Ronald; 'probably some
wild northern chieftain belonging to the
sea-king tribe."

'you have partly described him," said
Lady Ettrick, with a smile. "He zs a
northern chieftain, and he makes his
yacht his home. But he is not the wild
creature you describe him to be, Ronald.
On the contrary, he is a very quiet
and reserved young man. He leads a
very lonely life, and is the last of his
race."

The last of the barons," sung Ronald.

But Maeva inquired pityingly, " And has

he no mother, or brother, or sister, that
lives with him, mother ? "

'' None," replied Lady Ettrick. '' He lives
quite alone. He had one sister to whom
he was fondly attached, but she was killed
out hunting; and it was her death, Maeva,
that quite decided me on bringing you upto
ride without those dreadful pommels
which Fashion condemns women to use."

Maeva rides well enough without them ;
why can't other women also ? " inquired
Ronald.

Because, dear, they have not been
brought up and accustomed to do so,"
answered Lady Ettrick.

'' Say rather, mother, because there is
no one so wise and clever as you," added
Maeva. "If all mothers were like you,

darling, woman would have a chance in
this world."

Her time is coming, Maeva," answered
Lady Ettrick quietly. *' She will not always
remain in the land of bondage."

They passed into the private sanctum
of the mother, where tea, and scones, and
oatcake were laid out on a little round
table close to one of the windows. Just
beneath the table lay a great St. Bernard
dog of the most perfect kind and markings,
which rose up majestically as they
entered, and welcomed them gravely.

*' Hallo ! watching the tea, old boy, for
us ?" cried Ronald," while Maeva laid her
tiny hand on the dog's broad forehead ashe
wagged his tail approvingly. " Dear
old dog, come and have some with us,"

But the massive beast declined the
honour, and went and sat down beside
Lady Ettrick.

How that dog loves you, mother," said
Ronald.

He does," she answered. '' Bernard
and I are fast friends."

The dog In question was a famous one.
His sire, '' Hubert," had been a great
favourite with Ronald's father, and after
this latter's death Lady Ettrick had shown
great affection for the dog. And when
Hubert died, a place of honour had been
given him In the animal cemetery, where
Rory and Lorna had always interred their
pets, from the white-haired Shetland pony
down to the pet parrot that In their
childhood had passed away amid much

mourning. But Hubert had left to carry
on his race a magnificent puppy, which,
having won prizes, medals, and distinctions
that would have turned the heads of ninety-nine
of the human species out of a hundred,
was content to be allowed to give his
whole heart and love to the kind mistress
who had brought him up from puppyhood,
who began loving him because he was the
son of Hubert, the favourite of Rory, and
who ended by loving him quite as much
for his great fidelity and intelligent companionship.


The children lingered over their tea,  it
was always a happy hour with 'mother," 
and they were still laughing and talking
merrily, when the sound of many wheels
was heard beneath the castle windows.

*' Good gracious ! Why, this must be the
Prince and the whole lot of them," said
Ronald. 'how early they are ! "

'* No, dear," answered Lady Ettrick,
'' but time has flown quickly with us. Go
now, my darlings, and change your things,
for I must away to receive them."

Poor mother ! How you hate all this
paraphernalia, I know," said Maeva, as she
rose to leave the room with Ronald. " I
wish it was next week, when we shall be
all alone together again for the rest of
Ronald's holidays."

Ronald, it may be explained, was, like his
father had been, a naval cadet on the
Britannia, and was now home for the
midsummer vacation.

Lady Ettrick did not reply, but signing

to *' Bernard " to remain where he was, she
proceeded straight to the great drawing-room,
which had indeed undergone a wonderful
transformation since the days when
she first had come to Ettrick Castle. Then,
it was the stiff-gilded, gained, mirrored,
high-back-chaired chamber of horrors, such
as our stately ancestors loved to dwell in ;
now it was as perfect a fairyland of beauty
and comfort, as money and tasteful device
could make it. Comfortable chairs

abounded ; cosy nooks, hidden by flowers,
were everywhere ; little tea and coffee tables
were laid out in all parts of the room ; a
distant sound of music came softly through
the open doors  heaven only knows wherefrom
; while the trickle of running water
disclosed two or three lovely little fountains

playing daintily amidst a perfect wealth of
ferns of rare beauty, around which comfortable
sofas and easy reading lounges
were ranged.

Lorna, here we all are ! " exclaimed a
cheery voice, as the footmen threw open
the big folding doors, and the stately old
butler preceded them.

'how do you do, Lady Ettrick ? " said
the Prince, coming forward rapidly, with
that gait peculiar to him. " We are a
large party come to take you by storm.
Lord Ettrick tells me he only telegraphed
to you this morning to say we were
coming."

"You are most welcome, sir," answered
Lady Ettrick, as she shook hands with the
Prince, and bowed gracefully, at the same

time. (She had always persistently declined
to adopt the little bobbing curtsey which
Fashion reserves for royalty.) The remainder
of the guests, who had all arrived
with the Prince and Lord Ettrick in the
latter's special, now began to assemble, and
after the first formal greeting Lady Ettrick
said, 

*' I hope you will all help yourselves to
what you require. You will find tea and
coffee, fruit and various kinds of drinks indifferent
parts of the room."

'eyes," put in Lord Ettrick, 'this is
Liberty Hall. Here every one does what
best pleases them ; and all I and Lady
Ettrick ask is that our guests, while in
this house, should look upon it as their
own.'

A busy hum of conversation followed,
which showed that every one was taking
the invitation in good earnest. Soon after
the door opened, and Maeva and Ronald
came in. They were not the awkward,
tongue-tied boy and girl which, alas ! is too
often representative of children of their age,
but at once went about amongst the guests
whom they knew, shaking hands, and
laughing and talking.

Who is that very handsome boy who
has just come in with your daughter ? "
inquired the Prince of Lady Ettrick.

*' That is my so  I should rather say
ward, sir," answered Lady Ettrick. '' He
is Lord Angus, the only child of a dear
friend of mine who was killed in the Indian
Mutiny. At present he is a naval cadet

VOL. I. 6

on the Britannia, and is home for his
holidays."

*' Do call him and your daughter up,"
said the Prince. '' I should so like to speak
to them."

"Ronald, Maeva ! " The clear, beautiful
voice struck on the children's ears amidst
all the hum and buzz of tongues. They at
once approached Lady Ettrick.

'' Maeva, the Prince wishes to see you,
and you too, Ronald," she said, as she
introduced the boy to the royal visitors

I hear you are home for the holidays,
Lord Angus," said the Prince, as he shook
hands. '' I hope you are enjoying yourself.
What do you do for companions ; have
you any friends spending them with
you :

I am never in want of companions, sir,
while mother and Maeva are with me,"
answered the boy simply, adding, "though
of course mother has a busy life, and cannot
always be with us ; but then, sir, there is
Maeva, and I would rather have her for a
companion than all the boys in Great Britain."

*' So Lady Maeva is your companion, is
she ? " said the Prince, with an amused
smile. " Now, what have you been doing
to-day ? "

*' We have been grouse shooting, sir,"
answered Ronald ; "I and Maeva, between
us, got fifty brace. At least Maeva got the
most, for really I shot far from straight,
and had my eye wiped a good many
times."

*' So Lady Maeva is a good shot, is she ? "

laughed the Prince, following her with his
eye as she turned to speak to Miss Cham-brown.


No better, sir," answered Ronald, enthusiastically.
Gun or rifle, it is all the same ;
I can't hold a candle to her. She is perfect
at both, as, indeed, she is at everything she
tries."

Do you hear that. Lady Ettrick ? " said
the Prince, laughing ; " your daughter has a
doughty champion here."

She and Ronald are like brother and
sister, sir," answered Lady Ettrick ; *' they
have been brought up together. Your
Royal Highness has often told me I have
peculiar ideas ; and one of them, no doubt,
will seem, In your eyes, that I make as
little difference as possible in their bringing

up. I look on the way in which women are
brought up as scandalous and cruel."

This is most interesting," exclaimed the
Prince. '* Do give me your views, Lady
Ettrick. What is there scandalous about
the bringing up of women ? "

*' Simply, sir, their whole treatment from
the day of their birth to that of their death.
What chance does it give a woman ? Why,
none. Take, for example, the case of my
daughter. If I condemned her to the life
which girls are usually condemned to at her
age, she would be caged up in the schoolroom
at this moment. Her exercise to-day
would have been some straight walk along
a road beside a governess. Her mind would
be vacuous and filled with a false modesty,
while her body would be weakly and frail.

She would be brought up to regard Ronald
as a being vastly superior to herself, as the
privileged member of a sex to whom all the
pleasures and pastimes of life were meted
out, while she must content herself with an
existence in which activity and adventure,
and all that an enterprising spirit holds
most dear, finds no part. You heard what
Ronald has just told you, sir. He said
that the fifty brace they got to-day was
chiefly owing to the straight shooting of
my daughter. I know they must have
walked a great distance to get the bag, as
the ground they were on is not well
stocked, and they told me the birds were
wild. Well, has the girl proved herself
any the less skilful or active than Ronald ?
On the contrary, she has eclipsed him in

shooting,  and the boy Is a good shot,  while
she has equalled him in walking and powers
of endurance. If ninety-nine women out
of a hundred had been asked to trudge
over the ground those children covered
to-day, they would be well nigh dead by
now with fatigue and weariness. Why ?
Simply because of the life they had been
accustomed to lead. Muscle and strength
wither if they are not given fair play. Yet,
look at my child. Does she look any the
worse for her long and tiring day ? Does
she not rather look bright with the glow of
health, which the natural life I permit her
to lead Infuses into her?"

** She does, Indeed," answered the Prince,
as he looked towards the bright, fair face of
the girl who was laughing merrily over some

joke of her father's. "So I gather," he
continued, '' from what you say, that you
think the male and female sex should be
brought up together, and treated exactly
alike. But would you have women soldiers,
sailors, members of Parliament, and stateswomen
? "

*' You follow me so far, sir," answered
Lady Ettrick, " when you say I think that
the male and female sex should be brought
up together. So they should. There would
be purer morals if this were so. Our system
of teaching the man everything, the girl
nothing, has been productive of more vice
and immorality than of anything I know ;
while the system of giving the boy all the
education, and throwing open the gates of
the world to him, while giving girls a stunted

teaching, and withholding every occupation
in which they could earn a name and fame,
and do good to mankind, is a rotten one,
which time must destroy, because of its very
unnaturalness. Every-day proof of this is
arising on all sides. Women are educating
themselves, and are reaching forth their
hands to grasp some of the good things
of this world hitherto monopolised entirely
by men. As they do so, there is a shriek
of pained surprise sent up, a paean of holy
horror. Every attempt is made to kill
these pioneers of woman's freedom by ridicule,
misrepresentation, and positive falsehood.
But against numerous difficulties
they struggle, for they know they are fighting
to overcome a great wrong. You ask
me, sir, if I would have women soldiers

and sailors, members of Parliament, and
stateswomen ? My answer is, why not, if
you bring wonen up with men and give
them equal opportunities ? Of course, if
you bring them up as you are now doing,
they must be unfitted, both in mind, and
body, and experience for such duties, inasmuch
as they are given no chance to practise
them ; but if you give them perfect equality
in freedom and bringing up, I am much mistaken
if women would not take a prominent
part in all the great deeds of the world.
Healthier children would be born, fewer perhaps
 but that would be a blessing ; for we
ought to be proud to count a nation not by
its numbers, but by its health and strength."

You think, then. Lady Ettrick," put in
the Prince, " that if men and women were

brought up together, fewer women would
marry than they do now ?"

*' I think so, sir, for nowadays marriage
is the only means by which a woman
can, to a certain extent, become her own
master, or acquire fortune. Nearly every
woman marries for these purposes, with
the lamentable result that hundreds of unhappy
marriages are cemented every year.
But if girls were allowed the same freedom
and latitude as boys, and if the
professions were thrown open to them, and
they were permitted allowances in equality
with their brothers, the inducement to
marry would not be so great, and the
wretched marriages that are yearly born of
woman's bondage would never desecrate
the earth with their misery."

'* But a woman would never be strong
enough to endure a soldier or sailor's life,
for instance," again remarked the Prince.
'* Her physical strength is very inferior toman's."


Tell me, sir," replied Lady Ettrick,
earnestly, "if for hundreds of years men
had been subjected to the same life allotted
to women would they not be as physically
weak ? Nature ordains that if the body
and mind are to be strong, they must have
free play, and not be cramped and confined.
After all, what are we but a higher
order of animal ? Yet, amidst the lower
animals, we do not find such an enormous
difference put between the sexes. The
horse and mare work equally ; the cart
mare drags as heavy a load as the carthorse

; the horse and mare are alike
employed in time of war, while all domestic
animals are pretty equal in strength
and size. It is the same with the wild
animals ; and there is only this difference
between them, which, in all my travels, I
have had ample proof of, and that is, that
the female generally shows the greatest
pluck. Why, of all the animals, should
man alone condemn his co-mate to such
an unequal existence, for of course the
laws that bind her are entirely the creation
of man's selfishness and jealousy ? "

Yet there are many women who are
quite content with their bondage, as you
call it, Lady Ettrick," said the Prince.

Even, sir, as the poor caged bird is,
who has been bred and born in captivity,

and never known anything else ; yet there
are others who pine and fret, and cannot
exist in such an atmosphere, who look on
at the unfair treatment of their sex with
pain and sorrow, and who, in consequence,
strive against its injustice, in the face
of overwhelming odds ; for there are no
enemies to woman's freedom so hard to
contend against as those very self-satisfied
slaves referred to by your Royal Highness,
who hug their chains, and are
content with their feebleness and subjection."


But how would you have us set about
your emancipation, Lady Ettrick ? " inquired
the Prince, with a smile.

Have not men all the power in their
hands, sir, and can you ask that ?

answered her ladyship warmly. " How
would I have men set about the emancipation
of women, your Royal Highness
asks ? Why, by encouraging education
amongst them, by throwing open the professions
to them, by letting them feel that
the selfish barriers which ha'e hitherto
jealously guarded what men have been
pleased to term ' men's pursuits,' be hurled
down, and women allowed to taste
of them without being told by society
that they are fast, or unnatural, for doing
so. Why, in Heaven's name, should not a
woman, who pays taxes, and is qualified
in exactly the same way to vote as a man
is, be allowed to exercise her undoubted
right, whether she be married or unmarried
? But the selfish, jealous laws made

by man deny her this right, and advance
puerile excuses in support thereof.
The denial of the right of voting to
women is one of the greatest proofs of
man's moral cowardice and selfish conceit
and pride."

'' Well, but woman's dress is very much
against her being able to take part inman's
pursuits," said the Prince, as Lady
Ettrick ceased speaking.

But is it impossible that woman's dress
can be changed, sir ? " answered the latter
inquiringly. *' What," she continued, "can
be more hideous or unsightly than the
pinched-in waists and appalling fashions
of the present day ? Yet you men encourage
them. You admire pinched-in waists and
tiny feet; and the gilded slaves of Fashion

distort their figures and cramp their feet
to obtain your admiration, which is the
extent of their idea of happiness to which
they have been brought up and educated."


Would you have women adopt the dress
of man ? " inquired the Prince, somewhat
startled.

God forbid, sir, or anything so unsightly ;
for only second to woman's dress is the
hideousness of man's. No, no, sir ; but there
are many graceful and pretty ways in which
women might dress. A short skirt and
neat bodice is possible, in which they would
look nice, feel comfortable, and be arrayed
healthily and rationally. However, of course
time will bring everything right ; but meanwhile,
it is galling for women who, like

VOL. L 7

myself, tell there is something better than
living in a gilded cage."

At this juncture Lady Ettrick and her
royal visitor were interrupted in their conversation
by the appearance of their host,
who exclaimed,

'' I think, Lorna, we should be thinking
of dressing for dinner, and let our guests
see their rooms."

Very well," answered his wife, rising.
** I will go and attend to the ladies, and
show them their rooms."

'' Oh, we have been having a most
interesting conversation, Ettrick, on woman's
rights," said the Prince. " I had not much
to say, as really she has the question at
her fingers' ends, and I had no replies
ready to put against her."

'rand I doubt if your Royal Highness
would find any. Lorna has certainly converted
me. I used to argue with her, but
I gave it up. I found my arguments
pulverised ; and really now I thoroughly
agree with her, for I know she is a living
example of what she advocates, as is also
my own child. By-the-bye, sir, I will
give you as good a deer-stalk tomorrow
as ever your Royal Highness has had,
and as skilful a stalker as you may wish
to find anywhere."

Here Ronald came up. He had moved
away during the conversation between the
Prince and Lady Ettrick.

Mother has told me, Lord Ettrick," he
said, ''to show you His Royal Highness's
room;"

'* Right you are, my boy ; lead on,"
answered the marquis, as, preceded by young
Angus, the host and his royal guest left
the room.

\ Activity and bustle pervaded Ettrick
Castle at an early hour. Preparations
were in course for a big day at the
grouse, and the stalking element were also
to the fore. It had been arranged overnight
that most of the men should go out
grouse shooting ; but the royal guest had
had reserved for him some of the very
best of Lord Ettrick's well-stocked forest,
and Maeva had been appointed stalker-inches.
Ronald and she had been up since
break of day. The girl had always plenty
to do. A kennel of beautiful red setters
to superintend. It was she who invariably

gave the eager animals their early morning
exercise. Three brace, too, of wavy-coated
retrieve. They likewise took part in this
recreation hour. Then there were the
colles to visit, the falcons' quarters to
overlook, and last, but not least, the stables
to walk through. Every horse and pony
therein knew the hour for Maeva's arrival.
What a neighing and stamping there was,
as the girl passed from box to box with
a basketful of carrots, talking to, feeding, and
patting each animal in turn, above all her
beautiful and favourite hack.

Ronald, too, was busy. He had the
keepers to see, the stalkers to talk to, and
the different details of the day's sport to
arrange. When he was at home Lord
Ettrick always left these matters to the

boy. 'rit teaches the lad to use his brains,"
he would say ; and Lorna was nothing loth
that her dearly loved ward should exercise
the rights and duties of a son.

When, therefore, the guests were assembled
at breakfast, the boy and girl
rushed in to make known the details of
the day's programme.

'' The T-cart will be round in half an
hour, sir," said Maeva, addressing the
Prince. '' We ought to start sharp to time,
as we have an eight miles' drive, after
which a ride of quite four miles on shooting
ponies to the Glen Garva Pass. I always
think the morning is the best time for
sport. Can you be ready, sir ? "

The Prince looked at his young interlocutor
with an amused but admiring smile.

'* Ready ? Of course I am ready now, as
I see you are too. What a charming kit
you have got on ! Just the right thing."

It must be, as it's mother's choosing,"
answered the girl simply, raising her eyes
to the Prince's face. As she did so she
caught a glimpse of Lord Wrathness, who
was standing in an alcove of one of the
bay windows observing her intently. There
was a peculiar expression in his eyes
which made her look again, and without
knowing why, the hot blood rushed to
Maeva's cheeks as she did so. For one
moment the young man's eyes met hers,
then the girl turned away with a peculiar
feeling at her heart.

The Prince had never uttered a truer
word. Maeva's stalking kit was charming.

A short-kilted skirt of dark tartan, reaching
a few inches below the knee, stockings
to match, a pair of strong heavily nailed
brogues with silver buckles, and a neat
fisherman's jersey of elastic silk and wool
material interwoven together, which fitted
her supple and graceful figure, undeformed
by the hideous invention known as stays,
was Maeva's attire. Flushed with her
morning's exercise and the ruddy glow
of health upon her cheeks, the girl looked
extremely striking ; and there was more
than one admiring glance cast in her
direction by the men of the party.

And so you are to be my guide
to-day, are you ? " continued the Prince
jokingly. " Lord Ettrick tells me there
is no better stalker anywhere, and that

you know every cranny and nook of
Ettric Forest by heart."

'rand she ought to, sir," put in that
nobleman with a laugh. '' Angus and
Maeva have roamed it since they could
walk almost. Both children stalked and
shot their first stag along the steep
descent which girts the Garva Pass.
When you are ready, sir, to start, she
is ; you have only got to give the word.
Wrathness," continued the marquis, addressing
the young man who had now turned
his back on the assembled party, and was
dreamily gazing out of the window at
a blue line of distant hills that showed
picturesquely above a fringe of dark fir
trees outside, 'what do you propose doing?
Will you grouse shoot or stalk ? "

Lord Wrathness wishes to stalk, Lord
Ettrick," exclaimed Ronald, who was
standing close by. ''I told Macpherson to
be ready to accompany him. He is to
drive to the Falls of Doun, and thence
proceed on foot into the Gleena Forest,
where he should have rare sport."

Then I think it is settled pretty well
what we are all to do," continued the
marquis. '' There will be luncheon on
the moor as well as here for such of
the ladies who wish to join us, unless
there are any who wish to shoot or accompany
the shooters. Remember, this
is Liberty Hall, and every one does as he
or she pleases here."

'' How I wish I could go with the
shooters ! " whispered Miss Chambertown

to Maeva. '' What a happy girl you are,
to be sure ! Oh, why are not all mothers
like yours I wonder ? "

"Won't yours let you go?" said Maeva,
opening her eyes wide. *' But why?"

*' Oh, she says it isn't a woman's place.
That it would not be proper or right, or
rubbish to that effect," answered the girl
impatiently. *' My life is a perfect misery.
I hate the cramped existence I lead, and
always have. In the schoolroom it was one
long tussle with my governess against the
prude and the proper, and now I'm out it is
simply unbearable. I often feel as if I
should like to run away, disguise as a
man, and try and show by my future
life that a woman can get on as well as
any man. There is only one other outlet

from my present hateful position, and that
is marriage. In some respects a woman
becomes freer, but in others a greater
slave than before, by marriage. However,
what can one do but that?"

** I am so sorry for you," began Maeva,
when she was interrupted by the Prince,
who had risen from the table, and exclaimed
laughingly,

*' In five minutes sharp I shall be ready,
Lady Maeva. If we don't start sharp to
time it won't be my fault."

"All right, sir, everything is in waiting.
There will be no delay," answered Maeva.
Then she turned to Miss Chambertown
again.

'' I shall ask mother to try and arrange
that you go with the shooters. I think

she will manage it. Mrs. Chambertown
won't like to refuse her." And with a
merry twinkle in her eyes Maeva moved
towards Lady Ettrick.

'* Mother, do me a favour," she whispered,
as the latter laid her hand caressingly
on her daughter's curly head. " Please
persuade Mrs. Chambertown to let her
daughter go with the shooters. Will you
promise me this, mother ? It will make me
so happy. Poor girl, she is dying to go."

'all right, darling, I'll make it right,"
answered Lady Ettrick, with a smile; 'rand
now off with you, and mind you show the
Prince good sport."

"Won't I just," laughed Maeva happily,
as she ran gaily out of the room.

Half-a-dozen carriages were drawn up

at and around the front door, immediately
facing the steps being the T-cart for
Maeva and the Prince. The girl at once
took the reins from the groom, while
Ronald superintended the installation of
the rifles and luncheon in the trap. Close
by a Gillie boy was standing holding in
leash a handsome rough-coated shepherd
dog.

*' Loose him, Patrie," said Maeva,
motioning to the lad to let the dog go.
'' Come on, Gelert, old boy ; there'll be
work for you to-day, perhaps," she continued,
as the liberated dog bounded to
the carriage side and began springing
around it, overjoyed at seeing his mistress.

*' So I have kept you waiting, after all,"
exclaimed the Prince, as he came hurrying

down the steps ; but I don't think
Vm a moment late, am I ? "

Oh no, sir ! it's I who am a moment
too soon, I expect," answered Maeva,
with a mischievous smile. '' But all the
same, it's high time we were off."

And the instant the Prince had taken
his seat the merry girl flicked the horses
lightly with her whip, and the next
moment the carriage was bowling along
the broad carriage drive which swept
down from Ettrick Castle, through as
noble a park as can be seen anywhere,
with Gelert bounding in front of the
horses full of doggish joy and delight.

Suddenly, however, Maeva reined up the
horses, and looking back called to Ronald.
He was quickly beside the carriage.

** Oh, Ronald dear ! " she exclaimed,
"as Lord Wrathness is going to the
Gleena Forest, do ask him to bring me
one of those ferns that cling along the
western face. They only grow there, you
know, and I want a good specimen to
send as a pattern for a painting. Don't
forget, dear."

*' Right you are, Maeva," laughed the
boy ; "I'll give your message rigidly exact.
Now be off, and good luck."

Away dashed the carriage and horses
again as young Angus moved back towards
the castle, and as the boy ascended the
steps he heard Lord Ettrick laughingly
exclaim, 'hallo, Wrathness, what's up''

Looking in the direction of the person
addressed, Ronald perceived that he was

VOL. I. 8

Standing motionless, with folded arms,
watching the retreating carriage. At
Lord Ettrick's words he started, and
passed his hand across his eyes.

Nothing, Ettrick, nothing. I was in the
land of dreams, that's all," he answered
hastily, but with a look so distressed that
Ronald hastened to change the subject.

*' I have a message to you, Lord
Wrathness, from Maeva," he said briskly.
And having delivered it, he added, " That
is your trap ; everything is in it that you
will require, and Macpherson awaits your
orders. I do hope you will have a good
day. Gleena Forest has many a noble
stag in it."

Thank you, Lord Angus," answered
the young earl gently, " I will not fail todo

Lady Maeva's commission;" but as he
uttered the last words Ronald noticed that
his voice shook, and that his face was
very white.

Are you ill ? , Is there anything the
matters*" he inquired anxiously.

*' Nothing, nothing, my boy," hastily
rejoined the other, as he walked towards
the waiting trap. In another moment he
had jumped into it, and was gone.

*' I wonder what's up with Lord Wrathness,"
Ronald observed to Lord Ettrick
as the two entered the great hall of the
castle together. " How white he looked,
and how his voice shook."

** Oh, Wrathness is a funny chap,"
answered the marquis lightly; 'perhaps
he is in love ! "

"In love?" echoed the boy inquiringly.
'' I wonder what love is ? "

You'll find out some day, my lad, never
fear," answered Lord Ettrick, as he patted
Ronald's shoulder, and looked down admiringly
at the beautiful face of the boy.
*' But it is high time we grouse shooters
were off, Ronald. Do your best to get
them all together while I go and speak
to the mother;" saying which, the speaker
strode away towards Lady Ettrick' s
private sitting-room or sanctum.

T T OW describe the glories of the
famous Glen Garva Forest, upon
which Maeva Down and her royal companion
sought the sport of kings on the
day in question ? Hard it is to do so.
One must have roamed its carries and
mountains, clambered its crags, dived into
its valleys, crested its peaks, before one
could drink in the reality of its beauty,
and take to heart any feeble human
description of a scene so visibly wrought
by the hand of God.

I will not attempt to do so, but rather

accompany their steps as, followed at a
respectful distance by two Gillies leading
ponies, Maeva and the Prince wended
their way through the gloomy defile, known
as the Glen Garva Pass. At the girl's
heels, shadowing every step she took,
stalked Gelert, wise as Solomon, and perfectly
aware of what was going to happen
that day.

'ewe shall assuredly sight deer, sir, ina
few minutes," whispered Maeva, as she
pointed to a rising hillock of rough rock
and loose stones ahead of them. '' I will
just creep up yon face and have a spy, if
your Royal Highness will wait a second,"
and suiting her action to her words, the
girl sprung lightly forward, having previously,
by a single motion of her uplifted

hand, caused Gelert to crouch down flat
on the ground.

Rapidly, but with extreme caution, the
girl-stalker crept up the rough hillock's
side, and on reaching the summit peered
furtively over. A sudden crouching movement
on her part apprised the Prince that
deer were in sight ; and as Maeva took
careful stock of their position, number, and
quality her companion loaded his rifle and
prepared for action. As he did so she
slipped back from her elevated position
and rejoined him.

'' There are four beauties, hardly a mile
away, sir," she exclaimed eagerly ; '' but
they are in a bad position, being on the
face of a steep hill-side. We shall have
to make quite a four-mile detour to get

the wind right, and obtain anything like
cover for the stalk. This way, sir. We
must make haste."

As she spoke Maeva plunged hastily
down the course of a dry mountain torrent
bed which led between two high hillocks,
and sloped gradually in the direction of a
snug little valley far down the side of the
mountain on which they were standing.

As she made her way lightly and rapidly
over the rough ground beneath her feet,
the Prince, who followed close behind,
could not but admire the grace, agility,
and natural ease with which her lithe and
active figure sped along. Apparently, it
knew not what fatigue meant, and was
thoroughly at home on these Scottish
hills.

I begin to believe Lady Ettrick is
right," he muttered to himself '' That
is a child of Nature in good earnest. No
hard and fast rules from Dame Propriety
have meddled there. The girl is a thorough
and living example of her mother's doctrine
about the necessary freedom to women.
Bless my soul ! what a pace she goes ! "

This last remark was not out of reason,
for Maeva was getting rapidly over her
ground, and never paused to take breath
for one moment. She seemed bent on
gaining the valley below them with as
little delay as possible, and apparently was
pursuing a direction sheltered as much as
possible from the wind, which was blowing
straight towards the objects of the stalk.

When, however, at length the valley was

reached, Maeva halted, and turned to the
Prince. Her cheeks were flushed with
the exercise, her bright glossy curls clustered
upon the forehead, ofl' which she had
pushed the stalking cap that had up till
then confined them, and her rosy lips were
parted with an eager smile. She was a
picture indeed.

Business begins here now, sir," she
again whispered. " We must steal along
this valley as still as death, creep up
yonder rocky face at its end, and then
strike across a rough gorge that leads from
it ; we shall thus get behind the deer, and
you will have only about a hundred paces
to creep on your hands and knees. Please
follow this way, sir."

And again she sped forward as rapidly

as before, this time along the valley itself.
Fifteen minutes' sharp walking brought them
to the foot of the rocky face which the
girl had pointed out. Up this they crept
very noiselessly, and on gaining the summit
found a rough gorge leading straight along
as she had described. Following this for
about five hundred paces, Maeva pulled up,
at the same time whispering, " They're
not two hundred yards away, sir, now ;
but I would just advise you to take five
minutes' wind before trying to get a sight
of them. We have had some rough
walking, and I fear I've come over
quick. But I was terribly afraid they
would feed too far into the open to be
reached if we loitered at all."

'' I am not a bit blown, Lady Maeva,"

answered her companion, perhaps slightly-nettled
by the remark, which seemed, he
thought, to imply that he was winded.
Let us get to work at once."

*' This way, sir, then," exclaimed the girl
eagerly, as she went down on her hands
and knees, and with lowered head began
to creep cautiously round the side of a
somewhat bare hill, behind which the halt
had been made. Proceeding thus for about
fifty paces, she suddenly sunk flat against
the ground with a warning 'whist, sir."

With the alertness of a connoisseur in
the noble art they were engaged upon, the
Prince sank as rapidly earthwards, and lay
motionless, while Maeva, stiffening her neck
and raising her head rigidly, peered furtively
over the low rock, behind which

she had thrown herself. The next moment
she had lowered it again, and signed to
her companion to creep to her side.

They are just below us, sir," she
whispered, when he had done so. '* Not
seventy feet away ; three fine beasts. One
is feeding head to wind, one is broadside
on, the other, head this way. Take the
broadside one, sir, and if your Royal
Highness can get a fair second shot, take
the beast nearest us next. Now, sir."

Raising himself as cautiously as possible
on to one knee, the Prince brought his rifle
to his shoulder, and resting it on the
rock behind which he was concealed, took
careful aim at the broadside stag.
Whir  r  r  r, ping  g  g, the shot's
echo re-echoed far and wide. Maeva

was on her knees just in time to seethe
stag spring forward, splutter on to
his head, and turn over on his side motionless.
At the same moment his companions
sprang to attention ; the next instant they
were bounding away down the steep crag
side of the mountain's face. But even
as they did so, another shot rung forth,
and the hindermost beast came down
with a crash, rolling over and over with
the violence of his fall until an intervening
bush interposed to arrest the animal's
further progress. He stirred no more,
for he, too, was stone dead.

*' Bravo, bravo ! " cried Maeva, as she
sprung to her feet, and waved her cap
around her head. " Those were two
splendid shots. I've never seen better

before. Just as I like to see them done.
Oh, you are a trump "

But the next minute she had checked
herself, and flushed crimson to the roots
of her hair, as she recollected who she
was addressing. A troubled look overspread
her flushed face, and a pleading
one shone in the beautiful grey eyes.
I beg your pardon, sir, a thousand
times," she exclaimed. " Please forgive
me. I quite forgot, indeed I did. I was
so excited, I thought I was talking to
Ronald, and, and "

'' And you took me for him. Lady
Maeva," laughed the Prince, who was
highly amused. " Well, I am greatly
flattered. I have nothing to forgive, and
I am delighted you believe me to be a

trump. So you think those were two
good shots, eh ? Personally, I call them
rather lucky ones."

'' I never saw better, sir," answered
the girl, gravely ; " and I do not think
they were flukes, but the result of first-rate
shooting. That is how I like to see
a stalk end. I can't stand the sight of a
wounded stag. It's horrible ! "

The two had scrambled down to where
the first beast lay  a magnificent one it was,
with a grand head, and, undoubtedly, an
exceedingly weighty animal. So, too, Maeva
pronounced the second one to be when they
moved on to examine it. Better success
could not have been wished for.

'' Will you have lunch now, sir ? "
inquired the girl, as the pony and

Gillies hove in sight. " If so, the men
can load up and take the deer home,
and after refreshments we will have
another try if you wish."

'' A very good plan," answered the
Prince. 'i'm game for lunch ; and with
such a stalker as you, Lady Maeva,
for any amount of rough work afterwards.
Lord Ettrick spoke truly when
he promised me a skilful guide last
night."

There is many a better than I, sir,"
answered Maeva, with a laugh. " I
happen to know the forest well, that is
all ; but here is the pony. Let's get to
lunch, and work again afterwards."

And a merry lunch they had, too, the
Prince and his girl guide, whom he

VOL. I. 9

found amusing, witty, and entertaining.
And while they ate and chatted, the
Gillies worked with a will, so that the
pony was completely loaded up by the
time lunch had ended.

Having despatched it homewards, with
instructions to the Gillies to send up two
more ponies and their Gillies to the Glen
Garva Pass, there to await her, Maeva
and the Prince set forth in quest of further
sport. Success attended them throughout
the afternoon, three more fine beasts
falling to the Prince's rifle. The day
was far spent when they regained the pass,
where they found ponies and men in
waiting. These were despatched to bring
home the deer, while the Prince and
his companion made their way down the

mountain side to the little hamlet where
the T-cart stood awaiting them. Elated
and highly pleased with the day's sport,
they were quickly bowling homewards.

On reaching Ettrick Caste, they found
that all the sportsmen had returned with
the exception of Lord Wrathness. They
were naturally greeted with inquiries as
to the sport they had had, and both
Maeva and the Prince launched forth into
an animated description of the day's doings.
The former was never tired of telling
Ronald how beautifully the Prince had
shot, his skill having quite won the girl's
heart, and placed him on a very high
pedestal in her opinion. Having indulged
a little later on in a warm bath and
change of clothes, Maeva sought Ronald

in Lady Ettrick's sanctum, where the boy
was 'pitching into his tea " as he called it.

*' Have you heard, dear," she inquired,
"what sort of sport Lord Wrathness had
to-day in the Gleena Forest ? I hope it
was good, eh ? "

'lord Wrathness, Maeva ! Why, I have
not seen him since he started this morning ;
and that reminds me that I had better
find out if he has returned," answered
Ronald, as he leaned towards the bell and
rang it.

A tall footman answered the summons.

See, Henry, if Lord Wrathness has
returned yet, and let me know," said the
boy addressing the servant, who replied
laconically, "Yes, my lord," and vanished.

In a few minutes he was back again, and

there was a peculiar expression in his face,
which made Ronald look anxiously at him.

Macpherson is back, my lord, but his
lordship has not returned. Macpherson
says as how his lordship sent him home
after getting two stags, and told him he
should walk back to the castle. They
parted in the Dead Man's Valley, and
Macpherson says his lordship said something
about seeking some ferns. He thinks
it strange his lordship hasn't come back,
as it's nigh five hours since he left him ;
but perhaps your lordship might wish to
see Macpherson ? "

'' Tell him to come here at once, Henry,"
broke in Maeva in a startled tone. " Good
Heavens ! Ronald, I do trust no harm
has come to him. I never dreamt they

would get anywhere near the Dead Man s
Valley. There are those steep chasm rocks
there on which that fern grows which I
asked you to ask him to get for me. But
I meant him to get it from the western
face of Gleena Forest, and never imagined
they would get anywhere near that horrid
Dead Man's Valley."

A knock at the door, and Macpherson
entered.

'what can have come to Lord Wrathness,

Macpherson?" inquired Ronald,

Henry tells me it is five hours since

you left his lordship."

And maybe it'll be mair na that the

noo, my lord," answered the stalker gravely.

I'm thinking it's just verra strange his

lordship is no return."

*' I think so, too," exclaimed Maeva.
*' We must see Lord Ettrick immediately,
Macpherson," she added, as she opened
the door. Please send word to the stables
to bring round the dog-cart at once with
the grey mare, and be ready to go with
it. I shall drive to the Gleena Forest."

With that she was gone in search of
her father.

Lord Ettrick, Maeva found in the billiard
room. He and the Prince were smoking
cigarettes, and trying their luck at a game

'' Father ! " she exclaimed, " Lord Wrathness
has not turned up. Macpherson left
him over five hours ago in the Dead Man's
Valley. I'm terribly afraid he has tried
to get me those ferns I asked him to
bring from those awful chasm rocks. If

SO, assuredly there must have been an
accident. I have ordered the dog-cart
round, and will drive with Macpherson
and two other Gillies to see if I can find
him. God only grant it is not as I apprehend
; but I have a firm conviction it is
so."

** You are surely not going yourself, Lady
Maeva?" inquired the Prince. "I hardly
think Wrathness has come to any harm ;
but in any case we will go. Why should
you :

'' Because, sir, no one knows the Gleena
Forest so well as I do, unless it be Macpherson,
and I doubt if even he does. I must go ;
indeed I must, father," added the girl, with
a pleading look. " I could not rest with the
thought on my mind that the poor fellow

had come to grief executing a stupid commission
given thoughtlessly by me."

'' Never fret, dear, you shall go. I would
trust my lassie anywhere," answered the
marquis. " Personally, I do not think
Wrathness has come to any harm ; he may
have lost his way, that's all. However, do
you go on with Macpherson, and take Neil,
Cameron, and Archie Doun with you, and if
you are not back in an hour, I will follow
with Ronald and some other men."

Thank you, father ; tell mother," was
all Maeva replied, as she hurried away to
slip on a pair of strong boots and a stalking
cap. Meeting Ronald in the hall, she told
him what Lord Ettrick had said. "All
right, darling," answered the boy, " I'll be
soon after you if you don't speedily turnup

with Lord Wrathness. There's the dogcart
round, and Macpherson following with
two men carrying a sight o' rope between
them. Let's see which they are. Why, just
the two you want, Neil and Archie. I bet
you find him in a trivet."

I hope so, Ronald," answered the girl
gravely ; '* I shall do my best. Do you
drive, Frank, and, Macpherson, you and I
will get up in front, Neil and Archie behind.
That will make the weight right. And,
now, let's be off. Drive fast, Frank. Oh !
by-the-bye, are there any lanterns in ? "

*' Yes, my teddy," answered Archie, ** I
put them in myself, four of them."

** All right, then ; go on, Frank. Follow
on, Ronald, won't you, if we are not back
soon ? "

Of course we shall, Maeva," answered
her cousin warmly, as the dog-cart started
off at a rapid pace. He stood watching it
as it went bowling along in the evening
light.

God bless my dear old Maeva," he
said to himself. " What a brick she is !
I shall never find another like her as long
as I live."

A HAND was laid on his shoulder ashe
finished speaking. He looked
up. It was Lady Ettrick.

Moralising all to yourself, my boy ? "
she inquired, with a cheery smile. ** Where
is Maeva?"

Ronald explained what had happened, and
for a moment Lady Ettrick was a little
anxious, but she quickly got over the feeling.

*just what I should have done," she
muttered ; '' I cannot blame her."

The news quickly spread, and, although
the dressing-bell had rung, no one went upto

change. Dinner was announced, and
every one went into the dining-room little
inclined to eat. An hour had nearly passed
since Maeva's departure, and there was no
sign of her return. Lord Ettrick nodded
to Ronald, who rose, went and spoke to
Lady Ettrick, and hurried from the room.
In a few minutes the marquis also got up.

I am very sorry, sir," he said, addressing
the Prince, " but I must go and aid in this
search. My girl has not returned. There
must be something up. Lorna, you will see
to every one, will you not ? " he continued,
addressing his wife.

*' Of course," she answered, while the
Prince exclaimed, " I shall come with you,
Ettrick ; really, it Looks serious. I begin to
fear Lady Maeva was right."

At this juncture Ronald looked in. '* The
brake will be round in a minute, Lord
Ettrick," he said, "and Donald Fraser and
Stuart are all ready. They know the
Gleena the best after Neil and Archie,
who have gone with Maeva."

I'm coming, lad," answered the marquis
hurriedly, as he approached the door, followed
by the Prince. Both men ran upstairs
to get their boots on, and were soon
at the front door, round which all the guests
had clustered. The brake was waiting, and
the search party quickly took their seats,
driving off amidst fervent wishes for their
success.

Long ere this Maeva and her companions
had reached the Gleena Forest, the dogcart
putting up at a watcher's cottage

They had proceeded at once to the spot
where Macpherson had parted with Lord
Wrathness, each armed with a lantern, for'
although the moon was shining brightly,
fitful clouds from time to time hid it from
view. They stood together in the Dead
Man's Valley, a long narrow gorge, fringed
on either side by ghastly-looking rocks and
precipices. Loud and long the men shouted,
but no answer came back save a mocking
echo.

'* Macpherson," said Maeva, in a decided
voice, 'sit is no manner of use our being all
together. We must spread out and examine
these ledges all along. If anybody hears
or sees anything, let the signal be three
sharp whistle calls."

'' Verra weel, my teddy," answered the

old Stalker; "and which way will your
ladyship be taking ? "

'* Over the Devil's Pass" replied the
girl, unheeding the earnest signs of expostulation
to which all three men gave vent
on hearing her decision.

'' Then, maybe, your ladyship will
allow me to go, too," exclaimed Archie
Doun. '' The Devil's Pass is no a place
to venture on alone such a night as this.
I beg you, my teddy, to let me come."

*' All right ; come on, Archie," answered
the girl just a shade impatiently. 'rouse
standing here all night."

She hurried forward as she spoke. Her
heart was throbbing with a strange excitement.
It was horrible to picture to herself
the mangled form of the young man, whose

earnest gaze, full of longing and sadness,
had so curiously impressed her that morning.
Was he dead, and was it through her fault ?

Over and over again she kept asking
herself this question as she sped swiftly
along, the faithful Archie close behind her.

They were not long in reaching the
Devil's Pass, a narrow ledge of rock,
running along the side of a precipitous face,
beneath which dashed a mountain torrent,
and along which Maeva knew full well
the ferns she had asked for grew, and grew
only in that part. Could it be that the
young earl had spied them there, endeavoured
to reach them, and slipping, had fallen
down the steep and forbidding face ? It
was a terrible idea, but it had impressed
itself on the girl's mind.

VOL. I. 10

'now, Archie," she said in a low, quick,
and imperative voice, *' tie that coil of rope
round my waist, plant yourself against this
rock, and pay it out as I move along ;
but keep it taut, you know. Now do as
I bid you, Archie, without delay."

There was a wistful look in the young
fellow's eyes. He longed to propose himself
for the dangerous passage which his
young mistress was about to undertake,
but there was that in her voice which
told him it would be hopeless. Maeva
meant going herself. It was not the first
time she had trod the Devil's Pass, but
never before had she attempted it at nighttime
; and now that the clouds were playing
hide and seek with the moon, the venture
was none of the safest. But Maeva had

a heart of steel, a nerve of iron, a determined
will. She would not be easily
defeated.

Flit, flit went the moon, as she stepped
on to the narrow ledge. She bared the
light of her lantern, and cast it ahead of
her. It made the gloom of the deep
abyss below more dense and opaque.
Very cautiously the girl put one foot in
front of the other, turning her back on the
precipice, and clutching the jagged rough
rocks of the steep face as she moved
along. Several times she stopped and
called out the name of Lord Wrathness, but
no sound came back save the rushing of
the mountain torrent. Suddenly, however,
she paused and listened. Was it fancy, or
was it reality ? Maeva decidedly thought

she heard a sigh or a groan beneath where
she was standing. She had compassed
some fifty feet of her perilous position, and
reached a spot beneath which, on a jutting
ledge, she knew that the species of
fern which she had commissioned the
young earl to procure her, grew. She
strained her ears to catch the slightest
sound which might arise amidst the mountain
torrent's roar. Yes, there It was
again ! The same strange sigh or groan.

** Lord Wrathness, are you there, are you
there?" she called down In a clear but
anxious voice, and then she listened  oh,
so intently !  for a reply.

No voice answered her, but she heard,
unmistakably this time, a deep groan, and
then a choking sound. It was a human

sound, too. Maeva needed no more proof
of this. She felt certain, too, that Lord
Wrathness was there.

'* Thank God, he is alive !" she exclaimed,
the tears rushing to her eyes. " He is
on the Devil's ledge. God help me ; help
me to save him."

Well might she utter that earnest prayer,
for Maeva knew that to reach the Devil's
ledge entailed danger and difficulty untold.
But she never hesitated, never flinched
for one single moment. It never entered
her head to fear for herself. Her only
fear was for the poor young fellow
stretched on that ledge maimed and helpless,
perhaps dying. She raised her whistle,
and blew three sharp clear notes upon it.
She heard Archie give a cheer as he responded

in like fashion. Far away up
the Dead Man's Valley answering whistles
resounded. Then the girl seized the taut
rope that Archie held so steadily, and
balancing herself with it, retraced her
steps to where the Gillie stood.

** Archie, I've found him," she cried.
** He did not speak, but I heard him as
clear as can be. He is on the devil's
ledge."

"My! that's terrible. How will we get
at him, my teddy ?''

'* How get at him, Archie ? Only one
way. You must lower me over this face,
and when Macpherson comes, he and Neil
can lower you after me. We must creep
along the crags that skirt the torrent till
we get beneath the ledge. Then I'll scale

the rock and take the rope with me.
There's a stout mountain ash grows upon
it. I can make the rope fast to it, and
lower the poor young fellow to you, and
then come down the rope myself. By
that time Lord Ettrick and the others
will be here. Tell Macpherson he is to
go and watch for them at the entrance
to the Dead Man's Valley, and tell Neil
to keep watch here. Now. Archie, hold
tight ; I'm going."

While speaking Maeva had made the
rope tight round herself and under her
arms, fastening the knot on her breast, and
at the words, '' Hold tight ; I'm going''
had gone down on her knees, and was preparing
to slip over the precipitous side.
Without a word Archie seized the rope and

held it firmly, paying it out deftly but
carefully.

Down, down, down, gradually went the
slight girl's form. Her hands were well
employed keeping herself off the sharp
rocks. At length she touched terra firma,
and at the same moment the moon shone
out brilliantly. She could hear voices above,
and knew that Neil and Macpherson had
arrived. Quickly undoing the rope she
shouted up to Archie to come on. She
saw it pulled up quickly, and in a few
minutes beheld him descending.

That's it, Archie," she said quietly, as
the Gillie touched the rocks on which she
was standing, '' Now, man, shout to them
to throw down the other end, and let's be
moving. Every moment is precious."

The man obeyed. Down came the rope
which Maeva seized, and quickly coiling it
up, passed her head through the ring thus
formed. In another second both were
scrambling over the disjointed crags and
peaked rocks that hemmed in the torrent's
course, making for the spot beneath the
Devils Ledge.

Ten minutes, and they had reached it.
The moon still shone brightly, and revealed
to view the steep, gaunt face up which the
girl purposed to climb. It had all the
appearance of inaccessibility.

But Maeva was not daunted. She had
not roamed the forests of her mother and
father with her playmate Ronald in vain.
Many a crag had the two scaled together
in their happy rambles, and no defter or

more active mountaineers existed all the
hillside round than the boy and girl.

She scrutinised it closely, and with the
eye of a connoisseur, picking out the places
which she thought the most likely to afford
a footing, though in the moonlight she
was well aware that every shadow played
deception's part. Then, as Archie looked
ruefully at the forbidding face, she spoke.

'* I shall take that right line, if possible,
Archie ; and do you stand here and try
and hear what 1 say from the ledge when I
get there. It's rather out of hearing with
this noisy water behind." The next moment
she had placed her foot on a narrow projection,
and the ascent began. Breathlessly
the faithful Gillie stood watching his young
mistress. Archie would have died for

Maeva any day. One of her father's own
clan, the lad had been bred up on the
threshold of the castle, and had been the
ever-faithful attendant in their shooting
expeditions and otherwise of Ronald and
Maeva. He loved the two children withall
the fidelity of a faithful nature, but in
his affections the daughter of his chief
held uppermost sway. And now, as he
watched the girl's perilous ascent, he determined
that if she slipped and fell, he
would break that fall, come what might,
even at the expense of his own life.

Such a sacrifice, though it would have
been willingly given, was not demanded by
the course of events from the devoted servant.
Step by step, slowly but surely, the
lithe young child of Nature reduced the

distance between herself and the ledge,
until at length her left hand was reached
up to grasp it. A great sob burst from the
young man as he felt that she was safe.

And Maeva, drawing herself up on to
that ledge, scanned its surface eagerly.
Beneath the shadow of a mountain ash that
grew thereon she made out a dark-looking
lump, and creeping quickly towards it, she
knew at once that her surmises had been
all correct. It was the doubled-up figure
of a man. There was no need to identify
it. She knew it was Lord Wrathness.

Very quickly she passed her hand across
his face. He was lying on his back, his
eyes wide open, fixed and staring. One
arm lay stretched out beside him, and the
hand thereof clenched a bunch of ferns, the

Other was doubled beneath him, as were
also his legs.

The face felt cold and rigid. She bent
down and laid her ear against his heart,
stifling her own breathing to ascertain if
she could detect a sound. There was
undoubtedly a slight movement, but it was
very, very faint. Far beneath where she
lay she could hear the sound of voices.
She crept to the edge of the ledge and
peered over. Yes, Ronald, and Lord
Ettrick, and Neil and Donald were there.
They had just arrived.

'* Father. Ronald," she shouted, " he is
up here ; he is not dead. Here, catch the
rope, Ronald, and come up. I'll make it
fast to the ash." It took her very little
time to carry her words into action, and

in a few minutes Ronald was by her side,
quickly followed by Archie and Neil. The
former had a flask slung over his shoulder,
which he at once passed to Maeva, and
she, kneeling down beside the young
earl's prostrate form, poured a few drops
down his throat of the mixture of whisky
and water which it contained. Next she
took a mouthful thereof herself, and blew it
quickly back into the unconscious man's face.
The effect was electrical, for he moved
his head, and gave a gurgling, choking
sigh, just the same as Maeva had heard
from the Devil's Pass. Then the light
of life appeared to return to the hitherto
staring eyes, and the soft, dreamy expression
peculiar to them came back. He turned
them on Maeva, recognising her at once.

*' Lady Maeva," he whispered, " where
am I ? How did you get here ? " And
he strove to rise, but fell back with a
low stifled cry of pain.

** Keep still, Lord Wrathness," said
the girl gently. " I fear you are terribly
hurt ; but, thank God, we have found
you. We shall have to let you down
from this, and get you up to the valley.
We will do it as gently as possible ;
but I dread the pain you will be
put to."

**Ah! never mind that," he answered,
with a quiet smile, '* I'll be a good patient,
you will see ; but a very helpless one," he
added, '' for my left arm and one of my
legs are broken, and I think my spine is
a good deal knocked about*"

It was terribly rough work moving the
poor fellow, who evidently suffered acute
torture, to judge by his white, contracted
features. Maeva made the cord fast round
his loins, and bringing the rope up to the
chest secured it under the armpits. In
this fashion they lowered him as gently
as possible to where Lord Ettrick was
standing, then with another cord they all
descended one after the other.

God bless my own lassie," was all
Lord Ettrick said, as Maeva reached the
ground ; but the girl heard her father's
voice tremble, and she knew that her
action that night was approved by him.
Then Neil and Donald, who were the two
strongest present, raised the poor mangled
sufferer and bore him as tenderly as circumstances

would permit to the base of the
Devil's Pass, where Macpherson, Fraser,
and the Prince were awaiting them above.
Here the dread ordeal of hoisting had to
be gone through, during which the poor
sufferer fainted once more from sheer pain.
When every one had been drawn up,
Donald and Neil again raised their burden,
and the whole party hurried along the valley
and down the mountain face to where the
brake and dog-cart stood awaiting them.
A mattress was procured from the watcher's
cottage, placed in the brake, and Lord
Wrathness, still unconscious, laid upon it.
Rapidly the carriage then made for Ettrick
Castle. There was little speaking on the
way home, events having cast a gloom over
every one. But in this all were agreed that

VOL. 1. II

if the young earl's life was saved that night,
it had been accomplished by the pluck, skill,
and cool determination of Maeva Doun.

As the carriage swept up the drive to the
front door, this latter was thrown open, and
Lady Ettrick came out on to the steps.
*' Have you found him ? " she called out
in an anxious, eager tone.

** Ay, ay, Lorna ; he is here, poor chap,
alive, but terribly mangled," answered Lord
Ettrick. '* The credit of finding him is
Maeva's. She risked her life twice over
to get to him. Ah, Lorna! the child's her
mother over again."

As he spoke, Donald, Eraser, Neil, and
Archie ascended the steps, bearing the
mattress on which Lord Wrathness lay
stretched;

This way," said Lady Ettrick, decisively.
Then turning to Ronald, she
exclaimed,

'' My boy, send for Dr. Stuart at once,
and bring him up to my room when he
comes."

Saying which, she led the way upstairs
followed by the Gillies with their burden
and Maeva. The girl perceived that in
Wrathness's hand were still clutched the
ferns, to obtain which he had narrowly
risked losing his life.

C IX weeks had passed away since the
events narrated in the last chapter.
The party at Ettrick Castle had long
since broken up, and Ronald, too, had
returned on board the Britannia to complete
his last term of instruction before
proceeding to sea. One only of that
party remained under Lord Ettrick's
hospitable roof, and that one was Lord
Wrathness, still a prisoner to his couch,
and likely so to be for some considerable
time to come.

Very carefully and attentively had he
been nursed and waited on by Lady

Ettrick and Maeva, this latter proving his
constant companion and comforter through
the many hours of discomfort and pain,
that he had been obliged to endure, but
throughout which he had displayed a
patience and pluck that had won the
admiration and respect of all who had
come in contact with him during that
period.

It was the middle of September, and a
hot glorious day too, that, stretched on
his couch by the open window of his
cheery sitting-room, Lord Wrathness gazed
out upon the beautiful scene at his feet.
He was alone, and held in his hand an
open letter, at which he glanced anxiously
from time to time.

Fool that I was ! " he exclaimed in a

suppressed voice. '' Oh, to undo the work
of that mad hour! What would I not
give ? All my wealth ? Ay, all of it ; for
of what use is this wealth to me, now ? "

There was a bitter smile on the lips
of the young earl as he uttered these list
words, and the expression in his eyes
was unutterably sad. For about the
twentieth time that morning, since his
servant had brought him in the letter
already referred to, he turned his attention
again to the contents thereof.

A light step sounded along the corridor
outside, and a low tap followed. The young
man crushed the letter in his hand, and
turned his head joyfully towards the door.

*' May I come in ? " inquired the cheery
voice of Maeva from the other side.

Come in, come in," answered Lord
Wrathness. There was a happy ring in
his voice ; the sad expression had flown
like magic from his face.

'look here, Lord Wrathness, see what
I've been getting you. Are they not
beauties ? " And Maeva displayed to the
young man's view a basket full of large,
luscious, ripe blackberries.

'' How kind, how awfully kind. Lady
Maeva," he exclaimed, stretching out his
hands to receive the basket. '' But what
a trouble you must have been to, to get
them. Did you not tell me yesterday the
place where they grew was ten miles off?"

'rand what is twenty miles' drive on a
day like this, with a ripping horse, to one
who loves driving a good animal ? "

answered the girl with a laugh. 'rit was a
pleasure, no sacrifice whatever. Now I
am going to ring for some powdered
sugar, and we will have a feast together.
Oh, by-the-bye, I hope you got your
letter. There was only one for you, and I
gave it to your man to bring you. I got
one from dear old Ronald myself,  a
long chatty epistle. I hope yours was as
pleasant as mine ? "

She was rattling on, with her back
turned to him. He was glad of this, or
she would have noticed the wince he gave
at her last words. He had none ready
for a reply. The servant put an end to
his dilemma by opening the door.

'did your ladyship ring?" he inquired.


Yes, James, bring two dessert plates,
spoons, and forks, and some white
powdered sugar for these blackberries,
please," answered Maeva, without turning
round ; then, as the door closed, she
added, " I had such an adventure today."


What sort of adventure ? " inquired
her companion.

'* Well, it was this. Tony was holding
Firefly in the shade, and I was wandering
about picking blackberries as hard as
ever I could, when I suddenly came upon
a smartly dressed lady sitting under a
big tree, tying together a bunch of ferns.
She was not at all the sort of person one
would expect to find in these parts, and
dressed in such a way, too ; so I forgot

myself, I am afraid, and stood still looking
at her. She was a very handsome woman,
but I did not like her expression at all.
Attracted, no doubt, by my bad manners,
she rose and approached me, remarking
that it was a lovely day, and inquiring if
I was picking blackberries for a tart. I
laughed, and replied no, but for a sick
friend, and then she startled me by
laconically asking, ' Who ? ' "

And what did you reply ? " asked
Lord Wrathness in a low voice, He
was very pale, and his right hand clutched
the letter tighter than ever.

** I am ashamed to say I answered
rudely," replied Maeva gravely. ' I thought
at the time her question cheeky, so I said,
'What's that to you? '"

'* Quite right," muttered the young earl
to himself, but he only said aloud, *' And
what did she retort ? "

*you have it," laughed Maeva, "that
is just what she did do. " She retorted
angrily, that it was everything to her.
Suddenly, however, she checked herself,
and with a smile, which I thought catlike
in expression,  I mean sly,  she
said it was only a joke, and then asked
me how far away Ettrick Castle was.

"'I have just come from there,' I
replied ; ' it is ten miles off.'

'* ' I am a stranger to these parts,' she
observed, 'and am merely passing through
the locality ; but I have heard much of the
beauties of Ettrick Castle, and would
ready like to see it. Tell me, young

lady, is there any chance that the noble
owner would let me go over it ? '

'' I answered that perhaps she might
obtain the desired order to view by
calling at the castle and asking for permission
; but that, personally, I had nothing
to do with it.

' I shall call this afternoon,' she exclaimed.


I told her that I feared she would
find no one at home, as Lord Ettrick
was away, and that I and my mother
would be out.

"'So you are Lady Maeva Doun?' she
inquired, with a peculiar look. ' I have
heard of you, young lady, before. I am
sorry you will not be at the house. No
one, in fact, but the patient, eh ? '

She spoke in a bantering tone. I
thought her very impudent. So I said
good-morning and moved on, but who
do you think she was, Lord Wrathness ? "
and Maeva turned her eyes towards him.

She started. He was deathly white
now, and drops of perspiration stood on
his forehead.

"Oh! what is the matter?" she cried.
'' You are ill ; you are suffering. I have
been jabbering away and never noticed
it. What a thoughtless creature I am ! "

She bent over him and wiped the drops
of perspiration from his forehead, and laid
her cool soft hand upon it. She thought
that a paroxysm of pain had seized him,
and little dreamt that mental torture alone
was at the bottom of his sufferings.

'rit is nothing, dear, kind little friend,"
he murmured, looking at her with a
yearning expression, " a mere passing
faintness. Lying up like this takes all
one's strength away ; but I am all right
again, and longing for a blackberry
squash," he added with a smile.

'' I hear James coming," said Maevius
the footman's approaching steps sounded
outside. " But are you sure you are all
right ? "

Yes, indeed I am, Lady Maeva, and
all I want is the blackberry squash," he
again repeated, with a forced smile ; but as
she turned towards James, who had
entered with the sugar and plates, he
passed his hand across his forehead, and
a weary, haggard look came into his dark

dreamy eyes. With a shudder he shook
himself as Maeva's voice again sounded.

'' Thank you, James," she was saying ;
'' no, nothing more, thank you. That will
do nicely. By-the-bye," she added, as
the servant was about to leave the room,
"at what time is the carriage ordered ?"

At half-past twelve, my lady."

*' Oh, all right, James. Let me see; it
is eleven now, so we have plenty of time.
Lord Wrathness, for the squash and a
good chat afterwards*'

She was busy with the blackberries and
the white crystal sugar, smashing the
former and mixing both together. The
young man lay back and watched her
through his half-closed eyes. He was
thinking that life with such a being as

the girl before him, ought to make a
man the happiest creature in existence,
for out to her his heart had gone past
recall ; and Lord Wrathness loved the
child with all the passionate fervour of
his romantic and tender nature. The
conquest had been one of a moment. He
loved her the first day he had set eyes
on her six weeks before ; he had loved
her when he had risked his life on the
Devil's Pass to obtain the fern she had
asked for ; but he loved her more than
ever now after six weeks of constant
companionship, in which he had learnt to
know and appreciate the bright, intellectual,
independent spirit that showed itself
so conspicuously in every moment of her
daily life.

*was his love returned?" often he
found himself asking that question of his
heart. But no; it was impossible. The girl
was yet a child, a mere child, and as
such must be fancy free. 'rand better
so, far better so," he would murmur to
himself; though often he would add, almost
in a frenzy of passion, " and yet, oh
God ! what joy to be loved by her, if

only, only " and here he would break off

and go no further, as if afraid of the
words to come.

Did Maeva love the young earl ?
That was a question the girl could not
have answered herself. She liked him ;
she had for him a sincere feeling of
friendship. She took pleasure in his companionship,
and delighted in their daily

VOL. I. 12

chats together. But all this she had felt
for Ronald, " her boy lover," as he used
playfully to term himself. There was just
that difference, that one was a boy, her
companion and equal, the other, with years
between them, was a man.

Maeva knew this much, that when Lord
Wrathness left Ettrick Castle she should
miss him beyond words to describe ; and
she often found herself looking forward to
that time with apprehension and pain.

"See here, is a lovely squash; now
gorge away. Does it not look deliciously"
she exclaimed, laughingly, as she turned
from the table at which she had been
preparing the dish, and handed it to her
companion.

He took it from her with a smile.

Since childhood blackberries had been a
favourite fruit with him, but he never
remembered finding a dish so palatable
as this one. Maeva brought her own,
and sat down at the foot of his couch,
noting with satisfaction his evident relish.
'' I am so glad you like them," she
exclaimed. "It was a happy thought of
mine, a waking one."

He flushed with pleasure. Then he was in
her thoughts sometimes, but he only said 
"A very kind thought of yours. Lady
Maeva."

Again she laughed. Maeva's laugh was

a singularly sweet one. It thrilled the

young man. It raised his spirits. It drove

the trouble that was on his mind away.

She sat on, at the foot of his couch.

chatting merrily, and discussing plans
formed for the future. As soon as Ronald
got his ship, Lord and Lady Ettrick had
promised to take her on a voyage round
the world, and a cheery and congenial
party had been invited to share in the
delights of the cruise, Lord Wrathness
being one of it. The window near which
they sat opened out on to the terrace,
that crowned a sweep of steep ramparts
overhanging a noble gorge, through which
sparkled and played a lovely mountain
torrent, its angry waters, as they tossed
along, sounding throughout the glen distinctly
clear. Several thick rhododendron
bushes were clumped on either side of
the window, while roses hung clustering
from their trellis-work above, revelling in

the bright sun that shone down upon
their dying glories.

There was a rustle and a movement
in one of those thick bushes, a rustle and
movement which no wind could have
occasioned, for the air outside was as still
as death. Not a breath stirred. Both
passed unnoticed by the girl and the
young man. They were too much engrossed
in their joyous talk to heed any
sound, until the sudden clang of the
great castle tower clock announced the
hour of twelve.

'' Oh, bother ! " exclaimed Maeva.
There goes twelve. I must be off to
change. The carriage will be round in
half an hour. But I will look in before
we start."

She was up and gone, with a bright
smile, and a merry au revoir to her
friend. He sighed deeply after she had
left the room, and the weary, sad look
returned.

Another rustle, ever so slight, agitated
the rhododendron. He heard it, and sat
up to listen ; but only the swirl of the
torrent below broke upon his ear.

'' Mere fancy ! " he muttered to himself
** I am getting nervous, I think ; but I
could have sworn I heard some one outside.
However, I am a cripple and cannot see."

He leant wearily back and closed his
eyes, remaining thus until the well-known
welcome step sounded along the passage
once more, and the door opened, admitting
not only Maeva but Lady Ettrick.

The latter at once took his hand in
hers, and inquired gently how he felt.

'' Oh ! first rate, Lady Ettrick," he
replied. " Lady Maeva and I have been
spending a delightful morning. We have
been mostly discussing the coming voyage."

And now, Lord Wrathness, it is your
siesta hour," put in Maeva. '' Remember
to sleep well for quite an hour. I have
told the servants and your man on no
account to disturb you ; and so when
you wake will you ring for your chicken
broth and partridge that I have ordered
for your lunch ? "

'' Ever thoughtful and kind," he answered
in a low voice. " Yes, Lady Maeva, I
think I can sleep if you will kindly draw
down the blinds before you go."

She did so, and then mother and
daughter withdrew, wishing him a good
rest, the latter promising to look in upon
him on their return, " which will be about
half past three," she observed.

The door closed, and he lay back
again with shut eyes. He felt restless,
and more inclined to think than to sleep,
but he recollected Maeva's injunction, and
made an effort to obey it. Suddenly he
started up, and listened intently.

That rustling again ! " he exclaimed.
This time there can be no mistake, I
heard it distinctly. I will ring and tell
Howard to have a look round."

He reached out his hand to the bell.
As he did so, the blind of the central
window was drawn aside, a low, mocking

laugh sounded in his ears, a laugh which
he had not heard for the first time,
which he knew to his cost too well. He
raised his eyes, his arm dropped to his
side, a look of horror overspread his
face, his lips parted, but they uttered no
sound.

With her back to the window, through
which she had just entered, stood a tall,
dark, handsome woman. She was looking
straight at him, a scornful smile on her
lips, malice gleaming in her large, dark
revengeful eyes, her arms folded calmly
on her breast.

'* This is a surprise, I suppose," she
said, in measured tones, " though my
letter must have partly prepared you.
So you thought you were rid of me,

did you ? Behold your mistake ! You
thought me dead, did you ? I am
alive. Ay, Harold, alive ! You rejoiced
too soon, my man. And I will live, too,
though I hate life, live to be revenged
on you. You shall never marry yon

minx whom I watched you talking "

Stay, woman ! Curse you, hold your
vile tongue ! " shouted the young earl, his
face livid with passion, as he sprung
up with clenched fist. He had forgotten.
His limbs refused their office,
and, staggering forward, he fell at her
feet.

TTOR several minutes, numbed and
nearly helpless, he lay there where
he had fallen, she looking down on him
with the same scornful, forbidding smile.
Suddenly, however, she bent over him,
and put her hands under his shoulders
as though to raise him up. Her touch
brought him to himself in a moment,
and with an exclamation of disgust, he
bade her loose him.

Hands off, woman ! do not touch me.
Hands off, I say ! "

She loosed him at once with a bitter
laugh, while he, raising himself on his

sound arm, dragged himself painfully
towards his couch, on to which he
struggled by a convulsive effort, his face
white with pain, while large drops of
perspiration burst out upon his forehead
Turning himself on his back, he raised
himself into a sitting posture and confronted
her.

What have you come here for ? What
new devilry are you hatching that you
torture me with your presence ? " he said
slowly.

Again she laughed. Oh, how he
hated that laugh ! How he had hoped
he should never hear it again !

** My presence is a torture to you is
it, Harold ? I am glad, indeed. You
wish to know why I have come ? I

will tell you." Here she paused, and a
malicious gleam shone in her dark eyes. " I
have come to acquaint you with the birth
of a son and heir to your noble house.
How shall we name his little lordship ? "

He stared at her. Every word she
uttered burnt into his brain. Was the
woman a fiend in human shape ?

'' It is a lie," he gasped, ''a foul, concocted
lie, an impossible event ! How dare
you come here with such a trumped-up
fabrication ? "

Easy, easy, my lord," she replied, moving
towards him. " The child is a living event.
It was born six weeks ago ; and who so
naturally should bring the news to you as
its own mother? Do you presume to say
you disown it,  you, its own father's"

** It Is a lie, woman ! " he exclaimed
passionately. " God forbid that I should
be Its father. Ay, though you are Lady
Wrathness, I do disown It, and will resist
your wicked attempt to foist your bastard
child upon me. As I live, I will proclaim
you the fallen woman that you are to the
world. I will divorce you."

"You will, will your's" she answered
contemptuously. She was close beside
him now, and bending towards him with
triumph written In her face. *' And shall
I proclaim to the world what you are, my
lord ? There is, you know, a little creek
on the MiramlchI, and in that little creek
there Is a cave, and In the cave there
is a "

*'Ah! he was white as a sheet now.

He flung out his hand, and pressed it over
her Hps.

Hush-h-h-h ! " he whispered. *' God !
who told you of that ? "

'' That is my affair," she answered coolly ;
'rand if you wish it to be hush, as you
say, you will perhaps fall in a bit more
with my wishes. Face the fact, Lord
Wrathness. Your wife lives, and is possessed
of your secret."

"God help me!" he groaned, as he
looked up into her cold, pitiless face. " Let
it be so then. Tell me what you want."

I want money," she answered. " How
can I live without it? Do you suppose
that I mean to roam penniless over the
earth ? And I want the child acknowledged.
He is Lord Borrodaile, and I mean him

to have his rights. Now, Harold, if you
will give me money, and acknowledge
him, your secret is safe ; but if you refuse
this I will proclaim it. Nothing you can
do to me will hurt me, but I think you
know what I can do to you."

Yes, he knew it full well, and he lay
back with a wan, agonised expression, his
right hand pressed to his burning forehead,
his lips pale and bloodless. What could
he do ?

*' I will give you money, any sum you
like to name within my power, to keep
away, and hold your tongue. I will provide
for the child, but do not ask me to acknowledge
it. I cannot do that. I cannot
own a bastard as ny child

'' I have stated my terms," she replied

coldly ; and as she spoke the rumbling of
carriage wheels sounded along the drive
below. She moved to the window and
looked out. '' There is a T-cart
coming up to the castle," she continued.
It no doubt contains your host, Lord
Ettrick. As I have no wish to make his
acquaintance I will leave you ; but remember,
Harold, my terms. You have my address.
I give you six days to decide. If by then
you do not agree, you know the consequence."

He was looking at her, a strange light
in his beautiful eyes, that had all the
appearance of defiance. But she looked
at him no more With her last words
she had lifted the blind in front of the
window, and had passed out. Lady Wrathness
was gone.

VOL. L 13

The great tower clock was chiming the
hour of four when Maeva's voice sounded
along the passage outside. She knocked
at the door. There was no answer.

"He must be asleep Howard," she
observed to the valet who had followed
her. " I can't get any reply."

'' I have been four times here, my lady,
and knocked ; but as his lordship did not
answer, I feared to disturb him by going
in.

'' But, Howard, Lord Wrathness must
have his lunch ; he has slept long enough.
Will you please go and fetch it, and I
will go in and draw up the blinds."

*' Very well, my lady," answered the
man, as he turned and went back along
the passage to do the girl's bidding.

Once more Maeva knocked and listened,
but there was no answering sound returned.
She opened the door and looked in. The
heavy blinds drawn down had plunged
the room in darkness. She crossed it
silently, and drew them up one after the
other, then she turned towards the couch.

She started and rubbed her eyes. The
sofa was empty ; there was no one in
the room ! " Lord Wrathness," she called,
in a clear, ringing voice, as she stepped
through the open window on to the
terrace outside, " where are you ? Don't
go hiding like that. You ought not to
have left your couch. Do come back."

Ripple, ripple went the torrent below.
There was no other answering sound ; save
the swirl of the rushing waters all was

silence. A chill foreboding of evil rushed
to the girl's heart. She passed back into
the room and rung the bell sharply. In
another minute quick steps were heard,
and Howard entered with the soup and
lunch. He stared at the empty sofa.

Howard, Lord Wrathness is not here.
Can anything have happened, do you
think ? " she exclaimed in quick, anxious
tones. " Where can he be ? "

Surely, my lady, his lordship has not
been trying to walk out on the terrace by
himself," answered the valet, as he set the
tray down and moved across to the
window.

'' Oh no, Howard ! he is not there. I
have been and looked. Howard, I feel
certain something dreadful has happened,

or his lordship would be here. Go quick
and call Lord and Lady Ettrick. Ask them
to come here at once."

As the servant hurried out she sat down
on the couch, and looked at the pillow ina
dazed manner. Something was pinned
to it. She rubbed her eyes, and looked
again. It was a slip of paper.

She seized it eagerly, and scanned it
attentively. There were a few lines in
Lord Wrathness's own handwriting. They
ran as follows : 

'' What will you think of me, my best
and kindest of lite friends ? Something
has happened since you and Lady Ettrick
left, which has forced me to leave this
place at once. I am powerless to explain
the reason to either you or my kind host

and hostess. Oh, Lady Maeva ! if you
knew what it has cost me to leave thus,
you would pity me. God help me ! I maybe
a long, long while away. We may
not meet for years. I do not ask you to
remember me, but, Lady Maeva, I shall
never forget my kind, dear, good-hearted
little friend. May God bless you for all
your goodness to me.

Your unworthy, but devoted friend,

Wrathness."

She clutched the paper in her hand, and
sat very still, staring in front of her.
Throb, throb went her heart, and her
cheeks were flushed and burning. Oh !
never till now did that mere child, that
girl hardly on the threshold of womanhood,
know or guess how dear to her was the

man who had left so suddenly, so unexpectedly.
 It never entered Maeva's heart
or brain to doubt him, to think aught evil
of this second companion of her young,
young life. She only knew now that she
loved him, loved him so dearly, that to
help him, to soothe him in this hour of
dark trouble that had undoubtedly come
upon him, she would willingly have given
her life.

More steps along the corridor. Maeva
heard them, and pulled herself together.
The next moment Howard had thrown
open the door, and stood respectfully
handle in hand as Lord and Lady Ettrick
hurried in.

'' It is all right, mother dear," said the
girl, as with an effort she steadied her

voice, and strove to speak in an unconcerned
tone. I have found a note from
Lord Wrathness explaining everything.
Howard," she continued, addressing the
valet, "you are to pack and follow his
lordship quickly to town with all his things.
If you look sharp, you can catch the six
o'clock south. Order the dog-cart to take
you, and be as quick as you can."

The servant bowed and left the room,
whereupon Maeva at once handed Lord
Wrathness's note to her mother.

'* I think I did well to give that order,
dear mother," she said. "No use for the
man to remain here, is there ? It is a very
mysterious disappearance, don't you think,
father ? " she continued, turning to Lord
Ettrick.

'' Extremely so," answered the marquis ;
'' but Wrathness was always a rum chap.
I only hope he won't come to harm. He
was quite unfit to travel. However, it
cannot be helped. He's off, and I suppose
I shall hear from him soon, explaining his
extraordinary departure."

Lady Ettrick said nothing. She could
read between the lines of the note, and
she could read also what her child was
suffering. She knew well, however, that
words would bring no comfort in this
instance, and that the girl must be left
to herself for the present. Very gently she
laid her right hand on Maeva's golden
head, while handing her back the note
with the other.

' My darling," she whispered, '' it is a

very sudden and unexpected departure, but
I have no doubt we shall hear from him
in a day or two, and the mystery will be
cleared up. Poor wee lassie, you will miss
your friend, but you must cheer up ; and
remember Ronald is coming for a few days
next week."

'' Dear mother," answered the girl, '' do not
mind about me ; I shall be all right." Saying
which, Maeva hurried out of the room.
She felt that deception was no longer possible,
and that she must be alone.

She passed out of the great hall door,
and ran down the steps. Right and left of
the carriage-drive two little narrow avenues
led away  one towards the burn and
woods nesting beneath the battlements, the
other towards the stables. Following this

latter path, she soon reached these buildings,
where she met the stud groom.

*' Did Lord Wrathness ride or drive, when
he went out a Httle while ago, Gordon ? "
she inquired, in a matter-of-fact, unconcerned
tone.

Deed and, my lady, he rode, and that's
a fact," exclaimed Gordon, excitedly. " I
could believe my eyes when I saw his
hardship a-staggering along yon very path,
supporting himsel' on his stick, and looking
so white and scared that I was altogether
put about. And ' Gordon,' said he, * saddle
me that brown mare I gave Lady Maeva ;
I want to ride her to the station. And send
a man to fetch her home.' I told his lard-ship
he never could ride, and his legs and
pair arm in such a state ; but he would

have it, and so I got F'irefiy out, and
saddled her, and sent James with his
hardship to bring her back. An' here they
come, my lady, sure enough, James and the
mare."

One glance was sufficient for the girl to
perceive that the mare's saddle was empty.
She turned away, and left the voluble groom
to himself. Out across the grand old park
she hurried, away towards a clump of dark
pine wood skirting the winding drive, where
she and Ronald had often played together,
building huts thereon, and camping out
beside the cheery blaze of their cone-bedecked
fire. Entering the pine wood,
she made her way to one of these huts,
and, creeping therein, threw herself face
downwards on the soft dead moss with

which the floor of the interior was thickly
lined. Then the pent-up feelings of her
o'ercharged heart gave way, and she burst
into a passionate flood of tears.

He is gone," she moaned ; "gone, and I
cannot stop him. Oh, God ! I little dreamed
what he was to me. I never guessed how
I loved him ; I never knew what to lose
him would be."

There she lay among the dark, thick moss
that child with the large grey eyes, high
forehead, and golden hair  that girl whose
face had burnt itself indelibly into the young
earl's heart and memory, so that he could
never, as he had said, forget her.

But she did not know that he loved her 
she had not that comfort to assuage her
grief. He had called her 'this little friend,"

that was all ; and Maeva could not guess the
truth. Alone in that hut she lay sobbing
her young heart out, sobbing fit to break
it. It was the first great sorrow of her
young life  all the harder and most bitter
to bear, inasmuch as it had come so suddenly
and unexpectedly. Gradually, however,
the slim, slight frame shook less, the
sobs became more subdued, and Maeva's
bright, shiny, curly head lay still. A rustling
outside the hut, and a trampling of
leaves, awoke her from the reverie into
which she had fallen. She started up and
listened. The next moment a cold nose
was laid against her hot, burning cheek,
and she felt Dhu's rough coat brushing up
against her.

*' Dear old Dhu ! " she cried, throwing her

arms around the shaggy retriever's neck ; " so
you have found out your poor Httle mistress
and come to comfort her, have you ? Oh,
Dhu ! I am so miserable. I never thought
I could feel like this ; and Dhu, dear, it is
all the harder, as I must hide it from everyone
 even from the dear, dear mother. This
reminds me, Dhu, she must have sent you
to look for me. We must be going home.
Come on, good dog."

It had frequently been Lady Ettrick's
custom to send the intelligent retriever in
search of Ronald and Maeva when they
tarried too long in their play, and forgot
the lesson-hour ; and the children always
knew well what the appearance of the great
black dog meant when, in obedience to his
mistress's orders, " Go, seek the children,

Dhu," he would track them out and come
bounding to meet them.

Maeva had picked herself up from off
the ground of the hut, and, with her hand
on the great dog's head, had set out for
the castle. She made her way along the
drive as rapidly as possible, and, on reaching
home, slipped up to her bedroom
unperceived. It was a pleasant room, and
the bay-window thereof looked out on to a
distant view of glorious hill and dale, purple
heather, and forest crag. In this window
stood Maeva's own private little writing-table.
The moment she entered, her eye
caught sight of a note lying thereon.

With a low cry of surprise and joy she
sprang forward and seized it. It was addressed
to her, and in Lord Wrathness's

handwriting. In another moment she had
opened it.

*' My dear little friend," it began, " I
feel I must send you something more
than the hurried Ones I wrote on leaving
the castle this afternoon. I will send this
by James, who will bring back Firstly
safe and sound I hope, to you. As I
told you in that note, something has
happened which necessitates my instant
departure from this country. I have telegraphed
to have my yacht ready, and shall
leave in a couple of days. It would be
neither right nor fair that I should burden
you with an explanation of the circumstances
that make this imperative. I
have no right to do so, nor could I doit
even if I had But I will say this
VOL. L 14

much, in order to explain in a manner
my hasty and apparently discourteous
departure, that after you left me I received
a visitor, who brought news which rendered
it necessary that I should leave at once.
My dear little friend, will you believe me
that I did so with a heart heavier than
it has ever been before ? I would give
anything to see you and say good-bye,
but it is best not. When we shall meet
again 1 know not, God only knows ; but
I ask you this one favour,  grant it, I
entreat of you,  and that is, if you hear
aught ill of your poor friend, do not
believe it. And now good-bye, my best
and dearest friend. For all your kindness
to me in my illness I thank you deeply.
Believe me, every act of forethought on

your part is engraved on my heart, never
to be forgotten. God bless you ! I dare
not write more.

** Your ever true friend,

'' Wrathness."

She pressed the letter to her lips, as
she stood looking out of the bay window
on to the blue hills far away, the blue
hills of that Gleena Forest where Lord
Wrathness had risked his life to gratify
a trivial wish of her own thoughtlessly
expressed, the blue hills of that same
forest where she had, in turn, risked her
life to save his, the blue hills of the old
Gleena Forest, where, all unconsciously, the
first love of her life had taken root in
her heart.

** Believe ill of him," she whispered
softly to herself, with the letter still
pressed to her lips. " Great God, I would
die a thousand painful deaths rather than
do so. My darling, you do not know
that I love you  oh ! more, far more,
than life."

The sound of the gong trilled loudly
through the castle. It announced the tea
hour, a meal she never missed. The girl
knew that self-restraint was necessary, and
that she must pull herself together, and
assume a gaiety she did not feel. It was
the child's first act of deceit in a hitherto
open and frank-hearted life ; but Maeva
had stepped across a threshold that day
which divides childhood from womanhood ;
and though perhaps a year or two too

soon, there was no going back. As she
left the room with her heart steeled to
hide what she suffered, Maeva felt that
her childhood's days were o'er.

"V T O. 6, Furnival Square, Lincoln's Inn
Fields, was the abode of Messrs.
Fleecemm, Catchem, & Co. It was a well-known
abode to many and various of the
world's victims. Here, young bloods, who
had lost their all on a race which they
had been quite sure they must assuredly
win, would seek what they thought was a
pick-me-up for the time being. Here, too,
would come the scheming and the calculating
mother-in-law, who desired to find
out all about Lord So-and-so this, or Mr.
So-and-so that's prospects and fortune.
Men who had raised money in every

direction, and who had well nigh come to
the end of their tether, would seek, as a
last resource, the friendly counsel of Messrs.
Fleecemm, Catchem, & Co. They were
such a jolly pair of lawyers, you know, and
the Co. was just as charming and delightful.
No nonsense about them, and so hospitable
and kind ! There was always plenty of
champagne, and cherry brandy, and kummel
and brandies, and whiskies, and sodas, and
anything you liked to ask for, you know ;
and both Fleecemm and Catchem were such
real good fellows, pressing it on you, you
know. So thought the young bloods and
the men almost at the end of their tether ;
but there came a time when they were
inclined to alter their minds, you know.
It was on the evening of the 17th of

September, that Mr. Fleecemm sat alone in
his office beside a cosy and blazing fire. It
happened that Mr. Catchem was en vacance,
and Mr. Fleecemm reigned alone with Coat
No. 6, Furnival Square. Mr. Fleecemm
was not an old man. Oh no ! he was far
from that. On the contrary, he looked a
very young man  younger than he really
was by far. He wore a moustache, but
otherwise his face was clean shaven, his
hair was carefully parted in the middle, he
was faultlessly dressed, and he was seldom
seen without a cigarette in his mouth. On
the occasion referred to, Mr. Fleecemm was
apparently plunged in a reverie. He sat in
his armchair, with his legs stretched out,
his feet against the bright brass fender,
his elbows resting on the chair's arms, his

hands joined, his eyes fixed on the fire.
His teeth clenched a cigarette, but it was out.

Everything in the room betokened luxury
and ease. On a sideboard, decked with
silver salvers, stood many and numerous
cut-glass decanters, in which sparkled many
and various wines and spirits. Above them
hung, encircled in its pink flower-bedecked
shade, a handsome lamp, the only other
light in the room besides the fire being a
small reading lamp, which stood on a low
velvet table at Mr. Fleecemm's elbow.

He was in a reverie, but his quick ear
discerned a low, muffled tap at the door.
He drew up his legs, unfolded his hands,
sat up in his chair, and placed himself en
attention in a moment. Mr. Fleecemm
was all there.

Tap, tap, once more. Mr. Fleecemm's
face was all smiles as he called out in his
softest voice, '' Come in."

The door opened. A tall woman stole
noiselessly in, closed it sofdy and came
over to where the lawyer was sitting. He
rose, bowed, and motioned her to a low
sofa at right angles to the fire.

So you have come at last, my lady,"
he observed in a quiet tone. " I expected
you quite an hour since."

*' I could not get away any sooner,
Fleecemm," she replied in a low voice. " I
have been busy, very busy. Since I saw
you four days ago I have been to Scotland,
and I have seen him."

Seen him, seen him, by Jove ! that's
sharp work," exclaimed the lawyer, in a

voice of genuine surprise. ' Sharp work,
indeed. Well, and how did you succeed ? "

Perfect," she replied, in a cool, matter-of-fact
voice. " I confronted his lordship.
He kicked at first, tried to defy me. Ha,
ha ! I soon brought him to his senses. I
made one little remark, you know what.
He was as meek as a lamb after that,
offered me any money, but didn't want
to acknowledge the child. I said that my

terms must be accepted, or " and the

woman laughed dryly.

** Well, did he accept them ? " asked Mr.
Fleecemm, just a shade impatiently.

'' Do you take me for a fool, Fleecemm ? "
she burst out. '' Was I going to press him
into a corner with Lord Ettrick not a
stone's throw off, and my lady and her

vixen daughter expected back every minute ?
No, no. I know my lord's temper too well.
I gave him my ultimatum, and made off as
silently and mysteriously as I had come,
after giving him six days in which to makeup
his mind. I have no fear for the reply.
In six days I guarantee our game is won."

*' Don't count your chickens before they're
hatched, my lady," retorted the lawyer,
rising from his chair, and standing with his
back to the fire. " You have no proof
positive that he will acquiesce and knuckle
under to you. Suppose the wild blood of
his father and that dare-devil mother of
his asserts itself, and he defies you, even
though it ruin him, what then ? "

'* Fleecemm, you are dull to-night," answered
his companion slowly, '' or you

don't know all I do. Well, let me explain.
Harold loves the large-eyed daughter of his
host. He lies in Ettrick Castle a hopeless
cripple. He cannot move therefrom. Is
it likely he will allow the secret he has
nursed so carefully to be laid bare before
them ? You don't know him as I do if
you think that. Oh no ! no fear ; our bird
is safe. The money will be ours, the child
acknowledged, and then, and then, the rest
is easy.

'well, I'm blowed ; you are a cool
one, my lady," he exclaimed, with a smile;
'cool as a cucumber. I wonder what
iceberg you were born on. It strikes me
your natal place was the North Pole."

He walked, as he spoke, towards the
sideboard. A decanter of liqueur brandy

was what his hand first sought thereon.
He took hold of it, and turned to Lady
Wrathness, for it was her.

'' Your pet brand," he said, with a smile.
*' Have a drop, eh ? "

'eyes, give me some," she exclaimed
eagerly. '' I think I deserve a good drink.
Don't water it, Fleecemm ; give it to me
neat."

Well I never," he rejoined with a
coarse laugh; 'you're a dare-devil, too.
Who ever heard of a woman drinking
neat brandy ? "

'' You," she retorted, rising, and moving
towards him, 'you, I'll be bound. I
don't suppose there's a thing you are not
acquainted with, a sin in which you are
not mixed up. No use playing the virtuous

here. We know each other too
well."

She had laid her hand on the decanter,
and was looking him full in the face.
Mr. Fleecemm was not a good man, but
he could not face the evil look of those
dark eyes.

"Come, come," he said, 'take your
drink, and stop talking nonsense."

She laughed, held up the decanter, and
looked through the clear liqueur with the
eye of a connoisseur. Then she poured
out a bumper into a soda-water glass, just
dashed it with seltzer, and took it off at
a draught. When she sat down there
was not a sign that she had drunk it
with an effort. She might have been
taking milk.

*' Now to business ! " she exclaimed, as
she walked back to the sofa by the fire.

"Will you, Fleecemm, draw up the paper
which I shall require him to sign, settling
; 1 5,000 a year upon me as his lawful
wife, and ;5,ooo a year allowance on
the child ? Word it in such a manner,
that his signature to the document will
practically acknowledge the infant as Lord
Borrodaile."

Very well, my lady " (Fleecemm always
addressed Lady Wrathness in this manner),
I will see to it. Call back here in
three or four days, and it shall be drawn
out spick and span for your fair fingers
to present to your lord and master."

My lord and master ? " The words
came in a hissing sound from the rich

dark lips of that handsome, scheming,
brutal woman. The fine pencilled eyebrows
were raised in surprise, a disdainful,
contemptuous smile curled round her
mouth. She looked at the lawyer again
with those bold dark eyes. " I would
as lief call him my king, Fleecemm,
as lord and master. He is nothing of
the sort. I finished with him long ago,
when he spurned me from him at
San Francisco, and told me that he
hated the sight of my face. I return his
hate tit-for-tat. I hate him, I hate him,
and I will be revenged."

The fire fumes of that brandy were
in her now, and quickly taking effect.
They had mounted to her brain, they
were coursing through her body like fiery

VOL. I. 15

spirits from the nether world. Her great
dark eyes looked fixedly in front of her ;
her utterance was that of one who had
lost all self-control, who had forgotten the
wisdom of holding one's tongue. Mr.
Fleecemm had not stirred from the sideboard.
He was still toying with the
brandy bottle, out of which he had
helped himself as soon as his visitor had
taken her fill. But though he stood
there, he took no more. Mr. Fleecemm
was fond of a nip now and again, but
he never took too much, and knew well
how to keep a steady head and clear
brain for his work. Mr. Fleecemm knew
exactly how much to take, and he also
knew how much to give others.

He was looking at the fine dark woman

at his fireside, and thinking that she had
had quite enough to be pleasant. He
was just hoping, too, that she would go,
now that she had brought him news
which probably meant thousands in his
pocket, and a rich future. But she did
not stir, did not offer to depart.

There was a peal at the bell of No. 6
front door.

The woman started.

Was that ? " she muttered.

A client, no doubt, my lady," answered
Mr. Fleecemm, walking quickly to
the fireside. '' May I ask you to step
into the next room till he is got rid
of?"

She stared at him ; she did not seem to
grasp what he was saying. There was a

glazed look about the large dark eyes.
He saw it was useless.

** Then please sit still and don't talk,"
he said impatiently. '' I'll put this screen
sideways, and whoever it is will not notice
you if you will only remain quiet."

She did not answer. She had taken too
strong a dose even for her, and was
speechless. Oh ! could Lord Wrathness
have seen her now, he would have loathed
still more than he did the woman who
had ruined his life.

There was a knock at the door.
'' Come in," responded Mr. Fleecemm.

A smart page boy opened it. ''A
gentleman, sir," he said briskly, coming
forward, and handing the lawyer a cardon
a silver salver.

'* Show him in," answered his master
curtly. He had moved away from the sideboard,
and as he did so he unconsciously
muttered with an accent of surprise, " Sir
Beaufort Plunger."

The boy retired. The next moment he
had ushered in a tall, good-looking man
of some twenty-five or twenty-six years,
dressed with faultless care.

For a moment the two men stood
eyeing one another, the lawyer with a
sharp, cunning look, hidden, to all but
those who knew him, under a suave
smile, the baronet with a frank, open
countenance, tinged perhaps with a
shade of anxiety, and a certain
amount of excitement in his handsome
features.

The man of business bowed. '* Sir
Beaufort Plunger ? " he inquired.

"Yes," replied the young man. "You
are Mr. Fleecemm, I presume ? I have been
recommended to come to you for advice
as to the raising immediately of a sum
of money. I want it before Monday
next. I lost it all this week. I must
have it by Monday. Can you get it
for me ? "

That depends, Sir Beaufort. Will you
tell me the amount ? " answered Mr
Fleecemm.

"Sixty-eight thousand," answered the
baronet.

Whew-w-w," thought Mr. Fleecemm to
himself; "he's going it. Just my man."
But he only answered, "Certainly, Sir

Beaufort, you shall have it by Monday.
If not indiscreet, may I ask what you lost
it on ? "

The Leger," answered his visitor
somewhat curtly. The anxious look had
died from his face. He was looking at
the sideboard.

'* Take anything ? " inquired Mr. Fleecemm
politely, waving his hand that way.
'* Champagne, liqueur brandy, or whisky
and soda ? They are all there."

Thank you, I'll have a whisky and
soda," replied Sir Beaufort. He walked
to the sideboard, poured out a claret
glass of whisky, emptied it into a soda-water
glass, and filled it up with soda.
Then he drank it.

'you young fool," thought Mr. Fleeces,

to himself, '' you may try that once too
often," but he pretended to be busy with
some papers.

'* And now. Sir Beaufort," he said
cheerily, " are you wanting to get to
business to-night, or shall we wait till
tomorrow? If to-night, I am at your
service."

I don't care," answered the young
baronet, " so long as you will promise me
the money by Monday. I must pay the
ring to the day. I have never failed
them yet. I don't care what I sacrifice.
One thing I shall do, and that is pay
up."

You need not fret about the money,
Sir Beaufort ; you shall have it. But of
course there are various little preliminaries

to be gone through. Of course you
know getting a large sum Hke that In a
hurry means a somewhat higher Interest
than If raised on an ordinary mortgage."

I am not a business man, Mr. Fleecemm ;
ril leave that to you. Get me the money,
and I'll give you plenty of security, and
pay you what percentage you like. My
own lawyer Is a noodle. I went to him,
and he said he could not get the mony
under a month, and my agent Implored
me not to mortgage my land any further.
I told him to go to the devil. Then
I met Spatterdash, and he gave me your
address, and told me you would do all I
wanted. By Jove ! he was right."

Mr. Fleecemm smiled. He noted down
In his memory the good turn Lord Scatter-cash

had done him. His lordship owed
Mr. Fleecemm i,ooo compound interest.
Mr. Fleecemm decided to let the interest
run on for a bit. He wouldn't press
Spatterdash just now.

'' The best thing I can do then, Sir
Beaufort, is this. To-morrow I will see
about the money. Then if you will
direct your agent to send me a plan
and particulars of your estate, I can
point out to you the amount ultimately
to be mortgaged for it ; meanwhile,
of course, you will not mind giving
two sureties until the mortgage is
effected. Can you name two ? " Mr.
Fleecemm had a most persuasive smile on
his countenance.

'' Yes," answered the baronet, " I know

two friends who will go surety for me,
old Eton and college chums ; Arthur de
Montmorency and Lord Wrathness."

There was a slight movement near the
fireside. Mr. Fleecemm looked anxiously
that way. He spoke quickly.

Very well, those names will do. I
shall take it they accept the position
of sureties unless I hear from you to the
contrary tomorrow. I think the business
is concluded, Sir Beaufort. I always like
to be smart over little jobs of this sort.
Those old family lawyers are too inclined
to go to sleep, eh ? "

*' They are," assented the young man.
I like things done as you do them.
Well, thank you very much. I shall hear

from you, I suppose ? and I'll tell my agent

to send you the plan and particulars you
want. Good-night, Mr. Fleecemm. Thanks
awfully."

Don't mention it, Sir Beaufort," answered
the lawyer. He had crossed to
the fireplace and rung the bell, and was
now holding out his hand to the baronet.
The page opened the door, the two men
shook hands, and then separated, the
man of business rubbing his hands, the
young baronet, glad at heart, wondering
why all lawyers were such noodles, and
vouching Fleecemm a real good sort.
Ah ! Sir Beaufort, you are young yet.
Wait a bit, poor Sir Beaufort !

Mr. Fleecemm returned to the fireside
when the door was shut. Lady Wrathness
was staring at the coals.

Shall I call a cab for you, my lady ? "
inquired Mr. Fleecemm.

Yes," she answered, without stirring.

He rung the bell again. The smart
page appeared. " George," said the lawyer,
call a cab ; then tell Mrs. Worthless to
come here. You need not wait any more
after that ; be off to bed. I shall not want
you any more to-night."

Very good, sir," answered the boy,
and he disappeared.

In a few minutes Mrs. Worthless, the
housekeeper, put in her head. " You
want me, sir?" she inquired.

"I do," answered Mr. Fleecemm. " Lady
Wrathness is not well. Help her to her
cab." He bent over the silent woman
and raised her to her feet. '' My lady,"

he whispered, " you are all wrong ; pull
yourself together and get home. Mrs.
Worthless will help you."

He signed to the housekeeper, who
advanced, put the wretched woman's arm
through hers, supported her out of the

room, down the passage, and into the
cab.

'' Drive to 13, James' Place," was all
she said. The next moment the cab was
rolling down the street.

I she following announcement was
contained in a fashionable London
daily on September isti of the year in
which we are at present engaged : " The
Firefly, 500-ton steam-yacht, the property
of the Earl of Wrathness, steamed
out of Dartmouth last night, with its
noble owner on board. The sudden departure
of this beautiful craft has excited
some surprise in the neighbourhood, it
having been understood that she had
taken up her final quarters there for the
winter*'

A good many eyes read that announcement

on the morning in question. There
were several hearts that It moved strangely,
only In a different fashion.

Maeva read It In London. She had
come up to town with her father and
mother the day before. Ronald had obtained
a week's holiday, ostensibly to pay
various visits to the dentist, for Lady
Ettrick took the greatest care of the
young earl's beautiful rows of teeth, and
these visits were of yearly occurrence.
She had judged that change of scene,
and a week with her boy friend, would
help to turn her child's thoughts from
dwelling too much on the loss she had
sustained ; for though Maeva played her
part well, the keen eye of her mother had
read and gauged her trouble, and her

heart was full-of sympathy for her thus
early-tried child.

Maeva and Ronald were both seated in
the beautiful front drawing-room of Lord
Ettrick's splendid town house in Cavendish
Square, waiting for their hacks to come
round, on which they were going to have
a long ride into the country. Ronald
looked very handsome in his Britannia
uniform, which he wore at Maeva's especial
request, while she, habited in a
short, well-cut riding skirt and jacket,
looked every inch the beautiful equestrian
that she was.

Ronald was busy knocking off a letter
to a fellow-cadet with whom he was great
pals, or he would assuredly have noticed
the flushed cheek of his girl companion

VOL. L 16

as she read and reread the announcement
referred to. She knew well that Lord
Wrathness was to sail from the country
the day before. Had he not told her as
much ? But the sight of the paragraph
in which it was announced brought back
a flood of recollection, and made his
memory almost a reality for the moment.

Other eyes, as already said, read that
announcement with mixed feelings. Mr.
Fleecemm read it as he sat in front of a
well-furnished breakfast table, and as he
read it he uttered a hideous oath. *' He's
dished her and us ! " he exclaimed to himself
savagely. *' I told her he would.
Did I not know his father and his
mother too ? No one ever got four to
one the better of that lady, and she

feared no one, nor man nor devil.
Wrathness has his mother's blood in him.
I knew it, I knew it ! Fancy ! a cripple
like that, away God knows where, on a
two days' notice. However, it won't do.
We must put that she-devil on his scent.
She hates him, and will track him anywhere.
I must go and see her at once,
before I start on Sir Beaufort's little job.
Here, George, call me a hansom."

Yes, sir," answered the page, who was
in a little pantry which communicated with
the kitchen just outside Mr. Fleecemm's
snuggery. Mr. Fleecemm liked his meals
hot and well served up, and kept his
kitchen close at hand.

The well-known whistle for a hansom
quickly resounded throughout Furnival

Square. The wheels of that vehicle were
soon distinguishable as it dashed up, and
became stationary opposite No. 6. In
another minute Mr. Fleecemm appeared.
The well-drilled page awaited him at the
door, holding in his hands a shiny and
beautifully manipulated hat, a pair of neat
gloves, a silver-headed cane, and a buttonhole.


These he handed to his master one by
one. George was a " smart un," and no
mistake. He ran down in front of the
lawyer, helped him into the hansom, and
quickly inquired, "Where to, sir .' "

"Thirteen, James' Place," promptly responded
Mr. Fleecemm. " Thirteen, James'
Place," echoed the lad to the driver, adding
on his own responsibility, " and look alive,

cabby ! The governor likes to be driven

fast."

*' All right, cheeky," answered that

personage with a wink, as he flourished

his long whip, curled it neatly under the

horse's girth, and dashed away at a smart

pace down one side of Furnival Square.
#  #  #

Let us precede the hansom as it journeys
on its way, and glance in at 13, James'
Place.

It was a small house, the residence of
Lady Wrathness, but a well-furnished and
comfortable one. The front door opened
into a tiny hall or vestibule, laid down
with Turkey carpet, and filled with
odoriferous flowers. Cosy chairs were
dotted about this miniature entrance hall,

from which an equally tiny dining-room
led away, the walls of which were star
bespangled, and covered with pictures of
well-known spots in the United States.
The drawing-room was upstairs, leading to
which was a staircase in keeping with the
house, and of the most diminutive size,
and this drawing-room fulfilled the double
office of reception-room and boudoir.

Lady Wrathness was seated at her
writing-table. She, too, had read the
announcement concerning the Firefly s
departure, and, like Fleecemm, had uttered
an oath on reading it. Fury was in
those great dark eyes of hers, the bloodred
lips were pressed tightly together. She
had all the appearance of one labouring
under suppressed passion.

"So he has dared me, scorned me, as
usual." she muttered, after reading the
announcement ; " but he shall learn that
I never threaten In vain. I will seek out
that minx upon whom he has fixed that
fanciful heart of his ; I will find out from
her where he has gone ; and if she refuses
to tell me, I will, / will tell her, the
secret which he has fled to hide from her.
Ah ! yes, to hide from her. I know that
well."

There was a sound of wheels in the
street; they stopped at No. 13, Lady
Wrathness rose from her seat and looked
out of the window.

It's Fleecemm," she exclaimed. " I
suppose he's seen it, too. Won't he be ina
rage ! '

Footsteps sounded on the tiny staircase.
In another moment the drawing-room door
opened, and Fleecemm entered unannounced.
He glanced curiously at the handsome
woman who turned to greet him. There
was not a trace about her features to point
to the previous night's dissipation, not a
sign that she felt its effects.

I suppose you've seen it," he said,
pointing to the newspaper lying on the
sofa where she had cast it. '' A pretty
mess you have made of the job, my lady.
Didn't I warn you last night that the man
had his mother's dare-devilry in him ? You
laughed at me. Who's right now, eh ? "

Not you, Fleecemm," she answered hotly.
'' You ought to know me better than to
think a slight mistake cannot be remedied

by me. Do you think he has baulked
me ? Ah, man ! you were never more
mistaken. It won't be long before I shall
be on him again."

'' And how are you going to find out
where he's gone to ? " inquired the lawyer
in a bantering tone.

Leave that to me, miy friend," she
answered, with a coarse laugh. "I've several
means of finding it out. I know what the
first one is that I mean to try ; and directly
I have found out what I want to know,
and settled on a plan of action, I'll call at
No. 6, and tell you all about it. Meanwhile,
cease your jeering and scoffing, or
the laugh may quickly be turned on you,
and then you'll look rather small, I guess.
Have a drink } "

This last remark was put In an abrupt
but more conciliatory tone, evidently with
a desire to change the conversation. A
wicker table stood handy to the sofa. It
was covered with all kinds of strong drinks.
There was evidence, by a nearly finished
glass, that Lady Wrathness had already
begun the morning with one.

'* Thanks ; just a weak nip, then, to show
there's no ill-feeling," answered Mr. Fleecemm
in the soft voice he knew so well how to
assume at times ; " but it inst be a weak
one. I've some ticklish business to get
through this morning, and must have all
my wits about me."

All right ; here's a drop of your brand.
Some of the old stuff," she answered,
holding up a bottle of cherry brandy for

him to look at before she filled up a sherry
glass with same. " There, I'll have a
snack, too, along with you, to show, as
you say, that there is no ill-feeling between
us."

She filled a second glass, and, holding
it up, nodded at him with a smile. " Good
health and good luck to you ! " she exclaimed
as she tossed it off. " Wish me the same,
Fleecemm."

He did so. Then he drank his glass
leisurely, then he set it down, and took
up his hat, gloves, and cane.

I must be off," he said ; " time waits
for no man. You'll get to business, my
lady, too, won't you, and let me know the
result ? I shall be anxious enough to
hear it, I can tell you."

'* I will do SO," she answered laconically,
as she followed him to the door of the
room. " Good-day, Fleecemm."

'' A good day to you, my lady," he

replied significantly, and they parted.
*****

*' A lady called this morning to see
your ladyship," said the butler to Maevius
she entered the front hall of the house
in Cavendish Square a few minutes before
the luncheon hour, fresh from a long ride
with Ronald.

Oh ! who was it, Simmonds ? " she
inquired.

"She would not leave her name, my
lady, but she said she knew your ladyship,
and was also a friend of Lord Wrathness,
and that she had a message for you about

his lordship, which she had promised to
deliver personally. She said as how she
would call back about half-past three, if
your ladyship would be at home. I said
as how I did not know for certain, but
I thought you would be, my lady."

Very well, Simmonds, I will see her
when she calls. You can show her into
the drawing-room, as Lord Ettrick will be
out, and Lady Ettrick and Lord Angus
at the dentist's," answered Maeva, whose
heart beat fast as she wondered what the
message was. " Could it be from him ? "

Over and over again she found herself
asking herself this question. Impatiently
she longed for half-past three. For the
first time in her life she felt glad when,
at a quarter past that hour. Lady Ettrick

and Ronald drove off and left her alone.
Never before had she longed so Intensely
for solitude.

How fearfully prolonged those fifteen
minutes felt to her. They seemed an eternity,
every second was like an age. At
length the front door bell pealed forth its
clang. She started, and the blood rushed
to her cheeks with excitement. Now she
should hear news of him !

She listened to Simmonds' stately tread
coming up the grand staircase. Every step
he took was like a century in length of
time. At last she heard him open the
door and usher some one in. She hardly
dare look up, nor did she do so until the
butler's receding footsteps became less and
less. Then she raised her eyes. With a

low cry she started to her feet. Who was
the person confronting her ? Maeva, with
a foreboding of evil, recognised the lady
whom she had met near Ettrick Castle
when she was gathering blackberries for
Lord Wrathness just four days ago.

Controlling herself with a great effort,
the girl bowed to her visitor. *' You
wished to speak with me ? " she inquired
courteously.

I did," was the laconic reply of Lady
Wrathness, for this strange visitor was no
other than she.

And what is it you wish to know
that I can tell you ? " again inquired
Maeva.

"Young lady," answered the tall dark
woman confronting her, '' I have come

here for one purpose, and that is to ascertain
the whereabouts of Lord Wrathness.
Up till lately you have been practically
his nurse and companion, and I doubt not
you know whither he has gone to. If I
tell you that his whole future happiness
depends on your telling this to me, I feel
sure you will do so without delay. Tel
me, whither has he gone ? "

"Why do you ask me?" inquired
Maeva, her great grey eyes opening wide,
as she fixed them on the bold, bad woman
before her.

Oh, what a contrast between those two !
Small wonder at Lord Wrathness's choice.

I ask you, because I know that you
know well where he is."

Then you are mistaken," answered

Maeva quietly, '' for I do not. I do not
know where Lord Wrathness is, or where
he has gone to, no more than you
do."

Lady Wrathness laughed incredulously.

Come, come," she said, " Lady Maeva,
you would make a good actress ; but do
not try those airs on with me. I am too
old a hand at them. Now I believe you
are a friend of his lordship's, and as such,
you wish him well. Let me tell you again
that he has been forced to fly in consequence
of the machinations and evil
intentions of enemies, and unless I can
find him and warn him of certain matters
which are going to take place, the results
will be disastrous to him."

But I tell you I do no know where

VOL. L 17

Lord Wrathness has gone to," answered
the girl In a troubled, anxious voice. She
was terribly perplexed. Instinct told her
that this woman was a false and a bad
one, and yet there she stood declaring
that upon her depended Lord Wrathness's
future happiness and even personal
safety.

Poor lite Maeva ! What could she do ?
The child was brave and plucky, but of
the world's ways, of the paths of evil
and wickedness, she had hitherto had
neither knowledge nor experience. She
could only confront this false, lying woman
with the bright truth of her own generous
and noble nature.

"If you tell me. Lady Maeva, that you
do not know where Lord Wrathness has

gone to, I tell you to your face that you
lie; and, moreover, by concealing his whereabouts,
you are inflicting an injury upon
him which may cost him his life."

How dare you come here, madam, with
your base insinuations and horrible threats ? "
exclaimed Maeva, while the bright tears
stood in her lovely eyes. " I tell you, for
the last time, I do not know where Lord
Wrathness has gone to ; but even if I did,
I would not tell you, for something tells
me here," and the girl laid her hand on
her heart as she spoke, '' that you are
not his friend, but his enemy, that you
do not wish him well but ill. What were
you prowling about near Ettrick Castle
for the day I met you? How was it
that Lord Wrathness fled away the very

day I met ? xA.nd now I remember, when
I described my meeting with you, he had
a look of horror in his poor wan face.
Who are you, madam, who dare to come
prying here and asking me questions about
him ? I tell you if I knew, 1 would die a
hundred times rather than tell you. Who
are you, I should like to know, and why
do you prowl and hunt after him like
this ? No wonder he Hed away ; and I
thank God that he has gone and escaped
such a fiend as you. Again I ask you,
how dare you come here, and who are
you, that you should do so, and why do
you track him thus . "

'* Child," answered Lady Wrathness
savagely, '* you are a fool ! Would you
goad me with your sharp tongue and fair

face ? Ay, he loves you ; but he has no
right to do so. You wish to know who
I am, and by what right I seek to track
him, and why ? Listen ; you will have
answers to your questions, will you ? Then
here they are. I am Lady Wrathness, his
wedded and lawful wife, whom he has
forsaken, as well as the babe our child ;
and he who loves you, whom you love in
return, is a murderer, the murderer of his
cousin, Lord Wrathness, whom he killed
far away from this in a lonely cave, in*
order that he might inherit his title, wealth,
and fortune. Ha, ha! you stare, but it is
true ; and I, his wife, will follow him, and
expose him, and bring him to the fate
he deserves. Don't stare so, child, you
frighten me ; but it is true all the same.

The murdered man lies deep In the
rushing waters of the Miramichi River,
far away in America, and he, your friend,
your paramour, the faithless husband and
unnatural father, is a murderer ! "

'' It is a lie ! " shouted Maeva, springing
forward ; but the tall dark woman met and
dealt her a heavy blow on her fair white
forehead. Sparks flew in Maeva's eyes,
her brain reeled, blackness rushed over
her as she fell without a cry to the
ground.

It is well," muttered Lady Wrathness,
as she walked to the door. *' If Wrathness
could see her now, I think I could call
myself revenged. But I have worse in
store for him." Then she was gone.

An hour later, when Lady Ettrick and

Ronald returned, they found the girl cold
and motionless, exactly where the brutal
blow of Lady Wrathness had laid her.

END OF VOL. 1.

Printed by Hazelll, Watson, & Vineyy, Ld., London and Aylesbury.

OF THE
UN IVLRSITY
or ILLINOIS

DG>422j-
Y.2.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

OCT 2

im

m 23 1990

DEC 2 W92

FEB 2 9 1S38
Abc tel 1997

I L161 O-1096

REDEEMED IN BLOOD.

LADY FLORENCE DIXIE,

Author of " Abel Avenged,' '" IVni/s and Strays'' " Across Patagonia,
* In the Land of Misfortune," " The \'oung Castaways," etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

LONDON :

HENRY AND COMPANY,

6, BOUVERIE STREET, Eg.

iso.

REDEEMED IN BLOOD.

CHAPTER XI

T T was midday. The sky above was
of a deep azure-blue; the sun shone
forth upon its sapphire shade, reflecting
in the glassy waters beneath a scene of
exquisite loveliness. There was a hum
of insects all around; the heat was intense
; scarce a breeze from the distant
sea crept in upon the stilly air. A
haze floated like a crystal veil along
the tropical girt hills that rose up on
either side of the land-locked bay of the

VOL. II. I

grandest harbour in the world; for the
scene we are describing is Rio Harbour.
Ships of war dotted that vast bay ;
craft of every kind and nationality rode
at anchor therein; little boats plied to
and fro between them and the shore,
busy bearing fruits or provisions to their
holds. And from amidst the wealth of
green, whose mantle clothed the rising
slopes on either side, showed forth conspicuously
the white and yellow houses
of those who lived away from the town
of Rio itself.

Anchored in solitary grandeur, and
conspicuous by its huge size and marked
isolation, a mighty ironclad lay riding
the placid waters of Rio Harbour. A
small boat coming from the shore

might have been seen approaching this
monarch of the deep, and standing watching
its approach from the upper deck of
H.M.S. Bucephalus  for so the great war-vessel
was named  were two smart young
midshipmen.

One of them is no stranger to the
reader. It would not have been difficult
for any one to recognise in the lad with
the high, white forehead, fine eyes, and
dark, close, curling hair the features of
young Angus. Ronald, in fact, it was, who,
with his left hand on his friend's shoulder,
stood watching the rapidly nearing boat
with interest and curiosity.

His friend, whose shoulder he so affectionately
handled, was a fine stamp of
British boyhood. A head and shoulders

taller than Ronald, whose senior he was
by eighteen months, he was a broad,
strapping young fellow, with a bright,
clear complexion somewhat tanned by
the sun, blue eyes that vied with the
turquoise in richness of colouring, and
sunny yellow hair with streaks of gold in
it, whenever the sun lit up the truant
shades, that came and went with every
flashing ray. One glance at that boy,
and that glance told you that by nature
he was born and bred a gentleman. But
unlike Ronald, Esca Hamilton had not
been born with a golden spoon in his
mouth, with wealth and high expectations
to look forward to. His father he had
never known. A captain in the Royal
Artillery, this father had been shot down

while working his guns in the Crimean
War, and at a moment when victory
shone down on the British ranks. His
cheery voice, even as death struck him,
had rung out a last exhortation to his
men, and, as his eyes closed and his head
fell back, those men saw the smile of
victory lighting up the features of their
chief, for whom they would have died a
hundred deaths.

Little Esca at this time was only three
months old, a bright, plump child, with
large blue eyes and soft downy head,
whereon the love-locks of later years were
already beginning to show themselves. Ashe
crowed and laughed in his mother's
arms, and clapped his baby hands, he little
knew the sorrow that was bowing down

that poor mother's heart, or the great
loss she and he had sustained. And Mrs.
Hamilton, as she clasped her baby to her
heart, and looked down on the only
treasure she had left, shuddered as she
thought how frail was the thread, that
held for her in this world, this one last
link of the happy past. On a competency
of ; 2 70 a year she made her way home
to Scotland, and settled down in a tiny
cottage left her by her mother, that nestled
amidst the wood-clad hills overlooking Loch
Mordant.* Here, amidst scenes romantic
in the history of Prince Charlie, and
lovely to the eye, young Esca Hamilton
grew up ; leading a wild, free, lonely life,
with no one for a companion but his
Pronounced Mozart.

mother, and here and there a shepherds
or fisherman's son. And for that matter
there was no sturdier mountaineer, no
more skilful fisherman along the whole
sea-coast around, no bolder swimmer or
better shot with the gun than Esca. But
his idol was the sea, and he would
eagerly devour the contents of such
books of travel and adventure as connected
themselves most especially with
the great wild waste of water, that he
had learnt to know and love so well.
His mother superintended his studies, and
personally prepared him at his earnest request
for the sea. She saw that his heart
was set on that profession, and as she
had a brother in the Navy who was well
in favour at the Admiralty, she felt that

there were opportunities for her dating
in this direction which might not be
forthcoming in any other. Thus it was
that in course of time Esca Hamilton
passed into the Britannia, heading the
list of candidates, and proudly carried his
colours out first again on leaving the old
ship for active service. He and Ronald had
first made friends on the training-ship, and
Ronald's delight can well be imagined when,
on quitting it himself two terms later, he
found himself appointed to the Bucephalus,
on which his friend was serving.

** How she spins through the water,
Esca!" observed young Angus, as the boat
they had been watching came within two
hundred yards of the ironclad; '' I wonder
who that is in the stern ? "

Some one coming to see the Admiral,
perhaps," observed Esca, as he shaded
his eyes with his left hand and strove
to make out the features of the newcomer.
'' However," he added, " he won't
find him at home ; you and I will have
to entertain him."

Let's go to the ladder and see what he
wants," said Ronald, as he tucked his two
hands into his trousers pockets and sauntered
slowly forward.

When the two midshipmen reached the
spot to which they had directed their footsteps,
they found the boat alongside the ship,
and the stranger whom they had previously
observed and discussed standing up in the
stern.

Run down, Jenkins," observed Esca to a

sailor standing by, " and see who he is and
what he wants."

'' Aye, aye, sir," responded the ready tar,
scuttling down the ladder at an amazing
pace. In a few seconds he returned, and
with due formality handed the senior midshipman
a gentleman's card.

'' That's 'im, sir," he observed, '' and he
says as 'ow he wants to speak to the
Admiral if he can ; but if he's lout, then
to the officer in command."

'' Well, as all the officers are ashore but
us two, Jenkins, he must speak to me,"
answered young Hamilton, with just a
shade of importance in his tone. " Show
him up here."

'' Aye, aye, sir," answered that individual
promptly.

On receiving the young midshipman's
message the stranger leapt lightly on to the
landing-stage and came quickly up the
ladder. It was easy-as Ronald observed
to his friend  to perceive, that the newcomer
was " no land lubber."

"You wished to see the Admiral?" inquired
Esca courteously. " I am sorry to
say he is away on shore. So are all the
ship's officers except myself and my friend
here ; but if you will leave any message
with me I will see the Admiral gets it on
his return."

Thank you, sir," answered the stranger,
in a low musical voice. He was a tallish
man, with very handsome features and
dark roving eyes. He sported neither
beard, whisker, nor moustache, and this

made him appear younger than perhaps he
really was.

The business I had with the Admiral
was of a private nature," he continued, in
the same low voice. ''If you will kindly
hand him this card on his return, and
say I will call again, I will be very
much obliged. Meanwhile, can you tell
me whose yacht that is lying at anchor
across the bay ? "

'' That is the Firefly, Lord Ettrick's,"
put in Ronald quickly.

Oh ! thank you, sir," replied the stranger
quietly. " You do not by any chance
happen to know if a yacht called the Mayflower
has been here lately or is expected ? "

'eyes, I do," answered young Hamilton,
The Mayflower was here a week ago,

but put out to sea a few hours before
the Firefly came in, but I don't know her
course."

A vicious look came into the roving
dark eyes of the stranger. Ronald noticed
that he clenched his left hand, and that
his lips trembled as if muttering something.
He looked disturbed and put about.

'' I am obliged, sirs  good-morning," was
all he replied, however, as he turned to
descend the ladder, at the same time
slightly raising his black slouch hat.

The boys returned the salute, and watched
his descent and departure curiously. As the
boat made for the shore Esca Hamilton
examined the card which he held in his
hand. It bore no address, merely the
name of Mr. Ruys Darrell.

'' A queer name," he observed to Ronald,
as he slipped the card into his waistcoat
pocket. '' I wonder who the dickens Mr.
Ruys Darrell is ? I took no King to his
face."

Nor I either," answered young Angus ;
'' he was handsome enough, but there was
evil in his eyes, if ever I saw any. I shan't
forget him easily. But, Esca, there goes
eight bells ; let's pipe to dinner, I fancy an
orange or two and a cool drink. This
heat has made me as thirsty as can be."

Down went the two miss to the gun-room,
and in the expectation of refreshment
the stranger and his evil countenance were
for the moment forgotten.

At the same time as this little scene was
being enacted, Maeva Doun was seated ina

light ebony rocking-chair on the deck
of her father's beautiful yacht the Firefly.
Nearly four months had passed away since
the episodes related in the last chapter had
occurred. When Lady Wrathness in her
hate and vengeance had struck down the
girl that confronted her with a brutal blow
from a knuckle-duster, the child had lain
where the heavy brass instrument had
dropped her, until discovered by her mother
and Ronald. A deep, cruel gash laid open
the clear white forehead, and from the
wound dark streams of blood were flowing,
which made her a terrible sight to behold.
For days this child, the hope and heiress
of the house of Ettrick, lay hovering
between life and death, tenderly and carefully
watched by her parents, and the

object of the most anxious solicitude on
all sides. The shock had been most fearful,
and the doctors entertained the worst
fears. But the girl's splendid constitution
was proof against everything, and in course
of time she rallied. No sooner had she
been pronounced out of danger than Ronald
returned to the Britannia. It being his
final term on that ship, it was necessary
that he should work hard in order to pass
out with honour, which in effect he eventually
did.

On one point Maeva remained obstinately
silent. She absolutely refused to
give the name of her assailant. Truthfully
she could aver that she knew not where
she dwelt, as in effect she did not. To
have disclosed the name of Lady Wrathness

would no doubt have brought about
that person's arrest ; but this, Maeva argued
to herself, would doubtless bode evil
to her friend, and bring to light the terrible
accusations which his wife had hurled
against him in the girl's presence. So the
staunch, faithful heart of Maeva remained
sealed against all entreaties, and the secret
continued locked in her bosom.

Did she believe Lady Wrathness's declaration
? Over and over again it reverted
to her, and as she repeated the
words to herself a terrible shudder would
shake the poor child's frame. Ah ! how
could she believe such evil of him ?
Surely he was incapable of deeds so foul.
And then his last written injunction would
well up from the bottom of her heart  that

VOL. II. 2

injunction not to believe all the evil that she
might hear of him. Was he not far away, a
lonely, hunted wanderer, and would she, his
great, great friend, doubt him? "Never!"
she would exclaim to herself; and then she
would sometimes softly add, *' And even if
I did, I would not forsake him."

Complete change of scene had been expressly
enjoined for her by the doctors,
and Lord and Lady Ettrick had decided to
start on their yachting cruise as quickly
as possible. Thus it was that about the
middle of January the Firefly, cotton
steam-yacht, and the property of Lord
Ettrick, entered Rio Harbour, a few days
after the arrival of the lying Squadron
under the command of Admiral Fullerton,
whose flag was hoisted on the Bucephalus,

whereon young Angus and his friend, Esca
Hamilton, were serving. The party on
the Firefly consisted, in addition to Maeva
and her father and mother, of Sir Alan
Fairfax, a young guardsman, Mr. Herbert,
Lady and Miss Wrottesley, Colonel St.
Leger Slade, and Miss Chambertown. This
latter had been invited at Maeva's earnest
request, and Mrs. Chambertown had gladly
made over her daughter to Lady Ettrick's
care, all the more willingly as Sir Alan
Fairfax was young and rich, and regarded as
the catch of the day ; although so far, he had
not been hooked, in spite of much angling.
Thus it was that Maeva came to belying
at ease in her ebony rocking-chair on
the snow-white decks of her father's yacht,
beneath the sapphire tropical sky that

looked down on Rio. Every one on board
of the party had betaken themselves on
shore to visit Tijuca, up the mountain
side. But as Maeva had already arranged
to visit that spot on the morrow with
Ronald and young Esca Hamilton, she had
pleaded to be allowed a quiet day on the
yacht, more especially as she and the remainder
of the Firefly party were engaged
to dine that night on board the Bucephalus
with the Admiral.

Why had Rio de Janeiro been chosen
as the first spot to be visited, the reader
may ask ? Well, Lord Ettrick had left it
to Maeva to arrange the details of the
voyage. He wished to occupy her mind
and give her as much to think about as
possible, and as soon as the departure had

been settled upon and decided, had informed
her to this effect. And Maeva
with glad surprise had joyfully accepted
the situation. In her heart she was longing
to make for the South American
coast, and before her father's decision had
been made known to her had made up
her mind to ask him to take that course.
For what reason, it may again be asked ?
In Maeva's eyes a very good one, and it
was this.

A few days after her convalescence the
post brought her amongst several other
letters a thick one in a strange handwriting.
Instinctively Maeva felt it concerned
her absent friend. Why, she knew
not, and could not have told any one, but
still the feeling was there, and she accordingly

slipped the letter unopened into her
pocket. When later on in the quiet of her
own room she got an opportunity to read
it, the girl's resolve was taken. She must
get to America somehow. She must endeavour
to fathom and solve what to her
appeared a terrible tale. By God's help
she must unravel the truth and save her
friend from the meshes which his enemies
were casting around him. Maeva knew
that the task before her was overwhelming.
But her heart was brave, her
courage true, and she felt that no hope
remained for her in life unless she could
succeed. As her purpose may appear
strange to those who are ignorant of
what prompted it, the next chapter will
introduce this letter to the reader.

/" Girl," it began, "if in my path
of vengeance you choose to throw
yourself, upon your own head be the fatal
results. Why do I write this, but to satisfy
in part my vengeance on him who has
dared to love you and hate me ? And
because I hate him in return, hate him
more than the English language can express,
I have told you that, which I know
he would have given his life, that you
should not know. Well, I have paid him
out so far ; read on, girl, and learn who and
what your paramour is.

"You are too young to remember Harold

Darrell when he was a young man of
twenty-three. He is twelve years older
now, and is my Lord Wrathness. Would
you like to know how he came by that
title, and made me my Lady Wrathness
twice over ? Have I not told you that it
was by murder ? Read on, and you shall
know.

"It was but twelve years ago that I
was a young and beautiful girl. Not so
young as you, for you are a mere child ;
but I was a girl, still in my teens, and
accounted lovely. I was a native of New
Brunswick ; what my name was matters
not to you, nor need be told for the purpose
of my story. I dwelt in Newcastle
on the Miramichi River, an orphan, for I
had lost both father and mother ; and my

guardians and trustees were two lawyers,
whom we will call Mr. F. and Mr. C.
There came to Newcastle on or about the
time I am relating two young Britishers
from across the Atlantic. One was a white-faced,
frail, and sickly youth ; the other, a
handsome, good-looking young man. The
former was Ruthven, Earl of Wrathness ;
the latter, Harold Darrell, his cousin.
They brought letters of introduction to my
guardians, who received them with much
cordiality and eTnpressement.

'' Long did these two tarry at Newcastle.
They used to make lengthy expeditions
up country together on shooting or fishing
ventures ; but they always returned to the
busy town on the Miramichi River, where
I and my guardians dwelt. It was not

difficult to learn the, attraction which, with
magnetic influence appeared to bring them
back again and again to the same spot.
That attraction was myself. Both Ruthven
and Darrell loved me.

'' And I, was my heart fancy free ? It
was not. I too had given it away, but in
the eyes of my guardians to the wrong
man. I had given it to Darrell.

'' Full well I knew that I had erred,
but like Messrs. F. and C. I coveted a
Countess's coronet. I determined, therefore,
to marry the pale-faced youth, though I
loved his handsome cousin ; but then the
former was rich, and had great estates 
the latter was burdened with nought buta
poor man's portion. The inevitable soon
arrived. Both men proposed, I accepted

the puny earl whom I loathed, rejected
the penniless but handsome Harold Darrell,
whom I loved. I shall never forget his
face, half angry, half despairing, when I
told him I was to be his cousin's wife.
But so it was, and in due course of time
I became Countess of Wrathness. Harold
Darrell did not attend our wedding. He
went about moody and oppressed. He
appeared to be rapt in deep thought, to
be continually in dreamland.

** Suddenly, however, he seemed to
become reconciled to his fate and comforted.
He grew cordial and friendly with
his cousin. They were frequently together
once more, and apparently fast friends.
North-west of Newcastle, by the Big
Hole, is situated ' the Indian Reserve.'

Now near this Big Hole is a curious cave,
called by the Micmac Indians ' Condemn
Weegan,' or ' the stone wigwam.' Thither
Harold Darrell invited his cousin to accompany
him one lovely afternoon, and with
another man they started in a small boat,
ostensibly to visit the cave. Girl, from
this expedition the Earl never returned.
His cousin came back, pale and saturated,
with a trumped-up story of how the former
had slipped from the cave's ledge into the
water, and sunk before aid could reach him.
His tale was corroborated by the man
who had accompanied him, but who soon
after mysteriously disappeared. This man,
however, is not dead, and he has since
described to me the foul murder committed
bv Harold Darrell, now Lord Wrathness,

my second husband, a murderer, and your
lover. He has told me how the wretch
took his opportunity when his cousin was
standing unawares to push him from the
ledge, and then retire out of sight into
the cave, leaving his helpless relative, who
could not swim, to drown. The only eyewitness
of this foul deed was my informant.
His mouth was closed by a promise of a
large annual annuity, and he dwells now
in affluence and ease at Rio Janeiro. But
nevertheless he is my man, and a word
from me will open his lips to denounce
the murderer, whenever and however it
shall please me to dictate to him. Girl,
your lover's fate is in my hands ; I, his
lawful wife, whom he has scorned and now
jilts for you.

'' How did I become his wife, you ask ?
The murder foul still stained his hands
when he renewed his suit, and I, caen
knowing nothing, accepted him, married
the man I loved, and for a second time
became Lady Wrathness. There is no
necessity for me to relate more, to tell you
why and how in time my love turned to
hate. I have told you enough to accomplish
the first act of my vengeance. I can
now proceed to my second. Nay, do not
seek to dare me, or warn him. Interference
on your part will but hasten his
doom. He has fled from my vengeance,
but all in vain ; I will track him and
follow him to the uttermost ends of the
earth, till I have brought his proud,
haughty spirit to bay ; and then 1 will

denounce him, and bring him to the
gallows for the hideous crime of murder."

Pale to the lips and with a beating heart
Maeva had read that letter, not once, not
twice, but over and over again. The
trial was a terrible one, but the girl was
brave, and true as steel. Appearances
were strongly in favour of the charge. If
Wrathness was not guilty, why had he fled
in this sudden, mysterious manner, without
leaving a clue to his whereabouts ? If he
had nothing to fear why shun publicity ?
All these and many such questions would
rise unbidden to her lips ; yet above them
all she seemed to read in letters of fire
his imploring entreaty that she would not
believe all the ill she heard of him.

O God ! Harold," she would whisper
softly to herself, " I love you, and I will
not forsake you. What is life to me if I
cannot help you and clear you from this
terrible charge ? It may be some foul plot
of which you are the victim. If so, I will
find it out ; I will trace it and lay it bare.
Harold, dear Harold, I will redeem your fair
name, aye, even if it be in my own blood."

And alone with her terrible secret, Maeva,
to whom it was ever present, had determined,
by hook or by crook, to trace in
Rio Janeiro the man referred to by Lady
Wrathness as the witness of that awful,
ghastly deed.

She had arrived, . as we have seen, at
her destination, and it was agreed that a
three weeks' or a month's stay should be

made at Rio. There was plenty to be
seen, and long expeditions up country
planned in all directions by different members
of the party. Lord and Lady Ettrick
had been invited by an old friend and
settler in those parts to visit him in his
orange ranch far away up in the blue Oregon
Mountains, which loomed high against the
deep-tinted sky at the head of the harbour ;
and as Maeva begged to be allowed to
remain on the yacht, on the plea of seeing
as much as possible of Ronald, her mother
had decided on taking Miss Chambertown
with her, and Sir Alan Fairfax had been
also invited to accompany them.

And so it was that on the day in
question Maeva sat silent and thoughtful
on the deck of the Firefly, gazing at the

VOL. II. *i

blue sky above and revolving future plans
in her mind.

It should be related that during the
week the Firefly had been in harbour
Ronald had been a frequent visitor onboard,
and on several occasions had been
accompanied by Esca Hamilton. With
this latter, Maeva had struck up a great
friendship. The boy's bright, open, handsome
countenance had attracted her instinctively,
and he,  well, if the truth must be
said, let it be acknowledged that young
Esca had fallen hopelessly over head and
ears in love with his friend s cousin.

'' Lady Maeva isn't a bit like any other
girl I've ever seen, Ronald," he had said ;
'* there is only one person she reminds me
of, and that is my own dear mother ; " and

Ronald, who was always ready to sympathise
with any one who admired his dearly-loved
cousin, had nodded his head and replied
confidentially, " Wait, my boy, till you know
her a bit better, and then you will agree
with me that there's no one in the world
that can ever come up to Maeva."

That evening the two friends stood side by
side where they had stood that morning, this
time watching for the arrival of the Firefly
party. Ronald had been invited to dine
with the Admiral, and was therefore arrayed
in full evening dress, and Esca, who had
just come off duty, had joined him by
the taffrail. Close to the landing-stage
a small boat bobbed up and down, with
a single oarsman therein, who resting on
his oars was apparently waiting for someone.

That some one was closeted with the
Admiral.

'' Hark, Ronald ! that's them," exclaimed
Esca suddenly. The young midshipman
had been leaning on his arms looking over
the ship's side, and listening intently. Ashe
spoke the measured rapid stroke of
several well-handled oars came sounding
along the water, and making for the
Bticephahis Fortunately dusk had set in,
or the tell-tale flush that dyed young
Hamilton's face, throat, and neck would
have unfolded the secret of his heart. As
it was, he alone knew it.

Quickly the boat glided alongside the
great ship, and the two midshipmen were
at its head in a moment, helping the
whole party to disembark. As they ascended

the ladder steps Esca managed to
get beside Maeva, and was conversing
gaily with her, when on reaching the
deck they perceived the Admiral approaching
to greet his visitors. Close behind
him followed the tall, slight form of a man
wearing a loose cloak and black slouch
hat. As Admiral Fullerton shook hands
with Lord and Lady Ettrick, and was introduced
to those of the party who were
strangers to him, the cloaked figure passed
them silently, and glided quietly by Escaped
Maeva, who were standing just in the
glare of a swinging lantern. As he did so,
its light fell full upon his face, disclosing
his features plainly and distinctly. Maeva,
who had been watching him, suddenly
uttered a low cry and grasped E sea's arm.

'* Tell me," she exclaimed, in a hurried
breathless voice, " tell me, Mr. Hamilton,
who is that man ? "

'' Why, I declare it's the same fellow
who was here this morning, wanting to see
Admiral Fullerton," answered the youth, ina
surprised tone. *' I don't know who he
is. Stay!" he added suddenly, "I do
though, in a way, because he left his card
with me, and Mr. Ruys Darrell was
printed on it ; but who Ruys Darrell is I
do not know."

The party were beginning to move towards
the Admiral's cabin. Maeva took a
desperate resolution.

Mr. Hamilton," she said hurriedly, " I
believe we are good friends  will you dome
a favour ? "

'' Anything in the wide world," answered
the boy, his heart bounding with loyalty
and delight.

Then follow that man, find out for me
where he lives, and let me know as soon
as ever you can. Oh ! if you knew all that
depends on my learning it, you would doit.
1 cannot explain,  see, they are all
going in,  will you ? "

There was an agonised sound in her
voice, a world of entreaty. Her great grey
eyes looked him. full in the face. What
mattered all the world to young Esca ?
Had she not asked him to do something ?
He would have died rather than refuse.

Trust me," was all he answered ; but
there was a ring in his voice which told
her that she could trust him.

Maeva dear, come on ! " called out
Lord Ettrick ; and the girl had to hurry
forward, leaving Esca standing alone.

The lad looked down at the bobbing
boat below him,  the stranger was preparing
to enter it. Then he looked up
at the darkling sky above him, and pushed
the yellow curls that gathered on his forehead
from off it. Then he pulled out his
watch, and consulted its face by the light
of the lantern. " I have two good hours,"
he muttered to himself " I shan't be
missed, I can do it in that time." He
glided along the deck into darkness, and
made for the ship's stern. A second later
and he had concealed his boots and watch
behind a big coil of rope. Then he made
fast a thinner rope to an iron stanchion,

threw, it over the side of the ship, nimbly
followed it, and before the boat was pushed
off had let himself silently down and
dropped into the water. The next moment
he was swimming with strong powerful
strokes in the direction of Rio.

He had about a quarter of a mile
of water to get through. The distance
was nothing to the strong, athletic boy.
He could swim almost before he could
toddle, and the water was second nature
to him. It was blowing, and the water
was a bit disturbed, but he had not battled
with the wild waves and angry surf of
Scotland's western coasts in vain, and the
experience and knowledge he had gained
therein stood him now in good stead.
But Esca had two fears troubling him ashe

moved rapidly along. One was that
the boat containing the stranger would
reach Rio before him ; the other was that
sharks might do for him between the ship
and the shore. It was not for himself that
he feared. Esca was not thinking of that.
His one thought was to carry out Maeva's
wish. His one longing, to be able to show
himself worthy of her trust.

Brave, gallant young Esca ! Ah, little
Maeva knew, as she sat at the Admirals
cosy dinner-table, in what a manner the
chivalrous lad was carrying out her behest !
He was racing through the water now,
and the lights of Rio loomed larger and
brighter every minute. He could hear the
muffled sound of the boat's oars not far
behind him, and he knew that it was gaining

upon him. Every inch of strength in him
was strained to make headway. Never in
his life before had he exerted the great
physical powers with which he was gifted
to such an extraordinary extent. He
deserved to win, did this heroic boy ; and
he did. With a heart beating with joy he
heard the boat cease rowing, and a movement
of feet in her sounded to him o'er
the water. It gave him the assurance that
the oarsman was attending to something
in the craft itself It encouraged him to
renewed exertion.

Suddenly the sound of surf struck his
ear. He could have shouted for joy. It
told him that land lay close ahead. He
threw himself on his back and took a long
wind, preparatory to breasting the breakers.

Then he struck out once more. In another
second he was in the surf and fighting his
way through it as it tossed him to and
fro. He heard its sullen roar breaking
on the beach ; he fought his way inch by
inch, sinking ever and anon to feel if he
could touch ground. Something struck his
foot ; two more powerful strokes and he
was within his depth. In another moment
he was on dry land, and racing with all
his might towards the landing-pier. Justin
time, too, to catch sight of the boat
gliding to the landing-stage, and to recognise
it as the stranger's craft. The
young midshipman drew back into the
darkness and kept his eyes fixed on the
man. He could watch him easily from
the spot where he stood concealed. He

saw him pay the oarsman off, and then
walk away at a rapid swinging pace.
Springing down to where the boat lay, the
boy made its owner understand in a few
disjointed words that it would be required
in half an hour ; then away he made after
the vanishing figure, and dogged him with
footsteps all the more silent inasmuch ashe
was bootless. Suddenly the stranger
paused at a corner street door and knocked
with his stick. It was quickly opened,
the object of pursuit entered, and the door
closed upon him.-

'' Thank God ! " was all that Esca exclaimed
as he took note of the house,
street, and locality. " I have accomplished
what she asked me."

He said no more, but hurried back to

where the boat lay waiting for him. As he
did so he felt in his trousers pockets and
his face brightened.

I've enough here to pay the fellow,"
he soliloquised ; *' how glad I am I did not
spend it all ! "

He sat silently in the boat till the great
black hull of the Bucephalus hove in sight.
Then he stood up, signed to the man
rowing to rest on his oars, and handing him
several silver pieces pointed to the ship,
and signified his intention of swimming
to it, at the same time placing his first
finger on his lips in a warning attitude.
The man winked and smiled. Evidently
Esca had overpaid him.

'' Young gentleman out on lark. Me no
peach, me only watch see you get up

safe." He had not finished his remarks
when Esca was overboard and swimming
for the ship. The man sat still in his
boat, with a broad grin on his face. He
saw Esca reach the ironclad, seize the
rope, and pull himself hand over hand up
the side and disappear over the top. Then
he dipped his oars in the water and pulled
once more for land.

Half an hour later the Admiral stood
taking leave of his guests. As he did so
Esca in a dry suit sauntered up to where
Maeva was standing.

'rit is all right. Lady Maeva," he whispered
; 'i've made out where the person
lives, and I'll point you out the house when
we go on shore tomorrow."

Thank God ! " he heard her mutter to

herself; and then she added, " How can I
thank you, Mr Hamilton ? "

He wanted no thanks. He was amply
rewarded by the earnest, grateful look in
her grave, sad grey eyes. He held out
his hand with a boyish impulse.

'' I don't want to be thanked, I would
do anything for you. I would swim until
I drowned to serve you." The water was
still glistening on his yellow hair ; she
started as she noticed it.

*' Gracious ! " she exclaimed, '' how did
you get to Rio ? "

'' I swam there," he answered quietly.

'swam?" She said no more; Admiral
Fullerton was facing her, and offering her
his hand. Mechanically she held out her
own and uttered a courteous good-night,

but once more the great, grey eyes strayed
to where Esca stood, and if ever eyes
spoke those did at that moment. The
boy read in them the word, "gratitude."

He slept that night soundly, did that
young officer, though his sleep was visited
by dreams. And in that sleep he smiled,
and his lips moved. They uttered but two
words, and these were, " Mother"  " Maeva."

VOL. n.

I she party on the Firefly had broken
up for the time being. Lord and
Lady Ettrick, Miss Chambertown, and Sir
Alan Fairfax had gone to the Oregon
Mountains. Mr. Herbert and Colonel St.
Leger Slade had started on an inland
expedition ; and Lady and Miss Wrottesley
and Maeva were all that remained on the
yacht. Of these last three named, the
two former had relations living just outside
Rio, and were therefore a good deal
absent, which gave Maeva all her time to
herself. She had landed in the yellow,
unhealthy-looking town with Ronald and

Esca the day following upon the events
related in the latter end of the last chapter,
and while her cousin had gone in
search of a carriage and four mules which
was to convey them up to Tijuca, Maeva
and Esca had walked through the marketplace
and turned up a side street leading
therefrom. On reaching the far end Escaped
pointed out a tall, narrow, four-storied
house, at the same time remarking, "It
was there. Lady Maeva, that Mr. Ruys
Darrell entered last night."

'* Thank you, Mr. Hamilton," Maeva
had replied ; and then she added quickly,
"It must seem very funny to you
that I should ask you to track a totally
unknown person in the way I did. The
story is one that will need explanation,

and I think it is only fair that in sofar
as it is possible I should tell it to
you. You are my friend, are you not ?
Yet why should I ask you ? No one buta
true, good friend would have done what
you did for me last night, and I shall
never forget it No, never."

"If I rendered you ever so slight a
service. Lady Maeva," had answered the
boy, " I only ask for one reward, and
that is that you will trust me. I am not
exactly like most boys. My only public
school training has been the Britannia,
Till then I was always with my dear,
dear mother. She used to talk to me
about everything, and we were all in all
to each other. I think I could understand
and sympathise with you in any trouble or

bother you liked to confide in me. Of
course I know I am only a boy, not quite
seventeen yet ; but I am old enough to
feel what friendship means, and as you
say you believe I am your friend, let me 
please let me  do all I can to help you
and to show it."

And I am only a girl," had answered
Maeva simply; 'but I see no reason why
a boy and girl should not be as firm
friends as any one else. Ronald and I
have been firm friends since baby days,
and yet somehow or other, love him as
I do, I could not tell him what I mean
to tell you the first opportunity I can
get to speak with you alone."

And the boy's fair face had flushed
with a rosy glow of new-found happiness.

Everything looked beautiful in his
eyes ; even the dirty streets of Rio became
lovely.

They had got back to the market-place,
and even as they arrived there the clank
of trotting feet and rumbling wheels
struck upon their ears. In a few minutes
Ronald hove in sight, sitting in state in
the very centre of the back seat of a
vehicle which might be happily described
as something between a landau and victoria.
Drawing it were four smart, somewhat
restive-looking mules, who were
coming along at a famous pace, under
the Jehuship of a sallow-looking Portuguese
individual.

No sooner did Ronald perceive his
friends than he stood up in the carriage

and began waving his cap round his
head, much to the amusement of several
passers-by, who stood and stared at the
demonstrative young Britisher ; while Esca,
who was brimming over with happiness
and excitement, waved back a glad response.
The mule carriage drew up immediately
it came in sight of the marketplace,
and stood awaiting the arrival of
"the midshipman and Maeva. Just as the
two were about to step into it, however,
and Ronald was volubly talking, a marine
stepped up, and, saluting this latter, handed
him a note.

'' What can it be ? " exclaimed the
young earl, as he opened it curiously ;
but the next moment his face fell. " All
right, Brett," he said quietly; 'say I'll

be on board immediately ; " then, as the
marine saluted and marched off, Ronald
turned ruefully to Esca and Maeva.

It's no go," he remarked, in a disappointed
tone; 'the Admiral wants me;
therefore, so far as I am concerned, our
jolly expedition to Tijuca is at an end.
Never mind though," he added, as he saw
his cousin about to speak, *you go,
Maeva, with Esca ; I've seen the place
before, so it does not matter. If I can
get away later on I'll follow you up.
I know where I can hire a horse, and
then I can easily catch you. So goodbye,
Esca, old man ; do you and Maeva
take good care of each other, and if I
can I'll soon be with you."

Saying which, poor Ronald, who was

frightfully disappointed, but who put a
brave face on the matter, walked off
briskly towards the landing-stage.

Left standing by themselves, Esca and
Maeva looked at one another.

"Shall we go?" he inquired, doubtfully.

"Oh yes," answered Maeva, quickly;
Ronald is sure to get away soon, and
then I know he will be quickly with
us ; meanwhile we can drive up in this
conveyance, and when we get to Tijuca
I can tell you what I said I would."

She signed him to get in as she
spoke, and Esca was quickly by her
side. The driver was bidden to drive to
Tijuca. He started at a gallop, and the
boy and girl were soon on the outskirts
of Rio, driving along between cool-looking

villas, half hidden in a wealth of" tropical
flowers and vegetation.

Soon the region of houses became
scarcer ; they had begun to mount upwards,
the road leading through tropical
forest, in and out of which gorgeous
butterflies and bright - plumaged birds
winged their flight and fluttered. Giant
ferns made the roadway bright with
their graceful foliage ; the busy hum was
ever in the air, and above all this
wealth of beauty and glory the sapphire
sky looked down in its mantle of deep
dark blue.

How gloriously beautiful ! " exclaimed
Maeva, as a bend in the road and a
rift in the forest disclosed far away below
the great sleeping land-locked bay of

Rio Harbour ; "I don't think I ever saw
anything more beautiful in my Hfe. Oh !
why does not every one travel and seethe
world ?" .

There are plenty who would like to,"
laughed Esca Hamilton, '' if they could
only get the chance ; " and then he added,
a shade more seriously, " I know one who
has often yearned to do so, and that was
my dear mother."

Then why hasn't she ? " inquired
Maeva, in an interested voice ; but she
felt sorry after, that she had asked the
question.

Because neither I nor mother are like
you and Ronald, Lady Maeva," answered
Esca, with just a shade of bitterness in
his voice. " We were not born with

golden spoons in our mouths. It is easy
enough for people like you and Ronald
to gratify every whim and taste, when
money is not wanting. But it is different
for poor paupers like myself, who haven't
a mag of their own, and who must
depend on themselves for their livelihood.
Not that I should complain, though.
Were it not for the best and most
unselfish of mothers I should not be
following the profession that I love. God
bless her ! Think of all she must have
sacrificed for me, to be able to put mein
the navy and give me an allowance out
of 270 a year. Dear, kind old mother!"
Oh ! how glad I am to hear you
speak of your mother like that, Mr.
Hamilton," exclaimed Maeva warmly.

"There is nothing like one's mother.
Mine is one of the very best, too, and I
owe everything in the world to her. But
don't mind being poor, will you ? I am
sure you will get on in your profession
and do well ; and think how happy Mrs.
Hamilton will be if you do."

*' Would it please you also?" asked
Esca, and there was a pleading ring in
his boyish voice as he asked the question.

'* Please me ? I should just think it
would ! I shall always be interested in
what you do. Are you not my friend ?
It is but natural that I should," replied
the girl simply, as she looked into his
blue pleading eyes with her large, grave,
grey ones.

And so they talked away, as the carriage

with its foam-flecked mules mounted higher
and higher through the tropical forest of
Tijuca. Esca Hamilton's boyish heart
was in a flame ; the moments flew all too
quickly by ; he found himself longing that
they could last for ever, wondering what
he had ever done to merit so much
happiness. And let those who may be
inclined to smile at this early evidence
of a boy's love, and incredulously doubt
its existence, bear in mind that there is
probably no purer, no nobler, no more
unselfish devotion than that which finds
its birth in a boy's first love. It is undoubtedly
the truest passion of a man's
lifetime.

They reached the summit of the forest-crowned
mountain at length, and turning

sharply to the right, after descending a
short but steep incline, were whisked upto
the doors of Tijuca. A long, white,
two-storied, verandah house, looking
cool and inviting to the dusty traveller,
stood facing them, and they were soon
seated in the shade, enjoying a cool ice
and some delicious fruit which the hospitable
proprietor, an old friend of Lord
Ettrick's, insisted on at once placing
before them.

Then, when they had finished, the boy
and girl strolled away into the forest, and
amidst its wealth of loveliness, beside a
dark, clear pool of water, the two sat down
side by side, while Maeva unfolded to her
boy-friend the terrible secret of which she
was possessed. She told him all but one

thing. She told him of her childhood's
days with Ronald, of his noble home
and hers ; and how at length had come
amongst them the young earl with the
dark, sad eyes, who had risked his
life to gratify her whim, whom she in
turn had rescued. She told the young
midshipman of the friendship that had
grown up between them, of the earl's
sudden disappearance, of his letters, and
lady of the visit of Lady Wrathness
and its cruel result; and then she took
from her pocket that bad woman's letter,
and, with an omission here and there,
read it to him almost in its entirety.
But one thing she did not tell Escape
did not tell him of the love that
lay next her heart. That was a secret

which she could breathe to no one,
which she herself was the sole confidant
of. She spoke of Wrathness as a friend,
as one whom she must save for friendship's
sake, and nothing more.

But love's sight is keen. It sees what
other eyes are blind to, and the boy instinctively
guessed the truth. For the first time
in his life a feeling shot through the open-hearted,
generous spirit of young Esca,
a feeling that made him for the moment
almost hate the man who, in his eyes,
appeared to have unlawfully stolen the
love and allegiance of the girl before him.
It was a feeling that can never be acutely
felt in all its intensity save in conjunction
with love. Esca was jealous The fact
that she was not fancy free, though yet

VOL. 11. 5

SO young a child, broke in upon his
happy, exulting heart with a bleak, bitter
reality. He could hardly stand the revelation,
it had been so sudden and so unexpected.
He rose up from where he had
been sitting and walked moodily into the
forest, leaving her by the dark, glassy
pool alone. A terrible battle was going
on within him,  it was the struggle of
Love and Jealousy. Boy though he was,
it raged there in all its fiercest intensity ;
it burned into his very soul.

*' O God ! " he exclaimed passionately,
a few minutes ago I was so happy, and

now  now " He broke off abruptly

and stamped his foot ; the nobler side of
his character was gaining the mastery.

'' Selfish brute that I am ! " he muttered.

I love her,  aye, ever so dearly, and this
is how I show it, moaning over myself
while she is left to her sad thoughts and
terrible trouble. Oh ! mother, this is not
the unselfish lesson which your brave,
sweet example has ever taught your boy
to love, look up to, and respect. But I
will be brave, I will be her friend, I will
help her by God's good help ! If I can
only make her happy what more can I
want or expect ? and perhaps  perhaps some
day she will know how I loved her."

He uttered the last words very softly ;
a gleam shone in his blue eyes, and he
tossed the yellow love-locks from his high
white forehead as he turned and went
back to where she was sitting. She looked
up at him half fearfully. No idea of what

his thoughts had been, of the struggle he
had been going through, appeared to strike
her. She dreaded that she had done wrong
in telling him what she had, and that
appearances against Lord Wrathness were
too strong for the boy to be able to look at
matters in the same light as she did. This
was why, no doubt, he had walked away
and left her sitting alone. But Maeva,
attracted to Esca as she had been, did not
know yet all the nobility of the boy's nature.

He came and sat down once more beside
her, and this time took her hand in his.
How his own trembled as he did so ! and
his face was very white.

Thank you, Lady Maeva," he said
very gently, " for confiding your trouble tome.
God grant that I may be able to

be of use to you. Trust me to do any
mortal thing I can, and that I will, though
I am only a poor boy midshipman. Never
while you live, though you may have
many a better, will you have a truer or
more devoted friend than Esca Hamilton."

** Thank you, thank you, Esca  I mean
Mr. Hamilton," she exclaimed warmly.

Oh, call me Esca  do please call me
that," he burst out quickly ; '' I cannot tell
you how happy it would make me."

Then I will do so," she answered
simply; "but only on condition that you
call me Maeva."

But what would Lord and Lady Ettrick
say to that ? " he inquired doubtfully ;
"wouldn't they think it awfully cheeky?"

"Not they," she answered with a slight

laugh ; '' why, what harm is there in a girl
and boy friend calling each other by their
Christian names ? Shall it be agreed ? "

'' Agreed," he replied.

'' And now'" she continued, '' you must
let me tell you something more, Esca.
Do you know why I was so startled when
I saw that man pass us on the Bucephalus ,
and why I begged you to find out for me
where he lived ? Who do you think he
was ? I could not be mistaken,  no, that
would be impossible. Esca, that Mr.
Ruys Darrell is no man. That stranger
was Lady Wrathness."

He started. " The devil he was ! " he
exclaimed ; and then added quickly, '' I beg
your pardon."

And she means mischief," continued

Maeva excitedly, not noticing the interruption
; "I feel sure she is tracking Lord
Wrathness."

I remember now," put in Esca, '' that
yesterday morning, when this stranger
first boarded the Bucephalus and asked
for Admiral Fullerton, he put questions
to me as to whom the Firefly belonged
to, and then inquired if the Mayflower
had been here or was expected. I replied
that the latter yacht had been in harbour,
and only left a few hours before the
arrival of the Firefly!'

"What! the Mayflower has been here?"
burst from Maeva's lips, while a bright
crimson flush dyed her cheeks. Esca heard
her voice quiver and saw the red blood
mount. He shuddered.

*eyes, Maeva." He said the name very
tenderly, but she hardly heard him ; she
was staring in front of her with a startled,
troubled expression.

*' Maeva," said young Esca,  he spoke
in a quiet firm voice,  '' listen to me. I see
it all quite plainly now. Lord Wrathness
has been here probably to see the man
who is pensioned here, and Lady Wrathness
is here, no doubt, for the same reason.
We must go back to Rio, and I will find
out for you the name of the man. I have
very little doubt that he lives in the same
house as that into which the stranger,
whom you declare to be Lady Wrathness,
entered last night. Let me do this for
you, and meanwhile I will have a real
good think over the whole matter, and do

the best I can to advise you and help
you. Cheer up, we will work together,
and by God's help we will unravel the
plot, for a plot I feel sure it is. I feel
certain that your friend is innocent, although
appearances are dead against him."

'' Oh ! thank you, thank you, dear Esca ;
how can I ever repay such a true, good
friend as you ? " exclaimed Maeva, the great
tears welling up into her eyes. She had
borne this secret trouble by herself so long,
that it was like a heaven-sent ray in a
dark night, to feel that she had some one
with whom to share it, and to whom she
could open her heart.

He bent down and kissed the little hand
that he held in his, tenderly, passionately.
*' I don't want to be repaid," he said

gently, "all I want is to help you. All
I want is that you will let me serve you,
work for you, die for you, be to you a
true friend."

She did not answer. Her heart was
too full for words. Yet, grateful as Maeva
felt, deeply as she appreciated the boy's
genuine, practical friendship, she had not
read the secret that lay next his heart.

That same night a tall handsome young
midshipman stood outside the door of that
corner house into which the stranger had
disappeared the day before. He had just
rung the bell. A negro slave opened it.

Can I see the master ? " asked the
young officer in broken Portuguese.

The negro smiled. " Me talked Been
glish," he said.

'' Well, can I see your master?" said the
midshipman, impatiently, this time in English.

The negro motioned him to enter, and
led the way along a cool, flower-scented
corridor, which led into an open and
verandah courtyard. Waving his hand
in the direction of a tiny fountain that
was playing in the centre, and which was
lighted up with fancy lanterns, the negro
grinned, and having remarked, '' There be
massa," turned and disappeared.

The midshipman looked in front of him,
and perceived seated near the fountain an
apparently elderly man, in whose hair grey
threads were gathering quickly. He was
reading.

*ahem!" coughed the youthful officer.

The elderly man started and looked
up. On perceiving the midshipman he
rose quickly.

To whom am I indebted for the honour
of a visit ? " he inquired courteously, in a
somewhat American accent.

'' I must excuse myself," answered Esca
for the midshipman was no other  in an
apologetic tone, " but I came to ask if
Mr. Ruys Darrell, who called on Admiral
Fullerton yesterday, is staying here."

"He was," answered the elderly man,
eyeing his visitor keenly ; '' that is to say,
he arrived here yesterday by the Pacific
Steam Navigation Company's liner the Valparaiso,
which left for Chili this afternoon,
and Mr. Runs Darrell went on in her."

'' Can you give me his address for the
Admiral ? " asked Esca, perhaps a shade
too eagerly.

I am sorry I cannot oblige you," answered
the elderly man, " but if any
information is required, or if there is anything
that I can do for Admiral Fullerton
in the place of Mr. Darrell, pray mention
that I shall be charmed."

'' Thank you, I will ask him ; may I ask
your name ? " here put in Escape

Certainly," replied the personage addressed
; "my name is Richard Emerson."

Thank you, sir," said Esca, as he prepared
to withdraw. " I hope you will
excuse me for this late intrusion."

'' Do not mention it," answered the
elderly man, who had a haggard, worn

appearance, as he touched a little bell
standing on a table close beside him. The
negro slave appeared.

'* Show this gentleman out, Tim," he
said.

'' Good-night, sir," observed Esca, as he
turned to follow the slave.

'' Good-night, sir," responded the elderly
man ; and Esca noticed that there was a
weary ring in his voice.

'' A ND if I tell you, Lady Maeva
Doun, am I to clearly understand
that the price of this information is to be
10,000 and your solemn and most sacred
word that the informant will not be disclosed
? "

'* You have my solemn word of honour."
Such was the question and reply put by
Richard Emerson, introduced to the reader
in the last chapter, and Maeva Doun.
They were standing in the same verandah
courtyard where Esca had intruded on
the former occasion, when he had discovered
the gentleman in question. Maeva

was Standing leaning against the fountain,
her two hands clasped together, and he
with the rapidly-silvering hair, careworn
expression, and weary voice was pacing up
and down, his hands behind him, his head
bent low, his step hurried and slouching.
As he put this question, however, he stood
still and faced her, and she, with her great
grey eyes fixed steadily upon him, with
he bright, honest expression of one who
could not lie, had answered him in the
words above quoted.

There came a gleam into his sunken
eyes, a nervous twitching about his thin
pale lips. His hands unclasped themselves,
and appeared to be clutching at something
which he seemed to see in front of him,
and as he stood thus the girl heard him

mutter the words, '' Gold, I shall have
more gold."

She looked at him with a feeling of
repulsion as she said, '' You have my
word of honour, Mr. Emerson, on condition
that you tell me the full truth and hide
nothing from me. Provided you do this,
the money is yours, and your individuality
as informant safe in my hands. I would
die sooner than betray you." 

'' I believe you," he said, in a low
voice; 'intimate as I am and have been
with sin, and crime, and wickedness, I
know, nevertheless, what a great and
noble nature is, for I had once a mother.
Ah ! Lady Maeva, bad as I am, I was not
always what you see me now, till temptation
beset, overcame me, and led me astray."

VOL. II. 6

He paused and covered his eyes with
both hands, and his silvering head bowed
down upon them. Suddenly he raised it
up, and looked once more at the girl.

'' Ask me what questions you will," he
said, and began pacing up and down the
court again.

She leant more heavily against the
fountain pillar, and her hands clasped
tighter together.

*' Were you a witness to Lord Wrathness's
murder, and was the murderer
Harold Darrell ? " she inquired abruptly.
He stopped in his hurried pacing, and
looked straight at her. His answer came
slowly, but distinctly.

"Yes, Lady Maeva, I was a witness of
that murder, yet, though Harold Darrell

was present, he did not do the deed.
Nevertheless, he who is now Lord Wrathness
believes that he did do it."

Maeva sprang forward and seized the
man's hands. There was a happy smile
on her lips. " You swear that, and can
prove it, can you ? " she cried eagerly ;
and as he nodded his head she added,
"Is the murderer alive?"

-He is."

Oh, thank God ! thank God ! " she
exclaimed fervently. '' Harold, dear Harold,
I felt, I knew you were innocent. Ah !
if I ever doubted you for a moment
you will forgive me, for your dear fair
name shall be redeemed."

She hardly knew what she was saying,
her brain seemed on fire with joy. The

terrible burden of doubt and uncertainty
which had clung there for so long seemed
to have vanished into thin air. Suddenly,
however, she turned once more to
her informant.

** And the murderer, who is he ? where
is he ? " she inquired.

I am he ! "

He stood facing her, standing so close
to her as he hissed out his reply that
she started back in horror and dread.

You ? " she cried.

'eyes, I."

She retreated back to her old place
by the fountain, still eyeing him with
horror. For a minute or two both kept
silence. He was the first to break it.

''If you will sit down on that chair,

Lady Maeva," he said, '' you shall hear
my story. What I have to tell you will
not take very long. It will tell you all
you need to know, and will clear Lord
Wrathness's name. But remember every
word I utter is for you alone. Bear in
mind what you have promised."

She made a gesture of assent  she
could not bring herself to speak. Mechanically
she took the chair he pointed out to
her and sat down, her eyes riveted on
his face.

He could not bear the look in those
great grey eyes, so he sat down beside
a writing-table and half covered his face
with one hand, against which he leant it.
Then in a low distinct voice he began
his story : 

I was twelve years ago," he said,
*' a native of New Brunswick, and dwelt
in Chatham, on the south bank of the
Miramichi river, about twenty miles from
its mouth. My mother was a Scotch
woman ; my father, who had died when
I was a child, a native of New York.
Twelve years ago I was employed as head
clerk in the saw mills belonging to
Messrs. Cunard and Co., on the river
just named, and I was thirty years of
age.

'* In my capacity as head clerk I had
a good deal of what we called moving
work in those days. This meant travelling
about to neighbouring towns and
transacting business with different firms
and lawyers. One saw a certain amount

of life in this manner, and made a fair
number of acquaintances.

'' Well, in the course of my business
travels I became acquainted with a certain
pair of sharp lawyers called Messrs.
Fleecemm and Catchem, who were reckoned
smart fellows in those parts. There were
dark stories afloat of how they had made
their money and established themselves asa
firm ; but people were not too particular
as to their antecedents, and reckoned
more their ability and business capacity
than anything else.

Messrs. Fleecemm and Catchem dwelt
in Newcastle, which stands on the opposite
side of the river to Chatham, and
with them dwelt an orphan girl named
Madeline Dartrey. No one knew who

she was nor whence she came, and
though Messrs. Fleecemm and Catchem
called her their ward, people shook their
heads and did not take kindly to the
story. But whoever she was, she possessed
that which no one could dispute, and
that was beauty. I never shall forget
her as I first saw her. She was nineteen
years of age, and from the moment
I set eyes upon her I fell madly overhead
and ears in love with her.

'' Madeline Dartrey did not repulse me
altogether, but she would not accept the
proposal of marriage which I made to
her. She took my presents, made good
use of me  I fetched and carried for
her like a dog ; but she told me that
unless I could bring her wealth with my

hand she would not marry me. Such a
response to so much abject devotion
should have opened my eyes to her true
character, but I was too madly, too blindly
in love, and saw nothing, thought of
nothing but how to gain her affections
and win her as my wife.

About this time there suddenly appeared
in the locality two young Englishmen,
who had arrived in that part of
the world presumably to hunt and fish.
They applied to Messrs. Fleecemm and
Catchem for information respecting the
best places to enjoy those amusements,
and at the latter's cordial invitation arranged
to make the lawyers' abode their
head-quarters. Until they came. Lady
Maeva, mv life had been an honest one.

I had spent the greater part of it with
my aged mother, whose only hope and
support I was. She had ever striven to
bring me up honourably and righteously
to do my duty, speak the truth, and bean
honest, upright man.

'' But with the advent of these men
my downward course began. The day
burns still into my brain when I first
came upon them sitting smoking in the
verandah of Messrs. Fleecemm and Catchem's
snuggery. Madeline was in attendance.
I had brought her a trinket, a pale blue
turquoise coloured necklace, which I
thought would suit well her rich, dark
beauty. She received me coldly and rejected
my offering. Ah ! what I suffered
no words of mine could express. I was

half mad with misery and jealousy. I
knew not what I did.

'' I returned to my home on the Miramichi
river a soured and desperate man. Shame
on me, curses be on my head, for the
brutal way in which I afterwards received
my poor dear mother's caresses and sympathetic
love ! I continually upbraided her
for our plain, homely existence, and taunted
her with the fact that she had impoverished
herself and me by paying my father's debts
when he died ; I raved at her like the
drunken lunatic I was, for I had sought
to drown my misery in the degrading
remedy of drink. Poor kind old mother !
she was too old, too frail, too suffering to
bear my brutal excesses ; she took to her
bed and died. And I, Lady Maeva, who

should have been beside her, who should
have held her poor dear hand in mine,
and sought to soothe the suffering she was
enduring by gentleness and filial love, at
the moment she passed away, lonely and
unattended, was indulging in noisy drunken
excess.

'' The news reached me one day that
she, for the love of whom I had thus
fallen, was to be married to one of these
English visitors. I had ascertained who
they were. One, a pale, sickly-looking
youth of twenty-one, was Ruthven, Earl
of Wrathness ; the other was his cousin
and heir-presumptive, Mr. Harold Darrell.
I had ascertained, moreover, that this latter,
who was a fine, handsome young man, was
hopelessly, like myself, head over ears

enamoured of her, and at daggers drawn
with his cousin in consequence of his
engagement.

But the marriage came off nevertheless.
Messrs. Fleecemm and Catchem were not
the men to allow such a prize to escape
them. It was hurried on, and very little
engagement time allowed for, and Madeline
Dartrey became Lady Wrathness.

'' But though she had married him, and
Messrs. Fleecemm and Catchem had netted a
good round sum by the transaction, Lady
Wrathness's heart was not in her husband's
keeping. I believe she had the greatest
loathing for the puny, sallow-faced little
fellow, while in her heart she was burning
with a consuming passion for his handsome
cousin young Harold Darrell.

Be that as it may, I received one day
a note in her own handwriting in which
she begged me to come and see her. Had
I been any one else but the idiot that I
was, I would have spurned her message
underfoot, and treated it with rigid silence.
But I did not. The passion for that bad
beautiful creature was still upon me. I
cared not on what terms I saw her again,
so that I might see her and be by her
side. Lady Maeva, I obeyed the summons
and I went. Cunning, clever, scheming
woman, she received me with downcast
looks and tears. She feigned a love forme
she never felt, and cast the blame of
her marriage on her so-called guardians.
Dupe that I was, I believed her and
listened to her viper tongue. Mr. Harold

Darrell had mysteriously disappeared upcountry
somewhere, and the ground was
free for her intrigue with me.

She led me on bit by bit. I was mad
for the love of her. There was nothing
I would not have done at her bidding,
and she knew it.

Lady Maeva, she tested me at last ;
she hinted to me the purpose foul she had
conceived ; she offered me the price of its
reward  her hand. Briefly, she promised
me to marry me if I would do away with
Jim, her husband. It was about this time
that Harold Darrell returned. A sort of
patched-up reconciliation took place between
the cousins, who became to all appearance
friends once more. But there was this
about Madeline, she seemed to have the

power of fascination upon us all three, and
she took good care young Harold should
not escape her. It was easy to see he
loved her still.

''Ah! do not look at me so with
those sad grey eyes of yours, or I shall
never be able to finish my tale. It is
difficult for hoary sin to face the features
of a pure, good life. But, Lady Maeva,
I had sold myself to the passion of my
life, and was doomed. Let me whisper
it,  I accepted her terms, nay, with cold-blooded
ferocity unfolded to her my
plan.

'' I bade her on a certain specified night
express a wish to obtain a draught of a
certain water which is procurable only from
a certain spring, which bubbles up in one

corner of a certain cave called ' Condemn
Weegan,' situated in the Indian Reserve,
near the Big Hole, on the north-west of
Newcastle. This cave can only be reached
from the water, and past it the river rushes
very rapidly about ten feet below. I told
her to address us charmingly, to invite us
all to proceed thither in quest of the
desired beverage, and before we started
to drink our health all round in wine. I
had secretly resolved that the glasses of
Lord Wrathness and his cousin should be
drugged,  you shall learn wherefore,  and
I promised that night to do the deed. She
agreed to my proposition, and I laid my
plans accordingly. I conveyed to the cave
two heavy leaden weights, to which I
attached a strong short chain, with a snap

VOL. IL 7

collar at the other end, and secreted it
close to the entrance.

'' The day arrived. We sat at table
discussing the evening meal. Suddenly
my lady complained of neuralgic pains, and
feigned great suffering. ' If you men have
a spark of chivalry in you,' she exclaimed,
you will fetch me a draught of water
from the Condemn Weegan spring. It is
the only remedy I have found yet which
assuages these pains.' Simultaneously we all
three sprang to our feet. Lord Wrathness
and Harold Darrell were heated with the
wine which I had drugged. The former
asked his cousin, angrily, ' what the devil
he wanted to come for. Were not two
men enough to fetch a draught of water ? '
She glanced at Harold, and gave him an

encouraging little nod. He replied, hotly,
that he intended to go. High words ensued.
She interfered and begged them to makepeace,
and for her sake to go quickly.
Pledge me,' she cried, ' each of you before
you go in one more glass of wine.'

Poor dupes ! they did so. Both of
these men loved that woman. She hated
one in return. She loved the other passionately,
but this at the time I knew not,
for I too was her dupe.

We reached the cave by means of a
boat, and swung ourselves upwards by the
help of a rope which hung suspended from
the interior. The drugged wine was taking
effect. Already Harold was stupefying fast,
and Wrathness was pretty nearly gone.
The former staggered forward into the

cave and sank upon the ground well-nigh
speechless ; the latter stood against the
crystal rocks of the interior, striving to
steady himself. Now was my time. I
stole to his side. I am a powerful man,
you see,  he a poor, puny boy. I seized
him by the throat. He strove to cry, to
struggle. His glazed eyes started from
their sockets. I dragged him to the entrance,
and dashed his head against the
pointed rocks. Quickly I snapped around
his neck the collar to which was attached
the chain and weights, and hurled him into
the rapid waters below. They closed above
him with a gurgle, and Ruthven, Lord
Wrathness, sleeps beneath the Miramichi
river. Mad with excitement, I rushed into
the inner cave, and dragged the prostrate

Harold from where he lay, letting him
down into the boat by means of the cord.
Quickly I followed him, and rowed the
boat to land. A bright thought had struck
me when 1 first formed my plan. I determined
to accuse Harold Darrell with the
murder of his cousin.

"How I got him back to the house I
never knew. The tale I told on arrival
was, that Lord Wrathness had fallen into
the river, in a drunken state, from the
cave's edge, and, before help could reach
him had been swept away, and was
drowned. To Madeline I, of course,
confided the truth, though, for the matter
of that, I had sketched on paper my
plan and committed it to words. She
had taken possession of this living proof

of my guilt, had thoroughly perused
it, and knew all,

Then I claimed from her the price of
my foul deed. She put me off with the
excuse that, for appearances' sake, I must
bide my time a bit, and let her act the
part of a mourning widow. I fell into
the snare. I waited as she bade me.
I woke up one morning to learn that she
was the engaged of Harold Darrell, now
Earl of Wrathness. In my madness and
fury I went to him and accused him of
murder. I told him that on that fatal
night, drunk with wine and jealousy, the
two had quarrelled in the cave. I
described to him how he had struck
his cousin, and then hurled him into the
rushing Miramichi, beneath which the poor

lad had sunk to rise no more. I told
him that for her sake I held the secretin
silence, but that on the day he married
her I would denounce him.

Lady Maeva, he believed me, and to
this day he imagines he did the deed,
though with no malice aforethought. The
next day I received a visit from him,
when he offered me a large sum down
to observe silence, and a handsome annuity
for life if I would leave the country, and
be to the world as dead. I accepted,
and for this reason.

After my first interview with him
I had gone to her, and, after bitter
upbraiding, had sworn to expose Lord
Wrathness as the murderer of his cousin.
With a cruel laugh she told me that she

held In her possession my carefully prepared
plan and minute of the projected
murder. She swore that if I acted thus,
and attempted to prevent her marriage,
she would expose me as the actual
murderer, and bring me to justice.

She was too many for me, and I
succumbed to her scheming. On receiving
Lord Wrathness's letter I accepted his
offer, and came here. Here I have dwelt
since that fatal day, a miserable, heartbroken
man, with but two objects in life,
the heaping up of gold and revenge.

I have succeeded in both. Through
my instrumentality he was made aware
of the character of the woman he had
wedded, details of which I shall not
dream of relating to one so young and

pure as you. I had the satisfaction of
seeing his love for her turn to hate, and of
learning that long since he left her, and
refused to live with her as his wife,
giving her an allowance, but otherwise
disowning her. And she in turn now
hates him bitterly, and pursues him with
unrelenting vengeance, while he is paralysed
with the belief that he is the
murderer of his cousin, and, as such,
seeks to evade the malicious vengeance
of his wife, who he now believes to be
in possession of his secret. I alone am
the unhappy witness of the truth. If I
present myself to declare him innocent,
that woman holds over me the clear,
proven charge, writ in my own hand, of
murder."

CHAPTER XV.

" Silence, drear, dead silence followed
upon this fearful avowal of crime.

The prematurely aged man sat in exactly
the same position, only that his hand
closed tighter over his eyes, and his head
sank heavier upon that hand. They were
a strange pair, those two. One so fallen
and so steeped in crime, so almost past
redemption in his sullen, heart-broken
despair ; the other a girl, a mere child,
who six months before knew nothing
either of love or hate, of passion or
jealousy, and much less of murder.

But Maeva, child though she was in

years, had for ever overstepped the
boundary-Hne which separates that tender
age from womanhood. She had grasped
the secret which, old since the world
began, has nerved the heart of woman
to deeds of valorous self-sacrifice and
stupendous daring. For what will not a
woman do or dare for the man she loves ?
What was it that prompted this favoured
child of nature, with a world of happiness
before her, with all that hungry humanity
most covets, to fling every thought of
such from her, and to concentrate every
energy and strain every nerve to save
from a hunted life, and perhaps terrible
end, a man who could be nothing to her
in the future ? Maeva could answer this
question well. She knew that since that

moment when she found him, in the darkness
of night, stretched on that lonely ledge
in the most dreaded spot of the Gleena
Forest, a bleeding, maimed, and helpless
cripple, hovering between life and death
because he had sought to gratify her childish
whim,  she knew that her heart had gone
out to him past recall, and that she loved
him, loved him with a passionate, clinging
love, which can only come once in a
lifetime to any mortal being.

She never paused to ask herself if he
loved her in return. That was no part
of her rigid loyalty and devotion. She
only knew one thing, that was, that she
loved him, and that to save him from
misery and a fearful end she would
willingly give her life.

She sat so still after Richard Emerson
had ceased speaking that one might have
esteemed her dead or asleep. Her face
was very white ; she leant back in her
chair grasping its two arms tightly, the
beautiful eyes closed, the pearly teeth
rigidly clenched. In her mind's eye she
was reviewing the terrible tale she had
heard, and racking her brain for a
means of circumventing the relentless and
malicious intentions of that woman, who
had sworn to track and pursue him to
the uttermost ends of the earth till she
had brought his proud and haughty spirit
to bay. Maeva's mind was made up.

I see but one way to help Lord
Wrathness without betraying you," she
said, slowly and distinctly.

He raised his careworn face and looked
at her. " And that way ? " he exclaimed
eagerly.

'' We must get possession of the plan and
minute of the murder which you drew up,
and which you say is in her keeping."

He laughed drily. " You might as
well try to get the moon. You would
have about as much chance."

'' And yet that is the key to the situation,"
continued Maeva eagerly. 'with
that in our possession she would cease
to have any hold over you, and could
no longer threaten you with exposure,
unless you upheld her in her brutal and
revengeful purpose. Tell me, Mr. Emerson,
have you no shadow of idea where the
document is ? "

I have none whatever," he replied
wearily ; " would to God I had, I would
move heaven and earth to obtain it ! "

"Well, it must be got somehow or other,"
exclaimed Maeva. " Lady Wrathness left
for Chili, you said ? "

She went on in the Valparaiso, which
is bound for Santiago," he replied; "but
whether she lands there or not she made
no mention to me."

Maeva rose from her seat.

I can do nothing more here to-day, it
appears to me." she said quietly ; " but,
Mr. Emerson, will you let me say this
much ? I came to you to-day to learn
the truth of this terrible accusation. You
offered to sell me all the information you
possessed if I would pay for it, and you

named your sum, ; 10,000. As I pointed
out to you, until I come of age I cannot

pay the money, but I gave you my word
of honour that the moment I did, you
should have it ; and moreover I pledged
my word to keep your confession secret.
Both those promises I sacredly swear to
observe ; and you have told me that you
trust me."

I do," he said in a low voice.

*' And that trust shall not be misplaced,"
she continued; "and for fear of
my death, I shall leave a written statement
and request in regard to the money.
There will be no fear that you will not

A. 'a. "

get It.

He bowed his head but said nothing.
Maeva made a movement as if to go.

Suddenly she paused. There was a look
of intense pity in her eyes as she turned
and looked at him.

'forgive me," she said gently, " but oh !
Mr. Emerson, will you not pray to God,
whose name you mentioned just now, and
ask Him to pardon you and help you to
repent ? Do not let this terrible crime
drag you lower and lower in despair, until
you cease to know what hope, repentance,
and forgiveness mean. Will you try and
remember what your poor old mother
taught you once ? Will you strive to atone
for your terrible past ? "

He raised his head and looked at her
with a wild, haggard expression. There
was a gleam of mockery in his sunken eyes,
a withering smile on his thin, pinched lips.

VOL. IL 8

As Maeva sadly eyed him, she could hardly
bring herself to believe that he was only
forty two. He had all the appearance of
a man past sixty.

'' Child," he cried, " you know not what
you ask. It is impossible. 1 cannot pray
to a God I do not believe in, or ask
forgiveness where I hope for none. To
sink lower than I have already is not
possible. Have I not reached the lowest
abyss of infamy now ? Do not, I charge
you, mention my mother's name ; it is dead
to me for eternity. I have no hope left
to me now. I live for but two things, as
I have told you  revenge and gold.
Leave me." He ceased speaking. The
silvering head sank down upon his arms
outstretched upon the table, and the miserable,

fallen, hopeless man burst into a
terrible fit of weeping.

She stared at him in a bewildered way.
His words had struck her with a strange
dread. She felt that between her and this
man an abyss of terrible depth lay, separating
their natures and very existence.
Very silently and softly the girl withdrew.
As she passed along the corridor to the front
door the trickling of the fountain was the
only sound that broke the stillness of that
quiet house, save one, and that was the sad,
despairing sobs of the lonely, unbelieving,
unrepentant murderer. With a shudder she
turned the handle of the door and passed
out into the streets of Rio. Esca was walking
slowly up and down outside. He looked
at her eagerly as she came to meet him.

"Well, good news, I hope?"

She laid her hand upon his arm.

'' Yes, I have good news," she said.
Esca, I cannot tell you all I have heard
to-day, because I am pledged to secrecy.
But I can tell you this much. Lord
Wrathness did not murder his cousin.
The man who did it is alive, and Lady
Wrathness holds written proof of his guilt.
But if Lord Wrathness is to be saved that
written proof must be obtained."

Whew-w-w ! " he whistled ; " will that
be possible ? "

'rit must be!" she exclaimed passionately;
" it must be even if I die in getting
it."

He smiled. '' No, Maeva," he said very
gently, '' if it is possible to get it, and it

be God's will, I will get It for you ; but if
any one is to die in obtaining it, that person
shall be myself"

She started. His words seemed to let
a flood of light into her brain. She looked
up at him with beseeching eyes.

"Oh! do not talk like that, dear Esca ;
many a true word is spoken in jest. It
would break my heart if any harm came
to you through your unselfish, generous
friendship for me."

He did not answer her. The boy with
the fair, manly face, blue eyes, and yellow-gold,
clustering hair was looking out over
the blue bay of Rio Harbour, away beyond,
on the gorgeous tropical girt hills. He was
thinking that his would be a happy death
indeed, if by it he purchased happiness for

her ; that his reward would be sweet beyond
measure if she were to mourn his loss.

They were turning into the old marketplace
again, redolent with the odour of
many and varied fruits. There was a good
sprinkling of naval officers about the place,
all intent on the purchases they were making.
As the midshipman and his girl-friend
passed through it they came upon Ronald
and several other miss, in fits of laughter
over the antics of various small monkeys,
who were grinning, and fighting, and
grimacing in a big cage within which they
were confined.

** Oh, Esca, Maeva, do come here ! "
sang out Ronald, on perceiving them.
** Did you, either of you, ever see such
ducks as these monkeys are ? Stanley,

Cresswell, and I have been in agonies of
laughter. These apes are enough to kill
one altogether."

'' I say, Hamilton, have you heard the
news ? " inquired young Stanley, turning
to Esca ; and as this latter shook his head
and looked at the mid inquiringly that
jubilant young officer continued, 

Why, the corvette Dauntless has received
the Admiral's orders to take a cruise
right round the coast of South America,
under dear old Captain Rose ; and she's
to carry, besides the first lieutenant, four
others, four subs, and eight of us miss.
Who do you think these latter are ? Why,
you, Angus, I, Graham, Douglas, Percy,
Cresswell, and Stanford. Ain't it rare good
luck ? Won't we have a pot of fun, my boy ? "

Thank God ! " Esca heard Maeva fervently
exclaim ; and as he looked at her
she whispered in a low voice, " Then we
shall not be separated, for I am going to
ask my father to go that way too."

He flushed with pleasure. So his presence
was a comfort to her really. He was
of some use to her. Oh ! how happy the
thought made him. But he only said,
addressing himself to Stanley, " I am glad.
It will be ripping."

And Maeva, as she looked at the monkeys
to please Ronald, and laughed with
him and his middy friends over their
squabbling and antics, was revolving in
her mind a multitude of things, and framing
plans for the future. In those happy
August and earlier September days, when

she had sat with Lord Wrathness discussing
the coming voyage round the world,
he had often described to her spots and
scenes which he had come across in former
wanderings, and which he had promised to
show her in the travels to come ; for it
must be remembered that he was to have
formed one of the Firefly party. And she
remembered how he had described to her
the lonely, vast-extending pampas of Patagonia,
where it was possible to ride for
hundreds of miles without meeting a single
human being, and that in those regions
only had he experienced the peculiar feeling
of being utterly and entirely alone. And
Maeva and he had discussed this strange,
lonely land often together, and she had
frequently expressed a wish in his presence

to make it one of the very first places to
be visited by the Firefly.

''He is sure to go there," she said to
herself; '' and that dreadful woman will
miss him if she goes on to Chili in the
Valparaiso. Oh ! how I do hope he has
landed in Patagonia."

She had determined to ask her father tolet
the yacht take the same course as the
corvette Dauntless was directed to cruise
on. There would be nothing strange in
this request, as it was but natural that she
should wish to see as much of Ronald as
possible, and the route was all in order fora
voyage round the world. The Firefly
party were all expected back in three days,
and it would be very easy to arrange to
leave Rio the same day as the corvette.

As she and Esca walked on to the landing-stage,
where one of the yacht's boats was
awaiting them, she told him her plans.
He listened to them with delight.

I hope Lord Ettrick and Captain Rose
will be able to hit it off between them,
though, in such a manner that the Dauntless
and Firefly will stop at the same places,"
he remarked, a little anxiously. " It would
be awful hard lines if we got separated.
Do ask Lord Ettrick to try and keep with
us, won't you, Maeva ? "

"That is just what 1 intend to ask him,
Esca," she replied, quietly. " Leave that
to me, I think I shall be able to manage
it all right."

They were nearing the Bucephalus as she
spoke. Esca looked at his watch.

"My time's almost up now," he remarked.
I've got to go on duty in half an hour.
Can you put me on board, please ? I shall
not be able to go on with you to the yacht.
I shall see you, however, again to-night, as
Ronald has asked me to dine there, and
we have both got leave to come."

She was steering, and at once turned the
boat's nose for the ironclad, which loomed
ahead like an enormous monster of the deep,
rearing itself above the placid waters of
the harbour, that day undisturbed by a
single current of air. Half-a-dozen powerful
strokes from the four stalwart sailors
that rowed the boat brought them well-nigh
to the Bucephalus. In a clear, ringing
voice she gave the order to ship oars, and
brought the boat round with a neat curve

alongside the landing-place. Esca, who
was standing up, sprang out.

Au revoir ! " he exclaimed, holding out
his hand and leaning down to where she
sat. " We shall meet again this evening.
Look out for Ronald and me about half-past
six or a quarter to seven. We'll come the
earliest we can, you bet."

She smiled as she took his hand. She
thought she had never seen him look so
handsome before. The flush of perfect
health was on his fair face, his blue eyes
looked so kind and winning, his yellow-gold
hair, refined by the action of taking
off his cap, played about his forehead in
clustering curls, those curls which had been
his fond and loving mother's delight and
pride, and which he would often laughingly

term '' obstreperous monkeys," when they
frequently wandered outside the region of
strict neatness. Yes, he looked handsome
indeed, as he stood there in the prime of heu
boyhood and youth, a boyhood which hac
been singularly noble and pure, a youth ir
whom all the promise of boyhood shone
forth conspicuously bright. His was a
nature which none could do otherwise but
love, so generous, impulsive, truthful, gentle,
and kind. Yes, Esca indeed looked handsome
as he stood there, waving a smiling
adieu, and the picture was one which
Maeva, who looked upon it then, never
from that day could forget.

It came back to her long afterwards,
when he was no longer by to cheer her
with kindly hope and boyish honest counsel.

It came back to her when the sand of time,
running its course, swiftly, surely, with no
returning wave, spoke to her of days that
could never come again. It came back to
her in her dreams, when in restless sleep
she seemed to hold communion with her
boy-friend, as in those vanished days. It
came back to her in many a sudden
memory that would rise involuntarily, all
unbidden to her mind, of that brave,
generous, boyish, noble heart, that had
beat with such loyal, enthusiastic devotion 
for her, the first and the last love of his
young life.

''TTHAT place do you call this,
Captain Leportier ? " inquired
a tall dark-haired man, who, arrayed in a
mackintosh and sou'wester, had been pacing
up and down the deck of the Pacific
Steam Navigation Company's liner the
Valparaiso, as, amidst a squall of hail,
rain, wind, and spray, it dropped anchor
well on in the afternoon in the Straits
of Magellan, opposite and about a mile
distant from a long, low-stretching, sandy
shore, upon which the surf beat with relentless
fury.

'* Puntass Arenas, otherwise Sandy Point,"

answered the officer addressed, in a brisk
voice; adding, "we are going to try and
get the mails off if it is possible, but it
is blowing pretty hard, and we shall have
a job, I expect, to do so."

'' I suppose you cannot get this big
vessel any nearer the shore with safety ? "
inquired the man of the captain again.

'' Shouldn't like to try," observed that
individual drily, " unless I wanted to forfeit
my post and lose my ship into the bargain."

** There's a yacht braced up and lying
pretty close to the shore," observed the
man, as he unslung a binocular from his
shoulder and looked carefully through the
glasses. " Can you make out who she is,
captain ? " he added, handing that officer
the binoculr:

VOL. IL 9

** Yes," answered Captain Reporter slowly,
as he took a survey of the anchored craft,
that lay about half a mile distant from the
Valparaiso; " I've often seen her before,
she's no stranger to these seas. Her name's
the Mayflower, and her owner is the Earl
of Wrathness. I believe he's a regular
globe-trotter, been all over the world."

" The Mayflower ! " exclaimed the man,
hastily seizing the glasses which the captain
was handing him back as he spoke, and
looking eagerly through them. " Are you
sure it is, captain ? "

" As sure as I am that this is the valparaiso''
responded the captain, a little
impatiently. 'they! Mr. Charlton," he
called out to the first officer, who was on
the bridge, '' better let them have a little

powder there on shore, and hurry them
up. We can't stay here all day."

'* Aye, aye, sir," sang out the individual
addressed, a smart type of the mercantile
marine officer. The next moment the good
ship reverberated from stem to stern, as
the gallant vee nine-pounder belched forth
its smoky and noisy message to the half
dead-alive inhabitants of Puntass Arenas.

'' They're launching the surf-boat now,
sir," called out Mr. Charlton from the
bridge, who had been watching through
his glasses the effect of the nine-pounder's
message. " Mails up, men, there  look
alive ! "

'' Aye, aye, sir," responded several voices.

I think I shall bid you good-bye here,
Captain," observed the man who had been

hitherto addressing him. '' I should not
like to pass Patagonia without having a
look at the country, and I suppose one
of your liners will soon be passing again,
eh?"

Every fortnight," ejaculated the captain
shortly. He had not taken a liking to this
passenger somehow, and treated him with
mere frigid politeness. In his heart he was
not sorry that the individual in question
was taking himself off.

The man said no more, but went
below. A quarter of an hour later he
came on deck again, carrying what had
the appearance of a small black business
bag ; while one of the stewards followed
him bearing a neat portmanteau, a gun,
rifle, cartridge-case, and bundle of rugs

These he set down on the deck close to
the companion ladder. Judging by his
obsequious behaviour, the owner of these
articles had given him a handsome tip.
The surf-boat was slowly nearing the
Valparaiso, half-enveloped from time to
time in clouds of spray, which the shrieking
squalls hurled over the Hat-bottomed
craft with ungovernable fury. There were
four oars in the boat, each manned by
two men, who were pulling with all their
might and main against the waves and
sudden blasts, that made rowing anything
but child's work. A ninth man was at
the helm, and a tenth standing up in
the bows, with a coil of rope all ready
to throw on board.

Now, Mr. Darrell ; sorry to hurry you,

sir, but you'll have to look sharp if you
want to board that old tub without getting
a dousing," exclaimed the captain, coming
up to the passenger's side as he stood
watching the surf-boat's approach.

Very good, captain," he answered
coolly, "I'm not green at that sort of
work ; if you'll guarantee my luggage gets
in, I'll guarantee myself gets in safe
enough."

'' That's a bargain," observed the officer.

The tub, as it had been irreverently
called by the captain, had reached the
ship's stern, and with a magnificent cast
aloft the man in the bows had sent the
rope with unerring aim into the hands of
several sailors, who stood ready to grasp
and make it tight to the ship. By this

time wind and current had drifted it in a
line with the ladder, and as it heaved
upwards to the deck the mails were transferred
with extraordinary rapidity to its
interior. Alive and alert the sailors had
to be, as a moment too late or a moment
too soon, would have enveloped the precious
bags in the stormy waters, as the
surf boat sank into the trough of the
sea.

'everything in, lads?" inquired the
first officer cheerily of the men as he
descended from his perch aloft.

'' Everything, sir," they responded
promptly.

"And this gentleman's luggage, eh?"
*' Aye, aye, sir ; stowed away all safe."
Then good-bye, Captain Leportier,"

said Mr. Darrell, holding out his hand to
that officer.

But stay, sir, we must let you in with
a rope," called out the first officer warningly.


'* Here, Stoker, passenger's rope  sharp."
No need," observed the passenger
quietly, as after having shaken the captain's
hand he stepped back a few paces.
The next moment he had run forward,
leapt lightly on to the rail, and balancing
himself to a nicety had dropped into the
stern of the surf boat as it rose on a
more than usually excitable wave.

*' By Jove, that was neatly done ! " exclaimed
Mr. Charlton to the captain ; '' the
man gave me quite a turn at first. I
thought he was going to commit suicide,"

"He looks evil enough for anything,"
responded Captain Leportier, with a shrug
of the shoulders ; "I never saw a face I
liked less."

Handsome enough to please most
people," suggested Mr. Charlton with a
smile.

'' Yes, with the beautiful expression of
a fallen angel, Charlton. Take my word
for it,  I'm a bit of a character reader,
and I tell you that man's a bad 'un."

'' Well, he's off now," observed the first
officer, with a laugh. '' I daresay you're
right, sir ; you generally are."

Well, there's nothing to keep us now.
No use dawdling here. Weigh anchor
and let's be off, Charlton," observed the
commander hastily, as if anxious to change

the conversation, and at the same time
moving towards the bridge.

Aye, aye, sir."

Up came the anchor quickly from its
watery bed. Round went the screw with
tremendous velocity. Soon the old Valparaiso
was at full speed, and steaming
rapidly for Cape Horn. Mr. Ruys Darrell,
or, as we may also call that personage,
Lady Wrathness,  for it was no other,
stood watching its disappearance from
the rickety old tumbledown pier which
was all Sandy Point could boast of, and
elevated from the water but a few yards.
It's lucky I did not go on in her," she
muttered, as the big looming ship disappeared
in the misty and squall-shrouded
distance ; "it was lucky I caught sight of

my lord's skulking Mayflower when I did.
Fate is working in my favour. I never
thought to track him as quickly as this.
He thought he had escaped me, and that
big-eyed child at Rio thinks him safe.
Ha, ha, ha!" and she laughed a mocking,
derisive laugh.

Mister want lodging ? Shall me carry
his things for him ? " inquired a sallow,
nondescript creature of the half-breed type,
touching his greasy cap.

'' Yes," answered the soliloquies in
response; 'show me where I can get a
room and something to eat."

Mister fuller me," said the half-breed
glibly, as he shouldered the portmanteau,
tucked gun and rite under one arm, and
seized with his left hand the cartridge-case

and roll of rugs. He even made
an attempt to possess himself of the black
business bag which Lady Wrathness carried
in her hand, but she waved him off.

No, leave it," she said, '' I will carry
this myself."

Her guide led the way up the only
street which the settlement contained, a
broad, sandy tract lined on each side by
a row of unevenly built wooden houses,
huts, and shanties. There were very few
people to be seen in this deserted looking
street ; a child or two sprawled in
the sand ; a Chilian soldier strutted along
with an air of importance ill becoming
his appearance or the place ; a hound
here and there yelped or snarled an
angry greeting. Everything looked what

the place was  a miserable, dead-alive
convict settlement. The half-bred nondescript
did not proceed very far, for turning
suddenly to the right he brought
himself up at the entrance of a square
logwood-built house of better appearance
than most of the other buildings. A
swarthy Gaucho Indian lay stretched out
on the sand in a state of semi-intoxication,
and at his feet lay curled up two
black, wiry-looking dogs, a cross between
the Scotch deerhound and African greyhound.


'* Pedro ! " shouted the nondescript ina
cracked guttural voice.

A man with a Spanish face answered
the call. " This mister want lodging,
food," explained the nondescript, pointing

to Lady Wrathness, who stood just behind
him.

'' Vous parlez francis, monsieur ? "
inquired Pedro, addressing himself to her
with a low bow.

'* Pas bien," she responded; "but you
can speak English, cannot you ? "

Very beetle," he replied diffidently,
'' but perhaps 'enough make myself understand'. "

'' Can you give me a room of some
sort?" she asked him next; ''I must have
one to myself"

'' This only a store, but there is empty
room upstairs ; if monsieur like make shakedown
there. I can give monsieur bread,
meat, beer, brandy, or mania."

Show me the room then, and take
me up some bread, meat, and a bottle of

brandy there," she answered quickly; "and
here, you man, bring up my luggage."

The nondescript made haste to obey,
and Lady Wrathness following the two
men up a narrow wooden staircase found
herself in a small empty room with a tiny
window in it. There was absolutely nota
shred of furniture of any kind, not so
much as a chair or table, much less a
bed. She handed the nondescript a silver
coin ; he seized it like a wild beast, and
rushing down the staircase began shouting
to Pedro to give him some mania.

Lady Wrathness heard him, and asked
her landlord what mania was.

A hot drink," he replied, '' stronger
than brandy ; Arius soon drunk now."

Well, go and give him his mania," she

answered with a laugh, " and bring me
my brandy."

Monsieur will be served in a moment,"
he replied, as he vanished downstairs.

Left to herself, Lady Wrathness opened
the black bag, which had never quitted
her hands since she left the Valparaiso,
and peering inside smiled.

Safe," she muttered, '' safe as a door-nail.
It would not do to lose you, would
it ? Without you 1 should be a helpless
cripple in my path of vengeance ; without
you that skulking husband of mine would
be able to snap his fingers in my face.
Ah ! but I have you safe, and I will never
let you from my grasp ; if I lost you I
might as well be dead."

She broke off abruptly, for Pedro was

ascending the stairs. He entered the
next moment bringing a loaf of bread, a
knife, two cold chops, and a bottle of
brandy, together with a glass and a jug of
water. These he set down on the floor,
brought some salt out of his pocket in a
dirty piece of paper, and with the remark
'' Monsieur est servi," left the apartment.

Lady Wrathness felt in her pocket and
brought out a knife, in a recess of which
nestled a corkscrew. This latter she
quickly opened, screwed it into the brandy
bottle's cork, and drew it out hastily.
The next moment she had filled the glass
half-full with that raw liquid, and raising
it to her lips had tossed it off.

She smacked them together with relish
as the burning fluid trickled down her

VOL. IL ' lO

throat. She felt it circulating through
her body, filling her veins with a strange
electric fire. The dull, miserable room
looked bright enough in her eyes now,
all was couleur de rose. She looked at
the bread and cold chops and salt lying
in the dirty paper at her feet, and spurned
them with a movement of disgust. She
looked at the bottle with its rich, golden-brown
liquid therein, and bending down
poured out yet another draught, which she
tossed off in the same way as she had
done the first.

She was ready for anything now. Her
brain was on fire, yet she had sense
enough about her to undo her rugs and
lay them out in a corner of her room.
The portmanteau she placed close by, the

gun, rifle, and cartridge-case alongside, and
the precious black bag exactly where she
could hold it with her hands when lying
down.

'' I am tired," she muttered ; *' better to
have a sleep before I decide on anything.
I can see my lord tomorrow."

There was a triumphant ring in her
voice. She had run the hunted quarry to
bay, and could bide her time for its
destruction. So at least thought Lady
Wrathness, as she threw herself on her
hard couch in a semi-unconscious state,
and closed her dark, gleaming, and wicked
eyes. With her hands close clutching the
black business bag, this woman, scheming,
bad, revengeful, with the hell-fire water
burning within her, sank into a heavy but

restless slumber. Often during the dark,
lonely night she would spring up into a
sitting posture, and clutching wildly in
front of her cry out in fear and horror,
while beads of sweat sprang sparkling
upon her dark terror-stricken features as
she endured her fearful dreams.

She dreamed that he stood beside her,
that tall, handsome, sad-eyed man, whose
life she had sought to ruin and turn into
a desert. She dreamt that she, knife in
hand, was attempting to spring upon him
and stab him in the heart, but that ever
as she strove to reach him he vanished
from her sight, only to appear again,
pale, melancholy, and reproachful. She
dreamed that by a superhuman effort
she had grasped him at last, and that

the knife was poised ready to strike him
down. But even as it flashed through the
air she heard a cry full of intense pathos
and yearning, her hand was struck up,
the blade flew from her grasp, a torrent
of rushing blood poured down upon her.
It overpowered and overwhelmed her; she
felt it choking the life from her body.
She strove to free herself from its weight.
In vain. Down, down, she sank beneath
that ocean of gory foam, lost beyond
hope, beyond the possibility of rescue.
With a cry of fearful terror Lady
Wrath ness sprang up from where she lay.
The sun was streaming into the cheerless
room, the bread, cold meat, and salt lay
untouched upon the floor. By her side
lay the brandy-bottle, overturned on its

side, the liquid having streamed out in a
long, pear-shaped pool upon the boards.
What an awakening !

** Is the gentleman on his yacht now ? "
she inquired a few hours later of Pedro,
the storekeeper.

But no, monsieur, he gone into pampas,
hunting."

She ground her teeth.

'can I get horses and a guide here?"
she said eagerly.

*' But yes, monsieur. There is Gregory,
the best guide in all the country round.
He have horses, dogs, he know the
pampas well."

Two hours later, and a small cavalcade
rode out of the sandy, cheerless settlement
of Sandy Point. The cavalcade consisted

of ten loose horses, three wiry-looking
dogs, and three mounted horsemen. One
ot~ these was Greoforio, the Gaucho Indian;
the other Arius, the nondescript ; the third
Mr. Ruys Darrell, otherwise Lady Wrathness.
They were bound for the pampas
of Patagonia.

1\ /I Messrs. Fleecemm and Catchem satin
their business-room in No. 6,
Furnival Square, and obsequiously facing
them stood the Co., with smiHng visage,
and washing his hands with invisible
soap. We have seen Mr. Fleecemm before.
Mr. Catchem & Co. have hitherto not
been introduced to the reader.

Mr. Catchem was very unlike Mr.
Fleecemm. He was tall and spare, with a
meagre, sallow face, large hands, and
lugubrious expression. He rarely smiled,
and when he did, it was lugubriously;
certainly not within the memory of

business men had he been heard to laugh.
He dressed in black, had high stand-up
collars, and wore a ring on his first
finger. In business transactions Mr.
Catchem was unmatched ; he knew his
work to a T. No one had ever got six
to four the better of Mr. Catchem, but
this gentleman had frequently got six to
four the better of other people. He lived
for one thing  making money. In pursuit
of that hobby he was not particular
what he did or how he acted, so long
as the card turned up was trumps.
Messrs. Fleecemm and Catchem were a
nice pair !

The Co. was a cringing, oily man,
willing to do any amount of dirty work
so that it advanced the interests of the

firm of Fleecemm, Catchem, & Co. As
his soubriquet implied, he had an interest
in this firm's advancement, and he knew
that there was no better way to accomplish
this than by following out the
dictates of the two senior partners. In
selecting their Co. Messrs. Fleecemm
and Catchem had acted with their usual
discrimination.

'' Say we are out, Rawton," Mr. Fleecemm
was saying, at the time this chapter
opens. " Say we are not expected back
to-day. Say the capital must be paid
back sharp to time, and the interest every
penny down, or we must act as we have
said. Can't possibly extend the time.
Land is falling in value ; we must strike
while the iron is hot, if we are to turn an

honest penny by this transaction. Of course
you needn't mention this last remark, I
need hardly tell you, Rawton," concluded
the smart lawyer with a laugh.

Oh ! of course not, Mr. Fleecemm. Rely
upon me to say the right thing. Shall I
go to her ladyship now ? "

"Well, yes, Rawton, I think you had
better. Won't do to keep her too long,
you know. And mind you're careful.
She's a deuced clever woman, remember.
Has business matters at the end of her
finger nails. I'd rather face a dozen like her
husband than one of herself Eh, Catchem ? "
and Mr. Fleecemm laughed again.

Yes," assented Catchem, looking lugubriously
in front of him, " she is very
clever. Rawton, you must be very careful."

'' I will," answered that Individual, and
then he turned and left the room.

He passed down a narrow corridor and
opened the door of Mr. Fleecemm's snuggery,
the same which has been introduced to
the reader in a former chapter. Standing
looking out of the window at the gloomy
aspect of Furnival Square was a slight,
neatly-dressed lady, with a girlish figure,
and of medium height. As the door
opened she turned round, bowed slightly,
and with an inquiring expression said, 

Mr. Fleecemm?"

'* No, madam, I regret to say that both
Mr. Fleecemm and Mr. Catchem are away
out of town. Not expected back till
tomorrow," answered the oily Mr. Rawton,
with a smile and a wriggle.

"I am sorry for that; I particularly
wanted to see Mr. Fleecemm," she observed,
with a shade of annoyance in her tone.

I hope, Lady Plunger, I may do as
well as Mr. Fleecemm ; I am really as
perfectly acquainted with the matter in
which you and Sir Beaufort are interested
as my partner, and can discuss it with you
fully, if that is what you wish."

Hardly," she answered, and there was
a pathetic ring in her voice. '' I came in
the hope of seeing Mr. Fleecemm, and
inducing him to give us a few months
longer, in which to get the money to meet
the interest and pay off the loan. Cannot
you give me any hope that your partners
will agree to this ? "

I fear not, madam. The lenders have

called their money in, and if it is not paid
by the date specified, Mr. Fleecemm and
Mr. Catchem will have no alternative but
to put Boswell Towers and property, up
for sale."

But do you know what this means tous,
sir ? Since the mortgage was put on
the property, land has been going down fast
in value, and if you sell the dear old home
now, it is just as likely as not, to fetch
about enough to pay off the mortgagees
and leave no margin for us. This will
mean ruin."

Madam, in a matter of business we
can only look at it from one point of view.
No one will regret more than my partners
the inconvenience you and Sir Beaufort maybe
put to, but you see it cannot be helped."

Ah, sir, If but time could be given us,
I feel sure I and Sir Beaufort could pay
the money off, if you would re-consider
this crushing interest you are charging.
It is too heavy, and now I understand
compound interest is being charged."

"It is," replied Mr. Rawton, with a
smile. " Mr. Fleecemm and Mr. Catchem
always have made it a rule to charge
compound interest on loans, when the
payments due thereon, are not paid up
punctually. We have no alternative."

She looked at him with a contemptuous
expression on her anxious, intelligent face.
She saw that there was neither mercy nor
pity to expect in that direction, that to
plead would be waste of time, to appeal to
the heart worse than useless. She rose

Up from the seat on which she had sat
herself down after Mr. Rawton had entered
the room.

I am to understand then, that your
partners and yourself refuse to give my
husband time ? That in fact you mean to
ruin us ? "

''My dear madam, pray do not put it
in that light," said the oily Co., diffidently.

"Truth is the best light in which to see
all things," she replied scornfully. She
was thinking of the beautiful old home
in the Midlands, the dearly loved hunters,
the splendid kennel of setters, and of the
old scenes and spots in and around Boswell
Towers, where she and Sir Beaufort had
spent many a happy day together, until
the demon gambling took him away from

her. She was thinking how all these
would have to be parted with, and a farewell
for good made to the old favourite
haunts. She was thinking of the terrible
struggle there would be to meet all the
debts faithfully, and the weary labour of
winding everything up. And then her
thoughts flew onward to that dark future,
when poverty would stare them in the face,
and trouble, black trouble, would hang
above them like a pall.

''If it was only myself, I could face it,
I would not mind it, I could work for my
living," she cried half aloud ; " but there
are the boys, poor little chaps, and Beaufort
Oh ! how will he ever bear it ? "

She checked herself; she saw the Co's
eyes fixed upon her. Pride came to her

VOL. n. II

assistance. In a cold, matter-of-fact voice
she inquired, *' Can you give me the date
when the place will be put up ? "

I think we wrote Sir Beaufort, madam,
that it would be in six weeks from this."

'' Thank you," she said quietly. " Good-morning."
She passed him with a sneer on
her lips, and never so much as looked at
him. In another moment her hand was on
the door, and she was walking along the
corridor to the entrance. A neat brougham
stood waiting ; she ran quickly down the
steps, opened the door, and as she closed
it on herself, called out to the coachman :
'' Home."

He touched his hat, then his horse, a
fine blood bay, and the brougham quickly
rattled out of Furnival Square.

It made its way through a good many
intricate streets and turnings, but the coachman
knew his whereabouts well, and in
fifteen minutes from the time of leaving
Furnival Square it had pulled up in front
of its destination, a smart house in Albemarle
Street.

I shall not want you any more to-day,
Moss," said Lady Plunger, as she stepped
out of the brougham, " but come in for
orders about five o'clock."

'' Very good, my lady."

She rang the house bell, the door was
opened with alacrity ; the brougham drove
off as she entered.

Where is Sir Beaufort ? " she inquired
of the butler.

'* In the smoking-room, my lady,' answered

that portly individual, breathing hard. He
had just been having a cup of soup and
glass of wine, along with the lady's maid
and housekeeper, in the room downstairs,
and was considerably puffed by his hasty
ascent from below.

The smoking-room was on the ground
floor. Lady Plunger passed on to it,
opened the door, and entered the room,
closing the door softly behind her.

Sir Beaufort was seated by the fire, his
face in his hands. A half-finished brandy
and soda, and an extinct half-smoked
cigarette beside it, stood on a little table
close by.

He did not move as his wife entered.
She went close up to him, sat herself down
on one of the arms of the armchair in

which he was seated, and put her right
arm round his neck.

** Beaufort dear," she whispered.

He looked up wearily. His face was
flushed, his eyes bloodshot and distressed.
She could see plainly he had been drinking.

'well, what do you want?" he inquired,
peevishly; "don't bother, I'm not up to
much just now."

She kissed him gently. " Don't drink
any more at present, Beaufort, that's a good
boy,  please don't. You've had quite enough,
dear old chap. Let me take this horrid
stuff away." She had risen as she spoke
and laid her hand on the half-empty
soda-water glass. He jumped up with an
oath.

"I'm blowed if I'm going to be done

out of my drink ! " he exclaimed angrily ;
let it be, Glorie, do you hear ? "

'' Oh ! all right, Beaufort, drink away,"
she said, bitterly ; " but you can't go on
like this, you know. If it had not been
for that foul stuff, we should never have
been in the terrible position we are now.
Beaufort, I must have a talk to you. Do
you realise what Messrs. Fleecemm and
Catchem intend to do ? "

'what the devil's that to you?" he
said, hotly.

Everything," she said, sadly, knowing
well how the whole brunt of suffering and
worry would eventually fall upon herself.
'' But, Beaufort dear, do you realise that
Boswell Towers is to be put up for auction
in six weeks ? It will never fetch its worth

in the present terrible depreciation of land ;
and this being so, after the mortgagees have
been paid off there will be lite left for
us. We owe a great deal. How are all
the bills to be paid, and even if we do
manage to clear them, what will there be
left for us to live on ? "

'* Boswell Towers put up for auction,
Glorie ! Are you mad ? As if I would
allow the dear old place to be sold ! " he
exclaimed, contemptuously.

''Oh! Beaufort, dear, don't trifle like
that," she said, wearily. '' I have just seen
Messrs. Fleecemm and Catchem's partner, and
he says that if the loan you borrowed
from them six months ago, with the
interest owing, is not paid up to date,
that is to say in five days from now.

that the place will be put up for sale in
six weeks."

He stared at her and laughed.

'* It is no laughing matter, Beaufort ;
for we shall be utterly ruined. Instead
of thousands a year to spend, as you have
been accustomed to, you will have only
a few hundreds. We shall have to part
with everything, the horses, dogs, servants,
the box at Melton, and go and live quietly
in some little place with one or two
servants only. The boys will have to
give up all thought of Eton now, and
come home. Not that I mind that though,
I can teach them myself."

'' Live in a cottage  hundreds a year,
Glorie ? Certainly you are gone clean
cracked. To begin with, Bos well Towers

shan't be sold ; and secondly, if It was
not that It shall be  It is worth, and
would fetch, hundreds of thousands."

'* No," she answered firmly, "If it is
sold now it would not. It may realise
enough to pay off the mortgages on it,
but no more. I have been telling you
for the last year that you were exceeding
your income considerably, and that Mr.
Symonds could not possibly keep the
banking account going and meet all the
interests due on the mortgages as welland
since you raised that 68,000 at
twenty per cent., it has become simply
impossible to pay the interest on It. You
know, dear, you never will look into your
estate affairs, so you do not realise the
muddle they are in. Well, the climax has

come. Be a man and face it. I will do
all I can to save you bother and worry,
but you must face your position. Let us
work tooth and nail to pay every debt off
If we can manage that, the disaster will
not be so hard to bear."

'' Boswell Towers shan't be sold ! " he
shouted, stamping his foot, and pulling
the bell violently. '' I'll go and see
Fleecemmmm at once. Fleecemmmm's a rare good
chap. Of course you don't know how to
manage him. Never saw a woman yet
who could do business of any sort. Here,
Edward, call a hansom," he continued, as
the footman answered the bell.

'* Yes, Sir Beaufort."

Lady Plunger said nothing. She felt
that it was just as well that her husband

should call and see Mr. Fleecemm, and be
brought face to face with facts at once ;
so she interposed no objection.

The footman re-appeared.

The hansom is at the door, Sir
Beaufort."

'' All right, Edward, get me my hat,
stick, and gloves, put them in the hall,
and call Stokes. Look sharp ! " said the
baronet, as he pulled out a cigarette and
lit it. Then he turned to his wife.

'' Ta-ta, Glorie ! Shall be back for
dinner, not before. Good-bye, old girl ;
sorry I was cross,  you won't mind, will
you ? "

He put his hands on her shoulders and
kissed her ; she laid a hand on his arm.

'' Oh no, Beaufort ! I don't mind. I

know you never mean half you say. But,
dear, do try and think over what I
have told you ; and remember, you've
got a friend here when those whom you
now believe are your friends begin to turn
the cold shoulder on you. It won't belong
coming."

He laughed lightly. The brandy made
trouble seem nothing. The next moment
he was gone.

She sighed as she sat herself down in
his empty chair and looked into the fire.
She felt very sad and weary. So the
bright, gay life she had been leading
was all to come to an end, and in its
place black poverty and weary, hopeless
struggling to make ends meet. Glorie
Plunger had hitherto led a dashing.

brilliant life. She did most things well,
was a great favourite in society, gave
pleasant parties, had the best men around
her, and went to all the best places.
Many a man had loved Glorie Plunger, both
before and after her marriage ; not that
she was a coquette, or trifled with their
affections, but Glorie was attractive to men,
and they fell in love with her accordingly.

As she sat looking into the fire and
trying to imagine what the future would
be like, she found herself asking the
question, somewhat sneeringly, as to how
many of these fashionable friends and
lovers, would care for her in her straitened
circumstances ; and then she laughed a
bitter, contemptuous laugh as she answered
that question in the one word, " Few."

She sat on by the fire, making plans
and good resolutions, and endeavouring to
reckon up mentally all the payments that
would have to be made, the expenses that
would have to be put down, and the
amount which she and her husband and
two boys would in the hard future
have to subsist upon. The hours flew
by ; she did not go in to luncheon. It
remained untasted on the table. Suddenly
the door-bell rang. There were hurried
footsteps in the hall. The smoking-room
door was roughly opened and banged
to, admitting Sir Beaufort. He looked
wild and desperate ; there was a haggard,
despairing expression about his
eyes. Glorie sprang up and ran to meet
him.

*' Beaufort, dear, what is it ? " she
exclaimed anxiously.

'* God ! God help me!" he cried. "Oh!
Glorie, we are ruined. Boswell, dear old
Boswell, is going to be taken from me.
It will break my heart. Ah ! can nothing
be done to save the old home ? "

She put her arms round his neck and
tried to soothe him, as he burst into a
passionate fit of weeping.

'' A Vestrum, Vestrum, chop, chop,
La Plata, Sultan, La Leona ! "
shouted a young man. In a French accent,
as he took off his cap and waved it to
three great ostrich hounds that were trotting
in the rear of the wiry black horse
that he rode ; at the same time catching
hold of the horse's head by drawing therein
tight. At once the animal broke into
a gallop, the hounds pricked up their ears,
dashed forward, and in another moment
were racing along with great raking strides
in the wake of a swiftly-fleeing bundle of
grey feathers, the ostrich of the Patagonia

pampas, whom Francois Delacroix, the
smartest ostrich-hunter in all the plains
around, had designated to his dogs as
Vestrum.

At the same time a distant view-holloa
came floating across the plain, and three
mounted horses could be observed bearing
down upon the luckless bird. It was a
plucky quarry, however, was this swift-footed
denizen of the arid plain. Away
it dashed with most marvellous rapidity,
leaving horses and hounds far in the rear.
A low range of hillocky ground ran northwards
about a mile distant, and towards
this the fleeting ostrich pointed. Straining
every nerve, bending every sinew, in his
struggles to lessen the distance between
himself and the bird, La Plata, a coal-vol.
II. 12

black, sleek-coated greyhound, In whose
veins commingled the blood of the English
and African species of that name, was
gradually drawing ahead of Sultan and La
Lionaa. Now Sultan was a black-and-white
hound of the Indian lurcher breed, with a
rough coat, and not a quarter the speed of
La Plata. But La Lionaa, a yellow, rough-coated
bitch, a cross between the Scotch
deerhound and greyhound, showed evidence
that neither pluck nor determination
was wanting in her sturdy racing form,
though she could not emulate the splendid
speed of her black confrere.

They had settled down into *a racing
pace. Fran9ois, standing up and leaning
well forward in his stirrups, sent forth note
after note of encouragement to his straining

hounds, and close beside him the three
other mounted horses galloped well in line.
Their riders could be recognised at a glance,
for they were no other than Maeva, Ronald,
and Esca.

It may be as well to explain that the
Firefly and Dauntless had steamed out of
Rio Harbour in each other's company, and
after cruising along the coasts of Rana,
the Rio Grande do Sul, Uruguay, and
Buenos Ayres, whence expeditions had been
made up the rivers Plata and Parana into
the interior, both ships had brought up
at El Carmen, or Patagonia, one of the
few settlements, and the only one of any
size, on the Patagoniann coast. Here, at
Maeva's earnest request. Lord Ettrick had
chartered the services of several experienced

ostrich-hunters, and had made arrangements
to proceed southwards on horseback in
their company, while Lady Ettrick went on
in the yacht to the Falkland Islands with
the remainder of the Firefly s party, with
the exception of Maeva and Colonel St.
Leger Slade, who were to accompany
Lord Ettrick. All the miss on board the
Dauntless had had leave granted them by
twos in turn ; and, in expectation of the
coming Patagoniann expedition, both Ronald
and Esca had been able to arrange to come
last on the list, and thus to obtain leave
of absence for the trip. They had been
ordered to rejoin the Dauntless at Santa
Cruz, and the Firefly, moreover, was to pickup
the others at the same place.

Two compelling forces were at work

within Maeva when she planned and
obtained her father's consent to this expedition.
The first was the desire to
become acquainted with the lonely, far-stretching
pampas, about which she and
Lord Wrathness had so otl:en talked at
Ettrick Castle ; and the other was a vague,
undefinable feeling, that a fateful star might
bring him across her path in this great lone
land. How she yearned to see him again,
hear his voice, and tell him in how far
she knew his secret, and what up till then
she had been able to effect in his favour,
none could tell but herself. She longed
with a passionate longing to see him again ;
she knew this well, and rejoiced that at
least she had the opportunity given her of
finding him if possible.

The ostrich-hunters had advised that
the expedition should strike rapidly into
the interior from El Carmen, through the
Travesia or desert ; cross the Valchita
river and range of mountains of that
name ; and traverse the Salinas, or salt-infested
lake territory, in the direction of
Lake Nahuelhuapi, at the base of the
Cordilleras Mountains of the Andes, in
the north-western portion of the country.
Hence they suggested a route southwards
to the Rio Chico, along whose banks a
straight run in could be made for Santa
Cruz. This line of march, they assured
Lord Ettrick, passed through a country
abounding in game, which would afford
not only sport, but the more necessitous
assurance of food. The route was, therefore,

agreed upon. A start was made
with fifty horses, ten dogs, and three
guides, head of which Francois Delacroix,
already introduced to the reader, reigned
supreme.

This deviation in the way of explanation
has led us from the scene of the
ostrich-hunt. So we must hark back to
where the break occurred, and take up
the thread of the story.

The pace at which ' the stalwart bird
had been proceeding, had begun to tell
upon its staying powers, and soon its
neck, which it had hitherto held outstretched
in front of it, began to sink
lower, while there was a tremulous motion
apparent in its short wings, as though
it were seeking assistance to speed on

its flight from that quarter. All this the
keen eye of Francois noted full well, and
it encouraged him to renewed exertion.
Spurring his horse onwards, he uttered a
peculiar cry, one that was fully understood
and appreciated by the hounds,
judging by the spurt they put on, and
the way in which they pulled themselves
together. Flap, flap went the ostrich's
wings  nearer and nearer crept up the
hounds ; they were gaining now at every
stride, La Plata still leading, La Lionaa
lying next. Sultan bringing up the rear.

Suddenly, with a rush, the great black
dog came up alongside the bird. " He
has him ! " shouted Ronald, who was half
mad with excitement, spurring his horse
so as to be in at the death.

Not a bit of it," shouted back Esca
who was equally excited, as with a rapid
movement the ostrich doubled to the left,
leaving La Plata to shoot ahead some
forty paces ere he could recover himself,
and speed on after the retreating and still
fast-fleeting quarry. But this movement
had given La Lionaa the advantage in
lead, and the game bitch did not throw-away
her chance. Racing up to the
ostrich's stern, she grabbed savagely at
the thick grey tail that hung so temptingly
near her jaws. A cloud of feathers came
away in her mouth, half choking her and
impeding her action. The ostrich had
doubled again, but in doing so had almost
rushed on instant death, for La
Plata faced him as he did so. With a

wriggle and a struggle, the plucky bird
managed to evade him and sped onwards,
but his pace decreased visibly, and both
the dog and bitch had crept up on
either side of him. For a time, by superhuman
exertions, constant doubling and
twisting, he kept clear of them ; but
nature succumbed at length. With a
spring the black dog had him by the
throat, La Lionaa grabbed him by the
back. Over and over the three rolled
together, to be quickly joined by Sultan,
who had come up in the rear, having
tailed considerably the moment the pace
began to tell ; and soon nothing but a
struggling heap of feathers and worrying
dogs could be distinguished, amidst which
the hunters rode up. Like lightning

Francois was off his horse and beating
away the hounds with his whip ; then he
seized the ostrich and broke its neck.

By this time the two midshipmen and
Maeva had dismounted and clustered
round the dead bird, which they examined
closely. It was a fine, big specimen, well
plumaged, and of a rich dark grey colour ;
and as they discussed its appearance and
the good run it had given them, Francois
promised them a fat picane for dinner.

Picane ! mais quest-ce que c'est que
cela, Francois," inquired Ronald.

Ah ! mais, monsieur, milord je veux
dire, verra tout de suite, c'est un plat
excellent, une viande dont la chaire en est
succulent."

Ronald smacked his lips.

Hurrah ! Maeva," he cried, *' we are
going to have a dish par excellence tonight.
Don't you feel hungry already
in anticipation ? "

'' You greedy ! " she laughed, as she
playfully tried to box his ear. He jumped
on one side, but as he did so his face
became suddenly grave, and he pointed
with his whip over Francois' shoulder.
This latter was busy rollicking the
ostrich and tying it together, so he did
not perceive that which had arrested the
young earl's attention.

'' Look, Esca ! " exclaimed this latter.

Both Maeva and Esca looked in the
direction pointed out,  the wind was
blowing pretty sharply,  and they beheld
bearing down upon them a great bank

of dark, rolling smoke, from out of
which forked tongues of fire were
shooting heavenwards.

Fire ! " shouted Esca, springing to
his horse's head, a movement in which
he was quickly imitated by Maeva and
Ronald, the former taking care to secure
the ostrich-hunter's as well. " Francois,
voyez vous cela ? "

'' Mon Dieu ! " ejaculated this latter, ashe
looked up on hearing Esca's question,
and rapidly moved towards his horse.
'* Mais montez vite, bien vite."

In less time than it takes to tell it,
all four were in the saddle, and the
ostrich left lying where it was, forgotten.

Ce sont les Indiens qui ont fait
cela," said the Frenchman angrily, and

then he pointed out to the girl and
boys how the fire had got completely
between them and the remainder of their
party, whom they had left hunting more
to the southward. He next explained
in a few hurried words the position in
which they found themselves, and declared
that with horses tired by such a bursting
as theirs had just experienced, it would be
hopeless to try and race the flames. He
concluded by assuring them that there
was but one other alternative, and that was
to face the bank of smoke and ride through
it. He advised this latter course.

Ronald looked at Maeva and Escape

you game to try it ? " he said,
inquiringly. '' There is no time to be
lost, we must decide at once."

"Yes," they both assented, quickly.
Esca was very pale. He had no fear
for himself, his one thought was for
Maeva. " O God ! If anything should
happen to her," he muttered to himself.

But Francois was speaking again, and
to him they lent attentive ear. He had
taken off his poncho, a thick woollen
rug with a hole In the centre for the
head to go through, and was winding it
about his neck. He Instructed them todo
the same by theirs, for fortunately
they were each provided with one of
these garments. They quickly did as he
bid them, and then he showed them
how to wrap the ponchos round their
takes in such a manner as to prevent
the smoke from penetrating and stifling

them ; and finally he gave his last instructions.
They were to ride as near
the fire as they could, then wrap up
their heads, stick their spurs into their
horses, and charge with all their might.
By good luck the pace would carry
them through, but it was not a question
or possibility of helping one another, it
was a case in which the saying, '' Every
man for himself," held good.

Let's stick together, Maeva," said
Ronald, a little anxiously; "good heavens!
if anything happened to you, what would
mother say, and what should I do ? "

Esca said nothing, but his large blue
eyes were fixed on the girl with a lookin
which tender yearning and fear for
her safety commingled.

Maeva caught the expression, and
smiled.

'' Think about yourselves, young men,
and never mind me ; why should I come
to any more harm than you ? After all,
it's not in our hands at all. The matter
lies with God."

They were all four riding abreast as
she spoke, and the fire was bearing
down upon them at a rapid pace ; they
could feel its heat upon their cheeks, and
hear the savage crackle of the flames.
Francois reined up.

*' Maintenant ! " he called out, " depechez-
vous, messieurs et milady, protege vos
visages et en avant."

They did as he bid them, and at a
signal from the ostrich-hunter stuck their

VOL. IL 13

Spurs into their horses' sides and pressed
them forward at full gallop. The thunder
of their rattling hoofs sounded across the
plain ; another minute and Francois, Ronald,
and Esca, closely followed by the dogs,
had dashed into the smoke and disappeared
from view.

Not so Maeva. The horse which she
was riding was somewhat restive. As it
approached the flames it became terror-stricken,
and when she tried to urge it
forward, reared straight up in the air,
fought for a minute with its forefeet, and
then, wheeling round, dashed away in the
direction whence it had just come.

Hastily unwinding the poncho from
around her face, the girl slipped her
head through it and at once took in

the situation. To attempt to force her
horse into the flames she saw would be
impossible ; and even if she had been
minded to try again, he had settled the
question by taking the bit between his
teeth and tearing along at a headlong
pace. She at once perceived that this
was the very best course he could take,
for the ground they were going over
was covered with long, waving, dried-up
grass, which acted like tinder on the
flames, and increased their fury and
dimensions every moment. Away to her
left hand lay the Cordilleras. If she
could but reach them in time she knew
that she would be safe. But was this
possible ? As Maeva looked behind her
and saw the dark column rushing on

like a whirlwind, she felt that nothing
but the mercy of God could intervene
between her and a terrible death.

*' Oh ! mother, dear mother,  Harold,
Ronald, Esca, if it were not for you i
would not mind ; but, O God ! for their
sakes help me to live," she cried out aloud,
as she dashed along. Maeva, we know,
was no coward, but it seemed hard to be
cut off from those she loved so dearly, and
at a moment too when the child believed
she was engaged on a work of mercy and
justice.

It soon became apparent that the horse's
speed was slackening fast, while the hot,
burning dust that showered around her,
told of the rapidly nearing flames. The
girl knew, that to urge the horse beyond

its powers, would merely result in bringing
it to a standstill sooner than otherwise,
for Maeva was no novice in the art of
riding. It was second nature to her. She
left the animal to itself, therefore, merely
endeavouring to guide it as much as
possible westward, by pressing the right
rein on the right neck, and the poor beast
answered to her call this time docilely
enough, for fatigue was beginning to assert
its sway over even the potent master,
Fear.

They had breasted a tiny hill, from which
she could perceive the flames creeping
swiftly along like a huge snake westward
to the mountains, enveloping the country
all around, far as the eye could reach,
in one vast sea of smoke and blackness.

The heat was oppressive, her tongue was
dry and parched, her Hps cracked and
painful, her throat Hke parchment ; ah
what in that moment would she not have
given for a draught of water ?

Slower and slower went the horse ; its
staying powers were vanishing fast, its
movements grew feebler and feebler. Suddenly
it broke into a trot, in another minute
it was walking, then it halted, stopped dead
short, rocked to and fro, and as Maeva
threw herself from its back fell prone upon
the ground.

Poor horse,  poor, poor brute ! " the girl
cried, as she knelt beside it and saw its
eye glazing fast. '' Oh for a drop of
water to give you, and so ease the torture
you must be enduring ! " She stopped

short ; the horse was stiffening itself, a hot
blast blew upon her cheek, the flames were
shooting upwards, the fire was indeed upon
her.

She sprang up and fled away before
them like a startled deer. Fleet of foot
and active of limb, yet, nevertheless, Maeva
appeared to herself to be crawling along,
in comparison with those shooting, angry
flames. Another hill rose before her, she
breasted it rapidly ; her breath came thick
and fast, she felt that she must choke, for
the air was charged with nothing but dust
and heat, and it well-nigh overpowered her.
As she rose to the hill's summit she
looked ahead, despairingly expecting to see
before her another wide tract of waving,
dried-up grass. What was her surprise

and joy to perceive a broad expanse of
green reeds not half a mile away ! and
nestling amidst those reeds, on a slightly
elevated piece of bushy ground, stood two
canvas tents.

She strove to shout, but her throat
refused the office ; she could only utter a
silent prayer as, encouraged by the sight
before her, she put on a final spurt.

Evidently she had been perceived from
the tents, for in a few minutes, though her
eyes were glazed and filmy, she caught
sight of a mounted horseman galloping to
meet her. He came on at a rapid pace,
and seemed to be urging his horse furiously
in her direction ; but this was all that
Maeva made out, for at that moment she
put her foot in a deep hole and, stumbling

forward heavily and with a painful wrench,
fell prone to the earth.

She could hear the fire behind her, the
horse s hoofs in front of her, but the pain
of her twisted ankle made her faint and
giddy. The sky danced before her eyes,
her brain seemed in a whirl. As she fell
backwards with a low moan, the horse's
hoofs rattled in her ear, and a voice broke
in upon her last gleam of consciousness,  a
voice which she could not mistake, which
she knew only too well. Had it not
haunted her day and night for many
months gone by ? and now with passionate
eagerness she heard it exclaiming, as
memory left her, 

Maeva, my little darling! O God! can
it be you  my love, my only love ? "

T T E had sprung from his horse as he

uttered that passionate cry. A man

with a tall, graceful figure, and dark, dreamy,

sad eyes. He lifted her from where she

lay amidst the long, dry, waving grass,

and pressed her to his heart with tender,

respectful gentleness. She lay so still In

his arms, the dark lashes falling on her

pale, rigid cheeks, the sunny golden curls

clustering about her high white forehead,

that he could almost as he looked at her,

with the hunger of a hopeless love in his

eyes, have esteemed her dead. But he

could not linger where he stood ; already

his horse was becoming restive with the
heat and cracking of the hissing fire.
Laying his precious burden across the
saddle the man leaped up behind, and
putting the animal into a gallop made
straight for the oreen oasis in front of him.

He reached it quickly, and before the
horse came to a standstill was on the ground.

Guillaume ! " he shouted, but the man
was already in waiting whh a hand on
his master's bridle. As this latter tenderly
lifted the child's still figure from the saddle
and bore her to the nearest tent, the ostrich-hunter
led the animal towards the centre
of the green reeds, and having hobbled it,
turned it loose among a troop of other horses.
Then he went back towards the tent.

*' Can I help the lord ? " he inquired

In broken English, peering anxiously into
the tent. Maeva was lying on a flattened
heap of skins in one corner of it, and
beside her knelt the dreamy, sad-eyed man
who had rescued her by God's help from
the jaws of death.

'' Yes, Guillaume. Bring some water,
quick," he answered huskily, as he knelt
on by the motionless child's side, his right
hand pressed against her heart, his left
holding the small clenched fingers that had
contracted together with pain as she fell
to the ground. Oh ! how his eyes devoured
the fair white face, which he had
thought never to see again, but which
had haunted him in his dreams at night,
his yearning thoughts by day, ever since
that dark hour when, with the secret which

had ruined his life, heavy upon him, he
had stolen away from her presence with
a terrible pain at his heart, which he felt
could never pass away. And now, as lonely
and compactness he roamed this vast unexplored
land, a broken-hearted and weary
man, this child, this love of his aching
and saddened spirit, had come to cast one
more gleam of happiness and hope Into a
life, that he had deemed fated never again
to taste one spark of joy.

When the water came, he bade Guillaume
get ready a fire and put some meat on for
soup ; and as the man hurried off to obey
his master's orders, he bent once moreover
the unconscious child.

Was It fancy, or did he dream It ? She
seemed to stir,  there was a flutter about

the heart, a slight movement of the fingers.
Gently he sprinkled a few drops of water
on her forehead, and, while doing so,
pushed back the golden curls that nestled
thereon. As he did so he started, for
across the ivory brow, running along parallel
with the roots of the hair, stretched a long,
blue, ugly-looking scar but recently healed,
and presenting every appearance of having
been incurred through violence. He passed
his hand gently along this cruel-looking
mark with an exclamation of pity. As he
did so the child's eyelids unclosed, and
the great grey eyes looked straight at him
with wondering surprise. For a few minutes
there was no sign of recognition apparent,
but soon a light shone from them which
there was no mistaking, for, where vacancy

a minute hitherto had reigned, now joy
and love had usurped their place.

She stretched out her hands towards
him and smiled, the same glad, happy
smile that he had often seen before ; he
saw the warm flush of gladness rising to
her cheeks, and noted how earnestly she
regarded him ; with an uncontrollable impulse
he bent over her, took the fair sweet
face between his hands, and imprinted on
her forehead one long, passionate kiss.

God help him ! for he could not help
himself It was the act of a moment, the
outburst of a heart that had suffered in
lonely silence so long ; the craving of a
love which, however irregular, existed, and
could not be stifled at a moment's bidding.
He did not pause to ask himself if that

act was lawful or right ; in that moment
of happiness and intense joy he only knew
one thing, and that was that the love of
his lonely dreams was beside him once
more, that the idol of his heart had come
back to him again.

The blood rushed in a deep rich glow
to her face ; there was a mute appeal in
her eyes, as though begging him not to
try her too far ; the bright drops welled
up into them and ran over, but she brushed
them hastily away as she looked through
their glistening haze at him.

*'Oh! Lord Wrathness, I am so glad it
is you. I knew  I knew I should find you
again if I came here, and now Have."

So she had thought of him when he was
far away ; she had not forgotten him

altogether ? His heart leapt for joy as he
listened to the dear voice speaking, and
noted the true-hearted ring it contained.

** Little friend," he said, tenderly, '' did
you think of your poor wandering acquaintance
when he was far away ? You
did not quite forget him, then ? "

'forget you'' There was a ring of
wonder in her voice, a simple, unaffected
surprise which she did not attempt to conceal.
" No," she added ; " on the contrary,
you have been ever in my thoughts."

His cup of happiness was brimful now.
For a moment he forgot the weary past,
with all its care, and trouble, and remorse.
For a few brief, sweet moments he forgot
the future, with all its dread anticipations
and gloomy outlook. But this peaceful

VOL. n. 14

oblivion did not last long, and memory-returned
with bitter force to awaken it.

He started. How dared he kiss her ashe
had ? How dared he hold her hand ashe
was doing ? She, so true, so good, so
pure, so untainted by sin ; while he, a
weary, world-tossed wanderer, tainted by
the commission of a terrible crime, linked by
a bond which only death could part, to a
bad, scheming, and revengeful woman, had
dared to act as he had.

'child!" he cried, in a bitter, desperate
tone, " you should not be here. Where
did you come from ? "

She shrank back from his touch, with a
terrible pain in her eyes. So he did not
care to see her ?

I could not help it," she answered,

gently. "It was the fire drove me this
way, Lord Wrathness. We were ostrich-hunting,
and it came on us suddenly.
Ronald and Esca got through it, but my
horse would not face it, and bolted. I left
him dead on yonder hill, and hurried on
before the flames. Then I saw you galloping
to meet me, and as I hurried faster I
caught my foot in a touca-touca hole, and
wrenched it badly, for I remember a dreadful
pain which made me feel faint and
giddy. Then I remember hearing your
voice, but after that nothing more."

He wondered if she had heard what he
had said. Evidently not, or his last remark
would not have hurt her so. He saw
plainly that she was pained by it. In his
heart he wondered if it would not be wiser

to let her keep this impression, but when
he pondered its advisability he felt that he
could not. How could he drive her from
him with the thought that her presence
was distasteful to him, when he yearned to
tell her that it had brought him the first
moment of happiness which he had experienced
for many and many a day ? He
could not do it.

'' Little friend," he said, very gently,
*' do not think I am not glad to see you.
Ah ! my child, you have brought me
happiness too exquisite, too great, to last ;
for weeks, for months, during my lonely
wanderings I have thought of you, and
the happy days we spent together before,
before " he broke off abruptly.

*' Did you get my letters ? " he asked.

Yes, Lord Wrathness," she replied. " I
got them both, and I have got them still.
I was very unhappy when I read them ;
first, because I could not understand why
you had gone away so hurriedly. But I
learnt it all soon afterwards, and then I
understood."

His face turned ashen grey. He looked
at her with a terrible earnestness.

You learnt what ? " he said, hoarsely.

"All about your trouble, your dreadful
secret ; all about what you have suffered
and are suffering," she answered, in a low
voice.

"My God!" he ejaculated, with a despairing
gesture. " Who told you, child ? "

She did," she said, quietly. " Your
wife. Lady Wrathness."

He Sprang to his feet with a curse on
his lips. So her vengeance had begun as
she had threatened it would, and in a
quarter, too, where she knew it would goad
him most. He buried his face in his
hands.

'' Lord Wrathness," he heard the girl
gently saying, " please don't be miserable
about it. It will all come right some day.
I never believed what she told me ; you
know in your letters you asked me not
to believe all I heard, and I didn't. And
though she hates you, and wants to make
me hate you too, by blackening you in my
eyes, she has failed entirely, for I know
I know you are innocent."

He groaned with anguish. He could
not bear to deceive her. She believed

him innocent, and yet he stood before her
the murderer of his cousin. Had he
courage to tell her ?

'she came to see me," continued Mauvais
the same gentle voice, " and tried to
find out from me where you had gone. I
did not know, and I told her so ; but
even if I had known I would not have
told her ; and then she told me those
wicked lies about you, and charged you
before me with murder. I was half mad ;
I sprang at her to deny it ; she struck
at me with her clenched fist. I remember
seeing her knuckles ringed with brass, and
I felt the blow strike me with fearful
violence ; but I remember no more. When
I came to I was on my bed, with mother,
and father, and Ronald, and the doctors

round me. It was but a brief consciousness,
for I swooned again, and they told
me I laid for days before I came to and
rallied."

*' Then it was she who gave you that
cruel scar ? " he asked fiercely, pointing to
her forehead.

Yes, Lord Wrathness, it was she."

He ground his teeth. "The fiend!" he
exclaimed ; '' did they arrest her ? "

No, Lord Wrathness. I never would
tell any one about her, or who she was.
If I had, she would have told them that
dreadful story which she told me about
you.

Staunch, true little friend ! " he exclaimed,
as the practical devotion of the
act presented itself forcibly to his mind.

Ah ! Lady Maeva, I don't suppose there's
another Hke you in the world."

I've got so much to tell you," she
said, after a pause ; " but, oh ! Lord
Wrathness, how am I to pass word to
my father of my safety ? My horse is
dead, and I don't know the way. Can
you help me ? "

He started. He had been so wrapped
up in seeing and talking to her again that
he had never thought of asking her who
she was with or anything about it. But
now he recollected.

The fire has burnt past my island,"
he answered, "and wherever it has passed
will be a black, charred-up desert. You
could never find your way, and God
knows where they are at this moment.

But I have a man here who next to
Francois Delacroix knows the pampas as
well as I do Bond Street. I will send
him to search for them, and to let them
know you are safe. If any one will find
them he will."

*' Oh, thank you, thank you so much,"
she said, gratefully. "If they can only
hear I am safe it will be a great relief to
them, for I know by now they will be terribly
anxious. That is to say if Ronald
and Esca are safe. Oh ! do you think
they will have got through the fire all
right?"

There was an anxious look in her eyes
as she spoke. For the first time it struck
her that they might not have succeeded
in getting through that dense volume of

smoke. She searched his face for an encouraging
reply.

I have no doubt they are all right," he
replied quickly, as he noticed her startled
look. " I have ridden through pampas
fires in the same way myself before. On
horseback it can be done with a minimum
of risk, if the animal can only be got to
face the smoke, but on foot it would be
impossible. However, I will go and send
off Guillaume at once, and I feel sure he
will find them for you ; so make your mind
easy, and try and snatch a little rest till
I return."

She lay back as he had bidden her and
closed her eyes when he left the tent.
Was it a dream ? Could it be reality ?
Over and over again she asked herself the

question. Though she had hoped, trusted,
prayed to come across him in her wanderings,
now that they had met she could
scarcely realize it as a fact. And yet it
must be true. Had she not heard his
voice, seen him again, felt the kindly clasp
of his hand, looked into those dear, sad
eyes of his, and felt the passionate, loving
kiss upon her forehead ? Wonderful as it
all seemed, Maeva felt it was no dream,
but really and absolutely true.

"Thank God!" she whispered to herself,
and a happy smile played about her lips.
So far all has gone well. If I can only
get that paper from that woman and destroy
it, he will be safe from her vengeance
and can afford to defy her."

He had entered while she was thus

soliloquising to herself, but so gently that
she did not hear him. Her eyes were still
closed, and he stood by her side looking
down on her childish, youthful face. He
thought she had fallen asleep, she lay so
still, and was fearful of disturbing her ; but
it was not so, for suddenly unclosing her
eyes she perceived him.

'* So you are back ? " she cried, gladly
springing up ; but the next moment she had
fallen back with a low, suppressed cry of
pain. In an instant he was on his knees
beside her.

'' It is my ankle," she hastened to explain
; " I fear I have wrenched it badly, for
it is agony to stand on it. What a bore ! "
she continued in a troubled tone, 'for I
shall be a cripple for some time to come."

** Like I was," he said with a smile.

Ah ! no, not so bad as you were,
Lord Wrathness," she replied, quickly.
After all, this is only a wrench or sprain ;
yours were terrible injuries,  and to think
of it, too, I have never asked you how
you were in regard to them."

I  oh ! I am all right again now," he
said, quickly, '' but something must be

done for your foot. I have some Jacob's
Oil fortunately, there is nothing like that
for a sprain ; it must be rubbed well into
the foot, which must afterwards be securely
bandaged. Thank goodness, I am a bit
of a doctor and surgeon combined, and
have all those things by me. I brought
them from the yacht, as I never go into
the wilds without them. But, first of all.

that top boot of yours will have to be
cut open. I can see how your poor foot
has swollen into it ; you would never be
able to pull it off otherwise without intense
pain and damage to the injured ankle."

She protested that it was a mere nothing,
that it would pass away. But he knew
better, and would take no denial. Very
gently he ripped open the front part of
the little brown-leather top - boot that
encased the damaged foot, and then
handed her the bottle and bandage. " Rub
that well in," he said; "meanwhile, I will
go and get you some soup, as Guillaume
being gone in search of your party I am
left to do cook's work in his absence. I
daresay you will relish some soup, won't
you ? "

'thank you," she said, gratefully; "how
good and kind you are, and what trouble
I am giving you ; nevertheless," she added,
'' it puts one in mind of old times, does it
not ? Only then you were the patient, I
the nurse ; now you are the nurse and I
the patient."

He laughed, almost lightly, if one who
had suffered so much could be said to do
so, as he left the tent once more.

The shades of evening were drawing on
apace when he went outside, and the wind
that had been blowing all day had sunk
to rest. Far away on the distant horizon
gleamed the blood-red, raging fire, still
bent on its path of destruction ; and lighting
up the darkening skies with a bright and
lurid glare went the solid wall of flame

which had brought him in the presence
of Maeva, an unlooked-for and 
happiness.

He went over to the camp fire, which
was burning merrily, the faithful Guillaume
having piled it up before leaving, and
examined the condition of the contents of
the pot that was boiling thereon. Then
he took a wooden spoon and tested the
soup, which appeared to him satisfactory,
for he nodded his head approvingly.
After this he fetched a white enamelled
tin bowl from the other tent, a small
wooden spoon, and a little wooden jar
with some salt in it, and having filled up
the first-mentioned utensil with soup, took
it over to Maeva's tent, where he found
that she had finished rubbing and tying

VOL. n. 15

Up her ankle. As gently as any nurse he
put the soup beside her, raised her up,
made her a soft back of guanaco skins
against which to rest, and while she ate
her soup busied himself putting the tent
ship-shape, as he called it.

And, later on, when she had finished,
he fastened the flaps of the tent open so
that she could see outside. The campfire
gleamed and glimmered close at hand ;
above the sky was radiant in its pale
moonlit beauty, the light from which lit
up in silver sea-green radiance the pampas
all around. A heavenly stillness had fallen
upon them, broken only now and again
by the muffled roar from some distant
falling avalanche in the mighty Andes faraway
; and thus it was that Maeva and

Wrathness together looked upon that
silent, lonely, strangely-mysterious land,
about which he had so often told her in
the early days of their acquaintance.

He had seated himself on the ground
beside her low skin couch, and taken one
of her tiny hands in his ; and as they sat
there together with the pale moonlight
lighting up their faces, she told him all
that she had done and dared for him
since they had parted. She told him of
Lady Wrathness's cruel, cold, and calculating
letter, of how she had determined
on discovering the truth. But here she
paused. She dared not tell him of Richard
Emerson's confession, or of the proofs
of his (Wrathness's) innocence which
Lady Wrathness held. Her oath to the

veritable murderer held her bound to
secrecy, and all she could tell the earl
was, that in so far as she had gone she
had discovered the existence of a plot
the unravelling of which could alone
establish his innocence.

And he, as he had listened to this
startling evidence of his non-participation
in a murder which for years he had been
led to believe he had committed, and
which had haunted him day and night
through all that time ; he, as he heard
from the lips of this brave, staunch girl-friend
of his, the glorious truth of his
innocence, felt a new life grow up within
him, a hope arising in his breast which
he had not dared hitherto to nurse. He
had risen from where he lay and knelt

beside her, and as her voice ceased
speaking had taken both her hands in his.
Bending over them he had kissed them
tenderly, passionately, but with a deep and
holy reverence ; for was not this mere
child not only the first true love of his
life but his saviour from despair as well ?
'' Little friend ! " he cried as he knelt
beside her, "ah! more to me than all
the world,  dear, kind, generous little
friend, you have saved me from the most
terrible of all dooms. Despair. Great
God ! I thank thee. Then I am not a
murderer ? I thank Thee, God."

A ND while Maeva and Wrathness sat
talking in the pale moonlight of the
glad tidings she had brought him, far away
to the westward, amidst the ruins of the
blackened pampas, a lonely horseman rode
silently and slowly along. Anon he would
rein up and peer anxiously around him,
only to pursue again his slow and silent
course. Every now and then a deep groan
or passionate sob would escape him, otherwise
silence, blank, dead silence reigned
around.

The moon shone down upon the horse

and its rider ; the horse's head hunch low,
foam studded its mouth, from which the
tongue hung hip and colourless ; its movements
were slow and laboured, as though
its strength was well-nigh exhausted ; ever
and again it stumbled heavily.

Poor brute ! it is a shame to ride you,"
exclaimed the rider, as he dismounted and
slackened the girths, and loosened the
leathern strap which confined the wooden
bit in the horse's riiouth. " Poor brute I
you are well-nigh done for, I fear, as
indeed I hope I shall be too unless I find
her. Oh ! Maeva, my darling, my darling,
where are you ? "

His face was well in the moonlight ashe
spoke. It was the face of a handsome,
noble-featured boy. He had no cap on

his head, and the curls that clustered on
his forehead shone bright beneath the silver
streaks of light that fell upon them. But
his features were drawn with anxiety, and
a haunting fear was in his eyes as they
searched the blackened pampas all around.

The reader will have no difficulty in
recognising Esca, or guessing upon what
errand and quest he was bent.

When he and Ronald, Fran9ois Delacroix,
and Maeva had charged the advancing
column of fire and smoke, he had found
himself suddenly enveloped in intense darkness,
mingled with a singular oppressiveness.
Muffled up as his head was in the folds of
the woollen poncho, this latter sensation as
well as the utter blackness could be well
accounted for. As he entered the dense

wall of wreathing flame and smoke, however,
he felt his horse stagger and sway to and
fro as if overcome with a sudden faintness.
He felt, moreover, that the animal he bestrode
was sinking to the ground, and at
the same time a fearful sense of suffocation
oppressed him. Yielding to the sudden
impulse of the moment, knowing nothing of
the direction in which he was proceeding,
he dug his spurs into the animal's side
and urged it forward by every means in
his power. He felt the poor brute steady
itself as if for a final effort, dash forward,
and then he felt himself falling downward
with a sudden crash ; and the next moment
he was rolling on the ground, his hands
clutching the burning grass, his senses
overpowered well-nigh by the intolerable

smell of smoke, and the dust that penetrated
to and choked his nostrils.

Springing to his feet, with hands outstretched
before him, as though feeling for
the liberty and rescue that he sought, Encrusted
madly forward. An electric shock
appeared to have struck him He felt
like one who having staggered under a
terrible load, was suddenly relieved of it.
His lungs, oppressed hitherto with a heavy
and crushing weight, became miraculously
delivered. He seemed to live and breathe
again, where up till then he had struggled,
as it seemed to him, in the agonies of
death.

Feeble as he felt himself, his first
impulse was to unwind from his head the
stifling poncho that enveloped it, and to

look anxiously around him. Eagerly his
eyes sought the one figure which they
never met. He could see Ronald clinging
to his horse's neck as though utterly overpowered
; he could see Francois dismounted
and loosening the girths of his saddle.
He saw besides the ostrich-hunter the
three dogs  La Plata, La Lionaa, and
Sultan, standing at their master's heels ;
but one figure he looked for, strained his
eyes for, all in vain, and that figure was
Maeva's.

The cruel, angry, and spluttering fire
dashed onwards. In less time than it
takes to tell, it disclosed to Esca's view the
blackened and charred form of the horse
which had sunk to the ground beneath
him, overpowered by the heat and smoke.

Mad with fear, he strained his eyes to
catch the first sign of what he dreaded
every moment to behold, the corpse of all
he loved most dearly on this earth, aye,
even beyond that idol of his childhood's
days  his mother.

But he never saw it. The angry flames
rushed onward, but no sign of Maeva did
they disclose. As they retreated he followed
them. She was not there. Then he
heard the voice of Fran9ois. The Frenchman
was explaining to monsieur, whose
terrified agitation he could perceive, that
the horse which milady rode, was a young
one, and had never yet faced a prairie
fire. It had doubtless taken fright and
vanished before the roaring flames.

And Ronald, who knew his cousin well,

had sought to cheer Esca with the certainty
of her safety. '' I know Maeva
better than any one else, Esca," he had
said ; " she is equal to any emergency.
Ten to one her horse took fright. She
let it have its course, and made up her
mind to race the flaming prairie. Take
my word for it, old boy, Maeva is safe.
Often as children we have read about and
discussed a prairie fire, and Maeva always
told me that she would like nothing better
than to be racing one. I give you my
word of honour our darling old Maeva is
safe."

But Esca would not be comforted. " Do
you, Ronald, go on and tell Lord Ettrick.
For myself I intend to look for her," he
had answered. There was a pathetic ring

In his voice ; and Ronald, who was Esca's
junior in the navy by twelve months, and
whom discipline had taught to obey, yielded
without demur.

When Francois learnt the young officer's
decision he at once offered him his horse.

'' Nous ne sommes pas loin de Monsieur
le Marquis," he had protested ; '* et pour moi,
je puis aller a pied aussi bien qu a cheval,
monsieur. Ce n'est pas la premiere fois."

The offer was accepted. Esca felt that if
Maeva had raced the prairie' fire she would
be far from the spot where he stood, and
that therefore a horse was an absolute
necessity if he expected to come up with
her. He had bidden his brother-mid a
quiet farewell, and desired him to make
all speed in rejoining Lord Ettrick, so that

the services of the ostrich-hunters might
be quickly available in the search, which
he felt sure would be instantly instituted,
for Maeva. As for himself, he was so
tortured with anxiety on her account, so
oppressed with the fear that she needed
assistance, that although he hardly knew
in which direction he was going he felt
that action alone could satisfy the craving
at work within him, to find her and to
help her.

Thus he had ridden all that weary
afternoon. Wherever his eyes turned,
blackened pampas met his gaze. He had
pointed his horse's head for the first line
of hills debouching on the Cordilleras.
They were rocky and scant of herbage,
and he knew that there the fire would

burn itself out, and a wistful hope was in
him that thither Maeva had fled for refuge,
and that there he should come upon her.
As he rode along he found himself picturing
their meeting ; he could see in fancy
the face of delight with which she would
greet him ; he hoped and prayed that this
evidence of his love would not be lost
upon her, that at least she would know
how dear to him was her comfort and
safety.

And he had reached the hills at last, and
riding to many of their highest summits
had strained his eyes the black horizon
round, hoping against hope to catch a
sight of her of whom he was in search.
In vain. Evening came on, darkness began
to settle down, only far away the lurid glare

of the vanishing hire ht up the distant
horizon, but no sign of Maeva did he see.
Long and loudly he shouted, but his voice
came back to him alone in fading echoes
until it grew hoarse and strained, and he
could shout no more. His horse, too, was
growing weary, and stumbled mechanically
along ; and thus it was that Esca had dismounted,
having wandered into the plains
again, and as he did so uttered the bitter
cry for his friend and vanished love already
related. He had tasted nothing since the
early morning, but he did not feel hungry.
Only now a thirst was beginning to parch
his throat and make him long for water.
The dust from the burnt-up prairie accelerated
this desire, and had acted in a
similar manner on the horse, whose suffer-vol.

II. 16

kings have been but lately described. He
could bear suffering, hardship, discomfort,
could Esca Hamilton. His mother had
always brought him up to be hardy and
independent. She had impressed upon him
the necessity for self-denial and self-sacrifice,
knowing that his future life would in all
probability be one of buffet and storm. In
this moment of trial Esca was a living
witness of the wisdom of that mother's
care and devotion,  he was being tried and
not found wanting.

Poor brute ! " he said again, as he
stroked the horse's drooping neck. '' You
have done your best for me to-day, my
poor fellow, and I wish I could get you
some water ; perhaps," he added, as a
bright thought struck him. *' if I give you

your head, old man, you will find it for
yourself."

As he spoke, he had taken the wooden
bit entirely out of the animal's mouth, and
fastening the leathern thong which acted
as bridle loosely round its neck, had turned
the horse adrift to go whither it pleased.
For one second the poor beast paused,
as if uncertain what to do ; the next
moment, however, it had set forward ina
due easterly direction, at a brisker pace
than hitherto, Esca keeping up alongside
with his right hand resting on its withers.

It was the best course he could have
adopted under the circumstances, for the
sagacity of a horse in finding water is
hardly equalled by any other animal, the
camel alone excepted. Esca knew this,

and, moreover, he was allowing hope to
come to his rescue again, for he had justa
glimmer of it in his heart, that the
animal was making for some distant lake,
and that perchance if this were so he
should find Maeva there. Hope is a sweet
thing. It buoys up the weariest heart, it
assists the most physically tired, to renewed
exertion.

The hours flew by, and still they tramped
wearily on. The want of food, the burning
desire for water, the long tiring day, the
weary midnight tramp, were beginning to
tell with cruel effect on the gallant-hearted
boy.

To those who have never known what
it is to find themselves alone on a great
desert waste, foodless, waterless, friendless,

with no knowledge of the country they
are in, with nothing but wave after wave
of land stretching away to the far horizon,
will find it hard to realise the situation
which this boy, hardly seventeen, had to
face, or the position in which he found
himself A faint-hearted lad would have
shrunk before the misery of the situation ;
would have knuckled under to the hopelessness
of his lot. Not so Esca. The
boy was born of plucky blood. His father
in life had been plucky, his mother was
made of that stuff, which can face both
moral and physical suffering with heroism
and calm fortitude. Was it likely that a
child, born of such parents, would give in
until such time as nature, strong even in
the wealth of youth and health, succumbed ?

He did not give in, but battled with
himself, and toiled bravely on. His feet,
blistered and aching, strove to keep pace
with the almost as weary horse. His eyes,
half closed with fatigue and prostration,
struggled to keep open and to look ahead.
His store of hope, sinking almost to extinction,
he strove to keep alight. This is
what buoyed him up,  the thought that if
he held on he should find Maeva.

On, on they toiled. Dawn was beginning
to break in the pale horizon. The moon,
high in the heavens, shone down upon
the yellow curly head of the sinking boy.
Nature was failing fast now, for thirst, that
terrible demon, that most awful of tortures,
had taken possession of the wiry, athletic
frame. Against its potency and strength

none can battle. It strikes the strongest
down.

He was hanging to the saddle now. His
head had sunk upon his chest in apathetic
lethargy. Mechanically his legs moved,
but all around was dark. He felt nothing,
saw nothing, noticed nothing ahead or
around. Suddenly the weary horse pricked
up its ears and neighed. An answering
neigh came back. The animal quickened its
pace, started forward into a broken trot,
increased it to a laboured gallop, and was
gone. In a few minutes it had entered a
reedy, marshy locality, and had buried its
nose to the eyes in a clear cool pool of
water, while around it stamped and neighed
a troop of some twenty horses,

And Esca, where was he ? On the

threshold of relief, within a hundred paces
of rescue, not two hundred yards away from
where Maeva lay peacefully sleeping, the
boy had fallen when the horse dashed
forward,  fallen to the ground speechless,
helpless, senseless, in a dying state, uncared
for, unthought of, and alone.

END OF VOL. n.

Printed by Hazelll, Watson, & Vineyy, Ld., London and Aylesbury.

/

OF THL
UNIVERSITY
or ILLINOIS

82.3)
DG422r

v3

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books ore reason,
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-840O

UNIVERSITY OF .Illinois LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

 3W87
WW 2319

DEC 2 m

I L161 O-1096



LADY FLORENCE DIXIE,

Author of " Abel Avenged,' '" IVaz/s and Strays," " Across Patagonia,'
** In the Land 0/ Misfortune ," " The Voting Castaways," tc.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :

HENRY AND COMPANY,

6, BOUVERIE STREET, Eg.

iso.

REDEEMED IN BLOOD

CHAPTER XXI.

'' TT ARK ! Are they hollowing, Cherle?"
The speaker was a smart-looking
man of about thirty years of age, with
a ruddy good-looking face, and short,
reddish-auburn, close-curling hair. His
scarlet coat fitted him to perfection, his
pigskins were faultless, his boots and
tops  well, they had no rival amongst
hunting men, his pale blue-white spotted
tie was tied to a nicety, and above it
peeped the neatest of collars. Crowning

VOL. III. I

all was a hat, so exquisitely brushed, so
black and shining, that it might almost
have been mistaken for a looking glass.
He was seated on a dark bay mare,
good looking all over, and according well
with the splendid horseman that bestrode
her. The two were a picture to look
at, and many an eye had rested on
them that morning, enviously and admiringly,
both on the way to the meet
and at the covert side ; for was not this
horseman the far-famed rider to hounds,
Ray Middlestream ?

** No, Ray, not a sound yet," answered
his companion, and the person whom he
had addressed, as she touched her horse
with her heel and brought him up
nearer to his side. " I can see Tom

Firr down yonder ride. They haven't
found yet. Trust me to let you know
when they do. I mean to go to-day.
It's the last ride with the old Quorn I
shall ever have."

There was a shade of sadness in her
voice, a bitter smile on her lips, a wistful
look in her eyes.

** Nonsense, Cherie. You'll have plenty
more riding. There are any amount of
fellows only too glad to give you a
mount any time you like, and there's
every one of my horses at your service,"
he exclaimed quickly, as he noted the
sadness in her voice and the wistful lookin
her eyes.

** Dear old Ray, thank you a thousand
times. I know you mean what you say,

but, nevertheless, Cherie will never ride
with the Quorn again."

She was looking straight at him as she
spoke, as neat a figure on a horse as
you might wish to see. Ray Middlestream
had always told her, that he could tell
her at a glance amongst the biggest
crowd in Rotten Row, by the way she
sat her horse, and he was right. There
was not a woman in all the country round
to compare with Glorie Plunger, for no
other than she, was the girl, whom the
dashing Ray Middlestream had called by
the pet name  his own especial pet name
of Cherished

were fast friends, these two, and
had been so for the past two years. It
was only after her marriage with Sir

Beaufort Plunger that Glorie had come
across, and been introduced to Ray. Of
course she had often heard of him and
often seen him, for Ray Middlestream
was an enfant gdtd in society; and though
a terrible handful when his spirits got the
better of him, welcomed nevertheless by
all, wherever and whenever he appeared.

Until he had met Glorie, Ray Middle-stream
had been, or fancied himself, in
love with a score of women. It was
reserved for Glorie to be his first real
and last love. They were kindred spirits,
these two, in most things, especially in
their love for horses and delight in
hunting. Never were two people so fitted
to be companions. And for this reason
they went a good deal about together.

which made Society say spiteful things,
the spiteful things which are born of
after-dinner scandal, chit-chat, innuendo,
insinuation, and misrepresentation. Not
that Glorie cared a brass stiver for all
that was said ; she just went her way as
gaily as ever, had a pleasant word for
all she met, whether friends or enemies,
was never heard to pick a fellow-woman
to pieces, or a fellow-man for the matter
of that. Glorie had her friends,  she
could not help it if those friends fell in
love with her,  she stuck to them, never
threw them over, and was candid, open,
and truthful in all her dealings with
them.

What business is it to any one whom
I choose as my friends ? " she would

sometimes exclaim, when told by some
officious acquaintance that so-and-so said
this, and so-and-so said that. " If
Beaufort does not complain, I don't see
what it matters to any one else." And
so she had gone her way, taken her
own path, and lived her free, careless,
but perfectly honourable life, oblivious to
the world's chatter.

One thing she detested, hated above all
things, and that was betting and gambling.
She had tried in vain to wean her husband
from this terrible passion, for quick-sighted
and sharp to a turn, she knew that it must
all end in ruin. We have already seen
how her apprehensions came to pass in
earnest, and that which she had dreaded
developed into a fact.

The old family mansion and property-had
been advertised for sale, the horses
likewise. The stud at Melton was to be
disposed of also, and Glorle was riding
one of her favourites this day for the last
tune,

'' Ray, Ray, look there he goes," she
said, suddenly laying her hand on Ray
MIddlestream's arm. '' No ; don't holloa
yet, Ray ; let him get clean away, or we
shall have him headed back."

There, stealing away in front of the
two, was a fine, tough-looking customer,
with a snow-white tag at the end of his
splendid brush.

They gave him a fair good start, there
was a whimper in covert, and the next
moment Ray, with his finger in his ear,

was sending forth the clear loud note which
told the field that the varmint was away.

How quickly they gathered at the sound,
that smart, musical pack. Like lightning
Tom Firr was at his post, his grand voice
ringing o'er field and through covert for miles
around. Just a tightening of the bridle
rein for a moment, to let the pack get
clear, and then he, and Ray, and Glorie
were racing along neck to neck in the
stern of the streaming pack.

There was a happy light in Tom Firr's
eye, a quiet, grim smile on his expressive
face. '* Come on, my lady," he said
cheerily, but respectfully, to Glorie, "we've
got a clear start of the field. Captain
Middlestream," he shouted, '' if this pace
goes on they'll never catch us."

They were nearing a high stake and
bound fence, with a wide ditch on the
landing side, and all three rode at it
abreast. Ah ! it was a goodly sight to see
these horses and their riders, bold, true,
unflinching, keen to a turn, in perfect
harmony with each other, negotiate that
obstacle. It was done in rare good style;
and though at a rattling pace, each rider
had perfect command over the animal
which he or she was mounted on. Away
in front of them streamed the racing pack,
solid as a wall together.

** Cherie, dear little Cherie, how I love
to see you going like that. Come on, we'll
see this run together, like we have a score
of others, eh ? '' exclaimed Ray Middle-stream
as he steered his galloping horse

close up alongside that of Glorie's. They
were crossing some ridge and furrow at
the moment, and she had got a short rein,
and was easing her horse by standing up
in her stirrup and leaning forward with
her hands just beyond his withers. He
was sliding along at a swimming pace,
and the light of happiness and excitement
was dancing in her eyes. Every trouble
was forgotten in the joy of the
moment. Glorie, for the time being, was
happy.

There was another obstacle in view, and
both she and Ray were looking ahead,
picking their places, and settling in their
mind's eye the pace at which they must be
ridden. Torn Firr was more to the left,
his beauties bearing to the right. Glorie

had got her favourite position on the inside
turn.

It soon became evident that she had
picked her place, for she took her horse
hard by the head, and bringing him up
sharp and straight as a die, rammed him
at four feet good of stiff-looking timber.
He just tipped it as he flew it, and on
alighting settled vigorously into the rapid,
striding gallop of before.

'* By Jove ! that woman can ride,"
chuckled Tom Firr to himself. " Blest if I
ever saw any one like her before, or ever
shall again. She is a good un."

The scent was burning, the hounds raced
on, one leading two lengths of all the
others. Not once had that brilliant fellow
Reckless been off the line. He had followed

it with rigid exactitude when, on more
than one occasion, some of the others had
overshot it.

Away they went. The struggling field
behind had no more chance of catching
them than a dachshund would of catching
a hare. All three had caught hold of their
horses' heads a bit, and were easing the
pace for the moment, for the line they
were on had led them on to a hill, and
below it lay a black, untempting-looking
bottom " with a boggy take-off, and " a
devil of a drop " on the other side.

No use looking to the right or to the
left, no use wondering if there be any
outlet less difficult either way. It must
be straight at it and over it, or farewell
to the hounds that day. None knew this

better than Glorie, none made up a quicker
mind than she did.

'' Ray," she called out, " I'm the lightest.
I'll go first."

He nodded his head, and crammed the
smart hat well down on to it. She had put
her splendid grey horse as straight at the
bottom as possible, both hands were well
down on the reins, her foot set tight in
the stirrup, her animal grandly in hand.
Without a swerve or a flinch the good
horse went at it. Full well he knew what
the light touch meant. Glorie' s hands were
perfect.

But the take-off was terribly soft, and to
rise from it a difficult matter. Plucky ashe
was, grand hocks though he had, Brilliant
could not fly the bottom after the manner

of his own heart. Yet he did not fail his
mistress on this occasion. He made his
effort in splendid style. With an extra
wriggle in the air and a peck on landing,
he got over it.

There was a crash behind. Glorie reined
up quickly. She saw Ray half over the
obstacle, but he was heavier than she, and
his weight just told in the balance. The
mare he was riding had done her best,
but the odds were against her. She had
made a gallant effort, but the boggy take-off
was too much for even her splendid
quarters to resist, and with an heroic effort
to do her duty, she had dropped her legs
and gone into the bottom head foremost.

Don't come, for God's sake ! Pull up,
Firr ! " shouted Glorie. She was off her

horse in a moment, and with the rein
tucked over her arm peering into the black
abyss into which Ray and his mare had
foundered. The huntsman had dashed
away to try and find another outlet.

Keep still, Ray, dear old Ray ; don't
move till I get at her head," again called
out Glorie, as she loosed the hold she had
of her horse's head and slipped down into
the bottom. The next moment she had
the mare tight, and Ray was free to move.

Covered with mud, and with a clean cut
along his cheek, he scrambled up the bank,
and turned to help Glorie with the mare.
This latter, with a game struggle, was
rescued from her uncomfortable position,
and a minute or two later stood trembling
on teresa firma once more.

** Pat her, Ray ; don't be angry with her.
She did her best," exclaimed Glorie, as she
saw Captain Middlestream look angrily at
the mare. She had her left foot in her
stirrup as she spoke, preparatory to
mounting.

"All very well, Cherie," he answered
rather savagely, '* but we are clean thrown
out."

I see them," she exclaimed eagerly, as
she scanned the country around. " Ray,
they've checked, and there's not a soul
with them. Come on, we'll catch them
yet."

He was in the saddle like lightning, and
speeding away over the fallow field in
which they had been standing, Glorie close
beside him. The next fence was a mere

VOL. in. 2

trifle. Brilliant and the mare flew it in their
stride.

'she's good at water, Cherie, I know,"
called out Ray, pointing ahead with his
whip. " Look out, the brook's our next."

She knew it well ; no need to tell Glorie.
She knew the country for miles and miles
around. It was not the first time she had
followed in the wake of Tom Firr's
beauties, though with a bitter smile she
recollected that it was to be the last.

But in front of them the Whissendine
was gleaming, and just in the field beyond
the beauties were diligently striving to pickup
the scent. The sight was one to put
the worst-tempered or the saddest follower
of Diana, in good humour and good spirits.
It had that effect on Ray and Glorie. It

was a splendid moment to them, and they
enjoyed it thoroughly.

Both Brilliant and the mare got their
heads given them freely. With necks well
poised, ears pricked, and their speed increased
ten fold, the gallant grey and the
dark bay mare went at the water full
steam. It was all fair sailing and a good
take-off; what mattered, then, the breadth
to such blood as this ? There was a flash
of silver streak beneath them, a sensation
of flying through the air, terra firma once
more, and the Whissendine was passed.

After this there was a splash to the right,
a '' Hold up, horse," resounding from the
same quarter, a bit of a slide and a splutter,
but the premier huntsman had got to his
hounds again in the nick, of time, just as

two fields away the *' thrown-outer " were
coming up in breathless haste, many a
horse pumped before his time, by the extra
exertion of making up lost ground.

Reckless had been busy all this while,
but busy with a motive in view. He had
been feathering away by himself and remote
from the others. Ah ! the grand old
hound knew what he was about. He had
had his suspicions all along. He had not
won his experience in many a hard run
burst in vain.

With a low whimper he dashed forward.
He was evidently well trusted by the pack.
Like lightning they wheeled to him sterns
down. No, there was no mistake ; they were
on the line, and dashing forward amidst a
chorus of joyful music once more.

That's it," remarked Tom, with a dry
laugh ; "no mistake, they're on him again.
Hi, forrard there, my beauties!"

Splash, splash, splash, three men were in
the brook, a fourth was vainly endeavouring
to make his horse face it ; a fifth was
trotting along the banks, not half liking
the look of it ; a sixth, seventh, and eighth
were charging it abreast. And as they
did so the pack's music became fainter
and fainter, for Reckless was leading them
at a swinging pace, quite three fields
away.

Twenty minutes so far, and only one
check. Twenty minutes of happiness Glorie
had tasted since that grand old customer
had whisked his brush at the covert side,
and stolen away in front of Ray and herself.

For the first time in her Hfe Glorie found
herself thinking pityingly of the fate that
probably awaited the chief actor in that
scene. He must be, she thought, a brave-hearted
one, to lead them the line he was,
and yet death was to be his recompense,
in all probability.

They were nearing a small wood on the
right, with a bed of willows beside it, and
a farmhouse at the other end. As Glorie
looked ahead, she saw something gliding
into the willow bed, come out on the other
side, double back along the ditch, and trot
slowly in the same direction as it had
come. It was the old fox's ruse to escape
his pursuers  the tactics of a brave old
veteran done up to a turn, who had worked
his best, and who could do no more.

Glorie s resolution was taken at once. She
would try and save his life.

' Tally-ho ! " she shouted, urging her
horse forward, and pointing with her whip
towards the wood. The hounds had flashed
into the willows, overrun the scent where
the tired fox had doubled back, and thrown
up their heads. Thirsting for blood, the
huntsman had pressed onwards to the wood,
and summoned his beauties to him by a
blast which they knew full well. Into it
they streamed in gallant style. There was
a yell at the far end. A yokel was roaring
himself hoarse as a clean-brushed one went
away. What did he know  this farm
labourer -about a fresh or a tired fox ? It
was a fox ; that's all he saw, and yelled
accordingly.

Glorie was delighted. It was an entirely-new
sensation to her to feel pleased that
the hunted animal had escaped ; but undoubtedly
this sensation had taken possession
of her on this occasion, and she
sent her horse along with a feeling of
relief.

Ten minutes more and the new customer
had gone to earth in a drain, with the
pack yelling their angry expostulations
above ground.

The field began to come up one by one.
There was a general opening and emptying
of flasks, examination of watches, buzz of
tongues. Those who had seen the run
said little, those who hadn't seen it said a
good deal. It was late in the day, and
ten stiff miles to ride home.

'' Ray," said Cherie, suddenly and huskily,
good-bye, Ray ; I must go now. I have
the night train to catch, you know."

He looked up. Ray could not, and had
not realised, that this was Glorie's last ride
with the Quorn.

'await a minute, Cherie," he said, 'i'll
ride back with you."

She put her hand out to him, took his
gently for a moment in hers. The bright
tears glistened in her eyes as she looked
at him.

No, Ray ; not this time, Ray. I could
not  could not bear it." The next moment
she was gone.

1\ /rORNING on the pampa ! The
pale, moonlit sky was dying fast,
and in its place a rosy, yellow-tinted
heaven was gradually breaking into life,
mottled with the hues whose lights are
indescribable, by reason of the constant
variation of colours, that are born of the
struggle between the rising sun and fading
moon to assert their right to reign, in the
realms of light.

A slight hoar frost covered the ground,
and shone in the changing gleams like
sparkling silver. Where the night before
black, smoking plains had stretched around,

now waved on every side a silver sea.
Far away to the westward rose the mighty
Andes, their lofty peaks of ice and snow
robed in the pale pink coral tints, that
warmed with their first pure blush those
regions eternally virgin to the foot of man,
where God's creation rears its head untouched
in the majesty of its unconquered
pride.

Such was the scene that greeted the
eyes of Harold Wrathness as he opened
them at breaking dawn the morning
following his meeting with Maeva. After
bidding her good-night, he had left her to
sleep and rest away the fatigues of the day
in the tent whither he had carried her
from the prairie fire, and which was his
own. Wrapping himself up in his guanaco

rug he had lain himself down just outside,
and with a saddle for a pillow and
his gun by his side, had passed the night
in the open. It was not the first time he
had done so, and Wrathness felt no uncomfortable
effects from the exposure. But
the hoar frost was on his head, and
clustered thick about his beard as he rose
to seek his morning plunge.

He had got up very quietly, for fear of
disturbing Maeva, and had walked quickly
down to the clear, sedgy-lined pool that
lay in the midst of his oasis. As he went
along he fancied he saw something dark
lying out on the glittering pampa beyond,
but surmising it was a dog busy with a
bone, the object passed from his notice
and was forgotten. As he approached

the pool, a flock of ducks rose quacking
from its surface, and two graceful black-headed
swans winged rapidly upwards
and away. He threw off his clothes and
plunged into the icy waters. He valued
this morning swim above everything.
When he came out the blood was coursing
through his veins, his body all aglow, and
he felt the invigorating sensations which
arise from a cold immersion in the strong
and healthy frame.

As he dressed he saw the troupiglia
of horses filing along to drink. They were
an attraction to his eyes, and he watched
them come on one by one. Suddenly he
started. What did he see ? A strange,
coal-black horse, with a single white
star on its forehead, with an empty

saddle on its back, and a loose bridle tied
slackly around its neck.

I said "a. strange horse," but this
animal was no stranger to Wrathness. He
had seen it often before, ridden it, too, as
in former wanderings through this vast
lone land, he had hunted and camped outwith
the famous ostrich-hunter, Francois
Delacroix.

He recognised it at once as the Frenchman's
horse, and called it by its name
of '' Gustave." The horse pricked up its
ears and neighed at the sound of his
voice. Nothing more was wanting to convince
Wrathness.

"Strange," he muttered, "what could
have brought the animal here unless
Fran9ois has turned up ? But he would

have let me know." Again he started, as
the dark figure he had noticed on the
pampa recurred to his mind. Hastily
slipping on his coat, he made off in the
direction from which he had first seen
it.

On reaching the spot he saw that it
was still there, and at once hurried forward
to examine it. As he approached he made
out that it was the figure of a man, but
lying still and motionless. It was easy to
see that it had been there for some considerable
time, as all across the body spun
silver-glittering webs, the work of the busy
and countless spider insect that neither
fire nor ought else appears to exterminate
on the pampas.

He hastened his steps, and came up

with the still, silent figure. It was laying
on its face, one arm outstretched, the hand
whereof lay fiat and passive on the burnt
ground, the other doubled up beneath it.
As Wrathness bent down he saw that
the head was uncovered, and amidst the
shining yellow curls of the unknown,
shimmered the crisp hoar frost. Very
quickly he placed his hand on the figure's
shoulder and turned it over on its back,
and then he stepped back in horror fora
moment, as he perceived the youthful,
boyish face that looked up at him, white
and silent and motionless as the tomb.
The lips were blue and swollen, the
tongue, dry and shrivelled, clenched between
the teeth, the eyes wide open and staring
glassily upwards from out their blue depth,

upon which the shades of vacancy had
fallen.

*' He is dead," gasped the earl, bending
over him again. *poor boy, what a noble
face ! Who can he be ? "

He had lifted the body as he spoke
under the shoulders, and at once dragged it
gently along the pampa in the direction of
the oasis. The boy, a big strapping fellow,
hung heavy in his grasp ; but Wrathness
was strong and muscular. On reaching the
green islet of reeds he knelt down and
lifted the body on to his shoulders, and in
this wise staggered forward to the tent with
his load. He had meant to carry it to
Guillaume's skin abode, a square sort of
dwelling made out of guanaco hide, but
as he approached his own he perceived

VOL. in. 3

that the flaps had been untied, and then
he caught sight of Maeva standing in the
shadow of a huge bunch of reeds, and
leaning heavily on a rough stick.

I am up, you see," she called out. " Is
there any place 1 can hobble to and have
a plunge ? I believe it would do my ankle
good, and I feel as black as ink after that
fiery ride yesterday."

She paused, and stared at him as he
came nearer into view. He had not replied,
and appeared to be staggering under
some heavy load. * What is it ? " she
again called out.

He was getting closer to her now, had
taken the load from his shoulders, and was
carrying it in front of him.

'* No sight for you, Lady Maeva," he

gasped hurriedly, as he strove to pass her.
It is a boy's dead body, I fear."

She was not near enough to catch a
gHmpse of the face, so she followed him
as he entered the tent, a strange misgiving
at her heart. He had laid the body on
the couch of skins which Maeva had but
lately quitted, and had reared himself upto
ease his back after the strain put upon
it, when he heard behind him a bitter,
moaning cry. The next moment he saw
her at his feet, on her knees beside the
motionless body of the boy.

'' Esca," he heard her call out, in a
piteous, pleading voice, " Esca, what is it ?
what has happened ? Oh, Esca ! why are
you like this ? "  .

She had put her left hand under his

head, and was raising the poor white face |
to the Hight, and looking into it with a ;
scared and troubled expression. Sad as the |
sight of the dead lad was, Lord Wrathness |
felt a pang of jealousy pass through him. ;
Who is this boy ? " he asked her, almost 
fiercely, as he saw her stroke the yellow 
love-locks tenderly from off his forehead, '
and press her hand against his cheek.

'' It is Esca, Esca Hamilton, the kindest, .
truest friend I ever knew," she sobbed in |
reply. " Oh, Lord Wrathness ! you do not ;
know all he has done for me ; without his i
help I should have probably failed to find ;
out the plot against you. It was Esca, dear, i
noble, true-hearted Esca, who helped me." j

His face softened as she spoke. After I

I

all Esca was but a boy, a mere lad. |

\

'' He is not dead. He cannot be dead,"
she cried piteously. "Oh, God! if he is
it will break my heart, for I know that he
has come by this while looking for me.
Lord Wrathness, tell me he is not dead."

He bent over the boy and felt his
pulse, then laid his left hand on his heart.
There appeared to be no movement, and
he shook his head sadly.

*' Have you a looking-glass ? " she inquired
in a quiet, strained voice, as though
all hope centred in the possession of one.
"If so, Lord Wrathness, try it."

He had some small gaudy ones, which
he kept as presentation gifts for the
Indians, and he went over to a bundle in
the corner of the tent and fetched one.

She snatched it eagerly from his hand,

i

and held it over the blue swollen lips |
of the boy. But her hand did not \
tremble as she held it there, for she i
knew that on this test depended the
terrible truth of whether he was dead or
alive.

For full three minutes she kept it in
the same position, and then withdrew it
and turned the mirror round. There, on
the smooth surface, without doubt, a film
had gathered, faint indeed, but nevertheless
a film.

She held it up for Wrathness to look
at as she cried out, in accents the joy
of which could not be mistaken, '' Do
you see that ? He is alive ! "

'* He looks as if he had succumbed
for want of water," he said, reaching

across her and laying his hand on the
lad's lips, which felt to his touch dried
up and hard. '' By Jove ! " he added
hastily, '*itis nothing else. Poor lad, poor
lad, how he must have suffered ! I will
fetch some."

He went outside and brought in a
leathern pannikin full of water, and
motioning Maeva on one side put his
fingers into it, and moistened the blue
lips and clenched, shrivelled tongue of
the lad, allowing a few drops to trickle
in at the corner of his mouth. Then he
took a mouthful of the water into his
own, and blew it back into Esca's face.
Three times he repeated the operation,
and then bent down and put his ear to
the boy's heart. He could hear it beating.

Lady Maeva," he said quiet, " he
will come to. Will you please chafe his
hands by turn, and I will do the same by
his feet. We must get back his circulation
first, and then he will come to afterwards."


She obeyed him eagerly, quickly, taking
the poor clenched one first, and opening
the rigid fingers as gently as possible.
Then she chafed them vigorously one by
one, while Wrathness pulled off the boy's
top boots, and drew down his socks one
after the other in succession. As he did
so he uttered a cry of horror and pity,
for the soles of Esca's feet were skinned
and bleeding, and showed evidence of
cruel toil and suffering.

'' I must get a fire lit, and some hot

water to bathe these with," he said
hastily, pointing to the lacerated soles.
*' Please keep his head up, Lady Maeva,
keep his lips moistened, and work away
at his hands as much as you can till I
come back. I'll be as quick as I can.

She assented with a nod, raised up
the curly yellow head, and put a bunch
of skins under it. Then she did as
Lord Wrathness had done before, and
moistened the boy's lips again. As she
did so they moved, the clenched teeth
relaxed their hold of the tongue, which
sucked in the drops of water eagerly.
Wild with delight at this evidence of
returning consciousness, Maeva applied
the pannikin to Esca's mouth, and, still
unconscious though he was, he drank

several mouthfuls with avidity. Then a
light began to shine in the dim, vacant,
staring eyes, his fingers moved, and she
saw his lips stirring.

'' Mother," she heard him whisper,
'' mother, I have struggled to find her,
to help her, but I cannot Oh, mother !
if I fail I shall die. Maeva, Maeva,
my darling, where are you ? "

He started up with a piteous cry, and
stared around him. His eyes were fixed
on Maeva, but he did not see her. He
seemed to be searching for something far
beyond. The next moment he had sunk
back on his skin couch once more.

"Water," he gasped. "Oh, God! fora
drop of water."

She held the pannikin to his lips

again, and he took a long and eager
draught. The water seemed to revive
him, and with it a stronger degree of
intelligence was aroused.

*' Who are you ? " he inquired of
Maeva. '' I don't want you. Do you
know where Lady Maeva Doun is ? I
want her, I am looking for her, I have
looked for her so long. I am worn and
weary ; but I will look for her till I
drop. I won't give in. Don't tell me
she is dead, don't dare to tell me that.
I won't believe it ; I won't, I won't.
If I go on I'll find her yet. I'll find
her though I die."

Esca ! " she cried, in a frightened,
anxious tone. ''Oh, Esca! dear old
Esca, don't talk like that. Look here,

I am Maeva, you have found me, dear,
brave, kind, unselfish Esca. Oh, Esca !
don't you know me ? "

He started and listened intently.

"Hark!" he cried, '* I heard her voice
then. What, didn't you hear it ? But I
did, though. I'd know that voice amongst
a myriad  I love it, I love it so."

He stretched out his arms and laughed
a soft, joyous laugh.

'' She does not know how I love her,"
he continued gently. '' I don't suppose
she'll ever know, for I can never tell her.
What, tell /ler ? How could I ? What
am I but a poor penniless boy, and she 
she's the heiress of Ettrick. Besides, she
doesn't love me like I do her ; she'll never
love me like that. She loves that other

man she wants to save, and Esca  poor
Esca  is only her friend."

Maeva could not bear it ; she laid her
hands gently on his lips. *' Hush, Escape
said, bending down close to him. A
flood of light had rushed across her brain
She saw and understood much she had not
understood before.

He laughed again. " I'm dying," he
cried ; "I know I am. But I shouldn't
mind if I could see her once more. I
think I might tell her, then, how much I
loved her. There would be no harm then,
would there, mother ? "

*' Esca, for the love of God, do not talk
like that," again cried poor Maeva, taking
both his hands. It was terrible to her to
hear him raving so, and every word he

Uttered struck her like a knife. What had
she done to make him love her like that ?
She racked her brains to think. Suddenly
she raised her eyes and looked round, for
she had heard some one moving behind
her. As she did so she caught sight of
Lord Wrathness standing at the tent's
entrance.

He was looking at her with a strange,
bitter look in his eyes.

Oh ! what is the matter ? " she cried ;
what have I done ? Why do you look
at me like that ? "

*' Nothing," he answered coldly ; " I was
listening to yon poor boy."

He said no more, but went over to the
foot of the couch and knelt down on one
knee. He had a skin full of hot water in

his hands and a small sponge. He began
bathing the boy's feet. Esca had sank
back on the heap of skins, and his eyes
had closed. The hot water seemed to
have a soothing effect upon him, for a
flush came into his pale cheeks, his breathing
grew more regular, and his wild ravings
ceased. In a few minutes he was sleeping
soundly.

*' Lady Maeva," said the earl, in a somewhat
peremptory voice, '' you must leave
him now ; sleep is the very best doctor he
can have. His nerves must be kept quiet.
In the state they are in, it would not do
for him to awake and see you there, for
when he awakes the fever that has attacked
his brain will have left him, and he will be
very weak."

"But why may he not see me?" she
asked, in a half-offended tone.

He laughed sadly, bitterly.

'rare you blind?" he said; ** can't you
see what his ailment is ? The boy loves
you. Why, is perhaps best known to
yourself."

She thought there was a sneer in his
voice. She had never heard him speak
so roughly before. The tears rushed to
Maeva's eyes. She forced them proudly
'back as she looked straight at him. Without
a word she rose, and slowly and painfully
left the tent.

There was a sound of many horses' feet
in the distance. It came from the hill
over which she had fled the previous day.
She looked up. There, galloping down

the slope, was her cousin Ronald, and,
behind him, a party of horsemen. They
were Lord Ettrick, Colonel St. Leger
Slade, Guillaume, and Francois Delacroix.
As the boy caught sight of Maeva he
uttered a loud cheer.

VOL. Ill

1\ /TIRA los jos del diablo ! " * Such
was the expression to which a
long, lean, sallow-faced Portuguese gave
vent, as, in company with a swarthy, Indian-complexion
comrade, he stood waiting
for a boat to carry himself and his friend
over the swift but narrow northern channel,
which separated the mainland from the
Island of Pabon, in the settlement of
Santa Cruz. One other person was also
waiting to be ferried across, a tall, dark,
handsome man, but with eyes so restless
and excited, as to draw from the Portuguese,
' Look, what devil's eyes ! "

the somewhat terrified exclamation abovementioned.


His companion smiled. He was a lieutenant
in the Chilian army, a man who
had been variously employed against the
Indians during the frontier wars, and who
had seen rough times and rough faces in
his day. What were a pair of handsome,
restless, wicked eyes to him, who had seen
devils in human shape more than once in
his life } The stranger made no impression
on the Chilian, though he had evidently
completely impressed the Portuguese Don.

The boat was approaching, however.
The three men took their seats as soon
as it came alongside, and were ferried
across. On landing the Chilian and his
friend walked off together in an easterly

I

direction, but the stranger with the jos

del diablo made straight for a substantially i

built house, which stood some hundred

yards away from the ford, surrounded by '

a wooden stockade,  above which floated ;

i

the Argentine flag,  and a deep trench |

beyond, filled with water from the high tides. |

On reaching it the stranger paused, I

hesitated for one moment, and then knocked

at the door. It was opened, to his surprise, j

by a man with a British type of counter

dance, so unmistakable, that the new-comer

at once addressed him in English.

Is Don Luiz Buena on Pabon now 1 " i

'' He is not," answered the Englishman, j

*' He's away in the schooner to the Falk |

lands, but expected back every day. How j

ever, his representative is here." ;

Can I see him ? " inquired the stranger.

I'll go and ask," replied the ready
Englishman. ** Will you give me your
name, please ? "

Mr. Ruys Darrell," was the answer.

The man departed. In a few minutes
he returned.

Come in, please," he said shortly ; and
Mr. Ruys Darrell, otherwise Lady Wrathness,
followed him into the house. It
consisted of three rooms, and in one of
these was seated a young man, busy sorting
a heap of papers before him, He looked
up as she entered, rose, and bowed.

Mr. Ruys Darrell ? " he inquired.

** Yes," she answered, holding out her
hand, 'rand, as I perceive, like you an
Englishman. I have just come from

Sandy Point, and am thinking of going
up country, to see if I cannot hit off a friend,
whom I have reason to believe, passed by
here on his way to the pampas, northwards.
His name was Lord Wrathness.
Did you happen to meet him ? "

She waited eagerly for the reply.

'* Yes," he answered, " Lord Wrathness
passed through here several weeks ago,
but made only a few hours' stay, I
am told. He took a few supplies and
went on north-westward, along the Rio
Chico. I was not here, but that is
what I learnt on my return from Buenos
Ayres, where I have been on Don Luiz's
business."

She smiled triumphantly ; she had tracked
him then successfully so far. Ay, though

he took refuge in the Sahara, she would
find him.

*' I am extremely obliged, sir," was all
she said, however. '' I have one more
favour to ask. As I am going up country
I should much like to write a letter ere
I leave. Could you afford me the facility
to do so, and let me lay in a few supplies
before I go ? "

"Certainly," answered Mr. Royston, for
such was the name of Don Luiz's representative
on Pabon Island, Santa Cruz.
I am going out now. You can write
here ; and I hope you will make yourself at
home, and stay here the night. It is not
often that a fellow-countryman shows himself
in this lone locality."

He rose as he spoke, picked up a broad

sombrero off the floor, put away his papers,
laid out blotting-paper, pen, writing paper,
and envelopes for the stranger in front
of a wooden inkstand, and, with a farther
recommendation to Mr. Ruys Darrell, otherwise
Lady Wrathness, to make herself at
home, went out.

No sooner was she left to herself than
the smiling, suave expression left her countenance,
the devil's look came into her eyes
again ; she sat herself down at the table
which Mr. Royston had prepared for
her, took up the pen, and began her
letter.

It took her about half an hour to write.
When she had finished it she leant back
in her chair, lifted it to the light, and began
to read it through. It ran as follows : 

Pabon Island, Santa Cruz,

' Coast of Patagonia,

'* South America.
'february isti, 18.

My dear Fleecemm,  You will wonder
at my long silence, but I have not written
because I had nothing to tell you. Now
I have, so take up my pen. I told you
when I bade you good-bye that I should
track my man, and so I have. You know
how the sleuth hound tracks his prey, inch
by inch, foot by foot ? That is just how
I have followed my lord over a matter of
some six or seven thousand miles. And
the joke of the matter is, that he thinks he
has dished me completely, got out of my
way entirely. Yet here I am as close on
his heels as I want to be, and as straight

on the running tack as possible. How
I laugh when I think of his face as he
first catches sight of me. After leaving
you, I took a passage in the Pacific Steam
Navigation Company's liner, the Valparaiso,
and landed from her at Rio. There I
learnt that the Mayflower had been and
but lately left. In harbour, too, was the
Firefly, Lord Et trick's yacht. I went onto
see Richard Emerson, and he told me
that ten days previously Lord Wrathness
had called upon him, discussed his cousin's
murder, given him a handsome lump sum
down, and again enjoined the strictest
secrecy in the matter. I saw that no time
was to be lost, and went on in the
Valparaiso.

*' At Monte Video 1 inquired after the

yacht, and even went up as far as Buenos
Ayres, but again could get no tidings of
her there ; so I hurried back to the first
place, and caught the Valparaiso by just
ten minutes.

On our way through the straits of
Magellan we lay to in a regular tornado
off Sandy Point, to land the mails. What
do you think I caught sight of buta
yacht lying in shore. By grand luck
our skipper knew it  told me it was the
Mayflower I felt that fate and vengeance
were in my favour, and I went on shore
in the mail boat, bidding the Valparaiso
farewell.

'' On landing, I learnt that my bird had
flown to the pampas, and I lost no time
in following in his tracks. I have traced

him thus far to this place of Santa Cruz,
have just learnt he went up the Rio Chico,
and am off after him tomorrow. Doubtless
ere this letter reaches you I shall have run
my game to ground.

I keep by me carefully the little black
bag. It contains, as you know, Richard
Emerson's minute of the Wrath ness
murder, whereby I hold him secure. It
contains also the deed you were good
enough to draw up for me ere I left, in
which Wrathness recognises the child as
his, and settles the money I enjoin upon
him and I. I never quit sight of that bag.
I assure you it never leaves my hand
night or day. It is life and death tome.


'precisely because it is so I have made

up my mind to hide it before I go upcountry.
There are some steep, inaccessible
cliffs here, or rather not far away, and my
plan is to let it down over these cliffs by
a leathern thong, where no one will see it
or dream of it. It will be safe there. It
would not be safe up country, where it
might fall into Indian hands, but here no
one will know of its existence save myself
and you. I am going now to choose a '
spot, and on my return, I will put a postscript
in minutely describing it, so that if ought
should happen to me, you will know where
it is to be found.

So for the moment, my dear Fleecemm,
good-bye. I must be off on my tour of
inspection. This letter will bring you the
result in the postscript."

She folded the letter with a smile. " That
will do nicely," she said. " I must keep
Fleecemm in a good humour. He's a nasty
beggar at times. I can't do without him,
and he knows too much to be a pleasant
enemy. He's useful to me, Fleecemm is, and
I suppose I am useful to him."

She had committed the letter to the jaws
of the precious black bag, as she soliloquised
thus to herself, and had put on her sombrero
immediately afterwards. Then she turned
to leave the room, and on going outside
found the English servant engaged chopping
wood.

** Can you tell me, my friend," she inquired,
" if there is such a thing as a boat
to be procured in these parts for a short
row along the coast ? "

'* Yes," he answered; "there is the
master's boat. I have no doubt he would
lend it to you. He is down on the shore
now, and you will find him if you go there."

'' Thank you," she said, as she turned to
go in the direction pointed out by the
man.

She found Mr. Royston on the very spot
specified, and preferred her request. He
courteously acceded, and the boat, a light
dingy, was launched for her convenience.
Into it she got, and began pulling along the
coast on the southern shore. The sea was
smooth and the sky bright. All seemed
favourable for her venture, and she noted
this with satisfaction and approval.

But the distance to the cliffs was
further off than she had anticipated, and

it took her a considerable time to reach
them, indeed, quite an hour and a half
hard pulling, which blistered her hands
and made them sore and painful. She
had not noticed, too, a small black cloud
on the far horizon, no bigger than a
man's hand, but which was slowly
growing in volume and density. The
beach at this part was narrow and shingly,
and the cliffs, though not remarkable for
their great height, perpendicular and inaccessible
to any part from above or
below. One spot in particular caught her
eye, and she pulled in nearer to the
shore to examine it. Now the cliff which
had attracted her attention was a huge
boulder of rock running straight up from
the beach, and upon which some thick

but Stunted bushes grew. Lady Wrathness
calculated at once that this was exactly
the spot in which, by letting the black
bag down, it would be entirely concealed
from view seawards ; while from land it
would be absolutely impossible to distinguish
it, even if its whereabouts were
known, and that it would be there safe
from human eye or human touch. She
took her bearings with great care, minutely
scrutinised the locality, dropped the oars
into the water, and prepared to pull for
Pabon Island, remarking, ** The place
will do. It is admirable. Fate and
vengeance are decidedly on my side. I
was born under a lucky star."

Whether that was so or not, it was
not long before she rested on her oars,

VOL. Il 5

having made no appreciable way. The
tide appeared to be running swiftly
against her ; the wind was freshening
rapidly, and on looking behind her Lady
Wrathness made out a white film on
the distant horizon, which had all the
appearance of a cloud of mist. It reached
from sea to heaven, the sun shone on
it, but beneath it the waters were black
and foam-tossed, and getting nearer and
nearer every moment.

** Great God ! it is a squall, it is bearing
this way, this boat will never face it,"
burst from the lips of that woman of
evil intent, as she gazed petrified at the
ugly sight. She knew well how terrible
were these sudden Suestradas or Turbans
as they are called on those coasts,

and how feared they were by the inhabitants
thereof. What could she do ?
There was no beach on which to land
opposite where she lay, and the nearest
approach to one lay quite three hundred
yards ahead. Could she reach it in time
with this strong tide running against
her ? It was her only hope, and a poor
one.

She was a strong, powerful woman, was
Lady Wrathness, and she pressed her
feet on the boat's bottom, and bent her
back to the oars, with the frenzied
energy of one, who sees hope and life
about to be dashed from her grasp.
The tender skin on her palms, unused
to such rough usage, came away on the
oars' handles, and left the hands raw

and bleeding. But she felt no pain did
this woman struggling for her life, her
one thought, one feeling, being bent on
averting destruction. She dared not look
back. Every moment was precious to
her existence. She knew not how far
she was from the shingly beach, or how
near the racing Suestrada was upon her.
She knew one thing alone, and that was,
that death was rushing upon her.

Suddenly there came a shriek across
the waters, followed by a hissing, rushing
sound. She knew their meaning welland
shipping the oars with a loud cry,
she seized the precious bag that was
lying at her feet. The next moment she
heard the squall strike the boat, and felt
the surging, furious waters drench her

with their spray. A minute later and she
was in the rough, angry sea, battling fora
life that had done nothing but evil for
others, battling for a life whose highest
aim was vengeance and a thirst for gold.

'' " I she house and grounds fetched
22,000, Lady Plunger ; the
remainder of the property was sold
in lots, and realised 175,000, making a
total of 197,000. This amount fully
satisfies all the first mortgages, and pays
off all the second mortgages except
one. This one amounts to 10,000,
and the interest is running at 10 percent."


He was a man of business was the
speaker, and therefore necessarily of a
somewhat cold and calculating nature ; but

even he was touched by the sad, careworn
expression which rested on the face of the
lady he was addressing.

She passed her hand wearily across her
forehead and sighed. Those who had only
seen Glorie in her palmy days, would hardly
have recognised in this sad-eyed girl, the
same person.

'' Then there is nothing left over to meet
this with, Mr. Dodson" she inquired.
*' And how are all the costs of sale to be
met  lawyers' bills, etc. ? "

*' Indeed, Lady Plunger, I know not ; it
is a sad business altogether. It leaves you
in a very unpleasant position, and makes
the future outlook bad indeed."

It means ruin," she said, quietly. " I
could bear that, Mr. Dodson, but not to be

able to meet all one owes Is terrible. God
help us ! "

Most of the bills can be met," he said,
more cheerily, '' by the proceeds of the
hunters' sale. They realised over 3,000,
and these bills do not amount to 4,000.
But, of course, all the costs -lawyers' bills,
and the 10 per cent, on this 10,000  will
soon run up, and I do not suppose your
trustees will realise anything like its worth
from the land settled on you, in your marriage
settlement."

" It used to bring in over 2,000
a year," she said, wearily, "now not so
much as ;500 ; and it is on this we
shall have to live. It would do well
enough if we could start clear ; but,
burdened with debt, as we shall be, I

foresee nothing but one long, terrible
struggle."

There was a pause. The man of business
had no words of comfort to offer ; besides,
he knew that Glorie was far too clever and
practical to be relieved by false hope. It
was evident she both saw and realised the
position fully.

Sir Beaufort will be anxious to
hear the result," he said at length.
'' Shall I write him, or will you acquaint
him ?"

'' I will," she said shortly, as she rose to
leave. " There is no object in my remaining
any longer. You will let me know,
will you not, if anything requires attending
to ? It is all in my hands now. No use
writing to Sir Beaufort ; it would only

Upset him, for he does not half realise
things yet."

I will certainly write, if necessary, to
you. Lady Plunger," answered the man of
business, blandly. '' Your address is, let
me see  Albemarle Street. What number,
pray  it has quite slipped my memory ? "

*' No, not Albemarle Street," she answered,
with a bitter laugh. " You forget, Mr.
Dodson, our circumstances. We are at
26, Cumberland Row, Kensington, for the
present. But God knows for how long.
Even that place will be too much for us,
I expect, soon."

She held out her hand to him as she
spoke.

*' WelL good-bye," he said.

"Good-bye" was all she replied. Then

she went out of the office, down the stone
stairs, and into the streets.

There was no smart brougham waiting
for her now, no high stepping horse and
obsequious coachman  not so much as a
hansom, even, for Glorie knew that hansoms
were beyond her means. The streets were
very crowded. Streams of men walked
backwards and forwards. Many of them
carried black business bags, every one seemed
in a devil " of a hurry. She threaded her
way through the pressing crowd. The
situation was so novel to her, that for a
time it took off her mind the heavy,
dragging trouble that weighed upon her.

She had walked for some time, frequently
stopping to ask a policeman the way, and
had reached Trafalgar Square, when a

smart buggy passed her, driven by a young
man with the nattiest of tigers beside him.
She at once recognised this golden youth
as Sir Appleby Henceforth, a member of
the jeunesse donee, who, not so very long
ago, before misfortune had come upon her
husband, had been one of the most assiduous
of those, to pay her attention and
angle for her favour. She could not tell
now, whether the youthful baronet had
recognised her or not. In any case, he
took no notice of her, but just drove on.

It was but a little incident, but it served
to remind Glorie of her painful position.
She hung her head down, fearful of meeting
some one she knew, and trudged
bravely on.

Down Pall Mall, up St. James's Street,

along the left side of Piccadilly, and on
past the entry to the park, she made her
way. Half an hour later she was passing
the Albert Memorial, and ten minutes from
there brought her to Cumberland Row,
No. 26.

It was a small clean street enough, with
tiny, clean-looking houses in it. She walked
briskly along it, stopped at No. 26, and
rung the bell.

The door was opened by a young girl,
who at once made way for her mistress to
pass.

"Is Sir Beaufort in, Madge?" inquired
Glorie, as she pulled off her hat and veil
and handed them to the girl.

*eyes, my lady. Sir Beaufort has never
been out. He's in the drawing-room, my

lady. May I bring your ladyship a cup
of tea and some bread-and-butter ? " added
the girl pleadingly. '* You do look tired."

Thanks, Madge ; you are a good girl.
Yes, do please. I shall relish a cup, as
I've had a long tramp since breakfast.
It's not like walking heather or turnips
in nice easy boots. One could go on at
that all day, but it's weary work getting
over these pavements. By-the-bye, where
are the boys ? "

"At the round pond, my lady. I gave
them their dinner, and took them there,
and I said I would call back for them
at three. They are very happy, my lady.
And now, my lady, I'll go and get you
your tea."

The servant moved away as she spoke,

and passed down the narrow staircase
which led to the little kitchen below,
Glorie going upstairs to the drawing-room.
As she opened the door and
looked in, she saw Sir Beaufort sitting
moodily by the fire, staring at the coals.
He hardly moved when she came in,
just looked round, and then resumed his
position of a minute before.

*' Beaufort," said Glorie, fighting hard
with herself and the dreariness of the
surroundings, and speaking in a cheery
tone, " have you had lunch yet ? "

''If you call the muck that was served
up as lunch  well, yes. But I didn't eat
it. A tough beefsteak, a few greasy
potatoes, and not a drop of spirits in the
house. It's enough to send a fellow mad."

** Beaufort," said the girl, with sudden
impulse, putting her arm round his necklet's
go away from London, and go and
live in the country, or away in America.
Let's try and begin a new life entirely,
and forget the old one. Don't let's hang
on here. It's dreadful ; it will drive you
wild, and me too. Oh ! do let's go
away."

He laughed jeeringly. '' What, go and
bury ourselves away from every one, live
a hermit's life, give up everything one
cares about most ? Glorie, you must be
mad."

Perhaps so," she said coldly ; ** I have
heard that trouble does turn some people's
brains, and God knows I have had
enough. But, Beaufort dear, you don't

realise your position. How can you do
all you want, and meet the load of debt
that still hangs over us, on lite more
than 400 a yeare*"

'four hundred a year . " he shouted
angrily. " What are you talking about ?
Isn't dear old Boswell Towers valued at
500,000, and we don't owe at the
utmost more than 250,000."

"Oh, Beaufort! enough of this," she
said sadly. " When you get a thing into
your head, nothing can get it out of it.
You don't know, then, that the whole
property has gone for 197,000, and that
there is a lot more owing."

"Gone for 197,000? Don't dare tell
me that, Glorie ! "

"Not dare?" she laughed. "I'm not

VOL. III. 6

afraid of any one or any thing in this
world, except two things, and those are,
to tell a lie and owe money. I've told
you the truth, and nothing else."

'* I'll not believe it ! " he again burst
forth. Sir Beaufort was a weak man,
and, like all weak men, obstinate. He did
not care to face what was distasteful to
him. Such a statement as she had made
was too horrible to realise, and he would
not accept it.

'' Why the devil hasn't Dodson written
to me?" he continued angrily. "I'll just
go and see him, and row him well.
Damn him ! "

*' Oh ! please, Beaufort, do not use such
dreadful language," pleaded Glorie piteously
; "it makes one's blood run cold.

Neither vent your anger on Mr. Dodson.
Remember we owe him any amount.
He's really been most good to us, and,
unlike most lawyers, has never bothered
us with his bills."

I suppose he knows they are safe
enough," answered her husband.

"Safe!" she ejaculated, with a slight
shrug of the shoulders ; " and you say
that after what I've told you. However,
Beaufort, you had better go and see Mr.
Dodson ; you never will realise the position
till you have done so."

She knew by experience that to convince
him on anything that was unpleasant to himself,
was next to impossible, except in the
case of hard facts, and for this reason advised
the course she did. Then, as he did not

answer, she fetched him his hat and
gloves.

'' I shall want a hansom," he said ;

ring the bell, Glorie." 

I
She flushed to the roots of her hair, j

but did not move. i

'' Beaufort," she said quietly, *' hansoms
run away with money. Can't you walk ? j
I did."

'' What ! you walked all the way to ;
Coleman Street and back ? More fool i
you if you did." He laughed disdainfully. 
blowed if I shall." 

"Then call a hansom for yourself," she
said quietly, '' for Madge has gone out to
the boys by now. She was to get me a
little tea. It will be in the dining-room,
and I'll go and have it if you are going out."

He said no more, but put on his hat
and left the room. A minute afterwards
the house door banged behind him, and
he was gone. Glorie felt very weary.
She went downstairs, drank her tea, but
left the bread-and-butter untasted. As
she was going up again to the drawing-room,
the front door bell rang. What
was she to do ? Madge was out. Glorie
pulled herself together, and went and
opened it. On doing so she started back
with an exclamation of annoyance.

Standing on the steps was a young
fellow, apparently about twenty two years
of age. He raised his hat on seeing her,
and, with well-bred courtesy, manifested no
surprise at the irregularity and unusualness
of a lady answering her own door bell.

But he could not fail to hear and notice the
exclamation and gesture of annoyance, with
which Glorie had greeted his appearance.

** I do hope I am not bothering you,"
he began diffidently. He was a young
guardsman, Frank Coventry by name, had
been a most devoted slave to Glorie in
past days, and in his heart adored the
ground she walked on.

Come in," she said, with a laugh.
'' Let me show you over my new palace.
Beautiful mansion, is it not ? "

He glanced round timidly. He had
seen her in her luxuriously furnished
house in Albemarle Street, and the contrast
was pitiably striking. What could
he say ?

She laughed again. They had been

ascending the stairs together, and as she
entered the sitting-room she remarked
drily, " Rather different to dear old
Albemarle Street, eh, Mr. Coventry?"
He looked miserable, but remained silent ;
he seemed perfectly tongue-tied. She had
sat herself down on a high-backed sofa,
hard and comfortless, and motioned him
to a seat.

'won't you sit down?" she said.
That is to say, if you are not too
grand to do so." Wicked Glorie ! There
was an old bit of the dare-devil spirit left in
her still, in spite of trouble and misfortune.
He flushed crimson, but did not accept
the seat. Instead of doing as she invited
him, he walked hurriedly across to where
she was seated.

** Lady Plunger" he began, "please forgive
me. But Mr. Dodson is my lawyer
as well as yours, and somehow or other
I couldn't help getting to know a bit
about all your troubles. Don't think me
cheeky, but I would be so happy if you
would let me help you a little bit. I
haven't got much, only ; 10,000 that I
can touch, but that would help you a
little at first, maybe, and  and if you
would take it, it would make me so
awfully glad and happy."

He was looking at her shyly and uncomfortably,
believing in his boyish, honest
heart that he had taken a most unwarrantable
liberty. She looked up at
him, her eyes filled with tears, and held
out her hand.

Oh, Mr. Coventry ! " she exclaimed,
what a dear good fellow you are.
Indeed, indeed I am grateful to you, and
I will never forget your great, considerate
kindness, but I can't accept what you
offer. It is impossible."

He looked pained and miserable.

*' I felt it was too little," he stammered ;
"but I hoped it would be a tiny little bit
of use to you."

'' Too little ! " She uttered those two
words in genuine accents of surprise. She
was thinking what a sterling, noble heart
this boy must have. She had always rather
snubbed and bullied him in past days, and
made him a sort of butt, and this was how
he returned her inconsiderateness. How
different to that other youth who had passed

her in his smart buggy that morning and
paid no attention to her.

I shall never forget your goodness,"
she continued, in a voice full of emotion,
'' never, Mr. Coventry, as long as I live.
It is worth while being poor, if only to
learn who one's friends are."

"Oh, Lady Plunger!" he burst out,
passionately, " I cannot bear to see you
reduced to this state. It will break my
heart."

She was beginning to understand him
better now, and in that moment read his
heart's secret.

Don't fret on my account," she said,
gently rising and laying her hand on his
arm. " Believe me, I value your kindness
and friendship beyond all things. I feel

sure we shall always be good friends  shall
we not ?  and you must come and see me
sometimes."

Oh ! thank you, thank you," he cried
eagerly. " Then you are not angry with
me :

"Angry for making me believe there are
some good honest hearts and true in this
world?" she said quickly. '* No, certainly
not, Mr. Coventry. On the contrary, I am
deeply grateful."

He turned to go.

'' Then I may come again . " he
inquired."

As often as you like," she answered, as
she took his hand and pressed it gently ;
as often as you like. You will be always
welcome."

He said nothing, but, bending down,
kissed her hand tenderly but respectfully.

'thank you," he said quietly, and, then
turning, left the room.

As he did so two boys rushed into it.
One was a slight, intellectual-looking child
of seven or eight, the other five.

Mother," cried the eldest, " how much
longer are we going to live in this funny
little house ? When are we going back to
Albemarle Street ? "

Glorie bent down and stroked his silky
hair.

Never, Reginald. We are poor now.
Didn't you know that ? '

Poor, mother ? And shan't I and Varney
have our ponies to ride any more ? " he
inquired.

'' I'm afraid not, Reggie. But you must
be a brave boy and help mother. See, she
has given up all those nice horses she loved
so much."

*' And shall we never go back to Boswell
Towers, mother ? "

No, darling, never. The poor old home
is sold."

He looked at her and gave a sob. Then
he threw his arms round her neck.

Mother, dear," he whispered, " don't
mind. Don't look sad ; Reggie will work
for mother when he grows up, and make
her rich again some day."

"yTAP, wap, wap, wap ! " The
sound echoed and re-echoed
through the long Hne of mounted Indians
which stretched itself out in an imposing
file on the sunny-girt pampas of Patagonia,
not far removed from the Rio Chico,
and in a direct easterly position of God's
Hill. Up and down the ranks of these
warriors rode their capitanejos, haranguing
and exhorting their followers to maintain
a disciplined and well-ordered front, so as
to present an imposing aspect to the
advancing body of southern Tehuelches
which could be discerned in the distance

coming over a low line of hills in
somewhat disordered array.

And the spectacle was an imposing
one, especially to those who, like Lord
Ettrick, Colonel St. Leger Slade, Lord
Wrathness, Maeva, Ronald, and Esca,
saw it for the first time.

Since we were last in the company of
these latter, both Maeva and Esca had
recovered,  the former from her twisted
ankle, the latter from his attack of prostration
and want of water. Lord Ettrick
had been forced to remain in the reed
marsh camp tor quite a week, in order
that quiet and rest might produce the
desired effect, and the time had been
spent by the others in lengthy rides and
expeditions into the Cordilleras, in search

of game. Esca and Maeva had, in consequence,
during that week, been thrown
almost entirely in each other's company,
the only other beings left in camp being
two of the ostrich hunters, whose headquarters
were in their own tents.

The position was one of not a little
embarrassment to the girl, who had learnt,
from the ravings of the poor lad's fevered
brain, the secret of his heart. Although
she naturally made no mention of them
to Esca, and he had no idea how he had
disclosed his feelings to her, the fact that
they existed made Maeva feel responsible
for a good deal, and the thought made
her sad and anxious. The girl knew full
well that hopeless as was her love, she
had bestowed it elsewhere, and that where

it had first gone, it would remain. She
was not one of those who take pleasure
in attracting men's love for the fun of
the thing, and the knowledge of Esca's
feeling towards her in this matter brought
her more pain than happiness.

A certain estrangement, too, had grownup
between her and Lord Wrathness, the
reason of which she could not fathom.
She knew it was not her fault, but he
rarely spoke to her, and never reverted
to the question which so strongly affected
him, and in which she had been so deeply
mixed up. This coldness and apparently
studied neglect, hurt her deeply, and
caused her many a bitter pang. It made
her shy of him, too, and inclined to shun
anything like a tete-astute together.

VOL. III. 7

It was at this encampment that the
party were one morning surprised by a
large party of Northern Tehuelche Indians,
who were journeying south to meet a
body of Southern Tehuelches, and to barter
in Santa Cruz their choice selection of
skins for rum and useful articles of food
and clothing.

The head of these northern inhabitants
of the Patagoniann pampas was Casimir,
a highly enlightened and dignified individual,
who was well known to Fran9ois
Delacroix, as well as to Lord Wrathness.
It was decided to ask his permission to
allow the party to proceed in company
of this body of Tehuelches as far as
Santa Cruz, and the permission was no
sooner demanded than it was accorded

willingly by the cacique, or chief. Thus
it was that on the day, upon which this
chapter opens, Lord Ettrick and his party
were the witnesses of that remarkable
sight, a Patagoniann Indian ceremonial
of welcome.

Over the hill they came, a body of some
three hundred mounted men, whose huge
bodies and broad strapping figures were
enhanced by the small size of their horses,
wiry animals enough, but with every
appearance of being considerably under
their owners' weights. They were all
habited in their best, and both sides
made a great show of gay coloured
ponchos, silver spurs and ornaments, with
neat petro boots made out of the skins
of horses' hind legs.

Hostages having been exchanged, the
Northernss, who had formed up into Hne
opposite to the Southern, brought their
ranks into serried array. Instantly the
new-comers, forming Into columns of three,
began galloping madly around the motionless
Northernss, yelling, shouting, brandishing
their swords and bolas, firing off their
guns, rifles, and revolvers, and executing
a score of extraordinary and fantastic
manoeuvres. Their next proceeding was
to open ranks and charge in every direction,
thrusting at an Imaginary enemy,
with the defiant cry of " Loue," Intended,
as Francois Informed Lord Ettrick, as an
attack on the guallchu, or devil. This
having brought their wild exercise to a
close, with rapid, graceful movements

they formed into line, and maintained
a rigid attitude while the Northernss
went through a similar series of attacks,
shouting, firings, and charging, as the
Southern had but lately indulged in.

All this while the women were busy
putting up the toldos, or tents, and in a
very short time a cosy little Indian town
had arisen on the pampa. The scene
was an extremely striking one, and Ronald,
Esca, and Maeva were delighted with all
they saw.

It happened that that evening, the two
midshipmen had gone out of camp for a
ride in each other's company ; and Maeva,
being left to herself, wandered about the
toldos making friends with many of the
Indians, and amusing the children in

various ways. Passing close by to the
cacique's dwelling, she paused to pat a
little hairless dog, that was lying just
outside. As she did so, the flap of the
tent was opened, and Lord Wrathness
came out.

'* A funny little dog, is it not. Lady
Maeva ? " he observed kindly. She started
with pleasure, and her face flushed up
with gladness at the tone of his voice.
So many days had gone by since he had
spoken in such a manner, and the girl's
heart, sad she hardly knew why, or
rather would not acknowledge to herself,
bounded with delight.

With a happy, wistful look she glanced
up at him and smiled.

He could not resist the pleading expression

of the beautiful grey eyes. Ever
since Esca's unconscious confession had
fallen on his ear. Lord Wrathness had
been endeavouring to steel himself against
his love for Maeva. What business had
he, he asked himself, to come between
her and the love of other men,  he who
was hopelessly separated from her by that
tie, brutal and cruel he called it, which
linked him to a woman he hated and
despised ? He had made up his mind to
be with her as little as possible, and never
to speak to her, save in the company
of others, to hold aloof from all communion
with this child-friend, whom his
heart yearned to with such a tender and
devoted love. For her sake he would
act in this manner, he told himself

And now, where were all his good
resolutions ?

'' Little friend," he said gently, as she
looked at him, " shall we go for a stroll
along the Chico ? Every one is busy,
and we shall not be missed."

She assented gladly. She could not
resist the happiness of being with him
alone once more. The happy evening of
their meeting in the pampas, was still
fresh in her mind, one of those never-to-be-forgotten
moments of a life.

Side by side they wandered along the
cool, quiet river. The scene was a very
peaceful one, and they felt its influence
on their hearts. Away to the westward
the snowy peaks of the Andes, loomed
ghostlike through the filmy haze of

distance, the hilly pampa rose and fell
in a succession of heaving waves, the
numerous fires in the Indian camp
glimmered and sparkled, growing every
moment more glowing and distinct, as the
shades of evening fell.

"What is that?" exclaimed Maeva
suddenly, as she halted, and pointed to
some object in the far distance. '' What
is it, Lord Wrathness ? "

He shaded his eyes with his right
hand, and looked earnestly in front of
him. Away to the southward, apparently
in close proximity to the winding course
of the Chico's silver streak, were several
lights, which had all the appearance of
camp fires.

They must be watch-fires of Indians,

or more probably of ostrich hunters," he
replied. " I will report their existence to
Casimiroo on our return to the camp.
By-the-bye, have you heard that there is
to be a great hunt tomorrow ? You have
never seen an Indian circle yet; it will
be very interesting. Won't Ronald and
young Hamilton enjoy it ! "

'you will join it, of course?" she
said. " You will come with us, Lord
Wrathness, won't you?"

There was an eagerness in her tone
which he could not fail to perceive.
He felt angry with himself for rejoicing
in it. Ah ! where were his good
resolutions ?

'' Yes, I will make one of the party,
little friend," he said, "and we will have

a happy day together. We must return
to camp now, however. See, the moon
is rising ; we have lingered too long."

'' I have been very happy," she said
gently.

And I, too," he replied.

Perhaps he was to blame. Who knows ?
It is hard to tell. When the path of
life has been strewn with weariness, disappointment,
and pain, it is hard to thrust
from one, the golden light of happiness,
as at times it sheds its rays across that
path. Wrathness felt that those rays
would be few and far between. He
could not refuse to bask in their sunshine
when they came. Rather, he had
not the courage to do so.

Indians are early birds, and, except on

rare occasions, the rising moon is the
signal for bed. When Wrathness and
Maeva got back to camp therefore, they
found that most of their dusky friends had
turned in, while Ronald and Esca were
returned from their ride. Lord Ettrick
and Colonel St. Leger Slade were
smoking a friendly pipe together, and
the former hailed the two as they
approached.

'' Hallo, Wrathness, been rambling as
usual ? What discoveries have you and
Maeva made ? "

Nothing, father," she answered with
a laugh, but quickly corrected herself
By-the-bye, yes, those lights we saw.
You said. Lord Wrathness, you were
going to report them to Casimiroo."

So I did," he replied a little absently,
but it's too late now. I'll tell him in
the morning."

But when the morning came they had
been forgotten".

As Esca bade Maeva good-night, she
noticed that his blue eyes looked at her
sadly, and that his voice sounded husky
in its tone. It troubled her, for since
his recovery he had been particularly
cheery and full of spirits, and she could
only attribute his saddened demeanour
this night, to the fact that she had
been with Lord Wrathness."

Poor boy ! had he been allowing a
shadowy, half-grown hope to creep into
his mind, that his love for Maeva might
in time come to be, not so hopeless as

it seemed ? Who knows ? It is certain j

i

he had noticed the want of any evil

hence of loving affection between the 

two. It mystified him somewhat, for |

Esca, when first made a confidant of ;

Maeva's secret, had quite settled it !

j

in his mind that she loved Wrathness. ;

Having seen them together, however, he !

was seriously inclined to doubt his first \

assumption, and upon this, perhaps, had 

allowed the secret hope referred to to 

gain ground. If this was so, this evening j

awoke him from his dream. Clearly as '\

words could paint them, Esca saw unmis- j

taxable in both their faces, as they i

returned from their stroll by the Rio 

Chico, the evidence of a happiness which i

love alone could bring there.

He sought his rough skin bed in
silence and sadness, but he could not
sleep. Rest had fallen over the Indian
camp, but for him there was none that
night. Unable to bear the situation any-longer,
he rose softly up. Lord Ettrick,
Ronald, and Colonel St. Leger Slade
with whom he shared the same tent,
were all asleep. Very quietly he lifted
its flap, and stole out into the clear, star-spangled,
moonlit night. The mighty
prairies stretched away on all sides 
shadowy, silent, and lonely  the Chico
flowed like a line of soft, pale gold along
its course ; the ghostlike Andes loomed
upwards, as though to kiss the stars.
There was peace on all around, save in
the struggling spirit of that poor, lone boy.

He wandered along that river where
Maeva and Wrathness had but a few
hours before found peace and happiness
in each other's company. He was fighting
with himself, in terrible agony of
mind. He was casting from him the
glorious dream, which he had allowed
his eyes to feast upon, he was throwing
from him for the last time, the clinging,
yearning hope of his bright young life.

He fought with himself, and conquered.
A gleam in the east told that the sun
was coming. As its first bright rays
shot over the sleepy earth, arousing
nature into life and movement, the Indian
camp began to stir. At the same time
a figure glided noiselessly through the
line of toldos, and entered Lord Ettrick's

tent. It was Esca. His face was very
white, and, for one so young, the haggard
lines of care showed sadly clear. He
threw himself on his couch, and closed
his eyes, as though courting the angel 
sleep.

She came to him, and heard his silent
prayer. She came to him bringing him
happy dreams. She came to him with
the rest of a great fight o'er, for had
not Esca fought and won ?

VOL. HI.

T T was a wonderful sight ! Four hundred
of the best mounted and most skilful
hunters in the chase, selected from amongst
the Northern and Southern Tehuelches,
who submitted to the chieftainship of Casimir,
drawn up awaiting the order of that
cacique, to commence their march on the
hunting grounds, that lay beyond.

It was a great day. Meat was required
in large quantities for the support of so
numerous an assemblage, and Casimiroo had
decided that a monster circle should be
formed.

He had invited Lord Ettrick and his

party to take part in it, as well as Lord
Wrathness, so that early morning saw
them all in the saddle and prepared for
the fray. I said all, but there was one
missing ; and this both Maeva and Wrathness
noticed at once. It was Esca.

Go, Ronald, and see if he is up," said
Lord Ettrick to the young earl. " He
was sleeping so soundly," explained the
marquis, as Ronald obeyed the request,
that I told our young man there to let
him be, for I noticed that he looked very
white and haggard. He must not overdo
himself, as I expect he has hardly quite
got over the dreadful shock he sustained
a fortnight ago."

As he finished speaking Ronald cantered
up.

'* Esca will be here in a minute, Lord
Ettrick," he said. '* He has just come back
from a plunge in the Chico, and he asked
me to ask you not to wait, as he would
catch us up in no time. His horse is
already saddled, so he won't be delayed."

The Indians had already set out, and
were filing across the plain in solemn silence.
Numerous hounds followed the cavalcade,
the appearance of which presented a most
sporting aspect. It did not take Lord
Ettrick and the others very long to come
up with them, and when they did so, they
fell into their places in a most orthodox
manner.

They had not proceeded far, when the
sound of a galloping horse echoed behind
them, and in a few minutes Esca rode up

and joined them. The plunge in the river,
and the exercise engendered by his brief
gallop, had brought a bright flush to his
cheeks, and the careworn, haggard look
had passed away.

You look better, my boy," said
Lord Ettrick kindly, "than you did this
morning, when I was dressing Indeed,
you were so white and poorly-looking, that
I would not let Ronald rouse you from
the deep sleep, into which you appeared to
have fallen. I fear you did not have a
good night."

Oh ! I am all right, Lord Ettrick,"
laughed the lad. '' I did not sleep very
well, and that is what made me such a
sluggard this morning ; but it shan't happen
again."

He felt that both Maeva and Wrathness
were looking at him as he spoke,
hence the tone he assumed was light and
cheery. In the pursuit of what he had
determined should be his duty, he was
prepared to sacrifice every feeling of his
heart, and bravely perform that duty to
the last.

It will be a tremendous circle," he
observed to Ronald brightly. " I am
looking forward awfully to a scrimmage
with guanaco ; they say we shall come on
them in thousands."

'talk of devils, and there they are," exclaimed
his brother mid, with a laugh.
"Just look there, Scathed

had been breasting a gently rising
incline meanwhile, and now reined up as

Casimiroo was seen to call a halt and assemble
his Indians around him. Far away
below, in a wide circular plain, which
stretched southwards beyond the sight of
man, could be distinguished several large
herds of guanaco, browsing peacefully on
the stunted herbage, that grew scantily
beneath them.

Every Indian had dismounted, and, committing
the horses to the care of several
lads who had accompanied the hunting
party so far, had seated themselves in a
huge ring. In the centre a fire was quickly
kindled, water put on to boil, several
wooden bowls and silver bombiglias produced,
and in a very short time the mat
bowl went round, each man taking a few
sucks through the bombiglia, and then

passing it and the bowl, with an approving
grunt, to his neighbour.

When all had partaken of that invigorating
and refreshing beverage, Casimiroo
stood up and said a few words. Instantly
two Indians sprang to their feet, hastened
towards their horses, mounted them, and ina
few seconds were careering at full gallop
in what appeared to be a diametrically
opposite direction to the points, where the
guanaco showed in the greatest numbers.
They had hardly been gone a minute
when the chief made another remark.
This was the signal for two more
Indians to start off in the same manner
as the first two had done, only in
exactly an opposite direction. And so
the performance went on at regular

intervals until only about fifty Indians
remained. Then Casimiroo turned to Lord
Wrathness and waved his arm. At the
same time fires were observed springing
up in a large semicircle far ahead of the
guanaco herds.

'* The circle fires are lit, Ettrick," observed
Lord Wrathness. "We must
spread out now, and form what the
Indians call the crescent. As we advance
in that order, all the Indians that have
gone will close in from their side. Aided
by the fires, which guanaco and ostriches
fight shy of, the game will be driven to
the centre. Then the Indians rush in,
use their bolas to bring down their
prey, and so capture large quantities of
game."

'' I say, Esca, you and I'll keep together,
or, at least, next door to each
other, and if Maeva will go to your
left, I daresay we'll have a lark,"
laughed Ronald, as he saw Lord Ettrick
and Colonel St. Leger Slade ride off
to the right. Wrathness had lingered
near Maeva, and instinctively she had
brought her horse up close alongside his
own. Esca saw the movement, and
framed his reply accordingly.

Better two and two together, Ronald,
old man ; you and I will go chums," he
said. '' I see Lord Ettrick and the
colonel have paired, so that Lord Wrathness
and Maeva must go with each
other." And ere this latter could make
any remark, he had spurred forward his

horse, closely followed by Ronald, and
in another moment had taken his place
in the crescent.

'' This way, little friend," said Lord
Wrathness gently, and Maeva, with a
happy smile, kept close beside him as he
galloped towards the vacant opening left
by the Indians for him to occupy. Ina
few minutes the great half-wheel was
in motion, and bearing in splendid order
down upon the unsuspecting herds.

Suddenly in their midst there was a
motion of swaying to and fro. The guanacos
had caught sight of the fires, and
were beginning to grow terrified. Hither
and thither they galloped in wild confusion.
But whichever way they turned
smoke and advancing horsemen met their

view. Suddenly, with a yell, Casimiroo ,
dashed forward. The yell was taken up i
by three hundred throats, as the dusky j
hunters of the pampa pressed forward to !
secure their prey. Yelling like the most J
accomplished Indian, Ronald imitated their \
example, and soon both he and Esca had !
mingled in the fray.

The scene was not a new one to :
Wrathness. During his wanderings he had '
taken part in hunting circles before. He!
was an expert handler both of the ostrich :
and guanaco bola, and was therefore -
thoroughly at home on this occasion. ;

Closely followed by Maeva, he had-galloped
forward, his eye scanning the!
scene going on ahead of him. It was;
not slow to distinguish a group ofj

ostriches, who, with necks outstretched and
close-folded wings, were making rapidly
for the high ground on which he and
Maeva found themselves.

Pull up, Lady Maeva," he called out,
as he reined in his horse and unslung the
ostrich bola, which hung at his saddle's
side. *' I can do for a couple of those, I
think ; but we shall have to ride sharply,
I can tell you."

As he spoke, he observed the ostriches
give a sudden swing to the right, which
completely turned them from their original
course, and then he made out the forms
of two black-and-white hounds, which were
straining every nerve to come up with
them.

A bola is no use now, little friend'

he said quietly, replacing that article of ,
the chase whence he had just taken it ; :
*' but we are in for a good gallop all the ;
same, I can see. Come on." i

As they dashed forward, they could 

perceive that the hounds were creeping up |

i

with the fleeting covey. An ostrich alone j

I

and ostriches in company are not the !

same thing in regard to speed, the !
former travelling at a much greater rate !
than the latter, as was quickly proved j
in this case, when one of the largest ;
suddenly detached himself from the others, '

i

and taking a straight course for a distant \

I
bend of the Rio Chico, spun over the i

pampa at a tremendous rate. I

No sooner did the hounds perceive '

the bold move of the grand old bird, ;

than they swung in their course, and
laid themselves out to follow in his
pursuit, the remainder of the covey being
allowed to flee away in safety, unnoticed
and pursued.

The pace was breakneck. The bird was
strong and powerful, and the hounds,
though well matched in courage and in
speed, could not gain upon him appreciably.
Both Wrathness and Maeva
were racing side by side at their horses'
topmost speed, but so far they had not
gained an inch upon the hounds. The
situation was extremely exciting, and
Maeva's nerves were strung to their
highest pitch.

The girl was a good rider. The art
was inborn in her. She had ridden to

hounds In many a grand burst in England, j

and enjoyed those gallops proportionately ; I

but she thought now, as she raced along !

In the wake of that grand striding old i

bird, that she had never revelled In a i
ride so much before.

Already, however, the pace was be ;

ginning to tell. The hounds fell visibly j

In the rear, the horses laboured painfully I

along, with the sweat of extraordinary i

effort breaking out upon them, and the ;

sob of an overtaxed exertion making |

Itself heard from time to time. j

'she'll beat us, I can see that," called |

out Wrathness to Maeva, as the ostrich, |

altering his course still further west ;

wards  that Is to say, straight as a dart 

for the Chico  made up a long, low i

incline, his wings still folded peaceably
to his sides.

But they struggled on, both hounds
and hunters, in spite of the odds against
them. A stroke of luck might turn the
game into their own hands. It was with
this hope, that Wrathness still pressed
forward, and cheered the dogs to renewed
exertion.

On reaching the top of the hill, he
called them in, however, and immediately
drew rein. " No use," he exclaimed, ina
disappointed tone. " The old rascal has
beat us."

There, skimming across some rocky
ground quite a quarter of a mile away,
went the bird which had led them such
a dance  in vain.

VOL, III. 9

Never mind," said Maeva, as she
sprung from her sobbing horse and quickly
slackened the girths to ease him, " it was
a grand gallop all the same ; and, to tell
you the truth, I am glad he has got
away. I like pluck. I don't care whether
it's in man or beast, it deserves to win in
the end ; and if ever ostrich earned his
life, yon plucky beast has done so."

There spoke the tender heart," he
laughed slyly, as he too busied himself
with his horse's girths. " But let us lead
our animals to the Chico, wash their mouths
out, and give the hounds a drink. If they
are half as thirsty as I am, they need it."

The river lay beneath the bend of the
next hill, and they walked slowly up this
last, followed by the crestfallen and disappointed

hounds, who, with lowered heads
and drooping tails, and tongues fiery and
scarlet hanging from mouths, were doubtless
ruminating over the uncertainty of
all human things.

They had breasted the hill, and were
descending the little decline that led to
the river banks, when Wrathness suddenly
came to a standstill, pointing at the same
time with his finger to something below.
As Maeva followed the direction indicated,
with her eyes, she perceived some blue
smoke issuing from the stunted brushwood
that grew along the banks, and near it,
the tops of two small skin toldos pitched
so as to face the river. Several horses
were picketed near, and a hound or two
strolled lazily to and fro.

'that must be the camp, the lights ;

of which we saw from the Chico's banks \
last night, Lord Wrathness," she exclaimed
in an interested voice. '' Fancy

our coming upon them all unawares again. j

It really looks as if fate was dragging us |

to the spot. Shall we go and call on the i

inhabitants ? " '

If you like," he answered laughingly ; i

'but let us give our horses and dogs a i

drink first, then we will pay the call you wish." ;

They directed their footsteps to the I

river, as he had suggested, and soon both j

animals and hunters were refreshing them I

selves upon Nature's most delicious of |

beverages, the hounds revelling in the cool j

waters of the slowly flowing and peaceful !

Chico. i

*' Now for our visit," said the girl, with
a laugh. " I wonder who they are."

You are very anxious, Lady Maeva, to
find out. Let us hope they will be friends,
not enemies," he replied somewhat absently,
as he followed in her eager footsteps
towards the toldos.

'* Enemies ! " she ejaculated in a tone of
surprise. '' What ! enemies out here ? Oh
no. Lord Wrathness ! We are safe, I
think, from them here."

Do not be too sure, my minx," said a
harsh, grating voice at her elbow.

With a cry of horror Maeva sprang
back, and instinctively threw herself in
front of Wrathness, for there, standing
almost in her path beside a climate bush,
under which he had been reposing, and

from which he had just risen, stood a
tall, dark, handsome-looking man, with
a cruel smile on his lips, and a devil's lookin
his eyes. And Wrathness too stood
petrified, for in the unexpected apparition
before him he had no difficulty in
recognising the woman who had blighted
and cursed his life, the woman whom the
wild waves of the Atlantic had washed upto
carry on her plans of vengeance, his
wife, otherwise Mr. Ruys Darrell, otherwise
Lady Wrathness. 

 Tee must return to the place where we
last left this fiend in woman's
guise, as, cast into the waters by the relentless
suestrada, she was made over to the
mercy of the wild Atlantic waves. Even in
this moment of desperate peril, standing,
as she was, at the mouth of the grave, in
the valley of the shadow of death, she did
not forget the one thing in which all her
hopes of life were centred, and without
which she felt that her existence would be
of no value to herself. That one thing was
the black bag which contained her means
of vengeance, and her key to wealth. She

clutched it in her teeth with the desperation
of despair, and struck out amidst the
hissing waters with a strength that is
seldom found in woman's form. Lady
Wrathness was a splendid swimmer ; had
been so since the days when, as a child,
she disported herself in the rushing waters
of the Miramichi river, outrivalling boy or
girl, the river all along, in aquatic exploits.
It was not the first time that she had
battled with the ocean's angry waves, or
been in peril of her life in its waters ;
but no strength could fight against the
rushing fury of the tide, that carried her
away from the narrow shore as, struggling
again and again, choked and blinded by the
spray, she strove to reach its sheltering
haven.

Back over the line she had come she
was carried furiously along. As now and
again, she raised herself by a desperate
effort on the choppy, storm-tossed tide, she
could see ahead the narrow stretch of beach,
upon which she had landed that morning,
while reconnoitring the cliff for a hiding
place, for the treasure that she carried.
With an agonised cry she struck out,
throwing every particle of strength she
possessed, into the attempt to reach that
shingly line once more, fighting with a last
wild struggle to attain her end.

And she was successful. As if by magic,
the angry tide swept on, but left her in its
wake ; the hissing, spluttering waters subsided
into a long low rolling swell ; the shrieking
wind grew calm and passed av/ay into the

echoing distance ; she saw it sweeping forward
like a destroying angel in its course,
leaving her faint and prostrate with exhaustion,
yet with strength sufficient left to reach
the shore, for the suestrada was gone.
She lay outstretched upon the beach in a
state of stupor and half-unconscious life,
with the glimmering knowledge that she
was saved shooting through her brain, and
yet too prostrate to move from her position,
or to take in the reality of the situation in
which she found herself. How long she
lay thus she never knew. She awoke with
the dim, dull knowledge of intense cold, of
a stiff rigidity in the limbs, of a sensation
of numbness about the heart. She could
hear voices shouting from the waters, and
the splash of oars sounded in her ears.

Sunset was gilding the ocean waves with
Its ruddy Hight. The swell that follows a
storm agitated the surface of the sea, and
cast Its angry breakers on the beach ; they
had been washing her feet as she lay there
helpless, solitary, and alone.

The shouting voices came nearer at every
moment ; she raised her own, and feebly
called aloud. The tones were very dull,
and strength was in them no longer. Yet
they fell on the ears of those who were
searching for her, and as she raised herself
and looked out to sea, she could see the
boat approaching which was to bring her
salvation.

Was there no feeling In this cold, dead
heart of hers, steeled against every womanly
and gentle Impulse, no feeling of remorse

for the foul lie of her life, no prayer for
forgiveness for the evil she had done ? As
she lay there sullen, thankless, and remorseless,
did not one spark of mercy enter into
her soul, for the man, whom she had once
loved, and whom now she hated so bitterly?
Alas! none. Her one thought, now that
she had regained consciousness, and saw
relief approaching, was to hasten on by
every means in her power that deed of
secret vengeance upon which she was bent.
It was Mr. Royston who had come to
her rescue. When the suestrada had burst
upon the coast, and no sign of the stranger's
return became apparent, knowing the frail
nature of the boat in which he had embarked,
Mr. Royston began to fear the
worst. Messengers despatched along the

coast had returned without tidings of the
missing stranger ; and it was then that Don
Luiz Buena's representative had determined
on continuing the search along the shore.
His relief was timely. A few hours more,
and the unrepentant woman would have
been washed away by the rising tide.

It was on the morning following upon
this dire adventure, that Lady Wrathness
had risen at an early hour and gone forth
upon a private mission. The black bag
being waterproof, had suffered nothing by
its immersion in the sea, and its contents
were as undamaged as was its exterior.
Slung around her shoulders was a thin
lazy, or coil of hide, its purpose being to
serve as a means, for suspending the
precious possession.

The sun had barely risen when she
reached the spot. It was a high diff, the
very one beneath which the day before,
she had sought a safety from the furious
squall. Very quickly she undid the bag,
carefully examined its contents, replaced
there one by one, and then securely locking
it, undid the lazy from around her
shoulders. One end thereof she fastened
tightly to the handle of the bag, and
silently let it down over the cliffs side,
making the other end solidly firm to the
gnarled branch, of the thick bushy creeper,
that clothed the face of the precipice, and
in whose nether folds hung hidden the
precious burthen.

Safe there, my darling," she muttered
between her teeth as she lay herself fiat

down, and peered over the steep side
without a flinch or a shudder. '' Safe as
death, silent as the grave, none will see
you but the grey seagull or the wheeling
hawk ; none will know of you save I and
they."

She rose from her giddy position, looked
to see if she had left any sign of footprints
around, took her bearings carefully and
with rigid scrutiny, and then set off at a
rapid pace for Pabon Island.

It was early still, the tide was low, and
the ford, about fifty yards across on the
south side of the island, lay still uncovered
by the sea, as it had been when she passed
over it at daybreak. Hastily crossing it,
she hurried on for Don Luiz Buena's house,
arriving there before any one was astir.

That day she started on her 
; but before she left she added to
her letter to Mr. Fleecemm a certain postscript,
having done which, with a triumphant
laugh, she blotted the communication
in the blotting-book, carefully committed
it to a strong lawyer-looking envelope,
stamped it fully, and handed it to Mr.
Royston, with many injunctions that it
should be sent by the first mail calling at
Santa Cruz. This he promised faithfully
to attend to. She thanked him cordially
for all his kindness, and they parted.

For many days she followed the line of
the Rio Chico northwards. Travelling by
day, she camped on its banks by night,
patiently searching for the man on whose
track she had been following with the

keen hunger of the bloodhound. And now
all unbidden, all unexpected, he had rushed
across her very path, at a moment when
she deemed him much further northwards,
and in the company of the girl, whom,
next to himself, she hated with all the
hate of her black, cold, scheming soul.

He stood looking at her, as she stood
erect in her becoming man's disguise,
with the horror of one, who comes face
to face, with all he most fears and loathes.
He stood facing her, with the dull, chill
knowledge at his heart, that the moments
of joy he had lately tasted were about
to be swept from his path for ever.
He realised now what the hate of this
savage woman must be, to have hunted
him so far and so pertinaciously.

VOL. III. 10

*' Harold," she said, with the old, bitter
laugh of scorn that no time could make
him forget, *' I told you and yon girl,
who stands like a frightened deer before
you, that I should find you. Ay, no
matter where you go, be it even into
the Sahara, I would track and find you
still. Have you thought over the matter
of our last interview some seven months
ago? Have you your answer ready?"

His dark eyes gleamed with a sudden
fury. '* Yes, bad, wicked woman, I
have," he answered. " I have thought
over all you said, and I defy you."

You cannot defy the gallows, my
lord," she answered, with a sneer. '* Gold
will not purchase you your life. Do you
think your money will tie Richard

Emerson's tongue the moment I bid him
speak? Little you know the hold I
have over that man. It is not for your
gold that his tongue has remained silent
all these years. It was for my sake he
held it, and, if necessary, for my sake
he will unloose it. Do you not know
that he loved me long ago, when you
pretended to do so, and I was mad
enough to fancy you ? He does so still,
and is my man body and soul."

"You lie!" shouted Maeva, springing
forward, '' and you know you do. You
have that in your possession which
would prove your foul plot, and if only
I could lay hands upon it, your vile
design would be baulked." She paused
suddenly. Her oath to Richard Emerson

rose up in her mind ; she dared not
utter more.

Soho, minx, you wish to interfere,
do you?" laughed the scornful woman.
'' Better not, girl. I imagine I gave
you a pretty lesson last time you tried
to insult me. Do you want another
reminder ? "

There was a wicked gleam in the evil
eyes. Wrathness saw it at once.

'lady Maeva," he said gently, "this
is no place for you. Will you hold my
horse with yours, and wait for me where
we washed the horses' mouths, and leave
me to speak with this tigress ? I cannot
call her woman."

'' I will not leave you," the girl cried
passionately. 'who knows what she will

do ? She is wicked enough for anything.
I will not leave you."

'' I have nothing to say which the girl
may not hear," interposed Lady Wrathness.
" Harold, you have my ultimatum.
I have a certain black bag at Santa
Cruz ; it contains two precious documents.
One of these is the deed I required you
to sign acknowledging our child, and making
provision for it and me. The other
is of such a nature, that if you do not
sign this deed I shall be able to prove
you guilty of murder, for it is the written
confession of Richard Emerson to that
effect, which, at a word from me, he Is
prepared to substantiate on oath. Nay,
do not glare so fiercely, as though you
would tear me limb from limb. It would

be of no use to kill me. Mr. Fleecemm
knows all I do, even to the very spot
where the bag lies hidden at Santa Cruz.
Trust him to follow the matter up, and
to convict you of a double murder if
necessary."

*' Tigress," he replied, with a sad, disdainful
smile, '* threaten as you like, do as
you like. Nay, fear no violence at my
hands. I am still a man, and would not
hurt a woman, however fallen she might
be. You may bring me to the gallows,
but I will die a hundred deaths rather
than sign the deed you name. I have
already provided for you. I will do so
even further if you promise to torture meno
more, but I will never acknowledge
a child that is not mine. I will not

call myself the father of a fallen woman's
offspring."

She spat at him where he stood. Her
eyes were mad with fury. She would
willingly have shot him down at her feet,
who reared himself so calmly, and with
an air of such conscious innocence, in front
of her. She did not know that Wrathness
no longer believed in his own guilt,
and that although he knew full well she
had the power to harm him, yet nevertheless
the horrible thought that he
was a murderer, no longer disturbed his
soul.

So be it," was all she said, however.
'* You have chosen your path in this
matter. If blood is spilled, that blood be
upon your own head. Do not think,

though, that you will escape my vengeance,
for I vow that I will be revenged."

She turned away as she spoke, and
entered a told near. Very quietly Wrathness
took hold of Maeva's arm, and
gently but forcibly pushed her towards the
pampa. This reached, he lifted her into
the saddle, sprung next on to his own
horse, and before she had time to recover
from the horror of the situation, was
urging his own and leading hers, at full
gallop across the same plain, which they
had but lately quitted.

And it was not until he had put
several miles between themselves and
that black-souled woman, that he reined
up.

The visit was not what you expected,

little friend," he said gendy ; and then he
added, with sudden passion, " and it is
the knell which must sound our parting
once more."

*' No, no; you must not go!" she cried
piteously. " Lord Wrathness, do not leave
us now. By God's help, we will baulk
that dreadful woman yet. O God ! how
near the means is, and yet we know not
where it lies."

She was thinking of the black bag, and
the paper it contained. She was thinking
of the secret which she was pledged
to hold She was racking her brain to
discover a means, to frustrate the terrible
vengeance, which she knew that
awful woman woijld spare no pains to
accomplish.

They were close to the circle now, and
beheld the Indians busy loading up the
spoil. They could see Lord Ettrick and
the colonel, Esca and Ronald, actively
assisting the hunters. They were back
amidst scenes they had but lately quitted,
when their hearts were happy and
buoyant ; they returned to them now
burdened with a load of care, which
oppressed them with dark forebodings.

What ! nothing to show, Wrathness
and Maeva, after all your gallop ? " laughed
Lord Ettrick as they rode up.

No," answered the earl ; "we were
fairly and squarely beaten. The ostrich
led us a fine dance, but utterly outpaced
us and got clean away."

Esca," said Maeva, riding to his side,

I want to speak to you. Will you ride
back to the camp with me ? "

A bright light came into the blue eyes
as he looked up at her  a happy, radiant
light. In another moment he was by her
side.

As they rode back to camp together,
she told him all that had happened, and
implored him to concert with her a means
for obtaining possession of the black bag.
He clearly saw, that upon its seizure rested
all hope of establishing Lord Wrathness's
innocence, and baulking the scheming
woman's plans. Beyond all things, he saw
that Maeva's heart was set upon its
capture, and he determined to set his
whole mind and soul, to the accomplishment
of what, seemed an impossible task.

** I told you once," he said quiet,
that if any one is to get that bag, it
shall be I. Will you trust me to do my
best ? Leave the matter in my hands, and
trust me, Maeva. If it is in human power
to accomplish, Esca will do it."

The tears rushed to her eyes. In her
time of trouble and misery he was thereto
help her with his strong, confident
hope and daring resolution, her true and
faithful friend.

She pressed his hand, and told him
what she wanted. Ay, she could speak it
truly. If there was any one in the world
she did trust, it was he.

A great feast followed the day's hunt,
and it was midnight before the camp was
quiet. Esca had sat up busy writing, and

had then laid down on his bed. One by
one Lord Ettrick's party sought their
couches, and soon silence and sleep had
sunk on all around.

On all around save one. One o'clock
was past, when a silent figure glided
through the camp, saddle in hand, and
followed by two dogs. Reaching a small
troupiglia of horses, he saddled one
quickly, and, mounting it, rode along the
Rio Chico's course, soon disappearing from
view.

'where is young Hamilton?" called
out Lord Ettrick next morning, as he
saw Ronald returning from the river.

I don't know," answered the boy ;
is he not in camp ?"

He was not. A few minutes later

Colonel St. Leger Slade found two notes
laying on the boy's bed. One was addressed
to Lord Ettrick, the other to
Maeva.

Esca was gone.

'' T S it really true, Cherie ? " inquired
Ray Middlestream, as they sauntered
side by side along the edge of the
Serpentine, one cold, crisp, frosty day in
February. He had been stopped hunting
by severe frosts, and, like many another
sporting bachelor, hard pressed for something
to do, had come up to London to
pass away the time. Walking in Rotten
Row, he had stumbled up against Glorie,
who was hurrying along in the direction
of Kensington Gardens.

"Hoick holloa, Cherie! where away . "
he exclaimed, and she, who had thought

never to see his face again, had looked
up at him with cheeks flushing with glad
surprise.

'' Home," she had replied ; '' I am very
busy, Ray. We sail tomorrow, you
know."

*' Sail tomorrow ! What are you talking
about, Cherie ? Sail where ? "

For Buenos Ayres, Ray. Beaufort
and I are emigrating. He has got an
appointment as manager of a horse
ranch out there, and we leave tomorrow
to take possession of the charge. It is
a great godsend. I cannot be thankful
enough."

'' Come for a stroll," he said huskily,
and she, impelled by a sudden remembrance
of old days, had followed him

silently, as he hurried down to the
Serpentine's side. They had strolled in
silence for some time, when he suddenly
burst out with the words quoted above,

"Is it really true, Cherie ? "

"Yes, Ray, it's quite true. I wouldn't
tell a lie even for fun. You know that,
Ray."

And am I never to see you anymore,
Cherie ? Are we never to have a
gallop together again ? " he inquired, ina
voice full of emotion.

Ah, Ray ! don't you remember our
last ride together ? Didn't I tell you it
would be the last ? By-the-bye, I am so
glad you bought Brilliant, Crystal, and
Sunbeam. It was kind of you, old
Ray, and such figures as they fetched

VOL. III. 1 1

too ! You'll keep them for Cherie's sake,
I know, for you know how she loved
those three especially."

*' I bought them for you," he said, with
a half sob. *' Didn't you get my letter asking
you to come and ride them ? I thought
it was strange you did not answer."

'' Where did you address the letter to ?
she inquired.

To Albemarle Street, of course," he
answered. "Ain't you there?"

'' Oh, Ray ! " she could not help laughing.
'how are bodies with a rent-roll of 400
a year and heavy debts to live in Albemarle
Street ? "

He stared. " Four hundred a year, Cherries
it as bad as that?" he inquired.

Quite," she answered. " About as much

as you gave for Sunbeam, and a quarter
of what you gave for Crystal and Brilliant
combined. It's funny, Ray, but it's true.
You are not surprised now at my delight
at getting this appointment, I expect?"

He could hardly speak ; his voice was
low and indistinct.

'rand am I never to see you any more,
Cherries?"

She smiled. There was a wistful lookin
Glorie's eyes. She knew that Ray
loved her, but would his love be equal to
the suggestion she was about to make ?

*eyes, Ray, if you'll come out to the
Uruguay. I'll give you a shakedown, an
untamed horse or two to break, and a real
good jaguar hunt now and then."

He stopped in his walk and faced her

Straight. There was an earnest look in
his eyes.

'' I'll come, Cherie. God help me, I'll
come. I'd go to the end of the earth to
see you, Cherie."

'then come," she said simply. 'i'll
write you word as soon as we've settled
down, and tell you the best time to come
out, and I'll meet you at Buenos Ay res,
and we will steam up the Uruguay
together."

They had walked on and on as they
chatted together. The Albert Memorial
loomed up before them. Ray called a
halt.

** Where are we wandering to?" he
inquired.

"To my home," she answered in a

slightly bitter tone. 'wouldn't you like
to see it, Ray ? "

He assented, and they walked along until
Glorie pointed out a small street, which
she announced as Cumberland Row.

'' We live down there. Do you still
think you'll come?" she inquired.

*why not?" he asked. ''If it's good
enough for you, Cherie, it's good enough
for me. Lead away."

Twenty-six was reached. The bell was
rung. Reggie opened the door.

"Don't I make a good page, mother?"
he asked, clinging to her skirt. As he
caught sight of Captain Middlestream, however,
he let go, and bounded to Ray's side.

How do you do ? How do you do ?
Captain Ray," he cried joyfully. " We

thought we should never see you any more.
We thought you had forgotten us now weare
poor."

'' Hush, Reggie," exclaimed Glorie ; 'don't
talk nonsense."

'' It's true, mother," answered the lad,
flushing slightly. " Didn't you say it yourself
? I heard you." But seeing the annoyed
look in Glorie's face, he checked himself,
and ran upstairs to join his brother Vernon,
who was shouting for him.

'' So you thought Ray had forgotten you,
Cherie, because you were poor. Ah ! Cherie,
what have I ever done to merit such a
judgment?" exclaimed Ray Middlestream
bitterly. ''Oh, Cherie! I didn't think that
of you."

Trouble makes one touchy and bitter.

Ray," she answered sadly; "forgive me.
It's the first and last time I ever shall
distrust you. I was wrong. Forgive me."

She had sat herself down and pulled
off her hat. The bright hair that waved
on her forehead was tumbled and disordered.
It was just as Ray liked to see it.

Cherie," he said suddenly, " I want to
ask you a question. You said just now you
owed a lot of debts. Can I help you to
clear them off, and you can pay me back
by degrees? How much are they?"

I'll tell you what they are, Ray ; but
you shan't help me to pay for them. I've
arranged to pay them all off bit by bit.
One item is large enough ; it's 10,000
interest ten per cent. I fear it will cripple
me for life, and make sad inroads into our

poor ;400. However, I don't mind. It
was raised for a good purpose I paid it
away to save the name of a friend, and I
don't grudge the lifelong sacrifice it will
entail, because it achieved what I wanted,
and saved that friend's name."
A man or a woman, Cherie ? "
'* A man, Ray."
** Does he know about it ? "
No," she replied, '* not likely. No
one knows of the matter but myself and
the person who got the money. Well, it's
done. I don't regret it. I'd do it again
under the same circumstances."

*' One more question, Cherie, and I won't
ask any more. If I promise to say nothing,
will you tell me to whom you paid the
10,000 ?"

To a Messrs. Fleecemm, Catchem, & Co,"
she answered. 'they are a blackguard
lot ; but they would have ruined my
friend, so I gave them the price they
exacted for silence. I had to raise the
money, and 1 could not get it under ten
per cent. Dear old Beaufort helped me to
get it. It was put as a second mortgage
on a portion of the dear old Boswell
Towers property, but the land only realised
enough to meet the first mortgage ; and
now, Ray, don't let's discuss this matter
any more. You are the first person I have
ever told, and the last."

She rose as she spoke, and Ray got
up too. The front door bell was ringing.
'' When do you go, Cherie," he said
'for I shall come and see you off."

*' No, Ray," she said gently, " don't
come. We start at break of day, and it
would be miserable. Let it be good-bye
now till we meet again on the bright sunny
shores of the Uruguay. Good-bye, Ray."

She laid her two hands on his shoulders,
and looked up at him. Her eyes were
full of tears. Their friendship had been
a pure, unselfish, and loving one ; they had
been very happy together. Is it wonder
that to Glorie the pain of parting was
intense ?

"May I kiss you, Cherie ? " he asked
gently.

Yes, Ray, why not ? " she answered
huskily. " There can be no harm on such
an occasion as this."

He bent over her and lifted her face to

his. Tenderly, respectfully, he kissed heron
the lips. Gently he put her from him,
She turned away ; the door closed behind
her. She heard his footsteps on the stairs,
they passed out into the silent street.
Their echoes died away. Ray Middle
ream was gone.

She stood by the fireplace, her right
hand clutching the mantel-piece, her forehead
resting against her hand. The tears
had died in her eyes, and these last were
staring at the gleaming coals. Was she
reading in them the past story of her
still young life ? Was she seeing in them
the pictured scenes of many a day gone
by ? Who knows ? Glorie's thoughts
were all her own, the secret of her heart

There were more steps on the stairs.

The dining-room door had opened, and
she heard Sir Beaufort mounting. He
came in, caught sight of her, and called
her by her name.

Glorie ! "

"Yes," she answered without turning
round, and pretending to warm herself by
the fire.

** Who was that went out after I came
in just now ? "

'It was Ray Middlestream, Beaufort."

*' What ! dear old Ray ? Oh, I wish I
had seen him to say good-bye ! Did he
call here for that ? "

'' No, Beaufort," she answered quietly.
'' I met Ray in the Row, and he walked
home with me. But he As said goodbye."


Her voice trembled ; she could not
steady it, do what she would.

Sir Beaufort came up to her side and
laid his hand on her arm.

Glorie," he said, "don't mind me;
don't be afraid to tell me how sorry you
are to part with Ray. I know well what
friends you two have been, and what it
must cost you now to say good-bye to the
dear old chap. And, Glorie, I know he
loved you ; 1 don't blame him one bit. How
could he help it ? I always trusted him
though as implicitly as I did you, and that's
saying everything. I never believed the
lies ' the cats ' spread about, about you two."
''Oh, thanks, Beaufort!" she said in a
grateful voice. " I knew you knew Glorie
too well to believe their lies."

Of course I did," he continued ; '' and
now I want to say this one thing more.
I've been a selfish, thoughtless beggar all
my life, thinking too much of myself and
not of others. I've never been much of
a companion to you, Glorie, but left you
for my beastly gambling and racing pleasures.
I see it all now clearly, dear. I
have ruined you and the boys, brought
trouble on myself, work, anxiety, and
poverty on you. And now at a moment
when you might with justice upbraid me,
you work from six o'clock in the morning
till late at night, to make ends meet, and
save my name from shame. God bless
you, Glorie; God bless you for a true and
plucky woman if ever there was one. And
tomorrow we're going to start on a new

life. I can't say more than that I'll work
hard to help you pay off any debts remaining,
and to try and make a start for the
boys. I can't do more than try and atone
for my past wasted, selfish life, can I,
Glorie ? Will you forgive me for all my
past neglect, and help me to be a man ? "

She threw her arms round his neck. She
felt that ruin purchased at such a price
was not too dear.

*' Everything has come for the best,
Beaufort dear," she whispered bravely.
Yes, I will help you, and by God's aid
we will succeed."

It was a cold, drizzling morning that
broke over London next day. In No. 26,
Cumberland Row, a prevailing business
was apparent.

You ordered the cabs all right, I hope,
Madge," said Glorie to the servant girl,
who was handing her a cup of hot coffee.

*' Yes, my lady, but they've been sent
away," answered the girl in a triumphant
voice. " There's a brougham waiting for
you and Sir Beaufort and Master Reggie
and Master Varney, and there's a fine big
omnibus for me and the luggage."

** What do you mean, Madge; who's are
they ? "

'' Why, they are Mr. Frank Coventry's,
my lady, at least the brougham is, because
1 know the coachman," answered the girl
with a blush. "Anyhow, he's sent them
both, and Stinging told me he had strict
orders to await yours."

Half an hour later Sir Beaufort, Glorie,

and their children, were leaving 26, Cumberland
Row. As she stepped into the
brougham a silent cloaked figure stood not
far off. In the foggy gloom of that early
morning he might easily have been mistaken
for a policeman.

The brougham drove off, the smart
omnibus followed, the silent figure moved
down the street alone. As he passed a
gaslight, the light thereof fell on his face,
disclosing the features plainly. They were
those of Mr. Frank Coventry.

'glories," the sad wind heard him saying
as he hurried along, '' Glorie, my darling,
I shall never see you more."

VOL. III. 12

y/TEAN WHILE where was Esca ?
He had disappeared, as we have
seen, from the Indian camp the morning
following on the meeting between Wrathness
and his wife, leaving two notes, one
for Lord Ettrick, the other for Maeva. In
the first one he merely informed the
marquis, that he had set out alone along
the Chico for Santa Cruz, being of an adventurous
and exploration nature, that he
hoped he would forgive him this freak,
and that he would rejoin the party, and
personally make his apologies upon its
arrival at Santa Cruz. But to Maeva the

boy wrote a fuller explanation, and it
would be as well to give it in his own
words.

*' I have thought over all you have told
me to-day," he wrote, " and fully recognise
the fact, that upon the seizure of
that bag and its contents, depends Lord
Wrathness's proof of innocence and future
immunity from that dreadful woman's
machinations. Maeva, dear, I have come
to the conclusion that the only way to find
out where it is hidden, is to follow and
shadow her back to Santa Cruz. She has,
no doubt, already set out for there, and
my best plan is to keep on her tracks and
not lose sight of her. Meanwhile, I hope
you will follow on as quickly as possible.
God grant I may have good news to give

you on your arrival. I would willingly die
to be able to do so. At any rate, come
what may, I know you will believe I shall
do my best.

"One word more ere I close this letter.
It is to ask you a favour. If by any
chance aught of ill should befall me in this
venture, you will not forget my mother ?
I have no one to love in the wide world
but her, and, God bless her ! she loves her
boy. This is all I ask you, dear Maeva.
Break it to her as gently as you can."

He had left these letters lying on his
skin couch, where he felt sure they would
be quickly seen, and had then set out on
horseback along the Rio Chico.

He had hardly ridden some three miles
when he came upon tracer of a newly

vacated camp ground, which he had at
once judged to be the spot lately occupied
by the person he was in search of. *' They
cannot be far ahead," he had muttered,
** unless, like myself, they are travelling by
night ; anyhow, I will press on."

And he did press on, and so effectually,
too, that ere dawn began to break, he had
ridden almost into the sleeping camp.

At once he withdrew, and placed a goodly
distance between it and himself. The success
of his endeavours entirely depended on
his not being seen. It would never do to
rouse her suspicions, and place her on her
guard. Thus did he follow her day by
day. His tactics were to watch for the
breaking up of her camp, see the little
party well on its way and out of sight, and

then, with his dogs, provide for his wants
by hunting. He would then return to the
riverside, cook his food, and snatch a few
hours of rest, continuing his journey by
moonlight, until he again sighted the camp
which he was shadowing.

A week passed by in this manner, till
one day the sea hove in sight, and Scathed
knew that his journey was at an end.
He resolved from that moment, that Lady
Wrathness, should never move without his
presence being in close proximity to herself.

She took a strange course on nearing
the settlement of Santa Cruz, a long detour,
coming finally to a halt on a broad flat
plateau that fringed some high steep cliffs
overlooking the sea. Esca noticed, that on
nearing these cliffs, she looked anxiously

around, riding backwards and forwards
along their ledge for some hundred yards.
Apparently satisfied with her scrutiny, he
saw her point to the plateau and order the
toldos to be pitched under the shadow of
the rising incline, behind which he lay concealed.
Having seen so much, he judged
it wisdom to withdraw. A chance neigh
from his horse, or yelp from his dogs would
disclose his presence He had tracked her
safely to her camp ; it was not likely that
she would quit it again just then, after a
long and tiring ride. The boy determined,
therefore, to seize this opportunity to make
for Santa Cruz, corral his horse, and provide
for his own wants and those of his
dogs. He knew this much, that it was
Lord Ettrick's intention to proceed straight

to the house of Don Luiz Buena on Pabon
Island Immediately on his arrival from the
pampas, Lady Ettrick having promised to
put in at the settlement on her way to the
Falkland Islands, and apprise the good Don
of the contemplated visit. Certain, therefore,
of a friendly reception, Esca urged his
tired horse forward, and was not long in
reaching Santa Cruz, whence he had no
difficulty in making his way across the
ford to Pabon Island.

He was kindly and hospitably received
by Mr. Royston, Don Luiz being still
away ; and he had the satisfaction of
seeing his horse turned loose on the mainland,
to earn a much-deserved rest after
its many days of toll. The dogs, too,
made themselves quite at home. It was

not the first time, Mr. Royston told him,
that they had been there, and he recognised
them at once as the property of Francois
Delacroix.

"Has the Dauntless been here, Mr.
Royston ? " inquired the boy of his friendly
host, as the latter told him of Lady
Ettrick's visit.

By-the-bye, yes, I forgot," he answered.
*' I have a message for you and another
midshipman  Lord Angus, I think the name
was  from Captain Rose. The ship has
gone on to Puntass Arenas, and will call
back here again."

*' I thought we should miss," exclaimed
Esca, inwardly congratulating himself.

'' And now, Mr. Hamilton, if you will
step in here and rest for a few minutes,

I will see and get you something to
eat."

Thank you," the boy answered gratefully.
*' I shall be glad of something. Ita
good many days since I had a decent
meal."

He entered the room pointed out, and
sat himself down on a chair which had its
back turned to the only window in the
room. The chair faced a table on which
were various writing implements, some paper,
envelopes, pen, ink, and a blotting-book

He leant back in the chair, toying
absently with this latter article. He was
tired, as well he need be. For days
he had been constantly in the saddle with
little rest at a time, with food scanty
enough, and which he had had to work

hard for to obtain. He tuas weary in body
and mind. What wonder ?

But his thoughts were growing sad, so
he shook himself and sat up, at the same
time opening the blotting book before him.
The sheets had been sparsely used, and
the writing that had been blotted thereon,
looked pretty clear. He had nothing todo,
so he amused himself holding these
sheets up to the light and trying to
decipher them. He was not always successful,
but here and there he could make
out a word or two, and the occupation
amused him, and served to turn his
thoughts from painful subjects. Suddenly
he started. The sheet he was holding
trembled in his grasp. He had just
brought it up to the light, and a fine,

bold handwriting appeared on the page.
He could see staring him in the face the
following startling words : " The black bag

hangs hidden in a place " At that

moment Mr. Royston entered, carrying a
plate of cold mutton, some bread and
cheese, and a cup of steaming coffee.

How Esca loathed the sight of that
food. How willingly he would have
fasted for another twenty-four hours to
have been left in peace and alone. He
felt as if the meat would choke him, the
bread and cheese take away his breath,
the coffee scald his throat entirely. What
could he do ? To eat, and eat quickly,
was the only thing.

'* Thank you," he strove to say calmly,
'you are very good. I fear I am a great

trouble, but you must not put yourself
out talking to me, for I daresay you have
plenty to do ; and after I have eaten I
will go for a stroll, unless you will let
me write a letter here."

"By all means," answered his host.
Make what use you like of everything
before you. My business table is in the
next room. I rarely come in here unless
to sort papers, and I don't believe any one
has touched a pen here, since Mr. Ruys
Darrell, wrote his letter some weeks ago.
By-the-bye, he went up the Chico, and he
was inquiring for Lord Wrathness. Did
you meet either of them ? "

Yes," evasively said Esca, as he
gulped his meat down, and strove to get
through the hot cup of coffee before him.

** Lord Wrathness joined us, but not Mr.
Darrell. Did you say this latter wrote a
letter here ? "

He did," answered Mr. Royston. " He
sat just where you are now. But I see
you have finished. Let me take those
things away. I suppose Mr. Darrell did
not tell you of the narrow escape he had
from drowning. Oh no ! By the way,
you said he had not met you."

'* Drowning ! " echoed Esca. " How ? "

Well, it's a bit of a story. I'll tell it
you to-night. I must be off now. Make
yourself at home."

He went out, and Esca, with feverish
eagerness, seized the blotting-book, and
held the sheet on which the big, bold
handwriting appeared once more to the

REDEEMED IN BLOOD. 191 1

light. Yes, the words were very clear ; '

he could decipher them one by one. They
ran as follows : 

The black bag hangs hidden in a
place where no mortal eye can ken it, no
mortal hand lay hold of it. Fleecemm, I
have lowered it from the highest eastern
cliff, south of Santa Cruz. A thick
creeper grows up the face, and the bag
is secured by a lazy, and fastened tightly
to a gnarled branch near the top. The
breadth of the creeper is fifty two feet,
so that the bag hangs twenty-six feet
stepped from either side. It is safe there,
safe as death."

For a few minutes Esca sat spellbound,
gazing at the writing before him.
He could hardly realise that the secret

which he had been toIHng so long to find
was at length within his power. Could
it be possible ?

"Oh, Maeva! my darling little Maeva!'
he exclaimed, while the tears welled up
into his eyes. '* I'll get it for you, Til
get it for you. I will, I will, if I die
in the attempt. Oh for the moment
when I can give it to you, and see your
happy face ! Oh, what joy if Esca can
sweep that cloud away from your dear,
dear life ! "

He started to his feet. He felt that
he must not linger where he was.
He must be out and on the watch ; he
must not be caught napping. Eagerly
he tore out the sheet containing the
wondrous news, the heaven-sent intelligence,

and made it safe in an inner
breast pocket of his coat. Then he took
his sombrero, put it on, and went out.

He felt no doubt, that the spot where
the bag hung, was the very place up
and down which he had seen Lady
Wrathness riding, and in full view of
which she had pitched her tents. He
felt that he must make certain of this,
ascertain with exactitude the spot, and
frame his plans accordingly. How was
it to be accomplished ? That was the
question.

As he made his way in the direction
of the hill, behind which he had concealed
himself that morning, he suddenly
became aware that two horsemen were
approaching from that direction. There

VOL III. 13

were some climate bushes growing near,
and, as the riders had evidently not perceived
him, he determined to conceal
himself amongst the bushy shelter of the
shrubs in question.

The horsemen passed quite near him.
They were conversing in Portuguese, and
Esca had no difficulty in recognising them
as the two companions of Lady Wrathness's
wanderings. They were Gregory,
the gaucho, and Arius, the nondescript.

His heart bounded with delight. This,
then, was the first moment that Lady
Wrathness had had to herself since her
arrival. She would, no doubt, as soon as
the coast was clear, take steps to examine
the black bag, and if he could only getup
in time, he would be there to see.

He sprung up directly the men were
out of sight, and hurried on, reaching the
hill for which he had been making about
ten minutes afterwards.

Creeping to the top he peered over it.
The camp appeared deserted ; there was
no sign of a human being about ; all was
blank and quiet.

He lowered his head with a sigh of
disappointment, burying it in his arms.
In this attitude he must have remained
a quarter of an hour, when the sound of
a human voice caught his ear. He listened
intently, and peered cautiously over
the ridge once more.

She was there in full view of him, in
appearance a tall handsome man in riding
breeches, brown top boots, a poncho and

sombrero ; but there was no doubt in
Esca's mind, that the person before  him
was Mr. Ruys Darrell, otherwise Lady
Wrathness.

He saw her cast a cautious glance
around, as he lay flat along the earth,
not daring to raise his head for fear of
discovery. When, a few minutes later, he
did so, his heart throbbed so violently that
it sounded in his ear. She was laying
flat on the ground, peering over the cliff's
side, and appeared to be drawing something
up from below.

'* My God ! my God ! " burst from
Esca's lips. " Oh, God, I thank Thee ; it
is found."

She had risen to her feet as he spoke ;
the black bag was in her hands. He saw

her open it eagerly, and examine the
contents with care. He saw her put
them back, close it, lock it, and lower it
again to its original position. He had
seen enough ; his mind was made up.
That bag should be his before another
sun, in succession to the one before him,
had set, and its precious contents, made
over to his darling.

As he walked back to Pabon Island
he drew and framed his plans. He
would start at daybreak for the cliff
while she lay safely sleeping ; he knew
he could find the place, for he had
taken his bearings to an inch, and then,
and then

He laughed aloud a happy, triumphant
laugh. He was nearing the ford ; a

horse's hoofs sounded close behind him.
He looked round. It was Guillaume.

*' Ah, Monsieur Hamilton ! " exclaimed
this latter, as he rode up to the boy's
side, '' you safe, I see. Monsieur le
Marquis was very afraid you meet harm.
Party all folio you verie queeck ; Lord
Rashness and the demoiselle bid me say,
sey folio quickly at sunrise morrow
morning."

'* By Jove ! they have come quick,
Guillaume," replied Esca, in a tone of
surprise ; " and you say Lord Wrathness
and young lady come early ? "

They bid me say break of day," the
man answered.

'' Capital ! " exclaimed Esca to himself ;
'' then my plan is perfect. If Maeva says

she'll come, I know she will. I'll leave
her a line to tell her what to do ; it's
splendid."

He said no more. The sea was coming
in across the ford, but Guillaume gave
him a lift over on his horse. On reaching
the other side, the Frenchman uttered an
exclamation of surprise, and galloped forward
to meet two men whom he saw
advancing. For a second time Unrecognised
Gregory and Arius.

Where are you going to, Guillaume } "
he inquired, as the three passed by him.

'' Monsieur, me meet two frees ; me
going seen night with them in Santa
Cruz, at other free's house. Good-night,
monsieur."

Better and better," soliloquised the

boy to himself, rubbing his hands.
'' They will be out of the way. Even if
she catches me, I think I can tackle her
all right."

That night Esca sat down to write a
letter. It was addressed to Maeva, and
this is what it said : 

My dear, dear Maeva,  ' May God
be praised ; by His mercy and goodness
my prayer has been heard, and I have
traced the whereabouts of the black bag.
I am told that you and Lord Wrathness
will arrive here at break of day. I shall
miss you, dear, because I must start even
before that ; but I leave this to ask you
and he to act as follows : 

'* First, I must explain where the bag

is. It hangs from the centre of the
highest sea cliff here, due south of Santa
Cruz. Lady Wrathness's tents are pitched
exactly opposite the spot. I have seen her
draw it up and let it down again.

'' Now, my plan is, to be there at
daylight, to draw up and secure the bag ;
but if she surprises me  and it is possible
I will cut the lazy that holds it suspended,
and drop it on the beach below.
No mortal can reach it from above.

'' This, then, is what I want you and
Lord Wrathness to do. No sooner have
you read this, than at once secure a boat
and come along the coast till I hail you.
You cannot mistake the cliff. It is the
highest one in these parts, and up its
face grows a bushy creeper. In this

creeper the bag hangs concealed. By-god's
help, ere the sun has risen, I shall
have accomplished the purpose for which
I would willingly give my life, that
purpose  to make you happy.

EscA.

A PALE streak of gold shone over the
quiet waters of the Atlantic, some
blood red spots of light were breaking from
the fading star-lit sky, where the heavens
kiss the waves, when Esca, breasting the
hill, which led upwards to the plateau
above, made straight for the cliff, midway
beneath which hung the treasure, on which
he had set his heart.

He had still a good half-hours walk
before him, and he knew he must spare
no effort to gain the spot which he sought
so eagerly, for the sun was giving notice

of its approach in the unmistakable signs
above mentioned.

How quickly it rose ! Esca thought, ashe
anxiously watched its coming, that in all
the sunrises he had beheld before, he had
never seen one so full of life and vitality
as this.

He hurried on, the beads of sweat started
out on his forehead, by reason of the exertion
he used, but he reached his goal at
length, and anxiously scanned the cliff to
make out the spot.

It was very dark. In spite of the rising
sun, the shadows of night still hung upon
the scene, and shut out from view the sight
for which Esca strained his eyes in vain.
He went down on his hands and knees,
his heart throbbed loud with excitement,

he groped his way along the edge, every
now and then stretching out flat and feeling
over the sides. But so far his hands
had touched nothing, beyond the rough,
rocky face.

There was a flash across the heavens !
Ah ! full well did this boy, this child of
nature, know its meaning. It told him
that in a minute more daylight would burst
upon the earth, and disclose to his view
the object that he sought.

It came in a flood of blood-red glory,
the gleams of light shooting up from out
the sea like a myriad darts of fire. It
illuminated the heavens all around, the
pale stars vanished out of sight, he moon
turned white and grey. And Esca, feverishly
scanning the jagged and broken

ledge of the precipice above which he lay,
looked suddenly down on the old gnarled
branch, to which he beheld a lazy hide
attached. With a low cry he stretched
himself out to seize it. Ah ! fatal sound.
As his trembling fingers clutched the long
thin coil, a dog barked loudly in camp.

Still holding the lazy tight he crouched
against the earth. A voice sounded from
the tents ; it was a voice he knew full
well, the voice of Lady Wrathness.

He heard her speaking to the dogs,
whose angry barks were quieted. Then
silence fell once more. " Now or never ! "
he muttered to himself, as he rose to his
knees, and began hauling hand over hand
at the hide.

Suddenly the blood froze in his veins,

his heart seemed to stand still. He heard
footsteps close behind him, and springing
to his feet found himself face to face with
the woman with the eyes of a devil. He
stood facing her boldly, defiantly. Come
what might, she should never touch that
bag again. Of this the gallant boy was
fully determined ; he had laid and formed
his plans.

'how dare you, boy!" he heard her
harsh tones exclaiming. " Let go your hold
of yon lazy, or I'll take your life."

He laughed. One of his hands, it is true,
let go its hold, but the next moment it had
stolen rapidly to his side and grasped a
knife ; at the same time, he let the coil slip
through the fingers of the other till the
bag was low again, and the lazy held tight

between the root, and those now firmly
closed fingers of his. And all the time he
did so his eyes were fixed on hers, riveted
to her face.

'what! you defy me?" she cried, purple
with rage. " Boy, do not trifle with me.
Loose yon lazy, or you die."

Again he laughed. The hand that
grasped the knife had stolen behind him
now, and he was endeavouring to slice the
blade through the hide ; but this latter was
stout and tough, and the position of his
arm made it difficult to accomplish.

She saw the movement. She dared not
tackle that young Hercules where he stood,
but in another moment she had pointed a
revolver at him.

For the last time," she cried, '* I bid

you loose your hold, or by God you
die."

His blue eyes looked at her fearlessly ;
his face was very pale, but it never flinched ;
the rising wind lifted the yellow love locks
from his high white forehead, but he did
not stir. Only his hand worked harder
with the knife, and his fingers drew the
lazy tighter around his wrist.

He saw her finger on the trigger, and
used his last effort to accomplish his design.
There was a flash, and a loud report. He
steadied himself for a moment, working
convulsively with the knife. Suddenly a
bright smile lit up his face. " For Maeva,"
he cried, as, flinging up his arms, he fell
backwards into the abyss below. And
Lady Wrathness, as her eyes followed him,

VOL. III. 14

Started back with a cry of horror, not
at the black deed that she had done, but
because she saw the severed lazy twined
round his wrist, twined round the wrist of
the gallant, noble boy who had died for the
love of his heart.

She extended herself out flat, and
peered over the rugged side. She could
see him far below, stretched out still and
motionless. She could hear the ripple of
the wavelets washing the beach where
he lay, that same beach whereon a few
weeks back she had sought a refuge from
death.

What could she do ? She stared in hopeless
horror.

"A boat!" she cried suddenly; "I could
get it with a boat. Fool that I was not lo

think of this before, when every moment is
precious.'

Half an hour later a mounted horseman
galloped across the ford leading to Pabon
Island, and made straightway for the shingly
shore where the island boat lay usually
beached.

It was not there. He looked around
him in despair. A man was standing on
the beach gazing out towards the cliffs.
The horseman recognised Don Luiz s English
servant, and called out to him.

The boat ! where is it ? "

The man came slowly towards him.
Recognising his interlocutor, he touched his
cap. "Gone, sir," he said.

'gone where?" gasped Lady Wrathness.


* Along the cliffs, sir. A gentleman and
young lady went in it."

He stared and rubbed his eyes, for the

next moment the rider had wheeled his

horse and galloped away.

# * * *

'' It must be further on ; let us pull harder,
Lord Wrathness."

The speaker was Maeva, and both she
and her companion were rowing hard against
the tide. They had been pulling for sometime,
and were searching the coast along
the cliff described by Esca in his last letter
to the girl.

Terrible forebodings were at her heart.
She knew not why, but Maeva would willingly
have given her life to catch a sight
of her boy friend safe and sound. Ever since

she had read his letter to her, penned in
the Indian camp, she had been a prey to the
acutest feelings of alarm for his safety. In
vain Lord Wrathness had sought to cheer and
give her hope ; nothing would bring her rest.

Her first act on reaching Pabon Island
was to inquire for him. His letter was
handed to her. No sooner had she read it
than she passed it on to Wrathness.

*' Quick, quick ! " she exclaimed ; " we must
go quick Oh, Lord Wrathness ! if we
should arrive too late."

He saw it was useless to try and soothe
her ; and, to tell the truth, dark forebodings
haunted him as well. He felt like her,
that action alone was bearable under the
circumstances.

The island boat had been launched for

them, and they had set out along the cliffs,
scanning every height which they passed
for a glimpse of the gallant boy. Often
Maeva would ship her oars, and, standing
up in the boat, gaze eagerly ahead.

She had done this for about the fiftieth
time, when Lord Wrathness heard her call
out, in a sudden, terrified voice, " Look
there! what is that?" He rested on his
oars and looked. As he did so, a terrible
shudder ran through him. He did not
answer, but hurled the boat through the
water with all the strength and power
which he possessed. As its keel rushed
on to the shingle Maeva sprang thereon
with a bitter cry. The next moment she
was on her knees by the side of the dying
boy, his silky, curly head cradled in her lap.

No, he was not dead. The sun had
risen now, and played In a wealth of glory-about
his features, so wan and pale, o'er-clouded
by the shadow of death, drawn
rigid with the pain he had suffered, but
which was now happily passed away. He
knew her at once, and smiled a gentle,
loving smile, his pale lips moved, his glorious
eyes were fixed upon her in mute
appeal. He only wanted to tell her one
thing. It would not hurt to tell her that
now. He only wanted to tell her how he
loved her  to ask her to kiss him once
before he died. No one could grudge
him the single kiss he asked for. Was it
not his right ? Had he not won it fairly ?

'* Maeva, darling," he gasped ; and she
saw the blood start oozing from the wound

in his chest by the effort which he made
to speak. ** Maeva, darling, we have won.
The bag is safe ; I cannot move to reach
it, but it lies there quite ' secure. She'll
never touch it more. Oh, Maeva ! Esca is
so glad, so glad."

He paused and tried to clear his throat,
for it was parched and dry. Oh, for a
drop of water ! And they had not one.

*' Let me tell you one thing, Maeva," he
went on ; " I must tell it you before I go.
If I had lived I never should have, but
now I think I may. It is all to me. I
want to tell you how old Esca loved you,
darling, and how glad he is to die in helping
you. And I want you to give him just
one kiss. It's Esca's birthday to-day. Will
you give him. that present that he asks for ? "

Only seventeen, and dying on his birthday
!

She threw her arms around him and
kissed him passionately. The auburn gold
of her sunny curls, mixed lovingly with the
boy's yellow ones. Terrible sobs shook
her childish frame.

Don't cry, Maeva." he said gently.
Don't mourn for me. I'm so happy now
quite, quite happy. I would rather
die like this, than have lived and never
done anything to show you how I loved
you.

The choking fit had seized him again,
and he struggled hard for breath. The
bullet had passed through his lungs, his
right leg lay shattered, his back was broken.
It was plain he was sinking fast.

'/ Lord Wrathness," he said faintly, '' I
want to ask you a favour too, before I go."

*' Anything," groaned the earl hoarsely,
'' anything, dear lad. How could I refuse
aught to one, who has redeemed my name
and honour with his blood ? "

But it's a hard thing I want to ask
you," continued the boy faintly. '' I want
you to find Aer and forgive her, Lord
Wrathness. You know who I mean. I
want you to try and find your wife and
save her

'* Ask anything but that," he cried desperately.
" I could forgive her what she
has done and tried to do against me, but
I cannot forgive her what she has done
to you. Oh, my lad, don't ask me that ! "

But I do ask it, Lord Wrathness,"

pleaded the dying boy. " Mother always
told me to forgive. She would like to
think her boy remembered her lesson now.
It is my last request, and you will not
refuse me, I know. You say my blood
has redeemed your name and honour ; let
it redeem also that poor fallen woman's,
and bring her repentance and hope. Oh,
say you will ! Maeva, ask him."

The effort to speak was terrible. The
blood stained his lips and choked him, but
his blue eyes looked pleadingly at the girl.

Esca  dear, dear Esca, he will," cried
Maeva passionately. " Anything soit

ask would be ever sacred to us both. I
promise for him and I."

He laughed, ever so gently, but the old
boyish ring was there. His pale cheek

flushed hectic for a moment as the sun
played lovingly around his dying face. He
held her hand tightly in his  the same hand
around whose wrist the twisted lazy hung.
As she wiped the blood from his poor
pale lips, he opened them once more.

"Maeva," he whispered, "I'm going
fast. Listen, darling. I always told
Ronald you were not a bit like other girls.
I wish there were more like you. Mother
often used to talk to me about woman's
position in this world, and she always bade
me grow up to help them to mend it, and
get fair play like men have. I always
meant to try and make a name, so as to
carry out this mission, sacred to me because
my mother gave it me. Now I know it
is not God's will that I should do it. It

is meant for some other hand. Perhaps,
Maeva, it may be you. Will you take up
Esca's mission, and try and do it in his
stead ? Will you, Maeva ? "

'* I will, I will," she cried.

"Thank you," he muttered. 'how
dark it is. Where are you, Maeva ? My
own kind little Maeva. Look after
mother, won't you ? Poor darling, precious
mother. Maeva, where are you? It is
so dark, so dark ! "

The light in his eyes had faded, the
hectic flush was gone ; she could not hear
him breathe.

Kiss me." She caught the words,
though whispered very low. She bent
over him once more, and pressed her lips
to his. She felt his clasp grow slack, and

a slight tremor run through his frame, but
when she lifted her face, and looked
yearningly into his, she saw that the
struggle was past. The yellow curls lay
motionless on her lap, and Maeva, passing
her hands gently over his face, closed the
blue eyes for ever, for she knew that
Esca was dead.

Dead ? Ay, dead, if the glorious spirit,
that made him so noble while in this life, died
with him. Not dead, however, if it has left
its mark upon the world. We live not, for
the good or evil we may do, in the brief
short passage which we make through life,
but for the good or evil that shall come of
our deeds hereafter, when this earth knows
us no more. What was this boy's ambition
to become great and make a name for ?

What prompted the feeling in his heart ?
Surely it was a noble unselfish one, as his
brief pure life has proved,  to do good.

If: % % % %

Six years had passed away since Esca
died. The sod was green above his grave,
and flowers bloomed luxuriantly thereon.
Loving hands had tended them. He was
never lonely where he lay, for those whom
he had best loved on earth kept the spot
bright and lovely.

A little cottage nestling amidst the
wooded heights of Loch Mordant looked
down on the darkling waters of that lake,
a tiny bijou abode, around whose porch
the clustering roses clung. And it looked
down on a second scene as well, the one
just above described, for he slept wherein

childhood his mother had watched him
play, her beautiful, gold-headed darling,
her only child.

Yes ; Esca slept. But the influence of
his pure young life lived on. But a few
years back, a tall dark woman had died.
Not the sad death of the despairing and
unrepentant, but a death in which penitence
and hope were joined. The prayer of the
dying boy had not been made in vain,
the promise that had been given in
response, had been faithfully kept. Diligently
the earl had sought his wife, and
found her, but he found her slowly dying,
the victim of a paralytic stroke. For days
he had watched beside her friendless couch,,
though she had turned from him in sullen
despair on recognising him. But when

he told her of the dead boy's last wish, and
how he had sought to fulfil it, a light had
come into those dark bad eyes, a light
that never left them more, that drove the
devil's glance away, and gave place to
repentance and hope. She died, blessing
the noble boy who had redeemed her in
his blood.

Mother," cried a fresh young voice,
'* may Lorna play by the grave ? Granny
is sitting there with Esca.'*

'* I'm coming, darling," answered the
mother. " Yes, Lornie may go, but she
mustn't spoil the pretty blue flowers."

The child had large grey eyes and
sunny auburn hair. The eyelashes that

VOL III. 15

fringed her eyes were long, and very dark.
She opened them wide.

'* Oh, naughty mother ! " she answered,
"as if Lornie would hurt big Esca's
flowers."

The mother's eyes filled with tears. Six
years had passed away, but the face of
the blue-eyed boy was fresh before her
still, fresh as the wild forget-me-nots that
clustered o'er his grave, fresh as the day
on which he died.

She is Maeva Wrathness now, and has
been so for the last five years. The little
boy who sits on yonder grey-haired lady's
knee, the lady with the blue eyes and sad
patient face, is Esca, Viscount Borrodaile ;
he is two years old, and his little sister.
Lady Lorna Sinclair, is five. Every year

when the flowers are bright, and the sky
is bluest in the heavens, the earl and
countess come to spend a week or two
with Mrs. Hamilton. The children look
forward to that visit, for baby though he
is, young Esca knows and loves the repaired
lady well. They call her Granny.
It was she who taught them to do so ;
and the children know her by no other
name.

By the shore of that lonely lake, where
his childhood's days were spent, we will
bid them now farewell. They are not
likely to forget his last words. How could
they with that turquoise grave before
them ? Both Maeva and Wrathness are
working hard, perhaps so far silently,
but surely. Their work is to raise their

fellow-men, to promote justice, alleviate
suffering, and hasten on, as far as in
them lies, that day when man shall
perfect be.

