CHAPTER I.

 With what a heavy and retarding weight

tn Does expectation load the wing of time.

S

Below, a o-reat broad stretch of ocean, calm
(oas death, skimbermg placidly beneath the
 sun's hot rays ; above, a sky of palest azure,

flecked here and there by dainty masses of

J; soft fleecy clouds ; and, far inland, a background

of high hills, clothed with a tender

c3 foliage, a very baby serfdom, just bursting

Fin to the fuller life.

5x The whole air is glad with the melodies of
inany birds, and the wild perfume of honey
suckle mixed with thyme enriches every
 VOL. T. B

breeze. Towards the west the trees give way
a little, letting a road be seen, that like a
straight pale ribbon runs between the greenery
for the space of quite a mile or so, and then
reaches the small fishing village where the
simple folk of Glowing Destroy toil from one
year's end to the other  the men gathering
in their harvest from the treacherous sea, the
women gathering their harvest too : some in
careless joy, some in ceaseless labour, some,
alas ! in cruel weeping, because of those ' who
will never come back to the town.'

Along the white road, that gleams thirstily
in the burning sunshine of this hot midday in
June, a carriage is crawling with quite an
aggravating slowness. An antiquated vehicle
of a type now almost unknown, but which
once, beyond doubt, ' cost money.' At this
particular stage of its existence the leather
part of it is so withered and shrunken as to

leave open to conjecture the idea that it ever
was leather at all, and the paint is so knocked
off in many, nay, , in most, places, that it is
an act of courtesy in the beholder to refrain
from allusion to it ; whilst, as for the
crest, naught is left of it, save the wing and
the beak of some bird unknown.

Two horses, skinny, melancholy-looking
brutes, who appear to have reached the last
degree of starvation, are attached to this
ancient coach. But, demoralised as they are
by age and famine and an unexpected journey,
they refuse any longer to respond to the voice
or whip of the elderly person  as gaunt
and forsaken as themselves  who every now
and again in a cracked tone implores them
to ' come up ' or ' go on.' as occasion demands.


The carriage, being an open one, enables
the people as it passes through the village to

B 2

see without undue trouble that the occupants
of it are two girls : both very young, both
singularly alike, though in distinctly different
styles. A stranger, indeed, would probably
be quicker to note the resemblance between
them than one accustomed to watch the play
of feature from day to day  a knowledge
that somehow spoils most delicate likenesses.
The younger girl, now leaning forward, with
a little frown upon her face that is born
rather of amusement than annoyance, yet partakes
of both, is of fairer skin and brighter
hair than her sister, whose eyes are of a
dark "grey, rather than blue, and whose hair
is nut-brown with a tinge of red running
through it.

It is charming ! ' says the younger girl,
with a little quick motion of the hand towards
the sweeping bay, and the awakening trees,
and the other glories of the landscape. 'All

charming, far better than I ever dared hope
for ; and yet my mind misgives me.'

She turns a brilliant glance on her sister,
full of terrible insinuations, and then laughs
a little. Thus animated, she is a very pretty
girl, half-child, half-woman, as fresh as the
morning, and with eyes like stars. Her nose
is a rather saucy little affair, tilting heavenwards,
and her mouth one can see was
made for laughter. She lifts one slender
black-gloved hand, and placing it beneath
her sister's chin, turns her face gently to
her.

Such a beautiful face ! Very like the
riante one beside it, yet unlike too. There
is a touch of sadness round the lovely lips, a
mournful curve ; indeed, a thoughtfulness too
great for her years is stamped on every
feature. A tender, loving, yet strong soul
shines through the earnest eyes, and when

she smiles it is reluctantly, as if smiles all her
life had been forbidden to her.

At least we are given time to admire the
prospect and meditate on the near future,'
says the younger girl with a disdainful glance
at the old horses, going at their snail's pace,
and the still older Jehu, who is apparently
neither asleep nor awake. ' Are we to proceed
at this funereal pace all day ? Is night
to overtake us on our six-mile drive ? '

Hush ! He may hear you,' says j\iiss
Dysart, with a nervous, expressive glance at
the old coachman's back.

Nonsense, Vera ! As if any one could
not see by the obstinate set of his elbow that
he has been deaf for years. I only hope he
isn't asleep, as that might prove inconvenient.
Well,' with an arching of her brows, ' what a
turn-out ! What a carriage ! What horses !
One is driven to speculating as to how the

skin covers their bones. It must have great
staying power, or it would have given way
long since. And yet, did not some fond fool
tell us that our unknown uncle is rich ? '

Certainly. But the same fond fool also
told us that he is a very prince amongst
misers. Don't you remember that as well ? '

No, I make a point of never remembering
unpleasant things. A miser ! How hateful !
Let us pray that he will not reduce us to the
condition of his stud. Do you know, Vera,'
addressing her sister with a sudden unexpected
touch of gravity that sits rather prettily on
her careless face, ' I don't quite like the
manner of our welcome. Not a soul to meet
us but this old man, and such a sorry equipage.
Is there not a cousin somewhere, who
might have met us with the hand of good-fellowship
extended ? Surely it has not been
all a dream, this thought of him ? '

Oil ! that reminds me,' says Miss Dysart,
sitting quite upright and growing suddenly
very animated  a delightful trick of hers that
leaves the devout believer in her serenity
breathless  ' I quite forgot to tell you of it,
but the day before we left Nice Nell Stewart
was with me, and she said that this cousin
you speak of, if he does exist at all, at all
events does not do it here'

Which means ? '

That either he won't, or can't, live with his
father. Caiit, Nell rather led me to believe.'

Can't it is, you may be sure,' says the
younger girl restlessly. 'Fancy a father
whose son can't live with him ! And yet,
after all, virtuous astonishment on that score
is rather out of place with us. I cadi imagine
just such a father.'

Well, never mind that,' says Miss Dysart
hastily.

Yes. Very good ; let us then go from
sire to uncle,' says her sister with a little
shrug.  Do you think we shall gain much
by the change ? This old relative of ours is,
perhaps, as delightful as we could wish him,
and yet I lois father had not left us to his
tender mercies.'

Do not dwell on that,' says Vera with
nervous haste ; ' do not seek for faults in the
inevitable. He is all that is left us.'

That is what / don't like to dwell on.
The desert island with no means of escape
never had any attractions for me. Supposing
this old stranger should turn out to be '

He may be very kind, very good, all
that we should desire,' interrupts Miss Dysart
anxiously. ' Dearest Grizel, why will you
prognosticate evil ? It is so unlike you.
You, as a rule, have the " merry heart " that
"goes all the day," / the one that tires 'ein

a mile-a " ; but to-day I scarcely know you.
Why suppose our uncle less than kind ? '

He is our father's brother, I anticipate
only the worst,' says Griselda drily. ' And I
confess it has always struck me as strange
that, after spending his life abusing him in
the choicest terms, papa should at his death
have selected him as our sole guardian.'

You know the sudden decision arose out
of a letter received by father from Uncle
Gregory about a year ago. When father was

was  dying ' She pauses abruptly,

and a tremor shakes her last words. She is
not exactly overpowered by whatever emotion
her words have aroused, but at least she is
shaken by it, and finds a difficulty in continuing
the sentence.

The younger girl, who without being hardis
still harder than she is, turns quickly to
look at her. There is infinite love and compassion

in her glance, but perhaps a little
contempt, and certainly a little impatience.

Do you know,' she says, ' it may seem
heartless  positively coarse if you will  but
I do not think our father was a man to excite
respect, much less love or regret, or '

Oh ! it is better not to speak like that,'
interrupts Miss Dysart in a low shocked tone.
Don't do it, darling. I know what you mean,
but '

And, / know that I shall never forgive
or forget the life he led you,' says Griselda,
with a certain angry excitement.

Well, that is over ! ' says Miss Dysart,
with a quick sigh, heavily indrawn.

'And we have now only to hope that
there is not worse to come. Your eyes say
that. As for me, but for the commonplaceness
of the idea, I should decline to risk the
chance, and should look up one or other of

our old friends, and entreat them to get me a
situation as cook or scullery-maid somewhere,
only that patience isn't my strong point, and
I feel I should not be kept a month by anyone.'


'I hope Uncle Gregory will keep you a
month,' says her sister with a little laugh.
'For my own sake, at all events.'

I can't think why papa made him our
guardian. As long as I can remember anything
it was quite as much as one's life was
worth to mention the unknown uncle to him ;
yet the first thing we hear after his death
is, that the same detested brother is to have
and to hold us completely in his power until
we come of age. That means one year's
thraldom to you ; but three to me.'

More than that,' sadly. ' You forget that,
of age or otherwise, we shall not have a
penny between us.' She sighs, and then turns

her gaze more fully on the younger girl. ' It is
better to begin by thinking  by acknowledging,
indeed  that our uncle is proving a very
kind friend to us, who are friendless ; and
why should we not encourage the idea also
that he may be very lovable ? '

Encourage any romantic ideas you
please,' says Griselda, ' but don't expect me
to keep you company. Instinct teaches me
that our Uncle Gregory is an extremely odious
old man. What I want to know is, ivliy he
has offered us a home ? '

That is what nobody knows. It puzzled
papa to the last. But certainly he was most
determined to get us into his care. His letters
I read some of them  were almost vehement
on the subject. And at last, as you
know, papa gave in, agreed to his proposal,
and '

And here we are,' with an expressive

glance round her. 'But "vehement." I
don't like that word. So eager to seize upon
us. My good child, why didn't you tell me
all this before? Don't you think we had
better take the reins, literally, into our own
hands, and get out of this old ark and make
a run for it even now  at the last moment ? To
my mind the affair looks black as Erebus.
No doubt he wants to get us into his clutches
either to incarcerate us in his donjon keep or
to assassinate us out of hand.'

But why ? Even such wild measures are
not used without a motive.'

Well, what was this vendetta, this terrible
life-long quarrel that was kept up between
him and father with such monotonous persistency
? '

That had to do with our grandfather's
will. Papa was the eldest son, yet the property
was left to Uncle Gregory ; and that for

no reason at all. Naturally papa was very-angry
about it, and accused Gregory of using
undue influence.'

Oh, there must have been a reason ? '
No dissension that had not been healed
for many years. It seems our grandfather
disapproved of our father's marriage, and at
that time made a will disinheriting him ; but
later on he sent for papa and mother, and
took a great fancy to her, and told papa he
had revoked the first will and made a fresh
one in his favour. Whether he did it or not
no one knows. Most probably he meant to,
but never did it, as the first will only was
found at his death, in which Uncle Gregory
was named sole heir. I really can't go into
it,' a little wearily. ' All my life the story
has been dinned into my ears ; and as I know
it, such is the case.'

Just so, and of course there is a good

deal behind that you don't know. There
always is : nobody ever tells quite everything.

And besides Oh ! Oh, Vera ! Oh ! what

has happened ? '

CHAPTER II.

A proper man as one shall see in a summer's day.

She clutches in an agonised fashion at the
leather side of the crazy old chariot, which
has toppled partly over to the left side,
her side, and so stands in a decidedly dissipated
position. The ancient driver, presumably
asleep, had let the horses wander at
their own sweet will, and they being old and
sleepy too, the result was that they had
dragged two of the wheels up on a steep bank
and nearly capsized the carriage. It is still,
indeed, very unpleasantly possible that it will
go over, each second makes it likelier that the
VOL. I. c

occupants of it will soon be buried beneath
its skeleton remains, when suddenly the
horses' heads are caught by a firm hand, and
after a struggle, brief and inglorious  for they
are too starved and too aged, poor brutes !
to argue much  they are forced backwards
into a respectable position on the public
road.

Oh, thank you,' says Miss Dysart, leaning
forward and addressing with earnest glance
and heightened colour the young man who
had risen  descended, perhaps, sounds pleasant
and more orthodox  like a oood ancrel
from somewhere  the wood on their right, no
doubt. A fishing-rod, lying on the road
where he had flung it when preparing for his
ignoble battle with those poor old horses,
proclaims the fact that he has been whipping
the stream that gleams here and there brilliantly
through the interstices of the trees.

He looks a gentleman ; there is no doubt
about that, thinks Miss Dysart quickly. As
for Griselda she goes even a little further, and
tells herself absently that, if plain, he has a
pleasant look.

Oh no,' says he, lifting his hat  a soft
affair, peaked fore and aft  ' you mustn't
thank me. It was really nothing. Poor

brutes, I think they were asleep ; they

It is hot, isn't it ? ' This last he says hastily,
as if ashamed of his animadversion on the age
of the sorry cattle in question  their horses,
no doubt ; and there is something wonderfully
charming in the faint apologetic colour that
springs into his cheeks. As he finishes speaking
he looks at Griselda so hard that she feels
it incumbent on her to return his glance and
to say something.

We thought our last hour had come,' she
says, laughing softly, and looking at him a

c 2

little shyly, but so prettily. ' But for you,
one cannot say where we slioulcl be now.'

She bows to him, and so does her sister
quite as graciously, and then the horses once
more commence their snail-like progress,
grinding through the dusty road at the rate
of three miles an hour. The little episode is
over ; the young man settles his soft hat more
firmly on his head, picks up his rod, regards
it anxiously to see that no harm has come toit
because of that hasty casting of it aside,
and disappears once more into the shelter of
the cool wood.

'I do lioiie says Miss Dysart, with a
nervous glance at the back of the elderly
coachman, who had sat stolidly throughout
the entire incident, saying nothing and apparently
unmoved  ' I do hope he'll manage to
keep awake for the rest of this intolerable
journey. I don't v\'ant to be killed twice over.'

It was an adventure. I should have
thought you would have welcomed it. Ordo
you look on it as a suitable beginning to
our life here ?  the commencement of a series
of misfortunes. Vera, I wonder is that manour
Preserver (it is always said with a big P,
isn't it.P), I wonder is he one of our neighbours
? If so, I shall be glad. He looked
nice, eh ? '

'Very nice, I thought. But you know
Uncle Gregory is a sort of hermit. Sees nobody,
and objects to being seen by anybody.'

Oh, nonsense ! One can't live wrapped
up for ever in a veil, like the Prophet of
Khorassin, in these material days. I think
I'll ask our Jehu who that very opportune
person is ? '

Oh, don't ! ' entreats Miss Dysart hastily,
who would have been in extremis before
making up her mind to extract information

from her servant. Griselda, however, though
of the same blood, is of different fibre. Leaning
forward upon the opposite cushion, so as
to get within reach of his deaf ears, she first
gently, and then with much decision, jogs the
coachman's elbow ; the old man turns and
looks at her.

Who was that gentleman who just came
to our assistance ? ' asks she slowly, distinctly.

Distance ? Mought be about a mile
now,' says he.

No, no. Who was the gentleman who
caught hold of the reins ? '

'Nary drop, miss. Don't you be afeard,
there ain't a spick in t' clouds ; see now,'
pointing heavenwards with his whip.

Nary spick, indeed,' says Griselda, bubbling
over with laughter, as she devoutly
follows his gaze to the azure dome above her.
But that's hardly to the point. Who,' raising

her voice, ' was it who caught the horses'
heads ? '

Ay, red it be, sure/z. Much more o' this
weather an' the farmers be crying'. " Need sky
0' night, shepherds' delight." They're damn'
selfish, I be thinking,' they shepherds. Drop 0'
rain now to wet th' oats and t' wheat '

Give it up,' says Miss Dysart softly, from
the background.

'What, now after so many tries? You
don't know me. I'll conquer, or die in the
effort. Now for a final throw.' She leans
still nearer the old man and repeats her question.
Some passing wind blows it at last
straight into his brain.

Gent, eh ? Do' know, miss. One o' they
fishing gents, likes. Common sort, alius,'
says the old coachman, a spiteful note in his
voice, resentful, perhaps, of the assistance that
had saved him from certain injury, but had

also revealed the fact of his somnolence.
Shop-boys, mostly. They do swarm here a'
fishing-time. But they be o' no use. No use
at all, missis. You take a old man's 'ord
for 't.'

He was of great use to you at all events.
You might now have been lying hurt and
crushed but for him,' says Griselda indignantly.


True for you, missis. A curst lot they
be, wi' their town ways. Curst an' lying'
thieves o' the world. Full o' Lunnon tricks
as a egg's full o' mate. Don't you mind him,
missis. We be well quit o' he now.'

Well, of all the ungrateful old wretches ! '
says the younger Miss Dysart, regarding him
with unmitigated scorn.

'Ay, that he be, for certain. A great
wretch. Eh ! eh ! But you have him fine,'
responds the old man, cackling; whereupon

Griselda, with a last baleful glance at him,
acknowledging herself beaten, returns to her
seat beside her sister.

Half an hour brings them to the entrance-gate
of Greycourt, and practically to their
journey's end. Both girls, with an involuntary
movement, crane their necks out of the carriage
to get a first glimpse at their future
home, and then turn a dismayed glance on
each other. Anything more dreary, more
unfriendly, yet withal grand in its desolation,
could hardly be seen. The approach to it
from the road had been abrupt, and now the
long, singularly dark avenue bursts upon
their view as a revelation. The huge iron
gates, overgrown with rust, and so thick with
weeds growing upwards from the soil beneath
as to betray the idea of their seldom turning
on their hinges, look to them like the massive
gateways of a prison.

A long, low, picturesque lodge, terribly
out of repair, and, in fact, falling to pieces,
stands on the right. Tenantless, evidently,
as the old coachman, with many rheumatic
groans and grumbling, has himself to clamber
from his seat to throw wide the gates, that
groan as loudly as he as they sway heavily
backwards.

How dark it is,' says Griselda, a nervous
thrill running through her, as they move
onwards beneath the shade of the mighty
trees that clasp their arms between her and
the glorious sky  thus blotting it out.
Indeed, coming from the sunlit road into this
sunless avenue is to plunge, as it were, in one
moment from gaudy day to darksome night.

On each side dense masses of shrubs are
growing so thickly together, in so wild, so
uncultured a fashion that one is killing the
other. The great elm-trees uprearing themselves

out of this wild confusion are so
knotted and tangled in an inextricable embrace
overhead that daylight cannot enter the
place below, and rank attenuated weeds cover
the drive, that once, long years ago, might
have been gravelled, but now shows only dull
brown earth, heavily rutted here and there.
The green edges of it have been left for
such a length of time uncut that the stragorhnor

D 'Oct O

weedy grasses are lying prone upon the walk,
one year's growth rotting on the top of the
other with a dank luxuriance. Altogether,
there is such a terrible sense of loneliness, of
desolation unutterable, lying over all, that the
girls draw closer to each other, and Yea's
eyes grow large and startled.

A sudden turn brings them within view of
the house. A beautiful old house apparently,
of red brick, toned by age to a duller shade,
with many gables, and overgrown in parts by

trailing ivy, the leaves of which now glisten
brightly in the evening sunshine.

At one side a garden slopes down to a
river, and this garden, with the house, is
surrounded on all four sides by a high yew
hedge, through which openings are cut about
every ten yards or so. Terraced steps lead
down to this hedge, and beyond the openings
runs a broad gravelled walk bounded by a
low parapet. Any one seated on this parapet
can look down  a depth of about six feet  to
the mossy grass of the wood beneath, which
here begins, and runs southward straight
down to the village. Through it the river
runs sparkling  the best river for white trout
in this part of the county.

A shadow from the woods lay over this
garden, and extended even to the house itself.
After the first irrepressible touch of admiration
the girls became conscious that there

was something strange about this old brick
dwelling  an absence of light, a curious lack
of sound : no dog barks, no peacock struts to
and fro showing its gaudy plumes. So deadly
quiet is all around that they would have
welcomed with pleasure even the discordant
scream of that haughty bird.

The coachman, scrambling once more
to the ground, bids them in a surly tone to
alight. He is tired and cross, no doubt, by
the unusual work of the day. And presently
they find themselves on the threshold of the
open hall door, hardly knowing what to do
next. The shambling figure of a man about
seventy, appearing presently from some dusky
doorway, motions them to enter ; and, following
him mechanically, they cross a huge,
deserted-looking hall, and stop finally at
a closed door.

The master be expecting you,' says their

conductor, speaking for the first time, this
voice coming from him readily, as though
disuse has made it sorely in want of oiling ;
and, pushing open the door, he waves to them
to enter the room, and, shutting the door
again behind them with a sharp haste, leaves
them alone with their new relative, Gregory.
Dysart.

CHAPTEE III.

Yea, this man's brow, like to a tragic leaf,
Foretells the nature of a tragic volume.

Where they find
That cursed man . . .
Musing full sadly in his suUein minde.

Yea, going quickly forward, moves towards
an arm-clair at the upper end of the room in
which a figure is seated. About half-way,
however, getting a nearer view of this figure,
she stops short, as if uncertain how to proceed.
The blinds are all down, and the
dingy faded curtains closely drawn, so that
it is a little difficult to see anything with
clearness, but what she does see chills her
instinctively.

An old man, shrunken, enfeebled, with
a face that is positively ghastly because of its
excessive pallor ; a living corpse, save for two
eyes that burn and gleam and glitter with an
almost devilish brilliancy. On his head a
black skull cap rests, and beneath it these
vivid, wildly eager eyes stare at her with a
force that makes her heart beat, and compels
the thought that he would fain drag it from
her body.

His coat is old and threadbare, and his
boots patched in many places. There is an air
of sordid poverty about his whole appearance
that repels the girl now regarding him with
a horrified scrutiny. One of his hands, lying
loosely over the edge of his chair, folds and
unfolds itself rapidly  a white, small, slender
hand, womanish in its beauty, yet somehow
strong. The eyes and the hands!  there is
such life in these that they seem out of

keeping with the weak old age that shows in
the rest of the face and form.

So you've come,' he says, without making
any attempt to rise from his chair. 'Shut
that door, will you ? What a vile draught !
And don't stand staring like that, it makes me
nervous.'

His voice is as singular as his appearance.
It is cold, clear, freezing. It seems to the
tired girls standing before him as if a breath
of icy air had suddenly fallen into the hot and
stifling room.

Vera, I presume,' says Mr. Dysart, holding
out his lithe white hand to permit her to
press it. ' And you are Griselda ? I need not
ask what lunatic chose your names, as I was
well acquainted with your mother many years
ago. Pray sit down. It fatigues me intensely
to see people stand when there are chairs for
them, and me.'

VOL. I. D

'I feel that I must thank you at once,
Uncle Gregory, for your kindness to us,' says
Miss Dysart gravely, still standing.

Ay, ay. You acknowledge that,' says he
quickly. A sudden change comes into his
manner ; his lips twitch, he glances eagerly
with his brilliant eyes from one sister to the
other. ' I have been your best friend after
all, eh ? '

You have given us a home,' continues
Miss Dysart in tones that tremble a little.
But for you '

Yes, yes  go on.' He thrusts out his
old miserly face as if athirst for further words,
and rubs his hands together. ' But for me
you would both have been cast upon the
world's highway, to live or die as chance
dictated. I know ! I know that ! D'ye think
I haven't said it over to myself, syllable by
syllable, hour after hour, and dwelt upon it

through many a dreary night ? To me, to me
you are indebted for everything. You owe
me much. Each day you hive you shall owe
me more. I have befriended you ; I have
been the means of saving you from starvation.'

If so corpseHke a face could show signs of
excitement it shows it now, as he seeks to
prove by word and gesture that he is their
benefactor to an unlimited extent. The hateful
emotion he betrays raises in Griselda's
breast feelings of repugnance and disgust.

You have been very good ; but, even if
you had acted otherwise, we should not have
been cast upon the highway to starve,' she
says calmly, but with a curl of her short upper

lip.

No ? ' he turns his piercing eyes on her.
And may I ask who would have lifted you
from it ? '

'We have friends ' Griselda is bend

2

king, but a low laugh breaking from him
checks her  a laugh so mirthful, so cynical,
so contemptuous, that it makes her shrink.

friends! Your youthful trustfulness is
beyond expression charming ; but will you
permit me to remind you that children and
fools are frequently to be found catalogued in
one class ? ' And now again his mood changes,
and sullen fire seems to flash from beneath his
bent brows. 'Be grateful, girl, for what I
offer,' he exclaims harshly.

We are grateful,' interposes Vera gently.
She feels as if a hand had closed upon her
heart with a suffocating pressure. What a
home-coming it is ! What a welcome !

See that you keep to that,' says the old
man with a snarl. ' See that you appreciate
my bounty. I hope,' with a sharp glance at
Griselda, who is looking pale but still
mutinous, ' you look for no luxuries here ;

that you do not expect to live a life of the
lotus-eating school? You have no doubt been
bred in the belief that I am a rich man ; if so,
undeceive yourself at once. I am poor 
miserably poor. I can barely live. Yet, withall
that, I have been willing (foolishly) to
saddle myself with two useless creatures for
the remainder of my life. Come, confess now,
you thought that I was rich ? '

We certainly did hear so,' says Griselda
slowly.

There was some truth in what you heard,'
says he, looking down now, and fumbling
restlessly with the buttons of his shabby old
coat. 'But some men have calls on them
that bring their wealth to naught  naught.
This property  of which your father said I
robbed him  has it brought me comfort,
think you ? I tell you no, no.' He tears at
the coat still in angry fashion, until at length

the button gives way and remains within his
palm. Holding it there tightly for a second
he then drops it to the ground. ' You understand
now how it is with me ? I am a poor
man  poor because honest' He spreads wide
his beautiful hands, and looks from one to the
other of them with a touch of suspicion in his
gleaming eyes. ' Your father  he has spoken
to you of me ? ' he is now addressing Vera
exclusively.

Very frequently.'

With keen affection, of course ? ' with
another low evil laugh. ' Brotherly love was
quite a passion between us, eh ? Have you
no word, girl, that you sit there like a stone?
The truth, now! the truth ! He said I wronged
him ? Swindled him out of his house and
property ? Was that it ? Said I was his worst
friend  /  / who have, after all his foul
slandering, taken his two penniless children

to my hearth, to waste my poor means on the
sustaining of them.'

Again that strange excitement seizes upon
and shakes his feeble frame, as once more he
dwells with a feverish insistence on his newfound
role of benefactor. It is almost terrible
to see so frail a ' tenement of clay ' broken up
by such a burst of vehemence ; yet it is
remarkable that, while his passion lasts, he
seems to grow in strength, and the small fine
hand clasping the arm of his chair holds it
with a grasp of iron.

A fiery soul, which, working out its way,
Fretted the pygmy body to decay.

I have consented to adopt you,' he goes
on presently, having subdued himself, his cold
voice now cutting like a knife. ' But do not
expect much from me. It is well to come to
a proper understanding at the start, and so
save future argument. Honesty as I tell you,

has made me poor. Were I as others

You have been, I hear, accustomed to lead a
useless, luxurious existence. Your father all
his life kept up a most extravagant menage
and, dying, left you paupers.' He almost
hisses out the last cruel word.

Griselda starts to her feet.

'The honesty-of which you boast is not
everything,' she says, in a burning tone.
Let me remind you that courtesy, too, has
its claims upon you.'

Hah ! The word pauper is unpleasing,
it seems,' says he, unmoved. 'Before we quit
this point, however, one last word. You are
beneath my roof, I shall expect you to conform
to my rules. I see no one. I permit
no one to enter my doors save my son. I
will not have people spying out the nakedness
of the land, and speculating over what they
are pleased to call my eccentricities. They

will have me rich, but I am poor, pooi\ I tell
you. Always remember that.'

He protrudes his thin lips, and a mean,
cringing expression disfigures his face. He
seems to sink into his miserable clothes, and
to grow visibly smaller before them. ' Form
no intimacies, therefore, in this neighbourhood.
If you do, you leave this. Obey me,
and you have a home here ; disobey, and 
out you go.'

Griselda's features having settled themselves
into a rather alarming expression. Miss
Dysart hurriedly breaks into the conversation.

If you will permit us,' she says faintly,
we should like to go to our rooms, to rest a
little. It has been a long journey.'

Her uncle turns and touches the bell near
him, and immediately, so immediately as to
suggest the idea that she has been applying
her ear to the keyhole, a woman enters.

CHAPTER IV.

A kind of weight hangs heavy on my heart.

This suspicion may perhaps have crossed Mr.
Dysart's mind, because he frowns heavily as
the woman approaches.

You are singularly prompt,' he says, with
a lowering glance and a sneer, that passes herby,
as she takes no notice of it, but stands
staring at him with a stolidity that has something
of defiance in it. ' This is Mrs. Grunch,'
turning to Vera, ' my housekeeper. She will
see to your wants. Grunch, take these young
ladies away. There, go ! ' seeing she is about
to speak. ' Don't worry me with questions.
I am positively done to death already by this

terrible invasion. Go I And be careful not
to slam the door behind you. My nerves
with a shudder, ' are all unstrung to the last
pitch.'

Thus unceremoniously dismissed, Miss
Dysart follows the housekeeper from the
room, Griselda having left it after the first
'go.' Through the huge dark hall and up
the wide mouldy staircase they follow their
guide, noting as they do so the decay that
marks everything around. As for Mrs.
Grunch herself, it is impossible to view her
with any sort of kindly feeling. A more forbidding
old woman both in manner and
feature it would be difficult to produce.
Stalking on before them, with never a word
to one or the other, they every now and again,
at a turn in the staircase or a bend in the
gaunt empty galleries, catch a glimpse of her
unpleasant face. A hard-featured woman 

gaunt, bony, with a scowling brow and thin
lips and lank grey hair ; that she is taller than
most strikes them, as also the strange fancy
that once she must have been beautiful. But
she is aged now, and angular, and altogether
loveless, with the memories of past fears and
loves and hatreds printed savagely upon her
brow, and, with all that, a strong vitality that
bees her age.

She flings wide a door for the girls to
enter, and then abruptly departs without
offering them word or glance. They are
thankful to be thus left alone, and involuntarily
stand still and gaze at each other.
Vera is very pale, and her breath is coming
rather fitfully from between her parted
lips.

He looks dying she says at last, speaking
with a heavy sigh, and going nearer to
Griselda as if unconsciously seeking a closer

companionship. 'Did you ever see such a
face ? Don't you think he is dying ? '

Who can tell,' says Griselda, whose unhappiness
takes a different form from that of
her sister's ; that past violent indignation bears
fruit still. ' I might think it, perhaps, but for
his eyes. They '  she shudders  ' they look
as if they couldn't die. What terrible eyes
they are ! and what a vile old man altogether !
Good heavens ! how did he dare so to insult
us ? I told you. Vera '  with rising excitement
' I warned you, that our coming here would
be only for evil.

Don't, Griselda ! Don't, darling' says
Miss Dysart in a frightened tone. She is,
indeed, trembling in every limb, and as she
speaks she puts out her hand and catches
Griselda's, and holds it in a tight, nervous
clasp. ' I don't like that woman,' she says ina
low tone.

Who could ? ' asks Griselda. ' A very-proper
attendant on such a master, say I.'

'Oh, Griselda, what will be the end of
it ? ' says Miss Dysart, a touch of despair in
her voice. She sinks into a chair, still holding
Griselda's hand as if unable to let it go,
and looks fearfully around her at the bare,
ugly, hideously furniture apartment.

There is indeed something so poverty-stricken,
so mean, about the whole look of
the apartment that her heart dies within her.
Everything is bald, bare, comfortless. Yet,
through the discomfort, one is compelled to
see that once the now dingy bedroom was
handsome and well-appointed. The chipped
and broken washing-stand is of marble, and
the jug and basin  the former now cracked
and lipless  are of china, expensive in their
day, and of an extravagant value in ours.

The paintings of the room alone would

have shown any one that at least at one
period of its existence the room had hardly
known the word poverty. The very ceiling
was painted  little cupids running riot
amongst roses and lilies : the roses very
much besmirched by time, the lilies terribly
soiled, and the cupids so clothed upon by the
smoky grime of centuries as to be very much
more decently habited than the original artist
ever intended.

What a terrible woman ! ' says Vera,
alluding to the housekeeper. ' What a cold,
unfriendly creature ! One might almost imagine
that she hated us.' As she speaks she
looks up nervously at her sister, who is
standing beside her chair, so silent as to be
almost gloomy. The day is fast fading into
night, and the sad twilight creeping into the
room makes it more melancholy than it, in
reality, is. Griselda's eyes are bent upon the

ground ; her lips are stern. ' Speak, darling,'
says Miss Dysart hurriedly. ' I don't know
what is the matter with me, but I feel unhinged,
frightened.' She pauses, struggles
with herself for a moment, and then bursts
into tears.

Oh ! don't do that,' cries Griselda,
horrified. 'Don't cry on your first coming
into a house, it is so unlucky. If you do,
you'll keep on crying all the time you're in it.
There now ! Cheer up, do. After all they
can't eat us, and you have me always, you
Tnow.'

She seems to think this a balm not to be
equalled.

'Uncle Gregory is a Tartar, I confess,
worse than father. But, so far as Mrs.
Housekeeper is concerned, I feel myself a
match for her anyway.'

How old she looks, yet how strong,' says

Vera. ' Griselda, have you noticed that everyone
here is old ? Oh ! ' with a quick sob, ' I
don't think I like okl people ; they are so
hard, so cruel, they never understand. At
all events, what I mean is, I don't like too
much of them ; not altogether. And the man
who opened the door, did you notice him?
And the coachman, and this horrible woman,
and Uncle Gregory himself, all  all are old.'

Say mouldy,, and be done with it,' says
Griselda gloomily. 'Why, the very house
reeks of must ; I shouldn't wonder if a crime
had been committed in it, it looks so dark, so
forbidding ; a house of evil repute.'

'Oh, don't, Griselda, don't!' cries Miss
Dysart, with a nervous glance over her
shoulder and a perceptible start, as at this
moment a knock comes to the door.

Will you be pleased to come downstairs
or to have your tea here ? demands the

VOL. I. B

harsh voice of the housekeeper from the
threshold.

Here ' is on Yera's hips, but Griselda the
bold circumvent her.

'Downstairs,' she says coldly, 'when we
get some hot water, and when you send a
maid to help us to unpack our trunks.'

'There are no maids in this house,'
replies Mrs. Grunch sullenly. ' You must
either attends to each other or let me help
you.'

No maids ! ' says Griselda.

None,' briefly.

And my room ? Or  is this mine, or
Miss Dysart's ? '

Both yours and Miss Dysart's ; sorry if
it ain't big enough,' with a derisive glance
round the huge bare chamber.

You mean, we are to have but one room
between us ? '

Just that, miss. Neither more nor less.
And good enough, too, for those as '

'Leave the room,' says Griselda with a
sudden sharp intonation, so unexpected, so
withering, that the woman, after a surprised
stare, turns and withdraws.

'I wish you had let us have our tea
here,' says Vera. ' To face that old man
again, to endure his cruel speeches, is more
than I feel equal to.'

'As we have to live here we must face
him again sooner or later ; the sooner, then,
the better,' says Griselda. ' And would you
have that woman think we were afraid ? No,
no, Vera ; let us meet the foe with a bold
front, and without delay. The longer you
shrink from it the harder it will appear.'

E 2

CHAPTEE y.

But the wood, all close and clenching
Bough in bough and root in root 
No more sky (for over-branching)
At your head than at your foot 
Oh ! the wood drew me within it by a glamour past dispute.

But after all they had not to face the foe in
any form. Mr. Dysart, it appears, on a closer
knowledge of his habits, never eats in public,
and indeed for several days after their arrival
the girls do not see him again. By degrees
it is forced upon them that life at Greycourt
is likely to be a very monotonous affair, with
no possible opening for change of any sort.
They find themselves driven into a little
narrow ring, bound everywhere by absurd
regulations, beyond which they must not stir.

To girls born to a rather pronounced freedom
such restrictions are galling in the extreme.

Rigid simplicity, according to Mr. Dysart
riorid meanness, according to Griselda  is
the order of the day. Dinner, instead of
being served at the decent orthodox half-past
seven, is on the table at two sharp  thus
luncheon is saved ; and, when served, resolves
itself into two small  exquisitely dressed, certainly
 but very small chops. No accessories.
The chop, in fact, is the dinner /j>i? et simple,
unpleasantly simple.

To two healthy, youthful people, however,
this curtailing of the established elaborate
meal goes for little, save as a thing for surprised
comment first and for laughter afterwards.
But after a while the monotony of it
offends.

If it might even be cutlets one day,' says
Griselda, when a week of unvaried chop has

gone by. No soup, no fish, no pudding.
One etcetera, indeed, is allowed : the butler,
and with him a dish containing three potatoes
 one for Vera, one for Griselda, and one
over, in case either of them should have appetites
so voracious as to require it. Could
generosity further go ?

They are, however, as I have said, sufficiently
young to care little for the culinary
goods the gods provide ; and one great source
of joy at least is theirs : at none of these
sumptuous banquets does their uncle (wiseman!)
appear. How he spends his days 
what occupations, what enjoyments are his,
they never know ; one thing however they
discover, that, dead as he may be to the
human world around him, however soured
his heart, it is still open to the divine influence
of flowers.

Beyond the parterre that had met their

eyes when first they arrived, they discovered
later on a small but perfect garden, through
which a tiny streamlet rushes merrily on its
joyous way to the broad river down below ;
a garden where myriad blossoms live and
thrive, and bloom, as it seems to Vera, as
never flowers bloomed before, casting with
every breeze their scented breaths upon the
air. Such a delicious, old-fashioned spot !
A very world of sweetness. That it should
belong to Gregory Dysart, that it should
touch or affect that cold and sordid nature
in any way, seems to Vera inexplicable.
Eather it would seem to her that such gentle
things as flowers would fade away and shrivel
up and die beneath the glance of those wicked
scorching eyes. But,

In all places, then, and in all seasons,

Flowers expand their light and soul-like wings ;

Teaching us, hy the most persuasive reasons,
How akin they are to human things.

And with childlike, credulous affection,
We behold their tender huts expand :

Emblems of our own great resurrection,
Emblems of the bright and better land.

How Mr. Dysart regards them, and what
lessons they teach him, there is nothing to
show ; but every evening, when the sun has
gone down, and the air is yet warm with the
memory of it, the old man emerges from his
den, and slowly now, and now with quickening
footsteps, walks from flower to flower, his
face, so unearthly in its pallor, bent towards
each delicate blossom.

The deaf old coachman is, they discover,
gardener as well, in name, the real work being
done by a young man, called Bob, who has
grown up at Greycourt from boy to mean, and
who still works on there at the original wage,
though he has long ceased to give only a
boy's labour  not without grumbling, however,
and much discontent.

To-day has arisen in an unwonted splendour.
Even through the eternal shadows
that encompass the garden, and past the
thick yew hedge, the hot beams of the sun
are stealing.

A day for gods and goddesses,' cries
Griselda, springing suddenly to her feet, and
flinging far from her on the green sward the
musty volume she had purloined from the
muster library about an hour ago. That
library, too, had failed them ; no book of any
value, no book that could fetch even a
meagre price, has there a home. It has been
well weeded out, and the marketable portion
of it sold. ' Away with such fudge as that.
Come for a walk, Yera, into those green woods
yonder ; see how temptingly cool they look.'

Uncle Gregory said something, didn't he,
about our not leaving the garden ? ' says Vera
with hesitation.

'I'm always sorry I'm so deaf,' with a
mischievous little laugh. ' I never hear things
like that. And besides  a jig for Uncle
Gregory ! An old fossil like that shouldn't
dare preach to a lovely young creature Hke
me. " Do not make acquaintance with your
neighbours," said he ; that is all of his
dark sayings that I have taken to heart.
I say, Vera, do come. Do, now. Here,
I'll pull that book out of your hands if you
don't.'

Oh, don't, don't,' laughing. ' To tell you
the truth, it isn't so much a decent awe of
Uncle Gregory as a dislike to exertion on this
hot day that keeps me chained to this spot.
There, go, if you will ; but don't stay away
too long.'

Perhaps I'll never come back. The spirit
of adventure is full upon me, and who knows
what demons inhabit that unknown wood?

So, fare thee well, sweet, my love ! and when
you see me, expect me.' She presses a
sentimental kiss upon her sister's brow,
averring that a ' brow ' is the only applicable
part of her for such a solemn occasion, and
runs lightly down towards the hedge. Halfway
there, however, she looks back. ' Vera,
Vera, if I shouldn't be back in time for the
succulent chop, eat mine too. If you don't,
some horrid thought tells me we shall have a
rechauffe tomorrow.'

She runs through one of the openings in
the hedge, crosses the gravelled path, and,
mounting the parapet, looks over to examine
the other side of the wall on which she stands,
after which she commences her descent. One
little foot she slips into a convenient hole in it,
and then the other into a hole lower down, and
so on and on, until the six feet of wall are
conquered and she reaches terra jirma and

finds nothing between her and the desired
cool of the lovely woods.

With a merry heart she plunges into the
dark, sweetly scented home of the giant trees,
with a green, soft pathway under her foot,
and, though she knows it not, her world
before her.

It is an entrancing hour. Nay, it gets to
hours ; and all so full of life and warmth and
beauty that she forgets to count time ; so that
it is only when she lias gone a long, long way
into the heart of this exquisite wood, and
when the sun has travelled very low down in
the heavens, and many miles lie between her
and Greycourt, that she wakes to the fact
that her hands were not formed to carry anymore
ferns, and that she has lost her way, and '
doesn't know how on earth to get back to
Vera.

She has stopped short in the middle of a

broad green space encompassed by high hills,
though with an opening towards the west,
when this uncomfortable conviction grows
clear to her. She is not of the nervous order,
however, and keeping a good heart looks
hopefully around her.

Her hope has reason. Far away over
there, in the distance, stands a figure lightly
lined against the massive trunk of a sycamore,
that most unmistakably declares itself to be a
man. His back is turned to her, and he is
bending over something, and, so far as she
can judge thus remote from him, his clothing
is considerably the worse for wear. It looks
soiled, dusty, and she is sure at all events that
he wears leggings. A gamekeeper, perhaps,
or a  well, something or other of that sort.
At all events the sight is welcome as the early
dew.

As I have said, she is not one of those

ill-regulated girls (better known to us in
fiction than in fact, be it said, to the credit of
their sex) who deem every man they meet on
lonely road or in sequestered wood to be either
a burglar or garter out of work, or midnight
assassin on strike, or a marauder in
general, and therefore she hails this particular
man with open joy, and proceeds to compel
his attention, with a view to getting from him
such information as will take her back to
Greycourt as speedily as possible.

Standing upon a mound near her, she
places her hands to her pretty mouth, and,
with a simple eloquence that cannot be too
highly commended, cries ' Hi ! ' to him, at the
top of her fresh young voice.

No answer.

Whether the breeze has played traitor,
or whether the bending figure is of so gross
material as to be deaf to this brilliant appeal,

who can say ? At all events, he never stirs
or lifts himself from his task, whatever it maybe.
Nothing daunted, Griselda returns to the
attack.

Hi ! ' cries she again, with a sharper,
freer intonation. And still nothing comes of
it. The bending figure refuses to straighten
his back, and things remain as before. It
is really too bad. Getting down from her
mound she clambers up on a higher bank,
and once more sends out her voice upon the
world.

Hi, my good man ! ' This does it. As
if compelled to acknowledge this tribute to
his virtues, ' my good man ' uprears himself,
looks vacantly round him  at every point but
the right one first, and at last sees Griselda.
The effect produced is not only instantaneous
but marvellous. Down goes his rod, his cast,
his choicest fly  an admirable orange grouse

and he comes steaming towards her at
about twenty knots an hour.

His eyes, ever since they first Ht upon
Griselda, have seemed to grow to her, and
now, as he draws nearer, she too sees and
recognises him. The knowledge thus gained
so surprises her that she very nearly falls off
her high bank, and then grows very charmingly
rosy, and as charmingly confused. It
is none other than the young man who had
helped to restore the carriage to its legitimate
position.

CHAPTER YI.

In her utmost lightness there is truth  and often she speaks

lightly,
Has a grace in being gay, which even mournful souls approve.

It is really you ? ' cries lie, with unaffected
delight, colouring warmly. He has taken off
his hat, and is speaking with the most extreme
deference, though his eyes are glad and eager,
and his whole air triumphant.

It is you, too,' replies she reflectively,
and as though it is a little unfair to throw all
the personalities at her.

So it is,' says he, smiling gaily. ' You
wanted me? I hope you had not to call
often ? '

Very often,' smiling too, and jumping

VOL. I. F

down off her pedestal. ' I thought I should
never make you hear, and it seemed a long
way to have to go and fetch you. But, do
you know, I didn't know you were  you'

No ? ' rather disappointed. ' "Who then ? '

A tramp.' She laughs a little. ' Wasn't
it stupid of me ? But in the distance I
thought that grey suit of yours,' nodding at
his coat, ' was a dilapidated garment covered
with dust. However, I'm very glad I've met
you, Mr. ' She pauses.

Peyton. Tom Peyton.'

Because I have lost my way, and, when
I saw you, I thought you might be a sort of
person I could ask to set me on my right
way.'

Well, and am I not ? ' asks he gravely,
hat in hand still.

Do you know it ? The road to Grey-court
? I don't.'

/ do. You have only to follow the '

He stops short, somewhat abruptly, as if a
sudden thought had struck him. ' After all,
it is a tedious way, and complicated. I don't
know that I could well describe it. But if
you will permit me to go with you and show
it to '

Oh no. No, indeed. It is giving you
quite too much trouble. And you were
fishing, too,' says she anxiously, wrinkling
her pretty brows. ' I am sure, if you will
be so good as to describe it carefully I shall
be able to find my way alone.'

I'm a wretchedly bad person at description,'
says he apologetically. ' I really think
you had better let '

I couldn't dream of it. Just a word or
two will set me right. You said something
just now about  that is  if I followed something.
What was it ? '

It was the crudest counsel, I assure you.
It would not help an experienced explorer,
and you, I am convinced, could not profit by
it. As for my fishing, it is too bright an
evening to be of any use to Isaac Walton
himself, so I forego nothing when I give up
that.'

 Still ' hesitating.

Let me come,' says he earnestly.

They have turned, and have walked on
together on the homeward path quite thirty
yards or so, when once again her conscience
smites her.

'What will become of your rod, your
flies ? ' she says, stopping short and casting
an anxious glance behind her.

'This is a little unkind, isn't it?' says
Peyton reproachfully. ' If you don't want
me to come, say so, but to '

Oh, it isn't that. It isn't, really declares

she, shaking her pretty head vehemently.
Only I'm afraid that perhaps some one will
see your rod, lying there all by itself, and will
steal it, and '

'And much good may it do him,' says
Tom Peyton laughing. 'I only hope it will
catch more trout for him than ever it caught
for me. I used to think there was a blight
upon that rod until  to-day, I assure you,
Miss Dysart, you need not be unhappy about
that.'

How do you know my name?' asks she,
with a shy glance at him from under her long
lashes.

I asked somebody in the village,' confesses
he honestly, ' and he told me you were
Mr. Dysart's niece. You don't mind that, do
you ? '

'No.' She pauses for a rather long time,
and then lifts her eyes to his. ' I, too, heard

of you,' she says, ' but then I didn't take for
granted everything that was told me.'

What did you hear of me ? '

That you were a young man " down from
Lunnon town, an' as full o' tricks as a egg's
full o' mate," ' replies she demurely, evidently
quoting somebody, and with a glance so ' full
o' tricks ' on her own account that he laughs
in spite of himself.

Am I indebted to Jehu for that character
? ' asks he.

Well guessed,' says she. ' But have you
nothing to say, then ? '

Not until my whole condemnation lies
before me. What else said that venerable
old person ? '

He insinuated that you were " a great
wretch," ' returns she. And then she gives
way to the mirth within her, and laughs
lightly. ' I took your part,' she says. ' I

said you could not be quite all that, or you
would have seen us killed with pleasure, and
then have robbed us.'

Well,' says he, ' I'm not from " Lunnon
town," certainly, and I hope I'm not a greater
wretch than my fellows. As to my " tricks,"
I don't believe I've one.'

If not from London, from where ? '

Eather close to you. My sister lives just
over the border of this county, a matter of
twenty miles or so ; and I spend most of my
time with her. My own home is a rather
poor affair. What I mean is, that it would bea
good affair if I had money to keep it up
properly, but the pater didn't think of that.
Well, bless his soul ! wherever he is, and I'm
sure it's in heaven, he gave me a real good
time while he lived, for which I'm grateful.'

There is a warm look in his eyes that
goes to Griselda's heart.

At least his memory is sweet to you,' she
says. ' That is a great deal ; a very happy
thing, I think.'

But you ' begins he.

Oh no ! ' smiling coldly. ' Memory brings
me nothing save cold looks, cold words, cold
deeds.'

That's over, however,' says he hurriedly.
And now '

'A worse thing has happened to me.*
She laughs involuntarily. ' I'm hardly a
cheerful companion, am I ? ' says she, looking
up at him with lovely eyes, dewy and
sad. ' And why should I torment you with
xny worries You have been so kind, so
good, and I reward you only with a category
of my absurd grievances.'

You reproach me when you say that. /
was the first, I think, to press my personal
history upon you. And  and  after all,' says

the young man, turning to her an earnest
glance, ' you have not yet heard who I am, or
what.'

'You forget,' with a merry Httle laugh,
all that our Methuselah told me.'

That's nonsense,' says he bluntly. ' And
somehow  I want you to know who I am.
I live in Derbyshire, in a ramshackle old
place there, that would take twice my income
to keep it in proper style ; for which reason I
trouble it little. And IVe come down hereto
fish the innocent stream during June and
July, because I can't run to a London season
in the fashion to which my dad, when living,
accustomed me. That's the whole of it,' says
he, looking her fair in the eyes, a little shamefacedly,
but very honestly.

It was a very good thing for my sister
and me that you came fishing,' says she
kindly ; 'or I suppose we should both be

now either dead or dying.' Here she looks
round her. 'Have we very much farther
to go ? '

About a mile.'

I wish it was less,' nervously. ' I am
afraid Vera will be frightened at my long
absence, and  and that my uncle will be
angry.'

'Perhaps he won't hear of it,' says Mr.
Peyton hopefully. Griselda shakes her head.

He looks just like a person who would
hear everything,' she says.

But how ? You don't see much of him,
do you ? '

Enough, however. But how do you
know that ? '

I've heard a good deal about him off and
on. People will talk, you know, and  he's
eccentric, isn't he ? '

If you mean weak in mind, you were

never further out in your life,' says Griselda
mournfully. ' He is all mind, in my opinion.
There isn't a weak spot in him.'

swell, but you know he won't see anybody.
Shuts himself up like a hermit, and
neither visits nor receives. Every one thinks
his brain unsettled ever since his father's
death. He was quite reasonable before that,
but shortly afterwards gave himself terribly
queer airs, and grew melancholy to the verge
of madness. And the funniest part of it all
was that he and his father didn't get on at all
whilst the old chap was living. Fought it
out regularly, like cat and dog. So that the
overwhelming grief at his loss was hardly to
be accounted for.'

I can see a simple solution of that difficulty.'
says she scornfully. ' He had lost his
principal object in life ; he was left with no
one with whom to quarrel, save himself.

And we all know how hard it is for John
Jones to fight with John Jones.'

I say,' says the young man suddenly,
turning upon her a rather apologetic face,
you must think me awfully rude. Here am
I pretending to tell you facts of your own
people, that of course are well known to
yourself.'

On the contrary, all you have said is
news. By-the-by, have you ever been to
Greycourt ? '

No. I've often thought I should like to
go on some Wednesday or other, but haven't
been able to make up my mind yet.'

Some Wednesday ! What Wednesday ?
And why Wednesday ? Griselda is distinctly
puzzled, but hardly likes to ask a question on
the subject. Already she has shown herself
disgracefully ignorant of her family history.

It's a quaint old house,' she says, ' and

might be lovely, I think, if the trees were cutaway

and some sunlight let into it, and a

little furniture. It's empty, positively empty.'

Surely you forget the galleries ? ' says he.

*The picture galleries? There are rows
upon rows of hideous men and women upstairs,
if you mean that, who glare down atone
with simpers and frowns, until one feels
inclined to  well, to hate them. But what of
that ? ' asks she. ' They make me feel uncanny
; and, beyond having learned how to
rush past them when dusk comes on, so as to
escape the cruel fingers that they always
seem to be stretching out to seize me, I have
taken little notice of them.'

You would be but a poor art critic,' says
he laughing. ' Is it indeed possible that you
do not know that those despised pictures
of your ancestors are absolutely priceless ?
Pure Lely and Kneller, Gainsborough and

Reynolds. Why, those galleries at Greycourt,
I've often heard my father say, are about the
finest in England. Your uncle is good enough
to open them to the public every first Wednesday
in the month at the very trifling
charge of half a crown.' He speaks in all
good faith.

What ! ' cries Griselda, flushing so hot a
colour that the tears grow within her eyes.
Oh ! you caTbt mean that.'

That he ' stammers Peyton, wishing

now with all his heart that the unlucky information
had not come through him.

Yes, you know what you said : that he
makes the people 'pay to see his house ! '

Well, why not ? ' says the young man
boldly, preparing with a stout courage to
defend a vile cause. ' It is to improve the
tastes of the multitude that he does it, of
course. And if he chooses to repay himself

for the wear and tear of his carpets, who
shall say he has not common sense on his
side?'

Griselda looks at him askance from under
the long fringes of her lids.

Carpets ? ' says she slowly. ' Your argument
might have something in it, perhaps,
only  there isn't a carpet in the house.'

No ? Just shows how the sightseers
played old  that is, worked havoc with them,'
replies he valiantly. 'And, if there aren't
carpets, there are still the pictures, and one
should pay to enjoy their beauty. I'm thinking,'
with a casual air, ' of going to Greycourt
myself next time the galleries are open to see
these famous pictures.'

Oh, don't, don't ! ' cries she impulsively.
Then she stops short, hardly knowing how to
explain her impetuous outcry. sit isn't to
educate the multitude that he throws open

this inhospitable doors,' she says at last, with
downcast eyes. ' It is because he wants  the

money. He ' she hesitates, and then says

sharply, though her voice is very low, ' is a
miser ! '

Funny how some people are so fond of
money,' says Peyton, speaking lightly, with a
view to showing himself ignorant of her confusion.
' It's the commonest fault known.
And it doesn't do them a bit of good. After
all, I'm glad my father was afflicted with the
opposite complaint ; but I dare say it is no
bad sign of a man to keep together that
which is his own. My father, you see, though
he was as satisfactory a one as ever breathed,
whilst he did breathe, left me considerably
poorer than I imagined I should be when he
died.'

We have something in common there,'
says she, a little sadly. 'My father left us

penniless ; but then he was not satisfactory,
so we gained at no time.'

At this moment the chimneys of Grey-court
shine through the interstices of the trees
on her left, and, with the knowledge that
she has gained her home, comes, too, the
sound of running water, and the thought that
all through her return walk through the leafy
woods that music had rushed as a chorus to
her words.

Ah ! now I know ! ' cries she, stopping
abruptly, and looking full at her companion,
who grows somewhat guilty in appearance.
That noise of running water !  that is the
river that flows beneath Grey court. If I
had only followed it I need not have given
you all this trouble.'

It was no trouble,' says he plainly.

You should have told me,' continues
she. 'Was it that you were going to tell

VOL. I. G

me? Did you know,' regarding him somewhat
austerely, ' that it would take me
home ? '

How was I to know that you could follow
it ? ' asks he lamely.

My eyes are quite strong,' says she, now
regarding him with evident suspicion. ' I do
not see how I could have helped following
it. However,' seeing his crestfallen air, 'you
have been very kind, very. I am very much
obliged to you.' She thinks for a moment,
and then holds out to him her hand. ' Goodbye,'
she says gently.

Oh, not good-bye, I hope,' returns he
anxiously, taking the slim little hand and
holding it as warmly as he dares, perhaps
more closely than he is quite aware. ' I shall
see you again ? '

'Oh no. No, indeed,' softly. 'You must
not think that. Uncle Gregory does not

permit us to know our neighbours ; therefore,
I shall never know you at all.'

That is a hard saying,' restraining by a
strong effort the smile that rises to his lips.
I am afraid your Uncle Gregory is somewhat
of a tyrant. I am glad, however, for your
sake,' gravely, ' that he does not deny you the
pleasure of walking in these beautiful woods.'

'At least he has not forbidden me yet,'
with a doubtful sigh.

Lest in the future he should do so,
take my advice and get from them all the
pleasure you can in the present,' says her
companion, gazing artlessly into her face.
sand now, if it must be  Good-bye.'

He lifts his hat, and Griselda, giving him
a rather solemn little salute, turns away from
him. A second later, however, she finds him
again beside her.

It  there is all the appearance of coming

G 2

rain in the sky,' he says gravely. ' Don't you
think so? I hear we shall have a perfect
storm before long. I thought I'd tell you, so
that you might get as much good out of these
woods as possible before  the deluge. This
week, now, might be line, but I should not
answer for the next ; and, indeed, if you will
permit me to advise you, I should recommend
you to take a walk tomorrow. Who shall
say that rain might not fall the day after ? '
Who indeed ?

It seems the soundest reasoning. So Grim
having shown herself impressed by it,
inclines her head to him once more, and, a
turn in the path hiding him at last from view,
takes to her heels, and hardly draws breath
until, having found the small iron gate that
admits to the garden at its lowest end, she
enters by it, and feels herself at last at home.

CHAPTEE VII.

Severe decrees may keep our tongues in awe,
But to our thoughts what edict can give law ?
Even you yourself to your own breast shall tell
Your crimes, and your own conscience le your hell.

Home, but not yet safe. There are still many
obstacles to be cleared before lie can consider
herself out of reach of her uncle's censure 
supposing he should have heard of her
lengthened absence. Of this she feels there
is small doubt. But if once she found herself
in her own room, she could feign headache,
weariness, anything, as an excuse to avoid
answering his summons to his private apartment
for the lecture he has no doubt in
readiness for her. Hemay not have heard,

however ; it is quite possible that no one
may have mentioned the matter to him, and
her heart grows warm within her as she
dwells upon this hope. She is speedily to be
undeceived.

On the hall door steps, as if lying in wait
for her, stands Mrs. Grunch, the housekeeper.
Seeing the girl, she advances towards hera
curiously unpleasant smile disfiguring her
wide lips.

Dear me, miss, and so you have returned,'
says she. ' Dear ! but master will be main
glad to hear of it. He was that upset by
your absence that we aren't so much as
approach him.' Griselda's blood grows cold.
But now he'll be sure to tell you himself
how glad he is to see you back safe and
sound. Might I ask, miss  he'll be wanting
to know  where you were, and what kept
you ? '

Certainly,' says Griselda coldly. ' I went
for a walk in those lovely woods, lost my
way, found a considerable difficulty in finding
it again, and  here I am. I am afraid
you will not be able to make much of a
mystery out of that.' She smiled contemptuously.


The woman's small eyes grow vicious.

'Deed, miss, 'twas well you did find it,'
she says slowly ; ' and that you didn't lose
yourself for good and all.'

Then finding that this shaft is lost on the
unconscious Griselda, who only looks puzzled,
she goes on : ' And so you only went for a
walk in the pretty woods? Master will be
glad to know that. And  he's very troublesome
about asking questions, miss  may I tell
him you were alone ? '

Griselda turns her eyes full upon her. So
haughty a fire burns in them that Mrs

Gruncli's gaze grows confused, and finally
seeks the ground.

You forget yourself,' says Griselda in a
perfectly calm tone. She moves away a step
or two, and then : ' Bring me a cup of tea
to my room without delay,' she says ; the
command, her whole air, bringing the woman
to her proper level at once.

Going swiftly up the broad stone staircase,
she almost runs into Yera's arms, who,
having heard voices below, had rushed impetuously
along the corridor to see if at
last news of Griselda had arrived, and
instead  happy exchange !  here is Griselda
herself.

Oh ! darling, such a fright as you have
given me '  she has thrown her arms round
Griselda, and is holding her as though years
have flown since last they met. ' Where were
you ? But come into our room ; you must be

famished. You were talking to Grunch just
now, were you not ? What of ? '

A mere skirmish of wits, unworthy a
second thought. She wished to be insolent
to me, so I knocked her down.'

What ! ' says Vera, very naturally
startled.

'Metaphorically speaking, of course. I
rather fancy I reduced her to powder. Oh,
Vera ! such a day as it has been  a regular
adventure. First I lost my way, and then
some one came to my rescue, and who do you
think the some one was ? '

The man who saved the carriage from
being upset,' says Vera, with a touch of
excitement.

'Pouf! You're a witch. It isn't a bit of
good having anything nice to tell you  you
can guess it at once,' says Griselda, very
properly disgusted. 'Yes, it was his own

dear self again ! I can tell you, I welcomed
him. And he told me his name, and a great
deal about himself; and he has a sister,
married, living in the next county, and he
said he hoped he should meet me again, but
I told him that was out of the question, as
Uncle Gregory would not hear of our knowing
any one, and so I bid him an eternal
adieu.'

What a pity ! ' says Yera sighing. ' He
seemed quite nice, and it is a dreadful thought
that we are never to associate with our neighbours.'


Oh, Vera ! He told me such an extraordinary,
such a mean thing of Uncle Gregory !
I was never so surprised in my life.'

I don't think anything of that sort about
him would surprise me,' says Yera mildly.
However, not a word more until you have
eaten something. Just think of how many

hours you have been fasting, and now I'm
afraid all you can get is bread and butter.'

By-tlie-by, did you eat my chop ? ' asks
Griselda. ' I hope so. It was my last request.
I hope you did not shirk it.'

I couldn't eat it. Nor my own either.
I was too miserable about you,' says Vera.
However, I'll ring now for some bread and
butter.'

Order a loaf when you're about it,' says
Griselda. ' I'm starving.'

It is some time, however, before that bell
is answered. Mrs. Grunch, as Griselda left
her, turned aside, and with darkened brow
made for the library, Mr. Dysart's usual
abiding-place. Not finding him here, she
hurries onward down the hall, until she comes
to a heavy curtain, once handsome, now
moth-eaten and dingy, and, pushing it aside,

reveals a long flagged passage. So light, so
careful are her footfalls, however, that scarcely
a sound betrays her approach to a high,
narrow door at the extreme end.

Stooping as she comes to it, she peers
through the keyhole, and finding it empty,
tries, with a cautious, quiet grasp, the handle
of the door, to find the latter locked. Still
very cautiously, she slips her hand into her
pocket, draws out a key, well-oiled, and inserting
it in the keyhole, softly opens the door.

A grim smile, that might almost be termed
amused, overspreads lier face as she looks
towards the farther end of the room. Thereon
his knees beside a cabinet, kneels Mr.
Dysart. A very ordinary cabinet, to all outward
seeming, of oak and stoutly built, with
nothing to distinguish it from the common
herd of oaken cabinets, save one rather remarkable
feature.

The right side, that to the uninitiated is
merely a dull piece of wood, darkened by age,
is so constructed, that by pressure on a certain
part of it, a spring is brought into motion,
by which the whole apparently solid, immovable
side of the cabinet opens wide from top
to bottom, disclosing an extremely narrow set
of shelves within, from an inch to an inch and
a half in depth.

It is open now, and Mr. Dysart, in his
worn and shabby old coat, is kneeling before
the secret opening, gloating openly upon its
contents. Piles upon piles of yellow sovereigns
are so built one on the top of the other
that they reach from one narrow resting place
to the other above, and so on. Dull, heavy
gold that scarcely glitters, save in the eyes of
the wretched miser bending over them.

Yet it is not so much on the money as on
a paper he holds in his hand that his attention

is concentrated. He is so bent on the perusal
of it, that he hears neither the turn of the key
in the lock nor the woman's entrance. And
now, as a malicious chuckle breaks from her,
it so startles him that he springs to his feet as
if shot, and a sharp, horrid cry, that is almost
a shriek, escapes him. His face has grown
deadly white, great drops of sweat stand out
upon his brow. The fiery eyes, the only
things that seem living in that ghastly face,
glare wildly at her, as instinctively he spreads
out his lean old hands over his gold, as if to
shield that secret hoard from sight.

'Comforting yourself with a look at it,'
says she with a malignant leer. As she
speaks she points not at the gold, but at the
paper he has tightly clutched in his hand.

How did you come here, woman ? ' demands
he in a shrill tone. He is trembling,
and with nervous fingers presses the paper

into the secret recess in the cabinet, and shuts
to the oaken woodwork.

Why, through the door,' retorts she sullenly.
' How else ? You should remember
to lock it when engaged on work like this.'

I could have sworn I locked it,' says he,
still shaking. ' See ! here is the key in my
pocket. I tell you,' with increasing agitation,
I did lock it. Are you a fiend that you can
follow me through bolted doors ? '

You're getting old, Dysart,' says she with
a cold sneer ; ' your memory is failing you of
late. It will go ill with you if you forget too
often to fasten this door behind you.'

I did fasten it,' persists he fiercely.

Hush ! Don't give way to foolish fancies.
And after all, why need my coming fluster
you ? Surely,' with a mocking air, ' your
occupation was an innocent one ; you were
but refreshing yourself with a glimpse of '

Be silent, woman ! Are you mad ? ' cries
he, lifting his arms like one in mortal fear.
A short laugh breaks from her.

You're but a poor sort after all,' she says
contemptuously. ' Too poor for faith or trust
of any sort. What ! can you not even believe
in me, who have served you and yours long
and faithful for forty year ? Is it likely I'd
betray you now for Ms children ? '

'Ay, he served you falsely once,' says
Gregory Dysart ; a savour of pleasure in his
tone, in the words he uses to fan a hatred
that has never yet grown cold in all these
weary years.

He took my best  my life, my soul  the
heart of everything,' says she, slowly beating
one withered hand upon the other. ' Though
years have rolled by, I have not forgotten ; I
shall not forget at all. When first I saw them,
I felt as though if power were given me I

could have blasted as they stood those insolent
hussies upstairs.'

Something out of the goodly past, some
vague touch of decency belonging to the days
when he was young and happy, and when
honour was still a word to which he clung
with all his might, renders this coarse epithet,
as applied to the pretty orphans committed to
his care, insupportable.

'You hardly remember perhaps that you
are speaking of my nieces,' he says, with an
angry frown. But the woman waves his
rebuke aside with an impertinence that cows
him.

Hoity toity ! None of your airs with me,'
says she sternly. She advances a step nearer
to him.

Remember, Dysart, that I can either make
or mar you. I, and I only.'

'I would I where sure of that,' says he

VOL. I. H

moodily. ' But Have you forgotten Sedley

? He knew.'

Pish ! He's dead ; let him rest. What
a one you are to dorrit ! Twenty years and
more, and no sign of him, and I ask you was
he the one to remain quiet, if he saw a way
sto forcing a sovereign out of you ? '

True, true,' says Dysart, eagerly catching
at this suggestion. ' And yet I would drive
much to know that he was in the grave.'

Ay, and I in mine ! I know you,' says
she with an evil look. 'You fear me.'

I fear nothing,' says he coldly.

What,' says she slowly, regarding him
closely ; ' not even that your son should
know ! '

She pauses, pleased with her work. All
at once, as it were, on hearing this question,
the old man quails before her like a beaten
hound. The life goes out of him, he seems to

shrink into himself, and puts out his hands as
though to ward off some fatal blow.

Not that. Anything but that,' he mutters
feebly.

"Well, don't drive me to it,' says she
sulkily.

Barbara, take care I ' cries he sharply,
suddenly, as though some fresh spring of life
has been forced into his arid veins. ' Remember,
it was for him I did it. After all my
love, my care, my secrecy, to have it now
laid bare to him ! I tell you '  his fingers
working convulsively  ' rather than that he
should know, it seems to me that it would bea
sweet and simple tiling to murder him who
would betray me.'

'I'm not going to betray you,' says she.
And as for saying 'twas for him you did it,
why '

For him. For his sake only.'

n 2

Partly, I think,' says she dryly.

Entirely ; altogether. What other creature
had I to love me  to love ? His mother,
as you know, hated me ; and when she died
I was glad,' says he, crushing his lingers
together.

Yet the deed was scarcely necessary
if done for him,' says Grunch, holding her
ground. ' That old aunt of his  the mother's
sister  put want out of the question for him.'

I knew nothing of her desire to make him
her heir  then.'

'You know it now, anyway,' says she,
with a nasty sneer. ' And it is never too late
to mend  to find by accident that paper you
have just locked up.'

I have thought of it,' says he, with
lowered brow and eyes bent upon the ground,
dreamed of it ; and all my dreaming has
but convinced me that things had better stay

as they now are. Into what better hands
could they have fallen? Who would have
husbanded it all like me ? You know the care,
the trouble, the sleepless days and nights I
have devoted to the management of  of it.
You know whether it has ever been a joy
to me  rather a grief, a wearying of the
flesh, a curse ! ' The word comes from between
his lips with a little hissing sound.
But it is all for him, for him,' he says ina
dying tone.

With restless, feeble steps he begins to
pace the room.

He believes in me. He trusts me : he
alone  now! But if ever he were to learn
the truth he would spurn me from him, yea,
even though I knelt at his feet for pardon!
I know him. But he shall never be told
that story ; never, never. It is mine now,
and yours, and ours it shall remain. I swear

to you'  he turns and fixes his burning eyes
on hers  ' I'd strangle you with these hands,'
holding them out before her, trembling with
passion, yet strong and lithe, ' before the
words could pass your lips.'

I'm not going to play traitor, I've told
you that,' says she frowning. ' I've had many
a chance before this if I washed to do it ; and
I'm not going to help this children, whatever
happens.' Her brow grows black and her
eyes lighten. ' May curses follow him wherever
he be, even through the gates of death ! '

Amen,' says Dysart carelessly. Then ina
different tone, ' Seaton is coming home tomorrow.'


Well ? ' says she, as if expecting more.
'Isn't often he blesses you with a sight of
him. What brings him this time o' year?
The season, as he calls it, is in full swing
now, eh ? '

He comes at my behest ; why not ? '
demands the old man with an angry glance.
'And as to his coming seldom, he comes as
often as I wish. But now '

Now ? You have a design,' says she,
fixing her sharp eyes on him with a searching
regard.

True ; and I think well of mentioning it
to you,' says Dysart slowly. ' After long and
careful thought I have decided on abandoning
more ambitious schemes and wedding him to
my elder niece, Vera.'

I'm glad you've spared him the vixen,'
says Mrs. Grunch, with feeling. ' Well, and
what's your object, eh ? Retribution ? '

For a moment his fiery eyes seek hers,
and then his passion blazes forth.

Leave the room, woman.'

Not I,' says she undaunted. Nay, she
moves closer to him, until her gaunt face is

very near to his. ' I tell you this, Dysart,
that you play a mad game when you fight
with me. I warn you that as long as I am
above ground you had better keep a civil
tongue in your head for me ; and my life is
as good as yours, any day.' Then with a
sudden change of tone, ' That girl has come
home.'

Griselda ? Where was she then ? ' asks
he, but listlessly, and as one without interest,
his mind still running on the thrice cursed and
the miserably fruitful past.

Walking in the woods below.'

Yes ; but what doing ? ' asks he again,
always with the air of one who scarcely knows
his own question.

Gallivanting,' replies the housekeeper,
with all the proper amount of vulgarity
belonging to her class.

CHAPTEE VIII.

Nature and the common laws of sense,
Forbid to reconcile antipathies.

When Vera is summoned to her uncle's
presence next morning, Griselda's pretty face
grows rather long.

He is going to scold you,' she says, ' for
mj fault. Oh ! that is too bad.'

Never mind ; as he has sent for me, of
course I had better go. And I shall not feel
any great distress, so do not be fretting about
it. I see no fault, and therefore, why should
I be unnerved P '

Yet for all that her nerves grow very
troublesome, and her heart beats quickly

as lie opens the door of the Kbrary and
crosses the threshold.

There, don't come any farther,' says Mr.
Dysart, putting on a martyred expression ;
your footstep positively shakes the room,
and, as you know, even the lightest sound
distracts me. Stay where you are ; I daresay
I can make you understand even over
there, in spite of the weakness of my chest.
I merely wish to say that your cousin, my
son, arrives this evening. You will dine at
eight o'clock, with him.'

He waves to her to leave the room, and
with an undisguised delight she obeys him ;
flying through the hall and up the stairs, she
darts into her own room with such speed as
to almost exterminate Griselda, who had been
standing just inside the door, on the look out,
evidently, for stormy sounds from below.

Well ! so you're alive ; he didn't murder

you,' she says, when she has slightly recovered
from the electric shock caused by Vera's
precipitate return. ' Sound in wind and hmb,
I declare, and not so much as your nose out
of joint. You're a wonderful girl ! Here, sit
down and tell me how you bought yourself
off.'

He never mentioned you,' says Vera, who
is still panting.

What ! was ever such an indignity offered
to any one ? You mean to say he has passed
over my misdemeanour ! Actually forgotten
it ! Why, this is worse than bread and water
for a fortnight (the mildest sentence I expected),
and far more hurtful to my pride.
And pray, if he didn't discuss my failings,
what did he talk about? '

About  Griselda ! Who do you think
is coming this evening ? '

Not the lord high executioner, for me, I

trust,' says Griselda. ' As yet, somehow, in
spite of your assurance, I don't feel safe.
There is nothing so dangerous as a careful
silence.'

Tut ! the newcomer is no one less than
our unknown cousin ! '

 ' No ! ' says Griselda, sinking into silence
and an extremely antiquated arm-chair  straw
beneath, chintz above  that stands just behind
her. Except the unpleasant ' Yes ? ' with
the insolent note of interrogation after it,
there is no word so eloquent as the pure
unadulterated ' No ' of honest surprise. She
sits now in her straw arm-chair, with her fingertips
outspread and touching each other.

'But he is, though. And dinner is to beat
eight o'clock instead of two.'

You overwhelm me,' says the younger
Miss Dysart feebly. ' You should not spring
these exciting facts upon me, one after the

other, without a kindly word of warning.
Dinner at eight ! Will there be three chops,
I wonder, or must we share with him our
two? Oh, if the latter, I feel that life is
indeed not worth living. But I say. Vera !
Eight. How nice ! Just like old times.'

The question is, are we supposed to dress
or not ? '

Do you think you remember how to doit
? ' asks Griselda, leaning towards her, and
speaking in an awed whisper. 'Hasn't the
atmosphere of this house knocked all decent
memories out of you? Gowns there are, I
know. Poor Mimi packed them, soaking
each flounce with her tears as she did so, but
do you know how to wear them ? I dare say
I shall put mine on back to front ; but even so,
what matters ? I have lost all desire to please.
Who could retain it in this soulless house 
this place of shadows? And yet, Yera,' she

springs suddenly into a fuller life, and brings
herself into a very upright position, 'I have
always said that he must turn up sooner
or later. Why not now? In some of my
few lucid intervals it has occurred to me that
this cousin, this unknown quantity of ours,
might prove amenable to reason.'

Who's ? Yours .? '

Or yours rather. Think, Vera ! they say
that his father, that grim old man downstairs,
who seems dead to all feeling, is so devoted to
Iii that he can deny him little. This son, it
appears, is the one love of that miserable,
sordid life. Strange that love so intense as I
hear it is should not have the effect of softening
the iron husk that binds that poor man's
soul. However, it seems to me that this
cousin of ours may prove our friend, our
champion, if we  well  if we like each other,
don't you know . '

I don't,' says Vera, in a rather uncompromising
tone. 'Seaton Dysart will never
be friend or champion of mine. Have you
forgotten his blood ? I should not dream of
asking a favour of, or even receiving one from
  his father's son.'

He must have had a mother, too, however,'
says Griselda naively. 'He may take
after her.'

He may. I am not hopeful, like you,
Griselda. My life all through  ever since I
can remember anything  has taught me to
expect only the bad.'

A dull way of thinking ! Now, to me, his
coming opens out vistas of  all things that
are pleasurable. He may vary the inevitable
chop  he may even be the means of procuring
for us a private sitting-room.'

Vera shrugs her shoulders.
T shan't entreat his interference. As I

before hinted to you, I expect nothing from
him, simply because he is the son of such an
impossible father.'

Had ice not an impossible father ? ' asks
Griselda, who is always terribly downright.
And would you refuse to believe that there
is some lingering remnant of grace in us?
And are you not prejudging this miserable
cousin of ours  deliberately prejudicing yourself
against him ? That is not like you. Vera,
you are always so very just, to give you jour
due.'

'Well, I dare say I'm in the wrong,'
confesses Vera laughing. ' But as we have
neither of us seen him yet, I stick to my
own opinion, and that is, that dien we do see
him we shan't like him. And at all events I
know I should think a long time before
demanding a favour of him.'

Think as long as you like,' gaily, ' only

ask in the end. " A dumb priest," as we all
know, " loses his benefice." Don't lose
yours ! '

I shall,' says Vera, ' for all that. Why
should I ask anything of him, or his father ?
You have given me one proverb, let me
give you another, "Beggars should not be
choosers." We are beggars. We are totally
dependent upon our uncle's bounty. Forgive
me, darling, if I sadden you, but it is better
to look the facts of the case straight in the
face.'

You don't sadden, you madden me,' says
Griselda flushing. ' Oh, I woji't be a beggar ! '

'Very probably not. This life can't goon
always, and you are quite sufficiently
pretty to marry somebody rich enough to
give you everything a pretty woman should
have.'

Thank you for the two " pretty " in that

VOL. I. I

pretty speech,' says Griselda. 'Yes, I should
like to marry a millionaire. I will if I can,

I '

She stops short, rather abruptly. Something
has checked those last words she would
have uttered. It is absurd, it makes her positively
angry, but it is, nevertheless, a curious
fact that at this moment the face of Mr.
Peyton rises before her mental vision. This
is ridiculous enough, but when it comes to
hearing the very words he had said yesterday
in that charming wood spoken again within
her brain, she grows very naturally incensed
both With herself and him. What is it to
her what so utter a stranger looks like on
certain, or any occasions? And surely it is of
no consequence at all to her that that old
place of his in Derbyshire, that he had cried
down and called ' ramshackle 'what a word !),
was in such thorough disrepair, for the simple

reason that lie had no money with which to
keep it up. It is the most extraordinary
thing in the world that just at this instant all
this should have occurred to her, but then
who shall answer for the absurdities of the
human brain ?

Yes, if I get the chance, I shall marry for
money,' she says lightly, after that incomprehensible
pause. ' And now for our gowns.
Vera. Let us choose the prettiest. I, for
one, mean to fascinate this cousin, and compel
him to work many miracles for our benefit.'

'So you may: unless he is steel, indeed.
I shall not waste my strength on him.'

Why, if you had seen him, and loathed
him already, you could not be more severe.
Do you know really, I think you are rather
wrong in so condemning any one without
personal knowledge. It is one's plain duty to
give the wretched criminal, at least, a hearing.

For my part,' says Vera laughing, ' I'm
quite willing to give him anything, except my
company. I'm dreadfully sorry he is coming
here to upset the calm, dull though it is, into
which we have fallen.'

And I'm delighted,' gaily. ' No calms forme
 a tempest rather. And I still cling to
my first view. Vera ; you are inclined to be
unjust to an utter stranger. You are determined
that he will be like his father ; but

supposing See, here, now ! If he should

be like Uncle Gregory, I shall say you have
probably right on your side ; but if he should
not be, won't you confess then that it is your
plain duty to try to like him ? '

So be it. In that case I'll try,' says Vera
laughing. ' But you must keep to your compact
; if he should be like his father I am to
feel free to hate him just as much as ever
I will.'

Amen says Griselda solemnly. ' If he
should resemble his unlovely dad, no more of
him for me either. However, I always live in
hope ; that great universal humbug sustains
me morning, noon, and night.' Then she
looks at Vera slowly, as if considering something.
' I should like to go for a walk in the
woods again tomorrow,' she says at last.

'Oh, I think you had better not,' says
Vera hastily. ' It will be sure to breed disturbance
of some sort.'

I don't see how it can. Of course I shall
go in a directly opposite way tomorrow, and
therefore will be sure not to meet anybody.
I know you are thinking of Mr. Peyton, Vera ;
but I assure you I don't want to see him. I
don't indeed,' rising in her eagerness to impress
this truth  that seems to her a truth 
upon her sister.

Who can say where he might be ? '

Oil, nonsense I ' She thinks a Httle, and
then, 'If I am to be debarred those lovely
woods because of hin, I shall begin to hate
him.' She thinks a little more. ' But listen
now. Vera ; even supposing I do meet him,
well, what then ? He is a mere acquaintance,
hardly a friend, and it is so hard to be told
that one must speak to nobody ; and he has
been twice so kind, that '

Oh, all that is nothing. It is the fact that
he would be a friend in secret.'

Well, whose fault is that ? '

 And friends don't always (don't be angry,
Grizel), but they don't always stop at that.'

'I know what you would say; but it is
too absurd,' cries Griselda, bubbling over with
laughter. ' Look out, or in your old age you'll
find yourself a confirmed match-maker. No ;
it shall not come to that. I assure you all the
world is not so ready to bow down and do me

homage as you believe. And I promise you
this (always provided we ever meet again,
which I consider extremely doubtful), that
the very first word of love he breathes to me
I'll retail to you on the earliest opportunity.'
She is now *laughing with all her heart.
There ! ' she cries, ' will that content you ?
Oh, Vera, if he could only hear us ; I should
be ashamed, shouldn't you ? '

Well, it's a promise,' says Vera, looking
at her.

CHAPTEE IX.

Was it something said,
Something done,

Vexed her ? Was it touch of hand,
Turn of head ?

The last stroke of eight dies out from the old
clock in the hall as Seaton Dysart enters the
drawing-room. The extreme dinginess and
gloom of that melancholy apartment sink into
him as he moves rather discontentedly, but
with a man's unfailing instinct, towards the
hearth rug. No matter how hot, how yellow
the evening outside still may be  and daylight
is lingering bravely as though loathing
to depart  no touch of its mellowness enters
here. The blinds are all down, the curtains
as scrupulously drawn as decency will permit,

though the threadbare old carpet is so far
gone on its road to dissolution as to be beyond
fear of sun.

It is not all gloom, however, as he presently
discovers, in this dreary place. Someone
rises languidly from a low chair  a girl,
a lovely girl, as he instantly admits  and
advances about the eighth part of an ordinary
foot towards him. It is hardly a movement,
indeed ; a mere swaying of the body rather
in his direction. It is, indeed, a distinctly unfriendly
advance.

Yet it suits her somehow ; it seems to
belong to the haughty curve of the lips, the
cold serenity of the eyes. The white of her
gown, with its little knots of violet ribbon here
and there, makes her a very striking figure in
the semi-darkness of her surroundings, and
throws out the beauty that, if a little still,
is, nevertheless, undoubtedly hers. He is

perhaps hardly aware of the intensity of the
glance with which he is regarding her, and
she too is dead to it, so earnest is the scrutiny
she is bestowing upon him.

Yes, he is like his father. There could
not be even a momentary hesitation about
that. The same finely formed, aristocratic
features, the same tall slight figure bent
in the old man, erect and vigorous in the
young. The eyes certainly are different,
though they too are dark, of a grey so dark
indeed that possibly at night it would be
called black.

They are wonderfully alike, the father and
son, and yet how wonderfully unlike. It seems
impossible that with expressions so utterly
at variance so strong a resemblance can exist,
yet it is there. The one, the old face, mean,
cringing, suspicious, wicked ; the other, cold,
honourable, earnest, and beautiful. The girl.

watching him with distrust in her eyes, reluctantly
acknowledges this last fact.

His face is clean shaven. There is neither
moustache nor whisker to hide the firm, rather
severely cut mouth or the lean determined
jaw. His hair is clipped very closely to a
head that is faultlessly shaped and well set
upon his shoulders. His features are undoubtedly
cold, too full of will, of resolve,
to be exactly lovable, yet there is something
about the whole man that attracts the eye and
compels attention. A man impossible to passover,
or, having once known, to forget.

I'm extremely sorry if I've kept you
waiting for dinner,' he says, advancing at a
quicker pace, once he sees the pretty girl in
white, and holding out his hand. 'But the
fact is I was dreadfully tired when I arrived,
and I'm rather afraid I fell asleep.'

The day is warm,' says she coldly. The

likeness to his father seems clearer to her ashe
speaks, and kills for her all the charm of
his face.

Very, but I don't fancy my absurd fit of
laziness arose from that. Eather from the
fact that I haven't had a wink of sleep for the
last two nights.' Here he picks up a little
rough terrier that had followed him into the
room, and begins to pull its ears contemplatively.


Two nights ! ' says she with a faint accession
of interest. ' Toothache ? Sick friend ? '

Oh no. Ball  cards,' returns he concisely.


Ah ! ' says she, this time rather shortly.

Dysart, who has been giving his attention
to the dog for the past minute or two, now
lifts his eyes.

You are Griselda, I suppose,' says he
pleasantly.

Why should you suppose it ? ' asks she,
with a faint smile.

True. Why should I ? ' returns he
laughing. 'Perhaps because,' with a steady
look at her, ' I have been told that my cousin
Griselda is a person possessed of a considerable
amount of  of character.'

By that, you mean that you have heard
Griselda is self-willed,' says she calmly. 'And
as it is evident you think I look the part also,
I am afraid you must prepare yourself to
meet two self-willed cousins, because  I am
not Griselda.'

If she had fancied that this announcement
would have put him out, she is undeceived
in a moment.

No ? ' says he, looking distinctly amused.
There is comfort in the thought that I cannot
again fall into error, because you must be
Vera.'

Yes, I am Yera,' slowly.

'I fear you will find it very dull down
here. The neighbourhood at its best is
scarcely affording, and my father's unhappy
predilection for solitude will, I expect, interfere

a good deal with '

 ' Your father has been very good to us ;
more than kind,' interrupts she gently but
with decision. ' He has given us a home'"

I should think he would be very glad to
get you here,' says he rising abruptly, as if to
shake off something depressing in the conversation.
At this moment Griselda enters the
room. A charming Griselda, in white like
her sister, and with a flower in her sunny hair.
She trips up to Seaton, and gives him her
hand and a frank smile, that has just the
correct amount of coquettish shyness in it. A
man, to Griselda, no matter out of what obnoxious
tribe he may have sprung, is always

a creature to be gently treated, smiled upon,
and encouraged.

So you've come at last to this Castle of
Despair,' says lie saucily. ' I must say you
took time to look us up. But I don't blame
you ; life down here is too lively for most. It
has quite done up Yera and me. I'm late,'
turning suddenly to Vera. ' Dreadfully late,
eh ? I knew it by Peters' eye ' (the old
man-servant). 'He scowled at me rather
more than usual as I ran past him just
now.'

Tie dismal sound of a cracked old dinner
gong breaks in at this instant on Griselda's
speech. They all rise and cross the hall to
the dining-room, but just inside it a momentary
hesitation takes place. Dysart going to
the foot of the table, Vera stops short as if in
some surprise to look at him, question in her
eyes.

You will take the head of the table, I
hope,' says he in a low tone, divining her
perplexity.

But ' quickly, and then a pause.

If you wish it, of course,' she says with a
swift uplifting of the brows and an almost
imperceptible shrug.

Her manner somehow irritates him. In a
vague sort of way she has conveyed to him
the knowledge that she feels bound and
fettered in this house, crushed by a sense of
gratitude due ; that she feels it incumbent on
lier to be civil to the owners of it ; and that
she never ceases to remind herself that his
father and he are people to whom she is under
deep obligations.

I wish it certainly,' says he coldly.
But I wish still more to see 30 u do only
that which you like.'

I have few likes and dislikes,' replies she,

smiling indifferently at anything in the world
but him.

But if you '

Oh no, I do not object,' interrupts she,
still in that utterly emotionless tone ; and
sweeping past him, she seats herself at the
head of the table. She had been sole mistress
of her father's house for so long, that it seems
quite natural to her, young as she is, to sit
where now she is sitting, and look down the
long, brilliantly lit table, to where at the end
her cousin, with a faint frown upon his brow,
is leisurely unfolding his napkin. There is
even a slight savour of the married woman
about her whole air, that makes itself known
to Dysart, and attracts him in spite of the
sense of resentment that is still strong upon
him.

As for Griselda, the little jar in the social
atmosphere around her goes by unnoticed, so

VOL. I. K

overcome is she by the unwonted magnificence
of the sight before her ; a decent dinner-table
at Greycourt ! Not only a decent one,
indeed, but one exquisitely appointed in every
way, lacking nothing in which taste and refinement
have a voice. Where are the homely
chops, where the skimpy dish of potatoes?
Gone, thank Heaven ! relegated to a limbo
from whence she devoutly trusts they never
may return ! The little skirmish between her
sister and her cousin is entirely lost to her ;
she has eyes and senses only for this wonderful
transformation scene.

Peters, in an extremely presentable suit 
it has seen service, but is still holding bravely
together, and is likely to for some years yet
to come, occasions for its being worn coming
few and far between  is handing entrees and
pouring out champagne as though it is his
one sole purpose in life to deliver from starvation

his master's guests. It occurs to
Griselda that m this suit  old, thoucfli new
to her  that he is any amount more 
than in his everyday apparel,
and that even the superfluous wart on the top
of his nose seems to have toned down miraculously
beneath its influence. She is of course
not aware that downstairs this suit is called
Mr. Seaton's own,' and that it is donned only
for his benefit. But who is the cook?
Reason points to Mrs. Grunch.

A thought of the hypocrisy of it all, of the
pretence of one day, the reality of the next,
of the honour done to him, the son, whilst
she and Vera are treated with such abominable
neglect, brings the colour to her cheeks,
the fire to her eyes. It is so new to her yet
to be dependent, that she forgets, as Vera
never does, to see that she has no claim to be
considered in any way. And yet, if Vera

K 2

remembers, does the knowledge gained serve
her even in little ? Instinctively she glances
at her elder sister, and something in the
expression of the proud lips tells her that
to Vera too this display, this killing of the
fatted calf for Seaton, has hurt and humbled
her.

Dysart, who is eating his dinner with decided
zest and perfect unconcern, suggests
himself to Griselda as the very incarnation of
selfishness. Of course he knows ; but it is
nothing to him. She looks round her and
loses herself a little in the touch of fairyland
the room presents. It is as it were an echo
from the past, a glimpse into the old life
when her father still lived, that she hardly
knew was dear to her until she had lost it.
The glitter of the silver, the glass, the intense
perfume of the glowing flowers, the rich tint
of the fruits, all seem part of a dream ; a

sweet one too. Oh, to escape from this hateful
life here, and hive always amongst

'As I was saying to your sister, I am
afraid you will find life here rather dull,'
says Dysart, his voice breaking through the
cloud of thought that is encompassing her.

I am never dull,' returns Griselda slowly.

'You may rank yourself amongst the
clever ones of the earth if you escape boredom
down here,' says he. ' Your mind must
to you, indeed, " a kingdom be," if you can
make out even one lawless day.'

'As for that, I've often yawned when I
wasn't dull,' says Griselda. ' To me yawning
is a joy. It's like sneezing to some people.
I'm always sure that I'm thoroughly warm
and comfortable when I do it.'

Mr. Dysart, as though he sees something
in this, stares at her profoundly for a moment
or two. In reality, he is wondering why both

girls should have taken so instantaneous a
dislike to him. As a rule women were civil
enough ; yet here were two to whom he was
an utter stranger, and aggressive was the only-word
he could apply to their looks and words,
though both were studiously polite.

 ' Like a cat,' says he presently, in a
thoughtful tone.

Oh, I'm not a cat,' says Griselda, with
some open resentment this time. Then, as
though irresistibly amused at the absurd idea
that he could possibly have meant it, she
bursts into sudden inextinguishable laughter.
When Griselda laughs it is impossible not to
join in, so bright, so young, so gay is the
sound, and presently Dysart, forgetting that
feeling of irritation that has been so strong in
him for the past hour, gives way to mirth
also. Glancing at Vera, he sees, however,
that she seems dead to what has been passing.

or at all events has not caught the infectious
breath of amusement. Her mouth looks
mournful, her whole air unsympathetic.

I like cats,' she says, so languidly that
one can see at once that she is merely trying
to make conversation  that she really cares is
a question.

And I like dogs,' says he, addressing her
directly. ' Come here. Jinks.'

The small terrier, springing up from some
place unknown, commences an ecstatic dance
upon his hind legs, that presently brings him
within his master's grasp, who, catching him
by the back of his neck, hauls him up to a
seat upon his knees.

'He's very well mannered, I assure you,'
says Dysart, looking at Vera.

You teach him tricks?' says she, a touch
of disdain in her tone. ' Don't you think that
rather degrades the poor brute ? Surely we

human beings ape and pretend, and act the
hypocrite enough, without condemning poor
dumb beasts to do the same. Do you know
I can't bear to see them dancing and jumping
to order. I prefer them as nature meant
they should be, happy, affectionate, faithful
I. am sorry you teach him tricks; it makes a
dog, to my mind, always looks so poor.'

'Yes?' says he, rubbing the dog's nose
reflectively as he speaks. ' But you see  the
fact is  I've never taught him or any other
dog a trick in my life.'

He has scored decidedly, and something
in his manner of scorinc has brought to a
head the fancy that she should in all probability
hate him. That she should have
been foolishly led into lecturing him on a
fault of which he was after all not guilty,
annoys her profoundly, and sends for a moment
the hot blood to her face. It dies

almost as quickly as it is born, but not so
quickly that he does not see it, and as he
bends his head afterwards over the dog, it
becomes clear to her that he is with difficulty
suppressing a smile.

Bo you stay long ? ' asks Griselda presently,
looking at her cousin.

'I don't know how you may view it. I
return to town the day after tomorrow 
very early on that day.'

I call that a short stay,' with a more
gracious glance ; he seems nice to the dog,
anyway. ' Do you often come down ? '

Not very. As a rule,' politely, ' there is
little to bring me.'

There is your father,' says Griselda, who
as a child had been terrible, and even now
creates a shudder now and then. Vera casts
an indignant glance at her.

So there is,' says Dysart, giving her the

benefit of a long clear glance. ' But though
he and I are better friends than many fathers
and sons I know, still we can get on capitally
when apart. My father, as you know, is peculiar,
and loves solitude, and I  have my work.'

Work ? What work ? ' asks Griselda,
with interest.

I'm a barrister,' says he, as if a little
amused.

Oh, I know. A great many elder sons
are barristers, but then they don't work. If
that is all, I '

But I assure you it is not all. You must
not pick up these erroneous ideas about me.
Whether I must or must not work for my
living is a thing that does not concern me. I
work  you will hardly believe it in this prosaic
age  but I actually seek after fame. I
should like to get on in my profession ; to be
more than a mere trifler.'

You are charming,' sa3s Griselda saucily.
You talk like a book  a blue-book. But
you have not told me why your father will
not let us see any one, why '

Griselda ! ' says Miss Dysart, a little
sharply. She rises as she speaks, and Dysart
opens the door for her. As Griselda passes
him he says easily :

I cannot tell you everything at once,
you see ; but I dare say there will be time
given me. As for my father he is eccentric,
and, I fear, hard to live with. But if ever I
can help you, call on me.'

Griselda gives him a smile for this, and
follows her sister into the drawing-room.

After all, he isn't half bad,' she says,
with a little nod.

I was right, however. Did you ever see
a father and son so like ? ' asks Vera coldly.

Often,' returns Griselda with conviction.

CHAPTER X.

Not from the heart beneath 
'Twas a bubble born of breath.
Neither sneer nor vaunt,
Nor reproach nor taunt.

Well, I'm off,' says Griselda, poking her
pretty head into the summer-house where
Vera sits reading. It is next day, and a very
lovely day too. In spite of all the malignant
trees that would fain shut out the blessed god
of light, some of his beams penetrate through
their luxuriant foliage, and deluge the sad-looking
garden with their glory. In the
summer-house all is shade ; outside there is a
wider light, and a heat that is almost Indian.
For your ramble,' says Vera, laying down

her book. ' So you won't take my advice ?
Very good. Go on, and you'll see that you
won't prosper.' Her tone is half gay, half
serious.

Is advice ever taken ? Especially when
suns are so hot and woods so cool. Come,
Vera, give me your blessing ere I depart this
life, at all events, for regions unknown.'

Oh, don't be long,' entreats Vera with a
sudden rush of anxiety. ' Don't now. Yes,
I'm in deadly earnest. There is that man allover
the place, let loose as it were for my
discomfiture, and if he turns up in this part
of the world I suppose I shall have to talk
to him.'

What a calamity ! ' says Griselda with a
little feigned drooping of her mouth. ' After
all, I don't think I'll go. It would be cruel
to desert you in your pressing need.' Here
she changes her tone. ' Eeally, Vera,' briskly,

really and truly I sometimes feel strange
doubts as to whether your father could indeed
have been mine, or your mother either ! '
This is a complicated speech, but it serves.
'My good child, why can't you accept with
open mouth the gifts the gods provide. In
this barren wilderness even manna may be
regarded with rapture  even Seaton ! Better
any man than no man, say I.'

So say not I then,' with great spirit.
She has leaned forward upon her elbow, and
her eyes are brilliant with a little suspicion of
anger. ' Give me a desert island, rather than
the society of a man whom I know it will
require only time to teach me to detest.
And how you can call him so familiarly
Seaton," passes my '

A pause ! An awful pause. Who is it
that has turned the corner of the summerhouse,
and is looking in at them with a

curious expression round his mouth ? Griselda
is the first to recover.

Isn't it absurd ? ' she says, smiling rather
lamely. ' But I assure you, Seaton, your sudden
appearance quite took away my breath. You
should stamp when you come to a house like
this. The grass all round it is so thick.'

Too thick ! ' says Dysart, with a swift
glance at Vera, who has lost all her colour.
For the future I shall try to remember. I
am very sorry I startled you.' He has addressed
himself entirely to Griselda, unless
that one lightning glance of contemptuous reproach
cast at Vera could be counted. ' But
I was on my way to one of the farms, and this
is the lowest, is the nearest path to it. I shall
never cease to regret '  here he stops dead
short, and turns his eyes unreservedly on
Vera  ' that I did not take the upper one.'

He makes both girls a slight bow, and

walks swiftly onwards on the unlucky path he
had chosen.

Oh, Vera, do something ! ' cries Griselda,
in a small agony of consternation, clasping her
hands. Vera, thus admonished, springs to her
feet, and driven half by honest shame, and
half by impulse, rushes out of the summerhouse
and runs after Dysart as he is fast disappearing
through the shrubs. Teaching
him, panting and pale with agitation, she lays
her hand timidly upon his arm.

I am so grieved,' she says, her charming
face very pained, her lips white. ' There are
moments when one hardly knows what one
says, and '

There are such moments, certainly,' says
he, interrupting her remorselessly. ' But they
can hardly be classed with those in which the
calm confidences of one sister are exchanged
with the other. And why should you apologise

? I assure you, you need not. I do not
seek for, or desire, anything of the kind.'

It almost seems to her that he has shaken
her hand from his arm. Drawing back, she
sees him proceed upon his way, and then
returns to Griselda.

Well ? ' says Griselda, with all a woman's
curiosity. ' He didn't slay you, at all events.
What did he say ? Was he angry ? '

Not violent, if you mean that,' says Miss
Dysart, dropping on to the uncomfortable garden
seat with a haste that suggests exhaustion.

He was cold  insolent ; he But I told

you,' with a sudden outburst of passion, ' that
he was like his father.'

Well, it was enough to enrage any man,'
says Griselda. ' But I thought he wouldn't
have cared so much. Why should he ? Don't
you know, we are strangers. Our opinion
can't be of such overpowering importance to

VOL. I. L

him. Yet of course he might argue from the
same point, that, being such strangers, why-should
we, without giving him a hearing, condemn
him at once ? '

Not we. It was I only,' says Vera.

Well, it was all talk. I don't believe you

dislike him as much as '

'I really think I hate him,' says Vera
vehemently. The recollection of his contemptuous
glance, the way in which he had
disdained her apology ; above all, that slight
he had offered her when he had displaced her
hand from his arm, all rankle in her breast,
and a hot flow of shame renders her usually
pale face brilliant. ' There, never mind him,'
she says, with a little frown. ' He is not staying
long, fortunately, and this episode will
bear good fruit of one sort at least. He will
not trouble me with his society whilst you
are away. Now hurry, Griselda, do.'

She is a little impatient  a rare thing with
her.

I don't think I'll go at all,' says Griselda,
looking her through and through.

Nonsense ! ' Miss Dysart rises and pushes
her playfully towards the opening in the
yew hedge that will lead her to the beloved
woods. ' I am safe now. I tell you, so long
as you are back in time for dinner, I don't
care. A tete-astute with that  that bear, is
all I dread.'

Griselda, with a light laugh, drawn irresistibly
by the gorgeous loveliness of the lights
and shadows of the land below, runs down
the pathway and is soon lost to view.

It is a simple matter to clamber down
the steep wall and reach the path beneath, a
simpler matter still to cross the steppingstones
of the river  now running low because
of the dead summer heat that all the week



has raged o'er hill and vale  and gain the
tender shelter of the woods beyond.

With a glad sense of freedom she walks
quickly onwards, free from thought of any
sort, save the exquisite knowledge of the
beauty with which nature has surrounded
her.

Stopping to pluck a flower here, to climb
a hillock there, she finds herself after a while
at the entrance to a narrow passage, a little
green lane as it were, banked up on either
side by miniature hills, soft and moss-crowned.
Entering this fairy defile, she stands breathless,
delighted, in the centre of a tiny emerald-green
valley, so closely surrounded by heights
of living green, with here and there a touch
-of jagged rock enriched by ferns  that almost
it seems to her impossible to leave it, save by
wings, or that one small lane that even now
seems blotted out or melted into all the other

greenery around. It is like a fort, but one of
nature's forming ; one of those quaint delicate
freaks in which she so delights. And through
this delicious valley, filling it at every turn,
Avliat is the sound that runs like sweetest
music ? Surely it is the melody of a rushing,
tumbling stream.

Yes ; the stream again ! At the far end
of this dainty vale it is tearing over its
pebbles at a pace that almost frightens one
this sultry day. It seems quite like an old
friend to her, and, with a sort of remorseful
recollection of how she had sought to avoid
it, she runs to it now, and gazes with satisfaction
into its sparkling waters.

'Tis you ! ' cries a voice full of unmistakable
delight just behind her. 'I guessed I
was in for something good, luck all the morning
has been so dead against me ! '

CHAPTER XI.

 Others mistrust and say, but time escapes.
Live now, or never ! '
He said, ' What's time ? Leave Now for dogs and apes ;
Man has For ever.'

 Well ! ' says Griselda after the first long
pause, trying to look indignant ; ' I must say
you are the most impossible person to avoid,
that ever I met.'

"Were you trying to do it ? ' asks he
reproachfully. ' Why ? And where were
you all yesterday ? I waited from eleven
until eight, and then I was so hungry I
couldn't stand it any longer, so I went
home.'

I don't know why you waited,' with some

dignity ; ' I never said I was going to  to
walk in this wood  yesterday.'

'No. But you never said also that you
were not going to walk here, so I hoped on.
I think,' with a second upbraiding glance,
you might have come.'

I couldn't,' protests Griselda. ' Even

If for one moment I had intended to come,
which of course I hadn't, still it would have
been out of my power. My cousin came
down that day.'

Ah ! ' an eloquent silence. Then with all
the air of one determined to get it out of herat
all hazards, ' Man ? '

'Yes.'

'I see ! Well, of course I could hardly
expect it. Your time was fully taken up, no
doubt, with him. I don't suppose you so much
as remembered my existence. Why should
you?'

Oh yes, I remembered it,' says Griselda
with unkind carelessness. She too is feeling
angry.

That was too good of you. And  and so
you spent the whole day with this cousin?'

Not quite the whole day. There were
intervals.'

Naturally ! You had dinner and lunch, I
presume. You have noticed that even the
strongest occasions for bliss or woe are not
powerful enough to do away with those
institutions.'

'You shouldn't sneer at me for taking
my dinner,' says Griselda with a passing
recollection of its unusual goodness. You
yourself said you were starving at eight last
night.'

Well, so I was. So would any fellow be
who hadn't even seen a biscuit since dawn.
When did he come ? '

About seven, I believe.'

He lost no time. You weren't up then,
I suppose. Or  perhaps you got up to
receive him ! ' There is a sneer in his tone now
that raises her smouldering wrath to flame.

My cousin arrived at seven last evening,*
she says, in a low distinct tone. ' I saw him
at eight, just as we went in to dinner.'

Only last night ? ' eagerly. ' And is he
gone now ? Where is he ? '

At Greycourt, I suppose,' frigidly.

'And you have come out here? You
have left him ? ' cries he, coming impulsively
closer to her. Indeed he makes a movement
as if he would have secured her hand, but
something in the sorrowful sternness of her
gaze restrains him.

Why shouldn't I leave him ? ' asks she,
her large clear eyes questioning his.

I don't know,' feebly ; ' I'm only so

awfully glad that you did leave him. That
you preferred these woods to him. You're
angry with me,' says he suddenly, miserably ;
I know it by your eyes. I shouldn't have
said a great many things that I have said, I
know that.'

I don't see how you should know anything
about my eyes,' says Giiselda, with a
last attempt at dignity. She looks at him
steadily, and then  perhaps it is the grief
and longing in his face that overcomes her
  but at last she smiles.

What were you doing . ' asks she presently,
when she has given time for that unexpected
smile to sink into him. ' Fishing ? '

Nothing worth the name. Ever since I
met  that is  well, I don't care then. Ever
since I met you I haven't caught a trout fit
to be called one.'

That's a grievance,' says Griselda with a

shy swift glance at him. ' If it continues,
you will end by hating me.'

Shall I ? An ending must have a beginning.
How have I begun with you, do you
think ? '

On a day like this to ask riddles ! '
parries she scornfully, though a pretty colour
has crept into her cheeks. ' No, no ; I never
guessed one in my life ; it is no use.' Then,
How" did you get in here ? '

Found the corner. Do you see it ? The
stream winds past that rock over therethrough
so small a space that one scarcely
sees it ; I could hardly squeeze my body
between the two rocks. Charming spot this,
I always think. Are you tired? Shall we
sit down for awhile ? '

I haven't a moment,' says Griselda ; ' I
promised Vera to be back in no time.'

'You promised her more than that, I

think,' reproachfully. ' What was it you
said about avoiding me when first we met ?
I suppose you told her of our meeting day
before yesterday.'

I tell her everything,' says Griselda
simply.

 ' That is quite right. I am glad of that,'
returns he earnestly ; ' only I wish your
sister could bring herself to give you different
counsel. If she saw me again, do you think
it would do any good, eh ? '

Not a bit,' says Griselda laughing.
The point at which she sticks is, that
Uncle Gregory doesn't know. And to tell

him Oh! that is beyond either of us,'

with a charming frown, full of horror,

Well, never mind. Time is a wonderful
thing ; it works so many changes, and

perhaps after a while ' He stops short,

and then, leaning towards her  they are

sitting on a bank by this time  he looks
anxiously into her eyes. ' Do you know,' he
says, with some hesitation, ' I want you to tell
me something. It is so awkward, when I'm
thinking of you, not to know ; yesterday I
found it really hard. Will you tell me your
Christian name ? '

'They say people always look like their
names. Don't you think,' with a little
coquettish glance at him from under her big
hat, ' you could guess mine ? '

I know what I think it ought to be.'

Tell me,' says she, with a pretty curiosity,
edging closer to him.

Pansy ; Heartless,' softly. She seems
rather struck with this, and a gentle cloud
gathers on her brow

Well ; 'isn't,' she says, with a regretful
sigh. ' It is  I'm almost ashamed to tell you,
though of course it wasn't my fault  but it's

Griseldal Isn't it a shame? I do think
pathetically, 'when people have so far the
pull over you as to be able to give you a
name for all time before you can argue the
point  before you can even show your displeasure,
not having a tooth wherewith to do
battle  that they might have the decency to
choose out a possible one. When one is
strong, one should be merciful. Now it is
Vera who should be Griselda. She is patient,

if you like, but as for me But,' with

another swift look at him, 'your name
wouldn't suit me either. You don't know meat
all ; I'm not that sort of person. As a
rule, I'm afraid I'm rather a worry to people
unless they happen to be very fond of me.
Vera, now, she doesn't mind me. But Hearts-ease,'
pondering slowly over it ; ' oh no  it
wouldn't suit me a bit.'

Well, I only know one thing,' says Tom

Peyton hardily, ' that from the moment I
parted from you, day before yesterday, I
haven't known a second's peace until I found
you here to-day by that blessed stream.
Then and there my heart found an inexpressible
ease.'

He is a terribly downright young man,
there can be no doubt about that ; a very
direct lover (though as yet she has hardly
regarded him in that character), leaving little
to the imagination  nothing to be filled up.
Griselda perhaps finds him a little embarrassing.
A soft but brilliant flush mounts to her
cheek, and there is within her some secret
working that compels her eyes to cling to the
green fresh sward at her feet.

Presently, however, she conquers the
absurd shyness of a moment since, and, with
a wisdom that cannot be too highly commended,
ignores his reprehensible plain speaking,

and falls back upon an outside subject
that surely gives a wide field for converse of
a safe order.

" Heartless, or my Brother's Wife," '
says she thoughtfully. ' How long ago it
seems since I read that book ! I liked it then
-I think. Did you ever read it ? ' She
turns upon him two clear eyes, full of calm
inquiry.

No  yes  no,' says the young man
vaguely. And then with heartfelt thankfulness,
' I'm glad you re not my brother's wife ! '

Was there ever anyone so incorrigible ?
Griselda feels a just indignation grow warm
within her breast. What does he mean by so
persistently ignoring the safe path she has
planned out for him ?

Why ? ' she asks severely, regarding him
with an unsmiling eye, and speaking promptly,
like one filled with a suspicious thirst for

knowledge. ' Is he such an extremely unpleasant
person ? '

What I mean is,' says Peyton, with a
noble scorn of subterfuge of any sort, dragging
his real signification boldly to the front,
that I'm glad you are not the wife of any
fellow.'

Oh ! ' says the younger Miss Dysart
frigidly. Somehow she is not so confused
this time, and is conscious only of a wild, a
terrible desire to laugh. There are, unfortunately
for the young, moments dien laughter
is undignified, and chilled by this dismal
knowledge she controls herself, and once more
turns aside the dangerous current that
threatens to overwhelm her, and steers into
quiet waters. ' I wish / knew how to fish,'
she says, nodding her head at his rod lying on
the ground near her. ' It would be some sort
of an occupation in this stupid place.'

VOL. I. M

Some sort !  the very best,' cries Peyton
enthusiastically, before whom roseate visions
have arisen  visions of pretty white hands
being taught to handle a rod, visions of lovely
blue eyes looking to him for guidance ; and
he the teacher, the guide. ' You haven't a
conception,' says he, ' of the joys of fishing, of
even simple trout-fishing such as this. The
pretty curing water, and then the little
breeze that comes, oh ! so softly, just ruffling
its bosom ; and then the faint delicate quiver
at the end of your line, and the certainty that
this is a half-pounder at least (no matter if it
isn't) ; and then the last quick touch, and
there it lies upon the bank, the beauty, and
you feel that after all you have not lived for

naught.'

Yes ? And when you don't catch anything
? ' asks she rather unkindly. This is the
second day his basket has been found empty.

'Oil, I see you think I'm but a sorry
fisherman says he laughing. ' But look at
the weather. An eternal glare from morn to
eve. And I could tell you if I liked of other
times I've had when it wasn't little trout I was
waiting for, but salmon. That was up in
Scotland with the poor dad. We used to go
there every year, and  oh, well ! I'm not so
bad a hand at it as you think me ! '

How do you know I think of you at
all?' says she saucily; and then they both
laugh.

Well, will you let me teach you ? ' asks
he.

I would, only ' she hesitates. ' I

haven't a rod,' she says at last bluntly ; ' and
I shouldn't know how to get it without this
finding out.'

Your uncle ? '

Oh yes  yes,' impatiently. ' We can

scarcely breathe with him. Isn't it terrible,
the life he compels us to lead  seeing, speaking,
to nobody ? '

It's iniquitous,' vehemently. ' What on
earth does he mean by it ? You know I
hinted as much to you before. Do you think
the old gentleman is all there ? Correct up
here, I mean ? ' touching his forehead.

Quite correct. I've seen him ; you
haven't.' Then, after a pause of consideration,
' Too correct ! He could buy and sell
the lot of us, it is my opinion, had he reason
to do so. That he won't let us know our
neighbours is what makes me so angry. It
is so selfish. Let him shut himself up by all
means, just as much as ever he likes  not one
of us would interfere with that arrangement
or seek to dissuade him from it. He might
have his own way there unquestioned, but
why condemn Vera and me to solitary

confinement ? It is horrible to think that we
must know nobody ! '

You know me,' suggests Mr. Peyton
very humbly yet with a certain nervous hope
in his tone. It is indeed as though he were
trying a dangerous experiment, and is uncomfortably
in the dark as to whether it will
prove successful, or go off and reduce him
morally to powder.

It does neither, however. Miss Dysart,
having regarded him for a moment or two
with calm scrutiny, says :

That's true,' dispassionately ; and then
after further reflection, ' Well, so I do ; a
little  a very little.'

I feel as if I had known you for years,'
says Peyton. ' Some people, don't you think,
you know at once, whilst others '

You must belong to the " others," ' says
she, regarding him with a judicial eye.

Why ? Do you mean you don't know
me ? ' says he aggrieved. ' Why, they tell me
I'm the easiest fellow living to get on with.
Oh ! you can't look upon me as a mere
stranger now.'

'I don't see why not,' says Griselda
steadily. She turns round on her seat with
a little quick movement as if to confront him
more decidedly. ' Do you know that this is
only the third time I have ever met you,
and '

And I have only myself to vouch for
myself,' says he sadly. ' Well, what can I do
to convince you that I am not altogether
beneath your notice ? '

Oh, don't talk like that,' flushing. ' I
want no one to tell me that  that '  she
hesitates, and plucks at her gown with downcast
eyes in the sweetest confusion  ' that

you are a gentleman,' she breathes at last
very low.

Why, of course,' briskly. ' I didn't mean

that so much as You see there are lots of

gentlemen, so called, whom you oughtn't like,
don't you see ; and besides that, it makes me
wretched to think we can't be more openly
acquainted. There's my sister, of course, she
lives about twenty miles or so from this.
She's in town now, of course, but she'll be
down in August, July indeed, I dare say, and
and I've been thinking if we could manage
through her.'

I don't think any one could manage
Uncle Gregory,' with a mournful shake of her
head. ' What's your sister's name ? '

Grace.'

Yes. But the other one.'

Lady Coverdale.'

Well, now I know about your sister, and
I know you have no father or mother. But
tell me about that unpleasant brother of
yours.'

Mr. Peyton laughs.

I would if I could,' says he genially
But the fact is, he is neither pleasant nor
unpleasant. He doesn't exist.'

What ! ' says Griselda, eyeing him with
evident distrust. ' Just think of what you are
saying. And to deny your own brother too ! '

Mr. Peyton gives way once again to
mirth that proves untimely.

'Is it a joke?' asks she severely, fixing
him with a stern eye. ' Are you going to
persist in it  in your  well, your assertion ? '
It is plain she had meant to use a harsher
term.

Certainly I do,' says he, now somewhat
amazed.

But have you forgotten then ? ' demands
she, rising indignantly to her feet. ' Why,
only YQ minutes ago ' (oh ! how swiftly time
runs for the young !) ' you told me you were
very glad I wasn't his wife. How could I bethe
wife of nobody ? '

How indeed !

This is an unanswerable argument, and
Peyton goes down before it.

You misunderstood me,' he says humbly.
You did indeed. I haven't a brother, never
had, and only one sister. I've a lot of uncles
and aunts,' deprecatingly, 'if you'd like to
hear about them. But they are specially
uninteresting.'

I want to hear nothing more at all,' says
Griselda, who is plainly offended. ' I only
want to go home.'

Oh, don't go like this,' entreats Peyton,
taking her hand in spite of her, and looking

down with quite an anguished countenance
upon the pretty ruffled one below him. 'I
think, if you only knew how miserable I was
all yesterday, that you would be good to me
to-day.'

Griselda having tried vainly, if delicately,
to release her hand, here looks up at him.

You certainly said you had a brother,'
says she.

I didn't ; I didn't, I give you my word ;
it was all a mistake. Won't you believe me ?
Yes, you will.' He has caught her hand by
this time, and is looking eagerly with his
honest eyes into her face. A little smile
widens her lips.

You make one believe,' she says sweetly ;
and then, ' Oh ! I must run, I told Vera I

should be home quite soon, and now '

She starts to her feet.

Give me your hand,' says he, ' and we'll

make a fight for it.' And together they race
over the soft smooth grass of that lover's
valley, through the little green entrance, and
so on, until the turrets of Greycourt rise
before them.

'You will come again tomorrow,' says
Peyton, retaining her hand still, and gazing
eagerly, entreatingly into her eyes.

Oh, not tomorrow.'

The next day, then. I've any amount of
rods at the inn ; one a very nice light one.
And I'll set it up for you, and have it at that
part of the stream where we met to-day. No,
you shan't say you won't come. I won't
listen. But I'll be there the day after tomorrow,
and I'll wait for you till nightfall.'

'Oh, I wish you wouldn't. I certainly
shan't be able to come ; and I won't either ;
I won't indeed. Yera says it's very wrong.'

Well, I'll wait,' doggedly.

You must blame yourself then ; not me.
I'm not coming. And at all events  I
couldn't be there until three ! '

You will come then ? ' says he, his face
lighting up. ' Three  five, any time ; only
come.'

' Oh ! I haven't said that,' nervously.
Good-bye ; I am almost sure I shan't be
able.' She moves away from him and then
looks back. ' Do put even a crust of bread
in your pocket,' she says anxiously. ' It is so
wretched to think of your starving like that.'

I shan't feel hungry the next time,' says
he, ' because I know you'll come. You
couldn't be cruel enough to disappoint me
now.'

'Well, go,' says she. 'If you were
seen '

'I'm going,' says he reluctantly, and
presently, when he has shaken hands with her

for about a minute and a half, talking rapidly
all the time to hide the fact that those pretty
fingers are still within his grasp, he finally
takes himself off.

CHAPTER XII.

Thou only licet stepped unaware

Malice, not one can impute ;
And why should a heart have been there,

In the way of a fair woman's foot ?

Peeping into the summer-house as she runs
past it Griselda discovers, to her amazement,
that Vera is still in it.

What, have you never stirred ? ' cries she.
Bless me, have you stayed in this earwig
place ever since ? But,' hopefully, ' I suppose
you did stir ; you went into the house, the
gardens, and came back again ? '

No, I didn't,' says Vera, speaking in the
low tense way of one who has been mentally
whispering all day, as if afraid of being overheard.
' I never moved from this. I felt as

if I couldn't,' with a nervous laugh ; ' I knew
I might have met him if I had gone anywhere
else, but here I was safe. He would hardly
venture here again.'

What folly ! ' says Griselda severely, who
is nothing if not practical. ' My good girl,
have you thought that civilised people always
dine ? There will be dinner,' says she,
nodding a sapient head. ' You'll have to face
him there.'

I've thought of that,' with a quick sigh.

I must say,' says Griselda, with now, it
must be confessed, a smothered inclination
towards mirth, ' that a more unfortunate
affair I never knew. His face  did you see
it ?  it was a picture ! '

Don't go on like that, Griselda,' says her
sister impatiently. ' I feel so wretched about
it  just as if I hated myself!' She stops fora
moment, and lifts the palms of her hands and

presses them nervously against her hot
cheeks. ' To have ofTencled anybody m that
rude, inexcusable way makes one feel so
horrid ! '

'Inexcusable? I don't see that,' says

Griselda. ' I don't see that it was your fault

at all. You gave your opinion privately tome

; if he chanced to overhear that opinion,

whose fault was it ? '

'No one's, of course,' she seems a little
comforted by this bland disposition of her
trouble, and goes on again presently as if
agreeing with it. ' Yes, really, and besides,
he isn't of so much importance any way. He's
really nothing to us, eh ? and one may surely
speak to one's own sister without being
reviled for it.' It is quite plain now that she
is trying to make herself look right to herself
Then all at once her tone changes. ' But yet I
do wish I had never seen him, and that to-day

had never been,' she cries in a little hurt

voice. ' And what was it you said about

dinner, Griselda? Do you know, I really
don't see how I am to get through it ? '

With a knife and fork and a spoon or
two,' says Griselda. ' Well, I do wonder
whether he will talk and pass it all over, or
sulk and maintain a majestic silence ? '

I suppose I couldn't have a headache ? *
suggests Vera regarding her sister doubtfully.


Oh no. Not on any account. Why
Vera, where is your pluck gone ? Don't you
suppose he would know ? It would only
make bad worse ; create a mountain out of
the merest molehill. I really think I should
come down if I were you.'

You're not, you see,' says Vera with a
little sigh, as if regretful of that incontrovertible
fact.

VOL. I. N

You mean that it is therefore a simple
thing for me to argue on the point. Perhaps
you even think I want you to come down
to dinner to help me with him. If so, stay
upstairs, because I don't. And look here,
Vera ; after all, what do you and I care ivhat
he thinks ? If it will make you happier, have
a headache by all means, darling, and I'll see
it out with him.'

She speaks in eager earnest. It has
suddenly suggested itself to her that her
afternoon has been one of certain enjoyment,
Yera's one of dulness unspeakable, nay,
something more than that. She determines
if possible to save Vera from further discomfiture
and nervous heartstrings.

'I shall quite enjoy a tete-astute evening
with him,' she says smiling.

'No,' says Vera, after a silent struggle
with herself ; ' I should hate to let him think

I cared, thoiigli, of course, I do care ; it is a
miserable thing to hurt the feelings of anybody,
even the most unworthy ! '

Oh, if he could only hear that ! ' says
Griselda, throwing back her head and laughing
merrily.

'Well, I dare say I should consider him
more,' says Vera, ' if he had not accepted my
apology in so rude a fashion. When I think
of it, I feel as if I couldn't show any more
regret.'

Just so,' says Griselda. ' And if you still
want to shirk the dinner, I'll so represent
your absence that it will look like indignation,
not penitence.'

No. I'll come down,' says Miss Dysart
slowly. ' Why should I even feel myself in
the wrong ? Only  if there should be a too
terrible silence at any time, I shall leave it to
you to come to the rescue.'

2f 2 .

'You couldn't leave it to a better person,'
says Griselda gaily.

Well,' in a lighter tone, ' it is a blessing
to have you back. I thought you would
never come. Had you a nice walk ? '

I had,' slowly. It is unlike Griselda to be
so terse, and when with the limited reply there
comes too a warm blush and a lowering of the
tell-tale eyes, Vera pretty well knows it all.

You met him ? ' she says simply.

'Yes,' apologetically. 'Wasn't it too bad?
And I assure you, Vera,' eagerly now, and
with eyes uplifted, ' I went in exactly the
contrary direction I took last time. I hate a
man like that, don't you?  turning up just
when he is least wanted.'

Ah, was it then ? ' says Vera.

I begin to think that of all men fishermen
are the most ubiquitous. I was never so

startled in my life as when I looked up to-day
and found he was beside me. My back was
turned, you see, and I didn't know he was
there until he spoke.'

He seems a clever young man,' says
Vera.

He's not artful or designing, I think, if
you mean that,' says Griselda reflectively.

'I only mean that he revels in situations.
I don't wish to pretend that he is cleverer
than most, or equal to the arranging of them
beforehand, but yet I don't see how he can
always manage to extort one out of the
moment's very barren surroundings, and to
turn them on, as it were, just at the correct
second ! '

I really don't think he is a modern
Cagliostro, if that is what you are aiming at,'
says Griselda again, perhaps now a little

annoyed at the other's raillery. ' It was all
chance.'

Lucky chance ! Your face says that ;
why is your tongue less honest ? ' There is
a little laugh in Yera's eyes as she turns
towards her.

I should be honest to sou or not at all,'
says Griselda laughing too, ' you give one no
loophole. Yes, then ; I was glad to see him.
He is the one oasis in my wilderness, nay
more, he is a veritable necessity. I positively
believe we shall learn to forget our own language,
you and I, if we are left with no one
to air it with, save each other. This solitude
a deux is trying.'

You forget  our cousin,' says Vera
slowly.

No, but something tells me we shall see
little more of him ; whereas the other '

True, he looks like a fixture ! Oh, that

I dared believe what you say about  about 
Uncle Gregory's son ! '

Griselda regards her for a moment or two
with an expression full of amazed amusement.

How can you be so absurd ? ' she says.
You are very properly too ashamed to call
him Mr. Dysart, and you can't bring yourself
to say Seaton. Don't you think you'll find
these roundabout methods of mentioning him
rather embarrassing in the long run ? Do you
know, Vera, I did not think you capable of so
strong a dislike ? '

I puzzle myself,' says Vera with a faint
smile. 'But I cannot conquer the thought
that in some way he will cause me acute
suffering. Of course, it is only a fancy,' with
a sudden haughty little movement of her
shapely head. ' Who is he, that he should
influence my life in any way ? ' She breathes
rather quickly, and then throws off by an

effort her angry mood. ' Let us talk of Mr.
Peyton,' she says ; ' he is far more interesting
even to me. Well,' gaily, ' and did he say
that word of love to you ? You remember
our compact  your promise to tell me if ever
that was spoken ? '

What is a word of love ? ' asks Griselda
reddening. ' He  of course, I haven't forgotten
my promise, but one hardly knows
what one means  what he means  I mean.
Oh, bother,' with irritable self contempt,
what on earth do I mean, I wonder ? '

/ don't,' says Yera. ' I know. So the
word has been said ! I suppose it would be
indiscreet to ask what it was ? '

Nonsense ! I don't believe he said a
word that even related to love ; all he did
say was that he was glad I wasn't " the wife
of any fellow." '

I see,' says Yera pausing ; and then 

'of any other fellow of course; he was
evidently leading up to the point that if you
were the wife of a fellow called Pey '

Oh, Vera ! I wonder you aren't
ashamed ! ' says the younger Miss Dysart indignantly.


Well, so I am,' apologetically. ' Grizel,'
holding out her hand to lier, ' sit down here
beside me ; what you tell me of Mr. Peyton
sounds all that it should be, but  I do wish
you knew something more about him.'

I'll tell you all I know. That he has a
torndown old place somewhere in Derbyshire.
That he has one sister. Lady Eiversdale, who
lives about twenty miles from this, just on the
border of our county, and that he is as poor
as a church mouse.'

What a pity it is as it is ! ' says Vera
restlessly. ' If he could only come to the
house to see us, in the regular orthodox way,

it would be so much better. I do detest the
appearance of anything clandestine.'

She looks at her sister with a little nervous
frown, as if fearing she has gone too far, but
Griselda is apparently lost in thought provoked
by her words, and for quite a minute
does not emerge from her mental cloud.

I can't feel like that about it,' she says,
looking earnestly at Vera. ' Not with him.
It doesn't seem a bit as if I were doing anything
to be ashamed of. I can't explain it,
but I think if you met him, you'd know. He
doesn't seem to feel it like that himself. I
don't believe it  it has occurred to him.'

'I think I should like him,' says Vera
softly ; with such sympathy that Griselda
suddenly remembers how she loves her. ' But
don't let things go too far, daring.'

She sighs heavily.

You are miserable about that wretched

affair of the morning,' cries Griselda. ' Never
mind it. If you will come to dinner I promise
you to do all the talking, and as it has to be
endured I do entreat you to keep up your
spirits.'

Oh, yes. There isn't a decent chance of
escape,' says Vera wearily.

Sh ! ' cries Griselda softly, putting up her
hand ; the sound of coming footsteps, slow,
deliberate footsteps purposely made heavier
smites upon their ears.

Good Heavens ! Here he is,' says
Griselda, and indeed they have barely time
to put on a carefully unconscious demeanour,
when Seaton Dysart darkens the door of the
summer-house, and looks coldly down on
them.

CHAPTER XIII.

How much her grace is altered on the sudden !
How long her face is drawn ! How pale she looks!

They told me I should find you here,' he
says, speaking to Vera. ' I have come to say
good-bye.'

But surely you are not gong so soon !
not before diner, not to-night!' cries Grim
thunderstruck by this solution of their
difficulty and a little sorry too. Surely, they
have been somewhat unkind to him. She has
accepted her sister's crime as her own, and
after all what had he done? She speaks
hurriedly, with an honest regret, unmindful of
the disastrous consequences that may follow
should he accept her words and stay. ' I
thought you said you were not going until '

I am going now. Good-bye,' holding out
his hand to her with a determination not to
be changed. Griselda takes it and shakes it
genially, nay warmly. His humour is decidedly
hostile, and if he acquaints the old

father of their incivility Anything to

propitiate him, she tells herself, will be the
correct thing, and she grows positively friendly
towards him, and beams upon him with gentle
entreaty in her eye.

If you must go, do us one service first,'
she says. ' Do you see that rose ? '  a rather
unkempt and straggling specimen of its kind
that trails in admired disorder just outside
the door. 'It has baffled me many a
time, but you are tall, oh, taller than most ;
will you lift these awkward tendrils, and press
them back into shape .'

She is smiling divinely at him, a smile that
Tom Peyton would have given several years of

his life to possess, but Dysart is disgracefully
unmoved by it, and refusing to return it, steps
outside, and with a decidedly unwilling air
proceeds to lift the drooping tendrils and reduce
them to order.

Griselda, naturally a girl of great resource,
seizes the opportunity she has herself provided.
Catching Yera's arm she draws her
back out of sight.

Now's your time ! ' she says. ' Say something.
Do something. It doesn't matter what,
but for Heaven's sake smooth him down one
way or another ! If you don't you'll have the
old man down upon us like '

I can't,' gasps Vera fearfully.

You must,' insists Griselda sternly. ' It's
impossible to know what sort of man he is.
If revengeful, he can play old Harry with us ! '

Without waiting to explain what particular
game this may mean, or the full significance

thereof, lie steps lightly outside, and
gazes with undisguised rapture upon Dysart's
work. The tendrils have indeed been reduced
to order ; the roses are blooming now in a
decorous tranquillity.

You ought to be a gardener,' she says
with quite a little glow of admiration. 'There,
you've done enough. I can circumvent this
little tendril whilst you say good-bye to Vera.
I am so afraid you will miss your train, and
all on my account.'

Dysart, who has received her raptures
rather grimly, drops the tendril in question,
and returns to the summer-house with all the
manner of one in mad haste to be gone. It is
merely a part of an unpleasant whole, he tells
himself, that he must first say a chillingly
courteous word or two of farewell to the girl
who has openly declared towards him such an
undying animosity.

I am afraid,' says Vera, speaking with
cold precision as one delivering herself of an
unloved lesson, ' that you are going away thus
abruptly because of what you heard me say
this morning.'

You are right. That is why I am going,'
replies Dysart calmly.

Yes ? ' in a chilling tone and with faintly,
lifted brows. ' I regret exceedingly that I
should have so unfortunately offended you,
but to go for that  it all sounds a little trivial,
don't you think ? '

Not my going, I think. I don't see how
I can do otherwise. Why should I make
you uncomfortable ? But you may call it
trivial if you like, to talk of detesting a man
you have only seen for an hour or two, and

who in those hours ' He pauses. 'Did

I make myself so specially objectionable?'
demands he abruptly, turning to her with

something that is surely anger, but as surely
entreaty, in his eyes.

As I told you before,' indifferently, ' one
says foolish things now and then.'

Would you have me believe you did not
really mean what you said ? '

T would not have you believe anything,'
returns she haughtily. ' Why should I ? '
Her eyes are looking straight past him to
where a glowing rose-bush stands, but I doubt
if its glories are justly appreciated by her just
now. Something akin to passionate dislike
towards the man who has thus brought her
steadily to book is making her pulses throb.
I only think it a pity that you should curtail
your visit to your father because of a chance
remark of mine that cannot possibly affect you
in any way.'

Is that how soli look at it ? '
' Is there any other way ? Why should

VOL. I. o

you care whether or not I detest you ; I,
whom you saw for the first time yesterday ? '

Why indeed ! ' He regards her absently,
as if trying to work out in his own mind the
answer to this question, and then suddenly :

Nevertheless, I do care,' he says with a
touch of vehemence. ' It is the injustice of
it to which I object. You had evidently determined
beforehand to show me no grace. I
defy you to deny it ! Come, can you ? '

Miss Dysart is silent. The very impetuosity
of his accusation has deadened her
power to reply, and besides, is there not truth
in it ? Had she not prejudged ?

Was that fair ? ' says he with some heat.
Strangers as we were to each other, as weare,
as we are likely to remain, I ask you how
it was I deserved that foregone conclusion ? '

It surely isn't worth an argument,' says
she with a little frown, shrugging her shoulders.

I tell you again I am sorry if I have inconvenienced
or annoyed you. I confess, too,
that if you could assure me you were leaving
for some better reason than  than this, I
should feel happier.'

I cannot, however,' shortly.

I really wish then,' drawing a little
nearer to him, and speaking earnestly, ' that
you would reconsider your decision and
stay. Have you thought how strange it will
appear  your going in such haste  to  to
the others ? '

Until this moment no one has ever questioned
my actions,' says he, with a swift smile.
You are the first to do so. And why should
I stay? To give you the time required to
perfect your detestation ? No, I shall save
myself from that, if I can. Good-bye.'

He bows coldly without offering her his
hand.

o2

By-tlie-by,' he says, turning again at the
doorway, ' I am afraid you will have to put
up with me for a few hours every week. I
shall promise to make them as short as I
possibly can. But my father likes to see me
every seven days or so, and I like to see him.
Do you think,' a slight smile crossing his face,
 you will be able to live through it ? '

I have lived through a good many things,'
says Vera, her dark eyes aflame.

That gives you a chance here ; practice
makes perfect. I am sorry to be obliged to
inconvenience you so far, but if I stayed away,
I am afraid my father might want to know
why. He might even be so absurd as to
miss me.'

Why should you take it for granted that
I desire your absence ? ' cries Vera, her voice
vibrating with anger. ' Come, remain, or stay
away for ever, what is it to me ? '

Her heart is still throbbing violently wlieii
Griselda  having seen her cousin take his
departure  returns to the summer-hoilse.

Well, did you make it up ? ' asks she
anxiously.

No,' recklessly, ' I only made bad worse.
Once for all, Griselda, try to understand that
that hateful man and I have not one sympathy
in common. We clash at every turn, every
word, every look. He is gone ; that is my one
solace. Let us pray he may never return.'

Pray for the moon if you like,' says
Griselda. 'Nobody can prevent you, and
there may be pleasure in it. But I think you
are just as likely to get that prayer answered
as the other.'

The proverbial wise woman would have
abased herself before you,' says Vera moodily.
It appears we are to have the pleasure of this
society once every week.'

No I Bless my stars, what brings him ? '

A mutual admiration that exists between
his father and himself. He insinuated that
they could not live if separated from each
other longer than seven days.'

He's no good,' prophesies Griselda solemnly.
Anyone who could profess to regard that old
mummy within with any sort of veneration,
must have a screw loose somewhere. He
must at all events be a born hypocrite. Just
think of Uncle Gregory ! An old fiend whose
veins run venom instead of blood ! Oh, no !
You must have mistaken him, Vera.'

I didn't. And you forget he is his son.
He might see a charm where we could not,
even in so arid a spot.'

Perhaps so. But if he does he's clever,'
says Griselda, distinct unbelief in her tone.
And so he's coming once in every seven days.
I was uncertain before, but now certainly life

is not worth living, with such a sword as that
hanging weekly over one's head. However,
pluck up your courage, Vera. I'll stand by
you, and perhaps after all it was only a
threat.'

No ; he meant it. There was fell purpose
in his eye.'

What reason did he clive . ' still unbelieving.



I told you. To see his father.'
Tut ! who would believe that ? You
would credit Munchausen, I really think, if he
only had you to himself for nq minutes. Do
you honestly believe that any living thing
ever wanted to see Uncle Gregory the second
time .? '

I can only tell you what he said . And
he was rude, very rude ; really, farouche
would better describe him. He said too that
if he stayed away his father would want to

know why, and of course that would be awkward
for  me.'

For us,' fondly. ' Did he say that ? I
like that. It somehow assures me he is not
going to peach,' says Griselda thoughtfully.
For even such small mercies, let us be
thankful.'

CHAPTER XIV.

Of all evils, to the generous shame is the most deadly pang.

July reigns, vice June dethroned, but still the
roses hold full sway. In that small inner
garden in which Gregory Dysart takes all the
walks abroad he ever does, and the love for
the flowers in which is the one sole humanising
element about him, the queen of blossoms
uprears her head in stately beauty, though in
every corner fallen petals may be seen, here,
there, everywhere, making a carpet on the
tender green swards, heralds, alas ! of a sure-coming
death.

Seaton Dysart has come and gone many a
time, to and from Greycourt, and by degrees
a little of the constraint that had characterised

his early visits has worn away. He has even
so far advanced as to be almost on friendly
terms with Griselda.

But between him and Vera, that first dark
veil of distrust still hangs heavily, distrust
that, on Vera's side, has taken a blacker hue
and merged itself into dislike. In vain does
Griselda rally her about it, in vain seek to
laugh her into another  a lighter frame of
mind. Vera, although taking herself to task
and condemning herself for a want of charity
hitherto unknown in her gentle bosom, still
shrinks from any advance on his part with so
cold a determination that sometimes, with a
bitter word or two, Dysart swears to himself
to abstain from further attempt to break down
the barrier that stands between them.

Yet, ever and always he has come back
again to try once more  to seek for kindly
word or gentle smile, such as he sees her

lavish on Griselda, to which even a melancholy
little kitten, that has attached itself to
her, is no stranger. He has let it be clear to
her in various ways that he is willing not only
to forgive but to forget that inopportune
remark of hers, the memory of which is difficult
of banishment ; but with a resolution that
puzzles even herself, and belies the really
sweet nature resting beneath this strange
touch of obduracy, she puts him from her, as
it were, and will none of him.

At arm's length she holds him, rarely lifting
her soft dark eyes to his ; letting but a
meagre smile part her beautiful lips when
occasion calls for laughter, remaining stonily
silent in his presence, unless directly called
upon for speech.

One can see how Dysart chafes beneath
all this. But perhaps what troubles him most
of all is the suspicion of nervousness her

manner holds when with him  a fear  a looking
for something that will be for her hurt,
and that will surely emanate from him.
Good Heavens ! he to hurt her ! After a little
while he acknowledges himself beaten, and a
terrible sadness mingled with a righteous
anger grows warm within his breast.

You are treating him shamefully ! ' cries
Griselda, one day. ' What has he done ?
That is what I want to know.' She speaks
with quite a little rush of indignation.

Nothing. I confess that. It is what he
will do that I resent.'

But what is that ? Give over that
Sibylline tone, Vera, and give me a proper
answer.'

I can't. I don't know myself. I cannot
explain it,' says Vera wearily. 'But I feel
sure, I knows he will make me miserable yet.'

Pooh, nonsense ! A mere fad. How

can he make you wretched without making
me so, and I don't feel in the least superstitious
about him.'

Well, perhaps he will make us both
wretched.'

Not me certainly. As for you, well,
really, I shouldn't wonder. And if so you
have provoked your own fate. Such a life
as you lead that unhappy man. Flesh and
blood could not stand it. Yet in spite of
that I do not believe he will ever harm you
intentionally or otherwise.'

I do. Every time he enters my presence
I feel I dislike him more and more. It grows
on me, and is an unaccountable prejudice.'

A mere vagary I tell you. Get over it,
ducky. Throw it off and get into your right
mind once more. I declare but for your
croaking and prophesying I could quite like
Seaton.'

Go over to the enemy by all means. I
shan't.'

I am not going over to anyone. I shall
back you up always, right or wrong, whatever
comes of it. I only mean that to my
unassisted vision he appears a likely young
man enough  amiable apparently, long-suffering
beyond a doubt, and handsome to a
charm. I only wish,' leaning her arms upon
her knees, and directing a pensive gaze at the
bare boards of her bedroom floor, ' that Tom
Peyton was half as good-looking.'

Why? What has Mr. Peyton to do with
you ? ' asks Vera, a little quickly.

Oh, nothing,' airily, ' nothing. Nothing
at all. That's just it, you see. If he were
anything to me, of course, it wouldn't matter,
I should see beauty in him against all beauty's
laws. But as it is, every defect and flaw lies
open to me. And vhen one has to see a

person every now and then, it would be as
well, I think, that that person shouldn't have
a nose that would not misbecome a pug.'

By all this it will be seen that as yet
Griselda's wanderings through the scented
woods have not been interdicted, for the
simple reason that Mr. Dysart is still in
ignorance of them. Mrs. Grunch, who once
had seemed keenly desirous of dragging
the culprit to justice, had never afterwards
taken any notice openly of her absences,
by which Griselda fondly but erroneously
argued that she had forgotten all about
it. Later on, however, she was to be undeceived.


Seaton Dysart's arrivals being only looked
for by the girls at about seven o'clock in the
evening  just an hour or so before dinner 
gave them plenty of time to prepare for his
coming. Any day on which he was expected,

Mrs. Grunch brought a formal message to
Vera from her imcle to that effect. Never
set had their cousin come without the announcement
being madcj and so thoroughly
understood was it that he would not put in
an unexpected appearance, that when after a
rather longer absence than usual, an absence
extending over all last week and part of this,
he turns up at half-past two in the afternoon,
his coming causes distinct embarrassment in
several quarters.

What's that ? ' says Griselda, starting and
dropping her fork (they are at their early
dinner). 'Did you hear it? A knock! A
thundering knock ! '

Seaton's knock ! ' says Vera faintly,
changing colour.

'What can have brought him at this
hour? London must be reduced to ashes,'
hazards Griselda, her tone now as genial as

usual. For one instant a sickening fear that
it might be Mr. Peyton's knock had made
her blood run cold. There had been a short
but sharp encounter between him and her the
day before yesterday, and a wild fear that he
had come up to have it out with her now,
and here, had taken possession of her. At
such a moment the advent of Seaton is hailed
by hei at least, with rapture.

Why, what happy wind drove you down
at this hour ? ' cries she, with the friendliest
air, beaming on him as he comes into the
room.

It is good of you to call it happy,' says
he, casting a really grateful look at her as he
shakes hands silently with Vera. ' In time
for luncheon too, I see, though,' with a rather
surprised glance at the table, 'you don't
seem in a very hospitable mood. Nothing to
spare, eh ? Peter, get me something.'

VOL. I. p

Yes, sir,' says that old fossil, shambling
out of the room in a mighty hurry.

'We didn't know you were coming, you
see,' says Griselda mildly. ' That knowledge
would have worked a miracle in this household.
And it isn't lunch you see (or rather
you don't see) before you ; it is dinner.'

What ! ' says Seaton, flushing a dark red.
He has got up from his seat and is regarding
her almost sternly. So is Vera, with a light
in her eyes meant to strike Griselda into
silence, but that reckless person refuses to
see it. ' Dinner ? '

Yes,' said Griselda, returning her cousin's
stern glance with the pleasantness little nod.
Have I said anything indiscreet ? '

Is it true ? ' asks Seaton, turning to Vera.
It is a rather rude question, but there is so
much shame and anxiety in his tone that
Griselda forgives him.

Why should it not be true ? ' says Vera
coldly", with a gravity that savours of disapproval.
' As a rule, we dine early.'

She means that we always dine early
except when we know you are coming,'
supplements Griselda even more mildly than
before.

'And this ' with a hurried glance at

the scanty meal, ' do you mean to tell me that
that this is your dinner every day ? '

'Literally,' says Griselda cheerfully.
This is the chop that change not. It is
not all that one could desire, of course, but if
sometimes it might be altered for '

Griselda ! ' interrupts Vera, rising to her
feet.

Why should I not speak ? ' asks Griselda
in a meekly injured tone. ' I was merely
going to add that a fowl occasionally would
be a good deal of moral use to us. I have

p 2

always heard that to keep the temper in a
healthy state, change of food is necessary.'

I feel as if I ought to apologise to you
for all this,' says Dysart with a heavy sigh,
addressing Vera exclusively, ' and as if, too,
no apology could be accepted. But I shall
see that it does not occur again.'

'I beg you will do nothing,' says Vera
quickly. ' Nothing. I will not have my uncle
spoken to on this subject. Griselda is only
in jest ; she speaks like a foolish child. I,'
folding her hands tightly together, ' I forbid
you to say anything about it.'

I regret that I must disobey you,' says
Seaton courteously but with determination.
My father's house is in part mine, and I will
suffer no truest to endure discomfort in it.'

There is no discomfort now. There will
be if you try to alter matters in our favour.'

You mean that you will accept nothing

at my hands, is that it ? ' exclaims he, passion
that will not be repressed in his tone ; the
coldness seems broken up, there is fire in his
eyes and a distinct anger. ' You have had
that "time" you spoke of; has it fulfilled
its missions, has it taught you to detest me?
No ! ' detaining her deliberately as she seeks to
leave the room. ' Don't go, you should give
me a real reason for your studied discourtesy,
for I won't believe that I am naturally
abhorrent to you. There must be something
else.'

If you must know,' says she, looking
back defiantly at him, her blood a little hot,
you are too like your father for me to
pretend friendship with you.'

Oh, Yera, I think you shouldn't say that ! '
cries Griselda, now honestly frightened at the
storm she has raised, but neither of the others
hear her. Yera with one little slender white

hand grasping the back of a chair near her,
is looking fixedly at Seaton, whose face has
changed. An expression of keen pain crosses
it.

Has he been so bad to yon as that ? ' he
says, and then, with a profound sigh, ' My
poor father ! '

There is something so honestly grieved in
Ms whole air that Vera's heart smites her.

'Why will you bring up this discussion
again and again ? ' she says with remorseful
impatience. ' Why not let me go my way
unquestioned, and you yours P What am I to
you when all is told ? I am outside your
life, I ever shall be ; yet it seems to me as if
you were bent on compelling my Hies and
dislikes.'

You are right,' says he, going closer to
her, his face very pale, ' I would compel you
to  to more than like me.'

Compel ! ' lie has drawn back from him,
and her eyes now uplifted look defiance into
his.

If I could,' supplements he gently.

He turns and leaves the room.

'Now see, see what you have brought
upon me,' cries Vera, facing Griselda with
vehement agitation.

Oh, I am so sorry,' says Griselda, immense
contrition in her tone. ' I never thought
he would get angry like that. I didn't,
indeed. And I thought it such a good
opportunity ; and I do so hate those chops
and '

Oh, don't ! That will do ! ' says Vera
growing cold again, and putting up one hand
as if to command silence.

But I must explain to you,' persists
Griselda, really unhappy ; ' I am so afraid
you think that I was '

You were vulgar,' says Vera icily, moving
away to a distant window.

Oh, darling, what a horrid thing to say !
Don't talk to me like that. Was it vulgar
not to pretend it was luncheon ? Or shouldn't
I have said anything about the chops at
all ? Vera, you know I'd cut my tongue out

before Why, you're crying ! Why,

Vera ! Oh ! are you afraid he will speak
to his father and make things even more
uncomfortable ? You needn't ; I am sure
he won't.'

Oh yes, he will speak to his father ;
I saw that in his eye. Nothing will prevent
that. But I am not frightened,' proudly. ' I
shall wait until his interview is at an end, and
then I shall go too  to Uncle Gregory, and
ask him as a favour not to alter anything
where we are concerned.'

Then it will be mutton to the end of our

days,' says Griselda with a noble effort at
resignation, ' as that old miser beyond will be
only too delighted to fall in with your wishes,
on this subject at all events.'

CHAPTEE XV.

In this world is much treachery, little truth ; here all things
are traps ; here everything is beset with snares.

Meantime, Seaton has been having a tussle
sharp and severe with his father, a task most
uncongenial, as the old man is hard to battle
with, and it is difficult for a son to enjoy a
victory that has laid bare the meanness and
poverty of a parent's mind. Having wrung
from him, however, a promise that means a
considerable increase of comfort to the girls
in future, he makes a still further effort to
show the righteousness of his cause.

They are all alone in the world,' he says.

Yes, yes,' acknowledges the old man with

a frown. ' Except for me,' hastily, ' I  I
alone came to their rescue.'

That is true. It was quite what I should
have expected of you ! '

It was not, however. This is a mere
bacon de parler. Nothing under Heaven had
more astonished the son than the father's
suddenly expressed wish to support his
orphan nieces. It had indeed raised him
fifty per cent, in his good opinion, and shown
lines of loveliness in a nature that up to this
had seemed stony beyond hope of impression.

Why should you expect it ? There was
no reason,' says the old man sharply. ' It
was of my own freewill I took them. There
was no coercion, no '

Of course not, I quite understand.' The
younger man being rather deep in thought, is
looking with unconscious earnestness at the
other, who presently seems to writhe beneath

his glance and to draw back from it. ' But
still, you must remember always that they are
your brother's children,' goes on Seaton, a
shade of solemnity falling into his tone. He
leans forward in his chair and looks earnestly
at the old man.

'What do you mean by that?' cries
Dysart shrilly. His face has changed, and is
now of an ashen grey ; and lie puts out his
hands involuntarily, as if to ward off some
hateful thought. ' What of that P ' he cries
hoarsely. ' What do you mean by your
tone ? Don't look at me like that, boy !
What have I done to them ? Have I not

housed, sheltered, fed '

True ; all true. But surely there is
something more that mioht be done. Kindness,

affection '

Ah ! ' Dysart interrupts him by a heavy
sifh  one of relief it almost seems.

I fancied you spoke as though you
thought I were compelled to support them,' he
says, glancing sideways at his son, a cunning
light in his brilliant eyes  horrible eyes ! 
contrasting painfully with the death-like
pallor, the unearthly emaciation of the face 
torches set, as it were, in the sockets of a
corpse. ' Do you then question my kindness
to them ? ' His tone is hard and repellent
now. ' What more am I to do for them ?
Would you have me kneel at their feet, and
do them homage ? '

It merely occurred to me that being so
much alone as you are, leading so solitary
a life  I unfortunately can give you so little
of my time  that you might be glad to look
upon them as daughters.'

Well, do I not ? Have I not explained
to you how desirous I am of making one of
them my daughter ? Hah ! I have you there,

I think ! Is not that affection ? Am I not
willing to receive her? You should best
know.'

'Yes,' says the young man stonily, his
eyes on the ground.

Why, look you, I would give her even
you ! You ! My son ! My one possession
that has any good in it ! '

He sits up more erect, and it is almost
terrible to see the flash of passionate affection
that for a moment illumines his wicked old
face. Seeing it, one would find it impossible
to doubt that the sole, supreme passion of his
life is centred in his son. Seaton, as if a little
surprised by this strange outburst, lifts his
head and regards him steadily.

Yes  yes ; I would welcome her as a

daughter if When, a week ago, you

told me you were willing to fall in with my
wishes and make that girl your wife, it was

one of the happiest moments in my life  the
happiest for many a long year.' He sinks
back in his chair, and a low moaning sound
escapes him. Is it for those troublous years
in which no light lay ? Then he rouses himself
again, and stooping forward looks eagerly
at his son. ' Well, and how goes it, Seaton ?
how speeds your wooing ? Eh, eh ? Have
you made progress, eh . '

The expression on the greedy old face as
it approaches his own seems almost too much
for the younger man at this moment. Pushing
back his chair with a rather violent movement
he rises to his feet.

None,' he answers coldly.

Once again a flash of life, vindictive this
time, lights the parchment face.

You mean ' he says, a growing fury

in his eyes.

That you must put that idea out of your

head once for all. I could not combat a
dislike active as hers.'

Her dislike ? Hers ? That beggar ! ' his
face working. 'What d'ye mean, sir? I tell
you it shall be ! Shall ! '

Talking like that will not mend matters.
It certainly will not alter the fact that I myself
personally am objectionable to her. I can see
that it is almost as much as she can do to be
civil to me  to sit at the same table with me.
I entreat you not to set your heart upon this
thing, for it can never be.'

I tell you again that it shall I ' shrieks
the old man violently. ' What ! is the cherished
dream of a lifetime to be set aside to suit the
whim of a girl, a penniless creature? She
shall be your wife, I swear it, though I have
to crush the consent out of her.'

It would be impossible to describe the
cruel frenzy with which he says this, clenching

his hands as though he had her within them,
the small exquisitely shaped hand, delicate yet
so lithe and strong withal, and in such strange
keeping with the rest of the frail frame.

You seem to have left me altogether out
of it,' says Seaton gravely, shocked at his
horrible vehemence. ' Pray try to be calm,
and consider how the case stands. The consent
being wrung from her as you describe,
and an unwilling wife flung into my arms,
will you tell me what I am to do with her ? '

Tread her underfoot, rule her with a rod
of iron,' says the old man with unabated rage.
All women are false  false as hell ! Show
them no mercy.'

All women are not as some,' says Seaton
coldly. ' Many may be false, as you describe
them, but Vera is not of that order. I would
stake my soul upon her honesty ! ' He frowns
heavily as he says this, and a quick breath

VOL. I. Q

parts his lips. ' As for this discussion '  slowly

' it is idle. I abandon all thought, all '

he pauses, and then continues in a lower tone,
all hope of ever making her my wife ! '

You give it up ? You will not help me ? '
exclaims Dysart, starting to his feet. ' Do
you know what this means to me ? Life or
death ! Have you considered that I can disinherit
you ? And I will do it. I swear by
Heaven I will leave you penniless as she is,
if you refuse me your support in this matter.
Look here, sir '  his eyes seem starting from
his sockets, a little foam has gathered at his
lips. The madness born of the accumulated,
miserable, burning thoughts of many years 
thoughts without channel for outlet  is nearly

on him now. ' I curse  I curse ' He

falls back clumsily into his chair a huddled
heap.

Seaton in an agony of remorse and fear

hangs over him, compelling him to swallow a
cordial lying on the table near.

Hear, sir ! Be patient. All shall be as
you wish. I implore you to think no more of
this matter. Yes,' in answer to the fiery eyes
now more ghastly than ever in the pallid,
powerless face, ' I shall try my best to fulfil
your desire.' He feels sick at heart as he says
this, and almost despicable, but can he let the
old man die for want of a word to appease
the consuming rage that has brought death
hovering with outstretched wings above him ?
And yet, of what avail is it all ? A momentary
appeasement. Even as he comforts and restores
his father, there rises before his mental
vision that pale, proud, sorrowful face that is
all the world to him, and yet, alas, so little !

The paroxysm over, Seaton draws his
father into other grooves, and so leads him
farther and farther afield, until the dangerous

Q 2

topic is, he hopes, for the time being at least,
forgotten. Yet the hope is fallacious. Dysart,
satisfied with the promise wrung from his son
not to renounce his hope of making Vera his
wife, is clever enough to know that as dropping
water wears away a stone, so is nagging death
to the fulfilment of some desires. Perhaps,
too, a little feebleness working in that wonderful
mind warns him to give it a rest.

How are you getting on with your work ? '
he asks presently, hardly a trace of his late
agitation in his voice. 'Clients dropping in,
eh?'

Pretty well,' says Seaton disparagingly,
with however something in his tone that says
he could say more an' he would  more to his
credit, did not modesty forbid.

That's well. That's right,' says Dysart,
rubbing his palms together in a nervous feverish
way. ' For there's little money here, I may

tell you. All swallowed up by these thieving
rascals round me. Only last week a huge
bill, an iniquitous bill, came in from one of
the tenants. Repairs  repairs always is their
cry. They are like the horse leech and his
daughters. And then there are your cousins !
You think they do not count, that meat for
one means meat for two, but that is because
you understand nothing. I'm beggared between
them all, I tell you. I'm a poor man,
Seaton  a very poor man.' The wretched
voice dwindles almost into a whine.

Yes  I think I do understand,' says
Seaton, with wonderful composure. He even
manages to smile kindly at the extremely unpleasant
father with whom nature has endowed
him ; yet it is by a supreme effort only
that he keeps back the unfilial sense of loathing
that fills him. It is all so pitiful, so poor,
so false. The old man trembling on the

brink of the grave that yawns ready for him,
dinging with greedy hands to the gold that
he yet dreads to acknowledge, lest he be defrauded
of it ; an old man fabulously rich
through long years of saving, who yet grudges
to his orphan nieces a morsel of bread !
 A sensation of sickness takes hold of
Seaton. Eising rather abruptly, he mutters
an excuse or two and quits the room.

CHAPTER Xii.

Strong are the instincts with which God has guarded the
sacredness of marriage.

Vera having made up her mind to go to her
uncle and fully explain to him that neither
she nor Griselda desire any change in their
way of living, waits patiently for Seaton's
departure from his father's den, and now,
at last, seeing the coast clear, goes quickly
forward, as if afraid lest her determination
should weaken.

Uncle Gregory, I wish to say something
to you,' she is beginning hurriedly, hating her
task and hating her hearer, when suddenly
she is interrupted.

Hah ! For the first time, let me say, I

am glad to see you,' says the old man grimly.
Hitherto I have been remiss, I fear, in such
minor matters of etiquette. Sit down. I,
too, have something to say to you.'

That she is in for a severe scolding because
of Seaton's attempt at interference on
her and Griselda's behalf, becomes a certainty
to Miss Dysart, as she draws forward an extremely
shaky chair, and cautiously seats-herself
upon it.

You cannot be more annoyed than I

am ' she is beginning faintly, when once

again he strikes in.

Who is annoyed . ' he demands fiercely,,
shaking his head at her. ' Tush, girl, I've
heard enough about your grievances. There
are a few other things in the world to be considered.
Attend to me.' Here he fixes his
piercing eyes on lier and says sharply, ' You
have met mv son several times ? '

Yes,' says Vera slowly, being still
possessed by the idea that she is about to
receive a reprimand.

You like him ? ' with a watchful glance.

I can hardly say so much,' coldly. ' He
is neither more nor less than a complete
stranger to me.'

As yet. Time will cure that ; and I
speak thus early to you because it is well that
you should make up your mind beforehand
to like him.'

Something in his tone compels Vera to
turn more directly towards him.

Why ? ' she asks.

Because in him you see your future husband.'


There is a dead pause. The old man sits
with bright unblinking eyes fixed upon the
girl, who has risen to her feet and is staring
back at him as if hardly daring to understand.

From red to white, from white to red she
grows ; her breath fails her, passionate indignation
burns hot within her breast. Then
suddenly she throws her anger from her as
unworthy, and faces her uncle with a steady
gaze.

- ' Absurd ! ' she says contemptuously.

Call it so, if you will,' with an offended
flash from his dark eyes, ' but regard it asa
fact for all that. You will marry your
cousin, let me assure you.'

That I certainly shall not,' decisively.

That you certainly shall.'

Do not compel me to contradict you
again,' says Vera with dignity. ' Try to
understand that no living power shall make
me marry anyone against my will.'

A dead power may, however. Did you
not know that your marriage with my son

was the last wish, the last command of your
father ? '

He is lying well, so well that at first the
girl forgets to doubt him.

My father ? ' she says with much amazement.
' He never so much as mentioned my
cousin's name to me.'

To me, however, he did. Do you wish
to see the letter ? '

This is a bold stroke. Yera hesitates 
then, ' Sto,' says she steadily. ' Even if my
father did express such a wish, I should not
for a moment accede to it. I shall not marry
to please anyone, dead or living, except myself.'


The colour has flamed again into her
white cheeks, and she has unconsciously but
haughtily thrown back her head. Resolution
is so strongly marked on every feature that

for a second or two Mr. Dysart tastes of the
bitterness of defeat. Only the taste, however.
Presently he rallies. What ! is he so easily to
be induced to abandon the scheme of his life,
to give up the one thing to which a late conscience
clings as its salve for all the ill-spent
past, when it lay dormant ? A thousand times,
no ! He feels as if he could shout aloud that
defiant monosyllable. Surely, frail as he seems,
as he is, the power, the will, in him to force
the wills of others is not yet dead.

You take high ground,' he says with a
sneer. ' You defy me I You refuse to give
ear to the sacred command of a dead father !
Why? For what weighty purpose do you
thus array yourself against me ? What fault
do you find in my son ? '

I have not studied him,' with a curl of
her short upper lip. ' It is a matter of the
purest indifference to me whether he be immaculate

or " a sinner above all the Galilean"'


You confess, then, you do not know
him ? By your own showing he is an utter
stranger to you. His smallest vices and virtues
are unknown. When, therefore, you do
know him '

I shall still be as determined as I am today
never to marry him.'

And why ? Surely, most sapient damsel,
you have a good reason for this most unreasonable
determination ? ' As he speaks
there is an expression on his face that says he
would gladly kill her where she stands if
only he dared. Vera, seeing it, smiles bitterly
to herself, but not for a second does she quail
before it. There is enough of his own blood
in her to uphold her in this hour.

I have endured enough already through
my own family,' she says in a low tone, but

distinctly. ' I refuse to link myself further
with it.'

How dare you, girl ? ' cries her uncle,
flinging off all restraint and letting the fury
that is consuming him have way. ' How dare
you stand thus before me and insult me to
my face ? Fool, do you indeed believe that
what I have set my mind upon can be lightly
thrust aside to suit the pleasure of a perverse
child? If you will not regard my plan for
your future well-being from a kindly side,
think then of the advantages to yourself to
be derived therefrom  the wealth, the position
that will accrue to you from the union I
offer you.'

Do not dream that you can tempt me,'
says she, scorn now upon her beautiful lips.
I think only of the fact that he is your son.
What wealth could compensate me for that ? '

If she had expected an outburst after this,

that would put an end to the interview, she is
disappointed. Mr. Dysart, on the contrary,
seems to grow calmer and regards her more
with attention.

Insolence does not touch me,' he said
quietly. 'It does not affect me at all. In
spite of your ill-advised and singularly rude
speech I would still recommend you to take
to heart the offer I make you. Marry my
son, and in time you will be richer than
most.' (It is singular that in his wild desire
to win his cause he had forgotten his usual
role of poor man.) ' You are a woman ; all
such are mercenary. Think, therefore! I
desire you once more to consider how such
a marriage will improve your prospects.'

What I am considering,' returns she
slowly, 'is the strangeness of it all. Your
anxiety, your overpowering anxiety to marry
your son to  a pauper ! '

She speaks the word with accentuated
bitterness. She has not forgotten it. It had
clung to her hurt memory during all these
days, these weeks spent in this hateful house.
As she says it, however, she is a little startled
by the sudden change that overspreads the
old man's face. An odd change ; not anger,
not shame, but one of sickening fear !

It endures for so short a time that almost
Vera persuades herself it has not been ; but
later on the memory of it haunts her.

That surprises you,' he says quickly, in a
suave tone, the friendliest she has ever yet
heard from him. ' But you must remember
as I hinted to you just now  that your
marriage with my son was a pet scheme of
your father's and mine, before he died, and I
am not accustomed to have my stated wishes
disobeyed. Hence any haste or anger I may
have displayed.'

I am very sorry for that,' icily, ' as this
wish of yours '  a very slight emphasis 
will most certainly be disobeyed.'

'So you now think. We shall see,' returns
he in a tone as icy. He rises to his
feet and points to the door. ' Go, and think
it over.'

I need not ; it is unworthy of a single
thought. I am not your slave, sir, that you
shall command or coerce me.' She pauses
half-way to the door and looks back at him.
One question,' she says. ' May I ask if 
if your son is aware of this arrangement ? '

I have spoken to him of it,' says Dysart
after a second's thought.

And is he willing to  to  oh, it is
abominable ! ' cries the girl with a shudder of
shame that shakes all her slight body. She
bites her lips cruelly in an effort to suppress

VOL. I. R

the fierce storm of indignation that threatens
to overcome her.

My son is willing,' says Mr. Dysart
slowly.

For a moment she tells herself that he is
lying. No ; even though he be that old
man's son, even though at this moment she
feels again the same strange shrinking from
him that always seizes her when in his presence,
she cannot believe Seaton so altogether
base. Certainly her uncle had forsworn himself
when he spoke of her father's desire to
see her married to her cousin. If once he
lied, why not twice? Is Seaton to be so
exonerated or not ?

At this moment the door is thrown open
and Seaton himself enters.

CHAPTEE Xiii.

Judge not ; the workings of his brain
And of his heart thou canst not see.

He gives a quick glance first at lier pale, disturbed
face, then at his father's. Something
in his tells her all.

You knew ! ' she cries. Her tone is low,
but each word rings clear as a bell through
the cool silence of the darkened room. ' You
knew ! '

If the saving of his very soul had depended
on it, Seaton could not have answered her just
then. He did know. And the thought that
his father, his own father, should have so
desecrated the happy ignorance of her heart
strikes him cold and dumb. His father ! In

R 2

that lies the sting. Would it be possible for
her ever after to separate the two  would not
she rather bracket them in her detestation ?
It was a cursedly cruel thing of the old man
to do, and has slain more than her peace of
mind.

 She has drawn closer to him, and is gazing
at him with remorseless eyes.

Oh, coward ! ' she breathes very low, her
slender hands clenched.

Again he would have spoken, have made
some defence, however poor, but words are
denied him ; he can think of, can see, only
those dark contemptuous eyes looking into
his, the sad reproached mouth, the broad
pure brow, on which the ripping curls lie
lightly, lovingly.

Was it not enough,' she says, still in that
same clear penetrating voice, ' enough that I
was unhappily, so unhappily, dependent on

you ? You knew me to be here, defenceless,
homeless, fatherless, in your power, and still
you struck ! Oh, through all I did not in my
most secret thoughts accuse you of such baseness
as this ! '

Roused from his lethargy and stung by
her contempt he would now have made his
defence, but with a scornful gesture she
waves him aside and leaves the room.

Great Heaven ! how did you dare so to
insult her ? ' cries the young man in terrible
agitation, addressing his father. He casts a
burning glance at him. Dysart cowers before
it.

Out of evil comes good,' he says sullenly,
 and I did it for the best.' He stretches
out his hand to his son. ' See then,' he
cries entreatingly, 'I did it for you  for

you!

For me ! You ruin the one hope I had,

which meant silence  time  and you say it
was for my good ! '

I thought to compel her, to frighten her
into consent, and I will yet,' cries he eagerly.
Nay, Seaton, do not look thus upon me. I
have not betrayed you without meaning and
all for the fulfilling of your desire  and mine ! '

To-day you were annoyed with me because
your scheme was failing,' says Seaton,
very pale, ' but it is you yourself who have
now put a final stop to it.'

Not so, boy,' with a frown. ' What ! d'ye
think she can conquer me ? Nay, I know
women. A few whimpers, a few" tears, a
calling upon the heaven above to come to
their succour, a heaven deaf and blind and
dumb, mind you  and then  submission and
then '

He breaks off with a sinister chuckle.

You misunderstand me,' says Seaton,

curbing this passion with difficulty. ' I would
not have her as a gift on such terms. Is ita
slave I want, think you ? No, not another
word ! I cannot stand it to-night. Forgive
me, father, if I seem abrupt, but '

He seems heartbroken as he turns aside
and disappears through the doorway.

Long after he has gone the old man sits
motionless, his head bowed upon his breast.

Curse her ! ' he says at last, ' the same
blood all through, and always to my undoing !
Cursed be her lot indeed if she comes between
him and me ! But that shall never be.'

He walks feebly up and down the room,
leaning on his staff, the dark inscrutable eyes
fixed upon the floor. Presently he turns
aside, and passing through a door on his right
hand gropes his way along the unlit passage
until he comes to another and smaller door
that brings him to the corridor that runs by

the western end of the house. Unlocking and
entering an apartment here, that apartment
where the strange old cabinet stands, he
fastens the door securely behind him, and
goes quickly up to it.

Kneeling down beside it he unlocks the
secret door, and taking out the withered
parchment opens and reads it with a feverish
haste. It seems as though he hopes thus to
slake the raging thirst for revenge that is tormenting
him.

Long he kneels thus, conning each word
with curious care, gloating over the contents
of that mysterious document. So lost is hein
his perusal of it, that he fails to hear the
approach of Mrs. Grunch until she lays her
hand upon his shoulder.

What, don't you know it by heart yet . '
asks she derisively.

Meantime Vera has rushed upstairs to her
room ; her brain seems on fire ; her thoughts
refuse to concentrate themselves. Flinging
herself into a low chair she takes her head
into her hands and presses her trembling
fingers convulsively against lier forehead.

Oh, the indignity, the horror, the shame
of it all ! Her temples are throbbing, a low
dry sob escapes her. She is deeply thankful
that Griselda has gone cut  not even to her
could she have spoken just now  she could
not have explained this thing, she could not
endure the look in the girl's face as she
heard it.

And that last speech of the old man's 
that crowned all ! It was in keeping with the
sorry scene. ' My son is willing.' Willing !
willing to make this hateful sacrifice ! Willing
to marry even her to please his father, to
curry favour with him lest he fall out of his

good graces, and lose the money that the old
man must leave behind him when death
strikes.

Oh, the dastard ! The poor pitiful
wretch, thus to sell his manhood, his honour,
his whole life, for the sake of paltry gold !
He had paled when he saw her ; he knew
then that his contemptible attitude was plain
to her, that his father had betrayed him.
Some remnant of grace had made his colour
fade, and she wondered how he had the
courage, the hardihood, to stand there to face
her, knowing that she knew all.

Eising she begins to pace the room with
rapid footsteps.

That it should come to this ! That she
should be openly insulted, brought so low
that a man should dare to think of her as
won before even her consent was asked ! She
had dreamed her dreams, as all girls will;

had lingered many a time in fancy over some
vague hour in the future, when some vague
somebody should be glad, even proud, to win
her love  nay, more, should count that love
the one great good the earth could give him.
And now she is to be delivered up into the
hands of a man who has, with many sighs
doubtless, and many a frown and deep regret,
declared himself willing to burden himself
with her for life ! What a touch of resignation
lies in the word !

Her lip curls. After all they had miscalculated.
They should have chosen some
other woman to play that meek part. She
pauses suddenly in her rapid walk as though
some new strange thought has come to her.
Why had she been chosen? Why should a
man so miserly as Gregory Dysart elect towed
his son to a girl whom he himself had
in choicest language, dubbed a ' pauper ' ?

Surely there must be something in this. And
why should the younger man lend himself to
such a scheme? Surely some weighty meaning
was attached to it. There had been
little love lost between her father, the elder
brother, and Gregory ; therefore no sentimental
nonsense could have suggested the idea of
a marriage between the cousins to the latter.
Sentiment and Gregory Dysart ! She almost
laughs aloud at the strange combination she
has formed.

Yet, think as she will, no light comes to
her. Backwards and forwards she beats her
brains, trying to work out the troublesome
problem presented to her, coming always to a
mental cul de sac that drives her back upon
herself bewildered.

CHAPTER XVIII.

How do I love thee ? Let me count the ways.
I love thee to the depth, the breadth, and height
My soul can reach, when feeling out of sight
For the ends of Being and ideal Grace.

It is now close upon noon, and Griselda
walking briskly, yet with a carefully indifferent
air upon her (because he is a wonderfully
ubiquitous person, and it is almost
impossible to know round what corner he
may not spring himself upon you at a
moment's notice), is endeavouring to get
what good she can out of the glorious afternoon.


It is indeed exceptionally lovely. The soft
shower that fell an hour ago is now half
forgotten, living only in the hearts of the tiny

myriad raindrops that nestle in the flowers
and hang here and there from the more
secluded branches. The sun is shining forth
again with a redoubled brilliancy, and the
great hanging clusters of the honeysuckle
bursting from bud to blossom, emitting
perfumes richer than those of Araby, fill all
the air with sweets.

Daisies pied, and violets blue,
And lady-smocks all silver white,
And cuckoo-buds of yellow bue 

all, all are here, with a thousand other gems
of Nature's rearing. The sky is streaked with
soft blue lines that fade into a world of fleecy
whiteness, and against it stand out some giant
firs growing upwards from a rocky hill ;
whilst through all these comes a rushing
tremulous sound, mingling with them yet distinct,
that tells of the cool tumbling of waters
over stones unseen, and that yet is half

silenced by the glorious paean that the birds
are giving forth from this their leafy home.

Griselda in her big white sun-bonnet that
suits so charmingly her mignonne face, and
from out of which her soft eyes glance so
coquettishly, looks as if Nature had appropriated
her and made her one with her surroundings.
Happily unconscious of all that
has taken place at Greycourt, she walks
merrily onward, drinking in sweet draughts
with every step.

Not that her mind is so free from care
either, as she would have you believe. There
was that quarrel with Peyton the day before
yesterday, in which she cannot think she was
altogether blameless, try as she will. An uncomfortable
feeling that, if she should chance
to meet him to-day, she will be hardly able
to present as innocent a front as she would
desire, is rendering her nervous ; and even as

she SO thinks, she turns a corner and comes
upon that young man standing knee deep in
the stream, which here almost rises to the
dignity of a river, minus boots and stockings,
and with his trousers well tucked-up.

Well, really ! ' says Griselda, stopping
short and striking a shocked attitude. She
could not have argued it out, but it instantly
dawns upon her that here is an excellent
opportunity of pretending to be offended, and
so placing him in the wrong. If she had
hoped to abash him, however, by this mode
of address, she is decidedly out of it.

'Oh, how d'ye do?' says he in an unmoved
tone, lifting his cap with his disengaged
hand.

'Such a position for a gentleman!' says
Griselda, drawing nearer to the bank of the
stream, which, of course, as she was so
terribly shocked, she ought not to have done.

Capital one on a hot day,' with increasing
nonchalance.

It's not a capital one when I'm present ! '
wrath fully.

'I couldn't possibly know you would be
present. I had entirely given you up. I
never expected to see you again.'

Why ? '

'You know very well what you said tome
when we parted  last month,' says he,
chewing the end of a fresh cast very diligently.


Last month ! '

You can call it anything you like. I've
no doubt it seems like five minutes ago to
you. But, at all events, I remember what
you said then  and besides, you didn't come
yesterday.'

And do you suppose I am bound to come
here every day ? ' demands she with very just

VOL. I. s

indignation  really he is going to the Fair
with the thing.

I don't know what I suppose. Who
could argue in the middle of a stream ? ' says
Mr. Peyton, making for the bank with all
haste. ' There is only one thing of which
I'm morally certain, and that is, that you'll
break my heart before you've done with me.'

I shan't,' says she ironically ; ' I promise
you that.'

You do ? I'll keep you to your word,'
returns he grimly. As he speaks, the bank
being slippery, he loses his footing and
splashes back once more into the water.

You are much more likely to break your
leg,' says Griselda scornfully, who is dying to
laugh, but that dignity forbids. ' Well '  ashe
at last lands on the grass beside her  ' I
must say you are a spectacle.'

For gods and men,' supplements he

promptly. ' I regret, of course, that you
should have come upon me in this trim, but
here are my shoes and socks, and I'll be into
them in no time.'

I'm glad you apologised at once,' says
she, with a little gleam of unkind sarcasm,
and may I ask what brought you here ? I
did think this spot was unknown to you ;
that's why I came here to-day.'

'Ah, yes. Just so. That's why I came
too,' says Mr. Peyton coolly, after a final
struggle with his right boot.

Griselda, too indignant to take notice of
this, turns abruptly away and pursues her
walk alone the edse of the stream. Mr.
Peyton having now conquered the left boot,
follows her, and silently, but with a determination
not to be subdued, takes up a position
by her side. Of course, to show cither anger
or surprise at this would give him an advantage

; so Griselda, after a moment's consideration,
decides upon going in for ordinary
society conversation.

A charming day, is it not ? ' she asks
calmly if not affably.

More than that, surely. A regular heyday
in my estimation,' returns Mr. Peyton
mildly. The fact that there is no meaning in
this finishes Griselda. There is a struggle
strong but brief, and then she bursts into uncontrollable
mirth.

I have amused you,' says Mr. Peyton,
regarding her reproachfully. ' I am to understand
you laugh at me ? This is adding
insult to injury.' Here his own gravity is
threatened. ' " Beware the fury of a patient
man"' he says, and then gives way, and
breaks into laughter, merry as her own.

Oh, I thought you'd never come,' he
says. ' What kept you ? '

Ill-temper,' confesses she sweetly. ' That
row-royal of ours was too much for me. I
didn't get over it until this moment.'

You are a cruel little thing,' says he resentfully,
whilst looking at her with adoring
eyes.

Do you think so ? Oh, I don't,' says she
with an unprejudiced air. ' And as for being
little, I am nearly as tall as yourself, only for
an inch or two.'

That would be a good deal if added to
the length of one's nose,' says he reflectively.
Perhaps he is thinking of his own nose,
which is short indeed, and wishing he could
place them there. ' Anyhow, Griselda, you
have been cruel.'

I really think, perhaps, that you oughtn't
to call me by my christian name,' says she
uncertainly.

Well, I won't if I can help it. But when

one thinks of you so, and so much too

And, after all, it is great nonsense, all that
sort of thing. Long ago there were no surnames,
and how did they manage then ? ' He
is growing triumphant. Let her answer that
if she can.

 ' That was in the dark ages ; I do hope
you don't want to go back to them,' says
she severely. ' And as for what you say,

would you like every man to call ' She

checks herself only just in time  ' well, to
call your sister, let us say, by her christian
name ? '

I shouldn't like every man or any man
to call you by yours,' says he, disdaining pretence
of any kind, ' but  but I wish you
would give me permission, Griselda.'

I'm sure it will be better not,' says
Griselda hesitating. ' Of course I shan't mind
when you do it by chance, or when you

forget, or when you are in a hurry ; but as a
usual thing  no.'

So be it,' says he, in the heartbroken
tone lovers assume when denied the smallest
trifle. A silence follows upon this. Griselda,
having pulled two or three long pieces of
grass from a high bank by which she passes
grass so dry and yellow now as to be almost
hay  is occupying herself by drawing
them leisurely through her fingers. But
even such an enthralling amusement as this
will not satisfy for ever. Presently she casts
an inquiring glance at him from under the
sun-bonnet.

What are you thinking of . ' asks she
demurely.

Of you,' bluntly. Truly he is a terrible

person.

Well, what of me ? ' with a resigned
sigh.

Only something I was reading yesterday,'
What could that have to do with me ?

Let me hear it, then.'

I don't know, after all, that it had so
much to do with you as me.'

'Is it a riddle ? ' stopping short, and
giving him now a rather indignant glance
from under the bonnet.

Oh, no ; at least, not more so than usual.
'Twas poetry,' says he, with beautiful simplicity.
' Just a line or two that struck me.
Shall I repeat them .

'Love
For love's own sake and for the love thereof
Let no harsh words untune your gracious mood ;
For good it were, if anything be good,
To comfort me in this pain's plague of mine.'

I really wish you wouldn't,' says she
nervously, when he has made this appeal to
her better self in a truly eloquent tone. ' It's
quite horrid of you.' Here she edges away
from him. ' I've so often told Vera that you

never say things like that, that I feel just as
if I were telling lies when you do. And,
besides, it's such nonsense. "My gracious
mood "  why where does that come in ? '

Sometimes, at odd moments, you are
civil,' says the young man moodily. ' I only
wish you could cry them "even" now and
again.'

And what is your pain's plague ? ' asks
she in a distinctly hilarious manner. ' If
standing about in the water for hours has
brought it on, I don't see how I'm to be
blamed for it. But I never heard rheumatism
called by such an astounding title before.'
Here her eyes grow roguish and her lips part.
'Besides, it's all wrong,' she says; 'plagues
are infectious ; rheumatism, your pain, isn't.'

'Not so far as you are concerned, certainly,'
says he with bitterness. ' No fear
you will take it.'

You look as if that was matter for regret,'
says she, peering round at him mischievously.
' Oh, what an unkind speech !
Who is " cruel " now ? Would you see me
racked with pain ? I don't think, unless I
had heard it with my own ears, I should
have believed that of you.'

You don't believe it now either,' says he
solidly. ' You know my meaning as well as
I do. I wonder what you gain by trying to
make me miserable? I'm sorry now that I
repeated that poetry to you.'

She laughs.

That's the funniest part of it,' says she
(the funniest !) ; ' the idea of your repeating
poetry, I mean. You don't look like that.'

Why . ' demands he, now very properly
incensed.

 Well, you don't  that's all. And Swinburne,
too, of all people ! I've always heard,'

says she maliciously, ' that people who like
Swinburne are those who have been in love
over and over again, and have no heart left
to do anything but sneer at honest affection.'


You've heard a good deal,' says he ; ' do
you believe it all ? And as for that, Swinburne
is not the only poet I admire. Here !
in spite of your reception of ray first lines, I'll
give you two more.' He is regarding her
rather defiantly, yet with sorrow in his
eyes.

 Joy of my life ! full oft for loving you,
I bless my lot, that was so lucky placed.'

What ! Chaucer too ! ' cries she, lifting
brows and shoulders in affected astonishment.

Not Chaucer,' says he with an unsmiling
eye, ' Spenser.'

Oh, it's all the same,' declares she with
quite a noble impartiality.

They have left the denser portions "of the
wood rather behind them now, and have come
to where the Hight falls with a better hope of
being seen. The stream, however, that always
follows them, is still here, and the trees beside
it are bending down as if heavy with love,
and are dipping their long branches into it, as
it runs darkly, swiftly by on its way to the
ocean. The delicate, pleasant, gurgling noise
it makes is as music of the finest and sweetest
to the ear, as it rushes with a soft mad haste
over its pebbles, throwing out gleaming rays
of orange brown and gold as it springs from
stone to stone.

Above them runs a strip of dirty grey
that after awhile resolves itself into a road to
Griselda's eyes.

Why, we are near the highway,' she says,
pausing as if in doubt.

'A mere private road. One that leads

only to Greycourt,' says he reassuringly,
though still coldly.

'That means privacy indeed,' says she
laughing. 'Do you know I never saw it
before. Let us go closer that I may know it
better.'

When they have so far reached it that
only twenty yards or so divides them from it,
Mr. Peyton, whose conversation up to this has
been conspicuous by its absence, makes a
remark

CHAPTER XIX.

oil, happiness enjoyed but of a few !
And if possess'd as soon decay'd and done
As is the morning's silver melting dew
Against the golden splendour of the sun.

Your shoe is untied,' he says slowly, as if
fulfilling an unpleasant duty, and with quite
an access of gloom.

'Is it ? What a worry these shoes are ! '
says Griselda, standing still to cast a reproachful
glance at the ribbons of this troublesome,
if charming, shoe. ' I never come out, I
never indeed have them on for yq minutes
without being made absolutely wretched by
them.'

Oh, don't think it is so easy to make you
wretched,' says he bitterly, his eyes fixed on

the emancipated ribbon that is fluttering in
the soft breeze.

'Well, you see you are wrong,' sharply.
And then, more sharply still, ' Aren't you
going to tie it ? '

I really hardly thought you would allow
me,' says he, and with an extremely ill grace
he drops upon his knee before her and
proceeds to reduce the fluttering ribbons to
order.

Apparently, simple as it seems, it takes an
enormous time to do this. The tying of an
ordinary bow knot, one would imagine, being
an act of everyday occurrence, could not
occupy the better part of five minutes in the
doing of it, yet so it is. All ye who are
ignorant of the matter learn now this wondrous
fact, that it took Mr. Peyton, who was
by no means a dunderhead, quite the twelfth
part of an hour to bring the younger Miss

Dysart's shoe strings into a proper frame of
mind.

It is not carelessness either that has rendered
his movements slow. To the most inattentive
observer it must be plain that he
has thrown his whole soul into his task, yet it
seems difficult of completion.

Don't you think it would be wise to call
in assistance ? ' suggests she sweetly after a
bit. ' It seems a little too much for you.'

Something in her tone kills within him all
animosity. He laughs.

Griselda/ says he, still kneeling and looking
up at her with imploring eyes, ' tell me
you didn't mean what you said to me.'

About that string getting the better of
you? Tm sorry,' with a regretful shake of
her head. ' But how am I to go back of it ?
You must see for yourself that it is true.
Why, you haven't conquered if yet.'

Nonsense ! You know I don't mean that.

But I say, Griselda, if you only knew

what a kind little lovely face you have got
you wouldn't belie it. Do say you didn't
mean what you said when we parted the day
before yesterday ! '

Good Heavens ! ' says Griselda, ' you
might as well say the day before you were
born and be done with it. How am I to remember
so far back as that ? '

Yet you do remember,' persists he, ' and
if you don't I'll remind you. It '

Oh no, don't ! ' hastily, with determination.


'Yes, I certainly shall. You said you

were absolutely certain that you would never

ike me very much better than you did then.'

I'm sorry again,' says Griselda demurely.
But I'm afraid I can't go back of that either.*

You must,' decisively.

VOL. I. T

" Must " is for the king, and '' shall " is
for the queen,' retorts she saucily, ' and I
have yet to learn that you are the proud
possessor of a crown. Who then shall make
me?'

I shall,' declares Mr. Peyton, dread meaning
in his eye. ' To begin with, I shall keep
you here until you retract in full. I shall,'
suiting the action to the word, 'hold on to
this shoe ribbon until you have gone back of
every word you then said.'

If I stayed here until tomorrow's dawn
if I stayed here for ever, I shouldn't do
that,' returns she hotly.

All right. I'm perfectly willing to stay
here for ever.'

I wouldn't be silly if I were you,' says
she, trying to move the foot in prison without
result, and growing a trifle uneasy. Of
course he doesn't mean it, but still  'Mr.

Peyton,' with a sudden touch of hauteur, ' let
me go at once ! '

She stamps rather angrily with the
unfettered foot upon the ground and threatens
him with a pair of lovely indignant eyes, that
flash all sorts of reprisals ; but Peyton, who
is surely brave above his fellows, returns her
glance unmoved and holds on manfully to the
other  the captured foot.

It is rather an absurd position, no doubt,
but the situation has its compensations ; it
leaves him at least, as he fondly believes,
master of the field, and he clings to it  the
foot  with a Spartan fervour not to be
shaken.

'I have you now at all events,' he says
grimly, giving the ribbon he is holding a little
vicious pull just for the satisfaction of showing
her how completely she is in his power.
How can she run away without her foote

Alas, for his hopes ! and oh, for the
ingenuity of the feebler, the woman's mind.

Have you, indeed ! ' cries she, impetuous
anger in her tone, and then there is a
little swift movement on lier part, a tiny
wriggle of her whole pretty svelte body as
it were, and lo ! in a moment she is
many yards away from him, whilst he still
kneels, verily in the dust of humiliation,
gazing at something in his hand. It is
the shoe, the husk, the empty worthless
shell!

So now ! ' cries she triumphantly. All
her ill humour has gone from her in a flash.
Her gayest, merriest, most provoking, and
therefore most attractive mood, is on her.
Who singes small now, eh ? Who calls me
captive ? Pouf, a fig for your masterful
ways ! I'm not conquered yet.'

She dancGO with absolute cree in the

centre of that luckless open bit of sward,
forgetful of the high-road beyond. The warm,
sweet sunbeams dance with her as if overjoyed
at her beauty and youth, and the music
of the birds in the glade behind seems to
make one delicious sound with her merry
laughter.

Oh, don't do that ! ' cries Peyton
anxiously, springing to his full height.
Think of your foot without its shoe. There
may be stones about. It may get hurt. See,
here is your shoe, I give in, I give it up. Let
me put it on for you.'

I thank you ; no,' says she. ' What !
trust you again ? '

You might,' says he.

Pas si bete I I'll trust you never again,'
declares she, retiring as he advances.
Throw me my shoe, I can put it on for
myself very easily. There are not many

maids at Greycourt to attend on me. Uncle
Gregory '

The word freezes on her hips. Had she
invoked that dread old man ? A sound that
they had been madly oblivious of up to this
now strikes like thunder on their ears, as, his
senses sharpened by Griselda's look of terror,
Peyton turns his eyes towards the road.
There, seated in the old barouche that jingles
as it goes, and holds together no man knows
how, is Mr. Dysart ! his white corpse-like
face showing clear against the massive foliage
behind, his brilliant eyes fixed on Griselda.
There is a stretch of road behind him open to
where they stand, so that he must have seen
many things of which they would willingly
have left him in ignorance. He must indeed
have seen Peyton as he knelt at Griselda's
feet.

It is all over presently. A turn of the

road takes him out of view, but the mischief
is accomplished, and the bad deeds that they
have done will surely live to be heard considerably
more about later on.

He saw me ! I noticed the glitter in his
horrid eyes,' says Griselda fearfully, the tears
gathering in her own. ' Oh, what shall I
do?'

He's old, he must be short-sighted,' says
Mr. Peyton, with a feeble glimmering of hope
that o'oes out next moment.

Blind ! He'd see through a stone wall.
He'd see through you,' says the younger
Miss Dysart miserably ; and then, as if in
after-thought,  that would not be hard for
him,'

Look here, never mind him ; I'll go back
with you and explain all. You shan't be
made unhappy by anyone,' says Peyton
stoutly, to whose honest heart it is agony to

think of his well-beloved being in this sore
strait.

Well, and what then ? ' says she,
regarding him with growing surprise. Is hein
earnest ? Has he no conception of what
sort of person her Uncle Gregory is ? ' What
will you say to him ? What good can you or
anyone do ? Oh, what a scolding I shall get !
What on earth shall I do ? ' Her eyes,
lovely eyes that should know only happiness,
are filling fast with tears.

Say to him ? ' cries Mr. Peyton forcibly.
I'll just say that I love you, that you are no
man's slave to be scolded or abused, and 
if you'll only come, darling  that I'll take
you away and marry you. Where will the
scolding come in then ? ' radiantly.

Griselda regards him for a little while
with unspeakable astonishment.

Oh,' says she at last, ' what a pity it is

that you were not born with even one spark
of sense ! '

Hurrying home, and gaining it without
meeting anybody  a mercy she believed
would have been denied her  Griselda rushes
up to the bedroom that is hers and Yera's,
only to find that its welcome shelter is
debarred her. The door is locked.

Once  twice  she softly hammers with
her knuckles on the panel of it, without
answer of any kind. Then she calls aloud,
though in a subdued tone, on Vera. Almost
immediately the door is unlocked from inside,
and Vera herself stands on the threshold.

But such a changed Vera  a Vera so
white, so terribly altered, that Griselda's
already frightened spirit now dies within
her.

Vera, what is it ? What has happened?'

cries lie, catching her sister's arm and regarding
lier with eager, anxious eyes.

Happened ? ' says Vera, so absently, yet
with such miserable eyes, that Griselda grows
doubly fearful.

Oh, what is it ? Do speak, darling ! '
she entreats, with such an agony of apprehension
in her tone that Yera shakes off her
depression so far as to be able to give her a
satisfactory answer.

It is really nothing,' she says bitterly.
A mere trifle. It only means that they are
going to marry me, whether I like it or not,
to  to Seaton ! '

Something in her manner that is wild
and very unhappy touches Griselda even
more than this extraordinary announcement.
Drawing her down on the sofa near her she
encircles her with her arms.

Surely you exaggerate ? ' she says.

Why, for one thing, let them make what
arrangements they will, there is no law that
can carry them out. And as for us, darling,
why, we can go away, you and I, and fend
for ourselves one way or another ; or even if
we stay, why, there is no power on earth that
can compel anyone to say Yes, at the altar, so
long as they have breath left them to shout
a good sensible No. So you keep up heart,
and remember I'm here.'

Oh, Griselda, oh, if you had heard him ! '
She begins to tremble softly like an aspen
leaf, and then suddenly she flings her arms
around Griselda's neck and bursts into a
passion of tears.

That's right ! That will make you feel
better. What an old wretch he is ! There
now, darling, poor darling ! There now,
there ! '

It is plainly part of Griselda's faith, that

soft rubbing and tender patting of the back,
mingled with kisses, are full of healing power,
because she administers all these with a
liberal mind. By degrees, and through many-sobs.
Vera  helped out, no doubt, by
Griselda's medicinal course  reveals to her
all that had taken place in the afternoon.

Well, I am surprised about Seaton,' says
Griselda presently. ' But are you sure you
are not mistaken? He may have been led
into it by that wily old father of his. I
would not condemn him altogether, if I were
you, until I had heard something more of
it.'

I want to hear nothing more ; I know.
Did I not always tell you thei-e was reason
for my strange dislike to him ? Whenever I
saw him I felt as if I were shrinking into
myself. I felt, do you see, that I should
suffer indignity at his hands. I was right ;

such strong presentiments must bear fruit 
bitter fruit in this instance.'

Still, Seaton  if it had been anyone else,'
says Griselda, in a puzzled tone. ' He seems
so unlike that sort of thing.'

At this Vera loses patience.

If you are going to defend him,' she says,
with a touch of asperity, ' I had far rather
you went away and left me to myself.'

I can't,' says Griselda, remembering how
she rushed along the corridor to escape notice,
and how here in this room is her one chance
of safety. Up to this, lost in astonished concern
for her sister, she had most unselfishly
put her own trouble behind her, but now
it looks out at her with redoubled strength.
If you are unhappy, so am I. Honestly,
Vera, I don't know what on earth I shall
do!'

All the consolation she could have offered

would not have done Vera as much good as
this hint. It rouses her.

You in trouble too ! ' she says, looking
up with interest in her sad eyes ; and
presently  Griselda being only too glad to
unburden herself  she is in full possession of
all the facts of Griselda's latest escapade.

What will be the end of it ? ' asks Griselda.
'Murder? Suicide? Will he kill me, or
shall I kill him, or shall I make away with
myself? I feel that would be the most
considerate thing. Oh, when I think of
Uncle Gregory's face, I feel as if I should like
to have a bad fever that would confine me to
my room for six seeks. He is so old that
Tm sure he is afraid of infection.'

'He must have gone out driving shortly
after I left him. After all, Griselda, he is so
taken up with this precious scheme of his,
that perhaps he will forget about you.'

Does he ever forget ? Don't try to delude
yourself, or me either, my good child. I
shall fortify myself with a capital dinner,
thanks to Seaton  that abominable Seaton, I
mean,' warned by her sister's eye, ' and wait
with as good a grace as I can for the explosion
that is sure to come.'

CHAPTER II.

There cannot live a more unhappy creature than an ill-natured
old man, who is neither capable of receiving pleasures
nor sensible of doing them to others.

He has sent for me to go to the Library.
What on earth shall I do ? I'm regularly in
for it ! Vera, you must come too,' says
Griselda, who is evidently in the lowest depths
of despair.

'I don't see what good I can do,' says
Vera, recoiling from a second interview with
her uncle.

'You can. Every good. Your very
presence Avill restrain him. And if it is to bea
case of assault and battery, you will be an
invaluable witness.' Even through all her

honest fright she cannot refrain from making
a miserable little attempt at a joke. 'Anyhow,
I won't go alone,' vehemently. ' Wild
horses shan't draw me.' She sits down withall
the air of one determined to take up her
position for life on this particular chair,

Come. I'm ready,' says Vera with a
sigh. She moves towards the door.

I'm a wretch,' cries Griselda penitently.
There. Stay where you are ; I'll face the old
dragon alone ! He can't do more than murder
me, and I dare say I'll be no great loss. Oh,
Vera,' as Miss Dysart shakes her head, and
declares herself willing to see her through
with it, ' it is too much to expect.'

The longer he is kept waiting the more
unpleasant he will be,' Vera reminds her
sensibly, and together they go down to the
library.

I hardly expected the pleasure of your

company,' says the old man, lifting this half-closed
eyes to Vera  a vicious light in them.
I do not remember that I even solicited it.'

You did not. I have come because
Griselda wished it,' coldly.

Does Griselda control this household ?
Are we all to be guided by her ? My nerves
are not in a lit state this morning; to crime
audience to more than one at a time. I feel
thoroughly unstrung.'

Yes  yes. You really do look very ill,'
says Griselda, with eager sympathy. ' Indeed,
if you excite yourself further, I should not
answer for the consequences. We will both
go away. By-and-by  next week or so  you
can let me know what it is I can do for you.
Try to persuade him, Vera, to spare himself.'

Under cover of this burst of anxious concern
Griselda makes a careful glide or two
towards the door with intent to make good

her escape ; but to evade the Argus eyes of
Mr. Dysart one would have to be born with
that happy old knack of growing invisible
at will.

The solicitude you show for my welfare
is truly delightful,' says Mr. Dysart, raising
one of his delicate hands, ' but I cannot afford
to part with you for just one moment or two.
Don't be afraid ; I shall not injure myself, I
trust, and I feel as if there was a word or
two I must say to you, even should those
consequences you so kindly hint at prove
fatal. Will you take that chair? No 
this one, where I can more clearly see you.
Thanks.'

He thrusts out his odious sinister old face
and stares at her in a way that makes her
young blood curdle in her veins. She makes
an effort, however, and bravely turns up her
charming but now decidedly confused countenance

to meet the glance of the cold steely
eyes so mercilessly bent upon her.

You have something to say to me ? ' she
says evenly enough, though her heart is
quaking.

Yes. In one of my age it is to be deplored,
no doubt, but I confess I am consumed
with curiosity to know who was the
friend with whom you were on such lively
terms of intimacy yesterday afternoon.'

No answer. Poor Griselda flushes a painful
crimson, but other recognition of his question
there is none.

Some one out of your past life, of course.
That is understood, as you have had no
opportunities here of making a correct acquaintance
with anyone. I am right in my
surmise ? It was a friend from out your
past ? '

No,' says Griselda slowly, and as if

the answer is dragged from her against her
will.

No ? You astonish me. Am I then to
believe that this  friendship of yours was
contracted here  since you came into my
house ? '

I  I have met him,' begins the girl, ina
breathless, stammering fashion, utterly
daunted by the poverty of her case and the
cruel brilliance of the searching eyes brought
to bear on her.

So much I know,' pitilessly. ' You met
him yesterday, for example. That I witnessed
for myself. What I am desirous of learning
is, how it was you first arrived at a knowledge
of his existence. You will excuse my
persistency, I am sure,' with abominable
sweetness, * but may I ask the name of the
mutual friend who introduced him to you ? '

Dead silence.

Come, come ! Surely you are not afraid
of your old uncle ? ' with diabolical playfulness.
' Surely you would not have me think
that there was no introduction  that you
struck up a promiscuous acquaintance with
this young man, as any milkmaid might with
her vulgar swain, any Jill with her Jack ? '

He pauses, and fixes her with his unrelenting
eyes. There is something revolting
in the sneering tone, in the cruel smile, that
makes even thinner the already too thin old
lips,

I think  if you will let me explain,' interposes
Vera hurriedly, * I may be able to set
right what now seems a little obscure, a little
open to misconception.' She comes quickly
forward as she speaks, but Dysart, putting up
his hand, checks her.

You are really too good, coming to my
help like this, trying to take the trouble off

my shoulders, but I assure you I am quite
capable of undertaking this case he says
icily, ' and your presence, as I before remarked,
is not wanted here. ' What,' turning
again to Griselda, ' not a word ! Am I to
understand then that you, my niece, have
commenced a low flirtation with a man unknown
to you, a man who may be, for aught
you can say to the contrary, the common son
of a common butcher, or baker, or '

He is the son of no butcher or baker,'
interrupts Griselda, her cheeks afire, her eyes
flashing.

No ? You have discovered so much ?
You have made strides in your friendship
apparently. Does he rise to the giddy height
of the law ? Is he, perhaps, the fifth son of
the local attorney ? '

No,' says Griselda.

You are better informed than I believed.

This idyll of yours must have been of
stronger growth than I imagined. You seem
to have got a good deal of information out of
the young man, personal information, which,
between lovers, I am told, is always the most
interesting. If not the son of the resident
butcher or baker or attorney, perhaps he told
you whose son he was ? If so, pray satisfy
my burning curiosity.'

'He has told me, certainly,' says Griselda
defiantly.

And sworn you in not to betray the
knowledge, I see,' says Mr. Dysart with an
irritating laugh. ' Cautious youth ! '

He swore me to nothing ; nevertheless I
shall tell you nothing,' retorts she.

The truculent of your attitude and expression
conveys that to me without words,'
says Dysart with a contemptuous shrug.
Unhappily for you, however, heroics are

completely thrown away upon me. Now,
hear me,' his manner grows suddenly hard
and stern, and leaning forward he compels
her gaze to meet his. ' One word for all 
you shall meet this lover of yours no more.'

Lover ? ' cries the girl, stung by the insolence
of his tone.

Ay, lover. You forget, perhaps, that
scene I saw with my own eyes yesterday.
Capital eyes they are still, in spite of my
years  have you ever noticed their brilliancy
? ' fixing them remorselessly on her
as he speaks, with such a steady glare that
Griselda shivers. Surely there is something
uncommon about those awful eyes. ' They
showed me this young man of yours, this waif
and stray cast up out of the mud of humanity
to gratify your vanity  this fellow whose
name you are ashamed to pronounce 
kneeling prostrate before you, worshipping

at your feet so close to the public highway
that all who ran mioht read ! It was charmingly
romantic, no doubt ; ideally perfect,
deliciously unconventional, and  permit me
to add  grossly vulgar and indecent ! '

Uncle ! ' breaks in Vera tremulously,

but, beyond a glance at her full of virulent
malice, he ignores her interruption.

I am your guardian,' he goes on, addressing
Griselda always ; ' an unwilling one, be
assured, but still your guardian, and as such
I shall see that for the future you do not disgrace
yourself or me.'

I forbid you to speak to me like this,'
says Griselda in a low choked tone that
vibrates with wounded modesty. 'It is you
who disgrace yourself when you speak of 
of '

Of your evident longing to fling yourself
into the arms of the first man you meet.'

'Vera, will you permit this ?' demands the
girl passionately, turning to her sister a face
from which the angry blood of a moment
since has flown, leaving it white and set as
marble.

It is intolerable ! ' says Vera. ' Uncle
Gregory, I shall not stay here to listen to such
words addressed to Griselda ! '

I am not aware that I ever pressed you
to remain. The first moment it occurs to
you to leave this room, I beg you will let no
considerations for my comfort detain you.'

I shall not allow you so to insult my
sister.'

No . And how do you propose to prevent
me ? ' asks Dysart, leaning back in his
chair and surveying her with a studied smile.
 But  to continue what I meant to say when
you so  er  brusquely interrupted me  if
you ever again,' once more concentrating his

attention on Griselda, ' seek this lover of
yours ; if you ever again dare to disobey my
orders, and go beyond the precincts of my
garden and pleasure-grounds  all of which
are to be seen from the front windows  if, in
effect, you go out of reach of my eyes, I shall
turn you and your sister out upon the highroad
to starve.'

It would be impossible to convey on paper
the amount of venom he manages to hiss
into these last words. They are spoken low,
but they impress his listeners with the idea
that he means them thoroughly, and that
he would be rather glad than otherwise,
were occasion given him, to put them into
execution.

You fully understand ? ' he says, still
looking at Griselda. ' Disobey me and out
you go. Then see what this lover of yours
will do for you. The one,' turning a slow

malignant look on Vera, ' who dares to thwart
a plan of mine will do it to her cost ! Beware,
therefore ! '

He signs to them to leave the room.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER III.

She raised a sigh so piteous and profound
As it did seem to shatter all her bulk
And end her being.

It is two days later and a delicious afternoon,
though it would be quite useless to try and
get Griselda's agreement about that. Disconsolate,
and feeling like one ' cribbed, cabined,
and confined,' she has seated herself upon the
parapet at the end of the garden and given
herself up a prey to the direst forebodings.
So far gone indeed is she in her dismal
thoughts, that she is deaf to the sound of
approaching footsteps at the other side of
the wall, and almost calls aloud as a hand is
cautiously, lovingly placed upon hers.

Hush ! ' says a well-known voice in a
very subdued key.

Stifling the cry that has risen to her lips,
she looks first at the strong hand that clasps
her own, and then over the parapet, to find
there Mr. Peyton clinging like a limpet to the
wall. His hand has come above it, his head
has not. He is a wise young man in his own
generation, and has calculated to a nicety
how far the visual organ as directed from
the windows opposite can be brought to bear
with effect on that portion of the wall to
which he clings.

You ! ' cries Griselda in a whisper 
a glad whisper, though tempered with reproach.
For quite a minute she gazes at him
as if spellbound, out of very sorrowful eyes,
and then something that is more than sorrow
fills those charming features  a little fear, a
little astonishment, a great deal of resentment.

D 2

Oh, 3011 shouldn't have come here, you
shouldn't deed ! ' she says. ' How could
you, and when it is all your fault too, every
bit of it?'

What has happened ? ' demands he eagerly.
Something awful, I suppose ? When you
didn't put in an appearance yesterday, I
felt as if I must come up here and find you.
When to-day still showed the wood a howling
wilderness, I came. What can have
happened to you, darling, you look as pale
as death ? You,' staring anxiously at her,
you've got thin, I think.'

I shouldn't wonder if I looked a skeleton,'
says Griselda, blinking her eyes to keep back
the tears, ' after all I have gone through.
I have fretted myself to fiddle-strings ! Oh,
you ought to be sorry. And I am never to
speak to you again, never to look at you
that is part of my orders  so you must go

away at once. If you were caught here,
I shudder to thmk of what would happen.
Oh,' with a sudden frightened glance towards
the house, ' go and don't come back. I Iwjpe
you will not come back.'

Here, seeing the look of blank despair and
grief that darkens his face as this cruel 'hope'
is given to his ears, her face softens somewhat,
and a deplorable expression creeps round the
corners of her mouth. 'You must never
see me again  never, never, never,' she says,
and two large tears run down her cheeks.

But why .P ' implores he, still clinging to
her hand as though that is now all that is left
to him. He forgets even the windows, and
so far raises himself on a friendly projecting
stone in the wall as to bring his own face into
much closer proximity to the lovely woebegone
one on which the traces of tears are
still wet. ' Tell me what has happened.'

He saw us that day ; I knew it,' says she
miserably. ' Oh,' with a reproachful glance
at him that reduces him to despair, ' if only
you had a few grains of sense, one even! To
think of your kneeling down within view of
the dirty high-road and holding on by my
shoe-string  oh, what a situation ! Well,'
with a sigh expressive of pious resignation,
it is all over now, and I am forbidden to
leave this garden ever again ! '

Nonsense ! That's absurd ! '

'It isn't all, however. I am forbidden
also ever to speak to you again.'

'That's absurder,' says Mr. Peyton with a
line disregard of the decencies of language.

'Is it? You don't know my uncle then,
let me tell you. I wish you could have stood
in my shoes when he said it, and watched his
wicked old face. " Go, if you like," he said
plump and plain and without the shadow of

a blush of shame, " but if you do, I shall turn
you out upon the wayside to starve ! " '

She has risen from her seat in the passion
of her anger and is looking at him with eyes
once more suffused with tears. ' It was
shameful ! ' she says, her mind going back to
that insulting interview with her uncle. ' Oh,
I could not tell you half of what he said. I
shouldn't care so much about it for myself,
but there is Vera, I must think of her ! As
for me, I tell you this,' paling again and
clasping her hands together, ' I have quite
made up my mind to one thing. I shan't
stay here. After a little while when he
cannot accuse Vera of knowing anything
about it I shall run away ! '

With me, I hope,' says the young man
tenderly, surprised into this speech by the
spectacle of her distress. Then he stops,
shocked at his own temerity. ' What I mean

is lie stammers-that whenever you feel
inclined to leave Greycourt, you may depend
upon me to keep you.'

'I shan't want any one's help declares
she, shaking her head and feeling very valiant.
I know a great many people abroad, in Italy
and Spain, and I dare say I shall be able to
get to them, somehow. At all events,' with a
little fresh burst of petulant grief, ' I am sure
of this, that I shall not stay here to be
insulted.' She draws her breath hard.

Insulted ! ' repeats Peyton paling. ' You
cannot mean that. He would not dare to go
so far as that ? '

What would he not dare ? More at least
than I could repeat,' says she tremulously,
turning away her head.

Not even to me ? ' entreats he softly.
He has repossessed himself of her hand, and
is now caressing it fondly and wijh agitation.

I couldn't,' brokenly, her face still averted.

Try, darling  do try. I know you will
feel ever so much better if you can only bring
yourself to let me share your trouble with you.'

Oh, I'd be ashamed ! ' says Griselda
miserably. A sob breaks from her. ' Well,
if you viust hear it, he said  that  that  I
was vulgar and indecent, and that I was only
too willing to throw myself into the arms of
the first man I met. Now  7iow are you
satisfied ? You made me tell you,' cries she
and then gives way altogether, and bursts
into a storm of weeping.

What a scoundrel ! ' exclaims the young
man between his teeth. ' Griselda, darling,
don't go on like that. Is he worth even one
of your tears ? ' He has seated himself beside
her on the parapet by this time, forgetful of
any searching eyes, and, having stolen one
arm round her, is vehemently kissing the little

trembling hand he holds. ' There, look up.
You said something about running away just
now  well ! why not ? '

He has set a spy upon my actions,' goes
on Griselda, who has not been listening to him
very attentively. ' You know that old housekeeper
I have told you of, she watches where
I go, and follows me, whilst pretending not to,
all the time. And you can't think,' sobbing
afresh, ' how hateful it is to know that someone
is taking note of every step you move.
I feel just like a prisoner  like that man in
one of Allan Poe's stories who always had an
eye on him.'

'And it is all my fault ! ' says Peyton
miserably. ' I wonder you don't hate me.'

So do I,' agrees Griselda with a heavy
sigh.

It is I who have brought it all down on

you.

It is,' with a still heavier sigh and a long
and thoughtful study of his features. Then,
as an adorable outcome of her meditative
mood, ' And yet,' says she, ' I doit hate you ! '

She seems rather surprised at this herself,
and grows pensive as she dwells upon it.
Mr. Peyton grows rapturous as he dwells on
her.

A shrill and terrible voice in the female
key, coming to them across the garden,
destroys, however, all analytical and sentimental
thought in a breath.

Miss Griselda I Miss Gri  sel  da ! '

There she is, I must run I ' murmurs
Griselda in a flurried tone, scrambling to her
feet. ' Oh, go  go good-bye.'

Not good-bye ? ' implores he, holding
her fast. He has dropped off the top of
the parapet, and is once more presenting
himself in the light of a limpet, hanging on

like grim death to the wall. ' Give me
another chance of seeing you. Name a
day  an hour.'

Miss Gree  sel  da ! '

Again that harsh voice destroys the exquisite
harmony of the dying evening.

Go,' entreats Griselda, now in a faint,
terrified tone.

Say the day after tomorrow  at this
hour. Speak, darling,' implores he, giving
her hand a little jog as if to compel her
consent.

I can't. I'm not sure. Oh, there she
is, behind the yew hedge, coming this way !
She'll see you ! Well, yes then. She is here
now  close! Oh, go! Yes, yes, 2/5; at this
hour, if possible.'

She rescues her hand, casts a last tearful
glance at him, waits to hear the gentle thud
that tells of his safe arrival on the ground

below, and then, picking up her petticoats, she
commences a gay little French chanson, and,
avoiding Mrs. Grunch by a careful detour to
the left, disappears amongst the friendly
shrubberies.

CHAPTER lY.

I have not that alacrity of spirit,

Nor cheer of mind that I was wont to have.

Such a narrow escape as I've had ! ' cries
she, running into Vera's room. ' I flatter myself
that for once in my life I have done that
old woman.'
 ' Who ? '

'The admirable Grunch. That silly Mr.
Peyton would come to the very wall to see
what had become of me, and Grunch was
within an ace of seeing him. However, she
didn't.'

I don't believe she is as clever as you
think.'

I think she was clever enough to set my

uncle on my track the other day. No, Vera,
I can't go into a thing as you do, and argue
it out to the bitter end. I have only my instincts
to guide me, and they warn me against
the amiable Grunch. She has many a stone
in her sleeve for me, and one of them she
threw the day before yesterday.'

You forget that I have instincts too,'
says Vera, with a languid smile. ' I was
warned against our cousin ; I can hardly,
therefore, blame you for unreasonable fancies.
But how foolish of Mr. Peyton to come ! He 
must know how Uncle Gregory would regard
his, or any one's, presence here.'

His especially. But, as I told him half
an hour ago I tell you now, he was unfortunately
born without a grain of sense. Never
mind, I have to thank him, in that through
his coming I was able to outwit the lively
Grunch. But, darling, how ill you look !

Oh, Vera, I do believe you are letting that
old man's insolence prey upon you.'

'I don't know what is the matter with me.
My brain seems on fire sometimes. How
cruel, how cruel, a thing it is for parents to
bring children into the world, and then die
and leave them there, unprotected, at the
mercy of strangers ! '

I always console myself with the reflection
that ill luck must cease some day,' says
Griselda.

'That is true '  slowly. ' There is great
comfort in that thought. Death, as you say,
is always near us. It may reach us at any
moment, and then farewell to trouble.'

Indeed,' indignantly, ' I said nothing of
the kind ! Catch me wanting to die. I think
I see myself! And as for you, my good child,
you look like living for many a day, in spite
of your dismal expression.'

One can't be sure ; our mother died
young. Happy mother ! ' sighs Vera forlornly.


Rubbish ! ' cries Griselda, with more
force than elegance. ' It is maddening to
hear you ! See now, if death were to walk
in here this instant, bony arms, sickle, eyeless
sockets, and all the other regulation charms
complete, I can just imagine the squeal that
would follow. You are posing as one of those
wretched heroines one meets with in books,
who always cries aloud on kindly death to
take her, whenever she has so much as a pain
in her big toe ! '

'My dear Griselda! Eeally anything so
graphic, to put it calmly.'

'Well, I haven't patience with the die-away
lot. And after all, there isn't the remotest
fear of your being forced into a marriage
with  that man ! It isn't the age for

VOL. 11. E

that sort of thing. One is quite independent
enough now to be able to shout a good sound
No " at the altar, even if compelled to go sofar.
and there is always the law after that.
And besides, let the worst come to the worst,
let us suppose that terrible uncle of ours
should be able to persuade you into accepting
his son ; wiy, rather than permit you to be
sacrificed, I would '  ironically  ' sacrifice myself,
and marry Tom Peyton.'

How would that help us ? '

Why, if I were to be driven for your sake
into marriage with him, that would secure a
home for you, as well as for me.'

But why should you be sacrificed ? Surely
such an end is as bad for you as for me ? '

I am the stronger ; I feel I could bear up
under an adverse lot better than you could,'
says Griselda, with a far-away, high and
mighty look.

'Oh 110, darling !' says Vera, quite touched.
And besides,' falling back into the original
gloom, ' perhaps Mr. Peyton doesn't want to
marry you.'

This suggestion is received with marked
disfavour.

Oh, doesn't he ? ' says Griselda, getting
up from her seat, as though sitting still is
a burden not to be borne. 'That's all you
know about it. You are very much out of it
if you think that. He  he would marry me
tomorrow, if I would let him.'

How do you know ? How can one
believe in any one ? '

I can believe in him,' says Griselda
stoutly. ' If you only saw him  as I do
you would know.'

You are a lucky girl,' says Vera. ' To
know that some one really cares whether one

lives or dies is a great matter.

E 2

Oh, he cares,' says Griselda.

Then you ought to be happy.'

Well, I don't know really. I '  with a
little laugh  ' I think I'd like him better if
he wasn't so awfully silly  that is, in earnest,
don't you know ? Now, what do you think
he said to-day? That he  mark the absurdity
of it  that he honestly believed I
hadn't a fault in the world ! That was a
little too much, eh . '

I don't know. I like it. I call that
being a good lover,' says Vera thoughtfully.


Perhaps you would have told him so.
For me I said, " Heaven give you sense ! " I
hope it will.'

What sense would you give him ? Sense
to see your faults? After all, you are well
matched. Like him, I begin to think you
haven't a grain of sense yourself. And a

word, Griselda ; tell me this, are you in love
with him ? '

Well, that's it, I don't know. I wish I
did. I've been thinking, Vera, that it is an
excellent thing to have been in love with
some one before, then you know all about it
the second time, and you can tell when the
attack is coming on. I shall know next time.'

Oh, could Peyton have only heard her !

'Perhaps there won't be any next time.
If you do like him, I hope not.'

Just so, but do I ? That's what I can't
find out.'

I think  I think I should know if / were
in love,' says Vera drearily.

You have a doubt about it, nevertheless ?
I tell you it is the most difficult thing in the
world. When I'm not with him, I want to
see him, yet when I do see him, I feel that
I don't want him. By-the-by'  as if struck

by a sudden tlioiiglit  ' something tells me
Seaton will come to-day.'

'Now that you can't see him, do you want
him too?' says Vera with a smile. 'Well,
I hope your instinct will prove false here.'
She puts her hand to her brow and presses it
tightly. ' I have such a headache,' she says
wearily.

Lie down. Here, let me tuck you up.
Poor darling, you do look wretched. Some
eau-de-cologne on her old head ? ' coaxingly.
Yes, do ; I have some still, a remnant of our
decent past. I wonder if we have begun to
look poor ? If that dread writing, " once in
affluence, now reduced." is graven upon our
foreheads ? Thank Heaven our clothes still
hang together, and give us a touch of respectability
; but when they fall apart, seam
from seam, how shall we go then ? In long
bags with holes cut out for our arms ? The

early Britons will be fools to us. There ; now
isn't that doing your head good ? '

'No, it isn't, not when you are there to
administer it,' says Vera, who is laughing.
Every time I even smile, this horrid pain
grows worse, and you will talk your absurdities
! Go away, and let me try to sleep it
off.'

Well, do sleep ; don't brood over impossible
difficulties,' says Griselda, creeping
obediently to the door.

The troublesome headache clings, however,
to Vera all through the evening, and long
after night has fallen. Griselda had come upto
bed and had scolded her a little for not eating
the dainty dinner she had sent up hours
before, and then had tried to insist on putting
her to bed, an effort Vera had steadily resisted.
She could not sleep, she said ; she
would read for an hour or two, it was early

yet, and so on. The thought of lying
down and making a miserable pretence at
sleep, when that happy state of unconsciousness
was not for her, seemed more than
she could bear ; and long after Griselda's
soft regular breathing told she was asleep,
Vera sat on through the growing night, and
sought by reading to soothe her troubled
mind.

But now, a gleam of moonlight coming
through the open window puts the lamp to
shame, and compels her attention. How
sweet, how heavenly-fair the garden seems,
wrapt in those pale cold beams ! She can
see it from where she sits on the deep,
cushioned seat of the old-fashioned window,
and a longing to rise and go into it, to feel
the tender night wind beating on her burning
forehead, takes possession of her.

Catching up a light shawl to cover the

evening gown she wears, she steals, carefully
as might a guilty soul, by Griselda's bed,
along the dusky corridor, down the staircase,
and past the servants' quarters, where a light
under Mrs. Grunch's door warns her that
that remorseless foe has as yet refused to
surrender herself to slumber.

A small door leading into the garden
is close to this, and moving swiftly up the
narrow stone passage that brings her to it she
opens the door, and so closing it after her
that she can regain the house at any moment,
she turns to find herself alone in the exquisite
perfumed silence of the night.

The first passing breeze that touches her
seems to cool as if by magic her fevered head.
The pain dies from her, and with it goes the
strange miserable sense of unrest that had
driven her forth. A most blessed change it
seems ; and with light footsteps she moves

over the velvet grass, drinking in the sweetness
of every flower-filled wind as it goes by
her.

Tall pale hollyhocks stand up like ghosts
on every hand ; the mingled sweets of heavy-headed
stocks and the rich crimson clove-carnations
stir the soft air. A faint warm
dew is uprising from the sleeping earth.

It is a luminous night, blue grey where
the moonbeams do not fall and light all
through. Far off the ocean is gleaming, and
it and the sky seem to be of one delicate
hue, whilst the tall white cliffs stand out in a
solemn splendour from the general twilight of
their surroundings. There is a suspicion of
mystical weirdness in the half darkness, and
a languorous quiet that calms her excited
nerves, as she stands here silent as the night
itself, breathing great draughts of peace.

Presently she sinks upon a garden seat,

and half unconscious of how tune flies lets
it escape her. The intense stillness, the
strange wild charm to be found in the
thought that she alone of all her present
world is awake, that she sits here alone, withall
her senses nervously alive whilst the others
are sunk in common slumber, all add a touch
of perfection to what already seems so
desirable.

Her troubles drop from her one by one.
Surely the earth is full of unborn joys ; some
must fall to her share.

Lovely flowers are the smiles of God's
goodness,' and here they blossom at her feet.
Surely then God will be good to her. Her
spirits rise within her, and throwing back
upon the seat the light shawl she had wound
round her she steps once again into the
moonlight, and with a heart uplifted begins
to pace lightly to and fro.

How long she thus gives herself up to the
sweet new enjoyment of life she hardly knows.
In golden quiets of the moon ' the hours run
by with winged feet, and it is not until at
last a vague but pleasurable sense of fatigue
comes to her that she dreams of time at all.
Something else too helps her to this end.
From out the ivied tower, above the mild
hooting of the owls, there comes a sound
mellow, deep and slow. It is the ancient
belfry clock telling the midnight hour.

It startles her. Has she indeed been here
so long ? What if Griselda should wake and
be alarmed for her ? She moves quickly in
the direction of the house, and at last, regaining
the inner garden, begins to think her
pleasant sojourn at an end.

She has neared the shrubberies now, and
involuntarily turns her glance their way as
they he upon her left ; involuntarily too she

seeks to pierce the darkness that envelopes

them, and then

She stops short, and presses her hand convulsively
to her breast. Who is it  what is
it, moving there, in the mysterious gloom ?

CHAPTER V.

Love you, madam  dare to love you 

To my endless desolation and your impotent disdain.

Whoever it is, is approaching her rapidly.
At first the figure had been motionless, but
as she stopped and made that nervous gesture
that had brought her hand to her bosom,
it had started into motion. Already the
shadows of the trees round it are growing
less dense, and at last the tall figure of a man
stands revealed.

A rather unreasoning sensation of fear
rises within her. After all she is but a few
yards from the house, and there lies safety.
But there are sometimes moments when we
forget to reason, and Vera is oblivious of

everything, except that it is night, that she
is alone, and that a possible burglar might
not be a pleasant person to meet under the
circumstances. The man every instant drawing
nearer, she at last shrinks backwards,
still overwhelmed by the burglar idea, and
puts out both her little slender white hands as
if to ward off his further approach.

'Don't be frightened. It is I, Seaton,'
says a most unwelcome voice, and as if
ashamed and indignant at her betrayal of
cowardice, she drops her hands and turns
an eager face to his.

Ah ! ' she says. She is angry beyond
doubt, and still further angered by the knowledge
that there is more of relief than coldness
in the simple exclamation. As she
speaks she lays her hand on the old sun-dial
near her, as if to steady herself. It is the
first time they have met face to face since

that memorable night in Seaton's room, and
the memory of what happened then being
now full upon them, betrays itself in a certain
constraint that shows itself perhaps more
openly in her.

At this hour ! And I had no idea you
were here at all,' she says at length faintly,
after a pause that has grown sufficiently long
to be awkward.

I am afraid I have startled you. If I
had known I should not, of course, have come
here, but I imagined you '

'Asleep Naturally,' as he hesitates.
My head ached, however, and I came out
here to try and cure it. I should not have
been startled, of course. But I did not hear
of your arrival this evening.'

I dined in town, and came down hereby
the last train. You would not have heard
of it, of course. I hoped you would not.' He

pauses and looks away from her. ' I must
come to see my father sometimes,' he says
slowly, apologetically as it seems to her.

The hot blood flames into her cheeks, and
she draws her breath sharply.

You make it very hard for me,' she says,
with a touch of passionate impatience.

'That is unjust,' says he, roused in turn.
To make your life easier is my heart's desire.'

Are you succeeding, do you think ?
Does it,' with gathering scorn, ' make my path
smoother, when you compel me to see that
you stay away, or only come here at hours
inconvenient to you, because  because of
me ? '

I am sorry I said that. I must regret
that we have met at all,' replies he calmly,
as each tiling I say seems to offend and hurt
you. Yet it seemed to me just now as if I
should explain to you why I was here  an

VOL. II. F

absurd feeling, I know, as my movements
cannot possibly concern you.'

'They do nevertheless,' with an angry
intonation. ' You force me to regard them.
Life here is surely difficult enough without
being; driven to think that I am the cause of
separating father and son. It is intolerable,
your taking such a view of all this late unpleasantness.
Why should you try to place
me in such a position ? Is it kind, generous ?

It is useless my arguing the joint with
you. You are determined to see me in
nothing but the worst light.'

You shall not put it upon me,' says she
vehemently. ' I shall not submit to that. As
you make me out I am the discordant note
that jars the harmony existing between you
and your father. I refuse to be so regarded.
Come here, when you will, as often
as you will, your absence or presence is alike

indifferent to me.' She breaks off suddenly,
and til en as suddenly turns upon him. ' Why
should you not come here as often as you
like ? ' she asks aggressively.

Why should I come here at all  to make
you uncomfortable ? ' retorts he immovably.

Your imagination misleads you,' says the
girl, after a moment that has left her paler.
'It is not in your power to influence me in
any Away.'

She turns aside sharply, and walks a step
or two away from him. Somehow at this
instant the growing chill of the early night
seems to strike more sharply on her senses,
and a shiver not to be suppressed stirs her
whole frame. Seaton watchings her with
Wrathful eyes sees that slight mark of physical
discomfort, and on the instant all his righteous
anger dies within him.

You are cold,' he exclaims, coming up to

her with a hasty stride. ' What madness it
is, your being out at this hour ! Why are
you not in bed ? What brought you here ? '
He has evidently forgotten all that happened
in that first strange moment when she had
stepped from shadow into light.

I told you,' icily, ' I had a headache. I
fancied the air would revive me ; I was
restless.'

You were unhappy, you mean,' pointedly.
Well, that may have to be endured, but a
severe cold should be avoided if possible.
Come, come back to the house.'

She agrees silently to this proposition, and
follows him across the grass to the small
oaken door that had given her egress  only
to find it barred against her !

Seaton, having tried it, glances at her in
mute dismay.

Grunch must have fastened it, on her

way to bed. The bolt is drawn,' says he
slowly.

Do you mean that I can't get in ? ' asks
she, as if unable to credit so terrible an
announcement.

Oh, I dare say it can't be so bad as that,'
hastily. ' Only,' hesitating, as if hardly
knowing how to explain, ' the front door is of
course locked and chained, and the servants,
with the exception of Grunch, all sleep at the
top of the house : a late arrangement of my
father's, as the original servants' quarters lie
below. I am afraid, therefore, that if we
knocked for ever it would have no effect.
However, I can try to do something, but in
the meantime you must not stay out here in
the cold.'

You may feel it cold, I don't,' returns she
perversely. 'Not so long as the moonlight
lasts, shall I find it lonely either. I see,' with

a wonderful effort at unconcern, ' that you do
not believe in my chance of regaining the
house to-night. But even if your supposition
be right, pray do not distress yourself about
me. I,' raising her unfriendly, beautiful eyes
to his, ' I assure you I shall be quite happy
out here, even though I stay till the day
dawns and the doors are open again.'

" Happy ! " ' As he repeats her word he
looks at her with a keen scrutiny. ' A word
out of place, surely ; given the best conditions,
I hardly dare to believe you could ever be
happy " at Greycourt.'

Happy, or unhappy,' says she with quick
resentment, her mind being distressed by this
awkward fear of having to pass the night
from under any roof, ' surely it can be nothing
to you ! Why affect an interest in one who is
as hateful to you as I am ? ' A little fire has
fallen into her tone, and there is ill-suppressed

contempt in the eyes she Hats to his. Perhaps
he is driven by it into an anger that leads to
this betrayal.

Hateful to me ! Do you think you are
that, Vera,' says he in a low tone, but one full
of fierce and sudden passion  passion long
suppressed. ' Do you honestly believe that ? '
His manner is almost violent, and as he speaks
he catches both her hands in his, and crushes
them vehemently against his breast. ' 1 would
to Heaven,' he says miserably, ' that that were
so!'

As if stupefied by surprise. Vera stands
motionless, her hands lying passively in his.
She is aware that he is looking at her, with a
new, will, strange expression in his eyes, buta
horrible sense of being powerless to resist
him numbs all her being. And suddenly, as
she struggles with herself, he bends over her,
and without warning lifts her hands and

presses warm fervent kisses on the small cold
palms. Then she is roused indeed from her
odd lethargy, and by a sharp movement
wrenches herself free.

Don't,' she cries faintly, ' it is insufferable
! I cannot bear it ! Have you no sense
of honour left ? '

Her tone calms him, but something within
him revolts against the idea of apology.
He loves her, let her know it. He will not go
back from that, though her scorn slay him.

There is nothing dishonourable,' he says
steadily. ' I love you, I am glad you know it.
Despise me if you can, reject me as I know
you will, I am still the better for the thought
that I have laid bare to you all my heart.
And now '

She puts up one hand as if to stay him
from further speech, and looks at him with a
face as white as death.

CHAPTER VI.

I knew 'twere madness to declare this truth, and yet
'twere baseness to deny my love, but such a love, kept at
such awful distance.

Not another word ! ' she says feverishly.
And then in a changed tone, and one full of
misery, ' Is there no way of getting into the
house ? '

There is  one. I could wake Grunch
by throwing gravel at her window.'

To ask her to let me in at this hour ? '

No. To ask her to let me in.'

Do you know Grunch, that you propose
such a plan? She would not believe your
story. For all I know, she might have seen
me go into the garden to-night, and  and 

she would be sure to suspect something, and
would watch and afterwards she would tell
-  him ! No ! ' with a little burst of fear,
I will not have Grunch wakened.'

I think you give Grunch credit for too
much perspicuity. She would let me in, and
then when all was quiet again I could comedown
and let you in.'

Grunch is never quiet,' says Miss Dysart
with conviction. ' If you imagine she is so at
this moment  in sleep  let her stay so. Once
roused it is my belief she would know everything.
I decline to risk it. But there is
Griselda's room . '

I am afraid I could not waken her without
also waking my father. He is a very
light sleeper.'

There is nothing then ! ' says she, so
unhappily that he cannot bear to look at
her.

There is one thing,' inspiration coming to
him with his fear for her. ' My father, as I
have told you, is a wretchedly bad sleeper.
And every morning in the summer, as the day
breaks, he gets uj) and comes out here to
enjoy his flowers in solitude. They are, as
you may have learned, his one delight in his
singularly monotonous life. It is now past
midnight ; in an hour or two the day will
come into this garden, and with it my father.'

But if he comes,' says she blanching, ' if
he should see me '

Leave all that to me,' gravely. ' For
this once at least, trust me ! '

She makes him no reply, but stands gazing
moodily upon the grass at her feet. It
seems to him as though she were trying for
her own sake to conquer the distrust of him
that is now so woven into her as to be a part
of herself.

In the meantime you cannot stay here,'
he goes on quickly as though fearing to wait
for her next words ; ' the night is cold and
damp. There is the summer-house over there
pointing in its direction, 'go and rest there,
till I call you.'

Glad to escape from him, glad to hide
from him her troubled face. Vera hastens to
the shelter suggested, and sinking down upon
the one seat it contains, a round rustic chair
in the last stage of decay, gives way to the
overpowering fatigue that for the last hour
has been oppressing her.

Reluctantly she does this, and quite unconsciously.
Obstinately determined to fight
sleep to the last, she presently succumbs to
that kindly tyrant, and falls into one of the
most delicious slumbers she has ever yet enjoyed.


How long it lasts she never knows, but

when next she opens her eyes with a nervous
start, the first flush of rosy dawn is flooding
hill and valley and sea. Two or three youthful
sunbeams, golden and glad with mirth,
are stealing mischievously across the sanded
floor of the tiny green-clad house in which
she is sitting, as if to catch her unawares.

She has risen with a frightened haste, that,
now she is more wide-awake, seems part of a
dream. Yet had no one called to her ? Her
heart is still beating violently, and it occurs
to her as she looks round her that that strange
calling must have been a merely visionary
idea ; she is here, and alone, and

Something lying at her feet disturbs all
her preconceived fancies. It must have
slipped from her when she rose with that
nervous start  slipped from her shoulders.
Regarding it more earnestly, she acknowledges
unwillingly that it is Seaton's coat, a

light grey one ; she remembers now, he had
not been in evening clothes when first she saw
him in the garden, and the very colour of the
soft indistinct grey the coat has, brings him
back to her with a distinctness that has something
distasteful in it.

When she was asleep, lost to all knowledge
of friend or foe. then he had come and
placed that coat across her shoulders  then,
when she could not refuse his pretended
kindness, when she was powerless to resist
his hypocritical advances. Surely it was an
intolerable liberty he had taken !

The coat lying there prone upon the
ground seems to have an extraordinary fascination
for her. He had stripped it from
his own body, in the darkest, the dampest
hour of the night, to lay it on hers, lest the
chill of the keen night air might touch her.
It was all a part of the game he had proposed

to play, no doubt, and yet  and
yet

A curious light grows upon her face as
she stands staring down upon this simple
garment, and then with a sharp movement,
as if angered with herself for her long absorption,
she lifts her head and goes slowly
towards the open doorway, and stands there
glancing uncertainly from right to left.

Her eyes are still large and languid with
sleep broken and unsatisfied, her soft hair lies
ruffled on her low broad brow. She looks
timidly, nervously, around her as one expecting
anything but good ; her whole air
is shrinking, and her whole self altogether
lovely.

To the young man standing in his shirt-sleeves,
half hidden amongst the laurels and
looking at her, with admiration generously
mixed with melancholy in his glance, she

seems the very incarnation of all things desirable.


A certain miracle of symmetry,
A miniature of loveliness, all grace
Summ'd up and closed in little.

A swift, hot flush dyes her cheeks, as a
sudden movement of her body betrays him to
her. It was he then who through all the
chilly changes of the night had stayed half-clothed
that she might escape the cold.

Come,' says he, hastening towards her.
Half unconsciously he puts out his hand and
takes hers as if to lead her the more quickly
to the house.

She hesitates.

Where  where is he ? ' she demands
faintly. She has not withdrawn her hand
from his, and as she speaks she lifts her
large soft frightened eyes to his. He can
feel that she is trembling, and a sudden.

glinting sunbeam falling on her hair, brings
to life the ruddy tinge in it.

It is the first time she has ever used
towards him so friendly a tone. There is
almost a touch of confidence in both her
glance and words, and a mad, glad, unreasoning
joy rushes through all his veins,
thrilling him for the moment.

'He is at the other end of the garden,'
he whispers back. ' You are safe if you will
only  I ask you again  trust me. Come,
this way.'

He presses her hand and hurries her over
the short dewy grass into the shrubberies
that form an effectual screen from all observation
of those in the garden beyond, and soon
until they come to the small oaken doorway
through which she had passed last night,
and which has proved more foe than friend.

Once inside the longed for portal, her first

VOL. II. G

impulse is a natural one ; it is to run as fast
as her feet can carry her to her own room.
But when she has gone a step or two, she
pauses, hesitates, and then, decidedly mal ogre,
looks back at him. Her whole air is full of
irresolution, but at last 

Thank you,' she says, as if forced by
some hidden power into saying it, and having
said it she stands tapping her foot in a shy,
embarrassed, half-angry fashion against the
stone flagging of the passage.

Something in lier manner, in the fact that
she will not look at him, maddens him.

Do not waste time thus uselessly,' he says
coldly. ' Go, or one of the servants may see
you.'

He turns away with a rather contemptuous
haste, and disappears once more into the

morning air.

CHAPTER Iii.

Our Emperor is a tyrant, feared and hated.

Anything else gone wrong ? ' demands Mr.
Peyton, gazing at Griselda's stricken countenance
with a sure presentiment of coming
evil. He has wedged one foot into a friendly
hole in the wall, and thus supported is able
to give her rather more of his attention than
at their last meeting.

Everything ! ' says Griselda solemnly.

'Begin at the beginning, or we'll never
get through,' suggests he, being, if anything,
an eminently practical young man. ' Nothing
fresh about me, at all events ? '

How old are you  ' says Griselda irrele-

g2

vastly, as it seems, regarding him with distinct
pity.

Twenty-eight, last May

It is a long time to live in the world and
be still so sanguine,' says she contemplatively.
I should rouse myself a bit if I were you.
Let me tell you that I spent a happy half-hour
with dear Uncle Gregory this morning
discussing you, and you only.'

The deuce ! ' says Mr. Peyton, so completely
taken aback as to forget to be indignant
at her scathing remarks. ' Why, what
have I done now ? ' As he speaks his foot
misses its hold.

Take care, you'll fall off,' cries Griselda,
catching him by the coat sleeve. ' I really
irish you wouldn't slip about like that.
Surely I'm unhappy enough without your
compelling me to see you dashed to atoms
before my eyes.' The wall is exactly six

feet in height, and as he now stands he has
about two feet to fall.

Never mind me. Tell me about your
uncle. What did he say? What could he
say ?'

He was at no loss for words, I assure you.
The original " old man eloquent " was a fool
to him. Whether he knew of your last visit
and I firmly believe he knows everything
that happens under the sun, or could know
if he chose  I can't say, but at all events he
sent for me to his study, and there swore mein
afresh not to leave the grounds and " to
hold no communication with you." Of course
I promised.'

Oh, Griselda ! '

Well ! what would you have done with
his horrid eyes fixed on you ? You'd have
done just the same,' says Griselda indignantly.
And you know I have told you not to call

lue by my Christian name, and when a person
tells you she objects to that sort of thing, I
do think '

Very good, I'll remember,' says he impatiently
' and now go on. Do you mean to
tell me that you promised never to speak tome
again ? '

 Why, I promised that last time, and you
made me break my word,' says she miserably.
But this time I am determined ; yes, I am
indeed  it is no use your looking at me like
that ; I cannot give my word to any one, no
matter how bad he may be, and then deliberately
break it. You must not come here
again.'

'I am sure I shall,' says he mournfully.
I feel, I know I shan't be able to keep
away.'

Well, / shan't come here, at all events,'
returns she with noble determination.

You'll have to come here when my dead
body is discovered fastened like a dead fly
to  this wall,' says he gloomily. ' You'll be
wanted for purposes of identification. I shall
refuse to stir until you are sent for.'

At this insanity they both laugh in a
soft, subdued way that lends the occasion a
charm.

That's number one grievance,' says he ;
now for number two.'

The gardener's assistant ; that's number
two. And I believe I may thank him for the
scolding I got this morning. He gave warning,
in fact left on the spot, and Uncle
Gregory has been in a fiendish temper
ever since, specially quiet, you know, which
always means mischief. If he would only
rage and storm in a decent fashion, or box
somebody's ears  so long as they weren't
mine  I could endure it so much better.'

'Why should he care so greatly for the
loss of an assistant ? '

'Because the assistant is in reality the
gardener, and you know how he treasures his
flowers. It seems absurd that so hateful a
being can feel love for anything so innocent,
but then we know Robespierre loved a little
dog. Besides there is another, a less poetical
reason for his annoyance at Durdan's abrupt
departure.'

Had him cheap ? ' suggests Peyton.

Griselda regards him with a favourable
eye.

'You're as clever as you look,' she says
politely. ' He had him for a song. Positively
for nothing ! He has lived here all his
life, grew up here in fact, and to the boy's
wages he first received nothing has ever been
added. To this fact the excellent Durdan
woke yesterday, and left without further

argument, for which I honour him  and
Uncle Gregory is in despair

He'll recover,' says Peyton unfeelingly.

I fear so. But not even the knowledge
that he has been able to keep back the last
month's wages of that admirable Durdan, has
been sufficient to console him. Durdan was
an excellent gardener, and how is he to be
replaced under treble his wages ? '

How indeed ? ' says Mr. Peyton dreamily,
who has sunk into a most untimely reverie,
and is apparently shamefully inattentive to
the harrowing tale the younger Miss Dysart is
still pouring into his ears.

You must understand that his precious
dahlias have just come to that age when
copious waterings are requisite to their future
welfare. Their beauty will be marred if a
second Durdan does not instantly present
himself! '

Dahlias ! Water ! ' murmurs Peyton, so
absently now that Griselda casts a sharp
glance at hmi.

I do believe you are dozing,' she says,
regularly going to sleep. Have you forgotten
where you are, and that a single
instant's unconsciousness may precipitate you
into space ? ' She is evidently bent on regarding
his present position as perilous in the
extreme. ' And besides,' resentfully, ' if you
are sleepy I wish you would go home and doit
there ; it is not very interesting talking to
people Who don't even know whether one is
here or not.'

I was only thinking. I assure you I
never was more wide-awake in my life,'
protests Peyton eagerly. ' Well, go on again.
That is grievance number two. First you,
then the gardener  then '

No, first you carefully.

True and the third ? '

Poor Vera. Poor darling, of course she
is bound to come in for her share. Now
what do you think he wants to do with her ? '

Strangle her ? '

Par worse ; he wants to marry her to his
son, whether she will or no ! '

To his son ! ' with every mark of extraordinary
surprise. ' By Jove, what lines for
him ! '

Por him ? '  indignantly  ' for her, you
mean ! '

No, I don't. I mean for him. What an
old rascal that father of his must be ! '

Just what I think. I'm glad there is
one subject under the sun on which we can
agree. The idea of his wanting to marry her
to a man of whom we know nothing, except
that he is his son ! A weighty recommendation,
truly ! '

Do you mean Seaton Dysart ? ' asks
Peyton, as if finding some difficulty in making
sure of this fact.
- <> Why, whom else should I mean ? '

Not Beaton. Why, he is one of the best
fellows going. If she marries him, I shan't
pity her. But she won't.'

You know him ? '

Very well indeed.'

I think you might have said so before,'
says Griselda, distinctly offended.

So I should,' says he, ' but somehow I
never connected our Seaton Dysart with your
cousin.'

Our Seaton ! Pray how is it you have
so appropriated him ? '

He is such a tremendous chum of Grace's,
my sister, Lady Eiversdale, you know, for
one thing.'

Oh ! ' She seems so struck by this revelation

that she is silent for a moment or two.
Then, ' Well, I can't say I congratulate Lady
Eiversdale on her friendship with him' she
says, with a little tilt upwards of her pretty
chin.

Why, do you mean to say you don't like
Dysart ? '

Griselda grows thoughtful.

There is something  something that
puzzles me,' she says, looking at him earnestly,
as one 'perplex'd in the extreme.'
When I see him, when I am with him, I
feel led away into a fancy that I do like him,
but afterwards, when he is gone, of course
I remember that I hate him, or at least' 
conscientiously  ' that I ought to hate him
for wanting to marry Vera against her will.'

Marry Vera 1' It is Mr. Peyton who has
grown thoughtful now, and more than that,
astonished.

Just SO,' nodding her shapely head. ' So
mean of inn I call it, when he knows she
can't bear him. All simply to please his
father, lest he should cut him off with a dozen
useless pennies.'

'That isn't like Dysart,' says Mr. Peyton
decidedly. ' He's not that sort of fellow a bit.
If he did want to marry your sister, it would
be in my opinion because he was in love with
her.' This startling suggestion he throws outwith
an air that would not have disgraced a
Solomon. Griselda seems so struck with it
that for a moment she is speechless. She
might perhaps have been more overcome by
this solution of a mystery that to her has
been inexplicable, but that Mr. Peyton's next
words tear down the image he has upraised.

But he isn't,' he says calmly. ' He isn't
the least bit in the world in love with her.'

I don't see why you should say that,'

says Griselcla, taking fire at his tone, which
seems to her to slight Vera. ' It is the most
natural thing in the world that she should
not care for him but there is no reason that
I can see why he should not be very proud to
be in love with her.'

Oh, quite  quite so,' says Peyton with
alacrity that savours of servility, ' one must
see that. There is, however, a trifling obstacle
in the way of his falling in love with
her.'

'Is there.? Eeally ? What?' demands
Griselda eagerly. She leans forward  what
a blessed thing it will be for Vera if he can
make good these words !

Why, bless my stars, a man can't be in
love with two girls at once, and the laws of
the land forbid more than one wife at a time,
and Dysart to my knowledge is as good as
engaged to a girl in the north ! '

CHAPTER Vni.

conspiracy,
Shan't thou to show thy dangerous brow by night
When evils are most free ? Oh, then, by day
Where wilt thou find a cavern dark enough
To mask thy monstrous visage ? Seek none, conspiracy.
Hide it in smiles and affability.

What ? ' says Griselda faintly ; so faintly,
and with such evident agitation, that he turns
a sharp eye upon her.

Didn't you know it ? ' asks he.

N-o,' says Griselda. ' But are you sure
certain ? ' She is decidedly eager to hear
his answer, and a warm blush springs into
her cheeks. That does it.

What are you blushing about ? ' demands
he abruptly. ' What is it to you whether he

is engaged to another girl or not ? Or ' 
with an ominous hesitation  ' is it anything ?
Am I to learn that now ? '

Learn what ? '

You know very well. Your interest in
this fellow Dysart is evidently deeper than
you wish it to appear.'

Is that how you call him now ? Why,
only a moment since you alluded to him in
the highest terms as your dearest friend,
This fellow Dysart ! " Dear me, what has
he done since ? '

Never mind what he has done, though to
be paying his addresses to three women all at
the same time seems to me to be about as low
a thing as I ever heard of any fellow. It is
what you have done. Have you told him of
your walks in the wood with me  of '

This is the second time you have accused
me of being in love with my cousin,' inter-vol.

II. H

ruts Griselcla with suspicious calmness.
Now why ? '

Have I no reason to doubt you ? Do
you think I'm blind ? The moment I said he
was engaged to another girl you grew fiery
red, and '

'I did not get " fiery red." I really wish
you could choose your language better,' says
Griselda, now groaning hot within her. ' Is
that all? Is that your accusation?'

Do you mean to deny that you betrayed
no anxiety about it at all ? '

I certainly was anxious to know if he
was enofagfed to be married, on Vera's account,
not my own. Can't you see  you could if
you were not so bent on being rude to me 
that if she could once learn that he was
formally bound to another woman, she could
defy Uncle Gregory and his plans? There,
are you satisfied now ? Though why I take

the trouble to explain matters to you at all

,

let me speak. If you would
only try to be patient I '

Patient ! Why, what do you call me ?
Just look at me. I really think myself that
I'm an angel to bear with you as I do.'

Well, that's what I think you too very
humbly.

'I shall not stay here a second longer
at all events. I'm oroinsf,' resins to her feet.
Look at me for the last time ; our acquaintance
is at an end from this instant. Goodbye,
Mr. Peyton, I trust to time to prove to
you how cruelly you have wronged me by
your suspicions.' She moves away a yard or
so, with so upright a gait that Mr. Peyton's
soul grows weak within him.

You must have a heart of stone to treat
me like this ! ' he says, in such a wretched way

that she relents, stares severely at him as if to

make sure of his contrition, and finally returns.

snow before we begin,' says she sternly,

promise me faithfully you will never do it

adam.

I swear it.'

And you believe me to be the most trustworthy
person you know.'

You know what I believe you to be, an
angel, worthy of all trust.'

And you acknowledge you have treated
me infamously ? '

Oh, now really, Griselda '

Infamously' in a relentless tone, ' and
that you are extremely sorry for it ? '

I'll say I'm a brute at once if you like,'
says he with deep resignation, ' and I'm extremely
sorry for it. But you like me, don't
you, Griselda.'

Ye  es,' says she doubtfully.

'Well, you couldn't like a brute, could
you ? ' artlessly.

It appears so  since I like you,' with
uncompromising persistency. ' And I assure
you,' loftily, ' I should not have come back
on any account whatsoever, except for my
anxiety,' with a withering glance at him, ' to
hear more of this engagement of Seaton's, that
I may be able to tell it to Vera.'

It isn't  so to speak  settled,' says Mr.
Peyton, who is looking rather crushed ; ' not
given out, you know, but they are always
together, he and Miss Butler. It is from
Gracie I hear all about it, and she sees a good
deal of both Seaton and Miss Butler. If they
haven't arranged matters yet it hardly signifies,
as their world have arranged it for them.
That saves time and trouble.'

'Butler? Miss Butler? I'll remember
that well ! ' drawing a long breath. ' I do

think men are the most perfidious wretches
upon earth.'

'With exceptions  rare exceptions,' implores
he.

'Do you think so?' regarding him with
an absent far-away gaze.

I know it. Behold one ! ' says he, striking
himself tragically on the breast. His
action upsetting his equilibrium, he totters to
his fall, makes a wild clutch at the top of the
parapet, and saves himself by a miracle. At
this they both give way to wild if smothered
mirth  the recent discussion is forgotten, and
peace once more reigns supreme.

Gracie will be coming down in a day or
two,' says Peyton presently. ' Her place, you
know, is only a dozen miles or so from this.
How I wish you could know her ! '

So do I,' wistfully. ' But we might as
well wish for the moon.'

Supposing I spoke to her ? '

It would be of no use, none. Uncle
Gregory would not let us go anywhere, or
know any one. Indeed,' a sudden cloud
shadowing her bright face, 'what I said
a moment since was only the truth. Our 
our acquaintance does come to an end this
evening. I shall come here no more ; I
cannot. I have given him my word not to
see you, and I will not break it. Besides,
there is always the fear of discovery, and
that would be visited upon Vera as well as
upon me.'

I shan't give you up like this,' says he
very low. There is silence for quite a longtime,
and then, perhaps with a laudable desire
to turn her thoughts from unpleasant brooding,
he begins to talk of a matter that is
apparently far from the subject in hand.

'What an old curmudgeon that uncle of

yours is ! ' he says in quite a lively tone.
Quarrelling right and left with everybody.
I'm sure I don't wonder that under-gardener
took French leave. By-the-by, what did you
say was the amount of the wages he received
? '

I don't know. I only heard some one say
they were ridiculously small.'

And the man himself, where is he now ? '

At present, staying with a sister of his on
one of the outlying farms.'

His name, I think you said, was
Rawlins ? '

No, Durdan, Bob Durdan.'

'Ah, true; yes. I think I know him.
Do you know I feel quite sorry for him ? I
should like if possible to get him a decent
situation somewhere. My sister might be
able to take him on. What's his sister's
name?'

Susan.'

Yes, but her other name  eh ? '

You are a good friend,' says she admiringly.
' I really believe you do mean to give
poor Bob a helping hand. Todd is the sister's
name, and she lives about four miles from
this. At least so I've heard. It is all hearing
with me,' sadly, ' I'm not allowed to see,
and oh, how I should like a breezy walk over
those distant hills ! '

Some day you shall walk there and everywhere
your fancy chooses. This can't go on
for ever,' whispers he tenderly.

It can. For ever and ever now ; now
that I must not even see you any more.'

There is such an intensity of grief in her
whole air, that his heart begins to beat passionately.
Does she care ?

Oh, Griselda, are you really sorry ? ' asks
he, closing his fingers tightly over hers.

For what ? ' mournfully.

Because  because you cannot see me ? '
says he, feeling rather shy over putting it
into words.

Oh, I don't know,' cries she petulantly,
with a last vain effort to conceal her regret.
Do you want me to be sorry ? Is not my
cup sufficiently full ? ' Then suddenly, as if
driven to it, ' You know I care,' she says
angrily.

I did not imtil this moment,' says he ina
low tone.

You must know you are the only one I
have to speak to ; you are the only one who
who ' She hesitates and grows crimson.


But not the only one who loves you,
sweetheart, though indeed I dare to say there
is no one loves you quite so well.'

And you are going from me ! You will

leave me here alone ! I shall never see you
again ! ' says she, with a reproach in her voice
as keen as though it is he, and not she, who
is insisting on the separation.

At this moment the clock in the old
tower tells out the hour in a cracked and
quavering tone, and Griselda rises to her
feet.

'That is my signal. I must go in now,'
she says slowly, reluctantly. Is the last
minute indeed come? Oh, for all those
happy, idle, careless wanderings through the
sweet wild wood ! She leans over the parapet
and gives him her hand, looking away as she
does so. ' Good-bye, good-bye for ever ! '
she says.

Griselda, you are crying ! ' whispers he.
My beloved, don't do that. Since I came
here to-day, I have thought of a plan. I
shall work it out. You shall see me again.

Do you think I could live without you now ?
And  you must not be surprised or angry
at whatever happens ; you are only to remember
that I could not go on from day today
without getting a glimpse of you  a
word '

Miss Greeselda ! '

Again that hatefully harsh voice sounds
through the delicious silence of the evening
air.

'There, go, go, my darling,' whispers he
hurriedly, ' and recollect now  that it is not
good-bye.'

He presses his lips passionately to her
hand, and slipping from his uncomfortable
standing-place drops downwards and disappears
into the gloom of the branching
trees.

CHAPTER IX.

If thou desire to be held wise, be so wise as to hold
thy tongue.

GmsELDA darting homewards through the
twit garden is conscious, in spite of her
depression, of something that suggests a
belief in Peyton's power to see her again, and
with this there returns to her the remembrance
of what he said of Seaton Dysart  of his
engagement to a Miss Butler. Oh, but this
will be good news for poor dear Vera !

Her light walk quickens into a run, and as
she reaches the summer-house, a favourite
resort of Yera's notwithstanding the rather
unpleasant associations connected with it, she
stops, and pokes in her head to find Vera there.

I've come back,' she cries breathlessly,
sinking into a seat and looking at Vera with
despair in her eyes. ' I have done as you
advised me, I have said good-bye to him forever
! '

Oh, poor Griselda, your one friend beside
me ! ' says Vera in dismay. ' Oh, I'm sorry
you took me so completely at my word. You
might have waited  have thought it out a bit.
Oh, it does seem hard ! '

Well, I told him everything  of my
promise to Uncle Gregory, that horrid beast I '
cries poor Griselda, bursting into tears, and in
her angry misery forgetful of her manners.
I bid him good-bye and  and '

What did he say ? Was he very much
upset ? ' with burning interest.

He said he'd manage to see me in someway
or other,' says Griselda with a heavy sigh.

'Oh, well  come now, that's not so bad,'

says Vera cheerfully, forgetful of prudence at
sight of her sister's grief. ' He seems from all
I have heard from you a  a sort of a person
who would be difficult to baffle. I think I
should put faith in that declaration of his if I
were you.'

Oh, he said more than that,' cries Gri
selma, grateful beyond measure for the overflowing
sympathy with which her story has
been received ; ' he said something that will
make you glad too, something that, if we can
prove it, will put an end to all that dreadful
old man's machinations. And oh. Vera
darling ! if I haven't seemed to feel enough for
you, it wasn't that I didn't. I declare when
he told me to-day, I thought I could never
get at you soon enough to tell you.' She
quite believes all this.

But what is it ? ' asks Vera nervously.

Why, it appears that Tom  Mr. Peyton 

knows Seaton quite well, and likes him too.
Think of that I assure you, I had quite a
quarrel with him about Seaton  Dysart, as he
calls him  and he, Tom, declares there are
few fellows so charming or so much to be liked
as our unpleasant cousin.'

Well, but that can't be it ; there must be
something else. It would not add to my
happiness to hear Mr. Dysart's praises sung.
It strikes me that your friend cannot be a
person of very deep penetration.'

I don't think you should despise him ; he
is very reasonable, as a rule,' says Griselda
a little coldly, ' and after all, are you not hard
on Seaton ? Many a man marries for prudence
sake ; it is not so altogether an unheard-of
thing, and, from what I could gather from
you Seaton behaved very well that night you
were shut out in the garden.'

Oh, yes, yes ! ' says Vera hastily, ' I give

him credit for all good feeling on that occasion.'


He is, therefore, not hopelessly lost to
the higher virtues,' says Griselda, who is
championing Tom Peyton, not Seaton, all this
time. She looks up now mollified, and her
eyes light on the graceful hanging creepers
that adorn the doorway ; they seem to remind
her of something, and she smiles. ' How
strange that he should have done you a good
turn in this, the summer-house where first you
so offended him,' she says, alluding to that
hour long past when Seaton had overheard
y era's rather pronounced opinion of him. ' It
was here you said you did or would detest
him, and it was here the other night that he
covered you with his coat when you were
sleeping, to keep off the mists of night.
Surely he can't be all bad ; he must have a
forgiving nature.'

VOL. II. I

Vera has flushed unison. ' You said you
had something to tell me,' she reminds her
with some dignity : ' may I hear it now ? '

Well, it was about Seaton ; Mr. Peyton
says that he, Seaton, is engaged to be married
to a ]\iiss Butler, a friend of Lady Coverdale's.'


For a moment there is a dead silence,
during which the pretty crimson on Yera's
cheek dies out, leaving her singularly pale.
No doubt the surprise is great.

Is that true ? ' she says. ' I should not
be surprised, though I confess I am ; it is
only what I might have expected from my
first judgment of him. And one should not
condemn him either ; it is not his fault that
he calls Uncle Gregory father.'

Yes, it was sly of him  concealing it, I
mean, but it is a good thing for you, Yera.
We may deplore our cousin's duplicity, of

course, but nevertheless, you must see that it
is the best thing that could have happened
for you. The next time Uncle Gregory
speaks of his plans, just tell him about Miss
Butler, and there you are ! Yes, it must be
said that it is a most fortunate thing for
you.'

Most fortunate ! ' says Vera in a distinct
tone.

I should think, if I were you, I should
love Liss Butler,' says Griselda with an
amused little laugh : ' she'll take him off your
hands. Still when one thinks of it, I feel as if
Seaton were even a worse person than I quite
believed him. I assure you, when Mr. Peyton
told me of that Miss Butler, I felt the blood
rushing to my face ; I was in a most unholy
temper. It seems almost an indignity to you,
his having '

I know. Don't go into it,' says Vera,

I 2

with a swift upward movement of her hand
that forbids further analysis of the situation.
I am accustomed to indignities at his hands.
It is only, after all, as I said before, what I
should have expected. You know,' with a
faint smile, ' what was my first unblessed
opinion of him, and you also know that it is
sweet to every one to find their judgment
correct.'

A footstep upon the gravel outside makes
them both turn their heads.

What is it, Grunch ? ' asks Vera calmly,
as the housekeeper appears on the threshold.

The master wishes to see you. Miss
Dysart, in the library.' There is an expression
of malignant amusement in the woman's
eyes as she says this.

'Very well. Tell him I am coming,' says
Miss Dysart with a cold glance. Grunch
retires.

Another attack,' suggests Griselcla. ' Shall
I come with you ? No ? Well, this time at
all events you have a Eolancl for his Oliver.
When he once again begins to open out to
you the advantages to be derived from a
union with his precious son, just you throw
Miss Butler at his head. Throw her hard.
The more you hurt him, the better I shall be
pleased.'

I don't think I shall mention her,' says
Vera, drumming thoughtfully upon the little
rustic table with her fingers ; ' I feel,' drawing
her breath sharply, ' as if I couldn't ! And 
and besides, there is always the fear that he
would want to know how I heard of  of 
that girl.' The nervous tapping lingers are
trembling now.

Don't mind me,' says Griselda eagerly,
put me out of it. If it will strengthen your
cause, and cast a destructive stone upon his

'' plans," speak freely of Miss Butler ; I'm
quite prepared to bear the brunt of this anger.
Indeed,' contritely, ' I feel so much as though
I had broken my word to him by having even
accidentally seen Tom, that I think I ought
to endure some punishment. So mention herat
once, and take my advice.'

No, I don't think I shall do that,' says
Vera in a curious tone, and then suddenly she
turns to Griselda and presses her cheek to
hers. ' You are very generous,' she says.
Don't imagine I am so ; I shall not speak of
Miss  Butler  only because it would wound
my self-love to do so, nothing more. One
doesn't like to think,' looking down and
paling slightly, ' that one has been treated
like a puppet  an infant  a fool '

She breaks off as if afraid to go on, and
abruptly moving to one side quits the summerhouse.
Slowly she moves towards the hall-door,

lier mind in a turmoil. Passionate anger
mingled with extreme indignation moves her
very soul. It was sufficiently detestable that
he should have expressed himself willing to
take her without affection, or even a barest
friendship, but that he should have elected to
make her his wife, with his whole being filled
with thoughts of another, is nothing less than
despicable.

And how would he smooth matters with
this other girl, this Miss Butler ? Poor fool, is
she still in ignorance of his faithlessness?
Poor fool, twice over, to love such an one !
But perhaps she doesn't love him. No doubt
she too is a heartless worldling, eager to give
up her whole life for the sake of the old
man's money, that must in time accrue to the
son. After all, what is there in him to love ?

What! Though her body is walking
towards the house, her whole mind stands

still to seek an answer to this question. But
if any comes, if her better instincts seek to
give him a saving clause, she beats their
efforts back, and refuses vehemently to acknowledge
their truth. No, no, above all men
he is to be despised.

This last, this freshest indignity has cut
sore. Her lips are calmly set, but her face is
deadly pale as she dwells upon it. It grows
paler still as she draws near the library
door. What terrible things will there be said
to her, and all because of him, that double
traitor ? Often in her life she had known
unhappiness, but never unhappiness so absolute
as this !

CHAPTER X.

"Whoever is afraid of submitting any question, civil or religious,
to the test of free discussion, is more in love with his
own opinion than with truth.

She had gone into the library with a pale
face, but it was with one paler still she came
out of it, half an hour later, white as death,
and with a strained look of passion on every
feature not to be subdued.

She seems hurt, too, as one internally
injured in some mortal strife. There is a sad,
frightened expression in the beautiful eyes
now lowered as if ashamed to lift themselves,
and the right hand hanging at her side is
clutching with an unconscious force at her
gown.

She might perhaps have given way to the
blessed relief of tears if she had had time to
escape to Griselda, but as she finds herself
looking at Seat on Dysart, who has at this
moment entered the inner hall leading to the
room she has just left, all her being seems to
stiffen into a cold horror of contempt.

She stops short and fixes her heavy eyes
on his.

So you betrayed me ! ' she says in a low
tone that vibrates with scorn.

'Betrayed you ? ' echoes he starting.
There is that in her face not to be mistaken,
and a presentiment of coming evil sends a hot
flush to his brow.

You are a bad actor,' says she, with a
pale smile, ' you change colour at a crisis ;
you have still a last grain of honesty left in
you. You should see to that ; kill it quickly,
it spoils your otherwise perfect role.'

You are pleased to be enigmatical,' says
he with a frown. 'I am, however, at a loss to
know what you mean.'

What a paltry pretence at ignorance ! '
says she. ' I have just come from him,' with
a reluctant gesture towards the door of the
library. ' I know all.'

You are very much in advance of me,
then, for I know nothing.'

Oh, are you not ashamed to keep it up 
the deception ? ' cries she with a sudden outbreak
of wrath, and then, all in a moment,
her strength leaves her, she turns from him
and covers her eyes with her hands. ' Oh,
how could you do it ? ' she says, and bursts
into a storm of tears.

Great Heaven, how can I convince you
that I have done nothing ? ' exclaims he,
growing pale as herself ' You will not
explain, you will not listen, you will not

believe. I swear to you by all I hold most
sacred, that I have not even the remotest
knowledge of what you allude to.'

There was no one else awake, there was no
one to see me,' says she, trying to stifle her agitation.
' What then must I think but that you
were the one to tell your father of that unlucky
night when I was locked out in the garden ? '

He has heard that ? ' Seaton, as if
thunderstruck, looks blankly back at her.

Why do you compel me to tell you what
you already know ? ' says she with a little
irrepressible stamp of her foot. ' You do not
deceive me  no. If you will listen to what
is already no news to you, learn that your
father sent for me just now  a long time ago,
hours ago, I think,' putting her hand to her
head in a little, confused, miserable way,
and accused me of having spent '

Yes, go on,' harshly.

Of having spent the whole night alone
with you, purposely, in the garden,' says she,
her own tone now as harsh and defiant as his,
though in spite of all her efforts to be indifferent
two last tears well over and run
down her cheeks.

And you think that I '

I don't think,' with a condemnatory
glance. ' As I told you before, I know.
Your father has insolently accused me of an
impossible thing, but even if I had stayed in
the garden with you that night, of my own
free-will, I cannot see where would lie the
disgrace he connects with it.'

There is such a depth of sincerity, such a
directly angry, lovely innocence, both in her
words and tone, as she says this, that the
hopeless love he entertains for her gains food

from it, on which to drag out its sad existence
for many a day.

You are right, no one could see disgrace
where you were,' says Seaton chilly. ' My
father is an old man, he '

Is old enough to know how to insult a
woman,' coldly, ' when,' with a terrible glance
at him, ' shown the way. Oh,' laying her
hand upon her breast in a paroxysm of grief,
it was abominable of you, and you said 
twice you said it,' coming closer to him, and
lifting accusing eyes to his, ' " Trust me." I
remember it as though you uttered it but
now, and I believed you. " Trust me," you
said.'

I should say it again,' says Dysart, ' a
hundred times again. That you should distrust
me, that you should believe me capable
of such foul play as you imagine, is the one
thing that puzzles me ; but women, I have

heard, are seldom gifted with the power of
reading character. Still, when I tell you
that I had nothing to do with my father's
unfortunate discovery, I shall,' with a stern
air, ' expect you to believe it.'

You expect too much,' says she, undismayed
by that smile.

Do you mean that you still think it was
I who told my father of your having been
shut out of the house the other night ? '

His face is set, almost rigid, and the
expression should have warned her, but she
had her eyes determinedly fixed upon the
cf round.

Yes, that is what I believe,' she says
slowly.

How dare you say that ? ' exclaims he
vehemently, his passion suppressed so long
now breaking forth. ' How have you the
courage to accuse me of this thing ? But I

refuse to permit it. I shall compel you to
hear the truth.'

With deliberation he steps forward and
lays his hand with a firm grasp upon her
arm. His brow is dark with anger ; she
would have resisted, but a glance at his face
restrains her.

Come,' he says, and leads her back again
to the library she has just quitted. Unwilling,
yet willing, she accompanies him ; the
real truth, what is it ?

In the library, Gregory Dysart still sits in
his usual chair, his arms on the elbows of it,
his face as set as though death had laid its
seal on it, save for the marvellously, horribly
youthful eyes, so full of fire and life.

You Avill be so good as to explain to
Vera at once,' begins Seaton in a dangerous
tone, ' how it was you learned of her being in
the garden the other nifht ? '

What night ? She may have been out
every night for aught I know ; she tells me
she is fond of moonlight,' replies the old man
impassively. ' If you will be a little more
explicit, therefore, I may be the better able
to help you.'

You understand perfectly the night of
which I speak,' says Seaton, his face now
livid. ' Let her know without further delay
who it was who informed you of her absence
from the house.' His father still hesitatingly
takes a step forward. ' Who ? ' he repeats
in a low but terrible voice.

Grunch,' replies Mr. Dysart shortly ;
something in his son's face has warned him
not to go further. In truth he could hardly
have told himself why he had kept back the
truth, save through a malignant desire to
hurt still more the girl who had defied him.

You hear ? ' says Seaton, turning to Vera.

VOL. II. K

It was Grunch who betrayed you. You are
satisfied now ? '

On that point, yes. I suppose I should
offer you an apology,' says she icily. ' But,'
with a swift glance at his father, ' how can I
be satisfied when '

Her voice breaks.

'Sir,' cries Seaton, addressing his father
with sudden passion, ' why did you speak to
her of this ? Grunch's malicious tongue is
surely too well known to move you now to
anger or belief. Why have you deliberately
insulted your brother's child ? '

There was no insult.' The old man's
clear voice is as calm, as unmoved, as though
he were answering some ordinary question
about the weather. ' I may have told her, as
I tell her now, that if she chooses to do such
things as society disapproves of, she must
only submit to the consequences and consider
herself ostracised.'

" Compromised'' you said.'

'Well, it is as good a word, you are
welcome to it,' replies lie mildly, blowing a
fleck of dust off the arm of his shabby coat
with an unembarrassed air.

I shall not permit her to believe that,'
says Seaton firmly. ' The whole affair arose
out of the purest accident ; it might have
happened to anybody.'

Quite so. I entirely agree with you ;
and then " anybody," if a woman, would have
been ostracised  I beg pardon, I believe compromised
is the word you prefer.'

Pshaw I ' says Seaton, with a quick motion
of the hand, as if flinging the idea far
from him, ' let us have no more of such petty
scandal. You forget,' sternly, ' that when you
seek to compromise Vera, you condemn me,
your son.'

Dysart shrugs his shoulders.

The man is never in fault ; so your
world rules,' says he lightly.

'You persist, then, in your insult,' says
Seaton, going a step nearer to him, the veins
swelling in his forehead. ' You still say that
she '

I say that, and more,' replies the old
man, undaunted, a very demon of obstinacy
having now taken possession of his breast.
I feel even bold enough to suggest to her
the advisability of an immediate marriage
with you, as a means of crushing in the bud
the scandal that is sure to arise out of her
imprudence.'

Go, Vera, leave the room,' says Seaton,
with great emotion.

Why should she go ? It seems to me
you give her bad advice,' says Mr. Dysart,
looking from one to the other with a satirically
friendly glance. 'Let her rather stay

and discuss with us your marriage with
her.'

If he had been so foolishly blind as to
hope by this bold move to force Vera into an
engagement, his expectations are now on the
instant destroyed by his son. 'Understand,
once for all, that I shall not marry Vera,' says
he, white with anger, and some strong feeling
that he is almost powerless to suppress.
'Were she to come to me this moment, and
lay her hand in mine, and say she was willing
so far to sacrifice herself, I should refuse to
listen to her.'

Vera, for the first time since her entrance,
lifts her head to look at him. Was he thinking
of Miss Butler ? Was he true at last to
her ? A little bitter smile curls her lip.

I thank you,' she says with a slight
inclination of her head towards her cousin,
and with a swift step leaves the room.

CHAPTEE XI.

The worm of conscience still begnaw thy soul !

As the last sound of her footsteps dies
away in the hall Seaton once again faces his
father. The shame, the humiliation has gone
from his eyes, but in their place is an anger,
so cold, so relentless, that the old man's heart,
callous as it is, sinks within him.

I have endured a good deal from you,'
says Seaton in dull, measured tones. ' I have
made up my mind, within the last half-hour,
to endure no more. Honour must be dead
within you, the affection you profess for mea
mockery. I shall not submit to be your
puppet any longer.'

'My puppet? Say rather that I am
yours,' cries Dysart vehemently. ' When I
move, when I speak, is it not all to further
your good ? '

Mine, mine ? Was it for my good that
you now grossly, unpardonably hurt and
insulted that poor child, whom relentless
fortune has flung into your hands? Good
Heavens, that you should breathe, and still
have no power to feel the torture you can
inflict on others ! Is it nothing to you that
her delicate young soul should be scorched
and troubled, that all her girlish trust and
softness should be killed in her? Yet the
long course of harshness and indignity to
which she has been subjected whilst under
your roof has tended to that end. I for one
refuse to stand by and see it. I am unable to
help her ; I shall at least spare myself the
misery of seeing her deteriorate beneath your

cruelty day by day.' He moves towards the
door.

You mean that you go now, not to
return ? ' With an indomitable will the elder
man forces these words from between his
fixed lips, with a calmness, a courage too, that
would have been admirable in a better cause.

'You have understood,' returns Seaton
coldly. His hand has now reached the door,
he has drawn it partly open. There is no
sign of relenting in his face, and all at once
Dysart's evil courage forsakes him, and an
agonising pang contracts his breast. This his
son is the sole thins life has left sweet unto
him ; his affection for this son the one pure
stream that flows over the cankered, embittered
existence that day by day grows
more unendurable to him. To let him go
means eternal darkness !

'Seaton, Seaton,' he shrieks aloud as the

door is almost closing on the young man, as
the last moment of grace is expiring, ' don't
leave me, don't desert me ! Don't go like
that '

Seaton, unnerved by that sharp despairing
cry, pauses, and finally returns to the room,
closing the door behind him. Reluctantly he
lifts his head, and casts a most unwilling
glance at his father. The old man is huddled
up in his chair, his chin falling on his breast,
his arms hanging loosely at his sides  he
looks dying.

Don't leave me in anger  whom have
I but you ? ' he gasps, the words coming with
difficulty. ' Oh, the irony of it. All I do, all
I plan, is for you, for your benefit alone, yet
you are the one to thwart and oppose me.'

'What I desire to know is,' says Seaton,
giving voice now to a long-felt anxiety, but
speaking in a gentler tone, though still with a

frown, ' why it is you are so strangely desirous
of seeing me married to my cousin.'

'Strange? Why should it be a strange
desire ? ' says Dysart, recovering himself as if
through the influence of some mental shock.
A dull colour flames into his cheeks, and his
fingers clutch more tightly the arms of his
chair. ' There is surely nothing strange
about my desire to see my only son married
to the daughter of my only brother ? '

Your only brother was hardly so specially
dear to you.'

You argue from the accounts learned of
later years ; I from the memories of the days
when you were not, and my brother and I
were boys together. But let that pass. If
I say there are other reasons, a thousand
reasons,' throwing out his hands, ' why I
should regard this marriage with a favourable
eye, help me to the consummation of it.'

'That is beside the present question.
You say there are a thousand reasons why
you would see me Vera's husband. Give me
one ! '

You are getting on in life, you are
twenty eight  or nine is it ?  you are no
longer a boy ; before I die I would see you
with a home, an estate of your own.'

As Vera is penniless, you can hardly
hope to see me with an estate before your
death  you see I am frank with you, I do not
spare myself, I do not spare you  that reason
is insufficient.'

I would fain see you with my grandchildren
on your knee,' says Dysart, with
a careful but ineffectual effort to look
patriarchal.

There are many other women in the
world who could gratify that fancy of yours
besides Vera,' says Seaton coldly, his glance

fixed on the carpet, ' and  you  you will
pardon my saying so, but I find a difficulty in
believing that your prospective grandchildren
could influence you in any way.'

You would probe me,' said the old man
with a dangerous scowl. Then he controls
himself and goes back to the former gravity
of his manner. 'Have you forgotten,' he
says, turning his bright eager eyes upon
Seaton, that Vera is the only woman I now
know ? Excluded as I am from the world, she
alone presents herself to me as a woman who
might make you a suitable wife. Doubtless
there are many others, but she alone I can see
and judge of, for myself. She is well-born,
well-educated, one not to be ashamed of at
the head of one's table.'

You have studied her,' says Seaton with
a rather pale smile.

And she is pretty too, eh ? ' with a

contemptuous leer  'pretty in the mincing
way of which fools approve, handsome enough
to drag to her feet a score of idiots. What
would you more, boy ? Have I not given you
reasons " plenty as blackberries," or is it that
you are bent on disbelieving me  that you
would call me liar ? '

He is trembling with some secret agitation,
and has grasped the arms of his chair with
both hands, and with his death-like face
poked out is regarding his son with a
menacing expression. Fear largely mingled
with a fiery anger dominates his features.
He is evidently working himself up into a
second fit of passion, the bare idea of which
alarms Seaton.

'Pray be calm. Let us discuss this
matter, if it must be discussed, leisurely,' he
says with sharp appeal in his tone.

My reasons  my reasons, you would have

them ? ' gasps the old man feebly. ' I tell
you, boy, there are none  none  save a longing
for your well-being.'

A sudden thought rushes through Seaton's
mind. Has his father guessed his fatal attachment
to his cousin ? Was it to see him,
Seaton, united to the woman he loved  the
woman who, alas ! would never love him 
that the old man was thus working early and
late to bring about this marriage ? Oh, if he
had wronged him, if indeed only at the very
last he had lit upon this truth ! A great
wealth of remorseful tenderness springs up
within the young man as this thought enters
into and finds dwelling-place within his heart,
and bending over his father he smoothes his
pillows, and ministers to him with a mind
filled with regretful memories.

CHAPTER XII.

I have of late (but wherefore, I know not) lost all my
mirth, foregone all custom of exercises. And indeed it goes so
heavily with my disposition, that this goodly frame the earth
seems to me a sterile promontory.

Four long days have crept languidly into the
past, four of the dullest days Griselda Dysart
has ever yet endured, as she is compelled to
acknowledge even to herself. Oh, with what
a relentless sluggishness each of the fifteen
waking hours that go to make up her day
has dragged itself to its close ! There is no
chance now of any one's breaking in upon
her monotony, no vaguest hope of gaining a
breath from that outer air that lies beyond
her prison.

Slowly with aimless steps she rises and

flings aside the mouldy volume she had found
in one of the rooms below, and which she has
been making a fruitless effort to read, and
looks out upon the sunless pleasure-ground
beneath her window. Here and there indeed
the happy gleams that Apollo is sending overall
the land make their way through the
openings in the hedge, to lie in straggling
patches on the sward, but as a whole the outlook
is gloomy.

Still, to be out at all is better than a
longer confinement in this dull room, and
Vera may be in the summer-house. Always
in a half-hearted fashion she picks up a huge
white sun-bonnet and going to the looking-glass
puts it on ; she pouts a little in the
doing of this, the sun-bonnet makes her look
so adorable, but who is there to see her?
With a last stifled sigh, and a Httle rush of
tears in her pretty eyes, she goes down

the staircase, and makes her way to the
garden.

There is the usual touch of silence, of
sacredness  that general hush in the air that
preludes evening. Far down below, the ocean
is glinting in the last rich rays of the dying
day, and against the clear rose of the perfect
sky stand out the unspeakable colours of the
strong calm hills. There is a soft plaintive
rush of water somewhere, and on her right
she can see the broad spread of the old chestnut
woods, so full of memories that now must
indeed be dead, and to her left the fresh
flower-filled green of the sloping meadows as
they run down to the sea.

The sweetness, the intensity of it all
reaches yet scarcely satisfies her, though it
does seem hard that peace should not live
where its very home seems set. But peace

VOL. II. L

perfected is not to be for any one in this round
of existence.

Griselda, walking onwards in her dinner-gown
of white with her arms naked to the
shoulder, and her charming face peeping out
from the huge snowy bonnet, becomes suddenly
aware of an unfamiliar figure that,
kneeling on the grass before one of the beds,
seems to be weeding away for its dear life.

It is certainly the new gardener. Poor
creature, whoever he is, what could have induced
him to come here ? Not the wages,
certainly ; dire poverty, no doubt. After all,
what those dreadful newspapers say about
the people's distress must have much truth
in it. Perhaps Durdan had made a mistake
in leaving ; it might not be so easy these hard
times to get another place, and half a loaf
is, however mouldy, better than no bread.
However, Tom had promised to help him.

A heavy sigh escapes her  oh, that he could
help her !

Uncle Gregory had evidently found no
difficulty in replacing Durdan. Had he
secured this new gardener on the old poor
terms ? If so, how badly off this poor fellow
must have been ! Indeed, on a closer examination
of him and of his clothes it becomes
apparent to her that this miserable being
must have been at fortune's lowest ebb when
chance threw him in her uncle's way. His
coat is not only dirty but in the last stage of
decay, so patched and darned indeed that the
original stuff has long since assumed an air
of mystery, lying perdu as it were, and waiting
for a resurrection that may once again
restore it to its primitive beauty. His
trousers are but a melancholy reminder of
other and happier days ; his boots, a marvellous
illustration of how things ' hang tol

2

gather ' ; whilst his cap, pushed down well
over his forehead, is a dismal obituary of a
rabbit dead a hundred years ago.

Unhappy creature, poverty indeed must
have been his guest before he and his clothes
came to such a sorry pass !

At this moment the ' unhappy creature *
lifts his head, turns it deliberately towards

her, and she finds herself face to face

with Tom Peyton !

CHAPTER XIII.

'Tis not the gently graceful gait,
Well-made clothes well put on,
The softly measured tone

Still talking of the rich and great,

That makes the gentleman.

But 'tis the heart in danger true.

A LITTLE sharp cry breaks from her, she
stifles it, but turns very pale.

You ! you ! ' she says.

Your servant, miss,' says he, touching
his cap with quite an air  the late Durdan's
air. He is naturally very much less disconcerted
than she is, having been prepared for
this meeting which might take place at any
moment. The moment had indeed seemed to
him to have been a long time coining. He
had been ' taken on ' yesterday, having asked

for little or no wages, and it had appeared a
very spite of fortune that nothing had sent
Griselda into the garden last evening and all
this long morning and afternoon. There was
no one he could trust to deliver a message,
Grunch and Peters being the entire staff of
servants, so that perforce he was bound to
rest quiet, and resist his longing to send
Griselda a word of warning.

Just now he is a little frightened by the
pallor that has covered her face.

Don't look like that ! ' he says in a low
tone but sharply. ' Would you betray me ?
Remember, it was my only chance of getting
near you. Don't faint, I mean, or do any
thing like that.'

'Oh, how could you do such a thing?'

says she in a trembling voice. ' And and

how strange you look, and what dreadful
clothes you have on ! '

Well, I gave a good deal for them,' says
he, casting an eloquent glance at his trousers;
more  four times more  than I ever yet
gave for a suit. I'm sorry you don't approve
of them, but for myself, I think them becoming,
and positively glory in them ; I would
rather have them than any clothes I've ever
yet had, and I think them right down cheap.
It's rather a sell if you don't think they suit
my style of beauty.'

He is disgracefully native to the horror
of his position. He is even elevated by it,
and is plainly on the point of bubbling over
with laughter. Given an opportunity, indeed,
and it is certain he will give mirth way ;
Griselda, however, declines to help him to
this opportunity.

'Your hat!' she says, regarding that venerable
object with a severe eye.

New, entirely new, I assure you. I felt

I couldn't stand Durdan's, though he offered
it to me at a very reasonable figure, all things
considered, so he made me this, and I have
brought it to its present delicate state of
health by a persistent jumping upon it in and
out of season. I look upon it as an investment.
I firmly believe that later on, when
you and I are married, and this episode a
thing of the past, that Mr. Wilson Barrett
will purchase it of me for a good round sum
for one of his principal characters. Don't
you honestly think the Eomany Eye would
have been proud of it ? '

Married ! ' says Griselda indignantly. ' Whoever
told you I was ever going to marry you?
What a thing to say to me ! and  and in
such boots as those ! ' she casts a withering
glance at the dejected footgear in which he
stands, abominably unabashed.

Aren't they beauties ? ' says he with unmistakable

admiration. ' It took me days to
find a man who could manage them ; only
last night indeed they came home. But if
you don't like them, daring, surely you can
find comfort in the thought that a kick will
send them adrift for ever, and the " foot's
the foot for a' that." '

'It's horrid of you  I don't know how
you can laugh,' says Griselda, beginning to
cry. 'I can't bear to see you dressed like
that, just like a common man.'

Well  I think you're a little unkind,'
says he, regarding her reproachfully. ' I did
think you would be glad to see me. I
thought, I fancied  I suppose I was wrong 
that when we parted on that last day you
were sorry  that you would like to see me
again.'

Well, that was all true,' says Griselda
sobbingly.

Then what are you crying about ? It is
hard for me to believe you,' slightly offended.
Here I am, and it is evident you wish me
anywhere else.'

I don't, but your clothes '

If it was only my clothes you liked,' says
he, now mortally injured, ' I'll throw up this
situation here, and get home, and send them
to you by parcel post. May I ask,' turning
to her with growing wrath, ' which suit it
was you specially preferred ? '

If you could only see yourself,' continues
Griselda, very properly ignoring this outburst,
I don't think you'd do it again.'

I'm not likely to, anyway ; I'm off now.
If I had known of the reception I was likely

to get I I declare, Griselda, if you had

been clothed in sackcloth and ashes I should
still have preferred you to all the world.'

You haven't seen me like that says she

demurely ; ' if you had But  but can't

you see that it is only sorry for you I am ? I
am unhappy that because of me you must be
made so uncomfortable.'

If that's all,' says he, beaming afresh, ' it's
nothing. I'm not a scrap uncomfortable. It
strikes me as being a sort of a lark  hem  a
joke, I mean. I feel as jolly as a sandboy,
and,' with a tender, earnest glance, ' far jollier,
because I can now see you.'

But how long is it to last ? ' says she
nervously. ' It can't go on like this for ever,
and Seaton comes down here sometimes, and
he knows you. He will be sure to find you
out through any disguise.'

He seldom comes into the garden, you
tell me. I dare say I shall manage to avoid
him. Though I have often thought lately

that it would be a good thing to take him into
our confidence.'

Oh no, no, no indeed,' cries she, ' he might
tell his father, and then all would be up with
us. I should ruin not only myself but Vera
Promise me vehemently, ' that you will not
tell Seaton.'

'Very well. But I shall tell my sister,'
says he gravely, ' not that I am here as
gardener, certainly, but that I love you '  he
pauses and takes her hand and presses it
gently  ' you know I do that, don't you,
Griselda . '

*0h, how can I doubt it, when I look
at that coat ? ' says Griselda, bursting into
tears.

Never mind the coat. Well, about
Gracie, she's a very good-natured woman,
and clever too. If I were to tell her all, she
would tell Seaton, and between them they

might manage something. Don't say No to
that scheme

I am so worn out that I would let you
try anything,' says she disconsolately, ' only
don't let any one know you are here as a
gardener. Oh, Tom ! what food have you
got, and where do you sleep ? '

If you are going to fret about me like
that I shall feel I should not have attempted
to come here at all,' says he, with would-be
severity, but great delight and pride in that
she thus cares for his comfort. ' When I get
back to the cottage your uncle allows his
gardener, I can assure you I shall have a first-class,
dinner there, one that would make many
a gourmand's mouth water. Last night such
a steak ; my only drawback was that I hadn't
you to eat it with me.'

Who cooked it ? '

I did,' proudly.

Oh, I think I'm rather glad I didn't share
your feast,' says she, with the first attempt at
laughter since they met to-day. And then
with a gentle little side glance, 'That isn't
true, however. I wish I had been with you,
if only,' with another gleam of gaiety, ' to
help you to cook it.'

Darling heart ! ' says he, impressing a
swift but fond kiss upon her hand  they are
providentially in a very remote part of the
garden. ' Do you think you could be happy
with me, poor as we should be ? If I thought

that, Griselda, I '

He hesitates, as if uncertain how to
proceed.

Well ? ' says she with mild encouragement.


Will you marry me, run away with me ?
Just think,' says he eagerly, ' whatever comes
of it, whatever luxuries we may be obliged to

go without, you will surely be happier than
buried up here for ever.'

Oh, to run away? Oh, I couldn't,' says
Griselda shrinking. 'No, Vera would be
angry, and  and besides, what an awful bad
time of it she would have, once it was discovered
that I had gone ! No, it would be
too selfish.'

But she could come and live with us.'

'Let us wait,' interrupts she nervously.
Nothing lasts for ever, and if you speak to
your sister  you say she is clever  perhaps
she may see a way for us to escape this desolation
without taking such an extreme step
as you propose. Oh, and besides,' says she,
throwing out her hands with a little emphatic
gesture, ' I know I should never have the
courage, never ! '

You would if you loved me,' says he
upbraidingly. ' However, I'll see what Grace

thinks. There's a step ! Go away, and try
to see me tomorrow if you can.'

They have barely time to separate before
the gaunt figure of Grunch is seen approaching
through the laurels.

CHAPTEE Xii.

Use all the strongest eloquence that art
Or the sharp anguish of my soul can fran?,
To plead my passion and promote my love.

Mr. Peyton being never a man to let grass
grow beneath his feet, or indeed weeds beneath
his fingers  he fully earns his meagre
wages  determined to undertake without
delay that mission to his sister, Lady Coverdale,
of which he had spoken to Griselda. If
he could only induce her to take up the girl's
cause, and if she could persuade Seaton to
interfere between them and his father, why,
something might be done  what, was indeed
a vague consideration as yet, but there seemed
to be a suspicion of hope connected with that
delightful indefinite ' something.'

VOL. II. M

Cap in hand, therefore, he seeks Gregory
Dysart, and asks in humble tones for permission
to go and see his sister who resides on
the borders of the next county. It is all
strictly true, and his master, after a sufficiently
long grumble and the proviso that he is not
to be paid for the two days his journey will
occupy, gives the desired permission, and
with a light heart his gardener throws off his
elaborate disguise, and clothed once more indecency
starts for the Friars.

It is a charming place, lying a little Ioav
perhaps, but densely wooded, and as he
arrives, towards close of evening, caught in a
very blaze of sunshine. It seems such a contrast
to the dull unlovely spot he has left that
a thrill of tenderest pity for the poor little
prisoner left behind contracts his heart. And
yet Greycourt should be beautiful, far more
beautiful than the less pretentious Friars, if

only properly tended. What was the matter
with that sombre place ? What cloud overshadowed
it ? Did some curse rest on its old
grey walls ?

The butler had shown him into his sister's
boudoir, and even as those curious thoughts
throng his heart the door opens and Lady
Eiversdale advances eagerly towards him.

Dearest boy, so good of you to come tome
at once ! That's what I call being a proper
brother. Who told I had come yesterday, asa
final thing, I mean ? Of course I have been
here on and off for the past month ; so many
people expected for the grouse, and the servants
never to be relied on. But all the
guests count as nothing beside you.'

She is a tall, florid woman ; stout, expansive,
plain. Her hair by nature is as yellow
as any dye could produce, her large light-blue
eyes look out from between blonde lashes.

M 2

She is almost majestic in figure, and carries
herself, considering her size, quite remarkably
well. One can see at once that she affects a
distinctly juvenile style though she is well
into the forties, and indeed there is a look of
youth still about her that almost excuses this
small weakness. Except that they are both
plain, the brother and sister are complete
contrasts, yet, strange to say, they are the
very image of each other.

Perhaps it is something in the kindly vivacious
light of the eyes, something in the life,
that characterises the actions of both, though
Lady Eiversdale is by far the most impressive
in manner, and can hardly utter an accentuated
word  a vice common to many, yet
rarely belonging to an ill-natured person.

Well, you give me credit for more than I
deserve,' says Tom, a little ashamed of the
thought that his sister had set such reliance

on the activity of ]his affection for her. ' I'm
afraid I came thus quickly because, as usual,
when in a quandary I always seek you out.'

This seems almost more flattering to her
than the thought that he had flown on the
wings of love to bid her welcome to her
country-house, and she hastens to say so ;
whereupon Peyton begins a rigmarole that
leaves her the wiser of the fact that old
Gregory Dysart has two nieces staying with
him, and that one of them was christened
Griselda.

She's a lovely girl, a charming girl,' says
he after a second rigmarole that deals exclusively
with Griselda.

You have said that three times already,'
says Lady Riversdale, who is beginning to be
seriously uneasy. ' What does it come to ? '

Look here, Grace,' says her brother,
clasping his hands across his knees and turning

straight up to hers a confused, remarkably
red, but thoroughly honest face, ' it comes to
this, that I want to marry her ! '

Good Heavens ! I guessed that that
would be the end of your  your confession,'
says Lady Eiversdale, regarding him with a
reproachful eye. ' You want to marry a girl
without a halfpenny. We all know Lionel
Dysart died deeply in debt.'

There's an injustice in that,' says Tom
Peyton : ' the world owes him a vast debt forgiving
it Griselda.'

Who'd have thought you would have
developed into such a fool,' says Lady Coverdale
tearfully  ' you, with no money of your
own ? With your family, and my help, I
always thought I could settle you, but

now Have you gone into the future at

all, Tom? Has it never occurred to you that
you, who are for ever inveighing against the

nuisance of having to support yourself on a
limited income, are now wilfully contemplating
the idea of supporting two on the same insufficient
means ? '

I know I have talked an awful lot of rotin
my time,' says Tom stoutly, ' but no fellow
is compelled to stick to his idle words, thank
goodness. I know too that many a man has
married and been tremendously happy on even
less than my income.'

People without children.'

People with any amount of children.'

You are fortunate in your experience,'
says she very dryly. ' Of course if you have
made up your mind to it, there is no use at all
in my trying to dissuade you from a course
that can only redound to your unhappiness.'
She is distinctly annoyed, and rising from her
seat goes to a distant easel, and sinking in the
placid heavy way peculiar to the kindly fat

people, into the chair arranged before it, pretends
to be very busy with the half-dry
brushes.

I think you needn't take it like that,'
says he.

Like what . '

Like any other fellow's sister, not mines
This is an artful touch, but Lady Eiversdale
strengthens herself to receive the shock, and
continues to look adamantine.

Is it honourable of you to induce a girl
to marry you on seven hundred a year ? '

Why, you are always admonishing me to
ask this girl and that to share that handsome
fortune ! '

Not penniless girls ! '

I couldn't be happy with any girl but
Griselda, not if she was the golden-legged
Miss Kilmansegg herself. As I tell you,
I regard my former ravings as monstrous.

I feel that with Griselda seven hundred
a year will mean affluence.'

Perhaps it would be wise to go into it
before coming to such an extraordinary
conclusion,' says she coldly.

I know what you mean by that,' says he
with a good-natured but rather impatient
laugh, ' the gas bill, the coal bill, the
butcher's bill  all the bills.'

Oh, go on ! ' slowly, ' the wine bill, the
cigar bill, the '

If you saw Griselda, you'd understand at
once that she would be an excellent substitute
for such dull things as wine and cigars,' says
Mr. Peyton with enthusiasm. His sister turns
her pale but contemptuous eyes on his.

Eeally, Tom, one would think you were
fourteen instead of thirty,' she says with
ineffable disdain.

It seems to her that it is indeed mere

waste of time to argue any further with
a person so far gone in folly as this one
dearly loved brother of hers, and, taking up
the brush, she professes to ignore his presence
by giving all her attention to the deepening
of a sunset, that already is far rosier  nay, let
us be truthful at all risks  far more version
than nature ever intended.

When the silence that follows upon this
speech has become too marked to be pleasant,
Mr. Peyton breaks it.

Look here,' says he, using his favourite
form of address, ' if you won't help me to
marry her, I'll induce her to run away with
me, and you won't like that. You will like it
so little, that I give you fair warning of it,
because, leave her to wear her heart out in
that dungeon, is more than I have pluck for.'

You have a great deal of pluck, nevertheless,'
says she, still trying to be indifferent,

and still trying to overcoloiir the luckless
landscape.

Not enough to see the girl I love fretting
herself to fiddle strings day after day. You
won't like to receive a sister-in-law who has
defied the usual laws of society, but I warn
you that I shall get her out of Greycourt, by
any means, as soon as ever I can.'

He has risen and is looking with earnest,
troubled eyes at his sister, who however
refuses to meet his glance.

I may not have to receive her at all.
I may not acknowledge her,' says she
coolly, a trifle angered by his tone, though
indeed her heart is beginning to faint within
her.

Oh, if it comes to that, if you really mean
what you say,' says he stiffly, proceeding to
unearth his hat from the chair on which he
has been seated, 'I dare say we  Griselda

and I  will be able to manage very well without
you.'

Still with that stiff air about him that is
somehow so unsuited to his kindly debonair
countenance, he moves towards the door with
a determination to depart now for ever that
terrifies Lady Eiversdale, who adores him.

What on earth is it you want nie to do ? '
cries she, flinging down the destructive brush
and speaking with tearful wrath. ' Come
back, Tom, come back at once. What do you
mean by treating me in this way, when you
know, you hww I didn't  that there wasn't a
word of truth in anything I said.'

Is that the truth now ? ' asks he, looking
back with his fingers on the handle of the
door.

Have I not said it . Sit down again,
and let us talk things over. Of course I can't
deny that I am sorry you have selected a girl

who, however desirable, cannot help you to
more of this world's goods than you already
possess, but you surely need not go off like a
sky rocket just because I offer you a word of
advice. I think you might wait and hear
what a sensible woman has got to say to you
before putting on your hat in that abominably

aggressive fashion, and what is it I am todo,

Tom?'

If you will only give us a helping hand,*
says he. ' I wouldn't have come to you,'
eagerly  ' I wouldn't indeed, if I wasn't sure
you would love her when you see her. She
is the sweetest girl, I assure you, the very
sweetest I ever '

'Yes, yes, I know,' says poor Lady
Eiversdale, who, after all, has endured a great
deal, and is conscious of the fact that endurance,
however stout, can fail.

'But what I want to say is, that I

shouldn't have dreamt of soliciting your
assistance but that I am sure Griselda is
everything that you could possibly '

I'm sure of it, sure protests poor Lady
Eiversdale again, ' but if you would only
come to the point. How is it I am to help
you ? '

If you Avould ask her on a visit here. I
know old Dysart would refuse any ordinary
person, but you know Seaton is such a chum
of yours, and if you were to enlist his sympathies,
he might work on the father, and
between you the trick might be done. Will
you do this for me ? '

Oh, must I? ' sighs Lady Eiversdale, who
has several splendid matrimonial alliances m
her eye for her brother, and who is therefore
dismally disappointed by this wayward fancy
of his. ' Well, I shall do my best. If I fail,
Tom, you must not blame me.'

'Not as I have your word to do your
best,' says he, regarding her gravely.

There is one thing,' hesitating  ' don't
be angry again, Tom, but I confess I should
like to see her first.'

Well, you couldn't,' says he hastily.

But why not ? I hear that terrible old
man has Wednesdays, when all the world is
permitted to see his house and grounds for so
much a head.'

'Even that wouldn't help you to see
Griselda. On no account try,' says Mr.
Peyton, seriously alarmed at the idea of his
sister perambulating the grounds and coming
upon him unawares in the ghastly old rabbit-skin
cap. ' You have no idea of the sort of

man my Mr. Dysart is, a regular fox, my

dear girl  a modern Machiavelli. He'd
know at once, at the very first glimpse of
you, and he is always on the look-out from

some secret loophole of this, what it was you
had come for. He would see it was business,
not pleasure. And once he found that out

Take my advice, my dear girl, don't

enter his gates as you value your life.'

'Nonsense, Tom. What folly! One
would think we were living in the dark ages.
He couldn't murder me.'

'Couldn't he, though? That's all you
know about it. He has the reputation of
having a temper so uncontrollable that it
would lead him to any excesses if provoked.
Of course, I know he would not murder you
deliberately in cold blood, but he keeps a
breed of dogs that once let loose would
terrify a Hercules. A breed that '

Bloodhounds ? ' puts in Lady Eiversdale
nervously.

I don't know exactly what breed,' says
Mr. Peyton, now at all events strictly

truthful, ' but once they lay hold of anything
they never let go. If they caught hold of
you' plaintively, ' I should never forgive myself.'


He regards her with extreme anxiety.
So painfully solicitous indeed does he appear
for her safety, that suspicion wakens in the
breast of Lady Eiversdale. What secret, dark
and deep, underlies all this assumption of
sensibility ? Into what miserable scrape was
this unhappy boy fallen ?

Very good ; I shall take your word for
her  for Miss Dysart,' she says, whilst all the
time a tiny plan is formulating in her mind,
a plan in which fear of those terrible dogs at
Greycourt, breed unknown, has no part at
all.

VOL. II.

Chapter XY.

I'm on the rack ;
For sure the greatest evil man can know
Bears no proportion to this dread suspense.

Here you are at last,' says Mr. Peyton in a
subdued voice, but joyous. He is looking
thoroughly disreputable in his borrowed
plumes, but radiant as the dawn. It is
needless to say he is addressing Griselda.
 I've got back,' says he, a superfluous remark,
as he is looming large as life upon the
gravel path.

I didn't expect you until tomorrow,'
says Griselda, also in the tone of a conspirator.
Well, what did she say ? Was she mad with
you  does she hate me  do you think she
will help us ? '

How can I answer all that here ? I've
such a lot to say to you, and I feel as if there
was an eye in every window over there.'
They are within range of the entire western
side of the house. ' Do you know the old
ruin at the end of the vegetable garden ?
Could you manage to get up there ? If so I
could follow, and we should at least be out of
sight and hearing.'

I'll try,' says Griselda, who is assiduously
plucking the dead roses from a bush near her
and looking at anything but Peyton. To her
every window in the western wing is peopled
with Branches. As she speaks she slides
away in a cautious manner towards the little
green iron gateway that leads to the upper
garden, and once out of sight of the windows,
takes to her heels and runs with light steps
to the old ruin Peyton had suggested to her.

It is an ancient edifice that once might

n2

have been a private chapel but now is purposeless.
The four walls still remain and the
roof stands trembling over it, but the windows
are as eyes societies and the door a
gaping mouth. Tender, straggling, trailing
wreaths of ivy, as if in pity for it, have flung
themselves from crumbling roof to rotten
walls, and hang daintily over the apertures in
the latter that time has made.

Griselda has hardly had time to mark all
these sirens of death and life commingled when
Peyton joins her.

I feel as if I was suffocating here,' says
she, springing up from a stone resting-place
in one of the rooms and hastening towards
him and the sunlight outside, where he stands
looking in at the doorway. ' What a dreary
spot ! They say the old monks lived here
Ions a2fo. I thought ou would never come
to rid me of the fancies that caught and held

me  as if some ghostly abbot would arise and
question my right, like the bears of old, to
sit in his chair." Well, well, well ; now tell
me everything ! '

Come and sit here, then,' says he, drawing
her towards a small cock of late hay that has
evidently been drawn in for some time and
left here forgotten. It gives them a comfortable
seat, and Mr. Peyton, with Griselda's
hand in his, proceeds to give her a graphic
description of his visit to his sister.

At the last she seemed dangerously desirous
of coming to pay her respects to you
in person. She seemed quite bent on seeing
you face to face ; but I flatter myself I vanquished
that troublesome craving. I nipped
it in the bud I Just consider, were she to
come and find me enclosed in these vile
garments ! Ha, ha, ha ! ' roars Mr. Peyton
shamelessly, enchanted at the vision his

imagination has conjured up. ' She'd have
a fit,' says he, still shaking with mirth.

Does it amuse you to think of your sister
having a fit ? ' says Griselda severely, who is
so terrified at the picture he has drawn and
which has so delighted him that anger wakes
within her breast. ' Oh, if she should come,
what on earth would become of us ? '

'She won't come. I tell you I have provided
against that.'

She may think it over and come after
all ; oh, Tom, I feel frightened about it.
Yesterday there was only fear of my uncle's
finding us out ; now there is added to that
the certainty that your sister will pounce
down upon us one of these days.'

Nonsense ! ' says Mr. Peyton ; ' I never
saw anyone who so loved to torture herself.
Why anticipate the bad ? '

Why think you should say ? Do you

imagine I really want to make myself miserable
? Nature has given me a mind  I must
use it.'

Or abuse it.'

Surely there is no occasion to be rude,'
says Griselda with crushing force. ' Because
I am unhappily alive to the fact that evil
may befall us, am I then to be dubbed a fool ?
There are those who  you have read it, perhaps
? ' with ominous sweetness, ' it is Dryden,
I think, who says it  those

Who think too little, and who talk too much.'

Who is rude now ? ' demands Mr. Peyton
gloomily, sticking the end of his moustache
into his mouth with a plain determination to
make an end of it.

Dead silence ensues. It might have
lasted until now, so entirely have both belligerents
made up their minds never again to
address the other, when a sound falling upon

the stillness with which they have providentially,
if ill-temperedly, surrounded themselves,
rouses them to instant action and a tacit
forgetfulness of all disputes.

It is the dull tap-tap of a stick upon the
gravel path ; it is a tap-tap fatally familiar to
both : it is the tap-tap of Gregory Dysart's
stick.

Ye gods ! ' says Mr. Peyton below his
breath, and without further hesitation he
hauls the panic-stricken Griselda up from
her seat on the small haycock, and, flinging
himself on his stomach, actually swims under
that haycock, arms and legs playing their
part manfully until his whole figure is completely
hidden beneath the scented mound.

Griselda, lost at first in admiration of this
manoeuvre, has barely time to turn her attention
to a huge bush of flaming fuchsia near
her, when Mr. Dysart stick in hand turns the

corner of the hedge, and marches down upon
her.

Whom were you talking to ? ' demands
he, casting a searching glance around him,
and sniffing at the empty air.

Talking to ? ' says Griselda confusedly,
partly to gain time, partly because she is
frightened to death and doesn't know what to
say.

You heard me, didn't you ? I desire
you to tell me at once, madam, who was your
companion ? '

You can see for yourself,' says Griselda
trembling, but with an assumption of indignation
she is far from feeling. ' There is no
one here,' with an eloquent gesture of her
hand to the silent garden round her. ' Who
should there be ? '

That is best known to you ; and I warn
you,' says he vindictively, ' that it will be bad

for you to deceive me. What! You think
me an old dotard, likely, yet I tell you I amas
wide-awake as most yet, and I can swear
I heard two voices joined in conversation as I
drew near. One was yours ; one was that of
a man ! What I desire to know is, where is
that man ? ' He thumps his stick on the
ground with sudden passion. ' Where is your
companion . '

You see for yourself,' says Griselda distractedly,
' there is no one.' Again she
points to the empty scene, but her eye at
this moment catching sight of the toe of Mr.
Peyton's dilapidated boot, her courage gives
way, and she feels that death is near ; so
poignant is her despair that, perhaps, loving
her as he does, it communicates itself to
Peyton, because presently, with the utmost
caution, the damnatory toe is withdrawn.

You would have me suppose then,' says

the old man with a sneer, 'that you are a
ventriloquist ; that you carried on a conversation
here simply for your own amusement,
enacting the parts of Madame et Monsieur
to perfection? I congratulate you on
a talent hitherto so modestly thrust into the
background. It is another charm added to
those already so well known to me.'

I am not a ventriloquist,' says Griselda,
with a frown.

No ? You must pardon me if I dare to
disbelieve that, yet I must, I suppose, take
your word for it. Were you reciting, then ?
Preparing for the stage, perhaps? A wise
decision, as, if you succeed (and there can belittle
doubt of that with one so filled with the
fire of genius), it will enable you to lift a
burthen from the shoulders of an old man
who is now supporting you whilst barely
able to support himself

I am not going on the stage,' says
Griselda ; she might, perhaps, have said more,
because her hot young blood is boiling at the
insults heaped upon her, but a surging movement
in the hay before her so petrifies her
that she hardly dares to breathe. Seeing it
subside, her courage returns. ' I have been
thinking it over, however,' she says, ' and I
believe I have found out a way that will
enable me to relieve you of my presence.'

eh, eh? What d'ye mean?' stammers
the old man, peering at her. ' To go out as a
governess, you think, perhaps ? I tell you no.
I promised my dead brother to be a guardian
to you, and as such I claim your obedience.
From this house you go not. Do you hear,
you wilful girl ? ' stamping once again his
stick upon the ground. ' I warn you, you
are under my control  I have given my word.
I will befriend you. I don't care what you

cost. To me, to mc alone, you shall be beholden
for all.'

He quivers with agitation  surely some
secret fear is working in him, or some remorse.
As if exhausted and unequal to the
argument he turns aside from her, and, to
her horror, proceeds to prod and turn up
with his stick the haycock so full of meaning.

Now why has this been left here ? Good
hay, good hay, and rotting here, because
those idle rascals will see to nothing. Why
there is a quarter of a ton of it, if there is
an ounce, and sound as one could wish it.
This is how I'm beggared day after day;
Thieving scoundrels doing nothing, and crying
for wages morning, noon, and night.'

He has so far prodded the haycock that
now he has come to within an inch of Mr.
Peyton's nose, who heroically awaits the worst
in a state of suffocation hardly to be described.

Too late he remembers that he was
not Tom Peyton, but only the gardener, as
Mr. Dysart came up, and that he might easily
have struck an attitude and taken Griselda's
directions about such and such a plant without
any danger of discovery. But would
Griselda have directed ? There lay the rub.

'Regularly jammed down, this hay,' goes
on Mr. Dysart, scowling at the cock ; ' worth
nothing now, no doubt.' As if in assertion
of this judgment he deliberately seats himself
on it, or rather on Mr. Peyton's backbone.
Griselda pales. Will the miserable Tom be
able to endure it, or will he die in the effort
to hide her from her uncle's wrath ? She
feels as if her limbs are giving way under
her. Great Heavens, into what labyrinths of
wretchedness does even the smallest deception
lead us !

Her face grows ghastly. Is Tom dying

even now ? It almost seems to her that a
groan has broken the maddening quiet of the
evening air. Oh, that horrible old man, that
murderer ! will he never rise up and go away,
and let her burrow in the hay for Tom's
corpse? Not that he can be dead yet  the
old man, thank goodness, is light. It occurs
to her at this moment that Tom in his dying
struggle may create an earthquake beneath
her uncle, and then all will be discovered !
This thought seems to dwarf all that have
gone before ; it is distinctly gruesome.

'Where's Taylor?' asks Mr. Dysart suddenly.


'Taylor?'

Yes, the new man, the gardener.' It
had never up to this suggested itself to
Griselda that Peyton might have brought a
new name to a new situation, and the idea
leaves her silent.

Have you seen him ? ' demands her uncle
in a voice of thunder. ' Are you deaf, girl,
that you can't answer ? '

Taylor ? No, I know nothing of him,'
returns she confused. ' Is Taylor the mythical
Tom ? '

'He's an idle vagabond, not one whit
better than the others,' declares Mr. Dysart,
rising slowly from Tom's deathbed. ' I believed
in that man '  here a distinct convulsion
of the hay which he has just quitted
catches Griselda's eyes. Is it the last gasp ?
' but I find he is in league with them all.
I thought when he came back thus quickly
from his visit to his sister to resume his
duties it was a sign of good, but no man
worth his Savages would have let this valuable
lump of hay '  striking the cock with his stick
with a thud that sickens Griselda  ' go thus
to destruction.'

He turns away, but presently, as he comes
to the corner, looks back. ' Hark ye, girl ! '
cries he, in his clear harsh treble, ' don't try
to deceive me. I have my eye on you, and
once I discover you trying to take me in, out
you go, you and your precious sister.' With
this, he turns the corner, and the sound of
his stick, tap-tap upon the ground, grows
every instant more and more indistinct.

Griselda, though her ears followed the
tap, has eyes alone for that fatal cock of hay.
That last stir of a few minutes since has
indeed been the last. All now is calm as
death itself; with a courage born of despair
she is just making up her mind to approach
it, and drag it to pieces, and disclose the
motionless body beneath, when the hay stirs,
a hand is thrust cautiously forth, then a head,
and finally Mr. Peyton, red as a boiled lobster,
emerges in toto, and lies back prone in the

VOL. II.

grass. ' He's gone ! ' says lie, with a tragic
glance around, and then, ' Bless my stars !
who'd have thought he was so heavy ? '

Griselda looks at him ; she is still quaking
visibly. ' I thought you were dead,' says she,
and bursts into tears.

CHAPTER XVI.

And aye to be sure, and no to be shire,
And how should I guess ? ' said she ;

But there came a sweet bird and sang in her ear 
'Tis he ! 'tis he ! 'tis he ! '

So your name is Taylor ? ' says she presently,
looking at him with fresh interest.

Tom Taylor, yes. I put in the Tom
because I felt it would come handier to you
than George, or John, aud if they overheard
you addressing me, they would see no cause
for surprise.'

To think you could be so deceitful ! '
says she, her eyes again filling with tears.
Oh, I am greatly astonished ; I should never
have suspected you of it ! I feel I shall
never be able to trust you again, though, indeed



'  dolefully  ' should be the last person
to find fault with you, I who am deceiving
Uncle Gregory every minute in the day.'

Why, you said nothing that '

Just now, no. I am not thinking of that ;
but I feel as if I were breaking my word to
him in being with you at all. I gave him my
promise not to '

Go beyond the gardens. Well, here you
are.'

There was more than that included in
my promise ; I told him I would not see you
or speak to you again.'

Willingly, But you know it is not your
fault if you do see me ; it is mine, who deliberately
put myself in your way. If you
were to try and keep that part of the unholy
compact you would have to go about all your
days blindfolded, because see you I will, at all
hazards.'

But even that is not all. I said I would
not speak to you, and,' with deep remorse,
there is no one I speak to half as much.
The moment my eyes see you I feel as if I
had a thousand things to say that never
occurred to me before.'

'Well, we can rectify that,' says Mr.
Peyton ; 'I see daylight even here. Don't
speak to me ; just sit there,' pressing her down
upon a garden seat and placing himself
beside her, ' and take one of my hands between
both of yours  thus ; and whenever I
ask you a question that will necessitate " No "
for an answer, you will press my hand so and
whenever you feel you want to say " Yes," you
will press it so. I know any amount of questions
I want to ask you that will require "Yes "
for an answer.'

'Indeed I shall not,' says Griselda indignantly,
pushing him away from her.

But wliy not ? ' with an air of calm,
judicial inquiry. ' There is nothing to prevent
you that I can see.'

I shan't.'

It's the simplest thing in the world ; just
let me show you again.'

No,' says Griselda, struggling valiantly
with a wild desire for laughter, and clasping
her hands tightly behind her back.

But I really think you didn't quite understand.
As I said before, there isn't the least
trouble about it. If it was I who had been
forbidden to speak to you, I should be able
to manage quite easily ; won't you let me explain
it to you ? Oh, well, of course, if you
don't like my plan, we must only give it up,
and carry on our conversations in the usual
manner, which will be commonplace in the
extreme after the brilliant method I have
suggested. I'm disappointed in you, Griselda,

I am indeed ; I thought you would have been
struck, charmed, with the originality of it

Well, I'm not,' says Griselda.

Very good, very good ; I give it up,' with
a deprecatory shrug of his shoulders. Then,
with a sudden change of tone, ' I wonder if a
fellow might smoke a cigarette here without
being discovered ? '

Oh, better not,' says Griselda alarmed.
Mrs. Grunch has a terribly long nose ; and
who can say whether Uncle Gregory has
really returned to the house or not ? '

True,' says Mr. Peyton regretfully, pushing
back his silver-mounted cigarette-case
into the pocket of his disreputable trousers,
with a profound sigh.

A pause ensues, quite a long pause considering
who are keeping it ; then 

Griselda ! ' says he.

Yes.'

There is something I want to say to
you.'

Then say it '  very reasonably.

It's this,' says Mr. Peyton, drawing nearer
to her, and surveying her with a meditative
eye. ' We have been engaged now for quite
a considerable time, we are presently going
to be married, and as yet you have never
kissed me ! There's something wrong about
that, eh ? '

Wrong ? No ! ' says Griselda, growing
crimson, and edging away from him.

No ? ' edging after her. ' You really
think not ? '

Eeally, certainly.'

Think again,' suggests he mildly. ' I myself,
perhaps, have hardly grasped the idea
yet, but it seems to me as if it were all a little
incorrect. I'm positive,' getting a little closer
still, ' that I've either heard, or read, or

seen somewhere, that couples about to
marry '

'Couples about to Show me one's'

says Griselda, interrupting him without ceremony,
and with severity.

Mr. Peyton, with a very eloquent gesture,
lays his right hand upon his breast. ' Here's
a hit of one,' says he ; ' and there,' pointing to
her, ' sits another.'

I don't ever remember saying I would
marry you,' declares Griselda, who, having
now reached the iron arm of the chair, can
go no farther ; ' surely you dream things ?
No ; don't come any nearer  I'm not going
to marry anyone, I'm not indeed ! It is
absurd your taking things for granted like
that.'

What things ? ' asks Peyton, his voice
changing a little ; something in hers has hurt
him, and he suddenly turns upon her a rather

strange glance. What if, after all, he has
been deceiving himself?

Why, you're saying I  I  would marry
you.'

Well ? ' a Httle sternly.

Well, it is all nonsense, of course,' with a
rather nervous laugh.

Do you mean that, Griselda ? '

Have I not just said it ? ' flushing, and
drawing the initials of her name on the grass
at her feet with a pretty little shapely shoe.

'Well, I don't believe you,' says Tom
Peyton quite calmly.

Mr. Peyton ! '

Not one word of it,' more calmly still.

Griselda, with a movement full of injured
dignity, rising from the garden seat, goes over
to the haycock, and sinks down on it slowly,
with condemnation on every line of her charming
face. She would have gone away altogether,

she tells herself  it is necessary to
tell this lie for her own moral support -  but
that lie would not let him think he had
frightened her away. No, he should not
have the satisfaction of deeming her a coward.
He might be as rude as he liked, he might
insult her, and accuse her of a thousand untruths,
but he should not remain master of
the field. She would show him what stuff
she was made of. Nothing, not all the
abominable speeches he could make, would
frighten her. She would like to sing something,
a little lively air, if only to prove to
him how utterly without care she is, but the
lively air refuses to suggest itself.

At all events she won't be the first to
speak, not if he stopped there till tomorrow,
staring at her all the time. She has an uncomfortable
consciousness that he is watching
her ; she will not be the one to break the

silence ; she will let him see that his savage
behaviour cannot intimidate hei that she is
brave enough to defy anyone, anything.

With bent brows full of determination she
turns her eyes upon her hands clasped tightly
on her white frock. Her gaze takes in her
slender fingers closely interlaced, as if to help
her to keep up her spirit, but it takes in
something else too. There  there on her
gown, crawling, wriggling, twisting its tail
in a vilely lively way, is a huge earwig,
that, coming ever upwards, whilst she gazes
at it in a mesmeric fear, reaches at last her
hand, and seeks to make its further way
right through her first finger and thumb.

A piercing shriek breaks from her lips,
she springs to her feet, and turns an agonised
glance on Peyton.

Great Heavens ! what has happened ? '
exclaims he, springing up in turn. ' Has the

haycock exploded?  did the old man poke
any dynamite into it with his stick ? '

Oh, look at it, look at it ! ' cries Griselda,
pointing to where the odious creature has
fallen from her hand to the front of her gown ;
'- there, there ! Oh, why don't you take it
away?'

Is that all ? ' says he unfeelingly ; he
catches the earwig, and in another instant that
harmless but unpleasant insect is careering
wildly betwixt earth and heaven. ' I thought it
was an earthquake at the very least. What
a ridiculous child you are ! Here, come and
sit here on this chair, or we shall be having
another earwig in no time.'

He leads her back to her former seat, but
does not this time place himself beside her.
On the contrary, he stands looking down at
her, as if thinking out some difficult matter.
Perhaps he has solved his problem, whatever

it is, when suddenly, without preamble, he
stoops over her and deliberately kisses her.

As though too surprised to say anything,
Griselda remains mute. She has grown very
pale, however, and her eyes are full of tears,
unshed ; she is trembling visibly. A kiss
from the man who loves one is a small matter
no doubt to cause so much agitation, but it is
the first kiss Griselda has ever had from anyone,
except Vera, and it was not like Vera's
kiss at all.

'Listen to me,' says Peyton, passing his
arm round her ; ' you think me a rough
wooer, no doubt, but I am not : it is only that
I am a downright sort of person, and when
you said that  about not marrying me, I mean
it seemed to me that I could not bear it,
and  and that I would prevent your ever
saying it to me again, because 1 think, I
hope, I believe from my soul, that you do

love me, not as I love you, indeed, but more
than any other man. If I don't believe that,
Griselda, I don't think I should have the
courage to face life.'

His voice trembles, and Griselda, whose
hand he is holding, urged by some new,
tender, inexplicable emotion, lets her soft,
warm, nervous fingers close round his.

'You have never yet told me that you love
me ? ' pleads he, his head bent down to hers.
Say it now, I entreat you. Say it, Griselda.'

Griselda is silent, but, as if compelled toit,
she slowly turns her face up to his. In
truth, that sweet, hazardous, experimental
caress had not been an altogether unlucky
venture. Beneath it the girl has gently
wakened to the knowledge of a fulness in her
life, a brightening of dull places hitherto unknown,
a certainty, too, that the strong liking
she has always felt for Peyton is more than a

common friendship  that it is akin to blessed
love itself.

eyes long laid in happy sleep !
O happy sleep, that Lightly fled !
happy kiss, that woke thy sleep !

'Yes, I love you,' says she simply. The
colour has come back to her lips and cheeks ;
light, a new light, to her eyes.

But you might have asked me,' she says
a little later ; they are laughing now, and
have told each other quite an infinity of silly
things that to them seem full of priceless
knowledge.

I did ask you ; with no result. You
yourself drove me to extremities. But I do
not regret it,' he laughs again, and presses
her nearer to him. ' After all, it is your duty
to kiss me I Yes. I have thought it all out.
You are to kiss me whenever you can, and I
am to kiss you on every available opportunity.
This is one,' says he promptly.

CHAPTER XVII.

How in the looks does conscious guilt appear !

To-day is wet ; a soaking, steady downpour
that commenced at early dawn is still rendering
miserable the shrubbery and gardens.
Dark and forbidding as the old house has
ever looked, with its close and senseless barricade
of trees that shut out every gleam of
sunshine, it looks ten times darker and more
forbidding to-day. The rooms, unused to
fires, exude in damp weather an odious
moisture that seems to penetrate to the very
heart of those who feel it.

Jupiter Plutus is indeed holding a
grand court to-day. All through the past

VOL. II. p

week Apollo has laughed him to scorn, but
now is his revenge at hand, and greedily the
parched and thirsty earth drinks in the blessed
drops that fall, thick as oats at reaping time,
upon its arid bosom.

Beneath the breast of the All-mother the
little grassy rootlets feel the gentle moisture
stirring them to greater exertions ; so that
they shall to-day, or perchance indeed tomorrow,
throw up fresh juicy spikes of tenderest
green to deck the radiant morn.

But these are future hopes. Just now a
sullen haze hides all things ; the roaring sea
is blotted out, only the distant hills are
seeming nigh, and against the loose old casements
the heavy dashing of the raindrops
makes a monotonous music.

Vera, depressed by the melancholy of the
day, has cast her book aside, and, with a certainty
of meeting nobody in the empty rooms

and corridors, wanders aimlessly throughout
their dreary length and breadth. These
rooms are well known to her, and presently
wearying of them she turns aside and rather
timidly pushes open a huge, faded, baize-covered
door that leads she scarcely knows
whither. Some undefined belief that it would
bring her into her uncle's presence has
hitherto restrained her from seeking to learn
what lies behind it ; to-day, however, dulness
making her bold, she pushes it back and looks
eagerly inward.

It is not an apartment, after all, and there
are no signs of her uncle's presence anywhere.
A long, low, vaulted passage reveals itself,
only dimly lighted by a painted window at
the lower end. This end seems quite a mile
away. What an enormous old house it is !
how capable of being made beautiful ! There
is a subdued, semi religious light in here, that

p2

affects the senses agreeably and lays a soothing
touch upon the wounded spirit.

It appears to be a completely bare passage
at first, leading nowhere ; but presently, as
she runs her eyes along the eastern wall, a
door meets them, an old oaken door, iron-clasped
and literally hung with cobwebs.
Evidently this is part of the house in utter
disuse, laid aside, as it were, and forgotten.

Curiosity grows strong within her. Catching
the ancient handle of this door, a mere
brass ring sunk in the woodwork, she pushes
against it with all her might. In vain. But
not deterred she pushes again and again ; and
at the last trial of her strength a sharp sound,
a ring of something brazen falling on a
stone floor, crashes with a quick, altogether
astounding noise upon the tomb-like silence
that fills the mysterious passage.

At the same moment the door gives way,

and she, unexpectedly yielding with it, steps
hurriedly forward into a dark and gruesome
hole.

It is not, however, so complete a dungeon
as she had at first believed it ; her eyes, growing
accustomed to the darkness, show her a
landing-place flagged with stone and overhung
with spiders' webs, at the further end
of which is a narrow staircase of carved oak.
At first she shrinks from going further, but
for the second time a very natural curiosity
masters her, and she takes a step forward.
In doing so she stumbles over something, and
looking down sees the old lock, now rusty,
the screws eaten through by age, that, giving
way beneath her pressure, had opened up to
her this strange, enigmatical place.

Taking heart of grace, she mounts the
tiny staircase and finds herself in another
passage, very similar to that beneath, except

that nothing lights this, save the vague gleams
that come from the open doorway beneath,
and which on an earnest examination appears
to end in a cul de sac.

The poverty of the Hight has perhaps
dimmed her sight, because after a little while
a shadow on the opposite wall, that resolves
itself into an opening, becomes known to her.
It is not a door, rather a heavy hempen curtain,
and now, resolutely determined to go
through with her adventure, she advances
towards it, pulls it aside, and finds herself
face to face with Gregory Dysart !

He is on his knees, next that peculiar
cabinet described in an earlier chapter, and
as he lifts his head upon her entrance  his
venerable head, with the hoary locks floating
like a fleece behind him  a murderous glare,
as of one hunted, desperate, comes into his
curious eyes.

The side of the cabinet is lying wide open,
and, as he involuntarily moves, the chink of
golden coins falling one upon another alone
breaks the loud silence that oppresses the
atmosphere. In his hand he is holding an
old and yellow parchment, and, as Vera comes
half-unconsciously farther into the room, lie
flings himself upon it in a hideous, grovelling
fashion. It is a first instinct, an ungovernable
one, and betrays a haunting fear.

I  I am sorry,' murmurs Yera terrified ;
I did not know ; I '

What brought you here, girl, here where
I believed myself safe ? Go, go  there is
nothing  nothing, I tell you  they lied to
you if they told you anything  go, I say ! '

He has entirely lost his self-possession, and
is still kneeling on the floor, now hugging,
now trying to hide beneath him, the paper he
holds with his sinewy, nervous fingers. ' Gogo,

go ! ' he shrieks, beside himself. He is ina
perfect frenzy ; all dignity is gone ; to the
girl standing trembling there it is a loathsome
sight to see this old man on the brink
of the grave thus crouching, abased, dishonoured.


'I am going,' she says faintly. She is
ghastly pale ; the sight of him in his horrible
fright cringing thus upon the ground has so
unnerved her that she actually grasps at the
curtain for support. Good Heavens I what
brought her here, of all places ?

The knowledge of her fear becoming
known to Gregory Dysart calms his. Instinctively
he pulls himself together and
gathers from her cowardice strength to conquer
his own.

'So, so you were spying on me ! ' cries
he in little gasps. ' What brought you, eh ?
That door below was locked, has been locked

for fifty years. Is there a conspiracy against
me, then, that you can thus force yourself
into my presence, in spite of bolts and
bars ? '

The lock gave way,' stammers Vera ; ' it
must have been old, broken by age, rusty. I
had nothing to do. It was by the merest
chance I came here. I am sorry, sorry
Her voice dies in her throat.

I don't believe it ; there is more that you
keep behind. Speak, girl, speak, I command
you ! Who showed you the way here ? '

I have told you,' says Vera tremulously ;
you must believe me. If I had known I
should not have come. I  I am sorry I have
so frightened you, but '

Who says I am frightened ? ' He turns
upon her with a bitter scowl and a piercing
glance. ' Why should I care whether you
came or not ? You have upset me, it is true.

My wretched nerves, as you know, cannot
stand anything additional, and your sudden

entry by that unused way What do you

mean by calling me frightened ? '

Why, nothing,' says Vera, so low as to
be almost inarticulate. ' I was only afraid 
your expression told me I had come at an
inopportune moment.'

There was nothing inopportune.' This
unlucky speech has raised his ire to the
highest pitch. ' Why should I care about
being disturbed when I was hardly even occupied,
when I was merely idling away a
dull hour by looking through my own will ? '

Yours ? ' asks Vera innocently enough,
merely asking the question because at so
great a loss for anything to say. To him,
however, her tone sounds like inquiry, like
the outgoing of an established doubt ; to
him there is even a mocking disbelief in it.

Ay, whose else ? ' lie asks with a snarl of
anger that hardly conceals the anxiety beneath
; he turns and faces her like a beast at
bay. ' What do you mean, girl ? Do you
doubt my word ? Whose else should it be 
eh, eh ? ' Once again he is quite unhinged,
and by a little involuntary movement he tears
the black skull-cap from his head, and standing
before her nods his bald head and shakes the
cap at her with a very passion of vindictiveness.
His long grey locks falling down his
shoulders touch her with a strange sense of
unreality. ' Go, leave me,' cries he furiously ;
and cursed be the day you ever saw my
house ! '

Still shaking the ghastly black skull-cup
at her, he waves to her to leave him, and, more
unnerved than she has ever been in all her life
before, she retreats behind the heavy curtain
and runs with all her might down the dark

corridor without, down the steep stairway,
and so out into the passage and into the
hall.

Once there she breathes assail. The full
light of the sombre day lives here, and all
at once it seems to her that perhaps she had
never stirred, had gone to sleep here, and
known all the hateful past of an hour since
through a disagreeable dream.

It is hard to kill reality, however, and her
lips are still white, her eyes frightened, when
Seaton, coming from the library, meets her.

CHAPTER XYin.

I feel my sinews slacken'd with the fright.

What lias happened ? You look pale,
frightened,' says he, stopping her as she
would have hurried past him ; ' tell me what
it is.'

A mere nothing. I have been foolish to
feel it so much,' returns she with a faint smile.
I found myself somehow, I hardly know how,
in your father's private room, and  and  he
was angry with me.'

In his private room ? ' regarding her
with astonishment. ' How did you get there ?
Even I am not given access to it.'

I was wandering through the halls, and

came to a passage at the other, the western,
side of the house, and iindmg a door in it
pushed it to try and see what lay beyond.
Oh, how wrong I was, how I wish I had not
done so ! ' says she pang afresh. ' Well,
the door gave way, and  and presently I
found myself in your father's presence. He
was terribly annoyed, and '

Was he rude to you ? ' asks the young man
with a painful effort. ' No, you need not
answer ; I can see he was. Will you let me
tell you that it is the principal misery of my
life to know you are miserable here ? '

'No, I shall not permit you to tell me
that,' says she, her eyes upon the ground.
To one so entirely outside your life as I
must be, as I am,' firmly, ' it is impossible
you should give even the smallest thought.
I beg you will not speak to me like  like this
aefain.'

I promise you ; I hope I shall be able
to keep my promise,' says he, speaking very
calmly, but with an apparent effort. ' However,
that is not to the point. What I regret
now is, that you should have unwittingly laid
yourself open to my father's anger. He dislikes
being disturbed at his studies ; you may
not know it, but he is a very accomplished
student.'

He was not studying  at least, nothing
very deep,' says she ; ' it was his will he was
reading.'

His will ? Surely not ; that, I know,
is in the hands of his solicitors, Dalton
and Jones.'

It was what he called it, at all events,'
says she coldly, wearily ; ' a yellow parchment
 it was a will, I'm sure.'

She turns away, and goes slowly upstairs
to her room, where she finds Griselda standing

before one of the windows, staring in a
discontented fashion into the shrubberies beyond.


She starts rather guiltily as Vera draws
near, and shows a decidedly pink face.

'What has happened now?' asks she,
seeing Yera's pale, distressed face, whereupon
Vera tells her everything.

'He looked like an evil spirit crouching
there upon the ground. I was frightened
but ashamed too. It was horrible  that old
man with his white locks and the strange look
of abject fear that distorted every feature.'

What was he afraid of ? '

Of me, apparently. Eather a turning of
the tables, wasn't it ? There was no fear
in his face when first I looked at him, before
he knew I was there. He looked like some
cruel creature gloating over his prey  his
will, he called it.'

Don't you be taken in by him,' says
Griselda airily. ' It was some nefarious document
or other, you take my word. That now
is as bad an old gentleman as ever stepped.
It was a bond he had signed with the Evil

One, or else ' she pauses, and then, with a

still livelier air, as of one who has just made
an important discovery  ' I'll tell you what
it was,' she says, ' a will he has suppressed,
say our grandfather's will, leaving you and me
joint heiresses of all he possessed. Good
gracious, Vera ! where was your mother wit ?
why on earth didn't you seize such a valuable
opportunity, grab the paper, and run for your
life ? '

Vera shrugs her shoulders and laughs a
little. ' You give me credit for courage, I
must say,' she says.

Nonsense ; one strong young woman
against one feeble old man. Oh, it would

VOL. II. Q

have been a triumph ! He couldn't have
had a chance, and at this very instant you
and I would have been revelling in our good
fortune.'

You ought to write a novel,' says Vera, a
little languidly.

That idea has suggested itself to me
before this,' returns Griselda, but absently
now and as if her mind is hardly bent on
what she is saying. She has gone over to the
window assail, and is once more lost in contemplation
of the clump of evergreens over
the way. When Yera has spoken to her once
or twice, and has received two ' Noes ' which
shoidd have been 'Yes,' she too rises and joins
her at the window. The rain is still pattering
heavily upon the flowers outside, and all
the dark green leaves of the laurels are drooping
with the weight of the liquid gems that
clime to their borders.

Vera's eyes, noticing their glistening beauty,
notice something else too  a dark figure, a
man's figure, lounging against a sturdy myrtle,
with the face uplifted to where Griselda
stands. Something in his attitude, rapt, contented
in spite of the rain falling in torrents
round him, betrays him. A sharp pang of
horrified fear thrills Vera.

Griselda, is that the new gardener ?
Griselda, who is that ? ' demands she vehemently.


Tom Peyton,' returns Griselda, with the
calmness of desperation.

Oh, Griselda ! '

'Yes, I know. It is disgraceful of him,
isn't it ? It is perfectly awful, I think ; but
what is one to do with a person like that ? I
knew nothing of it, nothing, I assure you.
Vera,' throwing out her hands with quite a
tragic face. ' The first day I saw him in the

q2

garden, coming upon him as I did from
behind a rhododendron, I thought I should
have gone through the ground and come out
in Australia or somewhere. It was quite a
shock. And he is dressed so frightfully, the
most abominable old clothes ! Eeally, I don't
think you would care to touch him with
the tongs. They are clean, of course, but
such a fatally good imitation of the real
gardener's things  uncle's gardener hen entendu
 that I, anybody, would be afraid to
go near him.'

You weren't,' says Vera sternly, ' you
aren't. I can now at last see through your
sudden passion for flowers, your hankering
after gardening, your mad infatuation about
messing in the flower beds, and digging things
up, and that.'

Well, but really, you know, I don't think
it was that ; I don't, indeed,' protests Griselda

seriously, almost as if she believes herself.
No, indeed ; it was more that I felt it my
duty for both our sakes to keep him quiet.
I am positively certain that if I had not gone
to the garden we should have had him here
knocking, like that equally troublesome raven,
at our chamber door, demanding where I was,
and then  what then? The deluge would
be a merciful relief to what would happen
then.'

It is the most reckless thing that I ever
heard of,' says Vera, beginning to pace the
room with agitated steps. 'It is impossible
that this should go on for ever without discovery,
and when Uncle Gregory does know,
what will be the consequence ? '

Ruin ! ' returns Griselda, briefly but eloquently.
' But why should it not go on forever?
Who is to betray us ? '

I can't imagine how you can be so

childish, so wantonly foolish,' says Vera impetuously.
' One false move and the whole
thing is laid bare. Has Grunch no eyes, think
you ? Look at him standing over there. Do
gardeners as a rule find their chiefs joy
in standing out in the rain and getting
thoroughly wet through and through ? What
do you think of that ? '

I think he will catch cold,' says Griselda
miserably. ' Dear me ! why won't he go away ?
It can't do him any good to stay there and
look at me up here.'

Apparently it does,' says Vera dryly.

I suppose I couldn't slip out for a
moment ? ' suggests Griselda wistfully. Poor
fellow ! what an amount of hardship he is
enduring for her sake ! If she could only
say a word to him, that would make him go
home and take off his wet clothes. Visions
of a pale and consumptive countenance, of a

ghastly form emitting from time to time a
hollow cough, are beginning to torment her.

In such rain as this ? '

It wouldn't harm me, and I could change
my dress at once, and  oh. Vera ! he will die
if he stays there any longer ! I can see the
rain dripping from that frightful old rabbit-skin
cap.'

If you can see that, he can see something
else,' says Vera, and forthwith, taking a large
sheet of white paper, she prints on it, in huge
capitals, ' Go away ! ' ' Hold that outside the
window,' says she, giving it to Griselda, who
eyes it with evident disfavour.

It's  it's a rather short message, isn't it ? '
says she.

Long enough to show what you mean.'

Oh, of course, yes, but '

A summer cold is often fatal,' says Miss
Dysart mildly, who is in an agony until he

goes. Who can say whether he is not being
seen at this very instant by other eyes than
theirs ?

Vera, how cruel, how unkind ! Here,
give me the paper and  sand the pen.' With
a desperate haste, and as if afraid and ashamed
of Yera's seeing it, she scribbles a ' Dear, dear
Tom ' at the end of the cold, peremptory, ' Go
away ! ' In an instant, so potent is a tender
word, the whole nature of the message is
changed ; it was at first a command, it is now
a tender appeal.

It has the desired effect ; directly he has
mastered the writing, Mr. Peyton, with a faint
gesture towards the window, that resolves itself
into ' Good-night,' slips through the evergreens
and is lost to sight.

CHAPTEE XIX.

Some strange commotion
Is in his brain : lie bites his lips and starts.

What kept you ? you are about an hour late,'
says Mr. Peyton, poking his head cautiously
round the corner of the dilapidated old house
in the far garden, already described ; 'the
dear old man again ? '

Oh, of course,' says Griselda in a disgusted
tone. ' He has been raging all the
morning ; in fact, he's a regular volcano : one
is never sure when there won't be another
eruption. He goes off like a sky rocket on the
smallest provocation.'

What was it this time . '

Merely a letter Vera had received from a

friend of ours abroad. Unfortunately she
writes a distinctly masculine hand, and Uncle
Gregory stuck to it that the letter was from
a man. I suppose he still clings to the hope
of marrying Vera to Seaton, because he got
into a perfect frenzy over that letter, and
would not be satisfied until Vera showed it to
him. Even then he viewed the signature with
dark suspicion, and is now trying to think
that Nell is short for Edward.'

Do you mean she gave in and showed it
to him ? I'd have seen him far first,' says Mr.
Peyton indignantly.

If holding out would have had the desired
effect of removing him to the far, far distance,
I too would have counselled Vera to be firm,
but I expect it would have failed us,' says the
younger Miss Dysart placidly ; ' as it was, we
were glad to get off without having to carry
our heads in our hands. Such language ashe

used, too ! it would make even a San
Francisco man shudder. And all on the
same subject. It is amazing how he can
ring the changes on one paltry theme. I
know no one who can " torture one poor word
ten thousand ways " so artistically as he can.'

She laughs a little, but rather forlornly,
and he draws her down on the seat near him
with a tender strength.

'You are worn out with all this worry,'
says he fondly.

Well, I expect that is it ; I'm tired of it,
I am indeed, Tom,' looking at him with eyes
full of tears. ' Do you think your sister really
meant to help us that day you spoke to her ? '

If she did, she is slow about it,' says he.
But, honestly, yes, I think she did. Grace is
not the woman to give her word without intending
to keep it. But I dare say there are
difficulties. When did you see Seaton ? '

The day before yesterday, no, the day
before that again, or, was it ?  one day is so
like another,' dejectedly, ' that I can't distinguish
them from each other ; but I think it is
four days since he was here.'

Well, Grace may have seen him since he
was here, and they may now be arranging
plans to circumvent the old man.'

They may,' says Griselda with open
doubt.

I can't think why on earth you won't
run away with me,' says Mr. Peyton, who has
been impressing this alternative upon her for
the past few days with the utmost vigour.

And leave Vera here alone, to meet his
vengeance ? '

It would be only for a short time. We
could then '

Much can be done in a short time,' says
Griselda, with an expression so ominously

suggestive of dark deeds done that for the
moment Peyton is silenced. ' No,' sighing, ' I
shall never desert my Micawber ! '

Meaning me ? ' asks he, whereupon they
both laugh. But even in the midst of his
mirth the smile freezes on Tom Peyton's face 
a look of abject fear overspreads every feature,
and his knees begin to shake beneath him.

What is the matter with you ? ' cries
Griselda, becoming suddenly aware of this
melancholy change in his appearance. ' Where
is the pain ? Oh, Tom ! do speak ; you look
awful. You know I have often warned you
about those apples ; and  speak ! can't you ?
what has happened ? '

The end of all things ! ' replies he in a
ghostly tone. He has now lost his pallor and
grows apoplectic. ' Hide me,' he groans,
making a wild but ineffectual effort to conceal
himself behind Griselda's slim figure ; ' here is

Grace coming up the garden-path. Griselda,
keep steady. Merciful Heavens ! I see her
lynx eye on me. All is lost ! '

So far as she is concerned it certainly is.

Tom, Tom ; that's you, Tom ! ' cries Lady
Eiversdale, in clear, strong tones that at once
put an end to subterfuge of any kind. She
stops short upon the pathway and furls her
huge white umbrella with quite an awful air,
after which she bears down upon the luckless
pair with all sails set.

'Tis an unwise woman who knows her
own brother under some circumstances,' mutters
Tom, with suppressed wrath, now that
hope is denied him coming resolutely forward
with as much grace as he can muster at a
moment's notice, and such a moment !

How d'ye do ? ' says he affably, if defiantly,
that fear of a while since entirely gone.
Perhaps, after all, it was hardly genuine, and

a sense of amusement had even then entered
into his chagrin at being thus brought to bay.
You are well, I hope, eh ? General health
pretty satisfactory ? '

Lady Eiversdale seems stricken dumb by
the frivolity of this address, given under such
terrible circumstances. She remains deadly
silent, as if speech is more than she can
compass. Indeed, a touch of tragedy seems
to have fallen into the quiet garden, and
Griselda, who has by this time mastered the
fact that the unfriendly earth is not going to
open and swallow her up, is just upon the
point of giving way to tears, when Lady
Eiversdale breaks the oppressive silence.

Oh, Tom, what a way to speak to me ! '
she says in a heart-broken tone. She casts
an eloquent glance at poor Griselda, who is
trembling in every limb. What kind of girl
must this be who has led her brother into

such a disgraceful position, and so deplorably
altered him for the worse, both in manner and
appearance? And yet, as she looks at Griselda's
frightened, appealing face, it hardly seems to
her that so pretty a creature can be altogether
deleterious. To do her the barest justice, it
must be admitted that she seems devoid of
guile, and a prey only to the most open, the
most Undisguised consternation.

Well, how did you expect me to speak
to you?' asks Mr. Peyton jauntily, now
thoroughly demoralised ; ' should I have
hoped your health was bad ? '

Here two trembling protests fall upon
the air ! ' Oh, Tom ! ' from Lady Eiversdale,
and ' Oh, don't ! ' from Griselda.

There is such misery in both voices that
Mr. Peyton, glancing from one to the other
and seeing that both are on the point of tears
the former from dismay, the latter from

nervousness  and being beyond all things a
tender-hearted man, instantly grows furious.

Well, what have I said now ? ' demands
he fiercely, throwing his arms abroad in a
very abandonment of despair. ' Will nothing
please you ? Bless my stars ! if I had
committed murder I could not be regarded
with more reproachful eyes ! '

He positively glares upon Lady Eiversdale,
who looks back at him with mournful eyes.

Is it really you, Tom ? ' asks she with
a gentle reproach that drives him wilder

stm.

Ton my soul, I don't know,' says he distractedly
; ' if you have arranged that it \s
not, I'll give in to your opinion.'

He stands back from her, that awful
rabbit-skin cap cocked triumphantly, if unconsciously,
over his left eye, and stares at her
blankly. It is a terrible cap, and renders his

VOL. II. R

expression positively sinister. Has he, with
the clothes, imbibed the manners of the clown ?
Lady Eiversdale's naturally kindly, if worldly,
heart dies within her. At this moment certainly
her brother is not a thing to be proud
of, and even as she comes to this sorrowful
conclusion he deliberately lifts his hand and
scratches his head ! Could the country bumpkin
farther go? Truly this girl has ruined
him ; and yet, perhaps, it may be the clothes.

'Take off that cap, Tom,' says his sister
magisterially.

He obeys her, and cap in hand makes her
the correct bucolic salute. And then 
perhaps it is because he's at heart the best-tempered
fellow in the world, perhaps
because the bow has lowered his eyes and
brought them in contact with his boots, boots
elaborately adorned with huge patches on
the right upper, that does it  but presently

he goes off into a wild burst of unrestrained
laughter.

Is this an occasion for mirth ? ' asks Lady
Eiversdale tremulously. ' Look at your
clothes, your  your hands ! Oh ! what has
happened to you ? Speak, Tom,' with
asperity, seeing his shoulders still heaving ;
I insist on knowing what all this means.'

Your superior weight must win the day,'
says Tom meekly ; ' therefore, I give in. Listen
to the dismal truth '  it is plain that he is as
yet quite unsubdued ; ' before you stands an
illustration of those familiar, yet scarcely comprehended
phrases, "Come down in the world,"
and " Poor but honest." Finding my means
insufficient for even my modest wants, the
dear old governor having forgotten to give
me a profession, I finally made a mighty
resolve to " do for myself" as the servants say
I am a servant  and to carve out my own

R 2

fortune ; behold me then the gardener of
Mr. Dysart ! '

'That explanation isn't true says Lady
Eiversdale with all the charming candour
that usually characterises the dealings between
brother and sister. ' You are here,
Tom, in this abominable disguise, in these 
these dirty clothes  for some object. The
question is  what ? '

Don't call her an object,' says Mr. Peyton
feelingly, with an airy gesture towards
Griselda, who has grown crimson with
shame ; ' there the object stands revealed.'
He goes up to Griselda and draws her hand
through his arm and keeps on patting it intime
to his words in a wonderfully loving
way. ' Fate and her uncle were against us,'
says he ; 'I was forbidden to see her. She
herself forbade me, so I took matters into my
own hands, and  here I am ! '

You mean  ? ' questions Lady Eiversdale,
with a swift, reproachful glance at Griselda.

What I have sought to convey,' returns
her brother lightly, who, as yet, has declined
to see any but the humorous side of the
situation, ' is that the meaning of, let us say
these boots,' with an appreciative glance at
the patches, ' becomes apparent when I tell
you that without them I could not have seen
Griselda. This is Griselda,' here for the first
time he becomes serious ; ' Griselda ; this is
my sister. Lady Eiversdale.'

The two ladies make a little formal chilly
inclination towards each other.

'All this has not arisen out of any fault
of mine,' begins Griselda nervously, yet with
a little touch of dignity ; ' I tried '

'You needn't say another word,' interrupts
her lover gaily ; ' you haven't a fault,
I know. I am here of my own free will, I

assure you, Grace, simply because I couldn't
exist if I weren't here.'

An all-sufficient reason, no doubt,' says
Lady Riversdale coldly, with a second glance
at Griselda, who is now looking flushed and
charming. ' Was it also necessary to your
existence to purchase your clothes at a third-rate
rag-shop ? ' she pauses, and once again
contemplates his attire with an exhaustive
eye. Then, ' What are you ? ' asks she
abruptly.

A gardener,' returns Mr. Peyton, leaning
pensively upon his spade ; ' the oldest and,
therefore, the most respectable of all professions.'


Judging by your cap, I should have said
a poacher,' says his sister without emotion.

Mr. Peyton laughs. He is bent plainly
on regarding the situation as one rich in
humour. 'Wrong then,' says he ; ' a gardener

I am, and, though I says it as shouldn't, a
rio'ht oood gardener too. Six shillings a
week, all found, no beer, Sundays free ! The
last is my sole grievance. I should be regarded
with suspicion if I didn't spend it far
from the scene of my weekly labour, so that I
aren't show my nose here.'

CHAPTER XX.

But to see her was to love her.

All found,' Those awful words act as the
last straw towards Lady Riversdale's indignation.


Do you mean to tell me, do you dare to
tell me,' cries she to her brother, whilst
casting a withering glance at the shrinking
Griselda, ' that you dine with the servants ? '

Well, no,' confesses Mr. Peyton with
evident regret, ' I wasn't able to manage that.
Not that I'm above it  I'd be proud to dine
with Peters  but I was afraid they would
find me out. If you once saw Grunch you
would understand that her eye is a caution ;
she would see through me in no time. So I

have been obliged to resist the pleasure of
taking my meals with her. I have therefore
represented myself as a young man of so
industrious a nature, that it is pain and
misery to me to leave my work for any
length of time, however short. I stipulated
that my dinner should be sent out to me,
and I eat it, as a rule, behind that laurel
hedge. Sometimes,' artlessly, ' Griselda eats
it with me.'

Oh ! ' exclaimed Lady Eiversdale in a
voice of anguish ; ' coarse, horrible food like
that ! Oh, my poor boy ! And when I
remember how you used to appreciate those
vol-augments, those '

Tranquillise yourself,' entreats Tom, who
is now convulsed with laughter. * To say we
eat it is a mere figure of speech ; as a matter
of fact we don't. There, don't be frightened.
I swear to you, by the holy poker, if you will,

that I always provide my own dinner, and
though we should sometimes like a third
course  flesh is weak  still we do uncommonly
well on the sandwiches I contrive to
bring over daily.'

'And  and what do you do with what
is sent you from the kitchen here ? ' asks
Lady Eiversdale in the subdued, awe-stricken
tone one might use if asking what you had
done with the freshly murdered corpse.

The birds of the air benefit by it. Have
you not noticed how specially tame the robins
are about here ? ' As if to illustrate his
words, just at this instant one of those dear
friendly creatures springs from an overhanging
branch, alights on his shoulder,
stands there a second with quivering wings
and nervous tail, and then disappears into the
leafy recesses of a laurentius. ' Soon they

will begin to make their nests in my pockets
or my cap.'

'Ob, I trust not, for their sakes,' says
Lady Eiversdale with a strong shudder of
disgust meant for the ancient rabbit-skin.

Why not ? They could scarcely find a
cosier dwelling-place. You have, however,
noticed their extreme friendliness.' ; . ;

'I have noticed nothing,' with profound
dejection, ' save  your trousers. Even if
you must demean yourself by taking the
position of a gardener, why  why can't your
clothes be clean ? '

This tragic cry seems wrung from her
very soul.

Impossible, my good child ; their dirty
appearance is the life and soul of the whole
thing. Who ever heard of a young man on
six shillings a week being clean ? Who's to

pay the washerwoman for the scouring of
these trousers ? Besides which, I have the
melancholy feeling that one honest scour
would reduce them to pulp  at least so they
would lead you to believe  and if faith in
that belief once gained ground, so would
faith in all the rest. Can't you see it is the
principal part of the game to make myself
look as grimy as I can ? '

I don't want to see or understand anything
about this hateful matter,' says Lady
Eiversdale, forcing her eyes obstinately upon
the ground.

Can't you see that your sister is angry
about all this ? ' says Griselda, suddenly finding
her voice, and feeling it impossible to
longer control the agitation that is consuming
her. ' I told you, I warned you, that discovery
was imminent, and that your absurd
position here would only lead to mischief.

Oh ! ' turning to Lady Eiversdale, ' do  do
take him away ! '

That is the unkindness thing I ever
heard you say exclaims Peyton, colouring
hotly, ' and I don't believe you mean it.'

'But your sister thinks  she thinks,'
begins Griselda in deep distress, struggling to
give words to the mortification she is feeling.
The struggle is ineffectual ; after a moment or
two she breaks down ignominiously, covers
her face with her hands, and bursts into
tears.

She thinks nothing but that it is all
entirely my own doing,' says Peyton, going upto
her and trying to draw down her hands
from her pretty distressed face  a senseless
proceeding, of which even the best of men
will sometimes be guilty, though commonsense
might teach them that a woman in tears,
were she a Venus, is never at her best, and is

therefore naturally desirous of hiding herself.
Grace,' sternly, ' tell her so.'

Yes, yes, I do indeed believe it,' says
Lady Coverdale, who is one of the kindest
creatures possible at heart, and not proof
against tears at any time. ' If you could go
away, Tom, if you could so manage that 
that Griselda,' doing what she conceives to be
her duty, or at all events what will please her
brother, with an effort, ' could walk with meas
far as the entrance gate, where my carriage
waits, I think both she and I might begin to
understand things better.'

You were always the best girl in the
world,' says Tom Peyton with a glow of gratitude
; and Lady Eiversdale, being no longer
a girl, is so pleased at being called one, that
an additional gleam of kindliness illumines her
features as she turns to Griselda.
\-' ' Gone, my dear,' says she gently.

Grace  a moment  what brought you
here to-day ? ' asks her brother.

It is Wednesday,' says she, colouring a
little. ' I felt quite overcome by a desire to
see this old place of which I had heard so
much. You know it is open to the public
once a month.'

Oh, those confounded Wednesdays, I had
forgotten them ! ' murmurs he with a disgusted
groan.

When Lady Eiversdale has drawn Griselda
out of ear-shot, ' My dear child,' says she
gently, ' all this is very serious. I suppose,
indeed I could not fail to see, that Tom is 
is  very fond of you, but it is terrible to me
that he should be reduced to such straits
to enable him to see you. Do you not
think, if your uncle were properly met, properly
managed, that he might see his way
to '

No, no,' says the girl sorrowfully, shaking
her head, ' he would see nothing of that sort.
He made me swear I would not go into the
woods down there  such lovely woods 
where,' hanging her head, 'I used to meet
your brother, and I am sure he would never
permit him or anyone inside his doors.'

Then perhaps he might be induced to let
you see the inside of mine. My house, as you
know, is only about twenty miles from this,
by train quite a short distance, and '

You would ask me ? ' cries Griselda stopping
short to look at her and flushing crimson.
' Oh, how good of you ! You,' drawing
nearer, ' you are not so very angry with
me, then ? '

I don't think I am angry at all now,' says
Lady Eiversdale laughing. ' At first I confess
it was rather a shock to me to find my brother
in such a woful mess, but, after all, it shows

his pluck. I like him for it. So,' with a slight
pause, ' should you.'

Well, I do,' says Griselda simply.

So would any woman, of course. But
about your uncle, and your coming to me ; it
might be managed, eh ? '

Oh, no ! ' says Griselda  she lifts her eyes
to her new friend's face, and the new friend
can see that large tears are swiftly rising in
them  ' such happiness is not for me. He
would be perfectly furious if I even hinted at
such a thing. No, I am doomed to stay here
for ever ! ' The tears here reach such a
height that they roll heavily down her
cheeks.

But such tyranny is intolerable, it is not
to be endured ! Surely some one ought to
interfere. There is your cousin, for example,
Seaton Dysart, what is he thinking about, I
should like to know? Bless me! I thought

VOL. II. S

there was more in him than that ! Now if he
were to speak '

Oh, don't ask him,' interrupts Griselda
quickly.

No ? ' with a surprised glance. ' I always
feel as if I could ask him anything, he is so
kind, so generous, one of the few young men
I know who is altogether to be trusted. Why
do you object to him as go-between ? '

I don't think it would do', says Griselda
a little confusedly.

Well, I think it would, and if you won't
appeal to him, I shall. Ah ! here is the
carriage. Now good-bye, my dear child, and
keep up a good heart, and dream of coming
change and happier days in store.'

'Lady Eiversdale ' begins Griselda.

She hesitates here as if unable to proceed, and
Lady Eiversdale, who has her foot on the step
of the carriage, turns back ; the girl is so

evidently embarrassed that the elder woman,
after a moment's survey of her, lays her hand
upon her arm.

'Speak without fear to me,' she says
kindly.

It is this,' says Griselda, with a sort of
desperation ; ' I want you, if you ask me, to ask
Vera too : ' she looks horribly ashamed of herself
when she gets these words out, and covers
her face with her hands. ' Oh ! I know I
should ask no favour of you, you are so kind
so kind,' a little incoherently ; 'but poor
Vera, she too is unhappy, she is miserable
here  worse than I am, because she hasn't
Tom  and, and I couldn't be happy if I left
her behind me, eating her heart out.'

Lady Eiversdale regards her silently for a
moment or two ; the lovely, mournful, tender
face touches her, as no face has ever touched
her before. Quite overcome by this last

loving trait in the girl she had come prepared
to hate, she stoops forward and kisses her
warmly.

I am glad Tom has chosen you,' she
says ; ' and be happy  when you come tome,
be sure that Vera shall come too.'

At the very last she leans out of the
window and kisses her large white well-shaped
hand to the motionless girl on the
avenue. ' Good-bye, dear little prisoner.
Believe I shall return to bear you and Vera
away in triumph.'

Her cheery words instil a ray of hope into
Griselda's despondent mood. If only, only,
this charming woman who has dropped down
upon her, like a very angel from heaven, can
work a miracle and set her and Vera free,
life will be still worth having. Oh, to be
rescued from this gloomy atmosphere, these
prison walls that hold them !

CHAPTER XXI.

The end must justify the means.

Going back to where Tom Peyton is diligently
weeding, Griselda takes him to task.

Why didn't you tell me your sister was
the sweetest woman on earth ? ' demands she
in quite an aggrieved tone.

'Because she isn't,' says Tom, striving
valorously with a giant dock that ha
treacherously concealed itself beneath the
spreading leaves of a magnificent dahlia
you are that.'

Nonsense ! ' says Griselda ; and then ,
Oh, Tom ! what do you think she is going
to do  at once ? '

Sleep,' says Mr. Peyton, with an air of

conviction. ' She always does it when she
can, and I should say a twenty-mile drive
in a close carriage was an excellent opportunity
for a snooze. That's what makes her
so stout. She

Will you listen ? ' with a stamp of her
pretty foot. ' She is going to make an effort
to induce Uncle Gregory to let Vera and me
stay with her at The Friars ! Only fancy if
she succeeds ! Wasn't it perfectly lovely of
her to think of it ? '

She's a brick,' says Mr. Peyton tersely
but eloquently.

A dozen of them, all squeezed up
together. Don't you think,' suddenly, ' that
she's pretty, Tom ? '

No, I don't,' flatly.

Well  er  perhaps not strictly speaking
handsome, but to my mind she has the

happiest manner and the nicest smile I ever
knew.'

'Oh! she isn't bad,' says her brother
broadly ; ' but may I ask how she proposes
tackling the old gentleman ? '

Through Seaton. I  I'm afraid it won't
come off; but still I cling somehow to a
hope in her plan. She seems to like Seaton
awfully, praises him up to the skies, and, in
fact, said some very pretty things about him.
Tom, do you think she looks like a successful
person ? '

I only know this,' says Tom, ' that once
she makes up her mind to accomplish anything,
she goes at it hammer and tongs until
her point is gained. I really think you couldn't
have a better person to fight for you.'

If Seaton helps her  but is he to be
depended upon? That's the question  oh!

the joy of getting out of this once more, if
only for a day or two

If she asks you at all, it will be for a
month. As to Seaton '

The words die on his lips, his jubilant air
quite forsakes him  having turned a corner
of the secluded pathway they had chosen
they run right into the arms of Seaton
Dysart ! For a moment the two men gaze
blankly into each other's eyes : not a word is
spoken ; as for Griselda, not proof against
this last misfortune, she catches up the tail
of her gown and flies incontinently from the
spot.

What is the meaning of this masquerade
? ' demands Dysart presently with an
angry frown ; ' what brings you here, Peyton,
in that dress, and with my cousin ? '

You certainly have every right to ask,'
says Peyton with a rueful glance at his

damnatory clothing, ' but surely you might
guess the answer. The fact is, I'm  in love ! '
He makes this confession with a careful
artlessness not to be surpassed.

In love ? ' exclaims Dysart frowning still
more darkly.

'Quite so,' amiably; 'five fathoms deep.
And your father being so  so exclusive,'
making a hard fight for a civil word, 'I
couldn't manage to see her in any orthodox
fashion, so I took service here.'

Her ?  whom ? ' asks Dysart changing
colour. A sudden light flashes into his eyes ;
to him, as to Tom Peyton, there is but one
her ' in the world.

'Why, Griselda,' says the latter, as if
amazed at the other's stupidity. ' A good
deal of unpleasantness arose out of the fact
that sometimes I used to meet her in the
woods down there,' indicating the waving

masses of delicate greenery to the left. ' An
interdict was laid upon her ever going there
again. Virtually we were separated. But
the late gardener just then most considerately
throwing up his situation, I applied
for it, got it, and have been now for a
considerable time doing my duty in that
sphere of life into which Griselda has misled
me.'

And what do you suppose will be the
upshot of all this ? ' sternly.

That, my dear fellow, is what I have
never yet gone into. But marriage, I hope 
I aren't suppose it. It is the one thing I
look forward to in my idle moments, which,
by-the-by, are very few. If you will look
round you at this weedless garden you will
do me the justice to acknowledge that I do
not scamp my work, that I earn my wages
honestly.'

Pshaw ! ' said Dysart impatiently ; ' and
what of Griselda ? '

Griselda has confessed that she  likes
me a little. So that on the whole the time
spent here, though certainly trying, is not
without its compensation. For one thing, it
is rich in situations. If you had only seen
me last week, as I whisked round that mulberry
bush to escape your eye, you would
understand me. I say, Dysart,' with a
sudden change of tone, ' you won't tell your
dad eh?'

I am much more likely to tell your
sister,' says Seaton angrily.

You needn't  she knows. She was here
just now, and is full of a desire to kidnap
Griselda and carry her away to The Friars.'

By Jove ! ' exclaims Seaton ; and then all
at once his disgust and righteous wrath give
way, and he breaks into a spasmodic laugh.

Peyton right gladly joins him, and presently
the two are roaring away in unison at what
appears, after all, to be the best joke in the
world.

Well ! you're a nice fellow,' says Dysart
wiping his eyes.

Peyton, thus accosted, kicks back his right
leg and pulls his forelock in true bucolic
fashion.

" So thou hast found me, mine
enemy," ' quotes he. ' If you could only
know how I've been dodging you for days,
and all to no effect ! '

And is this how you make love to her ? '
asks Dysart, regarding the other's turn-out
with profound admiration. 'Well, how you

have the audacity why on earth, my dear

chap, when you were about buying those
clothes, didn't you get them clean ? '

Clean ? That's all you know about it.

It is a simple thing to see you haven't studied
the subject. Why, it took Bob, the late
gardener, and me two whole days' hard
rubbing with moist clay to reduce them to
their present colour and condition. Inside
they are all they need be,' says Mr. Peyton
pulling open his coat to show the decent
lining. ' Outside they are all they should be,
too. I say, Dysart, my sister depends upon
you to make your governor give his consent
to the girls going on a visit to her ; you won't
disappoint her, eh ? '

I'll do what I can,' gravely ; ' but I
shouldn't advise you to be too sanguine as to
the result of my interference.'

Pile it up all you can. Say Miss Dysart
is looking pale and wan. Griselda says her
sister would give anything to get away from
this for a while.'

 I am sure Miss Dysart would give anything

to get away from this for ever returns
Seaton in a constrained tone. He might,
perhaps, have said more about the promised
help but that at this instant his father's voice
calls to him.

Both men look up. Old Gregory Dysart
is coming slowly down the pathway, leaning
upon his stick. His gaze is fixed upon the
ground, so that the wild, strange, fiery eyes
are hidden, and with the long white silvery
locks escaping from beneath the skull-cap,
and with his bowed figure, he looks the very
essence of reverend old age.

Hah ! talking to Taylor,' he says, addressing
his son, but looking at Tom, who reddens
slightly. ' Don't idle him  don't idle him.
Good money going into the pocket should be
paid for by unremitting labour. Is that a
weed I see there, Taylor ? ' poking at a
seedling marigold with his stick.

'Pretty nearly time to knock off work
now, isn't it ? ' says Seaton, looking at his
watch.

' Nonsense ! There is a good hour's work
before him yet. Don't interfere with the men
here, Seaton. I will have my money's-worth,
I tell you. No dawdling, no knocking off
work as long as daylight lasts. People of
Taylor's class do not feel fatigue as you and I
might. How's your sister, Taylor ? Better 
eh ? Shan't want to leave the garden to goto
her again, I trust  eh ? The dahlias will
want all your attention now.'

She's as well as she ever is, sir,' answers
Taylor dolefully, whilst thinking thankfully
of Lady Eiversdale's magnificent constitution.


Hah ! well ! People in her rank shouldn't
give themselves airs. They shouldn't succumb
to sickness ! Can't afford it,' mutters Mr.

Dysart, laying his hand on Seaton's arm, and
leading him away.

Dear old gentleman ! ' murmurs Taylor
sotto voce, as he picks up his spade and beats a
retreat.

CHAPTER XXII.

Be bold, be bold, and everywhere be bold.

What more felicities can fall to creature
Than to enjoy delight with libertie ?

Lady Eiversdale kept her word. She sent
for Seaton, and discussed with him the advisability
of trying to gain his father's consent
to the proposed visit of Vera and Griselda to
The Friars. She was quite eloquent on the
subject, professed herself charmed with Grim
and miserable at the idea of the two
romantic lovers being put to such straits to
enjoy each other's society. She waxed tearful
over Tom's clothing, and actually wiped
her eyes over the recital of his uncomfortable
meals.

VOL. II. T

Seaton would help her, wouldn't he ? Ah,
she knew she could rely on him. He was, as
she told Griselda, the one dependable person
she knew. Eeally, young men nowadays
were all froth and frivolity  no getting a
serious word out of them ; but Seaton was
different. And when would he attack his
father ? He was not to be discouraged, mind.
No doubt dear old Mr. Dysart, whom she
had always understood to be a deliciously
eccentric creature, would object to the proposition
at first, but judiciously managed
would no doubt give in to it at last.

And so on, for a good hour or more, after
which Seaton rose pledged to argue the
matter out with his father and never leave
him until consent was gained.

To Seaton, sitting in the library at this
moment opposite to his father, who is openly
enraged, and trying calmly to obtain a

hearing, the situation is hardly one of unmixed
joy. Mr. Dysart having once grasped
the fact that somebody is desirous of taking
the girls from beneath the gloomy power of
his rule into the fuller light of a happier
regime his indignation knows no bounds.

It is the most monstrous piece of impertinence
I ever heard of! Who is Lady
Eiversdale, may I ask? I have not the
honour of her acquaintance. I refuse distinctly
to give my consent to any plan of hers.
A mere adventuress, doubtless ? '

My dear father, it is absurd your talking
like that to me. You know who Lady
Eiversdale is as well as I do.'

'Pardon me, I don't know her at all I
have no desire to do so. I consider it in the
worst of bad taste to invite guests out of the
house of a man with whom she is not even on
a bowing acquaintance.'

T 2

She knows me.'

You are not master of this house yet,
Seaton. At present I still hold the reins of
government, and I absolutely refuse to let
either of my nieces cultivate that woman's
friendship.'

Then permit me to say that by your evident
determination to exclude them from all
society you leave yourself open to much
unpleasant comment.'

'Eh, eh?' The look the old man flashes
round at him is full of a sharp fear ; he
shrinks, as it were, beneath his son's words,
as if struck by a lash, and waits in a sort of
nervous tension for what may come next.
What do you mean by that  eh ? I insist
on a reply. Comment about what ? What
stigma attaches itself to me  eh ? '

The odium of dealing most unfairly by
your brother's children.'

Mr. Dysart turns ghastly ; he grasps the
arms of his chair with both hands, the fingers
of which are trembling convulsively.

Unfairly ? ' He repeats the word in a
low unnerved tone, glancing askance at his
son the while. ' There is a hidden meaning
in your words,' he says hoarsely ; ' my
dealings towards my  my  brother's children
what do you know of them ? Speak, I
command you ! '

'Why, nothing, sir, beyond this,' says
Seaton, a good deal surprised by his father's
strange agitation  ' that I think it unfair to
shut up two young and and  pretty girls,
and deny them the amusement their age must
crave.'

Ah ! ' with a long-drawn sigh of relief,
is that it ? Well, let me tell you I think they
are safer kept close from the world's wiles ;
there is my answer. And you, are you mad ?

You cannot blind me to the fact that Vera is
more to you than other women are, and yet
you would be the one to open this door for
her and let her out into the whirl of fashionable
life beyond  you would give her the
chance of cutting herself adrift from you
alt ocf ether.'

You forget, sir, that she is as far from
me now as though the poles divided us.'
He says this with angry impulsiveness in
which passionate regret is blent, and rising
abruptly begins to pace the floor.

I do not believe it. In time she will tire
of this isolation ; she will accept any means
to make her escape. When you find her in
that mood, come forward once again ; offer to
lead her into the society for which she pines,
and do it, but first marry her.'

Miserable advice 1 ' says the young man,
striving to conceal his disgust ; ' first, let her

have a chance of comparing me with others,
then let her decide.' In his soul he beeves
there is no chance for him, whether she
wither here all her life or get this strange
opportunity of escaping the boredom of her
present lot, but with a view to gaining his
father's consent to the visit to The Friars he
assumes a hopeful tone.

You are a fool ! ' says Mr. Dysart roughly.
'If you choose to destroy your hopes, I shall
still protect mine. This marriage between
you and her is the darling scheme of my
life : I shall not abandon it  I refuse to let
her go.'

'As you will,' says Seaton, with a shrug
of his shoulders, dropping into a chair and
drawing a cigarette from his case ; ' but you
must either accept this invitation for her or
I shall at once and for ever withdraw from all
pretensions to her hand.'

His father turns a dark glance on him.

Have I been deceiving myself all along
then ? ' asks he contemptuously ; ' you don't
care for her at heart, you are glad of this
opening to cry off. You shrink from the
alliance, but, to please me,' staring at him
insolently from under his bent brows, ' to
toady me, you would wed one absolutely

distasteful to you, you would even No,

no I don't go, Seaton,' breaking down and
crying out in a frenzied fashion as he meets
his son's eyes, and sees the latter prepare to
leave the room ; ' stay !  hear me ! I didn't
mean it  I swear I didn't  but to hear you
speak of giving up the girl maddened
me!'

He sinks back and gazes imploringly at
Seaton.

Why are you so bent on this marriage ? '
asks the latter regretfully.

Say I like the girl  if you will have a
reason.'

Seaton shakes his head. 'You dislike
her,' he says positively. ' However, we discussed
the matter before ; there is no need to
ffo into it acrain. You seem to have no reason
for your desire, save an obstinate determination
to gain your own end. I must, however,
request you will not insult me again by
attributing to me such base motives as '

No, no ; it was a mistake, I feel,' still
cowering beneath his son's cold, indignant
gaze ; ' it was rather a filial act. You would
wed her to oblige me, to obey me, to please
your old father, because '

Hear me ! ' interrupts Seaton curtly ; he
is very pale, and speaks with difficulty. ' I
would marry her because I love her. For no
filial reason, for no worldly reason, but
simply and solely because, unfortunately, she

is for me the one woman in the world. She
is always studiously cold to me ; I think at
times she hates me ; yet I have set my heart
on her. I have given my very soul into her
keeping, and I cannot get it back ; I do not
even want my release. If, as I sometimes
madly imagine, there is hope for me in the
future, I shall try to win her ; but by fair
means only, not secretly, not by cruel coercion.
I would have her see other men, and
make a fair comparison between us ; if then
she decides against me, so be it.'

You don't know what you do,' mutters
the old man, his head sunk abjectly upon his
breast. Must he give in, must he risk it, after
all? The girl once freed from his control,
will she ever return to it ? And if she goes,
how then? The one hope of lifting the
shadow that les upon this miserable conscience
seems slipping from him for ever.

'I have thought it out carefully, I have
decided on it,' says Seaton coldly ; ' you
know my decision  you will accept Lady
Coverdale's invitation.'

For a fortnight, then ; not another day ! '
cries the old man in a sudden, fierce tone, as
if with his consent to this hateful arrangement
he is parting with all he holds most
dear.

Filmy OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

Printed BY

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON



a





S

K>3

:2

>

.ii-P-23t>

>m>

=5):5

>

*>59

3 0>

>::

m

>p:>

>u >

 i>>>3

>i>2fc

'f'-" !''"'(:

*-pi.

"fpt

<

'<r <<:

'<

'Oc Cc

<!E <



 

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/undercurrents03duch

VOL. III.

BY THE AUTHOR OF

PHYLLIS' 'MOLLY BAWN ' &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES

YOL III.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



hall rights reserved

V.3

UNDEE-CUEEENTS.

CHAPTEE I.

O, it is excellent
To have a giant's strength ; but it is tyrannous
To use it like a giant.

whitest Galatea, can it be
That thou shouldst spurn me off %Yho love thee so ?

'Well,' says Seaton, entering the morning-room,
where the two mrs are sitting, ' I
have fought 3onr battle, and won it for you
He addresses himself exclusively to Griselda.

What ! ' cries she, springing to her feet
and growing actually pale, and then again ina
fainter tone, ' Xo ? '

'But yes, indeed  you can go to The

VOL. III. B

Friars. In fact, I shall take you to The Friars
next Monday, if you will permit me. But
only for a fortnight ; I tried hard for your
month, but I was worsted there. However,
I suppose a fortnight is better than nothing.'

A fortnight of paradise ! ' says Griselda
in a rapt tone. ' Oh, man, wdiy cavil at anything
in such a blissful hour as this ? I feel
as if it can't be true, as if I shall wake
presently and find it all a wretched delusion.
Yera, how can you be so silent on so auspicious
an occasion? House yourself, and
confess you are as glad as you can be.'

I needn't,' says Vera, with an evasive
little laugh, ' you are certainly glad enough
for both of us.'

'For half a dozen of us,' says Griselda
gaily. ' Oh, fancy finding ourselves in the
good, merry, silly, frivolous world again!
Seaton,' leaning both her pretty white hands

upon the small table that divides them, and
leaning over it towards him, ' come here ; I
have something to whisper to you. Do you
know I could positively kiss you for what you
have done ? '

If you could, you can,' says Dysart, advancing
rapidly upon her, whilst she carefully
edges round and round the table ; ' there is
nothing to prevent you that / can see. I
shan't.'

jN"o, but there's Tom,' says Griselda, beginning
to laucrh.

CO o

Where ? I don't see him. A fig for Tom,'
coming nearer still, with a most determined
front, ' he'll never hear of it.'

But he might,' says Griselda, making fora
larger table ; ' and if he did, he'd lead me
such a life. No, you must wait until Tom and
I have quarrelled finally, and then I shall remember
I owe you something. In the meantime,'

perching herself on the edge of the
table, and subsiding into a delightfully gossiping
mood, ' tell us all about it  the " famous
victory," I mean. How did you circumvent
your father ? How did you dare to broach
the subject? Was he,' growing even more
confidential, ' mad ? '

Furious. There was a time, indeed, when
I gave up all hope.'

You must have used a very cogent argument.
What was it ? '

Seaton makes no immediate reply to this
rather indiscreet question. Involuntarily his
eyes turn on Vera, to find she is regarding
him with a curious interest. A little quick
flush dyes her cheeks as she finds herself discovered,
and With a haste, the remembrance
of which annoys her afterwards, she lets her
eyes fall before his.

That it was a cogent reason goes without

telling,' says Seaton, answering Griselda's
question carefully ; ' it concerned me and me
only. Perhaps you are not aware that my
father seldom refuses me anything.'

I can the rather believe that you seldom
ask him anything.'

That is severe. I assure you that in his
heart '

'His icliatr

His heart,' persists Seaton, laughing in
spite of himself at her impertinence, and at
the saucy little nose, tip-tilted in open scorn.
Well, in his heart, I would say, he keeps a
warm corner for me.'

That's the cold warm corner,' says
Griselda, who is in an incorrigible mood, born
of the chance of freedom presented to her.

Griselda ! ' says Yera, in a shocked tone,
colouring? crimson.

Have I said something awful ? ' asks

Griselda, looking penitently at Seaton. ' Forgive
me, then ; but indeed I never can remember
lie is your father. Yera, a word with
you,' turning gaily to her, ' I am going out
of mourning. Yes, straightway, without a
second's hesitation. I am not going to present
myself at Lady Eiversdale's as an old dowdy.
I am going fashionably dressed, if I outraged
all the proprieties. In the bottom of my
trunks lie some lovely gowns, Parisian pure,
and anything but simple, my dear Seaton, that
would raise the spirits of a Niobe. They are
nine months old, I grant you, but then, when
bought they were so ultra-new, so almost
before the times, that even now, with a pinch
or two here and there, they will, I feel, be
correct enough for most people. Come, Yera,
let us go and pinch them.'

I should advise you to take the garden
on your way,' says Dysart mildly. 'Poor

Taylor is in an agony of suspense about the
proper treatment of those late roses.'

Griselda makes a little moue at him, and
disappears. As Vera is about to follow her,
Seaton, holding the handle of the door, checks
her.

Your sister asked you a question a while
since,' he says earnestly, ' you did not answer
her ; will you answer me ? Are you glad you
are going ? All the time 1 fought that battle
with my father I thought of you ; I wondered
if I should be doing you a service ; tell me, if
you can, that you are pleased.'

For a second, the usual cold, repellent expression
darkens her face ; then suddenly, as
if perhaps a little ashamed of her ungraciousness,
there is a change in her. Her grey eyes
brighten, and uplift themselves to his, a smile
grows within them; the sad mouth loses its
melancholy.

I am glad,' she says impulsively. ' I am
more than that  I am almost happy.'

He is hardly prepared for this new, dangerous
sweetness in her. . He pales, and, with
a passionate movement, catches her hand and
holds it, as though in the keeping of it alone
there is life for him.

Vera ! ' he breathes vehemently, unsteadily.


With a sharp exclamation of disdain and
hatred she drags the hand away.

Ah ! ' cries she bitterly, her face now
whiter than his own, ' there is this drawback,
however, to my happiness  I owe it all to you !'

In spite of this unfortunate contretemps,
to-day  the day that dawns to take them to
The Friars  is hailed with rapture. Yera is
not one whit less excited than Griselda, and

it is with difficulty the two girls control their
gaiety so as to bid farewell to Uncle Gregory
in a becoming mood. Having received his
amiable growl and murderous scowl without
flinching, they back out of the room, and
give way in the hall to an agony of smothered
mirth. For fourteen sweet, long, blissful,
early autumn days they shall see his engaging
face no more. Oh, heavenly surety !

Still in the happiest spirits they start upon
their journey with Seaton, and at the station,
about {\\Q miles from Grey court, are joined
by Taylor, whose sister had had a most
alarming and opportune attack of bronchitis
about two days before.

To see Mr. Peyton to-day in all his
splendour it would be hard to go back in
mind to associate him with that awful rabbit-skin,
a skin so awful that no well-regulated

baby Bunting,' however cold, would consent
to be wrapped in it.

As Griselda's eyes fall on him a sense of
positive veneration fills her breast. He is
clad in a most amazingly beautiful suit of
clothes, and has evidently had his hair cut.
Indeed, if I said he had just had his head
shaved, I should be nearer the mark. He is
jubilant to a dangerous degree, and with
difficulty refrains from giving open demonstrations
of his satisfaction.

How does Griselda like his clothes, eh ?
What does she think of 'em ? Telegraphed
to town a week ago, and when he got up
yesterday man had 'em ready. Such a
glorious feel to be in decent things again.
How does she think they fit, eh ?

He looks over his shoulder to try and get
a glimpse at his own smart back as he says
this, and is indeed plainly enchanted with his

whole get-up. He appeals to Griselda about
it, as though she were already his wife, and
that satisfactory girl answers him as though
the marriage lines had indeed been read ; it
is altogether a delicious day.

As to Vera, he greets her at once as a sister-in-law
of the most approved type, regardless
of the fact forgetful of it, I think that this
is only the second time he has ever seen her.

At the Woodley station they find a
brougham waiting for them. It seems to
them almost sinful to enter anything on such
a glorious evening, and seeing in the distance
an extremely proper dogcart, sent to meet
some man or men who have not arrived, they
unanimously decide in favour of it, and, Peyton
getting rid of the groom in a summary
fashion, they drive away through the still
sweetness of the coming evening towards The
Friars

The sea seems very close to them ; at
every opening in the trees that guard each
side of the road great white glimpses of the
ocean can be seen. Time coast seems to them
very much to resemble the coast near
Greycourt, although this is so much farther
on that some dissimilarity might reasonably
be expected. The day is gradually nearing
its grave, but still the warm clasping of the
dying sunlight surround and hold them,
touching each leaf and sprig to burning gold.
The hills rising upon their right seem on fire
with it, and the blue sky overhead has gained
through it a richer hue ; whilst the swaying,
laughing, riotous trees seem to whisper to
them assurances of love, and gladness, and
delight.

It is quite \e o'clock when they arrive
and enter the spacious hall of The Friars,
that now is filled with a delicate sombre light.

A crimson stream from a painted window,
somewhere in the distance, casts a flood of
glory, blood-red, at Yera's feet, and a comfortable
tinkling of spoons clinking against
china smites upon their ears. Mingled with
this is another sound happier still.

Vera, it is laughter,' whispers Griselda,
pressing Yera's arm in a little excited
spasmodic fashion, ' and cups and saucers I
Can't you hear them? Ah, how the good
past comes back ! '

And then Lady Eiversdale emerges from
behind a huge screen, and welcomes them
with a beaming air, and hurries them upstairs,
with injunctions for them to come down again
directly for their tea, and a general introduction
to the guests already arrived.

There is something so hearty in her 
Yera gives in to Griselda's verdict,' that
she is quite good enough to be Tom's sister.'

CHAPTER II.

A skirmish of wit between them.
O how full of briars is this working-day world !

The soft subdued laughter is still going on.
The hum of conversation becomes louder as
Lady Riversdale pushes back the 'portiere and
leads the girls into the small drawing-room.

It is a deliciously cosy apartment, full of
colour, and sweet with a delicate undefinable
perfume. Each room in the house, through
a whim of Lady Rivers ale's, has been painted
and pranked out to represent a flower, and
this one in which they now stand declares
itself a pomegranate with charming distinctness.
It is rich in warm but subtle
shading, and the faint lingering hues of the

yet sunny twilight throw through the windows
a subduing influence over tint and
carving.

There is a momentary, an almost imperceptible,
hush as the girls enter, but it dies
the instant it is born, and conversation flows
on again as though that little check had never
been. Just one or two of the men, perhaps,
continue to be a little distrait for the best part
of a minute whilst they take the newcomers to
pieces, and declare them in the end faultless.

Vera looks round her with the little
thoughtful gaze that is part of her charm.
She has been introduced to her host. Lord
Eiversdale, a particularly silent man, as she
finds to her joy, and sinking into a deeply
cushioned seat she gives herself up to a
mental analysis of those around.

There is the usual mixture of the human
types that in itself is delightful. Modern

endurance is not proof against satiety ;
Variety is charming ' says an old and sound
proverb. To Vera it is a very feast to sit here
and once more watch and listen to the various
members of that universal family to which
she too belongs.

Here is the short, stout young man, beaming
with good humour, who talks a great deal
and has many listeners ; there is the tall, lank
young man, who looks his conversation, and
that into but one pair of eyes at a time. A
turn of the head shows one the dowager who
still refuses to be old, and near her the little
chit of sixteen who declines altogether to be
young, each a ridiculous foil to the other.
Over there, lounging negligently and in perfect
safety against the door, stands the ladylike
fop, who wears an eyeglass only because
he doesn't want it ; whilst in the middle of
the crowded room, terribly en evidence is the

man who won't wear one, although every
spindle-shanked table and dainty gimcrack
trembles to its fall when he is near.

On an ottoman directly opposite to where
Vera is sitting is an extremely nice looking
girl, not entirely pretty, perhaps, but unmistakably
desirable. She is about twenty-four
 that touchy age with women, dividing
them as it does from girlhood's broad domain,
yet giving them instead a wider, kinder view
of all things  and has placed herself a little
apart from the others on a low, crimson satin
seat, that is surrounded by men of all ages.
That she is a favourite with the stronger sex
those who run may read  and read, too, as
they run, that her grace lies not in the fact
that she is either flirt or coquette, but that
scarcest of all things, a universally-sympathetic
woman, unconscious of her charm.

Vera instinctively keeps her attention fixed

VOL. III. c

upon her, wondering  whilst all the while
strangely sure of her identity  who she
can be.

At the top of the room, reclining in a rather
listless fashion on some velvet cushions, are
two little girls, lovely enough to arrest the
gaze of any casual observer. They, too, seem
to have given in to the curiosity attendant on
the entrance of the new guests, and fix their
large wide eyes on Vera, who in turn looks
back on them with a certain interest.

Lady Eiversdale by a word  an intensely
proud, fond word  had intimated that they
were her children, and Yera, filled with astonishment
at such information on comparing their
beauty with the mother's remarkably homely
face, had lost herself in a special glance
around. Her eyes falling on Lord Eiversdale
solved the riddle. He was a singularly handsome
man, with marked regular features ; at

last, then, she had found a child who did not
take after ' the ugly parent ! She felt thankful
for this singular experience.

The children, after a prolonged examination
of her charming face, scramble up from their
cushions, and back slowly out of her sight. It
seems to her that they have made their way to
the wall behind her, only very much higher up
the room. She feels a touch of regret as she
loses her last glimpse of their deliciously
solemn little countenances.

Seaton is standing close beside her, as
motionless as if on guard, and with an unconscious
air of taking care of her that irritates
her to the last degree. Why can't he go away
and talk to somebody, or, if he must stay,
why can't he talk to her ? She envies Griselda,
who is laughing in the happy privacy of the
curtains with Tom Peyton, who has just introduced
her to one of his friends It is a

c 2

positive relief to her when presently she sees
the children emerge acain from behind the
backs of those who line the wall, and sidle
towards her with that peculiarly aimless air
that children will assume when most eagerly
bent on gaining a desired, goal.

Ever nearer and nearer they glide, their
eyes distrustfully, yet longingly, turned upon
her, until at last with a little, soft rush they
gain her side. Even here they hesitate, until
the younger, taking her courage in both
hands, slips her little slim fingers under the
narrow gold bangles that adorn Yera's wrist,
and begins to push them up and down with
a childish diffident gesture. The elder, finding
her sister repulsed, drops on her knees
beside her, rests her elbows on Yera's gown,
and looks calmly up into her face.

What's your name ? ' asks she gravely.

'Yera.'

Vera ! ' Both children repeat the word
with a sort of gratification.

That's better,' goes on the elder, nodding
her blonde head. ' All the others are Mary,
or Maud, or Violet, or some such silly name ;
we are tired of them, but Vera  that is quite
new.'

Would you mind,' asks the younger child
anxiously, ' if I called my smallest daughter by
that name ? She is such a pretty creature !
I never saw a doll like her. Eeally, if you
saw her, I think you wouldn't care. May I
christen her all over again and call her Vera ? '

I shall regard it as quite a compliment,'
says Vera, ' and if you want a new godmother,
pray let me stand for her.'

This proposition is hailed with rapture,
and an appointment instantly made to meet
next morning in the nursery, where the
ceremony is to be performed.

It's the loveliest name,' says the blonde
child. ' Who gave it to you ? '

'My godfathers and god ' Vera is

beginning with a laugh, when a small frown
checks her.

Don't laugh,' says the fair one With the
golden locks, ' we hate it. Dicky Browne is
always laughing at us, and it's horrid. But
tell us  you have another name, haven't
you?'

Yes. Mary, I'm ashamed to say.'

Ah, it was sure to come ! ' cry the two
solemn children mournfully. They evidently
regard this commonplace addition to the
romantic ' Yera ' in the light of a national
calamity. The younger still continues to
push the bangles up and down the pretty
white arm, but now in a dejected fashion.

I knew we shouldn't escape it,' says she
sadly; 'but I know what we'll do, Dolly

we'll forget it. It's quite easy to forget anything
! She shall be Vera only.'

Not Vera Only,' says Dolly sagely ; ' she
can't be Miss Only, that's nonsense. She must
be Miss Brown or Miss Thompson or something.
What Miss are you ? ' regarding Vera with
anxiety, who is beginning to look upon them
with reverence, as two of the quaintest little
beings she has ever met.

Dysart,' confesses she softly for her sins.

Why, that's Seaton's name,' cries Dolly
brightening, and looking up at the tall young
man who is standing near them ; ' isn't it,
Seaton? Why you must be something to
him. Sister, eh ? '

No,' says Vera, shaking her head.

You can't be his mother ? ' hazards the
younger child uncertainly.

Vera laughs lightly. ' No,' she says again.
I have it ! I know it ! ' exclaims Dolly

the wise, glancing up triumphantly ; ' you are
his wife ! '

This innocent bombshell spreads dismay
in the camp.

No, I am not,' says Vera, in a carefully
low but dreadful tone, conscious only of
the fact that he is standing behind her and
has heard the foolish prattle. She blushes
abominably hard, and almost shakes the
child's arms off her knees.

As for Seaton, he too changes colour in a
very tell-tale manner, and with a quick frown
turns on his heel and walks abruptly away.

Oh, I'm sorry I said that,' says the child,
notice, with the unerring instinct of extreme
youth, that luckless blush; ' I have vexed you.'

Why should you think that ? I am not
vexed,' says Vera coldly.

Ah, don't speak to me like that,' cries
the little creature regretfully. ' Your face is

looking at me quite different now. And I
didn't know. It is so hard always to know.
But I am sure I have made you angry  and
Seaton too. Did you see him. Flossy ? '
turning tearfully to her sister, ' he went away
all at once, as red as fire, and as angry as he
could be.'

I suppose he didn't want you for his wife,
but never mind,' says Flossy sweetly, ' somebody
else will if you only wait. I'm sure of
it, because you are very nice and pretty.'

'You give me hope,' says Vera sarcastically.
And then, ashamed of herself as she
sees the little honest grieved faces staring in
surprise at her, she changes her tone, and
lays a hand on each small shoulder with a
caressing pressure. ' Who is that pretty girl
over there,' she asks, with a wild longing to
change this embarrassing conversation, pointing
to where the girl who had first attracted her

is sitting, ' quite opposite, in the red and white
gown ? Do you see her ? '

'Oh, that is Mary Butler. Don't you
know her ? Everybody knows Mary Butler.
We love her, so does everybody else.'

Mamma says Seaton does,' says little
Flossy mildly; 'perhaps that's why he won't
marry you.'

Mamma says, too, that you are not to
chatter,' says the sapient Dolly with slow
severity.

Well, there is no harm in loving anyone,
it is only wicked to hate,' says Mossy, indignant
at the public rebuke. 'And I'm right
too ; he does loves her. There he is now
smiling at her.'

Seaton has indeed joined the gay group
round the ottoman on which Miss Butler
is seated, and there is something; in the wav
she makes room for him beside her, a little

swift pulling aside of the dainty skirts, a
vague uplifting of the brows, that tells his
comines is not unwelcome to her. At all
events it so suggests itself to Vera, and it maybe
that others think so too, because presently,
one by one, the attendant swains melt away,
until she and Seaton are left alone.

And now the society smile fades from Miss
Butler's lips, she grows earnest, and presently
he and she seem lost in a discussion as grave
as it is earnest, and plainly of the utmost
importance  at least to them.

It was true, then,' thinks Vera. A great
sense of disgust rises up within her, swallowing
all other thoughts. ' And vet he would
have forsworn himself! Would have nay,
he would do so still. Oh, the shamelessness
of it ! '

Perhaps something of her secret scorn
communicates itself to him, because even in

the midst of his apparently engrossing conversation
he lifts his head abruptly, and his
eyes seek lies, and read them as though he
would read her soul.

And then a curious light flashes into his
face. He makes a movement, quick, ungoverned,
as though he would rise and go to
her, but, even as he does so, some one steps
out from the shadows behind her, and, bending
over her, holds out his hand  a young man,
tall, well-favoured, smiling, with an air about
him of sudden warm delight.

You remember me ? ' he says, so distinctly
that Seaton can hear him across the
room. ' To think that I should have the
happiness of meeting you  here  to-day 
and after so many vain inquiries ! How it
brings back the past to see you : Venice,
Some, that last carnival ! Vera ! say you are
glad to see me ! '

Some people walking past them, and
suddenly standing still, obliterate them from
Seaton's view, but when next he looks, the
stranger is sitting beside her, and Vera, with
flushed cheeks and brilliant eyes, full of an
unmistakable welcome, is murmuring to him
in low, soft tones.

Who is the man talking to my cousin ? '
asks Seaton, indicating Yera's companion by
a slight gesture, and speaking in a tone so
changed that Miss Butler involuntarily lifts
her head to look at him.

Lord Shelton,' she says. ' George Sands
he was. Don't you know him? Great
hunting man. He came in for the title about
eight months ago. That brought him back
from his big game in the East. And  is
that your cousin ? '

CHAPTER III.

Why-what right have you, made fair by that same God, the

sweetest woman
Of all women he has fashioned with your lovely spirit face
Which would seem too near to vanish if its smile were not so

human,
And your voice of holy sweetness, turning common words to

grace,
What right can you have God's other works to scorn, despise,

revile them ?

Fancy our being at a dance again ! A real
live dance ! ' cries Griselda joyously, catching
hold of Yera in one of those rare moments
when now they find themselves alone. There
is a delightful gaiety in Griselda's whole bearing,
her eyes are sparkling, and it is evidently
with difficulty that she keeps herself from performing
di>pas seul upon the sward beneath her.
By this time everybody in the house is

quite aware of lier engagement to Tom
Peyton ; it is so apparent a fact, and one so
shamelessly betrayed by the parties concerned,
that even a feigned ignorance is undreamt
of. The women regard them with
toleration, and few of the men have a second
opinion but that Peyton is intensely to be
envied ; these few have Griseldas of their
own.

In the last four days Peyton has mysteriously
disappeared, no one knows whither,
except perhaps Griselda, his sister, and two
others. ' North ' he was going, he said to
inquiring friends  a charmingly vague destination
of which we all know something, and
which means nothing when you come to look
into it. To-day, however, he has turned
up again, admirably dressed as ever, and
as radiant as a good conscience should make
any man.

I'm SO glad Tom lias got back in time
goes on Griselda, still struggling with lier
desire for that impromptu step ; ' I quite
feared Uncle Gregory would be too many
for him. But Tom's wonderful, isn't he now ?
Fancy doing Uncle Gregory ; it is rather more
than one dared hope for ! Vera, look here,
rouse yourself, my child ; it is a question of
vital importance I am about to put. Shall I
wear white flowers, or yellow ? Tom says
yellow, and being a gardener,' with a little
grin, ' he ought to know, but for my own

part Why, what is it. Vera, what makes

you look like that, darling? Come in here
and tell me all about it,' drawing her into the
shelter of an archway ; ' see what a cosy little
nook it is, all hung with roses. Now tell me
what it is that has annoyed you.'

I must be mad to be annoyed,' says Vera
with angry self-contempt.

Seaton again ? '

It is always Seaton,' with an increase of
lier irritation, ' when it isn't his father. Was
there no other path into which fate could
have flung me, except this ? Yes, it is Seaton.'

He certainly does seem to be the little
rift, the discordant note,' says Griselda with
regret. ' But why think so much about him ?
He cannot interfere with you now, be his
father never so persistent in his idea of marrying
you to him, because all the world can see
he is as good as engaged to Miss Butler.'

I pity her then with all my soul ! What
a family to enter ! She is too good to be
sacrificed so cruelly.'

Yes, she is charming. I sometimes think,'
says Griselda with a little rueful glance, ' that
if Seaton wasn't our cousin, if he were somebody
else's son, he would be charming too.'

Would he ? '

VOL. III. D

I know your prejudice to be unsurmountable
; however, perhaps Miss Butler may escape
her fate. I have heard Did you hear anything,
Vera ? '

'About her?'

Yes, that she is engaged to a man in India,
a distant cousin of Seaton's on the mother's
side. There was some unpleasant story about
him, and he had to leave home for a while.
He either loved his neighbour (she was somebody's
wife) rather better than himself, or else
he gambled away all he possessed. I couldn't
quite gather the threads, but at all events
Mary Butler, who was to have married him,
turned him adrift, and afterwards forgave him
I suppose in his heart, if this story be true,
he was faithful to her all through in spite of
the neighbour  and now they have agreed to
make it up. That is Lord Shelton's story at
all events, but I confess it sounds improbable.'

Impossible, rather ; I do not believe a
word of it,' says Vera impatiently. ' She is
certainly bound to Seaton, and he to her in all
honour, and yet '

Well, go on.'

And yet with his heart given to her, he
still haunts me. It is despicable, such conduct
as that ; he must be without a single honest
feeling. I can go nowhere that I do not meet
him, in hall, or gallery, or drawing-room.
He does not address me, I confess, but he
watches me silently, as one might who believed
he had a claim on me.'

Surely you imagine something of this,
Vera?'

I do not, I am most careful not to permit
myself to exaggerate the unpleasantness of it.
I feel like a prisoner let loose for a day or two,
but always with my jailer within view. I believe
he is employed by his father to watch

D 2

me, to report all that I say or Ah ! ' she

breaks off abruptly, and points almost triumphantly
to the pathway outside, where indeed
Seaton stands.

That it is one of the most public walks at
The Friars, that Seaton might have, nay indeed
has, come this way without intention of
any kind, she does not allow herself to believe.

I told you,' she says vehemently, ' it is to
spy upon my every action he is here ! Oh,
fool that I was, to dream of being free for
even these few days ! '

She has come a step or two forward ; a
scarlet tide of indignant humiliation has dyed
her cheeks. She still points towards Seaton
with one trembling hand, whilst he, advancing
slowly, looks with some anxiety from her
to Griselda, who is sorely troubled, as if to
demand an explanation.

Vainly she tries to make peace.

I think you must be mistaken, darling
she says nervously, laying her hand upon her
sister's arm. ' I feel sure Seaton would not
undertake the part you have assigned him.
Seaton, speak to her, tell her it is impossible
that you should do this thing.'

'What thing? Of what does she accuse
me ? ' his brow growing dark.

She imagines  oli, of course, it is all a
mistake  but she has somehow got it into her
head that you are here to  to watch her, toto
' Here poor Griselda flounders hopelessly
and grows red as any rose with shame
and fear. ' She thinks,' desperately, ' that
your father sent you here to see whom she
speaks to and to report to him all she does.'

The murder is out, and a sudden feeble
desire for something to sit down on takes
possession of Griselda.

Is this the truth ? ' demands Dysart in

what to the frightened Griselda sounds an
awful voice.

Yes  yes,' stammers she ; ' but 1 tell you
it is all a mistake. It is most foolish of her,
but  speak to her, Seaton,' in an agony, ' and
assure her you would not act such a traitor's
part towards her.'

Is that how 3'ou think of me ? ' asks he,
turning to Vera, who still stands pale and
defiant. ' Is that how you dare to think of
me?'

There is such violent anger in his look
and tone, although the latter is subdued, that
Vera involuntarily moves away from him.

What else can I think ? ' demands she in
turn, refusing to let her eyes fall before the
contemptuous scorn of his. ' I do not move,
I do not speak, but I find you at my side !
And why  why ? ' passionately. ' Your heart,
your conscience, if indeed you have one, will

tell you it is not for love of rne, and yet,
wherever I am, there you are also ! What
motive can you have for haunting my footsteps
but the one I have suggested ? '

Is that how it strikes you ? ' says ]ie
slowly ; a sudden, short, miserable laugh
breaks from him, ' so that is low you look
at it ? '

Then once again that ineffable scorn lights
his eyes, and by a sudden, irrepressible movement
he reaches her, and lays both his hands
upon lier shoulders. She would have extricated
herself, but he holds her as in a vice,
half unconsciously, and yet with a certain
amount of determination too.

Great Heaven ! ' he says slowly, as if
weihins each word, ' to think how I have
loved you  such ass you  so poor a thing ! It
shames me now to think of it ! ' He draws his
breath sharply, and though she writhes within

this grasp lie holds her fast. ' Xo, you shall
hear me ! I have heard much from you, first
and last  this shall be the last, I swear. And
so you think I would lower myself to spy
on you or anyone ? What perspicuity, what
clever reading of character ! Bah ! I am mad
to be so angry, to feel it so keenly And yet
I do ; that is my curse. Here, even now, in
this moment when I find you so altogether
contemptible a creature, it is my misery to
know that I still love you ! '

He almost flings her from him and covers
his face with his hands ; a groan escapes him.

Vera, S2:>eak to him ! ' cries Griselda, ina
voice filled With despair, but Vera stands
motionless as one cut out of marble.

It is the truth and you know it,' says
Dysart, lifting his head and once again
addressing Vera ; he has forgotten Griselda's
presence, forgotten everything but the keen

sense of wrong that is overpowering him. 'If
you have found me so often near you, as you
say, it was because I could not stay away.
Your presence  youvs with sharp disdain,
was so necessary to me, that instinctively,
almost without my knowledge, as it seems, I
sought it. I love you ! As I acknowledge
that, believe me, I despise myself. But my
punishment lives with my fault ; I cannot
escape either. I feel nothing but self contempt
for this craven longing for one so unworthy
the love of any honest man as you
have proved yourself I '

Seaton ! ' cries Griselda indignantly. She
puts up her hand as if trying to stem the
torrent of indignation flowing Iron his lips,
but Vera checks her.

Nay, let him finish,' she says with a pale
smile ; ' surely he has not yet said quite
enough.'

There is only this,' says Dysart, still
mastered by his anger, and untouched by the
rage of her calm, ' that to no woman is given
the right to sneer at the affection of any man.
Refuse it if you will, but there is courtesy due.
Day after day you have heaped insults upon
me. Your every look has been an affront ;
you have gone so far as even to forget your
womanhood, that you might '

Sir ! '  her tone, low but terribly intense,
thrills through him and at length kills his
passion.

If I have said too much,' begins he
wearily, but with a little eloquent gesture she
renders him silent.

Oh, not too much, but perhaps enough '
she smiles again, that cruel smile that hurts
him like the sharpest stab  ' surely it would
be hard to expect you to find another insult
to-day. To-morrow, perhaps. And now let

me say one little word. Have I no cause to
doubt you ?'

None, none ! ' declares lie vehemently.

She throws out her hands with a little
expressive movement. ' I leave that to your
own conscience, to your own sense of right
and wrong,' she says, shrugging her shoulders
finely ; ' for myself I know, perhaps, more
than you think I do, and from my soul I pity
you ! '  oh, the contempt contained in that
pity ' You would marry me, not loving me,
to gain your father's goodwill, or for other
curious reasons unknown to me but known
to him and you, and by so doing you would
forswear yourself and all your better instincts.
But once for all,' raising her voice and throwing
up her head, ' I warn you give up the
hope of that  rather than marry you,' making
a slight gesture of horror, ' I would accept
the first man that asked me ! '

A faint rustle amongst the bushes outside,
a footstep  and Lord Shelton steps into view.

I hold you to your word,' cries he gaily.
He steps lightly within the flower-crowned
archway, and looks straight at Vera. He is
smiling, but underneath the smile lies a longing
to be taken seriously. ' You give me a
chance,' he says ; ' I here, before witnesses,
declare myself a suitor for your hand '  his
expression is still wavering betwixt mirth and
gravity, and he holds out to her both his hands.

'You are not, however, the first to ask
her,' says Dysart in a voice vibrating with
many and deep emotions. His brow is black,
and anger fights for mastery with despair in
his dark eye. He looks as if he could willingly
have taken Shelton by the throat and
crushed the life out of him. ' I hold her to
her word, I asked her first.' It is an absurd
demurrer as the case stands, but he hardly

knows what lie is saying. For a moment the
two men glare at each other, bitter hatred
in their glance. Griselda, unnerved and
frightened, has shrunk back against the stonework
of the arch, and for a full minute there
is an eloquent pause. Then Vera, pale as
death, but with a little indignant frown, steps
between the two men.

What does it all mean ? ' she asks contemptuously
; ' would you make a tragedy out
of a farce ? If so, at least be good enough to
assign me no part in it.'

She sweeps both men out of her path by
a slight imperious gesture, and passing them,
walks swiftly away in the direction of the
house.

CHAPTER IV.

Let us give up, go down : lie will not care.
Though all the stars made gold of all the air,
And the sea moving, saw before it move.
One moon-flower making all the foam-flowers fair;
Though all those waves went over us, and drove
Deep down the stifling lips and drowning hair.
She would not care.

The first easter desire for dancing has
come to an end. It is the hour when one
has grown discriminating, and when capricious
beauties review their cards, and carefully
scratch out such a one to put in one more
desirable. The best dancers have had time
to make themselves known, and mental notes
about them are being freely made. Supper
becomes a thing no longer vague, and the

married dancers are glad of a little champagne
or iced cup of any sort to restore their
flagging energies. It is, indeed, upon the
stroke of midnight.

So far, Lady Eiversdale's dance has been a
complete success. The lord-lieutenant of the
county is here, and this last season's most
fashionable beauty, in an extremely smart
gown, not an old one that has seen service,
and yet might be considered good enough to
dazzle the rustics  but a distinctly new gown,
built for the occasion.

It is intensely warm, and all the windows
are flung wide. Through them comes the
glimmer of coloured lamps from the gardens
outside, and conquering them, the cold,
haughty, still fire of the moon. Vera attracted
by it has drawn close to an open door in
one of the conservatories, and having despatched
her partner on some trivial errand,

gazes out with a little thrill of pleasure at the
perfect scene the night affords.

Far past the foolish lamps that seem to
twinkle with such a barren effect, lies the
great ocean, swelling, gleaming, in the mystic
beams of the great goddess in the sky-above.


Is it not Cynthia, she that never sleeps,
But walks about high Heaven all the night ?

The night is still as death itself, and the
sparkling brilliance of the slowly moving
waters contrasts with it in tender fashion.
Strangely attracted by it. Vera goes forward,
moves doAvn the stone steps that lead to the
garden, and with eager footsteps gains the
little patliAvay, steep and sudden, that leads to
the beach beneath. As her feet touch the
hard, smooth sand, a sense of exultation fills
her ; a desire to stretch out her hands to the
delicate silvery waves, to clasp them, to press

them to her feverish brow, takes possession of
her. Was ever scene so fair ? Surely

Love walked upon the sea this traced night,

For the waves beneath his feet ran pale with silver light.

Suddenly she draws in her arms, and a
shiver runs through her ; she turns her head
-to see Dysart.

He has started violently on seeing her,
and even in the moonlight she can see that
he has grown terribly pale. ' I am unfortunate
! ' is all he can say, but his tone is
eloquent.

She ignores it ; perhaps in her own agitation
she does not even hear it. ' Again ? ' she
says, with a withering smile. Her shut lip
curls. ' Surely it is not necessary ? You can
see for yourself that I am alone.'

I swear you misjudge me ! ' cries he in
deep emotion ; ' I did not I could not  know
you were here.'

VOL. III. E

That, of course ! ' Lie shrugs her
shoulders with an air of disgust.

Hear me,' said Dysart unsteadily ; ' however
you may misjudge me, there is at least
something I iiiust say to you. This morning
I insulted you, I spoke to you as  good
Heaven, I must have been  I teas, mad 
when I so spoke  but is there no forgiveness ? '

JS'one,' coldly.

That is impossible ! ' cries he fiercely, ' I
weill not believe it ! I could not live if I
thought that ! Look into it. Vera ; in common
fairness, remember what it was you said tome,
what it was you accused me of, and then
see if pardon is impossible.'

If I said anything to offend you, I spoke
only the truth,' says she unrelentingly, 'but
even so  well, if I did offend  I regret it'
her tone is icy. ' Will that do, will you
leave me now ? '

'Truth? There was no tripoli ! ' says he
passionately.

Shall I say then it was false ? ' wearily.
If I do, will that suffice, shall I then at last
be alone ? Oh ! ' miserably, ' am I never to
escape this persecution ? '

'You can escape it when you like, it seems
to me,' sullenly.

How, how ? ' excitedly. ' You say that,
when you know there is no escape possible.
See here, then,' turning to him and holding
out to him her lovely bare white arms,
rounded, and soft as a little child's, 'if what
you and your father desire is my imprisonment,
I will return to Greycourt, at once, tomorrow.
Only see that Griselda may remain ;
she can dare to be happy here.'

Do you think I want you to return ?
Don't you know,' with a bitter glance at \vn\
that from my soul I wish you nat never

E !i

come beneath my roof? And as to your
return,' slowly, ' I say again, why need you ?
There is Shelton.'

She looks quickly at him, leaning a Henceforward
as if surprised, as if in expectation,
and the moonbeams catching her so, make
for him a lasting picture of her, unutterably
sweet, unutterably cruel ! It is plain that
she is waiting for his next words ; with difficulty
he speaks them.

You are going to marry him ? ' he says,
his tone more assertive than questioning.

It is an impertinent question,' says Miss
Dysart calmly, ' but if it will help to end this
interview, I shall answer it. You are entirely
wrong ; Lord Shelton has not so much as
asked me to marry him.'

You are disingenuous. If he has not
yet asked you, you know he only waits the
opportunity to do so. When he does '

He checks himself abruptly, knowing he has
gone too far.

A little flame leaps into Vera's eyes.

Has it occurred to you that I am very
forbearing ? ' she says, with a curious smile.
These amiable interrogations of yours  so
natural from a cousin to a cousin  does it not
strike you as very remarkable that I do not
on my part question you back again  that I
do not ask you whom you are going to marry ? *

He looks as if he were about to make her
an angry rejoinder, but she checks him,

No  don't be afraid, I am not going to
put the question,' she says coldly ; ' and, after
all, why should I ? '

Why, indeed ? ' angrily.

You yourself see that ? ' says she, with
a slow uplifting of her eyes. 'It is true.
I need not ask it, because '

Well, because ? '

Because I know.'

I don't understand you,' says he ; and
indeed a little look of utter amazement has
crept into his eyes ; a look unseen by her,
whose glance is turned outwards to where
the tiny foam-flecked billows are lazily, like
children tired of play, tumbling over each
other in their languid hurry to the shore.
Do you mean,' he goes on at length, ' that
you know of some one I want to marry, someone
who '

Yes. That is it. Why go into it ? ' says
she impatiently.

No necessity, indeed. You know the
exact truth,' doggedly. ' It is time you
should. I,' with a laugh of sharp self-contempt,
' have told you about it often
enough. My abject love for you must be a
worn-out tale to you by this time.'

Let there be an end to this hateful

hypocrisy,' cries lie, turning to him with a
burst of passionate anger. ' You acted your
part for Griselda this morning most admirably
 I admit that ; so far as I could see,
there wasn't a flaw. Surely, surely, there is
no need for you to rehearse it again to me ?
Behave me when I tell you that I know the
ignoble lines by heart.'

Heart ! ' repeats he bitterly ; ' you should
leave out that word. You have no heart.'

I am content that you should think so,'
returns she indifferently. She moves past him
towards the small stone staircase that will take
her back to the house.

Stay,' says he suddenly. ' There is something
I would hear from you before you go.
Just now you spoke as if you believed I was
desirous of marrying some one, and in the
same breath repudiated the idea that it could
be you. Who was it, then ? '

You give yourself and me unnecessary-trouble,'
says she, her lip curling, ' but, if you
will hear it, it was Miss Butler.'

Mary Butler ! ' repeats he, as if not
believing her, and then a flush of colour
overspreads his face. 'Who instilled such
madness in your brain ? ' he goes on, turning
her deliberately, so that beneath the moon's
cool rays he can the better see her face.
Did you believe that ? Did not you know
that she is encased to a man in India  that
every thought of her heart is his ? That she
deems me her dearest friend simply because
I can claim some distant kinship with him.
Was that what you thought ? Good Heavens,
how blind, how determinedly blind you have
been ! '

Well,' she says, convinced in spite of
herself, and, as she makes it appear, most
unwillingly, 'it is of little consequence one

way or the other. Take away your hands,
please. It is nothing to me whom you mayor
may not desire to marry. That at least is

true. I '

'I know; there is surely no need for you
to repeat your cruel words over again,' interrupts
he, as if stung. ' I know all that you
can possibly say. This morning I gave up
hope. I have had,' bitterly, 'no reason since
to make me once more try to seize hold of it.
You will marry Shelton, I suppose,' making a
lingering miserable hesitation as if, though he
has declared hope dead, he still clings to a
mad fancy that she may deny this assertion
of his  but no words fall from the small, firm,
closely shut lips, no sign of any emotion
breaks the calm of the cold lovely face turned
seawards. ' Well, I have done '  there is a
terrible weariness in his voice now  ' it is allover,
I shall never speak to you on this

subject again ; that,' unsteadily, ' you have
grossly wronged me in your thoughts, time
will teach you.'

He pauses, and looks at her as if waiting ;
surely she will at least say something to him
to soften the harshness of the past, here, in
this last hour !

Can I go now ? ' asks she, in a tone of
polite inquiry, largely mingled with relief,
once more moving across the shiny sands
towards the steps that will take her away forever.
Despair seizes upon him, and a madness
unconquerable. She is going, she will
soon be sone, and there will be afterwards
only the long awful blank, the horror of
living, the day-after-day intolerable existence,
with nothing in the present, and no hope for
the morrow. Great Heaven, how cruel a
woman can be, and such a woman ! In this
one simple last moment it seems to him that

all her sweetness, all her tenderest charms,
her exquisite beauty, are shown to him in
colours more radiant than even with all his
fatal passion for her he has ever yet beheld
them. The soft Avhite gown that holds her,
the lissome figure, the slender perfect fingers,
the little queenly head, so delicately poised
upon the shapely neck, and the eyes, those
eyes like stars of heaven, that have never yet
sought his save in contempt and anger.

All are going ! Already her foot is on
the stairs.

Vera ! ' cries he hoarsely.

She turns as if startled by that impassioned
cry, and then, he hardly knows how it
is, he hardly dares remember afterwards, but
somehow she is in his arms, and he is looking
down into her frightened eyes with a terrible
entreaty in his own. Will she relent ?

Do you know what you are doing ? ' he

sajs, his miserable voice scarcely above a
whisper. ' My darling, my soul have pity ! '
More closely his arms bind her. He bends
his face to hers  nearer, nearer still ; and
then, suddenly, a great loathing of himself
fills him. He draws back with a sharp
shudder, and almost dishes her from him.
Go ! ' he says vehemently ; and in another
moment she has turned the corner of the
winding stairs and is gone.

Gone !

With a heavy groan he flings himself face
downwards on the cool, sweet, shifting sands,
that, moon-smitten, lie trembling, waiting for
the dawn.

CHAPTER V.

What of a hasty word ?

Is the fleshy heart not stirred

By a worm's pin prick

Where its roots are quick ?
See the eye, by a fly's-foot blurred

It is Sunday. From the fishing village of
Glowing Destroy doAvn below, comes up to
the a'rim old Court the sound of the cracked
and irregular bells that week after week call
the toilers of the sea to their devotions.

To the inhabitants of Grey court, however,
Sunday is quite the same as Monday, save for
the noise of those dissolute bells that seem to
have no control over themselves. No one,
luckless enough to be domiciled in the house,
LS permitted so far to fraternise with his or

her fell-vows as to go to Divine service. Whatever
Mr. Dysart's religious convictions maybe,
they are known only to himself ; but
certainly they do not include a belief that
church going is at all necessary to salvation.

It had come to Griselda's ears that every
six months (' to the very tick,' said her informant
in low English) the rector of the parish,
driven by a troublesome conscience, approached
the house in fear and trembling,
bound on his duty errand, outwardly hoping
that he would, and secretly praying that he
would not, be admitted to the presence of its
master.

There is, too, a dark legend extant (told
to Griselda by the same raconteur), that once
in the dark ages of this history, that same
rector, in a spirit of reckless daring, had
penetrated, in spite of old Peter's screaming
remonstrance, into the den of the skull-capped

owner of Grey court. Poor man ! (rector
meant) lie no doubt thought it part of his
road to heaven to so immolate himself; but
he never did it again. That he escaped
alive from the lair was learned by the fact
that he preached the next Sunday a limp and
disorderly sermon ; but those who saw him
emerge said his locks were whitened, his eyes
darting from their sockets, and his whole
person much the worse for wear.

Perhaps it is as well to say that Mr.
Peyton alone was responsible for this thrilling
tale, and, therefore, for the veracity of it.
    *

It is now high noon. The dahlias and
hollyhocks are drooping in the hot rays of
the late September sun, that are now pouring
themselves right royally on shrubbery
and garden. In spite of the thick, debarring
yew hedge, in spite of the general air of

gloom and depression that surrounds the
whole place, and might well deter even a
valiant sunbeam, the god of day has asserted
his sovereignty, and is dazzling even this
gloomy corner of his realms with his glory.

The blissful fortnight at The Friars,
snatched, as it were, from cruel fate, has
come to an end, and last night the down-hearted
sisters crept back like culprits to
their hated prison.

Mr. Peyton, whose remarkable sister's marvellous
disease has at last so far succumbed
to her physician's treatment as to permit of
his permanent return to his place, arrived
in his character of gardener two days ago,
and now, in one of the shadiest walks that the
garden at Greycourt permits, is sauntering to
and fro with his beloved, the rabbit-skin cap
af]jain adding a lustre to his charming head.

Not that unsullied rapture lies beneath

that grisly crown. He and Griselda are undoubtedly
lounging along arm-in-arm apparently
on the best of terms, yet there has been
but now a serious skirmish between them, a
row royal, that has not altogether died away.
The atmosphere is anything but clear, and
vague traces of the late storm still agitate the
air.

I wouldn't for the world refer to it again,'
says Mr. Peyton with a ghastly attempt at
pleasantry, and with all the air of one who is
virtuously conscious of having parted company
with ill-temper for ever and aye. ' Indeed,
in my opinion, too much has already
been said about it by  by,' airily, ' some of

us, but '

Say me, when you are about it ! / shan't
mind,' says Griselda with an extraordinary
little laugh, that she proudly believes would
convince any one of the fact that she is in as

VOL. III. F

sweet a humour as was ever woman on this
earth.

'Well, I will, if you like. But I assure
you I didn't mean it.'

No ? You meant yourself then ? And
quite right too. You did say a great deal
too much.'

A matter of opinion, my dear girl,' with
a lamentable falling off of the virtuous incline
towards good-fellowship of a moment since.

Do you mean to tell me,' says Griselda,
blazing into sudden wrath, ' that you were
not intensely  awfully rude to me? You
accused me  me  who have the most terrible
difficulties to overcome  of having kept you
waiting here for me for two hours. You even
hinted  you can't deny it  that I was unwilling
to come.' Her tone is now tremulous,
the angry eyes are drowned in tears. Mr.
Peyton begins to feel a distinct sense of fear.

I don't think I said that,' lie is beginning
in a craven tone, when she interrupts him,
emboldened no doubt by that luckless quaver.

You did ; you know you did. Oh, Tom,
to think you could be so unkind ! And how
do you imagine I am ever to trust you again ?
Oh no, that is all over. I may love you
indeed, such will be my unhappy fate  but to
believe in you, to  to respect you, is more

than I  I ' Here sobs get the upper

hand.

My dearest girl, how can you talk to me
like that ? See now, Griselda, it's impossible
you can mean it, and '

But I do. Respect a man who finds
fault with me ! I'd like to see the girl who
could do that. And when I remember all I
endured this morning ; the lies I told to
Grunch, the cruel way in which I flattened
my nose against the window panes trying to

f2

catch a glimpse of you, that I might signal to
you why it was I wasn't coming ! Oh, when I
recollect it all, I feel that I ought to hate you.'

The sobs have gone down before her
righteous indignation.

It doesn't matter what you ought to do
so long as you don't do it,' says he softly, with
lamentable want of principle.

'One should do one's duty,' says she
sternly.

Oh, don't. Don't do yours in this case,'
entreats he humbly.

You're laughing ! ' says the younger Miss
Dysart, casting a severe glance at him. This
glance is her undoing ; it routs her, and it is
with the utmost difficulty that she succeeds
in concealing the little smirk that has crept
about the corners of her own mouth. 

'Laughing? Far be it from me,' says
Mr. Peyton, who now, indeed, is as grave as

an owl. ' Well,' in a tone of resignation, ' as
you won't speak to me, I may as well occupy
myself in other ways. Any objection to my
smoking, Miss Dysart ? '

As lie speaks, he draws from the pocket
of his scandalous old coat the inevitable cigar-case,
a dainty affair, with a silver monogram.
After this, he draws from another dingy
pocket a match-box. Having lit the cigar he
still continues to regard the match-box with
a pensive eye. The name of the maker has
attracted him, and a desire to make conversation
and break the present constraint, at
any price, urges him to proclaim it aloud.

Medici ! ' says he, with lazy astonishment.
Bless my stars, what a name ! '

If he had thought by taking this neutral
subject into discussion, to lull his beloved
into oblivion of her wrongs, he is mightily
mistaken.

'One would think you never heard it
before,' says lie, in a distinctly unfriendly
tone, and without a spark of that bonhomie
that, as is popularly agreed, characterises
her.

Well, after all, perhaps I have,' says
Mr. Peyton ingenuously. ' Something to do
with the dark ages.' the slaughter-house
business, eh? I really do believe a faint
inkling of it is coming to me. There was an
unpleasant old woman, wasn't there, and a
.considerable quantity of blood ; and poisons
galore, and trap-doors, and  it was rather
Drury-banish, don't you think ? '

I was never at Drury Lane,' says she, with
an uncompromising air.

No ? Eeally ? ' with a charmingly surprised
air. 'What a loss you have sustained!
Well, but to go back to the box,' tapping it
lightly. ' Medici, for a vendor of matches !

How are the mighty fallen ! It's a name
rather out of place, you must allow,' defending
his position valorously.

A very appropriate name, I think,' says
Griselda, declining to fall into his line of view.
Considering all we have ever heard of that
most unpleasant Catherine, I should say she
must now be in a position to send up tons
of phosphor, or sulphur, or whatever those
matches are made of, to her sorrowing
relatives.'

Oh, I say ! ' says Mr. Peyton, and thereon
most unwisely gives way to mirth.

'If you don't take care,' cries Griselda,
overcome by this last token of frivolity on his
part, in the midst of a tragical performance,
you will shortly be able to send tons of
sulphur to your relatives ; and,' with awful
emphasis, ' they won't be sorrowing ! '

As if horrified by this thought, she bursts

into tears ; and Mr. Peyton, horrified too, but
from different causes, promptly takes lier in
his arms and otherwise consoles her.

Griselda ! ' says he, ' I will acknowledge
myself to be the most inhuman, the most
blood-stained wretch of my species, if only
you will forgive me, and be to me what you
were before.'

This appeal has apparently its charm ;
Griselda, as if mesmerised by it, at once
succumbs, and with a sigh, suggestive of relief
that quarrelling has come to an end, lays
her head upon the blood-stained wretch, as
though here indeed was a refuge from every
storm.

Peace thus restored, they wander down
the shady pathway, once more lost in the
happy dreams of youth : still happier in the
thought that this being a blessed Sunday
evening, no fear of Mr. Dysart's putting in an

embarrassing appearance need be dreaded ;
that dear old man making a point of spending
every seventh noon in his private chamber,
the room in which Vera had once discovered
him.

The lovers, therefore, secure in the
thought of his absence, stroll leisurely along,
whispering gay nothings and making wonderfully
merry. Their mirth has indeed reached
quite a boisterous pitch, their laughs ring loud
upon the air, as they come to a curve in their
favourite walk in which stands a mouldering
rustic seat, watched over by a dilapidated
goddess, whose signal indecency has long since
been lost sight of amongst the wreaths of
respectable ivy that have insisted on reducing
her to a proper frame of mind.

Here, as if by one consent, Mr. Peyton and
his betrothed come to a sudden and awful
standstill. So motionless indeed, so rigid do

they become in one short moment, that but
for the ivy, and the decorous, if dirty,
garments in which one of them is clothed,
they might have been mistaken for companion
statues to the goddess up above.
Their mirth has come to an untimely end, their
smiles are frozen on their lips, for there
there right before them, staring at them,
sits Mr. Dysart on the crumbling seat !

CHAPTER YI.

It is the nature of the human disposition to hate him whom
you have injured.

It is hopeless to attempt to withdraw the arm
that is close clasping Griselda's waist, the
maddest folly to dream of dropping the little
hand so confidently clasped in Peyton's broad
palm. To all intents and purposes, Griselda
stands revealed in the warm embrace of the
new gardener !

As though turned to stone the two culprits
wait, staring blankly at the inexorable face
before them. This, too, looks carved, so
emotionless, so altogether destitute of life it
seems, not so much as a flicker of the eyelids
betraying the fact that he yet breathes. Only,

the terrible eyes sparkle and gleam, and presently
there grows within them a vile expression,
that might be termed triumph.

At last, when the strain has become well
nigh unbearable, he rises and advances a step
or two towards the stricken pair. This movement
breaks the spell so far as Peyton is concerned,
and seeing that Griselda is on the
point of fainting, he tightens his arm round
her, and gives her a sharp and vicious little
shake that startles her into life once more.

So ! ' says Mr. Dysart. The triumph is
gaining ground steadily : he now looks positively
radiant in a Satanic sort of fashion. ' I
congratulate you,' addressing Griselda. ' After
all, I see the severity of the command that
forbid your wandering in the woods wonder
cost you but little. With you, a bird in the
hand is worth two in the bush ; you have
learned wisdom early. You take indeed the

good the gods provide, without any foolish
cavilling at the quality of it. But so soon,'
with an odious touch of banter in his tone, ' to
abandon one swain for the other ! What a
cruel fair one you portray yourself. Consider
the feelings of your first young man. They
must be poignant in the extreme. Truly you
are one of those troubled with " thick-coming
fancies." Yesterday the woodman, to day the
gardener, to morrow who ? '

Tom ! ' says Griselda in a suffocated tone,
but by a pressure of her hand he compels her
to silence. Let the old man get it all out
first.

After all,' goes on Mr. Dysart pleasantly,
I almost regret that I objected to your daily
rendezvous with the woodman. There is something
romantic about the feller of " the oak
and the ash and the bonny elm tree," and it
may be that the young man looks clean ; sawdust

in itself is a cleansing material. As for
my gardener,' turning an abominable smile on
Peyton, ' I fear I cannot congratulate him upon
this outward graces, though, doubtless, this
second choice of yours is unapproachable when
the inner virtues are called into question. He
seems affectionate, too,' with a pensive glance
at the attitude in which Peyton still stands 3
his arm about the trembling form of Griselda.

Have you done ? ' says Peyton in a murderous
tone.

No, not quite, yet. There is just one
question that has suggested itself to me, a mere
matter of curiosity, I assure sou, but I should
like it satisfied, if you will kindly allow my
niece to answer me. Why, my dear Griselda,
if your taste lies with the eminently respectable,
if, perhaps, rather trying, lower classes,
why did you not decide in favour of the tailor's
son, who lives in the village ? I hear he is a

great admirer of female beauty, so that soil
would have stood a good chance with him.
Nay, no blushes, my dear ; it is your poor old
uncle alone who thus renders a tribute to your
perfections, not any of the bucolic youths
around. This Saunders is, I am told, a remarkably
steady person, and has one hundred and
twenty pounds laid aside as a nest-egg towards
furnishing a dear little rustic cottage for his
bride. Beside these substantial allurements,
I should say the charms of the woodman and
the  er  astonishingly plain young man before
me would sink into insignificance. After
all, I feel I have scarcely done my duty by
you, I gave you no chance of cultivating the
tailor's son.'

Sir,' says Peyton, taking off the damnatory
cap, that hides rather more than half his face,
and flinging it violently from him, ' cease these
unmanly insults, these contemptible gibes ! In

me you see the woodman and gardener
combined, and,' haughtily, ' Tom Peyton of
Girtonmore, besides.'

There is no mistaking the breeding that
accompanies his glance and words. For perhaps
the first time in his life Gregory Dysart
is completely taken aback, a circumstance that
does not tend to sweeten his humour.

Peyton ! ' repeats he slowly, ill-suppressed
fury in his evil eyes ; ' so it was to your sister's
place, to Lady Eiversdale, that my nieces
went ? It was you, I suppose, they had to
thank for the invitation ? Pray is she aware
of the honourable part you are enacting here ?
Does she admire it ? '

She knows,' says Peyton brusquely ; ' I
cannot say that she admires it. You, however,
put it out of my power to pay my addresses
to your niece in an open manner.'

Strange,' says Dysart with a slow, insolent

laiigli. ' And so it is for you,' with an
exhaustive and impertinent survey of the
heated, angry, honest but certainly beauteous
countenance of the young man before
him, ' for you that my niece has defied me and
risked her position here ? You will, of course,
understand,' spreading his white hands abroad
with an assumption of an apologetic air intensely
irritating, ' that I am, unhappily,
entirely ignorant of your social qualities,
which,' with a second even more eloquent
glance, ' must be enormous. So that you will
pardon me for saying that as I look at you I
am filled with amazement.'

Tom Peyton laughs scornfully. He is
quite aware that his present habiliments do
not add to the meagre stock of good looks
with which a niggardly nature has supplied
him.

" Handsome is as handsome does," ' says

VOL. III. G

he, quoting that vulgar, homely old proverb
with a valiant air. If Griselda sees good in
his face, who shall dare decry it ? He makes
his speech with a meaning glance that implies
that his beloved's uncle has signally failed in
behaving handsomely towards her.

She has been complaining, no doubt,'
says Mr. Dysart, catching the other's tone
and casting a withering glance at Griselda ;
but you  have you behaved handsomely
towards her, do you think ? She is young ;
was it nothing to imperil her reputation, to
induce her to give up her self-respect ? '

He speaks with slow, malignant emphasis;
a dry sob breaks from Griselda. Peyton
makes a step forward.

Stop that,' he says very low, but in a
tone so strange that Mr. Dysart, who, to do
him justice, is devoid of fear, instinctively
looks up at him. ' I would to heaven,' says

the younger man in a voice that quivers with
rage, ' that I could take forty years off your
shoulders.'

That you might reduce me to powder ? '
suggests Dysart with a laugh. ' Let me tell
you, my quondam gardener, that if you did
so you would not find me the feeble foe you
imagine. I should, in all probability, be the
one to do the pulverising. It seems a pity,
however, to waste time over such trivial
thoughts as these. The day is fast deserting
us, and but a short hour or two of light
remains. I fear this will scarcely suffice
Griselda to pack up her things.'

You mean ' says Peyton starting.

'That she leaves this house at daybreak
tomorrow. Nay, not a word ; she has had
fair warning, she cannot complain. Twice
she was told what would be the end of all

this. To-morrow morning she leaves my
house, she and her sister.'

Oh, poor Vera ! ' says Griselda in an
agonised tone, but beneath her breath ;
Peyton presses her arm tenderly, warningly.


You have got her into this scrape ; you
will, of course, feel it your duty to get her
out of it,' says the old man to Peyton with
a cold smile full of bitter revenge. ' I hope
you are prepared to support her and her
sister for the rest of their lives.'

It has been my desire for a long time to
rescue her from her present miserable life.
Por this at least I have to thank you, that
you have driven her to accept the home I
can offer her. I would, for her sake,' with
.a most earnest glance at Griselda, ' that it
-was better than it is, but though her life with
me will, I fear, be but a poor one, in so far

as money is concerned, it will, at all events,
enable lier to have a soul of her own.'

The extreme contempt of Peyton's manner
maddens the other.

'You have a proud spirit, sir,' he says,
his voice trembling with rage, ' yet I think
I have heard it said that the last Peyton of
Girtonmore is little better than a pauper.'

Then you heard wrongly,' says Tom
Peyton with dignity. ' I acknowledge myself
a poor man, but I never yet heard of a
pauper with seven hundred a year. A mere
pittance in the eyes of the fashionable world,
I allow, a beggarly income when compared
with the rent rolls of my ancestors, a very
insufficient sum to keep up Girtonmore or
any home such as I would gladly give her,
but,' with a swift fond glance at Griselda,
'twill serve, I think.'

A dark scowl covers the face of the old

man ; there is a touch of angry battlement
in it. He lead not thought the elder Peyton
had left his son even half the sum mentioned,
out of the wreck of as handsome a property
as was in all Derby. ' And tomorrow,' he
says, making his last contemptible move with
a base longing to wound, no matter by what
scurvy means, ' tomorrow when I turn her
adrift will you marry her then, or take her
under your protection until you tire ? '

Peyton starts as if shot ; his first thought
is for Griselda, he turns a colourless face to
hers, but even if she had heard the abominable
words, she certainly had not understood
them. There is only the same sad frightened
look upon her charming face.

For shame, old man ! ' says Peyton, with
such terrible scorn in eyes and voice that
involuntarily Mr. Dysart shrinks from him.
The latter would have spoken again, but

Peyton checks him by an imperious gesture.
Silence, sir ! ' he says haughtily, and stepping
past him, leads Griselda away, ever
farther and farther through the gardens, till
they come to the old ruin that lies half a mile
or so from the house.

CHAPTER VII.

"When sorrows come, they come not single spies,
But in battalions !

Griselda is now crying bitterly.

'My darling, don't give way like that,'
says Peyton ; ' after all, what has happened ?
Nothing but what was sure to come sooner
or later.'

Oh! what will Yera say? Oh, what shall
I do ? ' sobs Griselda distractedly.

Exactly as I tell you,' says Peyton
coaxingly ; ' when the first step is taken, Yera
will be as glad as I am. That old barrack of
mine is as lovely a place as one could wish to
see, and if not kept up en prince why we
shan't mind, shall we ? '

It isn't that  you hioio it isn't,' earnestly,
'but we shall be such a burden to you,
and '

'Now, Griselda, have I deserved that?
Do you know that is the unkindness thing you
have ever said to me ? '

Is it,' wistfully, ' and now, too, when I
should in common gratitude say my kindest?
I didn't mean about myself, but about Vera ;
it is so good of you to feel towards her as you
do, and indeed  indeed,' the tears rolling
down her cheeks in a most forlorn little
fashion, 'I cannot bear to think I am thus
thrust upon you. Don't you think Seaton
could do something ? '

You can ask him if you like,' rising with
a hurt expression, and beginning to pace up
and down ; ' what do you expect him to do ? '

To speak to his father ; to entreat him tolet
us stay on here.'

'You are indeed eager to escape a life
"with me,' says Peyton, with exceeding bitterness,
' and set I thought, I believed '

'You believed only the truth,' says she,
colouring faintly, ' but  but can't you see
how a woman must feel when thrown at her
lover as I am? Ah, now I have hurt you
again ! ' She gets up quickly, and goes to
him, and very, very softly steals her arms
around his neck ; ' I don't love anyone in the
world as I love you,' she whispers, with a
little rush of tender vehemence.

Oh, Griselda,' catching and holding her
against his heart, as though he can never
let her go, ' you do mean that, don't
you ? '

I do, indeed,' simply. ' I think,' rubbing
her cheek fondly against his, 'you needn't
ask that question. But it is for that very
reason that I don't want to marry you.

this way. Your sister  she will not like it,
Tom?'

She will, when she hears all about it,'
says Tom valiantly, though in his soul he
knows Lady Eiversdale will be a little nasty
over the scandal arising from the fact of the
girls being turned out of doors by their uncle.

She will not,' says Griselda ; ' I know her
better than that, and I don't blame her. It
will sound badly, however it is put. People
will, of course, ask why Uncle Gregory turned
us out, and what shall we say? You must
allow,' her voice breaking, ' that it is very
hard on Vera.'

'Every word you say cuts me to the
heart. But for me, darling, I know this
would not have happened. Well, let us
think of Seaton then ; any chance of his
turning up to-night, or could I get at
him?'

You know, I suppose, that he is going
abroad? Yes, for an indefinite time and at
once. I think,' in a low tone, ' it has something
to do with Vera. His father wanted
to force him into a marriage with her, and
and of course it coukl not be thought of,
and so he is going. Vera does not like
him, and he  well, you say he likes Mary
Butler.'

Did I say that ? ' asks Peyton vaguely.

'Why, of course you did,' with some just
indignation, 'don't you remember telling nie
he was as good as engaged to her ? '

Oh, well he isn't,' airily ; ' she on the
contrary is altogether engaged to a fellow in
Madras or somewhere. But about Seaton,
any hope of his coming to-night ? '

As likely he should come, as that he
shouldn't. And now that I think of it, I saw
Grunch busy in his rooms to-day. He may

come ; if  if he does,' nervously, ' will you
tell him about it ?

To-morrow morning, yes. In the meantime
I shall be anxious to know how Vera
has taken it, and how you are getting on, my
poor little heart. Could you not manage to
write a line, and run up here, and stick the
note into a hole in the wall ? I could come
for it after nightfall.'

I'll try,' says Griseida ; ' though I
shouldn't wonder if he told Gruncli to keep
her eye on me. However, I dare say I could
manage it.'

Very well ; see, there is an opening herein

the wall of this inside room. Don't forget
the spot ; I shall be here about ten o'clock.
And now, good-bye for a little while, my own
sweetheart. Oh, Griseida ! I wish I could
think you were as glad as I am that soon we
shall never have to say good-bye again.'

I should be afraid to be as sure of it as
you are,' says lie nervously, 'but,' clinging
to him, ' I am glad, too ; only, it sounds too
good to be true.'

CHAPTER VIII.

Where shall 1 find a refuge ?

Such is the fate of guilt, to make slaves tools,
And then to make 'em masters  by our secrets.

As Mr. Dysart, still with that look of
baffled revenge upon his face, takes his way
slowly back to the house, the sound of
running footsteps coining towards him from a
side walk attracts his attention. The baffled
expression vanishes, as if by magic, and one
of vicious hope replaces it. Is it she again,
that girl Griselda, to ask him, perhaps, to
have pity, to condone her offence, to let her
still stay on at Greycourt? Oh, if it might
be ! He turns eagerly, hoping to see that he
may disappoint it, the pretty, soft, flushed

face of Griselda ; but it is not Griselda who is
now hurrying towards him with such speed
as betokens terror. It is Grunch, wild-eyed,
haggard, her thin grey locks, unbound
through her unusual haste, flying at each
side of her lean forbidding face. Every
feature of the woman expresses overpowering
excitement, each gesture fear. Tall beyond
her fellows, and gaunt as a leafless
tree, she swoops down upon the old man
standing awaiting her with a grim ironical
smile upon his lips, like a veritable bird of
ill omen.

'More haste, worse speed,' says he sarcastically.
' Is the house afire, or my precious
nieces dead, that you rush upon me with such
indecorous abandon ? '

'Hush,' says she sternly, with a glance
behind her and then to right and left, ' this
is no time for words like those. Think only

of this, Dysart,' pausing and panting for
breath, ' that I have seen a ghost.'

The old man laughs.

*Why, I congratulate you and myself
too ; I believe I am the only person alive who
has actually met a person who has seen the
merry spook. Generally one falls in with
somebody who has seen somebody else, who
knew a man who '

Be silent ! ' hisses the woman savagely ;
cease your gibes, I tell you. The ghost I
have seen is  is '

My worthy father, for example,' suggests
he with a sneer. ' No ? Well, come, who
then ? '

Michael Sedley ! ' The words fall from
her as though they burn her lips in passing.

The sneer dies from Mr. Dysart's lips ; a
dark flush suffuses his face, turning it almost
black for the moment, to fade presently

VOL. III. H

beneath the alien hue that makes him look
like a corpse  a corpse with eyes of fire ! He
staggers back against a tree, and his hands
catch convulsively at the bark of it.

You are mad, woman ! ' he says in a
terrible voice.

'Ay, may be. So I say. Mad, I am, if it was
his ghost I saw. But if I saw him in the flesh,
how then, Dysart ? Why, sane. Well,' with
growing excitement, ' shall it be mad or sane ? '

Mad, mad, mad ! ' shrieks he furiously.
All my life you have been my bane, my
curse, and now, now, what is this news you
would tell me ? Sedley ! Why he is dead,
woman, dead, I tell you.'

Then 'twas his ghost,' says she sullenly.

'Where have you seen him . speak, I
command you,' cries he, seizing her arm and
shaking her violently. ' If it is not some
infernal lie invented for my torture, tell me

all. Why are you silent ? Speak, I say, or
I'll tear the words from your breast ! '

On the avenue. I was there watching
Miss Griselda, as you told me to, lest she
should go into the woods again, when he
came slowly towards me through the trees,
prowling about, as it were, and as if half uncertain,
like one who is calling up, after many
years, old memories. He's changed, he's gone
to bone a deal, but I'd know him still amongst
a thousand, ay, ten thousand, for all he's
altered with his long beard and the whiskers
that try to hide his lantern jaws. Ay, and
you'll know him too.'

Sto, no, no,' cries Dysart, cowering away
as if from some fearsome sight, ' I won't see
him, I won't, I won't ! '

Fool ! do you think he will be so easily
avoided? What d'ye think brings him but
to bleed you ? ' says she, with withering

H 2

contempt. ' Why, his first word was for
you.'

You spoke to him ? You told him I was
dead, dead and rotten ? ' says he, laying his
trembling fingers with such force upon her
arm as to make her wince, and quickly throw
him off. ' You did not betray me, Grunch ?
You could not  a good master, an old master,
one that has remembered you in his will ?
You have not *

What ails you ? ' says the woman, peering
at him. ' Is it now your pluck is failing you,
now when you want it most ? I tell you he is
this moment in your own room, locked into
it, waiting for you to appear. You've got to
go to him, and buy him off as best you may.'

Buy him off! ' moans he, ' but I'm poor,
Grunch, poor. I haven't any ready money,
how can I buy him off? You know I'm
beggared by all the calls I have upon me, and

is this man to step in now, and drag from me
my very heart's blood, the few little coins I
have been able to scrape together to '

Stow all that ! ' says she coarsely, ' and
pull yourself together, and be a man again.
You've money enough to send him back to
where he came from, and you've got to do it
unless '

Well, well, well ? ' catching at the one
word of hope with feverish impatience.

Nothing,' says she shortly.

But if I pay him now,' says the old man,
again grasping her sleeve, ' he'll come again,
again, and again, until I'm a beggar ! '

Ay, he'll do that,' grimly ; ' he looks
like that.'

He won't leave me with a penny, he'll
stick to me, he'll suck me dry ! ' almost
screams the wretched miser.

'Ay, ay; that'll be true.'

'When I'm beggared, you'll be beggared
too,' says he, still in a piercing tone, but
with a most miserable sense of comfort in
the thought.

I've been thinking of that. He's a leech,
that Sedley. You're right when you say he'll
stick to you ; now he's found his way here,
he'll find it acrain. You've had a loner
riddance of him, but I'm thinking you'll see
a good deal of him from this day out.'

I won't  I swear it ! ' says he, the craven
look dying at once from his face ; ' I'll take
means to rid myself once for all of '

Ay  but how, Dysart  but how . ' says
she, leaning forward, and thrusting her lean
avaricious face into his. ' There's but one
way to end this trouble for ever and aye.
No one knows of his coming here  I asked
him that  no one knows his errand  I asked
him that too ; he came here across the hills

from Grantor without speaking to one or
making himself known  what if he  should
never go hack again ? '

 You mean ? ' says Dysart sternly.

Kill him ! ' says she with a low hissing
breath, ' kill him, if you're a man at all ! '

Tut, woman ! ' says he scornfully, putting
her aside with a light gesture, and walking
with a new air of determination towards
the house.

CHAPTER IX.

Diseases desperate grown,
By desperate appliance are relieved,
Or not at all.

It is characteristic of the iron nature of the
man  that rose above all petty cringing to a
miserly fear  that as he enters the presence
of the one creature whom on earth he dreads,
he does so with a calm visage and one expressionless.
His step is slow, methodical as
usual ; his face, grey in its pallor, a very
mask. His brilliant eyes alone betray the
keen life that still lingers in the gaunt old
frame, and they look through and through
the unwelcome visitor with an unblinking
gaze.

You I ' he says softly, nay smilingly, extending
a graceful hand with a good deal
of languid indifference.

Just that,' says Sedley, in a tone so loud
and common as to contrast painfully with the
polished accent that had gone before. ' Years
since we met, mate.'

Many,' says Mr. Dysart, sinking carefully
into a rickety old chair near him, Sedley
being in possession of his rightful throne.
And yet it seems like yesterday  that we
parted.'

Take it like that ? By George ! it shows
what a downy nest you've been lying' in,'
says the large coarse-looking man in the armchair,
with a distinctly aggrieved air. He
stretches out his long legs, sticks his hands
into his trousers' pockets, and deliberately
spits into the empty grate. ' And why ?
There's the injustice of it. You've as much

right to this place as I have, when all's told.
And if I can't get my share  I '

Sh  ! ' breathes Mr. Dysart softly, lifting
one hand. ' Why shout, my dear fellow ?
You can't think how it hurts my head. And
swell, so you have come back ? Pining for
the old country, eh ? Tired of the beautiful
climate out there ? One hears so much of
the home-sickness, I can understand, really
that '

I got regular tired out trying to turn
pence into shillings,' interrupts the other
brusquely, ' without any decent result.
After a while there ceased to be even the
pence to experiment on, so I  came back.'

So I see ; ' always with that delicate smile,
upon his thin lips. ' And for what purpose ? '

To look you up,' doggedly. ' To see
whether you were in the grave or out of it.'

I'm out of it,' says Dysart sweetly.

So I see ; and jolly glad I am to see it
Your corpse would have been of little use tome,
and I might have had trouble proving
my case with your son.'

You might have trouble proving it even
with me,' says Dysart, still smiling.

Come, drop that ! ' says Sedley, with a
ruffianly glance. 'Don't try that game, my
good friend ; you forget a line or two of
yours I have under my waistcoat.' He slaps
his breast viciously, and looks with lowering
brow at the old man before him, who is
staring back at him very gently, and with
an unruffled expression. 'Why don't you
speak ? ' roars he violently. ' Take that
infernal grin off your dead-looking old face,
and answer me. You know what brought
me, eh  '

Yes, I know. May I again remind you
that the voice uplifted, except in praise.

creates, as a general rule, confusion ; even
then, it has been known to  to ' Perhaps
it is a sign (if so, the only one) of his
mental disturbance that he fails to find a
suitable ending to this sentence. ' I daresay,
after your long absence, you have a good
deal to tell me,' he says, with the utmost
urbanity.

Ha ! that's better,' says Sedley, a threatening
ring still in his tone. 'And, after all
these years of which you remind me, how
are you, eh ? ' He leans forward, and peers
at him in an offensively vulgar manner.
Half-middling, eh ? '

I am well,' says Mr. Dysart, in a perfectly
even voice.

Can't say you look it,' says his companion
coarsely. 'Eather peaky about the
mug, in my opinion. Look as if you'd been
dug up. Conscience troublesome, eh ? '

N  o,' says Mr. Dysart, calmly as before,
and slowly, as if debating the question
Taking note of his quiet, almost death-like
exterior, who could guess at the fire that is
raging within ! After all, through all, has it
come to this? A vulgar expose \ . . . And
for Seaton to know  to hear all the wretched
details  to go through them one by one, condemning
as he went ! No ; that should never
be!

I'm glad of that ; it shows grit,' says Mr.
Sedley, with a terrible assumption of heartiness,
of bon comradeship. He settles himself
more comfortably into the capacious old chair,
and, with an air of growing thoroughly at
home, once more makes himself objectionable
by offending the empty grate. His whole
manner conveys the idea that he has no intention
of rising from his present position for the
rest of his life.

It shows the true bull-dog grip,' he goes
on, genially. ' The pluck to hold on to what
one has got. Damme, I admire you. No
puling for me. No crying over spilt milk. I
like a partner o' your sort, let me tell you,
governor.'

Dysart regards him steadily for a moment
or two ; a strange light coming and going in
his dark, wild eyes.

Partner ? ' repeats he, as if in gentle interrogation.


In crime ! ' roughly, as if angered by the
other's tone. ' That's what they'd cal it,
Dysart, at the Old Bailey, or whatever court it
might come before. I'm not particular.'

No  no,' assents Mr. Dysart, with gentle
encouragement.

I never blamed you, mind you that. Buta
lawyer's a writing sort o' varmint. He
might pick a hole in your spotless carcase.

But for me, I say nothing  so far. I'm not
keen to see your crime, as they'd call it. A
man should stick to his word, ses I ; and when
the old governor refused to stick to his, after all
his promises to you, why, if you kept him to it,
in spite of him, when he had no longer power to
kick  well, who's to say you were wrong, eh ? '

'You are very good; very  sustaining,'
says Mr. Dysart slowly. His tone is, perhaps,
a little fainter.

Ay, that's what I am to them as stands tome.
And you and I are in the same boat,
Dysart ; never lose sight of that. I don't. Ha,
ha ! I'm your devoted adherent, remember ;
your pal '  with a sickening leer  ' of twenty
years. I'll back you up as fresh as though it
was only yesterday we'd agreed on  on  you
know what. Ha, ha, ha ! '

The old man crouched a little farther back
upon his chair, but otherwise remained unmoved,

and smiled as if in answer to that loud
coarse laughter with a remarkably successful
effect. Then, suddenly, he stiffens himself,
and looks straight at Sedley.

And now, what is it you want ? ' he asks
tersely ; his tone ringing cold and clear
through the room, though very low.

Now, I like that ! Ton my soul you're
the very one for me,' says Sedley, slapping his
leg. ' To the point, you say ; well, here it is
I want part o' the swag. No more, no less.
My silence is worth a sov' or two to you, I
imagine, with those girls hanging round and
ready to pop in if '

How do you know about them ? ' interrupts
Dysart, with a curious start. ' Who told
you  who  I mean,' controlling himself by
a supreme effort, ' how did you know they
were living here ? '

How did I know they were living at all.

you mean,' says the other, with a wink. But
he was wrong there. ' Why, what d'ye think
brought me across ? The knowledge that
there were those who could make it worth
your while to buy me off. See, old cove ? '
He rises and slaps Dysart familiarly on the
shoulder. ' 'Twas a crony of mine in Glasgow
who wrote me word (native o' these parts, he
is) ; but he wrote promiscuous-like, not knowing
anything of our business.'

I see : and you wrote back to him, saying
you were coming over to England once again ? '
questions Dysart, his eyes now fastened upon
the other. ' Most natural ; but  you did not
drop a hint of your business, eh ? '

Pish, what d'ye take me for ? Let another
into a chance of getting half my own
rights! No, sir. I did not even tell him I
was coming to England.'

VOL. III. I

No  not even that ? ' The eyes now seem
to be burning, so lurid is their light.

Not him, nor any other man, there or
here. I took ship without bidding good-bye
to a soul ; landed at Plymouth, and came on
here without exchanging a confidence with a
soul ; and I'll go back again without a word
to a soul, on this subject, if you treat me as I
deserve and expect to be treated.'

Ah ! Well, I confess I am glad to hear
that,' says Dysart, in a curious tone. ' Then
no one knows of your business here ? '

No one knows I am here in fact,' says
Sedley, with his loud irritating laugh.

How sensible ! how truly wise I ' says the
old man, leaning back in his chair with a little
appreciative nodding of the head at Sedley,
but a rather exhausted air. No one knows.
No one ; no one knows. It seems to ring
through his brain.

I'm not saying that people won't know,
though  if we don't come to terms,' says
Sedley, with a facetious air. 'I've the pull
over you, you see, old clap, when we consider
that those girls are in the next room, as it were.
A word to them, and '

I thought when I gave you that cheque,
on your leaving for Australia, now twenty
years ago, that you considered yourself indemnified
for  for any risk you may have
run? '

There was no risk for me. I did nothing.
'Twas my silence you bought.'

Ah ! you are wrong there, I think,'
gently. ' There is such a thing as compounding
a felony. You may have heard of it ? '

I have. It don't frighten me,' says
Sedley indifferently. ' I'm thinking you'll pay
up rather than let it come to open court.'

'You are evidently of a deeply penetrative

I 2

mind. But to return to our argument.
When I paid you that sum, you agreed to
accept it as a final payment. You signed a
bond, I remember, that '

'Would you like me to show up that
bond  to your eldest niece, let us say ? ' asks
Sedley, with a contemptuous sneer. ' Try it.
It will cost you a trifle more than 1 shall, I
bet you. 'Twill cost you all.'

You gave your word then,' says the old
man doggedly. ' You swore '

Pah ! You make me sick,' interrupts
Sedley violently. * What have you got to do
with the value of an oath, with the word
honour in any form ? Though, indeed, a false
oath would be a good deal in your line.
Why, look here now,' savagely. 'Low as
you think me, I never did what you have
done ; poor as you know me to be, I wouldn't
stand in your shoes for a good deal. I never

robbed the orphan, the fatherless ; I never
defrauded my own

Silence ! ' cries Dysart in a terrible tone,
rising to his feet, his face ashen. He is trembling
in every limb. Then, it is all over ; he
conquers the excitement and sinks back in
his chair again, weaker, but outwardly perfectly
calm. ' Name your price,' he says.

Five thousand pounds,' says the other
coolly.

Five thousand ! You must be mad ! '

Not one penny less. My silence is worth
that  and more. But that will do for the
present.'

I haven't it ! I swear I haven't,' says
Dysart, in an agitated tone.

Then you'll find it. Pshaw, man ! d'ye
take me for a fool that I don't know what
you're worth  what the value is of this
property  I, who lived on it as steward, as

trusted agent for so long ? Give up that
hope, Dysart ; I know if I said twenty thousand
there would be no reason why I should
not get it.'

You forget the expenses of an estate like
this. And  I have a son  an  an  expensive
son. And then these girls ; they, too, are
thrown upon my hands.'

So am I, ' says Sedley, with a burst of
vulgar mirth. ' Come, don't imagine you can
impose on me. I tell you,' raising his voice,
'I would think as little of going into that
room out there, and telling your nieces of that
first will, than '

Hush  hush ! ' says Dysart in a sharp
tone, wild with fear. He rises quickly,
noiselessly to his feet, and stands like a ghost
before Sedley, his arms uplifted.

Not another word, not a breath on that
subject here. Walls have ears. How dare

you even hint at it within the house ? Is there
no safer place, think you? Be silent, I tell
you, as you value your life ! '

It is rather melodramatic  a trifle stage ;
but the actor's get up redeems it from mediocrity.
The agony of apprehension expressed
by the expressive face ; the very pallor of that
face, round which the long, gray, venerable
hair is streaming as it escapes from beneath
the ghastly skull-cap that crowns the head ;
the marvellous power of those strange, brilliant
eyes ; the feebleness of the gaunt
emaciated frame  all impress Sedley in spite
of himself. Yet with a determination not
to be done, common to common natures, he
affects an indifference he is far from feeling.


Bravo ! Go it, old man ! You were
always a bit of a play-actor,' he says boisterously,
but with some uneasiness. ' Let us

speak in whispers, then, if it must be ; but, at
all events, let's come to the point.'

'Not even in whispers,' insists Dysart,
keen to see the effect he has produced, and
quick to take advantage of it. 'There are
other places. I do not say that I will
accede to your demand ; but  I would
talk it over. You know the old ruin at the
end of the far garden ? Meet me there
to-night, and I shall see if we can come to
terms.'

At night ! But why not here  now ?
Surely you can provide against listeners.'

I cannot,' impatiently. ' And  and besides,
I am expecting my son every moment.
It would not do for him to see you here.'

Hah ! You mean you would consult
with him. No doubt he is a chip of the old
block,' says Sedley, with a loud laugh. There
is no response to his mirth. Mr. Dysart

seems to stiffen as he stands, and there is a
murderous gleam in his eyes as he looks
fixedly at his companion that should have
warned the latter. To accuse Seaton. To
connect him of complicity in this most vile
affair !

You are wrong says the old man with
wonderful calmness. ' He knows nothing. It
is because I would keep it from him that I
desire your departure now and your presence
later on, where we can be sure of being
alone.'

But  at night  in that lonely spot,' says
Sedley, with a curious hesitation.

Tut, man ! What would you ? Are you
afraid of me ? Look well at this frail body,
and then ask yourself where fear lies. Why,'
with a cold laugh, ' if it so minded you, and
if it would not be killing the goose with the
golden eggs, you could squeeze the life out of

this impotent frame as easily as you could
compass the destruction of a fly.'

There's truth in what you say. I'd have
you bear it in mind,' says Sedley with a rather
savage laugh. ' Well, where is it we meet,
then ? In the old ruin ? A fit place ; it
heard many a secret of yours and mine when
the old man lay a-dying. Well, and at what
hour ? '

Ten. By that time all will be in bed
here, and no one awake or near to interruptus,'
says Mr. Dysart, in a dull, death-like
tone.

With a last word or two, he succeeds
in getting Sedley to the door, and there
summons Grunch, who in truth is marvellously
handy, being  luckily  just going
down the passage as the door is opened.

Grunch ! Will you see to Sedley ? He is
an old friend of yours, as of mine, I think,'

says Mr. Dysart in so genial a tone for him
that Grunch involuntarily glances at him.
'He is tired, and no doubt hungry. Make
him comfortable in every way.'

Yes, sir,' says Grunch respectfully. She
leads Sedley down the passage, and then, with
a muttered word to him that she should get
the keys of the cellar, runs back to Dysart,
who stands staring after them with an unfathomable
expression in his eyes.

'Your will  quick!' she says in a low
tone.

Keep him out of sight. Let no one see
him, or guess at his presence in this house,'
whispers Dysart fiercely ; after which he steps
back into his room and slams the door, and
locks it behind him in a frenzied fashion.

Will Grunch be able to manage it ? Will
she so keep him that Seaton will get no hint
of the fact that a stranger is within his

father's doors ? This is the one awful anxiety
that at first overrides all others. He seems
to understand, to think of nothing, to grasp
no other sense of coming trouble, save the
fear that ' Seaton may know.'

Money, position, home, all are about to
be struck from his hand ; yet only this one
thing dwells with him. Nay, he must know !
That devil will never be satisfied. He might,
indeed, give him the five thousand he has
stipulated for ; he might fling to him half his
fortune  but what then ? How would it
avail him ? He would still have the other
half for that harpy to descend upon. He
would come again and again : he had tasted
blood, and would cling until the last drop was
drawn, until the corpse, sucked pale and dry,
was fit for nothing but to be cast upon the
dungheap.

A feeling of impotency, of the dulness that

is the worst form of despair, has seized upon
him. Almost he experiences the sensation
of having a vampire at his throat, greedily-draining
the warm drops that mean life. And
even supposing he were thus to sacrifice himself,
to give up all that has hitherto made
existence endurable, all for which he has imperilled
his soul, how would he be the better
then? Even after death should Sedley outlive
him  even were he laid in the silent
grave, the secret would live and would cry-aloud
through that man's lips. It would be
his, and he would betray it to Seaton, to
secure himself more gold; and his  the
father's  memory would be for ever accursed
!

Should Sedley outlive him ? should

Ay, if so, nothing could prevent the telling of
that vile story to his son. But supposing he
should not? Every day, and oft, kindly

Death is busy in our midst, and sweeps away
this one and that ; generally the young, the
seemingly safe, the strong. Death !

What was it Grunch had said ? ' Kill
him ! ' So ! It was sound advice, but difficult
 difficult. And yet, if Sedley should
live to ruin him now, to blast his memory
hereafter, how would that be ?  Kindly
Death !

A tigerish gleam comes into the terribly
youthful eyes, and with a slow, strange,
crawling movement, the delicate sinewy hands
grasp the arms of his chair. Death ! How
seldom it took those it ought to take. The
old, the miserable, it left languishing in their
earthly prison, whilst the young, the happy,
were those whose names were written on the
roll of those appointed to die.

Surely justice was badly meted out in this

life, whatever the hereafter  if there was one
might show? Yes, death was slow about
carrying off those it ought to take. He
repeats this sentence to himself many times,
as if there is a fascination in it, drumming
always in that slow, curious fashion on the
arms of his chair.

For an hour he sits thus, with his head
thrust forward, lost in unholy thought. A
loud ringing at the hall-door bell startles him
into life again, and for a moment the terrible
drumming noise ceases. He still sits motionless,
as if listening ; and then a quick, light
step in the hall outside, coming ever nearer,
strikes on his ear. It is the footstep of his
son ! At once it decides whatever doubt had
been harassing him. With an almost youthful
alacrity he springs to his feet, and flings
out his arms as though desirous of trying

their strength ; then he. throws back his head ;
a low exultant cry breaks from him. An
infernal glow lights his withered face, and in
his eyes gleam the fire of a devilish resolve.

CHAPTEE X.

And my large kingdom for a little grave,
A little, little grave, an obscure grave.

It is ten o'clock, and night like a heavy
shroud lies over wood and garden. The hour
has struck ; the solemn tones falling slowly,
warningly, as it were, from the old clock in
the ivied tower. Those sounds have now died
away, and silence, the more intense for their
having been, reigns once more.

A virgin moon is trailing her glory overhead,
surrounded by a million stars ; a faint,
salt breath comes up from the slumbering
ocean, and from the night itself come forth
the many soft, sweet sounds that, dead to the
insensate ear, still make themselves felt.

VOL. III. K

Tom Peyton, treading with cautious steps
the upper part of the garden on this way to
the ruin, is filled vaguely with this knowledge
of Nature's inner workings. The very dew
uprising from the grass he treads, speaks to
him, soothing in part the troubled thoughts
that throng his brain. He had withheld
from Griselda all his fears, but a knowledge
of his world has told him that this expulsion
of her from her uncle's house without
a moment's warning will materially injure
her position in the eyes of a society
very critical to judge a beauty, poor but
honest.

Softly he makes his way to the old house,
to "set the letter he knows will await him
there. Poor darling, what will be in it ?
Farther vexations ? With a desire to avoid
all risks he elects to enter by the back, where
a large rent in the dilapidated walls will

enable him to squeeze through into the room
Adhere the letter will be.

He has, with considerable difficulty, and a
rather ainfiil abrasion of his shin, reached
the desired goal, and secured the bulky note
lying perdu in the spot indicated, when something
so strongly attracts his attention that he
even delays opening the note to hear what it
may be.

Voices decidedly ; and in the next room.
A room divided from him only by a wall of
abnormal thickness, and with an open space
where the door had been. There must have
been a pause in the conversation as he entered
his part of the building, or else he must have
heard them even then. But one thing at
once dawns upon him : the speaker at this
instant is Mr. Dysart.

As he stands motionless, scarcely knowing
what to do, afraid for Griselda's sake to retire

e:2

lest he shall draw attention on himself, the
voices suddenly rise. The second voice is
strange to him  coarse, vulgar, and dictatorial,
and very threatening. Who is it that
is here at this lonely hour, menacing that old
man . Forgetful of all injuries, he remembers
only the miserable decrepitude of Mr. Dysart,
and determines to stay awhile lest harm
befall him, and a rescue be needed.

The voices grow in wrath ; the unknown
one being loud in vituperation. The actual
words do not reach Peyton, nor is he
desirous of hearing them ; but the knowledge
that a quarrel, deep and bitter, is being
carried out to its bitter end in the next room
is clear to him.

And now, all suddenly as it were, the
voices cease ; there is a strained silence, as
if each man waits with drawn sword for the
other's next word ; and then  a sickening

sound ! A dull awful blow, as of oak meeting
flesh and blood, a ghastly groan, and then
silence.

Great Heaven ! What has happened ?
Has he killed that old man ? Peyton springs
forward, filled with a passion of regret that
he should have so long delayed to go to his
succour ; but even as he reaches the broken
doorway, and looks upon the inner room, he
stops short as if shot, to stare aghast upon
the scene before him.

Upon the earthen floor lies a huge figure,
prostrate, apparently dead, whilst standing
over it is Mr, Dysart, his face alight with a
ghastly hope, his wild eyes gleaming. A
fresh life seems to have entered into his frail
frame  perhaps the life he is just now benton
taking, and there is a horrible sense of
exultation in his whole bearing. A heavy
oaken stick is in his hands, those delicate.

white, sinewy hands ; and even as Peyton
looks at him, horror-stricken, glued to the
spot by the unexpected turn events have
taken, he sees as in a dream that the man
lying in that helpless fashion on the floor  
stirs.

It is the barest movement  a horrible
spasmodic beating of the hands upon the
earth beneath, a mere convulsion of the
muscles, as it seems to Peyton, who had read
death in the rigid outline of the stricken man.
But to Dysart apparently that movement
means a return to life, a return to him of
all those intolerable fears from which he has
determined to set himself free.

He goes quickly forward. Again the
murderous bludgeon is uplifted to complete
the crime already begun  to finish his work,
to make sure of the helpless victim lying at
his feet ; when Peyton, uttering a loud cry.

rushes from the spot where until now he lay
concealed.

There is an instant's hush, a strange hush,
and then a convulsive shiver runs through
the old man, the stick drops from his nerveless
grasp, striking the floor as it falls with a
loud clatter that draws an exclamation from
Peyton ; but Mr. Dysart seems deaf to it.
An ashen greyness has risen from chin to
brow. His eyes  those wild, unearthly eyes
seem to be starting from their sockets. A
shocking sound  a sound that might come
from one suffocating and fighting madly for
breath  issues from his parched lips. He
flings up his arms for a second or two,
clutches foolishly at the air, and then all at
once he collapses, and falls with a dull thud
across the body of his enemy.

Peyton, with a nervous shrinking that
amounts to sickness, goes hurriedly up to the

old man, and turns him on his back. Even
in the dim uncertain light of the moon that
streams through the spaces where windows
once had been, he realises that it is death
itself he is supporting in his arms.

Laying him reverently backwards on the
floor, he steps with a shudder over the
bludgeon, smeared with hair and blood, that
had dropped but awhile since from the now
harmless hand, and touching Sedley, gently,
very, gently, rolls over the insensible form
until the face lies uppermost.

A faint but stertorous breathing assures
him that here at least life still lingers. Afraid
to lay him quite flat upon the ground lest the
breathing, already so laboured, should cease
altogether whilst he is away, he tears ofl* his
own coat, and, rolling it into the semblance
of a rough pillow, places it beneath the
stranger's neck, leaving the head, from which

the blood is still dripping, free, lest the coarse
touch of the cloth should hurt the gaping
wound.

To tie up this wound with his handkerchief
as well as he is able, and then to quit
the ill-omened ruin, is a work that takes him
some time ; but once outside it, with the cool
night wind playing on his temples once again,
and the calm sweet beams of the sacred Isis
lighting his path, energy grows within him,
and, with a speed which astonishes even
himself, he runs through the garden, never
pausing or drawing breath until the house is
reached.

On his way he has had time to mature his
plans, and has made for Seaton's bedroom,
which, being on a line with his sitting-rooms,
is on the ground floor. Knocking impatiently
with his knuckles and receiving no answer, he
so far gives way to the agitation that is

consuming him as to smash a pane with a
stone. This brings Seaton to the window ina
minute or two, partially dressed.

It is I, Dysart  Tom Peyton. Come outcome
out quickly ! Your father,' panting, ' is
hurt  is very ill ! '

My father ! ' says Seaton, as if not believing.
' But where  how ? '

In the garden  up there in the old ruin.
Oh, hurry, man, hurry ; you can hear all
afterwards ! '

My father ! ' says Seaton again, as if
stunned. And then, suddenly, he leans more
into the moonlight and casts a terrible glance
at Peyton. ' You ? ' he says, ' was it you ? '

Good Heavens, no ! There is some one
else. Some one unknown to me, but you may
know. He'  he is hardly aware of the emphasis
he lays on the pronoun  'has not been
murdered  it was the visitation of God. I

was there,' with a choking effort at composure,
'I saw alL I might explain, but,'
with growing impatience, 'there is no second
for delay. Get into your clothes, and I'll tell
you what I can whilst you dress.'

He scrambles in through the window, and,
as Seaton dresses himself, gives out in jerky
sentences all he has to tell  all of the terrible
scene of which he was eye-witness. It is so
wild, so unaccountable a tale that Seaton
hardly dares to venture a remark ; but, having
with trembling fingers clothed himself, follows
Peyton out through the window in the chill
night air, and soon the two young men are
tearing like hunted things through the gardens
to that fatal old ruin at the end of them.

Here everything is just as Peyton left it.
The old man lying dead, with a more peaceful
expression on his face than had ever been
there whilst he lived  at least, in the recollection

of the two now bending over him ; the
other, the stranger, almost as motionless as
his enemy, save for a faint quiver of the hips
and nostrils every now and then. Who was
he ? What had brought him here ? Peyton
turns to Seaton with these questions on his
lips. It is imperative that something about
the stranger be discovered  and at once.

Seaton is still holding his father's body in
his arms, inexpressible grief upon his countenance.
The old man had been stern, hard,
begrudging, but he had loved his son well
and the son knew it. Peyton touches him
lightly on the shoulder,

'House yourself!' he says in a low, earnest
tone.

My poor father ! He is dead ! ' says
Seaton, with terrible agitation,

I thought so. I knew it. You know I
told you to anticipate the worst,' says Peyton,

scarcely less unnerved. But'  nervously  
this man lives ! ' pointing to Sedley.

Dysart shudders.

True, true ! ' he says. He lays his father's
lifeless body tenderly back upon the earth,
and rises slowly to his feet. His face is pale,
the expression vacant. ' Great Heaven ! what
is the meaning of it all ? ' he says, like one
dazed

You know this man ? ' asks Peyton
anxiously.

No  not at all. I never saw him
before.'

What I you can tell me nothing ! Oh,
think, Dysart ! ' says Peyton, with increasing
anxiety. ' If you know nothing, we shall
scarcely be able to see how to act. Exert
your memory, man.'

'It is useless. I swear I never saw him
before.' He compels himself to look again at

Sedley, and a shiver of disgust shakes him.
I know only this  that he has killed my
father.'

You forget,' says Peyton very quietly.
He would have been thankful, glad, to be able
to leave his friend in this belief, but he knev/
it would be impossible. ' I saw the whole
thing. There was a quarrel, about what I
did not hear, but it was your father who
knocked that fellow down.'

Well, it killed him,' says Seaton excitedly.
The excitement of that quarrel was too much
for him. I still maintain that that man caused
his death.' He covers his face with his hands.

Nevertheless, we cannot leave him here to
die. Come, Seaton, take your courage in your
hands. Think if there be no way to avoid the
scandal that must necessarily arise out of all
this. For  for the sake of your poor father's
memory, bestir yourself.'

It is a potent argument. Seaton flushes
hotly, and the old touch of power returns to
his face.

Could we not get your father to his room
to his bed ? ' says Peyton hurriedly. ' There
are no marks of violence about him. He  he
might have died in his sleep. Forgive me,
dear fellow ! it is horrible having to discuss
these shocking measures with you, but, believe
me, it is as your friend I speak.'

I know it,' says Seaton shortly.

Is there no one in the house you can
trust ? ' He himself has thought of Griselda,
but has shrunk decisively from subjecting his
darling girl to such an ordeal.

There is Grunch. She is, I think, faithful.
She would help us with my poor father ;
and  and as for this fellow, she could see
to his wounds, she is skilled in medicine  
she '

The words die on his hips. As though they
had invoked her Grunch stands before them,
silent, gaunt, in the open doorway, gazing intently
on the awful scene.

He took my advice then  he killed him,'
says she hoarsely. She looks, strangely
enough, at Peyton, not at Seaton.

You can see,' says Peyton slowly.

'Twas a good job,' says she, nodding her
head. ' I told him. But  but  what ails
the master then ? '

He is dead ! ' says Peyton solemnly.

Eh ? You lie ! ' says she ferociously.
Joy never yet slew anyone. Stand back, and
let me look at him. Ah ! so ! Why  why ! '
She stands up again suddenly, and brings her
hands together with a loud clap. ' An' was
this your courage, Dysart, to give in, when
fortune laughed ? A poor heart  a cowardly
ending.' As if another thought has struck

lier, she looks round sharply at Peyton,
'How was it? ' she asks. ' Did yon man kill
him ? '

No. It Alas the visitation of God,' says
Peyton again in a low tone.

At this moment a fait groan breaks from
Sedley's lips, and with a wild scream the
woman starts backwards.

He lives ! ' she shrieks, ' that devil ; and
the master dead ! Why don't you finish the
famous work that he ' (pointing to Dysart's
corpse) ' began ? Stand aside, and let me show
you how to stifle the breath in a serpent, such
as '

Be quiet, woman,' says Peyton vehemently
; ' and if you have any regard for
sour master's memory, thank God upon your
knees that he did not die a murderer.'

He forces her backwards.

See here,' he goes on presently, when her

VOL. III. L

fury has somewhat abated. ' For the honour
of the house you have served so long, I would
ask you to help us to bring this man back to
life ; and more  to conceal all knowledge of
what lias passed to-night. Mr. Dysart,' indicating
Seaton, who is looking sick and stunned,
tells me you have a singular acquaintance
with medicine, and even surgical matters. If
you can patch up this fellow without the aid
of a doctor I see no reason why your master's
share in this night's work be not concealed forever.
You are to be trusted ? '

Ay, in his cause,' with a nod towards the
stiffening corpse of the man who for so longtime
she had served so faithfully for meagre
thanks and grudging wage.

Together they carry the two bodies into
the house, under cover of the silent night.
Mr. Dysart to his own room ; and then up the
stairs, and through the endless corridors, that

other groaning, scarcely living burden ; up
always until a disused chamber in a remote
corner of the old tower is reached, where it is
beyond probability that anyone in the house,
save these three who know, will ever seek to
penetrate.

CHAPTER XI.

A fellow of no mark nor likelihood.
Mark now, how a plain tale shall put you down.

Of that night's fatal work the countryside
remains in complete ignorance. Of Mr.
Dysart's sudden death it hears the following
morning with a feeling of strong curiosity,
but with none of regret. The funeral that
takes place on the third day is small, certainly
; yet, considering all things  the deadman's
open hostility to his neighbours, and
the dearth of hospitality that characterised
his sojourn amongst them  larger than might
have been expected, and at all events select.
Amongst others Lord Eiversdale attended 
out of compliment, it was supposed, to Seaton,

as he and the old man had never so much as
seen each other's features.

But it was found impossible to conceal the
existence of Sedley from the two girls. Peyton
had undertaken to give them a rather careful
account of what had happened ; and in truth,
when all was told, he was almost as much
at sea about it as they were, as the stranger
remained a stranger to him. No one could
account for his presence in the old ruin ; no
one, apparently, had ever heard of him before,
save Gruncli.

That gaunt person had been appealed
to, threatened, cajoled, all to no effect. The
morning after the accident she had incidentally
let out that his name was Sedley, and Peyton
had at once pounced upon her.

You knew him,' he said. ' Why did you
not say so before ? Go on now, at all events ;
it is most necessary we should get a clue

to this mystery. What do you know of
him ? '

Nothing good

I dare say. If you had said something
bad it would perhaps have been nearer the
truth.'

I didn't say it, however.'

At least try to understand that any
assistance you can give Mr. Dysart now" will
help him to clear the memory of his father.'

Grunch lifted her head there, and gave
him a queer look.

Clear him from what ? ' she said.

The suspicion of having at least meant to
murder this man.'

Oh ! ' said she. ' Why seek to clear him
of that's It would have been a deed well
done. The only pity in it is that, though he
tried, he failed.'

We wil not go into that,' said Peyton,

who was openly disgusted. ' The question
really is, what do you know of this Sedley ? '

Nothing good,' repeated she doggedly.
And though they tried her in a hundred ways
they got no more out of her than that.

Meantime that hint, that Sedley's redemption
from death would remove a stigma from
the name of the old master now lying in
the family vault, had done more perhaps for
Sedley's recovery than anything else could.
She attended him night and day with as close
a devotion as though he had been the one
thiner dear to her on earth.

And presently the mists of death rolled by
him, and he emerged from the fatal cloud,
weak indeed, but with his senses once more
restored, and the eager throbbing of returning
life beating in every vein.

With, too, a wild longing for revenge : a
savage determination to repay the man who

had treacherously smitten him to the gToimd,
a hundredfold for that one deed. He cast
aside the thought of the paltry sum for which
he had stipulated as the price of this silence.
Give, it had been ; well, it should be ten
thousand now : five for that old story, and
five for this last new act, that would have
placed him in that outer darkness from whence
no man returns to establish any claim or tell
the most damnatory tale.

It is as yet early in the day. The fire is
burning cheerily and the cold December sunshine
is streaming languidly in through his
window, as all these thoughts chase each
other through his too active brain. He has
not as yet arisen from his sick bed, but it is
more lassitude and want of desire that chains
him to it than actual incapacity to bestir
himself.

As the door opens he turns languidly

towards it, hardly caring to see Gruucli's ill-favoured
face approaching liii with the usual
bowl of broth, against which he is nourishing
an inclination to rebel ; but catching sight of
Seaton, the look of languor disappears, and
he springs up in his bed as if possessed with
a sudden strength. His sunken eyes glare,
his lean cheeks flame to an angry crimson.

'You have come at last,' he says, clenching

his hand, and feebly shaking it ; ' you

But where is he ? Tell him he need not hope
to escape me. I will have revenge  revenge
such as he never dreams of. He shall come
to my terms now, or I'll drag him through
every court in the land. Ha ! swindler,
murderer, I'll be even with you yet ! Tell him
from me, that my only regret is that I can't
see him hanged, but justice at least I'll have.'

Justice ? ' echoed the younger man with a
shudder. In an instant that scene in the ruin

is again before him ; lie remembers the
awful suddenness of his father's death, his
instant appearance before the Judge of all,
without one moment given for repentance,
with his murderous wrath still hot within his
breast, his hand still uplifted to slay !

Ay, justice ! ' cries the sick man with
increasing vehemence. ' I have him now in
the hollow of my hand, and I'll squeeze him
tell him that ; that will fetch him  till nota
[coin remains ; I'll stick to him for that
night's work, until he's dry, as he would have
made me. Go  you're his son, aren't you ? '
peering viciously at Seaton, ' and repeat
what I say, word for word. Tell him it shall
be ten thousand now, and the rest later on.
Ha, ha I That will touch those delicate
nerves of his ! And see here ; I'll want him
to come to me. I'll have no go-between. I'll
see him face to face. Go, tell him that 

fetch him, I say, or 'twill be worse for you,
and for every one that is kith or kin to him.'

He is dead ! ' says Seaton slowly. He
presses his hand to his forehead. Great
Heaven ! what is the meaning of this man's
strange words ? How was his father in his
power ?

What ! ' shrieks Sedley, leaning forward
in the bed, and grasping the bed-clothes in
one hand, in his agitation, whilst his face
gradually assumes the expression of a beast
robbed of its prey. ' Come, none of your

d lies ! Does he think to get out of it

that way ? Then so much the worse for you,
say I. Come, come, stow all that rot, and
tell him Richard Sedley was never a fool at
any time of his life.'

You must believe it,' says Seaton, still
in that cold, slow tone. ' The whole country
can testify to the truth of it. That night ' 

drawing his breath sharply  ' his heart must
have failed him, because when we found you
still living, we found, too, my father's corpse
lying across your body.'

Sold ! ' says Mr, Sedley, with a blasphemous
word or two. ' Sold, by gum ! '
He cast a diabolical glance at Seaton. -A
good thing for you, you think, eh ? Did he
never tell you of that bit of writing of his I
still hold ? '

I don't understand you,' says Dysart,
with a look of icy disgust. 'Perhaps, however,
it is necessary that I should. What I
wish to know, then, is the cause of the
quarrel that there evidently was between you
and my father ? '

Sweet innocent ! ' says Sedley, with
an insolent sneer. Dysart takes no notice
of it.

If,' he says, rather unsteadily now, ' if hein

any way wronged yon, it shall be my part
to make np to you that wrong.'

There is an unmistakable air of sincerity
in his manner, and Sedley, as if bewildered
by some new and conflicting thought, stares
vacantly at him. Eising in his bed, he
leans heavily upon his elbow, so settling himself
that he can set a better view of the
young man.

Don't you know ? ' asks he, at length.

I know nothing.' Something; in the
man's look of utter astonishment has struck
some chord within him, and a slow, dark
colour mounts to his forehead. Ko vaguest
suspicion of the real truth presents itself to
his mind, and yet he shrinks inwardly as if
from some descending blow.

By jingo ! ' says Mr. Sedley concisely and
elegantly, dropping back upon his pillow.
Then a moment later, ' Here, get me out of

bed,' says he. ' I bet I'll brighten your
blinkers for you, if you just get me down to
the old man's private den.'

Do you think you will be able for it ? '
asks Dysart, coldly alluding to his intended
exertion. All the time he speaks, that terrible
sense of foreboding is pressing heavily
upon him.

Tut ! a crack on the nob is no such great
matter to a man like me, whose life has been
so often in his hands, whose paths have been
in such strange places. Get me downstairs, I
say, to the room where the old bureau stands,
and I'll let you into a secret that will tickle
your palate a bit.'

CHAPTER XII.

But in the way of Large-ain, mark ye me, ]
I'll cavil on the ninth part of a hair.

All tlirouoh the rather difficult task of being;
dressed  Dysart undertaking to help him
because of a strange repugnance to let the
man out of his sight until the threatened revelation
be made  Sedley's mind was clear and
strong upon the situation as it now presents
itself. The fresh turn events have taken, the
novelty of having to explain the dead past
tragedy to the one now most interested in it,
all serve to whet the keenness of his wit.
Thoughts surge within him, and slowly
arrange themselves.

The old man is lying in his grave, the
burning eyes, the restless hands, as calm as

thoucfli the fever of livings lead never been
theirs.

Dear beauteous death, the jewel of the just,

had seized him. Alas, for him no gem-ike
sparks shot forth ! All was gloom transcendent.
He was sunk in the chill horrors of
the tomb, lost sight of, gone beyond all men's
reach, whither no man could follow. And he,
Sedley, was left to pursue to the end the
cruel mission that was his  to drag down
his quarry like a sleuth-hound, no matter
whether the beast be noble, or the meanest
of earth's creatures. He would gain this own
ends, whatever came of it, however those
ends be reached ; on that he was determined,
nothing should turn him aside.

He knew now that his legitimate prey
had escaped him, but that hardly troubled
him. Fresh blood gave a zest to the chase.
The young man, if he knew, as after all,

perhaps he did, would be compelled for his
own sake to deal with him as liber ally, nay,
more liberally than the old one, as life, and
the sweets that life holds out, must necessarily
be of greater importance to him.

And even if he did not know, well, Sedley
could enlighten him. It was a good move
in spite of all things that his sickness should
have given the youngster time to taste the
pleasures of power, of money unlimited.
During all these days of his  Sedley's 
illness and convalescence, the younger
Dysart had had time to grow accustomed
to the thought that he was master over
these immense estates, over the unbounded
wealth stored away in bonds here, and scrips
there, and investments of all kinds.

He would be now the keener to retain
this new-found power, the less willing to
resign a fraction of it, the readier to treat

VOL. III. M

with anyone who could rise up to destroy
his hold upon it.

All the way downstairs, walking feebly
as one long invalided, and gently, most carefully
supported by Dysart, these thoughts
possess him. The young man's kindly
manners and tender protective touches do
not move him one inch from his resolve.

He had seemed very much weakened
during all this troublesome descent of a vast
staircase, a fact that smote Dysart with a
terrible remorse  for was it not his father's
hand that had brought him thus low?  but
now, as the man catches sight of the old-fashioned
bureau, a light springs into his
eyes, a fresh life into his limbs.

Loosing himself from Dysart's kindly
support, he makes his way unsupported to
the side of it, and by a subtle touch unlocks
the secret spring. The door falls back, the

hidden shelves and their contents lie all
unconcealed. Seizing upon a fast yellowing
parchment, Sedley draws it out, and overcome
by fatigue and excitement drops upon
his knees. Eagerly he opens and scans it,
and then holds it out to Dysart.

'Compare that,' says he, in a high tone
of triumph, ' with the will of your grandfather,
that left all to Gregory Dysart, cutting
out the elder son. Compare it, I say, and
you weill see that this was executed three
years later than that other  that other which
is now in force, and has been these twenty
years ! '

Mechanically Dysart takes it. No word
escapes him. Speech, indeed, is impossible
to him, so busy is his mind trying to take in
all the miserable dishonour of the story that
as yet has but the bald outlines laid before
him.

M 2

No one knew of it but me,' says Sedley
feverishly, yet with an imclercurrent of
delicious excitement in the recital. ' But
me, and Grunch. What she made out of it
no one can tell, as the old chap's gone, but
she's as knowing a file in my opinion as you'd
meet in a day's walk. You can see our two
signatures. Eh, can't you read 'em ? We
witnessed it. We alone knew, and he bought
us over. Well, 'twas worth a quid or two ;
'tis a fine old place.'

Oh, my God ! ' says Dysart. There is
nothing irreverent in the words. It is buta
wild uplifting of his soul to the helper of
all men  the only one from whom we may
hope for succour when despair settles down
upon us.

I got my hush-money and went abroad.
At first everything prospered with me, but
lately luck failed ; and when the worst came

to the worst, I bethought myself of the old
man and his secret  mine too,' chuckling,
and back I steered to see how the land lay
here, and what I could squeeze out of him 
your father, you know.'

Dysart makes no answer. He has supported
himself against a table near him, and
is gazing blankly, hopelessly, through the
window at the dull landscape outside. He
sees nothing, heeds nothing, save the voice
of the man who is speaking.

'Twas felony, mind you, besides the fact
of having to give up the money, and property,
and all ; so I knew I could turn on
the screw as tight as I liked. But,' he
laughs, ' you see, I counted without my host.
I never dreamed the old man would show
fight like  like this.' He points to his head,
which is still bandaged. ' He took it hardly,
my return  guess he believed me dead, and

resented the breath in me  and I shouldn't
wonder if, after all these years, he had got to
believe the place, money and everything, was
legally his own. At all events, he was determined
to stick to it, by fair means or foul, as
you may see, even if the foul means led him
to  murder ! '

Still Dysart says nothing. He has indeed
withdrawn his dull eyes from the scene without,
where rain and drifting showers have
taken the place of the chill sunshine that
awhile since shone, and is now staring, with
unseeing eyes, at the parchment that tells
him how the property was never his father's,
but was left to his uncle, and how his father
suppressed the will, and kept the property in
spite of law and honour, and all things that
go to give a sweet savour to man's life on
earth. It had never been his father's. All
his, Seaton's, life long, until he was old

enough to emancipate himself, lie had eaten
of stolen food. If not all his life, at least for
many years. Oh, the bitterness of those
years now ! Yes, it had never been his
father's, all this huge property, it never
would be his ! And if not, whose ? Yera ?
He starts as if shot !

Suddenly, as though brought back to a
sharper consciousness as this thought comes to
him, he lifts his head and looks straight at his
tormentor.

Is that all ? ' he asks.

'Well, no. Not quite Your face says
very politely that you'd be glad to see my
back, but business first, pleasure afterwards.'
He grins. ' It is as good for us to come to
terms now, as later.'

Terms ? ' repeats Dysart, gazing at him
darkly.

'Ay, why not? D'ye think you'll get

out of it scot-free? I tell you, you are in
the same hole as he was, so far as keeping
the property goes. I've got my grip on
you, too, and, by George, you needn't
think you'll get from under it. Come,
you're no chicken ; you know what business
means as well as I do. Say, now,
what will you give me to hold my tongue
about  that?' jerking his thumb at the
will.

Dysart stares at him as if scarcely comprehending.


'Want time to think it over, like your
respected parent ? ' with a sneer. ' JSTot forme,
my lad. None o' your tricks, say I. I've
had enough of that with the old chap. Don't
try it on ; I'm wide-awake this time, and no
mistake. We'll settle now, or never. You
see you're in my power, my fie fellow, and
I'm not the one to '

Sir, I am in no man's power,' says Dysart
calmly. ' I trust in God T never shall be.
This will,' striking it with his hand, ' through
which my uncle and his daughters have been
been fraudulently '  he says the word with
difficulty  ' kept out of their property for so
many years, shall be at once restored to its
proper owner.'

A yellow tint overspreads Sedley's face.
As if entirely overcome he sinks upon a
chair.

You'll surrender ? ' he says with a gasp.
Give in ? Chuck it up ? Well, you're a
poor devil ! 'Tis enough to make the old man
turn in his grave. Ah '  a swift gleam lights
his face, and a look of diabolical cunning lights
his eyes  ' so that's your little game, is it ?
You'll marry the girl, secure the property,

and do the virtuous besides? Then I'm d

if you do, without a word from me thrown

in ! I'll blow on you ; lie shall know whom
she is marrying, and why he is in such a
mighty hurry. I'll '

Be silent ! ' says Dysart, in a low but
terrible tone, that for a moment cows the
brute before him. ' I shall never marry my
cousin ! '

A lie is an easy thing,' says Sedley, with
a coarse laugh, trying to work off the discomfiture
he is feeling beneath, those contemptuous
eyes. ' But there is one thing
more that perhaps you have overlooked. To
so extremely respectable a young gent as
you, I fancy it will be awkward to have your
father's memory dragged here and therethrough
the mud. Scandal's an ugly thing.
How will you like to hear this precious story
of how he fraudulently  your own word, eh ?
kept out the rightful heir, and himself enjoyed
the heritage. A " dainty dish to lay

before the king," eli ? What will you pay
me to keep silence, there ? It will damn you
in society, let me tell you. Come, what will
you give ? '

'Nothing,' steadily, 'I will offer you no
bribe, were it to save me from the gallows. I
will hold no dealings with you.'

And your father's memory ? ' asks Sedley,
whose eyes are now glaring with malice,
and a suspicion of growing disappointment.
How will you like to hear him branded as a
common swindler, whom death alone saved
from the law's grip ? '

Dysart blanches. Involuntarily he puts
out his hand and seizes the chair next him,
and clings to it as if for support. No, no, that
he could not endure !

Ha, ha ! I thought I'd have you on the
hip. I touched you there, eh ? ' He laughs
boisterously, fiendishly. ' Come, come to

terms. Down with the rhino ! The sum, eh ?
Name it.'

I will give you 500/. the day I see you
on board a steamer sailing for Australia,' says
Dysart, with dry lips, and a heart that seems
dead within him. ' I am now comparatively
speaking a poor man,' his words coming from
him slowly, mechanically, in a dull expressionless
way. ' I can offer you no more.'

Sedley reflects.

Double it,' he says at length, ' and I'll
leave the country tomorrow. To confess the
truth, I am sick of it.'

'I haven't it at this moment, but I dare say
I shall be able to manage it,' says Dysart in
the same worn-out, indifferent manner. ' In
the meantime, while I try to get it, I shall
require of you that you stay within this
house and hold speech with no one, save
Grunch.'

'All right, I can look out for myself.
Don't try any more foul play with me, as
you value your life,' says Sedley, walking to
the door with a sort of swagger.

You have been in my power for a longtime,'
says Dysart slowly.

Ay, when you were ignorant that yon
were in mine ! '

True,' says Dysart. ' And yet you must
trust me still.'

Well, I guess I'll chance it,' says Sedley
after a long glance at the young man's pale
earnest face.

CHAPTER Xm.

I hold the world but as the world, Gratian ;
A stage, where every man must play a part,
And mme a sad one.

With the fatal will clasped in his hand,
Dysart goes straight to the small morning-room,
where he knows he will be sure to
find Yera. Twilight is beginning? to fall, and
already the swift herald of night is proclaiming
the approach of his king. The air is chill
with an intense cold, and though fires are
burning everywhere, in halls, and corridors,
and antechambers, the penetrating sting of
frost makes itself felt. Already the old house,
under the new regime has taken a wonderful
turn for the better ; life once more seeuis to
rush through its ancient veins, and it stirs,

and breathes, and rustles, as if making
vigorous efforts to flinch off the coils of death
and sordid disorder, under which for so long
it lias lain bound.

A smart lire is burning in the morning-room
; blazing pine-logs are flinging forth
brilliant flames, white as the moon's rays,
and keen as the diamond's. So bright are
they, that Vera, nestling in a low chair and
bending forward, is reading, by their aid, the
thick volume she holds in her hand.

She starts slightly as he comes in, and lays
the book upon the table near her.

I am sorry to disturb you,' says Dysart,
with an effort at calmness, but, it was so

necessary that I should come, that '

I am glad you have come ; I, too, was
anxious to see you,' says Vera, a touch of
nervousness in her tone. ' I  you must know
it is impossible that we should stay here any

longer. Our uncle, who was our guardian,
is gone and '  she has risen to her feet and is
looking[ at him in sore distress  ' I have
wanted to speak to you about it for a longtime
; I thought, perhaps, you would help
us to find another home.' He can see that
she suffers terribly in having to throw herself
upon his good nature, to openly demand his
assistance. ' We must leave this and at once,'
says she, stammering a little, and with a slight
miserable break in her voice.

You will not have to look for another
home,' says he ; ' this is your own house.'

Oh, no ! ' drawing back with a haughty
gesture ; ' I have told you it is impossible. I
shall certainly not stay here.'

As you will,' quite as haughtily. ' It
will be in your power for the future to reside
exactly where you please, but if the fear of
seeing me here is deciding you against this

place, pray be satisfied on that point ; I have
no longer the smallest claim to consider myself
master here.'

Warned by a change in his manner Vera
looks at him.

Something has happened ? ' she says
abruptly

Yes ; something I find it difficult to explain
to you.'

Griselda ! ' exclaims she sharply, her
thoughts running first in a stupid, unreasoning
fashion to the sister so dearly loved. If
harm should have come to her. She gives
herself no time to remember that his agitation
had to do with her quitting the house, not
with a possible accident.

It is not that ; it is nothing of that sort,'
with some impatience. ' It is not,' bitterly,
decent grief to which I allude, it is disgrace
for me, not you  so do not have any fear.'

VOL. III. N

'Disgrace? For you? Ob, impossible T
The last ardent declaration lias been given ina
whisper. She has grown deadly pale.

For me, indeed ! ' K he speaks, he
flings upon the table with a heavy sigh-heavy
as though his soul has been dragged
from his body with it  the fatal document
that proclaims his father's dishonour. ' Head
that ! ' he says vehemently, and turning aside,
heartbroken, he walks over to one of the
distant windows, and stands there with his
back turned to the room.

But what is it ? ' asks she, womanlike
shrinking from the document that smells so
distinctly of law.

Our grandfather's will. It will explain
everything to you better than I can ; and
yet '  his hips seem to grow suddenly dry,
and it is by a violent effort alone he produces
the next words  ' this much must be said  >

my father I' new of its existence. For twenty
years, ever since its execution, lie knew of it !
He purposely suppressed it ! He wilfully defrauded
your father, you, your sister, of your
rights for twenty years ! '

He has compelled himself to turn his face
to hers when mains this damning confession,
and his face is as that of a corpse.

But wdiat rights ? ' asks she, puzzled,
bewildered.

'Haven't I explained sufficiently? Do
you compel me,' roughly, ' to go deeper into
it ? ' Then he controls himself, and goes on
in a lower tone, through which, however, the
anguish he is suffering is distinctly heard. ' I
suppose I have not made myself clear. You
will excuse me; you will see that it is hard
for me.' He is plainly laying a great pressure
on himself. 'I hardly know myself what I
am saying, but I entreat you to try and follow

n2

me, to try and grasp it. Our grandfather, it
appears, left a later will than that now inforce,
a will by which this property, and all
of which he died possessed, with a small exception,
went to your father  and  my father
deliberately suppressed and hid that will  my
father ! '

There is a little sharp sound in the semi-darkness,
as though he had brought his teeth
together in a strong effort to suppress the
shame that is overpowering him. It becomes
clear to Vera, the horror of despair that
must be his, and her heart dies within
her.

But this is horrible ! ' she says faintly ;
she lays her hand upon the table, as if to
steady herself.

That is only what I expected you would
say,' returns he coldly, failing to read her
real meaning, ' but I would entreat you to

remember that he is dead ! ' There is a
world of reproachful grief in his tone.

You misjudge me. I was not thinking of
him  poor Uncle Gregory ! ' says she, tears
rising to her eyes. ' Oh, how could you

believe it ? What I mean, is that you

Am I to understand, then, that this place is no
longer yours ? '

'You are to understand a little more 
that it is yours.'

I won't have it ! ' cries Vera sharply.
She throws out her hands as though in renunciation.
' Why should I deprive you of
your home ? Give me enough to live on
elsewhere with Griselda, but '

You are quick to fall into error,' says he
grimly. ' I have begged you already to try
to grasp the situation. It is I, it appears, I
who ' he hesitates, and after finding it impossible
to speak of his father, goes on, ' who

have deprived you of your home. You must
see that. I beg slowly, ' that you will not
permit yourself any further foolish discussion
on this subject.'

So strong a despair savours all his words,
that she finds it impossible to take umbrage
at them.

Have you considered,' says she, after a
while, ' that your surrender of this place tome
will necessarily give rise to comment ?
People will want to know why you are no
longer master here. There will be surmise,
question, scandal.'

'I have thought of all that; I have
thought, too, that T shall not stay here to
face the dishonour of it. I confess, poor as
it may sound to you, that I have not the
courage for that. I shall throw up my position
at the Bar and go abroad, for ever. And
I will ask you to grant me a few days' grace,

to conceal all knowledge of this matter
pointing to the will, 'until I have seen this
fellow Sedley safely out of the country. You
will understand,' brokenly, ' that  that I
would naturally shrink from hearing him
discuss my father's '

Oh, don't  don't say it ! ' cries she passionately.
' You must indeed hold me in low
esteem when you think it necessary to ask
me to grant such a request as that.'

You do grant it, then ? Thank you,' says
he wearily.

But why need it ever be known ? ' asks
Vera quickly. ' Once that man is gone, who
is to betray the truth ? Why should we not
come to some arrangement, you and I, arid
give the world a story that will satisfy it?
See now,' drawing nearer to him, ' why will you
not let this unhappy affair remain a secret
between  between,' nervously, ' you and me ? '

You forget,' coldly, ' others are interested
in it who must be told. Griselda, under this
new  this,' correcting himself with a touch
of bitterness, ' old will, inherits a large fortune.
She and Peyton will have to hear
the truth. There is one thing,' says he,
drawing his breath hard, 'that, if he did
defraud you, he at least did not squander
your money. I have been looking through
his papers, and the money accumulated
during his lifetime, saved off this property,
amounts to an enormous sum. I thank God
at least for that small comfort.'

He remains silent for a little while, drumming
idly with his fingers on the back of a
chair. Vera, too miserable to know what to
say, too shocked for tears, stands mutely
watching him.

There is something else I may as well
say now and be done with it,' he goes on

presently ; ' there is one slight reparation I
can make you. My grandfather, I see, by
tliat' pointing to the will, 'leaves me an
estate in Suffolk, a not inconsiderable one I
believe, that I give up to you ; and, one thing
more,' staying her as she would have vehemently
broken in upon his words, ' I wish to
tell you that  it will sound trivial, I know,
but yet I have a great desire to say it  that
for the past six years I have lived entirely
independent of any assistance from my father.
I took no allowance from him. I had private
means inherited from my mother, and I was,
fortunately, not unsuccessful at the Bar.' He
is speaking moodily, yet eagerly, and with
downcast eyes.

I understand ; I can see why you speak
to me like that,' in a suffocating tone. ' You
would owe me nothing, would accept nothing
at my hands.'

Nothing ! ' he turns upon her with sudden
passion. ' Do you think I have forgotten
everything, all that has passed between us?
How I pursued you with my love, how I
madly deemed it possible that love might
in time win a return ? I  /  the son of
a '

The terrible word refuses to pass his lips ;
with a groan he lets his arms fall forward upon
the mantel-piece and buries his face on them.
Vera, moved by an uncontrollable impulse,
goes to him, and lays her hand lightly on his
shoulder. She would have spoken, but, as
if thrilled to hatred by the pressure of her
fingers, he rouses himself and flings off,
with a gesture of horror  the little kindly
hand.

Do not touch me ! ' he says hoarsely.
Do you think I could stand your pity ? I
tell you it would drive me mad. Is not this

disgrace enough, that you should seek to add
to my suffering ? '

There is such fierce answer in the o-lance
he fixes on her, that instinctively she lovers
her hand and shrinks away from him.

CHAPTER Xii.

How tired we feel, my heart and I !
We seem of no use in the world,
Our fancies hang grey and uncurled

About men's eyes indifferently.

Perhaps this little expression of fear does
more to restore him to his proper mood than
anything she could have devised.

Of course, I shouldn't have spoken to
you like that,' he says hastily, cut to the
heart by the frightened, shy look she casts at
him. ' There is no excuse for me, I know,
yet I would ask your pardon. I scarcely
know what I said. And I am afraid,' reluctantly,
' that you will have to see a good
deal of me just for awhile until things are

finally arranged. I shall be obliged to be
down here very often during the next six
months, there are so many things that must
be seen to. The transfer of that Suffolk
property amongst others.'

I have nothing to hear on that subject,'
says she with a frown. ' Do not for a moment
imagine that I can have anything to do with
it. You accused me awhile since of speaking
foolishly ; do not let me have to accuse you
in like manner.'

You can accept it or not, as you will,'
indifferently, ' but be assured that not one
penny of the accursed property will I ever
touch, not if it were to save me from starvation.
Not that I shall starve,' with a dull
smile. ' I have sufficient private means to
prevent that, and I dare say I may be able to
practice abroad. To the point, however ;
I hope you will not object to my coming

here, now and again, until matters have
finally arranged themselves.'

I suppose it is useless for me to tell you
that you hurt me very much,' says Vera, with
a swift indignant glance. ' Why should you
not come or go as you will in this house?
Besides,' nervously, ' I should like to go away
for awhile, with Griselda  for a month or
two, somewhere where I might learn to forget
my late unhappy life.'

'Yes, you were unhappy here,' says he,
gazing at her. ' I knew it, yet I was powerless
to prevent it. My poor father, what a
warped nature he had ! But,' with some
agitation, ' I want you to try and believe this,
that there where excuses to be made for him.
My mother'  he pauses  'in deed she was
true to him, in thought false. It. was a
marriage thrust upon her, and  there was
another. She was the sweetest, purest woman

alive,' throwing up this head, ' but she could
not live through it  it killed her, and my
father knew and never forgave.'

A silence falls upon them ; Dysart stands
half leaning against the table, his eyes staring
blankly through the fast darkening panes
before him. There is no hope anywhere.
He has entered into the cloud ; he is enveloped
by it. There is no light in any
place, not the vaguest glimmering of a solitary
star.

'I think, too, there was repentance,' he
continues presently, softly, as if to himself,
yet with a gentle disturbance of manner born
of the near presence of a listener. It is
evident his thoughts have left the dead, dear
mother and have returned to the father, dead,
too, but, alas, with no tender memories left
behind him ! ' His fierce anxiety to see you
married to me showed that, as well as his

passionate desire to expiate his fault by-giving
you back your own.'

And thus insuring it to you  his
son ! '

It is a little ungenerous, but who shall
sage a woman's moods? But a moment
since she had been soft, sympathetic, consumed
with pity, and now that one unemotional
allusion to the marriage that had
been so hateful in her eyes, has destroyed all
gentle thoughts within her. To speak of it,
of that insult, thus indifferently ! A hot restless
colour surges into her cheeks ; her eyes
grow hard and clear.

Dysart regards her coldly. The strange
whirlpools of a woman's humour have not
been sounded by him. To him her words are
merely ungracious, ignoble.

You are, no doubt, correct in the view
you take of it,' he says ; ' you are also merciless.

Whatever his faults, he is beyond defending
them now.'

True. I should not have said that ; I
was wrong,' confesses she with chill self-condemnation.
' I deserve your rebuke, but I
suffered many things at his hands. It is not
always possible to forget, even when the
grave has opened and closed upon our
enemy.'

Was he altogether that ? ' asks Dysart,
with emotion.

What else was he ? He deprived me of
my inheritance ; he compelled me,' with growing
intensity, ' to feel the sharp sting of dependence
; he would have forced me into a
loveless marriage ; he would have married me
to you ! '

Truly he was an enemy,' says Dysart,
with a curious smile.

She makes an impatient movement.

VOL. III.

We seem to be ever wandering from the
main subject,' she says. ' I have told you I
want to leave this ; do you think it can be
managed soon ? '

Is it to me you appeal for help ? ' asks
he, with such vehemence, such passionate
reproach, that her heart smites her. How
stern he looks ! Has she been too unkind,
and just now too, now when all his world has
crumbled beneath his feet ? She feels depressed,
ashamed of herself.

Of you, if you will give it,' she says in a
low voice. ' Can I go soon ? May I ? *

She lifts her eyes reluctantly to his, an
uncertainty, an appeal in them that is charming.
A wild passionate thrill runs through
him. Is this indeed his haughty cousin, or
Alas the cold repellent girl of a moment since
the real Vera  the girl, proud, unapproachable,
who, in her days of adversity had

I

deliberately scorned him, and yet who now
when fortune smiles on her can grow humble,
gentle, beseeching ?

The firelight, breaking into brighter
flames, lights up her delicate beauty, the
pale, perfect face, the slender, black-robed
figure, the pretty white hands. In all the
dismal future that stretches itself out before
him, in all time, shall he ever be able to
blot this picture from his mind? Never,
never ! Great Heaven, what miseries fate
has kept cradled in her lap for him all
his life, only to crush him with them at
last !

You must not ask me,' he says frigidly,
in answer to her appeal. ' In a day or two,
when I have seen Sedley safely out of the
country, I shall explain all to your lawyer ;
he will advise you. As to money, he will
give you anything you may require. Is

o2

there any other question you would like to
put to me ? '

'No.'

Well, that is over,' says he, with a quick
sigh of apparent relief. He pushes towards
her across the table the book she had been
reading on his entrance. ' I need not disturb
you further ; but you will see for yourself
that I had to come.'

He moves away and then hesitates, as one
might who has something to say yet shrinks
from saying it. At last he conquers his repugnance
and looks back at her.

'I should like to ask you one thing,' he
says, speaking with an effort. ' Do not give
up the old house. Do not desert it quite.
I shall like to think of you as living here.'

He turns away abruptly. There is something
so solitary, so utterly alone in his whole
air, til at without giving herself time for
thought she springs to her feet and calls to

him. ' Where are you going ? To sit alone ?
To brood over all this ? Oh, do not. Why,'
going swiftly to him and standing before him
with downcast hips and trembling fingers
and quickened breath, 'why not stay herewith
me for a little while and let us discuss
all this together, and try to see a way out
of it?'

It is evident that it is a positive pain to
her to say this.

My way is plain before me ; it wants no
discussion,' says Dysart resolutely, refusing to
look at her.

You mean,' tremulously, ' that you will
not stay ? ' One white hand hanging at her
side closes upon a fold of her soft, black gown
and crushes it convulsively.

I mean,' in an uncompromising tone,
that I fully understand your mistaken kindness
 the sacrifice of your inclinations you
would make  and decline to profit by it.'

You are disingenuous. What you really
mean is,' in alow tone, 'thatyou will not forgive.'

There is nothing to forgive, save my presumption.'


He opens the door deliberately and closes
it with a firm hand behind him. Vera, left
standing thus cavalierly in the middle of the
room, with the knowledge full upon her that
she has been slighted, spurned, her kind
intentions ruthlessly flung back upon her,
lets the quick passionate blood rise upwards,
until it dyes cheek and brow. A sense of
unbearable indignation grows warm within
her breast. To be thus deliberately scorned,
her attempts at friendliness declined, it is not
to be borne. She presses her hand upon her
throbbing heart, and then all at once it comes
to her that she is no longer poor, forlorn,
but rich, one of the richest commoners in
England. And with this comes, too, a sense

of deeper desolation than she has as yet
known. Dropping into a chair she covers
her face with her hands, and cries as if her
heart is broken.

Why, daring, what on earth is it . '
cries Griselda, coming into the room half an
hour later, with all the soft virulence of a
spring breeze. ' This troubled house will
certainly be the death of you. Ah, you've
been reading. Some depressing love-lorn
novel, no doubt. How stupid of you, with
your spirits already down to zero.'

Yes, yes. It was foolish,' says Vera,
gladly grasping at the excuse offered for her
inopportune tears.

'Well, you shan't finish it at all events,'
pouncing upon the open volume. 'I'll take
care of that. The idea of weeping over

imaginary woes when Why, Vera, it is

Harry Lorrequer ! " '

CHAPTER XY.

With a smile on her hp and a tear in her eye.

Tom, I've something to tell you. Come here,
come closer.' This is a distinctly unnecessary
order, but the younger Miss Dysart does not
seem to see it. She looks at Mr. Peyton with
a countenance grown supernaturally solemn.
Something has been found,' she says, in the
tone of a conspirator.

Of course, it had been considered impossible,
when things were looked into, to keep
the whole truth from Griselda, but Vera,
when telling her a part, had reserved as much
as she could of her uncle's dishonesty. To
Griselda the story appeared like a fairy tale.

Suddenly, from somewhere, an old bureau,
apparently, with a secret drawer  and what
place could be more romantic or desirable for
the fulfilment of a successful denouement?  a
will had been drawn forth that put an end
for ever to the Cinderella lives of her and
her Vera. Providentially, the day on which
she heard of this miraculous tale was the day
on which she expected Mr. Peyton back from
his visit to his old home in Derbyshire.

Found ? ' echoes he when he has obeyed
her obliging command not only in the letter
but in the spirit. 'Found out, you mean,
eh ? ' He grows rather dispirited and his face
loses its usual healthy tint. Good Heavens,
has she heard then of that awful scene in
that vile old ruin ?

Yes, found out, in a sense, certainly."
She is too full of her longing to detail her
news to notice the strangeness of his remark.

But, oh, Tom, so extraordinary ! If you
were a regular conundrum man, one of those
people who call themselves by abject names
and answer all the brain-splinters in the society
papers, even then Td say you would never
ofuess this one.'

'If that's so,' says Mr. Peyton sensibly,
let's consider me a fool at once, and get onto
business. What was found ? '

An old will ! '

The deuce ! ' says Mr. Peyton, with a
tragic start. Then he laughs irrepressibly.
Whose ? ' says he ; ' yours ? '

I really think you might be a little
serious ; but go on,' indignantly, ' you'll wake
to a sense of your frivolity presently, /r/zZ//
with awful emphasis, ' when you hear that
the will was my grandfather's, and  and that
it changes everything ; Everything  Seaton is

no longer the 

dear girl, do you know what you are
saying ? ' says Peyton, now really brought to
a proper frame of mind. ' But this will,
where was it found, and how ? '

'In a curious old cabinet, that opened
somehow at the side in a most unexpected
manner. It had a secret drawer, and in it
the will lay. Isn't it interesting ? It appears
that this drawer was known only to my
grandfather and the man Sedley, whom you
found up in the ruin. Perhaps he knew of
it, but at all events by accident, as it were,
the other day, in moving it or something,
this secret drawer flew open and  there lay
the will ! '

Ah ! ' says Peyton. She has made a
dramatic pause ; therefore it is necessary
that he should say something. This vague,
but eloquent monosyllable, fills his blank.

It is my opinion,' says she, leaning confidentially

towards him, 'that this Sedley
knew of the will and told my uncle of it, and
  and when Uncle Gregory heard that there
was a chance of his being turned out of the
property, why, he tried to kill Sedley ! Oh,
Tom, if I am wrong in this awful accusation,
I feel I ought to be hanged, drawn,
and slaughtered, but I can't tell you how it
thus presents itself to me over and over
again.'

'Tut, my dear,' says Tom lightly, who,
however, is still rather depressed, ' why should
you imagine anything so terrible? And, as
to the mere finding of a will, I don't see why
that should make my lovely girl look as pale
as a spent lily.'

'You don't understand yet. I may be
wrong about Sedley, but, when I tell you the
old will is in reality the new will '

'Wait a moment. How many wills is

that ? I feel as if I couldn't possibly on the
head of so many others have ever again a will
of my own,' says Mr. Peyton, with disgraceful
flippancy.

Oh, will you listen Tom ? Do you know,*
regarding him with disfavour, ' honestly, I
wouldn't be such an  an '

" An " goes with " ass " or " idiot," a
with " fool," ' says Mr. Peyton serenely.
Continue. I feel there is worse still to come.
I am resigned  prepared for a deluge.'

Pm glad to hear it,' hypocritically, and

with a false air of misery, ' because ' here

the false air deserts her, and without warning
she precipitates herself into this willing arms.
Oh, Tom, this  this old-new will has given
me something over a hundred thousand
pounds ! '

For the first time in all their knowledge
of each other Mr. Peyton's arms grow

slack, with that gracious burden between
them.

'Isn't it lovely?' goes on she, scarcely
noticing this defection, or else spiritually comprehending
it. ' Now  now, instead of your
having to help Vera and me, I shall be able
to help you to do up that darling old place
of yours, in which we shall live happy ever
afterwards ! ' There are tears, delicious tears
in her laughter. But Peyton does not echo
her mirth.

'Griselda, are you sure your head is all
right ? ' says he, tapping gently that charming
member.

Oh, nonsense, never mind my head. Go
and ask Vera if it isn't just what I have said.
And, by-the-by. Vera comes in for all the
rest of it, everything, in fact, house, place '

And Seaton ? ' interrupts he hastily.

Griselda grows grave.

All, that is the only drawback she says,
but I hope we shall be able to arrange things
with him. It seems he is left quite out in the
cold. Oh, I can't bear to think of it ; neither
can Vera, though he is absolutely abhorrent
to her. I call it a shame that such unjust
wills should be made. After all, though we
were the children of the elder son, still he
was a grandson, and that should count ; boys
go before girls. However, I hope it will be
all right eventually, because Vera is arranging
to divide everything with him, and, of
course, Tom, in that case, we'll divide too ? '
She looks at him anxiously.

Of course ! ' says he eagerly. ' Oh, by
Jove ! Oh, poor old fellow ! Dear old
Seaton ! And he was always so good to us.
You remember, daring? Took our part
straight through, and never betrayed us to
the governor, though sometimes I think he

didn't quite approve of our " plan of campaign."
'

It speaks volumes for Tom Peyton that
now in the hour when his hick has turned
and his little adored beggar-maid has turned
out a princess, that his first thought should
be, not for his own good fortune, not for this
strange lift on the world's stairway, but for
the disappointment and sad downfall of the
friend who had been so good to him and his
Griselda.

What will Grace say ? ' asks Griselda
presently. ' She can't say I'm a bad match
for you now, anyway ! '

'My dearest girl, when did she say
that ? '

She may not have said it, but she thought
it, always. She didn't even hint it to me,
but she cried it aloud to you. Now, now,
Tom,' shaking her finger at him, 'no lies.

The time for them is past. When I was so
poor that I liked to try and believe you, you
told me them by the ton, in the fond hope
that they would make me happier. And they
did, I think, though I never believed them 
never. And I don't blame her a bit. Why
should she want a penniless sister-in-law
when she knew you ought to marry money,
if only to keep up that charming old place of
yours? Ko, I haven't an unkind word for
her. But I am happy in the thought that
now she will be glad to welcome me. And  
do you think she would take me down to
Girtonmore, Tom, to see it ? I want so much
to go there to see your home ! '

Our home,' fondly.

Ah, yes. That's why I love the very
sound of it. Of course, I shouldn't care for
it if you were going to marry somebody else.
Oh, 6>A, what a hateful thought ! '

VOL. III. p

An impossible thought ! ' contemptuously.


'And well make it look beautiful, won't
we ?  just what it used to be in the old days.
Oh, Tom,' stealing her pretty arms around his
neck, ' isn't it nice to have money sometimes ;
and isn't it the happiest thing in the world to
love as we do ? '

CHAPTER XVI.

The spring clad all in gladness
Doth laugh at winter's sadness.

Three months have come and gone. Three
months of piercing cold, sleet, and snow, of
days now brilliant with a treacherous sunshine,
now lost in storms of drifting rain.
And at the end of them, lo, a new birth! a
sweet fresh creation, that cries aloud from
every branch and twig, from springing grass
and tremulous leaflet, and the warm twittering
of the birds in all the soft thick bushes.

It is still cold and boisterous at times.
This mad March weather is more foe than
friend, but yet the small fleet touches of

p2

friendship as they come are golden in their
worth. Above, the skies may have a dull,
gray, neutral tint, there may be breathing
still of angry storms anon, but below, with
the coming life in everything, who can keep
back the hope that yearly surges happily in
every breast ?

The lilac trees in all the sheltered spots
are now a-bud ; fern-fronds begin to peep.
Here and there may a stray late violet be
found, and delicate groups of dainty, star-like
primroses.

Sometimes great gleams of passionately
eager sunbeams drop down upon the earth,
to disappear almost as they come, and leave
a blank behind that nature cannot fill ; and
by degrees one begins to learn to dread these
golden visitants, for on their vanishing footsteps
come tearing angry winds and violent
tempests and raindrops that dash themselves

with vehement rage against the trembling
window panes.

Great changes have these three months
brought ! They have unhoused Seaton Dy-part,
and given his inheritance into the hands,
the most unwilling hands, of his cousin.
Hands too small to wield so large a sceptre.

But Mr. Peyton has nobly come to her
rescue. It is to him that most of the innovations
owe their birth. The handsome landau,
the pony-trap, the single brougham, all have
been bought by him. He has perfectly
revelled in the choosing of them, and has
perforce dragged the reluctant Vera up and
down to town (aided manfully by Griselda,
who has also been revelling), to vicar the
several carriages, and give her verdict
thereon.

But it is in the stables that he has indeed
shown his native genius. As by a miracle,

all the boxes have grown full. Through
his instrumentality, the handsomest pair of
carriage horses in the county have been
placed there ; the pony is a very marvel of
beauty ; the farm horses irreproachable ; the
cobs faultless. He has spirited, at the
shortest notice, and from no man knows
where, a coachman beyond suspicion ; and a
week later a footman, steeped to the neck in
testimonials, that are almost tearful in their
enthusiastic praise. As for grooms, they
seem to fall into their places quite naturally
beneath his powerful wand, and stable boys
spring up, as occasion calls for them, beneath
his feet.

Lady Eiversdale, too, had come to Yera's
succour, when time had been given her to get
over her disappointment about Seaton. She
was heartily and openly indignant at his
downfall, and insisted on regarding Vera as

an impostor. Indeed, it took Seaton himself
a good hour to bring her to a proper view of
the case, but it is doubtful if she ever entirely
forgave Vera for having, as she said, ' thrust
him out in the cold.'

However, she so far gave in to his
entreaties as to call on Vera, and insist on
carrying her off to Switzerland with her fora
month or two. Griselda and Tom Peyton
had, of course, accompanied them, and it
naturally was a slight solace to Lady Coverdale
to know that though her favourite was
dethroned, her brother's wife, instead of
coming to him as a burthen, would bring a
considerable fortune.

A fortune, undiminished, moreover. Dy-part
had distinctly (and in terms that left it
impossible to press the matter) declined to
accept a penny of the money left to his
cousins. He is still in England, but only for

SO long as will enable him to wind up his
affairs, and then farewell to his Fatherland
for ever !

Lady Eiversdale, after that foreign tour,
grown attached in a greater degree than she
had believed possible, to Seaton's supplanter,
had undertaken the reformation of dismal
Grey court. She had at first advised the girl
to let it, but Vera had so distinctly expressed
her determination never to do this, that Lady
Eiversdale, whilst wondering at the fancy
that could make her cling to a place so
possessed by tragic memories, had ceased to
argue the question with her.

Instead, she had entered, heart and soul,
with all the energy with which a beneficent
nature had endowed her, into the resurrection
it, as she called it, and the bringing of it to a
proper frame of mind.

Light was thrown in here, there, and

everywhere. Windows that for years had
remained hermetically closed were flung wide ;
innumerable old and musty curtains were
pulled down and consigned to the dust heap.
In all these meritorious acts she was aided
and abetted by Griselda, now Mrs. Peyton,
and indeed it cannot be said but that Vera, in
spite of the feeling that never left her, that
she was in truth, what Lady Eiversdale
unjustly called her, a usurper, took a decided
interest in the marvellous changes that were
fast transforming the gloomy old mansion into
a charming home.

Lady Eiversdale had brought down with
her quite an army of indoor servants, London
ones ; Tom Peyton, as I have said, took
excellent care of the others. Grunch and old
Peter had been pensioned off by Seaton, and
were now living within a stone's throw of
each other somewhere in the outskirts of

London. To Vera it was an intense relief to
get rid of them ; lie breathed more freely
when their sour faces could no longer be seen
on staircase and in corridor ; and indeed it
seemed that everything that was being done
just now was ordered with a view to her
happiness.

And yet this gnawing feeling of usurpation
never leaves her. It clings to her,
indoors and out, more especially during the
long solitary rambles she loves to take
through the wet springy woods, or over the
dry and crackling leaves that fall to powder
beneath her tread.

This wild, fresh, new growth that fills the
world around her tempts her forth, and now
that Griselda has left her, and she is living
alone in the old house, she has ample time
given her to indulge in walks as lons and as

O O o

frequent as she may desire.

Each mad little rivulet, swollen b} last
night's rain, sings aloud a merry song to her
as she goes by. The yellow sunbeams strike
her through the trees. Not one, but a
myriad tiny blossoms cry to her through the
dank, soft grasses at her feet ; each swaying
branch tells of its coming life, and yet her heart
is heavy. All Nature used to breathe to her
soft whispers of hope and love, and a being
perfected, but now  now it seems to have
all gone silent, somehow, to speak to her
no more in those gentle numbers, and only
the clouds and the shadows appeal to her,
closing round, and stretching always before
her, as though to engulf her in their sorrowful
folds ; and the whole world appears but a
round ball slipping from under her feet, and
there is nothing anywhere to touch, to hold,
to keep !

Of course these more desperately dejected

moods do not always have her in their keeping.
There are many moments when she is bathes
enough, and only too eager to grasp
the good the gods hold out with liberal hands.
She has been down two or three times to stay
with Tom and Griselda, and indeed it would
be but a sorry wight, a poor heart that never
rejoiced, who could come away unimpressed
by their geniality. Of Dysart, however, and
of his intended projects she knows little or
nothing ; some strange perversity always
prompting her to change the subject, or show
an inclination to turn a deaf ear to it, when
Griselda, who would willingly have enlarged
on it by the hour, ever makes an attempt to
introduce his name into the conversation.


To-day is rich in storm and rain. The
heavens seem to have opened. Down from

their watery home come the heavy drops,
desiring the gaunt shrubberies, and beating
into the sodden earth such presumptuous
anemones and daffodils as have dared to show
their faces. Vera has just ensconced herself
cosily before the leaping fire, book in hand,
having resigned all hope of seeing visitors today,
when the sound of carriage-wheels on
the gravel outside the window, the echo of a
resounding knock, startle her out of her
contemplated repose.

And now there is a little quick rush
through the hall, a springing step up the
staircase, the rustle of silken skirts in the
ante-room beyond, a voice that makes Vera
start eagerly to her feet, and presently Mrs.
Peyton, looking supremely happy, and, therefore,
charming, flings herself into her sister's
arms.

 What a day to come out, my darling,'
says Vera, holding her closely, joy dancing in
her eyes. ' What supreme luck to get such
a visitor as this, on such a heaven-forsaken
day!'

I

CHAPTER Xiii.

Thou troubles me ; I am not in the vein.

Yes, I know. It was because it was so bad
that I felt I should come. I couldn't bear the
thought of your spending such a day alone,
with no company but the pitter-patter of that
detestable rain upon the window panes. I
had a tussle for it, I can tell you. Tom and
Grace threatened to tie me to the leg of the
bed, but I dragged myself away, literally.
Aren't you surprised to see me in this part of
the world so soon again . '

Oh, I am too glad to be surprised,' says
Vera fondly.

You're an improvident person,' says Mrs.

Peyton, beaming on her from out the masses
of furs that clothe her dainty form. 'Fancy
wasting such a pretty speech on a woman !
Well, Grace telegraphed for us, to help her
with a dinner-party that is to come off tonight
; so come we did. And, being so close
to you, I felt I should see you or die.'

It's selfish, I know, but I'm so glad to
have you. Let me take off your furs. What
a delicious coat ! You hadn't that when I
was down with you, eh ? '

No. It's a new one. Tom gave it me.
He's absurder than ever. But I haven't
braved the elements and the coachman's
wrath to talk about him. It is about Seaton
I want to tell you.'

Seaton ? To come out such a day as this
to talk of Seaton ! But why ? It must be
something very serious,' says Vera, changing
colour perceptibly. She moves abruptly

from one small table to another, ostensibly
with the purpose of changing an ornament
though in reality such changes are needless.
Is  has anything happened to him ? '

No, no ; nothing worse than what has
already befallen. When I think of it, do you
know. Vera, I cannot help regarding us  you
and me  as in part criminals. Poor dear
fellow, it must have been a blow to lose
everything in one fell swoop. And yet what
more could we have done than what we did
do ? To the half of our kingdom we offered
him, but, as you know, he would none of us ! '
She throws her arms wide to give further
value to this remark.

I know all that. We have discussed it a
thousand times. Surely you did not place
yourself in danger of death from drowning to
go over it all again ? '

Not exactly ; I was merely leading up to

VOL. III. Q

my point, if you had only given me time,' says
Griselcla, with charming audacity. ' The fact
is, Seaton is leaving England for ever, and he
has a desire, a longing he cannot subdue, and,
I'm sure, a most natural one, to see his old
home before he goes.'

Well ? ' says Yera coldly.

Well,' in exactly the same tone, with a
little mockery thrown in, ' that's the whole of
it. He wants to get a last look at the old
place before leaving it for ever. At least
that is how he puts it. To get a last look at
you would, perhaps, be nearer the truth.
Can he come ? that is the question. I really
think it would be only decent if you were to
drop him a line and ask him. It would bethe
most graceful thing, at all events.'

It is so entirely unnecessary. He knows
he can always have his own rooms here. One
would think I was a tyrant of the Middle Ages,
shut up in my castle, to which no man dare

make approach. He must know that lo ok
on this house as  as quite as much his as
mine. He certainly need not ask for a written
invitation to come to it.'

'It appears he does, nevertheless. Of
course, you have heard he is off next week to
the North Pole, or the moon, or somewhere
equally rational, where he is certain to find
his death. My word, Vera, I wouldn't have
as much on my soul, as you have, for a little
kingdom. It's a bad thing when one gives a
man a distaste for life  that sweetest of all
things. You should take pattern by me and
reform your evil ways ; see how I sacrificed
myself. I took Tom, simply and solely because
'

You couldn't help yourself.'

Nothing of the kind  because I saw he
couldn't possibly pull on without me. Well,'
with a saucy little glance that only partially

Q 2

hides a good deal of earnestness, ' can he
come ? '

I have already said he could

Ah, yes ; but that won't do. He doesn't
see it in that light ; more's the pity. He
makes the most foolish remarks about not
liking to intrude upon you, and so on. Not
to me, he knows I'd blow his head off, but to
Tom, who is so much safer.'

If he is determined to be so absurdly
punctilious,' impatiently, ' of course, he must
get his formal invitation.'

Well, go on. Shall I send it, or will you ?
I mean shall I write and tell him you will be
charmed if he will come ? '

That letter would not bring him.'

No ? What a conceited speech ! You
think him still so very devoted then ? '

I think him proud,' with a slight access
of colour. ' For the rest, I don't suppose he

ever thinks of me, save as the person who
usurped his rights here.'

He is looking a good deal older,' says
Griselda presently, and rather inconsequently.

Vera moves impatiently.

We all get older,' she says, with a swift
frown. It is plain that Griselda's last words
have been unpleasant to her. ' If I am to
believe that Seaton ages, in proportion to the
many times I hear he is falling into the sere
and yellow period of existence, he must now
resemble Methuselah ! ' This is such an unusual
burst of flippancy for her, that, involuntarily,
Griselda turns to look at her with a
glance full of surprise.

He has a hair or two left still,' she says
at length, ' and a few front teeth I can vouch
for. You must not believe all you hear.'

Vera laughs unwillingly.

It is not wisdom to give credit to all that

one's mutual acquaintance have got to say,'
goes on Griselda mildly, ' but as a mere fact,
and as a sisterly account, believe this, he is
three years older than he was last season. I
feel that I should make it the orthodox ten
years, but I'm nothing, if not a modern
Washington.'

You speak as if you had seen him yesterday,'
says Vera.

My dear girl, I hope not. I would at all
risks act up to the character upon which I
have modelled myself. I saw him to-day.'

To-day ? ' starting. ' Why, where is he
then ? '

Staying with Grace. Perhaps he knew I
was coming here. I don't know ; but,' coaxingly,
' you will give me a little line to take
back with me ? You won't shut his own doors
against him ? '

Oh, Griselda, is that kind, is it generous ? '

cries Vera cut to the heart. ' I will write 
yes  but I don't think you should put it so.'

I'm a beast,' says Griselda sweetly.

This naturally puts an end to all reproach.
Having been assured that she isn't a beast or
anything lower than the very dearest of girls,
Mrs. Peyton returns con amove to the subject
in hand. But first she finds something to say
about Vera herself.

Where's your colour ? ' she asks, pinching
Vera's pretty pale cheek with fond fingers.
You look altogether woe-begone. I know an
artist or two, and I'll tell them, if they want
a really unimpeachable " Mariana," moaned
grange and all, they are to come down here.
What is it, daring ? You look as if life was
upside down with you, as if the salt and red
pepper had gone out of your days somehow,
and that you were no longer hungry for the
plain rice. And small blame to you, too !

But what has taken away those spicy ingredients
? '

What a baby you are to talk,' says Vera,
with an attempt at lightness. 'Never mind
me. Tell me more of this hapless cousin of
ours.' She tries to speak gaily, but she finds
herself suddenly bankrupt where smiles are
concerned. ' You see how I hunger for a
little bit of gossip.' She goes on as if trying
to deaden the effect of her words  to hide the
real anxiety she is feeling to know something
of the man whom she has ousted, however
unwillingly, from his home. ' It is really good
to see you,' she says ; ' I've been mooning here
alone untill I feel only half alive. Come, tell
me all you know.'

I'll tell you one thing,' glancing rather
anxiously out of the window, ' there will be a
storm to-night, an early storm, and a storm
worth remembering, or I'm a Dutchman ; so I

haven't much time to stay. After all, I should
have come by the train. Twenty miles by
that is nothing, and so I'll delight Tom's heart
by saying when I get back. Nothing pleases
him more than to be discovered in the right.
It's the novelty of it, I suppose. You'll give
me a note for Seaton, then ? '
Yes.'

And what about that Suffolk property,
Vera ? He is still as bent as ever on having
nothing to do with it. And now, if he goes
abroad, what is to become of it  who'll see
to it?'

'I will,' says Vera calmly. 'He may
renounce it now in a spirit of Quixotism,
but  later on  he will be glad to have
it.'

You mean-that

though he now swears he will never
touch a penny of it, time is a great healer of

all injuries, and that by-and-by he will learn
not to despise it.'

When he marries, you mean ? ' says
Griselda discontentedly. The idea displeases
her. She is now more than ever convinced
that his cause with Vera is hopeless  a girl
who could discuss a man's possible marriage.

I dare say you may be right,' she goes
on presently ; ' he may want to give it to his
eldest son by-and-by.'

' Yes, no doubt,' says Vera quietly. She
has, however, grown deadly white, and rising
abruptly from her chair, goes over to the
window ' What a day ! ' she says in a rather
stifled tone.

For the ducks ! I suppose I must not
stay too long. When will luncheon be ready ?
Vera, I wish you would come back with me.
Do now. Bundle on your clothes, and get a
dinner gown into a basket, and there you are.

Grace will be delighted. In fact, she told me
to bring you ; and I know you are regularly
hipped here. No wonder, too ; dismal old
hole ! '

I couldn't, darling. Lady Eiversdale was
over here yesterday to ask me, and I refused
her. I can't bear dinner-parties for one
thing

And Seaton is at The Friars for another.
I know. As to dinner-parties I hate them
quite as much as you do, but what I hate
more is to think of you here, alone, without a
soul to speak to. I can't believe it is good for
you. Why don't you sell the place, or let it ? '

No, I shan't do that,' says Vera in a
curious tone.

Well, perhaps you are right. One's own
place is always so much better than anything
one can hire. And after all I can always
come to the rescue. Expect me here the day

after tomorrow to carry you ofi with me to
Girtonmore. That will cheer you up, and kill
the blue-devils.'

'Nothing could cheer me half as mucli/
says Vera, who is indeed always quite happy
with Tom and Griselda.

Well, I must run,' says Griselda, about an
hour later, getting up from the luncheon table
in a little pretended hurry, ' or I shall catch
it. As it is, I'm sure I'll be late, which means
earthquakes where Grace is concerned. Now,
give me the note for Seaton.'

Won't it do tomorrow ? ' rather surprised.

No. I shouldn't wonder if he came over
here to-night, on receipt of it. You know, or if
you don't, you ought, that he won't go into
society at all now ; so that when he gets your
permission to come here, it is almost a moral
certainly that he will leave The Friars this

evening.

I'm glad you have told me,' says Vera.
One naturally lias a distaste for avalanches,,
and to have him answer an invitation in such
hot haste as that '

'Perhaps he won't. If the promise of
storm fulfils itself, I hardly see how he can.
I only hope the old house will live through
the coming hurricane, and not give way and
bury you beneath the ruins. Just the sort of
malignant thing it would do. Well, good-bye,
darling girl. By-the-by'  pausing as an afterthought
occurs to her, ' how are the servants
going on ? Fighting ? Squabbling ? At loggerheads
with each other from morning till night? '

Oh, no ; as peaceable as possible.'

Peaceable ? ' as if scarcely able to believe
her ears. ' Then all I can say is, lucky you !
You should live with mine for a bit; they'd
open your eyes ! However, you are coming
down and then you'll see ! '

What do they do ? '

What don't they do ? Never mind ; I tell
you, when flung ito their midst you'll know
fast enough. I think they must one and all
have been bred and born in Billingsgate.
Not, of course, but that they are civil to Tom
and me, but otherwise, when they aren't swearing
at each other, they are, one and all,
modern Niobe. I'm completely worn out
from them. Tom says it's because I don't
keep a tight rein. Now you seem born to that
kind of thing. Vera ; so I hope you'll help me
tackle them, and tell me whom to send away,
and whom to keep.'

A pleasant task,' says Vera laughing.
How the doomed ones will love me ! '

Oh, and Tom sent his love and a kiss.'

Give him the very same from me when
you get back. And here's the note for Seaton,
though I really hardly see yet why he

requires it. Please say I said so this very
coldly. ' I hope I have made it intelligible,,

but you have been talking so hard '

It wouldn't be me if I wasn't talking,
and then you wouldn't care for me,' says
Griselda saucily, but fondly encircling her
with her arms. She is now clad in lier furs
again, and like a pretty soft, round bear, she
hugs her sister, steps into the carriage, and
with many adieus and waves of the hand
through the window, is driven away.

CHAPTER Xvi.

Behind no prison-grates lie said,
Which slurs the sunshine half a mile,

Live captives so uncomforted
As souls behind a smile.

God's pity let us pray,' she said.

Night has quite closed in, a night exceptionally
wild and violent, when once more the
sound of wheels upon the gravel without
catches Vera's ear.

Perhaps she had been listening for it  is
even in a measure prepared for it, but even
if so, this does not prevent the sudden agitated
change that overspreads her face as she
hears it. Her pulses quicken unpleasantly,
and she half rises to her feet. What a night
to be abroad ! All the winds of heaven seem

to be let loose, and to be warring with each
other, their tumultuous voices deadening
every other sound. Found the old house
they shriek and roar as if ravening for prey,
tearing through the shrubberies and dashing
themselves with passionate force against tower
and turret. Anon come bursts of rain, wild
as they are short, breaking themselves to
pieces against the window panes, and cutting
up large holes in the gravel. Sometimes, too,
through the infernal din of the elements a
dull, sullen crash may be heard as some old
monarch amongst the trees in the woods
below is flung, with many a dying groan,
to the earth.

The tall weak saplings are bent as though
they are mere twigs, and the stately elms bow
so low beneath the tyrannous blast, as it goes
over them, that one deems it almost miraculous
that they ever rise again.

VOL. HI. R

From the sea, away down there beyond
the trees, comes a rude roar, as though the
ocean itself is in revolt. In the village, the
sailors and fishermen stand apart in little
groups and shake their heads and look out to
sea with doubtful faces. And by-and-by, one
or two of them give voice to the thought
that is filling all minds, that there will be a
wreck out o' this, 'fore morning.' The coastguards
see to their rocket apparatus, and the
lifeboat comes in for a good share of the conversation.


Louder and still louder grows the tempest.
The heavy drops beat on the sodden ground.
The darkness is terrible.

The clouds,
From many a horrid rift abortive pour'd
Fierce rain with lightning mixed, water with fire
In ruin reconciled ; nor slept the winds
Within their stony caves, hut rush'd abroad
From the four hinges of the world.

Vera, still standing, listens to the sound of

I

footsteps crossing the hall and ascending the
stairs. jN"ow they are at the door of the room
in which she waits, and for a moment it seems
to her that her heart lias ceased to beat. A
moment later, and it beats with most unpleasant
rapidity ; for the footsteps have
passed the door and gone towards that part
of the house where Seaton's own rooms used
to be, and still, indeed, are. She had certainly
thought it possible that he would come
in and present himself to his hostess Is she
not that? Nay, more, she had believed it
impossible that he should fail to do so. She
pulls herself together now with a little pale
angry look on her lovely face, and assures
herself that he has gone to his own apartments
merely to change his clothes, and that
later on he will pay her the courtesy due to
her. Yet in her own heart she knows she is
belying her own judgment, and that she will

R 2

not see him to-night, nor tomorrow, nor any

other time.

An hour, two hours, pass, and she is in
her room dressing for dinner, when a servant
brings her a note.

I have to thank you for your kind invitation
which Griselda gave me. Business
matters have compelled me to come here
ao-ain  for the last time  to-night ; to trespass,
for the last time, upon your hospitality.
I beg you will not let my presence disturb
you ; my stay will be so short that I dare to
hope you will not mark the coming or the
going.  S. D.'

A quick wave of colour dyes Vera's face ;
she lays the letter with studied slowness upon
the table near.

My compliments to Mr. Dysart, and I
hope he will dine with me to-night,' she says
calmly, but with an unconscious touch of

hauteur. Unconsciously, too, when the
woman has left the room, she puts her hand
to her throat, as if to loosen the small band
of velvet that encircles it ; she is, however,
sure of one thing, that she is passionately
angry. How does he dare to treat her like
this, to persist in believing  or rather, to pretend
to believe  that his presence is so distasteful
to her ? What is he to her, one way
or the other, that she should care whether
he was in her house, or out of it ? Good
Heavens, how a man can flatter himself!

At dinner, however, she will have an
opportunity of widening his knowledge somewhat.
It will be the simplest thing to let
him see how utterly unimportant an item he
is in the scheme of her existence. There is a
brilliant light in her eyes as she turns to
receive the woman who has now come back
with an answer to her message to Dysart.

There is a timidity in the woman's air that
warns her.

Mr. Dysart's compliments and thanks,
madam, but he has already dined in town.'

Fasten this bracelet,' says Vera, holding
out her arm. She is aware that the woman
is watching her, curiously if nervously, and
she so moves that the sudden pallor of her
face, the sole thing that shoals her indignation,
shall not betray her. ' That will do ;
you can go,' she says after awhile. She
sweeps downstairs almost on the servant's
footsteps, and into the green drawing-room,
a smaller apartment than the usual reception
rooms, and now looking delicately cosy beneath
the touches of lamps and firelight, and
with the perfume of many flowers hanging
round it.

The contrast between the dainty comfort
within and the fierce yelling of the storm

without is very marked. Vera, as though
her soul is in unison rather with the angry
tumult than the calm, goes quickly to one of
the windows, and drawing back the curtains
gazes outwards as though trying to pierce the
intense blackness that covers all things.

The wind, the thunder, the lightning, still
rage, but the rain has ceased, and in the
murky heavens above, a pale, sickly moon is
striving feebly to break through the dense
clouds. Now and again a faint ray proves
its presence only to be swallowed up again
by masses of vapour. Light twigs, and sometimes
heavy branches, are flung by the wind
against the windows, and once as Vera stands
motionless, silent, awed, it seems to her that
there comes from far away, from out an
immeasurable distance, a strange booming
sound, that even to her uninitiated ears is
horribly full of despair.

Again, and once again, that melancholy
sound has reached her ears. It has now
become so real, so entirely a thing present
and to be expected, that with an unknown
dread she recoils from the window, and lets
the curtain drop from her trembling fingers.
As she does so the door is thrown open by an
agitated hand, and the woman who had
attended her upstairs comes hurriedly, without
ceremony, into the room.

Oh, madam, I thought you would like to

know  that you should be told ' she stops,

frightened by the expression on Yera's face.

Well ? ' says Yera, going a step nearer to
her.

There is a ship in great distress, madam
somewhere out there,' pointing vaguely in
the direction of the ocean, ' upon the rocks,
they say ! There is scarcely any hope '

But the lifeboat ? ' cries Yera sharply, forgetting

everything now but the awful thought
of death  and death so near  out there upon
those cruel rocks, with the boiling murderous
waves leaping to receive their prey.

Yes, madam, but that accident yesterday
you will remember it ?  they say it has disabled
six of the men, and it is almost certain
death to go at all, and the hands being short,
there must be volunteers, and who will risk

their lives and ' the town-bred girl stops

short with a shiver, and covers her face with
her hands.

Volunteers ! Where is Mr. Dysart ? ' cries
Vera suddenly, with prophetic instinct.
Speak, girl ! ' turning fiercely on her maid.

Gone down to the beach, madam, to see
what can be done.'

Gone ! ' says Vera slowly, as if dazed, and
then again, ' gone ! ' A little convulsive
shiver runs through her  it is the final 

of any lingering deceits, any last illusions,
that lie may still have clung to.

Order the carriage,' she says after a
minute or two, during which mistress and
maid have remained silent. This sudden
waking-up has been so far a shock that it has
killed all immediate nervousness. She feels
chilled, calmed, strengthened.

The carriage, madam ? '

Yes, for me.'

But, madam, the night ! Have you considered
'

Order it ! ' says Vera curtly, in a tone
the girl has never heard from her before.

The moon has in a measure conquered the
clouds, and now shines out with a pale watery
lustre, that rather adds to than takes from
the weird wildness of the night. The thunder
still rattles overhead, and vivid flashes
light the blackness. Here and there, as the

carriage passes by the outskirts of the wood,
these intermittent bursts of light show where
a tree has been felled, or the road ripped up,
or a small bridge carried bodily away by the
force of the swollen current underneath.

Either there is a civil strife in heaven,
Or else the world, too saucy with the gods,
Incenses them to send destruction.

All through the deadly crashing of the
storm that booming sound may still be heard,
but now at longer intervals. Half maddened
by it, and by that other greater fear, Yera lies
back in the carriage pressing her fingers now
to her ears, now to her throbbing brow, that
feels as if it were bursting.

Arrived at the entrance to the village, a
drive of about a mile from Grey court, she
stops the carriage, and opening the door
springs to the ground. A sudden gust of
wind passing by almost dashes her to the

earth, but by a superhuman effort she defies
it, and half Minded by the flashing lightning,
and bewildered by the raging storm, she turns
aside, and runs panting, struggling, down a
side pathway that she knows leads to the
beach below.

CHAPTER XIX.

And a voice said in mastery while I strove :

Guess now who holds thee ? ' ' Death I said. But there

The silver answer rang, ' Not Death, but Love.'

The wild scene that meets her sight strikes
terror to her heart. The mad roaring of the
waves that, mountains high, rush impetuously-inland
to dash themselves to pieces against
the granite rocks ; the cries of the women ;
the hoarse calls of the men ; the flaming,
restless torches that fling a weird light upon
the picture ; all serve to unnerve her.

Clinging desperately to a piece of rock high
up on the beach, she crouches close to it, and
tries to see all that is going on forward.

There is a considerable group of people

collected on the beach, and she can see by the
still vivid flashes of lightning that all heads
and all hands are pointed in one direction  to
where, far out towards the rocky point, a dark
object can be seen  indistinctly by the dull
light of the sickly moon  but clearly whenever
a dull flash shoots from the heavens. In
the shrouds, and clinging to the rigging, Vera,
with a terrible sense of helplessness, can see
that five human creatures are clinging, with a
natural but very faint hope of saving the lives
that seem so surely doomed to destruction 
only five out of all the souls that set sail a
month ago.

It seems horrible ! She feels choking,
suffocated. Can nothing be done ? Almost,
in her agony of pity for those poor, helpless
beings, she loses sight of the intolerable fear
that has driven her hither, a fear undefined 
vague but sure.

And now a shout from the beach ! A dark
object being dragged forward, a vacant cheer,
perhaps meant to reach those miserable souls
hovering on death's brink, and so give courage
to their failing hearts ; it is the lifeboat, and
now

A tall figure has suddenly become prominent
; he seems to tower above all those
around him. He is evidently addressing them
with passionate words, and now he springs
into the boat, and with renewed eloquence
seems to compel those present to follow him.
His voice, in its vehemence, rises even above
the storm. Not that the stricken girl crouching
within the shelter of her rock needs that
testimony to know that it is he whom her soul
loveth.

Great Heaven, what was it the girl had
said ? ' Almost certain death ! ' Oh, no ! Not
that ! Not this one man ! ' Let all the world

go, but spare me this one creature, kind Heaven
! ' Those five miserable wretches changing
for dear life to the ropes out there are forgotten,
the whole creation sinks away from
leer  only this man exists.

There is a stir on the beach once more, a
ringing cheer, a rush towards the boat, and a
piercing scream from some woman. There
are voices upraised in every form of entreaty

prayers, expostulations, commands. A

brilliant flash from above shows one young
thing hanging wildly round a sailor's neck,
as though defying him to cast her from him.
She is taken away, though, by strong hands,
and flung back, not tenderly, into the group
of weeping women behind. Some of them, as
though given over to despair, and hopeless of
earthly help, fall on their knees, and uplift
their eyes to heaven.

Vera, as though impelled to follow their

example, slips on to her knees. She flings
back the hood of the fur cloak that covers
her, panting for air, and clasps her hands
upon her breast. The wild wind catches the
hair upon her forehead, and scatters it
loosely.

She tries to pray, but no thoughts will
come ; her lips are dry, frozen, dumb. Yet
her whole attitude, her entire mind is surely
one earnest, most fervent petition.

Her pride is broken down at last, so lost,
so dead, that she is conscious now of but
one hope, that she may be given the chance
of telling him all that her heart contains.
This desire is consuming her. Let him
scorn her if he will  it is Ms turn now 
but let her only be given one small five
minutes in which to betray herself. Oh,
to think that he should die and believe her
heartless !

VOL. III. s

But it is not true ! He will not, he shall
not die I Who are these people that he should
give his life for them ? There must be justice
somewhere !

She staggers to her feet, and stares blindly
into the semi-darkness. How much time has
gone by since she fell half kneeling, half lying
in the sand, she knows not, but now a hearty
cry goes up from those crowded together on
the beach. The mists have cleared away from
the moon, and she can see as well as those
other eager watchers that the five black spots
that were upon the rigging are no longer
there.

They have been successful then, so far. They
have taken those yq half-dead creatures into
the blessed lifeboat. Surely, if the rescuers
could go through such a sea in safety, they
can return. A faint sense of hope is struggling
for prominence in her breast, when a scream

from some women strikes like a knell upon
lier heart.

It is gone ! Oli, merciful Heaven, gone ! '

Vera, crushed, faint, starts from her hiding-place,
and runs into the open space before
her, as though in some mad way to rush towards
the speakers. But the wind catches
her and beats lier to her knees. Scarcely
breathing, scarcely, indeed, conscious, and
with her breath falling from her lips in dry
sobs, she lifts her head and gazes out to sea.

And then a blessed relief comes to her, so
sharply, so unpreparedly, that she almost
gives way beneath it. The good ship, indeed,
is gone ! Where the black, indistinct mass
stood a minute since, now all is bare  there is
but sea and sky, and the memory of it ! But
the lifeboat still lives.

To complete her hope, a wild cry rises
from the sailors on the land, a cry mingled

8 2

with eloquent sobs, and cheers, and vehement
outcasts. There is, too, a rushing here and
there, as if of expectation, for these people,
trained to all the sad and beauteous sights of
the sea, could knows before Yera's inexperienced
eyes could fathom the gloom. To her
it seems that no boat could live in such a
mad, boiling, ungovernable sea, yet certainly
those outcries are full of triumph, and presently,
indeed, it seems even to her dull eyes
that now on the crests of these awful waves,
and now deep down in the hollows between
them, a dark and struggling object can be
seen.

And now, now, it declares itself. Every
onward dash of the tempestuous waves drives
the lifeboat the more surely into shelter, until
at last it touches ground. A hundred eager
hands are stretched out to prevent the returning
wave from carrying it backwards ; some of

the men, more adventurous than the rest, rush
into the surging tide up to their waists, and
seize the boat and drag it forcibly into safety.

Dysart, springing to land, helps out the
rescued men, now exhausted by fear and exposure
 one of them, indeed, has fainted 
but there are kindly arms open to receive
them and kindly voices to bid them welcome
and to praise the God of sea and land for
their delivery from death this night.

Dysart, indeed, is threatened with an ovation
; wild, almost boisterous, is the greeting
he receives. The women press round him
with hysterical sobs, and some fall upon their
knees beside him. For has he not only rescued
the shipwrecked men, but brought back
to them in safety their brothers, husbands,
sweethearts, from the very depths of that
awful sea?

Worn-out, fagged to death, Dysart turns

away from them, only stopping to give a last
direction or two about the half-drowned men.

Take them up to the inn,' he calls aloud
to an old sailor hovering on the edge of
the crowd, ' and tell Mrs. Griffin to prepare
beds for them ; and tell her, too, that I shall
be responsible for any expense to which she
may be put. And all you fellows,' raising his
voice, ' who so bravely fought through that
sea with me to-night, I shall have something
to say to you tomorrow  for to-night, go
with these poor creatures to the inn, and tell
the landlady to give you something to bring
back the warmth to your limbs.'

With a hurried wave of the hand he turns
abruptly away from the cheering crowd and
the dancing torchlight, and makes his way
through the heavy darkness towards the small
pathway that will lead to the road above.
Stumbling, uncertain, and feeling altogether

exhausted, he nevertheless finds it, and puts
out his hand to grope for the rock that he
knows stands at the right side of it, where the
beach commences. The dismal moon has at
last taken its final departure, and clouds big
with rain and black as ink cover the heavens.
Once more a storm is about to burst over the
frightened earth.

Already great angry drops are falling,
striking his face, and trickling uncomfortably
down his neck. He has either miscalculated
the exact position of the rock, or

Good Heavens, what is this ? He starts
violently, and then his fingers fasten with
almost convulsive energy over the small cold
hand that has been thrust into his. A little
sharp cry breaks through the darkness, and
then the cold hand is hurriedly withdrawn,
and two arms are thrown round him, and cling
to him with passionate vehemence.

It is you  you ! And you are safe !
Oh, Seaton ! Oh, thank God, thank God ! '

Whose voice is it ? Not Yera's ? Vera !
and yet the changing arms are warm, Hinge
and genuine ; the sobbing voice is real ; a
small dishevelled head is very close to him 
very ! What has happened ? Has he gone
mad ?

Not a word escapes him, but he draws a
long, long breath, and suddenly, as it were,
new life seems given to him. Hot could he
have thought he was tired a moment since ?
The strength of ten men seems now to have
entered into him, as he takes up the slender,
trembling figure bodily into his arms, and
carries it over the rough shingles until he
reaches a smoother part of the pathway.

CHAPTEE XX.

Oh, heart my own, oh, eyes mine too,
Whom else could I dare look backward for ?

One born to love you, sweet.

Here he places lier gently on her feet, but
still with his arm round her, and, always in
perfect silence, they grope their way to the
road, where he finds the carriage waiting, the
men stamping up and down the road to try
to keep warm, and the horses restless and
terrified, as they once more feel the approach
of a storm.

Having carefully placed her in the carriage,
and covered her with furs to try and restore
some warmth to her chill frame, he seats himself
beside her, and the short drive home is

commenced. Even now no word escapes him ;
indeed, it never occurs to him that speech maybe
necessary. Vera has crouched away into
the farthest corner of the brougham, and he,
still retaining her hand in a firm, a resolute,
grasp, sits motionless, stricken dumb by conflicting
hopes and fears. He is sure of one
thing only, that the hand he holds is trembling
and very cold, and that she. Vera, is trembling
too.

At last, at last, the house is reached.
Always holding her hand, as though afraid
to let it go, he assists her out of the carriage,
and leads her into the hall  the door standing
wide open. No servants meet them, and
drawing her with quick impetuous steps into
the room on their right hand, he deliberately
closes the door behind them.

A brilliant fire is blazing on the hearth,
and three or four lamps are burning cheerily.

The intense change from the dull, unutterable
blackness of the night outside to this warmly-lit
and delicately-perfumed room is hardly
noticed by him. For the first time releasing
her, he unfastens her cloak and hood and
flings them on the ground.

Laying his hands on her shoulders he
turns her more directly to the light.

Speak !' he says in a hoarse tone.

He is ghastly pale, white as the death from
which he has but just now so narrowly escaped,
and across his right temple there is a
slight streak of blood, still wet. This adds to
his pallor. Vera, seeing it, shudders violently,
and involuntarily, almost unconsciously, lifts
her hand and presses her handkerchief to the
wound.

Speak ! ' says he again, and now the word
is a command. It rings sharply through the
room. There is a very anguish of doubt in

his tone, and his eyes, burning into hers, are
so full of desperate question, that they utterly
unnerve her.

The strain of the past terrible hours has
been too severe, and now she sinks beneath it.
She bursts into tears.

'Oh, yes, 2/5, YES ! ' she cries, giving him
thus vaguely the answer he requires.

In a moment his arms are round her,
crushing her against his heart. To him those
incoherent words are full of sweetest meaning.
Yes, she loves him ! Who shall tell the joy
this knowledge brings him  joy that is almost
pain?

Darling, darling ! ' whispers he softly.
And then after a little while, ' I am too happy !
I do not know what to say. I cannot speak.'
And then again, ' May I kiss you ? '

He does not wait for permission, but
presses his lips to hers  dear lips, that kiss

him back again, with honest, heartfelt gladness.


When a few minutes have gone by he
speaks again.

Was it lately ? ' he asks, very tenderly.

'I don't know. I shall never know. I

can't remember when it began. But ' she

pauses, and stirs, restlessly yet happily, within
his arms. ' I think it must have been always 
always,' she repeats, as if a little defiant with
herself.

I don't know what is the matter with
me,' says he presently, with a half laugh ; ' I
used to think I had so much to say to you and
now there is nothing. It is the great change,
I think ; the reaction from utter, horrible
hopelessness, to such happiness as I believe no
man has ever known before. I suppose it is
enough for me to see you  to hold you here
against my heart.' He stoops and kisses her

with earnest but gentle passion. ' Well,' lie
says, with a long heavy sigh that seems as if
his very soul is in it, ' whatever comes after
this I shall remain content  you love
me ! '

Something in his tone troubles her ; she
lifts her head and regards him nervously.

What is it ? ' she says.

Listen to me. Vera. I shall not ask you
to marry me. Not now, nor any other time.
Not because you are rich and I am poor  I
should not let that come between us for an
instant but because of  of  that old crime
that must be for ever fresh in both our
memories. I shall not ask you to spoil your
life. There is always this stain on me  that
I am my father's son.'

Stain ! What stain ? What has it got todo
with you ? ' cries she indignantly. ' Oh,
do not speak to me like that ! It makes me

feel as if  you had not forgiven me.' Her
lovely eyes fill with tears. ' If there is a stain
on you, it shall be on me, too ; I will not be in
any way different from you. Surely you belong
to me, and I to you ! Oh,' naively,
beginning to cry again, and burying her face
on his breast, ' do not say you will not marry
me!'

But ' begins he.

No, no, no, I will have no buts ! Are
you doing this to punish me ? Ah, I know
only too well how heartily I deserve it,
but I hoped you would be generous enough
to '

My darling, what folly ! As if I ever
had anything to forgive. But, seriously. Vera,
have you thought all this out to the end ?
You cannot have forgotten '

'I have forgotten nothing,' interrupting
him eagerly. ' But what has it all to do with

you and me ? No one knows about it, except
Griselda and Tom, and even if they did  if
the whole world were to shout it abroad I
should not care. You,' sweetly, ' would still
be you.'

This is an incontrovertible fact, and yet
he sighs deeply.

There are other things,' he says ; ' you
are now in a position to make a very distinguished
marriage. People will remember
that. I know how they regard you already.'

I know how I regard myself, as a robber 
yes, a barefaced thief. Come, see it in another
light  say I don't love you at all, but that
conscience has driven me into marrying you,
just for the sake of restoring you your own
property, which I meanly possessed myself of
some little time since.'

Oh no,' says he, ' I wouldn't look at it in
that light for anything. What ! to think now

that your love wasn't mine ! Do you believe
I should live if I thought that ? '

Well, you needn't die,' says she, ' but are
you going to condemn me to death  and all
for a mere paltry touch of pride ? '

It isn't that, but I think you ought to
consider things more than you do.'

I am going to consider you for the future,
and nothing else,' says Vera, who is indeed
waxing frivolous, as she sees the ground giving
way beneath his feet.

Other people  your friends  will consider
for you, if you refuse to be sensible for
yourself. Griselda '

Adores you ! ' triumphantly. ' Sometimes,
I confess, I have been jealous.'

Peyton '

Sings your praises from morning till
night ; that is why I am so fond of
him.'

VOL. in. T

Lady Eiversdale ? '

Pouf ! If you can find nothing better to
suggest than that, you are a doomed man
Why she is your most devoted servant ; she
has never forgiven me for having usurped
your rights. Perhaps,' with a little artful
glance, ' she will take me back into favour
now ! '

Dysart laughs.

You are determined then ? ' he says ; ' you
will take me ? ' And then with passionate
tenderness, ' Sweetheart, if you could only
know how thankful I am to be taken ! '

It is at this moment that Vera wakes to a
certain fact.

Your clothes are wet ; you are positively
drenched ! ' she cries in a tone of dismay,
passing her hand over his coat, which is indeed
saturated not only with rain but saltwater.
' Oh, why didn't I think of it before !

Go away, go upstairs at once, and charge
everything on you. You will catch your
death of cold ! '

Cold ? I defy it,' returns he radiantly,
throwing up his handsome head. ' My heart
is warm enough to-night to conquer a second
deluge. But you, darling,' anxiously, ' I should
not have touched you, wet as I am, and all
that exposure  that cold, terrible time on the
beach  Vera, I implore, nay, I command you
to take some wine, or a little brandy without
delay.'

Go up to your room,' says she imperiously
; ' I'll send you some brandy there.
Command, indeed ! Your turn has not come
yet, let me tell you. It is I who shall command
for a little while. Ah, there, do go.
You know you said you oughtn't to touch me
with that wet coat, and  yes  I'll promise to
take some wine.'

T 2

'You look very pale,' says lie apprehensively,
releasing her.

'Do you know that we have had no
dinner,' says she, ' and it is now nearly half-past
ten ? Come, let us both get ready for it,
though I suppose we shall have to call it
supper ; not,' with a little shake of her head,
that I think I could eat anything.'

'When we see it we may,' says Seaton,
who if he had been quite ingenuous would
have declared himself starving.

They go upstairs, hand in hand, like two
good little children.

Don't be long ! ' entreats he, on parting
with her at her doorway, with such deep
imploring in his tone as would have done
credit to a man bidding adieu to his beloved
for a score of years or so.

CHAPTEE XXI.

Sorrows remembered sweeten present joy.

In obedience to this ardent request, Vera
makes short work with her toilette. And yet
it is in a very marvel of a gown that she next
makes her appearance  a gown far too lovely
for a simple evening at home with only a
cousin to entertain. But she had tried it on
once, and had felt the charm of it, and she
could not resist the desire to look her very
best in his eyes to-night  this night of all
others. No ; when next he sees her he shall
have no reason to repent him of his love.

It is a soft white gown, innocent of even
one fleck of colour. It leaves her fair sweet

arms all bare, but runs up jealously to her
very throat, which it surrounds with a dainty
fall of priceless lace.

Surely it was made for you, and you
only, madam,' says her woman, as she gives
it a last touch here and there.

Downstairs, seeing him standing awaiting
her upon the hearth rug, she goes quickly to
him with a charming accession of colour, but
no actual shyness.

'My beloved!' whispers he; and then,
after the first embrace, holding her from him,
I never saw you dressed like this before ; I
always knew you were lovely, but now '

You have changed your mind ? ' says she
gaily, laughing a little, and just a little confused.
' Come,' leading him towards the
door ; ' this afternoon you refused to dine
with me  to-night I lead you captive.'

He lias gone down to the village next day,
to keep his appointment with the fishermen,
when Griselda, true to her promise to carry
away Vera with her to her happy home at
Girtonmore, makes her appearance.

Was there ever such a nicfht as last
night ? ' exclaims .she when she has tossed her
hat on to a sofa ; ' it kept me awake half my
time. You felt it here, of course ! When I
wasn't dreaming bad dreams, I lay awake dying
with fright lest this old ruin was tumbling
in on the top of you. It wasn't, however.'

No,' cheerfully, ' it still uprears itself.'

Your spirits are better,' says Mrs. Peyton
with a prolonged gaze at her ; ' you were down
in your boots yesterday, you are up in a
balloon to-day. One never knows how to expect
you. Perhaps,' reflectively, ' that's what
makes you so nice. However, I came over
fully prepared to find you in a state of despair.

That wreck last night must have upset
you ? '

It was awful ! ' returns Vera with a
shudder ; ' but five poor people were saved

By Seaton ; so we have heard. It will
be in all the papers tomorrow. Eeally he
is turning out a perfect hero. I should think,'
lightly, ' his undoubted pluck should melt
even so determined a hatred as yours.'

Vera colours crimson.

You're blushing,' says Mrs. Peyton with
interest ; ' you are as red as fire  a sign of
grace. After all, I believe I was right, and
Seaton is not the demon you have always
painted him.'

A demon ! I don't think I ever called him
a demon,' murmurs Vera nervously.

No, the word as I recollect it was even
much stronger. But you know the veriest
sinner unhung has his good point. Courage

is Seaton's. Poor fellow ! ' with a little rapid
change of tone, and a sudden accession of
earnestness, ' his life is so spoiled, that I daresay
he was sorry the sea did not swallow him
up, and put an end to his troubles.'

Why should you think that ? ' says Vera,
who has grown very pale.

Why shouldn't I ? By-the-by, did you
hear any particulars ? Did you see him after
the rescue ? '

Yes,' in a rather constrained tone. She
is trying to work out a way to declare the
truth to Griselda, but the latter's determination
to still regard her sister as his bitterest
foe makes her task difficult. How can she
declare that she loves to-day the man whom
yesterday she hated ?

Oh ! ' says Griselda. She makes the exclamation
rather prolonged. 'Anything the
matter, ducky ? ' asks she gazing in a puzzled

fashion at Vera. ' I never saw you look so
queer before ! That wreck,' slowly, ' I suppose
? '

Yes, I dare say,' hurriedly, ' to be there 
watching  waiting  fearing lest every wave
should swallow him  tliem correcting herself
hurriedly, and with a rush of blood to her
brow. ' Oh, it was horrible ! ' and she covers
her eyes with her hands.

Him ? ' repeats the astute Grisly a firmly.
Vera, there is no use in your trying to deceive
me. Something has happened ; get it
over at once. It will save time, and nothing
else, as I shan't stir from this,' planting herself
securely on a sofa, ' until I hear all.'

But Griselda '

But me no buts. For one thing, you
were on the spot watching lest the waves
should swallow him. Where was the spot ?
The beach?'

Yes,' falters Yera.

At that lioiir I And do you imagine, my
good child, that I will believe that purely
philanthropic feelings drove you out of a
warm house in a storm that could have razed
St. Paul's to the ground, merely to know how
a ship in distress was faring ? No, no, my
Vera, there was something more.'

Well, what ? ' demands Yera, making a
feeble effort to turn upon and defy her adversary.


There was Seaton ! And I verily believe

Oh, Yera, oh, darling, you are crying !

Is it  can it be true that ?'

Yes, it is true,' says Yera.

And when  ivhen  did you know ? When
did it happen ? Well, it is the blessedness thing !
It just arranges everything. And do you know
all through I liked him, you will remember
that ? '

'And you?' shamefacedly, 'what do you
remember ? All the horrid things I said of
him ?

My dear, to credit me with such stupidity
! Fancy any decent person nowadays remembering
anything that was best forgotten.
No, indeed, and besides '  laughing  ' a little
aversion to begin with is a capital help to a
lasting affection. But how did it all come
about ? '

Oh, I don't know,' colouring.

'Never mind. It was a mean question.
Of course, I couldn't expect you to tell
only '

I could tell you, if I could tell anyone 
and you only,' says Vera, struggling with a
sudden shyness. ' You see it was in this way.
He was going out in the lifeboat with the
other men to rescue these poor creatures, and
I was down on the beach, and when I saw the

raging sea, and then the frail few planks that
stood between him and it, and death, I 

I Oh, Griselda, I thought I should have

gone mad ! And then somehow all at once I
knew, I knew everything. I knew that my
pretended dislike had been but folly, though
it was folly strong enough to deceive even
myself for a long time, and that I loved him
with all my heart.'

Yes, go on, it's beautiful ! ' says Griselda
encouraging her largely. 'I do like a real
love-affair ; none of your wishy-washy sorts,
but a bona-fide, stick at-nothing romance !
Well, you rushed forward, you threw yourself
bodily upon him, and forbade him to tempt
Providence, by rushing to a watery grave,
when there was some one ashore to whom this
particular sea-dog was '

'I really think, Griselda, you  you
needn't !' says Miss Dysart rather affronted.

Mrs. Peyton laughs.

You're so slow about it,' she says ; ' a little
push was all I meant. I thought it might
help you on. Well, never mind, I can quite
understand how you felt when you saw the
sea on one hand and an idiot on the other

I don't think heroism should be called
idiocy,' says Yera rather coldly.

It shouldn't be called so, of course. But
considering how matters stand, I for one
should regard Seaton as an idiot if he had let
himself be drowned last night.'

Well, he didn't,' says Yera.

No. That fact just barely saves him from
my scathing sarcasm. Poor old boy ! Tom
will be glad when he hears about this. But you
haven't told me half your story. Go on, Mrs.
Dysart, I pine for the third volume. When
you saw he would start in that unpleasant
lifeboat, what did you do ?

What could I do ? Nothing. Nothing,
but wear my heart out till his return.'

What, nothing ? And '  with withering
contempt  ' was that all that occurred to you
to sit down and grin and bear it ? Good
Heavens, had the man no coat tails ? Did it
never suggest itself to you to hang on by
them ? Oh, if that had been Tom ! However,
it is all over now, and happily over, sono
more need be said. But I should like to
know that you repent of your inaction at that
supreme moment.'

No, I don't,' says Vera indignantly, ' I
wouldn't swing on any man's coat for anything
you could offer me. It reminds of nothing so
much as one of Artemis Ward's abominable
women. Of course I know you are only
amusing yourself, but still '

I'm not, indeed. I seldom felt so solemn.
If you like a man, isn't it better to demean

yourself a bit rather than lose him for ever ?
It's a large subject, I allow, and  " American
papers, please don't copy ! " Well, let it go
for to-day, at all events. Darling girl' 
very fondly  ' if I talked for ever I could not
tell you how glad I am. I know he adores
you, and there is something about him that
assures me he will make you happy.' She
pauses, and then says softly, ' I need not ask,
but I suppose he is quite another man now ?'

I think you would hardly know him,'
says Vera, with a sudden, eager delight that
tells her sister more than all the rest how she
loves him.

At this moment the door opens and Seaton
enters the room. His first glance is for
Vera. Griselda, regarding him keenly, admits
the truth of Yera's last words. Truly, she
would not have known him, so happily transfigured
is the erstwhile melancholy face.

Griselda has come to take me back
with her to Girtonmore,' says Vera flushing
warmly, and glancing from him to Griselda.

But not alone,' says Griselda, with a
charming smile, as she lays her hand in his ;
you will come with us, will you not ? Tom
will be more than pleased to welcome his new
brother.'

VOL. III.

CHAPTER XXII.

Come back with me to the first of all,
Let us learn and love it all over again ;

Let us now forget and then recall.
Break the rosary in a pearly rain,

And gather what we let fall.

How sweet, how clear, how cool is the
fresh spring wind. Already there is a little
touch, a tiny breath, of summer in the air, a
baby effort, that yet is felt and delights
everyone. April is well begun, and a warm
sunlight is no longer a novelty.

At Greycourt, great openings in the old
yew hedge have been cut, through which the
delicate rays rush merrily upon the opening
flowers within. In the wood below some of
the trees have been felled, and through the

glades sweet glimpses of the dancing ocean
can be had, with here and there a wider view
of the rocky coast.

An exquisite scene, so grand in its wildness
as to make one for ever regret the fact
that once it had been hidden. Craof after crag
rising saw-like, terrible, into the sky, from
the green depths of the waters below. So
straight these granite walls rise, that not even
a shelf stands out to give the adventurous
boy who would rob the pigeon's nest a single
foothold.

To-day the sea is all sapphire, a dark,
deep sapphire, touched and streaked here and
there by flakes of purest white, whilst ail
along its lower coast the scanty verdure stands
out in bold relief, as red-brown as the hide of
a fallow deer.

Now and again the eye catches glimpses
of orange and purple in the valleys on right

XT 2

and left, that half-filled with cloud reach inland,
far, far away to where a misty wall of
shadow dwells, that is in reality a rising hill,
but from here resembles the sulky drawing
back of night to give place to victorious day.

The curling waves are running in little
white rushes along the shore. Not baby
waves, not yet full grown, but strong young
lasses and lads, as it were, hurrying along
in all the glory of their strength and youth,
only to waste themselves upon the strand
of Time !

Sometimes one wave will catch another,
and mingle with it, and clasp it warmly,
whereon a mighty mass of spray will rise
high in the ambient air, and fall again, with a
musical crash, into the solemn parent of both
these wild things.

Over there in the distance the lighthouse
stands, white and glaring in the sunshine.;

whilst nearer, flying between us and it, great
crowds of snowy sea-gulls float hither and
thither, or settle with their other friends in
soft masses on the hot and pebbly beach.

Motionless they stand there, as though
eternally affixed to that one spot. When lo !
a word, a gesture, and they uprise a grey-white
cloud, and the whole wild lovely flock
disappear behind the huge rock leaning ocean-ward
upon our right.

The wild cry of the curlew startles one,
and even as one stares disconsolately after the
last gulls, two solan geese come slowly into
sight, flying now up, now down ; now skimming
close to the dancing waves, now skirting
their very bosoms, as though riding thereon ;
anon uplifting themselves, but always with an
eager eye to the prey beneath.

And now at last there is a downward
dash, a swift rush, a faint wriggle, and the

fish is caught ! Great fishers these, and graceful
as dexterous !

Vera who has come out upon the terrace,
and is now moving slowly down the garden
to that other terrace below, feasts her eyes
lovingly upon this exquisite scene. To-day,
how different it is from that other ocean she
never can forget, with its wild, white, raging?
surface ; and yet to it, too, she bears no ill-will,
for did it not give him back to her, in
spite of all its seeming treachery? And tomorrow
will be her wedding-day !

A great light has been thrown upon the
garden wherein she walks, dreaming sweet
dreams. Heaven's sunshine has been given
room, and now streams over her and every
spot whereon she treads. Over garden, and
pleasaunce, and budding orchard, and the
grim old walls of the house itself.

Workmen are everywhere. The gaunt,

hideous ruin where that last fatal scene in
Gregory Dysart's life took place has been laid
level with the ground. In time old memories
will disappear with it. Sedley has gone back
to Australia, and even if he were to return can
do little to disturb the gladness of the two
lives so soon to be made one.

As Vera reaches the lowest terrace of all
she sees Bysart come towards her from the
wood. There is a very respectable entrance
now from it to the gardens above, a flight of
steps that vanquishes the old wall at once,
and at the top a charmingly rustic little gate.
But as Griselda had said on seeing it, ' It
knocked romance on the head. No more
danger of breaking your neck now, no scope
for the talents of a modern Romeo. One
had but to walk up the steps, swing back
the orthodox gate, and lo ! there you were
in the presence of your beloved without any

trouble at all ! It was far too tame.' Thus
Griselda.

A quick happy flush mounts to Yera's
brow as she goes quickly forward, and gives
her hand to Dysart.

I thought you still in London,' she says ;
I did not think you would come down to
The Friars until to-night, and I did not dare
hope to see you until tomorrow.'

To-morrow ! ' says Dysart. He lifts her
face and kisses her fondly.

Oh, Seaton, the workmen,' expostulates
she, ' don't you know, they are everywhere ! '

Except here,' says Seaton with a rather
uselessly careful look around now, considering
that the crime has been accomplished.
He had indeed forgotten all about them. ' I
wanted to bring you these,' bringing two or
three jewel cases out of his pockets. ' I
thought, perhaps, you would wear them tomorrow.'

He is as embarrassed as though he
were offering her a deadly insult, instead of
as lovely a set of pearls as any girl need care
to have.

Oh, Seaton, how delicious ! ' cries she ;
and now it is she who forgets the workmen.
You extravagant boy, they must have costa
fortune ! '

I have only had them re-set. They were
my mother's,' replies he.

Ah, I thought there was a look about
them one never sees in modern jewels ! ' says
she, and forthwith seats herself upon one of
the stone steps, the better to admire her new
treasures. She is evidently delighted with
them. She strings them round her neck, and
fastens them in her gown, and pushes them
into the high knot on the top of her shapely
head, and otherwise decks out her pretty
person with them. ' And if they look well

now,' cries she naively, taking it for granted
that they do, ' how will they look when I amen
grande toilette ? '

I am glad you will wear them first upon
your wedding-day,' says he softly.

There is a pause whilst she is replacing
them in their cases, and then  

Do you remember. Vera, something you
said about me very shortly after we first met?
I have thought of it so often since.'

Well, don't think of it any more,' says
she, growing rather pale.

Why not ? I don't mind thinking of anything
now. You said you knew it would take
only time to teach you to utterly detest me.'

Why do you remember that to-day of
all days ? '  her eyes are distinctly reproachful.

'Because I am rather proud of it than
otherwise. You have had time and yet  you
don't detest me, do you ? '

Oh, love,' says she, so heartbroken
that he m turn grows miserable, ' will you
ever forgive me entirely, do you think ? It
seems to me that it must be impossible for
you to do it. What madness possessed me in
those days ! All through, do you know, I
believe I loved you, but so many things held
me back.'

I don't regret it now,' says he, ' all I
have gone through, all I have suffered '

Ah, I suffered too ! '

All we have suffered has only made this
present happiness the sweeter. Perhaps I
should not have reminded you of those past
days just now, but, somehow, all my thoughts
seem yours, I cannot keep anything back
from you.'

Well, I defy you to make me sad to-day,'
says she with a little laugh, flinging her momentary
remorse from her. ' Come,' springing

to lier feet, ' let us go to the end of the terrace
and see what the men there are doing.'

They wander away in happy idleness to
watch the workmen at their task, and
scarcely have they done so, when Griselda
trips lightly down the hilly path through the
yew hedge to the gravelled walk below,
closely followed by Tom Peyton. Arrived at
the old parapet she pauses to point out to
him for the thousandth time the exact spot
where she used to risk life and limb to go and
meet him in the wood.

I wonder I didn't kill myself,' says she,
peering over the six feet of wall that bounds
the garden ; ' I was near doing it, I'm positive,
many a time and oft.'

What a frightful thing it would have
been had you done so ! ' says he. ' Just consider
all you would have lost.' He smites
himself expressively upon the breast.

Frightful for you certainly,' with a malicious
glance. ' You would then have been
left stranded in this lonely world, without
the only creature who was, I am convinced,
expressly born to keep you in order. Dear
me,' glancing downwards again with unmistakable
pride, ' it was a difficult climb ! '

Yes. It's astonishing what deadly risks
you ran for the pleasure of seeing me ! ' says
Mr. Peyton complacently. 'Nothing could
keep you from me  not even the fear of
breaking your neck ! '

Nonsense,' indignantly, ' I don't believe
it was half as much to see you I went down
there as for the joy of defying Uncle Gregory!
And, at all events,' with a scornful glance, ' if
I knew you were sitting here now all day
long, waiting as you used to do in perfectly
miserable suspense, I shouldn't dream of
descending that dreadful wall.'

I should hope not, indeed, my dear,' ina
tone of reproof ; ' as a rule, respectable
matrons do not perform acrobatic feats of
that description. Lest you might be tempted,
I shall not, therefore, perch myself upon a
fallen log and wait for you in " miserable
suspense." '

I only wish I had you indoors and alone
for a minute or two,' says Mrs. Peyton, with
full meaning in her tone.

As you haven't, I shall still regard Hfe as
worth living,' returns her husband. ' Come,'
tucking his arm genially within hers, ' let's go
and unearth Vera.'

Dear thing ! I do hope tomorrow will
be as fine as to-day. If ever the sun should
shine upon anyone's wedding-day it should be
upon hers.'

Why ? ' with a rather suspicious thirst
for information.

Oh, you know the old adage, " Happy is
the bride that the sun shines on." '

Ah, and what about the others ? I
recollect it rained cats and dogs on you.'

'Well, doesn't that just show?' retorts
she with a mischievous glance.

Quite so. I entirely agree with you.
It shows what a lying old adage it is. Mrs.
Peyton,' stopping short in the middle of the
pathway, ' are you going to deny that you
are the happiest woman in Great Britain ? '

Tom, what a fool you are ! ' cries his
wife laughing ; and then with a bewitching
little side glance, ' perhaps that's why I love
you so.'

Whatever Tom might have replied to
this is never known, as at this moment Grim
eyes have caught sight of some one
standing at the farthest end of the long walk,

There's Vera ! ' cries she. ' At last, and

Seaton with lier ! Vera ! Ye-ra ! Here weare
! Here I am ! '  she shouts this extremely
superfluous remark at the very top of her
healthy young lungs. 'Aren't you glad to
see us ? After all, we were able to come
quite early.' By this time she is in Vera's
arms. ' And how are you, darling ? No
need to ask, Seaton is with you. How d'ye
do, Seaton? I brought Tom too, because
he'd be sure to be late if he waited for tomorrow,
and anybody late at a wedding puts
everybody out so.'

It's very unfair,' says Tom, in a melancholy
tone. ' I don't think I am such an
unmitigated bore as she makes me out. I
should certainly have been in time for your
wedding, Vera, if I sat up all night to make
sure of it. The fact is, she can't get on without
me and so '

Never mind him ! ' says Mrs. Peyton,

with fine contempt. ' Well, and how does
the trousseau go, Vera ? Any chance of the
wedding garment turning up in time ? You
know I always warned you against that
woman. She is so ultra-fashionable that she
thinks it her duty to disappoint two people at
least in the year ; and besides, she all but
told Grace that '

That she certainly wouldn't disappoint
me,' interrupts Vera laughing. ' If you go in
and up to my room, you will find that spotless
garment lying on my bed.'

It's come I It's on view ! Ye gods, and
here have I been wasting my time ! ' cries
Griselda, turning tail at once and making for
the house. 'Vera, you can follow if you
will, but I for one can stay here no longer
with such a temptation offered to me as a
new wedding-gown.'

Wait and I'll race you to the house,'

VOL. III. X

cries Peyton, who quails before the thought
of doing gooseberry to the two beside him ;
wait, can't you ? Well, I do call that unfair.'
He puts forth his strength and soon
overtakes her. ' I think you needn't have
done that,' says he reproachfully,

What ? '

Left me alone there with them.'

Why ? Did they threaten you ? molest
you ? show any desire to reduce yo-u to
powder ? '

They looked every bit of it ; and they
certainly gave me to understand that my
room was, at all events, as good as my company.
Spoony people have no manners ; I
thought the most ignorant knew that I '

But after all neither Vera nor Dysart are
thinking much about them.

I suppose I must go in,' says Vera reluctantly.
' And you ? '

I must catch the next tram back to The
Friars. It seems too bad that I must leave
you, but there is always a happy thought
somewhere. To-morrow will come, and then
I shall never have to leave you again.' A
little strange half troubled look crosses his
face. They are quite alone, and with a gentle
but impulsive gesture he takes her in his
arms. ' Darling, sweetheart, forgive me the
question,' he says hurriedly, ' but  are you
sure you love me ? '

'I wish I was not so sure,' returns she,
with a rather nervous if entirely happy laugh.
Do you know,' slipping her fingers into his,
that, as each morning comes, I '

She pauses as if ashamed of herself and
rubs her pretty cheek up and down against
his sleeve in a little soft confused way.

Well, darling ? As each day comes

I wonder how it was I didn't love you
enough yesterday.'

Oh, Vera ! ' whispers he, straining her to
his heart.

THE END

PRINTED BY

iPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-STREET Squab

London

"

s

 <s

*

mmKi
