Chapter I.

THE Fatherless.

N that decade which began with the
bombardment of Acre, and closed
four years before the Crimean War,
the drawing-room of Hatherley House looked
very old-fashioned indeed.

For in those days, panelled walls, tiled fireplaces,
carved oak furniture, and blue china
were indications of the owner's character.
Instead of meaning that he swam with the

VOL. I. 1

tide, it meant that he fought against it. Instead
of betraying him for a Worshipper of
fashion, it stamped him for a devotee of the
past. And in Marleyford, where the Fatherless
had Kved for generations, their furniture
was as much identified with them as their
hereditary nose (a handsome aquiline), or
their grand ancestral manner.

Their neighbours, prosperous, cheery modern
folk, quitting their own plate-glass and gilding,
and arriving in that gloomy room, were
straightway possessed with a solemn sense of
the dignity of the Hatherley tradition. And
Mary, the only daughter of the house, sitting
in her statuesque beauty, her Quaker-like
dress, on a straight-backed chair to receive
them, seemed hardly nearer to their desires
or their habits than a graven sant in a niche,
or queen upon a tomb. John, too, the eldest
son and the only son at home, with his sober,
perfect attire, his faultless, marble face, and his
reputation for exotic tastes, had always, even
when youngest, struck people as a young man

whose youth was a polite concession to the
course of nature, but in no sense a period of
immaturity.

While the other rich or aspirant inhabitants
of the town ransacked the Herald's office for
armorial bearings, and blazoned its inventions
on the panels of their barouches, Mary rumbled
along in a roomy chariot, with nothing but an
initial on its chocolate-coloured doors. And
while sons of tinkers and grandsons of tailors
quitted their native town to blossom into
esquires elsewhere, the Hatherleys with every
successive generation struck apparently deeper
roots into the soil there. They gave it to be
understood that it was their pride to remain
where the founder of the family had made his
fortune. That which he had become, that they
persisted in being ; and because his ambition
had been crowned the day he bought a flourishing
brewery, they professed to regard a brewery
as the highest earthly possession.

A very upright, but a very stern man was
the present head of the house. ' Old Mr.

12

Hatherley' he had been called ever since the
stroke of paralysis which had laid him low,
and left the greater part of the business in the
hands of his son, John. He was everything
which his father and grandfather had been
before him, and more. A man of puritanic
simplicity of life, and of rigid uniformity of
conduct, he had never overlooked in his children
or dependents the lightest disregard of
his wishes. The Hatherleys had always been
proud, clear-headed, just. All the organic
qualities which had made his forefathers successful
were crystallized in him. A psychologist
might have wondered in what direction
his children would developed, and argue badly
from the fact that one of them, at least, had
outraged every tradition. William, the second
son, after a career of extravagance had enlisted
in a West India regiment and was never mentioned.
But in Marleyford psychologists were
an unknown species. The good people of the
little town judged exclusively from appearances,
and were burdened with few theories.

And appearances were so remarkably in favour
of John and Mary Hatlierley that it would
have been difficult to have any doubts as to
their future. The handsome, correct, unexceptionable
brother and sister looked as
though no evil could sink deeper into them
than a fleck of dust into marble.

Mary, indeed, had had the faint beginnings
of a love affair which bore a disturbing; resemblance
to the impetuosity and wrong-headdress
of vulgar folk. She had engaged herself
to her second cousin, Ralph Mercer, a worthless
spendthrift. He had been a ward of
Mr. Hatherley's ; but, quickly exhausting
that gentleman's scanty store of patience, had
been dismissed from the brewery in which he
aspired to become a partner. ' What will
Miss Hatherley do?' was the source of some
curiosity when this happened.

But Miss Hatherley apparently did nothing,
only grew a little colder, a shade more reserved;
and was supposed to be duly resigned.

As for John, whom he would marry was a

question to which the answer was so long incoming
that people had almost ceased to
expect it. The greater part of his neighbours
pronounced him a confirmed bachelor. He
was much over thirty, and precise to a fault ;
moreover, he professed a mysterious affection
for old editions of rare books.

John's acquaintances regarded his little
library somewhat askant, or at best with the
good-humoured contempt of people who are
virtuously conscious of no definite superiority
in themselves. And it was remarked that the
young man never aired his archaic scholarship
in presence of his father. Mr. Hatherley was
not a man to tolerate nonsense; that was well
known. The best thing John had to do was
to stick to the brewery, his skill in the
management of which had proved him a chip
of the old block.

One evening the Hatherleys were expecting
guests to dinner. They gave solemn entertainments
at regularly recurring intervals, and
continued the practice even after Mr. Hatherley

became an invalid. The large, low drawing-room
was lifted with wax candles in silver
sconces, while the gloom was further and still
more picturesquely dissipated by the ruddy
blaze of a glorious fire. Mary, seated by the
hearth, was staring in silence  a somewhat
moody silence, as it seemed  at the changing
shapes in the glowing depths of heat. Every
now and again her slender hands, clasped
lightly together on her lap, moved restlessly,
and her straight black brows met in a frown.
Clearly her meditations were not pleasing.
Opposite to her, blinking in a purblind,
adoring, speechless way, like a superannuated
King Charles, was Martha Freaks.

Xot that she was old, poor Martha, only
her air was so humble and depressed, her face
so crumpled with anxiety and love, her attire
so dowdy, that she looked old. She was the
Hatherleys' poor relation and housekeeper,
and had lived with them since Mary had been
left a motherless baby.

Don't look so miserable, darling : it breaks

my heart,' she ventured to say, after a pause
of sorrowful watching.

Mary shrugged her shoulders petulantly.
How can I help looking miserable, when I
remember the state in which I saw him?' she
retorted. Her tone was resentful, not to say
sullen, and Martha quivered under it with an
evident fear of having offended.

Before she could S23eak again, the door
opened to admit John. In evening-dress he
looked more majestic and unexceptionable
than ever. ' Good-evening,' he said, in mellow,
measured tones, as he walked forward and
established himself on the hearth-rug.

Both ladies responded, Mary almost inaudibly
and without raising her head; Martha
with a furtive, half-guilty glance.

You have been to London?' said the latter,
noticing that the young lady was not inclined
to speak.

Yes,' answered John. ' I heard of a Hague
edition of Moliere with original illustrations,
and hurried up to buy it.'

And it took you three days to complete
the purchase?' asked Mary suddenly; so suddenly
that the question sounded like a challenge.


John pulled down his spotless cuffs, and
flicked a speck of dust from the sleeve of his
coat.

I had other business, but it was less important,'
he calmly replied.

Business is an elastic term,' continued
Mary, while Martha turned pale and cast to
her a look of imploring deprecation. ' Whenever
men are bored at home, or have something
to do which they do not care to talk
about, it is easy to discover the necessity for a
little trip " on business." '

She did not speak the words angrily, for
the Hatherley manner was usually calm ;
nevertheless, in her tone there ran a
sound which might have been described as
spite.

John smiled, but not genially.

You speak with a certainty that would

almost suggest some personal experience of
such little "business trips." But naturally
the idea is absurd  since you are not a man

Not another word was spoken, until the
butler threw open the door, announcing the
Eector and his wife, ' Mr. and Mrs. Stratton ;'
close upon the heels of whom followed ' Mr.
and Mrs. Ormerod,' and ' Mr. Russell'

Mr. Ormerod was a banker, the banker of
Marleyford, and Walter Russell was his
nephew. The latter, a refined, intelligent-looking
young man, had, as was well known,
at one time proposed to Mary. Anyone
watching *him closely now as he wished her
Good-evening,' would have guessed that he
was still in love with her, but she showed not
the faintest sign of any feeling  unless it were
a little added weariness.

AYe were almost afraid this morning that
we should not be able to come, for Mrs.
Ormerod received news of the illness of her
brother,' said the banker's loud and cheerful
tones.

Sir Charles?' asked the Rector in a concerned
voice, for Mrs. Ormerod's brother was
a baronet.

 Sir Charles, yes, by Jove ! Serious thing
you know, especially now, when young Charles
is laid up vith scarlatina at school.'

During the significant little pause that followed
this speech, one or two people's eyes
travelled with a veiled curiosity towards
Walter; who, in the event of his boy-cousin's
death, would be next hen* to the title.
Martha looked meekly and regretfully at
Mary ; but Mary gave no sign of comprehension.


I hope you had better news later in the
day V said Mr. Stratton.

Somewhat better. I went by rail into
Canterbury to get the despatch. No necessity
in these days to wait twenty-four hours for
news. We shall soon have a wire here, I am
told ; and a good thing too.'

I have never used the telegraph yet,'
remarked John.

Oh, sou are a Tory to the backbone, my
dear fellow. As much behind the age as  as'
('yom furniture,' the laughing Mr.
Ormerod Alas just about to add, but checked
himself)  ' as if you were your own grandfather,
by Jove!'

John smiled gravely. To a Hatherley such
an accusation was a compliment, and the
banker knew it.

Mr. John lives at home, and has all his
dear ones near him,' observed Mrs. Ormerod,
who had something of a languishing air. ' He
does not yet know the anxieties, any more
than the joys of a family.'

And you all think that he never will 
don't you?' asked Mary, speaking almost for
the first time, and with a sudden, slight
briskness.

John cleared his throat. His air seemed
to say that the conversation was growing
frivolous.

Everybody almost appears to have been
to Canterbury to-day,' said the Rector. ' I

vas there, and so were you, Miss Hatherley,
and Miss Freaks.'

From John's cain eyes there flashed the
faintest perceptible ray of interest. Miss Freaks
turned rapidly of various lively hues. Only
Mary remained to all appearance unmoved.

We went on a shopping expedition,' she
replied.

The shopping expeditions of ladies are
like the business trips of men  of very
frequent occurrence,' quietly put in her
brother ; and the sentence had so little meaning
to most of the hearers that they took it
for a joke and laughed.

Other guests entered, and at last nine
couples filed off into the dining-room, which
had the same sombre and old-fashioned air
as the drawing-room. The dinner was
served on massive plate ; John carved,
and old port circulated. The portrait of the
founder of the family, clothed in municipal
robes and bearing the civic chain, looked
down upon the scene fiom his huge gold

frame above the chimney-piece. He had been
a handsome, striking-looking man, and it was
cunous to see how like John was to him 
like, but 'with a difference.' The original
brow was broader ; the lips were fuller ; the
lines of his face, though stern, were not so
rigid, and there was a fuller life behind them.
John's face was like a mask, impassible, and
miofht cover weakness as will as strength.

He was speaking of his recent purchase,
Mr. Ormerod listening with a polite, half-amused
smile.

Original engravings?' he repeated. 'Ah!
very interesting, I am sure. Don't know
much about such things myself. Where do
you pick up these books ?'

At various dealers. But often, also, from
private persons. The late possessor of the
Moliere lived in ' *

Linden-Grove Eoad,' suggested Mary,
from her end of the table.

By no means. At the opposite end of
London,' corrected John.

Martha, looking uneasy, quavered out in
lier odd, semi senile way :

Linden-Grove Road, Mary dear? Why,
you are thinking of the neighbourhood where
Parsons lives.'

Parsons ?' John asked, rather sharply.

Don't you remember her? She was
housekeeper here once, years ago. She is
bedridden now, and I go to see her sometimes,'
said Martha timidly.

I am glad you go to see her,' replied John
serenely, and turned With some careless
remark to the lady on his right.

There was a little sleepy talk in the
drawing-room later ; a little mild music ;
Walter Russell said a few earnest words to
Mary, who was looking pale and fatigued,
and then at ten o'clock everybody went
home.

Mary !' began John, on returning to the
drawing-room, after seeing his guests off,
but Mary had already slipped away, and only
Martha was left. She was obviously uneasy.

and looked more deprecating than ever. Her
cousin resumed :

You were in Canterbury to-day, I hear.
I need not ask the reason. Of course you
went to meet Ralph Mercer.' Some surprise
now succeeded to the fear on Martha's face ;
never had John spoken to her on that subject
in a tone so removed from irritation.

It was partly my fault that we went she
began, anxious still to shield her darling ;
but he interrupted her with a wave of his
hand.

I ask for no explanations and wish for
none. Mary knows my wishes, and those
of our father. If she chooses to run counter
to both, I cannot help it. But I would like
you, Martha, to try to convince her that my
desire  my most earnest desire  is that she
would treat me with frankness ; and abandon
once for all these clandestine meetings, and
these paltry subterfuges which are as unworthy
of herself as insulting to me.'

Martha stared at him in the blankest

astonishment. The one point on which she
had ever Ventured to think John less than
perfect had been his conduct in regard to his
sister's engagement. For it was he, quite as
much as his father, who had driven young
Mercer away. Could it be that he was
relenting ?

John resumed :

This Parsons ? It is strange I not

remember her.'

She was here for a very short time in your
school days, and left to get married. Jacobs
is a cousin of hers. It was through him that
I first heard she was ill.'

Jacobs ?' John took up the tongs, and
carefully arranged the fire. Jacobs was the
butler, and had been some years in the family.
The young master of Hatherley House was
certainly in a very genial mood to-night, for
while, as a rule, he troubled himself little
about the servants, on this occasion Jacobs
and Jacobs's cousin appeared to possess a
singular interest for him.

VOL. I. 2

And the poor thing is bedridden, Martha ?
I hope she is in good circumstances ?'

Yes Martha said, ' her husband is a
pawnbroker.'

'In the City?'

Xo. In a street not very far from that
Linden Grove Road which they were speaking
of at dinner

Ah, yes. What a strange, absent-minded
question that was of Mary's ! What could
have made her think that dealers in old books
lived up there?' continued John, carelessly
enough, but directing, nevertheless, at his
companion a swift sidelong glance, which she
did not see. Her thoughts were absorbed in
considering' how she could make John a
request that, if granted, would fill Mary With
joy, and earn for Martha that which she most
coveted, the expression of Mary's gratitude.

She sat gazing into the fire, her breath
coming quickly as the words of her petition
alternately trooped to her lips ; then retreated,
unuttered.

It is late,' said John at last, rousing himself
from a gloomy reverie, and eyeing her discontentedly.


Martha rose, lighted his candle, and handed
it to him ; paused, and then, with a valiant
rush, stammered out the words :

John, poor Ralph is really starving.'

Let him starve, the lazy, worthless scoundrel!'
exclaimed John, with a sudden flash of
fire in his eyes, before which she shrank back
as scared as by the blaze of a line of guns.

Bowing her head meekly, she murmured,
 Good-night,' and crept upstairs, mortified,
crestfallen, and heavy-hearted.

John retired to his library. This was a
very handsome room where, installed in a high-backed
chair in front of a pretentious table, he
was accustomed to spend many hours, presumably
in study. The people who found
him there were always impressed in spite of
themselves. And when the grave student,
with a wave of his hand towards a quaint -
looking volume in vellum, would remark that

22

it was an Aldine, his hearer, profoundly ignorant
of what an Aldine misht be. looked at
him with an expression curiously compounded
of contempt and awe. With such a recondite
work ogden before him, John was usually discovered
; and such a work lay open upon his
table now. Shutting it up with a brusqueness
which certes no genuine lover of old books
had ever used before him, he thrust it
away, and sitting doai upon his mediaeval
chair, abandoned himself to a reverie.

Martha meanwhile had gone to Mary's room,
and found her sitting, still undressed, before
the fire.

Did you notice ?' Mary cried exultingly,
her eyes bright with some secret triumph.

'notice ? What ?' asked Martha.

His imitation when I mentioned Linden-grove
Road?'

Martha's hands fell to her side, and she stood
mute with surprise.

'You good old owl!' laughed Mary. 'I
believe you never saw it.'

She was quite right. Martha had not only
not seen, but was still a hundred miles from
comprehension.

What does it all mean ?' she asked.

Never you mind, Patty. You are not clever
at keeping secrets. They always oppress you.
Suffice it to say that in future I shall know
how to manage my immaculate brother.'

Too humble minded to be inquisitive, Martha
waited further information. But Mary continued
to talk in riddles.

I wonder,' she said musingly, ' if I dare
pretend to know enough to extract money out
of him?'

He will not give it, I think', said Martha,
and related what had passed. Mary's face fell.
Either she did love this Ralph very much, ora
girlish fancy had been fanned by need of
excitement and the spirit of opposition into a
flame.

You could squeeze out some money for me
yourself, Patty, if you chose.'

'I?' Poor Martha had nothing of her own

but a miserable 60 a-year. As generous as
she was poor, she spent more than the half of
it in charity or in gifts, and never had a spare
sixpence by the time each quarter was a week
old.

I never knew anybody like you for being
without a penny,' said Mary crossly, seeing
the distress painted on her cousin's countenance.
 You have the housekeeping money. Why
cannot you give me 10 out of that?'

'Mary!'

'Mary? Well, Mary what?' mocked the
owner of that name with considerable peevishness.


It would be dishonest.'

Dishonest ? Nonsense 1 I would give it
you back next week.'

Next week or next year, the wrong would
be the same,' answered Martha softly, while a
steadfast light came into her brown eyes.

I think you are very unkind.' Martha
winced but sat silent. ' Very unkind and
obstinate, and puritanical and  and ridiculous,'

continued the baffled beauty, and thereupon
burst into tears.

A sound of angry sobbing alone broke the
silence for the next few minutes. Martha was
weeping also, but silently. Pale and sorrowful,
she sat brushing away the tears as they
coursed one by one down her cheeks, feeling
herself dreadfully cruel, and yet upheld by a
firm instinct of duty.

You have often been most tiresome, Martha;
but never, I think, deliberately unkind until now.'

The refusal is  is w  worse for me to
make than for y  you to hear,' wailed
Martha, and broke out sobbing in her turn.

Tears are generally supposed to be a sign of
weakness. Mary thought she had triumphed,
and passed from reproach to entreaty. But
although Martha grew damper, limper, more
wretched every moment, she persisted in her
resolution, and Mary ended by flying into a
violent rage. Then Martha, trembling allover,
crushed and mute, rose and bid her
humbly ' Good-night.' She got no answer,

unless the peevish tattoo of an angry foot
could be called such. She stood for a moment
looking imploringly at the averted head of her
darling: then glided away and went down the
passage to her own room, feeling as if she
could never be happy in all her life again. Her
affections were so fresh, her heart was so pure,
her mind so simple, that harsh words and
angry looks affected her as they would a child.
For hours after she was in bed she tossed
from side to side, wondering what she could
do. At last she had an inspiration. She had
one possession of value; her mother's diamond
rig. On the morrow she would pawn that
to Parsons' husband and say nothing of her
intention until she had the money in her
hand, when she would win her pardon from
Mary's glad surprise. Enchanted, she fell
asleep at last, a smile upon her lips. Dreams
were kinder to her than men. In the maitland
of shadows the spell of fear fell from her
spirit; her faith forgot the chill of doubt, and
her own heart's music silenced discord.

DISCOVERIES.

N reaching the station next morning
to catch the train, Martha was
rather surprised to find John on
the same errand. His journeys to London
had grown frequent of late. Formerly one a
month had, on an average, been enough for
him. Now, hardly a week passed without his
running up. Nevertheless, Martha had not
expected to see him start again on this particular
morning, for it was only on the previous
afternoon that he had returned after a
three days' absence.

Blind as a bat, as usual, she did not notice

the slight shade of annoyance that crossed his
face on perceiving her.

Going shopping?' he inquired carelessly,
as he seated himself opposite to her.

She answered ' Yes,' rather quietly: for, as
we know, shopping was not the only object of
her journey.

I am bound for the City,' said he. ' I
suppose your destination is Oxford Street,
and you will return by the two o'clock train?'

Martha thought she was quite sure to return
at two o'clock, and said so.

That will be too early for me,' he remarked,
as if the idea of accompanying her
back had been the only reason of his question.
And although railway speed was a much
smaller thing in those days than it is in ours,
he did not once again unclose his lips until
the train steamed into the terminus.

Martha got through her shopping with the
utmost haste, being eager to settle her business
with Parsons. On descending at last from
the Red Cap omnibus, and knocking at the

door of the clings house m the Httle street of
shops that turned out of Linden-Grove Road,
she was startled to find herself received by a
weeping maid-of- all-work.

What is the rather?' she asked sympathetically,
agitated always at the sight of trouble,
even though the sorrowful one was the tiniest
of maidens that had ever scrubbed a doorstep.


It's the missis, ma'am. She's in a faint.
I thought you might have bin the doctor.'

Has a doctor not been?'

Xo, ma'am; but he has sent to say he is
coming. He's with a little boy in the Linden-grove
Road, who has got convulsions.*

Martha, arriving upstairs, found the patient
surrounded by her husband and one or two
friendly female neighbours, who had resorted
to such remedies as their simple science suggested.
When the doctor presently made his
appearance, Mrs. Parsons was quite sensible
again, although so pale and exhausted that he
feared a second attack. He recommended

absolute quiet ; and glanced analytically at
the bystanders, with a view of discovering
who among them was most likely to enforce
the execution of his orders.

You had better stay With her,' he said, addressing
Miss Freake.  Can you?'

'For a few hours,' she replied, making up
her mind to the loss of her afternoon.

That's right. Then I will return in an
hour or two. Should there be a relapse, and
you want me in a hurry, you will most likely
find me close by in Linden-grove Road,
No. 14. I have a bad case there, which requires
watching.'

As the illness of Mrs. Parsons has very
little to do with our story, we may merely
state that she had no second attack, and that
about four o'clock Martha was able to leave
her. Her husband, grateful to the little
woman for her attention to the invalid, very
quickly and liberally transacted the business
of the ring, and Martha found herself the
possessor of ten pounds and a pawn-ticket.

Greatly pleased with the success of her
enterprise, she bid the sick woman good-bye,
said a few kind words to everybody, and
started forth bravely through the fog and
drizzle for the Red Cap.

Her shortest way lay through Linden Grove
Eoad, and passing down that street, her
tender heart reminded her of the little boy
who, as the doctor had said, was so very ill.
She began to wonder how he was, and peered
about for No. 14. Xot that she meant to go
there, but she felt an interest in the house,
knowing that a child's laughter had been
hushed within its walls, and that sickness had
stayed the busy tread of little feet and laid
low a tiny head. ' This must be No. 14,'
thought Martha, blinking; through the mist.
Yes  and surely that was the doctor who had
just clinked open the garden-gate. He was
coming away from a visit to his patient. She
might give him news of Parsons, and ask him
if the little boy were better.

She stopped at the gate with this intention.

But the doctor did not notice her in the uncertain
light, for he was speaking to a gentleman
behind him.

And you really think I can leave him with
safety to-night ?' asked a voice, whose tones
rooted Martha to the ground with amazement.


Indeed he is much better,' replied the
doctor. ' Not only can sou leave him, but I
have impressed upon Mrs. Howard the necessity
of seeking rest herself. She will breakdown
entirely, otherwise.'

My wife is unfortunately of an anxious
temperament,' answered John : for John
Hatherley it was who was leaning on the
gate and saying these inconceivable things.

His wife ? Martha with difficulty suppressed
an exclamation of surprise and dismay.
Surprise that John should be secretly married ;
dismay at the secrecy, and the consequent
danger of detection. She shrank back into
the shadow like a guilty thing, letting the
doctor go past her unchallenged ; and waited

in a kind of dream until John's receding steps
had died away upon the gravel walk.

Then she darted forward with but one idea,
that of escape ; nor did she breathe freely until
she was once more seated in the omnibus and
jolting back to the station, where she had to
wait. The stupor of her recent discovery
imprisoned her mind like a mould of lead,
affection her hardly less than if she had found
John out in a crime. What kind of woman
could he have married ? And what would
his father, what would everybody say, when
discovery ensued ? To our simple-minded
Martha, steeped in the habits of the Fatherless
and imbued with their traditions, a clandestine
marriage in connection with one of
them seemed nothing less than highly improper.
And how was she to behave under
the weight of this astounding mystery? The
thought of betraying John never presented
itself to her. She was as loyal as she was
loving ; and in so far as silence could shield
him, she was just as ready to stand by him

now as in the old days, when he got into
boyish scrapes, and her indulgent protection
alone averted the birch. But surreptitious
visits to the jam closet are one thing ; a
family hidden away in a remote suburb of
London is another ; and Martha nearly
groaned aloud as she realized that all she
could do for John now, her dear cousin, was
to suffer for him in agonized silence and
suspense.

Lest such feelings should seem exaggerated,
it must be remembered that among the many
believers in the Hatherley ' legend,' the
staunchest, the most fervent, the most unquestioning,
was Martha. No single thing
ought to threaten the foundations of that rock
of respectability : yet a clandestine connection
implies something disgraceful.

She felt quite worn out with perplexity
when she reached home at last, and was fairly
past deriving any delight even from bestowing
her 10 upon Mary.

Where did you get it V asked that young

lady, surprise predominating over every other
sentiment.

Martha, unable to fib, but blushing at the
confession, tremblingly recounted how she had
pawned her mother's ring. Mary was touched,
but not deeply, being accustomed to Martha's
devotion.

John has been to London again to-day,'
said Mary, kneeling down in fi:'ont of her
cousin, all her stateliness banished by secret
exultation. ' You saw him, I know, Martha.
You came back in the same train with him.'

But not in the same carriage,' replied
Martha, who had indeed avoided John on her
return, as though he had been plague stricken.

Was he alone at the London station 
quite alone ?' questioned Mary, with kindling
eyes. 'You say 'eyes," Patty, but you
mumble the words in so odd a way that I vow
I hardly belie veyou.'

Martha cowered over the fire in silence.
Did Mary know anything? And if so, how
much ?

VOL. I. 3

You are late,' said John to her presently,
when he joined them in the room ; and his
eyes rested coldly on the meek little figure,
almost as if he disapproved of her being still
in her cloak and bonnet. ' I thought you
meant to return by the two o'clock train?'

I  I was detained. It's  it's nearly
dinner-time,' stammered Martha, and hurried
away, fearful of further questioning.

 One would almost think you had an interest
in Martha's returning early,' remarked
Mary, looking straight into her brother's
face.

You are mistaken. Martha's movements
have but a limited interest for me. / have
never made her a confidante, nor employed
her on clandestine errands,' retorted John.

Which means that I have,' said Mary
tranquilly. ' Union is strength, John. Ashy
should you and I not make mutual confidences,
with a view to mutual advantage?'

'You must demonstrate to me first the
nature of the confidences which I could have

to make,' replied lier brother, his marble face
more inscrutable than ever.

She kept her eyes fixed on him for a space,
then saying, ' It will be your own fault if I
am alienated,' relapsed into silence.

It was a few weeks later that Martha and
John found themselves alone at breakfast.
The circumstance was not an unusual one, for
Mr. Hatherley of course was never present,
and Mary just now had reached that stage of
a sentimental grievance which results in incapacity
for all the minor tasks of life.

The post-bag had arrived, and John, after
sorting the letters, was engaged in reading his
own. He had handed the Times to his cousin,
not for her own perusal, but to cut and smooth
for his, and if he thought of her at all, he
probably supposed her to be taking the opportunity
to glance at it. But Martha's mind,
not intellectually inclined at the best of times,
had no room in it at present for news of the
Spanish marriages or any subjects of a kindred

32

nature. Her eyes were fixed on John. Ever
since the day of her exciting discovery, lie
had possessed a kind of fascination for her.
Lately also, certain circumstances had happened
which had the effect of increasing Miss
Freake's interest in him. His double existence
as a bachelor in Marleyford, and a
married man in London ; his unaltered
dignity and unruffled calm under the weight
of such a fact, lifted him in her simple mind
to an epic grandeur of audacity. She had
fallen into the habit of watching him, quite
unconscious of the annoyance it gave him and
the sullen dislike which she was thus creating
in his mind against her.
A thrill of absolute excitement ran through
her now on noticing that one of John's letters
seemed to cause him agitation. He changed
colour visibly on reading the first lines, and
turned hastily to the signature. That apparently
did not afford him any satisfaction
either, for he frowned angrily. Martha, her
loving inquisitiveness fully roused, strained

lier short-sighted eyes in a van endeavour to
guess the nature of the communication. The
T\Titing Twas small and cramped  so much she
could make out, and something in its general
ah' had a queer, distorted kind of likeness to
]diary's hand. This circumstance, which poor
Martha had good cause to remember later,
struck her now but for a passing moment, asa
mere imperfect coincidence.

Convinced that the writing was a woman's,
she was not slow in attributing it to the
mysterious lady in Linden-Grove Eoad ; and
her imagination, always romantic, bepan to
suofofest a thousand possibilities. When

~o JL

John, rising at last, announced that he would
have to go that day to London, and that he
might not be back to dinner, Martha became
more and more persuaded that some crisis had
occurred in the clandestine establishment.

If he would only tell me  trust to me ! I
might be of some use !' she thought pathetically,
her glance following his tall figure, and
affectionately dwelling on his inscrutable face.

Thank ye ! thank ye 1' said John brusquely,
as Martha, ridiculously too short, stood on
tip-toe in a futile endeavour to help him with
his great-coat. He was cross, and the attention
bored him, while she lovingly excused
all things in him, including petulance to herself.


He started for the door ; then suddenly
paused, and turned to address her.

Martha, I hear Mr. Luscombe was here
one day last week in my absence. Do you
know why he came?' He asked the question
with an air of great carelessness, but his eyes
were watchful.

Mr. Luscombe ? He spoke with your
father,' murmured Martha, turning very red.

'Of course. But of what? Ah.1 I see you
do not intend to enlighten me.' And John,
with a displeased expression, walked away.

Mr. Luscombe was the family lawyer, and
he had of late paid one or two visits to
Hatherley House. And Martha, on her side,
had been rather oftener than usual to London.

These two facts had reached John's knowledge
and proved unwelcome. Her reserve did not
tend to put him in a better humour ; on the
contrary, it increased the vague feeling of
irritation against her that he had been conscious
of for weeks.

John had hardly left the house, when Mary
appeared. Her breakfast and letters were
always taken up to her, and she did not
generally come down until late. But on this
occasion she had seemingly been only waiting
for her brother's departure to descend. She
was looking pale yet exultant, and her eyes
were bright with excitement.

Patty,' she began, with the charming grace
that she displayed at times, and that her
cousin always found irresistible,  tell me, did
John seem annoyed by anything this morning?'


Martha was fain to admit that he did : and
by dint of further questioning, Mary elicited
the fact that it was a letter which had
caused it.

Patty, I want you to do me a favour,' she
said, later in the day.

Anything you like, darling,' replied her
fervid and incautious slave.

I wonder if I can trust you,' continued
]diary, contemplating her reflectively. ' You
make dreadful blunders sometimes, Patty.'

Martha, oppressed by the consciousness of
her stupidity, had nothing to say.

I must risk it,' said Mary, lowering her
voice confidentially. ' I want you to go to
the post-office the day after tomorrow, and
get a letter that will be lying there addressed
to "X. Y. Z." You must bring it direct
to me.'

Mary had expected eager compliance, and
was surprised to see no sign of it, but to be
met by silence. 'Well?' she exclaimed impatiently.


Martha's face presented a study of contending
emotions. This was the second time that
Mary had made a request to her which she
found it difficult to grant. She feared, her

secret knowledge rendering her imaginative,
that some trap was being laid for John, and
to that she could not be a party.

This which you beg of me to do, is it
anything unworthy ?' she asked, shrinking
from the question, even while she uttered it,
because loth to hint at the shadow of evil in
connection with Mary Hatherley.

That young lady became rather red, but
/ also rather angry.

You are so absurd of late,' she exclaimed.
Of course it is nothing unworthy. Only a
little piece of poetical justice ; fun, in fact.
I  that is  a friend of mine and myself, we
wish to give my saintly brother a fright.'

]martha looked grave.

You must tell me more.'

To tell you would spoil the whole,' said
Mary petulantly. ' If you don't go I shall
send some one else, and then there is no
knowing what mischief may ensue. Any
stranger sent on such an errand would think
that some important secret is concerned, and

might open the letter. He would talk : and
only imagine the effect of such talking in
Marleyford !

Martha made no immediate reply. Mary's
words had for her a greater force than the
speaker could guess. She had not, it is true,
an idea of the nature of the letter, or of the
measure to which it could affect John ; and on
the other hand, she dared not question. She
feared by interrogation to excite suspicion and
illuminate facts still wrapped up in darkness.


You cannot refuse me such a little favour,
Patty,' began Mary once more, caressingly.
The coaxing tone went to her cousin's heart.
Still she could not yield at once. Mary entreated,
repeating again and again that the
letter must be withdrawn, ' if not by Martha,
then by somebody else.'

If I bring you the letter, what will you do
with it ?' asked the yielding woman.

 Tear it up,' answered Mary with a light
laugh, that yet was a little forced.

You promise questioned Martha, looking
at her earnestly.

I promise replied the girl : though her
glance flickered.

Martha sighed. But love and anxiety for
those she loved combined to vanquish her ;
and Mary, triumphant, finally extracted from
her the promise that she would go.

The day came, and Miss Freake went ; but
no letter was forthcoming. Mary, much disappointed,
insisted on her promise to go again
at the end of another few days.

So one fine mornings, when the air was
balmy, although the trees were still leafless,
and when crocuses and snowdrops had suddenly
revealed themselves in all the gardens,
Martha started off* once more, the post-office
her final destination. First she had many
small errands of business and of charity to perform
; some bills to pay, some bedridden
crones to visit. Blither than usual, the cloud
of humble depression which generally clung
around her gentle spirit a little lifted, she

trotted from place to place. Perhaps it was
the soft, lovely weather that made her feel so
bright ; for Martha Freake was very sensitive
to external impressions. Far more sensitive,
indeed, than most people, looking carelessly
at her crumpled little face under her dowdy
bonnet, thought it worth while to guess. Poor
simple, loving Martha !

At last she turned into the street where the
post-office was ; presented herself before the
clerk, and asked for a letter addressed ' X.Y.Z.'
It was handed out to her. With a spasm of
surprise, she recognised the handwriting of
the address for John's. Hastily thrusting the
mysterious missive into her pocket, she turned
and found herself face to face with a quiet -
looking stranger. What he had to say to her,
and what happened next, the curious reader
wall learn in the following chapter.

THE WILL.

Stairs, in a warm, comfortable,
remote room, where the bustle and
lGb< stir of the household could not
reach, Mr. Hatherley spent his days. They
were monotonous drowsy days, saddened by
weakness and the sense of an imminent end.

The brewer had never possessed many
mental resources : never had been a reading:
man, or made his son's pretensions to culture.
Now, as the gloom of weakness and of age
gathered round his spirit, he had but one occupation.
That was, to go over and over again
in memory the details of long-past business

operations. His mind was very clear, but his
vivid interest in present things as a rule had
vanished. Generally silent, and a little morose,
rather than patient and resigned, he would
flash out at intervals into energy or anger.
And his intelligence on these occasions was
still so keen, his views so decided, his will so
swift and strong, that the whole household
shrank from rousing the slumbering lion. His
restless irritability and proportional sharpness
of insight, kept his children and servants on
thorns, for the lightest word sufficed to annoy,
and the faintest indication to enlighten him.

Late one afternoon he sat at his usual place
by the fire, the landscape still dimly visible
through the unsheltered windows. The reflection
of the blaze on walls and furniture became
ruddier by contrast with the shadows which
it could only partially chase. The servant on
bringing the lamp had been bidden to take it
away again. Silently, almost humbly, he
obeyed, for the day had been one of Mr.
Hatherley's worst ; and now he was supposed

to have sunk into the semi stupor which
generally followed his outbursts of excitement.
He had a rugged, stern, old face  the set face
of a man who had known few, although strong,
emotions, and responded to fewer ideas. But
now on the sunken, cold lips a softer expression
than usual dwelt. Once or twice the
wrinkled hands trembled, and an open letter
which they held rustled as in answer to some
quiver of the aged frame.

All in the dark, father ?' exclaimed Mary,
entering suddenly. ' How careless of Jacobs !'
And she rang the bell.

The old man did not seek to justify Jacobs,
or to answer. He still seemed lost in thought.
!Mary glanced at him rather impatiently, and
no quick instinct of love warned her of the
subtle change in his air. Her mind was, as
always, full of her own affairs. Earlier in the
day she had almost decided to appeal to him
for money ] but his mood had been ungracious,
and her courage failed.

When the lights were brought in, he roused

himself a little, and, lifting his eyes, fixed them

on his daughter Tith a sino-alar, wistful look

o

almost of tenderness. She was startled  even
shivered with a vague awe. sever before had
he so looked at her ; and recalling the mystic
change that sometimes precedes death, she
wondered whether it were some prescience of
his end which now filled her father's eyes
with that strange forgetfulness.

She laid her hand on his wrinkled, trembling
fingers, generally so nerveless, and felt them
close kindly, although feebly, round her own.

You are like your mother to-night, my
dear, it seems to me,' he said. 'Or perhaps
it is only that I have been living all day in
the past.'

Can I do anything for you, father? Is
there anything you want?' asked Mary, oppressed
by the silence and by her own unwonted
emotion. Her shallow nature could
not long bear the strain of a painful feeling.
She wished he would take those wan, solemn',
regretful eyes from her face.

I have thought of you a great deal to-day,'
he resumed, the senile trembling of his lips
increasing as the slow words came through
them ; ' of you and Will. I have been reading;
his last letter ; that one in which he says
he is about to marry. You remembered

 Yes ; you said it was certain to be a
marriage to disgrace us,' said Mary jealously,
for there had been scant love between herself
and her younger brother, and she had no
desire to see him reinstated in her father's
favour.

Ay,' answered Mr. Hatherley ; ' I said so,
I remember. But things seem different now.
I should like him to be happier than he has
been.'

He does not deserve much happiness that
I can see,' replied Mary, too angry now for
tenderness.

*I have been unjust to him, and not generous
to you, my dear. I was over-persuaded.'

By John 7 cried Mary, a sudden light
breaking upon her.

VOL. I. 4

Yes he answered musingly. ' John is
hard, but I thought him just, and I had faith
in him until now. Lately '

He paused, and his head drooped again.
Mary was livid with excitement at the thought
of the danger she had barely escaped  nay,
which perhaps still hung over her head.
Should she tell that secret something she
knew of her brother, or would silence be
wiser? Resentment and self-interest alike
urged her to speak.

Father, I have a thing to tell you  a
secret of John's,' she said, grasping the old
man's arm in the intensity of her eagerness.


He lifted his eyes to hers, but they had a
wandering' look which alarmed her. "Were
the shades of death already obscuring his
tardily awakened conscience ? Was he drifting
away so fast that her touch could no
longer detain, her voice no longer reach him?
In a spasm of fear she fell on her knees beside
him.

I should like to reverse the will,' he
murmured. ' But perhaps I have no time.'

The whispered, mournful words sickened
Mary. What had he done ? Was she to be
left penniless ? Springing up, she hastily
collected iens, ink, and paper. ' Dictate I'
she exclaimed. ' I can write, and you can
sign it.'

Once again succeeded a moment of that
terrifying silence, during which, breathless,
she leant forward and peered into his face.
But it was the slow gathering' to<2!:ether of his
enfeebled faculties that made the pause; for
suddenly he roused himself, and in clear tones,
with a steadfast look, began to dictate :

'February 10th, 18-1  . Besides the minor
legacies mentioned in my latest will, I leave
to my daughter Mary, and to my son William,
30,000 each for their own exclusive use and
benefit. The remainder of my real and
personal estate I leave iu the manner already
set forth.'

His voice ceased. Mary looked up. 



LIBRARY

UWVESnV OF ILLINOIS

fore she could speak, he stretched out his
hand towards the pen.

Call Jacobs and Gregory as witnesses.
Be quick, child ! I think the sands are slipping
fast.'

She flew to the bell, and its summons not
being answered rapidly enough for her impatience,
sped down the staircase calling
Jacobs ! Jacobs !' at the top of her voice.

Quick !' she cried, when half a dozen
startled servants came running. ' Jacobs,
come ! Somebody call Gregory. Your master
wants two witnesses to his signature to a
will.'

 A will? At the eleventh hour, as you
may say, poor gentleman  what a freak!'
commented Mrs. Hoare, the housekeeper, while
she despatched an underling for Gregory, the
gardener, and Jacobs followed his excited
young mistress upstairs.

Mary, of course, was the first to gain the
room, and then Jacobs heard her give a shrill
cry of astonishment and dismay. On putting

in his questioning countenance, Jacobs found
Mr. Hatherley in his usual attitude by the
fire, Mary standing speechless in the middle
of the floor, and upon the hearth-rug, quietly
warming himself, imperturbably irreproachable,
was  John !

The two servants, who had now come,
could not take in the full meaning of the
scene, for they felt that there was some
mystery, and remained staring, silent and
puzzled.

'What is the matter?' inquired John affably.

Jacobs looked at Gregory, and Gregory at
him ; after which, both directed glances at
their young mistress. But she seemed dumb-founded,
and vouchsafed not a word.

Miss Mary said, sir, that we were wanted
to witness a will,' replied Jacobs respectfully.

'A will?' repeated John sharply. 'What
vill ? My father's ? I thmk you are all
mad.'

Then Mary, beside herself, burst out : ' I
tell you the codicil was there on that

table a codicil destroying your frauds.
You have taken it. Grive it back !'

Her words came out in gasps. She was
half suffocated with an emotion which, in all
her decorous life, she had never felt or shown
before. At last she positively rushed at her
brother, as if to wrest the truth from him ;
but he seized her by the wrists and held herat
arms-length, his cold contemptuous eyes
scanning her face.

You are disgracing yourself, Mary. You
are dreaming. Where is the codicil? Look
for it,' he concluded quietly.

Where was it indeed?

Mary turned imperiously to her father, but
even her anger shrank from questioning him;
for he was sitting back in his chair quite silent
and still, with a fascinated look of horror in
his eyes, and a trembling of his whole frame
inexpressibly painful to see. The scene was
evidently too much for his failing strength
and it was more than likely that whatever he
knew he would not tell. On the floor was a

crumpled sheet of paper. Mary pounced upon
it, but threw it away again the next moment,
on finding that it was only William's letter.
Her hungry eyes turned to the fire, but no
trace of any consumed document was there ; so
again she faced her brother. He had never
taken his gaze off her, and now spoke as calmly
as before:

You are convinced of your folly, I hope ?
iso ? Then I am tired of it, and I think the
servants had better withdraw.'

Gregory and Jacobs took the hint, and
vanished. Mary cast herself upon a sofa,
sobbing. John stood by with a gloomy frown.
All at once, across the scornful silence, Mr.
Hatherley spoke. ' I wish,' he said, slowly
and distinctly, ' to be left alone.'

Both his children started with a momentary
sense of remorse. The quiet command so
feebly yet so authoritatively spoken, falling
into the midst of their sordid self absorption,
was like a voice from the tomb.

Come to your room,' said John to his

sister, who had stayed her sobs and risen. ' I
have to speak to you seriously, and we worry
my father. You will ring for Hoare if you
want her, sir ;' and John, after a keen, dissatisfied
glance, crossed the room and bolted
the door communicating with the servants
staircase.

Signing to Mary to follow him, he led the
way to her bedroom, and closed the door. ' It
is nearly dinner-time,' he began. ' Has it
struck you as strange that Martha should
still be out?'

Martha ? The subject was so unexpected at
that moment, that Mary absolutely started. ' I
have had other things on my mind she replied
sullenly.

She did not return to lunch, and she will
not be here to dinner,' said John. * It seems
you have heard nothing ?'

Nothing at all; nobody has called to-day,'
answered Mary slowly, looking at him with a
growing feeling of disaster. She did not
wish to ask what had happened; but he remaineth

silent, and she could not bear the
suspense.

Where is Martha ?'

In gaol.'

Mary shrieked. The swords were like a stab.
But even then it was the blow to herself of the
announcement which she felt most of all.

'Cruel! cruel!' she cried, and covered her
face with her hands.

The cruelty belongs to the person who sent
her on a felonious errand,' retorted John. ' I
was amazed when I heard of it. Mr. Ormerod
called himself at the brewery about it, twice.
The first time I was out; and this and other
delays made it impossible to get her out on
bail to-day. But tomorrow, when she is
brought up for examination, I shall of course
do what I can for her, although I am myself
the prosecutor.'

Mary sat listening, half stunned, to the cold,
commonplace words ; commonplace in their
meaning, and as John uttered them, but tragic
in their significance to her. Two questions

kept recurring constantly to her, beating
against lier brain like hammers. ' What would
happen to herself? and what to Ralph?'

Do you wish Martha to remain under this
charge?' he asked.

'I?' she repeatedly faintly.

She has only been your tool : and, as I
believe, your innocent tool,' continued John.
If I state this conviction before the magistrates
tomorrow, she will be discharged.'

Mary wrung her hands. All the consequences
to herself were beginning to dawn upon her.

I need not point out that disgrace will fall
on you, even though you are not arrested as
Ralph Mercer's accomplice,' he pursued unrelentingly.
But if Mary had not brains she had
some courage, and his tone stung her to revolt.

You are trying to frighten me with your
talk of felony and punishment, John. But
after all, what the letter said was perfectly
true. You have a clandestine establishment?
and you wish to keep it a secret.'

That is quite true. But the mist you

and Ralph made was in menacing me, supposing
that I woukl pay a large price for the
secret to be kept.' Mary started. This was a
new aspect of the question.

To my wife, herself (for the lady in Linden-grove
Road is my wife), nobody could make
any objection. But I will not conceal from
you that there are circumstances connected
with her Which might render my father angry
at the marriage '

And leave you out of his will,' interrupted
Mary, with scorn.

Precisely.'

His coolness exasperated her. Her eyes
flashed, and she was about to make some
angry observation when he raised his hand to
impose silence.

Let us talk frankly, Mary. If I am in your
power to a degree of which, observe, you are
ignorant, you are in my power to an extent of
which I am fully aware. Martha, poor soul,
between bewilderment and loyalty, said very
little to-day, and nothing that could compromise

3'ou. But she evidently counts upon
you to release her from her present position,
and it is impossible to say how long her
silence may last when she finds herself mistaken.
Her story, to the prejudiced ears of
Marleyford  prejudiced in our favour,' said
John, with an air of sardonic satisfaction 
will probably at first strike everybody as
wildly improbable, but its ultimate acceptance
will largely depend upon me. If I state my
conviction that my cousin was my sister's
cat's-paw, I fancy our kind neighbours and
friends will, one and all, accept the succulent
morsel of scandal whole. Martha will be
pitied as a victim and exalted as a martyr ;

shall bring my wife, her existence no longer
a secret, in triumph home ; while you, my
dear  well ! I leave you to imagine the figure,
more novel than edifying, that you will cut.'

Mary was speechless with dismay and rage.
In the last few minutes she had lived through
a decade of mental experience. She saw her
respectability in men's eyes  that elaborate

fabric built up of family tradition and personal
pride  threatened to its foundations ; she was
frightened for her lover, frightened for herself,
a little remorseful about Martha ; and aghast,
to the point of pain, at the unexpected revelation
of her brother's true character.

I  I declare I do not know you !' she
exclaimed.

You do not know me because this is the
first time in our lives that the clash of
antagonistic interests has brought out the
essential difference between us. If you will
have confidence in me  good. If not, Mary,
you will have nobody but yourself to blame
for anything unpleasant that may happen to
you.'

Her nerves irritated by his stern composure,
his calm superiority, Mary again sought refuge
in tears. He let her sob for a little while.

IN'ow, Mary, for the question of the money.
I have just detected you in the attempt to
obtain a codicil by undue influence.'

My father volunteered to make it,' she

flashed out, restored to some momentary
energy.

The proof ? Let me tell you that a codicil
in your own favour and your own handwriting
would look very suspicious in the eyes of the
law. And why do sou object to the original
will ?'

For aught I know I am disinherited,' she
said, falling into the trap laid for her, and
betraying her real ignorance of her father's
intentions.

John indulged in a smile of quiet triumph ;
and as he had learnt all he needed to know,
he was gratified at this moment to hear the
clash of the gong.

Seven o'clock, I declare! Come, Mary,
dry your eyes, and be reasonable. You will
certainly make ducks and drakes of any money
which is left you ; but at the same time, if it
be any comfort to you to know that you will
not starve, of that I can assure yon. You are
in a hole, and so is Ral23h, for that affair of
the letter is criminal ; but if I am pleased

with you, I will stand your friend. And we
will get Martha off also  call her insane,
perhaps.'

Cowed afresh by this reiteration of the
danger hanging over her, Mary rose, sulkily
but obediently, and accompanied her brother
downstairs. There the respectful Jacobs was
waiting for them, and the dinner began in its
usual form.

But it was not destined to be thus concluded.
All at once the silent brother and
sister were startled by the sound of a heavy
fall in the room above, which was Mr. Fatherly's
sitting-room. They looked at one
another with questioning eyes, and John half
rose from his seat, listening.

At this moment in rushed Mrs. Hoare, pale
and scared.

Oh, sir ! the master ! . he is lying
insensible ! . . . I think he is dead.'

When the son and daughter reached their
father's side, they found him lost to all consciousness,
but still breathing. The doctor,

summoned in haste, pronounced the attack to
he a fresh seizure, and declared his conviction
that it was destined to he the last ; which
sent the whole house into a commotion.

In point of fact, the old man never rallied,
and, just when the dawn was breaking, he
went. John was calm, but grave and attentive
; Mary, shattered with fatigue, and
worn out by a quick succession of emotions,
quite subdued.

Stow, don't take on, my dear,' said Mrs.
Hoare, forgetting something of her acquired
respect in her native motherliness. ' What is
it you say? If he had only spoken again?
Well, Avell, the ways of Providence are
mysterious. And it is quite certain the poor
gentleman loved you ; and if he had been
unjust, his intention was likely to remedy it 
or I should not have found him standing
where I did,' concluded the good woman,
smoothing her apron with a casual air.

 What do you mean?' asked Mary, raising
her tear-stained face.

'You heard the fall? Yes. Well, I had
gone into the room that instant. Poor
master, he was standing by his writing-table,
with his hand on the very drawer from which
Mr. John has just carried a bundle of documents
into his own room. He turned as I
came in, and said, " Mrs. Hoare," he says,

' later this evening, when Jacobs is free "

Then he stopped. " Yes, sir," says I, thinking
he had only just stopped to reflect, maybe.
But he stood like a statue  his hand just
raised. Miss, it was awful. It was as if he
was listening to a distant voice. Then all at
once his poor face was drawn, he gave a little
gasp, and before I could catch him he had
fallen in a heap upon the floor. And, Miss
Mary, he never spoke again.'

This story of Mrs. Hoare's preoccupied
Mary. She, as well as the housekeeper, had
seen John remove a bundle of papers from
a drawer of his father's writ in o't able and take
them to his own room. Was the codicil
among these? If so, John's first care would

VOL. I. 5

of course be to destroy it. Mary knew that
an unsigned codicil was not of much legal
value, but a thought, sharpened by resentment,
suggested to her that it might be of
some use in enabling her to dispute her
father's will, should that prove, as she feared,
too flagrantly unjust. What was her father
doing at the writing-table when Mrs. Hoare
found him there? In the state of inertness
and weakness in which he was, he must have
had some strong motive to imjDcl him to the
exertion of creeping across the room. Perhaps
he had had possession of the codicil all the
time, and had taken advantage of being alone
to conceal it, intending to get the servants to
witness it later.

All at once it flashed across Mary's mind
that this writing-table of her father's possessed
a curious secret drawer. Ralph Mercer had
told her of it. He had heard of it from
William Hatherley, who, coming unexpectedly
once into his father's study, had caught sight
of it ere the old man had hastily and furtively

closed it. William confessed to having taken
an occasion to look for it, but in spite of
many shaking and rapping he had been completely
baffled. And the one chance which
enabled him to make his search had never
repeated itself. William, wisely distrustful of
his brother, had carefully kept from him all
knowledge of his discovery, although to his
chum,' Ralph, he had been frank. Mary, recalling
all this, asked herself : ' Could the
codicil be there?' She longed to find it, unable
to believe that it would not be of some
use.

John had gone out in the course of the
morning about the necessary arrangements,
and except for the servants she was alone in
the house. The opportunity was too good to
be lost, and she went to the rooms where her
father had spent his last sad and silent months.
A little shudder of awe came over her as she
glanced at the fireless hearth, the empty armchair,
at all the familiar unchanged objects
whose special use was gone. With a 



stations shrinking she softly closed the door,
left ajar, of the darkened bedroom, where lay
the still presence so full of rebuke in its unconscious
majesty ; and then she began her
search.

But it was as fruitless now for her, as it
had ever been for William : she could not hit
upon the secret of the drawer. Such papers
as she found she scanned eagerly, but there
were none of any importance : John had taken
care of that. Feeling herself foiled, Mary
leant her face upon her hands and began to
weep silently. She was thoroughly exhausted,
and felt dreadfully sorry for herself. She recalled
the touch of new kindness towards her
in her father's tone and manner the day before,
and sobbed bitterly. ISTobody was ever
so lonely as she : even Martha was not thereto
comfort her : she had been taken into
custody on suspicion of having written the
threatening letter.

Selfishly confiding in John's assurance that
Martha could be ' got off somehow,' Mary had

dismissed as much as possible from her mind
the thought of Miss Freake's present position.
Xow it recurred to her, and with it a sense of
her own baseness. She was just in one of
those moods when to think one's self vile seems
equal to a return to virtue. Crossness with
the world produced in Mary an inclination
to defy it. It would be grand of her,
and it would startle Marleyford, if she were
publicly to proclaim Martha's innocence and
her own o-uilt. She beoan to rehearse the
scene in her mind. She would appear before
the magistrates, looking; very interesting' in
her mourning and in clear tones she would
state the truth. She could not be punished
very severely after that ; John would be defrauded
of his intention of putting her down ;
Mrs. Hoare's story would help her in threatening
to dispute the will. John would have to
compound for a large sum of money ; and she
well, she and Ralph would marry, and take
the grateful Martha home to live with them.
The picture was charming. It quite cheered

her, and she rose to her feet with a sense of
heroism.

But a thought intervened. Had not John
said that Martha would be brought up again
before the magistrates this very morning ? In
that case the time for action was now. This
check, like a brigand with a cocked pistol on
a lonely road, brought Mary up rather suddenly.
She still felt inspired, only inspired
for some less definite epoch  perhaps tomorrow
or next day. While she hesitated
and began to get rather ill-tempered, Jacobs
knocked at the door. The diversion was a
relief. ' Come in,' she said.

Mr. Russell is in the library, Miss Mary.
He wishes to know if he can do anything for
you.'

I will see him,' said Mary : and, as well
as the lowered blinds would allow, she
scanned herself in the glass to see if her tears
had disfigured her. She did not care for
Walter Russell ; but it was gratifying to
know that he was devoted to her, more especially

as everybody admired him, and wondered
why she did not prefer him to Kalph Mercer.
As she went downstairs it occurred to her
that perhaps she might make her first confession
about Martha to him. It would be a
pretty scene  she remorseful, more sinned
against than sinning; he touched and tender
and very indulgent. He would smooth her
after-path, and stand between her and blame.

Paler than usual, with a graver but a
gentler manner and an air of lovely languor,
she entered the library and responded to Mr.
Russell's moved and eager greeting. Her
stateliness always impressed him, and now
that it was informed with this new graciousness
he found it irresistible.

I fear you are very sad,' he said kindly,
and held her hand. Mary sighed. She had
a retrospective vision of herself as she had
been ten minutes previously in her father's
room, and felt that she was indeed very, very
sad.

I am glad you came. 1 was upstairs,' she

murmured ; and Walter, who understood her,
pressed her hand sympathizing.

You are well ?' said Mary, looking at him
with a keener appreciation than usual of his
refined and intelligent air. ' And your little
cousin, Sir Charles's son, how is he ?'

He is, I fear, dying,' replied Walter
gravely.

Dying ?' Mary was startled. If the boy
died, Walter would be heir-presumptive to a
baronetcy. Her opinion of him rose considerably.


I am afraid there is very little chance for
the poor child ; but I did not come here to talk
of my own affairs,' he said. ' I Avant to know,
Miss Hatherley, if I can be of any service to
you. I have been so shocked to hear, not only
of your loss, but of this terrible business of
Miss Freake's. Surely there must be some
mistake ?'

Mary's heart seemed to stand still. Now washer
opportunity ; now or never. She felt that
her next words would seal her fate, as a soul

Avitli some possibility of redemption, or as the
basest of liars.

There are these chronicled crises in life
that count for more than death or ruin. Mary
Hatherley felt herself in the grip of a grim
reality. The act of justice which, dressed in
fantastic guise, had seemed easy of accomplishment
an instant before, now stared at her with
a terrible earnestness out of Mr. Russell's
honest eyes. Never until this moment had
she realized her folly, or felt that it was irrevocable.
With a sob of impotent anger against
herself and everybody, that admirably simulated
pain, she bowed her head upon her arms
and gave up truth for ever.

Martha SHAME.

HEN Join Hatherley rode into the
town, the morning after his father's
death, he was the object of general
and respectful sympathy. Two such events as
Martha Freake's arrest and Mr. Hatherley's
death, following immediately one upon the
other, had not happened in Marleyford for a
long time. The little town really felt as if i
had pressure on the brain. How Martha was
looking, what doing, saying, thinking behind
her prison walls  how the Hatherleys were
behaving inside their darkened house : such
were the two subjects full of delightful mystery.

John, in his new character of master
and chief mourner, became most interesting ;
and wherever he stopped, on his way to the
magistrates' room, words of condolence greeted
him.

Fresh excitement was presently caused by
the rumble of a stately vehicle up the High
Street, and its instant recognition as the
Hatherley carriage, as it drew up at the court.
Who was inside it? Could it be Miss
Hatherley ? Then followed a thrill of commotion
as its occupant was recognised for Martha
Freake. John, looking sad but admirable,
hurried forward to help his cousin out, and
while the bystanders are struck dumb at his
goodness, Martha, thickly veiled and visibly
trembling, shuffles along and disappears.

When John looked at her, even he was
shocked at the change which twenty-four hours
had made. Not so much agitated, humiliated,
bewildered was she, as simply scared out of all
possibility of thought. She mechanically did
as she was told ; sat down in the chair pointed

out to her ; answered all the questions addressed
to her ; but not frankly and fearlessly
as the consciousness of her innocence should
have made her so do. Rather did she seem
held back from replying by some unseen terror.
And it would have been touching to mark,
had anybody been there capable of marking, orin
the secret, how little the thought of betraying
Mary Hatherley occurred to her.

Of course the magistrates, of Avhom Mr.
Ormerod was one, were very kind and considerate
to her. This they would have been in
any case, out of respect for Martha's position
as well as for that of the Hatherleys. But the
poor little woman had been so familiar a figure
to them for years ; they had felt, quite unconsciously,
so much reverence for her simple
goodness, that the sight of her there, and the
necessity of investigating the charge against
her, were things exquisitely painful.

Have you nothing to say in your own defence,
Miss Freake ?' asked Mr. Ormerod,
"when the case had been fully gone into, and

John had related the circumstances attendant
upon his receipt of the threatening letter, and
the steps he had taken to trace the writer
of it.

She glanced round with a hunted look for a
moment, almost as if fearing that the question
might be a trap ; then hung her head and murmured
:

 I was told to go and fetch the letter.'

By whom ?'

She was silent.

Were you ignorant of its contents ?'

Yes.'

Were you positively not aware that the
letter, to which it was a reply, was written
with a view of extorting money ?'

I was not aware of that.'

Then you mean us to understand that the
threatening letter was not written by you ?'

Yes.'

Did you suspect its true author ?'

Martha made a nervous movement with her
hands.

I knew nothing about it ; nothing,' she
said, her voice trembling with distress.

But, Miss Freake,' expostulated Mr. Ormerod,
' cannot you understand that by persisting
in this vague denial, not stating why you
should have gone to the post-office for the
letter, or who sent you, you place us in a most
perplexing and painful position ? Either you
are guilty, or you are not guilty. If you will
not speak, and clearly, we have no choice but
to commit you for trial.'

She became violently agitated ; her whole
fragile frame shook.

*I will speak,' she cried wildly, 'but not
here, not now. It is all a mistake ; you must
see that. Let me go home, I pray you, to
Mary. I am not guilty ; I have never done
wrong, and I cannot bear this. I want to be
with Mary Hatherley.'

Her one thought was to escape from the
horrible publicity and the cruel strangeness of
her present position. Once back in the old
home, among the familiar faces of those who

knew and, as she, poor soul, thought, loved her,
it seemed to her impossible but that this
appalling nightmare should pass away. The
very walls must bear testimony for her there,
where she had lived, from whence she had gone
forth on missions of charity, and whither she
had returned in joy and thankfulness when the
good day's work was done.

I must bind you over in two sureties to
appear for trial at the Assizes, Miss Freaks
resumed Mr. Ormerod reluctantly.

 Then I need not go back to prison,' exclaimed
Martha, seizing upon this idea.
Xot if you can find the sureties.'
I will be one,' interposed John Hatherley.
'And I the other,' added the Eector, Mr.
Stratton, who was present.

Martha was released. Her manner grew
more natural immediately, like that of a lost
child that has suddenly caught sight of its
mother amid a group of questioning, strange
faces. But she was not to be taken back to
Mary. John had arranged that, in a few rapid

words With Mr. Stratton. He put her into the
carriage, and bid her wait. Then he returned
to the Justice-room, where the gentlemen were
talking.

One is always unwilling to believe such
charges against a person of position,' the Eector
was saying.  I do not know what to think of
her manner. Can she have been made a tool
of?'

That is precisely what I have been asking
myself,' interposed John, with his usual air of
grave candour. ' I am unwilling, except indeed
on the supposition of insanity, to believe my
poor cousin capable of such an act. But then
come the questions : Who has played upon her
credulous good-nature? and who can so influence
her as to ensure her silence? It is preposterous
to think that she would willingly
sacrifice" herself to the extent of taking upon
her own shoulders the guilt of another.'

Can there be a man in the matter ? You
understand me : a  an affaire de coeur T suggested
Mr. Ormerod profoundly.

A little stir of amusement greeted the words ;
even John smiled.

I do not think Martha loves anybody but
Mary and myself,' he replied.

Then I give it up said Mr. Ormerod. As
did the others. For John, as the prosecutor,
could clearly not be the instigator ; and as for
his sister, like Caesar's wife, she was above
suspicion.

This is altogether so very distressing a
business, especially at this moment, that it is a
relief to think my cousin will be with you
and Mrs. Stratton,' said John as he walked
with the Rector back to the carriage. ' You
must let me know in confidence anything that
she may say. But I do fear her mind is unhinged.'


The Eector promised his best services, being
indeed only too gratified to think that he was
obliging John Hatherley.

 You must be overwhelmed with painful
business of one sort and another, Mr. John.
Your father's death ; and now this !'

VOL. I. 6

The worst times have an end said John.

Martha, on finding herself at the Rectory,
sank into a mournful silence. She gently
answered all observations made to her, but
only volunteered one request : which was to
beg that Mary might be sent for. The fussy,
ostentatious benevolence of Mr. Stratton towards
her, and the unconcealed curiosity of
his wife, repelled her confidence. They were
a thousand miles from suspecting this, of
course. They thought, indeed, worthy people,
that they were behaving with admirable kindness
and tact.

They could not know that, abruptly wrenched
from her old associations, she was divorced
fit-om the greater part of herself. Of her real,
gentle personality nothing asserted itself with
any vividness in these days, but one intolerable
sense of tragic loss and shame. And this feeling
was itself so bound up with her old life
and all its affections that she remained strangely
indifferent to the sympathy or possible blame
of those outside her house. It was of this she

thought perpetually; of the work that she had
done in it; of her little room bright with
flowers and birds; of the servants who had
waited on her so willingly. Above all, she
thought of Mary. To see her was her one
great longing. With Mary's arm round her,
with Mary's eyes looking forgiveness for her
confession, she would speak. But in this harsh
world of strangers where she drew her breath
in pain, to lift up her voice in shrill self-justification
was to her impossible. She felt
too crushed, too bewildered. She was, in fact,
concentrated almost to the verge of insanity,
and they simply thought her sullen.

Mary Hatherley little guessed how well she
had been served by her determination not to
brings her victim home. She had shrunk from
the thought of meeting her, in the selfishness of
her weak, unworthy nature. John had pointed
out to her the danger of Martha's speaking,
but even this consideration was not strong
enough to overcome her reluctance. If Martha
did speak, she and John could deny; but of

62

that they both knew there was little fear :
Martha Freake would never betray Mary.

Under the eyes of her victim she could not
keep up the farce of her own innocence.
Martha's presence and tears would distress here
and she would be weak (she was within an ace
of thinking generous!) enough to blurt out
everything. And that would be very foolish ;
needless also, for John would be sure to arrange
matters and get Martha off scot-free. And
borne up by this persuasion, in her pallor, her
languor and her mourning, Mary presented a
very interesting and a genuinely sad appearance
to the few visitors admitted to Fatherly
House on the days succeeding her father's
death.

To Martha she wrote, saying that as soon as
the funeral was over, she would visit her.
Buoyed up by this hope, the patient woman
waited.

Marlevford, now that Miss Freake was committed
for trial, turned its interest from her to
Mr. Hatherley's will. How he would leave his

property; whether the distant reprobate, his
son William, would be well remembered by
him; Avhat Mary's share of the family wealth
might be; and what measure of responsibility
would devolve upon John.

After the funeral, when Mr. Luscombe, the
family lawyer, found only an old will was
produced, he looked greatly surprised.

Your father made a second will, about a
month since,' he said curtly. Only Mary and
John and the servants were present ; for the
funeral guests had left, and of distant relatives,
beyond Ralph Mercer and Martha Freake, the
Hatherleys had none.

A second will ?' repeated John. ' I have
found none but this. Perhaps he deposited
the second will with you ?'

If he had, I should have brought it with
me,' retorted Mr. Luscombe, irritated at the
superfluous suggestion. ' As you must well
know, lie had a mania for keeping possession
of his own papers.'

Quite so,' assented John. ' And I found

this will in the private bureau, with other
important documents. I am sure the second
will would have been there had he preserved
it ; but he probably destroyed it

Mr. Luscombe looked strangely dissentient,
even a little suspicious. ' Why should
he destroy it ?'

John slightly shrugged his shoulders. ' He
appears to have been in several minds about
his property, just before the end. The very
evening of his death, Mary found him drawing
up a third will  which he certainly
destroyed.'

Certainly ?'

Sto doubt. When we were summoned by
the noise of his fall, I noticed that the bureau,
near which he was standing, was open, and in
the grate were several half consumed papers.'

Humph !' Mr. Luscombe glanced at
Mary, but she sat like a graven image in her
deep mourning, her face framed with its
golden hair. The colour had indeed flushed
once or twice into her cheeks at some of

John's answers. But no other sign of protest
broke from her, for her brother s glacial glance
held her terror-stricken and mute. The
lawyer pondered for a few moments ; then,
with the gesture of a man who dismisses a
subject of perplexity from his mind, he turned
to the will lying before him on the table, and
began to read it aloud. It was brief, but
astounding, and may be summarily described
by saying that with the exception of a few
legacies to servants and others, John was left
sole legatee. Mary and William were disinherited.


For one moment after the lawyer's tones
ceased, Mary sat quite silent. When she
found voice at last, it was only to utter a
half stifled cry of rage. She was so deadly
pale that they thought her on the verge of
fainting, and hurried towards her in alarm.
John himself approached her and laid his
hand upon her arm.

At the touch she shrank away, and burst
into one of her storms of rage, her words

coming so fast as almost to choke lier
voice.

She would dispute the Avill, she cried ; she
vrould write to Jamaica, and brings William
home. These were never her father's intentions.
The servants could testify to so much.
And when she told all she knew, the world
would believe her.

Dear ! dear ! dear !' exclaimed Mr. Lus-combe,
shaking his head and looking very
much distressed. He had old - fashioned
notions of the conduct becoming in young
ladies, and was dreadfully shocked to seethe
beautiful Miss Hatherley behave like a
Mfenad.

Mary's exclamations subsided at length
into angry sobs. John's smooth voice then
broke the silence.

I am not surprised that my sister should
be disappointed. I can only hope that when
her present excitement has calmed down, she
Vvill understand how little intention I have of
behaving otherwise than generously.' Mary

lifted her face from lier handkerchief, met her
brother's eyes, and buried it again. ' I think,'
resumed John, again addressing the lawyer,
that my poor father probably did half repent
himself at odd moments of his harshness.
Perhaps the second will you mention was
more favourable to my brother and sister ?'

'Xot a whit,' answered Mr. Luscombe
briskly.

John raised his eyebrows.  My father must
have destroyed it.'

The lawyer advised its being looked for ;
and a thorough search was instigated. It
lasted all that day and the next, but ended
without success. Mary meanwhile had ample
time for reflection. John was careful to
remind her constantly in a thousand subtle
ways how completely she was in his power ;
and the dominion over her of his superior
calmness increased with every hour. Mr.
Luscombe  very suspicious at last about the
wills, although long unwilling to be so  tried
to elicit some liofht from her, but failed. She

even disavowed the words which had fallen
from her in her rage. The servants, grateful
for their legacies and anxious to conciliate the
heir, were equally discreet ; Mr." Luscombe, although
his secret thoughts were many, and he
asked John a few questions which surprised
him, could but accept the facts as they stood.

Poor William Hatherley blustered a little
from Jamaica when the news reached him ; but
having no money and no credit, he could not
come over : and finally, on John's promising
to supply his wants in the present and to look
after his wife and children should he die, he
followed the general example and sank into
quiescence.

The only will found was, in consequence,
proved : and one or two of its clauses as well
as its general disposition gave Marleyford
something to talk about. To this subject we
will return later : suffice it to say for the
present that John covered himself with fresh
glory by the munificence of his conduct towards
his brother and sister ; and everybody

was enraptured at the sweetness of Miss
Hatherley in accepting her disinheritance and
showing no resentment.

We must now go back to Martha Freake,
who for the days before Mr. Hatherley's
funeral, and for some Aweary ones after it, sat
counting the hours for her meeting with Mary.
Twice had the visit been promised, then deferred.
But at last ]diary came.

They fell weeping into one another's arms.
All the pent-up anguish and bewildered, unanswered
questioning of days found vent in
the passionate outburst of sobs with which
Martha clung to her cousin. And there was
comfort for her in the responsive emotion
that shook Mary's frame. Ah! she was not
heartless ; she would speak, and this long
nightmare would dissolve for ever.

Oh Patty, I am so unhappy !' sobbed
Mary, finding words.

Martha's tender heart overflowed at this
announcement. She noted with loving compassion
her darling's altered air; she stroked

her golden curls, and held her hands. Never
doubdno: but that Mary's sorrow was all for
her, she was filled with remorse and gratitude.

You have heard?' said Miss Hatherley at
last, disengaging herself from these caresses,
and lifting her lovely eyes, full of the languor
of regret, to the poor, deprecating face.

Heard ?' Martha had heard many new
things of late. The world seemed topsy-turvy.


How shamefully I have been treated : cutoff
with a shilling,' added Mary, in indignant
explanation.

Martha stepped backwards. It was very
selfish of her, of course; but she had really
been thinking of herself, of her own trouble.

What enrages me the more is that I know
it is John's doing,' continued Mary, and went
off into a confused, fretful monologue. Martha
listened like one in a dream. She had not
expected this. Not all the experiences of the
past days had affected her like this discovery
f Mary's callousness.

<>

 And what are you going to do for me ?'
lie abruptly asked, cutting short the string of
lamentations. Mary looked up quite startled ;
the tone of the question was so new from
those lips. In Martha's eyes was a strange
sternness, and the other shrank before it.

You will not betray me?' she faltered.

Betray you ?' ]martha echoed the words
bitterly. ' You seem to forget that it is I
who am betrayed.'

Mary broke out into protest. How could
she say such things, or think them ? Of
course everything would come right in the
end. John had promised all that : only
Martha must have patience. As for the
charge, it was preposterous ; as all the world
saw. But it must not transpire that she,
Mary, had any knowledge of the letter. That
would make too dreadful a sensation in
Marleyford. What would the Ormerods think
and Walter Russell  and everybody?
Martha had always been good-natured ; surely
she was not going to change in the face of

such a crisis? Mary's voice rose as she concluded.
But Martha sat very quiet, very pale,
but unshaken.

Justice must be done to me,' she said.  I
have been silent because I believed in your
honour. Now that it has failed me, I shall
speak.'

 You seem quite to overlook the fact that
nobody will believe you.'

The cruel words, wrung from Mary by the
sheer spitefulness of abject fear, had hardly
been uttered before she repented them. For
Martha rose trembling in every limb, dumb,
stricken to the heart, but nth a glance so full
of mournful majesty and of pitying scorn, that
it was like an avenging angel's : and Mary's
mean soul cowered beneath it.

With a convulsive sob she actually fell
on her knees and clutched her cousin's
hand.

Oh Patty, dear Patty ! have pity on me !
Do not betray me. I shall be ruined. I
shall have to leave Marleyford, and John will

make my conduct an excuse not to give me a
penny. Everybody will shun me. Even
Ralph will not marry me then, perhaps. I
shall starve. I shall be driven to despair 
perhaps to suicide  I '

And I ?' interrupted Martha. ' Have I no
right to happiness and consideration, and the
respect of my fellow-men? Is scorn less
cutting, ruin less ruinous, shame less shameful,
because the spirit stricken is mine, not
yours? Shall I not suffer from outrage and
privation and want? May I not be driven to
suicide ? Will the path be easier to tread for
my feet than for your own ?'

Mary sat silent, startled at the tragic
ring of the words, but pettishly resentful
of their unexpected eloquence. Martha adam
spoke.

You have not answered me. Why am I
to sacrifice my fair fame to yours ?'

At the unconscious irony of the question,
Mary took refuge in tears. Life had become
an inextricable web of cross-purposes.

You are so high-flown, and exaggerated 
and  and unkind,' she sobbed sullenly. ' Who
w  wants you to sacrifice your fame? Such
a ridiculous expression! When I have told
you that  that John will get you oiF the
charge.'

By some lie,' commented Martha, rendered
wonderfully clear-sighted of late.

You are so altered,' wailed Mary, wincing*
a little. ' I never thought you would object
to save me  only just to keep silent and let
matters take their coarse. You used to love
me. I think now you must only want to disgrace
me.'

It is myself I want to save from disgrace,
child,' answered Martha, with a sudden change
of tone. Then to Mary's amazement  not
unmixed, sooth to say, with some secret terror
she took her flushed, tearful face between
her hands and turned it towards the light.
Mary blanched under the glance that travelled
slowly over her features.

'Pretty, golden - haired thing! Pretty,

shallow, flimsy piece of human nature !' exclaimed
Martha at last. ' Perhaps you are
right after all, and disgrace would be absurdly
heavy for you. Well, you can go. We have
seen the last of one another ; the last in any
real sense.'

And what are you going to do ?' inquired
:clary.

 I shall defend myself.'

It will be too late.'

Perhaps so, for the world's verdict. But
that is a small matter. What is the world
now to me ?'

Martha sat down by the table as she
spoke, and laid her face upon her crossed
arms. The waters of bitterness where closing
over her soul. Mary crept to the door, opened
it softly, and found herself with a sense of relief
in the passage.

Mrs. Stratton hurried forward obsequiously ;
the children came up with smiles and glances
of shy admiration for the beautiful Miss
Hatherley. In that atmosphere of flattery

VOL. I. 7

Mary regained her usual self-complacency ;
and the closed door between herself and Martha
shut out also the consciousness of her crime.
For moral sense with her meant only the
approval of the world.

'deaf and dumb.'

S the time for Martha Freake's trial
drew near, public opinion became
on the whole unfavourable to her.
Guilty, no doubt said Marleyford, almost
ashamed of its first compassion. ' She never
was really anybody, poor thing, and the luxury
of her life at the Hatherleys' must have demoralized
her.'

When the eventful day dawned at last, the
court Alas crowded to suffocation ; the interest
was intense, and had extended itself to the
county town. It was generally known that

72

the defence was to be largely based on the plea
of insanity ; and John had talked so much
about his cousin's remarkable eccentricity, that
the more obliging or the more ingenuous
spirits among his acquaintances had recalled
several odd traits in Miss Freake's character,
and declared themselves to have been much
struck with them at the time.

With all this it may be imagined what
curiosity was felt to see how Martha would
look at her trial. And her appearance surpassed
expectation. She was worn to a
shadow ; deadly pale, but for a settled flush on
each cheek; and her eyes, painfully bright, had
one fixed, startled stare. When asked to plead,
she said :

Not guilty.'

Inspector Roberts stated that on receipt of
information furnished him by Mr. John
Hatherley, he had gone to the Marleyford postoffice,
and had there found the prisoner. She
was asking' for a letter addressed to ' X.Y.Z.'
She appeared more bewildered than frightened

when he arrested her, but had only said, ' You
will see it is all a mistake.'

John Hatherley next appeared. He looked
very handsome, very grave and dignified, with
an air of becoming concern ; and he gave his
evidence, as the papers all said, ' with evident
reluctance.'

One morning he had received by post a
communication in a disguised hand, threatening
him vaguely with exposure of his private
affairs, his ' secrets,' as the letter put it, unless
by a certain day (named) an answer, containing
50, was sent to Marleyford post-office
addressed to the initials ' X.Y.Z.' Scenting a
conspiracy, he had placed the matter in the
hands of the police.

The examination of the counsel for the
prosecution elicited from him three special
facts, of which the connection was not immediately
visible. These were, first, that he
suspected nobody in particular of the authorship
of the threatening letter ; secondly, that
Martha Freake had superintended the establishment

at Hatherley House and dispensed the
housekeeping moneys ; thirdly, that a certain
bill of 50 to a builder had never been
paid.

]martha's face showed some slight glimmer
of indefinable emotion; and her counsel, Mr.
Wharton, made a movement of surprise. It
was his turn now to cross-examine, and he
rose. After one or two apparently unimportant
questions, he asked in a brisker
tone :

Then, do you positively assert, Mr. John
Hatherley, that you suspected no person at allas
the writer of the letter ?'

I positively assert it.'

You have no knowledge of any spiteful
persons, who may bear a grudge against you,
and '

Of course the counsel for the prosecution interfered
at this point, and the Judge ruled that
the question was not a fair one. Whereupon
Mr. Wharton, with a shrug of his shoulders,
fell back upon those generalities which are

probably good as evidence to the legal mind,
but which to the uninitiated appear so hopelessly
vague.

Then it absolutely never occurred to you
that the person to present herself at the postoffice
would be the prisoner ?'

It never occurred to me.'

You have said that the prisoner had for
fifteen years lived in your father's family, and
superintended the household. Also that a
great deal of money passed through her hands.
Did she not always render an accurate account
of the sums expended ?'

Ye,' replied John. Then, after a slight
pause, he added ' generally.'

He spoke the word quite quietly, apparently
without obvious intention. Perhaps it was
only that barely-perceptible previous jDause
which made it sound sinister; but as a matter
of fact it had a very bad effect.

The wiseacres among the audience shook
their heads, and the prisoner nervously clutched
the iron bar in front of her. She began to

tremble all over with uncontrollable agitation,
looking, as many people whisperingly asserted
at that moment,  really guilty.'

'What do you mean by 'generally?' asked
the counsel sharply.

I mean almost always,' replied John.

I must trouble you to be more explicit.
Did the prisoner at any time not render such
account to you ?'

You have just heard that on one occasion
she did not.'

I wish to hear it again.'

Whereupon John, under pressure of further
interrogation, related how he had owed 50 to
one Smithson, a builder ; how the man had
asked to be paid in money and not by cheque ;
how John, driving with his sister and Miss
Freake that day into town, had stopped at the
bank and drawn 100 in notes. He kept 50
himself, and had given the other 50 into Miss
Freake' s hands, requesting her, as he was himself
just leaving by train for London, to call
round and pay Smithson his account. Hearing

no more from the builder, he concluded that
this had been done.

When was this 7

Shortly before my father's death. Not
many days, I think, before I received the
threatening letter.'

Yhen did you discover that the bill had
not been paid ?'

Only yesterday,' replied the witness. ' To
my surprise, Mr. Smithson stopped me in
the street with a renewed request for the
money.'

This story created great excitement. Its
significance was borne in gradually upon the
audience as each fresh answer to the keen
questions of the cross-examining counsel only
established John's testimony the more firmly.
Young Mr. Hatherley's manner was quite
that of a man who feels fully all his responsibilities.


The missing 50, lost or otherwise disposed
of by Martha, supplied that motive for the
anonymous letter, which even the most eager

of her non-partizans had hitherto felt to be
wanting.

Mr. Wharton scribbled some notes, and
addressed himself once more to John.

Do you mean to say that you never asked
the prisoner if she had paid the money ?'

I took it for granted that she had.'

And did you, a man of business, not ask
for the receipt ?'

All receipted bills, by whomsoever paid,
were strung upon a hie in my father's study.
Had I thought about the receipt of the 50,
it would have been to conclude that it was
there with the others.'

Are you prepared to state that the notes,
making up this 50, passed through no hands
but your own and the prisoner's ?'

I have stated all I know,' answered John,
evidently getting tired, but too well-bred to
show it.

Please to be explicit, witness. Do you
positively state that the notes passed only
through your hands and Miss Freake's ?'

I do positively state it,' said John icily.

You can go, sir,' said the counsel. ' I
have nothing more to ask.' Whereupon John
stepped out of the witness-box ; and, exchanging
grave salutes with his acquaintances,
passed from the respectful and admiring eyes
of the crowd.

Xext in order Mr. Smithson was called. His
evidence did not amount to much, but it was
chiefly confirmatory of John's.

Had asked to be jaid in notes as more convenient
; had thought it strange when the
money was not forthcoming, but had refrained
from pressing out of his great respect for the
Hatherley family. Then occurred the lamented
death of the head of the house, which made
him still more unwilling; to mention so trifling
a matter as a forgotten bill. But yesterday,
chancing to meet young Mr. Hatherley in the
street, he had ventured upon a reminder, when
Mr. Hatherley said he had sent him the
money several weeks ago : Mr. Russell, who
was arm-in-arm with Mr. Hatherlev, had confirmed

this. Upon being asked low Mr.
Russell had confirmed this, the witness said
that Mr. Russell had exclaimed in surprise :

 Why, I saw you give the money to Miss
Freake for Smithson two months ago. You
remember, I was standing by the carriage at
the moment ?' And Mr. Hatherley said that
he remembered it perfectly.

Did not the prisoner call at your house that
day, within an hour of her receiving the money
for you ?' questioned Mr. Wharton.

Yes. But I was out.'

John Hatherley was recalled, and asked if
he had no knowledge of the 50 having been
diverted to some other use than the one
originally intended. He denied it.

Did not Miss Freake mention to you that
same evening that she had not paid the bill,
Smithson being out : and did you not on the
following morning authorize your coachman
to ask the prisoner for the money?'

By no means.'

Then if the 50 were applied to some purpose

other than the payment of Mr. Smithson's
account, you did not know it ?'

Certainly not.'

Most of the hearers felt quite disposed to
echo John's quiet denial. It seemed so
ridiculous to suppose even for a moment that
he would order his cousin to do one think;
with the money, and his coachman another.
Ridgeley, the coachman in question, was not
at hand, and Mary's evidence was next taken.

She had been sitting in the room reserved
for witnesses, agitated and sick at heart ; her
sympathizers attributed it to her distress for
her cousin, and to the natural shrinking of a
young girl from publicity. In truth, she was
dominated but by one thought : the terror of
betraying herself. The necessity of concealment
now had closed upon her like an iron
band. She felt that there was no escape from
it, and shrank with all the craven doubt of inexperience
and stupidity from the thought of
the cross-examination and its hundred pitfalls.
Mary had at all times resented cleverness, and

the cleverness of a lawyer was peculiarly to be
dreaded now.

The aspect of the court with all the array of
Justice congealed her blood With fear, so that
her voice was hardly audible as she took the
oath. But the respectful manner of the cross-examining
counsel soon restored her self-possession.
It seemed a kind of assurance to
her that she would not be found out. With
calm, returned cunning  the instinct of self-preservation
 she denied knowledge of everything
; nobody had been more astonished than
herself when the prisoner was arrested. The
lie, once made concrete to her by the telling,
was easy to maintain, and the cross-examination
of Mr. Wharton availed not to shake her
in it. The testimony of John gained additional
force when confirmed by the lips of
this beautiful and haughty-looking girl.

Evening had drawn on, and the court rose.
It was settled that the case should be resumed
the next morning at ten o'clock, and
Marleyford went home to dinner in a condition

of pleased expectation. Xobody had
heard the low, anguished moan of the prisoner
when she was removed.

Already the torturing hours had left alive
in Martha but one sentiment : a lonoino\ distilled
to agony, to know the worst and have
rest. Anything  she felt, rather than thought
even the solitude of the prison, Avould be
better than this procession of witnesses against
her. The familiar, unfamiliar cruel faces of
her accusers had come to have a kind of
spectral and altogether unendurable horror for
her, and she panted for any catastrophe which
should end it all. A kind of stupor fell upon
her, but it brought her no relief, for a dull
sense of betrayal beat in a surging, ceaseless
tide upon her confused brain.

Meanwhile, Mary returned home in the
carriage with her brother. Having dressed
for dinner and eaten it, and warmed herself
comfortably by the splendid fire in her luxurious
but sombre drawing-room, she began
to feel a little perfunctory remorse.

John, what about the insanity ?' she asked
when he joined her. ' When will they begin
to plead that?'

Perhaps not at all

His tone made her angry, for she dimly felt
that the only object of his answer was to
annoy her.

You know,' she exclaimed, ' it was only
on that understanding that I consented  I
mean that I '

 That you determined to sacrifice Martha
and save yourself ?'

Mary sat speechless.

 There is still time for you to confess the
truth,' continued John coolly.

If you think it so easy to tell, why do you
not tell it yourself ?' flashed out his sister.

He shruo'Dfed his shoulders.

I suppose I have still a superstitious reverence
for the Hatherley name.'

She beat an impatient tattoo nth her foot,
feeling once again almost capable of rushing
off to Mr. Ormerod and confessing everything,

just to spite John. What was that abstraction
 the family name  to her ? Nothing.
She thought only of herself. But  what
would be the result to herself of her own tardy
confession? For the fiftieth time her coward
soul sank within her, at the vision of disgrace.


However, if she could not be courageous
she could be feebly vindictive and indignant.

I should like to know the real truth about
Eidgeley and that 50,' she said.

You will know soon enough. Ridgeley
will be the first witness called tomorrow.'

Mary sat looking at her brother  an angry
light in her eyes.

You are a fiend I' she burst out at last.

You are mistaken. I am simply a man
who pursues his own ends.'

John rose as he spoke, and Mary, with
a peevish sigh, renounced open revolt, and
gave up all thought of penetrating the
mystery of Ridgeley.

The trial was resumed on the following dav,

VOL. I. 8

Eidgeley being first called. He stated that
lie bad been several years in Mr. Hatberley's
service as groom, bad left, and returned on
being promoted to the post of coachman. He
knew nothing about the bank-notes spoken of;
had never seen them, never handled them or
known of their existence, far less had he used
them. Xo denial could be more explicit or
complete ; nevertheless Mr. Wharton rose with
a curious air of suppressed, expectant triumph.
Did you not come into Miss Freake's
sitting-room on the morning in question, and
tell her that Mr. John Hatherley had ordered
you to ask for the money, to pay a certain
stable account?'

 I did not,' answered Eidgeley.

 You did not I Did not the prisoner tell
you that she had the exact sum, but that it was
destined to pay Smithson ; and did not you
reply that Mr. John wished the stable account
to be paid first?'

I can remember no such conversation,'
replied Eidgeley stonily.

What ! Do you persist in declaring that
the prisoner was not induced by these representations
to hand over the 50 to you?'

I never received 50 from her, sir.'

But you frequently did receive as large,
and larger, a sum of money from Mr. John
Hatherley?'

For the first time a faint hesitation rippled
the surface of the witness's dogged calm.

I used to pay bills for Mr. John,' he
answered.

What sort of bills ?'

Bills connected with the stables and the
horses.'

Did not Mr. John Hatherley about that
time give you 20 ?  and 10 a month or
two previously? Did he not give you small
sums varying from 3 to 5 on several
occasions ?'

Ridgeley, now obviously somewhat shaken,
was inclined towards doubt and forgetfulness
at first; but was brought at last to admit that
such had been the case.

82

For what purpose were these sums given
you?'

Apparently Ridgeley had not asked his
young master. Mr. John Hatherley was very
open-handed.

'Indeed!' ejaculated Mr. Wharton drily,
 Did not his open-mindedness in regard to
yourself begin six years ago last August,
when you accompanied him to a church in the
Strand ?'

At this there was a decided stir in the
audience. They detected a mystery, and for
the first time that monument, the Hatherley
legend,' slightly trembled on its base.

Were you not a witness to Mr. John
Hatherley' s secret marriage ?' continued Mr.
Wharton.

Eidgeley answered ' Yes.' But his answer
was a small matter ; lost, as it was, in the
tremendous commotion caused by the question.


John Hatherley married ? Secretly ? Six
years ago ? In the Strand ? Never had there

been such a buzz of comment, such a sea of
astonished faces. The ushers had some trouble
in restoring silence.

Mr. Wharton resumed his interrogations.
For the third time John was summoned, and
with what inquisitiveness may be easily
imagined ! But he was quite equal to the
occasion. His self-possession was unshaken,
only a glimmer of suppressed but profound
emotion famtlv irradiation; the surface of it.

 CD

Questioned as to his relations with Ridgeley,
he stated that he had known him for years :
as a little lad : he had respected the man : that
he had frequently made him presents, but that
he had never authorized him to obtain from
Miss Freake the 50 set aside for Smithson,
nor had he any reason to suppose that he had
done so. It was cjuite true that Ridgeley
(who was not then in his service) had been one
of the two witnesses to his private marriage.
Neither would he attempt to deny that he had
rewarded the man handsomely for his services,
hind his silence.

Are we to conclude that your reasons for
keeping your marriage a secret were weighty T

They were rendered weighty simply by the
peculiar opinions of my father answered
John. ' He had an extraordinary shrinking
from all persons afflicted by '

The young man for an instant paused. Only
an instant, yet time for a hundred crowding
recollections of old Mr. Hatherley's peculiarities
to leap into the minds of many people
who were present.

Afflicted by physical infirmity,' resumed
John, with pain. ' And my dear wife is unfortunately
deaf and dumb.'

His voice rang with a mournful cadence.
The revelation was so unexpected and so
dramatic, that there was not one of its hearers
but felt filled with pity. The pathetic, yet
true and purely domestic fact had intrinsically
but slight bearing upon the trial ; but it
brought the general sympathy strongly towards
Join. Further questioning elicited fi:om him
that his wife was now very ill : that this circumstance

alone had delayed his introduction
of her to his friends since his father's death ;
but that he had made arrangements for bring
ing her down to Marleyford the very next
week, and that he had not hitherto announced
her existence  he really hardly knew why he
had not done it. It might be from the habit
of concealment  it certainly was no longer from
the desire of it. This explanation, vague as it
was, gave the impression that John Hatherley
knew his own affairs, and was capable of conducting
them.

The witnesses called in Martha's favour
were principally persons who spoke to her respectability
and her general good conduct,
with others who had known various members
of her family and testified to epilepsy in one,
eccentricity in another, and to her own remarkable
delicacy and abnormal shyness as a
young girl. A medical man said he considered
her very ' strange ' now.

Mr. Wharton's appeal for his client was so
earnest as to be almost impassioned. He

dwelt on Martha's blameless life, on the intimacy
in which she had lived with the
Hatherleys, and the extreme improbability of
her being afraid to confess the loss, even if it
had happened, of the sum of 50. Was it
not more likely that she in her trusting simplicity
had been induced, as she now declared,
to hand it over to Ridgeley, though the man,
for his own purposes, chose to deny the fact ?
In regard to the other and principal charge
against her, what was more intrinsically likely
than the story which she told ? Was it not in
accordance with all that was known of her
that she should have been made the tool of
another  though she shrank from disclosing
who that was ? Mr. Wharton here made skilful
use of the supposed taint of insanity in Martha
lo explain her dumb, dog-like fidelity, her
silence before the magistrates, her concentrated
terror of demeanour, and imperfect defence.

But the deftly woven web of justification
fell to shreds beneath the Judge's summing
up. For if Martha were indeed a tool, then

who had employed her ? John ? He was the
prosecutor. Mary ? The idea was absurd
in itself, even if Mary's own denial had not
disproved it. Had not Mr. Hatherley and his
sister and the coachman, one and all, told a
perfectly coherent and credible tale ? It was
for the jury to consider which of the two
stories was the most probable: a favourable
one which would represent the prisoner in the
light, first of the cat's-paw, and then the
victim of an anonymous, invisible friend ; or
another which would show her as seeking to
repair a probable act of carelessness by an
offence whose serious consequences had presumably
failed to strike her.

The jury took some time to consider their
verdict, and on reassembling found the prisoner
guilty ; but in consideration of her hitherto
unblemished character, recommended her to
the mercy of the court. And the Judge, in
passing sentence, said that he wished to make
it as light as possible, and condemned her to
six months' imprisonment.

Asked if she had anything to say, Martha
looked up. A nervous trembling that had
possessed her for hours suddenly ceased. Her
frail little figure straightened itself, and over
her pathetic face fell a light as from some
vision seen of her alone. She raised her
hand with a gesture so solemn that those
who watched her were awestruck and listened
breathlessly for her words. Her lips parted :
she was about to speak, when suddenly a
convulsive shudder shook her frame. She
threw her head back despairingly, cast her
wasted arms towards the cruel immensity of
the heavens, and with a cry of exceeding sorrow
fell forward in a deathlike swoon.

Do you know what she reminded me of T
said a young girl who had turned pale with
pity. ' One of those pictures of saints, who
in the moment of martyrdom see some sign in
the skies : and then, when her face altered in
that awful way, it was as if the sign had vanished,
and nothing was left to her but the
reality of her torture.'

CHANGES.

AKLEYFORD was moved to pity
on hearing that when she recovered
from the long syncope following
her condemnation, Martha Freake was undeniably
mad. ' A condition of strong cerebral
excitement,' the doctors called it, and she was
removed from prison to an asylum.

The next subject of interest that arose was
John Hatherley's wife. She arrived with little
Mark, her beautiful son of eye years old; was
introduced by her husband to her future home,
and gratified expectation to an unforeseen
degree. For she Alas exquisitely graceful.

gentle, refined; and, alas, condemned to die !
Consumption told its tale plainly in her wasted
form and sunken cheeks. Gliding about the
house in these cold spring days, wrapped
always in a white fleecy shawl, noiseless, mute,
uttering her thoughts but by signs, Mrs.
Hatherley was more like a phantom than a
living woman.

She had strangely-lovely, shining eyes, with
so intense a spirituality in their depths as to
awe, while it attracted, almost everybody who
came near her. John himself was truer in her
presence : and the one person whom she
seemed rather to fret than to elevate, was Mary.
The superiority of this pure nature, veiled by
infirmity and illness, irritated the girl's sullen
love of ease : in addition to this, she, herself
so faultlessly and coldly handsome, had inherited
something of her father's dislike to
physical defects. Yet Mrs. Hatherley's affliction
had nothing in it that should have raised
aversion even in the hardest nature, for it was
entirely the result of an accident which had

happened to her as a child. But what helped
to increase Mary's dissatisfied feelings towards
her sister-in-law, was the haunting sense of a
likeness in her to some face of which she could
not distinctly recall the identity. This impression
came upon her so strongly at times,
that she seemed just on the brink of recollection.
And strangely associated with this
vague memory was the idea, equally indefinite,
that the resemblance, if it existed, would have
some special importance.

One evening, ]\lrs. Hatherley being better
for the first burst of really warm weather,
John had invited some friends to dinner. In
the course of the evening he took them all
into the library, to show some of his latest
book acquisitions.

One of the guests, Mr. Ashbury  a
stranger in Marleyford, and more interested
in pictures than in books  began looking*
about him, and paused at last before the portrait
of an old lady, with grey hair covered
by a black coif.

A fine portrait lie commented. ' One of
your family, Mr. Hatlierley?'

My grandmother.'

A fine portrait,' repeated the connoisseur,
'and a fine face. Your grandmother must
have been a beauty.'

Her daughter, your aunt, was the handsomest
girl I ever saw,' suddenly remarked
Mr. Wilmot, one of the oldest inhabitants of
Marleyford, turning towards John.

A rather awkward silence followed. Everybody
knew that about the lady referred to there
had been a story : and a clause in Mr. Fatherly's
will had lately brought all the circumstances
vividly back to people's minds. His
sister, Rachel Hatherley, had been the first
black sheep of the family. She had eloped
with a distant cousin, who bore the same name
as herself, but had been a humble dependent
in his boyhood on her father's bounty. The
3oung couple had been got off to America,
and then Rachel's name had become a dead
letter. Her father and brother never forgave

her, nor Twould consent to know anything
about her or her numerous children. But
John, when quite a young man, had gone to
Philadelphia after a defaulting clerk, and there
had come across his cousins. The details of
his acquaintance with them had never transpired,
but apparently he had been more intimate
with them than his father liked. For the
will, now just proved, under whiche inherited,
was dated almost immediately after his return
to England; and it distinctly provided against
his marrying his eldest cousin, Margaret Hatherley.
Disobedience on that point was to
result in total disinheritance. This condition
had recently given the gossips something to
talk about, and had surprised even Mary. For
she had been a schoolgirl at the time of
Jolm's absence, and the very fact of his
acquaintance with his disgraced relatives
had been kept secret from her. She had
learnt it for the first time when the will was
read.

'You have no portrait of your aunt?' resumed

old Mr. Wilmot, with the obtuse persistence
of age.

A miniature merely replied Mary. She
opened an old bureau and produced the miniature,
not without some secret triumphant
consciousness of its being like herself.

Mr. Ashbury took it, and gave a little start
of surprise.

'Where have I seen the original?' he exclaimed.
'Let me think! Yes. . . . No.
I have it. It was in America, twenty -
five years or more ago. A beautiful young

woman, the wife, I think ' he paused and

glanced hesitatingly, not liking to complete
his sentence.

The wife of a bookseller,' blundered old
Mr. Wilmot eagerly. ' To be sure ; that was

she.'

This is very like you. Miss Hatherley,'
continued Mr. Ashbury, his eyes still fixed upon
the miniature. ' It is remarkable how the
family type has clung to you all.' His eyes
reverted to the portrait of the grandmother :

then to sirs. John Hatherley seated in a high-backed
chair beneath it. She was unheeding',
because hearing, of what was said around
her. Her lovely eyes were fixed in reverie,
her hands lay folded tightly on her lap. Over
her head, to protect herself from the draught
of an open window, she had drawn a black
lace scarf. ' There is a strong family likeness
between you and your brother and all these
portraits. I declare,' he added, laughing, ' even
Mrs. Hatherley has at this moment a likeness
to your grandmother.'

Mary gave a great start  a start so unmistakable
that Mr. Ashbury almost dropped the
miniature in surprise. John, who had apparently
not been listening, crossed the room
at this moment and spelt out on his fingers a
Warning to his wife that she was sitting too
long by the open window. ' We will go back
to the drawing-room,' he said, addressing his
guests, and drew his wife's hand within his

arm.

Tell me,' cried Mary suddenly, with extra-vol.
I. 9

ordinary eagerness, to Mr. Ashbury, ' Did
you know much of my aunt in America ?
Had she many children? Did you see them?'

John had drawn aside to let the party defile
in front of him. ' Mr. Ashbury,' he said,
addressing that gentleman with a courteous
wave of his hand towards the door.

She had only one child when I knew her,
I tliiiik Mr. Ashbury was saying in answer
to Mary. ' Let me see . . What did I
hear afterwards about the child ? a charming
little girl, I remember. It died, it seems tome,
in some odd, terrible way. Or was it
only ' He paused, musing.

Some strange accident ?' suggested Mary,
white to the lips.

But evidently Mr. Ashbury's memory for
faces was very superior to his recollection of
facts. ' I don't remember,' he replied, shaking
his head ; and aware of John's smiling summons,
he at last obeyed it.

Mary tried to resume the subject later in
the evening, but he evidently did not like to

be cross-questioned. He only became more
vague the more she interrogated him ; and the
wild possibility which had presented itself and
turned her faint with the rush of attendant
thoughts, receded every moment into a dimmer
and more distant background.

Nevertheless, she could not sleep all night,
but tossed restlessly from side to side. And
in the morning, when John had left the house,
she presented herself in her sister's dressing-room.
Mrs. Hatherley received her with her
usual gentle sweetness of look and manner.

With characteristic apathy and selfishness,
Mary had given herself very little trouble to
master any means of communication with the
dumb woman. She could speak a very little,
slowly and laboriously, on her fingers ; and
eagerness made the task easier for her now
than in general. Only she questioned in a
clumsy, blunt way, not as she would have
questioned a person who could speak.

Are you sure that your father's name was
Lyndon ?'

92

Of course,' Mrs. Hatherley signified in
reply, with evident astonishment.

And you always lived in London?'

Always, after he came home.'

*Home? From what place?' Mary's heart
began beating again.

'From America.'

Were you there with him ?'

Yes.'

And how old were you when you came
away?'

A little older than Mark here,' and Mrs.
Hatherley laid her hand tenderly on her little
son's curly head.

Mary gave a sigh of disappointment, as she
fixed her eyes, full of a fierce curiosity, on the
pure, lovely face before her. Was she prevaricating
to her, this wife of John's? The
idea was too preposterously insulting even
for her to accept it. She had nothing more
to ask, yet would have begun to question
again. But Mrs. Hatherley Alas very unwell
that morning, and she lay back on her pillowed

chair so motionless from weakness as to
seem asleep. Mary had no choice but to
leave her.

She spoke about it to Ralph fiercer ; but
he condemned it as fantastic ; a foolish,
visionary idea.

You never heard that one of your aunt's
children was deaf and dumb?' he said : and
Mary was fain to confess that she had not.

One mio'ht set a detective to work, if one
had money mused Ralph. ' Iot that it's
likely to be true. Without money, hang it !
one cannot do anything  and you never have
a spare sixpence, Mary.'

That is not my fault,' answered Mary,
with rather resentful significance.

John made her a very large allowance for
pocket-money, but Ralph Mercer borrowed
the greater part of it. His engagement to
Mary was no longer opposed by John, and,
except when mysterious errands took Ralph
to London, he was for ever at Hatherley
House. People began to talk a little, to

shake their heads too, to wonder what the
beautiful Mary could see in him to love.
Truth to say, it was a question Which Mary
once or twice of late had asked herself. Her
obstinacy appeased by the withdrawal of opposition,
Ralph lost a great part of his charm
in her eyes. Moreover, his doubtful life in
London during the year of separation, had left
an ineffaceable trace. In air, manner, and
speech he was distinctly more dissipated than
of old. His good looks, once very marked,
were obscured, and with his free-and-easy
ways, and his eternal debts, he was about as
unattractive a wooer as could well be imagined.

And in constant contrast with him was
Walter Russell: so refined, and gentle, and
clever: unswerving also in his affection, and
now the presumptive heir to his uncle's
baronetcy.

Given these two sets of opposing forces,
with nothing but Mary's fast-fading inclinations
to strike the balance in favour of Ralph,
and one can easily imagine the result. The

day arrived when his need of money became
insupportable ; vrhen not ruin alone threatened
him, but ruin accompanied by disgrace ; and
Mary engaged herself to Walter Russell.
This took place within six months after Mr.
Hatherley's death; but Lady Russell, writing
from Carlsbad, while offering her warm, delighted
congratulations, urged that the marriage
should take place immediately.

Sir Charles was already so much better,'
she wrote, ' that the doctors really began to
entertain hopes of his ultimate recovery. And
it would give both him and herself so much
pleasure to welcome the young couple on their
return from the honeymoon, at Kussell Hall.
If your dear uncle continues to improve so
rapidly,' wound up her ladyship),  I shall feel
as if I were returning with him from a honeymoon
myself, for he looks ten years younger,
and the change in him is altogether miraculous.

AVhat delightful news !' exclaimed Walter
Russell.

Delightful,' echoed Mary slowly. ' I suppose,

Walter, that your aunt will herself present
me in the spring.'

Walter Alas sure that she would do that, or
anything else that could bring pleasure to his
love. It was curious how devotedly he loved
Mary  he as clever as she was stupid ; as true
as she was false ; as brave as she was cowardly !
Her stately beauty and composed manner, the
grace that resulted in her firm and perfect
physical harmony, to his enchanted eyes were
warrant sufficient for crediting her with a shining
human soul. He was one of those men
who do not care for any superfluous endowment
of brains in a wife, but are content that
she should be ' womanly,' having no very definite
idea of what they mean by that elastic
term. The wedding-day Alas fixed ; and in
the preparation of her trousseau, the reception
of her presents, and the congratulations of her
friends, Mary was nearly happy.

Do you know,' said John one morning to
his sister, looking uj) from the perusal of a
letter, ' Martha is well again  is cured ?'

'Cured?' Mary stared blankly. What
would be the consequences to herself ?

So far cured continued John, ' that the
doctors at the asylum consider that they can
no longer keep her shut up. But they recommend
absolute quiet and freedom from
anxiety.'

And the prison authorities  her sentence V
demanded Mary.

The time of her sentence has just expired.'


And what do you mean to do ? Is she to
be allowed to come out ?'

Mary asked the question in quite an indignant
tone. For after all Martha had been mad ;
she would probably become so again.

I am afraid I cannot persuade the asylum
to keep her replied John, with one of his quiet,
covert sneers. ' Don't alarm yourself, Mary.
Nobody would believe her story now. You
are quite safe.'

I suppose you have yourself to think of,
as well as me exclaimed his sister angrily.

That was one of the things that most exasperated
her about John  his cool assumption
always that the only peril of exposure washers.
After all, he was as criminal as she ; he
had known it was she who was guilty, and not
Martha. If only John would be kinder to her !
But nobody ever was kind, except Walter 
for whom, in her secret soul, she had some
slight contempt. There was, however, consolation
in the thought that she should reign asa
queen when she became Lady Russell.

The marriage-day dawned at last, a splendid
morning. The parish church of Marleyford,
between guests and spectators, was full to suffocation.
Rarely had so grand a wedding
been seen there. Between the number of the
bridesmaids, the splendour of the dresses, the
full choral service, and the three officiating
clergymen, it was enough to make the dead
generations of Hatherleys rise from their
graves, in protest at such oblivion of their
stately sobriety.

But Mary had willed it so, being one of

those women who would hardly think themselves
married at all without the oransre-
flowers, Brussels lace, and wedding-cake, about
which they have dreamed for years. She had
gone about her preparations with an almost
religious solemnity, and carefully studied all
the most fashionable novelties. One of the
results had been to make little Mark her train-bearer,
and dress him up in a costume of the
time of Louis XY.

The service was over, and the bride and
bridegroom had paced down the aisle to the
spirit-stirring strains of the ' Wedding March.'
Mary stepped into the carriage, and proceeded
to release her train from the hands of little
j\Iark with all the reverential regard due to so
many yards of magnificent texture. Walter
stood smiling down at the child, and looking
happy and handsome in the sunlight.

The bridesmaids, one shimmering, fluffy,
airy, radiant confusion of lace and swansdown
and bouquets and pretty faces, were grouped in
the porch ; behind them were crowded ladies

in satin and velvets, old gentlemen with bald
heads and rubicund faces, young men in glossy
coats and lavender ties, with favours in their
button-holes.

Suddenly, through the cloud of gaping
rustics, a shabby, trembling, tiny figure made
its way.

Good-bye, Mary,' it cried ; ' I wish you

And the bride fell back in her carriage with
a shriek of absolute terror, as she recognised
the face of Martha Freake.

The unexpected apparition caused no small
consternation. Several young ladies fairly
echoed Mary's scream ; and John, hastily dropping
from his arm the hand of the frightened
Mrs. Ormerod, hurried towards the intruder
Tvith an air of dignified determination.

Pray do not look so alarmed ; I mean no
harm to anyone,' said Martha. 'I only came
down from London to fetch my things. I did
not know it was Mary's wedding-day.'

She stood, turning her head from side to

side as she spoke, with a kind of childish
curiosity.

How can this be permitted !' exclaimed
John, for once so taken aback that he hardly
knew what to say.

Oh, let me go!' wailed the bride from her
carriage. ' Walter, send her away. She is
mad. I am frightened. Why will people be
so unkind ?' Her voice broke into a sob, and
she burst out crying.

She is not mad, sir; only a little flighty-like
and queer,' said a respectable woman who
now addressed John. ' She has been staying
with Mrs. Parsons, in London, since she was
released; but she would come down to-day to
fetch her own things from your house. Sometimes
she seems half to forget what has
happened.'

Still turning her head about in bird-like
fashion, and without appearing to notice what
was said, Martha scanned the groups around
her. All at once her face changed. A shadow
darkened it; her head fell. She put her hand

up to her temple with a gesture of suffering.



Let me go,' she said.  There is too much
noise here.'

Lawks, ma'am ! nobody is speaking said
her companion pityingly.

Too much noise. Too much noise repeated
Martha, and turned away.

She often says strange things, with no
sense in them, sir,' resumed the woman to
John. ' But she is quite quiet, and more
manageable than a babe.'

The crowd shrank away, and Martha passed
quickly out of sight. In the afternoon, when
the wedding-breakfast was quite over, the
same woman came to Hatherley Hall to fetch
her things. Miss Freake would not come
herself, she told John, although at first she
had been so keen to do it. On their getting
back to the inn, she had lain down at once
and gone to sleep). She often did that after
anything had seemed to trouble her, and was
always restored by it.

John, however, wrote to the lunatic asylum
protesting against his cousin's release, saying
that he had seen her, and that she seemed
anything bat cured. In answer, he was told
that Miss Freake on quitting the asylum was
as sane as himself.

John thereupon journeyed up to London
and saw Mr. and Mrs. Parsons, to whom
Martha had returned. But Martha had already
departed for Paris, and had insisted upon
going alone. She was a little odd in manner
at times, they added, and occasionally did
eccentric things. But she had no delusions,
and was never violent.

John Hatherley obtained Martha's address
in Paris, and wrote to her, offering her a substantial
monthly allowance. He received in
reply a curt refusal, so little like the letter of
a lunatic that he felt disposed, after reading it,
to attribute Martha's appearance and behaviour
on Mary's wedding-day rather to a spirit of
revenge than to insanity.

WINIFRED.

WENTY-riYE years. It is a large
span out of a lifetime ; an age,
seemingly, to look forward to or
to look back upon. That period of time has
nearly, elapsed since the scenes recorded in our
story, and the former chapters were but the
prologue to what has now to come. Its
thread is taken up in Paris ; to which gay
city we must carry the reader for a very brief
sojourn.

Everybody who saw her for the first time
was struck, not alone with Winifred Power's

beauty, but also with her air of happiness.
Xot that she looked beaming or facetious, or
vacantly amused : nor was she perpetually
laughing and talking. But she had an air of
bright, resolute energy, which one instinctively
felt could arise from no other source thana
perfectly contented spirit. Her cordiality of
manner, her fearless blue eyes, her quick
blithe ways said plainly that in all her life she
had given more of sympathy and help than
she had needed.

Judgments, of course, differed about her
as about everybody, but the majority of them
were favourable. Among the weak, the poor,
and the oppressed, indeed, Winifred counted
a legion of friends. Xot that people ever
really disliked Winifred. Only some found
her a little absolute, and others rather failed
to understand her; and very sensitive, shallow,
and vain persons thought occasionally that
she had meant to affront them. Winifred was
always dreadfully sorry when she discovered
(which she did not always) that she had hurt

VOL. I. 10

anybody's feelings. But it is not certain that
her sorrow was altogether conciliatory, for
it had a slight mixture in its kindness of
astonished, good-humoured, but faintly injurious
scorn.

As a rule, it must be confessed Winifred
had 'not very much time to trouble herself
about people's feelings  as such. If they
demanded consolation, sympathy, or active
help (especially the latter), her energy indeed
seemed as elastic as her leisure. But as long
as those around her were satisfied, what she
liked best of all was to have plenty of time for
her painting.

For Miss Power was an artist, and no unsuccessful
one for her years ; and the sums
produced by her painting counted for something
in the not always abundant family
finances. Winifred lived in Paris with her
uncle, Mr. Russell, and his wife. Upon the
second marriage of his widowed sister in India,
Mrs. PoAver, to Captain Chances-Fane, the
Russell had adopted the little girl, Winifred.

Latterly Mrs. Chances-Fane, now a widow
for the second time, had joined them in
Paris.

The Russell had gone gradually down in
the world. We last saw them at Marleyford
in all the grandeur of their wedding-day. Ill-luck
seemed to have tracked their footsteps.
An heir, born unexpectedly, had deprived
Walter Russell of his expected baronetcy.
The failure of a bank had taken from him
much of his own fortune. Ill-health had been
his portion. And only a year or two ago, the
treachery of a friend for whom he had been responsible
involved him in difficulties. Then
the fine apartment in the Eue Tivoli was
given up for one in the Rue des Beaux Arts, a
very different quarter. As compared with
many of those around it, it was fairly handsome
and commodious : and relics of their
prosperity filled it : ormolu clocks, buhl cabinets,
and  Mrs. Russell's lamentations. She
liked magnificence  costly dress, and a handsome
carriage to make her calls in : and, in

102

a degree, she had this still. Intensely selfish
was she, as in the times gone by.

On this day, when we first make Winifred's
acquaintance, the late March afternoon, drawing
to its close, found her, as usual, busy at
her easel. Sitting by the bright wood-fire ina
lounging chair was a lady, whom few would
have guessed to be the young artist's mother.
Mother and daughter, indeed, were both fair ;
but there the resemblance ceased. The girl
was tall and bright and active-looking ; the
elder woman was petite and languishing.

The difference between them was the difference
between a pure white statue and a
Dresden china shepherdess. Winifred, severely
simple in attire, fair, flaxen-haired and beautiful,
owed nothing to art. Mrs. Chances-Fane,
elegantly dressed, and elaborately coffee, was
a manufactured article of remarkable prettiness.
She was nursing a white Angora kitten and
reading Baudelaire's poems. For she was
esthetic, and declared that her daughter's
pictures were not always ' interesting.'

That is the third time you have sighed, my
love. You are overworking, I am sure,' she
presently remarked, in a cool, refined voice,
laying down her book with a delicate
yawn.

I am not easily overworked, mother; and
the picture must be finished by next week.'

Must r echoed Mrs. Fane. 'There you
have the fatal destiny of pot-boilers, my child.
I have always told you, and 1 repeat, that you
will never be a good artist until you have
ceased to work for money.'

We must first cease to need money,' answered
Winifred rather brusquely.

'Ah, well I' exclaimed Mrs. Fane: and it
was wonderful how the indefinite ejaculation
conveyed by its tone that no problems were insoluble
to persons of superior nature.

Winifred set her lips a little tightly, and an
expression less of grave annoyance than of deliberate
self-control for a moment clouded her
bright young face.

I am not sighing because I am fatigued

resumed she, after a pause ] ' but because my
uncle is of late so manifestly worse.'

We must call up strength of mind to resign
ourselves to the inevitable,' replied Mrs.
Fane, stroking the kitten's tail. ' We cannot
expect him to grow better, Winifred.'

The door at this moment opened to admit
a stout, cross-looking, yet elegant woman,
who entered, dragging her fur mantle after
her. It was Mrs. Russell. Handsome she
undoubtedly was still : but few would have
recognised her for the once beautiful Mary
Hatherley.

I am so tired !' she said fretfully, subsiding
into the nearest chair. ' The weather
is quite mild. to-day. What afire ! The room
is suffocating,' and she looked towards the
closed windows.

I find it cold indoors,' remarked Mrs. Fane
placidly ; and she did not osier to let in any air.

Is there no tea ?' asked the new arrival,
peevishly.

I think there is a cup left,' answered Winifred's

mother, glancing carelessly at the
little Japanese tea-service on a low table at her
elbow.

I am too tired to pour it out for myself
said Mrs. Russell.

Mrs. Fane put the kitten's paws round her
neck and began talking to it softly. Winifred
laid down her palette and brush and poured
out the tea in silence.

I have a piece of news for you,' said
her aunt to her as she took the cup.
Richard Dallas is dismissed from his employment.'


No /' Winifred stood in consternation.

I always thought that would be the end oi
it,' observed Mrs. Fane, who had never
thought on the subject in any way.

I drove there this afternoon,' resumed Mrs.
Russell, * and found them in great distress. I
believe that the cause of his dismissal is some
disgraceful discovery.'

Disgraceful to Dick ? I don't believe it,'
exclaimed Winifred.

Don't you, my love ?' remarked her
mother.

Winifred asked a string of eager questions,
but Mrs. Russell was hopelessly vague.
Naturally indolent now, her intelligence at
this moment was additionally obscured by
fatigue. She leaned back in a condition of
irritable somnolency, from which Mrs. Fane
roused her at intervals by stirring up the fire.

Meanwhile, Winifred, as soon as her painting
was brought to an end by the failing
light, scraped her palette and thrust her
brushes into water with unusual haste. The
Dallaseses  an improvident, unfortunate family
were her great friends ; and her affectionate
imagination conjuring up vividly all
that they must be at present enduring, she
prepared to rush off to them with characteristic
impetuosity.

All at once came a violent rinof at the outer
door, followed by the equally violent entrance
of a young and very pretty girl, but by no
means a good-tempered-looking one. The

puckered brow and angry eyes of this sauce,
piquante brunette betrayed a disposition the
reverse of mild, and, at this moment, apparently
heated to explosion-point.

Oh, Gerty ! 1 have heard the news,' said
Winifred sorrowfully.

Good-evening, Miss Dallas,' said Mrs.
Chances-Fane, icily reproving.

What a noise I' exclaimed Mrs. Russell.

Undisturbed by these manifestations of
various feeling, Miss Gertrude Dallas cast herself
into an armchair, mutely irate, and began
beating the floor with her pretty foot.

I am so distressed,' whispered Winifred.

Gertrude shruofored her shoulders cynical.

It is just our luck,' she answered.

Can nothing be done ?'

A great deal. But we, my dear Winifred,
are not the people to do it.'

Having' delivered this remark, in a tone of
bitter sarcasm. Miss Dallas folded her hands,
fixed her eyes on a corner of the ceiling, and
resumed her tattoo.

Would you kindly explain what has happened
?' asked Mrs. Fane.

That was soon done. Richard Dallas,
Gertrude's half-brother, older than herself,
and born of a French mother, had, through
the interest of his maternal relatives, obtained
a post as sub-curator to a provincial museum
in France. The appointment, as conferred on
a half-foreigner, had always excited some
jealousy, and Richard had never hit it off
with his immediate superior. Lately, some
valuable Syracuse coins were discovered to
be missing. The loss was probably of old
date, the museum being very carelessly managed.
But it had only been now found out :
a scapegoat was needed, and personal spite
found a vent in the choice of Richard Dallas.

That is just the whole story,' said Gertrude,
brino'ino; her curt narrative to a conclusion.


How disgraceful !' breathed Winifred.

Very unfortunates observed Mrs. Fane
politely, with a slight stress on the adjective,

that brought an embarrassed blush to her
daughter's cheeks and an angry stare to Gertrude's
eyes.

'Dick is only the victim,' affirmed the
latter, as if in answer to an unspoken accusation.
 It is the head-curator who is to blame.
The Municipality should be written to ; the
Government memorialized ; the '

'Who says all this should be done?' interposed
Winifred quietly.

/ say so,' flashed out the other angrily.

Was it a sweet, white, soft, beautiful,
beautiful kitten sy, and did it never have to
memorialize anybody, except its mistress, for a
wee-wee saucer of milk?' lightly chaunted
Mrs. Fane, tilting the Angora up on its hind-legs,
and looking at it with a fascinating smile.

Gertrude sprang up; the indifference irritated
her beyond control. 'I am going,
Winifred.'

No, you are not,' returned Winifred with
gentle authority, taking her two hands and
forcing: her back into her chair again. * You

are to stay with me and be in some sort comforted,
you poor child. Only you are to try
and talk a little practical sense, for our behoof
as well as for your own.'

What practical sense can I talk ?' flamed
out Gertrude. ' Of what use can I be ? Am
I not a cipher, a nonentity ; in other words, a
young lady? Lady, forsooth! Much good
there is in being that, when one must toil and
grind from mornings to nioht like like a
crossing Sweeper. And everybody the while
to cry 'peace" where there is no peace, and
to preach patience when patience is only a
cloak for incapacity.'

How very magnificent ! Where did you
learn all that ?' lauo-hinoiy retorted Winifred,
her sense of fun getting momentarily the upper
hand of her compassion. But Gertrude Alas
tragic : in the presence of that eloquent kitten
she had no resource but to be earnest. To be
anything less was to be ridiculous : and ridicule
was the one thing that Gertrude Dallas
most feared on earth.

It is very well for you to talk,' she answered
sulkily. ' Who ever interferes with you ?'

A difficult question to answer,' remarked
Mrs. Russell.

Yes, indeed. Our dear AYinny rules us
all,' spoke the mother.

Winifred looked down, lout said nothings.
She was as little given to self-pity as to self-praise;
nevertheless at this moment a vague
revolt against injustice stirred faintly within
her. The thousand small sacrifices of herself
to which she owed her ascendency  who was
there to appreciate them ?

There it is,' pursued Gertrude triumphantly.
 Winifred can do as she pleases. You
can make use of your talents; work unhampered
'

But surely you could work also, if you
liked ?' interposed Mrs. Fane, with an innocent
air of seeking: for information.

Yes, as a governess,' replied Miss Dallas
scornfully, turning a dusky red in her exasperate
on.

This governess question was a very sore
23oint, as she had tried the career and ignominiously
failed. Of course, through no fault
of her own : when were the Gertrude Dallaseses
of this world anything but the victims of
adverse circumstances ?

I could spend my youth shut up in a stuffy
schoolroom with detestable children of wooden
intelligence  I could do that, of course,' pursued
the young lady, with magnificent contempt.
' Or I could sweep a crossing, or go
about with a basket selling pins and staylaces,
or  in fact there is no end to the occupations
which I might find if I chose.' The accent on
the last word was withering.

Some governesses get a hundred a year,'
put in Mrs. Russell.

Very probably. In some eyes, doubtless,
a human machine is priceless,' retorted Gertrude,
with defiance.

Are not you priceless ?' exclaimed Mrs.
Fane to the kitten, which put out one velvet
paw and tapped her on the cheek.

Good-evening,' said Gertrude abruptly;
and she rose, pale with annoyance, and left the
room. Winifred went with her to the stairs
and took leave of her sorrowfully, promising
to come as soon as dinner was over.

We shall be glad to see you, of course,'
replied her fi-end, not very graciously.  But
I am afraid you will not find us very lively
company,' she added, and ran lightly down
the stairs.

What you can see to like in that ill-tempered
girl passes my comprehension, Winifred,'
remarked Mrs. Fane.

All Winifred's friends are eccentric,' said
Mrs. Russell plaintively.

'Wait until you have seen Mademoiselle
Marthe !' laughed Winifred. 'Then indeed
you may talk of eccentricity.'

You are always threatening us with that
person,' exclaimed Mrs. Fane. ' Who is
she?  and when is she definitely to appear
t

When I have succeeded in vanquishing her

shyness replied Winifred, 'and I can't do
that yet.'

I am sure you had much better leave her
alone,' observed Mrs. Russell. It is too
Quixotic to consider yourself bound by ties of
eternal gratitude to a queer, probably vulgar
old woman, just because she happened to show
you a little attention when you were ill.'

She nursed me with the greatest devotion,
and she is not vulgar,' retorted the girl.

After dinner Winifred prepared to start, her
maid Sophie in attendance, for the Eue Este.
Catherine, where the Dallaseses dwelt. But
before leaving, she tapped at a door at the end
of the corridor. ' Come in,' said a voice, and
Winifred entered her uncle's bedroom. A
pleasant room, although it was the home of an
invalid, and although its denizen knew no
change but the slow advance of a mortal
malady, and no variety but such as consists in
spending one's bad days in bed and one's
better ones on a sofa.

Ah, my Brunhilda ! Whither away ?' said

Walter Russell, looking up from the review
he was reading by the light of a shaded lamp.
The name  given her playfully in allusion to
her fair, tall beauty  and the tone in which it
was pronounced spoke volumes for the cordial
friendship, deeper than mere relationship,
which reigned between the sick man and
the girl.

I am sorry I shall not be here to read to
you this evening,' said Winifred, seating herself
beside her uncle's couch; ' but I must goto
the poor Dallaseses. You have heard of their
fresh misfortune?'

Yes, poor things ! Fate has a spite
against them, as it always has against the
feckless : if, indeed, one should not rather say
that the feckless have a spite against fate,'
added Mr. Russell, with the half wistful smile
of a man whom evil fortune has made a
philosopher.

Now, what is the meaning of that? Something
cynical, I am sure.' And Winifred
shook her golden head reprovingly.

VOL. I. 11

Only as Nature is cynical, my cold. The
feckless are clearly intended by natural laws to
sink ; yet the Winifred of this world, with a
great expenditure of energy and pity, persist
in helping to keep them afloat.'

You know those are the things I don't
like you to say. Uncle Walter. And I believe
that one day the Dallaseses will find out how to
help themselves.'

You believe that ? Then you have a great
deal of faith.'

Are you better to-night ?'

She took his wasted hand tenderly as
she asked the question, and bent down to
look into his face with anxious, loving
eves.

I am better,' he said, ' for I am nearer the
goal. Nay, do not look so sad, child. You
are very good to grieve for me; but glance
beyond your loving regrets, and ask yourself
-what I have to live for.'

For your friends,' murmured Winifred.

Yet even as she said the words, even as she

drew the noble, grey head to her and laid her
soft young cheek upon the massive forehead,
regret for a moment died down in her,
quenched by self forgetful pity. Her uncle had
been all in all to her. The books that she
had read with him gained an added significance
from his comments ; and his intellectual
companionship had educated her as no books
alone could have done. Yet, above the
passionate longing of her love and her youth
and her strength to keep him with her always,
rose the sympathetic comprehension of his
sorrows. Of how little books and the love of
friends, the voice of pity and the touch of
tender hands, can be to a man who, stricken
now with physical helplessness, and embittered
with the sense of failure, looks back along the
traversed track of life, and sees his baffled
efforts standing phantom-like with regretful
eyes of pain ! Keeping back resolutely an
unwonted rush of tears, Winifred pressed her
lips upon the sick man's brow, and in that
kiss, for that moment, resigned him almost

112

  

gladly  almost Into the peace and silence of
the tomb.

Go  and come back quickly he said.
And perhaps there may still be time for you
to read me a page or two of our book. Your
touch must be magnetic, Winifred. Something
that you meant that kiss to say to meseems
to have done me good.'

She did not find much to say in answer to
that, but left him, promising to make haste.
On her way downstairs she met Claire, the
young flower-maker, who lived two stories
above her, and who was helping her blind
grandfather to climb the steep flights.

Bon soir, mam'zelle,' simultaneously said
the girl's fresh tones and the old man's quavering
treble, as they became aware of Winifred's
presence. They were . neighbours, these two
girls, and had come to like one another much,
although their intercourse was principally
limited to nods from their respective windows,
and the one was a young gentlewoman, and the
other but a poor flower-maker. Claire, sitting

at her work in her humble room, could look
down into Winifred's studio. Sometimes the
young artist, brush in hand, would appear at
the window, just for the sake of throwing
a bright smile of greeting upwards. And
often, in the early morning, for both rose with
the lark, Winifred would be hanging out her
canaries just as Claire appeared at her own
casement with her blackbird. And Winifred
declared that this same blackbird had been the
source of much inspiration to her. For its
first liquid notes echoing through the court
seemed to be the herald of the spring. Then
many an aching head and a flushed, weary face
was lifted from its occupation of needlework,
or watchmaking, or copying. Windows were
thrown open, just through the infection of
gladness, and those condemned to stifling
rooms and imperfect light through the dreary
winter days, knew that soon the first tender
shoots of green would brighten the town
gardens, and the Mar die aux Fleurs be fragrant
with violets  not forced in hothouses, but

gathered in the woods ! It was these homely
touches, reminders of the poetry of poverty
and the holiness of work, which made her life
in Paris dear to Winifred.

THE Dallas.

 E . DALLAS, the unfortunate
RicliarcVs father, was one of those
charming people who make everybody
uncomfortable, and are universally adored.
He was a perplexing unknown quantity in the
lives even of his nearest and dearest: a fantastic
element, with which they could never
cope, and constantly disappointing expectation.


There was never any telling what Mr.
Dallas might do next  except fail. For fail
he invariably did, in whatever he undertook.
It was a brilliant kind of failure often, for he

had plenty of talent. But the results, when
they came to be inspected, were none the less
dismal for having had a sort of phosphorescent
splendour. He was a painter, a musician,
a poet, and had produced creditable, albeit
unfinished work in all lines. Only, through
some queer perversity of nature, he never produced
it when wanted. If a picture were
ordered of him, he set about composing a
poem. If an editor (by some unheard-of
stroke of good luck) were found to consent to
read a poem, Mr. Dallas would discover that
he had nothing good enough to show him :
he would promise something better, and meanwhile
set to work on a song. Such industry
as he had, and, to do him justice, he was
rarely idle, seemed to recoil from the task
appointed to it.

For the rest, Mr. Dallas had all the facile
grace of his temperament, and fascinated everyone.
If nobody on a closer acquaintance
entirely believed in him, on the other hand
nobody ever entirely disbelieved in him. The

most sober-minded and the most hardworking
of his acquaintance had an finite patience
with him; and, perpetually helped by their
efforts above the immediate consequences of
his own imprudence, he looked down with the
smiling serenity of an all unconscious self-complacency
upon the toilers who supplied his
wants.

I am so glad to see you, dear,' said kindhearted,
short-sighted Mrs. Dallas, receiving
Winifred with open arms., ' You have heard
of our sad trouble. Take off your hat and
have some tea.'

The good little woman's fetish (for all
divinity had long vanished from the idol) bore
the sweet name of 'home.' Only, 'home'
with her meant really dining at one o'clock
and having raspberry jam at tea. That was a
delicacy which had soothed her children's angry
tempers when they were little : she could not
conceive that it should fail in a similar effect
now that they were big. Their aberrations
perplexed her, as all aberrations did equally,

from house-breaking' to undarnecl socks : but
when she beheld them gathered round the
hissing urn, the evidence of their discontented
countenances never availed to convince her
that peace did not reign in their hearts.

I have just dined, but I will take a cup,'
replied Winifred, knowing that to refuse was
to break her hostess's heart. 'Where is Dick?'

Gone out for a little stroll, poor boy ; but
he will be home to tea said Mrs. Dallas cheerfully.
' Mr. Dallas is in his studio, hard at
work. He has had an order to paint Monsieur
and Madame Dubreuil's portraits; they are to
be finished in a month, for their daughter's
birthday.'

'And is he painting them by lamplight ?'
asked Winifred, in great astonishment, yet
pleased at the ncAvs.

He is preparing some etching-plates, and
starts on an etching tour tomorrow,' explained
Gertrude, with a kind of sulky irony.

Poor papa ! He is always so busy,' remarked
simple Mrs. Dallas.

He might be busy to better purpose, just
now, mamma.'

Your papa knows his own affairs best, you
may be sure, my dear.' The little air of
matronly dignity with which this reproof was
administered, and its own intrinsic, affectionate
imbecility, secretly exasperated Gertrude. But
for once she subsided into silence, after no
stronger protest than an expressive toss.

Well, what are you all about? Is tea not
ready? Ah I Good-evening, Miss Winifred!'
said Mr. Dallas, rubbing his hands with the
bearings of a man who has achieved a task and
is pleased with it.

We are waiting for poor Dick,' said Mrs.
Dallas.

Wait for no one. Punctuality is the
essence of success. There is no defect for
which I have so profound a contempt as un-punctuality,'
observed he, turning towards
Winifred.

This in the presence of a domestic calamity
would] have astonished Winifred, could anything

in Mr. Dallas have astonished her. As
it was, she only said gravely, ' I came to condole
with you about Richard.'

'Ah, Richard! poor lad!' Regret clouded
the father's open, handsome countenance. ' He
has been infamously treated. Miss Power. Infamously.
I have written out a petition.
Perhaps a better plan would be to horsewhip
the curator? I think I will go to Blois to doit.
By Jove ! I will start tomorrow,' wound
up Mr. Dallas, struck with the sudden idea.

And your etching?' suggested Gertrude.

The etching be hanged ! it can wait,' replied
her father, with serenity. ' Here's Richard.
We were going to begin tea without you, my
boy; you are yq minutes late.'

Richard, a dark, slender, and attractive young
man, came forward and shook hands with
Winifred in silence. He was looking sad and
pale.

'I am so sorry for you,' she murmured.

I am sorry for myself, but there is little
help) in that,' he said, glancing at her gratefully.

 I suppose I am fated to go to the
wall;

Gertrude, curled up in an armchair, here
gave a derisive laugh. ' We are always going
to the wall, all of us. In fact, we live in an
impasse  she observed amiably.

In the absence of more effectual effort, my
child, you can continue to console yourself by
making epigrammatic remarks,' said Mr.
Dallas, not well pleased.

Gertrude looked furious; she hated reproof.
But in any war of words with her father, she
knew that she was always beaten, though she
had inherited much of his caustic wit.

Where is the cosy ?' inquired of the world
at large Mrs. Dallas, peering about painfully.

It was left in the drawings-room. Geordie,
go and fetch it,' commanded Gertrude of her
younger sister, a lanky maiden of fifteen.

 Go yourself!' retorted Georgie, who was
nursing a splendid cat, the mother of Mrs.
Chances-Fane's kitten.

Enraged to activity, Gertrude sprang up

and made a dart at the rebel. Geordie ducked:
the cat bounded; Mrs. Dallas's key-basket was
upset, and its contents were scattered upon
the floor. She stooped to collect them, caught
a corner of the table-cover, and some of the
cups fell with a crash to the ground.

gertrude!' cried Mr. Dallas, turning: his
anger upon her. ' Go to your room, and stay
there.'

 ir Gertrude exclaimed.  I ?'

Yoii, replied her father. ' When you are
by, there is neither peace nor quiet of late ;
neither decent behaviour nor civil speech.'

The girl stood for one moment transfixed
with amazement and a bewildering sense of
wrong. Then, as an ill-timed and triumphant
giggle from the appeased Georgie met her ear,
she turned and rushed away, banging the door
behind her.

Winifred made a movement to follow her,
but Mr. Dallas interposed. ' Let her be, for
Heaven's sake,' he said. ' But that insanity
is unknown in our family, I should really

tremble sometimes for that child's future
reason. Her storms of passion are unbearable.'


Poor Mrs. Dallas, with trembling hands,
and murmuring that tJiis time it was not
Gertrude who was in fault, restored something:
like order to the tea-table, rang the hand-bell
for fresh cups, and indeed everybody to sit
down. She crept away presently with Gertrude's
tea to the culprit's room, but returned
in a grieved way, shaking her head. The
door was locked, and she had been denied
admittance.

Except by herself and Winifred, Gertrude
Alas not missed. Mr. Dallas himself was in
delightful spirits. He always was thus in the
presence of family misfortune ; that was one
of his peculiarities. He even rallied Richard,
who sat abstracted and silent, and launched
out into brilliant disquisitions on things in
general, and all that he intended to do with
them.

Tea over, Winifred rose to go. * I will call

Gerty. She would be so sorry not to say
good-bye to you,' said Mrs. Dallas eagerly.

Winifred knew that the goings and comings
of the entire world were at this moment
matters of supreme indifference to the indignant
Gertrude. But too good-natured to contradict,
she waited.

Mrs. Dallas returned, looking disturbed.
Gertrude's room is empty,' she cried. ' She
must have gone out.'

 Alone? and at this hour!' exclaimed Mr.
Dallas.

Well, I cannot find hers

Gertrude had slipped out unobserved. Hortense,
the servant, and Winifred's own maid,
in high converse in the kitchen, had heard
the outer door close softly, but did not know
who had gone out : had thought it was one of
the gentlemen.

I expect she has only gone to the ,'
suggested the mother, the Boards
being great friends of Gertrude's.

'But she ought not to go at this hours

said Mr. Dallas. Presently the bell tinkled,
and ' Here she is I' they exclaimed. However,
it was not Gertrude, but a note from her to
her mother, brought by a commissionaire, who
said there was no answer.

Mrs. Dallas opened the note ; then stood up
scared and speechless. Richard took it from
her.

Read it out,' said Mr. Dallas to his son :
and he obeyed.

" I relieve of my presence a home whereby
your own confession, my part is that of
a firebrand. Domestic life being, so far as I
am concerned, a failure, I intend in future to
live away from you. Before this reaches you
I shall have left Paris. Do not try to find
me. It will be useless,  Gertrude." '

Horror-stricken, they looked at one another.
Then Richard rushed away to overtake, if
possible, the commissionaire, and Mrs. Dallas
and Geordie began to cry. Winifred sat
dumb ; Mr. Dallas walked up and down the
room. He was less frightened than angry :

VOL. I. 12

such a proceeding as this of his daughter's
grated, he would have told you, on his fine
sense of order.

When Richard returned, breathless, he had
failed to find the messenger. Mrs. Dallas felt
quite sure that the only people to apply to
were the Bonnards, that Gertrude had gone to
them ; and Richard again departed. He came
back, again unsuccessful, but bringing with
him the astonished and dismayed Monsieur
Bonnard. He, bald-headed and decorated a
respectable and kind-hearted Frenchman, was
quite overcome at Richard's news, and had
arrived to osier his services.

They had not seen Mademoiselle Gertrude
for some days,' he said. ' He was quite sure
she had not been even for a moment at their
house that evening. Their only visitor had
been Lieutenant Yalery, who had called to
take leave.'

Lieutenant Valery !' exclaimed Hortense,
who, French servant-like, had come in to
listen. 'Was he an infantry officer, monsieur?

A little young man with a reddish moustache,
and black bright eyes ?'

Mais oui ; mais oui !' that described him
exactly.

 Then Mam'zelle Gertrude has run away
with him,' Hortense boldly declared.

Mr. Dallas uttered an exclamation of incredulous
anger ; Monsieur Bonnard one of
honor ; ]airs. Dallas breathed a sigh of relief.
Her simple mind immediately conjured up a
romantic love-story, tears, forgiveness, blessings,
a trousseau and general happiness. The
men, more alive to practical difficulties, took a
different view.

Run away with him I' indignantly repeated
Mr. Dallas. * How dare you say so, woman !
Who is the fellow, Bonnard ? I never heard
of him before.'

He visits at our house. I am afraid your
daughter has met him on occasions there,'
groaned Monsieur Bonnard.

'All I know is, they meet in the street
sometimes ; the 'other day, when I was out

122

with Mam'zelle Gertrude, they had a long
conversation,' affirmed Hortense.

We must go after them,' exclaimed Mr.
Dallas, starting up. 'Dick, you come with
me. Where is this Yalery to be heard of,
Bonnard ?'

He starts to-night for Lyons, on leave,
mon ami '  and the kind-hearted old Frenchman,
looking deeply concerned, took the
agitated father aside. ' A French officer of
that rank cannot marry unless he deposits
25,000 francs at the Ministry of War. Yalery
has not a sou.'

Mr. Dallas looked at him with scared eyes,
hardly understanding. The vivid colour,
which excitement had brought to his face,
slowly receded.

The chief point is to pursue them as quickly
as possible,' urged Monsieur Bonnard, pressing
his hand.

Ten minutes later Mr. Dallas and Richard
had left the house, taking with them all the
money they could scrape together. They

vere accompanied to the station by Monsieur
Bonnard.

But on arriving there they found they had
just missed the Lyons night express by five
minutes ; and they had, in consequence, no
choice but to wait with such patience as they
coukl until morning. Part of the night
was spent in making inquiries ; and they were
able to establish with tolerable certainty that
a young couple answering to the description
of the fugitives had indeed started by the
express.

Winifred meanwhile had lingered a few
minutes with the idea of comforting Mrs.
Dallas. But to her surprise the little woman
needed but slight consolation.

Poor dear Gerty, she has been rather headstrong
at times of late. Perhaps you may
have noticed it ?'

Winifred, who had never noticed anything
else in all the years of her acquaintance with
her friend, murmured a vague assent.

It often puzzled me,' pursued Mrs.

Dallas placidly, ' puzzled and pained me.
But now it is quite explained. The poor
cold had this love-affair' in her head. If
she only had placed confidence in me, I
niicrht have made it all smooth with her dear
papa.'

This new view of Mrs. Dallas, as a person of
influence in her own family, severely tried
Winifred's gravity. But the unconscious
pathos of it touched her also.

She went home with a heavy heart. Even
while hoping for the best, she had ten times
Mrs. Dallas's knowledge and experience, and
was proportionately removed from the possibility
of taking the same sanguine view.
And quick of sympathy always, she was more
than ever disposed to grieve where Gertrude
was concerned. The two girls had been
friends from childhood, and Winifred loved
the wayward nature that was so far beneath
her own. She made excuses for Gertrude's
violent temper, and exalted the fitful generosity
which at times redeemed it. For, of all

the many illusions of life, what Sell is more
potent while it lasts, more irrecoverable
when it has vanished, than the tender glamour
of early friendship ? Half-way down the
hill of life we look backwards along sunny
meads, and onwards into gloom. Above us,
there on the flowery slope, appears a radiant
form : is it our youth ? Is it our early
friend ? Before we know, the gracious
phantom had vanished ; and, beckoning down
the rugged path, stands the austere, veiled
maiden called Duty.

Two or three days of suspense ensued,
during which the story of the flight oozed out,
and raised a great hubbub round poor Gertrude's
name. Then Mr. Dallas wrote briefly
to say that he had found his daughter, and
would soon be returning.

With her, of course,' said Mrs. Dallas
Dear papa I I wonder if we shall like the
poor young man.'

She pitied Lieutenant Yalery without
exactly knowing why. Probably she pictured

him to herself as tremendously in
love.

When Mr. Dallas and his son appeared,
however, they had a very unexpected story
to tell.

Gertrude had run away with the young
man, not out of love, but from sheer recklessness.
Smarting under her father's reproaches
and under the fancied wrongs of years, so
exaggerated in her imagination just then, she
had quitted her home with the intention of
taking refuge in the first instance with the
Bonnards. Further than this she did not
know what she should do, and perhaps in
her excitement did not care. The Bonnards
might want to force her back to her home.
Such a prospect filled her with fury and
despair.

In front of the Bonnards house she had ran
up against Yalery, who was leaving it. She
had met him several times, and her haughty
vanity had been gratified by his evident admiration.
In a world which did not appreciate

her, even the honore of a French lieutenant
of foot was a drop of comfort.

He stopped in much amazement at seeing
lier alone at such an hour, not putting the best
construction on it.

Her confused, passionate answers to his
questions only increased his doubts ; but lie
listened to her with that curious mixture of
incredulity and pity which a man of his
stamp accords to a woman's narrative of her
wrongs.

To make a long story short, he presently
proposed to her, perhaps three parts in jest,
to accompany him to Lyons. Impelled by
some demon of crazy recklessness, she accepted
the invitation.

She took a savage pleasure in compromising
herself in the eyes of her family, and of
consequences she had at the moment but a
very confused impression. In her inexperience
and her arrogance she believed she could
keep herself perfectly straight and defy the
world.

The alarm, the angry disappointment of
her awakening, constituted the bitterest,
because the first real lesson of her life. A
very few hours of Lieutenant Yalery's society
sufficed to fill her with detestation for
him ; and she no sooner found herself in Lyons
than she ran away for the second time, leaving
her companion extremely astonished and
aggrieved  feelings later considerably aggravated
by the horsewhipping inflicted on him
by Mr. Dallas, and for which that gentleman
refused him satisfaction.

As for Gertrude herself, the state of repentant
excitement in Nvhich her father found her
was pitiable. She would not hear of marrying
Valery : even before the horse-whipping, and
supposing that he had desired it. She would
not hear of returning home. She supposed
her character was damaged, she informed
them, folks where so ill-natured ; but her people
themselves were to blame. She reproached
her father, her brother, everybody ; and poor
Dick had ever been a good brother to her.

She wept, she stormed, she was tragic and
pathetic, simply by force of her mental perversity.
The strength of her conviction, that
she was a victim, was a rock on which all
argument broke.

I must make shipwreck of my life now in
any case. Yes, I choose to do it. Let me
take my own way,' she reiterated: and Mr.
Dallas, worn out by anxiety and anger, fairly
succumbed at last to her violence. Her plan
was to D'o to Turin as teacher in a school. She
knew of such an opening, as it chanced, and
mio'ht as well besoin her series of failures there
as anywhere else. So Richard was sent to
escort her to Turin, and Mr. Dallas returned
to Paris alone.

The exact truth about Gertrude's flight, her
family naturally never told. ISTeither the
Bonnards nor Winifred learnt whether Hortense's
suggestion of an elopement had turned
out to be correct. Nobody ever asked now
for Gertrude; and her name ceased to be mentioned.


Only Mrs. Dallas, when alone with Winifred,
sometimes would drop her head upon
the girl's shoulder and weep silent tears of
disappointment and despair.

MADEMOISELLE Martha.

)>5rES. RUSSELL, as we know, complained
that Winifred's friends were
generally eccentric. And certainly
the one about whose eccentricity there could
be no doubt was Mademoiselle Marthe.

She was not French, but very English.
Nevertheless, the very few friends she had,
belonged to the country of her adoption, and
none of them called her by her surname, or
thought of asking what it might be. She was
the Mademoiselle Marthe iJcir excellence of the
quartier. Xo one, before or since, had ever
been seen like her. She had a tiny, wizened

body, a small, puckered face, and a still, half-scared
manner which contrasted strangely with
her wistful eyes. Something there was so
very human about her, that, looking well at
her, you felt inexplicably compassionate and
attracted. But any advance was chilled by
her unconquerable and painful reserve. ' She
is like a caged and frightened fawn ; ' she looks
as if she had once been told a ghastly secret,
and never forgotten it,' were the various phrases
by which people strove to explain the odd impression
which she made upon them.

And because she was incomprehensible, she
was, on the whole, more feared than thoroughly
pitied. Her pride, combined with her deadly
poverty, made the weak-minded a little resentful
of her; and she sometimes excited the evil
fear of the malignant by sudden flashes of clear
perception and brief assertions of principle.
Her usual manner, half-frightened and very
depressed, gave place at moments to a pathetic
excitability. Something in her, long repressed,
seemed at times to rise in revolt against her

sail and anguished life, and sting her into a
feverish and short-lived activity. By profession
she was a copyist of pictures : very humbly
and devotedly she trod in the track of great
departed artists, and seemed, for the most part,
quite devoid of any personal ambition. But
every now and again she appeared possessed
by an evanescent desire to achieve something
greater; and while this fit lasted she was wont
to make sketches of original paintings, and
exhibit them for approval to her fellow-workers
in the gallery.

It was the favourite amusement of some
mocking, ill-natured spirits extravagantly to
praise these attempts, and nothing could be
more touching than the expression with which
Mademoiselle Marthe would listen to their
words. Gratitude, unwilling doubt, the longing'
to believe, the desire to love, the sad, sad
secret sense of artistic incapacity struggled for
mastery in her half childlike, ever-questioning,
and wholly mournful eyes. One day in the
gallery, Winifred being present, Mademoiselle

Martlie had been made, as iisunl, the butt of
the rest. Marie Duchess, the terror of everybody
for her cruel tongue, Clara Smythe, an
underbred English girl, and half a dozen
others, had gathered in front of the sketch,
and were exalting it in their usual style.

C'est patent !' declared Marie, in mock
rapture.

Too lovely!' added Clara.

Look at the grouping !' ' The expression !'
Ce coloris !' ' The feeling !'

Thus ran the chorus, accompanied by motions
and gestures. Winifred, her back turned to
them all, went on painting in silent indignation.


Presently, when the victim had gone away,
Marie mockingly began upon her.  Notre
chere Winifred ! Does such genius render her
jealous, or simply strike her dumb ?' A general
laugh greeted this.

Winifred turned.  I think you should all
be ashamed of yourselves,' she said quietly,
but her blue eyes flashed like a sword in the
sun.

There was a pause of amazement. ' Well,
to be sure !' exclaimed Clara, with a toss of
her head.

Tiens ! tiens !' murmured Marie, and made
a grimace.

I am quite in earnest,' continued Winifred,
unmoved. ' I think you all behave disgracefully
to that poor old woman. She is not very-wise,
but she is a gentle, unoffending little
soul, who would not hurt a fly, and she does not
perceive your ridicule, because ridicule finds
no place in her own simple and kindly heart.
She is full of reverence for the art which we
all profess to follow, and although she never
can succeed, because united, her failure is a
nobler thing than the facile degradation of
talent which we pretend to honour as success

Is that intended for me ?' flashed out larie
Duchess.

For anybody whom the cap may fit,
answered Winifred coldly.

Then there was a sudden cry of  Hush !' and
the angry group turned to find Mademoiselle

VOL. I. 13

Martlie standing behind Winifred, within hearing.
She was very pale, and her aged baby-face
had the named look of her darker hours.

I went out to buys gazettes for you. Marie
said she was hungry.'

She held out her offering mechanically, as
mechanically as she had spoken the words.
One or two of the girls had the grace to look
ashamed. Marie, with an exaggerated air of
gratitude, sprang forward to embrace the little
artist ; but Mademoiselle Marthe drew back.

I do not want your kisses, my dear,' she
said gently. ' Somehow, they have a flavour
of your praise.'

She never showed anybody her sketches
again ; and, indeed, by degrees she ceased to
make them. The lesson had been too cruel,
and the memory of its pain, abiding with her,
gradually quenched the faint, flickering flame
of her belief in her own powers.

She did not overwhelm her champion with
any expressions of gratitude, but showed her
affection by a hundred small signs. If they

Avere together in the gallery, she was never so
happy as when allowed to scrape Winifred's
palette, or wash her brushes, or run down to
buy her luncheon. The snow had hardly
melted from the ground before a bunch of
sweet-smelling violets was left in the early
morning, with the concierge, at Winifred's
house ; and one Christmas Day appeared a
piping bullfinch, which mademoiselle Marthe
had trained and taught through many patient
weeks.

In vain the girl sought to return these
kindnesses. Mademoiselle Marthe would accept
nothing from her, and contrived moreover to
give to her rejection a gentle dignity, in touching
contrast with her usual humble ways.
Winifred herself was long before she ventured
to penetrate to the tiny room which the little
old maid called her home. When she did at
last see it, she was agreeably surprised by it,
for, although modest to the verge of bareness,
it had nothing sordid. The plain, scanty
furniture was scrupulously clean, and the

132

windows were bright with flowers and
birds.

 And you have lived here all alone for more
than twenty years !' exclaimed Winifred, wondering
what the unspoken chronicle of the long,
lonely life had been.  You have friends 
visitors ?'

I have friends  yes. Everybody is very
kind to me. But I have no gentlemen or lady
visitors, if that is what you mean. At least
not until you came,' added Mademoiselle
Marthe, with her faint but patient and pleased
little smile.

Winifred, almost unconsciously, took her
hand.

But now you will make friends amono-
your own people. You will come to see us ?'
she exclaimed, impetuously.

My own people ? I have none,' replied
Mademoiselle Marthe. * My kindred are the
poor and suffering.'

The words had a sudden ring of pain, and
a new expression swept over the Speaker's

fact;. It Alas not anger, still less resentment ;
it could hardly even be called bitterness. But
it was full of a fathomless and blasting woe.
Two burning spots had come into the wrinkled
cheeks, the lips quivered with an agitation
made all the more painful by the strained look
of the tearless eyes. She drew a little away
from her visitor, with a movement that unwittingly
said how she shrank from commonplace
compassion. Winifred began to talk
about herself, her aims, her friends, her
pictures, and thus drew to the surface that
unselfish sympathy which was the key-note
to the other's reticent nature. In time, Winifred
thought, she would vanquish the little
woman's reserved timidity, and end by bringing
about a meeting; between her and Mr.
Kussell. She ardently desired this : for,
dimly yet strongly feeling that Mademoiselle
]Iarthe had been in some way wronged, she
believed that her kind and clever uncle might
be able to learn the secret. But in this aim
she failed.

One day, indeed, Mademoiselle Marthe caught
quickly at the name ' Russell,' which Winifred
had for the first time mentioned.

Is that your uncle's name? And Walter,
did you say ?' She turned rather pale, and
seemed struggling to hide some emotion.

Yes. Did you ever know him?' was the
surprised question.

Nay, there are many Rus sells in the
world. And Walter Russell too.'

But even while thus answering, Mademoiselle
Marthe looked strangely troubled.
Winifred sat silent, expecting, hoping to be
farther questioned ; but no interrogation came,
and Mademoiselle Marthe began to talk of
something else. Nevertheless her manner
remained wistful : and as Winifred, on leaving,
stooped to kiss her, she spoke in a trembling
way.

Does injustice make you angry, child ?
Could you be pitiful and loving even if the
world reproached you for it ?'

Of course,' replied Winifred.

To her surprise and consternation this
answer provoked a burst of tears, the very
first that she had seen in her friend. Tears
are akin to speech: was the veil of this anguished
past, whatever it might be, to be
finally Hated?

No : Mademoiselle Marthe checked her emotion,
almost as if ashamed of it, and drooped
her head humbly.

It is so long since I have cried,' she said,
in her simple, patient way; and Winifred felt
that the moment for questioning had not come.

AVith characteristic loyalty, she abstained
from following up the clue, if such it could be
called, which the agitation at the name of
Kussell might have seemed to osier. That is,
she did not describe Mademoiselle Martlie's
singularities to her uncle, or ask him if he had
ever known anybody answering to such a
description.

The friendship thus begun between the
strangely contrasted pair was destined, on
Winifred's side, to be intensified later by gratitude.

The previous summer to this when we
first make her acquaintance, her uncle and
aunt having gone to England, she joined
several other artists at Fontainebleau. Mademoiselle
Marthe was there also, although she
could not be said to belong to the party.
Presently smallpox broke out. Winifred fell
ill. Fortunately her attack proved of the
mildest ; but it sufficed to scare away all her
companions save one. The exception was
Mademoiselle Marthe, who suddenly proved
herself of rare efficiency. Feeling seemed to
stand her in lieu of special intelligence ; where
suffering of any sort had to be alleviated, she
always knew the right thing to do. And
Winifred, tended by her with a limitless devotion,
came to feel the moral superiority that
was veiled by her persistent reserve. Formerly
she had merely pitied Mademoiselle Marthe;
now she respected and loved her. And when
she got well, she thought she never could do
enough to mark and proclaim her gratitude.
The sight of such friendship stirred

to malice the small souls of her fellow-students.


During' one of Winifred's rare visits to the
gallery, when they were all back in Paris
again, Clara Smythe began another battle.

It is a pity you were not here yesterday,
Miss Power. You might have heard " something
to your advantage," as the advertisements
say.'

To my advantage ?' Winifred repeated, in
surprise.

Yes. That is, of course, if you consider it
an advantage to be enlightened as to the true
history of your friends.'

There was a general little giggle at this, the
rest of the gMs being prepared for what was
to come.

I must trouble you to explain yourself,'
returned Winifred.

Among the many kind of failures which
you consider interesting, do you include the
failure to keep out of prison ?'

The colour rose in Winifred's cheeks.

I am a bad hand at guessing riddles,' she
said.

Yesterday, my aunt, who Alas passing
through Paris, came with me here,' resumed the
spiteful girl. ' As we entered, your j'otegee,
Mademoiselle Marthe, passed out. My aunt
gave a great start of amazement on seeing her,
for she recognised her as a person she had
known once in England.'

Yes?' repeated Winifred, wondering what
was coming.

And who was condemned to a term of
imprisonment for writing threatening letters.'

There was a dead pause, then Winifred said
coldly :

I presume your aunt gave you some particulars
as to names and dates and places?'

Really, Miss Power, to be frank, I was
too shocked to ask for particulars,' replied
Clara.

Then you must permit me to believe that
your aunt made a mistake of identity. It
could not have been Mademoiselle Marthe.'

And with these words, Winifred, who had
already packed up her painting materials and
made ready for her departure, turned her back
and walked away.

The Christian name was the same, at any
rate ; and you can ask your friend if she has
ever been in Kent,' called out Clara : but
Winifred was already out of hearing.

For several weeks Winifred saw nothing of
Mademoiselle Marthe, for Mr. Russell became
very ill, and claimed all her attention. By the
time he again partially recovered, great things
had happened. The King of Prussia had
turned on his heel and left M. Benedetti
standing in the sunlight on the promenade at
Ems : war had been declared, and the first
shots fired ; and although France did not yet
fully foresee the catastrophe in store for her,
matters began to look serious.

The Bonnards were leaving Paris in some
haste for their country house in Provence, and
they invited Mr. and Mrs. Russell to accompany

them. Winifred could not leave,
for she had a picture to finish, and Mrs.
Chances-Fane had no fancy for French country-life.
So she betook herself to Boulogne- sur-mer,
on the understanding that her daughter
should join her there.

Winifred, thus left to her own devices,
bethought herself one fine Sunday morning of
Mademoiselle Marthe, and went off to see her.

It is my birthday, dear,' said the girl,
giving her little friend a hug. ' You cannot
be so barbarous as to expect me to spend it all
by myself. So you are just to come home
and help me to eat the feast that Sophie has
prepared for me. And afterwards we will goto
the Bois and see the brides.'

Mademoiselle Marthe was nothing loth.
She made herself ready with her wonted care ;
one of the most characteristic and touching
things about her being the exquisite neatness
of her poor attire. Winifred, watching her
affectionately, thought she seemed brighter
than usual, and was struck anew with the

childlike goodness underlying the age and
sorrow of her face.

They sallied forth, and the girl's gleesome
prattle, combined with the loveliness of the
day, kept up the pleased look in her companion's
eyes. For many long and weary
years, indeed, Mademoiselle Marthe's dimmed
stance had not dwelt with such untroubled
peace on the serenity of the heavens. Such
moments are the ambuscades of fate : another
instant, and the blow falls.

All at once, the two friends came upon Clara
Smythe and a party of girl-artists. Winifred
would have passed on with a bow, but Mademoiselle
]\Iarthe, partly from innate courtesy,
partly from habit, stopped and held out her
hand. Miss Smythe, however, was erpial to
the occasion. Drawing herself up Avitli stony
dignity, she looked the little woman over from
head to foot. Then she dropped a courtesy.

I think, madam, you must have mistaken
me for some old acquaintance from Marleyford,'
she said, and walked away.

Her victim stood rooted on the sunlit path,
still as a graven image, an image of Pain. She
uttered no word, no sigh even; but her face
turned so ashen grey that Winifred involuntarily
cried aloud in alarm.

Come home, dear!' exclaimed the generous
girl, quivering with indignation. * Never mind
what they say; just come home with me.'

The simple, ardent words fell upon unheeding
ears. Mademoiselle Marthe mechanically
allowed herself to be led away, but her awful
silence remained unbroken. Only by a sign
did she testify her wish to be taken to her own
home instead of to Winifred's.

The latter, frightened at the unnatural cain,
called a coach and put her into it. She went
home with her; took off her dress; made her
lie down; and petted her in womanly fashion.
Then, not knowing what more to do, in a very
passion of sympathy, she drew the trembling
frame into her strong young arms, and kissed
her friend in speechless pity. At the touch.
Mademoiselle Marthe burst into a convulsion

of tearless sobs, vehicle seemed as if they would
last for ever. Scared and powerless, Winifred
sent in haste for a doctor. He administered a
calming dose, and after a while the patient
dropped asleep. But she awoke at the end of
an hour or two, feverish and delirious. She
began to rave incoherently about her own trial
and the presence of ]diary in the witness-box.

This one vision returned ao'ain and asrain
with singular vividness; it was plain that of
the many circumstances connected with her
betrayal, the treachery of her cousin had burnt
most deeply into martha Freake's memory.
The piteous prayer for truth, only the truth,
reiterated every moment, seemed to tell its own
tale : and Winifred, listening through the lorn?
watches of the night, registered a mental vow
that if redress could be had she would obtain
it. Her uncle and aunt came from Marleyford:
from them it would be easy to learn the whole
story.

Mademoiselle ]\Iarthe recovered. That is to
sav. consciousness returned to her, and with it

something of her usual manner. But her face
wore a constant look of torture, and instinctively
Winifred felt that to question her would
be like probing a quivering wound.

She consequently had no choice but to possess
her soul in patience, and wait for some
future chance of enlightenment. From her
uncle and aunt she had failed to obtain information.
Mr. Russell was too unwell to write,
and his wife was one of those unsatisfactory
correspondents who never answer questions.
Finding that Mrs. Russell passed over the subject
of Mademoiselle Marthe in silence, Winifred
could but conclude that she had nothing
of real interest regarding; it to relate.

All this time events in the great world had
been proceeding with startling rapidity. Sedan
had been fought, the Empire had fallen, and the
Prussians were marching upon Paris. There
was a sauve-qui-peut among the foreigners,
and Mrs. Chances-Fane wrote to her daughter
in hot haste to join her at Bologna.

Winifred in her heart would rather have

remained where she Alas. To her, not foreseeing
what was to happen, the prospect of the
siege hell forth no terrors. Moreover, she
loved Paris, and felt all the inexplicable fascination
which France, in lier darkest as in her
brightest days, can cast upon the minds of
men. It was pain to lier to quit, in such an
hour, the great city where she had dwelt so
lonij;.

But Mrs. Fane's letter was imperative. That
lady possessed one of those indefinite natures
with which it is impossible to deal. On the
surface as airy as gossamer, as light as the froth
of the sea, she had a clinging tenacity of purpose
which was not to be repressed.

Her present letter to Winifred was that of a
lonely and loving"' mother. ' I have but you
in the world, my child,' she wrote, in a delicate,
flowing hand. ' Since the death of your dear stepfather,
since my dear little children, one after
another (your half-brothers and sisters, love),
were taken from me, my life has been desolate.
T say' this in no reproachful spirit. You have

VOL. I. 14

your art (as you call it) ; and you make some
money by it; naturally you have slipped into
the habit of being absorbed by it. But you
must sometimes think of your poor mamma,
I am sure I am not exacting. You generally
have your own way, darling; and I think I
am always indulgent. But France is no place
at present for a young girl. No, not even for
my wise Winifred . . ." who thinks herself so
wise ! I am going to England, and I should
like you to come with me. Some mothers
might say they required it : but I only say I
should like it. My Winifred, after a little reflection,
will perhaps see that the day may
come when she will not be sorry she has sometimes
done something to please her loving

Manse.

P.S. I have met Sir John Hatherley here,
and with him the three ladies whom he has
so generously received into his home. He is
very nice. Much nicer than his sister, / think.
But of course that is only my opinion. He

tells me of a charming cottage to let, close by
his own place. I should like to take it. But
mothers have to consult their daughters nowadays


Winifred read this epistle with some perplexity
and a dim sense of pain. Her sensitive
conscience made her very quick to blame herself
and very much alive to reproach. She
quite seriously asked herself if she had ever
been wanting in love or respect to her mother?
Yet if she had not, what did Mrs. Fane's insinuations
mean?

There came a time of riper experience, when
she learnt that the gist of her mother's letters
had to be sought in their postscripts. But she
was too young and too generous to understand
this yet ; and she felt vaguely dissatisfied with
herself the whole day.

The notion of disregarding her mother's
wishes, when so plainly expressed, never even
occurred to her. She packed her boxes withall
speed; took a sorrowful farewell of 



moselle Marthe (whom no entreaties could
persuade to leave Paris) ; a regretful one of
the poor seamstress, Clause, and a mute one
of all the familiar faces, all the well-known
sights and sounds which had woven themselves
into the many-coloured web of her
student-life.

On reaching Boulogne-sur-mer, she found
Mrs. Chances-Fane the centre of an admiring
circle of devotees, who were disposed to regard
Winifred herself with a lively interest slightly
dashed with hostility. For while talking; of

t/ CD

her daughter, praising her daughter, longing
(as she said) for her daughter's arrival, the
widow had managed in some subtle, probably
unconscious way, to convey that her daughter
did not appreciate her. ' My beautiful Winifred
'  ' my clever Winifred '  ' my terribly
strong-minded Winifred,' were words never off
her lips. And as a rule people do not like the
clever or the strong-minded.'

She had a great deal to tell about Sir John
Hatherley, and to this Winifred listened with

unfailing interest. Sir John, :airs. Russell's
brother, was, people said, her benefactor. This
was never admitted by ]\[rs. Russell; she,
besides being of a generally aggrieved turn of
mind, considered herself particularly iiijure<l in
being left by her father's will dependent upon
her brother. Nothing,' that he ccuild do seemed
sufficient compensation for this original injustice.
But others, looking at things from a
different point of view, were disposed to think
that the millionaire did a good deal; for mr.
and Mrs. Russell owed their principal means of
existence to his liberality.

Whenever additional money had been needed
by hers he was written to, and, as far as Winifred
knew, he had never foiled to respond to
the call. Personally Winifred felt grateful to
him, for much of her education must have indirectly
been paid for out of his purse.

Winifred had never seen Sir John; but
she thought much of him, and ahvavs as a
good and great man. She had lived abroad ;
in Italy, Germany, of late in France ; he detested

the Continent, and it was a mere chance
which had recently brought him to spend, for
the first time in his life, a few weeks at Bout
The bathing; there had been
recommended for his widowed sister-in-law,
Mrs. William Hatherlej ; who, with her two
daughters, dwelt under Sir John's roof, further
recipients of his bounty, being themselves
penniless.

When I saw those three women,' said Mrs.
Fane to her daughter, ' I must say that the
admiration I had always felt for that benevolent
man was increased a thousandfold. Such
a woman, she! and the young ones, oh so
frivolous !'

Perhaps they suit him very well,' replied
Winifred, not always disposed to accept her
mother's judgments.

No doubt you know best, love,' answered
Mrs. Fane ;  but I believe you have not seen
them ? No. So I thought. Then, subject to
your future correction, I may be allowed to
give my opinion. / think they are quite unworthy

to be the companions of such a man as
Sir John.'

Is he so very cultivated, then ? asked
Winifred, a little subdued.

'/ think so. I believe that a love of old
books is generally supposed to show a cultivated
mind.'

That depends upon whether the collector
reads them or not,' answered Winifred brightly.
Sir John has always been something of a
Sphinx to me. From his letters to Aunt Mary
I never could make out what manner of man
he was intellectually.'

You will soon know, my almost too-clever
daughter,' rejoined Mrs. Fane, with a smile
and a little pat on Winifred's cheek. I have
authorized Sir John to take for us the pretty
cottage I told you about. We shall find him
a delightful neighbour.'

In a very short while ]airs. Fane crossed the
Channel With her daughter and maid, to take
possession of this desirable cottage, which had
been made ready for them. It was in the

neighbourhood of Sir John Hatherley's residence
of later years, and not too far from
London. Bnt on their arrival they heard that
Sir John and his family were still away ; and
it struck Winifred that this piece of news
curiously dashed her mother.

Mrs. Fane could console herself, if necessary,
by contemplating Sir John's handsome residence,
The Limes, its velvet lawns and its beautiful
grounds. For the grand stuccoed mansion,
placed on a slight rise, looked down upon the
neighbourhood both metaphorically and materially.
It was the largest and the finest
house in the place, and the centre of much local
social ambition: to be invited to it was an
honour ; to be shut out from it a reproach.

To Winifred, fresh from the roar of Paris,
there was something very soothing in this
suburban neighbourhood, with its pretty redbrick
dwellings, with creepers climbing up
them, and the flowers blooming in the beds
behind the iron wickets. The neighbourhood
was already a tolerably large one, and grew,

alas I daily. But there was still a common ;
still a rustic-looking ale-house ; still a genuine
English lane or two, which echoed to the cry
of the cuckoo in springs and the soars of nightingales
in summer. And on each side of the
lanes were buttercups strewn meadows, where
kine crouched beneath the shade, and rooks
cawed in the branches of the noble elms.

Mrs. Chances-Fane had time to unpack all
her dresses, and Winifred to settle down to her
work, before the shutters of The Limes were
opened, and the butcher's boy and the baker's
drove their carts with greater importance for
the knowledge that ' Sir John' had returned.

SIR JOHN.

IHE church Dells of the little village
of Elmsleigh, sheltered in its quiet
Surrey nook, were calling people
to service on Sunday morning. Mrs. Chandos-
Fane, while dressing herself with extraordinary
care, cast glances of unusual scrutiny at her
daughter's own attire. She suggested various
youthful and airy additions, which the girl
would not make.

Never mind, mother,' said Winifi-ed good-humouredly.
' It really does not matter how
I look when you are by. You are elegant
enough and pretty enough for both of us.'

I hope I always look like a lady, my love,'
said Mrs. Fane, contemplating herself virtuously
in the glass. ISTobody ever accused me
of vanity, even when I was your age, although
/ did not affect to be indifferent to my appearance.
But I confess I should like Sir John
not to feel ashamed of his connections.'

I dare say poor old Sir John will hardly
look at us, mamma.'

Mrs. Chances-Fane bridled.

Old ! He is not old, my love. But since
any allusion to your benefactor displeases you
yes, I call him so  I will not make it.
I have no doubt Mark will suit you better.'

With this, Mrs. Fane swam out of the room
and the house, and Winifred silently followed.

On reaching the church and sitting down,
she guessed by the frequent turns of her
mother's head in what direction she was to
look for the Hatherley party. But the service
was on the very point of beginning before they
appeared, and then Sir John was not vdt\\
them. Only Mrs. Hatherley and her daughters,

with Mark, Sir John's son. Winifred,
woman-like, looked at the latter first. He
was a grave, handsome vomit man, who evidently
did not wear his heart upon his sleeve,
but looked, nevertheless, as though he had
heart and brains too. He recognised Mrs.
Chances-Fane, and raised his eyes quickly
towards Winifred. For a moment their
glances met, seriously, quietly, without a trace
of consciousness. Then Mark turned his head
away, and Winifred transferred her observation
to the ladies. The mother, William
Hatherley's widow, was an octoroon born in
Jamaica, and looked like it. She was heavily
dressed, even on this bright September mornings,
and had a trick of drawing; her shoulders
forward and shivering slightly, presumably
under a visitation of draughts that afflicted
nobody else. Between these trembling movements,
her small, wizened face, and her bright,
glancing eyes, she reminded one of a captive
marmoset.

Her daughters were two rather pretty little

things, extremely alike, and very daintily
attired. Winifred wondered whether it was
only the proximity of Mark's massive brow
that made their delicate faces look so mindless.
They glanced at her with ill-concealed
curiosity, and took evident stock of her costume
from her bonnet to her boots.

At the church-door the Avhole party met,
Mrs. Chances-Fane going forward with a
marked cordiality. The girls responded to it
with some shrinking, Mark with a calm politeness,
and Mrs. Hatherley  not at all.

]\Iy daughter : she has been dying to make
your dear children's acquaintance,' said sirs.
Fane to her. Winifred honored to contradict
her flatly, but feeling that to be impossible,
she gave her hand to them with grace.

You have just arrived?' said one of them
to her, Dorothy, regarding her delicate gloves.

Yes, just  haven't you?' echoed the other,
Florence, scrutinizing the severity of her
dress.

'I trust Ave shall have the pleasure of seeing

you often at The Limes,' said Mark, who had
been looking at Winifred with a composed
directness that half-amused and half-provoked
her. She conceived of him that he was a
young man who always did his duty, and
invited her and her mother now as a part
of it.

We will call on Sir John this afternoon,'
said Mrs. Fane. Whereupon Mark shook
hands, raised his hat, and said, ' Good-bye,
then, until later;' his cousins nodded condescendingly,
and Mrs. Hatherley murmured
something that was presumably a farewell.


A more ill-mannered quartette I never
wish to see!' exclaimed Mrs. Fane, with an
acrid vigour of denunciation strikingly in
contrast with her usual suavity.

Mark was polite and pleasant enough,'
answered Winifred.

Sir John Hatherley was the great man of
this small neighbourhood. People regarded
him with awe, and talked of his good fortune

with almost superstitious veneration. Originally
he had been a brewer, but no ordinary
one. For the brewery was an old-established,
almost aristocratic affair : and he had been left
by his father sole possessor of it, and a rich
man besides. In a short time he sold the
business and also his handsome house near
]\Iarleyford, and bought this place, ' The
Limes,' at Elmsleigh. Then he engaged in
railway speculations to a large degree; gained
money upon money, applause, and the honour
of knighthood. ' He is like a king,' said the
admiring world; ' everything he touches turns
to gold.' But he had his peculiarities.

Mrs. Fane and Winifred went to The Limes
through the afternoon sunshine. Dolly met
them in the hall.

Hush, hush I' cried she.

Hush I' added Flossie, coming forward.

'What is the matter?' inquired Winifred,
very much astonished.

You are passing the library,' whispered
Dolly. ' L'ncle John is resting. His heart.

sou know,' she explained, as she led the way
to the drawing-room.

Winifred then remembered that Sir John
suffered from disease of the heart, and
was supposed to be living in a critical
state.

On entering the room they found Mrs.
Hatherley smothered in shawls in the depths
of an armchair. She rose languidly, extended
a tiny listless hand, and got as far as
the first word of ' How do you do?' after
which she sank back again.

'And your cousin Mark?' said Mrs. Fane,
with sweet inquiry.

He is out,' answered Dolly.

Gone to town, I think,' said her sister.

A faint shadow of annoyance crossed Mrs.
Fane's pretty face, but she said with undiminished
feeling :

And dear Sir John is unwell?'

His heart, you know,' began the sisters
together, when suddenly Mrs. Hatherley interrupted
them.

'He ate too much pheasant-salmi yesterday,'
she remarked in a drawling monotone.

At this unexpected observation, Winifred
absolutely started, and glanced at the speaker
with a new curiosity. But the pale little face
above the bundle of shawls was totally impassive.
Mrs. Fane looked unmistakably indignant,
at the remark, and said that invalids
were greatly to be pitied.

Dear Uncle Hatherley suffers terribly.
And, as he always tells us, any agitation
might kill him,' said the elder of the sisters.

The least agitation,' repeated Florence.

And both spoke in such evident good faith
that Winifred smiled on them with lier bright
sympathy, saying kindly :

I dare say he owes much of his ease to
your nursing.'

 Who would not willinidv nurse such a
sufferer?' claimed in ]airs. Fane. 'lam sure
I would sit up night after night : although,
with my anxious temperament, I am aware
that I should pay dearly for it.'

VOL. I. 1'

At this amiable outburst it must be confessed
that Winifred rather stared. Mrs. Fane
had had plenty of opportunities of nursing her
brother Walter, but she had certainly never
availed herself of them.

And are you very fond of nursing also T
suddenly said Mrs. Hatherley to Winifred,
lifting her head from her wraps.

Mr. Russell, as you probably know, has
been a helpless invalid for years,' answered
Winifred gravely.

And I will say of my darling child that
she is always most devoted to him. She has
but one fault  if fault it can be called  that of
being unwilling to let anyone, even me share
her task.'

Mrs. Chandos-Fane turned a glance of
enchanting maternal sweetness on her exasperated
daughter, but the expression suddenly
changed on meeting Mrs. Hatherley's
brilliant, monkey-like eyes. What did the
woman mean by her impudent stare ? she
mentally asked  and Mrs. Fane repaid it with

interest, her blue eyes meeting the thick ones
intrepidly : but she did not succeed in staring
Mrs. Hatherley down.

At this moment the door opened to admit a
tall, stately, and still very handsome man.
AVith his black velvet dressing-gown, his
lack velvet cap, and flowing white beard, Sir
John Hatherley  for he it was  might have
sat for a picture of Prospero.

Winifred rose ; Mrs. Fane hurried forward ;
Dolly rushed for a footstool; Flossie to shut
the window. Mrs. Hatherley alone remained
motionless and unmoved.

With a wave of his hand in acknowledgment
to his nieces, a bend of his head in greeting to
]airs. Chances-Fane, the master of The Limes
walked straight up to our heroine.

'And who is this?' he asked in slow,
melodious tones, looking down upon her vrith
his magician-like air.

My daughter, dear Sir John.'
Mater pulchra, filia pulchrior.'
This compliment, accompanied by a stately

152

bow, would probably have afforded Mrs. Fane
but a moderate amount of gratification had
she understood it. As it was, she blushed
with enchanting sweetness ; while Winifi-ed,
standing there with her hand clasped in Sir
John's long and wax-like fingers, was regarding
him with steady eyes of the frankest
astonishment. She was completely taken
aback by his appearance and manner; she
had expected a genial benevolence, a bluff
kind of genuine cordiality, but nothing like
this majesty, or this matchless ' get-up in
velvet.' Sooth to say, she was but slightly
impressed. Possessing the touchstone of a
royal sincerity, she did not take long to
detect the dross of a nature that was not
sincere. And with the sudden rush of an
overpowering conviction, she was fain, albeit
reluctantly, to confess to herself that she
considered Sir John Hatherley was no better
than Mrs. Russell.

Quite unconscious of the impression he had
produced, the benefactor of so many people

responded to the general inquiries concerning
his health With urbane resin-nation.

Probably he admired Winifred, for he addressed
his conversation principally to her.
He asked her, she noted, next to nothing about
the Russell, but a great deal about herself.
AVith a suave, fatherly manner he talked to
her of her art, her success, and of art in
general. She did not think he knew much
about it, but listened respectfully. Everybody
else listened also, and Winifred was
quick to see that Sir John liked a hushed
circle of auditors. Even when Alarm came
in, as he did presently, he took a seat in the
background and remained silently attentive.
It was quite like a lecture : and the resemblance
was farther increased by Mrs. Fatherly's
going to sleep and Mrs. Fane's smothering
a yawn or two, the girls meanwhile sitting
both upright, With their eyes very Avide open
indeed.

Sir John was not long in getting off art to
his bibliomania  that mysterious quality which

the neighbourhood adored in him without comprehending
it.

Mrs. Fane eagerly professing interest in
Elzevirs and Lines, he asked rather sharply
if she understood them: and on finding she
did not, graciously offered to exhibit his collection.
Upon this, the whole party adjourned
to the library, even Mrs. Hatherley gathering
together her shawls and shuffling tardily after
the rest.

One after the other the treasures were produced.
A 'Theocritus,' printed by Zacharias
Calliergi ; a ' Romaunt de la Rose,' bound in
morocco, and stamped with the bees of De
Thou ; an Elzevir ' Patissier Erangais ' (worth
a fantastic price); an original quarto of 'Macbeth
;' some plays in the rose-coloured bindings
of the graceless Du Barry; a ' Manor Descants
illustrated by Boucher.

Eor this,' said Sir John, unlocking a glass-case
and producing an illuminated Psalter
written in gold on a purple ground, ' for this I
paid 800.'

There was a universal exclamation. Even
Mrs. Hatherley craned her neck towards the
object with an air of unusual interest.

It is very old,' continued its possessor, ' as
you may see, or might if you understood, by
the clearness of the writing and the grotesqueness
of the figures.'

I have heard that it is difficult to tell
whether these Psalters are genuine or not,'
said Winifred. ' What are the signs ?'

A certain peevishness, if any term so flippant
were admissible in regard to him, was visible
in Sir John at this question. Contrary to the
wont of most collectors, he did not seem to
care to exhibit his erudition.

 The signs? They have to do with the
catchwords. You would be a long Avliile understanding
them, my dear young lady,' he
added, while locking up and restoring the case.

Where is your illustrated ' Jerusalem
Liberate ?' asked Mark. ' I want to show it to
Miss Power. As an artist she will appreciate
it more than any of u?.'

AVhj, Mark, I am sure I think it beautiful
exclaimed Dolly, very naively aggrieved.

'Where is it, sir?' persisted grave Mark
with a slight glance at his young cousin.

I have sent it to the binder.'

To the binder ?' echoed the young man in
surprise. ' The binding was perfect, and of
the early eighteenth century, I believe.'

It was out of repair,' responded Sir John,
still more briefly than before. Then lying back
in his chair, he gently closed his eyes, raised
his beard to a picturesque angle, and put his
white hand feebly to his heart.

Oh, he is ill!' cried Florence, and flew to
his side.

'Eau-de-cologne!' exclaimed Dolly, and
vanished in search of it.

Mark, with an air of concern which yet had
something perplexed about it, quietly opened
a window, and then approached the invalid.
He knew that these attacks might mean mischief


Sir John waved his disengaged hand slightly.

Xo fuss, I beg,' he murmured. ' The paroxysm
is not severe; it will pass.'

Apparently in a few moments it did pass,
for Sir John's fingers quitted his heart, and he
motioned to them to take seats ; which they
did.

And although he still sat with closed eyes,
his family's feelings were sufficient' relieved
to enable them to converse, in subdued tones,
on indifferent subjects.

Mrs. Fane condescended to talk to Dolly
and Florence, in this way leaving Winifred
practically tete-astute with Mark. The girl,
secretly a little attracted lev his crave but
gentle manner, began describing in a very
animated and charming way a certain eccentric
bibliophile whom she had known in Paris.
This old man had talked to her by the hour
on his beloved subject, enlarging on his frequent
visits to the Quis, his baffled longings,
his deluded hopes, his rare trouvailles of precious
books which had escaped the lynx eyes
of dealers. He told her how he hall journeyed

to Toulouse to see the collection of Count
McCarthy, and to Padua, there silently to
adore a ' Catullus' on vellum. He abounded
in anecdotes of book collectors, past and present,
from Bussy-Rabutin to Charles Nodier,
and revelled in recounting how many tens of
pounds, more or less, depended upon an infinitesimal
difference in the margins of an
Elzevir.

What a delightful old monomaniac !' said
Mark, looking with pleased interest at his companion's
sparkling face. ' My father has not
nearly so much enthusiasm. That is, I suppose
he has it, but he does not show it.' Ashe
pronounced these words, it did not escape
his hearer's quick observation that there was a
subtle change in his voice, and a curious unwilling
doubt in the glance that he directed
towards the venerable head in the velvet cap.

Has Sir John a catalogue of his books ?'
Winifred presently asked, her eyes ranging
along the well-filled shelves.

No, indeed. It is a great want. He h

always saying he must invite some capable
person down to make one.'

Then I know the very person for him exclaimed
Winifred impulsively. ' Poor Dick
Dallas.'

And who is Dick Dallas ?' asked Mark.
 And why is he " poor " ? '

Because he is so unfortunate,' said Winifred
: and she poured forth the story of
Richard's wrongs.

I do not think he would be at all the
proper person for my father to employ observed
Mark, when she had finished.

Why not ?'

A man who has been accused of culpable
negligence, to call it by no harsher term '

But I tell you he is innocent,' flashed out
Winifred.

So you say, Miss Power, and you have
possibly good personal grounds for believing
it. But the rest of the world would unfortunately
require proof,' continued Mark,
with a touch of indulgent, smiling irony.

Surely it is tea-times interrupted Sir John,
rising. ' I shall be glad of a cup. Did I hear
you say something. Miss Power, about a
person capable of making a catalogue of my
books V he inquired, as they went into the
drawing-room.

Enchanted at the question, Winifred a
second time recounted her tale.

Try to persuade her that there are a few unfortunate
people in the world who are not worth
helping,' said Mark, With a smile, to his father.

But Sir John, on the contrary, looked
tender, and took Winifred's hand in his.

Your enthusiasm does you honour, my
child. Even supposing the young man to be
guilty, he should be given a second chance for
his own sake. You can write to Mr. Dallas,
if you like,' he resumed, after a pause of
thought ; ' tell him what the work would be,
and ask him to come here. He shall have his
board and lodging until it is completed.'

'And  and a salary ?' faltered Winifred.
She was almost speechless with joy and gratitude,

but a vivid vision of the sorely-pinched
Dallas household urged her to the question.

Bless me, no !' exclaimed Sir John, with
unusual briskness. ' We have imperative
duties towards society, my dear young lady.
One of these duties is the observance of discipline
towards the erring. Until your friend
has reconquered his position, he should be
encouraged, but not indulged.'

Sightly crestfallen but still grateful, the
girl expressed her thanks ; she felt too exultant
to mind even Mark's answering glance
to her mother's low-toned remark :

My dear daughter is almost Quixotically
soft-hearted. Sometimes even I venture
humbly to remonstrate with her.'

Later in the evening, when the guests were
sone, and Sir John was ao;ain alone in his
library, he was disturbed by the entrance of
Mrs. Hatherley. He looked np at her quickly
and not amiably, while she paused beside his
chair. Evidently she had something to say,
in the saying of which he would not help her.

'" John,' she began at last, tremulously, ' you
are kind to so many ; so kind. Have you no
compassion for ]iir}iV

Again, Laura ! How many more times
must I beg of you not to speak to me on that
subject ?'

But he is starving,' whispered Mrs. Fatherly,
and clasped her hands imploringly.

He deserves to starve,' retorted Sir John.
I tell you, for the fiftieth time, that I will
not give you a penny for him. I do not wish
to appear to cast what I do for you in your
teeth, Laura; but you might, I think, sometimes
count up the number of years you have
been here, and what I have done for you and
your daughters. How can you expect me to
supply the extravagance of a spendthrift and
a an inebriate ?'

He is your brother's son,' urged the
mother, trembling with agitation.

My disinherited brother's son,' was the
cruel answer.

Could that be quiet Mrs. Hatherley who,

raising her brown, slender head from among
her shawls, like a snake emeroinof from the
grass, shot out at her benefactor a glance so
full of venom ?

Why have you supported us all these
years?' she asked

Sir John stared.

 I like that question, Laura ! Out of kindness,
of course.'

Not because Mary bid you ?'

Mary ! Xow, understand me, Laura. I
will submit to neither insolence nor insinuation.
As long as you behave becomingly, the
shelter of The Limes is yours ; but it would
cost me nothing to part from you tomorrow.
How much it would cost you and your two
empty-headed girls is another question.'

Mrs. Hatherley cowered as beneath an icy
blast. To her poltroon Creole soul, the bare
idea of poverty and exertion was like death.
She turned and crept away, humbled, silenced
but unforgiving.

Sir John followed her with his eyes as she

left, his attitude very liglcl the while, his
expression very hard. There was so little of
the gentle student or the benevolent invalid
in him at that moment that Winifred, had she
seen him, would have been much strengthened
in her distrust of the bland and gracious
master of The Limes.

CHAPTER XL

GERTRUDE DALLAS.

RS. Chaos-FANE cultivated
Sir John Hatherley's goodwill
with an industry that was in nowise
lessened by his obvious insensibility to
her charms. In point of fact, she was thinking
that she should like to be Lady Hatherley,
and that perseverance might eventually wdn
the day. Perhaps she also thought that if
she failed with the father, there was no reason
why Winifred should fail with the son. Mark
indeed, seemed much the more likely ]prize.
He evidently admired Winifred, and as evidently'
liked her. The great obstacle arose
VOL. T. 16

from the girl herself. She was so absolutely
frank and uncompromising ; so devoid of
coquetry ; so bent upon convincing rather
than conciliating that her mother was secretly
in despair.

For the rest, she had her hands full : for if
Sir John would not fall a captive to her bow
and spear, there was another who would, and
did. And that was Mr. Burton, the Rector.

He was a rich and childless widower, and
one of those slow, heavy, honest men who
think that no man can be expected to comprehend
women. Their airs and graces, their
nerves and fancies were to him just as recondite
as their articles of costume. They
recognised the wrong; side of a mantle from
the rio'ht, and pronounced the front of a
bonnet to be its apparent back. It was to be
presumed, consequently, that they knew also
what they meant when weeping or blushing
unaccountably, or saying one thing while
thinking' another. All a man had to do was
to take things quietly as long as he was provided

with his dinner. These behoof his ideas,

it may be imagined that he was wax in the

hands of a charming woman like Mrs. Fane.

It was a perfect comedy to watch his face

when she was talking to him, pouring outwith

her enchanting smiles and various waves

and nods of her pretty head, the clap-trap

second-hand ideas in which she delighted.

She talked to him of Baudelaire (of whom,

fortunately, he had never heard) ; of early

Italian art ; of stained-glass windows and the

degeneration of modern morals. Xow he

thought he had understood her, now he was

afraid he hadn't ; now he had the dawn of a

suspicion that if he did, he would not approve

of her. But as she invariably wound up with

some sentiment of extreme propriety, he

would smile upon her, reassured that her

nimble intelligence had outstripped his stolid

one.

Still, the Eector of Elmsleigh could not
approach Sir John Hatherley in a worldly
point of view, and Mrs. Fane spent many an

162

evening in the drawing-room at The Limes ;
walking thither after dinner. Sir John, by
the light of a shaded lamp, sometimes dropped
majestically to sleep over some huge folio
while talking with her ; Dolly and Florence
played backgammon ; and Mrs. Hatherley
kept a stealthy and not too well-contented
watch upon Winifred and Mark.

They had drifted into the habit of talking
almost exclusively to one another. Mark, attracted
by her frank friendliness, spoke more
freely to her than to most people. She learnt
with surprise that while Sir John was still
supposed to have a share in business operations
of some magnitude, Mark was entirely
excluded from all knowledge of them. Unable
to remain idle, he had invested the little
fortune inherited from his mother in certain
mines, and occasionally made journeys to the
North in consequence. With her quick perception,
Winifred divined that Mark felt the
distance at which his father kept him. There
was indeed a slight constraint between the

younger and the elder man. Mark, Winifred
o:iiessed, would have loved his father could he
have fully understood him ; and he was
studiously respectful and attentive to him
always. But Sir John, while indulgent to his
son in all respects but one, treated him with
indifference. The one point on which he was
not indulgent was money. Winifred was fain
to confess that his generosity towards his
relatives must repose on other (and, of course,
higher) grounds than mere harshness.

Indeed, for the master of such a house, and
the reputed owner of such wealth, Sir John
was careful to the verge of avarice. Mark
was reduced to live strictly on his own income,
and was too proud, as well as too
experienced, ever to ask for more. Every art
and subterfuge had to be resorted to by Mrs.
Hatherley and her daughters before they
could obtain money for their personal wants ;
and of late it had even become a kind of joke
among the tradespeople that Sir John would
never pay a bill until the last possible moment.

Many ii man besides Sir John lias become
miserly from immense wealth.

He is beginning to get a little cranky
people said, with an indulgent smile ; although
considering his heart-disease, he
looked wonderfully handsome and vigorous.

Richard Dallas had accepted Sir John's
offer with great promptitude, and a week or
two later presented himself at The Limes.
Winifred noticed with some pain that adversity
had not improved him. He had grown
cold and cynical, and without looking at all
shabby as to coats, bore about him the signs
of recent ill-fortune and privation. But he set
to work at the catalogue with steadiness and
intelligence, and Sir John was much pleased
with him. Winifred was delighted : it was
giving Richard the chance he needed.

So the days passed pleasantly. Richard
hard at work by day, joining the drawing-room
circle in the evening ; and sometimes
Walking out with the two young girls?
generally by the side of Dolly.

I hope they are not falling in love with
one another,' thought Winifred. ' Sir John
would not like that.'

When the catalogue was nearing completion,
Sir John began to wonder how he should
employ him next.

I think I must send him to the Hao-ue to
purchase several very rare editions which I
hear will shortly be for sale there,' he said one
evening when Richard was not present. ' It
is a question of spending some thousands,
and therefore I must have an agent of intelligence
as well as honesty on whom I can
rely.'

Mr. Dallas is certainly intelligent,' murmured
Mrs. Fane, in a tone which implied that
there was more doubt about the honesty.

Winifred flushed ; and Mark, noting it, said
chivalrously, ' My father seems to me to
have made an excellent choice in employing
him.'

I flatter myself I understand character,'
resumed Sir John. ' The young man tells me

he has a sister who is at ji'esent in London
seeking employment. She has been teaching
in a school at Turin.'

Turin ? Then it was Gertrude ! Winifred
and her mother exchanged glances.

She would be willing, he thinks, to enter
any family for nothing at present. I am
thinking of engaging her to teach the girls
French. They are still deplorably ignorant of
the language  as I found when we were at
Bologna.'

The faces of the sisters fell considerably at
this announcement. Winifred received it in
silence ; Mrs. Fane with an ironical smile.
Gertrude ! But they said nothing.

The next afternoon, when Winifred was busy
painting in her studio, and her mother, seated
at a little distance, was alternately pointing
out faults in the picture and perusing a novel
of De Goncourt, Richard Dallas arrived to jay
a visit. Winifred received him warmly, as
usual, but was quick to notice that he seemed
ill at ease.

After a little desultory conversation, he said
abruptly :

 Do you know that Gertrude is in
London ?'

So Sir John said,' answered Winifred
gently.

He is kind enough to wish her to be
governess to his nieces. Winifred  Mrs. Fane,
you will do nothing to prevent it ?'

He spoke entreatingly, with an earnestness
and a feeling unusual to him. Touched, our
impetuous Winifred had almost opened her
lips to give the required assurance, when Mrs.
Fane spoke drily.

The responsibility of recommending your
sister as a governess is yours, Mr. Dallas ;
what right have we to interfere ?'

Richard turned red. He was in the uncomfortable
position of wishing them to be silent
on the subject of Gertrude's escapade in
Paris ; and desirous at the same time not to
seem to attach much importance to the
escapade itself. A perfectly scrupulous man

might have hesitated, under the circumstances,
before introducing his sister at The Limes.
Eut perhaps Richard could not afford to be
very scrupulous, and Gertrude's position
touched and troubled him.

She is all alone in London,' he said,
pleadingly.

Why did she leave Turin ?' inquired Mrs.
Fane.

She did not like the climate.'

Mrs. Fane pursed up her lips : most
climates, in her opinion, would disagree with
Miss Dallas.

Winifred meanwhile had been reflecting.
After all, she and her mother knew nothing
positive against Gertrude, for the suggestion
thrown out by Hortense had never, so far as
they were aware, been verified. Suspicions
they might have, but suspicions were no
ground for action. Moreover, all her warm
young heart went out to the friend of her
youth, and turning towards her mother she
said :

AVe must let her come.'

You always do as you like, my love. And
you know that I never say anything,' replied
Mrs. Fane.

You may depend upon our silence,' said
Winifred to Richard. * When will Gerty
come ?'

Sir John has mentioned next week.' And
with a few words of gratitude, Richard went.

Mrs. Fane went on reading for a little space
in silence.

Ashen is Mark to be back ?' she suddenly
asked.

Xot for a fortnight, mamma.' Winifred
was extremely surprised and angry with herself
to feel how the unexpected question had
brought a rush of blood to her face. She hoped
her mother did not see it, and continued her
painting in an agony of puzzled embarrassment.
Mark had started for Scotland that
morning' on his usual business, and Winifred
was missing him much more than she would
have owned to herself.

Then vlien he returns, Miss Dallas will
already be installed at The Limes,' after
another pause remarked Mrs. Fane.

Well ? said Winifred.

I dare say he will admire her very much.'

Winifred mixed her colours with great
accuracy ; changed one brush for another ; and
began to work on another part of her picture
before she replied. And then it Alas with an
appeal.

You will be kind to Gertrude, mother, will
you not ?'

I am not aware, my love, that I am ever
deliberately unkind to anybody. I may be
mistaken, of course, but I have never been
accused of it, and I have had many tried and
valued friends : although perhaps you would
not have cared for them, darling.'

I did not mean to offend you,' said
the girl humbly. ' But I am anxious,
very anxious' (with strong emphasis) 'that
Gertrude should have a fair chance at The
Limes.'

I shall not interfere with her ; and you
may be as Quixotic as you please. That's all,
AVinifrecl.'

So matters were arranged by Sir John with
Miss Dallas, and she came to Elmsleigh to
enter upon her engagement. With a shrinking
which she did not care to analyze, Winifred
allowed one clear day to elapse after her arrival
before she went to see her.

She found her already installed in the
schoolroom, with Dolly and Florence. Condemned
to study again after their long period
of liberty, they were both looking very doleful
indeed.

Winifred entered with a beat in 2 heart,
but was frozen on the very threshold by the
coolness with which Gertrude rose to receive
her.

I will take you into the conservatory for a
little chat when I have set my pupils their
tasks,' she said composedly.

Winifred's sense of humour was greatly
roused by the sight of the poor pupils. They

had been vanquished, but a certain sulkiness
betrayed their inward rebellion. When they
presently brought their copybooks for correction,
Gertrude, seated  a picture of elegance
and beauty  in a luxurious armchair, took
occasion to harangue them on the advantages
of self-help, and to inform them that if they
wished to learn anything thoroughly they must
learn it unaided.

 My system is that you should do all that
is possible without any assistance from me.
Naturally you will make mistakes, but these
mistakes, in course of time, will correct
themselves. Here are your tasks for 



morrow,' indicating an appalling number of
pages. ' I shall limit myself to explaining,
when necessary, the principles to which you
must find the particular applications.'

There was a pause; Florence began to cry.
Then Dolly, a thought more spirited, said:

I am sure my uncle will want us long before
we have finished,'

If Sir John really requires you, I shall give

you leave to go. But I shall tell him that I
object to frivolous interruptions,' answered
Gertrude calmly. Her pupils gasped.

Tell Mm!' Dolly's exclamation died away
helplessly; and, leaving them to their amazement.
Miss Dallas swept out of the room and
into the conservatory.

I think it is rather a shame of you to put
upon those two foolish little things,' exclaimed
Winifred, with some heat.

My dear,' said Gertrude, examining some
japonica with a critical air, ' I know Yhat I
am about. The experience of the last six
months has not been thrown away upon me.
I intend to play second fiddle in the world's
orchestra no longer.'

Winifred was silent. She had expected some
humility.

I am young, and I think I may flatter
myself neither stupid nor ugly,' continued
Gertrude, turning; her rino\s round her white
fingers. ' Fate has been against me hitherto,
but I shall try to rise superior to it in future.'

Do you intend to work?' asked Winifred
curtly.

If necessary,' answered her friend. ' I have
come here (and, by-the-bye, I ought to thank
you, Winifred, for having been the means,
through Dick, of securing me the place) to
keep my eyes and ears open. In Paris, whereas
you know, my life was one long toil, I was
a failure. But all that is past. In future I
hope to be successful.'

Winifred turned, thoroughly chilled and
disappointed. Gertrude's vague boasts jarred
upon her common-sense and her honesty.
Almost she began to ask herself if she had
been right in introducing her to The Limes.
Good-bye,' she said, rather listlessly, as she
held out her hand.

For a moment Gertrude's face wore a softer

expression. ' You were always kind to me '

she began, when Winifred eagerly interrupted
her. ' If you would only be true, dear!' she
exclaimed, her cheeks flushing and her eyes
kindling, as Gertrude yielded her hands to

the clasp that had so warmly seized
them.

Once more Gertrude's mood changed. ' Don't
try to recall me to the sylvan glades of sentiment
' she said, with a lioiit lao-li and a slii'uo*
of her graceful shoulders. ' Those were all very
well in our buttercup-days, but now our paths
have diverged. You are a good soul, Winifred,
but you must leave me to go my own
road. I promise you not to do anything very
base or mean. Cease to distress yourself, dear;
I shall not be the less honest for not being
*' goody." Good-bye.'

It was quite wonderful to see with what
rapidity Gertrude obtained the upper hand of
most people at The Limes as time went on.
Her insolent beauty, her grace, her wit and
self-possession compelled in Sir John a delighted,
in the others a reluctant, homage.
When Richard had departed for the Hague,
she was installed the greater part of the day in
the library, and set to write the notes and
transcribe the memoranda that had formerly

VOL. I. 17

been the sisters' joy and pride. They, in the
schoolroom now, inking their fingers and crying
their eyes out over their verbs, relieved their
feelings by private grumbling, but dared make
no open protest.

Mrs. Hatherley grew daily yellower, thinner,
more silent; Mrs. Fane daily more exasperated.
The latter lady had indeed tried a passage-alarms
with the beautiful governess, but she
came off second-best. She was no match for
Gertrude. Next she tried what a little private
aspersion would do nth Sir John; but was
quick enough to see that there was not much
to be gained in that way. So she solaced herself
by telling a great deal to Mrs. Hatherley,
who listened eagerly and promised secrecy.

 Sir John is being completely hoodwinked,'
she said to Winifred. ' I suppose Mark will
be the next victim. Perhaps he will marry
her. Then, I hope you will be satisfied, darling.
She ouD'ht never to have come here.' Winifred
listened in silence and pain.

When Mark returned, he did admire Gertrude

very much; and, lounging away an hour
in Winifred's studio one morning, he told her
as much with infinite frankness of enthusiasm.

You have got on famously with your work,'
he said presently, changing the subject. ' That
is a nice little head. Quite Southern too, in
type. Was your model an Italian ?'

Only half Italian,' Winifred answered : and
beofan to relate the circumstances. She was a
young girl who had presented herself of her
own accord to her one day, as a model, saying
she came from London. While painting from
her, the girl let out that her father, who was
an Engiislnnan, had formerly been a coachman
in Sir John's service, that he was now bedridden,
and he had sent her down to The
Limes on a begging errand. She had been
roughly received by Sir John, and apparently
sent away empty-handed. And being of a
timid disposition, she had hit upon the ingenious
device of offering herself as a model to
Winifred, and getting her to intercede for the
money.

172

What a strange thing !' exclaimed Mark.
How did she hear of you ?'

I don't know. At your house, I suppose;
some of the servants may have gossiped with
her. Her mother, an Italian, is dead : her
father had married late in life, she said, after
quitting Sir John's service.'

What is the man's name ?'

Ridgeley.'

Ridgeley ?' mused Mark. ' I do not remember
him. Perhaps he belongs to the
Marleyford days, when I was a boy. They
have faded from my memory in a great degree.'

Then I am afraid that you also will be
unable to tell me who Mademoiselle Marthe
can have been,' said the girl, disappointed.
I asked Sir John one day, but he apparently
remembered nothing.'

Sir John, indeed, had seemed very much out
of humour that day, and Winifred almost
fancied  only of course it could only be fancy !
had been a little changed in his manner ever
since.

AVho is she?' inquired Mark.

Winifred told him Mademoiselle Marthe's
story, as much as she knew or guessed of it.
He Hastened, interested in her warmth and
evident conviction  interested, too, in her
vivid description of the little old woman : but
he could not throw much light on the
matter.

Your story recalls an incident which took,
great hold of my childish imagination,' he
said. ' I remember just such a little woman
as you describe, coming, like the malignant
fay to the princess's christening, an uninvited
guest to Aunt Mary's wedding, and spreading
dismay among us. I, a child, was dressed in
some absurd costume as a page, and was holding
up the bride's train. All at once this
poor madwoman, who was, I fancy, a kind of
a relative of ours, pressed her way through
the crowd and stood looking about her wildly.
And, now 1 come to think of it, her name was
Martha also.'

Martha T Winifred dropped her brush

and turned to Mark with a startled face. For
she remembered that in her ravings Mademoiselle
Marthe had called incessantly on
Mary.'

wintered's discoveries.

''.HE idea which Mark had so unconsciously
awakened took possession
of Admired's mind. A hundred
times a day she cast it from her with horror,
but still it returned, strengthened continually
by her knowledge of Mrs. Russell's character.
Her devotion to her uncle had never availed
to blind her to the essential selfishness and
heartlessness of his wife. Winifred, with a
clearness of insight that came from her own
crystal candour, knew her for what she was 
shallow, self-indulgent, apathetic habitually,
and occasionally violent. Some faint suggestions

in Mademoiselle Marthe's ravings, disregarded
at the time, came back to Winifred
now with all the vividness of proof. Some
certainty she felt she must have ; she could
not live with such a suspicion and not seek to
dispel or to confirm it. Mark, she naturally
shrank from questioning, a vague instinct
warning her that the mystery whose veil she
was about to lift, probably involved Sir John
as well as his sister. The very notion of
some great committed wrong seemed more
probable to Winifred since she had known the
courtly owner of The Limes. Every day that
handsome face  so impassible and so pallid,
so rigid without real strength  had struck her
more and more as a mask. Every day she felt
more strongly the hollowness of the man ; his
vain theatricality, his thin pretensions to be a
student and a sage. And even stronger than
all this in her was the feeling that he was
fundamentally bad. By the very recoil of her
expectations regarding him, she had been
suddenly illuminated ; and coming fresh to

the scene, observant and penetrating as she
was, she had felt the presence of a secret that
fell like an invisible blight upon every member
of the family.

That Sir John alone had the key to it, that
it concerned him and nobody else, Winifred
was sure. Even Mark only betrayed at times
a vague perplexity; while as for Dolly and her
sister, they simply remarked once or twice
that of late ' Uncle John was somehow chant-ed.
Perhaps his heart was worse.'

He certainly complained very much oftener
of that organ than of old ; made more frequent
visits to London to consult the specialists on
the subject ; and was more difficult to approach
with any request for help or sympathy. On
the other hand, his bibliomania greatly increased ;
and he was intensely interested in the results of
Richard's trip to the Hague. The young man
and he were in constant correspondence ; and
Sir John made frequent allusion to the number
and value of the editions that he was buying.

Does Dick like Holland ?' asked Winifred

one evening of Gertrude, moved by a desire
to say something amiable to her former friend,
with whom she now rarely exchanged a remark.


I believe so,' was the answer. ' But he
does not write to me.'

But then you see his letters to Sir John,'
said Mrs. Fane.

I beg your pardon. I conduct a great deal
of Sir John's correspondence, but not that
with Richard : I fancy he thinks I don't know
how to spell " Elzevir," ' retorted Gertrude
coolly,

Nevertheless,' thought she to herself, ' it is
odd, now I come to think of it, that he never
shows me those letters. And he is rather
mysterious about a good deal of his correspondence,
though I would not admit it before
these women for the world.'

The member for Walford is dead, sir,' said
Mark, a little later, to his father.

So I see. Do you still intend to stand ?'

I think so. I shall go to London tomorrow,

and then run down to the place itself
and set things en train. Of course I shall be
heaven, but even that is a beginning,' continued
the young man.

Winifred looked up quickly. So that was
why Mark had adopted no profession. He
intended himself for political life. She looked
at his broad brow, and his grave, resolute face,
almost as handsome as, and yet so different
from, Sir John's ; and already her imagination
saw him in the arena victorious. He met her
glance, and while his own brightened at her
manifest sympathy, she dropped her eyes with
a sudden blush, and a sudden thrill that was
half shy and half delightful. She was rather
angry with herself for this emotion ; and she
had never been in love. In her student days
she had regarded the ardent youths who adored
her with a scornful indulgence, half motherly,
half schoolboys, that had sent them nearly
out of their minds.

Shortly after Mark's departure, Winifred
went to spend a week or two in London with

a young lady-artist whom she had known in
Paris. There, in the studio, she again met the
young model. She had reached that stage of
her picture when she required more models
than it was convenient to bring down to
Elmsleigh.

Among the most frequent of these was that
Mariuccia Ridgeley, the daughter of Sir John's
former coachman. She was a pretty little
thing, full of wilful ways and a fitful Southern
grace, and talked a great teat about herself and
her sick father.

He is much worse,' she said one day, shaking
her head mournfully. ' And the doctor
orders so many things that I cannot afford to
get him. He has written again to Sir John :
would the signorina mind asking if the letter
had been received ?'

Winifred had a great objection to asking
anything of the kind ; and preferred helping
Mr. Ridgeley as much as she could out of her
own slender purse. She even tried to point
out to Mariuccia that the mere fact of having

been a coachman once in Sir John's service
did not entitle her father to be supported by
that gentleman for the term of his natural life.

Ah ! but Sir John has helped my father
often,' said Mariuccia. ' He used to send him
money whenever he asked for it, big sums 
ten pounds  twenty pounds '

Winifred was greatly surprised. Of all the
perplexing people she had ever known, Sir
John was the most inscrutable. Just as she
had made up her mind that he was avaricious,
some act of generosity on his part would
reach her. But one day the girl came with a
different request  that Miss Power would
kindly visit him.

I really think he is dying,' she added.

It was a foggy afternoon when Winifred
turned her steps towards the man's lodgings.
They were in a street not very far from the
British Museum. Mariuccia gave her a glad
welcome, and ushered her into the little kitchen
where Ridgeley was sitting. She found him a
man of big, burly frame, that contrasted

mournfully with his evident weakness. He
was propped up by pillows in an armchair,
and it was evident that every breath he drew
was torture to him.

I have to thank you, ma'am, for your kindness,'
he began slowly, when Winifred was
seated, ' but I cannot afford much breath.'

She began some words of comfort, when he
stopped her with a gesture.

There isn't much comfort for me now in the
world, miss. The best thing I can do is to
leave it. What I wanted to say was, will you
ask Sir John Hatherley for fifty pounds? I
don't want it for myself ; but for hers and he
nodded towards Mariuccia.

Winifi'ed stared at him in speechless amazement.
Was he mad, to ask for such a sum
and in such a tone ? He was watchtower
face quite coolly, and seemed fully to expect
an answer.

I could not think of making any such request,'
she said at last. ' And moreover it
would be useless.'

I Avould not trouble you pursued Ridgelev,
quite undisturbed by her refusal, ' but you see
my bands,' and sbe noticed that they lay
motionless and paralyzed. ' I cannot write
myself, and I don't like to trust anybody else
to write  (he laid a stress on the word) Svhat I
now have to say.'

You must find some other messenger,' said
Winifred. But she spoke gently, for speech
had so increased his asthma that it was pain to
sit and watch him.

 Nay, ma'am, you must speak,' he gasped,
using the words not imperiously, but because
he obviously was too weak to try persuasion.

Tell him, please, that I say in the old days
he was readier with his money; and that he
knows the cost of refusal

That sounds like a threat,' said Winifred
haughtily.

It is one,' Ridgeley answered.
More reluctant than ever now to undertake
any such mission, she rose and turned to the
door. The man, past all speech, looked at her

imploringly, while his face turned of an ashen-grey,
and his breathing filled the room with
a grating sound, like the creaking of some
cruel machine. All at once Winifred turned
mid again approached him, impelled by a new
idea.

Tell me,' she said, almost vehemently, as
though conjuring his answer to find voice.
When you lived with Sir John Hatherley, was
there any member of his family called
Martha ?'

He bent his head in assent.

And,' continued Winifred, beginning to
tremble with excitement, ' did they do her
any wrong ?'

He made the same sign.

She stood looking at him, uncertain what to
ask next, and possessed with a sudden scruple
at what she had asked already.

He raised himself with an effort, and laboriously
bringing out each word, as though it
were wrung from the grasp of a vice, he whispered
:

Bring  me  the  money  and  before 
I  die  I  will  clear  Miss  Freake.'

Freake  Martha Freake ! So that was the
name. With scarcely so much as the ceremony
of a nod to lariuccia, Winifred hurried away,
feelings now that though the knowledge she had
wanted was hers, she had gained it by unworthy
means. What right had she to spy
into Sir John's past ? The question presented
itself to her for the first time, and she realized
at the same moment how completely possessed
she had been by the suspicion that had filled
her mind for days. She wished she had never
gone near Eidgeley; she almost washed that
she had never known Martha Freake.

In much turmoil of feeling, Winifred returned
to Elmsleigh, her \dsit being over.

One of Mrs. Chances-Fane's peculiarities
was that she always opened her daughter's
letters. Winifred had entered one or two
protests, but as she did not really prize her
correspondence very highly, the only letters
that she ever insisted on keeping to herself

VOL. I. 18

were her uncle Walter's. And fortunately,
these Mrs. Chances-Fane did not care to read :
they were too clever for her. She opened one
(in a strange handwriting) the morning after
AYinifted's return.

That same evening at The Limes, Mr. Burton
not being there to absorb her attention,
Mrs. Fane lost herself in contemplation of Sir
John, who had not pleased her of late. Sir
John had sat for some time in deep reflection,
rubbing his white hands softly one over the
other, when he broke silence by addressing
Miss Dallas.

Did I tell you your brother had returned
to Paris ?'

Indeed ?'

Yes. He has transacted my business
really admirably at the Hague. I was greatly
pleased with his letter this morning.'

Mrs. Hatherley here audibly sighed. The
last letter she had received had been a demand
(the third) for immediate payment from her
dressmaker; but although she had left the

open bill on Sir John's table, lie had taken no
notice of it, and draw his attention to it more
openly she dared not.

Unfortunately the word ' letter ' had
awakened an association also in the mind
of Mrs. Fane.

Winifred had a strange letter this mornings
she remarked. ' Did you tell Sir John
about it, my dear ?'

Winifred's blood froze in her veins. The
letter had been from Mariuccia, asking, on her
father's part, if the message concerning the
money had been given. What, in the name
of all that was tactless, did her mother mean
by speaking of it ?

What was there to tell me ?' asked Sir
John sharply.

Winifred plucked up heart of grace. Something
she would tell him, and perhaps his
answer would disperse her doubts. ' My
letter was from a girl  a model. Sir John.
Her father, Ridgeley, was once in your service.
He wishes you to help him.'

182

In a pause that ensued Mrs. Hatherley
turned pale with annoyance. Another applicant,
while every request of hers was refused !

 How much does Ridgeley want ?' asked
Sir John rasping. ' Of course money is the
object of his message. I know what this kind
of application means.'

He is ill,' said Winifred. ' Very ill indeed.'


Well ?  how much ?'

Fifty pounds.' Winifred wondered if her
heart-beats could be heard through the silence.

Sir John gave a short, sarcastic laugh.
 This Eidgeley was an honest fellow enough,
but he has been unfortunate,' was his observation.
' I may give you a cheque for him
tomorrow. Miss Power ; but I trust I shall
have no other application of the kind from
you.'

The cheque, enclosed in an envelope
directed to herself, was duly delivered into
her hands next morning by one of the footmen
of The Limes. It was for fifty pounds.

Winifred, astounded at the generosity, resolved
to carry the money herself : it would
not take her long to run up to London and
back: and she started without loss of time.
On reaching her destination and climbing to
the top of the house, she was struck with the
stillness within. Generally Mariuccia's voice
vas to be heard blithely singing ; but now
there was not a sound. She knocked, and the
girl came herself to open the door. She was
weeping violently, and on recognising Winifred,
exclaimed, ' Oh ! signorina, you are too
late. He is dead.'

Dead !'

Softly following the grief stricken girl,
Winifred entered the bedroom. A little
stunned, she sat down, and holding Marius
hand, stroked it softly in silent
Antipathy.

It happened late last night,' sobbed
Mariuccia. * He was sorry to go, but sorry
only for me. He said I was to tell you something
which he never told while he was alive,

for fear of punishment  but now it does not
matter who knows

Involuntarily Winifred's grasp tightened
round the hand she held. ' Yes. Go on,
child.'

I was to say that Sir John and his sister
and my father once perjured themselves to
spare Miss Hatherley disgrace, and they got
Miss Freake sentenced to imprisonment, and
all because she knew too much about Sir
John's marriage.'

The words, interrupted by tears, but
repeated with a quiet indifference like a lesson
learnt by rote, for a moment made Winifred
feel dizzy. Recovering, she poured forth a
string of rapid questions, but Mariuccia could
not answer them. ' That was all he said
she repeated mournfully, then laid her head
down, and let her sobs break out afresh.

Are you alone ?' asked Winifred, when she
rose to go.

Some of the neighbours look in,' Mariuccia
replied listlessly. Winifred took a sovereign

out of her own purse and laid it upon the
table. She had the cheque in her pocket, but
without Sir John's consent, she did not feel
justified in giving so large a sum to the girl
so promising future help, if needed, she went.

She had plenty to think of as she Walked
through the streets. The possibility of doubt
no longer remained to her, and she was in a
white heat of indignation at Sir John. She
would not stop amid such dishonest people,
she said impulsively; she would go away
from Elmsleigh.

She remembered the quiver of passionate
resentment \i\h which she had listened to
martha's ravings in the fever, and condemned
in her heart the unknown wrong-doer who
had wrecked that innocent life. Was she to
be less severe now that she knew who the
wrong-doer was ? Then, with a quick catching
of her breath, a sudden sharp pang, she
thought of ]\Iark, and unconsciously quickened
her step.

In the high-strung mood produced by these

meditations, Winifred reached home. On
entering the little drawing-room, she found
Mrs. Fane sitting alone in the blaze of the firelight,
apparently lost in thought. Another
time Winifred might have noticed the quick,
rather excited way in which she looked up on
her daughter's entrance ; but the girl was too
much absorbed in her own feelings. She
suddenly leant her head down against her
mother's knee, while her eyes filled with
an unexpected rush of tears. The tears
Mrs. Chances-Fane did not see, but she
gently moved her daughter's head away,
saying :

Take care, my love. I have on my new
dress.'

Have you been out ?' Winifred asked,
sitting upright, her eyes quite dry again.

Yes. Mr. Burton has had a really delightful
afternoon tea.'

Delightful ?'

Winifred had a vivid, rapid vision of the
old maids principally composing the party ; of

Mr. Burton, rubicund and complacent in the
midst of them; and of all the gossip, from mild
to malignant, talked.

/ thought so. Of course, it was all very
conventional ; so, perhaps, you would not
have enjoyed it. I do not complain of you,
my love. Of course, there are things that I
should like to change in you, but  ah, well !
it's no matter.'

Dear mother!' exclaimed Winifred, feeling
rather disconcerted.

I never grudged you to my suffering
brother  never,' resumed Mrs. Fane, as if
struck with the recollection of her own magnanimity.
' I resigned you cheerfully ; for
those who know me best have never thought
me selfish. But I am not strong-minded 
and pushing  and masculine ; and it is not to
be wondered at, I think, if I sometimes feel
lonely

At this point of her self-analysis, she produced
her pocket-handkerchief ; Winifred was
fairly melted.

Dearest mother ! I am so sorry  I never
thought  I never dreamed '

I don't complain, my love. I have said
so before. You are rather wilful and headstrong
; you have a harder nature than mine.
How should you understand what I was
feeling ?'

But in future I will try to understand.
We will be more to one another,' faltered
Winifred, honestly wondering where her fault
had been.

Too late !' said Mrs. Fane, shaking her
head impressively. ' You should try to bear in
mind, dear, that " there is a tide in the affairs
of men." Who says that ? Some charming
poet, I am sure. If we let that tide ebb, weare
stranded. Your poor little mother is
called to a higher duty. I am going to be
married.'

Winifred gave a gasp.

Mamma ! To Mr. Burton ?'

Yes, dear. I feel how unworthy I am of
him. But I cannot resist the temptation of a

little happiness, and I have promised to be his
wife. The wedding, for reasons of Mr. Burton's,
is to be immediate. You must sacrifice
your painting for once to mamma, and assist
me with the trousseau.'

And Winifred was too much astonished to
say more.

After dinner she went round with her
mother to The Limes, making up her mind
that it should be her last visit. She would
return Sir John his cheque, and just tell
Mark how sorry she was that he had lost
his election. He had returned that day, defeated.
It was only natural that she should
assure him of her sympathy with his disappointment.


Mark came forward to meet her with a pleasure
very quietly displayed, but of which she
had learnt to read the signs. He cut short
her condolence by saying, with a smile, that
he never expected to be victorious, and added :
I am so glad to be back, that the election
seems like a tiresome dream.'

He spoke with a grave, significant tenderness,
but she did not respond by so much as a
glance.

On the contrary, she turned away abruptly,
determined not to unclose her heart to a hope
that, once admitted, might choke all her valiant
resolutions. She had done with the Fatherless,
and could make no exceptions : that was
what she told herself.

Sir John was sitting, as usual, a little apart,
and crossing the room with a swift step,
Winifred paused beside his chair. He looked
up at her with some surprise, struck, perhaps,
by her pallor and the light of suppressed
excitement in her shining eyes. She took
the cheque from her pocket, and handed it to
him.

Ridgeley is dead,' she whispered in low
tones ; and if her suspicions had needed any
further confirmation, she would have found it
in the brief but unmistakable flash of relief
that illumined her hearer's face.

He took the cheque from her in silence, still

keeping his eyes fixed on her, but more, she
fancied, in defiance than in inquires

He has left his daughter in great poverty,*
continued Winifred.

 I have nothing to do with his daughter,*
was the frigid reply.

If he did not prosper, it was perhaps
because of his wickedness,' said Winifred.

She began to tremble as she spoke, all the
smouldering indignation within her again
catching flame.

Alas he wicked ?' Sir John carelessly
asked.

 If you consider wickedness that which you
all did to poor Martha Freake.'

Winifred had hardly spoken the words,
when Sir John rose fiom his chair and confronted
her with a glance of scathing contempt.
She recoiled from it as from a blow.

You have come to my own house to insult
me. Miss Power !'

The reproach was not unmerited, and Winifred
felt it. She had spoken in the impulse of

temper, and would have given worlds now to
recall her words. Sn- John had spoken distinctly
; it was heard by the others in dismay ;
they gathered round.

What is all this T exclaimed Mark.

Sir John spoke up. ' It is this,' he said
haughtily.  Many years ago, a member of
our family, Martha Freake, disgraced herself
by writing anonymous threatening letters for
the purpose of extorting from me a sum of
money to cover an act of culpable negligence,
if nothing worse, on her own part. She was
brought to trial for it  it could not be avoided 
and sentenced to a short term of imprisonment.
But ere she entered on it, reason failed
her, and she was transferred from prison to
an asylum. I paid for her there, and would
have continued to maintain her after her recovery
and dismissal, but she rejected my
offers and went to live abroad. I had never
expected to be reminded of her, in the manner
of to-night. But Miss Power, who appears to
have a liking for the society of models and of

servants, has been exercising their lively, if
not exalted, imaginations at my expense :
armed with the startling information acquired
in this underhand way, she seeks by deliberately
insulting me to vindicate the character of
a maniac and do the bidding of a coachman.'

Everybody turned to look at the object of
this denunciation. She stood perfectly still,
very pale and grieved, but not subdued.

I do not understand,' exclaimed Mark,
angry and perplexed.

Nor I,' added Mrs. Fane's dulcet tones.
But if my poor dear child has been so unfortunate
as to offend Sir John '

Please, mother, do not try to set things
right,' Winifred interrupted steadily. ' For
the manner of my offence I ask Sir John's
pardon. The feelings which impelled me to
my unfortunate speech are not so superficial
that a word can dispel them. Bat I can at
least promise, and I do never to obtrude them
on anybody here again, for this is my last visit
to The Limes.'

She turned in her impetuosity and walked
straight away from the room and the
house.

They had all been too much astonished to
stop her. Gertrude was the first to speak 
good-naturedly.

That is Winifred all over. She is a fine
creature, but often in heroics.'

Do pray excuse her, Sir John,' added Mrs.
Fane. ' Dear Mrs. Hatherley, you don't know
my impulsive, good-hearted girl.'

Mrs. Hatherley did not answer. Her eyes
had a strange glitter, and she looked uncommonly
wide awake.

Nobody else spoke, and the silence became
at last so oppressive, that Mrs. Fane was fain
to break it with a lady-like outburst of sobs.

At the first sound of these Sir John vanished
to the library, Mark followed him, and Florence
was made happy by being asked to bring
her smelling-bottle to the rescue.

Winifred meanwhile, in the darkness and
solitude of her own sitting-room, was sitting

by the spent fire, and weeping lier heart out in
the mere physical reaction, of her late excitement.
She felt angry with herself, yet not
altogether sorry. At the somirl of the floors
she roused herself, thinking that it must
be her mother, and nerved herself for a scene.
But to her great surprise, who should walk in
but Dolly, panting, and in a remarkable state
of excitement.

Oh, dear Miss Power,' she exclaimed, sinking
breathlessly on to a stool at Winifred's
side,  I hope }'ou will excuse me, but I came
because I really felt I must. Everybody is so
angry at The Limes  Uncle John shut up in
the library  Mark looking dreadful  your
mother in tears. She says perhaps you will
be <oino; back to Paris.'

Did she say that?'

Yes. And I want you  if you do oro  to
take me with you.'

'And what in the world would you do in
Paris ?' asked Winifred.

Paint plates and fans and things,' replied

VOL. I. 11)

Dolly promptly. ' Painting in water-colours
is my one small talent.'

Winifred smiled with melancholy amusement.
She had often suspected that Dolly
was not quite such a nonentity as her sister,
but she had not been prepared for an outburst
like this, and wondered what had inspired it.

Do sou want to get away from your
governess, Dorothy?'

Xo  that's not it ; not altogether. I
should like to be independent, to earn money.'

Winifred shook her head as she looked
down at the small daintily-dressed figure,
and the pink and-white, pretty, Dresden china
face.

Oh, don't discourage me, dear, dear Miss
Power I' exclaimed the girl, clasping her hands,
with tears in her eyes. ' When Uncle John
dies I am convinced that we shall be paupers ;
he will be sure not to leave us anything. I
will be no burden to you. I will live on
bread and water, I will sweep your rooms, I
will '

Hush ! If there be anv way of maiiairinir
your enterprise, I will not discourage it, you
may be sure. But indeed I do not know
what I am o-oino- to do. Dollv, answer me
frankly  have you no other motive for wishing
ceo than this, and the general weariness of
life at The Limes ?'

Dolly was very honest. She hung her head
in silence.

Am I to flatter myself that 3'ou are inspired
by affection for me T continued Winifred
playfully.

I like you very much.'

But somebody else better ?'

Again Dolly was mute.

Well, well,' said Winifred, laying her hand
on the pretty' little head, ' I will bear you in
mind. And meanwhile (past to amuse yon, you
understand), I Avill read you a letter from
Richard Dallas.'

CHAPTER I.

ALL HEE WORLD AGAINST HER.

Winifred had left The Limes de
daring she would never enter it
again, and the reader does not need
to be told that Mrs. Chances-Fane returned
home in a mood of long-suffering dignity admirable
to contemplate. She lighted her candle
with her own hand, shot one wary glance at
her daughter out of the extreme corner of her
eyes, then gathered her skirts tightly round
VOL. ir. 20

her ankles, as if she were gong to step over a
gutter, and vanished upstairs.

This was the first instalment of the general
snubbing which began for Winifred from that
evening.

The next day a packet was brought her, at
sight of which the blood rushed to her cheeks,
for she recognised Mark's handwriting in the
address. But there was no word inside from
him : only extracts from the newspapers, containing;
the account of Martha's trial. She
read them, but the effect produced upon her
was far other than that intended. Mark's conviction
had doubtless been that a perusal of
the facts ' would convert her. Winifred on
the contrary read between the lines, and in
every protestation of Martha's innocence by the
counsel, every allusion to the * prisoner's ' demeanour,
every remark about John and his
sister, she saw a fresh confirmation of her own
belief.

She returned the packet as it had been sent
to her  without a line , thinking to herself as

she did so, that probably no further communication
would ever pass between herself and
clark. Her heart died within her ; but she
would not own that she suffered.

Xevertheless she turned white and red by
turns, and found not so much as a syllable of
greeting a few hours later when Mark walked
into her studio.

He looked disturbed, and even a little sullen,
like one impelled to come against his will. Indeed,
he had not taken the step without a
struggle. He was masterful by nature, and
held that submission was a woman's duty. His
feeling for Winifred had rather surprised him :
he had fallen in love with her in his own
despite. But he was not very deeply in yet 
or at least he thought so  and his pride was
committed now to the preliminary task of conquering
her. He made sure it would not be
difficult. Very gravely, but gently, he spoke.

You read the papers ? Then,' as she bent
her head in affirmation, ' why did you make
no remark upon them?'

202

 I had no remark to make she replied
quietly.

'Am I to conclude that you feel the in-injustice
of your accusations against my
father T

Winifred tried to free her hand  failed  then
burst out imploringly :

Let us not speak on the subject. You blame
me, of course  how should you do otherwise?
To you I simply seem prejudiced, ungrateful
'

Of gratitude I do not speak. But as to
your being prejudiced, I should like to know
who could deny it,' interrupted Mark, with his
grave smile.

There was a dangerously tender light in his
eyes, and he made a movement as if to draw
her closer to him.

In the faltering tones of her voice, the quick,
dismayed turns of her head, in her evident distress
and sorrow, she seemed to him very
sweet and womanly. Another moment and
she would yield.

He would hold her in his arms and tell her
that he loved her. But Winifred, although he
would not have believed it, was still a long
way off that complacent consummation. With
a sudden effort, she wrenched herself free and
cried out :

My determination is irrevocable. I regret
my speech to your father, but 1 do not withdraw
it.'

Mark's brow darkened. Repulsed tenderness,
wounded pride, and outraged affection
began to raise a storm within him. Nevertheless
he asked her quietly on what she based
her convictions, listened in attentive silence to
the story of her acquaintance with Miss Freake,
of Clara Symthe's taunt, of Martha's ravings,
and of Ridgeley's dying statement. Very
patiently and dispassionately he tried to make
her see how little all these uncertain proofs
amounted to : hoar certain it was that Miss
Freake would protest her own innocence : how
little meaning could be attached to her ravings :
how likely it was that Ridgeley's pretended

confession had had no other root than revenge
for what he conceived to be a denial of his
demands.

You cannot be surprised if I am indignant
at your accusations,' continued Mark.

*I should be more indignant, only ' he

paused, then added in an altered tone  ' only
that you are the accuser. But I do not despair
of converting you. I hope that you will
return with me to The Limes, and there hear
from my father himself that your words have
been buried in oblivion.'

Ko,' said Winifred, and raised her head
with an ominous flash of her eyes. She could
not judge at this moment, but at least she
could resist  and she would resist to the last.

Mark rose.

Consider what you lose by this refusal,
Miss Power. The love of your friends and of
your adopted father, the support of those who
might be useful to you in your career, the
esteem of everybody who until to day, had given
you credit for intelligence and good feeling.'

Winifred had winced at the allusion to Mr.
Russell, for there Mark touched a chord of
deep prophetic pain. But she answered steadily
enough :

You confuse two problems. My duties
towards my adopted parents are one thing ;
my relations towards Sir John Hatherley are
another. All that I have at present to dois
to break off every connection with your 
father.'

She spoke the last words in a lower voice,
and wrung; her hands together as she ended.

Mark stood silent, cruelly wounded. He
took his hat and turned towards the door,
finding nothing to reply that would not have
betrayed the deep resentment which his pride
uroed him to conceal. But as he balanced
back at Winifred, and saw her standing; there
Ath the sunlight touching her golden head ;
as her eyes met this mournfully, and he noted
that she trembled  then his love and her
beauty spoke too strongly for anger, and he
went eagerly to her side.

Winifred  consider ! Have you no fear of
regret ?'

It was the first time he had called her by her
name, and the sound of it was sweeter than she
had ever thought that human words could be.
Regret ? Yes, she knew that she would
regret ; her heart even now was full of pain.
But what of that ? A little happiness more or
less in youth seems a small matter when the
dazzling vistas of the world are scarce unfolded,
and life offers treasures in specious
abundance.

Winifred shut her heart to its own pleadings
; she closed her ears to the meaning of
Mark's tone, and turned away from the reluctant
passion of his eyes as she whispered :

My resolution is irrevocable.'

Listen!' said the young man, and again
took her hand. ' I never thought to have
patience in such a cause ; but I feel that I
cannot leave you thus. You are angry now,
excited, strung up to a determination, and too
proud to renounce it. I ask only one thing of

you  not to speak your last word yet. Take
a little while to consider before you break with
us entirely  my dear.'

There was a silence which, from all the
emotion compressed into it, seemed very long
to both of them. Mark clasped her hand
closer, then, as she visibly shrank, released it
and stood back, very pale, but mute. Winifred,
feeling herself drifting, covered her face,
and sank upon a chair. She must accord no
delay, accept no compromise, or she was lost.
That was her thought, but the words in which
to say it would not comes

I cannot change my mind. I  I am
sorry to refuse it to you. But  after all 
what does it matter if we part?' said she at
last.

It matters very much to me,' answered
Mark bitterly and proudly. ' But, of course,
if your decision be final, I must cease to combat
it. Is it final ?'

Yes,' breathed Winifred softly.

She listened quite curiously to her own

voice as she said it, and was listening still
after Mark had traversed the room with a
rapid step and closed the door behind him.

On realizing that she was again alone, she
rose with a commonplace air, and quite quietly
and quickly set about cleaning her palette.
She was satisfied with herself. She had done
what she always intended to do whenever a
crisis in her life presented itself: she had been
true to her own principles. Supposing she
had yielded and gone back to The Limes, forgetting
Miss Freake and her wrongs, and
taken the hand of Sir John in friendship, by
this time she would already have begun to
feel remorseful and ashamed. The pain she
felt would be fleeting ; in fact, she thought it
had already fled ; but the joy of an approving
conscience would endure. She nodded
her head and smiled at her approving
conscience, and then all at once burst into
tears.

Lost in a very passion of sobs, blind and
deaf to everything around her, she was presently

discovered by Mrs. Chances-Fane, who
began pouring forth a characteristic flood of
consolation.

I am surprised at your agitation, love,
although I can understand that you begin to
see the folly of your conduct. If you had
consulted your poor mother before speaking
last night, perhaps things might have been
different. But I am accustomed to be considered
a fool. Fortunately, Mr. Burton

I hear Mr. ]\Iark Hatherley has been here. I
suppose he was very angry?'

Winifred made no reply, only checked her
sobs and dried her tears, mortified at having
been discovered in such a state. But her
mother's curiosity was not to be repressed.

He is not what / call an forceable younof
man, although I believe you think him intelligent,
darling. For myself, I prefer good-breeding
to intellect. I suppose he was very
rude to you ? Had I been present that might
not have happened ; but you gave me no hint
of his coming. I suppose you preferred 

well, no matter! But I never should have
expected him to make you cry.'

He did not make me cry,* retorted Winifred,
too intensely irritated to consider whether
her answer were strictly true.

Xo ?' said Mrs. Fane interrogatively.
 Then, what is it ? Nothing ? Why, then,
you must be hysterical, darling. I do not
understand that sort of thing myself, but I
never was morbid  never. You remember
we are engaged to dine tomorrow at The
Limes : shall you go ?'

jSFot I, certainly,' answered Winifred, somewhat
heroically angry. ' I am not going to
The Limes again.'

Mrs. Fane looked as much surprised as if
her daughter were affirming that Mr. Burton
had turned dancing; dervish. Her first anger
of yesterday evaporated, she was quite incapable
of regarding Winifred's conduct from
a serious point of view. The notion of any
real breach with Sir John  the potentate of the
neighbourhood  astounded her. She tried a

little argument, not much ; then passed to
persuasion ; and, this failing, relapsed into her
usual self laudatory strain of lamentation.
Baffled in every attempt to shake Winifred's
determination, she informed lier that she was
a mule,' and went upstairs to write a letter on
her own account to Sir John. The letter was
a masterpiece. It began by stating that her
sweet child had a feverish headache;' went
on to say that 'in all probability her keen
maternal anxiety would not allow her to dine
from home on the morrow ; but perhaps dear
Sir John would allow her to leave the question
ojen.'

This brought a very stately and forgiving
epistle from the outraged master of The Limes.
Sir John declared that he felt it incumbent
upon his own dignity to leave Miss Power's
conversion to her better sense and feeling ;
consequently he should never allude again to
the extraordinary scene of the previous evening.
At the same time, it must be understood
that the first step towards burying it in oblivion

could not come from himself. For the rest,
with Mrs. Clan do s-fane he had no quarrel,
nd hoped never to have one. And he trusted
that Miss Power would be sufficiently recovered
to allow her mother to join the dinner-party
at The Limes next day.

This magnanimous composition was brought,
wonderful to relate, by Mrs. Hatherley herself.
Her eyes still had that light of suppressed
-excitement and awakened curiosity which had
come into them the night before. She did
not say much, but sat and looked at Winifred
with a speechless inquisitiveness, almost like
a monkey's, until the girl began to find her
presence positively uncanny. All at once, in
the midst of Mrs. Fane's protestations of profound
emotion at Sir John's generosity, the
little Creole suddenly asked :

Did Miss Power know many people who
had been acquainted with Sir John in his
young days ?'

The malignant curiosity manifest in this
question so scandalized Mrs. Fane, that she

hastily interposed, saying that her darling
daughter had led a most secluded life, and
had, she regretted to say, a very limited and
insufficient knowledge of the world.

Well, that must be your fault,' placidly
remarked Mrs. Hatherley.

My fault ?' Mrs. Fane gasped.

sirs. Hatherley was sometimes so very impertinent
!

You let her be brought up by strangers.'

Strangers ?' An insulted hidalgo might
have envied the tone in which Mrs. Fane
repeated the word. ' I am not aware that
my dear, my only brother, a hopeless invalid,
can be considered a stranger. He has been
unfortunate, that is true ; disappointed of
a baronetcy and deprived by circumstances of
his fortune : and he and his wife are childless.
When he asked for my child to fill the void of
their existence, was I to deny her to him ?
Alas I '

Dear me ! I don't know what you were todo,
I am sure,' interrupted Mrs. Hatherley ina

tone of peevish indifference, and with her
watchful marmoset-like eyes still fixed on
Winifred. But the flood-gates of Mrs. Fane's
eloquence once opened were not so easily
closed again, and the West Indian had to
listen to a torrent of words, which were possibly
intended as much to baffle her curiosity
as to relieve the speaker's feelings. Fairly
beaten at last, she rose in a ruffled condition
and trundled herself and her wraps away, withall
her unanswered questions in her.

Days lengthened into weeks. And while
Winifred busied herself with the preparations
for her mother's wedding, the breach between
herself and Sir John remained unhealed. Mark
was almost constantly in London, and she
hardly ever saw him, even in the street. Dolly's
partisanship, chiefly expressed as it was b}'
the nods and backs and wreathed smiles of a
secret understanding, although droll, was not
in the highest degree consolatory to Winifred.
The neighbourhood, aware, although without
knowing why, that she was in Sir John's black

books, looked a little askance at her : and she
had to bear, in a general atmosphere of disapproval,
the dreary monotony of days that
succeed upon excitement.

VOL. II. 21

GERTRUDE PAYS A VISIT.

HILE Winifred Power was reaping
the meagre harvest of her heroism,
Gertrude's course at The Limes
grew daily more triumphant.

Little b} little the sceptre of government
passed from the feeble hands of Mrs. Hatherley
into hers. Little by little she usurped altogether
the sisters' prerogatives of waiting upon
Sir John.

It must be confessed that, whether front he
soothing influence of her presence, or whether,
as more likely, from her dexterous avoidance
of unnecessary trouble, Sir John was incomparably

less exacting than of yore. He did
not want so many tidings ; he was not so often
attacked by sickness ; when attacked, his
majestic irritation was less apparent. He kept
Gertrude a good deal with him ; made her
write out the menus of his sumptuous
dinners ; and dictated to her his courtly
note's.

She was initiated into nearly all the secrets
of his occupations, and found them considerably
less imposing than the outside world
supposed. Sir John, in the midst of his
tomes and his papers, passed a good deal of
his time in sleep. ' His distressing malady
precluded him now from profound study. He
lived with the treasures that he had amassed
in the past.' Gertrude listened very respectfully
to this, and swept out afterwards upon
the world with all the insolent consciousness
of a knowledge that gave her the upper
hand.

If she did not teach Dolly and Florence
much (and, indeed. Sir John s demands made

212

that almost impossible), she persecuted them
a good deal in numberless microscopic ways.
She made them fetch and carry for her, with a
deliberate, disdainful obtuseness to their signs
of revolt. She crushed them with her beauty,
her elegance and her cleverness a hundred
times a day. .

By the servants she was, of course, detested
as an upstart ; but she governed them with a
steel hand in a velvet glove, and they dared
not protest. With Mark she got on admirably.
In spite of her loveliness, she stirred no fibre
of passion in him, and she was wise and keen
enough to find that out from the first. Abandoning
all thought of subjugating him, she
met him on the grounds of a frankness and a
shrewdness which enchanted him. He considered
her a ' manamio woman,' but the least
obnoxious specimen of the race that he had
ever met. It was this power of being all
things to all men that ensured Gertrude's
success. She was a siren in the library, and
a housekeeper out of it.

Mark's blindness drove this aunt and her
daughters to despair.

She is a viper /' exclaimed Mrs. Hatherley,
with unwonted energy, one afternoon when
she was very much awake.

A cross, disagreeable thing said Dorothy.

And thinks nobody can do aught but herself,'
added Florence.

Mark, installed in an armchair, with a book
in his hand, looked u]o from his reading with
lifted eyebrows. The finer shades of misconduct,
easily discoverable by the female mind,
naturally escaped his masculine perception ;
and he was genuinely amazed at the outburst
which had greeted his ears.

I believe her to be a mere adventuress,'
resumed Mrs. Hatherley, encouraged by Mark's
sirens of attention.

She is half her time in bed  or in her
room.'

And tells such showing stories.'

Pray go on,' said their hearer, surveying
them with an exasperating smile of incredulity.

 I am lost in admiration of your descriptive
powers. Unaided, I should never
have awakened to the harm in Miss Dallas.
She is handsome and clever ; always in a good
humour ; hardworking '

What's shrieked the trio in concert. 'A
horrid, ill-tempered, designing, grasping '

I sav, that's enough,' interrupted Mark,
rather roughly. 'If there is one thing I do
thorouii'hlv detest, it is the abusive chatter of
women. Especially where it is not deserved.'

Upon which Mrs. Hatherley sank back with
a martyred moan ; Flossie began to whimper ;
and Dolly tossed her head in triumph at her
secret resolutions.

After five minutes or so of indignant silence
had reigned, the door opened, and Gertrude
herself entered, with an air of most provoking
loveliness.

I am gong uj) to London,' said the apple
of discord, sweetly. ' Can I do anything for
anybody ?'

This obliging question was met for the

most part with frozen contempt. Only Mark
spoke :

You are very kind. But shall I not accompany
you ?'

To Marshall and Snelgrove's ? I would
not impose such a sacrifice for the world.'

It would be a pleasure.'

Mark ! And if I stop even to look at a
shop window you are as cross as you can be,'
exclaimed Florence resentfully.

That is a different thing was the reply,
delivered with supreme candour.

No, indeed, it is not different,' interposed
Gertrude. ' You are very, very kind, Mr.
Hatherley, but I really must insist upon going
by myself.' And with a parting glance of
gratitude, she went, saying under her breath,
as she closed the door : ' How furious they
were ! And how little he knows what a nuisance
he would have been !'

Messrs. Marshall and Snelgrove had apparently
changed their place of business; for
Miss Dallas no sooner reached London than

she took a cab and had herself driven to the
north end of the town.

On reaching a very shabby street in a very
dmgy suburb she showed some surprise.

Are you sure that this is Araminta Grove?'
she inquired, first of the cabman, and then of
a passer-by.

Assured by both that there was no mistake,
she shrugged her shoulders, paid her fare, and
knocked at Into. 12. There was no answer for
some minutes, but a second and more impatient
summons brought an untidy-looking
maiden to the door.

Is Colonel Quince at home?'

Xo ; but he'd very likely not be long,' was
the impression of the maiden, stated with as
much expedition as her extreme astonishment
at Gertrude's a2323earance would allow.

Then I will wait,' said Miss Dallas : and
she was shown into a sordid little sitting-room,
which did not help to restore her good-humour.
And when, at the end of half an
hour, the door opened and a gentleman

swaggered in, her only greeting was : ' At
last! I suppose you forgot that I was
coming ?'

By no means, my child replied Colonel
Quince calmly.

He removed his hat, pulled down his shirt -
cuffs with an air of dandy elegance, and seated
himself opposite his fair, incensed visitor.

Any news ?' he inquired.

None,' said Gertrude curtly. ' I believe
you sent me on a wild-goose chase.'

What, no papers ? No skeleton in the
closet ?'

Nothing, I tell you.'

Colonel Quince looked grave.

Old fellow coming on at all ?' he presently
resumed.

I don't know what you mean,' replied
Gertrude grandly, but she coloured. Apparently
she detected an exasperating flicker of
Incredulity in his eyes, for she continued with
obvious irritation : ' If you would drop your
mysteries for once, and talk in something

clearer than riddles, we might reach a definite
result. But I believe you have been fooling
me, from first to last.'

Not I,' said the Colonel.

She made an impatient movement.

Why cannot you speak out ?'

Caution forbids it, madam I know your
sex. Sieves.'

A profound observation !' remarked Gertrude,
with ironical gravity. ' But since you
vill tell me nothing else, perhaps you will explain
the change in your circumstances.'

 My circumstances ?' Colonel Quince quite
chuckled. ' That's a good one. Do you allude
to the change in my abode ?'

Of course I do. The last time I saw you,
you were inexpensive lodgings at the West End.'

And now I have altered my latitude. A
mere vicissitude of fortune, my dear. It is
plain you have not known me long.'

No, but I have heard of you long enough,*
replied Gertrude, with slow scorn, as she regarded
him.

He was very well dressed, but indescribably
dissipated in appearance, and had that air of
seedy ' shrewdness which belong's to unsuccessful
adventurers. For the rest, he was rather
a handsome man still, and looked as if he
might once have been a gentleman.

He took her scrutiny with perfect composure,
for there was an odd kind of familiarity
between them that yet had no trace of affection.
Nevertheless when, after some more conversation,
Gertrude put out her little gloved hand
in farewell, he held it in his own with a certain
sort of friendliness and patronage.

I should not like you, for your own credit,
to make a failure of things dowai there. Have
you laid siege to the son ?'

To Mark ? Xo. Xor ever shall.' She
shook her head decidedly as she spoke, for some
loyalty she still had, and she more than suspected
Winifred Power's feelings. But this
was not a reason to be confessed to her present
companion. Bassesse oblige as well as noblesse
and Colonel Quince, as she knew by experience,

was wont to stigmatize scruples as melodramatic.


Won't rise to the bait, I suppose he remarked,
with a malicious smile. ' Well, goodbye,
my child ; I must not complain of your
keeping your secrets, if I keep mine, I suppose.
Only remember this : if you are able
to find out anything of that matter, you must
inform me at once : I am your confederate,'

Gertrude winced.

The suggestion of such a partnership was
not pleasant ; although to her love of excitement
and perverted romanticism, an intrigue
in which even Colonel Quince played
a part was better than no intrigue at
all. She absolutely hugged the thought
that while Mrs. Hatherley and her daughters
were sipping their afternoon tea in the
luxurious drawing-room at The Limes; while
Winifred was making; the most of the fading;
daylight for her picture ; and Mrs. Chandos-
Fane was absorbed in the cut of a skirt, or
the trimming of a bonnet  she, contemptuous

of dull respectability and commonplace effort,
was paying a clandestine visit to a disreputable
individual in bis shabby lodgings in Kentish
Town.

I suppose you have not a spare half-sovereign
?' inquired Colonel Quince at parting.



How should I have ? You know I receive
no salary, and the only money I ever get is
from poor Dick  that is, at present,' Gertrude
hastened to add. ' But I have not forgotten
that my first respectable appearance at The
Limes was entirely owing to you

And is Dick hard up ?'

Perhaps not quite so much so as usual just
now. But I don't know where he gets his
money.'

There are ways.' And Colonel Quince
waved his hand vaguely towards limitless
horizons.

Whatever Dick's ways may be, I am quite
sure they are honest,' answered Dick's sister,
flushing up hotly as if in answer to an unspoken

accusation. Then, half ashamed at this
one little touch of nature in herself; angrj
too, at the dawning mockery in her companion's
face, she turned away abruptly and,
with a curt ' good-bye,* ran down the narrow
stair.

As Gertrude hurried through the sos; and
drizzle of the winter day, and met the sons and
daughters of toil  poor workmen, jaded milliners,
pallid daily teachers  plodding wearily
homewards under the lately-lighted lamps, a
great contempt for them rose within her. How
much cleverer was she ! how much more intrepid
! how much surer of success ! The
precise nature of the destiny which she was
to carve out for herself she could not have
told if asked ; only she was determined that it
should be as unlike as possible to the sordid
o'revness of ordinary existence.

An intense belief in herself made lier personality
a potent one. Those whom she chose
to conciliate, she interested by a sphinx-like
air of keeping back the true secrets of her

nature : and a certain intellectual power
enabled her to rise superior to the smaller arts
and patrie motives of the ordinary adventuress.
She had a wayward kind of generosity ;
a fitful sort of incomplete nobility ; and all
the lavishness of a character which thoroughly
despises work. In the best of her dreaming
she had ideas that were not wholly selfish.
She meant to do a great deal for her family 
when she should have succeeded in achieving
a position for herself. That would be the
moment of her greatest triumph ; and her own
people, who had been so ready, as she thought,
to despise her, would then render her a tardy,
but not less welcome, justice. On dispassionate
consideration, she concluded that
misconduct was inferior policy ; consequently
she decided to be virtuous, and to use virtue as
one of the weapons in her armoury.

THE MISSING PSALTER.

fnl HE time for Mrs. Fane's wedding
' ' had now drawn near, and Mr.

Burton had settled with an old
college friend to come down to perform the
ceremony.

He is a very good fellow, is Archer,' he
said one day to Sir John. And, by-the-bye,
he is a great bibliophile. He mil be enchanted
with your collection ; especially, I think, with
the Psalter  the gold on a purple ground 
that cost you such a sum. I doubt if even he
has anything like it.'

Mrs. Fane's pleasure in the arrangements

for her wedding was poisoned by the thought
that the people of The Limes would not be
among the guests. She had, indeed, at one
time nourished the dream of a weddino'-break-
fast at the great house ; and had gently hinted
as much to Sir John. But he, for all his
amiability, had not only turned a deaf ear, but
had declined, for himself and his family, the
invitation to the ceremony which the bride
and bridegroom elect had not failed to despatch
him.

It is all your fault, darling ; but I do not
reproach you; I say nothing,' said Mrs.
Chances-Fane to her pale and silent daughter.
I am aware that the neighbourhood will think
it very strange  very. No doubt it will even
be said that I have given Sir John grounds of
just complaint against me.'

You can assure your acquaintances that it
is all my fault,' replied Winifred.

Mrs. Fane looked extremely offended.

I am not treacherous, love. Neither tread

II. 22

heroes nor selfish. I think I may say that
nobody has ever accused me of such defects.
Although I have not always been done full
justice to, perhaps, in my own family (I maybe
mistaken, but I fancy sometimes this is the
case), I can without excessive vanity lay
claim to having had more friends than
enemies. Nobody has ever found me unamiable
or mean. And I should not think
of justifying myself in the eyes of the neighbourhood
at the expense of my child.'

I am sure I had far rather you would tell
everybody the truth, than say so much on the
subject to me,' answered Winifred, more wearily
than wisely.

Upon which Mrs. Fane, after a little pause
of mournful astonishment, informed her that
her temper was growing every day more unbearable;
that the hour might come when she
would be sorry for having treated her poor
mother in such a way; but that for the rest,
Mrs. Fane's patience was equal to most trials.
She was thankful, after having suffered so

much, to think that whatever Mr. Burton's
faults mio'ht be  and she did not consider him
perfect  his sympathy, at any rate, would
never fail her.

How pretty and how marvellously young
Mrs. Chances-Fane looked on her weddings
It was the universal remark. In her
elegant costume, with her petite figure, her
golden fringe, her dainty manner, and winning
smiles, she made a striking contrast to her tall
and stately and grave-looking daughter.

The wedding was a brilliant affair, in spite
of the absence of the Hatherleys, and Mr.
Burton seemed becomingly conscious that he
was quite a subject for congratulation and
envy.

Mrs. Burton and her daughter parted with
tears.

I shall miss you,' said poor Winifred,
with genuine feeling*.

I am sure you will,' replied her mother,
with no less sincere belief. ' Had my feelings
ever been consulted at any time by anybody,

222

we should not have separated. But it is useless
to go back upon the unfortunate past.
(Take care of my bonnet, love.) Our honeymoon
will not last long, for my husband's
sacred duties  duties in which I shall, I hopefully
share  will soon recall him  I declare
there's a button off my glove !'

This painful discovery abruptly arrested the
flow of the bride's eloquence, and Winifred
said gently:

Once I am in Paris, I shall probably not
leave again for some time.'

Mrs. Burton replied that she was aware of
that. She knew that her dear daughter
always preferred to be away from her. Nevertheless
she might one day discover that a
mother's arms were a welcome refuge ; and
when that day dawned, Mrs. Burton would be
happy to receive her.

With this final assurance, a kiss, and an admonition
not to tread upon her train, the little
lady took her husband's arm, nodded graciously
to everybody, stepped into her carriage,

and, amid a shower of rice and of slippers, Alas
triumphantly driven away.

Winifred, left all alone, had received several
invitations to stay, at least for one night, With
people in the neighbourhood. But she had
declined them  thus earnings for herself some
reputation for eccentricity.

The truth was that her chief desire now was
to escape from Elmsleigh and its associations.
(once free of them, she hoped she should be
able to cast off the regret that, day and night,
since her interview with Mark had tuoo;ed at
her heart-strings.

She had not found it easy, as she had anticipated,
to do without positive happiness.
Duty and hard work ; art, and an approving
conscience  these had once appeared to her
abundant materials out of which to compose a
rich and satisfactory existence.

But it was strange how measure and insufficient
the result appeared, now that she had
really undertaken the task. Duty looked remarkably
angular ; work was singularly

barren ; and art had lost half its flavour.
After having deliberately driven Mark away,
with all the unreason of a woman in love, she
was piqued at his continued absence. And
having finally reached the point of persuading
herself that he had never really cared for herat
all, she became more than ever anxious to
quit the scene of her struggles and her humiliations.


Sitting alone in the little drawing-room,
so lately full of guests, all grateful for the
silence as she was, she felt pathetically lonely.
She had made up her mind to start without
delay for Paris, had put forward her preparations
: and now that her departure seemed
imminent, a hundred problems presented
themselves.

She could not disguise from herself that if
she severed her life from Sir John, the obligation
of separating from Mrs. Russell was no
whit less potent. In the first glow of her
resolution, even that had seemed easy  or, at
least, easier than to accept longer any share in

Sir John's bounty. But now, in the rush of
new-born longing for the love and sympathy
that she had despised, her heart was wrung at
the thought of parting from Mr. Russell.

A telegram, miss,' said a servant, rousing
her from her mournful meditations.

With a quick prescience of evil, she tore it
open and read :

Come at once. Your uncle is worse, and
-ishes for you.

Mary Russell.'

Winifred's arms fell to her side. Was this
the answer to all her doubts? Had death
taken upon itself to solve her problems ?

Awakened fully again to action, she hurried
upstairs, and resumed her half-completed preparations
for departure. In the midst of
them, she was called downstairs again : ' Miss
Dallas wished to see her.'

This was the first messenger to herself from
The Limes that had crossed the door for

three weeks ; and Winifred went down with a
beating heart to receive her visitor.

We have also had a telegram said Gertrude,
coming forward to meet her with her
usual cool grace. ' The man said he had left
another here. And as I guessed that you
would be starting immediately, I thought I
might as well come round to say good-bye.
Mark  Mr. Hatherley, I mean  sends you
this letter.'

Mark! It was a mere accident that Gertrude
called him by his Christian name, and
yet the familiarity from her struck coldly on
Winifred's heart. It was equally an accident,
although this also she could not know, that
Gertrude had been the bearer of the letter.
Mark had gone to London early in the morning,
and before leaving had given it to a
servant to deliver. The servant had forgotten
it until the moment when Gertrude
herself was starting to pay her visit. She
had then seen it in his hand, and offered to
take it. All this she never thought of explaining,

an" more than it occurred to her to
say that Mark knew nothing of the telegram,
and had written his letter hours before it
arrived.

Doing her best to hide all agitation from
Gertrude's penetrating eyes, Winifred opened
the letter.

My dear Miss Power,

Your silence and your absence
during the past three weeks lead me to
the reluctant conclusion that your resolution
is unaltered. I must deplore this fact,
but I cannot, of course, again contest it.
All I wish to say is that, much as I must
continue to differ with you in regard to Miss
Freake, I still cannot deny to that unfortunate
lady the pity due to her from me as a monomaniac
and a kinswoman of my own. And I
should consequently wish you to use for her
benefit, if necessary, the cheque which I
enclose. I know that she is old and poor,
and these facts, with the other attendant circumstances,
constitute a claim upon my help.

If at any time she needs further pecuniary
assistance, be kind enough to apply to me.
Yours truly,

'Mark Hatherley.'

That was all. A cold offer of money, tantamount
to a final farewell to herself ! This
was how Winifred read the letter, helped to
her conclusion by the contrast between
Mark's indifferent tone and her own present
state of agitated sorrow ; by the irritation of
Gertrude's presence and her watchful glance ;
and by the unreasonable conviction that Mark
had chosen the moment of her orief to emphasize
his cold disapproval of her conduct.
Very foolish and unjust of Winifred! But
secret struggles, unspoken love, and unshared
brooding are very morbid counsellors, and
for so many days now she had borne unaided
the triple burden of her thoughts.

In reply, she wrote :

If my partisanship of Martha Freake constitute
an injustice on my art towards her

kinsfolk, then it is not fair that I should bethe
dispenser of their generosity. I doubt if
she would accept your bounty. But should
she at any time be so inclined, it will be

fitter that she should ask you for it herself.'

</

She signed this letter, enclosed the cheque
in it, and handed it in silence to Gertrude.

I hope you have not written anything
foolish?' said that young lady, with her usual
penetration.

I have written as I thought best,' was the
cold reply.

Gertrude twisted the letter about, still keeping
her eyes fixed on her companion.

I cannot help thinking, Winifred, that you
are making; rather a mess of your affairs,' she
resumed, with the air of dispassionate commonsense
which she had inherited fiom her father,
and which Mr. Dallas and his daughter alike put
forth when considering other people's business.

You must allow me to be the best judge
of that question,' AVinifi:'ed answered gently,

still bent on keeping her at arms' length from
all her quivering wounds.

Gertrude looked disappointed. She had come,
impelled partly by a survival of affection for
her friend, partly by a characteristic conviction
of her own superiority in all practical matters,
partly to make Winifred speak ; and then, as
she would have expressed it, ' to set things
straight But against this impassive and
obstinate reserve she could do nothing ; so,
with a shrug of her shoulders, she changed the
subject.

I want principally to sjDcak to you about
Dolly. It seems she actually wishes to go
with you to Paris. She took me aside, and,
with a portentous air of mystery and heroism,
announced her doughty determination. You
have "made a school," Winifred, as the French
say. All the young ladies in the place will
soon be wanting to be independent and unconventional,'
concluded Gertrude, with her
easy impertinence.

Winifred looked at her, not unamused. It

was comic indeed to hear Miss Dallas express
herself in this tone of impartial criticism.


She said she could not stand Florence any
longer ; and she hinted, with as much clearness
as her somewhat rudimentary ideas of
politeness would allow, that she was not precisely
devoted to me continued Gertrude,
with a lio;ht lauoh. ' She added that she was
no longer wanted at The Limes (I wonder
if she really believes she ever was wanted);
she asked me to intercede for her with Sir
John, and was good enough to express the
flattering conviction that I was more likely
than anybody else to obtain his consent.'

Of course you denied this ?' said Winifred.
She could not have helped the little sarcasm
for the world.

No,' replied Gertrude placidly, ' I quite
agreed with her. If I had not been afraid of
hurting her feelings, I mi-ht have added that
an intercessor is superfluous when a prayer is
welcome. As a matter of fact, Sir John

seems extremely pleased at the notion of letting
Dorothy go.'

And Mrs. Hatherley ?'

Mrs. Hatherley weeps. But what of that?'

gertrude!' Winifred looked reproof, and
Gertrude  laughed.

Dolly must follow me,' mused Winifred.
I will see, as soon as I can, what arrangements
can be made for her.'

I wish I knew if Sir John really intends
to provide handsomely for his nieces,' observed
Gertrude, as she rose to go.

Why ?'

Because in that case, Dolly's idea of going
to Paris might turn up trumps for Dick.'

Gerty,' exclaimed Winifred, ' you seem
really fond of Dick. Why are you fond of
nobody else ?'

Quite suddenly, to Winifred's intense amazement,
the tears rushed to Gertrude's eyes.

Why are almost all lives a failure ?' she
said bitterly. ' You are a good creature,
Winifred. Are you happy yourself ?'

And without a word of farewell, she turned
and left her.

As Miss Dallas re-entered the hall of The
Limes, she was conscious of a certain unusual
stir. The servants looked a little grave, while
from the open door of the library issued the
sound of voices in high discourse. Made aware
in some way of her return, Dorothy and her
sister came tumbling out upon her like a pair
of eager young seals.

Oh, Miss Dallas !' cried both in a breath.
What do you think has happened ? The
beautiful Psalter has been stolen V

Stolen ?  the Psalter ?' exclaimed Gertrude.
' Impossible ! Who would steal
it?'

That is what we are all asking,' said Florence.
' Mr. Archer came round to look at the
books. And when my uncle took oat the
Psalter-case, he found it empty.'

At this moment Mrs. Hatherley appeared,
coming out of the library with her usual
stealthy tread.

Sir John would be glad to see you, Miss
Dallas. He is in consternation at his loss.'

There was a slight but perceptible sneer in
her tone, as though she would insinuate
that Sir John thought nobody could bring
him consolation but the governess. Gertrude
hurried into the library. The master of it
was sitting in his usual chair, his brow
resting on his hand. Beside him on the
table lay the case, open and empty. Mr.
Archer, flushed and fussy, sat talking eagerly,
first to one person, then to another ; while
Mark, just home from London, stood upright
in front of the fire, listening with a grave air
of concern.

It is really the most inconceivable thing!'
cried Mr. Archer. ' You are certain that
nobody but yourself has the key of the
case ?'

As certain as that I sit here,' answered Sir
John.

And do you always keep it by you ?'

In the daytime it is in my pocket. At

night it lies on a table beside my bed, in company
At\\ my watch and other keys.'

And you never leave it about ?'

Sir John reflected.

Perhaps I may have done so once or twice
of late. As a rule I am very careful.'

Mr. Archer was not satisfied. He evidently
considered that he had a turn for
detection.

Have there been any strangers, inmates, in
the house of late ?'

 Xobody but Mr. Dallas,' put in Mrs.
Hatherley softly.

Mamma /' exclaimed the incautious Dolly,
indignantly making manifest the hidden point
of her mother's observation.

And who was he ?' briskly inquired Mr.
Archer.

Hush !' interrupted Mark, with a concerned
glance at Gertrude.

Mr. Dallas was a most estimable young
man, for a time my secretary, and this lady's
brother. Mr. Archer  Miss Dallas.'

VOL. II. 23

Sir John performed the introduction with
a bland severity full of majestic reproof. Mr.
Archer sprang up, bowed, turned very red, and
glanced testily at Mrs. Hatherley. What
had the woman meant by her interruption ?
Between embarrassment and surprised admiration
of Gertrude's beauty, he was
speechless.

She fixed her splendid eyes ujDon him with
a sad serenity, which completed his discomfiture,
and swept slowly to a seat beside Sir
John. Her whole air implied security, and, it
might almost be said, possession. The master
of the house turned towards her with even
more than his usual suavity, and laid his hand
on her arm.

Yours is the best head of all. You must
help us to find the thief.'

Perhaps it would be as well, for poor
Dick's sake, to explain to Mr. Archer why he
stayed with you so short a time,' said Gertrude
: * and also that it is some time since he
went away.'

I beg  I never meant  that is, I did not
think  not necessary at all,' stammered Mr.
Archer, overwhelmed.

Miss Dallas is quite right, low I think
of it, I never exactly understood myself why
mr. Dallas did not remain longer with you,
sir,' said Mark, good-naturedly anxious to put
everybody at ease.

He went in the first instance to buv books
for me at the Hague  that I think you all
know. He did not come back to me, first,
because he had some chance of employment
there ; and next, because his sister's  this
young lady's  intelligence and zeal enabled
her to undertake the completion of the task
which he had begun,' explained Sir John.

But Mr. Dallas did not obtain that employment
at the Hague,' remarked Mrs.
Hatherley, with an air of merely contributing
her small quota to the general stock of information.


Xo. He returned to Paris,' said Gertrude
curtly.

232

Library

WtlVERSITY OF Illinois

Can you recollect how long it is since you
last saw or handled the Psalter?' inquired Mr.
Archer, perseveringly resuming the subject of
the loss.

I should say about two months. You
can remember, perhaps ?' added Sir John,
turning to Gertrude. ' It was the morning
when I explained to you some peculiarities in
the illuminations. We were speaking of the
figure of January  represented by an old man
sitting beside a fire.'

I remember. My brother was still here :
I am not sure but he was in the room. Just
at the moment Mrs. Fatherless came in with
the telegram announcing: her son's illness,'

(Do >

spoke the governess promptly.

Then it was the very day before Mr. Dallas
left,' exclaimed Mrs. Hatherley, swift as
thought. But she, quivered and turned pale ;
no one saw why: but the least allusion to
her son always agitated her singularly.

I recall every circumstance now,' resumed
Sir John. ' You wanted money for your

journey, Laura ; you were going up in answer
to the telegram. I went upstairs to get it,
taking my keys with me. Miss Dallas left
the library, and you remained behind alone.
When I returned I found that you had restored
the Psalter to its case, and replaced it on
the usual shelf. I then locked the book-case,
as is my invariable habit.'

After looking to see if the Psalter were in
the case ?'

Decidedly some imp of perverse speech had
hold of Mr. Archer's tongue that day! He
spoke impulsively, without thought of malice,
then turned hot all over. Reflecting; on the
matter later, he could only account for his preposterous
question by an indescribable something
in Sir John's voice which had seemed to
him to suoo;-est it.

My sister-in-law had previously locked the
Psalter case, and she gave me the key on my
return. You never left the room during my
absence, did you, Laura ?' asked Sir John,
quietly turning to her.

Of course I did not,' she replied, almost
hysterically. ' I am sure I don't know what
possessed me to put away the thing, or to
touch it at all. Perhaps you would like to
cross-question the children next ?'

Indicating her daughters with a gesture,
she rose, trembling and livid with rage, and
turned towards the door.

Mr. Archer was too repentant even to
attempt an apology. He sat staring straight
in front of him, like a man distraught, while
Flossie heaped coals of fire on his head by
taking her usual refuge in tears.

Come back, aunt,' interposed Mark with
kindly peremptoriness, striding across the
room and arresting Mrs. Hatherley's departure.
' Sit down and talk quietly, can't you ?
And, Flossie, stop crying  there's a good
child.'

How can you be such a goose ?' confidentially
asked Dolly of her sister, herself
looking like a little fighting cock the while.

We are losing time,' continued Mark.

Some measures ought to be taken immediately.
What do you mean to do, father ?'

Sir John did not answer. He had not seen
the Psalter smce that day.

Advertise,' suggested Gertrude. ' The
police '

I will have nothing to do with the police
interrupted Sir John. ' I have no opinion of
them. They make a mess of everything.'

Mark looked at him with a puzzled air. He
had never heard him speak in that manner of
the police.

Father, in this case it seems to me that our
only chance of discovery lies with Scotland
Yard.'

That may be your opinion, Mark. It is
not mine. I hold that police interference
would be either unnecessary or inconvenient
said Sir John, laying especial stress upon the
last word.

 Inconvenient T repeated Mark, in astonishment.


We will suppose,' quietly continued his

father, ' that one of the servants is the thief.
He will probably have an associate who acted
as receiver. Both these people are ignorant,
and can have but a vao'ue idea of the value of
a thirteenth century Psalter; in fact, probably
only stole it in the hope that I should offer a
reward for its recovery, knowing I value it.
They would not know where or to whom to
offer it for sale; all they want is to get the
reward. In that case, by offering 20, I
should get my Psalter again.'

And would you then compound with
felony by allowing the interesting thieves to
come off scot-free?' asked Mark gaily.

If a knowledge of their identity were positively
forced upon me, I would proceed against
them. They would be all the easier to catch
for the previous silence and security'

But, my dear father, where would be the
silence if you advertise?'

I shall not advertise unless my other plan
fails, Mark. After prayers this evening, when
all the household is assembled, I shall announce

my loss; and promise the 20, with
no questions asked, to the person who brings
me back the Psalter

Well, I must go, or I shall be late for
diner,' said Mr. Archer, all in a hurry. He
had no patience with fantastic plans. Mark
accompanied him to the hall-door, and helped
him on with his greatcoat.

Tell me,' suddenly said the fussy old
gentleman, ' what did your father mean by
saying that the action of the police might be
'* inconvenient " ?'

The word perplexes me as much as it does
you,' replied Mark.

Mr. Archer laid a confidential finger on the
young man's arm.

I should keep a sharp eye on that handsome
governess, if I were you. The " brother
at the Hague " has somehow an outlandish
sound. Moreover, she has very much the
upper hand of your father; and it strikes me
that he suspects somebody whom he chooses
to shield.'

Mr. Archer nodded and disappeared into
the fog. Mark turned away from the door
thoughtfully. He quite started when he found
Gertrude standing in the hall. Had she heard
Mr. Archer's warning? Mark's chivalrous
instincts revolted at the idea.

Pardon me,' she said, in her graceful way.
I have a letter for you  an answer from
Winifred, to yours. Of course, she starts tonight.'


The young man dropped his eyes to avoid
her gaze. But he could not hide the red flush
that mounted to his cheek ; and the affected
carelessness with which he took the letter did
not deceive Gertrude's keen, but, in this instance,
friendly glance.

She had the tact to leave him immediately,
and he was hardly alone before he tore open
the letter. He bit his lip when he saw the
returned cheque, and his brow darkened as he
read. A second rebuff from her! Well, he
would not expose himself to a third. She did
not care for him, and she must go. It did

not strike Mark Hatlierley that after all lie
had never been very explicit in the declaration
of his feeling's ; but when did a shy, proud
man, rather reluctantly in love moreover, ever
yet fail to throw the whole burden of that
discovery upon the woman?

He crushed the letter together, thrust it into
his pocket, and marched upstairs to dress for
dinner in a very gloomy mood. He was
intensely irritated against Winifred, and when
he wrested his thoughts from her, they had
no more pleasant subject to fall back upon
than the theft of the Psalter and his father's
inexplicable behaviour. Mr. Archer's warning,
giving voice as it did to certain vague
suspicions of his own, not as to the Psalter
but as to the governess, made him uneasy.
He was too generous definitely to accuse
Gertrude or anybody else, even in thought;
but he had found his father's manner peculiar,
and could not help thinking that there was a
mystery behind it.

The sense that he could not altogether

comprehend Sir John often pained Mark.
Scrupulously upright himself, he was loth to
attribute insincerity to others, and especially
to his father. Like everybody else, he had
been taught to admire, consider, and revere
him; and being just as single-hearted as he
was practical-minded, he took upon trust, deliberately,
as it were, those finer qualities of
intellect in the sage man which he had been
taught to believe existed. Nevertheless as his
own character, so full of rectitude and earnestness,
developed, he had found his father increasingly
difficult to fathom; and not un-rarely
of late he had been startled by detecting
in himself the heretical idea that possibly
there was nothing to fathom after all ! The
conception of Sir John as essentially shallow
presented itself, indeed, as the easiest solution
of all perplexities ; but from this abrupt
destruction of the fetish of years, Mark strongly
shrank.

Everybody, except Sir John the master,
was absent-minded that evening at dinner.

Before the servants of course nothing: could be
said of the stolen Psalter, but the thought of
it was present in the maid of all. Mrs.
Hatherley was extremely sulky, and had
apparently been crying; Flossie looked scared;
Dolly defiant; Gertrude excited. The scent
of a mystery had intoxicated her already; she
was wondering Avhat would result to herself
out of it all.

Miss Power has started, I presume?' suddenly
asked Sir John : and a movement,
quickly repressed, of Mark's, showed that his
mind had been turned in the same direction.

Yes. Poor Winifred!' said Gertrude.'

You are very good to pity her,' observed
the master stiffly.

I pity her because she is so hot-headed,'
softly replied Miss Dallas.

Then she will see your brother?' resumed
Sir John.

Of course.' Gertrude looked up inquiringly
as she answered  expecting some further
remark; but none came.

Dolly, A'ho had turned a lively red at
the mention of Dick, here put in officiously
:

If you want anything taken to Mr. Dallas,
Uncle John, you can give it to me when I goto
Paris

 I want nothing taken,' was the rejDly,
rather sharply uttered. ' And I am not sure
that I shall allow you to go to Paris.'

Dolly's small, ' flower-like ' face (a very
round flower) lengthened considerably.

You must let her go, sir, now that your
consent has once been given,' interposed Mark
kindly. ' I might take her myself. !  I
suppose either you or I ought to be near my
aunt if her husband dies.'

At the utterance of this unexceptionable
sentiment, a glance of demure amusement
brightened Gertrude's eyes.

The evening passed heavily ; but not for
that did Sir John ring the bell any earlier
than usual for prayers. He always read these
himself, in a very solemn and refined mariner:

and on this occasion he was more impressive
than ever.

All the servants, from the highest to the
lowest, were present  that being the rule at
The Limes. As Sir John read, or rather recited,
his eyes wandered slowly over the kneeling
groups ; and Dolly, watching him furtively'
with a kind of fascination, wondered if this
penetration were discovering the thief. Prayers
over, everybody rose, and the housekeeper had
already curtseyed and turned toward the door,
her subordinates preparing to follow her, when
Sir John, with a gesture of his hand, arrested
the exodus.

I have something to say to you all. Will
you be good enough to remain?' he said courteously.


A little stir of respectful astonishment ensued
; then everyone stood still.

I wish,' began the master, ' to convey to
the knowledge of my entire household an unpleasant
incident which has just been discovered.
I have lost one of my books  a very

rare and old book which I kept in a locked
case. The case is there, the volume is gone.
I value it principally for associations superfluous
to explain, and which  ah  some of
you might fail to understand. I might, of
course, put the matter immediately into the
hands of the police, with the result  ' here
Sir John, amid a breathless silence, paused and
let his glance wander slowly among his auditors
 ' with the result that the house would
be searched from top to bottom. I am unwilling
to put this slight upon you, and I would
prefer never to know the truth, rather than
impute a theft to any one of you. We will
say then, for the present, that the book has
not been stolen; only lost  mislaid, you know.
Whoever finds it and brings it back to me
shall receive a reward of 20.'

The effect of these words upon the listeners
was for the most part uniform. The majority
simply stared; and, if appearances were to be
trusted, showed all the curiosity and amazement
of entire ignorance.

Only Kelly, the butler, looked a little nervous
and startled. He stepped out of the
group and turned towards Mrs. Hatherley.
seeming anxious to catch her eye. But if his
object were to appeal to her in any way, it was
frustrated by her demeanour. For she sat quite
motionless, pale, and with angry eyes, glancing
neither to the right nor to the left, and
taking no notice of anybody.

Meanwhile, the housekeeper, having of
course a pet aversion among her underlings,
the kitchen-maid, had fixed a terrific gaze
upon this victim, and seemed much disappointed
at eliciting nothing.

But it behoved the housekeeper's responsible
position to speak, so she respectfully asked
what the missing book mioht be like.

Sir John described it accurately  its size 
appearance  nature : even its value.

 I should recommend a thorough search,
sir,' said Mrs. Heath.

I will not have it,' returned her master
briefly.

VOL. II. 24

Xot at all ? interrupted Mark, in surprise.


Xot for the present.'

Then, sir said Mrs. Heath, after an uncomfortable
and embarrassed pause, ' I think
we had better go. Mr. Kelly and me, we will
talk the matter over.'

Do so.' And Sir John bowed as suavely
to his departing household as though it had
been a deputation, and he Prime Minister.

I don't think you mil have gained much
by that move, father,' spoke Mark half impatiently,
when the last servant had departed.

Sir Jolm put the tips of his white fingers
together and sat thinking. But he answered
nothing.

The others stood about, looking at one another,
finding little to do, less to say; yet not
liking to go to bed and so close the mystery
for that night.

Suddenly there came a discreet tap at the
door, and the timid faces of two of the
servants presented themselves : the kitchen-maid

and the under-housemaid. They stood
in awkward silence, looking scared and
timid.

Have you anything to tell me?' inquired
Sir John condescendingly.

If you please, sir,' began the housemaid,
Mary here and me, we think, only we have
not much liked to talk about it, that there is
something very queer in the upper story of
this house.'

Really, Susan?' rejoined their master, suppressing
a smile. ' Explain yourself.'

For some time past, sir, we have heard
strange noises at night,' continued Susan, her
manner and voice most mysterious  and there
she stopped.

noises?' repeated Sir John.

They must be rats,' interposed Mark.

'No, sir!' and Susan shook her head decidedly.
They are not rats. Rats don't give
great yells, sir, and laugh out like mad
people.'

There was a moment's astonished silence.

242

Mrs. Hatherley made so sudden a movement
that lie brought a book off the table with a
great crash to the floor.

Sir John, with unwonted politeness, went
over to pick it up for her.

Your teeth are chattering with cold,' he
said. ' Why don't you draw nearer the Are?'
But somehow his tone was alive with
curiosity.

Mark, still incredulous, was accusing Susan
of being subject to nightmare.

But Mary heard the noises also, sir,' she*
declared.

And Mary, thus challenged, told a marvellous
story. The noises were there, she said,
and very frightful.

 We will go upstairs and have a look round,'
said Sir John.

While everybody else appeared to be unbelieving,
excited, or scared, he, strangely
enough, seemed positively pleased. There
was quite an unusual briskness in his manner
and tone ; not a trace of invalid languor left.

I

He moved towards the door, and they prepared
to follow.

Then all at once, with a sobbing wail of
despair, Mrs. Hatherley threw herself in front
of him, and barred the way.

 John!' she cried, terrified and imploring,
I entreat of you not to go.'

Why not ?' questioned Sir John sternly.

There is no danger, mamma,' urged Dolly.

I never knew such a fuss about nothing,'
said Mark, amused.

Mrs. Hatherlev shivered and moaned in a
speechless, piteous way, like a frightened
animal. Her wraps had fallen from her. She
stood cowering' beneath her brother-in-law's
cruel eyes : a slender, small, livid woman, the
picture of abject supplication.

I entreat of you not to go,' she repeated:
and a chorus of ' Why not?' broke out.

No, no!' she persisted, and wrung her
hands.

'" Let me pass,' commanded Sir John, taking
her by the wrist and putting her aside.

You will find William there. He is ill 
dying, perhaps. Oh John, forgive me !' And
she sank on her knees in front of him.

Sir John gave a short laugh; it sounded to
her one of mocking exultation.

I suspected as much,' he said. ' Then
William shall be driven out like any other
wretched intruder.' And again he tried to
push past her.

To-morrow he shall go cried the mother,
clinging to him. ' But not to-night, John;
oh, not to-night ! He is ill, I tell you  very
ill!'

She might as well have spoken to a
rock.

Mark went over and raised her compassionately.


We will go and see what can be done,' lie
said quietly. 'After all, he cannot be punished;
or you either. He has not committed any
crime.'

She began crying hysterically, a little comforted
by his words, but incapable of reasoning.

Evidently, terror of Sir John overpowered
in her every other thought.

How much longer is this farce to be con
tinned?' demanded Sir John, in angry tones
Mark  Laura  let me pass. The servants
are to come nth me upstairs.'

The butler, as if in answer to this summons,
suddenly appeared at the door. He
had apparently been lurking in the hall, and
looked rather pale and disturbed. The whole
party then, though for the most port uninvited,
proceeded up the warmly carpeted and
limited stairs to the dimmer and barer regions
of the garret.

'listen!' cried Susan, and raised her hand

SECRETS AND Surprises.

ROM the closed door of the box-room

came a low mutteriiio that was

sufficiently uncanny.

Sir John advanced and turned the handle.

The door did not yield, for it was locked ; but

instantly the muttering ceased.

The key !' commanded the master of the
house.

Shaking all over, Mrs. Hatherley produced
it from her pocket. Sir John unlocked the
room and entered ; as many as could reach
peering curiously over his shoulder. The
room was unlighted ; but the gas-lamp in the

passage illuminated it partially, and flashed
upon the pale face and crouching form of a
youth, lying huddled up on a mattress in one
corner of the room. It was young William
Hatherley. Judging by his excited air and
wildly staring eyes, as well as by the sounds
that they had heard, he was in the delirious
stage of a fever. At sight of him his sisters
burst into tears ; but his mother, released from
all necessity of secrecy at last, approached him,
and began soothing him with a passion of affection
that was infinitely piteous.

What is the matter with him ? How long
has he been in this state ?' inquired Mark, in
consternation.

He has been here hardly a week,' explained
the mother. ' When he first came he
was only weak from want of food. But one
evening he slipt out in the rain  it was so

lonely for him here ' she said, with a kind

of resentment, ' and got wet to the skin. And
since yesterday he has been delirious. Oh,
my boy ! my boy !'

Where did he go Avhen he went out in the
rain ?' asked Sir John sardonically.

Nobody answered ; and the speaker's eyes
ranged interrogatively over the faces of his
hearers.

The keeper of the Blue Dragon told me
that Mr. William Hatherley had been there
one evening. Of course, he did not know
he was hiding here added Susan, enchanted
to be of importance.

Just as I expected !' commented Sir John.
Exposure and want do a great deal, but dissipation
does more.'

The first thing to be done now is to send
for a doctor, and put the lad into a decent bed,'
said Mark  and he spoke sternly.

 A mattress was all I could get brought
in,' whimpered Mrs. Hatherley, with characteristic
want of logic, detecting some implied
blame to herself in her nephew's observations.


Sir John seized hold directly of her incautious
words.

Somebody must have been Mrs. Hatherley's
accomplice in this,' he said sharply. * Avowal
it ?'

A dead silence.

How long ago is it since you first began to
hear noises here ?'

This question was addressed to Susan.

Continuous, sir, I have only noticed them
these four or five days. But oft" and on
there have been queer things all the winter.'

And then wee wonder that mv Psalter is
stolen !' exclaimed Sir John, and shrugged
his shoulders impatiently at Mark's low toned
protest  ' Father !'

William is no thief!' cried Mrs. Hatherley,
turning almost savagely upon her brother-in-law.


Liars and deceivers may easily be thieves.
I shall take the night to reflect upon all
this. And tomorrow I shall decide upon
the measures to be taken for recovering mv
property and '  with a sneer  ' purifying
my house.'

And having thus spoken, Sh' John descended
the stands.

Through Mark's care, Dolly energetically
aiding, a doctor was sent for, and William was
removed to a proper room. The doctor did
not think very badly of the patient, but administered
a sedative, and recommended quiet
and care.

A very sharp investigation on the part of
Sir John established the fact that Mrs.
Hatherley's accomplice had been the butler,
dio was forthwith dismissed. He admitted
that William Hatherley had once or twice
before during the winter slept in the house ;
and the date of one of these sojourns
corresponded nearly enough to the hypothetical
date of the disappearance of the
Psalter. This fact Sir John was never tired
of hinting at, working Dolly almost to a frenzy
by it, and reducing Florence to helpless tears.
Mrs. Hatherley took the insult with comparative
tameness ; for in her purblind, foolish
way, she was apparently incapable, for the

moment, of seeing an inch beyond the delightful
circumstance that she had at last her
son openly under the same roof as herself,
and could lavish her fondness on him.
Thanks to Mark's steady partisanship, no
necessary care was wanting to him, and in a
very few days he began to recover with all the
elasticity of the incurable ne'er-do-weel.

For years William Hatherley had been a
thorn in the side of his family, and was
looked upon by all of them, except his adoring
mother, with the contest favour possible. He
had been expelled from school ; and after an
interval of idling, had tried one situation after
another, only to lose them all. Lazy, insolent
and dissipated, he had disgusted every friend
he possessed. Long ago Sir John had refused
to have anything more to do with him ;
and Mark, although more merciful, now that
mercy was a duty, had not shown himself one
whit more indulgent. But however great his
scorn at an ignoble form of dissipation, he
could not bring himself to share his father's

professed views as to the disappearance of the
Psalter. His doubts, indeed, arose less from
any belief in William's honesty, than from the
utter absence of proof To his upright mind,
there was no more reason at present for accusing
one person in the house than another.
He could not understand why his father
would not sift the matter with the help of the
police, and fasten the charge upon some one.

It is intolerable to me to live in the midst
of all these vague suspicions,' he frequently
said, and with growing impatience. ' I do
entreat, sir, that you will take some steps in
the business. In this way, you will neither
recover your Psalter nor detect the thief It is
inconceivable that you should care so little for
an object of such value.'

Sir John gave one of his mysterious, disagreeable
smiles.

I believe my uncle would prefer not to
discover the thief. He would rather like
William to be the scapegoat,' suddenly said
Dolly.

It was at breakfast that this daring remark
was made, and a thunderbolt falling upon the
table could not have caused more utter consternation.
Sir John glared at his audacious
niece with an ire which gained enormously inforce
from speechless, sheer amazement. Had
the tea-urn all at once bounded up and struck
him, he could not have been more astonished.
Dorothy took his Medusa-like glance with
much intrepidity, although the colour deepened
in her peach-like cheeks. Mrs. Hatherley
shrank tosetiier as if all the breath had been
taken out of her body, and Flossie turned as
pale as a sheet.

Will you be so good as to repeat that
observation?' Sir John requested, in slow,
portentous tones.

I don't think there is any necessity for
repeating it,' replied Dolly promptly. ' I
think you all heard it.'

Leave the room !' commanded her uncle.

Certainly.' She rose and made for the
door.

Oil, stop !' cried out her mother. 'John,
don't be angry with her. She did not mean
she does not know '

I do mean  I do know !' exclaimed Dolly,
passionately turning and facing them all. 'I
mean that it is far better for us all to go and
beg our bread through the streets, than to stay
here on sufferance, and be insulted for our
pains. I know that we are neither wanted
nor welcome. I know that the food we put in
our mouths is grudged to us ; that our word
is not believed, nor our feelings considered,
and that the only use we are of m the house is
just to  to be made cats-paws f

At this point, Dolly's flaming eyes fixed
themselves on Gertrude. Her eloquence,
having exhausted its venom, abruptly
ceased.

As far as I am concerned,' replied Sir John
icily, ' you can all of you go tomorrow.'

Upon this, a storm of sobs broke from Mrs.
Hatherley; Flossie shivered; and her sister,
not quite sure of what might be going to

happen to her, escaped with trepidation upstairs.


For the rest of the daj, the atmosphere in
the house was charged with electricity. Poor
Dolly was out of favour with everybody
except, indeed, Gertrude Dallas : who, rather
diverted than otherwise at her outbreak,
treated her with a patronizing kind of admiration,
that nearly drove her wild. Mark,
although he, too, was secretly amused (never
ha.ng expected such revolt from Dolly) was
still far too great a stickler for authority to
encourage his little cousin in rebellion : while
as for Mrs. Hatherley and Flossie, they were
simply scared out of all power of judging.
The bare notion of being driven from The
Limes, and of having to face hardship and
effort, made them shiver ; and Sir John's
Avrath fell upon them like a blight.

He was to the last degree incensed; walked

up and down his library, declaring that they

should go  go; and would listen for a longtime

neither to reasoning nor entreaty. Mark,
VOL. n. 25

in vain at first, tried to point out to him that
the general discomfort of the family relations
arose primarily from the missing Psalter, and
would never cease until that mystery was
elucidated. In vain William Hatherley himself,
fairly convalescent now, shuffled into
the library, and, with sulky earnestness,
protested his innocence; and with a kind of
feeble resentment demanded that, in common
justice, some effort should be made to discover
the thief. Sir John was obstinate ; glowered
at the petitioners, and said he knew what to
think. But when this kind of thing had lasted
for a day or two, and everybody but Gertrude
(who remained as cool as a cucumber) was
worked uj) to the highest pitch of nervous
irritation. Sir John, as if suddenly yielding,
spoke.

Very well, I will advertise.' He said it ina
tone which plainly conveyed that his concession
was wrung from him by entreaty, and
was in no way suggested by conviction. But
he persisted still in managing the matter

himself privately, and without any intervention
from the police.

A day or taro later, an advertisement, very
cautiously worded, appeared in the Times. It
stated that a thirteenth-century Psalter had
disappeared from a private collection, and that
a reward of twenty pounds would be offered
for its recovery.

A week elapsed, and no answer came. Then
the advertisement was encased.

meanwhile things at The Limes, except for
the sullen airs of William Hatherley, and a
brooding presence of suspicion, had resumed
their usual course.

At the end of a few days more, Sir John

received an answer dated ' , Paris,' and

signed ' Clemence Suchard.' The writer revealed
herself as the housekeeper of a celebrated
bibliophile, lately deceased, of the name
of Morel, and stated that she believed herself
able to throw some light upon the missing
Psalter. Her attention had only just been
drawn to the advertisement, or she would have

252

written before. On a particular evening in
February, almost immediately after the siege
was raised, Lier late master had received a visit
from a young man, short, dark, and thin, who
had offered him an illuminated MS. for sale.
Her master was very ill at the time, and she,
unwilling that he should be excited, had
hovered about the library so as to give the
visitor warning to depart at the first signs of
undue agitation. In this way she had caught
some of the conversation, and gathered that
the Psalter was a very old, curious, and valuable
one. For the rest, she had not seen the
MS., nor was she at all sure that her master
had bought it. The young man had been requested
by him to return on the following
morning, and had done so ; but on that occasion
Madame Suchard was out, and could not
tell what had happened. Her master usually
told her when he bought anything particularly
precious ; but in the last weeks of his life he
was much altered, and inclined to make a
mystery of everything he did. He had pos -

sessed a number of illuminated ]miss., and all
would shortly be for sale. meanwhile, if the
owner of the missing; Psalter would olive a
detailed description, Madame Suchard might
be able to afford him more accurate information.


This letter, which arrived at breakfast-time,
was read aloud by Sir John, all the members
of the family being present (except Gertrude,
who eras generally late, and William, who, in
virtue of his past semi-invalidism, and because
his presence was detestable to his uncle, still
had his meals in his room).

A slight smile of triumph curled Mrs.
Hatherley's lips.

 Short, dark, and thin. The description
corresponds exactly.'

To whom ?' asked Sir John, fixing his cold
eyes upon her.

I don't think I need say to whom.'

I wish you to say it.'

To Mr. Richard Dallas, then,' replied Mrs.
Hatherley, with a movement of her head.

Her brother-inlaw smiled unpleasantly.

Several young men are dark, short and
thin. William is, for instance.'

The colour rushed into Mrs. Hatherley's
face.

'Again!' she exclaimed, in a choked voice.

But AAilliam was not in Paris in February,'
observed Mark, who had looked a little staggered
on hearing the letter read.

How do we know sphere he was?' retorted
his father sharply. ' Do we ever know where
he is, or what he does, or by what means he
earns or otherwise obtains his livelihood?'

A pause. Mrs. Hatherley and Florence
were speechless with agitation; while as for
poor Dolly, she was white to the lips. To
her it was no consolation to think that, instead
of her brother, Richard Dallas might be the
thief. Her own mental explanation was a very
different one. She believed that her uncle had
made a present of the Psalter to Gertrude!'

I am unwilling to suspect anybody,' resumed
Mark ; ' but you cannot deny, sir, that

the coincidence of the offer to M. Morel of the
Psalter with the date of Dallas's departure
from this house is a striking: and significant
one.'

I see no coincidence replied Sir John.
When Dallas left me he did not go to Paris,
hut to the Hague. Of this I have proofs in
his own letters to me, and in his family's
letters to his sister.'

The conversation was abruptly arrested by
the entrance of Gertrude. She came in looking
as lovely and as self-possessed as usual,
and apologized smilingly for being late, as the
gentlemen rose to receive her.

Any news about the Psalter?' she inquired
carelessly.

Sir John handed her the letter.

She read it with uplifted brows, but even
the lynx eyes watching her could detect no
sign of agitation or of guilt.

After all, one does not know if this Psalter
be really yours,' was her sole remark, addressed
to Sir John.

 That is a point which will soon he settled
in part. I shall write to an agent in Paris today,
and instruct him to attend the sale

As a result of this move, Sir John announced
after another fortnight that his Psalter was not
among' those belono;inii' to M. Morel's collection.


At the same time that does not prove,' he
added, ' that it was not the one offered.'

This there was no denying, and the mystery
remained as great as ever. Again Mark asked
his father what he intended to do, and again
he was met by the answer that in all probability
no further steps would be taken.

Urged by his son to state the cause of this
inaction. Sir John merely answered that, however
obnoxious certain members of his family
might be to him, he yet had some respect for
the dignity of his name. This, of course,
meant that he still suspected William; but to
Mark, his obstinacy in this regard was inexplicable
on every hypothesis except one, from
which his loyal nature shrank.

The idea had at times presented itself to
him that Sir John horsed, by constant hinting
at his secret convictions, to wear out the
Hatherleys' patience, and drive them from the
house. William had already left it in dudgeon,
amid floods of tears from his mother; and
while clark could not pretend to regret Mrii
he was too chivalrous not to be revolted by
the notion of seeing; his aunt and her daughters
turned adrift. So capricious a change of conduct,
after years of generosity, would be too
heartless, and but a little time back Mark
could not, even for a moment, have thought
his father capable of it.

But Sir John was strangely altered : harder
more bitter  more mocking  and stonily
reserved. Yhat had worked this change Mark
was perplexed to think : first one explanation,
then another presented itself to him, and there
Alas one which recurred oftener and dwelt
long-er in his mind than all the rest.

In the midst of these perplexities, a letter
arrived from Paris, announcing that Mr.

Russell was dying, and this was quickly followed
by a telegram with the news that he
was dead. Some notice had to be taken of
the event, of course ; and, as Sir John curtly
stated that his health would not alloa him to
attend the funeral, it was decided that Mark
should go. He was rather angry with himself
to find that the idea of meeting Winifred
again did not displease him; but he was careful
to conceal the discovery under the most
impenetrable reserve.

Mark was ascendency the stairs to beni his
preparations for an immediate journey, when
he was stopped on his way by Dorothy.
Worn out and grieved, more than anybody
guessed, by the events of the past few weeks,
the poor little thing looked like the ghost of
her once winsome self; and Mark, awaking
with a man's tardy perception to the fact,
glanced at her with a new-born pity. She
raised her eyes supplicatingly to his face, and
begged him to let her go with him to Paris.
It is no favour,' she added. ' In this way

my uncle will be released from one, at least,
of his burdens.'

Burdens ! Why, what nonsense !' said
clark kindly, yet a little disconcerted, for did
not the speech tally with his own secret
thoughts ? ' You can come if you really wish
it, Dolly ; but things in Paris are beo'inninof
to look rather black. You could not stay'
there if any political troubles broke out.'

Dolly could stay as well as Winifred, she
said, or go with her wherever she went. The
future did not matter; it was only the present
that was intolerable, and leave The Limes
she must.

Mark listened thoughtfully, very well disposed
to sympathize with her, yet unwilling
to discourage her energy. Mioht she not
really be cast off one day, and have to earn
her own livelihood? nevertheless, he was
averse to any hurried decision.

Why not wait a little ?' he at length asked.

I have waited long enough,' cried Doll',
and clasped her hands with a distress that

was positively pathetic. Everything is too
odious. That detestable Miss Dallas !' Then,
detecting the dawn of a protest in her
cousin's face, she added passionately: 'Mark,
I believe my uncle has given her the Psalter,
and does not choose to confess it.'

Mark stepped backwards startled. The
idea was fantastic, but in the darkness pervading
the affair, any suggestion, however
unlikely, seemed like a ray of light. He
promised Dolly that she should go with him ;
bade her pack up, and engaged, as soon as his
own preparations were completed, to announce
her departure to Sir John. On entering the
library an hour later for this purpose, he had
not crossed the threshold before he stood
rooted to the spot with surprise. For erect by
the old man's chair, flushed and triumphant,
was Gertrude. And with both her hands
clasped in his. Sir John was looking up into
her face, and speaking rapidly, his own countenance
aglow with an expression which told
its OAvn tale. After his first stare of amazement,

Mark prepared to beat a retreat ; but
his father called him back, and, with a solemnity
not to be described, informed him that in
Miss Dallas he beheld the future mistress of
The Limes.

THE BEST Slept OF ALL.

f With a heavy heart Winifred lead gone
upon her lonely journey, and reached
the altered Paris, so full to her of
associations and of memories that had turned
to ghosts. The closing terrible scenes of the
Commune were still in the future; but the
siege had left moral as well as material traces
which she was quick to note. But more than
this, she herself was changed ; and the hundred
familiar sights and sounds, recalling her
so abruptly to a life which had lost its old
charm, were fraught with a restlessness that
yet was not all pain, but was born of the
contrast between the present and the past.

Winifred, her face still turned expectant
towards the light of a magic dawn, was tuned
up to a pitch of endeavour that made all the
traversed years seem paltry to her. In this
solemn yet excited mood, she crossed the
threshold of her old home, involuntarily vowing
to herself as she did so that she would stoop
to no compromise, nor descend an inch from
her standpoint. How she should meet Mrs.
Kussell Alas rather a problem to her; she
hoped almost that she might see her uncle
first. But at the door of the sick-room the
two women met.

I am glad you are come,' said Mary ungraciously.
' I am quite worn out with
nursing. And, ungrateful though you are,
I suppose you will still have the conscience todo
something for your uncle.'

Winifred recoiled. She expected Mrs.
Russell to have been informed by Sir John
of her conduct, and she Alas prepared for
reproach, and even a certain amount of vituperation.
But this cold, almost offensive

assumption of her selfishness  this unquestioning
accusation of callousness to blame
and to remorse  took her completely ' by
surprise.

My one desire is to be with him,' she
answered gently, nay, cjuite humbly.

*I am glad to hear it,' replied Mary Russell,
and swept past her in marked disdain.

Winifred, opening the door softly, entered
the sick-room and approached the bed whereon
her uncle lay. He raised his eyes and looked
at her.

I have been waiting for you, Winifred,' he
said. ' You are come at last.'

You know how willingly I would have
come sooner,' she answered, sitting down
beside him and taking the wasted hand in
hers.

Your aunt wanted you. And yet, what
right, after all, had I to call upon your bright
young energies or your precious time ?'

He spoke dreamily, his eyes fixed far beyond
her, as though he were following some train

of thought evoked by his own half wistful
allusion to her energy and her youth.

What right ?' echoed the girl almost
passionately. ' What better right could you
have than the love you have made me feel for
you?'

He smiled.

A crowd hearing' Winifred. But we lao
yards in the march of life should not summon
the vanguard to our aid.'

She found him just as she had always
known him  patient, brave, sympathetic with
the aspirations and the efforts of others, and
full of a tenderly humorous appreciation of
the world and its ways. What made the
difference in him  a difference so heartrending
was his now unconcealed, inconceivable
longing to go. Doubtless it had often possessed
him of late years, and the tardiness of
its fulfilment had been the heaviest portion of
his burden, but she had never guessed how
much the knowledge of his mood would
strengthen her own sorrow. Still, he, who

VOL. II. 26

had ever been so kind  was it possible that
he could remain blind to the sadness of loving
faces, and insensible to the touch of detaining-arms
? This was the question that, almost
rebelliously, as the days went on, Winifred
asked herself in the long watches of the night,
as she sat beside the still form, hushed to a
composure that wrapped it like a shroud. He
did not need much waiting upon, or willingly
kept them; but sometimes quite suddenly a
paroxysm of pain would seize him, and it was
the fear of this that made her never easy unless
she watched.

He rallied a little for a time, and would
talk to her with something of his old animation;
and Winifred, looking back afterwards
to those hours, felt that, in spite of the
core of anguish in them, she could not have
spared one.

Too rarely, alas ! in the turmoil and heat of
life, in the clash of selfish strivings and the din
of discordant claims, are such high, solemn
moments known to us. They vibrate for a

space too brief in our souls, then die away like
the final faint notes of a psalm.

Winifred was almost always alone With
lier uncle, for although it could not exactly
be said that clary neglected him, she left the
greater part of the nursing to her niece.
The husband and wife had never been companions
in the best sense of the word ; but
they had lived together for a quarter of a
century, and Mary, the slave of habit, like
all indolent persons, shrank from the parting
that would rob her of lier most indulgent
friend. For all her self-complacency, she had
an uneasy fear of loneliness ; and the thought
that she might occasionally have to exert
herself in the future to be quite comfortable,
shook her uncertain soul with tremors of
vague dread. Between Winifred's bright
activity and her husband's intelligence, she
had rarely felt the necessity of exertion.
But, once alone and thrown upon her
own resources, what should she do ? This
tormenting thought recurred incessantly ;

262

and in spite of her resentment, she began
again to lean weakly on Winifred, who, finding
her often in tears, and touched by the
spectacle, met her with an infinity of tenderness
and pity.

At last, one day she even approached the
subject of Martha Freake. Mrs. Russell
immediately broke out into reproachful wails.



Everybody was very unkind to her  John
Winifred  the' were all the same. No consideration
for her. Nobody ever had considered
her. Her life had been a martyrdom,
one continual struggle with inclination, and
all for the sake of gratifying others. Nobody
ever knew what she had suffered. Whatever
she had done wrong in her life  and it was
not much  she had more than expiated it. It
would be very hard on people if they were
always to be having the follies of their youth
cast in their teeth. She had never expected
to be in her present position. She might have
married brilliantly.'

You could, not have married a better man
than my uncle flashed out Winifred, half in
indignation, half to stop) this sudden outpouring
of temper.

I don't speak of his virtues,' retorted
clary, with some asperity, and feeling, perhaps,
that people's virtues had often made exorbitant
demands upon her. ' You need not
take me up like that, in your unkind, ill-natured
way

Winifred, rather angry, sat silent until the
sound of her aunt's resumed sobbing; ao;ain
struck a chord of compassion in her, when she
said gently :

I know that you are displeased with me
for many things, but I might, perhaps, be

of comfort to you yet, if ' here she hesitated

for a moment  ' if you would only be
just;

It is not so easy to be just,' answered
 clary ungraciously ;  especially when one
gets no help from those who should encourage
one. If my brother John ' she

stopped abruptly, as if afraid of committing
herself.

Oh, tell me !' cried Winifred impetuously,
and she seized her reluctant hands. ' Dear
aunt, be frank with me for once. You admit
that there was injustice. You say '

I admit nothing,' interrupted Mrs. Russell.
 What is Martha Freake to you or to me ?
Ashy did you not worry John instead of me ?
I expect you did, only that he would very soon
silence you.'

She was annoyed at her own incautiousness
of speech, and yet the habit of regarding herself
as a victim. had so far killed all remorse in
her, that she would have given Winifred her
confidence had she dared.

It was only a half superstitious dread of
John, a vague terror as sullen as Caliban's,
that held her back. She was very angry
with him of late, having written often in vain
for money ; and while still shrinking from
any betrayal of him which could seriously
compromise herself, she would have revelled

in such safe luxarv of revenge as consisted
in exposing him to Winifred, who would be
sure not to use the knowledge in any dangerous
way.

The person from whose society Winifred
gained most diversion in these sad days was
Mrs. Dallas.

That good little woman was quite unchanged.
Just as placid as ever ; as uncomplainingly
incapable of grasping the realities of life ; as
respectful towards the unaccountable Mr.
Dallas ; as convinced as of old of the sedative
virtues of raspberry jam. It was as good
as a comedy to hear her talk about the siege
of Paris. She regarded that tremendous
event principally in the light of the difficulties
which it had thrown in the way of her
marketing.

Fancy, my love, fifteen francs for a fowl !
and at last they could not be got even for
that.'

I am sure you look as if you had lived on
the francs instead of the fowls,' said Winifred,

laughing. ' And what was Mr. Dallas doing
all the time?'

He helped in the defence, and made several
valuable suggestions to the authorities, I believe.
They have given him the Legion of
Honour, and he is more than satisfied.'

I think it is the utter impossibility of
doing anything with the honour except wear
it, which makes it valuable in papa's eyes,'
remarked Georgie, who had grown very tall
and rather pretty, and looked hungry and
sharp, and as pert as ever.

Mrs. Dallas had expressed great pleasure at
Gertrude's position.

Sir John is, I understand, so kind ; and it
is a great comfort to think of her giving
thorough satisfaction to her employers.'

This view of Gerty as the conscientious
governess, was rather trying to Winifred's
gravity ; but she would not have destroyed
the amiable delusion for the world. Consequently,
she remained discreetly silent. One
day, the conversation turning ujon The

Limes and its inhabitants, she was jji'esently
much surprised at a casual mention by Georgie
of the missing manuscript.

The Psalter lost ! Why, Dick, you never
told me I' exclaimed Winifred, in surprise, to
Richard Dallas.

She lead seen the young man oftener than
any of the others, and as he had asked her a
brood deal about the Fatherless, it did seem
strange that he should have been silent
concerning' such a loss.

I never thought about it,' returned Dick,
with rather an odd smile.

Georgie, delighted to be able to relate something,
poured forth the whole story as Gertrude's
letters had communicated it.

Gerty is convinced that William Hatherley
is the thief; while Mrs. Hatherley absolutely
had the effrontery to hint that it might be
Dick !' she added.

With a lauo'h, Richard rose and began
whistling softly' to the canaries. He was evidently
sick of the subject, which had been discussed

doubtless in the family a hundred times
already.

Winifred's knowledge of The Limes and its
inhabitants enabled her to fill up many of the
outlines of Georgie's story, and she went home
thinking curiously about it, and in a brighter,
more interested mood than she had known
for many a day.

There is a sort of irony about impending
sorrow, Which often seems to seize upon just
such moments to deal its final blow.

Winifred knew as soon as the door was
opened to her, and before the servant could
speak, that her uncle had been summoned.
She had been away from him hardly longer
than an hour, had left him in a frame of
mind genial even for his unfailing sweetness,
and now when she returned  what a change I
The doctor had been called ; Mary, crouched
in a chair beside the bed, was sobbing violently ;
one or two people stood about ; and he, the
object of all this commotion, lay speechless,
and still, save for an occasional quiver of pain.

AVith one irrepressible sob of agony and
awe, Winifred hurried to him, then controlled
herself and stood still. Oh ! impotence of
human love and human effort, what bitterness
is like unto thine? Gone, gone all that they
had loved and praised in him, the kindly
tones, the sparkling wit, the answering glance.
Xothing left but this poor body, and in that
no life that was not pain. To stand there
and do nothing to help was hard ; and Winifred
wrung' her hands too-ether in one
passionate, unspoken prayer, for the strength
to endure to the end. To endure and be
silent  last poor achievement of a love which
death had mastered.

How long' the strut-oie lasted she never
knew. The moments seemed to drop one by
one down a silence unending as eternity.
Every thought in her was distilled to the
longing that he would speak one word to
her before he went. At last the mystic wrestle
ended; and he opened his eyes and looked
round upon them, with the splendour of final

renunciation in his transfigured glance. His
wife gave a kind of terrified gasp, and sank
upon her knees beside the bed ; but Winifred
drew closer to him and gently put her arms
about him. Softly, as she might have clasped
a child, she pillowed the noble grey head 
grey before its time  upon her breast, and very
tenderly, reverently, and solemnly laid her
warm young lips upon it in loving, last farewell.

He was passing away very quietly now 
all struggle over ; and, relieved at last from
the terrible tension of watching, she felt her
eyes fill with tears as she remembered how
small had been the measure of happiness in
his life. All the pathos of his failure, of his
wasted talents and blighted hopes, was present
to her ; and while her heart swelled with
tenderness at the recollection of his gentle
fortitude, her love was glad at last that he
should be parted from the burden which love
could lighten not nor share.

Darkness had already gathered over his
sight, but he groped with his hand until it

met his wife's bowed head. There his touch
rested kindly, perhaps forgivingly, for all that
he had felt and never said. He did not speak
even now, although her sobs grew louder;
but his instinct, quick to respond even in this
supreme moment, possibly comprehended the
dumb supplication which caused Winifred's
arms to tremble. For he made a movement
at last, as if to turn towards her, then even
as he murmured,

Do not mourn, dear ; I am tired
glad to go,' his head fell backwards on her
shoulder, and he went.

where THOU Goes, I WILL GO.

lplHE first thought that brought
Winifred any comfort after her
uncle's death, was the recollection
of Martha Freake.

In the sad concluding weeks of Mr Russell's
illness she had found no leisure to look for
her ; now she remembered her as the one
human creature, she knew, whose need of solace
and of help could solace her own boundless
desolation.

Her aunt's peevish grief only worried her:
such weak complaining jarred on the solemn
silence that loss had left in her own aching

heart. Visitors, also, were constantly coming
in, and Mary saw them all. In the platitudes
of consolation offered by them, suggestions as
to mourning and conversation re'ardino- the

CJ' CD G

delayed funeral, Mrs. Russell constantly forgot
her sorrow. The anticipation of Sir Charles
Russell's arrival was a great tonic to her. He
was the head of the Russell family, and a
baronet whose life had been unexpectedly, and,
as Mary thought, inappropriately prolonged.

She never wearied of relating to her acquaintances
how near Walter had been to succeeding
to the title, and how much surprise was caused
in everybody by the almost miraculous recovery
which had renewed Sir Charles's lease of
life. She had cherished the grievance so long
as to have lost all shame in producing it. In fact
she was quite unconscious of any. The recollection
of its first occurrence took her back to
the days of her youth when she was a beauty,
and everybody, as she said, admired and loved
her. Her animation on this theme was unfailing,
and brought into piquant relief her

conviction that Walter's luck in winning lier
had been something quite out of the common.
It was plain that all her subsequent misfortunes
were ascribed by her to the romantic
foil' which had allowed her to throw herself
away.

People said now that she ' bore up wonderfully
and many admired her still more on
finding that her husband had just escaped
being a baronet.

This discovery caused her to be made so
much of, so praised and condoled with, that
Mary, as she constantly remarked, felt as if
the palmy days in Marleyford had come back
again. In a very short time she was so
thoroughly consoled that it needed something
which upset her temper (a not infrequent
event) to recall her to a poignant sense of her
bereavement.

All this was more than Winifred in her
present mood could patiently bear; and at
last, one day, if only to give a new direction
to her thoughts, she set out on her quest for

martha. That she had left her old lodgings
she knew already, and the best chance of
findmo' out her new address lay with the
police. In Paris, all people who do not take
a false name can be hunted up in that manner.
But AYinifi-ed's road to the Prefecture carried
her through the quarter and past the very
house where she herself had once lived. How
many familiar memories, sad and humorous,
tender and pleasant, crowded on her mind as
she threaded the streets, and paused at last in
front of the well-known portal ! Here were
changes which struck her at a france. The
concierge, for one, was not the same. Nevertheless,
on inquiry she learnt that the greater
number of the former tenants had returned
after the siege. Some had never gone away ;
and among these was Claire, the little flourished
great desire to see that kindly soul seized
Winifred, and she ran upstairs. Reaching the
cinquiem.e at last, she knocked at the remembered
door, and went in. Claire, at work upon
a convolvulus spray, turned her head over her
VOL. II. 27

shoulder to insect the visitor: then gave a
cry of delighted surprise and sprang to her
feet.

Tiens ! c'est mademoiselle ! what joy !
what a pleasure ! G-randpere ' (screaming into
the ear of the blind and noah deaf old man
slumbering unconsciously by the window),
'grandpere,it is our bonne demoiselle du premier
come back to us. But not to stay ? Alas !
no, not to stay, of course. Those happy days
were over. How many pleasant things belonged
to the past now ! But would not
mademoiselle sit down ? Grandee would
resume his seat also, for he was growing very
old, and had suffered much in these latter
months. Who had not suffered, however ?
Mademoiselle had thought of all her old
friends ? Was there ever such a pleasure as
to see her again T

Claire's delight was genuine, and touched
grateful Winifred profoundly. It is enchanting
to be welcomed with such warmth even
by a humble flower-maker on a fifth-floor

back ! Besides which, Claire was a dear little
thing altogether, so neat and deft, quick-witted
and kind-hearted : the best type of the hardworking
Parisienne. She began pouring out
all the news of the quarter, mixed with many
sorrowful exclamations at the events of the
past months, the horrors and sufferings of the
protracted siege. The poor young medical
student was dead : shot down in the trenches :
the only son of the watchmaker opposite was
crippled for life  and so on. That reminded
Claire (in whom one person and thing always
recalled another person and thing) that the
other day she had met the poor little lady who
did copies in the Louvre, and to whom
Winifred, she knew, had always been kind

But where is she now?' interrupted
Winifred eaorerlv, cutting; short the torrent of
remarks.

On the Boulevard Montmartre, mademoiselle.
She was creeping along painfully,
looking the ghost of her shadowy self. She
said she had been very ill.'

272

'Do you know her address?' asked Winifred.


Claire did know it; but it was a street
Winifred had never heard of, and would not
be able easily to find. Consequently the
flower-maker offered to accompany her, and
she prepared to start at once.

The object of her expedition was shouted
into grandee's best ear, and it was to be
presumed that a portion of the information
reached him. For he shuffled laboriously to
his feet to ' saluer ' Winifred, and promised to
sit quite quiet and abstain from burning holes
in his coat with the ashes of his pipe until his
granddaughter came back again.

The two girls then started off, the fleuriste
chattering like a magpie. She had a brother
some years younger than herself, who was the
light of her eyes. He had been a drummer in
the National Guard during the siege, and she
had much, very much, to recount of his
escapes and his coolness.

Winifred listened sympathetically, just because

genuine feeling always interested her,
and not because she guessed (as how should
she?) that she was to hear of the drummer-boy
again.

They reached the Rue de I'Ecureuil Noir,
and here Claire took her leave, after pointing
out a tall, narrow house, and informing her
companion that .Martha Freake lived at the
very top of it.

Inquiries of the concierge elicited that the
Anglaise ' was at home ; she did not often
go out now, the man added, for indeed she
could hardly drag one foot after another.

Winifred mounted the endless stairs, and, for
all her youth and strength, was breathless
when she reached the last. It was a shabby,
almost squalid house, and the people she saw
about looked haoo-ard and careworn.

On knocking at the door to which she had
been directed, no answer reached her ear. A
second attempt being equally fruitless, she
gently turned the handle and entered.

The room was neat, but small, bare, and

poverty-stricken. In an old armchair by the
window sat Martha, so wan, so aged and
wasted, that Winifred at the first glance
doubted if it were she.

Probably she had replied to the knock, for
she was leaning forward With her eyes fixed on
the door, but her voice at a little distance was
no longer audible. At the apparition of
Winifred a great delight spread over her face
and an inarticulate exclamation of exceeding
joy broke from her lips.

The girl hurried forward with outstretched
arms, and Martha, mute and trembling, fell
into her protecting embrace. She was so
weak that any sudden emotion made her shake
from head to foot, and it was some time before
Winifred's caressing touch and voice could
restore her to composure.

Nevertheless, there was a change in her,
which her young visitor with the insight of
sympathy was quick to note. Physically she
was worn and consumed to such a degree that
to look at her was to wonder how she yet

lived. But mentally she was marvellously
improved. The cloud that had formerly
obscured her intelligence in her quiet moments
seemed to have lifted, and the restlessness
which generally alternated with it was gone.

Later, Winifred learnt that during the
siege, as long as her health lasted, she had
been untiring in her ministrations to her poor
and suffering neighbours ; and it seemed as if
the contact with grim misery, and the echo in
her mind of terribly real events, had overborne
and stilled her own anguish of soul.

Presently they began to talk : and reticent
as Martha showed herself, she could not entirely
prevent Winifred from guessing the
truth.

Surely  forgive my saying it !  you
needn't live here,' exclaimed the latter, with a
discontented glance round the sparingly furnished
room.

I have not earned anything for months,'
was the answer, given, however, with some
hesitation.

Winifred, aware that the ' earnings ' had
always been pathetically small, was not much
enlightened ; but she could not press the point.
After many weeks she came to know, indirectly,
that Martha had parted with a portion
of her microscopic income to relieve a need
which she believed to be greater than her own.
For herself, she could afford to take no heed
for the future, she thought, as the space of
time in front of her must be brief.

Something of this she conveyed in replying
to an observation of Winifred's regarding the
absence of a stove.

This is spring,' said Martha.

But spring does not last,' returned her
companion impatiently ; ' nor summer either.'

 The mild weather will last as long as I
shall.'

Winifred ui her arm round the wasted
frame.

Do you know why I have come back to
Paris ?' she asked. ' To take you to live with
me.'

The colour rose faintly into Martha's pallid
cheeks.

What claim have I on you, child ?' she
asked tenderly, gratefully, yet a little proudly
too.

The claim that  those by whose wealth I
have benefited did you a wrong which they
are too blind or too indifferent to expiate.'
And Winifred related all she knew.

Martha listened startled; at first almost a
little scared. The cruel story which had dwelt
dumbly and darkly in her memory so long,
when put into words again awoke something
of its 2:)ast terror and vividness of anguish.
But little by little, Winifred's earnest and
generous pity first quieted, then touched her.
After years of lonely pain, her heart unclosed
itself once more to the voice of human sympathy.
She wept ; she whose grief for long
had known only the torture of dry-eyed sobs ;
and the rain of sorrow fell with bountiful
refreshment on her seared and blighted heart.

Winifred petted her as she might have done

a child, only more tenderly, for with her compassion
mingled something of awe. She felt
that in this newly-stirred spirit there were
depths of suffering that she could never sound.
It was characteristic of Martha that she asked
few questions. In her simple-minded nature,
vindictiveness held no place, and she was
above the paltry satisfaction that details might
have afforded her. They talked of their plans,
for she made no further objection to living
with Winifred. Only she was the first to
suggest that Mary might be an obstacle.

Xo,' said Winifred decidedly, shaking her
head. ' She will not want me, I am sure.
She has already said she will go back to
Provence to her friends there, unless the
Russell invite her  an event on which I
know that she counts. I shall tell her that in
future my home is to be yours.'

You can add that it will not be for long,*
Martha added quietly ; so quietly that Winifred
glanced at her, for a moment uncertain what
she meant. But the serene and sad 'far-away'

look in her eyes was explanation enough :
Martha meant that she was dvins:.

Winifred took one of the transparent hands
and kissed it softly for all reply; then, promising
to return ere many days were over, she
went away.

The following week, the date of the funeral
behoof at last fixed, Sir Charles Russell arrived.
He was followed by Mark and Dorothy. The
news of the delay in the final rites  a concession
obtained fi-om the authorities with extreme
difficulty, for in France, according to
law, burial must take place within forty-eight
hours after death  had deferred their projected
departure fi'om The Limes, and Dolly
had been consuming her innermost heart with
impatience.

It was dreadful,' she confided to Winifred.
 Miss Dallas, now that she is to be Lady
Hatherley, is simply insupportable. And my
uncle alternates between sulks and fidgets.
Mark has behaved like an cano-el, although
rather a low-spirited one. Mamma is in a

dumb fury, and Flossy is just one overflowing
urn of tears. Uncle John made no objection
to my leaving him or to earning my own livelihood.
In fact, he praised my spirit. It is
the first time he has ever praised anything in
me, and Flossy was quite hurt at it. But I
told her that if she would invest in a broom
and sweep the Elmsleigh crossings, he would
probably discover that she had always been
his favourite niece. I can assure you, Winifred,
he grows more of a miser every day.
Yet he heaps presents upon his bride-elect,
and intends to have a magnificent wedding.'


Dolly speaks very confidently of earning
her own livelihood; but I do not quite see
how it is to be done,' said Winifred to Mark,
a fcAv hours later. They had met with a good
deal of constraint; and were now talking perseveringly
on subjects quite unconnected with
each other.

I cannot consider that our responsibilities
towards her cease because she chooses to live

away from us,' observed ]\Iark. ' My father,
for some reason which I do not attempt to
fathom, seems inclined to let her work out the
experiment. But I have told her that sie is
to apply to me in her first difficulty, and I
trust to you to see that she does so.'

I dare say she will succeed much better
than you think.'

You have yourself, Winifred, just hinted
that you consider her success doubtful.'

Winifred bit her lip. She had indeed,
within two minutes, said two things that
sounded completely contradictory. How explain
that her latest remark had been wrung
from her by secret irritation at the measured
speech and judicial air of Mark?

I think what I meant was that the methods
of success do not seem very clear, but that,
all the same, Dolly's OAvn courage is a very
hopeful factor.'

I think what you meant was that rebellion
for its own sake is a good thing to cultivate,'
retorted he.

But surely you cannot deny that Dolly is
right in wishing to be independent?'

Mark made no answer. He was out of
humour with independence in women; although,
possibly, if o?ie woman had submitted
to him, he would have applauded an enterprising
disposition in the rest of the sex.
There was a silence so long that it became
embarrassing, and at last Mark himself was
the first to break it.

May I ask what are your own plans ?'

They are quite unaltered since I left Elms-leigh,'
answered Winifred quietly.

Nevertheless, I have as yet seen no trace
of the lady whom it jlases you to consider
my father's victim.'

She is coming to live with me : as soon as
my aunt has decided upon her own movements.'


Mark rose and took a turn about the room.
He looked very stern, and muttered something
in which the word ' folly ' was alone audible.
Winifred went to him, and impulsively, without

thinking what she did, laid her hand upon
his arm.

Why do you judge me harshly, only because
I try to do my duty?' she said gently.

He looked at her with eyes of reluctant
passion, crushing her hand at the same time
within his grasp until he hurt her.

'Duty? It is Quixotism.'

No. I am so far a member of your famish',
that I have profited by your father's bounty.
And the chance that has led me to discover
the injustice, of which, as I believe, Martha
Freake was and is the victim, seems to me a
kind of injunction to take upon myself the
expiation which all of you reject.'

Nonsense, Winifred ! If you were rich '

I am rich enough for that  and for her.
Poor thing! She needs so little. If you
could see her, I think you would be sorry for
her.'

I am willing enough to help her said
Mark quickly. ' Whatever she may have
been in the past, I should say, from all I

have heard, that now she is a fit object for
charity.'

But not for pity ?' Winifred raised her eyes
with a quiet smile.

He looked more and more annoyed.

For pity, if you will, always supposing
that you mean by that a mere instinct of
humanity. But certainly not for pity in
your sense of exaggerated devotion and reckless
severance of yourself fi'om all old and
natural ties.'

Winifred sighed. It was very hard to
know that Mark condemned her, and yet after
her last interview with Martha, how was it
possible that she should draw back ? Her
eyes filled with sudden tears as she recalled
the wasted figure, the shabby room, the uncomplaining
poverty and gentle endurance 
all, in fact, that made up her latest recollection
of Sir John's injured cousin.

You do not understand,' she said, tr3dng
hard to steady her voice, and to suppress all
sirens of emotion. ' You seem to think that I

have taken up her cause out of mere perversity,
and that I am squandering my compassion
'

You have expressed my innermost idea
you are *' squandering your compassion." '
Mark was nettled at a faint smile which
curled Winifred's lips, and of which he could
not read the meanings. So he went on
hotly : * I do not wish her to die of want, or
to be in need of anything. If she be poor and
ill '

She is very, very poor ; and more than ill 
she is dying.'

Then in Heaven's name let ever3rfching possible
be done for her. Send her money, food,
medicines  a doctor '

And do you suppose she would accept all
this !' broke in Winifred, with kindling eyes
of such honest india-nation that Mark looked
at her in surprise. But he Alas determined
to stick to his own point of view. It was that
Martha might be a lunatic rather than a
criminal, but could never have been a victim.

VOL. II. 28

If people cannot help themselves, they
must consent to he helped,' he resumed.

I understand answered Winifred bitterly.
You would give her everything except two
things, which she most needs and has least
received  belief, and the pity that springs not
from duty, but fiom love. Yes ! Feed her,
clothe her, tend her while her poor, joyless,
wasted life still clings to her suffering body.
Do all this for her, and hug yourself with a
proud consciousness of having performed your
duty. But deny her that for which she has
thirsted and hungered through tragic days
and sleepless nights  the tender compassion
which would prove to her that she is not a
pariah and an outcast. Keep her alive in
the flesh, and let her die morally inch by
inch. And when you have prolonged her
days  with the help of your money, which is
much, and your charity, which is boundless,
let her close her eyes on the world with the
knowledge that you have never once ceased to
suspect, to despise, and condemn her.'

Winifred !'

The girl had poured out her protest in such
a fiery heat of generous wrath; her low
vibrating tones had lent such power, and the
force of impassioned conviction in her such
dignity, to her Avoids, that Mark was simply
electrified. Anger, doubt, wounded family
pride and mortified self-love were all swallowed
up in sheer amazement. After his one
exclamation, he could simply stand and gaze
at her. For a moment or two she looked
back at him, still thrilling fi'om head to foot
with agitation, and too lifted out of herself
for personal consciousness. But, little by
little, his glance overpowered her ; she underwent
a swift reaction of regret, not for what
she had expressed, but for having expressed
it to him ; love made her fear that she might
have offended him ; and  too proud to ask
for pardon, too true to retract, she turned a
little away fi-om him, and buried her face in
her hands.

The movement, so humble and graceful,

282

touched Mark profoundly. From Ms proud
Winifred, it almost amounted to an act of
surrender. At least, he thought so ; and like
a true man, thought also that the moment had
come to bend her to his will.

He went up to her, and, before she guessed
his intention, put his arm round her waist.
She started and tried to free herself : then stood
perfectly still.

Winifred  for my sake, give up this
folly and come back to England  back to me.'

His voice was low and full of pleading ;
but she made no answer. Only shook her
head. He took her two hands in one of his,
and drew them down from her face, plunging
his glance into hers. ' Winifred !' He was
determined to conquer her, and resolute himself
not to yield an inch.

Why do you ask it ?' she cried, and
broke away from him. * It is cruel, useless.
The poor thing is dying. Everything I can
do for her will only last a few months : perhaps
weeks.'

Mark frowned. He did not like being
crossed, and Winifred was crossing him. He
wanted to hear her say that she would give
up everything for him  for him : and here
was she holding out for the gratification of a
mere whim.

You count it as nothing, then, the injurious
doubts which your conduct, by implication,
throws on my family ?' This was
decidedly a weak argument for a lover, and a
personal one would have done better ; but
Mark was a little angry, and his pride was
desperately afraid of a fresh rebuff.

I cannot help my convictions,' replied
Winifred humbly, casting at him an imploring
glance that said ' Forgive me ' as
plainly as a look could speak. And as his
brow still remained very dark, she ventured
to approach him again, and added very
sweetly : * Lend me to Martha for a little
while, Mark. She will not trouble either of
us long.'

He looked down, in reality more exasperated

than moved to compliance, yet so far
vanquished that he could find no persuasive
reply. She made him feel churlish  even a
little childish, and he did not like that.

As you please,' he said at last reluctantly.
But the burden you have taken on yourself
is too great for you alone. Will you let me
help you with it ?'

No,' returned Winifred decidedly, and
shook her golden head.

Mark flushed.

Not even so much will you concede ?'

Listen!' said the girl: and while her lips
quivered a little with emotion, she laid her
hands frankly in his. ' For the next few
months let us be nothing to one another 
nothing ' (with a charming blush) ' but
friends. You shall go your way, and let me
go mine. I will carry my self-appointed
burden alone, and expiate, unaided, my own
mistakes  if I have made them. When all is
over, and my task is done, perhaps you may
have arrived at a better frame of mind regarding

it. If not  Ave Avill never speak of it, and
the experience of this part of my life will
belong' to me alone.'

Of course, if you need me so little, I have
nothing more to say,' answered Mark ; and
quite abruptly, standing away from her, he
beo'an to talk of indifferent things.

Winifred was extremely surprised ; sooth to
say, secretly mortified and disappointed. The
ways of men being quite unknown to her
guilelessness, she jumped to the conclusion that
she had offended Mark, and felt desperately
and humiliatingly inclined to beg his pardon.
On the other hand, she was shy about it ; was
sure he would not expect it ; and, her spirits
sinking to zero, she began to persuade herself
that he really did not care for her. And
Mark, avIio had anticipated, from her usual
straightforwardness, that she would have met
his sulky speech with an eager protest, was
equally disappointed on his side, and hugely
affronted to boot.

The ' little rift within the lute ' widened

during the next few days, and they parted at
last with a coldness that left an achii:ig" in the
heart of both. Winifred consoled herself as
well as she could by overwhelming Martha
with kindness, and Mark by indignantly
hugging his belief in his father.

Meanwhile, Mary, quietly informed by
Winifred of her discovery respecting Miss
Freake, and of her consequent intention, had
flown into a violent rage. It was not that she
really loved Winifred, or that she could not
be as comfortable and happy away from her
as with her ; but she was one of those people
who, the instant they are deprived of a
thing, begin placing an exaggerated value
upon it.

She accused Winifred of ingratitude ;
drowned herself in angry tears ; and asked
the four winds of heaven who was to pack
for her, write her notes, run her errands, keep
her accounts, and govern her servants?

Mary Kussell was strangely and shamefully
unaffected by Winifred s discovery of her

past baseness towards Martha; she became
furious on being told that her victim was poor,
suffering, and had not many months to live;
while at the same time, almost in the same
breath, she talked of going to see Martha and
having it out about John.' She heaped,
indeed, plenty of abuse on her brother ; but
was speechless with indignation at Winifred's
view that she could no longer continue to
profit by his bounty. Her friends in Provence,
being French, were naturally disinclined
to approve of Winifred's conduct ; and
invited the, as they supposed, lonely and disconsolate
widow to return to Provence and
spend some more time with them ; and Mary
was not slow to perceive that, under such circumstances,
separation from Winifred might
have its advantages.

So she finally took her departure ; and
Winifred, giving up the apartment, moved
into a small and pretty little one au quatrieme
which she had selected for herself Thither
she in a few days transported Martha. There

she installed her studio, and settled down to
work. Dolly, of course, had joined her, and
was as eager as herself to begin earning money.
Winifred hunted up as many members as she
could find of her former artistic connection ;
sold two small pictures at low prices to a
dealer, and managed to get Dolly one or two
orders for painting plates and fans. But these
brought in such small earnings, and Dolly's
round face was wont to lengthen so piteously
whenever she talked over her prospects, that
Winifred finally suggested her teaching English.


She seized upon the idea with avidity,
having' a mortal fear of failings in her enterprise
and of being forced to return to Elms-leigh.
In Paris, at any rate, she was free, she
was near Richard, and she amused herself.
Winifred was exquisitely kind to her in a half
elder sisterly, wholly charming way that made
an agreeable contrast to the family jars that
diversified relations with Mrs. Hatherley and
Florence.

So everybody was pressed into the service of
Dorothy's career.

Richard was set to work to beat up recruits,

Winifred talked about her perpetually to

her fellow-artists ; Dolly herself, \ith a firm

conviction of merit that went a very long way,

left nobody any peace on the subject of her

Ashes ; and the result of all this was that the

pupils shortly presented themselves. They

were not very numerous and did not pay very

vrell at first, everything in Paris being at so

low an ebb. But they were ' a foundation,' as

Dolly said of them collectively. She set to

work upon them with the greatest energy, and

having a bright manner, a fluent tongue, a

fund of quiet assurance, and the prettiest face

possible, she had the luck to become popular.

Moreover, she was love Creole : magic words :

what of romance, and charm, and sleepy grace

do they not suggest to the Parisian ? Xothing

for Dolly's present purposes could have turned

out better than the fact of her having been

born in Jamaica. She was overwhelmed with

attentions ; Winifred got some orders through
her ; Martha revived a little ; and everything
in the tiny household went merrily as a

marriage-bell.

LADY Fatherly.

ass DALLAS to be Lady Fatherly!'
'That girl!' 'A governess!'
'Perhaps an adventuress!'
Beautiful.' ' I never admired her.' ' Sir
John has better taste.' ' Sir John must be in
his dotage.' ' She's magnificent.' ' Very bad
style.' 'Clever, too, by Jove!' ' A flippant
intriguer.' ' You are prejudiced.' ' You are
blinded.' ' You are jealous.' ' Of what, I
should like to know ?'

Thus in a crescendo of horror  with a
chorus of depreciation  was the astounding
news of Sir John Hatherley's impending

marriage received by the inhabitants of Elms-leigh.


To say that Mrs. Hatherley, and Flossie
with her, nearly went out of their minds, is
but feebly to describe the height, dejth, and
extent of their amazed exasperation. Mrs.
Hatherley came out in quite a new character, so
extraordinary was the activity which she displayed
in going from house to house, pouring
into the ears of her acquaintances the various
innuendoes and suggestions concerning Gertrude
once conveyed to her by Mrs. Chandos-
Fane, now Mrs. Burton.

Not all her angry spite, however, could
give her the courage to remonstrate with Sir
John ; but she did try to convey to Mark the
essence of Mrs. Burton's communications.
Needless to say, she took nothing by the
move. Mark asked a few sharp questions
which scattered Mrs. Hatherley' s wits, and
demonstrated the insufficiency of her information.
Coldly remarking, then, that accusations
so grave required some stronger proof before

they could be even considered, far less believed,
he dismissed the subject, and maintained
unbroken the attitude of courteous
reserve which he had assumed from the first
moment of learning his father's intentions,
clark could not be expected to welcome these
with any cordiality ; nor did he : but his
fastidious disinterestedness made him shrink
from all appearance of protest. He treated
Gertrude with a grave and even kindly deference
that compelled her reluctant gratitude.
It was owing to his influence, unconsciously
exercised over her, that she bore herself in
these days with a graceful and new humility,
which went a long way towards disarming
hostile criticism. Like many people of quick
tact, she was very far indeed from being
thoroughly insincere. Her mobile nature was
too responsive to various moods for that.
She felt as well as saw what other people were
feeling; every quality in her  violence, generosity,
selfishness, benevolence  was partly
spontaneous, partly deliberate; and it was the

very complexity of nature in her, resulting
from all this, which made half her power to
charm. A narrower soul than hers would not
have appreciated Mark's high-mindedness ; a
nobler one would have been forced by it into
a renunciation of personal aims. But Gertrude
Dallas remained at once both calculating
and grateful. In her dreams of the future,
Mark played a prominent part. She intended
to do a great deal for him ; and
already had a foretaste of the exultation she
should feel in compelling his recognition of
her power.

Meanwhile, Mrs. Hatherley had nothing for
it but to wait with such patience as she could
muster for the day of Mrs. Burton's return
from her fortnight's wedding tour. She confidently
believed that this would also be the
hour of her triumph. Mrs. Burton would tell
what she knew of Gertrude's jast ; and the
credit which had been denied to Mrs. Fatherly
would be accorded to her.

Never were well-founded expectations more

bitterly disappointed. Ideas in Mrs. Burton's
mind bobbed up and down with the rapidity
and impartiality of peas in boiling water.
This was especially the case when any novelty
excited her; and just now between Mr. Burton
and wadding presents, new dresses, and congratulatory
visits, her Hfe was a series of
novelties. Under these circumstances, it was
just a chance which impulse might come
uppermost in her. Mrs. Burton in the morning
was as capable of snubbing Miss Dallas as
in the afternoon she was capable of adoring
it all depended upon the aspect of the
question which good-humour and self-interest
or ill-humour and self absorption combined to
present to her. The first of these connections
was predominant in her on the day when she
heard the news of Sir John's engagement. A
quarter of an hour later saw her in the 
of The Limes. And just as Mrs.
Hatherley, enchanted to see her, had opened
her lips for her now habitual plaint, and
Flossie's eyes were already suffused with the
VOL. II. 29

dew of coming tears, Mrs. Burton took the
breath out of both of them by sweetly smiling,
and asking: with the liveliest interest for ' dear
Sir John ' and ' the beautiful bride-elect.'

On a sign from the speechless Mrs. Fatherly,
her daughter limply rang the bell, and
Gertrude was elicited from the library. Mrs.
Burton immediately folded her in her arms,
and asked if she had not always prophesied for
her a destiny in accordance with her merits.

I dare say you did,' replied Gertrude, with
one of her subtle smiles, ' but I am not quite
sure that you always considered my merits
very striking. Did you ?'

My dear child, you surely know me by
this ' said Mrs. Burton. ' You are, you must
be, aware that I abhor flattery. My sincerity
often forbids me to say what I think for fear of
being misinterpreted. But how could I ever
have been animated by any sentiments but
those of affectionate interest towards the
bosom-friend of my darling daughter ? Dear
Winifred ! don't you miss her ? / do.'

But you have Mr. Burton said Gertrude.

And you will soon have Sir John. I know
what you mean. But a mother's feelings are
so complex ! They consist in  they are  in
short, they defy description. I have, I think,
the power of adapting myself to young people,
and my pet and I were always one. I never
should have married again  never  if duty
had not called my unselfish Winifi'ed to the
side of her suffering uncle.'

You were engaged ever so long before
Miss Power went back to Paris,' snapped the
floated Mrs. Fatherless

shadow of aversion contracted the pupils
of Mrs. Burton's limpid blue eyes.

I presume I know my own affairs,' she
retorted icily, and turned her back ujon the
discomfited widow.

From that moment the partisanship of the
vicar's wife was assured to Gertrude.

But it did not help her. The clamour of
spiteful gossip only rose with contradiction ;
and Mrs. Burton, whose own golden locks and

292

airy grace had always been looked upon with
some disfavour, did herself more harm than
good to her j'otegee. Public opinion, that
capricious thing, was not to be conciliated.
Gertrude Dallas had run counter to it in a way
to render it inexorable, and found herself permanently
beneath its ban.

Even Sir John's suavity, formerly so irresistible,
had lost its ancient spell. In vain he
gave dinners as of old ; called frequently upon
his neighbours; struck attitudes, and made
speeches full of a weighty dignity. His wand
was broken, his day was done. Odd stories
were afloat about him ; vague rumours that
gained in consistency as they persisted.

The tendency to treat him as a benevolent
elderly gentleman who had grown a little
whimsical and cranky, suddenly gave way to
the idea that he was in the plenitude of his
strength, and as artful as he was strong.
Tradesmen, so long obsequious, became pressing
in their demands, and Mark received
some very strange anonymous epistles. They

caused him to look grave, but he took no
notice of them, nor did he mention them at
this time to his father.

In the midst of all this Sir John fell ill.
He had a very bad attack of his heart, necessitating
the frequent attendance of the family-doctor.


Formerly the man of medicine had been
only too honoured by a call to The Limes.
Now even he seemed to come with something
less of fervour than of old. He did not stay
so long ; nor listen quite so patiently to Sir
John's account of his distressing symptoms ;
nor mask with quite so bland a smile the
gravity of some of them.

Altogether an odd atmospheric change
overhung The Limes  a change, vague but
brooding like an impending storm: Mrs.
Hatherley herself was affected by it, as are all
feline creatures by electrical disturbances.
Her eyes were brighter and more watchful ;
her tread was stealthily ; her restlessness
worse than ever.

Gertrude was no longer staying at The
Limes. Sir John, without assigning any precise
reason, had asked Mrs. Burton if the bride-elect
might have the shelter of her roof until
the day for the wedding ; and the vicar's wife
had acceded to the request with eagerness.
She was more anxious than she had ever been
to conciliate the master of The Limes; and
apparently did not remark, far less understand,
the meaning of the neighbourhood's new attitude.
Mr. Burton, douce man, was one of
those worthy souls (unhappily too rare) from
whom gossip ran like water off a duck's back.
A few of the current reports did indeed make
some small impression on him, and he repeated
them to his wife ; but she promptly put them
down to 'jealousy  unadulterated jealousy:'
and he was far too good-naturedly obtuse not
to find comfort in agreeing with her.

Sir John's original intention was to have
celebrated his wedding with great magnificence.
But his brother-in-law's death, he considered,
rendered this impossible more especially ashe

would not delay this marriage, but hurried
forward the arrangements for it, and fixed the
earliest possible date compatible with the due
publication of the banns.

He settled that he and his bride should drive
to the station fiom the church. There was to
be no wedding-breakfast, and no fuss of any
kind. And the only person, save his own
family, to be invited to the ceremony was Mrs.
Burton.

Dear me !' tittered Mrs. Hatherley, upon
hearing this. ' People will say you have lost
money.
 Mark looked up quickly, perhaps in surprise
at the tactless impertinence of the observation ;
one that his aunt would not have ventured
upon a few months before.

Sir John's pale lips curled contemptuously
as he replied :

The best answer to that will be the diamond
parure which I have ordered for Miss
Dallas.'

The parure arrived a day or two later, and

nearly robbed Mrs. Burton of sleep. She gave
an afternoon tea for the express purpose of
exhibiting it, and strange to say the entertainment
was a success !

The ladies whose rapid tongues had been so
busy of late in stigmatizing Miss Dallas as an
adventuress, and in slighting her future husband,
arrested the flow of their eloquence at
sight of these unparalleled jewels.

It was truly remarkable, the effect produced
upon public opinion by these splendid gems.
They certainly did not make Gertrude any better
loved, but in some occult manner they caused
her to be more warmly received. And when at
last her wedding morning dawned, quiet though
the ceremony was, it gained brilliancy through
the affluence of uninvited guests. All Elms-leigh
that had leisure at its disposal was
present in the church. And if there was one
thing which struck all spectators more than
the suffering air of the bridegroom or the
gravity of Mark, it was the deadly pallor of
the bride.

Gertrude had indeed good cause to look pale,
for she had passed a sleepless and an agitated
night. And the cause of it had been a very
unexpected interview with clark. He had
followed his father after dinner ito the library,
and there quietly, although with evident
reluctance, laid before him one of the anonymous
letters which he had lately received.
Sir John cast his eyes over it in silence ; then
crushed it in his hand and tossed it into the
fire, which the chilliness of the rainy evening
rendered necessary.

That is the way to treat such communications,'
he said glacially, though he looked a
little disturbed.

It is the way in which I have treated
many such of late, sir,' answered Mark gently.
And I should not have attached more importance
to this letter than to its predecessors, if
it were not for reports daily growing louder,
both around us here and in the City.'

You have been spying,' exclaimed this
father harshly.

I am not in the habit of spying,' replied
Mark.  As long as it was honestly possible
I shut both my eyes and my ears. But today
I was told that the Aztec Mine Company
is decidedly shaky.'

Of this Sir John was one of the directors,
and a large shareholder.

Do you suppose me likely to be more
ignorant of that fact, if true, than yourself ?'
he asked.

Mark drove back the retort which rose to
his lips  viz., that his father might be more
careless of it. Even in anger he would not
admit to himself that Sir John could be dishonest.


One is often too long unwilling to believe
the worst where one's own interests are concerned,'
he said, after a pause.

I appreciate your inference,' answered the
elder man scornfully. ' But I cannot see that
the affair is any business of yours.'

 We will not speak of honour then,' said
Mark, rather hotly. ' But you can surely

understand that I should not like you to be
rushed.'

 And do you suppose, then, that I have
put all my eggs m one basket?'

With a sudden change of manner, Sir John
laid his finger-tips together and asked the
question dispassionately.

Mark made no answer. He was indeed
curiously ignorant of the sources and extent
of his father's wealth.

Have you seen any change lately in my
mode of life ?' continued Sir John. ' Have I
dismissed any servants ? Sold any horses ?
Put down a carriage ? Diminished the courses
at dinner ? Been mean in my gifts ?'

There is a great deal of money owing to
the tradespeople, sir.'

Sir John frowned.

 Let them ajDply for it,* he said, grandly.

If I am rightly informed they have applied,
and not successfully.'

The other struck his foot impatiently on the
floor.

Can you not leave me in peace, Mark ?
What is it you want by coming now to worry
me with these foolish details ? Butchers 
bakers  what are they that you should trouble
yourself all at once about them ? Let them
wait. I suppose you are angry with me for
marrying again, and this is how you
show it.'

Mark stood listening in surprise. There
was something very childish in this sudden
outburst of weak passion, and it suggested
to him that possibly after all he had attributed
to want of money in his father that which
might be nothing more than an effect of the
unaccountable avarice of old age. Sir John,
leaning forward in his chair and trembling
with excitement, struck his son as looking
older than he had ever seen him. His form,
clothed in the black velvet dressing-gown, had
a shrunken appearance, and his outstretched,
shaking hand seemed unusually feeble. Mark
was touched.

I am sorry,' he began kindly  then

stopped, arrested in his speech b}' the flash of
inconceivable triumph that lightened in his
father's eyes.

The next moment Sir John's head sank a
little lower on his breast, and he was trembling
more violently than ever ; but that glance had
done its work. Mark knew now that, debtor
or miser, invalid or vigorous, his father was a
hypocrite. The revelation came upon him
with a force which admitted no room for
doubt.

If I had been angry at your marriage, sir,
I should not have waited until now, the
eleventh hour, to protest,' answered Mark
steadily. ' Still less should I have chosen the
form of protest which you attribute to me. I
came in here this evening with the double
purpose of learning, if possible, the truth
about your affairs, and of communicating two
resolutions of mine to you. I have determined
to enter a house of business in the City : thus
renouncing, at any rate for the present, that
dream of a political career which alone has

reconciled me to partial inaction, and to a
large dependence of my future fortunes upon
yours.'

He paused, not because he had finished,
but because Sir John had raised his head to
speak.

You can do as you please,' he interrupted,
in a tone of cold scorn. ' Such a step on your
part will naturally give colour to the reports
against me ; but I can happily afford to despise
rumours. Only do not ask me to advance
any money for your new enterprise.'

I have never asked you for money,' replied
his son, all the more calmly that his
patience was ebbing fast.

And your second resolution ?' inquired
Sir John, with sarcastic politeness.

 It is to remonstrate  with no hope of deterring
her, but simply to satisfy my own
conscience  with Miss Dallas on her intention
to marry you.'

I forbid it!' cried Sir John.

Really angry this time, he rose.

And I must disobey you, father ;' and
Mark rapidly quitted the room.

Gertrude was very much surprised to see
him, as was Mrs. Burton. That little hn.dy
indeed, underwent agonies of curiosity when
Mark asked to speak alone with her guest ;
and as she reluctantly feathered together her
work, and retired to disturb Mr. Burton's
after-dinner nap in his own peculiar sanctum,
the wildest hypotheses trotted in a mazy circle
through her small, romantic brain.

Is anything the matter ? Sir John is
unwell, perhaps ?' began Gertrude and became
aware of a curious throb, half-fear, half-relief,
as she asked the question. To be anything
less than Lady Hatherley would be a bitter
disappointment ; all the same, she looked forward
to the morrow with a sinking heart.

My father is quite well,' answered the
young man.

He had declined the offer of a chair, and
stood leaning against the chimney-piece and
looking down upon her as she sat with the

light from the lamp falling on her graceful
head. She looked very young and pretty this
evening ; and her mental agitation had given
her an air of gentleness that was rare in her.
A new pity succeeded in Mark to the slightly'
scornful indifference with which he had regarded
her, since knowing that she was to be
his father's wife.

 I have come, impelled by a sense of duty, to
a task very reluctantly and tardily undertaken,'
he began. ' For the last ten days or so I have
received frequent hints that my father's affairs
are going badly. The hints were of such a
nature that I did not consider it necessary to
attach any importance to them. Doubtless
my hesitation was unconsciously helped by a
natural unwillingness to believe them. But
to-day I received a warning of a much more
serious sort  one which, if true, would point
to an impending grave change in my father's
circumstances.'

He has lost money ?' asked Gertrude
quickly.

At any rate, he seems likely to do so.'

She drew a long breath of bitterness. Had
she been trapped ? Was this the cause of
Sir John's apparent avarice ? How could she
have been so blind ? Humiliation at her own
short-sightedness was, perhaps, the strongest
of all the feeling's roused withni her.

Please tell me everything,' she said, and
clasped her hands tightly in the effort to becalm.


clark related all that he knew ; the reports
about the Aztec Mine Company, the anonymous
letters, the sums OAvdiig to the tradespeople,
and his own interview with his father.

' Except the business of the Mine, you have
told me nothing very definite,' Gertrude remarked,
as he ended.

I have told you all I know,' he answered
coldly, his momentary softness of feeling towards
her already changing at her hard and
mercenary manner.

She sat lost in meditation. If only this
news had come to her a little earlier ! Xow,

VOL. II. 30

surely, it was too late for her to draw back.
Intriguing though she was, she shrank from
the meanness of such a course. Had she been
convinced of Sir John's impending ruin  convinced
beyond the possibility of doubt  she
would have thrown him over ruthlessly. But
ignorance made her doubtful ; and doubt
brought into play all those dramatic instincts
in her which simulated noble qualities. If she
clung to Sir John now, Mark would admire
her; and, in the event of a catastrophe, he
would do something for her. The desire to
be approved of by Mark had always been very
strong in her ; and her roused vanity, reckless
as the impulse of a gambler, suggested to her,
in this moment of uncertainty, to sacrifice
everything to that one chance. She raised her
eyes, and met her companion's quiet, observant

glance.

This news can make no difference to me,'
she said simple ' If Sir John is to be ruined,
my place is at his side.'

Mark made a gesture of surprise. He was far

fi'oni being duped; and yet, man-like, he was
touched. Is it the confession of weakness
implied in womanly wiles, which renders these
partially successful even with the men whom
they do not deceive ? Whatever the psychological
explanation, it is a fact that Mark for
the first time was conscious of a faint liking for
his future step-mother. There was not much
esteem in the feeling, but it was dashed by
no resentment, rather by a quaint compassion.


Have you ever seriously reflected what it is
to marry a man old enough to be your father?'
he asked her, not unkindly.

I never reflect. Reflection is the luxury of
the happy, Mr. Hatherley.'

And then Gertrude covered her face with her
hands, and burst into tears. They were tears
compounded of many feelings  of shock, of
rage, of a little shame, of a vast deal of mere
mental fatigue; but they were the most 
outburst which ever put
an end to an inconvenient discussion, and

302

rendered an estimable young man speechless.
Before Gertrude had overcome the first
paroxysm of her sobs, and Mark the pained
surprise of hearing them, the door opened,
and, amid a buzz of voices, appeared Mrs.
Burton's inquisitive golden head, closely accompanied
by the rubicund visage of her
husband, and the pale countenance of Sir
John !

My love !' cried the vicar's wife, and struck
an attitude of indignant consternation, accompanied
by a withering glance at Mark. But
Gertrude sprang to her feet, and rushed almost
into Sir John's arms.

Your son has been so kind,' she exclaimed,
a little hysterically.  And I do  oh ! I do
think it was noble of you to send him tome!'


Sir John, all the more struck with the
nobility of his action that he had been totally
unaware of it, bowed devotionally over his
betrothed's white hand; Mrs. Burton smiled
seraphically ; Mr. Burton, profoundly bewildered,

said, 'Bless my soul!' by way of a
compendious contribution to the prevailing
emotion ; and Mark, while marching to the
window ostensibly to gaze upon the night,
admitted to himself that Miss Gertrude Dallas
was indisputably mistress of the situation !

IN PARIS AGAIN.

HE wedding was a great success,'
wrote Mrs. Burton enthusiast "
call to her daughter. * So quiet.
In such good taste. I was the only guest.
I believe dear Sir John was kind enough to
feel that the ceremony would lose a little
something if I were not present ; but he was
wisely determined not to invite anybody else.
Our pet  yours, love, and mine I  looked
lovely in her wedding-dress, with the magnificent
diamonds  which you will see ! I
could have wished  perhaps  that your dear
step-father had read the beautiful service a

little more impressively ; but he did his
best. Dear Gertrude was quite calm, but
deadly pale. I had had an affecting parting
with her. I think  / hope  that she will
prove equal to her new and responsible position.
It is not given to everybody to be the
\ife of such a man as Sir John. Mr. Burton
but import ! I missed one sweet face at
the wedding, and that was my naughty,
naughty darling daughter's. Mr. Mark
Hatherley looked grumpy ! For me, he is a
most disagreeable young man, although I
know you do not think so, darling. That
was the one, little wee, wee point on which
we were sometimes not quite agreed, my
angel. I believe  a little bird has whispered
to me  that Mr. Hatherley was /wrzozs' at his
father's marriage. I suppose he thought it
would put a spoke in this wheel. He came
even the nioht before and tried to dissuade
Gertrude. I feel sure of this, although I did
not ask what passed. I did not wish to
know. I always prefer to think good than

evil. In fact, I almost fear sometimes that I
am too unsuspicious. I need you, darling,
with your penetration (a little censorious occasionally,
don't you think ? If you have a
fault  it might be this) ; without you I am
certain that I am constantly imposed upon.

Mr. Burton But he has his parish-work.

I am interrupted  A rheumatic old woman
I constantly tell Mr. Burton that I believe
these people's ailments and sorrows to be
chiefly imaginary. But he preaches patience.
I fancy he thinks patience looks well. I kiss
my darling's pretty cheeks, and I am always
her loving, foolish, fond little Massey.'

Dolly, expiring with curiosity to hear all
about the wedding, was disappointed that
Winifred did not read some portions of this
letter aloud to her. And she wondered still
more at the mingled expression of annoyance
and amusement with which Winifred perused
it.

There was hardly a line in it which did
not contain a sting ; and the hints about Mark

made her positively indignant ; and yet, taken
as a Avhole, what a diverting production it
was ! Mrs. Burton was one of those persons
with whom nobody, blessed with a sense of
humour, could feel angry long ; and, though
beoinninof to read the letter a second time with
a frown, Winifred, before she reached the end
of it, was fain to laugh.

It is too bad of Florence not to have
written. I suppose the wedding was awfully
nice ?' Dolly in her pet modern jargon
inquired, encouraged by these signs of good-humour.


It was as quiet as possible  perhaps on
account of Uncle Walter,' answered Winifred,
with a sigh. ' That sis a disappointment, isn't
it, Dolly ? You think a marriage without
trimmings " no marriage at all ?'

I am not quite so foolish,' replied the
literal-minded Dolly, with some dignity. ' I
know somebody to whom I would go to be
married in a hackney cab and a travelling-dress.'


 Heroic !' commented Winifred, and again
she laughed.

Dorothy's perfect frankness about her feelings
never failed to amuse her, probably by its
contrast with her own proud reserve.

The absolute self-complacency that never
doubts of ultimate success is of all ballast
the surest with which a human soul can
launch itself upon the troubled sea of life.
Richard had not shown as yet the faintest
sign of being in love ; nevertheless Dolly
Dallas would have gone at least the length of
Trades, and bought a first instalment of her
furniture.

While they were thus talking, a hurried rap
at the studio door preceded the entrance of
Mrs. Dallas.

My dears !' said the good little woman, all
in a flutter, ' have you heard the news ? Dear
Gerty has actually persuaded Sir John to
come on to Paris.'

Like any bride and bridegroom of the
times  such centuries off they seem  when

the Empire still was !' said Winifred
gaily.

The fateful 18th March was yet ten days
or so in the future, and dwellers in Paris
were curiously prophetic of it. But the
great city was still plunged in the stupor,
and steeped in the shabbiness left by the first
siege ; and pleasure-seekers among its visitors
were rare.

She writes fiom Dover. They will be
here in less than a week, and only stay three
days !' Mrs. Dallas added, all excitement.
Her whole mind was absorbed by the thought
how best to welcome and most worthily to
entertain the travellers. And when the eventful
day of arrival dawned, Winifred and
Dorothy were pressed into the service of her
preparations.

The former, of course, did not wish to meet
Sir John ; and went home before the hour
that he was expected. But late in the evening,
after Martha Freake had gone to bed,
she sat alone wondering whether she could

see Gertrude, and learn something of Mark.
Presently two visitors were announced to her,
and Lady Hatherley, accompanied by her
brother, walked in.

Winifred sprang up with an exclamation
of glad surprise.

Sir John has retired to bed, knocked up
by the journey, and Gerty, rather to the poor
mother's mortification, it must be owned, insisted
upon coming round to you,' hastily
explained Richard.

Gertrude loosened her cloak, and sank listlessly
into a chair. She had hardly responded
to Winifred's greeting, and looked pale and a
little sullen.

We think that marriage and fine clothes
have greatly improved Gerty's appearance,'
politely remarked Dick, at the end of a rather
embarrassed pause.

But not my temper,' said the bride, with
one of her old scornful laughs.  Don't be
scandalized, Winifred : you show just your old
air of horrified propriety. Papa and mamma

are quite unchanged. They flourish under
adversity, like the Micawber. I might think
I had never left home, if it were not
for '

She stopped abruptly ; put her hand to her
breast, as though something there oppressed
her ; and burst into wailing sobs. There was
no doubt about the genuineness of her emotion
this time. Winifred, startled, almost frightened,
knelt down beside her, and took her hands, ina
concerned effort at soothing. Richard began
walking up and down the room. His
indolent, kindly nature detested scenes.

Why the deuce did you marry him ?' lie
asked, almost angrily.

Gertrude raised her head, her eyes blazing
through her tears.

I was a fool,' she said violently. ' Are we
not a family of fools, branded with ineptitude
and failure from our birth ? I thought I
should be an old man's darling ; lead him ;
cajole him ; make all our fortunes. Dreams !
dreams !'

Involuntarily Winifred rose and stood away
from her. She was not a Pharisee, but this
outburst revolted her, stung her honesty.
Dick, a Dallas to his finger-tips, for all his
easy good-nature, just shrugged his shoulders,
but in scorn, not in protest.

I don't see how you are to improve matters,
Gerty, by these heroics,' he said. ' They are
like your old tricks ! The atmosphere of home
seems to demoralize you.'

She stopped sobbing at this ; very angry,
as ever, at being treated with contempt.

Of course,' continued her brother composedly,
 Sir John is not exactly a pleasing
companion. I should say, looking at him
dispassionately, you understand, that he is
often an intolerable bore. What with his airs
and his graces, his beard and his dressing-gown,
and his essential deadness he is not
more amusing, and he is considerably more
insupportable, than a galvanized mummy.'

She threw an angry look at him.

I don't conceal from you, Gerty, that I

was rather surprised when I heard you were
going to marry him,' continued Dick lightly.
But I appreciated your motives, and I
thought it was plucky of you. Beggars, and
beggars with such uncommonly few strokes of
luck as ourselves, cannot be choosers, you see ;
and I thought you understood the difficulty of
providing for yourself in any other way. I
am sorry that you find the thing less agreeable
than you expected ; but I hope that in time
you may become quite a model wife.'

Lady Hatherley gave a harsh laugh ; but
her mood was evidently turning. While
Winifred, boiling over with speechless indignation,
felt that it would give her great satisfaction
to box Dick's ears, the sympathy
between the brother and the sister's nature
was gradually asserting itself.

You dll have many opportunities of being
useful and kind to him,' went on Dick, with
undiminished placidity. ' I don't care to
preach, you know ; but I think there is a
certain satisfaction in doings one's duty when

it does not cost too much. And, even to take
a lower point of view  he is rich.'

I believe him to be on the verge of bankruptcy,'
flashed out Gertrude, with an odd
kind of triumph.

Dick stood stock-still, in dismayed amazement.


'You think it is a joke!' cried the sister.
 I believe it to be the grandest fact. His
son (he is honest at any rate, Winifred) gave
me a hint of his fears. And besides this, what
other explanation is there of Sir John's persistent
stinginess ?' continued she, in too angry
a mood not to speak out freely.

Is he stingy ? To be sure, he did make
me '

Dick stopped short in his speech, and resumed
his promenade up and down the room ;
his expression a very curious one ; betraying
doubt, enlightenment, and annoyance.

He would not let me buy the smallest gift
for any of you, not even for Georgie,' cried
the bride.

With a sudden movement, Dick thrust his
hand into his breast-pocket.

 Sir John put this into my hand half an
hour ago. I wonder what it is. Perhaps a
cornelian stud ?' And with a laugh at his
own little joke, Dick proceeded to open a small
oblong packet.

Not much stinginess here !' he exclaimed,
and produced a magnificent ruby scarf-pin.

Gertrude took it, looked at it, returned it.

I don't understand him,' she said ; but her
tone was unmistakably gratified.

And there are your diamonds ?' resumed
Dick. ' They don't look like ruin, either.'

A pause. Then Gertrude said quietly :

Winifred is disgusted at us.'

And indeed, Winifred looked it.

A dusky red flushed into Richard's dark
cheeks. He hesitated a moment, then drcAV
near to her and held out his hand.

Do not think badly of us, Winifred  dear,
kind Winifred ! You are almost the only true
friend our graceless ways have left us.'

VOL. II. 31

There was a thrill of very unusual feeling
in his voice, and the girl thus appealed to
could do no less than lay her hand in his.
But she shook her fair head, and answered
gently :

That is always your attitude, Richard : a
cynical indifference to everything and everybody.
I am sure you have just as many
friends as other people, only you don't recognise
them when you see them.' She looked
up in his face with her sunny smile, and was
surprised, pained even, at the new earnestness
of Dick's glance.

At any rate, I recognise your goodness,' he
answered, in a low voice  so low that she
barely caught the words.

Gertrude did not hear them at all.

It would be much better for you to recognise
goodness in the abstract,' Winifred answered
lightly. ' But there ! we will talk no
more about ourselves.'

Lady Hatherley rose.

It is getting late, and we must go. Will

you come out with me tomorrow, Winifred?
I want to go to some shops. Yes ? At three,
then. Good-night, and forget my melodrama.
I believe it was your austere eyes provoked it
partly. You looked like Minerva.'

So saying, with a laugh, Gertrude kissed
her friend on both cheeks, French fashion,
and darted into the ante-chamber. Winifred
lighted them downstairs, and took care to
avoid Dick's eyes. But she smiled to herself
afterwards, with a sensation of relief; for she
felt that he had not looked at her.

The next day, when Gertrude came to fetch
Winifred, she had resumed quite her old
insouciaiit slightly mocking air. She made
no further allusion to Sir John than
this :

I have received orders to get myself one
or two handsome dresses, he likes me to look
well ; so perhaps I shall be able to squeeze
out money for some little present for Georgie,
I did not bring her with me, because she
would have wanted too much.'

312

They went to the Louvre, and made several
purchases there.

I have only fifty francs left after all,' said
Gerty finally ; ' but it will be enough to get
Georgie a porte-bonheur that I saw this morning
in the Rue de la Paix, and that is sure to
please her.'

They set off at a brisk walk under the
arcade, laughing occasionally at some memory
of their first girlhood, recalled by the scenes
around them ; and commenting on the new
aspect of things, so changed since the delusive
brilliancy of the Empire.

Suddenly Gertrude uttered an exclamation,
and stopped short. Equally arrested in his
progress had been an extremely rakish, fashionable,
yet somewhat dilapidated-looking personage,
who took a cigar from his mouth, and
said, * Hallo!' very coolly.

Winifred stared at him in profound astonishment
; this attracting his attention, he had the
grace to lift his hat to her. Gertrude, who
seemed annoyed, but not the least embarrassed,

walked with him out of Winifred's hearing,
and began a rapid, low-toned conversation.
This lasted several minutes ; Winifred's curiosity
the while being considerably exercised.
Diligently employing her eyes, she arrived at
the conclusion that the man must be a gentleman,
as society understands the word, but was
now fallen from his ' high estate,' and that he
knew Gertrude well.

Once during' the conversation, Winifred
noticed that the stranger drew back a step, and
pursed up his mouth to a whistle of gratified,
slightly sardonic amazement. Alas Gertrude
telling him of her marriage ? she wondered.
After this, the man produced a pocket-book,
and handed his fair acquaintance a card. Gertrude
apparently gave him hers in return ; at
any rate, she gave him something. And then
they parted  the man with an unceremonious
nod, Lady Hatherley with a mere turn of her
classic and haughty profile, that was more
contemptuous than the current dismissal. On
rejoining Winifi'ed, Gertrude gave her a swift

glance, compounded of questioning, a certain
shamefacedness, and an odd sort of triumph.
Probably, with her usual theatrical, she only
wanted to be questioned, to have told her
friend some rigmarole to which her imagination,
insincerity, and good-nature would have
contributed in equal shares. But Winifred
asked no questions, and Gertrude vouchsafed
no explanation.

They reached the Place Yendome at last,
but Gertrude did not turn in the direction of
the Eue de la Paix.

And Georgie's bangle?' said Winifred.

I shall not trouble about it. Where's the
use ?'

Then will you give her something
else ?'

I shall not give her anything at all. I
cannot afford it.'

Winifred was quite sure that Gertrude
would never deprive Georgie of a present out
of mere caprice. When her own wants were
provided for, she was invariably ready to

supply other people's. Moreover, the significance
of her tone implied, as it was probably
intended to do, that she had the fifty francs no
longer. Was that what she had given to the
mysterious individual ? Winifred could not
help smiling to herself at the idea of his
possibly turning out nothing more than a
gentleman beggar  some Bohemian 9roi<?6
of Gertrude's, whom she was graciously
pleased to patronize, and whom she regally
released from obligations of deference.

A day or two later, Sir John and his
bride returned to England, leaving Mrs.
Dallas highly pleased, if nobody else
was.

Everything turns out for the best,' said
the good little woman.  I always used to tell
Mr. Dallas that dear Gerty's wilfulness was
superficial. And now you will believe me, I
suppose, you incredulous man !'

This with a playful shake of her head at her
lord.

Your arguments, my dear, now, as always,

are irrefragable, ' replied Mr. Dallas, with a
gravity that made Winifred smile, and then
kiss Mrs. Dallas's gentle face in remorse for
having smiled.

CHAPTER IX.

THE SECRET DRAWER.

 LM SLEIGH called reluctantly on the
bride  but it called. One or two
recent acts of munificence on Sir
John's part, combined nth the payment of
some of the bills, had rather stilled the vague
rumours against him; and the announcement
of an impending series of magnificent dinner-parties
did the rest.

I enofaoed a cordon bleu when I was in
Paris : he will be over shortly,' said the knight
carelessly to Mrs. Burton, who went about
telling everybody.

They are to be more like banquets,' she

added to the world. 'Dear Sir John has lately
been grieved about so many things, that he
has only given recherche little dinners of
twelve covers. But these coming entertainments
are not to consist of less than twenty-four,
and all the beautiful plate is to be
brought down from London.

Sir John had formerly been very profuse in
the exhibition of this beautiful plate; but
about a year previously, when there had been
a ' burglar scare,' he had sent the more massive
articles to the safe keeping of his bankers.

Elmsleigh thought it would be a pity to find
itself shut out from the dinners, even though
the new Lady Hatherley was to preside at
them. Consequently, it called. And Gertrude
then had it entirely in her own power to turn
the tide of public feeling in her favour. ' A
beautiful young woman, exquisitely dressed,
and surrounded with everything that wealth
can give, is more easily snubbed in theory
than in practice.

The most uncompromising matrons of Elms-leigh

felt the frozen geniality within them
thaw when they crossed the threshold of the
splendid drawing-room, where their footfalls
died away upon costly carpets, and their senses
reeled amid the fragrance of hothouse plants.
The smallest sign of graciousness, then, on the
part of Gertrude would have completed their
surrender. But she was singularly haughty,
silent, cold.

She hated her new life, and not less so the
people around her, and was full of the bitterness
of revolt. She had expected to get the
upper hand of everybody, beginning with her
husband. Instead of that she could find nothing
to dominate.

In some indescribable Avay, everything
around her seemed to have a mocking unreality.
Partly it might be the disenchantment
of her first married days that had done
this ; but chiefly it was caused by the strange
inscrutability of Sir John. He cast upon her
something of the spell of paralyzed fascination
which years before he had thrown upon his

sister. But while Mary, frightened, submitted,
Gertrude inwardly rebelled.

The days went on. Gertrude grew pale,
nervous, miserable. She had no friends, and
tried to make none. Mark, who might have
been of some help to her, was now almost
constantly away. He had taken lodgings in
London, and only came down to The Limes on
Saturdays to stay until Monday. He was
invariably kind to Gertrude ; but so preoccupied
with thoughts, or possibly anxieties
of his own, that for a long time he did not
notice her troubled look. One day, at last, it
struck him. He was bidding her farewell, and
as he took her hand she involuntarily raised
her eyes to his with so despairing a glance
that he felt a shock of surprise.

Are you ill ?' he asked kindly.

In mind, not in body,' answered Gertrude,
with a wan smile.

Mark murmured something which sounded
like ' Poor soul !' and she winced a little at the
pity, for she had not intended to provoke it.

I have made my bed, and must lie on it
she said, and released her hand with a bitter
lauo'h.

As she turned, she met the watchful glance
of Mrs. Hatherley. This woman's stealthy
observation of her never ceased ! It was another
exasperating element in Gertrude's life.
And Florence was even more insupportable
than her mother. She was a dull, mechanical
spy ; and reported to Mrs. Hatherley everything
that Gertrude did, from what she wore
to what she ate ; from the letters she received,
to the walks she took abroad ; from the flowers
that she tended, to the hours wearily consumed
by her in the library with Sir John.

One evening Gertrude went abruptly to her
husband. Though full of a purpose of her
own, her quick glance noted the sudden stealthy
way in which, on her entrance, he thrust a
bundle of papers into a drawer of the bureau
by which he was standing. But she asked no
questions : what were his affairs to her ?

I wish,' she said, ' that you would get rid

of Mrs. Hatherley or Florence. Their presence
is unbearable to me.'

She did not make the request very graciously
; but it was simply wrung from her by
her irritation. If it were granted  good ; but
she would not plead for it.

Nobody would be better pleased to get rid
of them than 1/ answered Sir John, with unusual
promptitude.

Then why have you kept them here so
long ?' returned his wife.

For the reasons which generally lead one
to be patient under burdens  a great deal of
pity, mixed with some little duty.'

This answer was received by Gertrude with
inward contempt. She did not believe a word
of it.

After a pause, she said with some irony :

I presume your second reason  duty 
would be satisfied by maintaining them
away ?'

Maintaining them ? Well, I suppose so,'
Sir John replied slowly.

He put his fingers together, and scrutinized
their tips, as though seeking in them some information.


They were interrupted by the entrance ot
Mark. It was Saturday, and he had arrived
by the seven o'clock train. He looked unusually
grave even for him, and greeted them
absently, at the same time glancing at Gertrude
rather as though her presence were in his
way.

Mark,' began his father, still with that new
briskness,  Gertrude was just speaking to me
on a very important subject  one, indeed,
which I have long debated with myself. She
thinks it is quite time we were relieved of the
burden of your aunt and cousin.'

Of their jyresence corrected Lady Hatherley.


Mark made no immediate answer. He had
turned quickly to look towards the door,
which was ajar and creaking oddly. Another
creak, and a decided, slight movement, like
that of a curtain gently stirred by the wind.

Mark strode forward, an angry frown on his
brow, and threw the door back. This unexpectedly
revealed Flossie in a new and very
pretty dinner - dress, with an expression
suddenly changing from rapt attention to
piteousness.

< I  I  just want a book,' she stammered.

You are not likely to find it on the outside
of the door,' said Mark, with careless courtesy.
Won't you step in ?'

I think Florence pursues a good number of
studies in that coign of vantage,' remarked
Gertrude.

 While you are about it, you might learn
how to make door-mats. Even that is a
respectable industry,' followed up Sir John,
unpleasantly humorous.

Flossie, needless to say, was already drowned
in tears ; and Mark, as inevitably vanquished,
felt angry with himself for having exposed
her. But he knew her tricks of old ; they had
always annoyed him ; and to-day he was in no
mood to submit to needless annoyance.

Take what you want and run away he
said, with rough good-nature.

Flossie hastily seized upon a Greek lexicon,
and, unmindful of Mark's amused smile, dashed
with this useful prize from the room.

Gertrude wants me to turn them out ; and
I think she is right,' pursued Sir John to his
son.

You mistake me,' interposed his wife
coldly. ' I want you to maintain them under
some other roof than this.'

I don't see why Florence should not he
made to work,' said he. ' If she became a
daily teacher, now that Dorothy is away, she
might support herself and her mother also.'

Good heavens ! What could she teach ?
exclaimed ]clark. Every one of the trio knead
what a dunce she was.

I have done enough for. them,' Sir John
resumed doggedly.

You have done so much, sir, that it seems
to me you are bound to do to the end,'
answered his son.

VOL. TI. 32

/

I will trouble sou not to lecture,' retorted
Sir John. ' A little more and I will turn
Mrs. Hatherley and her daughter adrift this
very night.'

Not to please me, then,' said Gertrude,
rising. ' I withdraw my request. I would
far rather endure any spying and any insult
than that your son should be pained by an act
of injustice committed in my name.'

You are suddenly become very tender of
your stepson's feelings, madam,' snarled her
husband.

Not so,' she answered. ' I am only
grateful to him for having restored to me
my faith in human nature.'

Then feeling how melodramatic this must
sound to the cold, self-contained, reserved
Mark, she quitted the room.

Sir John sardonically observed that she was
always in heroics. Mark made no reply, for
his mind was full of facts which he had come
to communicate to his father.

That evening there was to be a dinner-party

at The Limes. Not, indeed, one of the
large banquets announced by Mrs. Burton
only twelve people in all.

The guests were politely concerned on
arriving' to be told that Sir John was very
unwell. Just as he had finished dressing for
dinner he had been seized in the usual way,
and was even now beincr treated with smelling
salts and brandy in his bedroom. Nevertheless
he was rallying ; and his friends were
only entreated to have a little kind patience.
So they waited, endeavouring with indifferent
success to foret their huno-er in looking"

o o o

at photographs, and entertained by Mrs.
Hatherley, whose absent air was put down
to anxiety, while Flossie had reddened eyelids.
Presently Mark came in, very pale
and a little stern ; announcing, however, that
his father was better.

And then, five minutes later, the folding-doors
were flung back, and Sir John, wax-like,
rather feeble, but picturesque, patient,
and benign, advanced slowly on the arm of

322

this beautiful and haughty-looking young
wife. He was full of courteous excuses, of
noble endurance, and waived away all
inquiries with the stoic observation that
the first thing now to be done was to dine.
He exchanged Gertrude's arm for that of a
stout dowager, and remarked as he led her towards
the dining-room, that, like Charles II.,
he ought to apologize for being so long in
dying'.

Goodness, Sir John ! but sou are already
better,' exclaimed the worthy dame.

Mine is a mere death-incline. Pain is
consuming me by inches.'

The dowager felt embarrassed, and, as she
afterwards averred, for the first two courses
and an entree ate no more than a bird.

In which case,' somebody remarked, ' the
bird she must have meant was a cormorant.'

Sir John had never been more transcendental
than on this occasion. He was apparently
racked by pain, and made everybody uncomfortable
who looked at him ; he persisted in

talking, and his utterances were formed with
a fastidious and lofty morality ; but he was
not exactly amusing. clark scarcely opened
his lips, and Gertrude looked a triiie more
bored than usual. Xevertheless the guests
were satisfied, for they were right-royally
ted.

May, that terrible May of 1871, was drawing
to its close ; and the talk inevitably
turned on burning Paris. Much sympathy
was expressed with Lady and Mrs. Hatherley,
who had relatives there ; but the former carelessly
said that they had received telegrams
which set their minds at ease.

After dinner, in the drawing-room, the conversation
went droning along; the weary wheel
of platitude turning, turning ; only stayed
occasionally when some young lady mildly
warbled a ditty ; and red-faced old gentlemen
beat the measure, all out of time, with their
forefingers, and reflected upon the excellence of
the lately-imbibed champagne.

All at once Sir John fainted again; at least,

he turned pale, put his hand to his heart, and
dropped his head. Then followed a gradual
melting away of the guests, secretly glad to
get off, and secretly gladder to think that this
time the dinner had been eaten. And Avhen
the house was clear of strangers, Sir John
recovered, and with a promptitude which to
a suspicious mind might have been suggestive.


For now as he rose and announced that he
was going at once to bed, he did not look so
much ill as anxious. At least, so it struck
Gertrude, who was watching him. His eyes
had a new expression  sullen, hunted  and
his manner was almost savage, as he requested
that some brandy might be given to
him.

It was brought, and water with it. Sir
John poured out a wineglassful, and then,
to the astonishment of everybody, he drained
it neat. Into one had ever seen him do such a
thing before ; for he was singularly temperate.
After this he turned away without saying

Good-night ;' slowly, but steadily, mounted
the stairs to this dressing-room alone, and
locked himself in.

Gertrude was about to follow his example,
when she was confronted by the respectful
figure of the butler.

If you please, my lady, this letter arrived
by the evening post, but in the confusion
before diner about Sir John's illness. Perkins
forgot to give it to you.'

Fresh food, this, for observation on the part
of Mrs. Hatherley and Flossie. They both
strained their eyes diligently ; and were presently
elated by seeing the envelope slip
unnoticed from Gertrude's grasp, and flutter
alonir the folds of her dress to the floor.
Flossie, under pretence of shutting the window,
rose, and dexterously kicked the paper
under a table, Gertrude meanwhile being so
absorbed in the letter as to be unconscious of
all movement. On concluding, she looked
about for the envelope, Flossie very officiously
helping her ; so officiously, indeed, that Gertrude

lost patience with lier fussiness, and
exclaimed :

Oh ! it's no matter wished her a curt
Good-night,' and in her turn disappeared
upstairs.

She had hardly vanished through the 
door, when Flossie furtively, but
triumphantly, exhibited the captured envelope.
But the servants coming in to put out the
lights and shut up, Mrs. Hatherley made her a
sign to be careful, and only allowed her to
speak when in the haven of her bedroom.
Then, indeed, was the innocent-looking cover
produced and eagerly scrutinized.

The post-mark is Harwich,' said Florence.
Whom can she know there ?'

And the handwriting is a man's,' added
Mrs. Hatherley. ' Whose can it be ?'

The envelojDc, however, furnished no fuller
information, nor suggestion for further comment.


But hatred is imaginative and eloquent; and
the two women consequently found so much to

say that it was long past midnight before they
separated. Flossie's door having accidentally
remained ajar, Mrs. Hatherley passed through
it without any noise, for the hour was late.
What was it then that made her pause on the
threshold, peer cautiously, with bated breathy
for a moment, then slip out stealthily, without
even a word to her child ? Through the darkness
of the corridor a light had flashed, the
light of a lamp held by Gertrude. Very
softly and carefully Lady Hatherley had
stepped out of her own bedroom-door, and
now was gliding, white and spectre-like,
down the broad, silent, and shadow-wrapt
staircase.

Not less quietly, not less ghost-like, did
Mrs. Hatherle}' follow her. With a beating
heart, lioweAer, for might she not at any
moment be discovered ? It really was a
perilous undertaking, for the staircase had no
convenient nooks, or dark turnings, Moliere the
pursuer might flatten herself against the Avail
and be invisible to the eyes of the pursued.

It made the fourth side of the wide quadrangle,
surrounded on the other three with a corridor,
into which all the bed-chambers and other
rooms of the first-floor opened. At a certain
point it merged momentarily into a wide landing
o- and then struck downwards in one
straight, broad flight.

Gertrude, swift and white as a dove, has
reached the landing, and flashed, phantom-like,
past the tall mirror let into the wall there.
Mrs. Hatherley, noiseless as a dream in her
shoes of felt, grey in her wraps as the shade of
a friar, has followed, and in her turn been
transiently, but more indistinctly, reflected in
the glass. The landing creaks beneath her
tread ; she cowers breathless ; and Gertrude,
her foot on the lowest step, half turns to
look.

At this moment a door on the ground-floor
flies open with a crash, and Mrs. Hatherley's
nerves are so excited that she has much ado
not to shriek. It was, however, ' the wind
and nothing more ;' although it has done her

one good turn, for it has blown out the lamp
held aloft by Lady Hatherley, and plunged all
things m darkness. Gertrude utters a low-toned
exclamation of annoyance ; the elder
woman stops short, holding her breath and
side, fearful lest her heart-beats should betray
her. Gertrude listens apparently for a moment,
then gropes her Avay along the hall.
She has remembered that on the library table
are matches, and the library is her destination.
She leaves the door ojen, so that the starlight,
faintly shining; through one or two windows in
the corridor above, may guide her a little, and
searches warily for the matches. Unperceived
by her, Mrs. Hatherley has also slipped into
the library, and is even now crouching in the
friendly shade of a deep bookcase. As Gertrude
has her back to her, she counts on
escape fi-om detection. Lady Hatherley has
found the matches, and strikes one ; then
endeavours to delight the lamp ; but the
chimney is too hot ; it burns her delicate
fingers, and she desists fi:*om the attempt. She

finds a taper, set in a little brass candlestick,
and lights that. Then she turns, surveys the
room with the help of this flickering, tiny
flame ; approaches the door, closes, and
locks it.

That was the worst moment of all for the
watcher. She stood squeezing herself into
nothing' against the side of the bookcase ;
hardly daring for an instant even to shoot
out her slender head, and white, tense
face, set with two burning eyes, that gleamed
like a wildcat's in the shadow of forest
leaves.

The next thing Gertrude did was to produce
a jingling bunch of keys ; Sir John's
keys evidently, for she walked to the bureau
and unlocked it.

Mrs. Hatherley's blood ran cold at sight of
the audacity. And how could she have
obtained 2:)os session of the keys ? It was
known that her husband  ever since the
loss of the Psalter especially  always slept
with them under his pillow. Through the

Creole's excited brain galloped all kinds of
fantastic ideas. Perhaps this vile young
woman had drugged Sir John : or even 
poisoned him ? Oh, if she had ! Mrs. Fatherly
very nearly put her hands together  to
petition some unknown power of darkness for
such a consummation, so strong in her at this
moment was hatred, so deadened was civilized
conscience.

Gertrude, meanwhile, all unconscious of
the Witch's Sabbath Dance of unnameable
thoughts whirling madly within twenty paces
of her, was quietly, but not slowly, turning
over Sir John's most secret papers. Clearly
she was looking for something, which as
clearly she could not find.

Every now and again she gave a weary
sigh of disappointment ; more often it was a
little exclamation, apparently of surprised
dismay. She seemed to be making a series of
discoveries. What could they be ? Mrs.
Fatherless's thin fingers clenched themselves
involuntarily, and tugged at the folds of her

dressing-gown in a very excess of nervous
impatience. If she could but know the
secret  know it also to be damning to her
rival  then spring upon her, and wrest it
from her, and expose her ! But, no. She
must wait and watch, and have patience,
when patience there was none in her soul.
She must grow every moment more numbed
with cold and sicken with hope deferred, while
the library clock ticked the minutes with a
maddening calm, and the chilliness of the
coming dawn crept slowly through the silent
house.

All at once Gertrude took to tapping the
inside of the bureau, and shaking, one after
another, its numberless little drawers. Every
instant she repeated this surprising manoeuvre
with more and more determination, as of
a person waxing unendurable impatient.
Another shake  another tap. Mrs. Fatherly's
feet took to dancing of their OAvn accord,
and she had great work to keep down the
gurgle of excitement that would come up in

her throat, and threaten to choke if not to
betray her.

Then suddenly, just as she thought she
must suffocate, she heard Gertrude give a cr\'
of exultation, hastily extract a bundle of
papers, and hold them to the light. Presently,
to ]airs. Hatherley's indignation, she
separated one paper from the rest, and
pocketed it.  Then she fell to perusing
another ; hut hardly had she begun, when a
second exclamation was wrung from her, this
time of amazement. Apparently she could
not believe her eyes ; for, holding the paper
away from her and close against the now dying
flame of the spent taper, she began to read it a
second time.

And by this time Mrs. Hatherley, noiselessly
emerging', cautiously oiidino' alone the
thick carpet, had crept up close behind her 
closer  closer ; and now, stretching out her
eager head, was reading, unnoticed, over her
shoulder. Then, as she, too, grasped the
written meaning, she, too, gave a shout of

triumph ; and as Gertrude, startled, turned
upon her, the taper flared up in one concluding
splutter and went out. The Creole
seized lier enemy's wrist, and with it the
paper ; and in the darkness began a crazy
struo'ofle.

Let me go !' raved Gertrude, panting.
Are you mad ?'

Mad ?' cried Mrs. Hatherley. ' Yes ; mad
with joy  mad with triumph! My boy  my
boy ! Ah !'

This final shriek was wrung from her by
Gertrude's escape.

With one strenuous effort, the latter freed
herself; brought down, with compromising
noise, two chairs and a heap of books ; was
again half-caught, again eluded the outstretched
hands ; and, groping wildly for the
door, unlocked it and rushed out. Rushed,
but not pursued ; for Mrs. Hatherley,
shedding shawls as she went, was on her
traces. And not undiscovered ; for as she
burst into the hall, two lamps simultaneously

illumined the scene, and Mark, in his dressing-gown,
appeared from the upper regions, while
the butler, in his shirt sleeves, emerged from
the lower.

VOL. II. 33

]MES. Fatherly S Revenge.

TR John Fatherly's butler
slept just under the library ; Mark
Hatherley just above it. The
latter had been sitting up writing ; the former
was roused by the first noise of struggle in
the library. He had risen in haste, when the
crash further alarmed him. It also startled
Mark. Both had seized a light. One
ascended ; the other descended ; and now,
profoundly astonished, both stood confronting
the two frantic women.

AYhat on earth is the matter ?' inquired
Mark.

Gertrude, as pale as a sheet with anger,
shrugged her shoulders scornfully, and remained
silent.

Look !' raved Mrs. Hatherley. ' The receipt
 for the Psalter  Richard Dallas  my
Willie innocent ! Lady Hatherley, I '

She stopped, fairly choked with fury and
asthma. She could speak no more, but with
outstretched, shaking hands, with blazing eyes,
and quivering form, still stood mutely denouncing.



May I see ?' said Mark quietly, and approached
Lady Hatherley.

She still held the paper crushed in her hand ;
but now, at his request, relinquished it. He
held it up to the light and read it, surprise not
unmixed with sternness slowly gathering over
his features as he did so.

Will you come into the library ?' he said
briefly. ' You also, Aunt Laura. Rawlins
I think you need not wait.'

And Rawlins retired, as impassive as though

332

he had been destiny incorporate, instead of a
mere amazed spectator of it.

Mark led the way into the library, and installed
himself in an armchair.

'And now, will you explain what all this
means T he said quietly.

Thus admonished, Mrs. Fatherless started
off instantaneously upon a rambling, excited
statement of how she had followed Gertrude
downstairs, watched her proceedings at the
bureau, and pounced upon her finally in the
moment of her finding the receipt.

My Willie was calumniated to shield the
guilty. The receipt mentions Richard Dallas;
therefore, the Psalter was sold by him. He
was not the thief, but the thief's accomplice.
He doubtless divided the spoils ; and the
instigator of his deed stands there'

And she almost cast herself anew upon
Gertrude. But Mark took her firmly by the
two wrists and forced her quietly into a
seat.

Before making such statements. Aunt

Laura, you should be prepared with proofs
he said, with stem rebuke.

'Proofs?' shrieked Mrs. Hatherley. 'The
proof lies in that paper. Xo doubt one day
lier husband, or somebody else, surprised her
with the receipt in her hand ; she thrust it into
the bureau, and now, like a thief in the
night, has crept down to regain possession
of it.'

Then, for the first time Gertrude broke
silence.

I found the receipt by accident in a secret
drawer of which I had never before discovered
the existence. I was unbounded when I
saw it.'

She spoke with contemptuous calm, and
pointed towards the open bureau. clark
turned to look at it. There, indeed, gaped a
small receptacle which was as new to him as
to anybody.

Do you not think it much more likely
that my father himself put the receipt in that
hiding-place ? Very probably he alone knew

of such a drawer he said, still quietly addressing
his aunt.

Then he had discovered the theft and
sought to shield her,' panted Mrs. Hatherley.

She was exasperated at Mark's calm.
Could he also intend to take part with the
enemy ? Was her prey after all to escape
her? At the bare idea she began to sob
hysterically. Mark rose to put an end to the
scene. He did not understand the affair of
the receipt, nor very earnestly wish to understand
it. He had many vague floating
suspicions, but one recurred more frequently
and grew every moment more coherent than
all the rest. In any case, however, the business
concerned his father more than himself,
and he wished to have as little to do with it
as possible. When Mrs. Hatherley saw him
deliberately locking up the bureau and preparing
to depart, her angry consternation
knew no bounds. Was nothing to be done
to that woman, standing there in her insolent
calm and galling beauty ? Were no questions

to be asked of her ; no humiliation apportioned
; no punishment inflicted? Half goaded
to madness, she turned upon her savagely.

You do not speak because you dare not,'
she cried. ' If you were one whit less
cunning or less shameless, you would seek by
some falsehood to explain your presence here
to-nio'ht.'

I came to seek for a paper,' answered
Gertrude haughtily. ' Xot the one you think,
for I did not know of its existence. I
waited till my husband was asleep, and abstracted
the keys from beneath his pillow. I
shall explain nothing ; extenuate nothing ; far
less shall I deny. My act was mean  it was
not criminal. You may blazon it for your
satisfaction over Elmsleigh tomorrow.'

And with one parting, defiant glance, she
swept fi'om the room,

When I think ' began Mrs. Fatherly.



Think nothing,' Mark interrupted curtly.
 I am going back to my room. I do not

know what you intend to do, Aunt Laura,
but I should advise you to follow my example.'


He paused for an instant ; but as no answer
came from her petrified lips, he coolly deposited
the lamp upon the table for her, and
wended his own way upstairs through the first
faint glimmer of the dawn.

Mrs. Hatherle}' stood rooted to the ground.
Then as all her disappointment, all her
baffled rage, her foiled revenge, her useless
craft and wasted patience swept over her in a
flood of recollection, she clasped her hands
above her head and sent a cry into the
lonely stillness that was like the shriek of
some wild, wounded animal. She staggered
backwards, clutched vainly at the table for
support, and fell in a heap to the ground.
There the excellent Rawlins, fated to have little
slumber that night, found her in a profound
faint. And thence, thinking that Pandemonium
was let loose upon the family, he conveyed
her to her bedroom, and summoned a

maid to her assistance. Florence Alas also
roused ; Mark o't little more rest ; a doctor
was sent for, and the whole household was
soon astir.

Only Sir John still slept on, until at last
his stertorous breathing; drew the attention
of his startled wife. Then Dr. Hervey was
summoned from Mrs. Hatherley's bedside and
brought into the room.

And when all Elmsleio'h sat down to
breakfast that morning, it Alas regaled through
the newspapers with one piece of news, and
through the peripatetic baker and butcher
boys with another. The first was that the
Aztec Mine Company had fraudulently collapsed.
The other was that Sir John Fatherly
had had a paralytic seizure in the night, and
was not o;oincy to recover.

This, however, turned out to be a mistake.
A seizure he had indeed had, but nota
severe one. In fact, his consciousness soon
returned, and he did the greatest honour to
Dr. Hervey's remedies. But he was ordered

unbroken quiet, and lay in a darkened
chamber throughout the honos hours of the
da : while in the city maddened speculators
were cursing his name, and the women and
children whom he had ruined were staring
hunger in the face.

For the next two or three days, all the
brunt of the disaster and all the shame of it
fell upon Mark. He went about, very stern
and pale ; seeking counsel from few and
comfort from none. They were very bitter
hours for him ; but since the blow was inevitable
he was relieved that it had fallen. And
some small solace he found in the reflection
that his hands at last Avere free to act as he
thought fittest.

Late in the afternoon of the day following
the eventful night, Gertrude met Mark in
the corridor. For more than twelve hours
they had hardly exchanged a word, but now
she stopped him.

I telegraphed this morning to my brother,
Richard Dallas, to ask for an explanation of

that receipt she said. ' I have had no answer.
I siip])ose it will come soon.'

I dare say it will clark answered kindly
rather than otherwise, for he was struck with
her pallor and exhausted air.

I had nothing to do with the rising
Psalter Lady Hatherley added, after a
pause.

After all, it was this which she most
wished to say to him, for her pride had been
humiliated by his discovery of her clandestine
visit to the library, and from unjust
suspicion she at least wished to free herself
in his eyes.

I never thought you had anything to do
with it clark replied gravely. ' Have you
heard the news ? Do you know that if my
father is not ruined, he should be ?'

I am almost glad,' said Gertrude.

Glad ?'

Yes, oflad. Some things which look like
punishment come as a release from bondage,
you knoAv,' she answered quietly ; then,

almost before lie knew it, had left his
side.

She was truer, perhaps, in these moments
than she had ever been in all her life. What
was most womanly in her was touched, by
Sir John's helpless condition ; what was
most practical was called forti by the need of
tending him. Moreover, her brain, ever
busy, had already outstripped the sordid present,
and was hastening' towards the changed
life beyond. She would quit Elmsleigh and
the people who irritated and bored her. And
though there might be discomfort to endure,
it would be discomfort mixed with novelty ;
and to Gertrude it always seemed as though
change were the one thing necessary for freeing
her imprisoned spirit.

Meanwhile rumour was extremely busy
with her name. ]\lrs. Hatherley had not
been silent ; and the butler, though grave asa
court chamberlain upstairs, had not been
able to resist the temptation of taking his
fellow-servants into his confidence. Mrs.

Hatherley had never been above such small
arts as ingratiate domestics, and lie was far
more popular in the servants-hall than the
disdainful young mistress. Public opinion,
with its cheer logic, thought much less ill
of her for spying at Gertrude's actions, than
with Gertrude for rummaging among her
husband's drawers. A garbled account of
the scene in the library, mixed with a still
more imperfect report of some letter addressed
to Lady Hatherley, got abroad, and, while
blackening Gertrude, it exalted Mrs. Hatherley.
The latter and Florence found themselves
almost as popular as in the halcyon days succeeding
the news of Sir John's engagement.
Day after day they set out upon a sociable
round of visits ; and wherever they appeared
were welcome. Most fervent among their
partisans was Mrs. Burton.

When I think,' said that virtuous and perspicacious
lady, ' when I think of how I ever
mistrusted Sir John, T am really almost
tempted to pronounce myself inspired.'

We are fortunate in the possession in our
midst of so much infallibility,' remarked
some one ; but it was only a brute of a man.

I am not clever continued Mrs. Burton ;
and I have often regretted it ; although I
must own that with the present dreadful
notions prevailing among intellectual people
everywhere, I feel inclined to place the Heart
above the head. But as I was saying, I am
not clever.'

'La!' cried Flossie. ' When you first came
here, you said there was not a creature fit to
exchange an idea with.'

You sweet, impertinent pet,' replied ]airs.
Burton fondly. ' I think you must have misunderstood
me. One of the reasons why I
finally made up my mind to separate from my
darling daughter and marry Mr. Burton was,
because I felt that, with my deficiencies, the
thing I was best fitted for was parish work.
There I could be guided and instructed.
There, working under a superior intellect, I
could be useful

It is to be presumed that the idea of mr.
Burton's superior intellect was so new as to
strike everybody dumb with surprise. For
after looking sweetly round the circle for an
answer and receiving none, ]airs. Burton continued
:

Xo. I have few gifts. AYe cannot all be
talented ; and talent is often a snare. But if
there be one thing in which I think I may
claim some small power, it is in the divination
of character. Even this I should hardly venture
to say of myself, only that I have been
sometimes told it.'

I shouldn't have said you were penetrating
drawled Mrs. Hatherley, with her best air of
stupidity.

Xo ?' said Mrs. Burton, and put her
golden head on one side, like a bird contemplating
a worm. ' Xo ? That is what Mr.
Burton often says. I look so innocent, he
tells me. But you must all take care ; I am
deeper than I seem. And from the very first
moment I saw through Sir John  through

him. and through that shameless girl, Gertrude
Dallas.'

Mrs. Burton was fortunate m her subject.
Gertrude was now so thoroughly detested
that people were anxious to abuse her. And
this anxiety left nobody leisure to be critical.
Consequently ]\lrs. Burton's statements about
her own insight passed unchallenged, and the
tide of gossip) flowed on.

While Elmsleio'h talked, and Sir John grew

CD > O

slowly better, and the law wove its toils about
him, and even sent down its agents to The
Limes, there to await his recovery, Mark was
making one discovery after another. To the
proud young man, a little stern hitherto in
his own unstained integrity, such disgrace as
awaited him, and even now made itself apparent
in his father's ruin, was hard enough to
bear. But what rendered the burden of it
almost intolerable, was to find how deliberately
planned and steadily carried out had been Sir
John's deception of his family and the world.
And the meanness of the modes employed by

him was only equalled by the sordidness of
the ends pursued.

 To play with loaded dice for such a stake I'
was often Mark's reflection, on finding' that
constantly Sir John had sacrificed some
scheme of financial success to the paltry
theatrical of his social life. He had made
one or two good coups  had one or two
strokes of luck, and for a certain number of
years had been rich indeed. But a corroding
spirit of indolence was in him, and an empty
vanity that made him clings to shows and gewgaws.
In a word, he had one of the natures
which a public admiration intoxicates, without
the energy to play even momentarily an
exalted part. Everything about him, as
Mark bit by bit discovered, was tinsel, sham,
pretence. To stay the increasing clamour of
his creditors, and blind the world to the final
proof of his insolvency, there had been no
craft which he had not resorted to. The very
money for his marriage he had obtained by the
secret sale of his plate ; and the diamonds 

VOL. II. 34

the famous diamonds  which he had bestowed
upon his bride were paste ! A masquerade, so
prolonged and so unworthy, propped uj) by
such devices and maintained with a perseverance
so insane, would have been ludicrous,
if for clark it had not been tragical.

'Your diamonds are false,' said Mark to
(gertrude, on returning the parure after having
borrowed it to test them.

Her eves flashed with anoer for a second.
To know herself deluded even here was
titter.

If they had been genuine, I should have
asked you to surrender them,' continued Mark,
in a low tone. * They were bought at a time
when all my father's money was due to those
who had trusted him.'

He had trained himself to say these things
calmly, but even yet a change in his voice
showed how much the calmness cost him.

Gertrude was touched. She hesitated for a
moment, the cynicism of years struggling in
her with one of her impulses of generosity.

Then, suddenly she snatched the rings from
her fingers, the diamonds from her ears, and
cast them in a glittering little heap on
the table. These at least Avere real ; it had
been one of Sir John's devices to take care of
that.

Please sell them,' she said, ' and give the
money to whom you please. It won't be
much, but it is all I have.'

And before, surprised and a little pleased, he
could find words to reject her sacrifice, she
hastily left the room.

Dear me !' said Mrs. Hatherley, meeting
Gertrude five minutes later in the corridor.
What have you done with your earrings ? And
your rings, too ?'

I have given them away,' said Gertrude
contemptuously.

Given them away. Nonsense!'

Mrs. Hatherley looked extremely incredulous.


It is quite true, I assure you,' retorted
Lady Hatherley insolently. ' I generally tell

342

you the truth. There are people who are not
worth the intellectual effort implied in a
plausible lie.'

Gertrude's tongue was a scorpion-whip in
these days to Mrs. Hatherley. She did not
often speak to her ; but Avhen she did, every
word cut like a lash. The Creole quivered
with mortification as much as resentment.

Your brother has never answered your
telegram, I believe?' she called after her
enemy, by way of a Parthian shot.

Gertrude merely shrugged her shoulders
and went on her way. It was quite true that
Dick had not telegraphed, although her own
message had been sent two days ago. The
explanation of the sold Psalter had become so
obvious since, that she had hardly reflected on
her brother's silence; but now she came to
think of it, she did find it strange, and she
resolved to write to Paris on the morrow.

IX THE WATCHES OF THE NIGHT.

BOUT half an hour later on the same
afternoon. Flossie, her small bright
eyes, like black beads, sparkling
with excitement, bounded upstairs, and burst
panting into her mother's room.

I thought I should never be released. He
is only just gone,' she said, graphically but
incoherently, and subsided into the nearest
chair.

Released ? From where ? Who is only just
gone?' asked Mrs. Hatherley with impatience.
 Her visitor.'
The personal and possessive pronouns,

anonymously used by the widow and her
daughter, invariably meant Gertrude.

Has she had a visitor?'

Flossie nodded portentously.

A man, mamma ! The man from Harwich.'

'0 h!' If Harwich had been Broad-moor,
Mrs. Hatherley could not have looked
more scandalized  or gratified. ' How do
you know, Flossie?'

At this point Flossie showed some slight
signs of embarrassment.

Well, you see,' she began slowly, ' I  I
chanced to see him come. I was going into
the garden  so  and of course I went. And
I wanted to look at the Gloire de Dijon under
the library window.'

Here she paused. She was nothing but a
little spy; and she knew it, and her mother
knew it. But though education had not suppressed
her natural proclivities, it had made
her the least bit in the world ashamed of them.

I see,' said Mrs. Hatherley carelessly.
And I suppose the window was open ?'

Yes. And so of course I could not help
hearing a little.'

Of course not.'

Mrs. Hatlierley's feet began to beat a small
tattoo of impatience.

 But I did not hear much,' continued Flossie,
and looked this time, to do her justice, very
frankly aggrieved. ' Only a few words.'

And what were they ?'

 He said: '' Look here, Gerty, you know I
mit have money. The journey from Harwich
cleared me out. ( 'an't you sell something  or
olive me even a runs; ?" '

 Go on.'

sirs. Hatherley was sitting bolt upright nov,
from sheer excess of eagerness.

That was all,' said Flossie dolorously.
She came and shut the window. I had only
just time to hide myself; otherwise she would
have said I was listening  spiteful thing I'

Florence,' exclaimed her mother impressively,
' the depth of depravity in that woman
is a tliino- I never could have believed had I

not seen it She paused, and looked so
solemnly into Flossie's eyes, that she brought
tears of terrified excitement into them. ' Do
you know what she has done?'

Oh, what?' Flossie nearly screamed. Had
Gertrude murdered the man from Harwich and
concealed his body beneath the library sofa ?

She has given him all her jewels,' replied
Mrs. Hatherley, in a deep tone. ' I chance to
know it.'

Oh, my gracious !' exclaimed Flossie.

Now, this conclusion of Mrs. Hatherley's
was really gratuitous, inasmuch as the interview
in the library had obviously taken place
after her OAvn with Gertrude in the corridor.
But to what conclusions will not the nimble
female mind jump, when edged on by suspicion
and inspired by spite? Mrs. Hatherley, ever
since that delirious night in the library, had
been suffering from pressure on the brain.
Her jaundiced mind made her loftily disdainful
of such futile particulars as dates and places.
She had wanted to know why Gertrude had

iiiveii away her trinkets. She had found a
plausible explanation. It did not lit. But that
was no matter. It was an explanation all
the same, and a compromising one to the
enemy.

That nio'ht when Gertrude went in as usual
to see Sir John, she was struck with the
chancre in him. He looked older, feebler, and
more shrunken than had yet been the case
throughout his illness.

Are you not so well ?' she asked him, gently
enough.

He lifted his hand to his head.

It is the pain here  here,' he said, impatiently.
" I cannot sleep. The room seems
fall of shadows  full of noises. Send for
Hervey. I must have chloral.'

She rang the bell to give the order.

You will let the nurse sit up with you tonight
?'

I will have no nurse,' said her husband, ina
tone of irritation. He had taken a dislike
to the woman and driven her away at an early

staofe in his illness, but she had remained in
the house all the same. The recovery Alas not
complete.

Then I will stay with you,' said Gertrude.

She had a curious dislike to be alone with
him, her overwrought nerves and deep aversion
struggling constantly in her nth a
woman's sense of duty to the helpless. Nevertheless,
she would sit up with him if nobody
else did.

Yes  stay, child. It is not much to ask.
You are sorry for me, are you not ?' asked the
old man. In truth he looked old now.

The suddenness of the question took her by
surprise. It was the first time he had ever
made any direct personal appeal of the sort
to his wife. Generally his selfishness was too
profound, his craft too cold to feel the need of
sympathy.

She stood silent, not knowing what to
answer. Did she feel sorry for it, this grey
head laid low in weakness and branded with
disgrace ? In such an unlovely old age lie

few elements of pathos, unless it be the pathos
of Nature's eternal u'ony.

Her silence struck him at last. Perhaps it
made the loneliness of this empty heart seem
greater. At any rate, he looked up and
stretched out his shaking hand.

Xo answer, my dear ? Are you glad, then,
to see me thus ?'

Glad !'

Gertrude echoed the word in a stifled voice.
AVith a shudder, as much of awe as repulsion,
she forced herself to lay her own hand in his
chill and feeble grass). Her whole being was in
revolt : nevertheless some unknooi power, the
majesty of a presence, unseen, unheard, yet
felt, drew her shrinking spirit forward to the
vero;e of a o'reat renunciation.

I am old  and ill. You see that I am ill
he continued with a strange eagerness. ' I
dare say I shall never be strong again, though
I may live for years. I  I know what has

happened ' here his grasp of her fingers

tightened, and his voice sank to a low

whisper. ' I have heard them talking, and I
knoAv I am ruined. But they will not touch
me  not a poor old, sick man like me. I
shall be free, but I shall be lonely. Mark will
go away. Those others also. But you will
stay, my dear ? You are young, you are
strong. And I have never been unkind to
you.'

Gertrude only answered with a dumb
agonized sob. She felt a very vertigo of self-sacrifice
draw her on to give the promise he
required of her ; yet she knew that when the
time came her soul would be filled with
revolt.

If you desert me  you, my Avise  who will
be true to me ? ]Not Mark. Listen, Gertrude ;
I will tell you something. I am afraid of
Mark. Afraid, do you hear ? He is so sternly
honest. He does not understand. He will
take everything from me, and leave me a poor
man, destitute and lonely. Everybody will be
unkind to me if you leave me,' he continued,
clutching at her dress now with this other

hand. * No one will touch me when you are
there. Promise, Gertrude, promise ! Remember
that you have sworn to obey me.'

 I promise,' she said at last, putting her
hand up to lier throat the while, as though she
drew her breath in pain.

We will go away, then,' he said, evidently
pleased. ' In a day or two, as soon as I am
:strong, we will start. clark shall arrange
everything for me here. I cannot be troubled.
I am too weak. We will live somewhere
quietly, with nobody to worry us. And I
will not use you ill, my dear. I never have 
have I ?

Xo,' she answered him mechanically, the
only sense alive in her a feelings of dull
torture.

She sat there while he dropped again into
uneasy slumber ; and every minute, marked
merely by the vibration of a soundless clock,
seemed to strike like a hammer upon her
throbbing brain. No sense of duty upheld
her; for she had not yielded to any definite

idea of right, but to a lialf- hysterical pity for
the old man's weakness. What was her life
henceforth to be, chained by the fetters she
herself had forged ? This question returned
again and again to her mind with a dreary
iteration.

He woke again in half an hour or so with a
start.

'Is Hervey not there? I cannot sleep.
Will no one send for Hervey ?'

I have sent. He will soon be here. He
was engaged,' answered Gertrude.

Sir John turned continually from side to
side. He was evidently suffering from that
painful excitability of the brain when ideas
present themselves only in fragments, and the
mind is full of disconnected images.

Chloral. I want chloral,* he perpetually
muttered ; until at last Gertrude could stand
it no longer, and rose to call Mark.

She had hardly reached the door, when she
met a servant, followed by Dr. Hervey.

I am so glad you came. I could not have

stayed there another minute,' she said, with
nnwittino- eagerness, her mind so overstrained
that she was not even aware of being excited.

The doctor looked at her in some surprise
and pity, struck by her deadly paleness and
the hunted expression of her eyes.

Is Sir John violent ?' he asked hastily, and
pressed forward without waiting for an answer.
The idea of this possible new development of
the malady had suddenly presented itself to
him ; and he was consequently a little astonished,
as well as relieved, to find the patient
lying there so quietly. But his professional
glance grew grave as he noted the ceaseless,
aimless movement of the feeble hands, and
heard the rapid eager tone in which Sir John
said :

Chloral, Hervey; I must have chloral. I
caiiQt sleep.'

Xow Dr. Hervey had a great objection to
narcotic. : it was one of his peculiarities.
Consequently he stood silent and doubtful ;
and finally began to suo'iest something' else.

Xo, no ; chloral, I tell you. It is the only
thing that agrees with me ; the only thing I
will take,' reiterated Sir John.

Well, only one dose then,' replied the
doctor reluctantly. * In compliance with
Lady Hatherley's message, and as it was
already so late, I brought a bottle with me.
It contains three doses, but you must only
take one.'

All right, only one. Don't look so grave,
Hervey. I am not a baby, nor so weak that
a narcotic Avill kill me. Did I not sit up today
? And even walk ?'

Humph !' said the doctor for all reply.
He did not speak his secret thought. It was
that Sir John's manner was much less calm
than he liked. The very freedom of his
address was so unlike his usual slightly
pompous and dignified utterances.

However, since chloral alone would satisfy
him, then chloral he must have.

But remember, only one dose. Lady
Hatherley,' said the doctor. ' And if that

fails to put him to sleep, which is likely
enough in his present state, without my
seeing him you must not repeat it. Who is
going to sit up with him ?'

I am,' said Gertrude.

You look anything but fit for it. Have
you been much fatigued ?'

No she answered, turning away, a little
fretted by his questioning.

Dr. Hervey did not like short answers ;
moreover, in common with most people in
Elmsleigh, he was prejudiced against Sir
John's young wife. Wherefore * Rude !' was
his mental comment on her manner.

Lady Hatherley seems very much fatigued,'
he remarked a few minutes later in the corridor
to a group composed of Mark, Mrs. Hatherley,
and the rejected nurse. ' Surely it would be
letter for Mrs. Wilson, here, to sit up tonight.'


My father does not wish it,' replied Mark,
with his quiet decision.

We know why !' interpolated Mrs. Fathers

II. 35

ley, with a slight toss of her head, promptly
copied by Mrs. Wilson. The nurse and Mrs.
Hatherley had become great allies, and the
former was perfectly convinced that an upstart
minx like Lady Hatherley could alone
have prejudiced Sir John against so estimable
a person as herself.

Dr. Hervey's eyes, with a quick, inquisitive
twinkle in them, travelled from one to the
other. The widow and Mrs. Wilson looked
unutterable things.

What these women are !' said the doctor,
on his way home, to himself, with all that
proud consciousness of sagacity in regard to
the fair sex which distinguishes a man who is
himself habitually henpecked. * That good-looking
young woman likes to do everything
for the old fellow herself. Afraid of being cut
out of his will ? Shouldn't wonder. What
they are ! Crafty as the deuce where their
own ends are concerned, and sieves for keeping
other people's secrets. Lucky I never tell any
of them anything.'

Xext morning at breakfast the Avortliy man
of healing perseveringly cross-questioned by
his better-half, confided to her his views
concerning Lady Hatherley.

But of course you Avon't repeat what I say,
Maria. It is not often I am so indiscreet.'

You need not remind me of the reserve
With which you usually treat me,' replied Mrs.
Hervey, resentment lending majesty io lier
speech. ' I am not aware that I ever repeated
one of the few confidences which you have
condescended to make me.'

And within an hour she had casually mentioned
to half a dozen people that the doctor
had the worst possible opinion of Lady
Hatherley : who, of course with some ulterior
object, would allow nobody to approach Sir
John but herself.

An hour after the chloral had been administered,
the sick man's restlessness had not
diminished, but increased. Gertrude, who
had very little experience of illness, and the
morbid sensitiveness to its manifestations of

352

all excitable people, felt a longing that increased
every moment in intensity to quiet
this ceaseless movement of the hands, and
still the low moaning. Always somewhat predisposed
to slight other people's opinions, she
began to wonder if there were really any
sense in Dr. Hervey's prohibition of the second
dose. She presently heard Mark's voice in
the adjoining sitting-room, where Mrs. Fatherly
and the nurse were still in confidential
conclave, and went in to ask his advice.
Needless to say that it was emphatically in
favour of obedience to the doctor. Gertrude
looked disappointed.

This restlessness must be much worse for
him than anything else.'

I dare say it is a common symptom. Is it
not, Mrs. Wilson ?' continued ]\Iark, appealing
to the nurse.

I have always understood, sir, that a
doctor's orders must go before everything.
But in this case I really must decline all
responsibility,' added that worthy woman.

clark turned from lier.

You lead better not give the chloral, I
think,' he said to Gertrude.

It's here, my lady ; on that tal)le yonder.
I thought it best to bring it away when the
doctor put it into my hand. But I can give
it back to you, my lady, if you wish.'

What is the use of giving it back to me,
when Sir John is not to take it ?' answered
Gertrude irritably, as she left the room.

Mark followed her.

You look ver' tired, Lady Hatherley.
Could not I sit up the rest of the night T

Xo, no. Let me do it. I must, I must,'
lie answered, clasping and unclasping her
burning; hands.

I can lie down on the sofa here, my lady
so as to be easily called if you require me,'
interposed the nurse, standing in the doorway.


I shall want nothing. And if I do, what
is it to walk to the end of the corridor to
rouse you ?' replied Gertrude, hardly more

amiably than before, for the woman's resentful
obsequiousness annoyed her.

She went back into the bedroom and resumed
her weary watch. He was quieter
now, she noticed, With relief; not the pathetic
relief of love, indeed, but a thankfulness for
the cessation of a painful phenomenon. She
lav back in her armchair and raised her hands
to her own throbbing temples. The pain
there was intense; there was no fear of her
sleeping with it, she thought. The minutes
passed, more audible now by the loud ticking
of the hall clock sounding through the hushed
house. The shadows deepened in the large
room, and the reflection of the night-light on
the ceiling grew ruddier; a deeper darkness
entrapped the bed. Sir John was apparently
asleep. To-morrow, said Gertrude to herself,
he would probably be much better ; and she
smiled Aith a sad irony, thinking how many
hearts the improvement, usually so joyfully
hailed, would leave cold. She fell to musing.
Her thoughts, released by the soothing silence

from their tension, wandered aimlessly from
one tiling to another, from the past to the
present. She had none of the carling anxiety
which generally attends such watches as hers,
and narrows every sense and feeling to one
intense and sleepless flame-point of attention.
Gradually, without noticing it, her muscles
relaxed; the torpor succeeding to pain enveloped
her brain. And she slumbered.

When she awoke again it was with a start,
and a sense that some stir or summons had
roused her. With some self-reproach, she
started up. Had he called her?

The first faint glimmer of the dawn came
through the closed shutters, and by it Gertrude
dimly descried her husband lying partially
crosswise, and with one hand on the
table beside his bed. She rose and very gently
moved him, as well as she could, into an easier
posture. His hand was a little cold, but not
very. She covered it with the sheet. Then,
noticing' that a lock of his hair  that soft,
beautiful, snow-white hair, that made him look

like a bard  had fallen over his eyes, lie
stroked it softly back. Involuntarily her
fingers, moved by some tiny electrical wave of
human sympathy, lingered for a second on the
handsome but not noble brow. She was conscious,
or fancied she was conscious, of some
new solemnity in the picturesque head : doubtless
it was the wan lioht that o'ave it.

Patiently she resumed her watch, shivering
a little with the early chillness, and dreamily
marking the dim procession of shadows on the
walls called ujd by the growing brightness that
struggled through every chink. They were
rather ghostly, these shadows  to her fantastic
imagination they were like a gathering of
pallid visitants from Hades. After a while,
they even struck her as uncanny. The sun
must be fairly high in the heavens by now,
she thought, hearing the sounds of awakened
life through the house; and she longed for
light and air, yet ventured not to stir, for fear
of startling the sleeper.

Her foot accidentally struck an object on

the carpet. It Alas hard, and she stooped to
lift and to examine it. It was a small bottle :
the cork was out, the phial empty; and surely
yes, surely it smelt of chloral ! Bewildered,
she rose. Had not the nurse taken away the
chloral? AVhat had happened?

Sir John ? He was very quiet  too quiet.
She tremblingly laid her hand upon him;
then drew back with a stifled cry. He was
icy cold. Quick as thought, she flew to the
nearest window and tore the shutters open.
Then, with a shudder of dread, forced herself
to turn and look. In the golden sunlight her
husband's face was revealed to her, cold and
grey. He was dead. So much she felt, though
she had never before seen a corpse. Had he
died while she slept ? Had her carelessness
killed him?

The very thought of all those hours passed
unknowingly in the presence of Death filled
the excited woman with horror. She flew
down the passage, calling :

'Mark! Mark!'

WAS IT CHLORAL?

'dark, already dressed, came hastily
out of his bedroom; Mrs. Fatherly's
head appeared discreetly at
the door of hers ; several servants hmTied to
the scene, for Gertrude's call had carried consternation.


 Your father !' she cried. ' Quick ! He is
dead ! He took an overdose of chloral, I
think. Oh ! why did I sleep ?'

She really was nearly beside herself, and
stood wringing her hands in the midst of
them all, able to think of nothing clearly, and
shaken with the horror of her discovery.

Mark went into the silent chamber; issued
again, however, before a mute had passed,
looking' very octave but calm.

He is indeed dead. Let somebody go immediately
for Dr. Hervey he said in low,
steady tones ; then stayed by the door with
the downcast eyes and compressed lips of one
whose thoughts are various and solemn.

Some natural grief he felt at this tragically
sudden snapping of the familiar life. Some
sorrowful awe had filled him at the sight of
the rigid form, so well known, still untouched
by corruption, yet already so mysteriously
changed. And inevitable as his awe and his
grief, stronger than either, was that vain but
pathetic regret of the Hying for the words that
may never more be spoken. But Mark in
these latter days had felt too keenly the disgrace
that had fallen on his father's name, and
feared too strongly the punishment which
might await him, not to have a sense of relief
at the thought that Death had stayed the hand
of Justice and must still the voice of Reproach.

Ah, better so ! Since the inexorable hour
must sound for all, would that for all it might
sound so mercifully !

Mark was roused from his musing by a
touch upon his arm. His aunt stood beside
him, her eyes bright with their well-known
glitter of unutterable thoughts.

Did you hear Avhat she said, Mark ?'

She ? Who ?' he asked, half bewildered.

Who? Lady Hatherley.' The Creole
pointed to the door of the sitting-room whither
Gertrude had betaken herself. * She said her
husband took an overdose of chloral ivliile she
slept''

The emphasis with which these concluding
words were spoken passed unheeded by Mark.
He had grown indifferent to the widow's
recent melodramatic ways. But her speech
roused his interest. He entered the sitting-room,
Mrs. Hatherley giidhig after him in her
usual stealthy manner. Gertrude was sitting on
a sofa, leaning back and with her hands crossed
upon her knees, in the attitude and with the

look of a person whose mind is absorbed by
one idea. She was outwardly much calmer
than at first ; but, questioned, began relating
all she knew with a rapidity and concentrated
eagerness that betrayed her real excitement.


Do you thmk lie drank the chloral while
I slept ?' she whispered, still pursued by that
dreadful doubt.

Perhaps he never drank it at all. You
found the bottle on the floor. He may have
swept it down with his hand,' said Mark.

Then what killed him ?' asked Gertrude
quickly.

Possibly a stroke. But there shall be a
post-mortem examination, if Dr. Hervey thinks
that may be of use in the way of revelation,' he
answered kindly.

A thought of sad irony almost made him
smile. Sir John had loved mystification.
Was his final exit fi'om the scene of his long*
comedy to be itself a riddle ?

I do not understand,' began Mrs. Hatherley

slowly, ' why the chloral bottle should have
been by his bed at all. The nurse,' she
added more emphatically, * said she brought it
away.'

True. In here.'

Mark started up and turned towards the
table. There was indeed a bottle with a small
quantity of a pale-coloured liquid in it, which
was obviously not chloral.

The stupid woman ! she must have made
a mistake,' exclaimed Mark, addressing his

aunt.

Mrs. Hatherley's eyelashes flicked. Presumably
it was in assent, for further answer
made she none. At this moment Mrs.
Wilson herself appeared, looking very portentous.


What is this I hear, my lady ?' she asked
of Gertrude, with an air of judicial authority.

The patient from whose presence she had
been shut out had died : did not such an occurrence
invest herself with a kind of avenging
majesty?

Sir John is dead,' Gertrude answered her ;
speaking simply, mechanically even, certainly
not in the way in which, according to Mrs.
Wilson's ideas, the widow of an hour should
have answered.

The truth was, it never even occurred to
Gertrude to feign any conventional sorrow.
That particular kind of pretence was foreign
to her nature. Moreover, it was the fact of
the death and the mode of it which preoccupied
her  preoccupied her morbidly ; but
not in any sense the loss to herself. How
could she reoTet that which she had never
loved ?

You seem to have committed a very strange
act of carelessness last night, Mrs. Wilson,'
here observed Mark. * See here!'

And he held up the bottle.

What is that, sir ?'

As Mark explained, Mrs. Wilson's cap-strings
fluttered with the strength of her
righteous but controlled indignation.

I am not in the habit, sir, of making such

mistakes. I do not think, sir, that I have
ever been accused of such a thing before. I
shall be very much surprised, sir, if you are
able to prove that I did it now.'

Mark suppressed an exclamation of impatience.


 If you did not do it, who did?' he asked in
his brusque way.

I do not know, sir, I am sure,' replied
Mrs. Wilson. ' Perhaps somebody changed
the bottle after I brought it in.'

Dr. Hervey was announced. He came in
vrith his best air of professional concern ; and
seemed a little relieved at being able to put it
away again on discovering that it was-jot
greatly needed. Surely never had Death
entered any house escorted by a more meagre
chorus of woe. The highest pathos of the
still figure lying in the next room there was
the pathos of its unwept At Peace !

He, poor fellow, seems to feel it the most of
all,' was Dr. Hervey's reflection while listening
to Mark's story.

But at the mention of the chloral, he forgot
everything'' but his own indignation at his
orders being disobeyed.

Did I not say he was only to have one
dose ?' cried the doctor.

 If he took another, it was while Lady
Hatherley was asleep,' said Mark.

'Asleep? Asleep! Nurses should not
sleep sharply commented Dr. Hervey, too
much excited to weigh his words.

At least, if they do sleep, they are not
generally considered very efficient,' remarked
sirs. AVilson. addressing' the observation to
space.

Gertrude turned upon her angrily.

Good heavens I Do you suppose I slept
on purpose?'

I don't know, my lady, I am sure,' replied
Mrs. Wilson respectfully.

I will not be insulted,' flamed out Gertrude.
' What do you mean ?'

Is this a time to wrangle ? Can no
one talk common-sense?' interposed Mark,

AOL. II. 3G

distributing blame with manlike impartiality.


Gertrude rose and swept out of the room.
She was outraged by insane suspicions, and
even Mark would not defend lier! Mrs.
Hatherley and Mrs. Wilson exchanged a
significant glance. Mark meanwhile led Dr.
Hervey into the silent room.

Was this just how you found him ?'
Yes. He has not been touched.'
They spoke in whispers, and as little as
possible. Dr. Hervey took up the empty
bottle, looked at the label ; shook his head.
The dead man's face told no tales of how he
met his emi. If the mute chloral bottle were
not a witness, then there was no other.

Inconceivable carelessness ! This comes,
you see, of amateur nursing.'

Mark made no answer, for he was not disposed
to talk in that room. As his companion
turned to leave, he lingered behind
an instant to draw the sheet over the set
face. Unlike most countenances which gain

in majesty beneath the seal of Death, Sir
John's had lost a great part of its beauty. An
unconquerable meanness sat upon his brow.

When Mark returned to the sitting-room he
found Dr. Hervey talking to the attentive Mrs.
Hatherley and the nurse.

Short of a post-mortem examination he
was saying, ' it must be impossible to know the
truth.'

I vish for a post-mortem examination
observed Mark. * Can you perform it immediately
?'

Not before eve o'clock. By-the-bye, sirs.
Wilson, it has just struck me that I put the
chloral bottle into your hands lastliight after
measuring the dose ?'

So you did, sir,' answered the nurse, her
looks fraught with unfathomable meaning

did ? Then why did you not take it
away with you ?'

I took it away, sir. I laid it on that table.'

And Mrs. Wilson pointed to the other side
of the room

8(; 2

Dr. Hervey glanced at the sjot indicated ;
saw the other bottle there, crossed the room
and fetched it.

A"hy, this is lavender-water !'

There Alas no lavender-vater there last
night, sir.'

You mean, before you brought in what
you supposed to be the chloral ? Of course
not. You clearly brought away the one for
the other remarked Dr. Hervey, waxing impatient
at her Sibylline air.

I don't think I did, sir,' said the nurse,
looking intensely' aggrieved.

It would be a very unusual mistake for a
person of experience to make I' observed Mrs.
Hatherley impressively.

 May I ask you both to be so good as
explain your meaning ?' requested Dr. Hervey.

He was a testy man, and riddles irritated
him. Mark had been called out of the room
by a servant ; consequently he could not choke
the enigma in its birth, as he would otherwise
surely have done.

'Mean? Why, avc don't mean anything-doctors


Xothing whatever, sir, I am sure.'

Mrs. Hatherley's eyes were rolling like a
magician's ; Mrs. Wilson's were fixed demurely
on the oTound ; Dr. Hervey's travelled
from one to the other with oTOwino;
exasperation.

This is nonsense. Either you mean, Mrs.
AVilson, that you did or you did slot mistake
one for another.'

I did not mistake it, sir. I believe I am not
in the habit of doinii' such things. I brought

r o o

away the chloral, sir, just as you gave it to me.'

In the name of patience then, my good
woman, how do you account for the lavender-water
being there now ?'

And Dr. Hervey pointed to the table.

I don't account for it, sir. The lavender-water
was in the bedroom last night.'

Then I suppose you mean me to infer that
somebody else made the mistake?' said the
doctor, after a reflective stare.

A thin streak of insinuation, not to be called
a smile, illumined the decorous impassiveness
of Mrs. AVilson's countenance.

'Why, yes, sir, if any mistake was made
she said, in a slightly dreamy way, as though
her attention were principally absorbed by the
pattern of the wall-paper, to which she had
now transferred her attention.

Any mistake ? Why, bless the Avoman !
What  ah ? To be sure.' said Dr. Hervey,
stumbling across an idea and picking it up
briskly. ' You did say, just now, that you
brought the chloral in here yourself. And now
you say you made no mistake. Am I to understand
that somebody else changed the bottles
after you went to bed ?'

Of course you are,' said Mrs. Hatherley,
with so unusual an animation that her hearer
looked as much surprised as if his umbrella-handle
had spoken.

Then iclw changed the bottles ?'

I don't know, sir, I am sure,' replied the
nurse, for the third time within an hour.

Dr. Hervey's eyes sought sirs. Fatherly's.


Who changed them V

She shivered a little like a cat when it first
detects a mouse.

Who was likely to do it ?'

Lady Hatherley sat up ' Dr. Hervey

paused in his speech ; then anew burst out,
Do you think it Alas she ?'

Do you ?' asked Mrs. Hatherley gently.

A fresh silence, during which Mrs. Wilson
mio'ht have been a nun counting' her beads.

o o

Mrs. Hatherley drew up her shawls and
looked round for a fancied draught.

Humph I' said the doctor ; then took
his hat and walked into the corridor, where
he came across Mark. ' If you don't stop
the mouths of those two women, my
dear fellow, there will be a row of some
sort, I can tell you. They insinuate that
Lady Hatherley gave your father that second
dose. She may have done it, of course ;
worn out by his importunity. I should take

an early occasion of learning the truth from
her. That is, if the truth can be learnt from
a woman.'

But she led me to suppose that he must
have taken it, if at all, while she slept,' said
Mark.

Well, go and question that jair in there.
What women are!' repeated the doctor, as he
went downstairs.

Very indignant, Mark walked into the .


What is this I hear ?' he began. ' That
you are insinuating things against Lady
Hatherley  for which you can have no
proof.'

I, Mark ?'

I, sir ?'

Astonished innocence was painted on both
their countenances.

You  or you. It matters very little who
said it, if it were once said by one of you, and
even tacitly confirmed by the other,' Mark
continued, severely. ' You all heard what

I.ady Hatherley said this morning in the hast
outburst of her horror at finding my father
dead. You have no rii-ht to attribute untruths
to her, even in your OAvn minds ; har
less to give utterance to base suspicions.
Remember that if I hear another word of this,
I shall be extremely angry.'

And thinking, poor fellow ! like many a man
before him, that such a threat must be
thoroughly efficacious, clark left them, and in
five minutes had forgotten their insinuations.


All through the morning and afternoon
people came to leave cards, and many of
them were admitted to the darkened chamber
where Mrs. Hatherley and Florence sat, exchanging
exciting whispers in the semi-obscurity.


How did it happen ?' inquired Mrs. Burton,
brimming over with the sympathy to which
curiosity lends its keenest edge.

'Ah!' responded Mrs. Hatherley, and
rolled her eyes.

Mrs. Burton edged a little closer.

Why, you don't mean to say Dear

me ! Is there any mystery V

Mystery ? The thug is wrapped in
mystery,' replied the widow, and expressively
wrapped herself tighter in her
shawl.

Mrs. Burton's pretty face, with its fringe of
golden baby curls, was a study, all its features
growing sharp with astonished new-born
interest.

Do tell me,' she said, coaxingly.

10.' Mrs. Hatherley firmly shook her
head. ' I have suffered, but I will be silent.
Silent at all costs.'

Mamma !' ejaculated Flossie, a little
alarmed at this unusual heroism.

You mioht trust me,' uroed Mrs. Burton.
Am I not your friend, dearest Mrs. Fatherly
? You know I would rather cut out my
tongue than betray you.'

Apparently this Spartan declaration had a
slight effect.

Well  ask sirs. Wilson what she thinks
said !Mrs. Hatherley, playing carelessly with
her fringes, and glancing at her visitor out of
the corner of her eyes.

But I don't know Mrs. Wilson, and she is
only a nurse. And she isn't here. I think
you mio-ht be kinder,' added Mrs. Burton,
looking a little inclined to pout.

 You promise not to tell  not to repeat
what I say ?'

Yes.'

This question and answer where exchanged
in a rapid whisper, and now the widow and
the vicar's wife were sitting almost with the
tips of their noses touching, and the black
eyes seeming as if they were going to change
places with the blue.

It was  a)i overdose '

Oh ! I feel quite faint. Of what

'Of chloral r

Goodness me ! But then there is no mystery
in it ?'

It there !'

Oh, do tell me, dear Mrs. Hatherley !'

 The bottles were changed m the dead of
the night,' came the next creeping whisper.

Mrs. Boston shivered. ' The dead of the
night ' fell with quite an uncanny effect upon
her quivering nerves.

But who changed them ?' she asked, after
a pause.

That is the joint,' said Mrs. Hathei'ley.

Dr. Hervey says it was Lady Hatherley,'
mercifully interposed Flossie, feeling quite
sorry for Mrs. Burton. For she was a good-natured
little thing at times, was Flossie.

Exactly what I always thought,' exclaimed
Mrs. Burton triumphantly.

Flossie, I did not say he said so, but only
that he suggested it,' remarked ]airs. Fatherly.


 Oh 1 it doesn't matter. The secret is safe
with me. I am as silent as the rave. Nobody
ever accused me of tale-bearing. And
of scandal I have a horror.' Mrs. Burton
stopped: and then went on again. 'But to

think of her being so soon unmasked I I
always mistrusted her  always. There is
something' so false in her eyes. Well, goodbye,
dear ]airs. Hatherley. Good-bye, my
]pet. You must come and spend a long
day with me. I am son's' I cannot stays now,
but I am so bus'. mr. Burton is a very
hard taskmaster. But I don't complain. In
such a wicked world, one is glad even of
one's rare and few opportunities of doing-good.'


And with this pious reflection, sirs. Burton
embraced her dear friends fondly, tripped
downstairs with a soft footfall. and on the
doorstep met Mrs. Hervey.

 So I hear Dr. Hervey says that Lad'
Hatherley gave Sir John an overdose of
chloral,' were the first words she uttered.

I think it very unlikely that Dr. Hervey
would laye committed himself to any such
assertion,' was Mrs. Hervey's stiff reply'.

Of course you won't admit it in so many
words. But you know it is true, and so do I,'

retorted Mrs. Burton fascinatingly ; and continued
her way.

To the next person she met, she said :

Do YOU know that Sir John died of chloral
given to hint by Lady Hatherley ? By mistake
? Well, one must hope so. Dr. Hervey
says there is no doubt about the fact. I have
just met his wife, and she doesn't deny it.'

The person favoured with this astounding-piece
of news, in her turn met a friend, to
Avhom, being prudent, she said simply :

Sir John, I hear on good authority, died
of poison ; administered, it is hoped, by
mistake.'

Subsequently, the ' poison ' made a starting-point
from which the report re-evolved itself
into shapes of surprising complexity and
novelty. Public curiosity became highly
whetted. Everybody ran about to and from
everybody else's house, talking, interrogating,
contradicting, commenting, surmising. Some
people who loved a mystery inclined to think
that the poison had been given by an unknown

hand. But they were in the minority, and
most persons preferred to lay the blame on
Gertrude. These again were divided into two
camps ; those who held that she had given it
bv mistake, and those who long-ed to sav. but
did not dare, that she lead administered it on
purpose.

While the storm raided, and feathered hourly
in strength the longer it lasted, the unconscious
woman over whose head it was brewing
remained in her deserted chamber, a ]prey to
the dumb fury of her own humiliated and
baffled spirit.

To the formless horror caused in Gertrude's
mind by the suddenness of her husband's
death, had succeeded a rush of characteristic,
unreasoning; rao-e. To what had all her
scheming brought her ? Simply to an unpitied
widowhood, ruined in purse, and iiow
likely to be dishonoured in name. Xo remorse
filled her at the reflection, but merely
an extreme exasperation. She had played a
losing game with fortune, and now the hour of

her defeat had come. This was the point of
view from which she looked at it, draping-her
thought, as always, somewhat melodramatically.
Of course she thought herself
a victim, and blamed Sir John, Mrs. Fatherly,
Mark, her own people  everybody but
herself.

She lay on her bed in the reckless abandonment
of her anoTv idleness. What was lie
to do ? ' Work ' would have suo-rested
energy ; but Gertrude had no real energy,
only occasional spasmodic impulses. She
recoiled from the bare notion of exertion.
Ingot that she would have admitted it  to
anybody Jut herself, and not often even to
herself. But in this hour of isolation and
despair, she did own to herself that she
was a craven. Lying there in her gorgeous
beauty and her splendid strength, she felt her
heart cower within her at the idea of facings
the world again, and especially in hardship
and struggle. But the sense of her own
weakness, instead of making her humbler,

only provoked a fresh explosion of violence.
The world was senseless ; she herself was cast
amid idiots and dastards and swindlers, and
that and nothing else was the reason
why she would go down to her grave a
pauper.

The hours wore on. All at once it struck
her that nobody had come near her. She was
too hysterical to be hungry, and she did not

want anything', but such neglect was not
to be borne. She rose to her feet, rang the
bell imperiously, and turned angrily to the
maid who answered it.

Why has no luncheon been brought tome?'


You did not order it, my lady.'

Something ofF-hand in the girl's manner
increased Gertrude's anger.

Bring some cold meat immediately. Or
stay  no. Give me my bonnet. I shall go
out.'

Go out, my lady ?'

The maid nearly fainted. No widow of six

VOL. Ii 37

hours' standing had ever gone walking in her
decorous experience.

What are you staring at, may I ask T
inquired Gertrude, with a flashing glance.

The maid paused.

I beg your pardon, my lady, but your
bonnet's trimmed with red''

This shaft told. Gertrude all at once remembered
that she was going to commit a
glaring act of bad taste. She hesitated an
instant, some remaining conventionality in her
struoo'liiw with an insane desire to hurl her
contempt in the teeth of Elmsleigh. Then,
making up her mind, with trembling fingers
and a face of set defiance she tied on her
bonnet, fastened her mantle, and asked for her
gloves.

If anybody inquires for me, you can say I
am gone for a walk,' she said to the maid,
who was too scandalized to make any
reply.

Gertrude turned, and swept downstairs like
an empress. Several of the servants saw her,

and stood rooted along the passage with
amazement. Flossie gaped at her over the
banisters, and telegraphed to Mrs. Wilson to
look also. Mrs. Wilson later averred that at
the sight of such iniquity, her blood had
curdled in her veins. But Gertrude held on
her way undaunted ; she was thoroughly
natural, thoroughly herself for the first time
since she had entered the once coveted, now
hated house.

She walked slowly down the avenue of
sweet-scented and rustling limes ; then out
into the road and past the rows of houses,
whose inhabitants appeared at the windows
to stare at her. She reached the common,
and there was accosted by a respectably-dressed
man, with a greyish beard, who said
he had had nothing to eat for twenty-four
hours. She drew out her purse, and emptied
its contents, a few shillings, into this hand.
She had no motive in doing this beyond a
confused, perverse sense of general sympathy
with those whom society rejects.

372

Her walk ended, she returned home. In
the hall of The Limes, on entering, she found
a group, composed of Dr. Hervey, Mark, Mrs.
Hatherley and Flossie, and Mr. Burton. The
butler and footman were also hovering about,
preparing afternoon tea, for the hall was used
as a kind of general sitting-room. As Gertrude
advanced, everybody looked at her with
hostile curiosity, mixed with such other
feelings as their various relations to her
suggested. But Mark alone spoke, and it was
in a tone of cold displeasure.

You have been out. Lady Hatherley ?'
Yes. For a short walk. Why not ?'
She met his glance defiantly enough, but
already her courage began to fail her. Mark
alone of all her world believed in her : what if
he too should fall away? She was young and
lonely enough to feel a stab of real pain at the
thought.

Why not ? repeated Mark. ' I regret it
he said icily.

She turned to the tea-table.

 I am sorry if you think it Avrong', but I
really could bear the house no longer. I felt
as if it were haunted.'

 So it is said sirs. Hatherley slow'.
 Haunted with a mystery.'

A mystery ?' Gertrude, holding a cup
half-way to her mouth, repeated the word
curiously.

Dr. Hervey has just been telling us that
the post-mortem examination has not revealed
to him the true cause of my brother-in-law's 
of your hushancV s death.'

AVhat's that ?' interposed Dr. Hervey,
breaking off quickly in his conversation with
Mr. Burton at the sound of his OAvn name.
Oh ! the post-mortem. Yes, indeed. 1
Avish the result had been clearer.'

He was really only thinking of the medical
aspect of the case, but Mrs. Hatherley' s eyes
glittered with malo-nant exultation. Gertrude
saw it ; she noted, too, that the expression
was reflected on Flossie's face y she detected it
even in the demure inquisitiveness of the

servants glances ; she fancied that from some
suspicion akin to it even Mark's gravity was
not free. What did they suspect in her?
And she drank her tea in silence, although
she was half-choked with indignation.

But what made her tremble, more than the
an O'er, was the knowledge that her heart had
sunk within her, chilled, for all its innocence,
beneath the touch of Fear.

GERTRUDE S FLIGHT.

HE inquest on Sir John's death took
place on the day but one after the
event, in the library of The Limes.
Although naturally kept as private as circumstances
would allow, there was plenty of
excitement about it in public. For, of course,
all the chief particulars would appear in the
local Chronicle ; and such piquant condiments
in the way of details as might be wanting to
the dish of official facts, Elmsleigh expected
to be able to supply from the gossip of
servants ; of jurymen's wives ; of Mrs. Hervey ;
and, lastly, of that irresponsible crew who

always know everything, and are diverting if
they are not trustworthy.

The first person to be examined was
Gertrude. She looked extremely pale, and
presented herself with an air of defiance,
which was due far less to courage than to
secret fear. The reaction from her excitement
of the day before had told upon her, and all
her arrogance rose, reckless indeed, but ill-assured
to meet the obloquy which she knew
that she had invoked upon herself. Her
imagination, perhaps, exaggerated a little the
disapproval which looked out at her from every
eye; nevertheless, there could be no doubt
that even the scanty favour with which she
had ever been regarded was seriously impaired.


The coroner, especially, was inclined to look
upon her as a kind of Jezebel. He was a fussy,
self-sufficient, very narrow-minded man, always
burning to distinguish himself on the small
occasions which his narrow intelligence mistook
for great ones. He had, from the first, disapproved

of Lady Hatherley, much as one might
imagine that a slightly-soured crow Avouch he
seriously perturbed by the introduction into
its family of a bird of paradise. With her
sparkling beauty, her audacious grace, lier
foreign elegance and off-hand, haughty ways,
Gertrude had always appeared to mr. Fathom
as ' by no means adapted to Elmsleigh.' That
was the expression used by him; and it
implied that there might be places in the
world which would be better suited to her,
but they were places outside his experience.
He had come to the inquest With a preconceived
idea, which was that mystery wrapped
Sir John's death, and that it behoved himself
to fathom it.

All the gossip of the place had, of course,
reached his ears, and he was deeply suspicious
of Gertrude. In this he only shared the
general feeling; for, to the excited public
mind, every untoward circumstance in the
case seemed, somehow, to involve her. Lie,
alone, had sat up Yith Sir Jolm ; yet had been

so careless a watcher that sleep lead overtaken
her. She had announced, or, as she averred,
discovered his death so late that he had already-been
dead several hours. She had had one
brief moment of extreme agitation, so short-lived
as to appear hardly natural. Then she
had not only resumed quite her usual manner,
but she had been guilty of the amazing
callousness of walking in the public roads
before her husband had been twenty-four hours
a corpse. And, during that walk, she had
spoken with a person whom Elm sleigh was not
slow to say she had gone out to meet. For
only on the hypothesis of some special purpose
was her walk explicable  excusable it could
never be.

And now it had oozed out, chiefly through
the gossip of the Hatherley servants, that
on the very afternoon of Sir John's death
she had received the visit of a mysterious
stranger who had refused to give his name,
but whose description  tall, broad-shouldered,
grey haired and bearded  exactly corresponded

to that of the respectably-dressed inn upon
vhom she lead bestowed such lavish alms.
Her munificence had been the chief subject
of conversation at the Blue Dragon on the
evening previous to the inquest ; and, out of
the various fragments of gossip, a sufficiently
coherent and highly-interesting tale had been
constructed.

Conceive the rush of all these thoughts
upon Mr. Lathom's mind, and conceive, then,
the awful air with which he looked upon
Gertrude. Her simple tale of her husbands
death by no means satisfied him. He questioned
and cross-questioned her with wearisome
iteration ; asked how Sir John looked when
she last saw him alive ; how he looked when
she found him dead ; how he was lying; where
his hand was ; where the bottle was ; whether
she was a light sleeper or a sound one, and
whether she had been lulled into her inopportune
slumber by so marked an improvement
in Sir John's appearance that her anxiety had
been allayed.

I should not have been anxious if he himself
had not complained answered Gertrude,
rather doggedly.  When he ceased to complain
I ceased to be anxious.'

You ceased to be anxious.' Mr. Lathom
repeated the words in an indescribable tone of
official politeness, which seemed to say that no
springs of human emotion were hidden from
him, and that, what was more, he knew a
genuine ' brand ' from a false one. And he
suavely settled his spectacles, and contemplated
Gertrude with an expression which
caused a great deal of general admiration,
and made her quiver with rage and excitement.


You went out for a walk the day before
yesterday afternoon, between four and \
o'clock. During that walk did you meet an
acquaintance ?'

Not that I remember,' answered Gertrude
carelessly.

None ? Not a person upon whom you
bestowed money ?'

I don't call a beggar an acquaintance,' she
replied scornfully. ' And this particular beggar
T had never seen before.'

On the afternoon of Wednesday  the day
of Sir John's death  did you not receive a
visit ?'

An old friend came to see me,' Gertrude
answered, calmly enough, but her countenance
perceptibly changed.

Have you any objection to telling his
name ?'

She hesitated a second; then said, 'Ralph
Mercer.'

At the words, ]\Iark, sitting a little apart,
made a movement of surprise. He knew the
name for that of a scapegrace cousin, whom he
had never seen, but who was once to have
married his father's sister.

And were not Mr. Mercer and the person
whom you met on Wednesday one and the
same ?'

Certainly not.'

This put Mr. Lathom out. He was not

bound to believe Gertrude, of course ; buta,
denial has its value if stuck to, and lie
thought her capable of sticking to anything.


Is it not the case.' he resumed, with some
acidity, ' that the person you met on Wednesday
corresponds in height and general appearance
to  ah  Mr. Mercer ?'

I really don't know,' retorted Gertrude.
The man I met on Wednesday was neither
more nor less than a well-dressed beggar. Mr.
Mercer is '

She stopped and let her glance travel
slowly over her expectant audience. She
knew she was about to disappoint them, and
she rejoiced at it.

Mr. Mercer is ?' repeated the coroner,

turning absolutely a little green.

My uncle,' said Gertrude coolly.

This was really a bathos, but Mr. Lathom
was equal to the occasion. He rallied immediately,
and asked if Lady Hatherley had
introduced her uncle to her husband. Somewhat

reluctantly, she was forced to admit that
she had not ; so the coroner scored a point
there. Xext he elicited from her that her uncle
was in rather shady circumstances ; that she
had alway's received him with some mystery ;
and that she was in the habit of giving him
money. This last fact was the most damaging
of all, and, when Gertrude was dismissed, there
was hardly anybody, but Mark, who believed
her explanation of the stranger's identity.
And even he was a little doubtful, for the
whole story struck him as odd, and not the
least strange part about it was the coincidence
of the name. It occurred to him, for one brief
moment, that Gertrude had come across the
name among her husband's papers, and made
use of it now for the purpose of mystification.
Of course, he knew that this would involve
perjury on her part ; and, loth as ever to
suspect evil, he rejected the idea almost as
soon as formed. But it left him with an
uneasy feeling. His own evidence, which was
next taken, was, as might be expected, so distinguished

by quiet common-sense and honest
purpose as to make very short work of Mr.
Lathom's amateur detectiveship. But, unfortunately,
he had very little to relate ; and
Mrs. Wilson, when summoned after him, had
a great deal. That admirable woman was
indeed a fountain-head of suggestiveness.
Hints and innuendoes seemed to flow from her
in hidden rills, and gently permeate every look
and tone of her answers. She managed to
convey that there had been something inexplicable
in Su' John's dismissal of her, and
that it must have been due to an unseen
influence  presumably Gertrude's ; she declared
that the patient had been, or appeared,
fitly convalescent on the afternoon immediately
preceding this death ; that the idea of
sending for Dr. Hervey in the evening had, as
far as the household knew, entirely originated
with Lady Hatherley ; that the doctor had
not in her (the niuse's) hearing expressed any
anxiety as to Sir John's condition, and had
distinctly, on the previous day, expressed his

belief that he would recover. She stated that
she had gone into the sick-room late on
Wednesday night, when Dr. Hervey was
present, that she had only stayed there a
moment, bnt had failed to notice anything*
peculiar in Sir John's air ; that Dr. Hervey
had given her the chloral bottle to carry away,
and that she had placed it, and no other, on
the table in the sittings-room. She swore to
this with tolerable positiveness, but did admit
that she had placed the bottle down in the
sick-room for a moment before definitely taking
away. The real truth was, that she had
unwittingly changed the bottles ; but having
had no knowledge of it at the time, she
chose to deny even the bare possibility of
such a thing.

And when at last she was allowed to retire
she had done Gertrude as much harm as she
conveniently could.

Nor was the impression excited by her
words in the least diminished by the evidence
of Mrs. Hatherley. That lady, indeed, felt

VOL. II. 38

that now, if ever, she had her foot on her
enemy's neck. To do her justice, she fully
believed Gertrude guilty of having at least
allowed, if not induced, her husband to take
the second dose of chloral. This conviction
stood out clear and strong upon the shifting
background of unnameable suspicions and
highly-wrought ideas in her fevered mind ;
and it gave a force to her words which deliberate
invention must have lacked. She
declared that after the first alarm at her
brother-in-law's seizure, which the doctor had
pronounced slight, nobody in the household
had felt any uneasiness as to Sir John's condition.
She testified to Gertrude's refusal to let
Mark share her watch, and conveyed at the
same time by many subtle hints that she had
detected not the smallest sign of such anxiety
on the part of Lady Hatherley as could have
made her desirous of sitting up. She, of
course, swore to the doctor's strong prohibition
of the second dose ; of Sir John's desire
to take it ; and managed to make it evident

how very strange, under such circumstances, it
was that Lady Hatherley coukl so easily and
soundly have fallen asleep. She related with
infinite gush how she had found Lady Fatherly
rifling her husband's bureau at midnight ;
how this event had been closely followed by
the visit of the mysterious stranger, now
declared to be an ' uncle but of whom
nobody had heard, and whom nobody had
ever seen ; and she wound up by narrating
how in the very hour of the said stranger's
visit Lady Hatherley had parted with her
jewels.

Here, however, Mark, at his ovn request,
was recalled, and caused a certain revulsion of
feeling by relating that Gertrude had offered
the jewels to him, and he had refused to
accept them. But the slight disappointment
caused by this commonplace explanation was
very soon and very amply compensated forby
Gertrude's own unexpected announcement
that Mark had indeed returned the
jewels to her, but that she had since 



snatched them to London to a friend to be
sold ! This statement, which took even
Mark by surprise and considerably increased
his suspicions, would have been simple
enouoii under ordinary circumstances ; butin
the present case it not unnaturally looked
very awkward, and tended considerably to
strengthen ]airs. Hatherley's ingenious tale.
And that lady, re-examined, presently
managed to introduce a fresh element of
suspicion against Gertrude into the business,
by a very neat allusion to the affair of the
missing Psalter  an affair which gossip had
widely bruited  and to the extraordinary fact
that Richard Dallas had never answered his
sister's telegram.

Mark, indeed, though with some natural
reluctance, stated his conviction that the
Psalter had been secretly sold by his father
in common with many other objects of value ;
but he was powerless to explain Richard's
silence ; and Gertrude, who had not expected
this fact to be brought up against her and

was furious at it, showed in consequence a
great deal of agitation Avliicli to prejudiced
eyes, and they were many, looked very much
like the consciousness of o-uilt.

Flossie, next called, related, with an odd
mixture of shamefacedness and gratified spite,
how she had ' accidentally overheard ' the
mysterious stranger from Harwich insisting
upon the necessity of his being supplied with
money, and proposing that Gertrude should
sell her jewels for the purpose ; and she
further distinguished herself by opportunely
recollecting' that the rifling; of the bureau had
taken place upon the very night on which
Lady Hatherley had received a letter with the
Harwich post mark.

The last witness examined was Dr. Hervey,
who had arrived a little late. He confessed
to having been rather taken by surprise by
Sir John's death, which had been unusually
sudden. So slight a seizure as his was
generally followed by others more or less
severe, which gradually sapped the patient's

strength, and often destroyed his mind sooner
than his body. He had certainly not thought
Sir John in any immediate danger on the
Wednesday night, although he had found him
a little excited. But he had been inclined to
attribute this excitement in great part to a
very natural anxiety of mind, since Sir John
could not be entirely ignorant of that state of
his affairs which had since become the public
talk. He had deprecated the idea of the
second dose of chloral because he had thought
that it might do Sir John harm in his weakened
condition, but he had not anticipated
that, even if taken, it would result in death.
He was not prepared to say that the death
had been caused by an overdose of chloral.
The cost-mortem. examination had revealed
congestion of the brain and a general enfeebled
state of all the organs, which might
account for the congestion having' ended in
death. When men reached Sir John's age
and were as weakened as he, a comparatively
slight cause would often hasten their decease.

In his opinion congestion of the brain, slow
in the first days and sudden at the last, had
been the immediate cause of death. Certainly
a condition of the brain, similar to that shown
in this instance by the post-mortem examination,
would be caused by an extra quantity
c>f chloral ; but Dr. Hervey was by no means
prepared to say that in Sir John's case an
overdose of anything had terminated his
life.

In fact, the good doctor's e.dence had a
vagueness which is distressing all times to
the official mind, and was especially so to Mr.
Lathom's. That gentleman, by eliciting an
enormous amount of extraneous and sufficiently
irrelevant [evidence, had raised a very
pretty coil ; and now, like the magician who
released the imp from the bottle, was rather
at a loss what to do with it. He glanced
portentously round upon the devoted jurymen,
and found them all looking as profound
as himself. The room was warm, the hour
advanced, and everybody expiring for tea or

dinner. Mr. Lathom had a brilliant idea.
The circumstances were mysterious ; more
evidence, if procurable, would be invaluable ;
he would adjourn the inquest. This proposition
being favourably received, everybody
rose with an air of relief, except Mark, who
looked extremely annoyed, and Gertrude,
who turned as white as a sheet. The vaaaie
terror of two days before had again taken
possession of her. Her fitful courage had
sunk now to its very lowest ebb, and her
whole soul quaked with terror at the invisible
toils which hatred and spying had drawn
around her. The new significance imparted
by distortion to the simplest fact, and the
knowledge that, Mark excepted, she had nota
friend in the house, pressed upon her exhausted
nervous system with the ghastly
weight of a nightmare. Her very rage was
an evil counsellor, for it only confused her
and 23re vented her from thinking calmly. In
truth, she was in a perfect panic, and sitting
alone assail in her own room with her

head bowed upon her hands, she felt her
alarm and agitation stow every moment
greater.

clark, meanwhile, in the now cleared library',
was relieving his feelings to mr. Burton in a
strain of very strong annoyance.

That old fool Lathom ! What business
lead he to rake up all those facts which
had no direct bearing on my father's death,
and give the women an opportunity of
venting their cherished spite ?'

I dare say Mrs. Hatherley thought it her
duty to tell everything,' slowly answered mr.
Burton, tutored by his wife, and always
naturally anxious to excuse.

Duty be hanged I' answered Mark roughly
enough, for he was thoroughly out of temper.
 There are as many crimes committed in its
name as in that of liberty.'

'I cannot think that ]airs. Hatherley, so
quiet and  ah  gentle as she has always
.seemed, would allow herself to ])e influenced
by undue malignancy.'

The mandrake is said to shriek when it is
pulled up by the roots,' retorted Mark, with
a grim smile. ' My aunt is quiet enough,
as you say, but she thought the hour of
her residence here had struck when my
father married again, and she hated Lady
Hatherley.'

Hate is a strong word, my dear fellow,*
said the persistent Mr. Burton. ' I have no
doubt your aunt disapproved of Lady Fatherly
; and do you not think that it was with
some justification ?'

Mark made no immediate answer. He was
unwilling to be hard on Gertrude, for the
simple reasons that she was a woman, a pretty
one, and all the world was against her. But
he could not say that he felt quite sure of her,
for the revelations of the inquest had seriously
perplexed him.

I am anxious not to be severe upon Lady
Hatherley,' resumed Mr. Burton.

You are tender enough towards my aunt,'
interrupted Mark bluntly.

The vicar turned a little red, and settled
his neck in his collar.

Your aunt is a respectable member of
society. I must confess that Lady Hatherley
always struck me as something of an adventuress.'


The dressing-bell put an end to the conversation.
Half an hour later, Mark, his aunt
and cousin, were assembled as usual in the
darkened drawings-room waiting: for Gertrude,
to go in to dinner. She was often late, a cool
punctuality being one of her defects ; but
on this occasion she was longer in appearing
than usual. clark, who had all a man's dislike
to being kept waiting for his dinner, read
gloomily, feeling too much annoyed with his
companions to seek for their sympathy by any
complaint. Mrs. Hatherley and Flossie sat,
meanwhile, occasionally exchanging a pregnant
glance, but dressed mostly as to their
countenances with that air of elaborate patience,
which was their usual commentary on all Gertrude's
heinous proceedings.

Presently there was a discreet taj) at the
door, and the butler presented himself.

I beg your pardon, sir ; but are you waiting
for her ladyship?'

Certainly,' said Mark, looking up from his
book.

Her ladyship has not yet returned from
her walk.'

 Her walk?'

Yes, sir. Her ladyship is gone out.'

I saw her go through the garden into the
lane an hour ago,' interposed Flossie.

Then why could you not say so ?' asked
Mark impatiently.

I was asked no question,' replied his cousin
demurely.

Mark uttered a smothered exclamation of
annoyance, and rose.

It is useless to wait, then. I suppose
Lady Hatherley did not feel inclined for any
dinner.'

That meal was finished: the evening: wore
on 3 but no Gertrude returned to The Limes.

At ten o'clock Mark rang the bell.

*Is Lady Hatherley not yet come in?'

 No, sir.'

Call Seeley, if you please.'

Seeley was Gertrude's maid, but she had no
light whatever to throw upon the matter.
Lady Hatherley had slipped out almost unobserved,
a very short time after the inquest;
but Seeley had only discovered the fact when,
on going as usual into her room to dress her,
she had failed to find her. She had taken
nothing" with her, not even a travelling-bag ;
consequently had been supposed to have
simply gone for a walk.

I think she has run away,' suggested Mrs.
Hatherley, with her habitual sleepy shrewdness.


Then everybody will say she was frightened,'
exclaimed Flossie.

But the next minute she was dissolved in
tears, for Mark had turned upon her with
most unusual anger, saying curtly :

If you cannot be just, you might learn to

be generous. I confess I cannot understand
how anybody can prefer a scandal involving
family disgi-ace to the small sacrifice of one's
personal spite.'

END OF VOL. II.

Billing AND fons, Printers, c;L-ILDFORD AND LONDON.

(r., C. it Co.

Fourteen Shillings and Ninepence Yearly, by post, in the United Kingdom,

or any part of Europe or North America.

THE

Teiiiple -f j\ : n]-;?Gzip.

One can nev help enjoying
Temple Bar" '  Guardian.

Who does not welcome " Triple
Bar r' John Bull.

SERIAL STORIES have recently appeared in the Magazine by 

ANTHONY TROLLOPE. Miss FOTHERGILL, WILKIE COLLINS,
Mrs. HENRY WOOD, Mrs. Edwards. Miss Boughton, Major
WHYTE MELVILLE, Mrs. LYNN LINTON, Mrs. ALEXANDER,
Major HAWLEY SMART. Miss Brandon, the Author of ' Coming'
thro' the Rye,' the Author of ' Dorothy Fox,' anCHAPTER I.

Fossil DISTINGUISHES IIEKSELF.

"W ARK went off to the station himself
to make inquiries ; but learnt nothing
there. One or two people
said that they had seen Lady Hatherley walking
rapidly across the meadows in the opposite
direction to the Elmsleigh Railway, and
towards a certain point where three roads met.
Two of these three roads led to other stations,
for the whole neighbourhood was honeyed.
III. 39

combed with railways. One station was on
the direct line to London; the other was off
it, and it was also the farthest away. So
Mark drove to the nearest, thinking it likely
that Gertrude would choose both  London asher
destination and  the shortest way of
getting there. She Alas not very fond of
walking ; and the farthest station was a good
pull from Elm sleigh. But at the second
station, as at the first, nobody had seen Lady
Hatherley ; so Mark, although it was now
midnight, perseveringly turned his horse towards
the third. He mio-ht have saved himself
the trouble. It was a little station of
small importance and less traffic. The stationmaster
was unwell, and had gone home long-before
to bed ; the official left in charge to
meet the last down train did not even know
Gertrude by sight.

When Mark reached home again at two i]i
the morning, he was met by Mrs. Hatherley
and Flossie, and one or two servants.

You had better all go to bed,' said Mark.

Until to - morrow nothing more can be
done.'

There Alas a moment's stir and a whisper
among the servants. Then Seeley came forward
solemnly, a hat in her hand.

If you please, sir, the gardener's son has
found this by the pool in the second
meadow.'

Well ?' questioned Mark, with a stairs of
utter ignorance.

It is my lady's bonnet, sir ; the one she
always wore.'

A thrill of excitement ran through the
group, and Mark stepped backwards in surprise.
Having been doirKj instead of talking
for two hours, his imagination was necessarily
tethered to the region of facts ; consequently
he was less disposed than anybody else present
to believe in the likelihood of a tragedy.
Nevertheless he looked a little startled, and
Flossie gave a stifled gasp of variously compounded
feelings.

392

Lady Hatherley probably put on another
bonnet.' exclaimed ]\Iarlv after a pause, rather
gruffly in his effort to reject exaggerated
hypotheses.

There is no other missing, sir,' said Seeley
primly, too much interested in the drama she
had evoked to remember, or. at any rate,
remember to state, that, as she had only
been in the house a week, all Gertrude's
bonnets mio-ht not have come under her
notice.

Are you sure ?' said Mark. v. ili a touch of
impatience.

Quite sure. You said so too, ma'am.'
And the maid addressed Mrs. Hatherley.

I think I saw all her other bonnets in her
room,' replied the widow, who was trembling
violently.

Call up the men. Let the pool be searched.
Take all the lanterns that can be found. I
shall go myself,' ordered Mark.

!None of the men is gone to bed, sir,'

said Seeley, with a smirk of supreme importance,
and vanished to the lower regions.


Mark stood under the lamp, gnawing his
moustache, and staring gloomily in front of
him with an air of gravest concern. Once,
however reluctantly, having admitted the bare
possibility of Gertrude's suicide, the idea began
to press upon him every moment with more
force. She was so excitable. . . . He had
noticed her hunted look during the inquest.
. . Her future had been rendered so uncertain
by Sir John's bankruptcy. . . . There
were evidently motives and actions in her life
to which she did not care to confess. . . .
Finally, she was a woman generically inscrutable
to Mark as such; and specifically still
more incomprehensible as Gertrude Dallas.
Heaven only knew to what mad resolution of
all her difficulties a moment's despair might
have driven her.

A slight movement at his side, and

turning he saw Flossie, looking up at him
with a white, scared face, and reddened
eyes.

Mark, do you think she has thrown herself
into the pool ?

I don't know, Flossie. Do you think that
any fear of regrets which she might excite
here, would have held her back from doing
so?'

Flossie again gave that same distressed
gasp. Mark had not been very generous in
his answer, perhaps ; but he was too much
annoyed to be considerate. He remained
looking at the writhing small figure with a
cool, cruel directness.

W  would it be my fault ?' continued
Flossie, the whispered words sounding quite
sibilant from fear.

I think you would have your full share of
responsibility in such a catastrophe.'

She nearly shrieked. She was a superstitious
little soul, and had been underaoino-

secret terrors for three nights past from the
mere fact of being in the same house with a
corpse. Her mind full of death and all its
terrors, and her love of the sensational
naturally very great, she had lent a greedy,
albeit horrified, ear to the suggestion of
Gertrude's suicide, and what under other
circumstances would have been mere morbid

excitement in her, turned now to a craven
remorse.

Oh, Mark !' she wailed. ' I did not think
I did not mean  you can't say she was
nice  I  I did not do anything '

Only spy and listen, and carry tales,
Flossie.'

Ev  everything I said was true,' she
sobbed, distracted between resentment and
fear.

It does not follow that you were to say
it,' said Mark, feeling like a pedagogue, but
determined to give her a lesson. ' Truly,
Flossie, if this awful thing has taken place,

some part of the guilt of it will lie at your
door

Her sobs grew very loud now ; she was
absolutely wondering if (gertrude's ghost
would haunt her. But before she could sneak
again, the men whom Mark had summoned
appeared, carrying ropes and lanterns ; and he
started for the door. Flossie ran after him
and seized inn by the arm :

Let me go with you.'

She had a fascinated vision of the dark
pool, as she had once seen it, with the moonlight
shining on it, and breaking the shadows
of the tall trees all around; and already in
her mind she perceived, emerging from its
depths, the drenched, slight form, and livid
face and flowing dark hair of the enemy
whom (as Mark said) she had helped to
kill.

He removed her clinging hands gently
enough, but said authoritatively:

Xo, Flossie ; stop at home. The meadow

is no place for you at this hour ; and if we
do  which heaven forbid  find anything, you
will he scared out of your wits

She shrank away shuddering, and let him

<>'o. But now what was she to do with

<j

Herself ? Sleep she could not, and the whole
house was most uncanny. Almost all the
lights were out, and the moon shining through
one or two windows of the upper corridors,
only made the gloom of the big hall seem
more ghostly. She crept half-way down to the
kitchen, but could see only darkness there; from
the housekeeper's room, indeed, came certain
discreet sounds of talking, for the maids where
waiting' for events there. But into that sanctum
Flossie dared not penetrate ; Mrs. Hedger, the
house-keeper, was a stately dame of whom lie
stood as much in awe  almost  as she did of
spectres.

So she wended her miserable way up again,
and peeped ito the library. That almost did
for her finally ; for the window had been left

unlettered, and a tree waving outside filled
the room with shadowy presences that might
be Sir John  or anybody. And the tall bookcases
and quaintly-carved chairs, the table
scattered with phantasmal-looking white
papers, and an odd creaking which suddenly
came over the furniture as Flossie put in her
frightened head, made up an impression of
such eerie force, that she let the heavy door fly
from her hand, and scattered up the staircase
in a perfect scare at the sound of its consequent
thud.

She next  glancing fearfully on every
side of her the while  knocked at her mother s
door, and when no answer came, turned
the handle; but the door was locked. Mrs.
Hatherley was not asleep, and heard her ; but
she was entertaining an avenging fury on her
own account, and did not want witnesses.
She had been seized with a sudden savage joy
at the thought of Gertrude's possible end.
Not so much because it rid the earth of a

presence intolerable to her, although that
counted for a good deal ; as because the supposed
suicide would be an incontrovertible
proof of the truth of every accusation. Mrs.
Hatherley had a tropic force of passion in her
when her malignancy was roused. There
were moments when she knew no higher
moral law than the negro witch muttering
spells of vengeance in the burning midnight
under southern skies. But education did so
much for her as to make her feel, although
vaguely, the discrepancy between such impulses
and our artificial civilization. She
hated Gertrude with a hatred that was quite
out of proportion to any slight, real or fancied,
which she had suffered at her hands ; but the
prose of everyday life at The Limes reduced
her lyric fur' to the dull rhythm of mere
suggestion and suspicion. She could slander,
but she could not strike ; and the idea that her
rival's proud and lovely head had been brought
low at last ; might be branded with infamy if

Ihdng, or only escape such a fate in the
suicide's dishonoured end  simply transported
the Creole with a tigerish glee. She had fled
upstairs hugging the tragic secret of her jo}- ;
and now in her room was living through such
an hour of mingled feeling's as falls to few
people within the cjuiet walls of a decorous and
luxurious English home. The agony of suspense
was exquisite, but Mrs. Hatherley
knew that she must live through it alone :
and that was why she would not open to
Flossie.

The girl went to her own room, and even
began to undress. But everything frightened
her; the tapping of the climber outside her
window; the flicker of the candle on the
walls ; the reflection of her own face in the
glass most of all. She could stand it no
longer ; and slipping on a dressing-gown,
glided, shivering as she passed the room where
Sir John's coffin was set black-draped by a
moonlit Window, to the head of the stairs.

and there sat doAvn  the dampest, most
depressed, most wretched little being in
Christendom. She kept her head turned,
although quaking , away from the room
where Death abode ; and fixed her eyes for
one small gleam of comfort on the ray of light
piercing through the keyhole of the housekeeper's
sanctum.

Presently one of the maids came thence,
and, to Flossie's unspeakable joy, began wending
her way upstairs. She was a fresh, bonn'
damsel  far away the best-natured and nicest
of all the pampered domestics of The Limes.
But she gave a stifled shriek, and nearly
dropped her candle on becoming aware of the
small white figure crouching so forlornly on
the topmost step.

Miss Flossie, what a turn you gave me I'
exclaimed Anne ; for naturally her nerves
were not to be behind anybody's in the household
on that fantastic nisfht.

Oh, Anne ! it's only me,' said poor Flossie.

I am so glad to see you. Are you going to
bed, Anne? Won't you stay with me fora
little?' and here she began to sob hysterically,
fairly worn out.

Dear  deary me I' ejaculated the maid, and
plumped down beside her in genuine sympathy.
Now, don't take on like that, Miss Flossie
don't, my dear. Why, what is it ? Where's
your ma ?'

 In b  bed and a  asleep. How she can
sleep, I can't think. Oh, Anne! do you think
she drowned herself ?'

'Drowned? Your ma?' exclaimed Anne,
her imagination very lively from its supperful
of agreeable horrors.

No. She '

Oh, Lady Hatherley. Well, Miss Flossie,
I don't know. Perhaps she didn't,' said Anne,
a little reluctantly, but anxious to be cheerful.
However, we shall soon know,' she added
briskly.

But this consolatory suggestion, to her great

discomfiture, only produced a fresh and more
terrific outburst of sobs.

Dear heart ! Is that what you are crying
about ? Of course, it would be dreadful ; but
after all, miss, you could not have prevented
it.'

But that's just what Mr. Mark says I
might have done,' exclaimed Flossie, lifting a
small flushed face, full of anguish dashed by
faint indignation.

Anne at first was unbounded ; then, ' To
think of ]mr. Mark!' was for a time all she
found to say. But Flossie continuing to weep,
and the nio'ht waxing: chill, she beo'an to think
that there were pleasant things than sitting
on the stairs of a house with a coffin in it, and
nothing; to illuminate the scene or one's mind
but one spluttering candle. So she rose and
re-lighted the gas-burner (always extinguished
' by superior order ' at eleven o'clock
at The Limes). Then she stood looking at
Flossie's crushed form, until mingled impatience

and kind-heartedness suggested an idea
to her.

Perhaps Lady Hatherley only left her
hat by the pool to frighten everybody,' she
said.

Anne f

Flossie clasped her hand in excitement.

Pleased with the effect produced, Anne
allowed her fancy to take a yet bolder
flight.

' And I essay she's comfortably asleep at
the Ship and Anchor.'

Let us go and see,' exclaimed Flossie, and
sprang to her feet.

What a triumph if she could bring back this
news to Mark on his return from dragging the
pool!

The Ship and Anchor, be it mentioned,
was an old-fashioned inn, as much a relic
of Elmsleigh's past as the lane and the
common ; and it was about a mile from The
Limes.

'At this lioiir!' expostulated Anne.
By the time we get there, it will be light
said Flossie, 2 minting to the Window.

Yell, it do look as if that was the
morning,' admitted Anne. ' But everyone
at the Ship and Anchor will be sound
asleep.'

Xot the stable-boys,' said Flossie acutely.
I once heard you say you thought the' never
went to bed.'

As one of the stable-helpers happened to bean
admirer of Anne's, this shot was most
effective, and she made no further objections.
Consequently, they put on their bonnets and
started off, their spirits reviving considerably
as they found themselves out of doors, in the
dewy coolness of the summer morning, \\\h
the light growing every moment, and all the
birds awakening in the branches.

There they come,' said Anne, suddenly
stopping short, and pointing to the group
of men straggling home from the pool.
VOL. III. 40

They do not seem to have found anything.'


Oh, let us g'o on !' urged Flossie, with
characteristic cowardice, shrinking from the
bare idea now of meeting them, and very
anxious, if Gertrude were not drowned, to find
her out at the Ship and Anchor.

Arrived there. Anne blushing elicited her
acquaintance fiom his own particular regions ;
and Flossie proceeded eagerly to question him.
Blank disappointment ! He had seen nothing
of Lady Hatherley, and grinned sardonically
with the peculiar enjoyment of the rustic in
inflicting discomfiture.

Oh dear !' said Flossie. ' They have inquired
at all the stations, and nobody has seen
her.'

And they have been to drag the pool,'
added Anne portentously.

Her admirer stood silent, his eyes growing
big with awe. But a young man slouching
about near by, now came up and joined in the
conversation.

Who's wanted ?'
Lady Hatherley.'

My !' said he contemptuously. ' I saw her
take a ticket yesterday at Rosebank, for
Brighton.'

Just so long' did Flossie stand to take in
the full meaning of the words, then set stunning
homewards with the speed of a
hare, Anne panting after her as best she
coidd.

Along the roads, then up the avenue darted
Flossie ; sped into the house, and across the
hall, and burst breathless into the diningroom,
where the jaded Mark was refreshing
himself with a cup of coffee.
Flossie r

Oh, Mark ! she is gone to Brighton.
She is not drowned. I did not kill her.
You were very unkind. She's a perfect

horror ' and thereupon Flossie went into

hysterics.

When she had been brought to by dint of
rubbing and cold water, and a little brandy,

402

and was lying down in her room looking ver'
white and rather j)i'etty, her mother sitting
gloomily beside her, Mark knocked at the
door and asked permission to enter.

He came forward and took his cousin's little
hand kindly in his own.

I am sorry you had a sleepless night, and
then that long walk, my dear,' he said gently.
I spoke rather roughly to you last night, I
am afraid.'

Oh, it doesn't matter,' said Flossie angelically.


But it does, since I gave you such a scare,'
answered ]\Iark, with his grave smile. ' What
I have come to say now is, that if you have
sometimes seemed to me not quite kind
towards Lady Hatherley, I think you have
more than atoned for all mistakes by the
impulse that took you this morning to the
inn.'

Yes,' said Flossie, demure but assentient.


And you must take care of yourself, and

soon get quite well,' added Mark  good fellow !
with inevitable awkwardness ; and took
himself out of the room.

I think you were a fool,' abruptly remarked
Mrs. Hatherley to her daughter, after
a pause.

But sice is a sneak said Flossie. ' And
now Mark knows it.'

The next day Sir John's funeral took
place 'ery (quietly  more quietly than anybody
in the days so far away in seeming,
so near in fact, could have thought it possible
for the master of The Limes to be
buried.

Xobody but the family was invited ; buta
few people went, partly out of respect
for Mark, partly out of mere self-importance.


All funerals are melancholy ; but Mark
sighed bitterly as he saw his father's coffin
lowered, and reflected with a pang, how few
readers and how much less esteem he left
behind him in the world for whose paltry

prizes he had sacrificed self-respect and fair
fame.

The absence of Gertrude of course excited
infinite comment : and as it was known that
she had taken flight, the neighbourhood had
enough to talk about. ]\Iark had telegraphed
to Winifred, begging her to find out if Lady
Hatherley were in Paris. To her famish' he
did not telegraph, for fear of alarming them ;
but he asked Winifred to discover, if possible,
the cause of Richard's strange silence; and he
concluded his long message by bidding her
act in the matter as she thought wisest and
best.

It brought a slii>'ht tleam of comfort to
the poor fellow in his loneliness and perplexity,
to associate her with himself even in so small
a way as that ; but he told himself that the
pleasure was a dangerous one, for his whole
future now was doubtful and dark.

When is the inquest to be' resumed ?' asked
Mr. Burton, who had called in on the afternoon
of the funeral.

Xext week. I hope I shall have some
news of Lady Hatherley by then, if it be only
to arrest the course of Lathom's imagination
said Mark.

Mr. Burton cleared his throat discreetly.
He regarded the young man's belief in Gertrude
as a kind of infatuation ; and for his
part was rather disposed to regard Lathom asa
very sensible fellow.

You have had no news ?'

'None. Ah I'

Mark put out his hand eagerly, for the
butler had entered the room, brino-ino; two
telegrams. The first he opened was from
Richard.

I have been away. Gertrude's message
just opened. Psalter sold by me by order of
Sir John, under promise secrecy.'

That told Mark nothing of importance that
he had not as good as known, but he passed
it with a melancholy ii'lance to Mr. Burton.

The other telegram Alas from Winifred :

No news here of Gertrude. Family greatly
alarmed. Richard starts for London tomorrow.'


GERTRUDE FINDS NEW FRIENDS.

Gertrude had indeed taken a ticket
for Brighton ; but as soon as the
train had carried her a few stations
beyond Rosebank. she got out aud bought another
ticket for London.

The pretence of going to Brighton was a
blind ; and the dropping by the pool of the
hat she usually Adore, was another. Both
devices were sufficiently transparent ; but to
Gertrude, in her actual incapacity for judging
coolly, they seemed of preternatural acuteness.
And as a fair share of rage was mixed with
her fright. she even derived some small satisfaction

from the thought that ]\Iark might (ashe
did) drag the pool for her.

She arrived in London just about the time
that Mark had rung for the butler to inquire if
she had returned ; and calling a cab, had herself
driven to the dingy suburb where we have
already once seen her.

The maid recognised her ; and after a moment's
hesitation, ushered her into the little
sitting-room, where her mysterious friend, his
body on one chair and his leos on another, was
smoking by the light of two tallow candles.

Hullo !' he said, and rose in great astonishment.


I am in a difficulty,' said Gertrude coldly :
and as it is principally your disreputable folly
which has landed me in it, you must be good
enough to help me out.'

My dear child '

Listen to what I have to say,' she interrupted,
with scant ceremony; and proceeded
to relate all the particulars of the past four
days' events at The Limes.

He listened attentively with a growing expression
of disapproval, and when she ceased
speaking, remarked dispassionately :

You have dished yourself this time, and
no mistake.'

Gertrude's eyes flashed, and she retorted
angrily :

Why did you ever send me there to plot
and spy, and report secrets which I don't believe
existed out of your imagination.'

They existed and exist ; of that be sure.
But it is like my usual luck that you should
have failed to discover anything.'

Luck !' repeated Gertrude, in scorn. ' You
try to be an intriguer without the talents de
Vernploi Why cannot you once for all cease
from this disreputable living by your wits ?'

It has not been successful of late, certainly,'
he answered, candidly. ' But you see, my
beautiful but too-impetuous niece, I have
absolutely nothing else to live on. My wits,
although you are frank enough to express buta
low opinion of them, have provided me with

this apartment, for which I jay (occasionally) ;
and with food and tobacco, of which I get a
good deal on tick. To become a respectable
member of society and seek to live upon my
means, would carry me with the utmost
promptitude to the workhouse. You look
very contemptuous ; but, speaking impartially,
would you like to see your aged relative in
that establishment ? You are discreetly silent,
I observe. Ah well ! to be loved has never
been mv fate ; but you should not be hard
upon me, Gerty, for on the very first day
when  after your first little escapade  chance
threw you across my path at Turin, I recognised
you for a kindred soul. You, too, live
by your wits, and experience the vicissitudes
inseparable from the profession. We are
bound to one another by community of experiences
and ties of blood. We will sink or
swim together.'

Gertrude rose, fairly exasperated.

 If you have nothing else to say to me, I
had better o-q away.'

Where ?'

I don't know,' lie said, turning hastily to
the door ; but for all her anger, her voice had
a cadence of mournfulness.

Perhaps Ralph Mercer felt it : at any
rate, he also rose and put his hand upon
hers just as she stretched it towards the
knob. ' Sit down. I am not much given to
looking after people  whether men or women.
But do you suppose I would let you run
about the streets of London at this hour by
yourself ?'

I may as well lose my time in that way
as in any other,' Gertrude replied.

His only answer to this was to push her
gently into a chair, and ring the bell. On the
house-damsel appearing, he asked to speak to
the landlady ; and she, a little sulky but
evidently a prey to curiosity, presently dawned
upon the scene.

Mrs. Marks,' began Ralph very politely,
this is my niece  ah  Miss Dallas.'

Mrs. Marks stared a little incredulously

the beautiful and elegant figure before her ; but

she only answered:

/

1 es, sir.

 She has come up from the country to seek
employment. It has probably occurred to you
at times, Mrs. Marks, that I do not belong to
a wealthy stock ; therefore it may not surprise
you to learn that my niece is anxious to go
out as a governess, and for that she has arrived
in London.'

Mrs. Marks made no answer, but it is likely
that this modest account of Gertrude appealed
to her sense of probabilities. At any
rate, her grim countenance relaxed somewhat.


My niece wishes for a lodging and supper.
You have a room upstairs vacant, I know;
and Gertrude, my child, have you a couple of
sovereigns ?'

She produced the money.

I am happy to be able to ay my small
arrears of rent, Mrs. Marks,' said Ralph,
promptly handing over one of the coins to the

landlady.  And now will you get my niece
some supper?'

The sight of the money had a magical effect,
and Mrs. Marks vanished quite 
and briskly.

The next morning when Gertrude, after a
sufficiently uncomfortable night, descended,
she found her uncle very carefully and
sprucely dressed, and with an air of great
solemnity.

I have thought of a place for you,' he said.
Make haste and finish your breakfast. It is
already ten o'clock, and we should lose no
time.'

'Have you any respectable acquaintances?'
asked Gertrude coolly.

A few,' replied Ralph, quite unmoved by
the taunt. ' A variety of employments has
brought me into contact with a variety of
people, and one or two of these have not yet
found me out.'

Gertrude's spirits were rising rapidly. A
born Bohemian, and blessed with, all the

Winifred Power

elasticity of a Dallas, she found more charm
in her present position than life at The Limes
had ever afforded her. For though she loved
luxury, she rebelled against respectability, and
the prizes for Which she was willing to sacrifice
truth and self-respect were, in the last analysis,
those which afforded her the least real enjoyment.


Ralph Mercer was right in saying that he
and she were kindred souls. It Alas this
sympathy, more than any true belief in his
assurances, which had bound her to him from
the hour when they had first met. And now
with her natural indolence, she was glad to
throw upon him the whole burden of providing
for her immediate future.

They took a cab and drove to a pretty house,
set deep in a shady and charming garden in
the umbrageous north-western suburb of
London. A neat and noiseless little maid
opened the door, and ushered them into a
house where a conventual stillness seemed to
reign. But Gertrude was quick to note the

quiet comfort and elegance of everything in
the little drawing-room. It was fragrant with
the scent of flowers floating through the
open window from the garden, now adorned
with the brief loveliness of the ' leafy month
of June.' *

The door opened presently, and a man, not
old evidently, but delicate looking, prematurely
bald and bowed, came softly in. His
high-bred sensitive face struck Gertrude with
a genuine admiration. Involuntarily she rose,
and, all her semi-histrionic instincts aroused,
looked instantaneously respectful, interested,
and interesting.

Mr. Graham. My niece, Miss Dallas.'

I am very glad to see you, Mr. Mercer
said Mr. Graham, after bowing courteously to
Gertrude and offering her a seat. * I was afraid
that you had forgotten the promise you made
me at the time when you were so kind to my
son at Brighton.'

Gertrude could not refrain from a curious

VOL. III. 41

chance at her Tingle. That kindness must
have been marked indeed, she reflected,
which could establish any tie of sympathy
between these two men, so widely opposed,
evidently, in habits, and instincts, and position.

You are too kind even to remember the
small service I rendered you,' answered Ralph,
whose manner had become almost gentlemanly.
How is your son 7

He has been better ever since that terrible
attack of pain through which you
helped me to nurse him,' answered the father,
with the peculiar melancholy, so resigned yet
so pathetic, with which those who love him
speak of a confirmed invalid. ' I am sure
he will be glad to see you. I have not
yet found the companion that I seek for him.
Ned, you know, is a little fanciful,' added
Mr. Graham, with a smile as tender as a
woman's.

To be frank,' said Ralph, ' I thought of
your wish in bringing you my niece.'

Mr. Graham looked a little surprised. He
glanced for the first time fully at Gertrude,
and was probably struck with her beauty, for
an expression half-doubting, half pleased, came
into his eves.

Indeed  if Xed consented ' he murmured,
' and I do not know why he should
not. But the life would be very dull for this
young lady.'

When is the life of a dependent ever
lively ? My niece has, unfortunately, to earn
her daily bread,' answered Ralph, with a
perfect assumption of regretful dignity, while
Gertrude sighed (with genuine self-pity),
and Mr. Graham contemplated both of them
through a gold eye-glass, and was unmistakably
touched.

We never see society,' he said ;  never
read newspapers; rarely even go for drives.
My only visitor is the doctor, and when Need
is suffering: I am afraid that Miss Dallas
would have nobody to talk to but Mrs. Wade,

412

the housekeeper, who is an excellent woman,
but not intellectual.'

And again Mr. Graham smiled.

My niece detests society,' answered Ralph
promptly.

And I don't look at a newspaper from one
year's end to the other,' hastened to add Gertrude.


So  so,' murmured Mr. Graham.

Perhaps Ralph thought that he and Gertrude
had been a little suspiciously accommodating,
for he resumed :

When one's circumstances change, as those
of my niece have unfortunately done, one
shrinks from scenes of gaiety.'

Yes, indeed,' said Gertrude.

Mr. Graham sprang up quite briskly.

I will go and prepare Iced for a visit
from you. And we will hear what he has to
say.'

Upon which the door swung to noiselessly
behind him, and the uncle and niece were

alone. Ralph turned towards Gertrude, and
shutting up one eye into an elaborate wink,
breathed the words ' Worthy, but oppressive.'


Do you allude to Mr. Graham, or to your
own unusual efforts to conciliate him ?' she
asked scornfully, for she was more than half-disgusted.


To both, if you like, child. You are
sarcastic, but I do not mind. If a tool is
to serve my purpose I prefer its being
sharp.'

The colour flushed into Gertrude's
cheeks.

You may be sure that I shall try to do
my duty before everything,' she said.

I dare say you will  at first,' he replied
placidly ; and rage robbed her of all power of
retort.

In a few minutes Mr. Graham returned.

Ned will be delighted to see you, Mr.
Mercer, and Miss Dallas also ;' and he led the

way into a room, the like of which Gertrude
had never seen before.

It had not the splendour nor the vastness
of the library at The Limes, but it was
imbued with that subtle essence of culture,
refinement, and true enthusiasm which Sir
John's elaborately constructed environment
had always lacked. A small but lovely group
in bronze faced the door ; on a carved
locker in one corner was set a splendid tripod
in Indian enamel, blue as a peacock's plumage,
of exquisite design, and raised on feet of
fretted brass ; and the rare spaces between the
lofty bookcases were covered with old
Florentine leather, stamped with gold on a
pale azure ground, and more beautiful because
more delicate far than any of the
famed embossed but barbaric work of Cordova.


In a vast bow-window stood a piano ; near
this in picturesque disorder were heaped a
number of musical instruments, old and new ;

while piled upon a stand were volumes of
music bearing such half - forgotten names as
Corpora and Scarlatti, and recalling, by
their very titles, the gaudy splendour of
foreign churches ; the stately grace of
minuets ; the days of ceremonious bows
and sparkling dialogues ; of cocked-hats
and shoe-buckles; of powder, paint, and
patches.

The impression created instantaneously by
the room was so various, so subtly compounded
of many epochs and contrasted
tastes; so fragrant of memories faint as the
perfume of faded rose-leaves, that it was
like a chamber haunted by the phantoms of a
gracious past.

Gertrude stood rapt ; then absolutely
started when a slight stir at her side attracted
her attention, and she found herself looking
into the face of a youth so pale, so ethereal,
so slight, with such spiritual-looking eyes, and
such a cloud of shining hair, that but for the

brand of mortal pain upon his brow, he
might himself have seemed an apparition. He
had slightly raised himself on one of the
pillows propping him on every side, and was
regarding her With an intent glance of very
hidden meaning.

My son,' said Mr. Graham, who had
already performed the introduction three
times before, rousing Gertrude from her
reverie. ' This is Miss Dallas, Xed ; kind Mr.
Mercer's niece.'

Ked stretched out a slender hand, and as
Gertrude took it and felt lion' wasted it was,
hoar unlike a boy's, a thrill of the most
genuine pity that she had ever felt went
through her, and brought a world of Womanly
compassion and interest into her brilliant,
but rarely softened eyes. They remained
thus for a moment looking at one another 
the girl in her splendid strength, the boy
feeble, tortured by pain, yet intense in his
pure intellectuality ; and when Gertrude, with

an unconscious sigh, turned away at last, a
faint colour had risen into Ned's cheeks, and
her eyes were full of tears.

You have not spoken to Mr. Mercer, my
son,' said Mr. Graham, with a pleased smile.

Ned smiled very kindly, and seemed
quite glad to see Mr. Mercer ; and yet to
Gertrude's present mood, her uncle's voice
and manner jarred as much as if some unskilful
hand had drawn a bow along the
strings of the priceless Cremona that, as she
later learnt, was the lad's most valued possession.


You remember,' resumed Mr. Graham,
ao-ain addressing his son in a manner which
appeared habitual to him, and was oddly compounded
of deference and the careful simplicity
used towards a child  ' you remember that,
now that you are better, I have sometimes
thought of having some one in the house who
would always be ready to read to you. Would
you like Miss Dallas ?'

Again Iste raised his inspired eyes.

I have not heard your voice. Will you
speak to me ?' he said.

I should like very much to be with you
always, and to do anything for you that you
wished,' said Gertrude simply, obeying him
without a thought at the quaintness of his
request.

I am sure you are not naturally musical.
You never try to play or sing,
do you ?' inquired the boys, with perceptible
anxiety.

sever,' said Gertrude, and this time she
smiled.

A faint light, too serious for an answering
smile, broke the steady glory of Ned's glance,
and he said :

 I should like to have you very much.'

Then that is settled,' exclaimed Mr. Graham,
with unmistakable relief. ' Can you
come directly, Miss Dallas .'

To-day, if you like.'

That is splendid. I shall expect you at
six o'clock.'

He convoyed them back into the drawing-room,
briefly settled the business part of the
question, and saw them go with unconcealed
satisfaction.

He wants to be at work on his dictionary,'
remarked Kalph, when he found himself in the
quiet suburban road with Gertrude. ' He is
an Egyptologist. There is something Sphinx-like
about the whole concern, isn't there? But
you could not have got into a better berth,
Gerty ; especially under the circumstances.
They never see a soul, and know nothing of
what goes on in any other portion of the
globe. A person pressingly "wanted" by the
police would be safer there than in Sweden.'

Gertrude winced. She was more nearly
condemning herself for an adventuress at this
moment, than she had ever been in all her
life. But to express any such scruples to her
uncle was, she knew, worse than useless ; so

she turned upon bim instead with unconscious

savageness.

Do you know that I have no clothes with
me?' she said. ' And you took half my money
fi'om me last night. What have you done
with that which you obtained by the sale of
my jewels ? You promised to keep only a
share for yourself, in case I did as I have
done, and left them all at The Limes.*

Ralph walked on in silence, looking a little
red.

Really, Gerty, you have no delicacy,' he
presently said in a tone of fastidious disgust.


Delicacy ?'

To ask for your money in that tone. By
Jove! it's like presenting a pistol at one's
throat.'

Gertrude burst out lauhincf.

I suppose that means that you have spent
it all ?' she said. ' Well, we will say no more
then about my share of the sale,' she went on
good-naturedly enough. * But clothes I must

have. Can you set me a few, on credit, or
otherwise ?'

I will try,' said Ralph magnificently.

And in some inexplicable way known only
to the race of micawber, he did manage
within a few hours to provide her with sufficient
clothes to make a decent appearance in.

Well, good-bye, Gerty,' he said, when
putting her into the cab. * 1 hope you will
do honour to my recommendation. He is
quite a gentleman, is Graham.'

Gertrude gave an amused smile, and parted
from him. She wondered very much as she
drove alonsf how her uncle had ever mano-ed

o o

to know anybody as much a gentleman as
Mr. Graham ; but her curiosity Alas soon
gratified. For during the tete-cl-tete dinner
between herself and her employer, the latter
said :

I think my son is really improving in
health, for you are the second stranger to
whom he has taken kindly within the last
month. The first was your uncle.'

Gertrude tried not to look surprised, but
she did ask herself what the charm had been.

We made his acquaintance on the pier at
Brighton. He amused Ned all the morning
telling him stories about South America.
And one night when the poor lad was moaning
in pain, Mr. Mercer, who slept in the
next room, heard him and came in. I confess
I was alarmed at first when he appeared.
Ned is jDCCuliar. I thought he would object.
But something in your uncle's voice  have
you ever remarked how melodious it is?  
pleased his sensitive ear. And Mr. Mercer
sat by him all the night. I shall never forget
it  never wound up Mr. Graham with
serious feeling.

Gertrude made no answer. She was
touched ; but it was by the speakers good
faith. The little service had cost Kalph's
facile nature nothing ; and with what a
wealth of gratitude was it rewarded !

Life in Mr. Graham's home was something
like existence on an enchanted island.

Wealth and taste gave it many elements of
beauty ; the domestic organization, never
hindered by interruptions, was perfect ; the
general effect was that of a dreamy, somewhat
lotus-eating silence. Ned shrank with
a morbid sensitiveness from visitors ; and his
father was only happy when poring for hours
long over his books. He belonged to one or
two learned societies, and occasionally went
to a lecture or conversazione ; but he never
invited anybody to his house. He was a
student, but not a talker, and he did not care
for oral exchange of ideas. He received a
few scientific journals, and corresponded, on
special subjects, with some eminent men ;
but the news of the day never penetrated
through the noiseless doors, which swung so
softly on their hinges that they might have
been opened and shut, like the doors in fairy-tales,
by invisible hands. The father and the
son were much together ; a fact that had, of
course, contributed originally to the absence
of visitors, now become a habit.

Mr. Graham worked in a small room
adjoining the library; and when Gertrude was
reading to Xed the door of communication
remained closed. At other times it was
open ; and Mr. Graham never came in for a
book or a paper that he did not address some
remark to his son. Generally it was about
his own work ; some new inscription had
been deciphered ; some fresh excavation
made ; Sauce had written ; and so on. Ned
did not often answer ; but that apparently
did not matter. Mr. Graham's remarks
seemed to be mere ripples of satisfaction : a
little stir raised by pleasure on the surface of
his fathomless content ; and no response was
needed to them.

For the first few days after her arrival
Gertrude did not have much conversation
with Ned. He seemed to like her, for he
would lie, sometimes for an hour, contemplating
her apparently in meditative enjoyment.
She grew accustomed to it at last, and would
go on working quietly. Probably that

pleased liii also, for he liked all things to be
harmonious. Sometimes lie would ask hera
question about herself ; once he , told her
that lie had very pretty hair ; and he was
always m*eatl\' interested when she talked to
him of Italy, Adhere, before the final sojourn in
Paris, she had spent two years. Xed knew a
great deal about Italy, especially its music.
Marcello and Gemelli, Sacchini and Galuppi
were names as familiar to him as to us A'erdi
and Wagner. His mind was stored with
anecdotes of the life and looks and ways of
these old perused musicians ; and he had
a picturesque, ghost-haunted kind of erudition
that made things of the past a strangely vivid
although fantastic reality to him. His love
of col hectic musical instruments had its root
far more in this dream imasfinativeness than
in any archaeological passion. His little
harpsichord with its spindle legs was dear to
him for the figures in brocaded coats and lace
ruffles that his fancy pictured sitting at it ;
and for the sonatas and the fugues, unheard
VOL. HI. 42

by the ear of sense, that faintly sounded from
it in the twilight which he loved. When he
was a chy.d he had begun to study the violin,
he told Gertrude, but had been forced to give
it up. It was too fatiguing physically ; and
perhaps, too, the rapture of its pathos vibrated
too strongly in his sensitive organization. But
he was never happier than when looking at his
Cremona, once, tradition said, the property
of Martini ; and perhaps, Ned liked to suggest,
the very one on which the Fiend had
played that unearthly and beautiful music
which the master had heard in his
dreams.

The Prince of Darkness will never be so
kind to me,' said the lad, with that deeper
shining of his lustrous eyes which was
habitually his nearest approach to a smile.
And yet my life might appeal to him, don't
sou think? It is so full of impotency and
of pain.'

 But you are better to-day ?'

Yes, this is one of my good days. This

evening I dare say I shall be able to play a
little

 To play?'

The piano. You did not know I could
do it? I can sometimes, not often ; and then
come the long; days of dungeon-life.'

Dungeon-life?' repeated Gertrude wonderingly.


Yes, my soul goes back into its bonds.'

She did not ask him what he meant, for
his manner did not challenge interrogation.
He talked about himself in this quaint way
sometimes, but it was done so placidly as to
take from it all air of complaining; and
Gertrude had tact enough to feel that he
would not like to be consoled or openly
pitied.

The evening of that day, as she descended
the stairs into the hall, the sound of a march,
steadily, although not strongly played, struck
her surprised ear. She pushed the door of
the library open and softly entered.

It was the hour after sunset ; and the only

422

UNIVERSITY OF tt-unus

light in the room came from the deep glow
of a fire made to ward off the chilliness of the
rainy evening. Outside, the da' was dying
in a Evan twilight. The branches of a tree,
slowly swaying in the saturated wind, tapped
against the window, and sent thrills of shadow
through the room. At the piano sat Xed,
dimly visible ; no music was in front of him ;
he was playing from memor*, or more probably
from inspiration. The slow march, full
of a solemn melody, filled the room. Gertrude,
as she listened to it, fancied that the
boy was evoking in a phantom-procession the
gracious spirits among whom his mind dwelt
always. And }'et there was a note of sorrow
in the music  perhaps a wail of regret for
stricken aspiration.

Suddenly with a minor chord the playing
ceased ; Xed gave a sigh, and dropped
his head upon his folded arms. Was he
suffering? Gertrude did not know; she felt
that she could not ask ; and as noiselessly
as she had come, did she <xlide avrav.

In the ball lie met mr. Graham. He was
looking very grave and sad.

You heard that ?' he said. ' It is a bad
sign.'

Gertrude looked inquiringly.

He is always ill after he has played.'

But he has seemed so much better for two
or three days past,' she urged.

It is no true bitterness : only a kind of
excitement, which exhales itself finally in
music ; and leaves nothing behind lout the
ashes of the fire that has fed it. Poor lad !
Poor lad !' murmured Mr. Graham, in his soft
\Yay.

The next day proved the truth of his
sorrowful words. Ned was desperately ill;
racked from head to feet with jain. Truly
his soul had gone back into bondage  Ariel
eras imprisoned in the cloven pine. There
was not much to do for him at first, except
that which is the hardest task of all  to
stay by and look on. But a new symptom,
in the shape of extreme exhaustion,

seized him, and then Mr. Graham sent for the
doctor.

He came; a keen, quiet man, Who looked
somewhat surprised at Gertrude, but approved
of her nursing.

That beautiful young lady  is she a relative
of yours ?' he inquired later of Mr.
Graham, with whom, be it said, he was rather
intimate.

Xo, indeed ; I never saw her until a fortnight
ao'o. She is Xed's reader. He likes
her very much.'

Humph !' said Dr. Kenyon.

Mr. Graham could not help being struck
with his tone, and looked at him questioningly.
Could he disapprove of Gertrude ? Such an
idea seemed preposterous.

Dr. Kenyon came for two or three days
running; and each time Gertrude was conscious
that he observed her. There Alas some
interest and admiration in his glance; but
there was more of a veiled curiosity which
annoyed her. She could not help responding

at last with a flash of the eyes, in Which all
lier old arrogance sprang again to life. A
Comet smile curled Dr. Kenyon's lips ; but
he seemed otherwise quite unmoved, and
(gertrude took to detesting him vehemently.


He is a nice fellow,' said Mr. Graham one
day to her.

I don't like him,' she answered bluntly.

Mr. Graham smiled.

Kenyon is rather suspicious. Perhaps
that is what you feel.'

'AVhat is there about me that he should
be suspicious of?' she asked hotly  too
hotly.

mr. Graham glanced up at her ; but made
no answer. A mixed but vague impression
does not conduce to reply ; and it was such
an impression that he had received in this
moment.

The next day Dr. Kenyon, taking his
leave of Mr. Graham in the hall, said :

Ned is so much better, I do not think I
need call tomorrow.'

I am always glad to see you non-professionally.'


I have left full instructions with ]bliss
Dallas. She seems capable.'

Very capable and charming.'

flore capable than charming, I should
say.'

]mr. Graham looked amused.

You do not seem to hit it off with one
another.'

 Does she dislike me ?' asked the doctor
quickly.

She has not said so.'

 But she probably looks it. She interests
me, I confess, more than she attracts me.
slay I ask  have you known her long and
well ?'

Mr. Graham related the circumstances of the
acquaintance : winding up with ' And Ned
likes her wonderfully.'

Dr. Kenyon had been looking as if meaning

to say something special ; but at this observation
his expression changed. He hesitated
for a moment, then took his leave.

The following: morning Gertrude was in
the garden, when she was attracted by hearing
her name called : and turnings saw Dr.
Kenyon at the wicket. She went forward to
open it, looking by no means cordial.

Xed is better,' she said coldly.

I have not come to see Xed,' Alas the
answer.

He closed the gate behind him with the
air of a man taking possession, and walked
forward along the path. But he did not
turn to enter the house ; so Gertrude
said :

Mr. Graham is at home, of course.'

I do not wish to disturb him. I came, in
fact, to see you.'

Me T

Gertrude was profoundly astonished.

He put his hand into this pocket and produced
a copy of the Times.

 Would you lund lookinii- at the second
column of the supplement ?'

She took it With a changing colour ; turned
to the place indicated, and read an accurate
description of herself, coupled with the offer
of a reward for information that might lead to
lier discovery.

Do you want to earn the money?' she
asked composedly, as she returned the
paper.

His face darkened a little at the sarcasm,
hut he replied quietly :

My coming to you is a sufficient answer.'

I should like to understand your object,*
said Gertrude.

He was silent for a little time, finding the
challenge not easy to meet. He could not tell
her that he thought she was ji'obably an
adventuress, and that his duty had seemed to
impose upon him the necessity of warning the
unsuspicious and hermit-like Mr. Graham
against her. He had grave doubts about her
always, especially when away from her ; butin

her presence they were generally mixed
with a reluctant admiration that neutralized
their influence. He had looked at her so
often and so narrowly' to assure himself of her
identity, that ever' turn of her graceful head,
every change in the expression of her eyes, the
pretty mole on her cheek, the little tendrils of
hair that clung to her throat, were familiar to
him, and  as he nov with some alarm discovered
 they brought him a great deal of
pleasure. He roused himself with an effort
from the fatal contemplation, and said
gravely :

You are aware that Mr. Graham is ni'
friend. He leads a life of so peculiar a nature
that one has to take into consideration for him
things about which one would not trouble
one's self in relation to other people. If he were
a man who mixed with the world, or took
ordinary precautions to  to ensure himself
against certain mistakes, neither I nor anybody
else would have the right to interfere in his
affairs. But as it is '

But as it is you think you should play
policeman for him ?' interrupted Gertrude, with
an ironical laugh.

I confess that if I thought you were hereunder
false pretences, I should regard it as
my duty to warn him,' was the steady reply.

I came here to read to Ned ; to nurse him
when suffering ; to amuse him Avhen better ;
to lighten and soothe as much as could be
done a lot which is among; the hardest on
earth. These were my " pretences " in presenting
myself. Can you show them to have
been " false?' she asked bitterly.

You have done all that could have been
asked of you  and more,' he replied, and
his tone had grown earnest.

Then Why do you seek to drive me from a
refuse when mv life is blameless ; where I
know happiness and peace?'

She asked the question impetuously, and
turned to face him with kindling eyes.

Swiftly, before she could guess his purpose,
he took her hand. She tried to release it ;

then feeling all the power of the strong and
quiet grasp, stayed her struggling, but
stood away from him, silent, rigid, and
defiant.

I do not Avish to drive you away,' he said
gently ; ' far less do I seek to know your
secrets. All I would like you to do is to goto
mr. Graham and state your position to
him, whatever it may be, frankly and clearly.

I have done nothing to be ashamed of,'
cried Gertrude : then repented of the words
before they had fairly left her lips.

Adhere was her pride that she should seek
to justify herself to him? She was angry that
she could not but obey the curb laid upon her
rebellious spirit by the glance of his stern but
not unkind grey eyes. Mark also had always
thus dominated her, she said to herself Oh!
she was weak  she was weak I A look, slight
but unmistakable, revealed in him some relief
at her declaration ; but he only said :

That is all the more reason why you should
confide in Mr. Graham.'

'I will not; no, I will not!' exclaimed
Gertrude ; in reality filled once more with the
vague, over wrought terror that had driven
her from The limes. Why were they advertising
for her? Alio was it wanted her?
Had the inquest been resumed? Were fresh
facts turning into false witnesses against
her ?

The fatal love of mystery that dodged her
natural astuteness always, and blighted it like
a baleful shadow, again rose supreme in her.
She would tell nothing ; place herself in no
man's power ; she would go away once more
but not to Ralph ; his vulgar intrigue was
at this moment, thanks to newer influences,
profoundly repugnant to her ; she would goto
Paris, to Winifred, and seek refuge and
comfort in the pity of that pure and generous
soul. And as she came to this determination,
she put her head back haughtily with a movement
habitual to her, and plunged her glance
into the penetrating eyes that had never
quitted her face.

What do you mean to do?' he asked.

Something that will gratify you answered
Gertrude insolently. ' Will you please to let
go my hand?'

He dropped it abruptly, raised his hat,
bowed, and without a word further  left
her.

Richard S QUIXOTRY.

fan7v~jrrif?*>

URIK'G the terrible days of the
Commune Winifred had lived ina
kind of lm4d dream.
She was not a politician, far less a partisan
and if asked a month earlier with which men
or tendencies in distracted France her sympathies
went, she would most assuredly have
been puzzled to answer.

But she was too generous not to be stirred
to pity in the inevitable hour when the aspirations
of the people were bartered by the selfish
and the mean ; their sacred watchwords caught
up by lying lips, and their purest enthusiasms

suffocated by treachery and greed. She felt
all the tragedy of that cruel failure which
awaits the effort that has outstripped the age ;
and her heart was wrung with compassion for
the sons and daughters of toil, who, after suffering'
from generation to generation, and sinning
in one brief hour of mistaken hope,
turned anew to face the grim reality of
wretchedness, and learnt that their sufferings
were to be forgotten and only their sins remembered.


She came home one day in a state of great
excitement.

It is hard,' she cried ]passionately ; startling
Martha at her patient work of bandage-making.
You remember Anatole?'

That nice-looking 3'oung joiner you had in
once to do some work ? Did I not hear that
he had joined the Commune ?  God help) him V
answered Martha.

He was very enthusiastic and eloquent. I
suppose he really believed in a social millennium.
I am sure he was single-minded,' said

VOL. III. 43

Winifred, riding full tilt at the Windmill of
unspoken attack. ' And he was as tender asa
woman to his poor old bedridden mother.'
And has he been killed ?'
No ; but arrested. And he will be reporte.
And when he comes back, if he lives to come
back, he will be ruined in mind and soul and
body.'

Martha sat silent : deeply sorry, vet half
afraid to say so. The Commune's closing-scenes
had scared her: not with the selfish
terror of the bourgeois ; but with a pure
womanly' fear of the consequences for the unhappy
men concerned. She and Winifred had
so many poor neighbours, and knew them all
so well, that her own gentle heart had no
room for am feeling but compassion. But
she 'ould fain have taught all struggling
humanity her own remedy of patience and
faith : her own saintly shrinking from
violence.

It is so easy to understand how he and
such as he were led on,' continued Winifred

mournfully. ' They cannot see  they who
have had no teacher but want  the fatal gulf
that stretches between the perfect ideal good,
and the imperfect human means of realizing it.
They do not understand  how should they,
made narrow-minded as they are by lifelong
privation ?  that organization means obedience
to a leader ; and obedience means the transfer
of their consciences into another's keeping.
What they cannot foresee is the fatal but inevitable
transformation of lofty motives into vile
ones when the final clash of interests takes
place. Oh, Martha, think what it is for them,
bewildered, purblind, partially noble souls,
when they learn this lesson by terrible experience
at last ; and when, instead of the fair
fruition of their dreams, they find nothing but
ruin and desolating; crime, with wasted effort
and squandered blood, and the old smug,
stupid tyranny triumphant.'

Winifred, quite lifted out of herself as she
made this little speech, clasped her hands with
the gesture of a young priestess.

432

Martha looked at her lovingly, aclmirmgly,
vet a little afraid.

I hope I shall be left to you for a while
she said simply.

Dear Patty ! for a long while, I trust
answered Winifred affectionately', and took the
wasted hand that was a kind of mute denial of
her hope. ' But why do you say that now ?'

Martha gave one of her Wistful smiles.

You are the best thing I have ever known,
Winifred. I would like, before I die, to see
you in some safe and tender keeping.'

Winifred laughed, perhaps to mask a feeling
that Martha's words had roused.

I believe you are afraid that if left to myself
I would turn into a new Heroine de
Mericourt/ she said. ' But you can set your
mind at rest, Patty ; I have no enthusiasm, fora
cause. Evil and good seem to me so evenly
balanced in all these questions, that I can but
weep with the vanquished unit  poor scapegoats,
like Anatole, for whose ruined homes
society has no pity.'

Martha drew closer, and put her head on
Winifred's shoulder. This was a pathetic
little trick that she had whenever her young-protectress
showed too (Quixotic a spirit. It
was a kind of voiceless recall to that region of
reality where the weak and humble in spirit,
siicli as she, carried painfully the burden of
life, and had such sore need of the Winifred
of this world and all their bright young
courage. And the o;irl never failed to feel the
appeal, although, perhaps, unconsciously. The
sense of martha's dependence on her was an
anodyne to her restlessness, a solace to that
passionate desire in her to succour and console,
which amounted sometimes to actual pain.

It always seems to me, darling,' said
Martha presently, ' that you can afford to
be a little adventurous and exaggerated because
you are so strong. Your difficulties are
never too many for you ; you can always carry
them. I do not know how to express myself
exactly ; but I think that other people's difficulties
are a kind of snare to them. They

get meshed before they know inhere they

to

are.

Why, Patty, you are becoming quite a
philosopher. You have expressed in a word
what I was trying with many to say about
poor Anatole.'

Yes said Martha quietly. ' But I was
not thinking of Anatole, but of Dick.'

'Oh, Dick I'

Winifred's voice changed a little, and her
face fell. Martha had made her wince beneath
a sharp twinge of self-reproach. One evening,
shortly before the firing of the Hotel de Ville,
Richard Dallas had looked iii VlI)Otl them to
see, as he said, ' if they were safe.' Winifred,
living on the borders of the Workmen's faubourg,
went about so fearlessly among the
wounded, and counted so many friends among*
the terrible proletariat, that the Dallaseses,
especially Dick, were in the habit of half-laughingly
prophesying that she would one
day be arrested b}' the A'ersaillais herself.

Richard, on this special evening, had come

in one of his most cynical moods, and found
Winifred in her most exalted one. She had
been living all day amid scenes of horror ; had
seen more than one death, witnessed more than
one outburst of tragic despair, and come nearer
than she had ever expected to do to the unmarked
springs of human feeling. She was
vibrating with ardent sympathy, strung up to
a fervid contempt for the petty motives and
narrow needs of ordinary life. Dick's cynicism
irritated and finally revolted her. She
could not bear to see him sitting there with
his quiet smile, and hear him criticizing action
and balancing praise and blame, while his
fellow-creatures were during by thousands, and
all the hell-dogs of civil war were let loose in
the desolated city. At last some sneer at the
people (a sneer very characteristic of the
Dallaseses) stung her to retort.

It is easy to talk,' she flamed out. ' Xo
doubt they have sinned, and they are punished
by failure. I do not defend them, ]put I cannot
understand anyone being triumphant over

their expiation. Ignorance, and that half-knowledge
which is worse than ignorance,
lifelong poverty and grinding toil, are very
evil counsellors. And it is not from the
corrupt officials, and greedy bourgeois, and
pampered adventurers of the latter years that
these poor men could learn the lessons of self-sacrifice
and patience. If their class has much
to repent of, has our-'< nothing to expiate ?
And if they have soiled the sanctity of their
cause with crime, is the vengeance of their
conquerors one whit less criminal ?'

Winifred !' said Martha almost miploringij,
possessed, as she often was, by the fear that in
the years to come her darling, instead of
letting herself be loved and shielded from
harm, would dash out the best of her bright,
courageous life on the rock of other people's
23reju dices.

Dick sat quite silent: surprised a little, for
Winifred did not often lecture; and also a
little amused. She had looked surprisingly
handsome as she poured out her eager protest.

moreover, lier grace and the beaut' of her
voice suited her momentary 7'dle of pythoness.
Adhere another Avoman must have shrieked and
reticulated, she lead all the loveliness of a
genuine inspiration. And, after all, what
stirred her was a magnanimous intimation
at heartlessness, and not a dogmatic self-sufficiency.
Dick, like all undecided men,
was rather attracted by energy in a woman
than repelled ; and he met Winifred's flashing
eyes A\ith a flicker in his own of suppressed
luit decided admiration. Nevertheless, partly
jut of love of teasing, he answered with deliberate
contempt :

Because there is not much to choose between
the ruffianism that Writes its name at
the bottom of a cheque and the ruffianism that
cannot write at all, I fail to see why one
should refrain from shooting any number of
murderous rouses. Tliev should be treated
like the mad dogs they resemble.'

Winifred closed her eyes to hide her starting
tears. What made the greatest bitterness of

lier feeling in these days was the impossibility
of so judging the questions at issue, that she
could let her sympathy flow unchecked. But
doubting' turned to rebellion at the thought
that men could talk like Dick Dallas and not
be moved to shame. For one of the lessons
that she had not yet learnt  perhaps would
ne'er learn entirely  was to be tolerant of
other people's lack of earnestness.

Perhaps Dick felt instinctively the reproach
of her silence, for he added presently' with a
fine air of aristocratic fastidiousness :

I am not particular, but in a world which
is composed of swindlers and liars, I confess
that I prefer the washed to the unwashed
specimen.'

Winifred turned and looked at him. He
did not take warning by her glance, but continued
airily :

Most active people are utterly mischievous;
and passive people, like myself, are useless.'


'It is a disgrace to \'our humanity to say

such things,' answered the girl in low, quiet
tones of intense scorn.

The dusky colour flushed into Dick's
cheeks.

I do not seem able to please you by anything
I say to-nights he remarked a little
sullenly, and yet ruefully, too.

Oh, Dick I don't you understand ? I feel
sorry for you, just as I do for them ; only you
make me angry as well, because you, at least,
know hoar to distinguish. But you let every
gift, thought, and feeling run into a paralyzing
mould of cynicism.'

If I thought you really cared, I might
be better,' said Dick suddenly, almost in a
whisper, and looked straight into her eyes.

Chilled by this unexpected obtrusion of
personal aims into the midst of her palpitating
enthusiasm, she pushed back her chair and rose
abruptly, saying :

What can keep Dolly ? This is one of her
evenings for teaching ; but she should be home
by now.'

And home she is said Dolly's own fresh,
complacent tones ; and her small figure, rain-bespattered,
was framed in the door. ' Oh,
Mr. Dallas !' (unaffectedly pleased and a
little patronizing) ; ' you see Winifred has not
blown us up with petroleum yet. I suppose
you know that is her friends' latest threat ; but
they promise to spare her.'

And Dollv laughed at her own wit. She
laid aside her waterproof and hat, looking
critically the while at the preparations for
tea ; and as soon as she had divested her
small hands of their gloves, walked over
and offered one of them condescendingly to
Dick.

What is the matter ? Are you not

%/

well ?' she exclaimed, on thus coming nearer
to him.

Quite well  thanks. Worthless people
usually are,' answered Dick, a little bitterly.

Dear me ! That sounds quite tragic said
Dolly, good-naturedly.

Her upright eyes glanced from oue person to

another inquiringly ; and with characteristic
penetration, quickly divined the facts  but not
80 unerringly their cause.

Have you and Winifred fallen out T

I think that Dick and I will never fall out
said Winifred gravely, but kindly. ' Our
good-fellowship  quite a venerable quality Ijy
nov  will survive all mistakes.'

Even mistaken aspirations ?' asked Dick.

'Yes. And ill-advised scolding,' replied
Winifred, with one of her charming
looks.

Don't talk about aspirations, for goodness'
sake,' interposed Dolly. ' I am sick of the
word. If it had not been for a lot of tiresome
' aspirations '" (at least, that is what Winifred
calls them) we should have had those
nice Aersaillais in two months ago ; and by
this time I might have had six lessons where I
now have three.'

Winifred was so glad of the chance, at
that moment, to laugh at anything, that she
even laughed at this. And Dick laughed

also ; while Dolly, with her usual small smile
of unassuming superiority, sat down to cut the
bread and butter.

For the rest of the evening Dick was rather
silent, and Winifred talked to him in a kind,
sisterly way, that was intended to bring back
things between them exactly to their accustomed
footing'. And with some remorse lie
tried to make Dolly talk as well, but found
that young lady far less expansive than usual.
She sat working with an expression of demure
tolerance that struck Winifred once or
twice as odd. And when Dick at last rose to
go, Dolly, instead of coming forward, as she
generally did, to li'ht him downstairs, allowed
this gracious tasiv to be performed by her decidedly
unwilling friend.

Winifred would have given anything to
avoid these dangerous ' last words,' but Dolly
never even rose from her seat: just nodded a
good-night ' of serene friendliness, and proceeded
to thread a needle.

So Winifred walked silently on to the landing

and held the lamp aloft, Dick following her
with great deliberation.
Good-nio'ht.'

Good-nio'ht.'

I wish he would o-q \- thought Winifred,
and stood like a statue of Psyche. But
Dick lingered. At last, when the silence
was becoming oppressive, lie abruptly said :

I am not capable of sustained action,
Winifred ; but I might put on a spurt of
heroism, perhaps. I promise you that if,
within the next few days, I o-et the chance of

\j ' CD

distinguishing myself, I will not neglect it.'

She made a gesture of protest, horrified
to think that he might do something rash.
He misunderstood her, and with a curt laugh,
added :

And since I shall ask for no reward, the
homage will be as complete as possible.'

Then before she could speak, he ran downstairs.


Winifred walked away, filled with very
mixed feeling's of remorseful regret and

wounded pride. His concluding words had
been uncalled for, and she recognised them,
rather indignantly, for what they were  a
back-handed blow from his galled self-love ;
but always generous, she was more inclined to
blame herself than him, and ended by reflecting-sorrowfully
that her love of interference would
cost her all her friends.

Dolly and Winifred occupied one of the
two bedrooms in their tiny apartment r
and the hour of the twenty-four to which
the latter looked forward with amused pleasure
or patient dread (according as she
was preoccupied or the reverse) was the
time of undressing, during which Dolly incessantly
chattered. Her mind was small,
but acute, compact and clear-cut as the facets
of a crystal. Winifred and she had few
thoughts or feelings in common ; but they
got on admirably together, the one beings
too noble and the other too insoiiciante to
quarrel. Moreover Winifred, touched by
Dolly's energy, half unconsciously rewarded

it by indulging the minute Creole propensities
towards ease which here and there streaked
the little thing's activity. One of these forms
of petting was a nightly brushing of Dolly's
curly locks. During this operation the
stream of conversation was generally at fullest
flow ; but to-night Dolly sat almost quite
silent, and did not even betray the usual
little quiver of profound delight, which
Winifred noticing in her, had once laughing'
described as 'a latent purr.' She
herself, on this occasion, Alas not more disposed
to talk than her companion, for she
had an uneasy suspicion that Dolly was thinking
of Dick.

But all at once the two girls' eyes met in
the glass, and the ice was broken.

Winifred, I am not plain, do you think ?'

Conceited child ! Are you fishing for
superfluous compliments ?'

Nor stupid ?'

By no means.'

 Xor a bore ?'

VOL. III. 44

Will you be satisfied when I have told
you that you are irresistible?'

Don't Laugh,' said Dolly, With a serious
candour. ' I am quite in earnest. I am
following out a train of thought.'

This is very often a stupendous operation,
but she announced it with the evident conviction
that no mental achievement could be
considered beyond her.

By all means ; let me have the result.'

You are handsome I know,' resumed
Dolly, glancing complacently down her own
mignonne form. ' And you talk about a
number of things that it is the fashion to call
clever. But, I own I am sometimes afraid
you will be a failure, though rather a grand
one. But even so, it would be a pity to waste
your gifts and capabilities on ordinary people,
and commonplace opportunities.'

Dolly came to a full stop.

What do you mean ?' asked Winifred, with
a merry, surprised laugh.

I think Mr. Dallas fancies he is in love

with you. (He would not be a Dallas if he
click not fancy something.) But as you would
he quite thrown away on him, it is a pity
you should encourage him.'

How do you know that I encourage
him?'

I dare say you call your interest in him by
some fine, philosophical name, but it is mere
flirting for all that,' was the calm reply.

Winifred bit her lip. for the little barb had
shot home; and she remained so long silent
that at last Dolly raised lier quiet eyes.

Have I offended you?'

Winiii-ed had a sharp, brief struggle with
her pride ; then, bending her stately golden
head, she drew Dolly's small dark face to her,
and kissed it kindly on the forehead. People
never would understand her, it seemed :
would she, on her side, ever accept fully that
gift of love without comprehension which is
nio:2:ard life's largest meed? A little time aoo,
it had seemed to her so easy to go through
existence, giving always more than she 



civet; squandering with both hands her
treasure of helpfulness and sympathy, and
asking for nothing in return but that people
should do their best. There had even been a
touch of lofty scorn in her recognition of the
limitations of other natures ; the generosity
that made her patient had not been entirely
unmixed with contempt. But of late she had
been conscious in herself of a longing for something:
more than that critical and half-hearted
homage to her strength which her little Aorld
offered for all fee and reward. And at such
times, the memory of her last interview with
Mark would return to her, and bring with
it a rush of half-delightful, half-reluctant
humility.

The next day the Tuileries went ujd inflames
; then the final barricades were taken ;
and 'peace' (as at Warsaw) reigned in the
stricken city. Most people's occupations were
more or less interfered with when not altogether
suspended ; there was little visiting, in
any social sense, and all conventional ceremonies

seemed a mockery. Consequently,
Winifred, Martha, and Dolly were almost
startled one evening when a loud summons of
the bell warned them of a visitor ; and it was
with mixed feelings of pleasure and relief that
they welcomed Mrs. Dallas. Her good little
figure and timid motherly manner seemed
really like the promise of a return to normal
things.

Thank you, my love as Winifred began
to unfasten her cloak. ' You are better, Miss
Freake ? Still couo-hino; ? Dear  dear ! Do
try tar lozenges ; they always do Mr. Dallas
so much good. Georgie hopes you will come
to spend the afternoon soon, Dolly. Winifred,
do you happen to know Richard's whereabouts
?'

Richard ?' Winifred's heart sank witling
her.

He is missing. Has been for three days.
mr. Dallas says he is sure to turn up ; but I
thought I might as well step round and ask if
YOU knew anything; of him.'

She spoke quite placid", although her
serene face clouded a very little. Such unaccountable
things were always happening in
her household that she felt inclined to apologize
for the anxiety that they still caused her.
Questioned, she had nothing to relate beyond
the bare fact of Richard's disappearance.

He might merely have gone to Versailles
for a change,' she suggested. ' Paris was not
very agreeable just then. The smell of smoke
was sometimes quite suffocating.'

But surely he would have left word with
you I' exclaimed Dolly.

She was really alarmed, and did not care to
conceal it. Winifred sat silent, much too
remorsefully consecrated to offer an} remark.
All at once, she became aware that the tears
Avere rolling silently down Mrs. Dallas's cheeks;
impulsively then she went close to her, and
took her hands.

Such dreadful things have been happening.
I can't help thinking sometimes that he may
have been shot,' said the poor little woman

apologetically.  Mr. Dallas says I am very
foolish to have such ideas. Of course, Richard
is not my own son ; but he was only five when
I married Mr. Dallas, and such a pretty little
early-haired fellow !'

At this reminiscence she dissolved altogether,
and Dolly sobbed to keep her company, while
Winifred sat like an image of despair. Once
melted by the warm glow of sympathy, the
stream of Mrs. Dallas's emotion flowed freely,
and it washed down debris of information and
small remarks of an isolated nature  like
pebbles.

 A telegram had come for him,' was one
of the facts that she casually communicated.

And did that tell you nothing ?' exclaimed
Winifred eagerly.

I did not open it, my love. He would
not like it to be read, perhaps,' said Mrs.
Dallas dutifully. And she had not told Mr.
Dallas about it either ; as the  children ' did
not care for their papa to know everything.
Even at this moment Winifred could hardly

forbear a smile, at such a quaint instance of
motherly watchfulness. Nevertheless, she
was possessed with the idea that the telegram
might contain a key to the mystery', and so
warmly urged its being opened that at last
Mrs. Dallas began to hesitate. Still, she had
not the courage to open it by herself; still
less did she welcome the idea of sharing its
secrets with her husband. * If Winifred
would take the responsibility ?'

Winifred was generally willing to take any
responsibility, and made no exception now. So
she started oiF with Mrs. Dallas, and was
quickly at her destination. Mr. Dallas TlS out ;
and Georgie was safe not to betray any secrets
of the 'juniors ;' so the telegram was impatiently
opened, and  proved a puzzle the more.

Throw light on the receipt for the Psalter,
just found. I am accused of complicity.
Answer at once.

Gertrude.'

There was not much to be made out of

that, and it only gave an acuter edge to the
desire for Richard's return. So poor Winifred,
ruefully feelings that she had aoain ' interfered '
with questionable results, went home and
devoted herself as best she could to the task
of consoling Dolly.

It was curious to see how completely that
little person had appropriated Richard in her
ovn mind. She could not have mourned him
more ostentatiously if he had been her
affianced lover. Such perfect openness of
sentiment in a nature so little romantic had
the oddest effect ; but it probably made
Dolly's force. She knew exactly what she
wanted, and never doubted but that she would
eventually get it. And such people always
succeed.

Nevertheless, her tear-stained little countenance
was quite a pathetic object, and put
t\\Q crown to Winifred's misery. Twenty-four
hours passed in this wa', and then one
afternoon the two girls were surprised by a
visit from Claire.

The fleuriste was generally too busy to
make calls, and Winifred had hardly seen
her since the day when, through her, she had
found out Miss Freake. She went forward
in some surprise, and as much pleasure as she
A\as capable of feeling at the moment, to
receive her ; but without waiting for any
greeting, Claire exclaimed :

You have been anxious about Monsieur
Richard? Ah, yes! I knew it. But, chere
mademoiselle, he is safe. Thank Heaven, he
is safe  but he has been heroic. My  gratitude
 my ' And at this point Claire,

rendered quite speechless by a breathless
combination of smiles and tears, sat down
and nodded intelligently at her bewildered
listeners.

As soon as she discovered that they did
not understand her, she burst out volubly
ao'ain.

Monsieur Richard was an angel of goodness.
Claire had met him on the very last
day but one of the fighting. Avec son petit

air calme  you would have thought he cared
no more than a graven mirage Avhat was
happening. But he had a heart of gold under
that English exterior : Claire had always
felt it. He saw her looking sad ; he asked
the cause ; she had poured out the whole
story.

Her young brother, a child of fifteen,
had been led away by some friends of his to
join the Federals. And at that very moment
he was fighting, she was sure, on the barricade
in the Eue . He would be killed fighting,
or taken prisoner and shot, and Claire
would never know a moment's happiness
again. Monsieur Richard had no sooner
heard this story than he said quite quietly,
I will go and see if 1 cannot save him ;' and
almost before Claire could seize the sense
of the words he was gone. Mais quoi ! she
almost laughed on recalling them ; he had
meant nothings : she could not have heard
aright, or it Alas a mere Avay of speaking.



The days went on  and Rene returned not.
JSbe was sure lie was killed  the vision of
him lying in his blood haunted her. Lie
went to the police, to the hospitals, to the
Morose even, but could find no trace of him.
She could not eat, she could not sleep), she
was crazy. And at last to-day, just as she
felt that she could bear it no longer, a
stranger came. Rene was alive ; he was
getting better of his wounds ; and it was
Monsieur Richard who had saved him.

But how ?' cried Winifred and Dolly
excitedly in a breath, as Claire again paused
from mingled emotion and exhaustion.

She started off again just as rapidly
as before, vibrations with gratitude as
she had previously been with retrospective
terror.

Monsieur Richard lead gone to the barricade,
and reached it just as the fight was
raging. The Commands had fallen back
for a moment, leaving several prisoners in the
hands of the Versailles. Among them was

IicW\ Oil, heavens! that child. Monsieur
Richard recognised him. The Federal rallied,
and made a fresh charge, Monsieur* Richard
With them, for he had picked up a musket
that fell fi'om the hand of some wounded
man.

They rescued the prisoners, but Bene
was struck and had fallen ; he would have
been crushed ; but Monsieur Richard lifted
him up, and, carrying him in his arms, ran
with him along the top of the barricade under
a murderous voile}- of musketry ; for fresh
troops had arrived, and were encouraging
the others. The next moment the barricade
was again stormed and taken ; but a final
desperate stand of the Commands had given
Monsieur Richard time to escape. He was
wounded in the hand and bleeding ; nevertheless,
he reached a church that served fora
temporary hospital, and gave Bene into the
care of a doctor. Then he had his hand
bound up, but he was faint from loss of bloody
and could not 'o so far as his own home.

Besides, he feared to compromise his people.
So he took refuge with a medical student, a
friend of his. In the night his wound became
worse ; he was feverish, a little delirious even,
and only to-day had been able to send his
friend first to inquire for Rene  who was
better and had told the story of his rescue 
then to Claire :

And did he send no message to his
family  his friends?' exclaimed Dolly, always
practical.

Yes, indeed,' answered the fleuriste warmly.
But the gentleman had engagements ; he had
lost time at the hospital; he begged her to
take the good news. She went, but Madame
and Mademoiselle Dallas were out, gone to
Versailles to make inquiries there, pauvres
ceres dames ; she could not wait, and had
decided, as the next best thing, to come to
Winifred and leave the message, with every
expression of her own everlasting gratitude.'


You see Mr. Dallas may not talk very

grandly, Winifred ; but he can act,' said Dolly
triumphantly.

I hope he will one day know how proud
you are of him, dear,' answered Winifred ; and
her own eyes were very bright.

DOLLY IS MADE HAPPY.

pick strolled in a day or two later
looking a little pale, and with his
arm in a sling, otherwise quite
unconcerned. Dolly and Winifred happened
to be present, and, together with Mrs. Dallas
and Georgie, they sprang up to greet him in
glad excitement. But Mr. Dallas, at work
upon some illustrations, looked up from his
drawing-block with an air of calm contemplation
; and his composure was fully equalled by
Dick's own.

Outwardly he was rather bored than otherwise
by the women's loving demonstrations ;

and if anybody could be said to bave obtained
an answering look from bim, it was certainly
Dolly. Sbe bad, indeed, gone up to bim in
such eager welcome, looking so j'etty in ber
pleasure the while, that bis courtesy must
bave lacked all human elements, if it bad not
been momentarily transmuted into a warmer
sentiment.

You bad no need to be anxious about me.
You must bave known I could take care of
myself,' be said carelessly, in answer to their
chorus of affectionate reproach.

That was what I tried to impress upon
them all,' said Mr. Dallas, wbo, to do bim
justice, bad made secret inquiries for ibis
missing son, while poob-poobing the ' womankind's
' anxiety  on principle. ' But to be
frank with you, Dick, I am not at all sure
that you bave not been more fortunate than
you deserved.'

A case of a bad shilling, you think ?' asked
bis son.

A bad shilling is of vile metal,' interposed

VOL. III. 45

Dolly, her eyes softly shining. ' You should
hear what somebody says about your heart of

gold.'

Dick whistled the first bar of a tune under
his breath. He had apparently not heard
the flattery ; but he stole a glance at Winifred.


A heart of gold ? Oh, that is one of
Claire's flights,' said Georgie, for at fifteen the
memory is very indiscreet. And Dick stopped
whistling.

It is not your having run into danger that
I object to. Your bones are your own to do
what you like with,' continued Mr. Dallas,
with a fine air of impartial munificence. ' But
to join those villainous ragamuffins! You
must have been crazy.'

Take care. You will call down Winifred's
wrath,' laughed Georgie.

'No,' said Winifred, quite softly; but her
tone, unconsciously, had a light ring of
sarcasm, and Dick turned his eyes upon
her.

Winifred thinks no Dallas a foeman worthy
of her steel,' he remarked.

Indeed ! I flatter myself I could produce
an argument or two as keen as any weapon
in her armoury of logic,' said Mr. Dallas,
rather piqued.

Possibly. But all counter-thrusts would
be wasted upon the family' cuirass of self-satisfied
superiority,' retorted Dick; and this
was so exactly what Winifred had been thinking
that she could not forbear a merry
laugh of appreciation. ' I sometimes amuse
myself by constructing a family legend
continued the young man. ' It runs in this
wise. A remote ancestor of ours  for we
have a long line of ancestors, Miss Hatherley ;
we are very aristocratic  having wasted all
his substance, lost his steed, been abandoned
by his squire, and jilted by the damsel of his
dreams, was sittings in a mournful mood under
a greenwood tree. To him there appeared a
little wizened woman, whom he recognised
immediately for a fairy godmother. She was

452

his own, and he began to reproach her ; why
had she not made him luckier ? He was a
handsome youth still, albeit a graceless, and
her heart, although several centuries old,
was touched. She explained to him that his
beauty and his talent, the gallant grace that
always made him irresistible at starting 
were her gifts ; but that for the ill-luck a
malignant fay, whom one of the race had
offended, was responsible. And she, although
she grieved to state it, saw nothing but failure
in every career for him and all his line. He
was very much shocked, and asked if there
were no remedy. The doom, she said, was
inevitable ; but one thing she could do for
him, and that was to render himself and all
future Dallaseses invulnerable. Then she presented
him with a crystal flask containing water
from a magic well, which had properties
analogous to those of the Stygian wave ; and
vanished after assuring him that if he rubbed
himself all over with the liquid, and did not
lose a drop, he would become both morally

and physically pachydermatous (only she did
not use such a barbarous word), and transmitting'
the valuable attribute to his own
offspring, would enable them and all their
descendants to live  through a mere survival
of the fittest

The three girls laughed and clapped their
hands ; but Mr. Dallas sat with a slightly
contemptuous smile upon his face, and his wife
looked a little  just a little scandalized.

You bad boy !' she said. ' What a character
to give yom family ! I am sure dear papa
is too sensitive ' (Mr. Dallas involuntarily
straightened himself) ; ' and then there is
Gerty, poor child!  I wish she felt things
less.'

Ah ! I suppose Sir Guy de Dallas de
Adventure did spill a few drops,' answered
Richard carelessly, but with a softened glance
at his good little step-mother, whom he had
the grace honestly to love.

sit is plain he did,' said Dolly; 'or you
would not have that sling on now.'

That's what I call a pretty speech,' said
Mrs. Dallas kindly. ' I do believe dear Dolly
feels more for you than any of us.'

Whereupon Dolly blushed furiously  partly
with shy consciousness, partly with a naif
pleasure. And she said in a voice that thrilled
with mixed feeling :

It is natural I should feel sorry for him, is
it not ?'

Only natural because you do not know
what a mere scratch my wound is said Dick,
smiling, rather flattered.

A scratch ? nonsense !' said Dolly gaily.
This is a scratch. The Princess Madura '
(nodding at the Dallaseses' white Persian cat)
 gave it me the other day  with a will, too.
But I don't carry my arm in a sling ;' and lie
held out her pretty, round Wrist for his inspect
tion.

Dolly had charming hands : a little brown
in colour, but slender and graceful and expressive.
Dick took the one extended to him,
and let it lie for a moment in his own sinewy

palm. Its beauty struck him : its warm touch
was magnetic : he pressed it, and looked from
the hand to the face. That was pretty also 
in just the same brown, piquant way. She
had very bright vivacious eyes and a sparkling
smile, her teeth gleaming like pearls beneath
lips as scarlet as the flower of a pomegranate.
Between her warm, soft prettiness, her quick,
deft ways, and the touches of rich colour never
wanting to her soberest dress, Dolly always
reminded one of a small tropical bird. And
her quaint practicality of mind and manner
accentuated this physical charm. Dick lead
noticed all this before  vaguely as one notices
when one is but slightly interested. Now, for
the first time, hQ felt it. He had been secretly
wounded by Winifred's studied indifference.
He was touched now by Dolly's frank sympathy.
Her glance faltered and softened as
his own met it. They were standing behind
Mrs. Dallas's capacious and high armchair.

Let us see this scratch,' said Richard, in
his cool, i/isouciajit way.

He bent this head lower : the little hand
trembled : then the next moment rested joyfully'
in his clasp, for, unseen by everybody
but its owner, he had kissed it.

Meanwhile. Winifred was telegraphing to
Mrs. Dallas, but had only succeeded in reducing
that gentle person to a condition of
patient bewilderment. In fact, she very nearly
turned to look behind her own chair, which
was the last thing that Winifred would have
desired had she known what was going on
there. So, at last, Georgie, who had understood
at once what Winifred meant, rose,
Vanished, and presently returned with an air
of great mystery. Her eyes were fixed on her
father : a paper was half-concealed by the folds
of her dress. It was Gertrude's telegram.
They had none of them understood it, and had
no reason Whatever for supposing that it would
do any harm to show it to Mr. Dallas. But
they had concealed it from him  Georgie,
because, like a true Dallas, she was naturally a
rebel to home authority; Mrs. Dallas, because,

in the phantasmagoria created around her by
the inexplicable caprices of her unaccountable
belongings, she found it safest to be silent
always.

Hallo ! what's the meaning of this ?' exclaimed
Dick, after the telegram had been
surreptitiously introduced into his hands by
Georgie, while Mrs. Dallas asked Mr. Dallas
the hour by his watch. ' When did this
come ?'

Seven days ago, when you were first
missing.'

What is it ?' questioned Mr. Dallas. ' A
telegram from Gerty ? What about ? Is she
going to separate from Sir John ?'

'It's a matter of no importance,' answered
Dick, thrusting the paper into his pocket, and
inflicting thereby intense disappointment on
Georgie and some pangs of baffled curiosity on
her mother.

We have not heard for some days from
Gerty,' said the latter in her comfortable,
maternal tones. ' But I dare say her new

life is busier than her home one  poor
child!'

A knock at the door caused a diversion
' Entrez and in marched Julie. Julie
was the Dallases one servant. There were
frequent crises in the household, and they
never kept any servant long. The present
and out-going ' young person ' arrived with
an air of unmistakable temper ; and her appearance
created a kind of low, suffused groan.
Mr. Dallas extracted his pocket-book to pay
her her wages, previous to immediate departure;
Georgie picked up the cat with an air of
ostentatious indifference; Mrs. Dallas became
absorbed in her work. They were none of
them on speaking terms with Julie, who had
worsted them in several encounters. She
stood like a statue of Sullenness while her
money was counted out to her, took it,
and asked for her certificate.

You shall have it,' said Mr. Dallas, Avitli
significant dignity, and wrote it.

She read it when finished, and apparently

was satisfied, for she plunged her hand into
her pocket, uttered a ' Tenez ' of supreme contempt,
and throwing several letters upon the
table, stalked out of the room. Presumably
she had sequestrated the Dallaseses' correspondence
for some days, intending to make away
with it altogether if her claims to a presentable
certificate were not satisfied.

Georgie rushed at the letters with all the
eagerness of a srirl who receives one twice in a
twelvemonth.

' Two from Gerty, and black-edged ! What
can have happened !'

They were torn open and eagerly devoured,
amid general excitement. ' Sir John ruined '
' Sir John dead '  ' Chloral '  ' Inquest ' 
Mrs. Hatherley's behaviour'  'The conduct
of the neighbourhood !'

All these astounding items of news tumbled

a

out heterogeneously by Georgie, Who was
reading' over her mother's shoulder, excited the
Liveliest feelings of indignation and dismay.
Astor were these sentiments altogether unmixed

with embarrassment ; for Gertrude was by no
means measured in her abuse of Mrs. Fatherly,
and Georgie, blushing a vivid red, stopped
abruptly every now and then in her helter-skelter
reading  pulled up by the consciousness
of Dolly's presence.

Fortunately that little person was not sensitive
on the subject of her relatives. Moreover,
she was naturally feeling very warmly just
now about anything which concerned Richard ;
and, finally, she was consumed with curiosity.
Pray go on !' she exclaimed, with eager
affability, as Georgie stumbled, all too tardily,
anew ; ' I know quite well how horrid mamma
can be sometimes, and Flossie too.'

My dear !' began Mrs. Dallas gently,
rather shocked at such candour.

Since Dolly does not mind our saying it, I
think Mrs. Hatherley has behaved abominably,'
indignantly broke in Georgie. ' Just read to the
bottom of the page. / sieve?' ! I Gertrude hasa
fiendish temper, but she isn't a thief nor a
murderess.'

Who accuses her ?' inquired Mr. Dallas,
bent, as ever, on exhibiting a superior calm.

 Mrs. Hatherley, Flossie, the nurse, your
mother, Winifred. Such things to say ! And
that business of the Psalter, too. I  oh ! I
wish / was there!' cried Georgie, and fairly
burst out crvino'.

Let me see what she says about the Psalter,'
said Richard slowly, and possessed himself of
one letter.

Give me what she writes to read. With
such excitability it is impossible to understand
anything,' said Mr. Dallas testily, and seized
the other.

What is this about the Psalter ? Here is
a fresh allusion to it, Dick, and to your share
in it.'

Dick, looking incensed and contemptuous,
shruooed his shoulders.

I suppose I may consider myself released
now from my promise of secrecy. Sir John
got me to sell it for him, months ago, when I
left The Limes.'

A simultaneous exclamation of horror broke
from Winifred and Dolly.

And he allowed poor Will to be suspected
!'

I understand now that the sale was part,
perhaps the beginning, of his underhand
system of raising money,' continued Richard,
rather bitterly.

But surely the sale, accomplished, too,
With such secrecy, must have struck you as
strange at the time,' exclaimed Mr. Dallas.

 He explained it plausibly enough, though
I forget exactly what he said  the old reprobate
! Anything seemed more likely than that
he should be hard up.'

Dick looked rather rueful and angry also.
He hated to be ' done ;' nevertheless was unpractical
enough to be ' done ' frequently.
That was the way with all the Dallaseses.

I suppose you will go directly and bring
Gerty home, papa ?' here interrupted Georgie,
the resentful and sympathetic.

Humph !' Such a proceeding implied

expenditure of money, and Mr. Dallas had
no spare cash. But ' I am glad to see you
developing so much sisterly affection, my
dear. I am certainly under the impression
that when Gerty belonged to the family circle,
you complained of her, with some frequency, asa
disturbing element,' was all he finally said.

I never accused her of poisoning, or stealing,'
retorted Georgie, With pert partisanship,
and began to weep again.

I dare say Gerty has exaggerated a good
deal,' said Richard equably.

I am sure she has,' assented Mr. Dallas
promptly.

Naturally she would be excited, poor
child I' added the meek little mother, smothering
her own anxiety, as usual.

Consequently it was agreed that there was
no immediate reason for action : that they
could safely wait for a day or two until fresh
news came; and that, meanwhile, Richard
could write to his sister.

This he did at once. Mr. Dallas lighted a

fresh pipe, and, the excitement having put him
into a genial mood, he proceeded to relate
various pleasing anecdotes of unjust suspicion
and deceitful appearances. Georgie's sobs
gradually subsided, and her mother produced
a jar of her favourite quince jam for her
especial solace.

Winifred and Dolly stopped to tea, and they
were quite a merry party, although the former
could not help wondering, for the hundredth
time in her experience, at the odd levity
which made the Dallaseses, in every crisis of
their lives, defer decision and find an agreeable
excitement in emotion. They had a great
deal of feeling ; only this, instead of impelling
them to act, as it does ordinary people, somehow
went to their heads and expended itself in
intellectual ebullition.

Winifred could not but acknowledge that,
in all probability, Gertrude had indeed exaggerated
; but she doubted if any other father
and mother in the world would respectively
have suggested and accepted that conclusion

with the equanimity of Mr. and Mrs.
Dallas.

Dick walked home with the taro girls, but
they were rather silent, all of them. Dick was
a little moody, although ostentatiously attentive
to Dolly. Her voice had a new quiver of
feeling in it, a kind of under-current of joy
that kept bubbling up and breaking through
the most commonplace words of lier speech ;
but she spoke very little, and Winifred said
less than either of them. She glanced up
sometimes at the solemn stars, sometimes at a
ruin standing mournfully and mutely eloquent
below them.

The returning animation of the streets
moved her to a responsive throb of mingled
pleasure and pain : pleasure at all that men
can blissfully forget ; pain at all that they
shall expiate, even while forgetting. Those
mystic twin-sisters who dodge our footsteps
from the cradle to the grave  joy, wistfully
pausing in its laughter to remember ; anguish,
lifting pathetic brows to the gleam of a distant

VOL. III. * 46

hope  Winifred was ever more generously
conscious of their presence in other lives than
in her own ; and now her old heroic longing to
be nobly useful again took possession of her,
and she walked alone feelings lifted above

CD O

personal needs.

This lasted till she had reached her own door;
said ' Good-night ' to Dick, watched his parting
from Dolly with indulgent pleasure (lie purposely
lingered over it, hoping that Winifred's

inspired glance would change), and then ?

Then she walked into her studio and experienced
a bewildered revulsion of feeling.
Everything in the room was just as charming
as usual. All her precious possessions, her
lovely pieces of old brocade and bits of Venetian
glass, her ' bigelow ' given by one fellow-worker,
her sketch presented by another,
looked at her with their ordinary air of quaint,
reserved friendliness (as if, like the elves in
fairy-tales, they knew all about her, but intended
to tell no secrets of their own). Her
commissions '  those financiers of the realms

of fancy  had their own peculiar aspect of
solid cordiality, and a half finished pictures
on the easel was as eloquent as ever of
that capable promise which is cousin-german
to fruition. x\nd yet all this sweet familiarity,
usually so Welcome, rushed on
Winifred's heart now with the chill of an
icy blast.

She sat down on the nearest seat, and involuntarily
asked herself, ' What did it mean?
Was life, were" duty, work, self-sacrifice to
be nothing but one long disappointment ?
Sorrow, especially sorrow for others, was a
noble feeling ; but this dread, listless ennui
that came over her so often of late had no
element in it that she should not repudiate
and scorn.

Are you there, Winifred ?' asked Dolly's
voice at the door.

Yes.'

Winifred sprang up, and came forward
through the semi-darkness, smiling, with a
prescience of the coming confidence. Dolly

462

did not keep lier waiting for it long ; in lier
practical, prattling way, transfigured to prettiness
here and there through a touch of real
feeling, she told her that ' she knew Mr. Dallas
was bemminDf to care for her now.' She had
been quite enchanted at his kissing her hand,
and related that circumstance, among others,
with all possible detail. Winifred listened
appreciatively ; answered warmly ; was genuinely
delighted.

The news from The Limes is exciting also,'
casually commented Dolly at last, when she
positively had nothing more to tell about herself.
* Altogether, it has been an evening of
emotion. I suppose we shall hear from our
respective mothers soon. They are both bad
correspondents. The only person who seems
to have behaved well to Lady Hatlierley is
Mark. I always rather liked him, though,
of course, he is a rough diamond. I should
be glad to know his opinion of the whole
business. He never writes to you, does
he?'

Never,' answered Winifred, as a bei]riniiin2:
to many other things that she intended to say.
But all at once her ideas vanished. Dolly's
voice sounded in her ears without conveying
any meaning to them. She involuntarily
clasped her hands together, and held them thus
tightly, as though the Winifred of her dreams,
the Winifred she had meant to be, but was
not, where enclosed there. For Dolly's question
had unconsciously enlightened her, and
conveyed to her the humiliating astounding
conviction that it was Mark's silence which
robbed self-sacrifice, work, duty, life itself, of
charm.

Martha was not so well next day. She
frequently alternated now from one state to
the other; and Winifred had a melancholy
feeling that the end was very near. On her
better days she liked the girl to go out, and
listened with pleasure to the news she brought
home. But it was a pleasure that grew every
days more impersonal. She had all the sad,
ethereal refinement of the consumptive ; and

the change that Winifred had marked, on rejoining
her  that change which made her
mind clearer as her body grew feebler took
to itself each lions now a quality more tender
and touching.

Finding her now so weak, Winifred quietly
decided that the greater part of the day must
be given up to nursing her, and she consequently
let Dolly go alone to the Dallaseses to
ask for further news from The Limes. The
respective mothers ' had not written, and the
curiosity of both girls, but especially of the
younger, was on the qui vire,

Dolly, nothing loth, as may be imagined,
started off, the recollection of the previous
evening keeping up sweet music in her heart,
while she hurried through the streets. But a
surprise awaited her. Instead of the scene
that she had expected, viz., a new letter from
Gertrude, and the family party discussing it
in their own peculiar fashion, she found
that no fresh news had come from The Limes ;
Awhile the anxiety which such silence might

have caused under ordinary circumstances,
Alas quite forgotten in a new source of interest.


Dick had been offered employment in
America, and was seriously inclined to accept
it. An old friend of mr. Dallas's had a
numismatic mania. Wealth acquired in the
States had enabled him to gratify this taste,
and now possessing an almost unique collection,
he wished to have it catalogued. He
would presumably have found a young man in
his own town of Boston to do it for him ; but
he chose to prefer Dick to any other. Chance
had made him acquainted with Mr. Dallas's
position, and mr. DaHas was one of those
people who, without one single recommendation
but an indefinable charm, are kept
afloat, in spite of their own best efforts
to the contrary, by the tenacious memory
and the inexhaustible patience of their
friends.

I suppose there is no danger of this cata-
loouino; turning out a mere blind, like Sir

eTohn's/ he said  always wonderfully cautious
when he himself had nothing to gain or
lose.

Xot likely,' answered Dick.  Such a
coincidence would be too unlucky, even for
us. And the best guarantee of his good
faith is the figure of the offered salary. I
think I cannot do better than accept.'

Then accept, by all means, my boy. Who
knows ? You may be able to do even sour
unfortunate old father a good turn, and then
we would all join you. Georgie might marry
the chief shareholder in some silver mine, and
you find your way into the good graces of an
heiress.'

A pause.

Dick and Georgie were both rather flattered,
while the bewildered Mrs. Dallas was engaged
in her usual chase after the nimble minds of
her family. Only Dolly stood a stranger in
their midst, her heart feeling like a lump of
ice, her eves full of a wistful disenchantment
that would have struck pity in anybody sufficiently

at leisure to heed her. But although
just as friendly and hospitable as usual, they
were occupied as much with her at this
moment as with the statue of Henri lY. on
the Port Neuf.

Dick disappeared to answer the letter ; his
father, dreaming of an El Dorado, left his
Avork, already in arrears, and went to smoke
on the Boulevard ; while Mrs. Dallas and
Georgie kept up a lively liable, and Dolly
answered without understanding them. The
]poor child Alas quite unable to react, as a
stronger, prouder, and more complex nature
would have done, against the sorrow that had
overtaken her. Her character, all of a piece,
A\'as completely submerged for the moment by
the waters of bitterness closing over it.

Have you a headache ?' asked Georgie
at last, after receiving a dozen random
answers ; and fixed on her the cruelly direct
glance of a girl to the full a woman in
inquisitiveness, and not yet a woman in
mercy.

Xo/ answered Dolly, too miserable even
to feimi.

 I dare say dear Dolly is troubled at not
hearing from The Limes. Indeed, we all
have cause for anxiety,' remarked Mrs.
Dallas.

'Yes,' said Dolly, just as mechanically as
before.

The minutes went on, and perhaps it was
the anguish of her heart-beats that made every
second ticked off the clock seem like the blow
of a little hammer on her temples. Dick reentered
only just in time to save her from a
burst of weeping. The instant he appeared
she rose involuntarily, and announced that
she must go.

So soon!' said Mrs. Dallas.

Yes,' answered Dolly simply. ' Goodbye.'


Out of so dazed and laconic a mood there
was no explanation to be had, evidently.

They kissed her, wished her good-bye, sent
their love to Winifred. Dick accompanied her

to the antechamber and o-ave her her sunshade,
then held out his hand in farewell.
Dolly put her slender ice-cold fingers into his
grasp, and raised to his face eyes so frankly, so
unconsciously mournful, that he stepped backwards
in surprise. The change in her appearance
since the previous evening suddenly
struck him, but \\dth no such swift thought
of its cause.

What is the matter? are you ill?' he asked
kindly.

Xo  I  good-bye  I  oh, Mr. Dallas, will
ou really marry an heiress when you go to
America?' burst out Dolly, rushing at the
central horror of her thought with all the
directness of a child.

Dick stood unbounded, and his silence
falling on the poor little listener's heart like
the stone of a sepulchre entombing all her
hopes, she bent her face upon her hands and
fairly sobbed aloud.

Why I' exclaimed Dick, as soon as he recovered
his voice, ' I did not know  I never

thought  please don't cry  many an heiress ?
Hen-esse are not so plentiful. Besides, I
think I feel more like  now look up  you'll
spoil Your eyes  why, what a dear little thing

you are!'

.J

And Dick, feeling that his surprise, his
emotion, his disjointed phrases landed him in
no satisfactory conclusion ; vividly conscious,
moreover, of Dolly's prettiness, and attracted
by the very abyss of imprudence into which,
as a Dallas, he was bound to plunge, abruptly
stopped speaking and folded the trembling
form of the weeping girl to his side.

At this interesting moment, almost before
Dolly's tears had time to change into a little
sob of rapture, there came a sharp ring at the
bell. Dick, hastily releasing his companion,
went to open the door, and found Winifred on .
the threshold. She was looking, for her, rather
excited; but observant always, she was quick
to notice the signs of recent agitation in Dolly,
and stayed her Speech to glance swiftly from
her to Dick.

Oh, Winifred !' exclaimed Dolly, smiling
ad breathless, ' Mr. Dallas has got an appointment,
and is gong to America.'

To America ?' echoed Winifred ; then
understanding, or thinking she understood,
that this event was likely to bring Dolly's
affairs to a crisis, she smiled with the frankest
pleasure, and added, ' I am so glad.'

You are very kind,' said Dick, with a
quiet irony not far removed from bitterness.

But Winifred, previously full of other
thoughts, and now reading Dolly's face to
detect the confirmation of her o-uessinof, for
once failed to catch the meaning of his tone.

Dick,' she said, a moment later, turning to
him, ' read this puzzling telegram that I have
just received from Mark. Gertrude has runaway
from The Limes.'

Run away ? Again ! There is a tendency
to repeat themselves about my sister's solutions
of her difficulties,' said Dick. But in
spite of this sneer, in itself not unkindly
spoken, he looked grave after glancing at the

telegram, and added, ' This should be answered,
and I must go to England.'

sto-night?'

To-night I cannot ; tomorrow will be
time enough.'

IN WHICH Make MAKES DISCOVERIES.

RS. Fatherly and Flossie, the
very day after Gertrude's disappearance,
betook tlieniselves to
London, unable to bear the monotony of The
Limes, now that the excitement of the
arch-enemy's presence was removed. ' ]Mark
as they expressed it, ' was too horribly
'gTumpy ;" ' and, indeed, he was not cheerful.
Beset with creditors, worried with letters,
feeling' each hour Aviden the iiulf between himself
and all the pride, the hopes and illusions
of the past, he passed many hours when love
of Avork alone stood between him and despair.

He was resolute to bring his father's affairs
into order, and to redeem, as far as his own
ifort could do it, the blasted honour of his
name. But the task was no easy one, and
brought him endless bitterness, deepened by
all the disgust of a noble nature at any departure
from integrity and truth.

The arrival of Dick Dallas was Welcome to
him, not only as a change, but more because
of the thought that he had seen Winifred 
knew what she was doing  must speak of her
unasked. Moreover, Dick was an agreeable
companion, and had the tact to keep his affectations
much more in the background when
with men than when with women. Concern,
also, about Gertrude made him really serious,
and attuned him to ]\Iark's present mood.
The result of their first consultation was the
advertisement in the Times which, as we
know, produced nothing.

Knowing the family wrong-headedness,'
said Dick,  I should not really feel much
anxiety about Gertrude if it were not that we

have few acquaintances of any sort, and no
intimate ones in London, so that I cannot
even 'uess where she may lia'e f>:one ; and the
idea of her, with her looks, being in some
fifth-rate hotel by herself fills me with
dismay.'

It is more the responsibility of her disappearance
than any great uneasiness that
oppresses me,' said Mark. ' After all, as a
married woman with some experience of the
world, she does, presumably, know how to
take care of herself.'

Naturally. She won't starve  or be robbed
or murdered. But when her money runs
out, she will commit any act of extravagant
folly rather than confess herself in the wrong,
and ask help fi'om you.'

Even if she should have recovered
fi:om her scare about the state of things
here?'

Even so. I believe that the one motive-power
of all Gerty's actions is what may be
called the vertigo of adventure,' replied Dick,

VOL. III. 47

with his usual half-rueful satisfaction at a
cynical epigram.

Mark smiled gravely.

You do not, then, believe in the existence
of this uncle ?'

What uncle ?'

Surely I explained to you that at the
inquest Lady Hatherley stated that the mysterious
stranger from Harwich who, as we
suppose, helped her to convert the jewels into
money, was her uncle.'

Dick made a gesture of surprise.

No doubt you mentioned it, but my head
was so full of all the other details, I think I
hardly heeded that particular one. Did she
give him any name V

Yes ; a name so well known, at one time,
in our family, that it alone made me doubt
the genuineness of her tale. She called him
Ralph Mercer.'

By Jove ! Of course, it is then our
reprobate.'

Your reprobate ?'

Yes ; our own particular specimen of the
genus. My good little stepmother's scamp
of a brother. He was the only scamp that
had appeared in the Mercer family for generations,
and consequently plunged a large
assortment of maiden aunts and several half-sisters
of domestic tendencies into the greatest
possible consternation. He decamped to
America, in comparative youth, with a sum
of money borrowed, without the ceremony of
asking, from his employers, and hardly large
enough to have made the adventure worth its
risks.'

Yes,' assented Mark,  and was only not
prosecuted because those same employers had
consideration for his family.'

They were in some way related, I think
answered Dick. ' I know their name was
Refer, and that was my step-mother's
maiden name. The poor soul adored this
brother, having indeed such a blow heart that
she never can fill it without the help of a good
deal of rubbish. When she first married my

472

father, and I was quite a little fellow, I remember
this Ralph used to turn up at
irregular intervals, always hungry, always
needy, and to the same extent mysterious.
The mother, ever anxious to think well of
everybody, was greatly worried about him,
but we have of late years not been favoured
by him with any signs of life. I expect
he has been drawing so largely on his wits
for a means of livelihood that he found it
convenient to cut his old connections.'

Then you knew nothing of his recent relations
with Lady Hatherley ?'

Nothing whatever. Where Gerty can
have met him is a thing that beats me
altogether. He must have scented her
prosperity from afar, and swooped down
upon her with a fine natural appetite for
pickings." '

Mark smoked for a little while in silence.

 If, as you say, he has been living by his
wits, he has probably been once or twice
' wanted " by the police. In that case, the

task of discovering his present abode and
alias (for doubtless he has an alias) would be
very easy.'

Humph,' said Dick. ' Let us wait awhile
before applying to the secret intelligence department.
Perhaps we shall get an answer to
our advertisement.'

Mark agreed, more than half divining
Richard's thought. This was that sleeping
dogs are best let lie. Ralph Mercer was by
no means the kid of relative upon whom
it is advisable to turn the strong light of
publicity ; and Gertrude, in her mingled
audacity and inexperience, might prove to
be more compromised in some undertaking
of his than her family would care to have
known.

She may have meant no actual harm, and
yet have got herself into the mischief's own
scrape,' was her brother's candid but not unfeeling
reflection.

And Mark, being much of the same opinion,
was william: enough to wait.

The inquest was resumed, and all the
coroner's acuteness failing to discover anything,
the jury' finally gave a verdict of
Death from natural causes.' To be sure,
Lady Hatherley's disappearance was suspicious ;
but it was the only suspicious circumstance.
One swallow does not make a summer ;' and
the first keen edge had worn off the public
appetite for scandal.

This happy' result attained, Mark repeated
the advertisement ; but with no effect. Meanwhile
Mrs. Dallas wrote daily in growing
alarm, and even Mr. Dallas began to show
signs of anxiety. Consequently the two
young men found themselves at last with
no choice but to apply to a confidential
inquiry office ; and within a very short time
they thence learnt all that the reader has
known before them. That is to say, they
were informed that Lady Hatherley on quitting
The Limes had taken refuge with her
uncle, and had, the next day or so, been
placed by him in the household of Mr.

Graham. As Gertrude's interview With Dr.
Kenyon had taken jDlace but a few hours
before the despatch of these particulars, her
sudden departure for Paris was not included
in the agency's information. Therefore,
' The best tinto be done is to call at
Mr. Graham's and see Lady Hatherley,' said
Mark.

The very best.'

And it was so settled. The letter had
reached them by the morning's 2:)ost ; and
two o'clock found them at Mr. Graham's
door.

 Is Lady Hatherley in ?' asked Mark of the
servant.

She stared.

ISTobody of that name here, sir.'

Mark and Richard exchanged glances, and
the latter bit his lip. An alias and all the
mystery it suggested Avould be just like Gertrude's
folly.

'This is Mr. Graham's house, is it not? Is.
lie in ?'

He was, and they were ushered into
the drawing-room, where the maid left them
while she went to carry their cards to Mr.
Graham.

He came quickly  wonderfully so for him
and was accompanied by Dr. Kenyon,
under whose gravity a person knowing him
\ very well might have detected some excitement.


Mr. Dallas ?' began Mr. Graham inquiringly,
his glance travelling from one
to the other of his visitors. Richard
stepped forward. ' Miss Dallas's brother, I
presume ?'

Yes. Is my sister in ?'

In ? She is 2:one.*

Gone ?'

Went yesterday. We were very sorry to
lose her, my son and I ; but she would go.
She said she had received bad news or something,
and was returning to Paris. I suppose
she knows her own affairs best, but the
suddenness of lier decision annoyed and disturbed

ni} son,' said Mr. Graham, with a
sight suspicion of testiness in his accent and
manner.

]\Iark and Richard, knowing; nothing: about
Mr. Graham or Mr. Graham's son, and not
finding anything very apposite to remark, remained
silent.

She suited Need. There are not many
jDCople who do please him, poor lad ! and I
had been a long time making up my mind to
Have a stranger in the house. Perhaps
she found something to complain of ; if so, I
wish she had said it. Do you know why she
left ?' wound ujd Mr. Graham, suddenly turning
to Dick.

I think we had better tell all the circumstances.
Will you do it, Hatherley ?' said the
young man.

And thus admonished, Mark related the
whole story, explaining Gertrude's position,
her identity, her wild scare at the inquest, the
perfect groundlessness of her fears, and so on,
Mr. Graham listening all the while with an

irascibility which was so largely mixed with
sympathy for Gertrude, that he could hardly
be polite to Mark. According to his views
it must be somebody's fault that such a
nice young woman had been wrongfully suspected
and needlessly alarmed ; and Mark
being the most prominent of her connections
whom Mr. Graham could lay hold of at the
moment, seemed to him the most obvious
person to attack.

Tut-tut ! Your father's wife ! Surely she
might have been protected from such insult
said the unreasonable Egyptologist.

I am afraid that in the late development of
this business I am the most to blame, after all
quietly interposed Dr. Kenyon, finding that
Mark did not care to justify himself.

You r

I ! This lady  Miss Dallas, as we have
been accustomed to call her  was, you must
confess, Mr. Graham, introduced to }'ou by a
very suspicious character.'

Suspicious !' interrupted Mr. Graham.

The best fellow in the world ! Amused
Ned by the hour at Brighton.'

Dr. Kenyon shrugged his shoulders.

You never seemed to know much about
Mr. Mercer, and, if I may so express it, Mr.
Mercer seemed to know less about himself.
He introduces to you without warning a
lad', young, beautiful, well-educated, who
brings no references, but, on the other hand,
makes no kind of objection to entering a
household With no mistress at the head
of it'

And where was the harm of that ?' again
broke in Mr. Graham, looking rather red, too,
for, like most scholars, he was as prudish as
an elderly spinster.

Xo harm whatever,' resumed the doctor
coolly. ' If I bring forrard these facts, it is
simply because they furnish the only  and
I own I find them now a very inadequate 
explanation of my conduct. In a word, I
judged from the outside of things, and thought
it likely that Miss Dallas was in an exceptional

position. So far, even from what
those gentlemen have told us, you must
admit that I was not wrono\ In an evil
moment of leisure, I read in the Times an
advertisement for a missing lady, whose
description seemed to me to correspond
singularly to Miss Dallas. I showed it to
her. She grew troubled  a little angry ;
would, however, explain nothing, and stated
an immediate intention of leaving ; and the
very same day she put that intention into
execution.'

And why the deuce could you not tell
all this before?' exclaimed ]mr. Graham.

The lady had chosen her own solution to
her difficulties. I was not bound to convey
to you my suspicions, which, indeed, have
turned out in a great measure unnecessary,
said Dr. Kenyon, who, however, made the
admission in a tone through which there
pierced a very curious resentment.

His three hearers were men, and troubled
themselves very little about this tones or their

meaniiiii's. A more curious and more observant
listener might have concluded that
Dr. Kenyon was divided between interest in
Gertrude, and some annoyance with himself
for the feelings

should like you to tell your sister that
this house is always open to her,' presently
resumed Mr. Graham, asrain addressing Dick.
She made herself most agreeable, and Xed
misses her sadly. For his sake alone, I
should be delighted to have her back again,
and I should be glad also if she gave me a
less selfish reason for welcoming her, by being
willing to return.'

You are very kind, but '  Dick paused,
and glanced at Mark  ' I hope that Lady
Hatherley will not feel, or fancy herself
obliged again to be a companion,' said the
latter gravely.

I beg your pardon,' said Mr. Graham,
looking rather embarrassed. ' You told me,
of course, that she is your father's widow;
but I have been so surprised, and  ah  b}'

the strangeness and  ah  unexpectedness of
this story, that I do not think I have quite
realized every point. I  ah  very stupid of
me. Hatherley? I knew some Hatherleys
once, thirty-five years ago, in America.'

 Those were, perhaps, my father's cousins,'
said Mark, interested.

His late necessary examination of many
family papers had given him a fuller knowledge
of the Hatherley history, and had
awakened in him a curiosity to know more
about those kinsfolk in whose hearts and
round whose names so much bitterness had
raged. That long dead and gone Esther
Hatherley, who had so irrevocably alienated
her brother, Mark's grandfather, by her
marriage  had especially attracted the young
man's imagination. For among his father's
old letters were some written when Sir John
was himself in America. They mentioned
his cousins  half pleadingly, Mark thought 
as though deprecating his father's anger.
There were some subtle touches of a soft feeling,

almost of tenderness, in the way he
wrote of Ills cousins ; especially of one of them,
the eldest, Margaret, with w4iom it was very
plain that old mr. Hatherley, not witling
some show of reason, had suspected his son
of being' in love. Mark, remembering that
his own mother's name was Margaret, had
thought that possibly some resemblance in
more than the name, to his first love, had
determined his father's final choice of a wife.
Mark recalled his mother very distinctly 
her ethereal beauty, her shadowy grace ; the
charm of her gentleness, the pathos of her
affliction, had remained to him as the most
graciously mournful of memories. He had.
felt her loss as keenly as a reserved and
sensitive child could ; he had cherished the
recollection of her all the more that his father
had seemed very quickly to forget her. And
nobody that Mark had ever met seemed to
have known his mother, or was able to tell
him anything about her. This mystery, if
mystery it was, heightened the poetry of her

image in her son's mind ; and lately, in reading
of this other ' Margaret he had seemed
although he knew it must be fancy, to gain
a clearer image of his mother. He sat silent
for a few moments, then, unconsciously interrupting
Mr. Graham in some remarks to
Richard, said :

These Hatherleys that you knew in
America, sir  may I ask where they were
living?'

In Philadelphia.'

 Then they were my cousins. There were
several daughters?'

Yes : extremely pretty girls. The eldest,
Margaret, was beautiful, but she was unfortunately
deaf and dumb.'

Mark looked so unaccountably startled that
Mr. Graham paused for an instant in sheer
surprise ; then, finding him silent, continued
:

I was a schoolboy still in those days, but
I remember thinking her singularly lovely ;
and there was a curious story about her which

interested me. She had been, so to speak,
only lent to her family
'Lent?'

Yes. She had become deaf, and consequently
dumb, through some accident ; I
forget the details, but I know it happened
when she was only about two years old.
Her father, who up to that moment had
adored her as his first-born, took the most
unnatural aversion to her. One has heard
of men who have this shrinking from physical
imperfection ; sometimes it runs in families.'

It apparently ran very much in ours,' said
Mark. ' My grandfather, 1 know, had it to the
same extent probably as his brother.'

Ah ! in the case of poor Margaret latterly
the consequences were less evil than might
have been feared. For she touched the heart
of a rich, eccentric widower, who adopted her
and gave her his name. And as the years
went on his love for her became a kind of
monomania, so that he could not lear people
to know that she was not his child. He tried
VOL. III. 48

in every way to separate her from her family
and only lent her, as I have said, for a brief
space to her ddng mother, who had not seen
her for years, who had pined for the sight of
her, and after many supplications had at last
wrung from Mr. Liaison the permission to see
her for a few weeks before he carried her off
for ever to England.'

Lyndon ! Did you say Lyndon ?' interrupted
Mark, pale with unusual emotion.

Yes, that was his name. He really was a
little mad. He had never told this girl that
she was not his daughter, and would not allow'
her father and mother to reveal their relationship
to her. They were, in her eyes, to be
great friends of his. I remember how pathetic
it was to watch the yearning glance with
which Mrs. Hatherley sometimes followed her
unconscious daughter, who was very sweet
and gentle, but perhaps a little cold ; or, possibly,
it was not coldness, but only her affliction,
which always seemed to make her the
denizen of another sphere. Her adopted father

only lived for her. And I remember her visit
to her family was cut short by his jealousy. A
young man  also a Hatherley  came out from
England, and fell in love with Margaret. He
was very indignant at old Lyndon's pretensions,
and always said the girl should Unenlightened
And he wanted to marry her,
but the old man carried her away, and what
happened afterwards I never heard.'

Mark made no answer, for his heart was too
full of bitterness for speech. Mr. Graham
thought him absent-minded, and turned again
to talk to Richard. An animated conversation
between himself and the latter, in which Dr.
Kenyon joined, began about Etruscan coins,
theories as to Etruscan speech, and so on :
subjects on which Dick was always interested
and interesting. Mark, meanwhile, sat quite
mute, for the blow which he had just received
was a terrible one. He knew now that all the
wealth which his father had first employed,
then squandered, and all that by which he
himself, in countless advantages of education

482

and up-bringing, had benefited, had been
obtained through a deception as elaborate as
it Twas base : for even though in the end Mr.
Hatherley might so far have forgiven John's
marriage as to leave him a portion of his
money, he certainly would never have disinherited
his other children in his eldest son's
favour, had he known whom that son had
taken to wife. He would have objected to
Margaret Hatherley on many grounds : first,
because, through her mother and (more distantly)
through her father, she was doubly
John's cousin ; next, because of her affliction ;
and, finally, because she was the daughter
of a man whom old Mr. Hatherley had
hated.

Mark was proudly and fastidiously upright,
with an uprightness that had, perhaps, some
alloy of arrogance. It was, therefore, cruelly
humiliating to him to feel that for long years
his father had wronged and defrauded the
people whom Mark, in the midst of his care
for them, had disliked and despised. Mrs.

Hatherley, Flossie, Mary Russell  he had
meant to do what he could for them and then
dismiss them from his life. Now five minutes'
conversation  the reminiscences of a stranger,
had sufficed to transform these dependents on
his bounty into claimants for a retribution far
beyond his means ! Well, it was a duty the
more, a further sacrifice exacted from him  -
the consummation of his ruin. Xot one coin of
such ill-gotten gains should cling to his fingers
on this he was resolved ; and, having once
accepted this conclusion, he put all regret
away fi-om him with a characteristic grave
serenity.

He rose then to go, apologized for his intrusion,
and promised to give Mr. Graham news
of Gertrude as soon as he should know anything
himself.

On getting back to The Limes, they received
a visit from sirs. Burton. She had been
in a state of great exhilaration lately, having
been taken up and patronized by a distant and
semi-aristocratic connection of Mr. Burton's,

a certain Hon. Mrs. Shirley, who, for reasons
of her own, had invited the vicar's pretty wife
to spend a fortnight with her in London. The
invitation, coming as it did unexpectedly, had
so scattered Mrs. Burton's wits (all that portion
of them, that is, not concentrated upon
making the most of Mrs. Shirley), that she
had actually started for Mayfair, leaving behind
the half-finished budget of Gertrude's
iniquities that she had been compiling for
Winifred. From London she had only found
time to despatch sundry little billets full of
rapturous hints at one thing, bewildering
innuendoes at another, and a forest of notes of
admiration in every page. Back at Elmsleigh,
she had completed the first budget, supplemented
it with a further one descriptive of
 dear refined Mrs. Shirley,' and came now
to glean fresh news, if possible, from Dick
Dallas.

How d'ye do ?' she said, with an air of
languid elegance, copied from her late surroundings.
 Lady Hatherley has written, I

presume. No ? Gone back to Paris ? Ali !
I hope my dear daughter  Have I heard from
Winifred Lately ? you say. No ; she does not
often write. It is the fashion of the present
day to be a little forgetful of parents. But I
don't complain ; she is my sweet child all the
.same. I hope soon to have her with me.
Dear Mrs. Shirley is most anxious to make
her acquaintance.'

Who is Mrs. Shirley ?' inquired Dick provokingly.


The Honourable Mrs. Shirley, a daughter
of Lord Walrus, a most charming, elegant,
spirituelle woman ; but I think it is very likely
you have never heard of her,' answered Mrs.
Burton, in a tone of ineffable impertinence.
' Her acquaintance will be invaluable to my
darling child. Winifred is naturally most
refined, but her surroundings of late have not
been everything I could wish.'

I dare say Gerty has gone to her now,' remarked
Dick casually, this eyes fixed on a
picture.

Mrs. Burton gave a theatrical start.

T hope not. I mean, of course  I trust
that Winifred will give no advice. With her
youth and inexperience, she is perhaps a little
too fond of advising; and now that I am not
with her, she cannot be too careful. Besides,
her life is an austere one. She is
devoted to her art. I wish her to be devoted
to her art.'

You used always to complain of that in
her exclaimed Mark.

But Mrs. Burton humored this remark.
People with inconvenient memories are really
too ill-bred !

Are you soon leaving Elmsleigh ?' she
asked, looking at him with perfectly expressionless
ejes.

As soon as everything is sold off. But I
shall not go without calling to wish you
good-bye, Mrs. Burton. When a fellow is
ruined, his chief consolation lies in friendship,'
answered Mark, with very grim
humour.

Mrs. Burton was lost in dreamy contemplation
of the prospect from the window, and
apparently did not hear him. Very shortly
afterwards she took her leave, and Dick,,
opening the door for her, observed airily :

I shall be sure to let you know what news
Gerty gives of Winifred

An elaborate little shudder at his familiarity ;
a glance from half-closed eyelids, that took
him in from the crown of his head to the tips
of his boots, and expressed her full sense of his
insignificance, were all Mrs. Burton's reply.

Of all the insufferable pieces of affectation

and pretence ' began Dick, when she was

fairly gone.

Don't waste good abuse on her, my dear
fellow ; she is not worth it,' interrupted Mark,
with gloomy disgust.

Later in the evening, a diversion was caused
to their thoughts by the entrance of a servant
with a telegram.

'From Paris,' said Mark, and tore it open.

CHAPTER VI.

A LAST INTERVIEW.

N these days, Winifred often reflected
mournfully on the curious mode in
which her past had dropped away
from her. Her mother had formed new ties ;
her adopted mother, Mrs. Russell, counted
for nothing in her life ; Gertrude was missing ;
clark estranged. All that remained to her
was Martha Freake, of whose , existence two
years before she had hardly known ; and now
it was all too visible that Martha herself must
soon go. She was growing rapidly weaker ;
daily more in need of tending ; and Winifred's
time was almost exclusively absorbed in

nursing lier. Dolly, indeed, Alas willing
enough to help; but she had her lessons to
give, and, moreover, Martha cared for nobody
but Winifred to be with her. She did not
ever say this ; she remained, exquisitely unselfish
to the last ; but Winifred divined her.
And these last few days of constant care
seemed to the generous girl very little to give
to one whose life had been so devoid of joy.
The pain of seeing Martha die was largely
made up of regret for the love and the hope
that she had never known.

Some such thought Winifred expressed one
day ; when Martha said to her :

Yet you throw away your own hopes with
both hands.'

Admitting that to be true, they are at
least mine to throw away. I have not been
defrauded of them.'

 I suppose I was very strange when you
first knew me ?'

A little. But you are utterly different
now.'

This was quite true. A kind of solemn
gentleness had come over Martha, which sometimes
almost awed Winifred ; for she felt that
such calm must be the forerunner of death.
After a little, Martha spoke again.

 When I recall the long years of monotonous
agony that I spent before you came,
I seem to myself to have been under a
torturing spell. I was like the people in fairy-tales
whom an evil enchantment bereaves of
human faculties. All that seemed alive in meat
times was a dumb, unceasing sense of pain.
And whenever this depression ceased, as I
think it did with a certain regularity, I became
unnaturally excited  eager  unquiet. And,
what I never could shake off in this second
phase, was a cruel restlessness of mind  an
unceasing whirl of fragmentary ideas and
torturing recollections. Ah ! Winifred, your
invitation to come and live with you stilled
that demon-dance for ever. With you T
have known over again the rapture of perfect
rest.'

Winifred made no answer. Only softly
stroked the thin grey hair from Martha's
temples, and kissed her sunken cheek.

A lady is waiting in the salon to see you,
Freda,' said Dolly, putting her head inside
the door ; and added, when Winifred had
joined her in the passage, ' Who do you suppose
it is ? Who but Aunt Mary !'

Aunt Mary !' exclaimed Winifred, in surprise,
and hurried to the modest sitting-room,
dubbed by Dolly a salon. sirs. Russell,
large, robust, fretful, upheld as she had ever
been by the abiding sense of her grievances,
was seated in a comfortable armchair, every
line of her attitude a protest. With a warm
rush of associations that had a joy of its OAvn,
Winifred went forward, her hand outstretched;
but Mrs. Russell did not relax in any way
from the stony resentment of her air.

Ashen did you come ? Are the Bonnards
with you ? Why have you not written ? I
would have gone to meet you. Are you
<][uite well ? I ' began Winifred, pouring

out all these questions eagerly, one after another.


I arrived last night  alone of course :
what am I that anybody should bear me
company ? I did not write, for I presumed
that you were busy : are sou not always busy
about everything except that which, in my
day, would have been considered your duty ?
As to myself, you are well  I think you have
grown stouter: what does it matter how I
am ?'

I should not like you to be suffering
murmured Winifred, quite disconcerted.

You are very good,' was the icy reply,
A pause, during which Mary's large, cold
grey eyes travelled from one piece of furniture
to the other, in the little room.

Will you take off your bonnet ?' resumed,
Winifred.

I am very well as I am. I expected to
find you in a garret. But I ought to have
remembered that a person who spends the
better part of her earnings on herself can

naturally enjoy more comfort than when
she remembers the claims of others upon
her.'

Dolly Hatherle}' helps to support the
household. Aunt Mary. And you must know
that a lares share of mv earnings o-oes to
relieve a need that is not m' own,' retorted
Winifred, turning pale under the very sternness
of her own rebuke.

She is not dead' then yet, your friend ?'

No answer from the girl, only a look that
should have pierced Mar' like a spear had
she been capable of feeling it. But it merely
irritated her, because making her a little
ashamed of the deliberate callousness of her
own question, which had been simply intended
to wound Winifred.

You might answer, I think, instead of
staring theatricals, and insulting your poor
aunt. If your uncle were alive, you would
not dare to treat me in such a way.'

For his sake I would do anything for you
anything except so far condone the wrong

you once did and have never righted, as to
sit patiently by and hear you speak heartlessly
of your victim.'

Mrs. Russell burst into a loud, harsh
laugh.

 Victim, indeed !' she exclaimed, struggling
to speak through the hysterical fury
that sent sobs into her throat and threatened
to choke her. ' It is part of your Pharisaism
to remind me for ever of the past. You think
to exalt your own virtue by it : or rather,
what you call virtue, and I call selfish
hypocrisy. Of course it's grand, very grand
indeed, when one loves one's own way, to call
the getting it " expiation of other people's
sins." I am only a commonplace person, but
I can see through fine words and false pretences
as well as anybody else. It's when
one finds ordinary duty difficult to do that
one is taken with a love for something
higher." Do you suppose I cannot understand
your flimsy affectation of being more
unforgiving than my "victim"? In old days

she would not have hurt a hair of my head.
If she would punish me now it must be your
fault;

Winifred stood petrified, and, perhaps for
the first time in her life, almost scared ; so
unexpected was this outburst of rage, and
to her so revolting in its brutal stupidity.

I do not understand you,' she exclaimed
at last, amazement being the first of her
many feelings to find expression.

I understand myself,' answered Mary,
with a sudden return to quietness. ' And I
dare say Martha Freake will understand me
also.'

She is divino' ' said Winifred.

But not dead. I know she is not dead,
and I will see her.'

And she rose.

See her ? Why ?' cried the girl, springing
to the door to bar its passage. ' Aunt
Mary, be merciful. Every breath that she
draws now is a pain to her. One moment's
agitation mio-ht kill her !'

VOL. III. 49

You had better let me pass, Winifred. I
know more than you think.'

Winifred's arms fell to her side: she stood
staring, bewildered even more than by Mary's
words, by the evil smile which accompanied
them.

Don't force me to throw off the mask,' continued
Mrs. Russell insolently.

The mask ? Are jou mad ?'

Not yet ; although I am sure it is a
wonder my troubles have not made me so.
Stand aside, I say.'

She made an imperious gesture, and her
voice rose to shrill fury.

Xot until you promise me to be calm,' answered
Winifred stubbornly, every sentiment
she had in revolt.

Exasperated, Mary seized her by the
wrists, and, surprise giving her the advantage,
absolutely flung the petrified girl aside. Then
she threw open the door, stepped swiftly
across the passage, and, helped Heaven knows
by what instinct, made straight for the dying

woman's room. Winifred followed, trembling
in every limb, but resolute to shield Martha,
come Avhat mio'ht. On the threshold of the
sick-chamber Alary paused an instant, and
her whole appearance underwent a sudden,
surprising change. Her large figure seemed
to grow smaller ; her heated features composed
themselves to something approaching
a smile ; humility, cringing humility, was expressed
in every line of her. She crossed the
room with stealthy tread, paused beside the
bed, and put out her hands, saying :

Well, Patty ?'

Martha had been lying up to that moment
among her pillows, stretched out in her
weakness almost as straightly as on a bier.
Something of the rapt surprise of eternity
was already in her eyes, and lie seemed as a
rule to notice little that was going on around
her. Half an hour's conversation such as that
she had just had with Winifred wouhl exhaust
her for the remainder of the day. She
would then He quite still, letting people come

and go, fixing on them sometimes her mournful
eyes, but giving otherwise no sign that she
was avare of their presence. She had, indeed,
for all but Winifred, something of that
strange indifference inexorably cruel in its
divorce from human sentiment which wraps
the departing soul.

Ingot until Mary stood beside the bed did she
seem to observe her : she mutely turned upon
her a long, serenely questioning glance.

Mary's face fell a little, and she broke into a
nervous laugh.

You do not remember me, perhaps ?'

Yes ] I remember you. You are Mary
Hatherley . '

Not Hatherley any longer now  Russell.
You have not forgotten poor Walter ?' Mary
spoke jauntily.  You know he is dead. I,
have been very unhappy all my life,
Patty.'

All at once, to Winifred's amazement, terror
even, Martha raised herself and sat upright.
She lifted her wasted hands, and holding

them between herself and her cousin,
uttered the one word :

Go !'

Martha !'

The fretful tones of the protest rang through
the room.

'Go!' repeated the dying woman, in just
the same voice as before  a voice of passionless
command. A torrent of spite and rage
swept over Mary's face, but for some reason
she controlled herself.

Now, Martha, don't be unkind. You are
feeling poorly, I dare say ; not quite yourself.
I am sure this is a horrid room for you  so
little air. And doubtless you have been prejudiced
against me. I am such an unfortunate
creature, nobody has ever made allowances
for me ; and perhaps in a few things I have
not behaved quite well. But repentance
washes out sins, you know. I hope you
are not soin; to forget that. You used
always to be a good Christian. And I
am so lonely  you must come home

with me  and let me nurse you  me love

YOU '

(jrO !

Mary, checked in the flow of lier wheedling
self-justification, stood with parted lips of
dismay.

Aunt Mary, I entreat of you, come away !'
cried Winifred, half terrified herself at the new
strength in Martha's voice and the stony calm
of her face.

I won't go !' shrieked Mrs. Russell, bursting
into tears. ' It is you standing there With
your solemn air that prevents her listening tome.
I dare say you have been signalling to
her from behind my back. She was always
weak, but she loved me. Martha, tell this
girl Who has come between us that you loved
me!'

Why have you come ? What is it you
want ?'

What do I Avant ? Patty, how strange
you are! I heard you Avere ill, and I am
sure it is Avery natural that I should Avish to

see you again. And I want you to come tome
 I have told you so already. I should
have had you long ago, only that it wouldn't
be unfortunate me if I had not been always
so poor. Walter  well, he's dead now, and
I suppose I must not blame him ; but his
prospects did not turn out at all what we
expected in old days. As for John, you
know how wicked he was, Patty: he behaved
badly enough to you ; and what was more,
prevented me from ever explaining things.
But all that is past and gone. Stow I am my
own mistress ; not rich, for people with great
professions of generosity still manage to keep
me out of my own : but I have a little. I am
alone, with not a soul to care for me ; I think
it very likely that I have not long to live, and
I should so much like to spend the last days
of my existence (wretched enough it has
been!) with you, dear Patty.'

Mary paused quite breathless; enchanted
with her speech and her various professions,
which sounded so well as even to deceive

herself. Finding that Martha did not answer,
she advanced a step nearer, and again coaxingly
jut out her hand.

And it was for this that you came, now
when I am on the brink of the grave ? You
wished to poison my latest moments  to
remind me, I having nearly forgotten it, that
the world is fuller of hate than of love, of
falsehood than of truth, of cruelty than of
tenderness ? You would have me go into
eternity with a double blasphemy on my lips
the blasphemy of pretending to forgive you,
]diary Hatherley ; the blasphemy of diminishing
by that pretence the full acknowledgment
and perfect sense of the goodness, the sweetness,
and the generous pity of the girl whom
you have just defamed ?'

It would be impossible to describe how
Martha uttered these words  her voice
vibrating without one tone of passion in
it, her eyes glowing with a sombre fire, her
wasted face illumined with a lio-ht so far
removed from earthly feeling that it was like

the light of prophecy. Winifred dared not
speak nor move : she was awe stricken in
the presence of a power which she lead not
suspected and could not understand.

But with Mary, want of comprehension
meant want of reverence and of shame.

'Eternity?' she echoed furiously, 'you are
well prepared indeed to face it. If these are
your Christian feelings '

'Hush!' said Martha. 'If I have no forgiveness
it is because you have no remorse.
The love I once had for you, my cousin, has
not turned to hatred ; and I would hurt you
as little now as in the past. Xo thought of
anger against you iras troubled the long agony
of my farewell to this world. But as I have
parted, one by one, with God's greatest gifts
with joy, with faith, with hope, in the end
well-nio'h with reason, I have chained at least
that clearer insight by which I now can read
your soul. And I tell you that in assuring
you of pardon, I should but utter a mockery
of the promise divinely given to the sinner

who resents. Across the gulf set between us
by your wanton, unexpiated wrong, we can
never clasp hands. At the most, I can pity 
profoundly pity you for your heart unawed
by love and your eyes unsealed by truth.
Because of all the gladness that you have not
known, and can never know, I am sorry for
you  Mary.'

Her voice fell to a cadence of solemn pathos ;
Admired covered her face with her hands, and
at last a chord, not of feeling, indeed, but of
superstitious terror, vibrated in Mary Russell.
She retreated from the bed with a shuddering
cry, shrill in its feeble and petulant protest
against the judgment that had overtaken her.
Winifred, roused by it, looked up ; then
sprang towards Martha, heightened at the grey,
awful change that she saw stealing over her
face. Mary's hysterical sobs grew louder,
and Winifred turned to her with a distracted
look : how should she induce her to oho ? At
this moment she became aware that Dolly was
in the room ; since when, or summoned by

what instinct, she did not know. And, before
she had time to speak, her little friend went
up to Mrs. Russell and said in a tone of cool
authority :

I think you had better come with me to
the salon, Aunt Mary.'

Strange to say, Mary went, limply protesting,
indeed, but incapable of true resistance.


Sit down there,' said Dolly, when they
reached the sitting-room, and pointed to a
sofa, on to which Mary subsided and gave
way to louder weeping.

I should try to calm myself,' resumed
Dolly composedly  as composedly as a doctor
to an excited patient.

How c  c  can I calm myself ?' sobbed
Mrs. Russell. ' I am the most m  miserable
woman on the face of the fjlobe. X  nobody
cares for me ; everybody insults me. I am
robbed and neglected and t  taken advantage
of in every way, by the vipers that I have
nourished in my bosom.'

Ah!' remarked Dolly. ' I will make you
some tea.' And she set about it ; brought
the cups ; fetched some biscuits ; lighted a
spirit-lamp, and sat down to wait for the
water to boil.

Martha always had a nasty test in her
character ; but now I think she is a little
mad, don't you?' and Mrs. Russell, somewhat
cheered, raised swollen features of inquiry
towards Dolly.

Trouble does affect the mind very often ;
and Miss Freake has had a great deal of
trouble,' responded that little person ; and
somehow the tone of her commonplace words
made Mary wince. She changed the subject.

I never expected to find you so well
lodged,' she remarked, resuming her criticism,
apparently a hostile one, of the
room.

 I don't know whether one can be considered
well lodged au cinquieme au dessus
de I'entresol, and with hardly room to turn,'
answered her companion.

N'evertlieless, rents are very dear in
Paris, and this apartment must cost something'
more than a sone How much
do you pay ?' !diary asked the question
abruptly.

I really don't know. I give Winifred
what I can spare out of my earnings, and
she controls expenses. Latterly, she has
been fortunate in having some portraits to
paint, and in selling a picture.'

So that, Avhat with her earnings and yours,
and Martha's income, you must be quite
comfortable ?'

Marthas- income! Miss Freake has not
enough for daily meat,' exclaimed Dolly, Avitli
characteristic enero-v of denial.

Mary bit her lip ; and the tea being ready
now, accepted a cup in silence.

The door opened, and Winifred put in a
pale face.

Dolly, I want you. Please, dear, goto
the door if anybody rings. I have sent
Justine for the doctor. Oh, Dolly! Martha

is dying.' These were the words that she
whispered outside the drawing-room door.

Dolly's eyes filled with tears : for her
emotions were very easily stirred in these
days.

You will call me if I can do anything :
and, Freda, I must say good-bye to her.'

Yes, yes, dear. But keep our aunt away.'

I will do my best. Do you know what
has brought her? She thinks Martha has
money.'

Money!'

Winifred repeated the word in amazement
: but too full of sorrow and of occupation
for further comment, she made Dolly
a sign to return to the salon, and herself
re-entered the bedroom. Dolly found Mrs.
Russell very suspiciously near the door.

What has happened ?'

Miss Freake is dying,' was the young
girl's curt reply.

I must see her began Mary.

 You will wait until the doctor comes, if

you please,' interrupted Dolly, with such
sudden peremptoriness as belongs only to the
born ruler. ]MarY looked baffled, but even
her stupidity was conscious of the uselessness
of further efforts ; so she resumed her seat
in sullen silence, and Dollv mounted ouard
over her.

Just at sunset Winifred again appeared.

Come,' she said, her face as pallid as
though her vial had been counted in nights
instead of hours. Dolly flew noiselessly, and
Mrs. Russell followed, with a look in which
doggedness struggled for the mastery with
fear.

In the sick-room, only the muffled noise
of the street broke the stillness. Martha was
Ipng quite peacefully ; her life just ebbing,
without a sign.

Good-bye,' murmured Dolly, weeping,
but did not stoop to kiss or touch her,
finding Death, now that she looked upon it,
more awfully solemn than she had guessed.
At the sound of the farewell, ]martha opened

her eyes, and the palest flicker of a smile
broke the sunken immobility of her face.
She moved her head a little, as though wishing
Winifred to raise it ; and in the very instant
that this was done, she died.

Mary, standing at the foot of the bed, had
possibly spoken ; but if so, the living did
not heed, and the dead could not hear her.

THE PRODIGAL DAUGHTER.

T was some two or three hours
after Martha's death, that Winifred,
the last sad services rendered,
joined the others in the sitting-room.


She found them very silent ; Dolly's eyes
Avere swollen with tears, and Mrs. Russell's
face was full of resentful brooding.

'Do you sleep here to-night, aunt?' asked
the girl, sinking wearily into a chair.
I presume I shall be in the way.'
No, indeed. I will give you up my bed,
if you do not mind sharing the room Avitli
VOL. III. 50

Dolly. It is nothing to me to sleep on a
sofa.'

It was not the want of room that I alluded
to. I shall certainly stay.'

Then I think you might say " Thank
you' ' muttered Dolly under her breath, but
Winifred did not say anything ; only raised
her hand to her head with a tired gesture,
expressive of supreme indifference for the
moment to insinuations and suspicions of all
kinds. Mary, however, could not leave her
in peace.

Will my nephew  will Mr. Mark Hatherley
be sent for?'

Winifred started.

In the emotion that she was conscious of in
herself at the words she forgot to note their
scornful intonation.

I do not know. I have not thought about
it. Do you think I ought to send for
him ?'

Of course you ought. I am sure if anybody
owes poor Martha the last tribute of

respect, it is Mark's father's son, said Dolly
promptly.

Her aunt looked at her half interrogatively,
half angrily :

What do you mean ?'

Just what I say.'

'Oh, hush!'

The wrangle jarred on Winifred's nerves ;
she could not bear it.

You are very impertinent,' resumed Mrs.
Russell, still addressing her younger niece.
I am not surprised at it, for you have been
in a bad school lately to learn either gratitude
or good manners. Most people would consider
it very natural that I should seek a
little peace and comfort with my two nieces,
one of whom was adopted by myself, while
the other owes everything to my brother ; but
I know that I am not welcome  I am aware
that you look upon me as an intruder. You
had arranged everything nicely. and I have
come to spoil your plans. Xevertheless, I
shall not go away; for I have very good

oO 2

claims, and I intend to make them heard.
Also, I shall be glad of an opportunity to speak
with Mark Hatherley. High-flown letters
about poverty and the calls of honour are all
very well ; but they don't take me in. I have
been very patient, too patient. In the past I
asked for nothing. But an end must come
even to hypocrisy and scheming ; and in the
sature I shall always assert my rights.'

Aunt Mary,' said Dolly, in a tone of serious
politeness, ' I think you are a little out of your
mind. You looked when you were saying
all that exactly like the last portrait taken of
my grandfather, which hangs in the diningroom
of The Limes. He has the look of a
man who broods over things until they become
distorted ; and I have often heard that,
before he died, his suspiciousness amounted to
a disease. It seems to me that you are groaning
like him in character. There is something
warped about us all.'

Dolly ! I will not have you S23eak in such
a way,' broke in Winifred, almost angrily.

I am sorry, dear, to annoy you,' was the
unshaken reply; ' but I cannot sit here quietly',
and hear you insulted and abused in your own
house. I don't say anything about myself, or
call it my house, because I contribute so little,
and because I certainly should not be here if
it were not for you. You know my opinion
about you. I have often told you that you
are too high-flown and all the rest of it. And
I doubt if you will ever be properly appreciated
by most persons. But, at any rate, I
know that you are unselfish, kind, and noble;
and when people come here to worry and annoy
you, I treat them at the worth of their intentions,
and not at the value of the authority
which they assume that kinship gives them.
Ties of blood are all very well, but common
justice and honesty and elementary politeness
are better.'

'Oh, Dolly!' cried Winifred, filled with
such variety of feelings that she hardly knew
whether to laugh or to cry.

The light of Dolly's self-satisfaction was

still on her bonny face when Justine announced
that a lady was outside, and would
take no denial, although assured that neither
Mademoiselle Winifred nor Mademoiselle Dolly
could be expected to receive visitors on such
an evening.

*Let her in,' said Winifred. A tall, graceful
figure darkened the doorway. ' Gertrude !'

Gertrude came forward with a great affectation
of indifference covering an air of subdued
excitement. She did not immediately recognise
Mrs. Russell, who was sitting with her
back to the light : and was put out at the presence,
as she supposed, of a stranger. She
had been chilled, too, at the news of Martha's
death, which had fallen intrusively (as the
solemn realities of life have a knack of doing)
into the midst of her seething self-preoccupation.


 I am sorry to have come at such a moment,
Winifred '

 Dear Gerty ! don't take that tone ; when
did you come? Where have you been?'

Gertrude did not answer immediately, for
Mary had risen and spoken graciously
enough some words of sullen sTeetini'*. It
was not to be wondered at that she should
regard her beautiful young sister-in-law with
very scanty favour, and Winifred expected
Gertrude to meet her with a stiffness equal to
her own. But for the moment personal prejudice
in Lady Hath er ley seemed to be swallowed
up in some other feeling or mixture of
feelings which Winifred could not exactly
make out. There was surprise in her manner,
and perhaps a little suspicion ; annoyance
also, and yet not mere annoyance at Mary's
repellent air.

I want to speak to you alone,' she said
to Winifred.

Then come into the bedroom. Dolly, I
suppose you had better remain here.'

Dolly looked rather crestfallen.

Did was it Mr. Dallas  your brother,

I mean  who brought you back ?' she asked
eagerly, as Gertrude reached the door; and

Winifred paused indulgently to leave time
for the answer.

Of course, Lady Hatherley answered that
she had arrived by herself, and knew nothing
whatever about her brother; after which
Dolly's curiosity fell below zero, and she submitted
very patiently to the prospect of a
fresh tete-astute with her exasperated and sulky
aunt.

Once in the bedroom, and in answer to Winifred's
first question as to the cause of her long
disappearance, Gertrude burst out into one of
her old tirades, in which the iniquities of Sir
John, the calumnies circulated at Elmsleigh, the
suspicions of everybody, her happiness at the
Grahams', and her disgust at being forced to
leave them, were mixed up with her invariable
wealth of self-pity, her usual mad despair at
her destiny, and her customary railing at the
imbecility of the world.

She poured it all out so rapidly that Winifred
could not manage to put in a word for a
long time ; and it was only when Gertrude at

last paused from sheer exhaustion, that she
quietly said :

But, my dear, nobody suspects you anymore.'


Gertrude sat bolt upright and stared at her.
She had been nursing her scare so long as to
warm it into a very respectable entity, and its
sudden destruction fell upon her with the force
of a blow. Very dimly, too, she began to perceive
that she might have been a little  just a
very little ridiculous.

I  I don't understand.'

Then Winifred, in possession since the
morning of her mother's letter, in which Mrs.
Burton had said, ' I am told now that doubtless
through some judicious hushing up of which
we shall never know the truth) the coroner's
jury have decided for accidental death ;' aware,
too, of all the accounts that had reached the
Dallaseses fiom The Limes  proceeded to enlighten
Gertrude as to the events which had
taken place since her precipitate departure.

She carefully suppressed, of course, all

unfavourable comments, and laid great stress
on Mark's efforts, and his own and Dick's
anxiety.

That all this gratified Gertrude was evident.
In fact, relief at the result of the inquest, and
the sense of having occupied a great number of
people about herself for more than a fortnight,
combined to put her into quite a genial mood,
and inclined her to lend a milliner to Winifred's
suggestion that she should return to her
oTL family.

It is not that I am not glad to have you,
dear ; but I know that your mother has hungered
and thirsted for the sight of your face ;
and as for Georgie, she has been in the finest
effervescence of sisterly partisanship that I
ever witnessed in my life.'

I always said there was good in the child,'
remarked Gertrude magnificently.

Then you icill go home ?'

To oblige you, Winifred, I will make the
experiment. But if they lecture me, I shall
leave again  at once J

Very well, dear,' answered Winifred patiently,
shrewdly suspecting that this dauntless
declaration covered a real desire for
shelter and repose. ' Dolly shall go with you.
1 should like her to tell them  about poor
Martha.'

Did Mrs. Russell worry her ?'

The question surprised Winifred. It might,
of course, have been suggested by sympathetic
insight 5 the sort of instinctive knowledge
that tells how two people will behave when
brought together under exceptional circumstances
) but this was very unlike Gertrude,
who, except in rare instances, considered all
conduct and character colourless beside her
own.

There was a dreadful scene. But have you
any special reason for asking, Gerty ?'

Oh no !'

Yet the tone was doubtful.

They returned to the sitting-room, and
Dolly was bidden to put on her hat; also,
thanks to Winifr-ed's thoughtfulness, to telegraph

to Mark, acquainting him with Gertrude's
reappearance and Martha's death.

This news brought the two young men to
Paris with the smallest possible delay ; and
the next evening Dick walked in upon his
assembled family. Gertrude, having been
made much of for four-and-twenty hours,
was in the highest good-humour, and actually
went forward to greet him with an affectionate
smile.

Are you not glad to see me again ?' she
inquired, a little provoked at the extreme
coolness of his manner.

Enchante, mon enfant. But I should have
been still more so a fortnight ago, when your
reappearance would have possessed the singular
charm of appropriateness. However, I must
not complain ; for your amiable vagaries
procured me a very pleasant fortnight at The
Limes with Hatherley, who, though somewhat
freezing high principled, is a rattling
good fellow.'

And Dick, sauntering forward, bestowed a

kiss upon his step-mother, pulled Georgie's ear,
nodded to his father, and mentioned that he
should like some supper.

Dear Gerty has been giving us a charming
account of her stay at the Grahams'; they
seem such kind people ! I really must write
tomorrow and thank them,' said Mrs. Dallas,
an hour later.

You arrived last night, I understand,' said
Richard, abruptly addressing his sister, ' But
you left the Grahams on the morning of the
previous day. Where did you spend the
intermediate time ?'

Gertrude tossed her head.

With my uncle, Ralph Mercer.'

Mrs. Dallas gave a cry, and dropped
her work. She had not heard her brother's
name for years, and was almost painfully'
affected.

Where did you meet him ? How did you
know him ? Be good enough to explain,'
commanded Mr. Dallas curtly.

I knew him in Turin.'

At this a certain wave of embarrassment
passed over Gertrude's hearers. The reader
will remember that she had gone as a teacher
to a school in Turin, after the Marseilles
adventure, and this was a subject to which her
family never alluded.

He had drifted there somehow, I really
never inquired how, and was professor of
telegraphy (that was what they called it) at
the school.'

I think I remember to have heard that
some forms of telegraphy  such as the imitative
 were much in his line interposed Mr.
Dallas grimly.

He was very poor, and very miserable, being
just then at one of his lowest ebbs, for he
has wonderful ups and downs,' continued Gertrude.
' He guessed my identity from my ,
name ; stopped me in the street one day ;
asked me a few questions, and claimed me for
his niece. At the same time he begged me not
to mention, even to any of you, that he had
met me. In fact, he was not known in Turin

under his own name, and he Alas full of
mysteries altogether.'

Poor dear Ralph !' exclaimed Mrs. Dallas,
wiping her eyes. ' What a comfort you must
have been to him, Gerty !'

When Dick got me that place at The
Limes, Ralph was in London, brought thither
by what adventure I cannot tell ; but he had
apparently had a stroke of good luck, for he
was living in quite luxurious lodgings, and
giving himself the airs of a millionaire. I
always kept up a kind of connection with him,
and it was fortunate I did so. For there came
a moment, as you know, when, thanks to the
evil destiny that governs all my affairs, I was
Without a friend, or a place to go to, until it
occurred to me to seek shelter and help from
him.'

He alway's had a kind heart,' said Mrs.
Dallas oentlv, and that was all the answer
that Gertrude got to her flourish.

Why did he write to you so often at The
Limes ?' questioned Dick.

For money,' replied Gertrude promptly, but
turned rather red.

 And what became of the proceeds of your
jewels ?'

 I asked no questions ' (loftily).

A sardonic laugh from Dick ; then Mr.
Dallas, in his turn, inquired :

And where may be the present resting-place,
and what is the actual occupation, ot
this interesting person ?'

 To tell the truth,' said Gerty, ' he is on his
way here.'

By Jove !' cried Richard, springing up. ' I
should not be a bit surprised if he were the
individual with whom we came over in the
boat to-day. His face struck me dimly as
familiar. He talked boulevard French, with
a British accent, exhibited a diamond ring.

(perhaps it was one of yours, Gerty), and

forgive me, mother ! you must admit that your
brother is a remarkable specimen, and has to
be described somehow,' wound up the young
man, pausing in his excited description as

lie caught sight of his gentle step-mother's
grieved face.

I cannot bear to think of him all alone in
this big, Avickecl place, and I, his sister, with a
home to offer him  ' began Mrs. Dallas, then
was cut short by an imperious ring at the
bell.

 Enter our long-lost I' exclaimed Dick
theatrically, while his stepmother rose trembling
in every limb.

The door was thrown open ; the maid
hastily effaced herself, and faultlessly dressed,
benign, and calmly smiling, in walked Ralph.

'My OAvn darling, darling brother!' And
Mrs. Dallas fell into the reprobate's arms, withall
the fervour of affection bestowed by women
since the world began upon the scapegrace
and the spendthrift.

Ralph was equal to the occasion, and exhibited
a fine air of emotion. Georgie, between
curiosity and nervousness, was moved to tears ;
and the Princess Madura arched her back.
Otherwise the display of emotion was limited.

A'OL. III. 51

You will have something to eat? You
will sleep here? You have dined, and prefer
an hotel ? Unkind ! Georgie, push over that
armchair for your uncle.'

'Is this my youngest niece?' asked Ralph,
seizing Georgie by a lanky arm, and proceeding
to inspect her. ' Too angular as yet, but she
wall run you close in a few years, Gerty. And
this is doubtless the young gentleman whom I
remember in petticoats and earls ? As for you,
Dallas, you are looking remarkably well 
re-remarkably well, by George! And how goes
the world with you? Always imperiously
?'

For once Mr. Dallas found no sarcastic
retort; and he looked supremely disgusted.

I think that our generation  yours and
mine, Dallas  was principally distinguished
for robustness of constitution. You are very
little altered, and I flatter myself so am I.'
Humph !'

I am just what you remember me ; incurably
young ; the best fellow in the world, but

too confiding. There is no specimen of human
depravity that has not come, some time or another,
under my notice ; and yet  Avould you
believe it?  to your systematic villain, your
thorough-going egotist, I am as clay in the
hand of the potter.'

And is it to some potter of this description
that we are indebted for your presence in Paris,
sir?' inquired Richard respectfully.

Ralph Avaved his hand, sweeping away the
epigram as beneath his notice.

My views in coming to Paris are strictly
domestic. I am, in fact, thinking i>:ettino-
married.'

Married!'

The word was repeated by everybody in
chorus, with a great variety of intonation 
from rapturous inquisitiveness on Georgie's
part, to sardonic amazement on her father's.

Is she young ?'

Is she nice, darling ?'

Has she any money ?'

Is she lately escaped from bedlam ?'

512

This last question, uttered i<otto voce, came
from Mr. Dallas.

But Ralph was impenetrable, so they had to
give up questioning him ; and Mrs. Dallas
proceeded to pour a stream of mild gossip into
his ear.

 Your old flame, Mary Hatherley, now Mrs.
Kussell and a widow, is here just now. I
never spoke to her about you, for I really felt
I could not, after your having been so shamefully
treated.'

'Ah!' Ralph half closed his eyes. 'What
is she doing here ?'

I hardly know '

'But I do,' interposed Georgie triumphantly.
Dolly Hatherley told me this morning she
was quite sure that the only thing which
brought her was the idea of extracting money
out of i30or Miss Freake.'

And unfortunately,' remarked Gertrude
quietly, speaking for the first time, ' Miss
Freake is dead.'

Dead ?'

dear Ralph !' said Mrs. Dallas affectionately;
you have not seen an} of these people for
twenty-five years and more, and yet your
kind heart, I see, makes you feel for their
still.'

DISAPPOINTED.

ARK and Winifred met with an
I emotion that was all the stronger
for being suppressed on both sides.
The oirl, indeed, felt her heart sink within
her. as she lifted her eyes to the young man's
grave, sad glance. In their last interview it
was Winifred who had risen highest : now she
instinctively felt that some indefinable change
in 3,1 ark had set him miles away from her.
The Nemesis of rejected happiness overtook her
in this moment; for while she had never felt
so keenly that Mark's love would be all in all
to her also never had it seemed more evident

that his love must be numbered amoii2: the
things of the past.

He held her hand, indeed, and looked long
into her eyes; but his manner was so calm, his
tones so quiet, his whole air so absorbed, that
she dared not think of herself as occupying
any place in his thoughts. And it was characteristic
of her freedom from coquetry that
she accepted the situation just as she imagined
it ; was ready to sympathize with, and to
listen to, him ; and felt her heart only swell
AN'ith a profounder tenderness on realizing the
depth of the sorrow and the bitterness of the
humiliation that were her rivals.

Mary was as good as her word, and showed
no intention whatever of quitting the field.
AVhat her motive could be in remaining, Winifred
found it difficult to guess. Folly's idea
that she suspected ]\Iiss Freake of having lead
money seemed, at first sight, too preposterous
for acceptance ; and nevertheless, as the days
went on, several small signs appeared almost to
confirm it. For one thing, Mary rarely or

never left Mark and Winifred alone : if she
did, it was only because Dolly, resolutely
conspiring to that friendly end, so encompassed
her aunt with her quiet determination
that Mrs. Russell was snared into unwilling
compliance. But when this had happened
once or twice, it could happen no more ; for
Mary's slow cunning once roused, and with it
her dogged obstinacy, she became the merest
dead-weight, and there was no hoisting herat
all.

Martha had hardly been carried to her last
home, when Winifred received a letter from
Mrs. Burton which, with much semblance of
cajolery, in reality commanded her to come
home. She really did not feel as if she had
any valid excuse for resisting. Such work as
she still had on hand could be finished at
Elmsleigh; Dolly's lessons were ceasing owing
to the dispersion, for the summer, of her
pupils ; and the lease of their little house was
on the point of expiring.

Winifred, feeling listless through the reaction

of her late emotion, for once in her life
was almost salad to have her com-se made out
for her. For the sinner and autumn montis
she could return to Elmsleigh ; and after -
beards ? Well, afterwards, something would
present itself. She bent her face upon her
hands, and the bitter waters of loneliness
closed over her soul.

That same evening when Mark, who had
come in rather contrary to his custom, announced
his intention of soon leaving Paris,
she stated her resolution :

You can make mamma's mind easy by
assuring her that I, at any rate, shall soon be
in Elmsleigh. About Dolly, I am not so
sure. The Dallaseses have invited her, and lie

seems unable to tear herself away from

shall we say Georgie, Dolly ?'

You can say Georgie if you like.'

And what about Miss Freake's affairs ?'
suddenly interposed Mary, her harsh voice
harsher than usual.

clark turned and looked at her in surprise.

You must knoAv quite well that if b}'
'' affairs " you mean money, the poor creature
had nothing but the miserable annuity on
which she lived here  Heaven knows how ! 
until Miss Power came to her aid, and which
went (its principal, I mean) on her death to
some distant cousin in Australia.'

It was Mark who thus answered with some
impatience.

Mary shook her head.

You don't deceive me.

Indeed ? Then perhaps you will kindly
explain yourself.'

Her face darkened at the cold scorn of his
tone, and both her own voice and her hands
beo'aii to tremble with anoer as she retorted :

Explanations should come from you. How
is it that, since my cousin's death, none of her.
boxes have been opened, none of her drawers
examined, nor her papers read ?'

Aunt Mary ! what do you expect us to
find there ? What could the poor thing-leave
beyond mute and simple records of the

poverty that she endured so nobly, and mementoes
of an existence that those who knew
her longest should least wish to have recalled?'
exclaimed Winifred indignantly.

Mary made no answer, only looked at her
with an expression that stung ]\Iark into
adding' :

o

And if she had left millions, what claim
upon them could be yours ?'

The question, and more perhaps the unconcealed
contempt with which it was
uttered, loosened the floods of wrath and
hate and greed accumulated in Mary by
days of suspicious brooding and of ceaseless,
futile watching.

A h !' The long cry broke from her,

so charged with unholy rage that it startled
her three listeners as they had been rarely
startled in their lives. ' What claims ? More,
perhaps, than your scandalous laws, if you
invoke them, may allow ; but a claim, nevertheless,
of which the acknowledgment
through very shame shall be extorted from

you inch by inch, and shilling by shilling,
until it is counted out. Do you suppose
now, when, after years of poverty and
disappointment, the unutterable baseness of
your father has been revealed to me, that I
can still keep so much faith in human nature
as to accept the miserable pittance with
which you seek to put me off ? Do you think
that '

Enough !' interrupted Mark, and the
sternness of his voice and manner silenced
even Mary's fury.  To-morrow such testimony
as the dead woman's papers can afford
shall be submitted to your scrutiny; and
the disappointment which, as I am sure, then
awaits sou will be the most fitting punishment
for your avarice and your rage.'

 I shall have a person to meet you who
knoYfs more than you think,' exclaimed Mrs.
Russell.

You may have the Court of Chancery if
you can get it,' responded Mark, with glacial
derision, and took his leave.

What a scene !' exclaimed DoUv, in liifrh
excitement, Alien Mrs. Russell had swept
away to her room. ' You look as if you had
seen a ghost, Winifred. l!ow / feel rather
pleased to think that when our amiable aunt's
card-castle topples down, as it infallibly must
tomorrow, she will be so disgusted as not to
be able anv long-er to bear the sioht of us.
And then she will go, which will be a relief
to everybody.'

I don't think she has interfered much
with your comfort,' said Winifred, smiling as
she remembered how invariably Mary had
been worsted in an' hand-to-hand encounter
nth her intrepid little niece.

Hasn't she, indeed ! To see her glowering
at us all day long, like a kind of embodied
curse, has quite affected my spirits. I feel as
if tomorrow would never come ! And had
I not better write to Rich  to Mr. Dallas 
to be present ? The more clear heads we
have on our side the better.'

That is a transparent device for getting

Richard here,' said Winifred, lifting Dolly's
chin with her finger, and looking laughingly
down on her pretty face.  But write by
all means

Dolly did not fail to write, nor Richard to
come. And he was accompanied by Gertrude,
who said to Winifred :

 As I hear that ]\Iark is to be called to
account for this treatment of the Hatherleys
in general, and as I am now one of the family,
I thought I had better assist at the scene.'

Mark makes you an allowance, then ?'

That is to say, after his father's death,
and as soon as affairs had been investigated 
with what disastrous results we know  he
wrote to Mrs. Hatherley and Mrs. Russell,
informing them how much (or, as they think
I fancy, how little) he could do for them.
And on his arrival the other day he addressed
a similar note to myself.'

' Poor Hatherley ! I should like to know
how many men would hamper themselves
with the debts of a prodigal father, and the

maintenance of half a dozen relatives,
mostly of the parasitic order !' exclaimed
Richard.

I wonder that under the circumstances
lie gave himself so much trouble to find you,
Lady Hatherley,' remarked Dolly, with the
admirable air of unconscious stupidity loiter
cover of Which she shot most of her barbed
shafts.

And Winifred, being human after all, could
scarcely refrain from an approving smile,
for her own heart had swelled with indignation
at Gertrude's careless, almost unfeeling
tone. What were all these people that
they should dare to think Mark had done too
little for them ? If generosity were beyond
them, could they not at least be grateful ?

Gertrude had apparently not heeded Dolly's
observation : at any rate, she did not answer
it, and all general conversation was presently
put a stop to by the entrance of Mary. She
was one of the people who act as a wet-blanket
always, and on this occasion her

flushed sullen face and ungracious manner
were even less inviting than usual. She took
her seat in silence ; folded her hands and
waited  grim as Destiny. She was still a
striking-looking woman, on a massive scale ;
and although her countenance was unpleasant
it had all the stateliness of outline that distinguished
her handsome race. Winifred
watching her with a kind of fascination, fell
to musing on the Hatherleys and their
strange, sometimes strong  sometimes evil 
characteristics. How much more deeply
marked than most people's was their individuality
! Mary and her brother had turned
the ugly side of the family qualities outermost
; for in them craft had taken the palace
of judgment, selfishness of calm endurance,
obstinacy of courage. Nevertheless, they
presented contrasts that made them worth
studying. For while Mary, though densely
stupid as a rule, could so far assimilate ideas
as to feed the sense of her personal claims,
Sir John had frittered away every gift

m laboriously building up and sustaining in
his own person a ' counterfeit presentment ' 
of himself.

Even Mark and Dolly were true Fatherless,
though they wore their type ' with a
difference.' clark had the noblest qualities of
his noblest ancestor, and yet there was just
the danger, as Winifred sorrowfully felt, that
he might harden under poverty into too ]bitter
a pride. Something  perhaps the sweetness
and gentleness of his long dead mother  had
set a well of tenderness in the depths of his
reserved nature : would this also be poisoned ?
Alas ! there was no saying.

As for Dolly, her sturdy intrepidity came
from the paternal stock ; while the Ransome
beauty that she had inherited from her
mother, and the sort of acknowledgement it
met with, were probably the chief causes of
that cheery self-complacency which carried her
triumphantly through every minor troupe of
life. To see her talking now i<otto rucc in the

VOL. III. o2

vindo' with Dick was a pleasure, so frank'
and brightly happy did she look.

Winifred's psychological reflections were
interrupted by the entrance of Mark. He
glanced round the room as he entered, then
said carelessly' and coldly :

I see Ave are not yet complete. But a
gentleman followed me upstairs, who is, I
presume, Mrs. Russell's adviser.'

No I' exclaimed Dolly and Richard simultaneously,
as a portly figure next darkened
the door : and Dick added :

This is Mr. Mercer, Winifred, come
doubtless to pay his respects to you ; but the
moment is not happily chosen.'

Mr. Mercer has come at my request, and is
my friend,' interposed Mary. ' He is the one
])ersoii in the world whom my affairs still
interest, and, most fortunately for me, he is
the one person best qualified to defend
them.'

 Miss Power must kindly excuse my intrusion,'
said Ralph, bowing and speaking with

an airy equanimity in singular contrast to
Mary's tragic voice. ' And this is Mr. Mark
Hatherley. I had, shall I say, the honour of
knowing your father?'

You may say it if you choose,' answered
Mark, with a dangerous look.

Ahem !'

The airiness this time was slightly more
artificial, for Ralph had some perception,
and Mark's manner had not encouraged
him.

We had better, I suppose, proceed at once
to business. Miss Power, will you lead the
way to the bedroom of the late lamented
lady?'

Mary, without a shadow of embarrassment,
produced the key of the door from her socket.
She had laid hands upon it the previous evening
' for fear of midnight visits ;' and it was
she who now opened the room where Martha
had died.

If you wish to save time }ou will begin
with that old black box,' said Winifred, coldly

522

addressing Ralph without looking at him.
You can search elsewhere afterwards, if you
are not satisfied ; but I know that Miss Freake
kept her papers there.'

Ralph, turning rather red at her tone, went
down upon his knees in front of the box, and
tumbled its contents out upon the floor. They
were mostly shabby trifles, pathetic in their
very shabbiness, because of the poverty of
possessions, of aspirations and memories, that
had made them worth the hoarding. Apparently
the first results of the investigation
were fraught with disappointment, for the faces
of the searchers perceptibly lengthened. One
packet of papers after another was eagerly
untied, examined, and hastily thrown aside. A
tin case was rifled without more success, and
]diary was beginning to cast lowering glances
round the room, when an exclamation of
triumph suddenly broke from Ralph.

Here, if I am not greatly mistaken, is
something worth reading.'

He held up a letter for inspection.

This is in your father's handwriting'. Shall
I be permitted to read it aloud ?'

Mark giving no sign of dissent, Ralph unfolded
the paper and began :

My dear Martha,

You have chosen to withdraw yourself
beyond the reach of your relatives, and to
wrap yourself in an impenetrable silence. A
feelings of bitterness which I have some reluctance
to believe can include myself, doubtless
explains your resolution.

But I know how to excuse, and how to
forgive, and I have not forgotten the sympathy
you showed me in old days when I had nobody
but yourself to confide in. I am aware, too,
through a curious accident, that you rendered
my father some secret service for which he was
very grateful ; and doubtless would have rewarded
you had his sudden death not prevented
him from adding any codicil to his will.
I confess to some curiosity to knows what this
secret service was. You can understand that,

did I know its exact nature and extent, I
might rate it even higher than he did, and be
in proportion more willing to mark my sense
of it in a permanent and substantial way.
In a word, I am willing to pay you a fixed
income, and if you will add to my old obligations
towards you, as friend and confidante, by
enlightening me as to the cause of my father's
gratitude, I may very likely increase that income
by a considerable sum.

Yours faithfully,

J. Hatherley.

P.S.  10,000, once, as I know, invested
by my father in the Pocahontas Railway, cannot
be accounted for. Can you throw any
light on the matters'

I might have searched long without .
finding anything so good for my purpose
as that letter,' said Ralph, laying down
the letter, and producing a small portfolio
from his breast-pocket. ' That I should have
chanced upon it is a fact that I regard as a

direct interposition of Providence in favour of
the injured and despoiled. AVliat I have now
to ask you all to listen to is the answer.'

 And that, if you please, / will read aloud,'
suddenly broke in Gertrude, and, before he
could even guess her intention, she had
snatched the letter from his hand. ' This,' she
said,  was written by Miss Freake ':

Morally, I have not yet sunk so low, my
cousin, that I could accept the means of livelihood
from the hand that lias stricken me. To do
so, would be to condone the baseness and confirm
the lie that have blasted my name and my life.
I trust that I may misjudge you, still I camKjt
but think that the reason why you betrayed me
was that  little as you had really told me 
you still told me too much. And perhaps
there was method in your cruelty. Secrets I
can keep ; but wrongs I have yet to learn to
condone. For the rest, be certain that you
will never learn the truth regarding the
10,000 from me. The sum is in safe keeping.

and will eventually return to a Hatherley.
Leave me to my poverty ; and when you hear
that I am dead, do not, even if you can, feel
remorseful ; for no boon that God or man can
henceforth bestow on me will be as welcome
as the silence and peace of the grave.

Martha Freake.'

Gertrude's voice deepened as she read these
mournful concluding words ; and the silence
which succeeded to them was, in everybody
but Mary, caused by an emotion more or less
profound. Even Ralph looked maudlin.

Lady Hatherley herself was the first again
to speak.

 You will wonder,' she said, addressing
Mark, * why I should have interfered to read
out this letter. The truth is, it was through
me, I regretfully own, that my uncle became
possessed of it. The day that I entered The
Limes I came, although Richard did not
know it, as an adventuress. He,' pointing
to Ralph, ' had assured me that there was

some secret in your family Avliicli, if once
discovered, Avould be the source to himself
and his accomplices of perpetual wealth. I
have long learnt to believe that he was utterly
misled, if not as to the existence of this secret,
at any rate as to its importance. But he
seemed to think that the proof of it would
give him some kind of hold over Sir John.
For the rest, as to the exact nature of the
secret he was never explicit. One time it
seemed to me to have something to do with
a will : another time with a marriage. I
was to spy and listen ; observe and draw
conclusions. If possible, I was to discover a
secret drawer, and to find, and forward to
him, certain old letters from America, having
relation to a family' of Hatherleys there. I
accepted the mission not so much  although
nobody will perhaps believe me  with any
idea of ultimate gain to myself, as because
I liked the flavour of an intrigue. M}'
interest in the search and my belief in its
.success very often sank to zero, and I would

nearly forget the whole thing. But very
soon a letter from my uncle would revive
my zeal and my curiosity, and I began again.
I watched my husband at the bureau, and
at last hit upon what I believed to be the
secret of the drawer. I went down one night
to experiment, and you, Mark, know the
result. Mrs. Hatherley followed, watched
me, and finally sprang upon me just as I
had discovered the receipt for the Psalter.
But what she had not seen and could not
know, was that I had found and taken possession
of Miss Freake's letter. For Mr.
]mercer's purpose there was nothing else of
any importance in the drawer. It was full
principally of unpaid bills and threatening-letters
from creditors. I fancy that Sir John
surprised or interrupted perhaps in his
reading  had several times thrust into it a
document which, once out of his sight, he
found easier to keep out of his mind. To
open the drawer was to evoke too many
unpleasant visions for him to care to do it

often. In this way, and in this alone, can
I expLain why, when so much had been
destroyed, so much should still have been
left. This is all I have to say, and I know,'
wound up Gertrude, in her reckless way,
 that in now saying it and betraying my confederate,
I am playing just as sorry a part
as previously in aiding and abetting him.
But at least this scene, and the unjust attack
of which you, clark, are the object, give me
the opportunity of expressing  not my remorse,
for that is of little use  but my sense
of your goodness and generosity ; and also my
determination to earn my own bread by an}
honest means, and at anv cost, rather than
add by a feather's weight to your many
burdens.'

Bravo. Gerty I' cried Dolly, and jumping
up, embraced her.

The movement was a real inspiration ; for
it relieved the tension of everybody's nerves,
and made a bridge which enabled Gertrude to
descend from a rather embarrassing altitude of

emotion back to the solid ground of the
common-price.

And I am sure,' resumed Dolly, looking
round, her arm still on Lady Hatherley's
shoulder, 'that / shall never take a shilling
from you, Mark : so there are two off
you.'

Are you then so enchanted with teaching
that you intend to continue it indefinitely?'
asked Mark, with his kindly smile.

So she says. But she is herself to be
taught obedience, which is the first duty
of a wife,' interrupted Richard ; and Dolly
flashed on the circle a radiant glance of
bliss.

How much looser do you intend this
farce to continue?' suddenly broke in Mary's
discordant tones, and she turned furiously
on the discomfited Ralph.

That person's plight was indeed pitiable.
The effect which he had prepared with so
nmch care had been turned from its proper
course by Gertrude, and sprung like a mine

beneath his feet. His courage, always factitious,
was fast evaporating ; but sirs.
Russell's terrible glance galvanized it anew
into a semblance of life. With a swau'cr,
he resumed the outward seeming of audacity,
thrust his hand into the breast of his coat,
and took up the thread of his story.

You have not vet done With me, mr.
Hatherley '

No, indeed I have not,' interrupted Mark,
with wrathful contempt. * Perhaps you Ville
so good as to state wdiat object, other than
the inadmissible one of self-exposure, brought
sou here to-day?'

Softly, if you please,' answered Ralph
insolently, although he had unmistakably
<j[uailed beneath the young man's glance.
You will have to come down a note or two,
I promise you. Grant that my object is not
very clear. "When one has to try and square
accounts with such an arch-deceiver as your
father, everything' is dark at first. To start
with at all, I had to construct a tlieoiy, which

briefly is this : Miss Freake rendered your
grandfather a service, and was very probably
paid for it. I make no account of the
apparent contradiction to this in your father's
offer to reward her : for he was evidently
only feeling his way. On the other hand,
Miss Freake lived in Paris, the most expensive
capital in Europe, for many years, ostensibly
on nothing '

She lived, if semi starvation can be called
living, on 40 a year, supplemented by a
few miserable earnings,' interrupted Winifred.


I don't believe it,' answered Ralph, and
his manner made Mark's eyes flash. ' It is
far more conceivable that she enjoyed a
portion, and laid by the rest, of an income
made over to her on the understanding that it
was to revert at her death to one of the Fatherly
family. The passage about the 10,000
in her letter carries out this theory ; and my
belief is that, for reasons on which we will not
insist '  and here the speaker's eyes travelled

with impudent significance to Winifred  ' she
bequeathed the principal and all her saving's to
her trusty and well-beloved cousin, Mr. Mark
Hatherley.'

A silence of a few moments ensued, caused
probably by sheer surprise on the part of the
majority at this fantastic conclusion.

 Rather a weak-wooed theory' after all,
Uncle Kalph. I should have thought a
person of your experience might have invented
something better,' observed Richard, at
last, with mocking politeness.

Ralph changed colour and bit his lip, turning
at the same time a wavering glance on
Mary. Evidently the blank amazement with
which his hypothesis had been received disconcerted
him considerably. The truth was,
that Martha's death had upset all this own and
Mary's calculations. Tlie}' had hoped to wring
from her some confession in regard to the
money ; and next, to induce her to leave at
least a portion of it to Mary. This project
frustrated, Ralph himself had been but little

inclined to do anything more ; but ]diary's
baffled rage could not admit the possibility of
total defeat, and she had clung with her usual
stupid obstinacy to the conviction that Martha
must have left hidden away, a Avill or other
proof of property, or perhaps a hoard of
money. Chance having, at last, fully revealed
to Ralph the fraud by which John
became possessed of all his father's wealth,
Mary's anger had risen to frenzy.

Something must  should be done to right
her,' she said and re said every hour of the
day.

Density on her side, visionary cunning on
Ralph's, and profound ignorance of legal
points in both, led them to flatter themselves
that their tardy knowledge could be used to
make Mark ' disgorge ' a portion of his inheritance.
This dream, since they entered
]martha's bedroom, had been growing every
moment dimmer. ]o will had been found,
and no money either. The obvious sincerity
of Mark's amazement at the mention of the

10,000 had carried conviction, at any rate, to
Ralph.

The hostility of Gertrude, the ridicule of
Richard, and the frank indignation of Winifred
had made him feel the absurdity of his
task of amateur detectiveship. The mere
contact with reality inseparable from the
search, had in some way pierced his air-bubble.
He was discouraged  cooled  a trifle
ashamed. moreover, the afternoon was wearing
on, and he felt hungry.

He had meant to startle clark h\ informing
of his father's full baseness ; but now it
struck him that this precious piece of information
would be appropriately reserved for
another occasion. He felt, indeed, tolerably
sure that destiny had checkmated him ; but
he was in mortal fear of Mary's violence,
and trusted to pacify her by an appearance of
finessing.

Under these circumstances his resolution
was quickly taken. He advanced a step or

VOL. III. 53

two, held out his hand to the petrified Mark,
and said impressively :

Forgive me !'

Are 3'Ou mad ?' shrieked Mary, while her
nephew retreated several paces and looked at
Mr. Mercer's extended hand with an air of the
frankest aversion.

Mad ?' echoed Ralph mournfully, and
struck an attitude worthy of Chatham. * No,
Mary, not mad ; though Fate has indeed done
its worst to make me so! My reason,' continued
Mr. Mercer, almost hysterically, ' is
unaffected, but my heart is wrung at the
sense of the cruel part which principle on the
one hand, the irony of chance on the other,
have condemned me to play. I am an outcast,
a wanderer, a cumbered of the soil  I
know it, admit it. But every chivalrous
instinct  my only heritage from a long line
of ancestors  is not so dead within me as
to leave me incapable of repentance. I have
wronged Mr. Hatherley : I beg his pardon.
He will not accept my excuses. I regret it,

but resign myself to be misjudged. I feel
that my place is no longer in this house '
(here Kalph endeavoured by winking portentously
to exorcise the tempest brewing
within Mary) ; ' good-breeding bids me leave
it, and I follow the dictates of a gentleman's
strongest sentiment.'

He bowed ; clapped his hat on his head with
suspicious swiftness ; turned on his heel, and
decamped, Mary staring after him with an
expression of stony fury, to Which the countenance
of Medusa must have been a trifle.

A pause ; and then a shout of Homeric
laughter from Richard, followed by similar
manifestations from everybody, including Gertrude
and excepting only Mrs. Russell. The
latter, indeed, turned slowly round, and fixed
on the irreverent Dick a glance so gruesome
that it ought to have frozen every drop of
blood within his veins. But, unfortunately, it
only had the effect of sending him off into
fresh and louder peals of merriment. Mary
turned purple ; the veins on lier temples

swelled awfully ; her eyes half started fi'om
their sockets ; she actually raised her hand
as if to strike him. Dick, however, had
reached that stage in which he could hardly
have stopped laughing even had he wished :
and he did not wish. On the contrary, his
malice only made him shout the more. And
Mary, after one long, outraged stare at him,
precipitated herself across the room, dashed
alone' the little ante-chamber, and vanished
from the sight of her tormentor !

AT ELMSLEIGH ONCE MORE.

Alps did not put in an appearance
at the Dallaseses' for some days,
during which time his sister suffered
every phase of gentle anxiety. At last,
he came one morning when Mr. Dallas and
the young people were out. He had a short
interview with Mrs. Dallas ; poured into lier
sympathetic ear an interesting but slightly
garbled tale ; borrowed all the money she had
in her possession, and departed, bound, he
assured her, for London.

Mary, on her side, only remained at Winifred's
a very brief time after her discomfiture,
and hardly once issued from her bedroom,

except for her meals, which she consumed in
gloomy silence. Finally, one evening a note
came for her ; and she also went  back to Provence
and her friends there, as she informed
Winifred.

Mark was the next to leave. He had
several conversations with Gertrude, who told
him all she knew or guessed of Ralph's recent
relations with Mrs. Russell. She believed
that, after reading Martha's letter, he had
made a special journey to Provence in search
of Mary, whose whereabouts Gertrude was
able to tell him. For when she left the
Grahams and returned to Camden Town,
Ralph was not at his lodgings. He came
back the next day, and mentioned that he had
been, and was soon returning, abroad ' on
business.' He was always mysterious, and
she had asked no questions, knowing that it
would be useless. Why he had not gone
sooner in search of Mary and induced her to
betake herself at an earlier date to Paris,
Gertrude did not know.

Mark stood musing:.

There is still a great deal that I do not
understand. Ralph never mentioned Ridgeley
to you ?'

sever.'

And now what do you mean to do for
yourself ? You will accept an allowance from
me?'

Xot a penny. I think I shall go back to
the Grahams. I vrote to Ned the other day,
and according to his answer I shall decide.'

She tried to speak indifferently ; nevertheless
 blushed.

But  forgive me  surely your position
there is a little unusual. A house with no
lady at the head of it '

I learnt to despise appearances long ago,
Gertrude interrupted, with one of her cynical
smiles. ' Besides, there is the old housekeeper,
who is a rock of respectability; and
Mr. Graham, as you must have seen for
yourself, is as blind and deaf to outward
influences as one of his own scarabaii.

Try not to trouble yourself any more about
me, Mark. We must not be made too comfortable,
we Dallaseses. Prosperity does not
agree with us.'

I cannot say it seems to me that adversity
does,' observed Mark, gravely smiling.

Probably no extremes do. As Dick says,
we are either beggars on horseback, or
failures off it.'

She gave him her hand, with a look half-arch,
half soft, that disarmed his reproach,
nodded a friendly ' good-bye ' to Winifred,
and went.

I often wonder what will be her ultimate
fate,' said the latter as the door closed,
leaving herself and Mark alone. ' She
is such a perplexing creature  incompletely
noble, incompletely charming ; full of a
wayward sort of attractiveness, and yet
often exasperating and always unaccountable.'


Winifred raised her eyes to her companion,
in expectation of some answer; but the look

she met made her change colour, and drove
Gertrude out of her head. Mark was steadily
regarding her, as he often did when they were
alone together; but although his glance was
fixed on her lips, the words she had just
uttered had evidently not reached him. That
is to sav, he was thinking' of her and not of
her speech. She felt it, and was troubled.
He still seemed at the same untraversable
distance from her as when he first came  days
ago; and yet sometimes she felt as though
it rested only with herself to break down the
invisible harrier.

She answered his look with more of sorrowful
questioning in her eyes than she guessed;
his own left her face then, but slowly, gravely;
and his mouth set itself to an expression of
steadfast sadness, very habitual to it of
late.

You are really going away tomorrow ?
You  you still have much to do at The
Limes ?'

She spoke the commonplace words hesitatingly,

timidly almost, but her pure,
womanly feeling thrilled through her tones.

Yes

And, afterwards, what do you mean todo?'
Then as he did not answer, she forced
herself to add, ' I suppose of Sir John's
fortune there is nothing left?'

Nothing that I would touch,' answered
Mark, with an unconscious stern bitterness
that startled her, it was so intense.

He had been undergoing a great struggle
with himself, ever since his arrival in Paris.
He loved Winifred better than ever; and more
than ever, in his present loneliness, did he
long for companionship such as hers. But
his position was now so altered and his future
so uncertain, that honour and prudence alike
forbade his taking on himself the additional
burden of a wife. For this reason he had
resolutely blinded himself to the new softness
of the girl's manner, and had abstained from recalling
by look or word the memory of their last
interview, and of all that it had left unsaid.

But this silence was beginning to try him
sorely; and he felt the imperative need of
some sympathy in his latest and hardest trial.
There were few people to whom pride and
regretful affection combined would allow him
to speak of his father's dishonour ; and with
nobody had he yet shared his newest and
most painful discovery.

But Winifred was so true and so sweet ; a
woman of most womanly compassionateness,
and yet capable of a silence like the grave.
In her, at any rate, he could confide, and
perhaps she would understand the rest without
his saying it ; perhaps, if she really loved
him  and sometimes he had almost dared to
think she did  she would question not, but
wait.

So he told her everything quite quietly and
simply, and yet in such a way that with her
pitiful insight she understood, far better than
he thought, all that he had suffered and was
suffering of humiliation and of pain.

She did not say much, but her rapt at 

and sweet listening face were in themselves
an anodyne, and soothed his aching spirit.

You see how completely this alters my
life he concluded. ' My father's sister and
the widow and children of his brother stand
to me now in a new relation. They are first
on the long list of those whom he has
wronged and defrauded. Even ordinary
creditors, such as tradesmen and others to
whom he owed enormous sums, could hardly
be fully satisfied of their claims by the cession
of all he possessed. And these new obligations
are morally still heavier, still more imperative.
He lived, and / was educated, in luxury,
at the expense of these defenceless women and
children. Make them some restitution now
I must ; and I can only do it out of my own
property. For many future years, perhaps
for always, I must seek the means of personal
support in some source quite apart from my
inheritance. Fortunately I have been offered
a place of manager of a bank in the north of
England. This will give me a small certain

income, and a o-reat deal of re<]:ular work.

'CD O

I shall begin the new career as soon as possible.'


In the north of England ? And you are
going to live there, away from all your friends
alone ?'

He smiled at the simplicity of the question.


A man soon finds such associates as suffice
to save him from the worst forms of isolation.
What is indispensable to me now is
occupation. The rest I can do without. At
least  I must try.'

She was standing close to him, her head
bent ; but at the new inflexion of his voice,
she looked up, and again their eyes met in a
long, eloquent, mournful glance. Mark turned
pale, and drcAV a deep breath of conquered
emotion. Then he took both her hands in his
strong and tender grasp, and looked long
into the serene, sad depths of her eyes.

You are strong, Winifred. Help me to
be so.'

That was all he said, but they understood
one another, and silently registered a mutual
vow to wait.

As Richard had received a cablegram from
America, summoning him as quickly as possible
to his new employment, it was settled
that Dolly and he should be married immediately,
and the fia7icee was excessively anxious
for the ceremony to take place at Elmsleigh
in the midst of her old acquaintances. She,
characteristically, cared very little for the
discredit that had fallen through Sir John
upon the Hatherleys, except in so far as it
affected Mark. And as her mother, who was
equally indifferent and had a cat-like fondness
for familiar places, had rented a cottage near
The Limes, there was nothing to prevent
Dolly from gratifying her desire.

I must have a pretty wedding, even though
it be a cheap one. Ellen Coles and Sabina
Swan wick ' (her former two particular rivals,
confidantes and dearest foes) ' must be bridesmaids

as well as Flossie. I will wear white
cashmere trimmed with silk, and a rule
round my throat of the new lace, Freda ;

/ 7 7

and Mark, you will give me away', Avon't
you ?'

AVith frightful violence to my own feelings,
Dolly ;' and his cousin, enchanted at the
compliment, stood on tiptoe to kiss him, and
told him he was  a dear old bear.'

Mrs. Hatherley, as may be imagined, had not
been too enchanted at the idea of Dolly's
marriage with so incurable a detrimental as
poor Dick. But, as she remarked plaintively
in one of her letters, ' it no longer seemed the
fashion to consult the wishes of parents ;' and
her daughter, making; very little account of
her querulous protests, despatched orders
about the wedding by every post. The only
consolation she condescended to offer her was
the assurance that in America teaching is
extremely well-paid ; that she and Dick had
already projected a college in Chicago which
was certain to be a success, and that in a fcAV

years she anticipated having Flossie over as a
kind of ' walking lady,' to receive callers and
sive the thins an air.

For the rest, the Dallaseses' wonderful friends
had been very kind as usual : Dick was to have
his outfit provided ; and his new employer
paid his passage.

The last days of the two girls' life in
Paris passed with surprising rapidity. There
were Winifred's artist-friends to say good-bye
to ; Dolly's pupils to call on and in most
cases to console ; and, finally, Claire to take
leave of. The little fleuriste, still overflowing'
with gratitude, was enchanted at the idea of
her cher Monsieur Richard having won for
himself such a pretty wife ; and she persisted
in regarding the American plan as a certain
EI Dorado. She made Dolly an exquisite
wedding wreath, and brought it as a parting
gift on the night before the bride-elect's
departure.

Gertrude, having had a rapturous letter
from Ned, started with Winifred and Dolly

for London. A little crowd of friends
assembled at the station to see them off and
to sympathize with the tearful Mrs. Dallas
and the excited Georgie. Dolly mig on
Richard's arm up to the very last moment,
with a proud air of possession. Winifred did
not know how to hold all the bouquets thrust
upon her, nor when to leave off saying
Thank you,' and begin saying * Good-bye.'
Mrs. Dallas poured motherly admonitions into
one ear of Gertrude, Avliile Georgie monopolized
the other with a perpetual ' Mind you
write.' ]\lr. Dallas pervaded the groups, and
looked benignantly superior to all emotion.
At last the doors were flung apart, and
strangers ruthlessly ordered back ; there was
a moment's wild confusion of tears and smiles,
good-byes, adieux  ' You'll write '  ' I'll
come ;' and the three travellers were hurried
into a compartment. Dick, who had got
through somehow, stood on the step and was
again absorbed by Dolly, until a guard
ordered him off. Then he wrung Winifred's
VOL. III. 54

hand with unusual fervour ; bestowed a
final kiss on his sweetheart, and shot a
parting bolt of ' chaff ' at Gertrude. After
which the train got into motion, and the
chequered life in Paris was a thing of the
past.

In London, naturally, Gertrude left them,
while Winifred and Dolly proceeded straight
to Elmsleiofh. Mark and Flossie met them
there at the station, and the latter taking
possession of her sister, Mark accompanied
Winifred to her mother's door. A carriage
had been sent for her to the station, but
neither Mr. nor Mrs. Burton appeared, being,
in fact, at a dinner-party.

Won't you come in ?' said the girl, as Mark
prepared to take leave of her on the threshold
of the Vicarage.

Eo. You must be tired.'

Nonsense!'

All the same, I won't come in now.'

To-morrow, then ?'

Mark hesitated.

I had better be frank with you. Mrs.
Burton does not care to see me just now, I
think.'

He held her hand a moment; released it
suddenly ; and saying ' Good-night,' left her.
She had been speechless with surprise and
shame, and was still trembling with indignation
as she entered the hall of the house, and
responded to the greeting of the servants.
She knew quite well what Mark had meant.
How cruel to let him feel that any change in
his circumstances could work a change in his
friend's feelings ! Winifred thought more of
this than of the disappointment to herself
While she changed her things, then ate her
supper, her spirits sank miserably till they fell
to zero. But arrived at this point, she told
herself she was morbid, and resolutely set
herself to take a more cheerful view. Presently
she heard carriage-wheels ; then her
mother's voice in the hall ; and hurried out,
prepared to meet with and return any amount
of affection. Nor was she disappointed.

542

'My SAveet Winifred  my darling child!'
exclaimed Mrs. Burton, falling picturesquely
into her tall daughter's arms. ' How I have
longed for this moment ! Your dear face
has never been out of my thoughts. You
naughty, ungrateful pet! At last, you have
condescended to come back to your poor,
lonely little mammy!'

I am sure Winifred would have come
home sooner, if she had thought you really
needed her,* blunderingly put in poor Mr.
Burton, good-naturedly afraid that his stepdaughter's
feelings might be hurt at the
implied reproach. His wife shot him a sidelong
glance of scorn.

'Come into the sitting-room, sweet. I long
to be alone with you.'

But is not Mr. Burton also coming ?'
inquired Winifred, anxious in her turn to
cultivate pleasant relations.

Mr. Burton has his own pursuits, my
love. I never complain, even when I feel
most isolated. Many mothers would have

begged for the return of the one ewe-lambs
said the vicar's wife pastoral. ' But I
never exact sacrifices. 1 could not have
borne to see this sweet face clouded by discontent
at poor mammy's wishes having to
be considered before anybody else's ;' and with
an enchanting smile Mrs. Burton put one
dainty finger into the dimple of her daughter's
cheek. Winifred stiffened involuntarily beneath
the caress, at the same time wondering
how" it was that her mother always irritated
her by making her feel half-remorseful for
fancied neglect, and half-rebellious at her
remorse.

Mr. Burton, who had apparently not taken
the very broad hint given to him, at this
moment appeared in the sitting-room  a
kindly cordiality on his large countenance.

I am very glad to see you, my dear,* he
said, standing in front of Winifred, and
looking approvingly at her upturned face.
I am not very clever at finding out what
young people care for, but I should like you

to understand that you are quite welcome to
anything you want, and have only to ask
for it to get it.'

Winifred must have been singularly overwrought,
for she felt an unaccountable
emotion at this homely hospitable speech ;
and hndiug nothing whatever to say in reply
to it, she rose, and laying her hands on the
speaker's broad shoulders, kissed him affectionately
on both his cheeks.

'There! there!' said Mr. Burton, himself
quite red with pleasure, but patting her on
the back with an evident idea that she wanted
soothing. ' We shall get on in first-rate
style, I am sure. Ahem ! my dear, has she
had any supper ?'

I am not in the habit of forgetting anybody's
wants that I am aware of ; and still
less should I forget my daughter's,' answered
his wife majestically ; and the good man
creaked off  his shoes always creaked  with
a look half-troubled, half-snubbed, that went
to Winifred's heart.

Mr. Burton and this stepdaughter became
very good friends, after that first evening ;
the vicar having a dim idea, which he could
not have made articulate to save his life, that
she was somehow different from most women
in giving a good deal less trouble. Once
he got so far as to communicate or seek
to communicate this impression to the
partner of his joys ; but it was not well
received.

Winifred is peculiar,' said Airs. Burton.
It is not my habit to complain, and I love
her dearly. My nature, which is highly
sensitive, requires to expand itself in affection,
and in thought for others. When I first
became a mother, I thought that I had all I
needed. But I have been cruelly stricken 
although I never say it. And if, since my
darling child has grown up, I have sometimes
felt that she is different from my ideal, the
confession has never passed may lips. Few
people understand me. I feel that misapprehension
will be my fate to the end. lout I try

to believe that the fault lies with myself, and

riot with mv dear ones.'

/

Humph !' remarked Mr. Burton, and
wondered, still inarticulately, at the curious
refractive power of his wife's mind  ideas
sent into her quite straight were reflected
by her crookedly. He could not comprehend
it ; but then he never really tried, having
long ago made up his mind that women were
naturally mysterious dispensations, and that
to him had been allotted the most perplexing
of them.

Meanwhile, Mark coming not, he and
Winifred only met at the Hatherleys'  and
there not very often, for the young man was
hardly made more welcome at Vine Cottage
than at the Vicarage ; and he rarely called on
his aunt except when business obliged him
to do it. Mrs. Hatherley's manner towards
him was full of sullen hostility and womanly
mistrust. She could not forgive his father
for having died ruined, nor Mark for being
his father's son. Not all her nephew's forbearance

and generosity could touch her heart.
Some malignant-minded wiseacre had said
that probably ' Young Hatherley knew what
he was about, and had feathered his own nest
while pretending to give up everything ;' and
this suo:o:estion, falling' on the rank soil of
the Creole's mind, bore a flourishing crop of
suspicions.

Mark's one consolation in these days was
the sympathy of Winifred. He had few
opportunities of seeing her alone, and when
they came, he never spoke of his troubles ;
but often when some ungracious speech of
Mrs. Hatherley' s had sorely tried his patience,
he would catch sight of Winifred's indignant
eyes, and from them his scorn gathered fresh
strength to listen and reply not.

Dolly was the one connecting link between
the dwellers in Vine Cottage and Mark on
the one hand ; between them and Winifred
on the other. She was uniformly kind to her
cousin, and had many a pitched battle with
her mother on his account. And solely to

please her, Mark consented, after the final
auction at The Limes, and his own migration
to London lodgings, to put off his departure
for the north until Dolly's marriage was
over.

The day of that important event dawned
at last brilliantly fine ; and the wedding?
although very quiet, went off to the little
bride's heart's content. She looked bewitching,
and Dick was the most self-possessed
of bridegrooms.

A satisfactory amount of envy was excited
in the gentle bosoms of Ellen Coles and
Sabina Warwick ; and Mark, poor fellow !
distinguished himself by giving the best of
all the presents. Flossie shed cataracts of
tears; and Mrs. Hatherley, through an imperceptible
draught from the vestry-room, sneezed .
fifteen times in succession. From all of which
the intelligent reader will draw the conclusion
that everybody contributed what he or she
could to the exciting elements of the ceremony.


This is the end said Mark, in a low tone,
to "Winifred, when the last handful of rice had
been thrown and the few guests were taking
their departure. ' To-day I shake the dust of
Elmsleigh from my shoes, and tomorrow
night I start for my new home. Will you
think of me there sometimes ?' He gave a
slight smile of melancholy pleasure at the
superciliousness of the question almost before
it left his lips, so swift was the answering
promise of her glance. ' And you will write
to me ? Thanks. Good-bye.'

He grasped her hand with a force that
almost hurt it ; flashed one look into her
eyes ; then bade a hasty farewell to the nearest
bystanders and was gone.

Hi ! Stop ! Hatherley, won't you come
to the Vicarage to dinner?' called out Mr.
Burton after him ; then was cut short by an
imperious glance from his wife, which so surprised
him for a minute or two as to deprive
him of the power of speech. By the time he
recovered and would fain have renewed his

invitation, Mark's rapid strides had carried
him across the little garden and half-way
down the road. Mr. Burton could not get
over it, and on the way home continued
lamenting that his hospitable inspiration had
not come sooner.

If you had told me your wishes I should
not have forgotten them, although I might
not have approved of them,' said Mrs. Burton.
But it appears to be the fashion now to take
everything out of my hands. I wonder
Winifred did not invite him. She was sure
of your sanction.'

But not of yours, mother,' retorted Winifred,
in uncontrollable bitterness, for it had
nearly broken her heart to see Mark go away
in such a fashion.

Oh, mine ! That is a small matter. If I
counted for anything (and I am accustomed
to count for nothing, but I don't complain)
it would be remembered that I never
liked Mr. Hatherley  never. And for my
part, if you will allow me to express

an opinion, my love, I am very glad lie is

gone.

Winifred made no answer; but her stepfather
broke in sturdily :

I don't pretend to contest your opinions,
my dear ; but I really do not know what you
can have against the poor fellow. He has
been hardly used, and has behaved admirably.'


Mrs. Burton tm-ned up her eyes in mute
and long-suffering protest at the brutality of
this conclusion, but ' said nothing.'

 I feel really sorry for him,' Mr. Burton
grumbled on. 'It is not pleasant to have to
begin the world all over again at his age.
Mark must be nearly thirty.'

He will be that age tomorrow,' quietly
said Mr. Luscombe, whom Mrs. Burton herself
had invited to dine at the Vicarage, and who
had now overtaken his host and hostess justin
time to overhear the vicar's concluding
remark.

Mr. LuscombCj before Sir John's reign, had

i

been the Hatherley family lawyer ; and Mrs.
Hatherley, who had known him in old days,
had wished for his presence at her daughter's
wedding.

He was the neatest, freshest, most dapper,
apparently the most inoffensive of little men.
And yet Winifred turned on him a glance of
very scant favour. For he had said that
Mark would be ' thirty to-morrow ' in a tone
which annoyed her. There was more than
indifference in it  there was almost a kind of
pleasure. And what reason could he have
for rejoicing that Mark, at an age when most
men know what is before them, had to start on
a new and uncertain career?

MR. Buncombe S REVELATIONS.

;Gertrude, for obvious reasons, had
not been present at her brother's
weddings, and was living' all this
time very quietly at the Grahams', under the
name of Mrs. Hatherley.

She had had a long conversation with Mr.
Graham on the day of her return, and had
agreed with him that it was better to resume
her husband's name, but, at the same time,
to drop the title. The old gentleman lead
proved himself extremely kind, and had
waived all difficulties with an ease which, if it
were partly due to his want of Worldly

wisdom, was at any rate to the last degree
convenient and refreshing.

The housekeeper, astonished but respectful,
had had as much explained to her as she had
any need to know, and Gertrude had reinstalled
herself beside Ned's chair, with more
of jlsasure than her jaded spirit had ever
expected to find in human companionship
again.

The boy had been most unfeignedly and
undisguised ly glad to see her once more, and
had declared that she must promise never,
never to leave him.

It is not so very much to ask you as it
sounds,' he said. ' For see,' and he held up
his hand. ' It is even thinner than when you
first came, and it sometimes takes me ten days
now before I can make up my mind to walk
across the room. So you will still be quite
young and as beautiful as ever when I shall
not need you any more.'

Gertrude took the transparent listless hand
in her warm grasp, and longed passionately

that she could infuse into Lis veins some of
the restless abounding vitality that throbbed
in her own. It seemed an unjust Fate, that
which gave her health and youth and mental
activity, only to curse them with a perpetual
impotence in results ; while Ned, who had
such serenity, such moral strength and calm,
was hastening fast from the ' weariness, the
fever and the fret,' of all that men call
living.

These were poor unquiet Gertrude's reflections
as she sat softly stroking the lad's hand
until he dropped asleep. She stayed her
soothing; ministration then, and bending: her
gipsy face over his white one, gave herself upto
long and mournful contemplation of his
ethereal brow and pallid cheeks. He was in
truth greatly altered, and she felt that he was
right in saying that the world would not
hold him much longer. The quiet conviction
with which he had said it, so divorced from
regret or morbid seeking for sympathy, had
affected Gertrude strangely. She had been
VOL. III. 55

accustomed, in her exaggerated way, to say
that life was of small account, and that she
was ready to part with it. Now for the first
time it struck her fully how far removed she
was from the solemn courage that can fairly
look the ' King of Terrors ' in the face  as far,
indeed, as from the active faith in good that
alone makes life worth living.

A slight stir caused her to look up, and she
became aware that Dr. Kenyon was behind
lier. He had come in noiselessly  everybody
did everything noiselessly in that enchanted
castle of a house  and had been standing therefor
how long a time she did not know. She
only felt instinctively that he had been looking
at her, and in the moment of her turning had
ceased to do so. He drew nearer then, and
held out his hand very quietly and gravely.
This was their first meeting since her return,
and she was surprised and provoked to feel
how much less self-possessed she was than he.
Fortunately he did not seem to notice how
vividly she blushed, nor how pale she grew

afterwards ; like her own a moment before,
his attention, at least apparently, was fixed
on Xed.

You find him much altered ?'

She bent her head in answer to the murmured
question ; and then Dr. Kenyon made
her a sign to follow him into the hall.

The lad is slowly dying. It may be an
affair of months, but there is no hope of his
ever being again even as well as when you
first knew him. Do you mean to leave him

again ?'

The question, asked abruptly, almost harshly,
roused Gertrude's facile anger. She had promised
Xed to stay, and meant to do so; but
she felt perversely disinclined to admit as
much to one who, she felt, was a self-constituted
judge.

That will depend,' she said, and throwing
lier head back, looked at him defiantly.

You must do as you like, of course ; but I
think you should be told that your presence is
of use to the boy. It distinctly does him

55 :>

good, as being different from anything that
he has known throughout these long years of
suffering and pain, intensified by monotony.
He drooped after you left, and will never
recover the ground he lost then. If you care
to be a source of joy to a fellow-creature
whose life has been a very joyless one, you will
remain by Xed now until the last.'

For Ills sake I shall most probably do so,'
replied Gertrude, with her haughtiest air.

But not for mine, you mean ? I did not
ask you to do it for mine.'

And with a ceremonious bow, in strange
contrast to his remarkably rude speech, Dr.
Kenyon marched oft", leaving Gertrude considerably
less enchanted with her own arrogance
than she had ever been in all her life
before.

She felt so an(>:rv that she could not settle to

CD /

anything ; and by way of calming herself, delighted
the housekeeper by offering to do some
commissions for her in town. Half an hour
later she found herself in Oxford Street, and

was presently greatly pleased to run up against
Mark, who Alas just coming (jut of a slioj)
They met with the utmost cordiality.

Do you really go to-night ?' asked
Gertrude.

I hope so. But this morning I received a
mysterious communication from Luscombe
and Wheeler to attend at their office at three
o'clock. I am off there now. I cannot even
guess what they want With me, but expect
some tiresome claim or other wliicli may detain
me in town.'

Perhaps the 10,000 has turned up,' suggested
Gertrude laughingly.

clark shook his head.

Xo such luck. By-the-bye, have you seen
anything of mr. Mercer ?'

Nothing whatever. As Dick would express
it, he has doubtless 'ducked under" again.'
She then asked a few questions about the
wedding, wished him prosperity, and shook
hands warmly With him, saying as a parting
recommendation, ' If Luscoml)e and AVlieeler

have to announce a fortune to you, I shall
expect you to let me know at once.'

Three hours later, when she was reading to
Xed, a telegram was put into her hands, and
she had hardly glanced at it when an exclamation
of uncontrollable pleasure broke from her
lids, for it was signed ' Mark,' and contained
the inconceivably delightful words :

Journey northwards given up. The
10,000 are mine.'

Mark, on arriving at the solicitors' office,
had been received by the dapper little gentleman
whom he had seen for the first time on
the previous day at Dolly's wedding.

I am very glad to see you, Mr Hatherley,'
was the lawyer's greeting. ' I know more
about you than you have probably guessed
was extremely well acquainted with your
grandfather, and in his younger days with your
father; but for years before his death I saw
nothing of him.'

Mark made no answer beyond a slight

bow. V He had once or twice heard his father
mention Mr. Luscombe, and always with aversion.
Of late, alas ! he had learnt to have a
good opinion of the people whose society Sir
John avoided.

Your grandfather, long ago when you
were quite a little boy  four or five years old
only  gave me the commission to keep you in
view.'

My grandfather ?' interrupted clark. ' I
have lately had reason to think that he did not
know of my existence.'

There you are mistaken. He did know of
it, although it was revealed to him by chance,
but a very short time before his own death.
He found it out partly through an anonymous
letter, partly through your cousin the late
Martha Freake.'

!\Iark uttered an exclamation of pained
surprise. He had always wondered why his
father had betrayed Martha. The hypothesis
of love for Mary being inadmissible, any other
made the cruelty seem inconceivably wanton.

Was the explanation to be some knowledge
possessed by Martha of his marriage ?

In order to make things clear to you '
resumed Mr. Luscombe, ' I must tell you a
long story, and begin at the very beginning.
Your grandfather, like many other old gentlemen,
had a mania for making wills. In proportion
as his daily interest in life slackened,
the ultimate disposition of his large fortune
absorbed more and more of his thoughts.
But we have only to consider two of his
Avills. No. 1, under which your father did
actually inherit ; Xo. 2, under which he should
have been cut off with a shilling, but which
mysteriously disappeared.'

There was also a codicil made within a few
hours of his death,' put in Mark, mindful of an
observation dropped by Mary to Dolly in one
of her recent rages.

With that we have nothing to do. The
codicil, if it ever existed, was never found ;
and if found, it would have been useless, for I
understand it was not sho-ned. Will Xo. 1

was made at a time when your grandfather
was equally irritated against his second son
William, and his daughter Alary. William,
as you know, was the first real scamp of his
family; and Miss Hatherley had incurred lier
father's anger by her engagement to IJalpii
Mercer. The consequence was that old Mr.
Hatherley disinherited both his younger
children, and left every penny of his money
to John. Your father at that time possessed
an enormous influence over him ; an influence
which, I confess, would have surprised me
more than it did, had I not always observed
how shrewdness gives place to prejudice in
the old. Imagine, then, my surprise when
one day your grandfather sent for me,
and informed me of his intention to make
will Xo. 2. ' Had he destroyed Xo. 1 ?" I
asked. ' Xo," he said ; adding rather discontentedly,
' John had possession of that.
But it did not matter. Xo. 2 vvould annul
Xo. 1." Amazed, then I heard that this time
he intended to disinherit all his children, and

leave his entire property to a charity. I
broke out into protest, but he flew into a
violent rage ; said his children deserved
nothing from him, and that John  immaculate
John !  was the worst of all. Little by little,
as well as his anger would allow, he told me
that your father was secretly married, and had
been for sears, to a lady of the name of Lyndon,
of whom nobody seemed to know anything.
His informant  an anonymous one  was evidently
some enemy of John's who had given
himself the trouble to discover just as much
of the facts as would serve the purposes of
mischief Your grandfather had despatched
Miss Freake to explore Linden Grove Eoad,
and she had obtained sundry clandestine
glimpses of your mother and of you.'

She never tried to speak to my mother, I
presume ?' asked Mark.

Neo. I am sure she did not ; for she was,
I remember, quite una av are of your mother's
sad and strange affliction. My own first intimation
of it came from your father's statement

at Miss Freake's own trial, a month or two
later

Mark remained silent. What a tangled
web the whole story' was ! And how much
seemed destined never to be made quite
clear !

Miss Freake,' continued Mr. Luscombe,
seemed to have been completely fascinated by
your appearance. Her loving description of
you, your ways, your beauty, your delicacy
(you had just recovered from an illness),
although very impatiently listened to at first,
did eventually soften your grandfather's heart
a little, and had a result which you will
shortly learn. But against your mother he remained
very bitter. It was one of his crotchets
that she could not be a person of respectability,
or your father would not have kept her
existence a secret. Times oat of number did
he say, '* He has always hypocritically made a
merit of having given up Margaret Hatherle}'
to please me ; and yet far more gladly would I
have opened my doors even to my ungrateful

sister's child than to this unknown Jezebel."
Your grandfather was accustomed not to
measure his expressions ; and as I listened to
him I used often to think that your father's
marriage was a kind of judgment on him for
the arrogant harshness Which in will Xo. 1
had made him insert the clause relative to this
very Margaret Hatherley.'

And, after all, she was my mother,' said
Mark.

Mr. Luscombe sat speechless with astonishment
; nor did he recover his powers of speech
for some time after Mark had finished his
brief statement of Mr. Graham's revelations.
Then he gave a long, low whistle.

And this identity of Margaret Lyndon
with Margaret Hatherley was of course the
reason why John kept his marriage secret. .
He was caught in his own trap) : or rather he
would have been, could will Xo. 2 have been
found.'

How came it not to be found ?' inquired
Mark.

mr. Luscombe sliruuijed his shoulders.

The old man tnxfhJ always keep such
documents m his own house. Perhaps he destroyed
it before his death.'

Perhaps my father destroyed it,' was
Clark's pained thought, not uttered, however,
although he sav it reflected in the lawyer's
own face.

AVe, Miss Freake and I, did our best in
several confidential interviews to make him
destroy it ; and I think that, towards the last,
although he would not own it, he may have
beo'un to waver.'

In one way all that matters very little
now,' said Mark. ' Mv grandfather would
turn in his save. could he know how utter'
annihilated is the fortune about which he
troubled himself so much.'

Well, the greater part of it is gone, certainly
replied the lawyer, with an odd smile.
But a pretty little sum is non' to revert to
you.'

tome!'

Even so. As I have told you, Miss
Freake softened your grandfather's heart
towards you, bv her enthusiasm and entreaties.
Jolm he persisted in disinheriting ; for your
mother he wouhi do nothing ; and, With his
strange vindictiveness, he wished no knowledge
of his intentions regarding' yourself to
mar the punishment that he contemplated
inflicting on your parents. Consequently he
would not name you m the will  Avill Xo. 2,
remember  but he sold out and reinvested
10,000 for you' exclusive use and benefit,
leaving in my hands written directions which
you can now read for yourself, to the effect
that you were only to touch the money at the
age of thirty. And even then you were
not to have it if you had turned out badly.
My own notion is that you have turned out
extremely well, and I have much pleasure
m congratulating you on this unexpected
and most legitimate recovery of a portion of
your grandfather's wealth. It lias been

accumulating for twenty-live years at G percent,
and amounts now to over  60,U00.'

Mr. Luscombe rubbed his hands too-ether
in great delight at this little peroration.

Mark, meanwhile, was silenced by a rush
of feelings in which glad relief predominated.
He was not poor ; he could marry Winifred,
and, above all, this money Vv'as rightly, fidlj,
fairly his. It had been left through no
ignorance, obtained through no fraud. and
was no laborer a sum than a must distribution
of his grandfather's property would have
originally ensured to him. He had rarely
looked so brio-lit as when lie left Luscombe
and Wheeler's office on that eventful afternoon.
Suddenly remembering Gertrude's
laughing prophecy, he despatched her the
telegram, and then took the first train down
to Elmsleigli.

Mrs. Burton, returning from one of the
garden-parties in which her soul rejoice.
was greatly scandalized to find Eark in her
drawing-room. As if his uninvited presence

there A\'ere not bad enough, he was standing
close to Winifred, and holding her hands in
his ; while on the faces of both was a gladness
that jarred uncomfortably on the worldly
wisdom of the vicar's wife.

She came forward With her best air of
haughty surprise, and the lovers stood a little
apart, but appeared altogether undaunted.

I have come to claim Winifred, Mrs.
Burton,' Mark said. ' Long ago she promised
to share my home and my life.'

Mrs. Burton smiled superiorly.

I was not aware, Mr. Hatherley, that you
had a home. I was under the impression that
it was broken up. I thought I had been told
that your life for some time to come would
not offer such advantages that you could
quite honourably ask a young girl to share it
It is not the fashion to consider my authority
as anything  Winifred, don't interrupt your
mother  but I fancy, somehow, that in some
cases the most high-minded course is silence.
I may be mistaken, of course ; and people

may think that their opinions are to be
allowed to ride rough-shod over a parent's.
But I shall be much surprised if my darling-daughter
will (suite consent to be spirited
away in utter defiance of her sole surviving
guardian's wishes

But, mother,' said Winifred quietly,
Mark has just come into a fortune.'

What cried Mrs. Burton, and standing
on one foot with her hands outspread, and
a lace pocket-handkerchief in one of them,
she struck a picturesque attitude of amazement.


My grandfather left me 10,000 invested
at 6 per cent.; and as I Alas not to touch it
until my thirtieth birthday, accumulation has
added largely to the sum,' said Mark.

Is this true ?' in falsetto.

Here is a copy of my grandfather's letter
to the lawyer, dated, as you may perceive,
twenty-three years ago.' And Mark handed
her the document. She glanced over it ; then
looked up with a sunny smile.

VOL. III. o6

Did I not always say you were born to
good-luck ?'

Perhaps you did. My memory is rather
treacherous.'

But mine is lasting, like my affections.
Where those I love are concerned my insight
is prophetic. And, dear Mark, instinctively,
I always loved you.

And will you give me Winifred ?'

'Winifred?' Mrs. Burton repeated the name,
looking at her daughter with an arch tenderness.
' Does my pet wish to leave me ? I
suppose I must not ask. If you have won
her heart, Mark, take her. I am not selfish,
I believe ; and the last thing 1 could make up
my mind to do would be to interfere with
the happiness of anybody.'

CONCLUSION.

iT so happened that on the very day
following that on which Mark
had received his good news, a
letter arrived to him fi'oni France, written
by his aunt Mary. It contained the full outpouring
of all her venom, intensified and
made bitterer by all her stupidity. The
diseased sense of her wrongs had dwelt with
her so long that she evidently could not conceive
anybody not sympathizing with her.
And now that John and Martha were both
dead, she gave herself up to the luxury of

telling the whole truth.

502

Her consciousness of her own baseness in
the part played against her cousin was
completely absorbed and obliterated by her
savage desire to be even, at last, with John.
Fear of him removed by death, the suppressed
hatred and resentment of years found voice
in her. She did not even care to conceal that
she had only not spoken weeks sooner,
because Ralph had aroused in her delusive
hopes that some tangible advantage was to
be gained by silence and scheming. This
last frail reed had broken, and she was
frankly sorry for herself and shamelessly
ready to say it.

It never seemed to occur to her that this
was a sorrow best buried in silence. Her
avarice had made her ready to grasp at any
means of added income ; and the same feeling
brought her now in grovelling entreaty to
Mark's feet. The letter wound up with
a pathetic picture of all that she had suffered
in the past from want of means ; and all that
she must suffer in the future. She, whose heart

had never ached for human sympathy and
Avhose nature had never felt the need of love,
became suddenly eloquent on the subject of
her on-commas childless old age. She entreated
Mark to be generous, even while notable
to forbear from an acri<l hint that lie
would not be just ; and she finally concluded
with a furious burst of rage against Kalph
Mercer.

Mark read the letter with disgust; but \\k\
was not sorry to have received it. It supplied
the missing links in his chain of
information, and enabled him fully to understand
at last the ignoble comedy played in
the far-off years when his gentle mother held
him in her arms and perhaps sought in his
baby-smile for the sweetness that had most
surely not crowned her marriage. He
answered Mary temperately, but coldly.
Just he could be, but not generous ; his
hatred of baseness and his scorn of lying
were too strong for that. She was already
receipt of an income from him, vhicll lifted

her entirely above want ; and he expressed
his willingness to take steps for insuring the
payment of this as long as she lived.

He had hardly finished writing this letter,
when a visitor was announced ; and Kalph,
quite as self-possessed as when we last saw
him, but perceptibly more dilapidated, swaggered
in.

Mark met him with very cool courtesy; but
at every period of his career, it had taken
much more than the signs of a scanty welcome
to shake Mr. Mercer's equanimity.

My dear friend ' he began.

Your dear what ?' interrupted Mark, and
frowned very angrily.

I might say " cousin." Would you prefer
that r

His cool insolence left Mark in two minds:
whether to laugh, or whether to kick him out.
By a great effort of self-control he succeeded
in doing neither.

You see me, my dear fellow,' resumed his
visitor, ' at the very lowest ebb of my fortunes.

I am Bankrupt not only in purse but in affection.
A fortnight a"'o I believed that I
still possessed some anchorage in friendship,
founded upon what was once a warmer sentiment.
I allude to your aunt. I thought she
would have married me. But she has decided
that she will not.'

You cannot deny that there is some
prudence in the resolution ?' observed Mark,
as he paused.

Prudence is a virtue which I have never
appreciated. It's a cold-hearted, sneaking
kind of quality. I prefer the cynical courage
which is frankly unscrupulous ; and after this
declaration of faith, I hope you will listen
quietly to that which I have come to say.
Last evening I paid a visit to sirs. Hatherley.
She had just seen Mrs. Burton, who had
communicated to her the interesting intelligence
of her charming daughter's approaching
marriage with yourself Miss Power
is a young lady of intellect and character,
and '

We will not talk about Miss Power, if you
please interrupted Mark.

Ralph shrugged this shoulders.

Anything to oblige you. I was only
going to remark that Mrs. Burton, doubtless
instructed by her daughter, had related to
Mrs. Hatherley a thrilling, but I venture to
think a slightly un veracious, tale of your
recent unexpected accession to fortune. The
story does credit to your ingenuity; but it
does not take me in. To be brief, I am
confirmed in my old idea, that your father
was considerably less ruined than was stated.'

Well ?'

Mark uttered the monosyllable so quietly
that Kalj)h was quite deceived, and thought,
as he would himself have expressed it, that
he had  scored a point.'

I know that '' possession is nine points of
the law," ' he resumed ; ' and I am prepared
to hear you say that, after this lapse of time,
it would be very difficult to upset your grandfather's
will. Nevertheless, if it could be

proved and I undertake to prove it) that
your father inherited through the basest' dishonesty
and the most unmistakable fraud, I
fancy it would not be difficult to find a lawyer
to take up the case. I don't pretend that he
would be a respectable lawyer, but he would
certainly be a sharp one. The ways of litigation
are lengthy ; the issues which can be
raised by it are many ; and the mud which it
enables one to throw is so abundant that some
portion of it at any rate will stick. If you do
not wish to have an ugly story raked up, and
your father's memory made infamous, you
will be willing to pay for silence. This
brings me to the question, " How much ?" '

Xot a penny,' said ]\Iark.

Mr. Mercer's face lengthened considerably.
He had not much faith in his story as an
instrument of terrorism ; but he had enormous
belief in the mixture of impudence, craft,
and o-libness which made up this own personality.
Was this to be the next thing to
fail him ?'

The story is a very ugly one, my dear
sir.'

Be good enough to relate it.'

Ralph cleared his throat, crossed his legs,
and prepared for narration.

Mark's tone had cheered him up. It was
so very quiet that Mr. Mercer thought it
could only mask fear. That was one point
scored, at any rate. Moreover, he liked to
hear the sound of his own voice ; and he
flattered himself that he spoke well. The
story he was about to relate had been very
troublesome to piece together ; and the
prospect of being at last able to relate it
coherently caused him quite an artistic pleasure.


I must trouble you with a few preliminary
details. Years ago, your father, when quite

a young man, went to America You

are aware of that, you say ? Good. Are you
also aware that he there made the acquaintance
of his cousin, Margaret Hatherley, and fell in
love with her ?'

I am acquainted With the clause in my
grandfather's will, under which my father
inherited, and all the circumstances attendant
on it,' said Mark icily.

All ? I fancy not, or at any rate I doubt
if you will own to them,' retorted Ralph; then
added with considerable haste, on meeting his
hearer's incensed eyes, ' The ground being sofar
cleared, I will proceed. The vicissitudes of
fortune took me also to America ; but pursued
there as everywhere by ill-luck, I spent my
whole time in the Western States. Had I
ever been able to go to Philadelphia, I should
doubtless have made the acquaintance of your
father's beautiful cousins. Fate, however,
was so far kind to me, that I did at last hear
of them, but it was on my way home. A
fellow-passenger mentioned them incidentally,
and dropped also the sad and interesting fact,
that the eldest daughter  Margaret  when
hardly more than an instit, had met with
an accident Avliich rendered her deaf and
dumb. '' Margaret !" said I to myself. " Deaf

and dumb?" said I. "Strange!" Strange I
thought it, for I remembered that your
mother's name was Margaret. I recollected
that she was deaf and dumb. But my
wonder hardly turned to suspicion at once,
for I am naturally of a simple nature ; where
your thorough-going villain is concerned, indeed,
I am as clay m the hands of the potter.
Nevertheless, the coincidence was too striking;
it recurred to me perpetually, haunted me
day and night. By the time I reached England
the instincts of the amateur detective,
which I flatter myself are strong in me, were
fully aroused. I had cross-questioned my
informant as to the name of Lyndon, but on
this he could throw no light. He had lost
sight of the Hatherleys immediately after the
little Margaret's accident. No matter! The
mystery only made me keener on the scent.
All I wanted to begin was a little money;
20 would have done for a start, and that is
not much to ask, even from such luck as mine.
Well, sir,' continued Ralph, warming up ingenuously

to his subject, ' would you believe
it, I could not raise even that I \\\t\\ \\\y
subsequent efforts to get Gertrude to help me,
you are acquainted ; also with the ingratitude
of her conduct towards me. But if I, poor
beggar that I am! have few friends, your
whither had many enemies. As soon as my
other business (for I am always very busy)
would allow, I addressed myself to two of
them  Mrs. Russell and Mrs. Hatherley.
The latter have me some valuable information :
the former disbursed a little  a very little
money. You will understand that this was
all recently. I put myself in communication
with Mrs. Paissell immediately on reading
]bliss Freake's letter, found by Gertrude in
Sir John's bureau. To Mrs. Hatherley I
addressed myself on the occasion of her
recent visit to London. AVe talked matters
over exhaustively, and she gave me a
clue  a valuable one by mentioning your
late Other's unheard-of generosity towards
Rido-elev. "50!" said I. "Enormous as

an act of benevolence! As the price of a
secret its proportions are less." I made it
my business to hunt up Kingsley, or
rather Ridgeley's family; for the man himself,
as you know, was unfortunately dead.
With some trouble I discovered his mother.
She was not rich, and was additionally
burthened with her handsome granddaughter.
Money was welcome to her ; and,
allured by its prospect, she made no difficulty
about telling all she knew. It did not amount
to as much as I had vaguely hoped ; but the
Lyndon mystery she was able completely
to clear up. She had been old Mr. Lyndon's
housekeeper for many years, and communicated
to me the interesting but not unexpected
fact that Margaret Hatherley and Margaret
Lyndon cere one and the same persons

Kalph uttered the last words impressively,
one by one, and leaning half-across the table,
thrust his face triumphantly almost into
Mark's. The effect he expected not following,
he repeated jeeringly :

What do you think of that

Just what I thought a fortnight agro when
I first learnt the fact,' replied Mark quietly ;
but his right hand which Lay on the table
doubled up so significantly, that Ralph retreated
several inches, and his jaw fell.

The two men remained looking at one
another for a minute or so without speaking.
Mark sat as still as a grace image ; but
across Mr. Mercer's expressive countenance a
variety of emotions travelled. Sardonic rage
at last fixed itself there, and Ralph burst into
a loud laugh.

So ! A true chip of the old block, I see.
Just what I imagined. Never mind papa's
little villainies  papa's little frauds. Papa
marries the very person the Avill forbade his
marrying, but he inherits all the same. In
the first confidence oi generous youth he writes
from America to martha Freake an enthusiastic
account of his beautiful cousins, and
goes so far as to say that the loveliest, Margaret,
is deaf and dumb. But even then he

is cautious enough to conceal the fact of her
adoption by Lyndon. And later, as Ridgeley
knew, and Ridgeley' s mother told me, for fear
of Martha's subsequent discoveries he helps to
clap her first into prison and then into an
asylum. The only danger then remaining is
Ridgeley. Ridgeley is bribed. Sir John is
outwardly a millionaire, secretly a swindler.
He dies, and his creditors have to suffer ; but
his son '

Look here !' interrupted Mark steadily. ' I
give you your choice between leaving this
room on the moment or being; kicked downstairs
!' and he rose.

But Ralph was worked up by excitement
to a pitch of factitious courage. He rose,
indeed, in his turn, and backed prudently in
the direction of the door ; but he could not
resist a malicious laugh.

You say you knew it first a fortnight ago
only a fortnight ! Who was there to tell it
to you then?'

Your own friend, Mr. Graham.'

Mr. Graham? Do  you  mean  to  snj
lie  knew T

Ralph's tones, as he gasped out the words,
were shrill with amazement and despair.
And his face presented such a cataclysm of
emotion, that Mark's wrath turned to grim
amusement.

Even so. He was acquainted with all the
Hatherleys in Philadelphia. Had you chanced
upon the subject with him, that time when
3'ou made yourself so agreeable in Brighton,
you would have saved a great deal of valuable
time,' said the young man politely.

Ralph dropped into his chair again, and
struck his clenched hand upon the table.

Is it not too bad?' he exclaimed.

Is what not too bad?'

'My luck?' And he looked at Mark with
the frankest seeking for compassion that a
human countenance ever expressed.

The ingenuous baseness of the creature was
comic. Mark forgave him ; but felt none the
less anxious to be quit of him.

VOL. III. <

 Don't you think you had better go?' he
said.

Ralph roused himself. He made one final
feeble effort.

Pay me for silence,' he resumed, in a tone
of maudlin appeal. ' The story will additionally
blacken your father's memory; and
a sharp lawyer might make something of it.
At any rate' (more venomously), 'he will
make it quite clear that, in the midst of all
his ruin, your father provided for you, and
that you were quite willing to be provided
for.'

Pray,' said Mark, ' how do you make
that out ?'

Bah ! And your new-found fortune ?'

Has reverted to me through a separate
disposition made by my grandfather, as you
may see for yourself if you choose ;' and Mark
thrust towards him the letter we know of.

Ralph read it eagerly, and a groan of
pathetic greed escaped him at the magic figure
of 10,000.

Twenty-five years ago ! Six per cent.
It must be over 60,000 now !' he exclaimed.


You are quite right,' replied Mark
calmly.

Then you will give me a round sum
down, and spare your father's memory ?'

 I shall do nothing of the sort.'

A hundred pounds ? I am a gentleman 
your cousin  and I am starving.'
Xot a hundred pence.'
Fifty pounds then ?'

Xo.'
'Five ?'

See !' and Mark produced his purse. ' I
will give you half-a-crown.'

Ralph clutched it  his eyes full of tears.

This will pay for my dinner to-day. I
have not dined for a month.'

'Ah!' said Mark. * Now will you be
so very good as to go ?'

And a second time he rose and moved
towards the door, his visitor accompanying

572

him step by step, as if drawn by an invisible
magnet towards the happy possessor of several
thousands of ponds. .

I will come again,' he said affectionately,
as the young man opened the door for him.

Not too often, I hope,' said Mark politely,
and shut him out with a promptitude that
reduced his final observations to an inarticulate
sob.

He did return at odd intervals of varying
length for several years, and always with a
heart-rending tale. He was a perfect nuisance
to everybody even remotely connected with
the Hatherleys ; and exhibited, to their discomfort,
all the tenacity of life and versatility
of mendicancy inseparable from his class. He
sank to be a begging-letter writer at last, and
was hunted from parish to parish by the
C 0. S. He finally migrated once more to
France, and tried expostulation with Mary.
But she, lonely, ferocious, avaricious, with
a love of hoarding that amounted before her
death to a passion ; sullenly resentful for the

most part, but liable to bursts of passion
that terrified everybody who approached her
was one too many for Ralph. His villainy
after all was of the mercurial order, and it
was only the nasty pitfalls and inconvenient
obsequiousness of the lav that prevented him
from being' light-hearted in his very darkest
moments. The sombre baseness of Mary
shook his nerves ; and after one or two interviews
with her, from which he came away
with a good deal of abuse but not a farthing of
money, he learned to give her neighbourhood
a very wide berth indeed.

Gertrude helped him for a little while,
looking upon the act of doing so as a kind of
expiation for having once been his confederate
; and then he addressed himself to
]sirs. Dallas, but her husband interfering with
great peremptoriness, and many expressions
of disdainful astonishment at help from anybody
being expected by ' a fellow who will
not work,' that resource failed.

Finally Ralph 'ducked,' or was dragged

under into the lowest depths of nameless impecuniosity,
and his ultimate fate remained a
mystery.

Mrs. Hatherley and Flossie settled in
Devonshire, and had Will to live with them.
He contributed very little to the enjoyment,
and still less to the credit, of their lives ; but
Mrs. Hatherley always attributed his unfortunate
proclivities entirely to the disappointment
that had awaited him on Sir John's
death. She felt that Mark had behaved only
a degree less badly than his father, and when
anybody praised him in her presence, she was
accustomed to turn up her eyes and say
that nothing is easier than to found a fortune
and a reputation on the ruins of other
people's.

Flossie, later, married a curate, and had a
dozen children. She dragged them up after a
plaintive and slatternly fashion, being always
oppressed with difficulties of one sort or
another. But by dint of hanging like a dead-weight
on the good-natured and the strong,

she invariably managed to be the least uncomfortable
member of her own family.

Gertrude, true to her promise, remained
with Xed Graham to the Last. His sad young
life ended so gently and so painlessly that
they did not knoAv the moment of its going,
and thought him ' sleeping when he died.'
Her ministrations to him stilled her restlessness
as nothing else had done in her life ; and
the womanly pity that he awoke in lier rose
like healthy sap through her nature, sweetening
much that had been bitter, and killing many a
superficial blight.

And when Xed was no more, and she
thought that she would have to face the world
again, and quailed before the prospect, Dr.
Kenyon's reluctant love was at last too strong
for his pride, and he made her an offer of
marriage. It was a great triumph for Gertrude,
and satisfied a great deal that was least noble
in her, as well as all that was best. A man
who had gone down at once before her beauty
and her charms she Avould probably not have
cared for at all. Put Dr. Kenyon had disapproved

of her so strongly, had been so resolute
not to yield, and yielded so suddenly and
absolutely at last, that even Gertrude's arrogance
could not deny that he was a quarry
worthy of her bow and spear. This alloy of
exultation made her own surrender all the
easier, and enabled her to confess that she
loved him (and she loved him very much indeed),
without derogation from her exalted idea
of independence and superiority. She made
him a very good wife, being indeed submissive
to a degree that surprised everybody. For
the rest, he was invariably and consistently
kind to her, and being too busy a man to
listen to her diatribes, and too clever a one to
trouble himself about her theories, he sup-dressed
the greater number of her extravagances
without knowing that he did so.
They died in fact for want of nourishment,
and were helped to extinction by the cares of
a hospitable household and the social duties
devolving ever more numerously upon the
wife of a man growing yearly more famous.

Dick and Dolly made a great success of it
in Boston, the Dallas talents (like micawber's)
being of an order which expand better in
the New AVorld than in the Old. If he
never became enterprising, he was at least
always conscientious, and did whatever was
allotted to him punctually and well. Elis
subtle kind of intelligence, easy-going ways,
and exotic scholarship were brought every
year into sharper contrast with the bright
practical mind, definite aims, and consistent
eneriTcv of his wife. She continued to adore
him, and he continued to allow himself to
be adored. If he did not love her very
passionately, he at least appreciated her more
thoroughly than anybody else in the world.
And Dolly, when he had admitted, as he was
always willing to do, that she was clever,
agreeable, very pretty, elegant, even among
elegant Americans, and a social success in
every way, never dreamed of poisoning her
own satisfaction by asking herself if there
were depths in his nature which she had

failed to stir. She was concerned, indeed,
extremely little with depths or heights of
any sort, but browsed in sunny pasture-grounds,
and nibbled quite contentedly at the
attainable goods of life.

Mark, at the end of some years of labour,
found himself at last in a position to gratify
his highest ambition and enter Parliament.
Mrs. Burton adored her son-in-law for a few
months after the marriage, and told everybody
that she had never desired anything so much
as that her darling Winifred should marry
this excellent and talented young man.'
Later, her enthusiasm cooled a little, and she
sought and obtained a great deal of sympathy
on the score of her lonely heart.

A childless widow  for poets may say what
they please, a daughter is not one's daughter
all the days of her life  what could she do
but marry Mr. Burton ? She tried to make
him happy, and hoped she never failed in her
duty towards him ; but she felt that the best
and brightest of herself was buried in the

graves of her dear Winifred father, and of
Winifred's darling little half-brothers and
sisters, who would have been all that a mother's
love could desire

This bereaved condition did not prevent her
going a great deal to Winifred's house in
London, and profiting by the numerous social
advantages which her daughter's position and
artistic reputation afforded.

When at all annoyed with Mark, which was
often, she would gently hint that his stolid
intelligence and singularly unamiable character
rendered him quite incapable of sympathizing
with her beloved daughter's sensitive temperament
and aesthetic tastes.

When it was Winifred who put her out, she
made the equally original discovery that the
unstable disposition and visionary intellect of
an artist Avere most unfortunately at variance
with the clear insight and unswerving integrity
of her delightful son-in-law, ' a little grave
and cold in appearance, but so high-minded.'

When she felt at cross purposes with both

of them, she generally remembered that her
good, kind husband, * a man whom everybody
must respect was counting the days until she
rejoined him, and then she vanished to Elms-leigh.


But she never went on such occasions without
prophesying that the day would come
when both Mark and Winifred would remember
all that she had said, and be sorry. She also
hinted that their regret would be largely
mixed with remorse for their treatment of herself;
but on this point, true to her practice of
never complaining,' she generously forbore to
insist.

You look quite worried, love,' said Mark
to his wife one day very soon after their marriage,
when Mrs. Burton had departed in this
manner, in a kind of apotheosis composed of
her own wrongs.

Winifred sighed a little, and leant her head
against his shoulder.

It is very foolish of me to mind such
trifles.'

 By George ! I think my mother-in-law is
no trifle at all exclaimed Mark, with more
candour than respect.

Yes, she is. After all, she robs us of
nothing of any importance.'

Only, for the greater part of her stay, of
all our comfort.'

There are better things than comfort.'

Of course  duty, and patience, and philosophy,'
grumbled Mark. ' I know you are a
little Spartan.'

It seems to me that you are neither dutiful,
nor patient, nor philosophical,' answered Winifred,
laughing. ' But what I meant is, I
assure you, something infinitely less sublime
than all that.'

Then what is it ?'

 Our happiness.'

