ma

<S9- JW

\ w fm

X

itfimi'SSlf-iSSk'iitaJiS

OF THE

UN Diversity

or ILLINOIS


151

V.I

Margate HALL,

MILLER'S DALE,

DERBYSHIRE.

I Vol. Cloth, 3. dd.

The New and Cheaper Edition of the Popular Work
of Travel,

THE DIARY OF AN IDLE WOMAN IN SPAIN.

By FRANCES ELLIOT,

AUTHOR OF * THE DIARY OF AN IDLE WOMAN IN ITALY
AND SICILY,' ETC., ETC.

There is no more amusing writer of travel than Mrs
Elliot. . . . She never ceases to amuse and interest. This
has all the characteristics of her former works, and will be
as generally read.'  World.

She is bright and pleasant company wherever she leads
us, with a good eye for colour and scenery, and an intense
admiration for the romantic and thousand-storied history of
the land of her wanderings. . . . History and the beauties
of nature go hand in hand through these pleasant pages. . . .
The book is a creditable companion to the earlier volume,
and an admirable relish for the more solid study of " Murray,"
to those about to travel in Spain.'  Daily Telegraph.

LONDON: F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND.

THE Ill-tempered COUSIN.

A NOVEL.

BY

FRANCES ELLIOT,

AUTHOR OF 'DIARY OF AN IDLE WOMAN IN SPAIN,'
'THE RED CARDINAL,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

V O L. I.

LONDON : R V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

1885.

fall Rights r e served. "X

TO MY FRIEND

MRS ELLICOTT,

WITH

3 THE AUTHOR'S LOVE.

I.

CHAPTER L

Fifty years ago at Twickenham !
Dear old place ! No steamers, no
trains, no telegraphs ! Blessed
time !

So long ago  I seem to have seen it as
Pope saw it  from his lawn-spread villa on
the Thames, when laced upright in a stiff
canvas bodice, asthmatic and tottering, an
old man at forty, he was rowed on the
river, or rambled on the banks, his dog
Bounce after him, decorated his shell
grotto,  approached by what Swift called
the Ars Poetica,  and turned and twisted
his garden-domain of five acres into

VOL. I. A

park-like lawns and green alleys ;  a brilliant
circle round him  Arbuthnot, Gay,
Swift, Oxford, Bolingbroke, Peterborough,
Kneller, and fair-faced Hervey ; the
ladies, from the Court at hand at Richmond
 Lady Suffolk, 'youth's youngest
daughter, sweet Lepell,' to become Lady
Hervey; Miss Bellenden, and 'lovely
Montagu,'  in reality a hard-headed, keen-witted,
remorseless woman ; good Mrs
Hannah Blunt, successor to her sister
Teresa, bringing up the rear, neither
handsome nor clever,  making tea and
pickles, and keeping off smarter dames.

And the great little earl was of Twickenham
too, receiving carriage-company at
Strawberry Hill, trooping down the London
Road in fine coaches, and chariots
painted sky-blue and pale yellow ; the
ladies all hoops, feathers, patches, and
rouge ; the gentlemen dandies of the
Macaroni Club, in silk and velvet  not
without a suspicion of rouge also ;  he
laughing at them all the time, and * taking
the roof off their houses,' like the Diable
boiteux.

Another neighbour in those classic days,
Sir Joshua Reynolds, now in his speaking-trumpet
period, with his sister, gentle Miss

Reynolds, Inhabiting another famous house
on The Hill next to the ' Star and Garter '
of which not a brick is altered,  the
same house where Garrick sat for his portrait,
dressed as Richard the Third, in a
bag wig, gold-laced coat and satin tights,
Gibbon tapped his gold-mounted snuffbox,
 and Goldsmith  'Gentle Oliver' 
arrived to dine in the immortal plum-coloured
coat and yellow waistcoat ; not a
penny in his pocket, but, all the same,
hopeful and smiling, babbling about ' Turn-ham
green peas ' at Brentford, and making
everyone laugh consumedly.

Burly Doctor Johnson also, * like a thundercloud
in motion,' sauntering through
the Twickenham meadows, in a Rhadamanthus
sort of way, to visit the noble
trifler, Horace Walpole ; and the great
Philip Earl of Chesterfield, passing through
the long lanes in his coach-and-six, a
splendid apparition, attended by his valet,
Dayrolles  for the earl Is old and infirm,
and fears to take the air unattended.

The swans had the river all to themselves,
savagely ready to attack all comers
as the current carries them softly onwards
past dits and islands of osier beds and
water-lilies, by fleets of pleasure-boats,

gay with pennons and flags ; the country
real country, with great emerald spaces
and fine clumps of elms between the far-off
houses, thickening a little near the
Thames ; Twickenham itself, a straggling,
old-fashioned village, grouping around a
stone-towered church as old as the Henrys,
with a large yew at hand higher than the
tower, up which a flag is run on royal birthdays,
and on the fifth of November to spite
the Papists. The yew-tree shading both
church and grave-yard reverently from the
road, a pathway of shining pebbles leading
to the porch, furnished with wooden
benches; good sittings on Sundays, as the
old men knew who frequented it, for they
can come and go as they like, in shabby
clothes, which would be a disgrace inside.
The interior much endeared to the vulvar
mind by whitewash, diversified with black
and yellow stripes, large hatchments, with
gaudy coats-farms, and carved monuments
painted round with deep lines of
colour ; also high-backed pews, with green
curtains on brass rods, within which sleep
becomes a duty.

Near the church stood the inn  * The
Red Lion '  set forth by a flaunting signboard
that sways to and fro in high winds,

and creaks in frosty weather. In front,
posters ready harnessed for the ' Lightning'
coach, running between London and
Portsmouth, and for all chaises or chariots
passing on the road, the horses held by
broken-down post-boys, small and widened,
with bowed legs far apart by reason of the
saddle, wearing battered jockey-caps, and
ragged hunting coats, fastened by pins or
string, over patched knee-breeches and
what had once been top-boots, out of which
toes protrude very apparently ; nondescript,
who wipe their mouths with the
inside of their hands to remind you of drink,
and touch their jockey-caps with a curled
palm, suggestive of halfpence, but who can
swear and tipple like their betters, and kick
the poor horses when no one is looking.

Before the open door stands Mr Jorrocks,
the landlord, his hands in his pockets,
and a short pipe between his teeth, his
right leg and foot well forward, as one who
says, ' I am master  deny it who can.'

Here, Jim, you blackguard '  (this is his
style of language, addressed to the oldest
and most decrepit of the ' Boys),  ' that
near 'loss is not groomed. Do it properly,
or I'll give you the lash !' And he
slashes his hunting-crutch fiercely in Jim's

face, who cowers before hint like a cur,
and, horse in hand, rushes into the stable.

Only two doors off is the ' General
Warehouse,' where groceries and chat are
dealt out in equal quantities, by thriving
Mr Marshall and his two sons. Near it
again a haberdashery kept by the pensive
Widow Blake, in well-worn weeds.

But the gem of the village is the lollipop
shop of Dame Fodder, famed far and
wide for her hard-bake. No stranger to
Twickenham passes by that road without
entering her little parlour, with straw chairs,
and a Bible laid on a worsted mat on a
table near the lattice-window.

As visitors appear, she emerges from a
back-door leading to the washhouse, a black
bonnet tilted over her nose, and iron
spectacles,  her skirts pinned up, and her
hands white and furred with soap-suds ;  
always a mossy smell about her suggestive
of a pump, and drops of water falling to the
floor.

Wonderful fine hard-bake,' she says to
her customers, in monologue, giving her
bonnet a shove forward as she proceeds, in
primitive fashion, to break the squares with
her fingers. ' Wonderful ! I sends he to
King at Windsor. A-sends down a coach-and-four,

a' does, on purpose to fetch he all
himself. The Queen's Majesty and the
Princesses eats he  they do rarely. Queen
says, says she, 'george" (that's the old
King), " here's your hard-bake." He says,
says he, a - kissing on her so party,
Thanked, my dearie  can't live without
my hard-bake nohow." (They eats a lota'
do at the castle !) Says the Queen,
Nothing in the 'vassal world like Fodder's
hard-bake. Rest is cheats ! " Audacious ! I
had he 'prisoned,' Dame Fodder adds, with a
grin,  ' took up and 'prisoned for counterfeit.
King a' helped me. 'A got seven year, a' did,
at the 'sizes at Windsor town, all for he ! '

She points to the pile of hard-bake in
the window. For us she had taken down
a tin canister, labelled 'snuff' in large
painted letters. Then dropping our pence
into a little slit in the deal table, where
they clink against each other, conveying
visions of treasure, we depart.

Turning off to the left from the highroad,
past the village, a blind lane ends abruptly
in a handsome lodge and a smart gate ;
on both sides bordered by high walls, so
darkened by damp and mildew, and the
mortar crevices so filled with moss, that
the original colour of the bricks has altogether

faded out. Above fall shadows
from lofty elms  the roughly-barked
branches stretching across the road, and
almost meeting overhead. Inside, hedges
of laurel wild and scraggy for want of
trimming, and here and there a pointed
cypress, shooting up in rank luxuriance,
overtops the walls.

The road is gloomy and ill-kept ; leaves
fly about in the wind, and cover the straggling
footpaths, winding in and out among
the coarse grass on either side, at intervals
broken by other ornamented gates,
opening upon gravel drives enshrouded
in banks of evergreen, each gate the
entrance to some choice villa or mansion,
rarely recognisable, except by an elevated
stack of chimneys.

Further down to the right, a green door
opens upon a tall, gaunt, Queen Anne
house, presenting itself to the eye with a
certain vulgar freshness, very different from
the bashful seclusion of the modern villas
shrouded in veils of shrubbery and shade.

The Queen Anne house, with high,
narrow windows filled with small, square
panes of glass like eyes without eyelashes,
and an untouched door flattened against
the brick walls, is approached by a double

flight of stone steps, with iron ramps,
clearly curtailed of their just proportions,
and narrowed into absolute meanness.
The smallest projection or angularity on
the facade would be a relief, but there
is none  not a creeper, not a vagrant trail
of ivy, nor a morsel of lichen to break the
bewildering lines of glaring mortar,  only
between the windows of the first and second
floors a stone lozenge, with a head representing
a hard-featured Roman emperor 
Caesar, perhaps, or Tiberius ; the date of
the house, 171 2, and the name * Scotland,'
produced in black paint on a lozenge under
the Roman head.

Scatlands stands north and south, 
protecting gardens compass it about, keeping
back the wind, but concealing the
the river  only visible from the second
storey on a level with the stone lozenge.
The river, and the laughing meadows
beyond, fading away along the banks into
a bosky pleasaunce of parks, groves, and
thickets.

Quiet and silent is the high-walled
garden, divided by formal gravel walks,
cut symmetrically. But nature is never
unsightly. The brown earth shines rich
with borders of delicate-leaved box ; dusky

wallflower and late stocks ; and silver lavender
basks merrily in the November sun,
striking warm upon the protecting walls 
covered with apricot, pear, and plum,  each
little branches stretched to its utmost limit
by the gardener's skill, like a gigantic fan.
Even the crumpled cabbage, and the sweet-smelling
pot-herbs and purple broccoli bear
a certain beauty, as do the espaliers (neatly
bordering the walks leading towards a dark
exit on the further side into the meadows),
trained in lines as symmetrical as mediaeval
iron work.

Between Scatlands and the river stands
another house called ' Rosebank,' one of
those modern villas enshrouded in greenery,
and looking as bright as paint and varnish
can make it.

Unlike its aged neighbour, Rosebank
has no one point of view that corresponds
with the other.

There are carved gables ; turrets with
conical tops encasing spiral stairs ; quaint
recesses in a line with green verandahs ;
projecting porches and mullions windows ;
scripture texts carved in gaily-painted characters
; coats-farms and supporters, all in
bright colours, ramping side by side with castellated
doorways and glass conservatories.

Some remote idea of warlike encounters
must have been simmering in the brain of the
Cockney architect (returned probably from
the enticement of a Scotch trip) and caused
him to endow his creation with a character
of combativeness, highly diverting in a
dwelling rising peacefully out of geranium
beds, on a lawn sloping gently to the
Thames. Still the building made 'figura,'
as the Italians say, and was much admired
by those who entertained obscure ideas
upon national defences : the warlike character
intensified by a toy cannon mounted
on a swivel, placed with its mouth facing
the front door !

Somehow, although not half so high as
Scatlands, Rosebank absorbed all the sunshine,
the air, and the brightness  to say
nothing of the river which glided under the
emerald lawn, like a diamond coil.

To look down on it from the upper storey
of Scatlands, was like a glimpse out of Purgatory
into Paradise. As much as it was
possible for one house to mock another,
Rosebank did mock its aged neighbour.

Get out of my way, you old thing ! ' the
villa seemed to say. * Get out of my way !
I am strong, and young, and comely, and
you are old, and bald, and grim ! The sun

woos me, and rests on me ; the river loves
me, and ripples to me softly on summer
nights ; the birds sing to me in spring 
the rooks caw to me politely, telling me
when day breaks in the east. Primroses
and violets waft to me their choicest perfumes,
and the first snowdrop lifts up its
white head to salute me ! Get out of my
way, you bleared old thing ! Don't cumber
the ground with your red face and white
patched eyes ! Of what use are you ? Who
cares for you ? Go away ! '

Rosebank lived Mr and Mrs

Maitland, with their only son

Edward, and Miss Sterne, Mrs

Maitland's companion.

The Queen Anne house, with the tall

small-pane windows, was inhabited by

i\Ir and Mrs Winter, with no children at

all. They never had any.

Mrs Winter  universally known as 'Aunt
Amelia'  was a small, thin, little woman,
very much inclined to stoop,  with a singularly
gentle voice, which matched with her
soft face, and kind, caressing manners.
A faded blonde was Mrs Winter, whose
once rosebud complexion had long toned
down to the colour of old ivory. Fine
wrinkles had early gathered on her delicate
skin,  the golden hue had early gone from
her hair  still silky and abundant, though

slightly streaked with grey, hidden away
under a cap of soft white lace, trimmed
with pale pink ribbons.

Those pale pink ribbons, and a certain
aromatic perfume of dried rose leaves
which surrounded her like an atmosphere,
were the only legends time had left of her
youthful charms,  the only vanity of which
she was guilty.

Poor Aunt Amelia ! the cap and its pale
pink ribbons, and the perfume of roses,
were each palpable in their different ways ;
but who can describe the kindly blue
eyes that brightened with ready sympathy
towards every living creature, the
exquisite delicacy of touch, the gentle,
modulated voice and benevolent eyes ?
One always thought of her as young.
Some natures never age. There is left
in them some touch of virginal charm 
like the freshness of autumn woods, in
the coolness of early dawn, bringing out
summer shadows long after the warmth
has passed. It was in this sense one never
thought of her as old. Her little vanities
of dress, intense in their simple refinement,
her unconscious feminine ways, had much
of the flavour of youth about them. Nota
vessel of strength Aunt Amelia ! Certainly

not ! She never had been at anytime
; and assuredly was not now, after
many ups and downs, and long years of
care and suffering.

These uncertainties and ups and downs,
referable to the conduct of her husband,
Mr Louis Winter, who, from his earliest
youth, had never been able to keep a
shilling in his pocket. Nor did he possess
that fine sense of visum and tuu77t
that can bear the investigation of creditors.
Not that he meant to be dishonest. Oh,
no ! His motives and his actions were
always  as expounded by himself in broken
English (Mr Winter was a German) 
exalted even to self-sacrifice. Indeed, to
hear him talk, you would have imagined
that he would, long ago, have accumulated
a vast fortune, but for the impecuniosity
of his friends.

Always, in speaking of his affairs, he
used a neuter pronoun, and this had
become such a habit, that I doubt if he
did, in fact, realise that his losses were
the consequence of his own culpable
imprudence. On no occasion had he
ever acknowledged his own responsibility.
Indeed Mr Winter had lived upon delusions
all his life, and would continue to

live on them till his death. They suited
him.

At the best of times he had reckoned upon
chance, which, in a merchant, is dangerous,
and speculated in every new venture  ventures
indeed presenting apparently no other
inducement than their novelty  in a way
utterly bewildering to the business mind.

Money was money to Mr Winter wherever
he found it. Whose money It was
mattered little. His powers of appropriation
were unlimited (always with the idea,
be it noted, of benefiting his creditor by
returning cent, per cent, for the sums he
borrowed). In this way he would have
robbed his father, his mother, or his
own child, had he possessed one. His
closest friends he had robbed so often,
that the time had come when their purse-strings
were closed hermetically.

Nor did he thank them ! Had he succeeded,
he told himself, he, Louis Winter,
would have made them rich. He had not
succeeded, and to repay them, under the
circumstances, was not obviously to be
expected.

Besides his business ventures on the
Stock Exchange, Mr Winter, full of
elegant tastes, and the most refined artistic

proclivities in china, pictures, sculpture,
and bric-a-brac, invested in these articles
whenever and however occasion offered, ina
manner most damaging to his credit.
Rarely were these acquisitions paid for.
They were accepted by him airily  on
speculation  to be resold. If he did not
effect a resale, the proprietors found themselves
most thankful to have them returned.
If he sold them, they were still more thankful
to receive a portion of the price. But,
as Mr Winter's name as a connoisseur
was supposed to confer an additional value
on the ' objects ' he possessed, he invariably
found ready victims.

Thus Aunt Amelia passed her life ina
bitter mockery of apparent wealth, inexpressibly
aggravating amid the real
poverty with which she struggled. Often
and often would she burst into tears as
she looked round on the tables and consoles,
which, as well as the walls of her
drawing-room (whenever she possessed
one), were invariably crowded with the
rarest enamels, bronzes, pottery, and porcelain,
the walls ablaze with priceless
pictures and original sketches by great
masters.

Meek as she was, she always opposed

VOL. I. B

the advent of fresh variables Into the
house. She would have deemed it disloyal
to her husband to reason out logically
the cause of her opposition, but she
did, in a vague manner, admit to her secret
self that these things were not his ; that
he sold them nevertheless ; and that by
some mysterious process money was for a
time unaccountably plentiful.

At this she wept bitter tears. She remonstrated
 even more  as far as it was
in her, she became violent, and threatened
to leave the house. In vain !

Mine good Amalie,' Mr Winter would
say, embracing her fervently. * Zee sees
di level fools. Zee no ferstand noting
at all. Es sees der Louis dat is vise.
Let he alone, Vit sees littel eye ee do
goods to all'

After this he would flourish his red silk
handkerchief in the air, like a banner of
victory ; then suddenly remembering its
legitimate purpose, blow his nose violently,
finally leading off Aunt Amelia to the
piano, where, by the aid of his silver-mounted
flute, leading the melody to her
accompaniment  for she was a charming
musician  all their troubles were forgotten.


Louis Winter was the younger son of a
most respectable Jewish family in Frankfort.
He had been trained m perfect
habits of technical mercantile knowledge 
he was, also, a thorough musician. Of his
early training he had retained nothing but
an ebony silver-mounted flute, on which
he played delightfully, and the distinction
of possessing the most complicated ledger
in existence ; so complicated, indeed, that
not only no one, however skilled, could
arrive at any knowledge of the totals, but
he himself had long been hopelessly
puzzled by them.

Years of his life had been passed poring
over that book, in which the minutest sums
he paid out were punctually entered. Sitting
at a long table (on these occasions he
insisted on having all the additional leaves
added to the one in the dining-room,
taking his place at the head as though
assisting at a feast), his double eyeglass
on his nose  for ]mr Winter was near-snorted
 his large red silk handkerchief in
his hand, a glass of water by his side, and
innumerable piles of bills all neatly tied
with red tape, and docketed with name
and date, spread out before him. Undoubtedly
Mr Winter laboured under some

hallucination respecting this spreading out
of his bills, for that alone could explain
the boyish delight he exhibited on these
occasions,  pacing up and down the room
with an elastic step, his rubicund countenance
beaming ; then rushing off to Aunt
Amelia, wherever she might be, enfolding
her in his arms, and covering her with
kisses. Finally, as if the bounds of the
old ' Anne ' house were too narrow, he
would seize upon his hat, and, with a bang
of the door, precipitate himself down the
stone steps Into the lane, with the triumphant
air of a man freed from every encumbrance
!

But as Mr Winter rarely paid a single
bill, and always omitted to add up the
totals, awkward accidents had at various
times happened, breaking up the otherwise
perfect harmony of his domestic life.

On the last of these melancholy occasions,
he returned home from the City
unusually early, to Aunt Amelia's dismay
(she always was dismayed at anything
unusual ; a violent fit of trembling would
seize her, and she would become almost
paralysed), accompanied by a shabby
person in black, who kept close to
him.

As he mounted the flight of stone steps,
Mr Winter was in tears ;  his voluminous
red handkerchief pressed to his eyes. In
the hall he met Aunt Amelia, and, with
a loud sob, flung himself on his knees
and tried to kiss her feet (this was a
delicate stroke of flattery, for Aunt Amelia
had extremely small and very pretty feet,
and when she was young, had been extremely
proud of them), then straining her
to him with such violence as to cause the
poor lady to scream.

Ach, my life, my life ! ' he cried. In his
broken English. ' My Amalie ! Thy
Louis has been betrayed by der Judas
kiss of sees friend, sees own familiar friend !
Der Judas has spoiled ee of alls  zy
Louis who Is zo good, zo saving, zo
prudent ! Thy Louis, who looses die
Amalie '  (here he clasped her hands and
covered them with kisses)  ' vit ze passion
of sees youth. Ach, Simnel! he is undone
! Zee will starve  starve, my Amalie !
zee will perish in ze streets ! Thy Louis
will die at zy side ! '

Alas ! had poor Aunt Amelia's eyes been
raised from her husband's distorted countenance,
down which torrents of tears now
flowed, she would have seen the tongue of

the shabby nondescript in black thrust
into his cheek, and his forefinger furtively
resting upon the side of his nose. But
better so  Aunt Amelia did not look up,
and, therefore, she saw nothing.

Starting to his feet, Mr Winter, still
clasping his trembling wife in his arms,
was making for the open door, when the
unwelcome form of the stranger, his lacklustre
eyes fixed upon him, rose up to
arrest him.

Permit me, my Amalie/ said Mr Winter,
becoming by a miracle suddenly calm,
and even smiling,  ' Permit me to present
to zee  an honest Herr, a gentleman on
business ' (this said in his blandest manner).
Do not fear ze honest gentlemans, my
wive ! ' he added, seeing Aunt Amelia's
look of consternation,  ' Ze will use us
well  a good Herr  I know im.' (This
was true ; the nondescript in black had
once waited on Mr Louis Winter in prison,
and been kind to him.) 'I know im ' 
moving his head up and down as he waved
his red handkerchief, a persuasive smile
on his face  ' Ze will use us well, night
war, Herr Shosephs }'

Mr Joseph answered this appeal by a
nod, and a pull with his gloved hand at a

lock of his front hair, hanging long and
lank on his forehead.

Mr Shosephs, ze are welcome to my
house,' and vir Winter gave a glance round
as a master. ' Go wit im, my loose,'
addressing Aunt Amelia. ' Go wit Mr
Shosephs  show him de fine enamels, and
de pottery, de pictures, and de Venetian
lace. Ach Simnel! zem sees fine  and
pays ! Give him some vine while he
takes a list. Ach, zo ! Dat sees good,' 
he added, seeing that the trembling Aunt
Amelia prepared to obey.

Sorry, sir ; but cannot possibly leave
you, Mr Winter ! says Mr Josephss, the
sherlft"'s officer, gruffly, shaking his bullet-head.
' Orders positive  not the first
time, Mr Winter  not the first time, sir !
Stale is not trusted, Mr Winter ! '

And Mr Josephss' stolid countenance
broke out into a broad grin, which to
Aunt Amelia, standing by, quite quiet,
but rigid with terror, seemed the climax
of horror.

Outer God ! ' exclaimed Mr Winter,
in agonised accents, as he sank into a
chair, again breaking into sobs under his
silk handkerchief, now thrown over his
head,  ' Outer God ! Mr Shosephs ! Not

trust me ! I treat you as der broder, and
ze doubt me ! '

By this time Aunt Amelia having with
uncertain hands placed decanters and
glasses on the table, Mr Josephss' resolution
evidently wavered. The day was cold
the drive from London long! His eyes
twinkled. He glanced from Mr Winter 
still sobbing on the chair  to Aunt Amelia,
trembling in silence beside the decanters.

Poor old german ! ' he muttered, looking
at Mr Winter, ' never knew any harm
of him. Some is born bankrupts. He's a
foreign cove. He don't know what's what !
Give me some first-rate weeds when he was
in quod last time. Poor old german !
He's no legs to run; he's so fat and pursy,
and he hasn't no sense to hide, if he could
run. He's a downright idiot !' And Mr
Josephss nodded and grinned again at his
own thoughts.

I'm mortal dry  I should like to try
the sherry.' Taking his ink-bottle, which
he fastened to a buttonhole of his coat, in
his hand, and his pen from his pocket, Mr
Josephss still stood undecided.

A deep sigh from Aunt Amelia alone
broke the monotony of Mr Winter's noisy
sobs.

Quiet old party ? ' asked Mr Josephss,
pointing with his thumb to Mr Winter.

A dismal groan at this moment broke
from beneath the handkerchief, and the
head under it oscillated to and fro, beating
itself violently against the wall.

While you are talking he will dash out
his brains!' cried Aunt Amelia, running
to her husband, and folding her arms
round him. ' O heavens ! what shall I do '
Go  go away, horrible man !' addressing
Mr Josephss. ' If you stand staring there
my husband will kill himself ! '

At this moment the red handkerchief
worked to such an extent, and the head
under it beat itself so wildly that Aunt
Amelia screamed.

Spare him !  oh, spare him ! ' she
shrieked, straining her arms round Mr
Winter. ' I will take care of him. I
swear to youhe shall not leave the house.
Go  go away !'

I think I can trust um,' muttered Mr
Josephss, half aloud. ' I'll have a glass or
two of sherry, then begin my inventory.
Better leave the old cuss to his missus till
my pal comes to watch um,' and Mr
Josephss glided into the dining-room towards
the decanter.

At this point of the narrative, Aunt
Amelia, In relating these events to her
friend, Mrs Maitland, was never very distinct
as to what followed. The fact was,
that Mr Winter, notwithstanding Aunt
Amelia's pledge, did contrive to get away
from her into the garden, and, unperceived
by Mr Josephss  who found the
sherry to his taste  made his way by the
espalier walk out by the back door, which
opened on the Twickenham meadows,
and from thence to the Continent, with a
considerable sum secreted about his person
; also some ' bits ' of choice antique
jewels and rare enamels.

This flight obliged his creditors to come
to a more favourable settlement than they
otherwise would have done. They showed
themselves merciful. A man who could
detect a copy or an imitation yards off, and
who could, to a dead certainty, hit on the
name of the painter of an unknown work,
was worthy of consideration from the
dealers. As long as he lived Mr Winter
would possess that fine touch as to the
paste of porcelain. A spurious or a modern
article could never hope to pass the ordeal
of his delicate finders. No one, either, had
such an eye for pictures of the Dutch

and Flemish school,  all claims not to be
overlooked by the trade.

Besides, if Louis Winter was the
most unreliable, he was also the most
good-natured of mortals  and good nature
may exercise a certain influence even
with creditors. He was also fortunate in
being the uncle of a certain John Bauer, a
monied man in the City, whose very name
meant backing and security. Bauer had
long since ceased to afford his erratic uncle
any material support as to money ; but,
like everyone else, he took a kindly interest
in his welfare. No one knew, however,
when John Bauer might relax his
purse-strings.

Music was the bond between them.
Both were performers, both were amateurs ;
and John, a shy, reserved man, singularly
sensitive for a merchant, never played
With such comfort to himself as when
his violoncello was followed by Aunt
Amelia on the piano and Uncle Louis's
silver-mounted flute.

For the Winters to possess a house in
which to receive him was therefore a
selfish luxury to their nephew, barring
all family feelings, in which he was far
from deficient. So he bestirred himself

for his uncle on this occasion, and on the
latter's return from the Continent, insisted
upon taking possession of the famous
ledger, and even went so far as to become
a kind of trustee for such odds and ends of
settled property as remained. No ' beetle'
affair could be transacted by Mr Winter
without John Bauer's signature. This,
naturally, was not forthcoming. The
ledger was captured and locked up in a
safe at his office in the City, and a little
pastime invented for Uncle Louis, who
was allowed once a month to visit John
and inspect the beloved volume, under
his nephew's eye.

So, thanks to his nephew and his well-filled
purse, Mr and Mrs Winter had
weathered this last storm, and were at
the present time back again in their old
home at Scatlands.

CHAPTER III.

ND when do you expect the
beautiful heiress from India?'
asked Mrs Maitland of Aunt
Amelia, who was sitting with
her neighbour at Rosebank, arrayed ina
neat winter costume of black, in a bay-widowed
room, known as the ' Pink
Closet.'

It was a clear, frosty afternoon early in
November, the sun as usual blazing down
upon the favoured villa, and every pane
of glass glistening as if on fire, the
lawn bathed in luminous floods of yellow
light, the last effort of an autumnal sun,
now sinking behind a group of leafless
elms at the end of the grounds.

What with the sun and a large wood
fire, and Mrs Maitland's relentless questionings,
Aunt Amelia felt quite faint.

And no wonder ! She had been questioned
remorselessly ever since she entered
the room. Mrs Maitland might, indeed,
have been called a fat note of inter rogattoit I
Her whole mind formed itself into the
capacity of asking questions,  acquiring
what she called useful ' knowledge.' If she
scented a mystery  if she suspected a
secret, she would attack that secret or
that mystery tooth and nail, as a terrier
does a hole where he scents a rat.

And when did you say you expect
your beautiful niece from India?' she
asked again, in a loud voice.

Receiving no answer, Mrs Maitland
raised her prominent eyes from the fire
and fixed them with a determined stare
upon her visitor.

Thank you, I am too warm already,'
said Aunt Amelia meekly, drawing back
her chair, in response to a gesture from
her friend inviting her to sit nearer.

Still she made no reply.

My dear friend,' recommenced the persistent
Mrs Maitland, replacing the poker
with which she had been chastising the
wood piled up on the grate, as a vent for her
impatience, ' allow me to make a remark.
What a very extraordinary person you are ! '

Aunt Amelia looked up with a sad face,
flushed suddenly, then gave a deep sigh.

Your conduct is really inexplicable !
You have been talking to me of your
niece, Miss Escott, ever since your return
to Scatlands, describing to me her beauty,
her riches, her high position. You told
me last week, and you have repeated just
now, that you shortly expected her from
Calcutta, as her father had, at last, resolved
on sending her to England alone,
instead of waiting until he could accompany
her,  that she was to bring her ayah,
and a whole troop of attendants with her,
and that Mr Escott would follow her ina
short time. And now,' added Mrs
Maitland, with a deeply-aggrieved air
(she did at that moment feel herself to be
thoroughly and deeply aggrieved), * you
will not answer a single question about
her ! I do not wish to force my interest
upon you '  here she spoke in quite another
tone, bridling and raising her exuberant
bosom,  ' I make it a rule never to
force my interest on anyone ; but, considering
the terms on which we have lived,
I cannot  no, I cannot  understand the
motive of your silence.'

At last Mrs Maitland ceased. As she

had spoken long and loudly, she proceeded
to refresh herself by pouring some eau-cologne
on an embroidered handkerchief,
and inhaling it with deep respirations.

It will be perceived that this lady had no
disguise about her. What she thought,
she said. What she wanted to know, she
asked. What she desired to do, she did.
Her frankness was excessive. Had her
father been transported for forgery, she
would have been willing and happy to enter
into every detail on the subject with her
friends. But, in return, she would as
freely demand information of any skeleton
in the closet they might possess  the
more repulsive the skeleton, and the more
they desired to hide it, the more certain
her question. Her husband, her son Edward,
Miss Sterne, her companion, answered,
or appeared to her to answer, all
her inquiries. Ergo, everyone else must
a species of logic which, to herself, was
incontrovertible.

A very audible sigh escaped Mrs Winter ;
she moved uneasily in her chair ; and her
hand slipped into the side pocket of her
dark merino dress, from which she drew
out a letter bearing the Calcutta postmark.


'It Is so dreadful to have to tell bad
news ! ' she murmured, with a deep-drawn
sigh. ' Dear Mrs Maitland, do not be
offended if I have been a little silent. I
know you mean kindly ' (this in a meek
parenthesis. If the truth were told, Aunt
Amelia, in her heart of hearts, much
doubted her friend's kindness at that moment).
' I have so many anxieties,'  here
the tears rose to her eyes, and for a few
minutes she quite broke down. Unable to
command her voice, she stretched out her
thin hand to touch that of her friend.

I always tremble,' she continued appealingly,
' when letters come. I wish there
was no post ; I never know what ill news
it may bring. Several times I have tried
to tell you, but could not. I am so
nervous.'

what is in that letter?' asked Mrs
Maitland, her large, prominent eyes fixed
on Mrs Winter, with the air of an inquisitor.


Ah ! ' sighed Mrs Winter, almost with
a groan, unfolding the paper and laying it
out upon her lap.

I presume that letter relates to your
niece, Miss Escott. Is she ill ? Is your
brother, Mr Escott, ill '. Pray, answer me.'

VOL. I. c

Mr Escott is dead  ruined,' gasped
Aunt Amelia. ' My brother has shot
himself.'

'Gracious heavens!' ejaculated Mrs
Maitland, sinking back in her chair. 'And
you absolutely concealed this from me ? '

Here was a fact, a solid, reliable fact !
Spite of a certain good-natured pity, Mrs
Maitland could not suppress a general
feeling of satisfaction at having obtained
possession of a fact.

Did Mr Escott shoot himself because
he was ruined ? ' asked she.

Mrs Winter bowed her head in silence.

How very shocking! Do speak ! Tell
me how it happened  every particular.
How could a man, holding such a high
position, be ruined } '

Forced to reply, Mrs Winter roused
herself, 

My brother had recently transferred
all his principal into a private bank at
Calcutta. He was to receive a high interest.
His daughter Sophia was coming
to England, as you know. He was to
follow her. This induced him to desire
to increase his income to the utmost. The
bank failed. Charles was never seen alive
afterwards. My niece had no one with

her but her ayah. The ayah took charge
of her.'

But was Mr Escott's life not Insured ? '
asked the remorseless questioner. ' I
thought people in India always insured
their lives.'

My poor brother had Intended to do
so ; but when he died no trace of any
document could be found.'

Mrs Winters voice has now fallen Into
a whisper.

I do not wonder, my dear Mrs Winter,
that you are overcome,' said Mrs Malt-land,
seeing Aunt Amelia's tears dropping
slowly on the letter on her lap. ' Poor
girl ! what a pity ! Then Miss Escott is
not an heiress.'

Sophia has not a farthing,' replied
Mrs Winter, looking up, with tearful eyes.
(Tears were habitual to Aunt Amelia, and
welled up Into her eyes very readily.)
Poor, broken-hearted father ! All his
desire was that she should be rich and
marry well In England. The blow was
more than he could bear.'

And where is she now ? ' Inquired Mrs
Maitland, suddenly grown cold. All her
eagerness about Sophia had vanished.

She wrote from Calcutta,' answered

Aunt Amelia, fingering the letter nervously.
She was there with her ayah, who has
never left her since her birth, in some
room they had hired. Her mother, who
was a Brahmin, you know, the daughter
of an Indian rajah, entrusted her to the
care of this woman, who had fled with
her when she lost caste by marrying
Mr Escott. She is called Zebula, and
has remained with her ever since. Sophia
lived on the charity of friends until
she heard from me and from my sister,
Lady Danvers. To think of Sophia
without a penny to call her own, brought
up, as she has been, like a princess !
Ah ! no one knows what ruin is but
those who have felt it ! To look round,
and know you have nothing  nothing ! 
that you have no right to the chair you
sit on, the carpet you tread, and that
you cannot pay for the food you eat ; 
that you lie down in a bed which maybe
dragged from under you ;  that people
hate you and curse you, because you have
nothing.'

o

She covered her face with her hands,
as if to shut out the dismal image.

Sophia writes to me,' she continued,
more calmly, ' thinking that I can help

her ! Poor dear, / help her ! She
does not, of course, know my Louis's
circumstances. No one has told her.
We can just live at Scatlands. Our
house, such as it is, is hers. I have told
her so. I fear she will be very unhappy.
It is such a change. My poor brother
indulged her in everything. She has
always been her own mistress. Her
mother died when she was born. I am
afraid,' faltered out gentle Aunt Amelia,
Sophia has been a little spoilt.'

Spoilt ! Of course she has ! ' put in
Mrs Maitland harshly. ' You must prepare
yourself for that. Have you written
to Lady Danvers } '

Yes, I have written. My sister is
rich, but  but perhaps a little close. It
so often happens in large families. The
wealthy members are often a little close.
Catherine got so after she married Sir
Reginald.'

Rich people know the value of
money,' observed Mrs Maitland sententiously.
' They respect money for itself,
and take care of it for themselves. Poor
people have nothing to lose, so they
squander freely what they get, as long
as it lasts.'

Too true, too true ! ' responded Mrs
Winter humbly. ' I trust, however, that
my sister will be touched by this catastrophe,
and poor Charles' shocking death.
But I fear she will never have Sophia to
live with her. She does not like young
people. Then there is Jane. Everything
is given up for her only daughter Jane.
And Jane might not like a cousin ! Lady
Danvers complains that her relations are
always plaguing her. I have never asked
her for anything, although my dear Louis
has been unlucky certainly ! '

Aunt Amelia never got beyond the
word 'unlucky' in speaking of her husband.
Although truth itself in all else,
she unwittingly indulged in the favourite
fiction of Mr Winter being the victim of
someone from whom (as from fate) he
could not escape.

L 

ND so Miss Escott is not an
heiress ! ' repeated Mrs M ait-land
moodily, as if speaking
to herself. ' Dear me, how
strange ! ' Then rising, and, as she rose,
spreading out the folds of a heavy
black silk dress, gored tightly to her
exuberant figure, and covered at the
bottom with several rows of minute
flounces, she added,  ' Extraordinary ! I
wonder what Edward will say when he
comes home. I am expecting him from
Oxford. You know he was always so
interested about her. He used to call
her "the Eastern Mystery'"

Aunt Amelia made a movement of
acquiescence.

He always says he hates girls with
money. Not that / agree with him,'

added Mrs Maitland hastily, feeling she
had gone too far in this admission. * Nor
does Mr Maitland ; we both agree that
marriageable girls ought to have money.
I intend Edward to marry money.'

Aunt Amelia's quick perception instantly
revealed to her the train of thought evolving
itself in her friend's brain. She felt
hurt. Mrs Maitland did often hurt her.
She had no delicacy. She rose to go.

My niece Sophia,' she said, moving
towards the door, ' cannot now be an
object of attention to any young gentleman
of your son's pretensions. All that
is past and gone. It will be very painful
to teach her how changed her life is !
Oh, how much I hope she will love
me, and make my task easy ! That she
is not rich is not of the least consequence
to me. I can only think of my
poor brother Charles' sudden death ! And
what he must have suffered before he
could have taken his own life, and left his
child a penniless orphan ! Depend on it,
Mrs Maitland, Sophia will have no pretensions
now beyond her sphere : you need
not fear it,'

Oh, my dear Mrs Winter!' cried Mrs
Maitland, coming forward and taking her

hand, ' I did not mean to offend you.
I am not at all afraid, if you mean in that
sense. Edward always obeys me. I
have only to tell him my wishes. All I
wondered was  well, we'll say no more
about it,' seeing the tears again starting
into Mrs Winter's eyes. I really am
very sorry for you  so sorry, too, for
Mr Winter. Such a difference from
having a millionaire niece living with
him ! Such a difference to me too,' she
added, absently.

Aunt Amelia, midway towards the door,
looked up, and stared.

I mean in the way I shall receive her.
I was going to give a ball at Christmas 
I am not sure now  I don't know exactly  '
Mrs Maitland stopped and hesitated.
Even she felt her frankness was leading
her too far.

That dreadful letter ! ' she added,
glad to change the subject, seeing Mrs
Winter folding up Sophia's letter before
consigning it to her pocket. * I thought
you would have read it to me. I should
have liked to hear how Miss Escott
expresses herself  what details she
gives.'

But there was such a wounded expression

on Mrs Winter's face, that even she
had not the courage to urge her to read
what must give her so much pain. This
was a great relief to Aunt AmeHa. If
she could only get away before Mrs Maitland
discovered how long she had carried
that letter concealed in her pocket, and
that she was actually, at this moment, from
day to day expecting her niece's arrival !
Indeed it was only the dread of Sophia's
appearance before Mrs Maidand had been
made acquainted with the catastrophe of
her father's death, that had brought her
that afternoon to Rosebank.

Well goodbye  goodbye, my dear,' said
Mrs Maitland, opening the door of the
room. ' Come in the moment you have
more news. Be sure you let me hear the
day you expect Miss Escott. By-the-bye,'
added she, following Aunt Amelia into the
hall, ' are not Lady Danvers and her
daughter coming to you for Christmas ? '

Yes,' answered Mrs Winter, quite overwhelmed
by all that had passed  ' yes,
they come on Christmas Eve.'

Ah! Yes yes I see. Will Miss
Escott be arrived by that time ? '

That is uncertain, of course,' answered
Aunt Amelia, struggling to get away from

the torrent of Mrs Maitland's questions 
but I hope so.'

Ah, I hope so too,' echoed the other,
drawing herself up with an air of conscious
patronage. ' That would be so nice  so
useful to poor Miss Escott. By the way,
how long is it, dear Mrs Winter, since
you had that letter t '

Some time,' replied Aunt Amelia,
smitten with sudden terror of discovery.

Some time ! Dear, dear ! Do you
really mean you have had it and never told
me ? Oh, Mrs Winter, how unfriendly !
Why, of course it must be some time, if
Miss Escott can be home by Christmas ! '

This conclusion completely disconcerted
Mrs Maitland, and overwhelmed poor Aunt
Amelia.

At that moment a figure appeared in the
hall, that might have been called shadowy,
so delicate, and small, and fragile was it,
dressed in such pale colours, and with such
a plaintive face, concealed by long ringlets
of fair hair.

Here, Miss Sterne, Miss Sterne, come
here ! ' called Mrs Maitland. ' Can you
fancy ? Mrs Winter has had a letter in
her pocket  heaven knows how long 
about her brother having shot himself and

her niece being ruined, and she has never
told me a word ! Only fancy ! '

Only fancy! ' echoed the shadowy figure,
in a low voice, floating towards her.

This appeal to Miss Sterne was too
much for Aunt Amelia. She slipped
out of the front door, while Mrs Maitland's
eyes had left her for a moment
to apostrophise her delinquencies to her
companion.

Hurrying down the tree-bordered drive
that led to the lodge, she reached her own
door, thankful to have escaped. She was
perfectly aware that Mrs Maitland had
changed towards her. This grieved her,
for they were old friends. Mrs Maitland
had often been very good to her in her
own distress. She did not doubt her
continued kindness to herself, but it
was plain Mrs Maitland now dreaded
Sophia's arrival as much as she had once
desired it.

Aunt Amelia was not a woman of the
world, but even her unsophisticated mind
understood this. She also understood the
cause. Sophia was not an heiress !

Another old friend gone ! ' she told herself
sadly, as she mounted the steps to her
own door. ' I have spent very happy days



at Rosebank ! How selfish I am ! ' washer
next thought. ' Sophia will repay me
Sophia will be a daughter to me ! '

At this her face brightened, and she
entered the panelled hall smiling.

[Twelve o'clock on a foggy morning
at the end of November 
the Portsmouth coach drawn
up at the entrance of the blind
lane leading down to Scatlands, covered
with mud and heavily laden inside and
out.

The guard  his purple face muffled ina
worsted comforter up to his eyes, for the
weather is raw and cold  gets down and
opens the door with a bang.

Now, miss, this is the place where you
must get out for Scatlands. Quick, please
miss  no time to spare. Horses change
at the " Red Lion," close by,' and he points
with his thumb towards a few straggling
houses  the outskirts of Twickenham.
The guard speaks in a gruff, hoarse voice

a voice that sounds a long way off, as
coming through a tube, as he puts his head
into the coach and addresses himself to
a confused mass of inside passengers,
crowded upon each other, three on a
side.

The fog is so thick, and the accumulation
of human breath so dense (both windows
having been drawn up to keep out
the cold), that nothing individual is visible.

At the sound of his voice the human
mass heaves, separates a little, then heaves
again as a tall figure rises.

Oh dear, miss. For gracious' sake
mind where you step. You've a-trod on
my toe,' calls out a woman, in a voice
like a rasp, from the further corner. ' Oh,
how you've hurt me ! '

Come, miss, come ! ' calls out the
guard. ' Get out, or we shall carry you onto
London. Make you pay the fare too ! '

The idea of beings carried on to London
evidently alarms the tall, slim girl, in deep
mourning, with a thick crape veil falling
over her face. She struggles up and
pushes her way somewhat hastily towards
the door.

Take care,' cries a woman from the
other side ; ' you'll kill my baby,' and at the

same moment, leaning forward, she catches
her by the shoulder to put her back.

But Sophia, already out of the coach,
balancing herself with some difficulty on
the narrow step, and holding on by
the door handle, manages to turn round
and cast on her such a pair of indignant
eyes that they flash through her
thick veil.

Touch me if you dare,' she cries, in a
deep-toned voice, still holding by the door
handle.

A passenger, sitting on the opposite side
of the coach, seizes the outraged mother s
arm.

Come now. None of this in my
company. Keep your hands to yourself,
ma'am. You are much worse than the
lady ! Who cares for you or your baby ?
D  n the baby ! It's kept me awake all
the way from Portsmouth.'

Sophia has now reached the ground, and
is carefully gathering up her black skirts
from the mud, which lies thick upon the
road.

The guard draws from the boot a
solid wooden box, clamped with steel.
On the outside in large letters is the
address, 

Miss Sophia Escott,
Passenger,

Calcutta to Portsmouth

Near this there is a small card, fastened
to the cord, on which is written, 

Miss Escott,

Scatlands,

Twickenham

The guard throws the box contemptuously
on the ground. Being heavy, it
heaves over, then settles down into the
mud.

Sophia turns with an angry look.

If you are so careless,' she exclaims,
you will break my box ! Do not throw it
in the mud like that ! Lift it up, I beg of
you, immediately.'

How darkly her eyes flash through her
veil as she speaks.

Whew ! ' answers the guard, with a long
whistle out of the depths of his white
comforter. ' Your orders indeed ! And

VOL. I. D

pray who may soit be ? Do sou think
we're a-going to stop the coach all day
a-waiting upon you ? '

What the devil are you about, Bill ? '
inquires the gruff voice of the coachman
from the box. He is so enveloped in a
big white driving coat, with rows of
graduated capes down to his knees, that
to turn round is impossible. ' Surely you
are not unloading at the top of the lane ! '

All right, Ben. Hold your jaw ! ' shouts
the guard, in his far-away voice.

Leave Bill alone, coaches ! ' observes a
sallow-faced youth on the box seat, with a
blue bandage round his throat, and a large
pipe in his mouth. ' Don't you see he is
sweet on the young miss ? '

Ha, ha, ha ! ' rises in a chorus from the
outside passengers at this observation.
Ha, ha, ha ! ' is echoed from the inside.

The woman with the baby has heard,
and her laucrh is the loudest and most discordant.


I'm glad she's a-getting it!' she cries,
nodding her head to her opposite neighbour.
' Such a stuck-up minx ! Never
spoke all along the road ! '

Nobody can't say that of you, mari,
anyway,' is the response from the aggravated

passenger. * Nor of your baby
neither! She's a confounded handsome
young woman, and quite the lady, that's
what she is.'

Sophia has heard every word. She is
scarlet. Her hands clench themselves
under her black cloak. She raises her
long throat, throws back her head, and
casts a look of defiance upon all around.
Spite of her gathered-up skirts, her shabby
dress, and the mud in which she is standing,
she is regal.

Ha-ha ! he-he ! ' rises aoain from the
outsiders, and is again echoed from within.

The coachman, who cannot turn, and
therefore sees nothing, joins in for company,
and gives his opinion that ' she is a
stunner.'

Now, make haste, miss. What are
you a-going to do for me ? ' asks the guard,
advancing towards her, with his head on one
side. To avoid mistakes, he slaps his hand
on his side-pocket. ' There's no time to
lose. Can't be less nor half-a-crown, seeing
the size of your box, and you with
such quality airs ! '

Sophia, with a trembling hand, draws
out a delicate little Indian purse of gold
filigree, ornamented with red tassels.

(That purse was the last gift of her ayah
Zebula, when she left her on the deck of
the vessel.)

O heavens ! ' she murmurs, opening it,
what am I to do ? I have only gold.'

Then give it me,' says the guard insolently,
stretching out his hand towards
the purse, which Sophia clutches convulsively.


The coachman, getting impatient, cracks
his whip and touches the ear of the off
leader, causing that animal to kick out,
dangerously near Sophia, who screams.

I'm a-going on. Bill,' he growls, raising
his arms to tighten the reins  ' blowed if I
ain't. You must settle with the young
lady without the coach. Now or never is
the word.'

I'm a-coming, Ben  all right ! I'll take
sour box back into the boot, I will, if you
don't tip me,' to Sophia.

The guard's two hands grasp the box.

I have told you I have nothing but
gold,' cries Sophia. ' I can't give you
that ; I am too poor.'

Poor be d  d ! ' he mutters, and lifts
the box from the ground.

Put it down, put it down ! ' screams
Sophia, rushing forward.

She seizes the cord, and gazes up despairingly
at the loaded coach. Will no
one help her ?

At this moment the coachman slashes
his long whip ; the four horses spring
forward. Bill, the guard, loosens his hold
of the box, which falls into the road, then
springs lightly on to a little step at the
back of the coach, laying fast hold of a
brass handle.

As the heavily-laden vehicle dashes onwards,
it sways to one side, lurching towards
Sophia, throwing the guard almost on her ;
at which Bill doubles his disengaged hand
and shakes it in her face.

Good-bye, miss, and ill-luck to you,' he
shouts, at the top of his voice. ' As you
have served me, so may others serve j.'

Before the words are out of his mouth,
the coach, and Bill hanging on behind,
have disappeared into the fog round a
corner, and the rattle of the wheels is all
the evidence that it has been there at all.

GOD ! can the world be so
hard?' was Sophia's thought.
Tears gathered in her eyes.
Among all those men not one
to help her. Can this be England ?

Then all she had suffered in India
whirled through her brain. Never, no
never before had she been alone, grappling
with strangers. Never until now had a
harsh word been spoken to her ! Even
on her passage from India everyone onboard
made much of her.

And now to be threatened and insulted
by such wretches ! What was she
to do ? She knew not !

In great misfortunes there is dignity 
the dignity of woe. The climax of the
great life-drama hurrying wildly on to
destruction, and, like the throb of fever

to the wasting body, supporting, sustaining,
exciting, while it destroys.

But in the sting of small mishaps there
is disgrace, contumely. No one can claim
pity for a mean insult, nor protection for
some deoradinof trifle which, all the while,
eats into the soul.

Not in those dreadful hours when her
father lay a corpse in the house, and she
had been driven out of her home by his
unpaid creditors, had Sophia felt so abject
as she did now.

Zebula had been with her ! Zebula ! In
the climax of her loneliness, she spoke the
name aloud, and at the sound her heart
gave a great bound. Alas ! could Zebula
see her !

She turned very pale, her lips were
bloodless, and a dimness came into her
eyes shaded by the dark eyebrows.

She had travelled all night, and had
eaten nothing. Now, all at once, her heart
seemed to stand still. She felt so cold
and sick she thought she was going to
die.

Die ! Why not ? If life were to be like
this why should she wish to live ?

For a few minutes she stood rigid asa
statue, waiting to see what would

happen. Then suddenly the young blood
which had stagnated rushed through her
veins, a flush rose on her cheeks. With
the warmth of life came hope.

She raised her veil and looked round.
Her eye fell upon her box, tilted over on
one side near the ditch, in which a stream
of muddy water ran over a bed of coarse
green weeds.

In that box was all she possessed.
Could she carry it herself ? She laid hold
of the cord and tried to raise it. Alas !
she could not so much as move it.

Her hands fell to her side  she must
wait. Surely someone would pass, someone
from whom she could at least learn
the way to Scatlands.'

Again she gazed round anxiously. Nota
single house was in siofht. Sounds came
to her from time to time, dulled by the
mist, the sound of labourers working
in the fields. Once a dog barked, and
children's voices came faintly through the
heavy air ;  there was the click of a
smithy far away, and many dim noises of
active life.

A lane opened from the highroad, exactly
opposite to where she was standing ;
but it was so shrouded by fog, and darkened

by the trees which hung over the
discoloured walls, that but a few yards
were visible.

Overhead there was no sky : the fog
canopied the earth like a pall.

Nothing to be seen but quickset hedges
growing on the high banks that bordered
flat fields beside the road ; every branch
and twig, every leaf and stalk, dripping
with moisture.

Oaks and elms, lopped into ugliness,
broke the dim outlines ; a few brown
and yellow leaves still clustering on the
branches.

Beside her a wooden gate opened into a
ploughed field, bare with upturned furrows.
These furrows looked to her like graves !

And this desolation was England ?
England, the land of her dreams  of her
father's longings ! Oh ! for the burning
skies, the blood-red sunsets, the spicy
breezes, dangerous in the strong breath of
their perfumes, the sultry air warming the
blood like a furnace, of her native land !

England ! Sophia abhorred the very
name. Nothing could be good in such
a wintry desert. A hateful country, and
the people barbarous.

She was trembling from head to foot.

The hateful damp clung to her. It fell
upon her like rain. She drew her long
black cloak closer round her, and gazed
around.

Why  oh why was she here ? What
had she done to be so punished ?

As she moved, her hand pressed convulsively
upon a Httle phial which lay concealed
in her bosom. Yes, Zebula's charm
was there. This assurance calmed her.
The look of suffering faded out of her
eyes. Again she pressed her hand upon
the hidden treasure.

I am safe ! ' she muttered. ' I can defy
them ! Dear Zebula ! We may meet
sooner than you think ! '

At this moment the sound of a horse's
hoofs became audible coming from the
Twickenham side.

A rider, enveloped in a dark cloak, galloped
round the corner. Sophia ran forward.
At the risk of her life she placed
herself before him.

Stop ! stop ! For God's sake stop !
Only a moment  half a moment.'

She stretched out her arms imploringly.


The rider's horse, startled at the unusual
figure, swerved and nearly threw

him. The man shook his whip savagely
and dashed past, the mud from his horse's
hoofs flying into her face, and splashing
her black dress.

Good God ! Must I stand here forever
! Will no one help me ! ' she cried,
in the bitterness of her soul.

Her own voice seemed strange to her.
Tears of anger poured down her cheeks.
She tried to wipe away the mud from her
face and clothes. To be seen by her aunt
by anyone  in such a guise ! Not even
to be clean ! She sobbed aloud.

A quarter of an hour passed (it seemed
to Sophia that she had stood there many
hours). Then there came a rattle of
wheels far off, on the London side.

She dried her eyes hastily and listened.
As the wheels approached, her
spirit rose. Should she ask again for help,
and be again refused ', She felt no better
than a beggar.

Looming out of the fog appeared a
yellow gig on high wheels, coming from
London. It was close upon her before
she could distinguish what it was.

Two men were seated inside. At the
opening of the lane the gig drew up, and
one of the occupants jumped down on the

further side from where she was standing,
a valise in his hand.

'Will you not let me, sir, drive you
down to Rosebank ? ' inquired his companion,
who held the reins, touching his
hat as he spoke.

No, thank you, Walters, I would rather
walk. The coach will bring my luggage
by-and-by to the 'red Lion." Good day.
Take care of that horse of yours ; he is a
good one.'

I believe you, Mr Maitland,' answered
Mr Walters, taking off his hat and shaking
the wet drops from the brim.

Meanwhile Sophia was waiting for the
gig to move. Then she would make an
appeal to the person called Mr Maitland.
She had been looking at him all the time.
She could see him plainly, for he was not
wrapped up like his companion. Her eye
ran rapidly over him.

A tall, powerful young man, with thick,
curly, auburn hair, and a sunburnt face,
grave in repose, but lit up by clear, full
eyes, with bright lights In them.

From that grave expression, and a certain
tone of command in his voice, Sophia
felt drawn towards him. She hastily decided
two things,  that he was the handsomest

European she had yet seen, and
that he was a gentleman.

When the gig moved on, Mr Maitland,
for the first time, perceived her. In the
act of stepping forward into the lane, he
drew back with a start. She was standing
by her box, near the ditch, her veil raised,
her face flushed.

His eyes travelled all over her, then to
her box. He was evidently puzzled. All
this was the work of a moment.

Now that there was someone before
her to whom she could speak, a gentleman
who could tell her all she wanted,
Sophia was struck dumb.

Something in the look of those inquiring
eyes daunted her. Did he, too, suspect
her ? Would he call her bad names ?

Again the blood rushed back to her
heart, and her gaze fell before him.

After a pause 

I beg your pardon,' said Mr Maitland,

crossing the road to where she was stand
>

ing, ' are you waiting for anyone } '

O, I was left here by the coach.'
Sophia hesitated. Under
that fixed, grave look her words
refused to come.
Can I be of any service to you ? '
Malden continued, contemplating her with
increasing interest. Her beauty, her evident
embarrassment, were having their full
effect.

'Will you tell me the way to Scatlands ? '
she asked, conscious that something must
be said.

Scatlands ? Oh, yes ; you are close toit.
I suppose you mean Mrs Winter's ?'
Sophia bent her head.
I am going to the next house myself
Rosebank. Scatlands is at the end of
this lane. Will you allow me to show you
the way ? '

o

As Sophia had now regained her self-possession,
and with it somewhat of the
cold manner natural to her, whatever
suspicions young maitland might have
entertained vanished entirely. He was
greatly struck by her large melancholy
eyes turned with such unconscious pathos
upon him.

You are very good,' she answered. ' If
I am not a trouble, I should be very glad.'

Then, fearing she had perhaps spoken
too eagerly, her cheeks crimsoned with
blushes.

No trouble at all. Quite the reverse 
a pleasure,' was the response ; and as he
spoke, Edward Maitland turned into the
dark perspective of the lane.

I am quite a stranger,' Sophia added,
following him  he smiling as she did so.

Under the influence of that smile  which
lit up his face with a new charm  she
thawed.

'You must think it very odd to find
me standing alone in the highroad,' she
began.

Edward Maitland's eyes expressed such
decided interest in what she was about to
say  an interest so very different from the
suspicious curiosity with which he had at

first contemplated her, that Sophia felt
encouraged to proceed.

I only arrived in England last night.
I came here by the Portsmouth coach.
The guard put me down on this road. He
was very rude to me.'

 Rude to you ! ' ejaculated Edward ; ' is
it possible ? Do you know which coach
it was ? Can you give me any clue ?
Rude to you ! '

His voice was so soft  his manner so
full of sympathy, that again Sophia felt
irresistibly drawn towards him. She had
now taken some steps, walking beside him,
down the lane.

I do not know anything about the
coach. I can tell you nothing. But the
guard put me down where you found me,
and  O heavens ! ' she cried, stopping
suddenly and clasping her hands ; ' my
box ! I forgot it ! It is lying on the road.'

She was rushing back, but Maitland
put out his hand and stopped her.

Pray do not agitate yourself. I will look
after it. Left in the road, did you say ? '

Again he gazed curiously at her, and
there was a tone in his voice that grated
on her ear.

Sophia followed him back into the road.

He was already leaning over the box,
reading the address.

Miss Escott ! Good God ! are you Miss
Escott?' he exclaimed, gazing at her in
amazement.

Yes, I am Sophia Escott ' she answered,
in a low voice, averting her head  she felt
so ashamed.

I may say,' a flush of rosy colour rising
on his face, ' that I have heard so much
about you, that already I know you well.
I have drawn many portraits of you, Miss
Escott, and given them to Mrs Winter.'

Portraits of me ! ' interrupted Sophia,
with amazement. ' How could that be,
when you had never seen me ? '

Oh, quite possible,' answered Maitland.
They were dream-portraits. Was it not
an unwarrantable liberty ? '

After an awkward pause on both sides 
'Am I like what you imagined me ?'
Sophia's voice was soft and low as she
put this question.

Do not ask me,' replied Edward, growing
confused.

Oh, but I do,' she Insisted. ' Tell me,
Mr Maidand.'

No, Miss Escott, you are not. I am
not capable of conjuring up such a vision.'

VOL. I. E

A dark flash came Into his grey eyes fora
moment only as he bent them on her,
and the colour on his cheek deepened 
burning, as it were, all over him. He felt
that he had said too much. He had no
right to confess how long and how constantly
she had occupied his thoughts.

Sophia, on her part, would certainly
have resented it had not some cord of
subtle sympathy drawn her to him ; as it
was, her black eyes raised themselves to
his.

It was evident Maitland knew nothing
of what had happened.

You have not heard then . ' she began
in a low voice, then stopped abruptly.

I have heard nothing but that you
were expected in England by your aunt,
Mrs Winter, the dearest little woman in
the world. I have been absent for the
last month at Oxford. Dear Miss Escott,
if my nonsense has pained you do not
answer me. Something has happened to
shock you since I left home ; I understand
so much. Let me take you to your
aunt. I beg you a thousand pardons.'

And my box, what am I to do with it ?
That dreadful box.'

Edward smiled. A moment before,

Sophia, overwhelmed with humiliation,
had shrunk from him. Now she smiled
also. There was a charm about him
which, spite of herself, fascinated her.

That dreadful box ! ' he echoed, laughing.
' I would carry it myself, only I know
my mother would hear of it and be vexed ;
everything is known at Twickenham, for
all the women walk about here from morning
till night and make a story of every
trite.' Then turnings to her with fresh
curiosity', ' Do you mean, ]\Iiss Escott,
that you arrived quite alone, and your box
was thrown into the road } '

Yes, indeed, and I was obliged to
stand by it till you came.'

Shameful ! But why alone ? Here,'
cried Maidand suddenly, to a man who
had just appeared coming from Twickenham,
' here, I want you.'

The man ran up, touching his hat.

Take this lady's box, and walk on
before us until I call to you to stop ; do
you hear ? '

Yes, sir.'

The man shouldered the steel-clamped
box and walked on before them.

Now, Miss Escott, let me have the
pleasure of escorting you to your aunt.

You must be quite chilled by the fog.
What dreadful weather for your first experience
of England

But somehow to Sophia the chill and
the gloom of the fog had altogether
vanished.

Oh no, I do not mind cold at all. Is
it far to Scatlands ? '

Quite near, at the end of this lane. I
am your next-door neighbour, only think.'

A glow of warmth and colour lighted
up Sophia's clear olive complexion as he
spoke. Walking side by side, on one of
the straggling paths bordering the wall,
Edward Maitland caught glimpses from
time to time of her face. Its contour was
perfect, the profile faultless ; her nose
aquiline with rosy nostrils, her mouth well
formed, a little large, with full, red lips ; a
moulded chin showed firmness.

Young as she was, faint lines had formed
round the mouth, which closed with precision
over white and even teeth. Her
dark hair fell in abundant curls upon her
shoulders making her natural paleness
still more striking.

But the glory of her face was in her
eyes, dark, lustrous, now fiercely repellant,
now dazzling with intense lights.

A grand creature,' was young Maitland's
mental decision, ' and faultless in
face and feature.'

Sophia caught one of his furtive glances.
Did he still suspect her .' she asked herself.


Detected in the act of studying her,
Edward turned away abashed ; the silence
between them again became awkward.

Sophia broke it resolutely.

Mr Maitland, I feel that some explanation
is due to you. When I first
saw you, I was so agitated I scarcely knew
what I said ; I had just been insulted.'

Insulted !' echoed Maitland with passion,
but Sophia signed to him to let her
go on.

I was so glad to find some one who
would listen to me, then, so taken aback
at discovering that you knew me, that I
forgot my duty.'

What duty, Miss Escott . What duty
can you owe me ? '

The duty of telling you the truth. I
am Sophia Escott, it is true, but I am not
what you think me.' She spoke with
grave simplicity. There was not the
shadow of a doubt in her heart nor a
cloud upon her face.

Edward Maitland started, then stood
rooted to the spot In pained surprise.
Quick as thought Sophia seized his meaning.
' ' No, no, not that, thank God, not that ! '
she cried, clasping her hands. ' A great
misfortune has overtaken me, but not
through my fault. I am an orphan  a
dependant. I have absolutely nothing in
the world. I am come to England on the
charity of relations ; pray, do not misunderstand
me, I have nothing.'

This was in reply to the expression of
infinite relief, almost of joy, depicted on
the countenance of her companion.

You see I am in mourning,' continued
Sophia, steeling herself to the effort, and
not looking at him. (He would despise
her, this gallant, handsome stranger, but
she would not for a moment appear other
than she was.)

I had not noticed your dress till now,'
answered Maitland, his tone showing how
deeply he was moved; 'Miss Escott, for
God's sake, treat me as a friend ; I am a
friend ; tell me what has happened.'

My father is dead  he was ruined  it
broke his heart.' Spite of her assumed
calmness Sophia's voice broke with a sob.
Now it was all over.

Gracious God ! This must have been
most sudden ! ' exclaimed young Maitland,
standing motionless under the trees. He
was amazed beyond the power of utterance.
Sophia mistook what was complete bewilderment
for repulsion.

Yes,' she continued, dropping out her
words slowly and coldly. ' Yes, very sudden
; but for my ayah, Zebula, I should
have died ! ' She raised her proud young
head to take, as she thought, one last look
at him.

Never did face express more tenderness.
His eyes had filled with tears. He wiped
them away hastily.

Poor child ! Poor orphan ! ' he murmured,
gazing at her with an infinite expression
of pity. He stopped, and Sophia
stopped also.

Believe me, Miss Escott, I shall never,
never forget the confidence with which
you have honoured me. From the very
first moment I heard your name, you were
a subject of the deepest, the most enthusiastic
interest to me ; ' he paused, the strange
expression on her face arrested him.

How much more now,' he continued,

when I see you desolate, bereaved, deprived
of all that outward prosperity that

made your position so brilliant. But, permit
me to say, the interest with which the
beautiful daughter of the eastern millionaire
inspired me, is as nothing to the sympathy
your misfortunes have created.'

Her dark eyes were turned on the ground.
She was drinking in every word, eagerly,
like drafts of a delicious wine.

Nothing,' added Edward, * could
increase the interest with which you
are endowed. But you are now invested
with a halo that makes you almost
sacred.'

As he concluded, her head sank upon
her breast. The surprise caused by his
words was almost too much for her.

Are you quite sure, Mr Maitland,' she
said, in a low voice, * that you will not
be ashamed of my acquaintance ? Think
well before you answer ; I should feel it
more afterwards.'

Do you reckon me as the vilest of
wretches. Miss Escott,' was his indignant
reply, and he took her hand and just
touched the finger-tips with his lips.

Sophia drew it hurriedly away, and
blushed.

The world,' he added, ' doubtless is
cruel and self-interested, but after all it

is not so bad as you imagine it. Miss
Escott, I am not of the world.'

A tremor ran through her from head to
foot. The sick, faint feeling which had
overcome her in the road returned ; her
throat was dry ; her breath came short and
quick ; but for the support of the wall she
would have fallen. She gallantly hid all
this, however, and raised a pair of glistening
eyes to Maitland ?

Then I may venture still to look on
you as a friend '. '

A friend ! Yes, indeed, more than a
friend ! '

Edward checked himself; the frankness
of his nature was leading him too far.
She had strangely moved him. Before
they had met she had engaged his fancy,
now she appealed to every sense of his
manly nature.

Scatlands is close by,' he said, breaking
the too dangerous conversation ; ' there is
the door ' (the man carrying the box was
beside it). ' I will detain you no longer.
Miss Escott ; I have no right to do so.
How I envy Mrs Winter,' he exclaimed,
in an irrepressible burst of enthusiasm,
the pleasure which awaits her ! '

Oh yes, my aunt,' said Sophia, absently,

roused from a delicious dream. ' Yes,
Scatlands and Aunt Amelia.'

Her face darkened as she spoke. Must
they part ? Part while he was calling
himself her friend ?

All her dislike to strangers, her disgust
of England, the bitterness of her dependence
flashed before her. Her Aunt Winter,
whom she had figured to herself with
Zebula (blindly jealous of everyone who
approached her) as a tyrant forced upon
her by necessity  the incarnation of her
misfortunes. Maitland alone had stood
between her and her dread of the future.
Now he was eoin.

Oh ! ' cried she, almost speaking aloud,
it is so strange, so lonely. I shudder at
it all. I shrink from everyone.'

You are excited, Miss Escott, and no
wonder; but Mrs Winter is the most
gentle creature in existence  you must
love her  she will reconcile you to life.'

Never ! ' cried Sophia ; ' I feel it. Her
letters ! They were conventional  full of
herself and her feelings ! I have been so
beloved  so indulged ! I want so much 
No ; I feel I shall never care for Mrs
Winter.'

Hush, hush ! ' said Edward Maitland,

soothingly. These occasional rays of light
from her shut-up nature exercised a strange
fascination over him. ' Do not harden
yourself, dear Miss Escott, against your
friends. We will all unite to make you
happy. My mother shall come and see
you at once ; she will be full of sympathy.'

(It was a standing peculiarity of Edward's,
that he invariably gave his mother
credit for precisely the very quality she did
not possess.)

Ah ! you do not know me, Mr Maitland.

You have the cold English blood. These

people will despise me. They will drive
me mad. But I must not keep you ; you
are going to your mother. You have a
home  parents. You are loved as I was
once ! '

She spoke with vehemence. He smiled.

I hope I am loved,' taking her outstretched
hand, which fitted so closely in
his own, and pressing it warmly.

Yet the parting seemed cold. He
longed to say more ; but dared not.

Good-bye, Miss Escott,' was all he
added. * When I next see you, all these
fancies will have vanished. Remember,
that I shall never forget the confidence
you have reposed in me. You have all

my sympathy. The fates have brought us
together. You have called me your friend.'

Yes, my friend,' Sophia repeated the
words,  * My first friend. I never had
one before. I lived alone with my ayah,
and poor papa ! You will teach me what
an English friend is ! '

That I will,' was Edward's prompt
reply. * I trust you will allow me to come
and see you soon, then I will give you
your first lesson.'

Sophia looked up at him with a bright
smile. Her dark eyes met his.

Yes, let us meet soon, Mr Maitland.'

The words were not much, but the look
that accompanied them enthralled him.

Reluctantly, he raised his hat, and turned
his steps slowly towards Rosebank 
Sophia's eyes following him to a gate further
down the lane.

Although he lived in the next house,
she seemed parting from him for ever.
Would he be the same when they next
met'* Her distrust of all the world was
extending even to Maitland.

How tall and manly he looked, as the
fog closed round his graceful figure ! What
an impression of power he conveyed  of
power, protection, and mercy.

Now she must meet her aunt! Her
heart sank within her. She would have
Heed to fly  but whither? What other
house would shelter her ? This was another
stab! It must be borne, like the
rest.

Is this Scatlands ? ' she asked of the
man who stood by with her box.

Yes, miss  the name is written up
there,' and he pointed to the lozenge, and
the effigy of the Roman emperor  under
which the painted letters gleamed out.

The bald, bare facade of the Anne house
looked down upon Sophia remorselessly.
The rows of alternated bricks and white
mortar dazzled her. She had pictured to
herself a cottage, a bungalow  a villa
enshrouded in creepers  full of plants and
flowers.

Was this dreary, staring house fated to
be her home ? No one could be happy in
such a place. A passion of tears was rising
to her eyes  she checked them.

Shall I ring the bell, miss } ' asked the
man, surprised at her silence.

Yes, ring the bell,' she answered doggedly.
He did. The sound rang in the
air, smiting upon Sophia's heart with something
like the knell of death in it.

j|HY did you not write  why did
you not let me know ? ' was
all Aunt Amelia could find to
say in her agitation, as she
threw her arms round Sophia's neck, and
again and again pressed her to her motherly
heart. * Oh, Sophia, I cannot speak.'

If I am able to bear it, Aunt Amelia,
I think you can,' was Sophia's cold reply.
Her hard tone smote Mrs Winter to the
very soul  she looked up at her, and
at that moment an instinct, a presentiment
came over her that her niece would never
understand her.

She tried to master the feeling. She
did master it to a certain extent ; but the
inexpressible longings of love and sympathy
with which she had regarded the lonely girl
were shattered.

 Come in, my love, come in,' she said

nervously, bustling about, ' warm yourself
by the fire. What a journey ! How cold
your hands are ! '

Sophia surrendered her hands reluctantly
to her aunt's grasp. Aunt Amelia leading
her into the drawing-room, opening from
the panelled hall. Then, observing
her white face and languid manner  she
was suddenly smitten by the thought that
she had had nothing to eat.

Of course, of course,' she said, half to
herself; 'she must be faint and hungry.'
Then, turning towards her, with a fresh
effusion of love, ' Oh, my dear, dear child,
I am so glad to see you ! I am grown quite
stupid ; I will go at once to fetch you
something ; but first let me take off your
bonnet and unfasten your cloak.'

Sophia, silent and dejected, submitted
to all this with sad, fixed eyes.

Aunt Amelia, after another longing
glance, went and returned noiselessly,
with wine and refreshments, not pressing
them on her, but timidly offering
them, as to a stranger. At last, when
there was nothing more to do, she seated
herself opposite, her heart beating so
violently, it seemed impossible Sophia
should not hear it.

Looking thus at her, Mrs Winter's first
feeling was akin to terror. What was
she to do with this penniless niece, who
looked like a queen ?

Then, gazing at her in a silence
Sophia did not care to break, as she
helped herself to the refreshments her
aunt had brought, Mrs Winter grew
ashamed of her fears, and endeavoured
to trace in her chiselled face some likeness
to her poor brother, as a link between
them.

My love,' said she, sadly laying her
hand upon Sophia's arm, in a plaintive
endeavour to break the ice between them,
you remind me of my poor Charles, only
he never had your grand look. I am
glad it is so. We cannot be strangers.
Poor dear Charles ! '

Mrs Winter burst Into tears. It was a
relief to her to cry, not only from the tender
recollections evoked by Sophia's resemblance
to her brother, but also from
the more immediate feeling of bitter disappointment
that was stealing over her at
her niece's bearing.

At the mention of her father's name,
Sophia's lips quivered, then compressed
themselves upon her set teeth.

Mrs Winter  Aunt Amelia  I cannot
speak of my father,  I cannot  I cannot ! '
she added wildly, glancing at the door, with
some undefined notion of escape ; ' it is all
so fresh, it seems but yesterday. When I
know you better, perhaps,  but not now,
not now  I cannot bear it. Excuse me ; '
this in response to the pain and astonishment
depicted in Mrs Winter's face, down
which the tears were streaming. ' Excuse
me ; I have been brought up alone ; only
with Zebula, my ayah.'

But, Sophia,' pleaded Aunt Amelia,
suddenly arrested in the full tide of her
sorrow, ' I am to be a mother to you. I
am your nearest .relative, your father's
favourite sister, chosen by him to take
charge of you. Have confidence in me,
I beseech you. Do not, for an instant,
treat me, or think of me, as a stranger.
Oh, Sophia, I have no words to tell you
how my heart bleeds for you ! '

The poor, little woman had risen and
thrown her arms round her neck. It was
not Sophia, it was her beloved brother,
that Aunt Amelia clue to.

Sophia raised her stately head, sweeping
the long curls over her aunt's face.
She did not absolutely repulse Mrs Win-vol.

I. F

ten The mention of her father's name
had somewhat softened her ; but no kiss
answered the shower of love which Aunt
Amelia was pouring out on her.

Forgive me, aunt,' she said ; ' I cannot
talk like Europeans ; the words choke
me. I have had a great trial. Even then
I was silent.'

Ah, my poor, beautiful child ! ' burst
out Mrs Winter, too much excited to heed
Sophia ; ' who knows that so well as I ?
Yes, yes ; silent suffering ; how it kills !
Who will ever feel for you like me ? '

By-and-by, perhaps,' answered she
half-beseechingly, putting Aunt Amelia
aside, and rising.

Mrs Winter sank back into a chair.

Not now. There are things in my
life over which I must draw a veil, except,'
she added dreamily  and a vision of young
Maitland, as he had looked when he bid
her good-bye, passed vaguely before her 
except to those I love.'

God grant you may love me, my child ! '
ejaculated Aunt Amelia, clasping her thin
hands together as fervently as if she had
been uttering a prayer for life ; ' all the
happiness of your life depends on your
loving me. I am a poor, broken-down

creature, too old and too stupid to be a
companion to such as you, my love. But
I am used to grief and misfortune. At
least I can pity you. Oh, do trust me,
and try, dear Sophia, to love me ! '

No answering word came from the
other's lips. She sat where her aunt had
placed her, close to the fire, her feet on
the fender, gazing moodily into the
flame. The heat had raised a slight
flush upon her cheek, that added a fresh
charm to her beauty. Aunt Amelia
contemplated her with renewed dismay.
How beautiful she is ! ' was her thought.
Alas ! alas ! '

This is but a poor home for you, my
Sophia,' she continued aloud (Aunt Amelia
was trying string after string, as it were, of
the human instrument before her, to see
where she could find an answering chord).
I suppose you know something of our
story . '

'I do,' said Sophia, gravely, without
taking her eyes from the fire. ' But I
preferred coming to you, to my other
aunt Lady Danvers.'

Thank you for that,' cried Aunt Amelia,
colouring with delight, and grasping her
niece's hand, which lay impassive on her

black dress. * That was noble of you  an
act of sacrifice.'

I followed the wishes of my father,'
was Sophia's cold reply. ' I can really
take no credit for it. I had no choice in
the matter. His will was sacred.'

Again Mrs Winter was repelled. This
superb niece sitting beside her, her favourite
brother's child, had never opened her
mouth but to wound her. She felt so
humiliated she could have sunk into the
floor. Still she struggled bravely.

Scatlands is not a bad house, but except
this room it is poorly furnished.
Uncle Louis has very recently had misfortunes.
We have very little money.
But such as it is, It Is your home, my child,
to do as you please in. All I want is to
make you happy.'

I know it is my home,' responded
Sophia, her eyes still fixed on the burning
coals, in which she was tracing strange
outlines of mountain ranges, such as shut
in the horizon of her home In the hot
season. ' I am sorry to be a further expense
to you. It cannot be helped. I
must get used to it, and I hope you will also.'

Was not all this confirmation of what
Zebula in her jealousy had impressed on

her  * that, once In her power, her aunt
would starve and misuse her. Never,
never trust the white viper,' were Zebula's
words, * she will bite you, and the poison
will rest In your blood.'

I always had a house of my own,' she
continued absently. * I am grieved to bea
burden.'

Not grieved, dear Sophia, surely not,'
remonstrated Aunt Amelia, gallantly struggling
to the end, ' when you will ever be
our first thought  If you will allow It,' she
added In a lower tone, catching sight of the
hard-set lines of her niece's profile. ' Then
there Is Uncle Louis! Ah, Sophia, how
can I have forgotten Uncle Louis ? '

At her husband's name Mrs Winter's
eyes glistened, and a gentle colour mounted
to her cheeks. Even Sophia turned her
head, and allowed the faintest shadow of a
smile to cross her face at Mrs Winter's
eagerness.

Uncle Louis Is an angel ; the most
excellent, unselfish man that ever lived. I
ought not to say so of my own husband,'
and the flush In Aunt Amelia face
deepened to a blush,  ' but It Is the truth.
You will delight In Uncle Louis. He will
be so angry that you did not give him

notice of your coming. He fully intended
to have met you at Portsmouth.'

To all this Sophia listened with more
interest than she had yet evinced. Something
told her she should like Uncle Louis.
About Aunt Amelia she had decided  to
her she was unsympathetic.

All the prejudices and bitter animosities
of the ayah, during those last days at Calcutta,
rose up fresh and strong  to blind
her to the angelic sweetness of Mrs Winter.
To her it seemed but falseness.

My love,' continued Aunt Amelia 
rapidly pursuing the one topic in which
Sophia showed sympathy,  ' Uncle Louis
is, as you know, a German. He plays exquisitely
on the flute. I hear you are a
good musician. Is it so ? '

Sophia bowed her head in a lofty way.

That will be charming. You and my
husband will play together. He used to
make me sit up half the night to accompany
him  long ago  when we were first
married.'

And she heaved a sicrh as she recalled
those halcyon days, when credit, money
and friends were abundant.

Now, I am too old. I cannot satisfy
his fastidious taste  he is fastidious. You

really do play well ? Scientifically, Sophia ?
You know how difficult the Germans are ? '

I think I shall satisfy Uncle Louis. I
will try. Music is all that is left me.'

Ah !  not so, my child. Be thankful
to God for granting you so much ' (an indignant
glance from Sophia told that that
was a line of argument not to be admitted).
Catching nervously at her breath, Aunt
Amelia continued, ' A great musician ; you
have a musical face  pardon me for doubting
your skill, but Louis is such a performer.
Health, youth, and' (a little pause) 'such
wonderful beauty.'

To do Sophia justice she was not vain,
and she received this compliment with perfect
indifference.

Then there Is John Bauer,' continued
Aunt Amelia. He plays the violoncello.
You must like John Bauer as well as Uncle
Louis ; he Is often here.'

Who is John Bauer ? ' asked Sophia,
raising her large eyes from her castle-building
In the fire, full on Aunt Amelia with
such a disdainful stare as quite overwhelmed
that sensitive little woman. ' I
never heard of John Bauer ! '

'John Bauer is Mr Winter's nephew,'
answered Aunt Amelia, with nervous

quickness. Sophia's deliberate stare, and
the ill-suppressed haughtiness of her manner,
alarmed her. ' John Bauer is a merchant,
like my Louis, only he is enormously
rich. He has never been unlucky like my
husband  never sacrificed himself so generously
to treacherous friends. John Bauer
is very amiable, not handsome, but so good,
I hope he will please you.'

Then a vision of those happy evenings
arose in her mind. The shutters shut, the
curtains drawn, the piano open, the desks
set and the music sorted ; John Bauer
residing his violoncello bow ; Uncle Louis
screwing up his beloved flute, and descanting
volubly in German on some disputed
tempo, or the overcoming of a difficult
passage, breaking off to kiss Aunt Amelia's
hand and lead her to the instrument, thereto
forget all her sordid cares in the ideal
realm of divine harmony.

Would Sophia despise these friendly
little meetings, and turn from them with
disgust } Then an undeveloped germ of
thought rose in the mind of the artless
little woman.

What a glorious ending it would be to
all her troubles, if Sophia and John Bauer
were married !

HAT Aunt Amelia meant more
than she said about John Bauer
was evident to Sophia. This
conviction deepened her incipient
suspicion of her aunt's sincerity.

I do not see what it signifies if I Hke
Mr Bauer or not. Of course, I must
meet the people that come to your house,'
was Sophia's cold rejoinder. ' I think,
Aunt Amelia, I should like to go to my
room,' she added, rising.

How it all jarred upon her nerves !
Sophia, utterly unused to the forms of
society and sympathies of English life, was
inexpressibly wearied by the very intensity
of her aunt's efforts to please her.

She asked herself, with dismay,
whether she would talk to her everyday
like this ?

'To be sure, my love,' said Mrs Winter
rising also. ' How thoughtless I have
been to keep you here talking. Come, I
will show you the way upstairs.'

Quite naturally Sophia walked first, with
a stately step, towards the door. She
longed to be alone ; she longed for silence,
for peace  to be somewhere where she
could think of Maitland, recall every word,
dwell upon his looks, evoke the remembrance
of those grey eyes, so grave and
earnest.

Aunt Amelia followed her into the hall.
She had gathered up her niece's cloak and
bonnet, and carried them submissively
upon her arm. Sophia, accustomed to be
waited upon by a crowd of natives, did
not even notice it. It was so natural to
be waited on.

All the way upstairs Aunt Amelia's
gentle voice was to be heard in a soft
treble of excuse.

Only a room on the second floor, my
love  a long way up. We have not yet
been able to furnish the first storey. How
much I wish we could lodge you more
suitably.'

What does it matter where I lodge ? '
retorted Sophia, exasperated at her aunt's

persevering kindness ; ' I shall not complain.'


Arrived on the landing of the second
floor, on a level with the Roman emperor,
Mrs Winter opened a door to the left, and
they entered a large, low room, with two
windows  one looking to the front of the
house and the lane, the other to the side.

The fog had almost conquered what
remained of the short daylight. A thick,
heavy vapour was covering all outward
objects with a pall. A streak or two of
light glimmered low on the horizon, casting a
faint yellow reflection upon the boarded floor.

The walls were covered with a faded
paper, upon which damp and rain from the
roof had left some stains. A few little
knick-knacks of Aunt Amelia's manufacture
brightened the room a little, otherwise
the furniture was shabby In the extreme.

A much-worn-carpet, nailed in the centre
of the floor ; a painted deal table, a few
decrepit chairs standing against the walls,
as if ashamed of themselves ; a chest of
drawers ; a glass before the front window,
a small bed, with dimity curtains in one
corner ; two little shelves with some books.
The air felt damp and chill. There was
no fire in the grate.

Sophia entered with an assumed indifference.
Coming upstairs she had
resolved to show nothlnor that she felt.
She owned to herself that her tone in
the parlour had been overbearing. What
was she at Scatlands but a humble relative,
eating the hard crust of another's
loaf!

Poor, haughty Sophia ! Spite of her
resolution, a shudder passed over her at
the aspect of her room. Never in her
life had she seen anything so squalid.

Ah, there Is no fire ! ' cried Aunt
Amelia,' rapidly reading her thought.
It shall be lighted, darling. If we had
only known you were coming, dearest,
but It was your own fault.'

I am not cold,' she answered languidly.
Pray light no fire for me. I do not
require It.'

Oh, If Aunt Amelia would only go away
and leave her ! What a bare, miserable
house, as naked as a summer bungalow !
How dreadful it all was ! Now that she
was face to face with the life that lay
before her, she could have sobbed.

Aunt Amelia was as eager to escape
from her niece, as the latter to see her
go ; but, like many other shy people, she

suffered from a nervous Inability to quit
any place, be it where it may, in which
she found herself.

I fear, my love, you do not like your
room ? ' she began nervously,  then happy
to find any excuse, broke off to the arranging
of Sophia's wraps upon the bed. ' I
chose it for the sake of the view. You
cannot see it now but when clear, you
lock on the Thames, and Twickenham
Meadows and Rosebank.'

Sophia looked up suddenly. * Rose-bank
! Is that the house at the end ?
Can you see Rosebank from here 1 '

A look of delight spread over her face ;
and her eyes, a moment before so dull and
brooding, caught up the faint rays of
yellow light, and threw them back like
diamonds.

This sudden change astonished Mrs
Winter. For once her niece seemed
pleased, yet she could so little imagine
why, that she ventured a question.

Have you ever heard of Rosebank,
dear Sophia ? The Maitland live there
our intimate friends. Do you know
them ? '

Sophia, smiling to herself a happy
smile, and devouring with her eyes the

little that the fog and the twilight left her
to contemplate of the trees of Rosebank,
hesitated before she answered.

For an instant she wavered. Should
she confide in Aunt Amelia, and tell
her of her meeting with Maitland ?
Could she trust her ? No ! The prejudice
that Zebula had implanted in her
triumphed. It rose up between them like
a wall, only to grow higher and thicker as
time went by, shutting out all love and
confidence.

I  oh no  how could I know the
Maitland ? I know no one, Aunt
Amelia.'

I am going now, my child,' said Mr
Winter with a bewildered smile. The
effect of the information she had given
about Rosebank was obvious to her ; the
cause of that effect was hidden. ' Goodbye,'
she said, more and more bewildered
how to get out of the room.

Try to love me ; try to love us all.
Believe me, my dear girl, it will be for
our mutual comfort. The love that binds
together kith and kin is the sweetest and
the safest.'

She pressed her soft lips on her niece's
forehead, and left her still standing by the

window, engrossed with the idea of overlooking
Rosebank.

The placid face, the delicate lace cap,
the clinging dress, that sat so well on the
neat little figure, passed out. The door
closed. Aunt Amelia was crone.

Sophia flung herself upon a chair. ' At
last, at last,' she cried ; ' I am alone ! '

After leaving Sophia's room, Mrs
Winter slowly descended the polished
oak stairs into the hall.

A terrible chill lay at her heart. By
nature sensitive and responsive to the
point of weakness, she felt that her first
meeting with her stately niece had been
a failure. Instinct, rather than reflection,
told her this. But that it was so came
home to her undeniably. Why this should
be, was beyond the range of her simple
intelligence.

That Sophia should not accept her love,
smote her to the quick. It was like
treason to the dead brother who had confided
her to her care.

Standing in the shadow of the landing
of the empty rooms, she paused, and clasping
her hands together, addressed a fervent
prayer to God that Sophia's heart might
be turned towards her.

Again the thought of John Bauer shot
through her brain. The idea once started,
Mrs Winter dwelt upon it eagerly. Sophia
betrayed in all she said and did the habit
of wealth  that need of service which
comes to the rich like the air they breathe.
With John Bauer she would possess every
luxury.

By this time Mrs Winter had reached
the hall. The clock on the mantelpiece
struck five. Five ! Uncle Louis would be
back from the city directly. She had all
sorts of things to do. They kept only two
servants, and she was obliged to help them
in many ways.

As she turned off towards the diningroom,
a latch-kev was turnings in the lock
of the front door ; the door flew open, and
Mr Winter bounded into the hall.

He was so wrapped up in a large cloak,
a white comforter twisted so many times
round his neck, and a tall hat, with a very
narrow brim, so crushed down upon his
head, that nothing of his countenance was
visible, except a large and very prominent
nose  a nose that leaped, as it were, out
of the zone of his face.

Seeing his wife, Mr Winter was about
to apostrophise her as usual as ' My

Amelle ! ' Instead, * Der Teufel ! ' were
the words that issued in a muffled sound
from the folds of the comforter.

In the impetus of that exceedingly
juvenile bound with which he had entered
his short, stout legs, ill - supporting his
rotund, little person, had struck against
Sophia's box.

Der Teufel ! Amelia, vat sees cas ?
A man-trap to break dee shins ? What
is de evil boxes, my wive . '

Without waiting for an answer, Mr Winter,
in his anger, administered a forcible
kick on the wood, then stooped down to
rub his leg, with a very piteous expression
of countenance.

Louis, dear Louis, I am so sorry. The
box has been forgotten. I ought to have
told you  don't kick it, please ; it is  '

Ach so ! I understand. It sees de box
vit de  de enamelled and blue Porcelain
von Dresda. Ve will move ee presently.'

It is Sophia Escott's box  she is come.
She arrived this afternoon.'

Die Escott  die Sophie ! Angekomnen
Gottt im Simnel ! And ze stands there
as if noting had happened ! Ze keep me
awake so many nights to tell of die Sophie
noting but die Sophie, till I dream tau-vol.

I. G

sends Sophie all over die world ; and now
ze sees not out of windows, topside down,
vit de news ? '

With frantic haste Mr Winter tore off
his wraps, flung down his hat with a bang,
dropped the woollen comforter on the
stone floor, his great-coat after It ; then,
settling his cravat, and passing his large
hand through his bristly iron-grey hair (no
care bestowed upon it by Aunt Amelia
could ever make that hair other than
modified horse-hair), he strode up to his
wife.

Vere is die schists ? Vy sees ze not vit
her ? '

So vehement and rapid were his gestures,
so quick his movements, that Mrs
Winter had hardly time to reply.

Sophia is resting, Louis, in her room ;
she is tired after her journey. I have just
come down  she preferred to be alone.'

'Prefer to be alone! Nonsense  nonsense
! di talk like von fools, Amalie. Ze
shall never be alone. Die Sophie ; ze shall
always be vit us. Die Sophie sees come
in our old age to be our daughter. Gottt
sent her. I will see her  quick  quick ! '

Before he had finished speaking, Uncle
Louis' short legs had carried him half-way

up the staircase, scampering up three steps
at a time. Certain ominous sounds descending
to the hall betraying that, in his fierce
haste, he was slipping on the polished oak
of the staircase.

Take care, Louis, take care, or you
will fall ! I will light a candle.'

No, no  never more ! ' cried Uncle
Louis from the landing of the first storey,
his voice almost overpowered by the clatter
of his boots  ' never more ! Sophie 
Sophie, my settee angel, ze will be my
hight. Open de door, my Sophie  Sophie ! '

Sophia, sitting pensively beside the window,
her head bent upon her hand, looking
towards Rosebank, heard her name and
listened. Something in the intonation of the
voice, full of friendly coaxing, attracted her.

A strange fitter came over her ; for a
moment she felt faint. Since her father
had bid her good-night, the last time she
saw him alive, she had heard nothing like
that voice. She was just rising when,
under the application of Uncle Louis'
shoulder, the door suddenly gave way, and
Mr Winter burst into the room.

Before she could speak she was within
his arms. Kind and gentle was his touch.
He murmured some inarticulate words of

fondness, then laid his large, plump hand
upon her head. It was like a silent
blessing.

My Sophie, lie there ! Poor schists,
poor schists! ' He raised her face, and
pressed his lips upon her forehead. ' Lie
there and again his arms closed round
her ; 'it is ze home.' Sophia's head
dropped upon his shoulder. She burst
into tears. ' Ze must not cry, Sophie 
not cry, not cry. Ee sees bad for ze eyes
to cry.' As this excellent advice was administered
between audible sobs from himself,
it did not produce much effect. Big
tears rolled down his red cheeks upon
Sophia's face.

Tenderly supporting her with one hand,
as she clung to him, resting in his warm
embrace like a weary child upon the full,
soft bosom of its nurse, he was constrained,
with the other hand, to take from his
pocket that large red handkerchief, which
in all crises of his chequered life floated
about him like a banner. With it he
wiped his eyes, blew his nose, with a noise
like a trumpet, replaced It carefully in his
pocket, raised Sophia, gazed at her steadfastly
in the dark room, then shook his
head.

Oh, Uncle Louis ! ' was all she could
say.

Uncle Louis cannot zee die schists
die Sophie ; but he can feel her. He is
sure she is loosely.'

Mr Winter laid back the long silken
tresses of her hair upon his arm, smoothed
them, kissed them, then patted them down
into their place on each side of her head.

Now, ze must not cry no more,' he
said, observing the convulsive heaves that
heaved Sophia's bosom ; * ze must be die
good brave girls.'

Oh, Uncle Louis ! ' again exclaimed
Sophia, somewhat more composed ; ' I
cry because you put me in mind of him 
of dear, dear papa.'

Dat is good, ver good,' he said gravely.
I will be de papa, Sophie, to ze  always
de papa.'

Neither saw the other, save as an indistinct
form in an unlighted room ; but
Sophia had felt the love that came to her
in Uncle Louis' large encircling arms ;
felt it, and responded to it.

At this moment Aunt Amelia entered,
carrying in her hand a light. In an instant
Sophia was standing upright, hastily removing
all traces of tears from her cheeks.

My Amalie! ' said Mr Winter ; *we have
had ze keep of peace : is it not so, Sophie ? '

Yes, Uncle Louis.'

The frank, sweet tones of the girl's voice
came as an astonishment to Aunt Amelia.

Let me look at zee,' said Mr Winter,
with great solemnity, taking the light from
his wife. ' Ach, so!' and he drew back
sideways, contemplating her as if she had
been a picture by an old master, his small,
grey eyes all the while twinkling with fun.

Ach scion ! Scion ! Herrick scion !
An original ! no damned copies ! ' he exclaimed,
passing the candle up and down.
And so fine, so tall ! Beautiful, beautiful ! '

He burst into a merry laugh, that rang
through the room.

My Amalie ! ' he said, giving back the
light to his wife ; ' zee must shut ee up
or die ; young men will steal the beautiful
schists. Zee must be shut up, my Sophie,'
continued Uncle Louis, giggling, as he
carried out his thought.

I will be de Cerberus, vit de chain.
Such fun, such fun ! Ha, ha ! Ve will mock
at di young men, and play and sing all day.
You can play die music, my Sophie } '
he asked, very gravely. Anything about
music was sacred.

Yes, Uncle Louis.'

Good, good ; vit die music von is never
triste, never dull'

Between everything he said, Mr Winter
his bier nose in the air  took lone
glances at his niece ; standing on the
points of his toes, throwing up his fat
hands, and shrugging his broad shoulders
in little spasms of delight. There was a
simple flattery in all this that charmed
Sophia. She laughed as she looked at him.

I told you, Sophia, you would like
Uncle Louis,' said Aunt Amelia, a placid
smile lighting up her kind face.

The sound of her voice recalled Sophia
to a recollection of her presence. Suddenly
she fixed her eyes on her.

Uncle Louis shows that he loves me,
I cannot doubt it.'

Mrs Winter turned away, too much
hurt to care to show it. Suffer what she
might, she mentally resolved that she would
not, by so much as a gesture, strike a discord
in the harmony of this first meeting.

There had been a painful pause. Uncle
Louis raised his head, and looked from
one to the other. Something struck him
as wrong ; but he did not give himself the
trouble to think what it might be.

Drawing them both towards him, he
encircled them with his arms, his big
nose and little eyes shining on both.

My Amaze loose die, Sophia, like a
mother die ; Sophie, honour her as die
tother,' he added solemnly.

Sophia tried to disengage herself. He
would not let her go 

Come ; it sees cold In dees room ; comedown
wit die tante and me.'

No, Uncle Louis, thank you,' said
Sophia, struggling to free herself from his
grasp. ' I will stay up here, please, tonight
; I am tired.

Ee can be tired down stairs ; I must
have die Sophie.' He endeavoured to
drag her forcibly towards the door : ' I
want to look at ee ! '

My dear Louis,' interposed Mrs Winter,
from the other end of the room, where
she had been lighting Sophia's candles
and closing the window-shutters. Aunt
Amelia had a quiet way of waiting upon
her that was quite touching in its unconscious
humility.

Do not worry Sophia. Let her do as
she likes.'

Uncle Louis does not worry me,' she
replied quickly, taking his large fat hand

in hers and kissing it. ' He can never,
never worry me. But just for to-night,
Uncle Louis, only to-night.'

Come away, my love,' said Mrs Winter.
(A pang of anguish passed through her,
as the conviction of Sophia's dislike forced
itself more and more upon her.)

Zee promise to come down in die morning,
like die Aurore, to de poor old uncle,
before he goes to make de bread of live inde
city, night war,' said Mr Winter, in his
turn trying to liberate himself from his wife,
with a smile that extended his large mouth
across his face.

Amelia, be off, or I will shoot you dead.
Set di example to die Sophie how zee
minds me.'

His genial voice fell on Aunt Amelia's
ears like balm.

Yes, yes,' said Sophia, advancing to the
door where her aunt had drawn him. I
will come down tomorrow. Good night.'

Gate yacht, my schists '  a substantial
kiss following, that might have been heard
all over the house. Then with many deep-toned
'Achs!' and'Zo's! 'and 'Lebewohl's'
Uncle Louis permitted himself to be conducted
downstairs.

HEN Edward Maitland parted
from Sophia before the door of
Scatlands, he walked on very
slowly and deliberately to Rose-bank.


Passing the lodge he left the well-rolled
drive that meandered by clumps of forest
trees and mossy herbage, and took a circuitous
path upon the soft turf that spread
to the right, through a laurel shrubbery.

Thick as was the fog, Edward would not
trust to it to conceal his arrival. His
father, a mercantile philosopher, who required
to ruminate in the open air over
his speculations in the city,  often returned
early, and might be encountered prowling
about among the trees. Or Miss
Sterne, with her fair curls and inaudible

walk, micrht be gflidinof alone the road on
some commission of his mother's.

Now, of all people in the world, he
specially desired at this moment to avoid
Miss Sterne.

So, treading lightly on the springy turf,
Maitland turned into the path leading
through the thick plantation of laurels
shrouding the house on that side ; and
with his own key opened the door of his
particular sanctum. He longed to be alone.

The walls of this room were a record of
his life. Between the windows, under a
a glass case, was his first shoe, of blue kid,
creased and marked with the impress of
the fat little foot which had worn it ; a
most aggravating memento, which he had
continually threatened to destroy, but had
been restrained by the earnest entreaties of
his mother, who had carefully collected and
preserved (as in a museum) every remembrance
of his childhood.

Here were the bow and arrows with
which he had shot magpies and tormented
his nurses,  the miniature cutter, rigged
with spotless sails, which he had launched
on the bosom of the Thames,  a series of
hunting prints in bright colours, flanking a
strait of himself, aged ten, in a blue

jacket, leaning against his mother's side,
whose head, for want of due perspective,
he appeared to threaten with a whip  she
smiHng the while blandly. His first gun
suspended over the mantelpiece ; foils and
boxing-gloves ; blackbird  shotbyhis hand
stuffed, in a cage. His Eton prize books,
in brilliant bindings, ranged on shelves ; a
choice collection of other books in a recess ;
an academic cap and gown  which he had
lately worn in theatricals  hanging on a
nail ; some casts of different Senses from
the antique on brackets ; a pair of white
cricketing shoes, and a jersey on the floor,
where he had left it.

I n one corner of the room stood a writing-table,
on which lay pipes and meerschaums,
side by side with packets of dusty letters
and pamphlets, open, as he had last laid
them.

A well-worn arm-chair was drawn up
near the window, and beside it a little inlaid
table of mosaic and gold, on which
was placed a delicate vase of Dresden
china, filled with choice hot-house flowers.
Whether Edward was absent or at home,
that vase was daily replenished by his
mother's own hands, and placed on the
table as on a shrine sacred to her son.

On enterlnor, Edward's eve caught the
bright hue of the flowers. He smiled.

Poor mater ! Always the same, always
good to me ! ' was his thought.

The force of habit caused him to draw
out the arm-chair, and seat himself before
the empty grate. His countenance, like
his attitude, was grave and full of thought.

For the first time in his life he had
shunned his mother. Before, he had
always sought her with a schoolboy's ardour,
poured into her ear every minute
detail of his life, and joyfully answered her
interminable questions.

But now, not only did he avoid her, but
he actually dreaded meeting her.

Sophia Escott's name might be mentioned,
 she might be discussed as an
ordinary subject of conversation. Fresh
from the seduction of her presence, he
could not bear it. He must accustom
himself, little by little, to consider her as
an ordinary mortal. At this moment, she
seemed to him some bright vision from
another sphere.

Instinctively he trembled at what his
mother might be led to say. For the first
time he realised that their views were often
antagonistic. About Sophia Escott he felt

intuitively that they would be. Mrs Malt-land
would not express herself as he desired.
Who, indeed, could speak in words
such as he would consider adequate ?

The vague delicious sense of what Sophia
was,  of what she might be to him  who
could express it ? The bliss of having
lived until that moment,  who but himself
could understand .' Sophia had swept like
a magnificent harmony upon every tone of
his deep, earnest nature,  she had satisfied
every requirement of his fastidious taste.

Hitherto, he had shrunk from the young
ladies of ordinary life, mere creatures of
flesh and blood,  talking, dancing, laughing,
flirting,  like educated animals without
a soul. Even now he shuddered, as he
recalled with vivid indignation the persecutions
to which he had been subjected by
marriageable girls. All this he could not
explain to his mother. For the first time he
must have a secret from her. Poor mater !

He glanced at the flowers, and a sigh
escaped him. Yet so It must be. The
inevitable moment had come when, like
the strong-winged young eaglet, he must
forsake the parent nest that had hitherto
sheltered him, and soar out alone In the
air of freedom, into a new world.

To have met Sophia Escott ! To be
called her friend ! Exquisite happiness !
Yet it was not as a friend that he would
approach her ! The sombre flash of her
tragic eyes still rested on him ! The turmoil
of his blood was not yet cooled as he
recalled her stately presence standing erect
in the muddy road,  the misty earth and
cloudy sky but a background for her beauty.
Her friend ! No, indeed ! She was a
being born to be worshipped, or 
never to be beheld again !

In a moment of painful excitement, she
had laid bare her heart. Years could not
have shown her to him so plainly. And
what a revelation ! The innate nobility
of her nature had proclaimed itself in every
word. The dignity of her bearing was but
the mould to the lofty candour of her soul.

Not for her sake, but for mine, thank
Heaven she has lost her fortune ! '

Carried away by the intensity of his
feelings, Edward raised his head, and let
his hand fall heavily on the table opposite.
Oh, God ! To have her love ! To call her
his ! Every pulse in his body beat wildly.
From this transport of love his thoughts
again glanced off to his mother.

Again his eyes rested on the fresh flowers

her hand had placed on his table. Their
delicate fragrance came to him like a mute
appeal. From the hour of his birth, her
devotion had been so absolute, her affection
so boundless, that up to this time he
had never disputed her right to control
him.

That his mother's ambition had led her
to anticipate the possibility of a marriage
with the great Indian heiress, he knew.
He had often indignantly combated the
idea. Why should Miss Escott select him
from the crowd of pretenders whom her
wealth was sure to attract ? Or why should
he like her well enough to marry her ? All
this he had argued over and over again
with his mother ; but in vain.

Now, the position was changed. Miss
Escott was no longer an heiress. The
reproach of her father's ruin was attached
to her. How would his mother accept
this change ?

His brow clouded. He beat uneasily
with his hands on the arms of the chair;
then rose and paced restlessly up and
down the room.

As yet he was free. Father and mother
were very dear to him, and the principle
of filial duty paramount. Was he, an

1 1

only son, justified In voluntarily flinging
himself Into circumstances which might
brine him into collision with them ?
(What Mrs Maitland said, her husband
echoed.)

Yet, to resign Sophia ! To see others
approach her ; to know her wooed  perhaps
won ! The thought was maddening !
In the passion of his first love he swore
to himself, that as she stood before him
in the glory of her beauty, forgetting all
else, he would fling himself at her feet,
and implore her to permit him to dedicate
his life to her.

VOL. I.

H

T this moment there was a sound
of steps in the passage leading
to his room ; the sweep of a
rich silk dress was heard upon
the stone pavement.

Edward ! Edward ! ' cried his mother's
voice outside. ' Where are you ? '

Here, mother!' he answered, starting
forward to open the door.

Before he could reach it, Mrs Maitland
had entered, and was clasping him within
her ample arms. Then she drew back
and looked at him.

Why, Edward, what a colour !
are handsomer than ever ! '

Maitland's cheek flushed still
deeply.

But how strange !

You

more

come to me at once ? My

Why did you not

own

boy ! '

and ag-ain Mrs Maitland's arms were
round his neck. ' I should not have
known you were here but for Miss Sterne.
The lodge people saw you pass and told
her. She ran home directly, quite out of
breath. Something was said about a
lady. Miss Sterne was quite puzzled.
She thought it most extraordinary.'

'The devil take Miss Sterne!' was
Maitland's mental ejaculation. Aloud, 
She is very kind to interest herself so
much about me.' The irony of the words
was not intended to hide his displeasure.
Does it not strike you, mother, that Miss
Sterne is very officious . '

'No! no! Invaluable! Always consulting
my tastes and feelings.'

Do not trust her too much, mater.
You may repent it.' His manner implied
more than his words. ' Do not trust
her ! ' he added earnestly.

But his warning was thrown away upon
Mrs Maidand.

Edward, you are quarrelling with poor
Miss Sterne because she has found you
out. She knew you were in the house,
and came to tell me. Perfectly natural !
Why did you not come yourself  Who is
the lady ? '

No lady entered the grounds with me.'
Edward forced out the words reluctantly,
feeling himself In a glow from head to
foot. What demon of 111 luck could have
condemned him, at that moment, to hear
his mother allude to Sophia ? ' I was very
tired and came In here to rest and have
a smoke.'

But there Is no smell of tobacco,' and
Mrs Maitland sniffed the air energetically.
I don't believe it, dear.' And fixing her
eyes upon her son, she shook her head.
This is most extraordinary, and so unkind
! You knew I was expecting you 
anxiously expecting you ! '

Not unkind, mother ; never unkind to
you,' replied Edward, as she sank into a
chair.

His voice softened as he addressed her.
In a moment he was stooping over her
and kissing her. She gazed up at his tall,
elegant figure, and frank manly face, with
maternal pride. But she was not to begot
over In that fashion. There was a
fact to be elucidated  an important fact
affecting her son, and her mind was working
in an agony of suspense.

Edward,' she began, riveting her large,
prominent eyes upon him In a determined

stare. ' Why did you not come to me at
once, as you have always done before ? '

He hesitated.

My dear boy, you are not going to
have secrets from me ? '

This persistence made Edward more
and more reluctant to mention Sophia's
name. In his present mood, he would
have said anything, short of an actual
untruth, to conceal that he had met her 
much more the manner of his meeting.

Receiving no answer, Mrs Maitland
repeated her question.

Edward, Edward, what are you hiding
from me ? '

Really, mother  I am  well, I am not
hiding anything.'

'Yes, you are,' she replied firmly. 'It
is no use denying it. Speak to me,
Edward ; you are making me inexpressibly
wretched ! '

With one hand she drew out her handkerchief,
and with the other seized his
arm.

There is nothing to make you wretched,
dear mother,' Edward replied, again kissing
her.

But, if there is nothing to hide, why
don't you answer my question ? '

Indeed, mother, you are making a foolish
fuss about nothing. I am sorry I came
first into this room, if it vexes you. I will
never do so again, I promise you.'

He took her hand to lead her away, but
with an ominous shake of the head, she
refused to stir.

Will you tell your father, Edward ?
Is it anything I ought not to hear ? Oh !
have you done anything dreadful ? '

'Mother! What are you saying? I
repeat I have done nothing.'

Thank Heaven ! ' she ejaculated.
Where did you come from this morning?'


From Oxford,' was his answer, smiling
at her.

Did you come alone ? '
Yes, mother ; quite alone. I drove
down in a gig with Walters' man, Ben,
from London.'

In a gig ? I heard no wheels ! '
Because I got out at the top of the lane.'
Were you alone, or in company ? '
It was useless. He must speak,  tell
her everything. He had much better
have done so at once. Now the very
thing he desired to avoid had occurred ;
he had excited her suspicions.

I was not alone when I came down the
lane.' That he spoke unwillingly required
no penetration to detect, nor that he had
crimsoned to the roots of his hair. Fortunately
the room had grown so dark that
Mrs Maitland's keen vision saw neither
this, nor the troubled expression of his
countenance.

Not alone, Edward's' She rose from
her chair, and grasped him by the arm.
Who was with you }'

Really, mother, this is too absurd ! '
He tried to laugh, but failed under the
angry flare of his mother's eyes. ' At the
top of the lane I met Miss Escott. I had the
pleasure of escorting her to her uncle's door.'

'Miss EEscott.  Sophia Escott? Is
she come '. Why did you not tell me ? '

Because  because  ' Edward's voice
dropped. There was no reason that he
could give. Fortunately she did not wait
for his answer. Her curiosity was too
imperative.

What is Miss Escott like, Edward?
Tell me the truth.'

I always tell you the truth, mater.
She is a regal-looking girl.'

Regal-looking ! Do you admire regal
beauty ? '

J.

I admire Miss Escott beyond expressions
was his prompt reply.

That is because you have heard so
much about her ; there is a great deal in
that. Probably I shall not agree with
you ; I feel sure, indeed, that I shall not.'

There cannot be two opinions about
Miss Escott, mother. Her beauty is too
decided to admit of doubt.'

Now, Edward' (Mrs Maitland was
still holding him tightly by the arm.
Nothing but the dim outline of their two
figures was visible in the dark room), ' do
you know that she has lost all her money,
and is coming to the Winters' as a dependant
? '

She told me so.'

Told you so the first time she saw
you!' exclaimed Mrs Maitland aghast.
She must be a very bold, ill-bred young
woman ! '

Mother ! Not a word against her, I
entreat you ! All that Miss Escott does
becomes her.'

Why, Edward, what do you know
about her ? You only saw her to-day ! '

Just as you know her, mother ; I have
heard so much before. How often have
you discussed her ; how you have extolled

her. You seem to foro-et this ; I do not.
But Miss Escott in herself is far beyond
all that has been said of her. What has
loss of fortune to do with her beauty or
her qualities ? She is unchanged. You
are unjust, mater ! '

Mrs Maitland, dissolved in tears, sank
into a chair.

'Not at all! Not at all!' cried she,
raising herself upright. ' I hear a very
different account of her ;  a fiendish temper,
inherited from her Indian mother,
cruel, overbearing, ruined by indulgence !
I pity poor Mrs Winter ! Besides, Miss
Escott's father has committed suicide.'

Committed suicide ! She did not tell
me that I Poor girl ! how noble is her
fortitude! How she will need all our
support ! I pity her ; beyond all words I
pity her ! '

The inflection of Edward's voice, even
more than the words, smote his mother
with dismay.

For God's sake, Edward, do not allow
yourself to become entangled ! She shall
have no support from me.'

But, mother, you have not seen her.
All your prejudices will vanish when you
meet.'

I do not want to meet her. I will not
see her ! I hate her already ! Do not
ask me to receive her ; I shall be rude to
her. My love for you will make me so.'

Edward stood speechless before his
mother.

I tell you plainly,' she continued, a
convulsive sob now and then breaking
her words, ' that, under present circumstances,
it is a connection that neither your
father nor I could sanction. Understand
this ! Of course the Winters would like
it. They have lost Miss Escott's money;
they would have yours instead.'

Edward drew away suddenly from his
mother's side. She could not distinguish
the expression of his face, but she interpreted
the movement. Now, he was
pacing slowly up and down the room.
His silence encouraged her to continue, 

Miss Escott thinks you are rich, and
she knows she is penniless. Never could
I listen to the idea of a marriage with her,
nor would your father.'

Who talks of marriage ? ' cried Edward,
a sternness in his voice which Mrs Maitland
had never heard before. ' But, remember,
that the name of Miss Escott is
sacred to me. Say nothing of her that

will make me forget the respect I owe
you.'

This from you, Edward !  and about a
stranger ! You surprise me ! Before you
have been an hour in the house to address
such language to me ! This is Miss Escott's
doing  wretched girl ! Why does
she come here to divide us ? Listen tome,
Edward. You are our only son ;
your father has slaved for your sake, ever
since you were born. I have helped him.
He is slaving still to make you a wealthy
man. Years passed before we had a child.
Our son was to be all that we were not 
elegant, learned, accomplished  a member
of Parliament, a peer perhaps  the founder
of a family. All this is possible, for you
have exceeded all our expectations ; no
one has such a son. Is there anything
astonishing in our wishing to see you the
head of a family when we are gone ? '
Then, in a coaxing tone,  * You will reward
us for all our sacrifices, will you not,
Edward ? '

Maitland stopped pacing up and down
the room, and retreated to the window.
Hitherto, like most young men, it had
seemed to him that he was free to marry
whom he liked, and he had it on his lips

to say that a man chose a wife for himself
not for his parents.

But his mother's words presented to
him his position in a new light. In a
moment, all unprepared, he was called
upon to solve the problem of where filial
obedience ought to end and manly liberty
assert itself If he had known more of
Sophia ! If he had been sure she could
have loved him ! But he knew nothing.

On the other hand, he acknowledged
how true was all his mother said. He
was well aware of the devotion of both his
parents, and to what a degree their life
was bound up in his own. Was he prepared
to marry without their approbation ?
A cold struck to his heart. He began to
feel like a criminal.

Surely all this is premature,' sighed
he. ' I have seen Miss Escott once,  you
not at all. I expect your opinion will
change.'

Never ! ' was the prompt reply ; ' I will
never set eyes upon her. She is scheming
to take from me my only son.'

Mother, mother, you will drive me from
the room.'

Rebuked, but determined, Mrs Maitland's
voice softened.

I only act for your good, Edward.
What other motive can I have ? I can
only think of my dear son  what is more
natural ? Would you reproach me for it ?
Promise me'  and Mrs Maitland seized
both his hands and pressed them in her
own  ' that you will not marry without
our consent. There is yet time. Nothing
can have yet passed between you and Miss
Escott.'

Real tears were streaming from Mrs
Maitland's eyes, her hands were held up
beseechingly. Beside the window Edward
stood, rigid as a statue. The gloom without
seemed to be closing round his very
life-strings. Many voices spoke within
him. The loudest said, ' Beware ! ' How
could he listen ? His mother's impatience
gave him no time.

Is it so much,' she pleaded, ' to ask an
only son, that he will not destroy his
parents' home ? '

She could scarcely speak for sobs ; she
clung to him imploringly. These were
the first tears he had ever drawn from her
eyes ; they smote him to the soul. He
loved her dearly. All his thoughts, all
his affections had hitherto centred in her.
He had never asked himself if she had

deserved this. She was his mother ; that
had been enough for him. Suddenly an
overwhelming feeling of shame came over
him, that any conduct of his should humiliate
her. He drew her to him and kissed
her hand.

Dry your eyes, mother ; I cannot bear
to see you weep. I promise what you
ask, but be merciful.'

What had he said } He listened in
terror to the echo of his own words.

But that is not enough, Edward. I
want to know that you are safe. On my
knees  '

She was about to cast herself on the
floor, but he caught her in his arms and
prevented her. Gently he replaced heron
her chair ; but though gentle, his
manner was constrained.

There is no need to alarm yourself,
mother. I am quite free. I will try to
obey you.'

So tremulous was his voice, so hollow,
that it seemed not his own, but another's.

'My own boy! My darling!' cried
Mrs Maitland, throwing her rotund arms
round him in an effusion of joy. ' No
mother ever had such a son ! How
happy you make me ! From the day of

your birth you have always made me
happy ! '

Edward could not answer. He submitted
in silence to the voluminous caresses
lavished on him ; all the time trying
to realise what he really had promised.
Had he resigned all liberty of action '

There was a sound of footsteps in the
hall. It broke the awkward silence of the
darkened chamber, where mother and son
stood side by side, neither understanding
what was passing in the other's mind.

'Do you hear?' whispered Mrs Malt-land.
' That is your father's step In the
hall ! He has just returned. Not a word
of all this to him ! He comes home tired ;
it would disturb him. Come along, Edward
; this dark room is dismal ! '

Passively Edward followed her through
the door. Her jubilation terrified him !
How did she understand his promise ?
What did she mean ? He dared not ask
her.

HERE was always an ample
dinner at Rosebank  of the
substantial kind  partaken of
in a panelled room, with an
oriel window jutting into the garden ; a
modern room of course, but donor its utmost
to look ancient and gloomy, with
mediaeval furniture and pictures, bought in
Ardour Street.

Mrs Maitland, among her lady-like virtues,
included a love of good eating. Indeed,
her early vocation in life was doubtful,
and Mrs Shorne, the clergyman's wife,
whom she had often offended, by reason of
the rigid manner in which she had repulsed
her advances to her son, declared that she
had been a cook  cook to Mr Maitland in
the city.

But these are mysteries which do not
concern the present story.

Mr Maitland, always bringing with him
an excellent appetite from the city, fell
into a habit of good eating also : yet a
plainer, homelier man never was created
than Nathaniel Maitland, Esq., merchant
and broker of Threadneedle Street, City.

He had, by dint of sheer perseverance
and honesty, risen from being: an underclerk
in a broker's office, to be a name and
power on 'Change.

He was very like a mechanic in appearance.
A dark, common-place face, with
bushy whiskers, a large mouth, which
broke readily into a good-natured smile, a
large head, partly bald, with a fringe of
black hair, turning grey. \ tall, awkward
person, and large hands and feet.

Neither the persuasions nor the reproaches
of his wife could induce him to
wear proper clothes.

He was always to be seen in a rusty
black coat, a long white cravat, never over
clean, uncommonly seedy trousers, and a
battered hat.

When it was cold, he would retain as an
overcoat the round, short cape and long
skirts buttoned to the knees, which come

VOL. I. I

down to us in the wooden figures of the
ark, as the legendary costume of Shem,
Ham, and Japhet.

No one, in the memory of man, had ever
seen him in a new coat or a decent hat.
If he ever put them on, he must have gone
out into the grounds secretly in the rain,
and reduced them to their usual condition.
How he did it was his secret ; but it was
done.

As he never could be persuaded to enter
a church, he appeared no better dressed on
Sunday.

All this was a standing grievance to
Mrs Maitland. She had even urged the
injustice such a disregard to appearances
was to Edward. But at this Mr Maitland
would only chuckle and walk away ; invariably
bringing back from the city a new
dress, with which he presented her.

In the evening his appearance did rather
improve, for his wife had, on so many
occasions, punished him by refusing to sit
down to table with him, that as he was
generally very hungry, he had permitted
himself to be invested in clean linen and a
dress coat.

The table was covered with heavy and
showy plate. A patriarchal butler blandly

dispensed blessings In the shape of meat
and drink of first-class quality to the four
individuals who, with an acre of snowy
table-cloth between, and much display of
glass, sat down as solemnly as if it were to
a religious function.

Dinner was the only period of the day
during which Mrs Maitland's thirst for information
was quiescent. At dinner she
asked no questions. Beside her lay a case
of little tablets and a pencil, on which she
noted her various remarks on the execution
of the dishes ; now and then addressing
a half-aside observation to Miss Sterne,
whose furtive eyes, modestly shrouded by
the pale ringlets, took that precise shade of
colour in reply indicated by her patroness.

Mr Maitland's duties were confined to
pronouncing an elaborate grace in a mumbling
tone  then carvlnor with unbroken
taciturnity such joints as were placed before
him by the butler, and consuming his
own portion In silence.

About this butler there had been many,
what the Americans term  'difficulties,'
between Mr Maitland and the wife of his
bosom. Mr Maitland, accustomed to
female attendants in his ' poor days,' insisted
on a ' parlour-maid.' ' He would

not be served by a d  flunky grinning
at him behind his chair.'

Certainly when, after Mrs Maitland's
victory, the patriarchal butler was introduced
at Rosebank, there was no denying
he looked the master of the house all over.
Mr Maidand felt this, so he never opened his
lips In the man's presence when he could
help it. Mrs Maitland liked It, so the
butler remained, and Mr Maitland, out of
pure shyness, deprived himself of many a
second helping. Indeed, his whole demeanour
at his own table was that of an
unwelcome guest, not at all certain of his
reception.

On the present occasion, after the termination
of the second course, Mr Maitland,
watching the temporary exit of the
butler, raised his eyes to the rotund countenance
of his wife,  seated a long way off,
opposite to him,  and drank her health,
with as absolute a formality as if he had
seen her for the first time.

He had been duly schooled to this little
ceremony. His whole behaviour, indeed,
at table was the result of long years of
matrimonial instruction. That he should
have acquired some perfection In the prescribed
code was therefore not surprising.



When he had drunk Mrs Maitland's
health, and received equally formal acknowledgment,
he silently caused his glass
to be filled again, and in a more impulsive
manner, turned towards Edward 
at that moment eyeing, with an abstracted
glance the flowers of a huge epergne
placed in the centre of the table.

Your very good health, my dear boy I
Happy to see you home. We are very
dull without you.'

Having ventured upon this little sentence
quite out of his own head, Mr Maitland
eyed his wife from under his bushy
eyebrows, to mark its effect upon her.
Greatly to his relief she evinced no outward
sign of disapproval.

Thank you, dear father,' returned
Edward, with difficulty detaching his eyes
from a bright point in the epergne, where
they had fixed themselves, in utter forgetfulness
of all around.

Encouraged by the placidity of Mrs
Maitland's aspect, her husband, with an
instinct of genuine good-breeding, fearing
that Miss Sterne might feel herself
neglected, was about to drink her health
also. But here his guardian angel stepped
in and kindly prevented him.

From a certain unaccountable tremor
apparent in her whole manner, Miss Sterne
seemed, at that moment, as desirous to be
obliterated, as Mrs Maitland could possibly
Lavish she should be.

As Edward had withdrawn his eyes to
fix them on his father, he had become
conscious that Miss Sterne was furtively
studylno- him through the leaves of the
artificial flowers.

When he raised his eyes, she dropped
hers with a kind of guilty haste  her face
folding itself up, as it were, under her
blonde ringlets, in Impenetrable mystery.

Mrs Maitland found so much to note on
her tablets to-day respecting the cook's
delinquencies, that she was unusually silent.
Five whole minutes had elapsed before the
apple-sauce was handed round after the
fragrant goose had been served in all its
integrity, with accompaniment of onion,
herbs, bread-crumbs, and rich grav'. Five
whole minutes ! Disgraceful !

Then the meat in the curry was tough ;
the calves-foot jelly toppled over ignominiously
as it entered the room ! And the
tarts ! What was the matter with the tarts }
Mrs Maitland helped herself to another, 
eating it thoughtfully in order to discover.

Oh ! ' she cried, so suddenly, as to
cause Mr Maitland almost to jump from
his chair, and Edward and Miss Sterne to
start, and, without knowing, look at each
other. ' Oh ! I have found it out ! '

Found what out ?' asked Mr Maitland,
re-seating himself.

The jam is sour ! It won't do. Jemima
must go.'

Is that all ?' replied the master of the
house from the bottom of the table. * Send
her away if you like, my dear ; but don't
startle me at dinner. I do like to be quiet
at meals.'

Impossible, Mr Maitland ; impossible,
with such a cook ! '

Well, well, my dear ; write it all down,
only be quiet now ; let me enjoy myself.
The only time in the day when I can sit
quiet is dinner.'

The sound of Mrs Maitland's pencil
scratching over the paper  she wrote as
she talked  in bold, unformed letters, and
jerky, sententious sentences, and the
stealthy tread of the patriarchal butler,
pursuing his avocation upon the surface
of the Turkey carpet, like a conspirator,
was all that was now audible. Mrs Maitland
being present, no one cared to lead

the conversation ; certainly not Edward,
whose far-off look and absent manner
marked his abstraction.

Once or twice his father glanced anxiously
at him and then at his wife, catching
glimpses of her face sideways between the
flowers In the epergne.

But as Mrs Maitland seemed perfectly
satisfied, the good man supposed that all
was as it should be. He knew that, as a
rule, his wife did not encourage him to
talk at table. So easy a mode of showing
his marital compliance was  with a good
dinner before him, and the choicest of wine
placed on a dumb waiter, without troubling
the butler  not distasteful.

The same taciturnity continued when
they left the dining-room, and one by one
entered the ' saloon,' divided from it by
folding-doors, solemnly thrown open at the
moment Mrs Maitland rose from the
table.

Why this room, painted whlte and
panelled \vith gold and brocaded silk, the
ornamentation ending in a massive gold
cornice and a profusion of glass chandeliers,
should be so called, Mrs Maitland
alone could tell. But her orders were
strict. One housemaid had lost her place

because she persistently called the ' saloon '
'the parlour.' This was too much for Mrs
Maitland.

Mr Maitland, not daring to be comfortable
in his own homely way, and crack
his little jokes with Edward in the presence
of his wife, extended himself in a large
arm-chair before the fire, folded his arms,
put his feet on the fender, and stared at
the coals.

Mrs Maitland, with an instinct rather
than a feeling that her victory over Edward
had been dearly won, and that it
would be well to leave him to himself,
after the painful interview they had had,
instead of sitting by him, as was her wont,
and somewhat overwhelming him by her
caresses and her admiration, while she
questioned him about all in which he was
concerned  the ordering of his rooms, his
cook's expenses, his clothes, his washerwoman
(who on many occasions had
offended her nice eye when she unpacked
his clothes), the parties to which he had been
invited, what young ladies he had danced
with, and who had made love to him, as she
termed it (he always, in his turn, protesting
against the idea), to what noblemen he
had been introduced, if they liked him,

and had Invited him to their homes 
these questions, always accompanied by
many recommendations to avoid second-rate
society and needy friends, as Hkely to
impede the triumphant progress she contemplated
for him In life  had retired
with Miss Sterne into a corner, and seating
herself on a divan, prepared, in vulgar
phrase, to ' have her talk out ' about
Sophia Escott, while, with feverish activity
she stitched at an embroidery frame.

It was not often that any event disturbed
the tranquillity of her life at Rose-bank.
Now, with Edward's strange infatuation
towards the stranger, she seemed drifting
into the excitement of a perfect drama.

Talk she must, if not to Edward to Miss
Sterne, whose pale eyes glittered with an
unusual brightness.

Occasional words, bursts of conversation,
came to Edward's ears as he sat by the
fire, affecting to read a newspaper, not one
word of which he saw. For, alas ! he
knew his mother too well not to guess the
subject of her earnest conversation. He
would at once have gone out but for his
father, who, he knew beforehand, as long
as he remained awake, would insist on
having him near him.

Conceive  dreadful  suicide ! ' reached
Edward, In what his mother Intended to
be a whisper, her head turned away, In the
pauses of her stitches, towards her companion,
also engaged in some minute embroidery,
overshadowed by her ringlets.

Disgusting ! ' echoed the latter, softly.

Two brothers, they say  shot one after
the other ! Hereditary insanity ! '

What has she come here for ? ' asked
Mrs Maitland in a louder key.

Daily governess ? ' suggested Miss
Sterne, sotto voce.

No, no ! quite unfitted. Sets up for
beauty  temper  extravagance.'

Husband ? ' put In the other ; and as
she spoke, she shot a strange glance towards
the place where Edward, invisible
behind his newspaper, was suffering torture.

Husband ! ' exclaimed Mrs Maitland
In a distinct tone.

It must be observed that she was under
the Impression that she was quite Inaudible
to every one but Miss Sterne.

Who would have her } '

Edward moved uneasily in his chair,
noisily unfolded the sheets of the newspaper,
and poked the already blazing fire, but all
was quite thrown away upon his mother.

Consider  parents  connection 
pauper  '

Here her voice dropped into her work-frame,
in the taking of a long stitch of red
silk for the formation of a rose.

Pauper ! ' Miss Sterne was heard to
echo. ' Disgraceful ! ' This was added,
leaning back against the divan, and turning
her eyes stealthily in the direction of
Edward.

I shall take no notice of her ! ' Mrs
Maitland continued, almost in her natural
voice, fororettinor what was due to her son's
presence in the excitement of the subject,
and the difficulty of forming a particular rose-leaf,
on account of a knot in the floss silk,
at which she tugged energetically. ' I shall
not see her. Advise Mrs Winter  get rid
immediately  '

The clear, harsh voice again subsided
into the frame.

Miss Sterne here whispered something
into Mrs Maitland's ear. Mrs Maitland,
smiling, nodded her head repeatedly  the
red floss silk suspended in her fingers in
her anxiety to catch every syllable of her
communication.

All this was agony to Edward. As the
snatches of conversation reached him, he

grew more and more displeased. Had he
imagined that his mother intended him to
hear what she was saying, he would not
only have left the room, but the house,
but he knew her foibles and could make
allowances. Yet he felt, and that strongly,
that after the sacrifice he had just made,
she ought not to have exposed him to the
chance of overhearing such a conversation.

Miss Sterne, too, discussing Miss Escott
in his very presence ! Miss Sterne daring
even to allude to Sophia ! It was intolerable
!

With his mother it was different. He
had too often had reason to deplore her
want of delicacy. Now he resented it.
Starting up from his chair and crushing
the outspread newspaper in his hands, he
turned and cast an agitated look in the
direction of the divan.

Quite useless ! Mrs Maitland, her ear
still lowered towards Miss Sterne, every
feature bent into listening, looked up
sharply, the premature hollows of her
companion's face apparent as she moved
her thin-lipped mouth.

What a noise you are making, my dear
Edward ! cried Airs Maitland.' ' Do be
quiet, or you wall make your father  '

Then, replacing herself In the same
position as before, she again turned her
ear towards her companion.

Mr Maitland, senior, who had been
nodding, here woke up.

Anything wrong, my dear boy } ' he
asked huskily, looking steadfastly into his
son's face. ' You are pale, Teddy ! Been
bettlnor  p in disgrace with the Dons } '

No father ; thank you.'

Ms Edward well, my dear ? ' asked Mr
Maitland, leaning over in the direction of
his wife. * He looks fagged.'

Oh dear, yes  quite well,' answered
Mrs Maitland. * Leave him alone ! There
is nothing the matter with you, is there,
dear Edward ? ' after a pause.

Nothing the matter with my health,
mater,' he answered reproachfully. * Why
do you ask } '

It is not I  It Is your father ? '
Edward put down the paper he had

crushed, and crossed over nearer to his
father. Mr Maitland was at that moment
yawning portentously. Taking a huge
gold watch from his fob, he wound it up,
yawned again, and then fell Into a sleepy
survey of his son's face as he leaned
against the mantelpiece.

Ah, my boy ! ' shaking his head at him
with a concentration of wisdom. ' You
should lead my life  slaving in the city
all day. Making money is stirring work.
Losing it  stirring too. You have to get
it back again. Up and down  in and
out  down the middle  up again  double
shuffle and  why, Edward, you are not

listening to me

I beg your pardon, dear father,' replied
Edward, turning round.

Edward had lived this kind of life between
father and mother many years, but it had
never struck him before how unutterably
dull and useless it was.

No time for the high-strikes In business,'
continued Mr Maitland, happy in
the consciousness of the butler's absence.
He would not appear again for an hour
with the tea, and before that time Mr
Maitland would have gone to bed. ' But
you young gentlemen work at nothing but
idleness. I never could amuse myself
doing nothing.' Another yawn. ' Hardest
work of all holding a book, or sitting with
your hands before you. Long before your
age, Edward, I was a clerk in an office In
Thames Street. You would not put the
sole of your foot there. Up by candle-light

all winter ; six miles to walk there and back
to Horton  and to run about the docks
all day, in and out of stinking ships, until
my legs felt like tape.

I had to sweep out the office too  no
joke that  a nasty, stuffy place  clean the
tin candlesticks, sand the floor, and put ink
into the inkstands. In winter I had to
light the fire and boil the kettle  half-an-hour
striking the flints before I could get a
light, and breath gone with blowing! It
all had to be done by eight o'clock, wet or
dry. Cold work, my boy ; with no gloves,
and holes in my boots to let the water in !
When I got promoted to the Stock Exchange
 '

Now, we don't want to hear all about
that, Mr Maitland!' cried his wife, very
tartly, breaking off from Miss Sterne.
Edward is not you ! You have worked
to make him what he is. xA.ny boy can
walk six miles and flounder about at the
docks ; but every boy cannot be our Edward
! '

She surveyed her son and smiled triumphantly.
' I should spoil him if I said
what I think of him ! Come, give mea
kiss, Edward.' (This invitation he
affected not to hear.) 'As for you, Mr

Maitland, if you have nothing better to
talk about than your early life, you had
better go to bed. I could talk of my early
life too, but it would sound like a reproach
to Edward.'

As you please, my dear,' replied her
husband placidly, rising from his chair.
Early to bed, early to rise, is the way  '

Don't be vulgar, Mr Maitland interposed
his wife, with growing wrath. ' We
know all about that. Every infant knows
it. If you can only entertain Edward with
repeating stupid old proverbs, I say again,
Go to bed ! '

I am quite willing, my love,' with the
most immovable good temper. * I am
very sleepy. Edward knows I don't want
to reproach him.'

The father stretched out his hand, which
was warmly grasped by his son. ' He is
welcome to all I can give him  to do just
as he likes with it. I never was good at
spending.'

'Go to bed, Mr Maitland!' she reiterated.
' You are talking nonsense. '

This is what you will come to, Edward ! '
said Mr Maitland, with a proud smile,
pointing to his wife, once more absorbed
in a desperate struggle with the silk of her

VOL. I. K

embroidery. 'But if you choose the right
woman  the woman you fancy  it is not
such a bad life after all. Your mother and
I have pulled along well enough. She
likes to snub me now ; she didn't once.
You will push on with a wife too, one day
the sooner the better, my boy. Little
grandchildren will make your mother happy
give her something to do, when she's
only got me to scold.'

As Mr Maitland raised his round, grey
eyes to his son, standing erect, holding the
door open for him to pass out, even his
drowsy faculties were caught by Edward's
tall, lithe figure, on which his clothes sat
so well, the graceful outline of his head and
neck, and that grave earnestness which
gave such dignity to his young face.

It suddenly struck the good man how
strange it was that he should be the father
of such a son ; struck him with amazement,
as he stood staring at him under this new
aspect  the inspection proving so satisfactory
to his feelings that he broke into a
low laugh.

The sooner the better, my boy ; the
sooner the better,' he repeated, resting his
hand for an instant on his son's arm, and
gazing tenderly into the depths of his grey

eyes. * No fear of your being refused by
the girls  no fear ! Too good-looking by
half. Besides, we can buy you a little
furniture.' Liking the joke, he added, ' A
chair and a table  eh, Teddy . But listen
to your old father ; choose your wife for
yourself Never let mortal come between
you and the woman you love ! That's all !
Money is money  all very well in its own
place  and I am not the man to gainsay it.
And a high station in life for the sweetheart
of such a handsome young fellow as
you, if she comes in your way, but not
otherwise ! Choose her, when you decide,
for yourself, Teddy, and let all the rest
go to blazes. Choice is everything
eh, Nellie' to Mrs Maitland in the
distance. ' Where should I have been
without her . ' pointing to the divan. ' Yet
her father made a deuce of a row, I remember.'


Edward's eye melted before the honest
love of his father's glance  a love to which
he knew he could always appeal. But, todo
so, would offend and hurt his mother
beyond recall. As long as he could remember,
the management of everything at
home had passed from his father's into his
mother's hands. There was a tacit but

absolute understanding about this. To
ignore the unspoken law would be mean.

Yes, to choose for himself was all he
asked ; and he had chosen !

Go to bed, Mr Maitland, go to bed!*
cried his wife, catching the drift of the
conversation. ' You are doing a great
deal of harm ! You are preaching rebellion !
Edward is not free ; he is responsible to us ! '

'Hear her! hear her!' murmured Mr
Maitland, with a jerk of his head and
shoulder towards the divan. * How she
puts things. She would convince a stone.
She is a wonderful woman  has been the
making of me, Ted ! If that old German
Jew, Winter, had such a wife, he would
never have gone to the bad. Mrs Winter !
Puff! Mrs Winter is a jackass ! Believe
me, the woman makes the man.'

Still talking, Mr Maitland left the room,
just as his wife, more and more exasperated
by the turn the conversation was
taking, especially at the production of a
second proverb, was rising from her seat
to insist on his departure.

Edward followed his father into the hall,
resolved to overhear no more conversation
between his mother and Miss Sterne.
As Mr Maitland disappeared upstairs, he
opened the front door and went out.

HE fog had lifted. The moon
shone down serenely from a
pale hemisphere, illuminated by
its silvery light. Low in the
horizon, where the heavens were darker,
a few stars twinkled faintly over the naked
tree tops.

The river gently lapping against the
reedy sedges, doubled the subdued glories
of the moon.

The night breeze sighed soothingly
among the bare branches of the trees, on
which each drop of moisture glistened like
a diamond.

The air was fresh, caressing all it met,
in little whirls and eddies, like the return
of summer.

No sound but a subdued murmur from

the water ; even the night birds were
hushed. All nature slept, lulled by the
beautiful spell of the moonlight ; above,
below, around reigned peace and heavenly
silence.

Edward walked rapidly up and down a
broad terrace, which stretched its ample
length beside the river, the little wavelets
crested with a silvery fringe, rippling
monotonously at his feet, the reeds along
the turfy bank bending before him, as the
night breeze passed, the osiers and the
withys whispering in a language of their
own.

Not to marry without her consent !
Would to God I had never bound myself!'
he was saying to himself. 'If I could
only have known Sophia's mind, I would
not have yielded ; but surely my mother
will be reasonable, she cannot expect me
to keep such a promise literally.'

But while he told himself this, he
dreaded all the while that she wotdd expect
him to do so, especially after what he had
overheard between her and Miss Sterne.

Then as he recalled her injurious words,
his whole soul rose up in indignation
against her. For the first time in his life
he found himself scrutinising her character,

and recalling with pain her many peculiarities,
and a terrible doubt as to whether
he could trust her came over him.

Never had he felt towards his mother
as he felt now  never so keenly appreciated
her utter want of delicacy and refinement.

That she should so speak of Sophia
after the promise she had wrung from him
a promise which she had no right to
demand. That she should allow Miss
Sterne (here a twinge of absolute rage
contracted his features) to desecrate
Sophia's name, shook the very foundations
of his confidence.

If I only felt sure that she cared for
me  this thought rose mechanically again
and again as he strode up and down the
path. ' If I only knew how to act. My
mother must yield  she cannot expect me
to sacrifice my life to her foolish ostentation.
I am utterly adrift. I have seen
Sophia but once.'

Seen her but once ! How all the world
had changed since then. Old Twickenham
seemed all aglow since her arrival. Surely,
when they parted at the green door, and
he had promised to be her friend, she
understood something of his feelings ?

Oh, beautiful eyes ! ' he cried, forgetting

all but his own thoughts, * how they rested
on me. What a look ! Surely her fingers
returned my pressure  just a little. She
told me she was unhappy ; she said, *' Come
and see me," and I, fool that I was, parted
from her abruptly. Talked of friendship
with a goddess standing before me ! Ah,
how near she is ! '

He suddenly paused in his agitated walk
and gazed up over the tree tops. Behind
those tall elms, where the rooks cawed all
day, rose the red walls of Scatlands.

Even now, at this very instant, she
may be thinking of me.'

At this thought all the blood flamed in
his veins in a kind of ecstasy.

Dare I declare myself so soon.' Again
he looked towards Scatlands. At that
moment she might be asking herself when
he would come.

He would risk his mother's displeasure ;
he would ask her if she could love him.
This thought came over him in fresh
throbs of ever-recurring delight. All the
world had faded away ; there was no living
presence but himself and his adored one.
The damp night air felt hot upon his brow.
Yes, if she loved him she should be his 
his own.

But this wild fit of enthusiasm, so alien
to his serious nature, cooled somewhat
when he reflected, that to irritate his
mother by too great precipitancy was to
defeat the very object he had in view.

It could only have the effect of irrevocably
offending her ; after all she was
his own dear mater  her faults were but
virtues turned the wrong way for him.

Right or wrong, he had made her a
promise ; he must keep it until she herself
set him free.

It was not possible that, with his happiness
at stake, she should hold out long.
She herself had all but told him, before he
went to Oxford, that she had destined him
for the Indian heiress.

It was only the ruin and the death of
the father that formed the present obstacle.
His mother could not seriously believe
that he was going to sell himself for money ;
or that he must not love a girl because her
father had shot himself.

At this reflection the calm without
seemed to penetrate into his soul. As the
moon mounted higher and higher into the
purple dome, absorbing every shadow into
its dreamy splendour, his hopes rose also
in their bright foreshadowing.

How long he paced up and down the
river walk he knew not. It seemed very
long, for he had been living over, in fancy,
all his future life  a life with Sophia.

As he at length turned towards the
house, a new spirit animated him. He
seemed to tread on air.

In the hall he began a fresh argument
with himself as to how far he was justified
in trying to gain Sophia's love. In his
state of mind the decision was not difficult.

The bright moonlight, flooding floor and
ceiling and walls, helped him wonderfully.
By day he might not have bridged over
difficulties so easily, nor might his reasonings
have appeared so conclusive, but
under the moonlight so many things are
possible !

The circumstances were so peculiar, that
he might flatter himself she would overlook
all that was unusual in his conduct.
If he could only see her alone ! Yet, was
it wise to risk a visit too soon ? He knew
he should be watched. She herself might
resent it as an intrusion. He would wait,
then find an opportunity of saying something
to her, to which she might deign to
listen.

Not marriage, but an immediate engagement.
Could he so soon dare to enter on
such a question. What might she think
of it?

Remembering the dignity of those big,
shadowy eyes resting on him, he trembled.

What he desired to persuade her was,
that even an engagement would render
her life happier and worthier in that desolate
house, under the protection of such a
man as Louis Winter.

On this point he would dwell for justification.
As he decided all this, no shadow
seemed to lie before him. His mother
had died out of his mind as the shadows
had died out on the lawn, as the moon
rose to her zenith.

The sooner the better  the sooner the
better,' this phrase ran incessantly in his
brain, like the rhyme of a sweet song,
as he stood erect before a large bay-window,
an illuminated figure bathed in
the moonlight.

How could he meet her alone ? When
decide his fate .' It would be difficult at
Scatlands with Aunt Amelia always at
home. Such a happy encounter, as today,
in the lane, could hardly be expected
a second time.

Oh ! If they could meet In the recesses
of a great wood, where deep shadows fell
across their faces, or In an open plain,
where the sun set In solitude upon an
empty world. In the silence of the mighty
ocean, with nothing over them but the
clear sky !  If there could be nothing said !
Only to kiss her lips and draw her to
him !

Suddenly Edward remembered It must
be very late.

He moved from the window, and crossing
the hall opened the door of the saloon.
He had left some papers he wanted on the
table.

At the further end of the room, under a
deeply-shaded lamp, sat Miss Sterne. She
started up as he entered, and tried to
escape by a side door. So noiseless were
her movements, so light her step, It was
evident she Imagined he had not observed
her.

Maitland arrested her with a motion of
his hand. As he did so, the whole expression
of his young face changed Into a look
of aversion.

Miss Sterne, I beg you will remain.
I wish to speak to you.'

As his voice came to her, she stood
rooted to the spot. Her head bent down,
her breath coming with pain. So thin, so
slight she looked, so evanescent her paled
cheeks, so sunk into premature hollows,
she seemed almost transparent. Yet her
large light eyes still retained something of
their youthful pathos, her flaxen hair still
its beauty, the comb which held it altogether
insufficient for its weight, letting
it escape in tresses and ringlets over her
thin shoulders.

You are not keeping to the terms of
our agreement. I must remind you of the
consequences.'

Oh, Mr Maidand Edward ! Have
mercy ! ' These words were uttered so
low that they reached his ear like a
whisper.

It is you who have no mercy. How
dare you speak of an innocent girl as you
did to-night of Miss Escott ? What do
you know of her that you malign her }
You, of all others, to let her pure name
pass your lips ! '

In his indignation Edward had approached
a step or two nearer to the
place where Miss Sterne stood, in the
deep shadow of a curtained doorway.

Before she replied, she put out her hand
beseechingly. * Your mother!' she gasped,
your mother ! I have to tell her everything.
If I did not amuse her, she would
send me away. Remember, I have no
home but this. I dare not oppose her ! '

Oppose her ! ' You fan the flame by
your miserable scandal. Words fell from
you just now. I heard them. You intended,
yes, wickedly, maliciously intended
to injure her. Why did you tell my
mother you had seen me with Miss Escott
in the lane ? You were watching me,
you know you were watching me ! '

Edward's eyes riveted themselves upon
her slight figure as he stood in the centre
of the room. His commanding form
doubled in the mirrors.

Miss Sterne covered her face with her
hands  the delicate blue veins swelling
under the tight pressure.

Why could you not have been silent ? '
he continued in the same hard tone.
You might have guessed that I wished
to reach the house unobserved. What
miserable jealousy prompted you to betray
me ? I warn you that if you interfere
in any way, or utter a single word about
Miss Escott to my mother, I shall tell her

the truth. I ought never to have concealed
It ! '

Edward ! Maitland ! You could not 
you would not be so cruel. What, oh
what have I done but love you,' burst
from Miss Sterne, withdrawing her hands
from under the curtain of her flaxen ringlets,
and looking at him imploring. ' Why
may I not love you as well as this stranger '
From the first night we met  ah ! you
remember. You did not hate me then ? '
and she shot a wild glance at Edward 
the valse  the bouquet  those sweet,
sweet words. Then you cared for me.'

Never,' broke from Edward, determinedly.
' As the sister of my friend I
only offered you the ordinary attentions of
society. You misunderstood them, and
now  '

And now,' she repeated, catching up
his words, her white face worked up to
a kind of frenzy. ' What can you say
against me ? What proof can you bring
to condemn me ? No one saw it done 
the child died in my arms. It was but
suspicion. Even that dreadful magistrate
at the inquest, when he heard me plead,
defended me ; and  and  ' again the thin
hands went up, but this time knotted by

the grief and fury within her. 'Had it
been otherwise, had I been guilty, it is
not for you to accuse me, my worship, for
you should have excused even a crime.'

A quick start and a movement of repulsion
on Edward's part recalled her to
herself.

But no crime was committed. I
swear it by the living God ! by the
dreadful love I bear you,' and a frantic
burst of tears shook her slight frame
as the aspen shakes before the tempest.
Yes, I ant jealous,' she continued
quickly ; her voice rising like shrill music
in the silence of the room, * jealous of every
woman who approaches you. It is the
price I pay for the luxury of your presence.
You cannot prevent it. It is my
woman's right. I have done nothing to
forfeit it.'

And do you think that I should have
allowed you to cross this threshold if I
had believed you guilty ? ' broke from
Maitland, indignant at the tone she was
taking. ' Do you think I should have
allowed my mother to shelter a murderess
? No ; whatever had been your life,
it was my belief In your innocence of that
charge which made me pity you, flung alone

on the world after such an accusation.
Without that, not all your dear brother's entreaties
on his death-bed would have induced
me to introduce you to my mother.
But this has nothing to do with what
followed. A thousand times your unwomanly
importunities have all but driven
me to the necessity of having you dismissed.
You choose to construe my compassion
into  '

Turning from her with ill-concealed
contempt, Edward could not bring himself
to finish the sentence.

Then came that fever. You nursed
me. I did not know it. I was delirious.
Had I been in my senses, I would not
have allowed it.'

Don't, don't, Maitland ! ' broke in Miss
Sterne. Her diminutive figure seemed to
rise and expand as she advanced towards
the hearth, where Edward was standing.
You may threaten me too much. You
may make my life unbearable, all for the
sake of this Indian girl. You know it 
you know it ! ' she cried, with a strange
break in her voice, suddenly falling back
and clinging to a chair to save herself
from fall in or.'

'If, to please your new love, you dis-vol.

I. L

grace me by telling Mrs Maitland the pretended
crime of which I was accused, I
will go down and drown myself in the
river. You shall be falsely accused, just as
I was. I swear it ! Ah ! you are in my
power now ! ' she exclaimed exultingly, in
answer to the quick start Edward gave.
You cannot prevent that.'

Quivering, she clung to the chair, her
half-closed eyes revealing strange lights of
mingled love and hate. ' How can a
creature so beautiful be so cruel ? '

'If you are wicked enough to drown
yourself that I may be accused of your
death, do it,' replied Edward ; ' at least you
have forewarned me.'

No, Edward, no,' flinging herself forward,
' I could not harm you. You are
all the world to me. It is the thought of
Miss Escott which maddens me.'

But that is what you said, Alicia
Sterne. By heaven ! it is an awful
threat. It makes my skin creep. If,' here
he blushed scarlet  ' if I had given you
the smallest reason to address such language
to me ! Can you say I ever did ?
Your past life forbade it. I was shocked
at your exposing yourself to the fever for
my sake, but I never knew it. How could

J

I imagine that my mother would breakdown,
and that you would take her place ? '

She shook her head despairingly. ' You
are an anoel ! All I ask is to be near
you.'

And you are here. Have I betrayed
you ? ' answered he, with that cold reserve
so striking in one so young. * But, remember,
there were conditions.'

Conditions ! Yes. I am to sit by and
see you love another  Such another as I.
Disgraced  dependant  a beggar. I
watched you in the lane. I saw her eyes.
She was dallying with you.'

Silence ! ' shouted Edward, losing all
self-control, and striding forward. Midway
he stopped, towering over her like
some young god of vengeance.

Have pity, have pity ! ' was all she could
say, crouching before him. * Is it such i
sin to love you ? '

Yes,' replied Edward,  to me it seems
a sin.'

'Hear him, hear him!' cried the unhappy
woman ; ' and he thinks I can bear
this ! Am I not flesh and blood like her ?
Will she love you as I do ? Never ! She
is too selfish to know what love means. I
cannot help it  I cannot help it,' she

wailed, sinking upon a seat, as she caught
the scrutiny of Maitland's cold glance.
You are breaking my heart.'

For a moment there was silence ; then
she stretched out a child-like hand, so
small and fragile in its helplessness ;
Edward must have been more than man
to resist it. Of all the appeals she had
made to him, this little hand alone moved
him. For an instant he touched it, then
dropped it.

Alicia, it is not for me to accuse you.
I leave you to your own conscience. You
are the sister of my dearest friend. However
much I disapprove your former life,
God forbid that I should willingly make
your present position worse than it is. It
was to put that life from you  to bury it 
I brought you here. But If you wish to
remain, you must satisfy me that you will
never mention Miss Escott to my mother.'

Yes, that you may love her and repulse
me ; ' the words came hissing out of a
tangle of yellow hair. ' You have spoken
to me cruelly  barbarously, Edward Malt-land.
You are as cold as that marble,' and
she pointed to the rich carvings of the
mantelpiece behind him.

But mark my words,' here she raised

her head, and cast upon him a look so full
of malice, it turned him cold. * You will
never marry that girl. I will prevent it.'
She gave a triumphant smile.

Now it was Edward's turn to cower
before this creature, so fiendish in her love.
Now it was that he came to understand
what manner of woman was before him.

How could he control her ? In his
present overwrought mood, her words
sounded prophetic. In the wild phases of
her passion she had struck a cord that horrified
him. She would revenge herself,
not on him, but on Sophia.

At this moment but one feeling possessed
him, to fly as from some incarnate spirit of
evil, palpably invoked before him.

Catching up a pile of papers that lay upon
a table, without another word he left her.

As his departing footsteps echoed in the
hall, a sudden thought seemed to strike
her. Wiping away every vestige of tears,
and carefully replacing the comb in the
luxuriant folds of her long hair, she took
up a silver taper, lighted it, and moved
towards one of the large mirrors which
almost lined the room, then casting a long
earnest look at her own face, she murmured
sorrowfully, 

Not like her  not like her. No longer
young  nothing to charm him ! Oh, that
the years would roll back, and make me
what I was ! But for a month, a day, an
hour ! That he might feel something of the
fierce fire that consumes me, and take me
to him as but his slave.'

Then as the flame of the taper fell upon
her blue eyes, she turned them where he
had been standing before the hearth, and
with a passionate gesture stooped, and
kissed the spot where his feet had rested.

Let him turn me out ; let him disgrace
me. I have said it. He shall never
marry Sophia Escott.'

LOSE to the Bank of England,
turning off sharp to the left, is
a long, irregular lane, hardly to
be called a street, bordered by
mean houses.

Summer or winter the sun never shines
there. A ray of light darting, at times,
like an arrow through a break in the
monotonous row of house-roofs, is all that
ever appears, and that only when the sunsets
towards the north in long summer days.
It is a place just out of the racket and
movement of the city, of utter solitude
and silence. Nothing but the thunder of
the outer traffic is audible.

No omnibus penetrates there, and the
cabs and carts, coming singly, do not boom
and echo there as in the broader streets.

The pavement on either side Is so narrow,
that foot-passengers cannot linger on
the way ; but pass rapidly, shouldered by
those who come and go.

There are many small musty shops of old
iron, and vegetables, and meat ; the latter
most uninviting to the eye and nostrils.

What are not shops are offices  some
with a plate and a name  some without.
To bear no name Is a conceit of greatness,
much affected by the wealthier firms that
Inhabit this melancholy quarter.

On many plates the dust and blacks
have settled, so that the letters are practically
Illegible.

The office-doors all open on a swing ;
from ten to four they flap incessantly. At
four there Is a steady exodus east and west.

When night comes, no one Is left there,
but the guardians of the offices, and the
dingy individuals who dispense the unsavoury
meat and stale cabbages.

This Is their active moment  if the meat
be not sold during the day, it will stink
before morning.

A crowd of men, women and girls, more
wretched and degraded than the sellers,
pour In and carry off portions in brown
paper, or hanging on a skewer.

Who buys the old Iron does not appear.
One might stand a whole day, and watch
in vain for anyone who came or went into
these dark shops. Yet somebody opens
them in the morning, and a shutter is put
up at night, and a gas jet flares in the air
over the heaps of rusty chains and locks
and hooks, and odds and ends of grates
and boilers, and a cat sits behind, licking
its face, and pensively contemplating the
passing world with blinking eyes.

But, beyond that, the houses might have
been empty, ready for the ghosts.

More than half-way down the lane, and
nearer the other end  which debouches
into another great thoroughfare near the
post-office, where another noisy stream of
traffic comes thundering down like a perpetual
bombardment  a small church surrounded
by iron railings pushes forward on
the pavement.

Nothing to strike the eye in this church
of red brick, faced with stone, and carrying
a square tower  only that, just over it, out
of the tops of the houses, rises majestically
the huge dome of St Paul's.

Seeing this, one thinks involuntarily 
Why should a church be there at all. just
within its shadow 1 '

There is a quiet, tidy court round It,
paved In stone, and a few scrubby plane-trees,
with black branches, to which some
shrivelled leaves still cling, spread themselves
over the Iron rails into the street.

There Is no present graveyard, but all
around neat tomb-stones, with forgotten
inscriptions, and on one side a footway
passing by the church porch, and leading
off into further deserts of houses beyond,
in the direction of the city.

Taken in conjunction with the depressing
aspect of the lane, the dreary houses, the
musty shops, and the grave, serious faces
that meet each other on the pavement,
that church forms a contrast with the
prosy dulness of the lane.

If, In passing, I, by accident, miss the
sight of that church, I feel aggrieved, and
realise more forcibly the utter misery and
squalor of the street.

In early summer, the plane trees are
bright and green, glittering in the slant
of sunshine. Later on they tone down to
dusky yellow, and tremble on the branch,
like .young lives passing away. In winter
the sparrows hop about on the bare
branches in a bold, cheery way, and twitter
to each other In little homely concerts, not

wanting a certain charm ; and when the
snow hangs there it gutters the whole place
into a glory.

An old orange-woman has planted her
stall just beneath the iron gates, which
open to the church, and sits there, a smile
upon her battered old face, keenly scrutinising
each passer-by in respect of purchases.

If her smile meets a reassuring glance,
she thrusts an orange in your face. If not,
she watches you, smiling still, and muttering
to herself, 

Thank you, good gentleman, thank you.
Another day, thank you kindly.'

It is twelve o'clock, and very cold. It
froze hard in the night, only the southern
side of the lane has thawed a little, and here
and there the pavement is muddy, and the
stones slushy ; otherwise, all is Ice-bound.

An incipient fog hangs in the air waiting,
further on In the day, to descend inforce
and wrap everything in its dusky
folds.

It Is twelve o'clock, but few passers-by
have appeared at all, and none on the side
of the street where the church stands.

The smile on the orange-woman's face
is almost a grin, it is so rueful. She has
tilted her rusty black bonnet over her nose,

and wrapped a ragged tartan shawl tightly
round her. Her feet are hidden in some
wisps of hay a benevolent cabman bestowed
on her, as she took her seat in the morning
on the broken basket, which is her throne.

Before her, a patch of bright colour in
the surrounding gloom, lie her oranges,
piled up artistically upon a paper, which she
has carefully picked out of a recent dustheap,
and having been well polished in her
shawl, shine preternaturally.

Not one reassuring smile has met her
eye that day. She has said, ' Thank you,
good gentleman, another day,' so often, that
she repeats it softly to herself, like a charm,
dozing a little between whiles, it is so cold.

Now, passing along the passage at her
back, towards the iron gates that lead into
the street, there is the sound of a rapid footfall,
and a short, thick-set man, with short
legs and a head and shoulders quite out of
proportion to his body, appears.

He is well wrapped up in a great-coat
of a foreign cut, faced with fur, and a voluminous
worsted comforter is twisted so
many times round his throat, that nothing
is visible of his face but a prominent nose,
now very purple, over which a high-crowned,
narrow-brimmed hat is balanced on a shock

of hair. Both hands In his pockets, as he
reaches the orange-woman, who rouses herself
from a doze, and smiles a haggard smile.

Thank you, good gentleman,' Is on her
lips, when something in the pucker of the
purple nose arrests her. A pair of keen
little dark eyes disclose themselves from
under the narrow brim of the hat  eyes
which smile distinctly at her.

The orange-woman plunges her hand
among the bright balls of well-rubbed fruit,
and bringing out two more shining than the
rest, offers them with a beseeching look.
It is very cold, good gentleman.'
She says no more. Experience has taught
her that pressing brings no customers.

Tanned cold ! ' promptly responds the
voice of Mr Winter. * So, so, my dear,'
pushing back the oranges with his elbow ;
vat can I do vit he ? I do not want he.
He make my stomach aches.'

You'd ache, mister, if you sat here all
day as I do,' answered the woman gruffly.

She felt herself aggrieved. This one
had proved like the others, but he did smile,
and now he will not buy.

Dat I should!' responded Mr Winter,
frankly ; ' rather zee nor me, my gate frau.
My gate frau, I do not want ze fruit, but

here is von beetle penny, two beetle pennies,
by dad ! Vy ! here is three beetle pennies,
and all for zee ! ha ! ha ! all for zee ! Dat
is vot I call the luck. No von will geese
me von single penny  no von.'

Mr Winter laughed, took out of his
pocket a hand warmly enclosed in a worsted
glove, knit by Aunt Amelia, and placed the
pennies in the woman's outstretched palm
one by one, with a grin upon his red face
as broad as her own.

Dere, gate frau,' he said triumphantly,
dropping the last penny into her hand,
which closes on it like a spring. ' Never
say die. Now give me a think health.'

A good gentleman, you be, master,' is
her reply, in the same gruff voice as before,
as she rams the pennies into the depths of
a side pocket that appears to reach to her
knees. Then, bringing herself up again
with a jolt,  ' You warm a body, you do ! '

Gut morgen, madame,' says Mr Winter,
making a ceremonious bow, and feebly making
believe to raise his hat to the orange-woman,
who stands erect, her arms hanging
straight down, shaking with laughter.

Good day, gentleman. I hope you'll
often pass this way.'

But Mr Winter is gone. With his large

feet and short legs he shuffles quickly over
the pavement.

Now he has crossed the road, turns
sharply to the right, passes about a dozen
houses, then, without taking his hands from
his pockets, butts against a swing door ina
very grimy house, and enters.

Within is another door, to open which
I\Ir Winter takes his hands from his pockets.
So  so,' he mutters approvingly, as he
snuffs up the warm air that comes circling
round him from within. ' Dat sees good.'

He enters a large low room, a kind of
gallery, lighted at intervals by skylights.
From the outside of the house no one
would have guessed the size of the premises,
built over what had once been a
garden at the back.

An open gangway leads down the middle
of the floor, straight from the outer doors,
to another at the far end, covered with
green baize and studded with brass nails.

On either side of the gangway are high
desks, each furnished with a rude metal
inkstand, a sheet of blotting-paper, and an
almanac.

In the centre of the office, on either
hand, is an open space, warmed by two
large stoves.

The high desks, placed in a semicircle
near the fire, are filled with clerks of various
ages, writing, or appearing to write. Some
near the door are vacant. That is the
coldest part of the room, and is avoided.

At the upper end, near the baize door,
is a kind of wooden pulpit, at which sits
an immovable figure, with a blank face
and searching eyes, writing too, but also
watching the progress of the various clerks,
whom it is his business to overlook.

Under the pulpit is a counter, covered
with much-stained leather, and a couple of
cane-bottomed chairs for the accommodation
of such persons as have business with
the firm, and are not admitted to the
sanctum within.

Coming from the frost outside, the heat
is oppressive. Mr Winter evidently finds
it so.

Poof ! poof ! ' he exclaims, as he passes
down the office, taking off, first, his hat,
then his gloves, then his fur cloak, and
finally his worsted scarf. 'Poof!'

By the time he reaches the pulpit, he has
one by one stripped himself of all his wraps,
and appears in his house attire.

The clerks stare at his grotesque figure
in silence ; only from one or two of the

younger ones, unaccustomed to his appearance,
a suppressed titter escapes.

Mr Winter is too much preoccupied with
his clothes and the heat to observe this ;
but, had he observed it, he would probably
have joined in the laugh.

Passing by the pulpit, he is entering the
baize door, when a voice out of the ceiling
stops him.

Beg pardon, Mr Winter, have you an
appointment ? '

Vat you mean, you rascal ? ' cries Mr
Winter angrily, retaining the door-handle
in his hand, and looking up at the stolid
face of the clerk in the pulpit. ' Do zee
not know meet ? '

Yes, Mr Winter, I have the pleasure ;
but Mr Bauer, sir, has given strict orders
not to be disturbed. The American mail
goes out to-day, sir.'

Zee be tanned, sir,' replies Mr Winter
curtly, his whole face turning as purple as
his nose, which suddenly grows defiantly
prominent. ' I asks no lees to go to mine
own neffe. In zee teeth of all de clerks
in London, I go, I am gone.'

VOL. I. M

IT this point Louis Winter, refusing
any further parley, bangs
the baize door open with the
same impetus with which he
entered the office, amid peals of laughter
rom the various clerks, which no efforts
of the gentleman in the ceiling can suppress.


Indeed Mr Johnstonee, who is the head
clerk, is fain to duck down into the depths
of his pulpit to conceal his feelings. It is
with a shaky voice that, when he emerges to
light again, he calls out, ' Order, gentlemen
! Order, if you please, gentlemen.'

Within the baize door is a passage, corresponding
to the outer office, with doors
on either side. Half-way up, a staircase
leads to the first floor. Up this staircase

Mr Winter charges headlong, his fur coat
and comforter streaming behind him like a
train.

A door to the right on the top landing,
announced as ' Private ' in large letters,
stands partly open. Mr Winter dashes in.

A grey-headed clerk, sitting at a table
covered with papers and ledgers, starts up
amazed.

Before he can interpose, Mr Winter
has opened a second door, so precipitately
that the loud sound of his heels
on the boards inside suggests that he has
fallen.

The door closes in the face of the grave
clerk, who is apparently preparing to expostulate.


Poof! poof!' gasps Mr Winter, drawing
up his shoulders to his ears, as if
wrestling with his under garments, ' I am
so hot, John Bauer  so hot.'

He flings down his wraps upon a leather
chair standing against the wall, opens his
coat, pulls down his waistcoat, and loosens
his neckcloth.

Ze teufel downstairs in ze pulpits,
sitting up like Heroes in de judgment
seats, would not let me pass. Ough,
Johann, I am so hot ! so hot ! ' And

Mr Winter looks inquiringly upon his
nephew, as if he could relieve him.

There is no response. The scratch of
John's pen is heard over the paper ; his
head is bent down.

'A busy day, Uncle Louis; almost post
time  hum-hm  mit dent grdsste7n Verge
hum-hm.' (The clerks know this
to their cost, and Mr Johnstonee knows it.)
You must not stay long. Vir warden
uns verbindeii auf cas ausgelegte. His
voice drops into his paper.

To look at, John Bauer is like a big
schoolboy, who has grown too fat. He
has neither beard nor whiskers ; is tall,
thin, and high-shouldered. He stoops
very much, and there is a peculiar looseness
about his clothes, as if they had been
stitched together without lining.

A sunny, fair-haired man, even in that
chill winter morning, with a pervading
gleam like southern hedges in spring time.
A long, thoughtful nose, which matches
with a thoughtful brow ; long, straight
hair, pushed back anywhere ; blue eyes ; a
thin-lipped mouth ; and an undecided chin.

No one, to look into his pleasant face,
would have taken him for the bold speculator
and successful merchant, who, since

he came of age (he is now thirty-five,
and had succeeded, by the death of his
uncle  the brother-in-law of Mr Winter 
to the old-established and most respectable
firm of Bauer & Bauer, disasters, oilier,
and Russian merchants), had, by his
masterly management, almost doubled
their already large receipts, in the course
of a few years.

Both John Bauer's parents were German,
from Frankfort, and he speaks with
a German accent ; but, having lost father
and mother when a child, and been educated
in England under his uncle's care,
he affects Anglomania to such an extent,
that he will never converse in German,
unless absolutely obliged.

Nature has not done the excellent John
justice. He feels it. Out of his office, he
is the shyest and most diffident of men.

What do you want. Uncle Louis ? ' he
asks at last, holding his pen suspended in
his fingers, and pushing back the long,
lank hair which had fallen over his brow :
I have told you I am very busy.'

 Ha, ha!' exclaims Mr Winter disdainfully.
' Busy ? Es est di pore should like
me is busy ; not zee, Johann, mein sohn,
not zee.'

Here Mr Winter takes off his spectacles,
put on to look at his nephew, rubs the
glasses carefully on his coat, replacing
them, then, glancing benevolently at him,
dives into the recesses of his pocket,
draws out the usual red handkerchief, and
blows his nose with the resonance of a
trumpet.

'Now listen to vot I says, Johann!
Dat fellow Gompertz ze gif me for a
pardner, he es von tanned rogues.'

Here Mr Winter raises his arm, then
lets his fist fall heavily on the table.

Uncle Louis ! Gompertz is no rogue;
he is an honest man.'

I say it ; I say he von rogues,' roars
Mr Winter, now on his feet, and leaning
over the table on both his hands, a pair of
angry eyes lowering behind his spectacles,
and his huge nose directed like a catapult
full in his nephew's face. ' Gom-
pert lock up my ledgers, de prides,
de glory of my life. All my grand
speculation, in de ledgers. De noble tings
I have done. He keep de key. I ask
Gompertz once,  twice,  trice. I say,
** Gip me die key." Gompertz, he say, 
No, simmer 7nehr ! '' I stamps; I rage ;
I seize em by de throat'

Here Uncle Louis appears about to repeat
the same pantomime on John Bauer,
but he quickly pushed back his chair.

Now I asks by vat right dat tanned
Gompertz say no ? By vat right ? De
rascals ! I know vy he have lock hims
up for sees-self, dat Gompertz, de long-legged
monkey. Gompertz know all vit
my ledger. Ee take de head off de houses,
and lead me by de nose like a child. Vit
my ledgers die grosse Coinpanie vas
governed. Caused teufels ! I miss all by
der tanned Gompertz. Die fall in die
French Funds ! Aha ! Deed I not knows
de fall of Charles Dix ? Deed I not tell der
fool Gompertz de king go away in die
yacht ? Ee shake von tanned heads, der
Gompertz. He say noting! Nobody
say noting. De Polignac ministry go
crack ! Die coup is gone, and Gompertz
stand with open mouth. Ven he see me
rage, he say, " Comm, my outer Winter,
let us go and play di simfonia in Medea.
Bah ! die simfonia ! Vat sees simfonias tome
? and Gompertz tanned double bass ?
I want my ledgers, Johann ; I comm to
ask my books.'

John Bauer held down his head, and
smiled secretly to the letter spread out

before him. He dared not face his uncle's
keen eyes. It was he, good, excellent
fellow, who had started Mr Winter again
on his return from that furtive expedition
abroad, commenced from the back door at
Scatlands, opening into the Twickenham
meadows, when he escaped so deftly from
the sheriffs-officer and his creditors.

John Bauer, with unknown difficulty,
had subsequently found him a partner 
for he still dabbled a little in business 
an immovable German, in sympathy with
him as being fond of classical music, and
a fair performer on the double bass, otherwise
insensible alike to persuasive eloquence
or even threats ; Gompertz joining
with Louis Winter only on the express
condition that no cheque not countersigned
by himself should be drawn.

But before any overtures were made to
the proposed partner. Uncle Louis's delusive
ledger was Impounded. With that
ledger in his possession, nothing could convince
him that his bills were unpaid.

Uncle Louis,' replies John at last, ' I
cannot interfere. It was difficult enough
to find a partner for you. I can do nothing.
Pray gu away ! '

Do noting ! Do noting ! Johann I

Mein Gottt ! ' and Mr Winter, grown furious
again, throws up his arms wildly in the
air, ' ]\Iy sister's son do noting ! '

John Bauer draws some strokes on the
blotting-paper before him, then casts an
imploring glance, first at the door, then at
the excited face and the working purple
nose before him.

Indeed I can do nothing, Uncle Louis.
You have no money to speculate with.
Gompertz is a steady, practical man. Do
not oppose him, or he will throw up the
concern. Where will you be then '. '

Mr Winter wrings his hands, a look of
the most poignant grief flits across his face.

It sees zo ; even zo,' he said, in a
muffled voice, hanging down his head.
Ven die great coup comes  it sees ever
zo  it will break my hearts. Not von
little chance! Not von! Vit de desert
of Dresda China zo scion, all de French
Kings  in old Dresda. Den dat blessed
Families von Raphael,  a copy, Johann a
copy, but a copy worth much.'

Here, extending his short arms to their
utmost length, he suddenly drops them,
and raps himself sharply on the chest.

A copie, but I sells ee as an originate.
Dat French dealer buys all ! Ach simnel !

it sees too bad, too bad.' The tears are
in his eyes ; the red handkerchief at his
nose.

John Bauer is unmoved. He winced a
little, and frowned at his uncle's avowal of
cheating about the Raphael ; but he lets
it pass.

I am very sorry, uncle, I cannot interfere
! Do go ! Only look what a lot of
letters I have to answer before five o'clock,'
and he points to a pile of papers before
him.

All the spirit had gone from Mr Winter s
features, the fire from his eye. The little
arts he practised so successfully at home
did not avail him here.

What John Bauer said, John Bauer
stuck to, and on John Bauer he was
utterly dependent !

Spite of his eccentricities. Uncle Louis
was no fool ! He knew perfectly well that
it wanted but little to make Gompertz
throw him over altogether, so constant had
been their bickering of late.

With reluctant hands he takes up oneby
one his furred coat, hat, and comforter,
and, as if too much absorbed in the depths
of depression to say a word, is leaving the
room without even saying good-bye.



John Bauer rose ; he held out his hand
with a smile. Mr Winter took it in
solemn silence ; he gives no answering
smile. Despair is written on every line
of his mobile face  unutterable gloom sits
in his eye.

|Y the way, Uncle Louis,' said
John Bauer, ' before you go,
tell me about Aunt Amelia ;
how is she ? I must come and
see her soon.'

Die Amelia  Zee sees well ! Zee sees well,'
he answered, in a deep muffled voice,
turning towards the door. Ere he had
reached it he stopped abruptly. A sudden
light struck across his tempest-torn face.
His solemn air vanished. In a moment
he was wringing John Bauer's hand
violently. * Der fools ! der fools ! ' he
cried gaily, tapping his forehead ; ' I
forgets. Die Sophie sees comm ; die
Sophie.'

John Bauer started.

Do you mean Miss Escott ? Is she
come already ? '

Sie gout like di ties in di nights 
Sophie  Beautiful, beautiful, Johann,
like von angels! And zee play.' Mr
Winter kissed his finger tips and waved
them in the air enthusiastically.

John, whose passion was music and a
violoncello (indeed the bliss of his musical
evenings at Scatlands had been a
great link between him and his uncle),
forgot the mail and his unfinished letters,
and became suddenly deeply interested.

Comm, Johann, comm soon to de old
house, and hear hers.'

I should like nothing better was John's
prompt reply.

Ze heard di concert's Stick von Hummel
? In three parts .- Die Sophie play
he divine ! '

No ; is it fine ? ' asked John, drawing
close to his uncle, and fixing his eyes
eagerly on him.

Not hear di Concert Stick von Hummel
! Outer Gottt ! Is zee mad, Johann ?
For vot do zee live ? '

It was now John Bauer's turn to look
profoundly humiliated.

Fine ? Gottlich ! Sophie zee play die
piano parts vit me. Den die part von di
violoncello sees silent  silent as de graves !

Not hear di Concert Stuck, Ach simnel,
Johann, wunderlich ! '

At that moment a knock was heard at
the door, and Mr Johnstonee appears.

Goldschen & Grosser, sir he said,
addressing John Bauer, ' have sent the
junior partner to confer with you, sir, on
that affair of the five hundred thousand
pounds loan

Tell him I am out of town, Mr John-stone.
Tell him anything. I cannot see
him at this moment answered John quickly,
his blue eyes gleaming in his head like pale
stars.

Mr Johnstonee stared ; he turned his eye
first on his chief, then on Mr Winter, with
amazement.

'An appointment must be made, sir.'
He spoke in deprecating accents. (Was
Bauer & Bauer gone mad ? Mr John-stone
was asking himself).

He can come again at three  yes at
three o'clock this afternoon. Tell the
junior partner I am sorry, but that I am
particularly engaged at present. I cannot
see anyone while my uncle, Mr Winter, is
here.'

There was a wicked twinkle in Louis
Winter's eyes as he listened, and a subdued

flourish of his red handkerchief as he caught
the eye of his enemy Johnstonee.

Do not let me be interrupted again,'
added John Bauer ; ' I am particularly
engaged.'

Mr Johnstonee bowed and retired, evidently
under protest.

Now, Uncle Louis said John eagerly,
leaning on the table which divided them,
tell me all about the Concert Stick. Can
I read the part at sight without putting
you and Miss Escott out? or will you
send it me here at once to practise 1 '

The most radiant happiness was spread
over Uncle Louis's rubicund countenance.

Zee shall have de part, mein Johann.
I will leave it here myself.'

I play so badly. Uncle Louis ; you are
such an artist! and Miss Escott too  a
stranger. I am almost ashamed. If it
were not for my business, I would run
down for the music to-night myself.'

Zee do not play zo bads, Johann,' said
Mr Winter, patting his arm with much
condescension. ' No zo bads,  vit more
practice zee do better.'

John Bauer received this very doubtful
eulogy with the greatest gratitude, his boyish
face beaming all over like a ripe apple.

I adore Hummel ; he is my favourite
master. Tell me, Uncle Louis, does the
piano lead ? '

Zee do. Zee beef die motif in die
andante. Ach ! it sees scion ! '

What are the movements ? '

Die introductions, andante, scherzo,
and finale. Great were  great were !
Strong in the finale, Johann. Some fine
arpeggios !  zee most stunning arpeggios !
Noting is more beautiful. Noting ! Except,'
he added, ' die Sophie ; zee, too,
is beautiful ! '

I will come down when I know the
part, and try it, if  if  ' John Bauer's
sallow face turned suddenly very shy, and
he blushed all over, like a girl. In his
enthusiasm for Hummel, he had been
betrayed into making a promise, which
concerned a young lady whom he had
never seen  ' if you think she, Miss
Escott, would like it.'

Meet EEscott ! Meet EEscott ! Vot sees
to do vit Meet Escott,' cried Mr Winter
impatiently. ' It sees die musick. It sees
die Sophie. Zee cannot play vidout die
Sophie.'

Here Mr Winter looked unutterable
things, drew John Bauer near to him and

spoke Into his ear. ' Zee must look at die
Sophie  die Tante want zee to marry her,
Johann.'

Marry Miss Escott ! ' cried John Bauer,
utterly aghast. ' Marry Miss Escott !
Why she would not look at me ! '

If the floor had opened before him, John
Bauer's face could not have expressed
more astonishment.

So, so,' replied his uncle gravely,
nodding his head ; ' dat is vot die Tante
says. Die Tante says, "Johann can have
di music at home vit die Sophie. Johann !
Ven die Sophie plays die eyes in die clouds,
zee list die Sancti Ceciliens. Sometimes I
forget my flutes to look at zee. Poor
should ! poor should ! Die heart is broke
now ; zee sees zo poor 1 '

John's countenance expressed the deepest
attention.

Z2.Z not to die Tante I say so, or dee
angels will break my poor old heads. But
comm, my boys, comm and zee.'

John Bauer was greatly confused. He
was so much alarmed at the prospect of
marrying Sophia, and at his aunt's plans,
that he was on the point of refusing to
come at all ; but the temptation of seeing
this wonderful beauty, and of trying the new

VOL. I. N

symphony, was too much for him. After
a brief struggle he decided to comply.

All this time, Uncle Louis, his eyes
twinkling joyfully through his glasses, had
been watching him. Now he rubbed his
fat, dumpy hands together gleefully, when
John Bauer, his fair face growing redder
each moment, promised that he would
come to Scatlands as soon as he had
learned his part.

It sees grandiose die musics,' said Mr
Winter, putting on his coat, assisted by
him, and wreathing the endless comforter
round his neck. Instinct told Uncle Louis
it was best to dwell upon the charms of
the music, rather than upon the charms of
Sophia. ' Herrick  '

Oh, talk not of it, I implore you,' burst
out poor John, unable any longer to restrain
his feelings. ' Go away, Uncle Louis ;
you have said enough for to-day.' Pie
was pushing his uncle gently towards the
door. ' Go, or I shall run away and be at
Scatlands before you.'

Tell not die Tante,' pleaded Uncle
Louis, in his deep, throaty voice, the very
sound of which, to strangers, carried conviction
; ' tell her notions.'

You shall come here no more. Uncle

Louis,' said John resolutely, as he shook
hands with him ; ' you have completely
upset me ; I have lost a whole hour.'

Good, good,' were Mr Winter's parting
words at the door, glowing all over ; ' all
rights ; zee can afford it. Comm soon,
Johann ; comm soon.'

Mr Winter chuckled to himself all down
the stairs, and through the office, still rubbing
his fat hands together.

He had utterly forgotten his wrongs
against Gompertz, and his ledger. Even
the inveterate Johnstonee was no longer his
enemy. He flourished his hat in passing
him aloft in his pulpit, and bowed graciously
to such clerks as saluted him in his
passage down the room.

He was in such spirits that he recklessly
dropped half a sovereign into the hand of
the porter who opened the door.

HE drawing-room at Scatlands
was a delightful room, lighted
on two sides by four tall, narrow
* Anne ' windows, with
small squares of glass, and thick wooden
partitions.

The old-fashioned furniture, covered with
pale yellow damask, though somewhat
faded indeed, and frayed in places where
it had been much used, was still soft and
pretty.

Something, too, had been added in the
way of modern articles for daily use, quite
out of character with the rest of the room.
On the panelled walls, carefully placed
so that the light fell on them at the correct
angle, were hung various pictures in rich
frames, calling themselves Guido, Dominie
and Caracas, side by side with the

more delicate-toned tints of Wants
and Wouvermans.

A mediaeval figure in a Venetian dress
by Paolo Veronese, and a doubtful Titian,
were decided painted over.

Whether these pictures, and others by
less famous artists, were really originals, or
only skilfully concocted copies (like the
Raphael mentioned by Mr Winter in his
visit to his nephew), it would be presumptuous
to assert, in opposition to such a judge.
He declared he never had possessed a
copy in his life.

At all events, they furnished the dark
walls well, and gave colour and dignity to
the room.

All were for sale, having been consigned
to Mr Winter by the unquestioning faith
of dealers, for his written certificate  a certificate
artfully delayed for many months,
until they had sufficiently decorated Aunt
Amelia's drawing-room, and fully indulged
his own artistic taste.

As one set was sold off, another arrived
from London to fill the vacant places, so
that the dark oak-panelled walls were never
bare.

On carved shelves and wooden brackets,
continued between the spaces on the walls,

and in the corners, were ranged choice
specimens of china  plates, vases, gold-mounted
pokals and tazzas.

Exquisite little groups of figures, mostly
Dresden and Capo di Monte, and Oriental
plates, with a small show of that Urbino
ware, to become so precious in our day.

On the various tables and chiffoniers lay
enamelled snuff-boxes and bonbonnieres 
toys in gold filigree, mother-of-pearl boxes,
and carved ivory plaques and cabinets.

Miniatures of powdered ladies and velvet-coated
gentlemen. Shepherdesses and
Corydon  La Villiers and Marie antoinette
 all amazingly like each other.

A marble statue of John Kemble in
Hamlet, with folded arms, a highly curled
wig, and a saturnine expression of countenance.


A French clock, on a purple globe,
from the Petit Trianon  a collection of
medals in a little ormolu cabinet  a Dresden
tea-service, with views of the French
palaces, on a porcelain plateau  a Turkish
dagger  some old embroidery, used as
mats and table-covers, and a great deal
of old lace of a sickly yellow  of china
bowls and Indian boxes.

All these things, in more or less good

condition, like the paintings, were for sale,
committed to Mr Winter for his opinion,
as a guarantee of their artistic value, and
impounded by him at his pleasure.

Books there were none, except some
illustrated works piled up between the
windows, which had come in the way of
business like all the rest.

Now and then, out of this miscellaneous
collection, things were missed that certainly
had been extracted from Mr Winter's
pocket by his wife.

The dealers complained and talked of
law. Mr Winter, uttering many loud
Achs so's ! and Outer himself ! laughed
gaily, and so the matter passed off, he
giving a better certificate than usual for
some anonymous painting, or a modern
imitation in porcelain.

In a corner of the room furthest from
the door stood a grand piano in a rather
battered case. Piles of torn, loose music
lay upon it and crowded on chairs and
stands, the pages much thumbed and dog-eared
by frequent use.

This pianoforte had turned up so persistently
in the changing fortunes of the
family, that it was suspected Aunt Amelia's
friends had something to do with it.

On the piano reposed, upon a cushion, Mr
Winter's silver-mounted flute, in a green
shagreen case greatly the worse for wear.

Much worse for wear also was the threadbare
carpet, in some places actually In holes ;
and several cane-bottomed chairs from
which the paint had vanished ; along with
various music-stands, more or less dilapidated.


Indeed, the legs of all the chairs being
very doubtful, initiated visitors at Scatlands
always requested that a seat might
be chosen for them by Aunt Amelia.

A heavy sofa  which might have been a
bed  encased in a not over-clean case
was drawn up near the fire ; the hearth-rug,
once a Turkish prayer-carpet, before
it in tatters.

The costly objects on the tables were
constantly obliterated by a litter of household
linen and old stockings, sometimes 
oh pudor !  a pair of trousers made their
appearance, or a cambric-frilled shirt belonging
to Mr Winter, in need of mending.

If Uncle Louis came home early, and
saw this, he stormed at Aunt Amelia, and,
in his eager way, generally flung the various
household articles about the room.

But, with all its discrepancies, the yellow

drawing-room was the secret joy of Aunt
Amelia's life  a bit of still life that reminded
her of the days of her youth, in
the old country house near Uxbridge,
where she had passed the only happy
years she had ever known, with her mother
and sister. If bad news were to come, by
post or otherwise, she felt she could bear
it better in the yellow drawing-room, full
of artistic treasures, than in the horrible,
squalid lodgings at Horton or Lambeth,
where fate, in the person of her husband,
had so often consigned her. Only to sit
in the yellow drawing-room, in her delicate
lace cap and pale ribbons, and inhale the
aromatic odour of dried rose-leaves out of
some large china bowl ; the solid furniture
and the grand piano  hers at least for the
present  in tolerable ease and comfort,
without too much agitation about weekly
bills, and to gaze out of the square panes
of the tall, gaunt windows, framed in yellow
curtains, was the greatest luxury of Aunt
Amelia's life.

Besides some canaries, which twittered
and sang all day inside, there was a ledge
outside on which the robins pecked at the
bread-crumbs which she laid there. Beyond
was the peaceful old garden, with its

trim gravel walks, bordered by the mellow-tinted
bricks of the red walls, relieved by
branches of venerable pear-trees. There
was not a tree or a shrub in that garden,
not a leaf, hardly a stone, that Aunt Amelia
had not exchanged thoughts with, as well
as with the little robins, until they had
all grown into friends.

The passing clouds, the summer sunshine,
the wintry mist, were her friends
also ; but distant friends, more vague and
changeful, fit only for vague thoughts in
idle hours. The trees and walls, paths
and birds, were the recipients of her daily
confidences, always at hand to listen and
console.

Aunt Amelia Is seated in a low bee-hive
chair, before the large open grate, in which
a rather small fire burns on bright steel
dogs,' reflecting itself gaily on white and
blue Dutch tiles, representing Moses and
Pharaoh amid the plagues of Egypt.

The morning is grey and colourless, and
but faintly lights up the pictures on the walls.

Aunt Amelia wears a bombazine dress,
covered with crape, that hangs limp about
her ; but she is scrupulously neat, and
the soft lace and ribbons of her cap set

off her resigned, fair face, a trifle paler and
more anxious-looking since Sophia Escott's
arrival. She Is ashamed to produce her
household work before her magnificent
niece, so she has extracted from some
stores of better days, divers long strips of
coloured knitting. Now the steel needles
have fallen on her lap, her hands are folded,
the small white fingers, with the neatly-kept
nails, crossed tightly together, in the
attitude of one who Is waiting for something
which she expects, yet dreads. Every
now and then, at some slight sound, she
starts and turns her eyes nervously towards
the door ; then, with a subdued sigh of
relief, she resumes her knitting. She would
not like to own how happy she is to be
alone.

It is nearly a week since Sophia came.
A week !  to Mrs Winter it seems a year.
Nothing has gone well since. Everybody
has been worried and out of temper. The
instinct that had come over her, when she
first met her niece. Is but too well justified.
Sophia has closed her heart against her.

It is quite clear, even to kind, patient
Aunt Amelia  so hopeful of good, so slow
to blame  that her niece does not like
her. That critical moment when Sophia

had hidden from her her meeting with
young Maitland, had cast them asunder.

Mrs Winter feels the effect, without understanding
the cause. She can never
hope to associate Sophia with her genial,
outspoken brother. The girl is of another
type. She must resemble her Indian
mother, In that hard, sullen pride which
refuses to adapt itself to anything. All
the affection she has to give Is bestowed
on Uncle Louis. She can always talk to
him ; they play together every evening,
and he never rages at her in muttered
German oaths, rounding into rattling R's,
as he rages at Aunt Amelia. And,
what is worse, he is always scolding
her for not beinor kind enough to her
niece.

Poor dear Uncle Louis does not look
far. He is little at home, and only sees
Sophia at her best ; and he has such jovial,
happy ways that no one could be ill-tempered
with him  not even his creditors.
Either he does not understand what is
going on, or, in the exuberance of his
artistic nature, he would rather blame
Aunt Amelia than Sophia.

How many tears she has shed silently
at night, over Sophia's unkindness and

Uncle Louis's harshness, no one can ever
know. In vain she tries to alter her
behaviour, her looks, her words. Everyday
she has a new plan, but it changes
nothing. Perhaps adversity has hardened
Sophia ; perhaps her father's indulgence
had rendered her callous ; perhaps it is her
own (Aunt Amelia's) fault. She is nothing
but an old bore ; no girl could ever care
for her.

And yet, how much she longed to gain
her niece's love ! ' Oh, how can I reach
her heart ? ' she repeats  ' oh, how can I
comfort her ? '

All the little, gentle ways of her sweet
motherly nature have been tried in vain.
Spite of all she can do, there has risen up
an almost hostile atmosphere between them.
There were more troubles, too, afloat. Mrs
Winter had met Mrs Maitland one day
walking in the lane with Miss Sterne (how
much Aunt Amelia disliked and mistrusted
Miss Sterne, words cannot express ; there
was something so sinister in her face,
hidden by the long ringlets), and Mrs Maitland
had taken Aunt Amelia aside, and
plainly told her that, after what had happened
respecting her niece, she could not
possibly visit her as before, at least while

her son Edward was at home. Miss Escott,
she heard, was very attractive to men.

She was so sorry, but she must, from the
first, let it be understood that any idea of
a matrimonial connection between the two
families was impossible ; therefore it would
be better, for the present, to suspend their
usual intercourse.

People could not be too explicit and
too cautious in such a serious matter as
marriage,' Mrs Maitland said, bridling with
conscious superiority, ' particularly between
such near neighbours.'

Not that my feelings to you, my dear
friend,' added Mrs Maitland, with a dash
of real kindness in her eyes, turned on the
downcast figure of Mrs Winter, ' will ever
alter. No, never. We shall fall into our
old places again by-and-by, but just for
the present, I think it best to make a change.
Mr Maitland thinks so too, and you know,
Mrs Winter,' she continued, determined
to clinch the nail, ' Mr Maitland says little,
but about Edward's prospects he is more
imperative than I am.'

This idea of her husband struck Mrs
Maitland as so excellent, she proceeded to
improve on it.

'With Mr Maitland's strong feelings,

and the kind of marriage he wishes Edward
to make (not a young man of the
world, you know, my dear, and unable to
bow or scrape) it would not do at all.
They tell me she Is very handsome,  not
my style of beauty, I Imagine'  here Mrs
Maitland bridled again, throwing back her
head, ornamented with a bonnet on which
reposed a bird of paradise in full relief 
too bold and striking for my taste.'

All this time Aunt Amelia's heart beat
so violently, she had the greatest difficulty
in supporting herself opposite her
tormentor ; to speak with that thumping
at her side, and suffocation in her throat,
was Impossible.

Mrs Maitland interpreting her silence
into a meek acquiescence went on.

Of course, Edward must do as he
pleases about calling. He is too old now
for me to dictate what visits he should
make.'

Mrs Maitland said this simply as a
flourish, in the belief that after her conversation
with him, and Edward's promise,
there was small chance of his going near
Scatlands, still, for fear of accidents, she
added, 

If Edward does call, do let me entreat

you, dear Mrs Winter, not to encourage
his visits. Make him understand you do
not wish to see him. Give Miss Escott
a hint too, as to its being his father's wish
(mind, his father s, so much more important
than mine) that there should be no
intercourse between them.'

At last Aunt Amelia found voice to
answer. With her hand pressed to her
side, and a hectic flush on her face, she
broke her long silence.

I think, Mrs Maitland, you might have
spared me so detailed a statement  '

Not at all, not at all,' broke in that
lady. * Better be plain and above-board,
specially when a father's most sacred feelings
are concerned  '

A hint would have sufficed, I assure
you,' said Mrs Winter, moving on. Even
she was roused to resentment. * I can
answer for my niece ; you quite mistake
her, let me tell you.'

Ah ! that is the question,' said Mrs
Maitland hastily, with just the slightest
glance at the veiled figure of her companion,
immovable behind her, 'the whole
question  '

I am not going to undertake Sophia's
defence,' continued Aunt Amelia, with

quiet dignity (that dreadful heart of hers,
which always beat at the wrong moment,
was a little quieter) ' she needs none.
Your opinion of her is valueless. You
do not know her ; but, believe me, neither
you nor Mr Maitland need fear any designs
upon sour son. With my knowledge,
he shall never put his foot within
our doors again. We may be unfortunate,
Mrs Maitland,' added Aunt Amelia,
with just a touch of bitterness, * and
the arrival of my niece has added to
our misfortunes, but we have not lost
the feeling of our birth. We are incapable
of connivance.'

The perfect frankness with which Mrs
Maitland dealt with every subject, her
own affairs included (as has been said),
the absolute absence of all social delicacy,
left her quite at a loss before Mrs Winter's
grave reproof.

She stared round-eyed and amazed at
her neighbour, who was now turning away
without even the form of wishing her
good-bye.

What do you mean ? ' she cried, following
her and seizing her hand with the
most perfect good-humour.

You would not have had me silent on

VOL. I. O

such a subject surely, when the prospects
of my only son are concerned ? '

I would have you, Mrs Maitland,' retorted
Mrs Winter, stopping, much against
her will, ' consider other persons' feelings a
lite.'

But what have your feelings to do with
it, my dear friend ? I don't blame you
about your niece : you have nothing to do
with her. I pity you extremely. Such a
temper, I hear ! Such, pride, such vanity !
and then the family malady ! '

Here Aunt Amelia opened her mouth
to ask to what family malady she alluded,
but was handicapped by her voluble friend.

In case you might think me neglectful,
I wished to explain why I cannot call on
you at present, my dear. I shall always be
delighted to see you ' (with emphasis) ' at
Rosebank.'

Thus they parted, with further protestations
of friendship on Mrs Maitland's
side, and much coldness on that of Aunt
Amelia.

Thinking over the scene quietly to herself,
seated in her bee-hive chair. Aunt
Amelia felt deeply grieved. Mrs Maitland
had often been very good to her
in her adversity, and foolish and ostentatious

as she was, and full of meaningless
chatter, she should miss her visits extremely.


How could she tell Sophia what had
occurred ? She could fancy her look of
proud disdain ; it absolutely made her
tremble to think of it.

A conflict of any kind with that imperious
young spirit must be avoided.
Things are already bad enough without
that.

Sophia could only know Edward Maitland
by name ; they might never meet.
As to his calling, that, at any rate, was
not likely.

Neither must Uncle Louis be told anything.
He would only be very angry,
blow up Mrs Maitland, use violent language,
and blame her. Since Sophia had
come, he had blamed her for everything.

No, she would say nothing. She would
leave all to chance. (In her way, Aunt
Amelia relied almost as much on chance
as her husband.)

That delightful scheme about John .
Bauer would set everything right. If
Sophia could only take to him and marry
him, what a blessing it would be ! But
while Aunt Amelia's eyes brightened at

the thought, she dreaded lest her cold,
calm resistance would not baffle her in this
scheme as in everything else.

Here Mrs Winter gave a heavy sigh,
and looked out of the window. It was all
very sad and wretched, she thought, as
she gazed pensively at the rows of bricks
in the garden wall, and at the dull borders
of brown earth, enlivened by so much
as a coloured leaf. Everything was
against her. The comfort of her home
was gone, and Sophia  at this point such
a hopelessness came over her that she
could not help sobbing to herself under the
folds of her handkerchief.

CHAPTER XVIII.

MEANWHILE Sophia was lingering
upstairs in her room. But
for Uncle Louis and his flute
(they played together late into
the night, long after Aunt Amelia had
gone to bed), she would have preferred
not to come down at all.

She was used, in the long, silent hours
of the hot season in India, to sit with
darkened windows ; everybody asleep in
the verandah, and no sound to be heard
but the creaking of the punkah.

And now her heart was so full that the
time seemed far too short to think out all
that had happened. Why had Edward
Maitland not come ? Would he come ? If
so, what would he say ? Was it possible 
Alone though she is, a burning blush
covers her from head to foot.

No, no ! It is not possible ! ' (She
contradicts her own thoughts with loud,
outspoken words.) 'It is not possible ! It
was a mistake ! No one could care for
her. No one  no one ! '

She wrung her hands piteously. All
that went with the death of her poor
father and ruin,  all the pleasant days
when people worshipped her. Oh, why
had he shot himself? If he had but lived
she could willingly have borne poverty 
disgrace even, with him. Now, a curse
had fallen upon her. God was very cruel !
What had she done to deserve it ?

That tall, supple figure that stood beside
her in the lane, like the world's master,
that grave, open brow, that rare smile,
bringing out the glow in a pair of grey-blue
eyes, so full of meaning, was not for
her! No! no! not for her! She had
been a fool to think so. What he had
said was the ordinary tone of English
manners. Her ignorance had lent a significance
to his words and looks which
was not in the least warranted.

It was because she had lived so much
alone with her father, and associated so
little with young people of her own age,
that Edward Maitland's manner had so impressed

her. He, of course, had meant
nothing ; he had assisted her in a moment
of perplexity ; he had made her an offer of
his friendship. They had not met again ;
he had forgotten her.

Instead of dreaming of Maitland, she
would make a change in her life. She
would cease to be a burden on Uncle
Louis  eating out her heart in misery.
She would work.

What special work she was fitted for
she could not have defined. The daughter

of the almost princely resident at had

known nothing of work but the name.

A dreadful heave, as for breath, rose in
her breast : inexpressible longings came
over her. She tried to evoke her pride,
but no pride came. It all softened at the
thought of Edward. How he had charmed
her!

Then, in the same breath, she called
herself a poor, humiliated creature to think
of a man who had forgotten her. Yet
surely, after all he had said,  after the
earnest look of those eyes,  she grew hot
all over as she recalled them. European
as he was, might he not have taken the
trouble to inquire after her ?

Day after day Sophia passed in her

room, at that side window that overlooked
the trees and shrubberies of Rosebank.
She even mounted on a chair and stood
for hours together to see if nothing were
moving under the elms bordering the
drive  her heart beating violently all the
time. If she could only have a glimpse
of him !

That very morning, when the late daylight
came a little brighter than usual, she
had risen as early as she had been accustomed
to do in India, and throwing up the
sash, had stood shivering with cold, looking
out upon that shrubbery of laurels
near the house, bound in by the river.

It was a quiet, happy spot even in
winter, suggesting summer shade and the
fresh scent of flowers. The tall trunks of
the feathering elms rose up straight like
the pillars of a temple, supporting a canopy
of branches, through which glimpses of the
dull sky shot down. The ground, a sheet
of moss and ivy, across which a path
meandered into a little dell, where some
marble statues guarded a carved stone seat
and the retaliated border of a fountain.

Further on, deep hedges of evergreens
spread out like umbrageous walls, and
beyond, the smooth turf lawns, through

which flowed the river, broken by a
group of large weeping-willows, that
dipped their leafless branches into the
flood.

Sophia could just see the swans sailing
by, and make out the outlines of passing
boats, an old gentleman sitting in a punt,
and barges and rafts, with a rare pleasure-boat
 for the weather was chilly  with
gay-coloured flags dipping in the water.
Surely if she watched long enough she
must see Edward !

No one! no one! Nothing but the
young rooks circling in the air, then
swooping down in search of worms, cawing
and chattering, the elder birds perched on
the leafless branches over the edge of the
old nests, until all flew away in dark
masses, one ancient bird leading the way.

At last, chilled by the raw air, she got
down from the chair and shut the window.

I can but die  I can but die,' she
moaned to herself, and tightly clutched the
little bottle with Zebula's charm, safe in her
bosom.

The touch brought comfort. Had
Zebula been there, she would have given
her something to draw Edward towards
her.

Zebula could make love-filters and concoct
poisons. She could read the stars,
and the lines of the hand. Plants and
trees were full of meaning to her. They
were possessed by the souls of the dead.
She would have spoken to those elms and
laurels, and drawn from them all manner
of secrets about Edward. Sophia thought
she must have offended the supreme spirit
Zebula dreaded almost to mention, and
that devils had been sent to torment her.
Drought and blight and disease came
from devils, and all manner of woe. They
are only to be won by propitiation and
offerings, and she had done nothing.
Every wicked person at his death goes to
swell the devil-legion. His evil passions
are intensified in the form of a malignant
and mischievous fiend.

Sophia was sure Aunt Amelia was a
devil !

At twelve o'clock there was a sound of
steps outside, coming slowly down the oak
staircase. The door opened and Sophia
swept in. She gave a weary glance round
the yellow room, as if she knew by heart
all it contained, and hated it.

Aunt Amelia rose hastily from her chair,
and went to meet her.

Are you not well, my love ? You are
so pale this morning.'

She asked the question hurriedly, looking
anxiously into Sophia's face.

Your eyes are dull too ! I am sure you
have slept badly.'

I wish, Aunt Amelia, you would not
always notice my looks. It worries me ! '

Sophia frowned as she spoke, and crossing
over to the window, stood there,
watching the clouds scudding over the
grey sky.

Do you always have such dreadful
weather in England ? ' she asked. ' It
does not seem like the same world as
India. When will the sun shine . It is
much brighter at Rosebank  ' she was
adding, but stopped herself.

Yes ; winter is very gloomy,' answered
Mrs Winter, retreating to her
bee-hive chair, and taking up her strips
of coloured worsted-work. ' One must
be very happy to like it'

A heavy sigh was Sophia's only answer.

Inly love, it grieves me to see you so
depressed. Do try and accustom yourself
to your new life a little.'

A bitter smile played round Sophia's
lips, and her large weary eyes travelled
contemptuously up and down the room.

I hope I have accustomed myself toit
; at least I have tried to do so,' she added,
more gently.

She rather wished to conciliate Aunt
Amelia this morning ; tired of suspense,
she had resolved to ask her whether the
Maitland never called. The very thought
of uttering their name brought a flush to
her cheek. Why could not Aunt Amelia
speak of them herself ?

Does she think she is to shut me up
like a prisoner ? She must be a devil ! '
thought Sophia.

The flush on her face deepened into an
angry frown. She tapped her fingers
impatiently upon the panes of glass.

Mrs Winter was silently watching her.
She shook her head  then spoke, 

It is very strange !' she said, in a low
voice ; ' I expected a letter this morning
from my sister. I hope nothing has happened,
or that that weak-eyed postboy has
not lost it  he is so terribly careless ! We
pay him to bring the letters from Twickenham,
 whether he cannot see, or what it
is, I do not know ; but they are constantly

lost. Sophia, my love,' she added, in the
gentlest of tones, ' your aunt, Lady
Danvers, ought to have written to-day
about coming here. Do you not care to
see her ? '

Sophia did not move ; but her fingers
rattled more sharply on the panes. Here
was this woman getting further and further
away from Rosebank and the Maitland.
She hated her at that moment  as Zebula
had taught her to hate all evil things. She
hated herself too, for her want of courage in
not asking her a direct question. Yet, somehow
or other, the words died on her lips.

Sophia ! ' repeated Aunt Amelia, a little
louder, ' don't you hear me ? '

She moved slowly round ;  a dark cloud
on her face  beautiful in its clear olive
outlines, and marble-like skin.

No, aunt ; I do not care. Lady Danvers
does not come to see me.'

A spot of red gathered on each of Mrs
Winter's cheeks, the bows on her cap
trembled, and her hands clutched the soft
wool of the coloured stripes.

Do, my love, remember,' her voice
faltering a little with the vexation she felt,
it was your dear father's wish that you
should love your relations.'

Father ! ' Sophia caught up the word
and turned round sharply, her young face
set and stern, her hands held out entreatingly.
* No ! no ! Not my father !
There are so few people that I can bear
to name him.'

Aunt Amelia was rising with some undefined
notion of clasping her in her arms.
These cruel words stopped her.

Yet he was my own dear brother ! ' she
answered, retreating to her chair, utterly
discomfited.

I know it ! I know it ! ' cried Sophia.

I am very wrong, very wicked, but I
cannot help it ; ' then more calmly,  ' forgive
me, Aunt Amelia ! you wound me
without knowing it, perhaps  but you do
wound me.'

She drew back, and with an abrupt
movement turned again to the window.
Aunt Amelia's compassion was too much
roused to resent this outburst of temper.

Sophia, you may be sure I never wish
to wound you. I had hoped for your confidence
 ' Here her soft voice almost
broke, but she forced herself to continue.

You talk sometimes of your ayah Zebula.
Can you not care for me as you did for
her?'

There was no reply. Sophia was too
loyal to dissemble ; her head dropped in
silence.

Well, well, never mind ! I daresay
it is my own fault. Something unlucky
seems to have come to me. The truth is,
I am too old, and too dull, to be a companion
for you. I do my best, but I have many
causes for anxiety which you do not understand.'
She stopped to suppress a sigh,
then proceeded meekly,  ' But your cousin,
Jane Danvers, will suit you. She is quite
a girl ; and so gay, so clever ! '

Then she will be no companion forme,'
returned Sophia sharply.  Jane will
look down on me, now I am ruined.
People in India don't despise poor relations
: in England they do.'

Oh, Sophia ! ' cried Aunt Amelia, in a
tone of reproach, 'Jane will love you.'

Love me ! ' Sophia gave a short,
scornful laugh. ' That is not at all likely.'

She will, my dear child  love you and
pity you.'

Pity me ! ' broke in Sophia, in an angry
voice. 'I want no one's pity! No one
shall pity me ! ' She raised her head, with
its coronet of raven plaits. * I know
my place. I am a humble relation, absolutely

dependent for my bread on the
charity of my friends. That was what you
wrote to me at Calcutta, Aunt AmeHa ! I
remember. Never fear!'

And it is quite true,' answered Mrs
Winter, with unusual decision. ' Remember,
my poor child, that our affection is all
you have left. It is my duty to say this
to you. I am sure you will forgive me.'

Sophia made no reply. Her uplifted
head and proud attitude seemed to say
that it was very doubtful whether she
intended to forgive anything.

Will Aunt Amelia never give me any
opportunity of asking about the Maitland
? ' was her thought all this time.
She reddened with vexation, as Mrs
Winter, quite ignorant of what was passing
in her mind, went on : 

My sister, Lady Danvers, is rich and
influential. Her husband died many years
ago and left her a handsome jointure, and
a lovely place for her life. Uncle Louis
and I went there once to visit her : I
never was so happy. But such visits are
beyond me ; I have no proper clothes to
appear in at my sister's house. Jane, her
daughter, inherits a separate fortune left
by her grandfather ; she will be very rich.

Lady Danvers Is her guardian, and gives
herself up to her education. Though Jane
is sixteen, she is kept hard at work. My
sister says she is naturally very clever, and
that her Intellect must be cultivated before
she comes out. I am afraid Lady Danvers
will overdo It, and make her 111. However,
she has promised to bring her here
for Christmas. It will be a great treat to
her, especially as you are here. Jane is
so fond of Uncle Louis. I tell you this,
dear Sophia, that you may understand how
much Lady Danvers can do for you. She
lives in the world, you know  I do not 
we have no money. It is most Important
Lady Danvers should like you.'

Sophia listened to all this In stony
silence. Aunt Amelia, encouraged by her
seeming acquiescence, continued, 

Then there Is John Bauer.' At John
Bauer's name. Aunt Amelia's voice grew
quite cheerful. She suddenly remembered
that he was at hand, and might come in
at any time ; perhaps that very evening.
I am so anxious he should please you.
He will accompany you and Uncle Louis
on the violoncello. He is such a good
fellow.'

Why do you want me to like this Mr

VCL. I. P

Bauer ? ' asked Sophia ; turning round
upon her aunt.

At this question, Mrs Winter felt her
cheeks tingle.

Well, Sophia  she hesitated,  ' he is
Uncle Louis's nephew  a near relation.'
She paused again. Sophia never took
her dark eyes off her. This confused
her, and her heart began to beat * He
is immensely rich  a most excellent
match  the best of men.' She spoke
nervously, in little abrupt sentences.
Would it be wonderful  if  your uncle
and I would like it so much. We are
always talking about you, dear,  if he,
John,  should be struck  '

A flash of fire leaped up in Sophia's
sombre eyes.

Do you mean struck by me ? ' she
asked Imperiously. ' Then, pray, beg
this gentleman not to come. I shall ask
Uncle Louis to forbid him  I shall
not be civil to him ! Understand, Aunt
Amelia, and tell Uncle Louis also, to
understand that you must make no matrimonial
projects for me.'

Sophia ! Sophia ! you treat me like a
stranger ! ' cried Mrs Winter, for the first
time waking into momentary anger.

Neither Uncle Louis nor I can forbid
John Bauer the house ;  he comes and
goes when he pleases. No, Sophia, you
have no right to ask that. You are very-perverse
; you care for nobody ; you might
have waited until you had met.'

On the contrary,' replied Sophia, with
provoking calm, ' it is better to say at
once that I will have nothing to do with
him. It will save misapprehension. I
know my place. Aunt Amelia. I am
ready to work for my bread. But in this
I am my own mistress. I do not mean to
marry. '

'Not mean to marry!' ejaculated Mrs
Winter, too much aghast to notice anything
else. (How she repented having
mentioned John Bauer's name. She had
roused Sophia's temper.) ' Why ! it was
always intended you should marry. Your
father  '

No ; not now ! I do not intend to
marry. I can quite understand your
motive. Aunt Amelia.' As she said this,
Sophia seemed to stiffen into stone. 'You
do not like me. You wish to get rid of
me! I promise you, I shall not trouble
you long.'

Trouble me ! ' repeated Aunt Amelia,

too much stunned at first to understand.
My beloved brother's child ! I have not deserved
this ! Indeed  indeed I have not !'

At this point poor Mrs Winter utterly
broke down. All the sorrow that had
weighed upon her since Sophia came
seemed to engulf her in an abyss of hopeless
misery. She covered her face with
her hands ; then quickly wiping away
the fast-falling tears, she made a desperate
effort to master her feelings.

It would not do. Sophia's cruel words
had struck her like a knife.

Forgive me, dear,' she murmured.
Forgive me. I feel a little unwell. I
think I will go out and take a walk. I
am so nervous  the air will do me good.
Good-bye, good-bye.' And she hastily
left the room.

As Sophia watched the manner of Mrs
Winter's exit, a curl of scorn rose to her
lips. Her disdainful eyes followed the
fragile little figure in its progress to the
door. Then her wrath exploded.

*John Bauer, indeed! So that is your
plan. I have no money, and you want to
get rid of me. You are a false, designing
woman, Aunt Winter, with all your soft

ways ! I thought so. Zebula found you
out. John Bauer, indeed!' And with rapid
steps she paced up and down the room.

Gradually, however, her pace slackened ;
the flush on her face paled down, and
she beoan to look with curious glances at
the pictures, which, spite of the gloomy
day, shone out in rich, subdued tints.

The subjects were as strange to her as
though they had been glimpses into another
planet.

The cool greys and browns and blues of
the Dutch school  (Mr Winter, naturally,
was always well supplied with Dutch
pictures)  the peaceful delineation of home
life  the running stream, beside which
rode a solitary horseman  the mill-dam
with its wheel and foam of mist  the patch
of bosky wood  the dim, dreamy distance,
melting into the sky  the groups of men
and women, in thick puffed-out clothes and
broad-brimmed hats, stolidly contemplating
each other  a fat-faced lady in white satin,
a red ribbon in her hair, performing on
a spinet  a cavalier beside her, a red,
feather in his felt hat, and a countenance
round, common-place, impassive  of all this
misty, dimly-lighted world, Sophia knew
nothing ; but its peacefulness soothed her.

As her eyes wandered eagerly up and
down the walls, they fixed themselves on a
large painting in an elaborately-carved
frame, placed conspicuously in the centre
of a panel, on which ' San Sebastian '
was written in gold letters on the dark
gilding.

The figure stood out life-like from the
canvas, pierced by arrows to the stem of
a tree.

Who San Sebastian was, Sophia had
no idea ; but the clear, transparent flesh-tints,
and that solemn, suffering look in
the beautiful upturned eyes, riveted her
like a spell.

As long as Mrs Winter was present,
Sophia would not for worlds have allowed
herself to appear interested in anything ;
and it so happened that she had never
been alone in the yellow drawing-room
before.

Now, all her artistic tastes were awakened.
She did not conceal her delight.

Sophia was an unconscious artist, butin
music alone her natural powers had
been cultivated.

One by one she took up and minutely
examined the gems that lay about among
skeins of darning thread and tape and

buttons and discoloured bills, and she
knelt to examine a Dresden tea-service
placed on a low shelf, with portraits of
smiling ladies, their piled-up, powdered
heads like the petals of snowy flowers.

'How gay they all look!' thought
Sophia. ' They must have had happy
lives ! '

Continuing her Inspection, she handled
the blue Chinese plates, as big as chargers,
with great dabs of red and blue paint, like
Cashmere shawls, and touched the jars
standing on the carpet, filled with Aunt
Amelia's best pot-pourra, the rose-leaf perfume
of which always clung about her.

How can Uncle Louis be poor when
he possesses such treasures ? ' she asked
herself.

Then she stared at the Dutch tiles that
shut in the grate, with their quaint groups
of Egyptian Pharaoh, in royal robes of
cobalt, wringing his hands,  Moses stand-before
him, cobalt also, but more freely
sprinkled with white, as became an Israelite
and a lawgiver. All this was very
wonderful.

She took up Aunt Amelia's stripes of
knitting lying on the rug, eyed them first
curiously, then, in a sudden fit of anger,

flung them on the floor. A little ashamed
of herself, she sauntered off, more by instinct
than by reflection, to the piano, where
she seated herself, and began to think.

The pale face in the picture of St
Sebastian followed her. Should she die
with mournful, upturned orbs like those ?
Die alone  quite alone ; with no one to
close her eyes, or fold the shroud around
her ?

Her fingers, meanwhile, wandered unconsciously
over the keys,  vaguely at
first,  striking a few chords, that sounded
so penetrating, so appalling, they echoed
in the room like the voice of a fiend ; the
chords followed by a dash of crashing
harmonies, long wailing arpeggios, and
musical sighs, dying out in quaint little
shakes and runs and trills.

It was no settled theme. She played
as the spirit within prompted, passing from
major to minor ; but with one long, earnest
keynote, steadfast in all the changes,  the
note of her own soul.

A flash of delight came into her face
as she felt the power of the instrument
under her hands ;  the music rolling forth,
free as a great river which overtures its
bounds.

Little by little she grew absolutely
absorbed by the subtle charms that her
imagination created, gazing up at the
St Sebastian, with that holy, martyred
look, the arrows planted in his bleeding
breast.

Yes, she suffered too ! Many sharp
arrows pierced her soul !

Now her theme melted into a melody 
simple, soft, touching ;  the motive of a
sonata which her father had loved.

Yes ! she should like to die like that 
serene in the flames of torture, rapt in
the bliss of the unseen !

Since Maidand had forsaken her, all
her thoughts were of death ; her hand
was always clutching the little filigree
bottle in her bosom, Zebula's last gift.

Then her fingers dashed up and down
the board in successive octaves, into the
untutored rhythm of an Indian dance.
But in all she played there was a wild,
passionate longing,  a yearning, uneasy
sense of ungratified desire, reflection itself
in her large black eyes, so sad, so fierce,
so full of love, so redolent of hate.

As she played, the room in which
she sat receded, the leaden skies outside
vanished.

The vast plains of India rose before her 
sun-baked, brown, arid  shut in by giant
mountain ranges, folding themselves up
in mist, breaking into tints of lilac and
purple.

In the west, a blood-red sun dropped
into a tawny volcano of cloud. She
breathed the vapours that swept by her
like the breath of a furnace.

A grove of palm trees shook its huge
fronds in the sultry air ; the outline of
cactus hedges fell dark upon the earth ;
the stifling fragrance of champak and
jasmine, and roses of Saadi of every
shade (from the splendour of the full-blown
Bengal to the tiny button, which
trails upon the earth) ; tall sandal-wood
trees made the air heavy with their perfume.
Avenues of majestic banyans, with broad,
smooth leaves, each tree a forest in itself,
rose up in the hot air ; monkeys swung
from branch to branch ; and parrots, like
living flowers, chattered among the coral
creepers, with stiff crimson pod. Then
the scene changed to a bungalow on the
green plateau of a mountain ravine at
Simla, where she spent the hot season,
burled In tree-ferns and tamarinds, its overspreading
verandahs shaded with great

plantain trees, and gaudy-leaved exotics
flinging themselves from bough to bough
in the damp air. Within, her father lay
stretched on a divan, his calm face veiled
In sleep ; Zebula, at her feet, whispering,
as was her wont, long tales of charms and
enchantments, to pass away the sultry
hours of the day.

Death, ruin, England were but dreams
evil dreams, of the night. For one instant,
under the spell of the music, she
forgot even Maitland, and lived in her
native land once more.

A slight sound roused her. She ceased
playing, and turned round.

Maitland was standing motionless in the
open doorway, his eyes riveted upon her !

END OF VOL. I.

COLSTON AND SON, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

OF THE

UN Diversity

or Ill Noir


V.2

MILLER'S DALE,

DERBYSHIRE.

THE Ill-tempered COUSIN,

I FoL Cloth, 3. dd.

The New and Cheaper Edition of the Popular Work
of Travel,

THE DIARY OF AN IDLE WOMAN IN SPAIN.

By FRANCES ELLIOT,

AUTHOR OF 'the DIARY OF AN IDLE WOMAN IN ITALY
AND SICILY,' ETC., ETC.

There is no more amusing writer of travel than Mrs
Elliot. . . . She never ceases to amuse and interest. This
has all the characteristics of her former works, and will be
as generally read.'  World.

She is bright and pleasant company wherever she leads
us, with a good eye for colour and scenery, and an intense
admiration for the romantic and thousand-storied history of
the land of her wanderings. . . . History and the beauties
of nature go hand in hand through these pleasant pages. . . .
The book is a creditable companion to the earlier volume,
and an admirable relish for the more solid study of " Murray,"
to those about to travel in Spain.'  Daily Telegraph.

LONDON : F. V. WHITE & CO.,

31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND.

J4j?c ///

THE Ill-tempered COUSIN.

A NOVEL.

BY

FRANCES ELLIOT,

AUTHOR OF ' DIARY OF AN IDLE WOMAN IN SPAIN,
THE RED CARDINAL,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. II.

LONDON : F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C

1885.
[All Rights re served. 1

The Ill-tempered Cousin.

CHAPTER I,

ID you not hear me, Miss Escott
? ' asked Edward Maidand,
coming forward. ' Did I stare
you ? '

He spoke with that directness of purpose
natural to him, an earnestness which
marked all he said and all he did, even
in small things. And as he spoke, he held
out his hand.

Sophia took it in silence, sitting quite still.

Then, retaining it for a moment, she

grew very white as she gazed up earnestly

into his face. It wore the same sweet,

thoughtful look she had pictured to her-vol.

II. A

self, gazing down upon her with so much
pitying tenderness.

No ! he had not changed.

Yes, I expected you,' she replied, speaking
very slow. She would have liked to
say how much and how long, but the great
rush of emotion that had come over her at
sight of him, stopped her breath.

Edward took a chair and seated himself
near her. Sophia's eyes fell upon the
keys ; her hand inadvertently struck a few
soft chords. Those chords sounded to him
a sweeter welcome than her lips had framed.

How marvellously you play, Miss Escott
! It is perfect inspiration ! I have
been standing listening at the door for at
least half-an-hour. You were dreaming 
gloriously dreaming ! I saw it in your
looks. Your face was transfigured.'

Yes  dreaming,' she replied, striking
another chord, like a plaintive cry. ' A
wild, irresistible longing for my old life
seized me. Ah ! what dreams ! what hopes !
You do not know me, Mr Maitland. You
preach resignation ; you cannot understand
the change. You will blame me for all
this, I suppose,' she added hastily.

She threw a glance up at him from her
great black eyes, a glance half smile, half

frown, but altogether appealing, that thrilled
through his veins. Already this grand
creature was referring to him as to her
master.

Would you have played like that had
you known I was listening?' he asked
abruptly, every sense revelling in her
beauty, the pale oval of her face, the 
carriage of her dark head, that
Juno-like break between the eyebrows,
the curve of her tall figure, the rounded
bust, the slender waist, the firm blue-veined
hand that wandered over the keys.
What wild hopes and desires welled up
within his breast ! This exquisite creature
must be his  his at all costs !

The passionate expression of his face
passed even into the supple lines of his
figure as he leaned forward, determined, if
possible, to catch her eye.

Perhaps not ; I was quite absorbed,
thinking of my life in India,' Sophia answered
mournfully, all her degradation and
the terrible barrier that it raised between
them coming vividly to her mind. Then
she looked up and smiled. ' I do not think
I could lose myself if you were by.'

There was something in the tone of her
voice as she said this, that fell even more

melodiously on Edward's ear than the
charm of her playing. Did she mean that
she could not lose herself in anything else
while he was by ? There was a subtle
flattery in this interpretation of her words
he would fain accept.

Perhaps Sophia was conscious of this,
for she added quickly, 

I have lived so much alone, for so long.
You can hardly understand it. Music has
been my world. It is the only thing I
learned willingly ; I lived in it, spoke in
it, dreamed in it ! There were no discords
then,' she added absently. ' It was before
papa died. I have not touched a piano
since, except a little with Uncle Louis in
the evening.'

You owe me no explanation,' replied
Maitland, contemplating her fixedly. How
was he to form the words that trembled on
his lips ? Yet said they must be  and
speedily ; he might not again find himself
alone with her. But for that cursed
promise, how easy all would be. 'It is
I who have to explain how it was I intruded
on you. I came into the garden,
 the door was half open,  I heard
a piano,  no one but you could have
struck those chords. Besides  ' and the hotblood

came mantling to his cheek  ' I have
been longing to see you ever since we
parted. I fear it is a great liberty on my
part to pay so early a visit, but I desired
to hear from yourself how you were. Later
I might have missed you. I could not
afford that.'

A sudden light illuminated his face ashe
noted her growing embarrassment,  so
different from the abrupt defiance of her
manner when they first met in the lane.

You are not offended, Miss Escott ? '
drawing nearer her in the desire to take
her hand. With that dear hand in his, he
felt he could be bolder.

Offended ? Oh no ! I have been expecting
you every day. I thought you
had forgotten me ! '

Forgotten ! Did you say forgotten ? '
exclaimed Edward, roused from the
dreamy rapture of her presence. ' Impossible
! ' A wild, audacious happiness
possessed him ; he was beside himself with
the joy of being near her. * I would
have come at once, but  '

He hesitated. He was hurrying on too
fast. How could he tell the queenly
creature before him he could not freely
offer her his hand ?

Sophia looked up In surprise. An exquisite
twilight broke over her face, as if a
warming light had caught her with sudden
radiance. Their eyes met. Hers fell
before the ardour of his gaze. She longed
to ask him what he meant, but dared not.
Was it not bliss enough to find he had
not changed !

This conviction gave her courage to be
natural.

I want to ask you,' she said, * why you
thought no one could strike those chords
but me ? '

Her voice was almost gay ; her speaking
eyes sparkled.

I will answer you by another question,
Miss Escott. How is it that, ever since,
years ago, I first heard your name, your
image has always haunted me ? Yes '  he
spoke rapidly, looking at her steadfastly,  -
first as an Eastern princess  a little
darker perhaps than you are, but wonderfully
like  crowned and girdled with jewels,
seated on a glittering throne, in robes that
shone like fire ; then as a slave, your brows
bound with oriental draperies, bearing the
waters of the Ganges along a sunburnt
strand ;  as a priestess of Veda, in white
robes, waving the mystic blossoms before

a veiled Idol,  the colossal pillars of a
Hindoo temple as a background. Then
a fresh idea came to me. I pictured you
as the acknowledged belle of the viceregal
ballroom, courted, adored, surrounded
by admirers,  the same face  the
same form  unchanged as fate ; my fate,'
he added, in a lower tone.

Again that wild rapture seized him ;
again he would have spoken, but that
Sophia, who had risen from the piano,
fixed upon him a glance so grave and
steadfast, it checked him.

You forget. Miss Escott, that I have
heard of nothing but you for the last year.'

Some subtle note of sympathy told them
both that this was not the conclusion of
the sentence he had intended.

There is nothing about me that need
occupy anyone,' was Sophia's reply, spoken
very coldly.

A chill had passed over her, rapturous
as had been the meeting. Now, an unspoken
something lay between them.

I hope I have not annoyed you ! ' he
exclaimed, alarmed at the change. ' Remember
you honoured me by calling me
your friend.'

Edward, too, had grown suddenly grave.

Frank and loyal by nature, the false position
in which he found himself, deprived
him of all liberty of action. In the midst
of his growing love for Sophia, he was
painfully conscious of a sternness about her
that repelled too familiar an approach.

No ; I am not annoyed Sophia answered
wearily, turning aside ; ' but I
wish  I wish you would not speak to me
of the past.'

Ah ! you think you cannot trust me ? '

Oh no ! I am sure I can. From the
moment we met, I felt that. But my
position is so changed ;  it is painful to me
to allude to my former life.'

She broke off with a sigh.

I have hardly come to realise it yet.
But I try to know my position. It is cruel,
Mr Maitland, to make me forget it.'

Her voice was low, and she flashed
upon him such a beseeching glance, that
it cut him to the quick.

At that moment he felt keenly he ought
not to have come. That which he had to
say to her would at once be accepted as
confirmation of her words ;  a pre-arranged
scheme of humiliation. He was acting
a miserable part before this desolate,
bereaved oIrl.

The idea horrified him.

I am proud of your confidence, Miss
Escott, very proud ! I thinly I deserve
it. Do not lightly deprive me of the
precious privilege. Believe me  ' and
such a wave of love came over him, such
a longing desire to clasp her to his heart,
that his voice grew quite thick,  ' no
woman ever had a truer, a more devoted
friend  '

Sophia's look stopped him. Only a
friend I What a chilling word ! She felt
as if he had stabbed her !

I am new to English life,' she replied,
with ill-concealed disdain. ' Perhaps I am
better without such a friend.'

She rose from the piano, and stood upas
if dismissing him. Spite of herself, her
lips worked and the corners of her mouth
curled scornfully.

Edward saw it all ; her unspoken love,
her struggle with herself. His heart
ached. He watched every turn of her
grand face. How well he read it, how
entirely he appreciated the proud loyalty
of her soul.

If he had loved her before, he adored
her now.

Before I eo, Miss Escott  ' his voice,

his attitude, were full of silent tenderness,
but she would not let him catch her eye,
before I go, tell me, I beg of you, are
you happier at Scatlands than you expected
? '

'No!' she answered passionately, the
colour rushing back to her cheeks. ' I am
miserable! But for Uncle Louis, I should
run away. My aunt is most cruel to rae ! '

Cruel ! ' ejaculated Edward ; 'Mrs
Winter cruel ! '

Oh ! you take her part too ? ' she exclaimed.
' Yes ; cruel ! If you ask me a
question, Mr Maitland, you may believe
my answer,' she added, with an accent full
of reproach.

Poor Mrs Winter cannot surely be
cruel, Miss Escott! You misunderstand
her'

I say cruel,' she repeated, raising her
voice, and frowning. ' I know the meaning
of the word. She has already made plans
for getting rid of me, before I have been
here a week.'

She was on the point of telling him
what had passed about John Bauer, but
suddenly changed her mind. He had not
deserved such an excess of confidence.

There must be some mistake,' was his

answer, spoken gently. ' Shall I speak to
her? remonstrate  ?'

No ! no ! ' cried Sophia, colouring to
the roots of her hair. ' Pray do not think
of it ! What would Aunt Amelia think
of me ? Why, Mr Maitland, you are a
perfect stranger to me. I do not even
know your mother.'

Edward bit his lip violently. His false
position hampered him at every turn.

That is true, INIiss Escott ; it might be
misunderstood. My mother has not the
pleasure of knowing you. I regret to say
she has been a little indisposed, or she
would have called.'

Indisposed ?' retorted Sophia, who had
observed his confusion at the mention of
his mother's name. * Yet I have seen her
passing down the lane repeatedly ; two
ladies (I believe she has a companion)
coming from the side of the Thames. As
there is no other house, they must have
come from yours. But I did not mean
that. Do you think, Mr Maitland, that I
a dependant here  expect your mother
or anyone else to visit me. I had imagined
there was a great intimacy between
my aunt and Mrs Maitland ; I had heard
so. It appears I was mistaken, or I have

itsin.

driven her away. If we had been seeing
each other very often, it might have been
possible for you to help me. Now, there
is no one.'

What could he reply ? More than ever
he dreaded revealing to her the truth.
Was he to leave her without a word  the
woman who, in his soul of souls, he had
sworn should be his wife,  with the cold
courtesy of an ordinary visitor ?

He gave a long look at her.

She was gazing wearily out of one of the
tall windows, the one where the robins
hopped and pecked. There were no robins
now;  nothing but the reflection of stormy
rain-laden clouds that chased each other
across a leaden sky.

Behind her the soft drapery of the pale
yellow curtains made a background. Her
head was thrown back, showing the delicate
contour of her ear and neck ; her
pure cold face, like marble, shining out of
the coils of raven hair ; her large eyes
wide open, her eyebrows a little raised.
Nothing but her mouth showed agitation ;
her lips were white, and the corners
twitched nervously.

If Edward Maitland pitied himself, how
much more he pitied her ! One word

would have told her all, and that word he
dared not utter ! Fool ! fool ! why had he
listened to his mother ? An agony of
repentance seized him. He felt he must
touch her,  he must feel her! It was
torture to stand there like a stone and see
her suffer.

For a moment he took her hand,  gently,
reverently,  in both his own, and raised it
to his lips. He would not even so much
as permit his fingers to cling to the soft,
clear-veined skin, though he trembled from
head to foot. Sophia's hand was cold and
passive ; it dropped where he laid it, upon
her dress.

Miss Escott,' Edward said, in a low,
grave voice, with an almost solemn sweetness,
' I am indeed a stranger to you ;
though, when you called me so just mow,
you wounded me deeply. But it is true.
I dare not even help you. Your delicacy
has judged rightly in this. But, for God's
sake ! '  how earnest he was, and how
he leant over her, inhaling, as it were,
the essence of her beauty  'acquit
me of trifling ! ' Sophia started, but
commanded herself sufficiently not to
look up. ' I am sure I have offended
you.'

No, no,' she answered, collecting herself,
and glancing towards the door. (If
Aunt Amelia should return and find her
alone with Edward Maitland, what would
she say ?) 'No, you could not offend me ;
yours was the first voice that welcomed
me to England ; you assisted me when
I was helpless ; you were very kind, very
good. I am very, very grateful, Oh !
do not speak of offence between us two.
I cannot bear that  I cannot bear it ! '
Silent tears were trembling beneath her
eyelids. The tone of her voice was inexpressibly
touching. ' But you do not
understand. I am so wretched ! so lonely !
I know I ought to learn to bear it, but it
is a hard lesson. I shall in time. If I
seem to you strange or impatient, remember
I am not twenty, and I have already
come to the end of life  '

She broke off abruptly ; and moved towards
the door.

No ! no ! not to the end of life ! ' cried
Maitland, following her. ' Do not say
that. I tell you your life has not yet
begun. There are treasures in store for
you. Do but trust me  trust me implicitly.
Be merciful ; do not misjudge me.' His
words came quickly, with the might of

suppressed passion. ' You do not know
yourself, but I know you. You want someone
to support you,  to comfort you,  to
make life a paradise to you. Why should
you not be happy ? You have suffered,
but that will pass. You are so young, and
time is so long ! There is nothing really
wrong in your position, if you could but
see it, and be patient. You must not be
allowed to despair ; you must wake up to
hope  to unknown happiness.'

And who will care to do all this ? ' asked
Sophia, shrinking into herself.

She felt it was barbarous to probe her
wounds like this and bring no remedy.

It will come,' he answered ; ' I swear to
you it will come. Only have patience ! '

Patience ? ' returned Sophia, with a
frown ; ' I have had too much ! '

You must have more,  more ;  and
more hope.'

She looked up at him, puzzled and
bewildered.

Miss Escott, I am not a deceiver. In
your position it would be a crime  a crime,'
he repeated, ' and I am not a criminal.'
A smile played round his firm-set mouth 
a mouth in which every line inspired confidence.
' Already I knew you,' he continued,

' before I had seen you ; you interested
me as no other woman had ever done
before. I found out all sorts of things
about you. If I speak freely, it is because
of this. Yet I would be more than a friend
dearer than a brother  ' Here Maitland
stopped, then went on hurriedly, 
Forgive me if I am inconsistent. Some
day you will understand.'

' Some day ! ' Sophia caught up his
words, and in a wild tone burst out, 
Some day I hope I shall be dead ! Some
day ! '

Ah ! Miss Escott  Sophia  do not say
such terrible things. A little time is all
I ask. Till then, bear with me  believe
in me. Oh, God ! I ask you to believe
in me ! More now I dare not say.'

His voice had deepened into a tone of
passionate appeal. His aspect was that
of a man who had taken a deliberate resolution.
He was so distressed at her
obvious disbelief in him, that had she
not encouraged him but a little,  had she
been so stern and still, he might yet have
ventured to tell her all. But by no signor
motion did she lead him on to take the
venture. He felt that he must go, yet
he could not bring himself to leave her.

He longed so unutterably to still the
beating of her heart  to lift the cloud
from her dark eyes.

Again he tried to take her hand, but
she purposely withdrew it. It seemed to
Sophia that, without any right, Maitland
was taking possession of her. She had
done nothing to warrant it.

Mr Maitland,' she said at last  they
were standing close to the door,  ' I expect
nothing from you  nothing ! I have not
asked anything. Let us part. This is
folly ! '

Folly ? ' repeated Maitland ; ' you call
it folly ? That will depend on you,' he
added, colouring,  ' on you only. Mark my
words. We part now, but what this meeting
may lead to, depends on you! Beware
how you sacrifice us both. One hasty
word may separate us for ever. You must
never speak that word ! '

He could trust himself no longer. Each
moment that passed brought him nearer
to breaking his pledge to his mother.
Without daring to take another look at
Sophia, he left the room.

His head was in a whirl,  every pulse
in his body beating wildly. The interview
so ardently longed for by both

VOL. II. B

was over. It had been satisfactory to
neither.

Sophia and he seemed drifting further
and further asunder. Edward reproached
himself bitterly for this. The fault was
his, not Sophia's.

But at least he had learned something.
He was the least vain of men, yet he
could not conceal from himself that
Sophia  spite of his enforced silence,
spite of the false position in which it
placed him  was not indifferent to
him.

Bless her a thousand times for her
faith,' was his thought ; * my after-life
will be all too short to reward her ! '

When he was gone, Sophia stood rooted
to the spot, her eyes fixed on the hall-door
by which he had disappeared. A
sudden impulse made her rush towards
it. Why had she let him go ' Why
had she not told him how she had
waited for him,  longed for him ? She
had repeated it to herself a thousand
times ; why not to him "

Her pride arrested her.

'No, no ! ' she cried, clenching her

hands together to stay herself. 'Am
I mad ? After all, what has he said ?
Nothing! nothing! He tells me to hope.
Hope for what ? '

A bitter laugh broke the silence of
the hall. Then she sank down on a
chair and buried her face in her hands.
Big, scalding tears dropped through her
fingers on to her black dress.

He talked to me of the future  the
future ! If he loved me, he would speak
of the present I He said he would not
come again ! '

A wave of unspeakable misery seemed
to engulf her. Gone ! She rose and
walked hastily up and down the stone
pavement, the whole interview passing
rapidly before her.

He is concealing something ; I am
sure he is. Every now and then he
seemed as if he wanted to tell me.'

Sophia tortured herself for a reason.
Her morbid nature soon supplied one.
She had the bad quality of always attributing
unworthy motives.

I know what it is. He pities me I I
cannot conceal my love for him ;  he sees
it, and pities me ! I did not master myself
enough. He is sorry for me. He

has not the heart to tell me so. What
business had I to love him ? '

She stood still and wrung her hands,
the long-suppressed tears rolling down
her cheeks, yet tears could not relieve
the fire within her brain.

Oh, Zebula ! ' she cried, her voice
sounding hollow in the vacant space,
do the spirits tell you hove I suffer ', '

She pressed her hand upon her bosom.
Yes, it was safe  the little phial !

Oh ! if you were only here and could
try the cards for me, Zebula, and tell me
the truth.'

Terrible sobs heaved her bosom. She
had not admitted to herself how strong
hope had been within her till he had
come. Now he had been, and she
could no longer indulge the hope of
seeing him again.

Like a too-impatient wave breaking
far from the shore in the midst of a
troubled sea, where every crest which
lifts itself must fall, she had failed !
signally failed !

Poor Sophia! It was only the thought
that Aunt Amelia might return, find her
there, and ask her questions, that roused
her.



She dried her eyes hastily, event back
into the drawing-room, and closed the
piano. Then, with the same proud step
with which she had entered in the
morning, she slowly mounted the dark
oak staircase to her room.

HE letter which Mrs Winter expected
from her sister had now
come.

Lady Danvers was to arrive
on Christmas Eve.

The visit had been arranged in November,
but the actual fixing of the day
threw Aunt Amelia into spasms of
nervous excitement.

Sophia held herself haughtily aloof; 
on the whole an immense relief Aunt
Amelia would have been ashamed if
her niece could have seen how much she
acted as upper servant.

Another woman was engaged, and
Jacob, the green-grocer's man, was engaged
to wait.

When Mrs Winter first met this individual
in the hall, arrayed in a black

coat and white cravat,  forgetting all
the beneficent arrangements made by-john
Bauer in his uncle's affairs,  she
all but fainted in his arms, under the
impression that he was a bailiff come
to arrest her husband.

Lord-mercy, mari ! ' cried the man,
staring into her face, pale with terror, as he
raised her and set her on her feet. ' Well,
you be took all of a heap a-seeing a me ! '

No, no, Jacob'  (she was blushing to
the temples),  'not you at all! I felt a little
giddy. It is nothing. Go to your work,
my good man ; you have plenty to do.'

The Winters were put to no expense by
this visit. Lady Danvers laid down an
ample sum. It was her way of helping
her sister. Money she would no longer
give, except for special purposes. She
was not naturally generous, and had undergone
unheard-of persecution from Louis
Winter.

Sometimes it was uncut diamonds from
Amsterdam. Sometimes a picture in pawn,
for which, if she would send five pounds by
return of post, he would, within a week, give
her five hundred pounds. Once, a set of
Dresden china in white, which ' ein outer
freu7td' had painted in London. Another

time, a request point-want to lend him
fifty pounds to buy Aunt Amelia a tea-service.


(This was rather strong on Mr Winter's
part. He was, before all things, an amateur,
and generally observed a kind of
consistency in his demands.)

Naturally, Lady Danvers detested coming
to Scatlands, and only did it from a
sense of duty, to show the world  as she
phrased it  that she countenanced her unfortunate
sister.

When Amelia would Insist on marrying
that horrible little German Jew, I told her
how it would be,' Lady Danvers said to
her friends. * A speculative scamp, without
capital or credit, who ought to have
been a music master.'

But on the present occasion there was
a fresh inducement. Her only daughter,
Jane  who, like all only children, was to
be a prodigy, and to learn everything 
had been a little over-worked, spite of the
open-air life she led, and had begged so
hard to spend her Christmas with the
Winters, that her authoritative mamma
had yielded.

From the moment the time was fixed,
Mr Winter had tormented his wife without

ceasing by sending down all manner
of things ; among others, a superb set of
carved ebony furniture, just arrived from
an old Dutch palace at the Hague, for
Lady Danvers' bedroom.

If see zee die antiques, my Amalle, die
bodies, zee will buy, and die moneys vil
pay die rent. Once In die rooms, die old
Danvers vlll think dem wonder-fine, and
herself von queen on die trone. Ach !
Zee is von fools, Amalle '  turning away his
squat little figure, balanced on one heel,
at sight of Aunt Amelia's grave face and
resolute shake of the head  ' von fools !
Outer God ! I leave but vit fools ! Veil !
veil ! die scheldt, die Jane, zee sees big ;
zee will vont die bijouterie. I brings zee
som sch'dne bijouterie in die morocco. Die
scheldt will make die old devils fork out.
It will be vor me a beetle sum. Ha ! ha ! a
beetle sum. Say noting to die scheldt dat
der onkel Louis get die bijouteries von dem
gotten freund \n Sancti-Marle, Ax  '

Louis ! Louis ! ' cried Mrs Winter, a
more angry look on her mild face than it
seemed capable of assuming, ' if you say
one word more, I will write to my sister
and prevent her coming.'

Mr Winter, always ati fo7id, rather afraid

of his wife, drew out his red banana and
blew his nose loudly, helped himself to a
large pinch of snuff, contemplated her fixedly
through his spectacles  still flushed
and excited  then bounded off, three steps
at a time, upstairs to Sophia's room.

Here he was always welcome.

Ever since that visit to the City, Uncle
Louis had talked a great deal to Sophia
about John Bauer. Nothing would stop
him. It was not the smallest use for her
to pout or scold, or even to be rude to
him. He was impervious to hard words,
and broken to insult.

That die Sophie could really be angry
with him he would not believe. To Mr
Winter's speculative mind, the notion of
arranging a marriage between her and
John Bauer presented too many alluring
vistas of personal advantage to be lightly
disposed of.

Besides, to do Uncle Louis justice, his
affectionate heart melted towards her. He
would have cut his right hand off to serve
her. How much more to obtain for her
an advantageous settlement with a rich
husband.

So it came about that, spite of Sophia's
indignant remonstrances, the conversation

did turn very often upon John Bauer ;
although she would not permit Aunt
AmeHa so much as to name him. The
time selected by Uncle Louis being when
they were playing together late at night,
after Aunt Amelia had retired. Uncle
Louis was quite scampish about late hours,
and never would eo to bed as honos as he

o o

could find anyone to sit up with him.

(In these last days, Aunt Amelia, to her
great annoyance, always found herself
solemnly conducted to the foot of the
stairs by Jacob, who, after bringing in a
little supper, would lie in ambush outside,
a readv-licfhted candle in his hand.

Good night, sirs Winter, ma'am,' he
would say, in a cheery voice, handing her
the candlestick, ' Good dreams, and a
healthy waking in the morning ;  else in
heaven, ma'am, please God ! '

Jacob, who had a wife of his own, gave
it as his opinion over the kitchen fire 
such as it was, that fire,  ' And a smaller
one, nor dustier coals, I never seed, not
even at Josiah's, where we didn't dare to
boil a kettle on Fridays,' said the new maid,
in confidence  Jacob gave it as his opinion
that ' missus was persecuted, atween the
short un who cussed in foreign tongues up

and down the house, and that mortal fine
young hussy, that stepped about as if she
a-wanted feather beds for her shoe-leathers')

In the small hours, Uncle Louis would
lay down his flute on the piano, and, under
the excuse of arranging the music, in
wildest confusion on chairs and tables 
Sophia never put anything away  would
talk of John Bauer, Sophia listening in
dogged silence.

A remark from Uncle Louis as to the
effect of a violoncello passage, accompanied
by the flute, brought a fish of anger to
her cheeks, as she sat at the piano.

You do not mean to say. Uncle Louis,
that I am expected to play with Mr Bauer ? '
she cried indignantly, lifting up her hands
from the keys. ' Nothing on earth shall
induce me to do so ! '

In reply, Uncle Louis, turning a pair of
shining spectacles upon her, his eyes sparkling
with glee, ran his fingers through a
shock of grey hair, growing straight from
his head, winked, took a pinch of snuff
scientifically on thei tips of his fingers, then
signed to Sophia to go on.

John Bauer had felt very unlike himself
ever since that mecJngwith Uncle Louis

at the office ;  so unlike, indeed, that neither
Mr Johnson nor any of the head clerks
could make out what had come to him.

John Bauer was too thorough a man
of business to neglect what he had to do,
but he set about it in an absent, dilatory-way,
that astonished everyone. It was so
different from his usual calm, decided manner,
issuing his orders right and left, like a
general marshalling his troops.

Before, he was generally the last person
to leave the office in the dreary street,
staying on to finish a letter, or keep
some appointment after business hours.
Now, he hurried over his work, leaving a
great deal to the head clerk, and slipped
away by his private door when important
people were waiting to see him.

John Bauer thought a great deal about
the Concert Stilck, but much more about
Sophia Escott.

The idea of Bauer & Bauer marrying
had never presented itself to him, except
as a mileage, very dim and hazy, at a far
distance. Now that Uncle Louis had
brought him face to face with the possible
fact, it alarmed, yet attracted him.

In business he was clear-headed and
singularly courageous, but the beautiful

Anglo Indian was a sort of speculation
about which he felt altogether at sea, and
the throes of terrified shyness he went
through about this visit to Scatlands
actually disturbed his rest.

The Concert Stuck was very difficult at
any time. There was a great deal for
the violoncello to do in a long andante,
the most important movement. In his
present absent state of mind, the execution
seemed more trying than even a performance
in public,  a predicament into
which his love of music had once decoyed
him.

You may mass your audience,' thought
John reflectively, ' but one pair of searching
eyes fixed on you every time you draw
your bow, would quell the stoutest'

Then he fell into a muse as to his personal
appearance. What would Sophia
think of him ? The better to ascertain
this, he started up and stared at himself in
the glass, as if he were a stranger.

Good heavens ! How ugly he was ! A
flat, sallow face, no whiskers, and colourless
hair. No handsome girl would ever tolerate
him. And his awkward manners too !
In the office he feared no one ; but the
idea of meeting Miss Escott face to face

in the yellow drawing-room made him
tremble.

Suddenly he remembered he had no
light gloves. This was a reprieve.

When Aunt Amelia was alone, he went
dressed as he pleased. But no gentleman
could present himself before a young lady,
with uncut hair and in dark gloves.

Further, it was borne into John's mind
that he would do well to order a dress coat
and a pair of light boots ; but, on reflection,
he dismissed the idea of the boots as sheer
cowardice,  simply a subterfuge to put oft
time.

Nevertheless, he scraped away at his
violoncello with great zeal, though musically
also he felt ashamed of himself,
broke down in the same passages every
time  continually lost the tempo, and produced
a villainous tone.

Practise as he would, he never seemed
to do any better.

Thus, Sophia Escott became a threefold
terror to poor John,  as a beauty, a musician,
and a possible wife. Yet, he had
such a respect for Aunt Amelia that, though
he trembled, he longed all the while to
make acquaintance with the young lady
she had selected for him.

Several times he had fixed the evening-for
his visit, and had packed up his violoncello
and rolled his music together, ready
for a start, but, at the last moment, his
courage failed.

John lived at a neat little villa at Wood
End, near Fulham,  a mouldy, quiet little
place, with a high wall round it, covered
with accumulated moss.

An Alsatian cook, much bigger than
himself, with silver skewers in her hair,
and a petticoat like a kilt, dealing blows
right and left to those she thought deserved
them, ruled supreme.

This Amazon generally absent without
leave  was much given to snaring mice
and other domestic nuisances ; and was
also very learned in the capture of birds, 
a taste encouraged by John, who took the
liveliest pleasure in these captives,  frequently
purchasing the linnets and thrushes
caught in his own grounds ; though he did
object to a tame snake which this young
person had introduced into the establishment.


John also demurred about a tawny-haired
cat without a tail, which had made
a sudden irruption into the garden, with a
bit of rope round its neck. Still, he never

made up his mind to issue the order for
its dismissal ; and the cat, finding pleasant
quarters, established itself at the villa, 
ending by endearing itself so much to the
excellent John, that he found himself leaped
upon the moment he entered the gate.

What would Uncle Louis think of his
absence ? John kept asking himself, with
dismay, puffing away at his meerschaum,
a red brock of Bohemian glass frothing
over with Bavarian beer at his elbow.

Nothing but a long smoke out of that
nobly-tinted meerschaum could relieve him.

From all which it will be seen what a
homely, good fellow 'Bauer & Bauer' was ;
devoid of vanity, and without the faintest
idea how great a match his wealth made
him.

At last, as all things must have an end,
so had John's hesitations.

With well-cut hair, and a pair of light
gloves in his pocket, accompanied by his
violoncello and a roll of paper containing
the famous Concert Stilck of Hummel,
John took his place one afternoon in the
quick coach running from the White Horse
Cellar, Piccadilly, to Twickenham, just as
twilight was falling.

As John's evil fate would have it, this

VOL. II. c

was precisely the day after Sophia had
had that interview with Edward Maitland.
Strange to say, no one in the house had
any idea that he had crossed the threshold.
Of the two servants in doors, one was on
the third floor making Sophia's bed, the
other in the kitchen, peeling potatoes.

Mrs Winter, as already said, had walked
out.

fND Sophia?

Since that meeting with Malt-land,
she had seemed to be walking
in a dream. The voices
about her came to her as from afar,  the
little everyday details of her monotonous
life followed each other unheeded.

After that first burst of indignant grief
that followed his departure, when all the
wounds of her pride were set bleeding, reflection
brought wiser counsel.

Something whispered to her that she
could not love him as she did, and leave
his heart unscathed. She had no experience
to appeal to,  no Zebula to advise
her ; but she judged his feelings by her
own, with the intuitive philosophy of youth
and passion.

Let her be humiliated as she might, she
had a heart to give  and she had given it.

Yet something lay behind,  something
he had not told her. Two or three times
she felt sure he was on the point of
speaking, then had checked himself.

What could the obstacle be ? His
mother ?

At this thought her imperious temper
welled up. His mother ? What right
had she to interfere . If he loved her,
why should he listen to her ?

She recalled his words, his looks. She
went over the whole scene.

We part,' he had said. * But what
this meeting may lead to depends on
you.'

Depend on her ! A short mocking
laugh broke the silence of her bare room.
How cruel to say that !

Beware how you sacrifice us both !
One hasty word may separate us for ever.
You must never say that word ! '

What did he mean by that ? Why
talk to her of the future,  to her, whose
daily bread came with the bitterness of
dependence ', At this thought, she
clenched her hands and set her lips
mighty.

Fool ! fool ! ' she cried aloud ; * what
business have I to love him ! '

Then her mood changed. Could Maitland
look at her as he did and not care
for her ? A delicious glow came over
her. She basked in the thought ! All
the black train of doubt, of wounded pride,
impatience, and the sense of injury vanished.
She would trust him. Yes ! She
would trust him !

With a calmer mind she sat watching
the watery clouds scudding across the
wintry sky,  the heavy menace of the rainfall,
and the gloomy fog which, spreading
like a pall over the tree-tops, shuffled out
the brief day so rapidly.

Sophia never walked out. Not even
the desire to meet Edward could induce
her to pass the limits of the green-door
into the lane.

With her Indian habits, she could not
comprehend the delight English people
took in walking  Aunt Amelia, for instance,
who drove herself out in all
weathers, like a galley slave, to her mind.

Nevertheless, that afternoon, when the
house was still, and Aunt Amelia absent,
Sophia let herself out by a back door and
wandered into the kitchen garden, between

8 The Ill-tempered Cousin,

the bespattered walks enclosing the seakale
pots and the winter cabbages,  gazing
up at the leafless elms, throwing bare
brown branches over the wall like the
arms of skeletons.

What a dungeon of a world ! ' thought
she, shivering in her black clothes as she
passed along the gravel walks, with that
queenly step of hers. * But is it not his
world ?  The air he breathes ?  The trees
that gather round him ? Oh ! fair and
happy earth to bear my Edward ! May
he not be watching, too,  listening forme!'


The sound of the key of the green-door
turning in the lock roused her from her
trance.

She gathered up her skirts and rushed
indoors, almost knocking over Jacob,
established with his brushes in the hall to
clean the plate, arranged before him on a
tray.

Seeing,' he had said to the maid, * it
is better there nor in that darned pantry.
And as to halls, a room is a room, to use
or to abuse ;  and when missus comes inconvenient
to convince herself that Jacob
never dodges,  wet or dry. Dry . Sees 
I be I A little beer highly acceptable, asa

body may say, without offence. And
never a drop do I get here  not so
much as dealings.

*Vat der teufel ab die Sophie in zee
heads ? ' asked Mr Winter, the day after
Maitland's visit, thrusting his red face into
his wife's. ' Zee say noting. Vat 'ave
changed he ? '

I don't know, Louis. She tells me
nothing. She looks very pale, but when I
question her, she does not answer,'  and
Mrs Winter sighed and stitched on in
silence.

'Ouf!' cried Uncle Louis, plunging on
the sofa. ' Das laus is gone mad !
Die Sophie not speaks,  zee Amalie
not speaks,  der dragon Danvers coming,
 and dat esel-kopt, dat colossal
ideots Johann, not comm ! '

I am afraid you frightened him, Louis ;
he is so shy. But it does not much
matter '  another sigh,  ' Sophia will
never marry him. It is better he should
stay away.'

Die schists, ' continued Uncle Louis
reflectively, scratching his ear, ' 'ave
something in zee minds. I zee it in zee
eyes. Amalie, zee must find he outs.'

Mrs Winter shook her head. The pale
lilac ribbons shook too responsively. Her
heart was full ;  of all the evils Sophia
had brought into the house, the greatest
was the estrangement between herself and
her husband.

Poor schists ! poor schists ! ' repeated
Uncle Louis to himself. Then, turning
suddenly upon his wife :  ' Zee, too, is
changed. Zee is likes die stone monuments.
Vat av zee, Amalie ?'

For a moment her voice was choked, 
she could hardly suppress a sob. But,
determined not to inculpate Sophia, nor
cause her husband pain, she tried to still
the beating of her heart, and answered ina
quiet voice, 

Nothing, Louis, nothing.*

Amalie, my loose,' was his reply, gazing
at her through his spectacles, as he took her
cold hand in his, 'permit me von littel word.
Zee always says, Notmk! Ouf!' stretching
out his stout little legs, and flourishing
his handkerchief. ' Let der Dan vers teufel
comm ! Zee cannot make it worse.' Then,
rushing at the handle of the door, and
bursting out of the room into the hall, 
Sophie ! Sophie ! ' at the top of his voice.
Ceciliens-kind ! Comm down to der old

onkels and warm sees pore soul wit de
musiks ! '

Dear Louis ! what a heart he has ! '
Mrs Winter was savior to herself, unshed
tears moistening her eyes. ' No wonder
people take him in. He never will see
what Sophia is. He imputes bad motives
to no one. For the first time in my life I
dare not confide in him.'

Here the unbidden tears flowed down,
and her coarse work dropped from her
fingers. Poor, helpless little woman ! what
could she do . Remonstrance, devotion 
all in vain ; reasoning impossible ; reproach
equally so, with her own brother's child.

Steps were now heard on the stairs, and
a smothered sound of kissing in the hall,
Uncle Louis re-appearing, triumphantly
leading in Sophia by the hand, her black
dress sweeping behind her like a robe of
state.

Ach so ! Ach so ! ' he muttered. ' Dashes
gut ! Die Sanct-Ceciliens bring de
music von de skies.'

His wife's eyes followed him as heled
her to the piano. Ah ! was it not just
so he used to lead her honos ago, and implore
her to make sweet music,  hanging
over her with a lover's rapture 1 Long ago,

when his hair was glossy and black,  his
face, if dark, comely and smooth,  and his
figure slight and graceful. Now, he was
old and she was broken, and another took
her place ! Not that she was jealous, poor
soul. She was incapable of any evil feeling
; but the past would cling to her.
Sophia was not her child, and she was
turning her husband from her !

Just as Sophia had seated herself and
struck a few chords invoking the music,
and Uncle Louis was busy lighting a pair
of candles, his silver-mounted flute before
him on the piano, a ring at the door startled
them all.

Aunt Amelia leapt to her feet, as white
as if she had seen a ghost ; and Uncle
Louis  like his wife, alarmed at unusual
visitors at unseemly hours, suggesting
bailiffs and inconvenient creditors  was
making good his retreat behind the folds
of the yellow curtains, when Jacob, holding
the handle of the door, put in his whitehead.


Mum ! ' addressing Mrs Winter, ' here's
a foreign gent outside  likewise a lad with
a big fiddle-case  and they says, they do,
that they be cousins come to visit a ye.
Won't be denied, nohow.'

Aunt Amelia sank back on her seat, and,
holding her hand to her heart, gave a
little cry. Sophia rose from the piano,
and Uncle Louis, bounding forward from
the shelter of the yellow draperies, threw
out his short arms.

Victoria ! ' shouted he, * less list der
Johann. Hock hebe der Bauer I Comm
in, mein sohn ! '  seeing him hesitate on the
threshold  'comm in, mein neffe, vidout
fear. Comm quick  quick ! '

And, darting at him, Mr Winter seized
John by the hand, and before he knew
where he was, still arrayed in his greatcoat
and wrapper, he found himself in the
middle of the room.

Ach, mein hers ! dees list gut,' cried
Uncle Louis, wringing one of his hands,
while Aunt Amelia took the other. ' Sophie,
look up ! Der Johann list comm vit der
instrument. Bravo, bravo ! Johann, dies
list die Escott,' dragging the struggling
Sophia forward by main force. ' Das
Himself-kind dat brings new live to de
poor old onkels. Sophie ! ' in a voice of
authority  his eyes glowering through his
glasses like fiery coals,  ' gift der Johann
die hand  quick, quick ! '

Sophia, too much bewildered to resist,

did as she was told, then stood Hke a statue.
John Bauer, very pale, also stood quite
still on the spot where Uncle Louis had
placed him. Then the blood rushed to
his face,  his head seemed to swim, and,
hardly knowing what he did, he made a
profound bow,  which Sophia, her eyes
turned on the ground, returned with a
stately curtsey.

John remembered afterwards that he
had tried to unbutton one of his new
gloves, but had failed ignominiously ;  that
he had steadied himself sufficiently to give
Aunt Amelia a kiss ;  and that Miss Escott
had raised upon him a pair of piercing
black eyes, and, to his extreme dismay,
contemplated him fixedly from head to
foot.

At this moment Jacob entered, grinning
from ear to ear, carrying the violoncello
in his arms like an unwieldy baby,
presenting it to John, who, reddening to
the roots of his sandy hair, nearly let the
precious load fall in his confusion.

At last, disembarrassed of his greatcoat,
which Uncle Louis in his zeal
almost tore from his back, he found
courage to turn to Aunt Amelia and
ask her how she did, his eyes the

while surreptitiously directed towards
Sophia, engaged at that moment in a
scuffle with Uncle Louis, who, suspecting
her of some sinister intention of escape,
was holding her down firmly on her seat,
nodding his head up and down to his
nephew.

Night war, Johann ? Say I not true ?
Is zee not beautiful ? And if de schists
will play  Sophie ! ' raising his voice, with
a tighter hold upon her arm, as she still
struggled to free herself,  ' be good, I say !
Sit still ! '

For answer, John's face beamed all over ;
for an instant he felt himself in the
seventh heaven.

Then Uncle Louis, having quieted
Sophia  who, irritated as she was, had
ended by laughing,  was heard speaking
as from the depths of the piano, 

Vat de devils sees zee about, Johann,
standing there vit der instrument like
von post ? '

Whenever music was In question, Uncle
Louis assumed the loftiest tone of superiority
over his nephew, who bore it with
unquestioning meekness.

'Ave zee no shames to keep de beautiful
ladies waiting } Zee  ' pointing to

Sophia, who grew crimson at being thus
addressed. (She saw how it was to be ; 
spite of her repugnance, she was to accompany
John Bauer ! Yet she dared not
move,  she knew Uncle Louis would have
brought her back in a moment.) * Sit
down at de desk. 'Ver is cas Concert
Stuck ? Ver ? '

There was no resisting Uncle Louis, as
Aunt Amelia always said. As to poor
John, when he found breath to reply, he
plunged at once into a torrent of apologies,
a shy man always says too much or too
little  blushed like a girl under his fair
hair, and, violoncello in hand, entreated forgiveness.


 He was quite ready,' he said, stealing
an admiring glance at Miss Escott.
No, Uncle Louis had not said a word too
much ; she was superb, but terrifying with
that haughty stare. ' He had not understood
they were waiting for him. He
begged Miss Escott to excuse him.'

At this Uncle Louis, too-tooting shrilly
as he tuned up his flute, winked violently
in the direction of Aunt Amelia,  careful,
however, that no one else should see
him.

In five minutes they were off in

full execution,  Sophia leading with that
firm tenderness of touch that distinguished
her playing,  Uncle Louis, red in the
face, getting through the quick passages
and shakes in his most brilliant manner, 
and poor John, following with somewhat
hollow sounds, digging his bow up and
down among the strings, as if determined
that if not musical skill, at least manual
strength should not be wanting.

When it was over, Sophia laid her
hands on her lap in sullen silence, and Mr
Winter bestowed some charily-administered
words of praise upon the blushing John,
who, every instant growing a deeper shade
of crimson,  with a rapid utterance, quite
amazing to himself  went on to say that
he really felt utterly overwhelmed at imposing
his bad playing on such a performer
as Miss Escott. That he had done
his best, although still very imperfect, and
that he begged before leaving (it was
getting late, and the Alsatian cook had a
habit of wrapping herself up in such profound
repose not all the knocks and thumps
performed by John's powerful fist upon the
door could rouse her. Occasionally he had
actually been forced to sleep at a neighbouring
public - house) that she herself

would give him the great pleasure of performing
some morceau alone,  all these
words being addressed for the most part to
the ceiling.

As John spoke, Sophia glanced angrily
in the direction of Uncle Louis, bending
on her his mischievous eyes, his large
mouth elongated into the broadest of
grins.

Her pride was rising. The idea of
John Bauer introduced to her against her
will  daring to ask her to play a solo
too!

Yet how to escape, with Mr Winter
leaning over her ? How bring herself to
wound him, when he recalled her dear
father so vividly to her mind .'*

No ! thundered a hundred voices within
her. No ! and with a sudden start she
murmured something almost inaudible
about ' the pleasure.'

John bowed and tried to answer, but
the fountain of his eloquence soon ran
dry.

He never knew how those first moments
of conversation with Sophia passed. When
he came to himself. Uncle Louis was
clapping his fat hands, and shouting, 

Oh ! oh ! Ceciliens-kind ! Viva die

music ! Play, play, mein scheldt, to der
outer Johann. Look, my Amalle,' turning
to his wife and pointing to the two,
look at die corijoiniczione of de Deities,
die Venus and der Hercule ! '

If you talk nonsense, Uncle Louis,*
said Sophia, rising, ' I shall go away.'

Niinmer, niinmer 7neJir, my Sophie, my
angels. Do not break di pore oheim's
heart. Quick! quick! play,' seizing on
her hands.

His look, his attitude, were so tender;
the way he bent over her so fond, her
set features relaxed, and she was rewarded
by a resounding kiss.

And who, may I ask, Mr Bauer,' she
said, turning on him the full fire of her
eyes, ' told you that I played ? '

Uncle Louis,' was John's brief reply,
making her a low bow. ' The last time
he called on me, he spoke much of Miss
Escott.'

Sophia darted a glance from under her
black eyelashes in the direction of Aunt
Amelia, then at Uncle Louis. He too
then had joined in the plot of that false,
designing Httle woman, of whom she could
see nothing but the cap.

How threatening her brows were as she

VOL. II. D

gazed up at him, all unconsciously putting
by his silver-mounted flute, and looking
so proud and happy, that even her
jealous temper acquitted him of all sinister
designs.

At this point Aunt Amelia chimed in
from the sofa in her meek voice, 

I have never heard Sophia play alone.
It would be a great treat.'

As she spoke she sighed. Was this magnificent
creature indeed her lost brother's
child, or some brilliant changeling from another
sphere '.

Comm ! comm ! Sophie. Strike up ;
out of die heads. Extempore. Hang denotes
; die brain sees betters,'

How she came to comply who knows
only she did ; striking a few wandering
cords of prelude, then breaking into a
grand ' motif from Gluck's ' Armada a
motif to set men and women's hearts
on fire, and bring down cherubim and
seraphim from the skies.

John listened, enraptured, motionless ;
Uncle Louis, with a face as grave as
Rhadamanthus ; and Aunt Amelia, with
moistened eyes, thinking of her brother in
his dishonoured grave.

From the first glorified burst, Sophia

passed to a simple German air, a favourite
with Uncle Louis ; the words 

Ah could you but possibly know,

In this bosom what sentiments meet,

Love has nothing more lovely to show,
Nor friendship more tender to greet.'

As she played suave modulations spread
over the keys  like the gentle lapping of
water under trees, or such as a flowing
stream gives out as it meanders through
summer meadows in the sun.

To John it seemed that ethereal harmonies
flowed from her fingers, wafting
him into celestial space. Alone ! Yes !
alone with Sophia !

Mark, reader, to what a point of courage
this young man had attained ! But music
is a republic, and all are free within her
boundaries. Free and bold and strong as
John felt at that moment,  the yellow
drawing-room transformed into a glorious
temple,  the candles, stars,  the fire burning
on the Dutch tiles, an altar,  and his
own seat a throne, from which he could
survey this glorious creature.

Nothing was too great or too fanciful
for honest John ; the latent romance of his
German nature stirred within him. The

fVERsiTY OF

whole world at that moment meant nothing
but himself and Sophia Escott.

Not a word broke the hushed silence.
She had ended, but the divine melody still
circled within the walls. It would have
been impious to speak while the vibration
of those sounds lasted. She had held
them spell-bound for half-an-hour. It
seemed but an instant.

Uncle Louis was the first to break the
silence. He was weeping copiously,
and now blew his nose with the sound
of a war trumpet, then darting up,
clasped Sophia in his arms, but was
checked by the entrance of Jacob with
the supper tray. Then John Bauer,
who had been sitting with hands so
tightly clasped the palms really smarted,
rose, and delivered himself of these
words, 

Uncle Winter, I brought my violoncello
with me, as you bid me. I have done my
best ; but I wish, once and for all, to say,
I will never again touch a string of my
instrument in the presence of Miss Escott.
No,' continued John, growing valiant ashe
proceeded ; ' and I am sure you must
feel that I am right. It would be an insult
to her.'

Uncle Louis nodded his head approvingly,
and Sophia condescended to look
pleased at this domestic ovation, in which
Aunt Amelia joined.

I will carry my violoncello back,' added
John, 'and, with Miss Escott's permission,
dismiss \}iiConzerts Stilck for ever. I hope
I may return soon,' with a dismal glance
at the clock, as the idea of not seeing
Sophia again presented itself.

Certainly ! certainly ! ' burst from both
Mr and Mrs Winter. ' You are always
welcome,'  and, strange to say, Sophia
smiled.

Thus it came to pass that John Bauer
spent his evening at Scatlands, ending
with a late supper served by Jacob, who,
with the cook and the maid, had been
listening at the door, to what they
called ' psalm playing.' Cook, with difficulty
prevailed on to go down and fry the
kidneys, saying,  ' It does a body good
It do  to listen to church playing.'
Like saying prayers out of church,' added
Jacob ; ' alius good, for we be as flowers
of the field, unbeknown when we shall be
token.'

Wonderful to relate, Sophia stayed to
supper, Uncle Louis's arm round her waist,

even Aunt Amelia at intervals through the
meal venturing to converse with her a little,
and John Bauer in silent bliss emptying
brock after brock of German beer, one eye
at least always on Sophia.

Outside Rosebank, the morning
sun was shining among the elms
beside the river,  the current of
the Thames streaming by reedy
banks, where the swans hovered,  the
smooth lawn glistening, each leaf a separate
glory,  the tuft of weeping willows
dipping into the water, yellowed into gold,
and every one of the heterogeneous windows
on that side of the house dancing in
the lio-ht.

Inside, Mrs Maitland, in a violet silk
dress  or pelisse, as it was then called, shot
with red  that would have stood on end of
itself, moved about very restless, her full,
common-place face disturbed, the dignity
of her aspect lessened by constant changes.
She could not sit still, and was unusually
silent.

For the last few days Edward had absented
himself altogether until dinner-time.
Then he had only come into the saloon at
the same time as his father, and under
some excuse or other had gone away almost
immediately.

Evidently he wished to avoid her. Such
a thing had never happened before.

Her only son ! How shocking! How
ungrateful ! She, who had always sacrificed
everything for him. It was all the
fault of that abominable girl, Miss Escott !

So Mrs Maitland fidgeted up and down, 
now refreshing herself with eau-de-cologne,
now pinching off a superfluous geranium
bud, or picking a dry leaf from a camelia
flower, feeling, on the whole, very thankful
that she had had the resolution to stamp
out that affair summarily, otherwise, nobody
could tell what it might have led to.

She had warned Mrs Winter too. She
was sorry to be cut off from their usual
intercourse, but if Mrs Winter's company
entailed that of Miss Escott, the loss must
be accepted.

Some doubt rose in her mind about Lady
Danvers. Lady Danvers was, in Mrs
Maitland's estimate, a very great lady, of
whom she liked to speak as ' My friend.'

But even the distinction conferred by the
presence of Lady Danvers must be forfeited
for Edward's sake.

In fact, although very angry with her
son, she was thoroughly proud of the judgment
and tact she had shown in the whole
affair.

If Edward did not see the girl he would
forget her ;  if he saw her, he had given his
word not to marry her. There was a great
deal of comfort in all this,  only, it was so
hard he should avoid her ! It would have
been so much more satisfactory to talk
matters over with him, and discover some
leading fact from himself derogatory to
Sophia, by which she could convince him
of the correctness of her views.

All this while Miss Sterne sat working
with her back to the window.

Everything about Miss Sterne had an air
of mystery. She held her work hidden
closely under her ringlets,  when she rose,
she put it in her pocket, shoving it down
as if it were never to see the light again.
She spoke very low, and moved about so
quietly that Mrs Maitland often begged
her to make more noise, as she never knew
whether she was in the room or not.

One thing was very strange. Miss

Sterne received no letters. Ever since she
came, Mrs Maitland had tried to discover
the reason, but had always been quietly
baffled. Her friends were all dead, she
said. An old lady who had recommended
her to Mrs Maidand in a highly eulogistic
epistle, was dead also.

How can I have letters If there Is no
one to write ? ' she had answered.

But this reply was not altogether satisfactory
to Mrs Maidand. When had her
people died ? Where were they buried '.
Had it been a special mortality like the
cholera, sweeping them all off at once, or
had they fallen from a window } Had the
floor given way under them ? Or had they
been drowned In a pleasure-boat '

Mrs Maitland had tried her on all these
suppositions, but Miss Sterne never particularised.
Not a single fact was to be
elicited. They were dead. That was all.

Mrs Maidand felt wronged. Her companion
was handsomely paid, and she could
not but think that such details were included
in the salary.

Then there were those continual warnings
of Edward's not to trust her.

This was strange, because it was he, in
fact, who had first mentioned her to his

mother. He had heard of her, he said, at
Oxford, from her brother, his intimate friend.
She was an object of compassion,  a lady
who had met with undeserved misfortunes.

This brother was dead also. Could anything
be more provoking t

How often she had pumped her son
on the subject need not be specified.
Nor, that she obtained no information.
But that there must be something odd
about her, was forcing itself more and
more clearly on her mind.

Although she was, he said, the sister of
his friend, Edward never voluntarily conversed
with her.

Mrs Maitland had indeed wondered at
seeing how often Miss Sterne addressed
herself to him in her mouse-like way, and
how earnestly her eyes sought his when
she thought no one was looking,  a style of
behaviour she considered neither suitable
nor becoming in Miss Sterne's present condition,
but overlooked by her, as a fond
mother will overlook covert admiration, inconsideration
of a son's manifold attractions.


Nor did Edward ever praise her or
join in his mother's commendations. His
manner was simply polite, nothing more ;

although he did show her the attention
occasionally of Including her In the general
conversation, a civility never paid her by
Mrs Maitland, who talked to her when
alone In the house, seldom otherwise.

Lately, however, Edward's manner towards
Miss Sterne had altered. He
avoided her almost with disgust, and was
often downright rude to her.

Mrs Maitland's uneasiness about her
son in regard to Miss Escott, and her
doubts about the genuineness of her companion,
worried her extremely.

Miss Sterne,' she said, looking out
upon the verdant lawn, where, as I said,
every blade of grass reflected the winter
sunshine, * I want to walk. I have a
headache, and a walk will do me good.
I wish to pay a visit to Mrs Shorne at
the Vicarage. They have asked us there
so often since Edward came, and I cannot
get him to go. It is so long since I have
been out of the grounds. I am always in
terror of meeting that horrible niece of
Mrs Winter's. With her lazy Indian
habits, I daresay she lies in bed half the
day. Now it is two o'clock. We shall be
in no danger of meeting her if we go out

at once. We can return by the footpath
through the meadows by the river. She
is not Hkely to be there.'

Miss Sterne pocketed her work as if
it were an evidence of murder, and glanced
suspiciously round.

Will you excuse me, Mrs Maitland ? '
she said, knitting herself together in an
odd nervous way. ' I cannot walk so far
as Twickenham. I am very sorry.'

No, you will never leave the lane if
you can help it. I notice that. Lately
you are always hanging about opposite
Scatlands, but you never tell me a word
she added bitterly  ' nothing ! I think
you ought to feel it your duty to vary my
dull life by some information. What is
Miss Escott like ?'

In putting this downright question Mrs
Maitland was conscious of a considerable
loss of dignity. But her curiosity was so
imperative, she could not help it. In her
secret soul she was dying to know. It
was so provoking no one would tell
her.

Miss Sterne rose. There was an alarmed
look in her pale eyes, as of a creature
brought to bay.

Mrs Maitland,' she said hurriedly, ' I

give you my honour I have never set eyes
on Miss Escott!'

How strange you are, Miss Sterne,
starting up like that ! But you must come
with me. I want you. So go and put on
your things. I insist on it. I promise
you, you will see nothing so ghost-like as
yourself,' added Mrs Maitland, looking
after her, as she glided noiselessly towards
the door.

I don't know that,' answered Miss
Sterne vaguely. Then rousing herself,
and lingering in the doorway, she added, 
You need not be afraid of meeting Miss
Escott, madam.'

How do you know ? '

She has plenty to do at home. She
is engaged to be married to Mr Bauer,
Mr Winter's rich nephew.'

*Who told you that ?' asked Mrs Maitland,
stepping up eagerly to where she
stood.

I know it,' answered the little companion
quietly.

I don't dispute that, but who told
you ?'

I am not at liberty to mention my
informant,' was her answer, disappearing,
as it were, altogether under her curls.

Mrs Maitland held up both her hands.

Is it possible! Well, that shows how
sly the Winters must be ! I never could
have believed it ! Been here so short a
time, and managed to get her engaged
already! I wonder how Mr Winter did
it. With his usual lies, I suppose,  he is
a most designing man ! Mrs Winter, too !
Never to say one word about it. (To be
sure, I have only seen her once, and then
I told her she had better not come here
again). Poor Mr Bauer! I pity him;
he has been terribly taken in ! Hereditary
insanity developing itself into suicidal
mania !'

This was a new idea of Mrs Maitland's
respecting Sophia, of-which she was longing
to inform her son.

And such a horrible temper! They
say she is killing Mrs Winter by inches !
Well, I am very glad ; it is a great relief
to me to hear this ! Mr Bauer is too
good by half for her though. With all his
money, too ! She will make his life
wretched! Even Mrs Winter cannot, I
am told, deny that her temper is awful.'

Yes,  fiendish ! ' put in Miss Sterne
softly, turning up her eyes.

And she will ruin him too,' continued

Mrs Maitland. * Her habits of extravagance
are quite wicked. But now, do tell
me how you found this out. I must do
you the credit to say you do find out
everything. It is very hard, however,
you should conceal things as you do.'

Conceal things!' cried Miss Sterne,
with a start, speaking out loud for once
in her life. ' What do you mean ? I have
nothing to conceal. What can I, in my
humble life, have to hide ? '

As she spoke, her tell-tale cheeks flushed
with a most unusual crimson.

Mrs Malden gazed at her in deliberate
silence.

Don't agitate yourself, Miss Sterne,'
said she, with a hard, cruel glance at
the shrinking figure of her little companion.
' I have observed that lately you
are dreadfully nervous. Strangely so !
One would think I had accused you of
committing a crime.'

Do what she would, at the word C7nme
Miss Sterne gave a sudden start.

You know,' continued Mrs Maitland,
never taking her eyes off her, ' I have
desired you to tell me everything which
happens. You might gratify me in this.'

This was intended as a sneer, but Miss

Sterne, having recovered her self-possession,
gave her such a strange, threatening
look, that no more was said.

Mrs Maitland was on the whole rather
afraid of Miss Sterne. With all her protestations
of humility, and that helpless
way of shrinking into herself, she would
never allow herself to be forced into anything.
Always perfectly well - bred in
words, her eyes had a wild, excited look
when she was subjected to close questioning,
not at all agreeable ; and she was
(according to Mrs Maitland) dogged and
determined beyond belief.

Well, this is great news ! ' continued
Mrs Maitland, conscious of having received
a check, and glad to turn the
conversation,  ' an immense relief to me !
I am so glad ! We shall get rid of that
girl, and go on quietly ! I wonder what
Edward will say ! What mischief she has
done already ! ' A deep sigh followed.
But it is all over now, thank God ! '

Do you think Mr Edward will let
Miss Escott marry Mr Bauer?' asked
Miss Sterne, speaking from under her
ringlets. 'He is very resolute.'

Now, really, Miss Sterne ! what can
my son have to do with it .- You are too

VOL. II. E

ridiculous ! I have forbidden him to
think of that Indian girl. I have told
him neither his father nor I would ever
sanction his attentions. I have prevented
his going to the house. Edward is the
best of sons. He will never disobey me.'

Here the companion raised her head
and smiled. It was a very doubtful smile,
in which no feature but her mouth took
part.

Are you quite sure of Mr Edward,
madam 1 ' she asked. She put this question
to all appearance quite innocently. * I
would not depend too much upon Miss
Escott's really marrying Mr Bauer.
Her engagement may be nothing but a
blind to egg on Mr Maitland. A young
lady may have two strings to her bow
Miss Escott is so clever.'

Miss Sterne ! ' exclaimed Mrs Maitland,
In great wrath, ' you are taking a liberty
In doubting my son's loyalty. When I
tell you I am satisfied, that ought to be
enough. Go and put on your bonnet.'

The two ladles started from the front
door Into the radiance of the winter sun.
Some golden leaves still hung upon the
branches that swept across the emerald
stretch of lawn  green as under the impress

of summer suns  otherwise it was
winter in all its nakedness. Yet there
was such a perennial brightness about
Rosebank, one forgot the season in the still
brilliancy of midday, the curves of the
well gravelled road, with its border of
deeply-shining rhododendrons and laurel,
and soups of yew and cypress, throwing
out blue-green shadows.

Mrs Maitland, magnificent in sable
furs, and a blue silk pelisse, elaborately
trimmed with leaves and scrolls in the
fashion of the day, formed the centre of
the landscape ; Miss Sterne, acting asher
foil, thickly veiled, with scarcely a
feature visible, as she stepped meekly
by her side. Mrs Maitland was in
high spirits. Her son was restored to
her ! There would be no longer any cause
for estrangement. For, spite of her protestations,
Mrs Maitland had not, up to
the present time, by any means felt sure
of him.

There was just that quiet resolution
about Edward, which is the most difficult
thing in the world to combat. As long ashe
felt himself in the right, he was immovable,
and his mother was well aware
that not even his sense of duty would

induce him to continue in any course of
action his conscience did not approve.

She had wrung a reluctant promise from
him by the arguments she had used ; but
if those arguments were false, or if they
involved him in any dilemma touching his
honour, not even her influence would induce
him to submit.

If Mrs Shorne were at home, Mrs Maitland
would tell her all about it. Mrs
Shorne had asked to be kept informed of
everything which passed at Scatlands.
Indeed, the vicissitudes of the Winter
family had been for years an inexhaustible
subject of conversation at Twickenham
almost, one might say, public news, 
and Mrs Maitland, notwithstanding the
regard she felt for Mrs Winter, had
always been the first to discuss it.

Now, the sudden advent of Sophia
Escott had convulsed the neighbours with
amazement. Her misfortunes, her beauty,
and Mrs Winters feelings, were freely
dilated on with the avidity proper to a
country circle, with little society to vary
the monotony of their lives.

No one had seen Sophia. This was
felt to be a hardship. * What does she
do with herself? Will she never come to

church ? Has her religious training been
attended to ? ' This question Mrs Shorne
had asked Mrs Winter several times.

The vicar,' she said, * wishes to know
something of the religious views of his
new parishioner,' thus imparting an orthodox
tone to ordinary gossip, and raising
herself into a species of social missionary
touting for her reverend partner in the
care of souls.

Mrs Shorne entered on the subject in a
solemn tone ; poor Aunt Amelia, colouring
violently under questions she found
it impossible to parry  specially about
church  knowing that Sophia would rather
be burnt on a funeral pyre 'like an Indian
suttee, than expose herself to the curious
eyes of a Twickenham congregation.

Not so the Misses Shorne. On Sundays
the three sisters (who had in due
rotation made their appearance at Mrs
Maitland's tea-parties, and other small
gatherings) filled to overflowing the
square pew of the vicarage with their
smart frocks and furbelows, from thence
taking an intelligent survey of the congregation,
specially of any stray young
men who made their appearance.

A well - brought - up family,' was the

general dictum concerning the girls. ' Sure
to make useful wives.' But the beauty-was
Minnie. Minnie was to make a great
match, removing her from the sordid sphere
of curates and the militia. Already it was
whispered she had refused the local attorney,
and that not a curate had come to
her father's house, who had not sighed the
sigh of love in vain.

Minnie's great friend was Mrs Gaunt, the
doctor's wife, once a governess, who assured
her that she knew the world, and
that so attractive and well-born a girl as
herself was sure to attract attention. It
was Mrs Gaunt who first drew her attention
to Edward Maitland. A suggestion
readily adopted not only by Minnie, but by
the whole family. Yet, spite of the good
advice of Mrs Gaunt and Mrs Shorn e's
maternal efforts in the way of dinners
and luncheons, he had as yet shown no
symptom to surrender.

So to the Shorne family Mrs Maitland
had chiefly poured out her phials of wrath,
and had so alarmed Mrs Shorne with her
idea of ' hereditary madness and suicidal
mania,' that, being a weak but kind-hearted
woman, she had come to look on Scatlands
as under a ban of social infection, and would

as soon have taken her daughters there as
to a house where scarlet fever or smallpox
was raging.

All this had brought Rosebank and the
Vicarage into closer relations.

Formerly Mrs Maitland had been very
shy of going there, and had on various
occasions refused their invitations in a short,
crusty way.

Of course the girls want to get hold of
Edward. Mrs Shorne is angling for a rich
husband. Very convenient to the Shores,
but not at all to me and Mr Maitland.' (He,
poor innocent man, always dragged out on
such occasions). Edward himself showing
the most perfect indifference to the whole
party. Beyond raising his hat and wishing
them good-day when they met in the road,
Edward was unconscious of their very
existence, except so far as the weekly
appearance of the vicar, and reading the
service in a voice so like a rusty saw, it
annoyed him.

Lately, however, Mrs Maitland's tactics
had entirely changed. She had seen a
good deal of the girls, especially of Minnie,
whose adroit flattery about her dress and
appearance had so won on her, that she
was now quite propitiated.

Really, Minnie Is a very nice girl she
was saying to her companion, as she
walked down the drive ; * a superior girl,
with excellent judgment. And the Shores
are a good old Cheshire family, though
poor, connected with the Cottons. Mrs
Shorne, too, an '' Honourable,"  sister to
an Irish peer, with a name I never can
remember. If Minnie really has that ten
thousand pounds from an uncle people
give her credit for, it would not be so bad.
I should have preferred a title. With
our money we ought to have rank. Lady
Dorothy Maitland, or Lady Cassandra,
would sound so Avell. But, after all,
Edward might do worse. He must marry
someone, to keep him out of mischief.
This business of Miss Escott has quite
opened my eyes. He is not to be trusted
to choose for himself. Poor dear boy ! so
generous and confiding, to be taken in by
a harpy like that ! '

Now,' continued Mrs Maitland, as they
reached the lodge-gate, * we will go on as
fast as we can down the lane, past the door
of Scatlacds. I would not meet any of
them for the world. I know I should
quarrel with Mrs Winter. A woman I have
been so kind to, to tell me nothing ! '

As she spoke, the Winters' green-door
opened, and Edward himself walked out.
His head was bent, his hat pulled over his
forehead. In his haste he nearly ran over
his mother.

sly dear mater, I beg your pardon ! '
he exclaimed, starting back. ' I did not
expect to see you.'

He tried to speak carelessly, but the
accusing colour rushed over his face and
neck, and his voice had a strange minor
in It.

Mrs Maitland drew back, gave him
a glance of severe rebuke, then arranged
her dress, a little ruffled by the
collision.

I can quite understand you did not
expect to see me,' she said, dryly, fixing
her prominent eyes on him. ' Miss
Sterne and I have indeed arrived at an
unlucky moment.'

She struggled to be calm, but her voice
broke with anger.

Now, if anything in the world could
have annoyed Edward more than meeting
his mother at that moment, it was the fact
that it should be in the presence of her
companion. Do what he would, he could
not at once recover his self-possession.

His interview with Sophia had moved him
as he had never been moved before. At
that moment he was not capable of warding
off his mother's attacks by assuming a
careless tone.

Where are you going, mother ? ' he
said at last, breaking a most embarrassing
silence. * Shall I accompany
you ?'

That was just what I was going to ask
you to do, Edward. I think, under the
circumstances,'  and she waved her hand
loftily towards Scatlands,  * you will feel
it is better we should have a little conversation.
Miss Sterne, I will not trouble
you to accompany me. I have so seldom
the pleasure of speaking to my son ' 
these words were duly accented, and accompanied
by a toss of her head  ' that I
mean to avail myself of the opportunity
while I can.'

There was an ominous acrimony about
all this that betokened a coming scene.
Edward shrugged his shoulders and walked
on. Miss Sterne gave one rapid glance
at him, her eye flashing with strange
lights, then turned short round towards
the gates of Rosebank. When she
was well out of hearing, she gave an

almost audible laugh, and sighed a sigh
of satisfaction.

Everything was working as she desired.
Maitland would never marry Sophia
Escott  never ! never ! and she would
make him love her  yes, love her, spite
of himself! '

OR a little while Edward and his
mother walked on in silence.
Their way lay by the lane,
under the shadow of the wall,
over which the elms and laurel trees cast
their shadows. Edward's heart was so
full of Sophia that, the momentary annoyance
past, his thoughts flew back to her so
completely that he forgot his mother's
presence. A grave, absent look spread
over his handsome face, and the firm lines
about his closed lips brought into prominence
the determination which marked his
character.

Mrs Maitland was watching him. Such
a stern expression was new to her ; his
wandering eyes, and his evident disregard
of her presence, irritated her exceedingly.

Well, Edward,' she said at length, impatiently,
stopping short under the wall,
well ! Is it possible you have nothing to
say to me ?  no excuses to make for your
disobedience ? '

None, mother ; I have no excuses to
make,' he answered coldly, rousing himself
from the entrancing reverie that
absorbed him. ' I have not disobeyed
you.'

Not disobeyed me ! Why, I caught
you in the very act  coming out of Scatlands.
How can you say so ? You
promised me to have nothing to do with
that girl.'

Mother, I said nothing of the kind. I
have broken no promise.'

Mrs Maitland drew herself up and
laughed, a little short, scornful laugh.
Then she waxed warm under her fur
tippet, and became very red. Her temper
was rising.

Come, Edward, this is all nonsense.
You have allowed yourself to be made a
fool of, and you will not confess it. You
will not persuade me that you went into
that house for any other reason than to see
Miss Escott.'

I did go to see Miss Escott, mother ;

I have no wish to deny it,' said Edward
firmly. ' To see her was my sole purpose.'

Then it is shameful  shameful of you ! '
she dwelt upon the word with emphasis
' and still more shameful of the Winters
to entice a young man against his parents'
wishes. As to the girl herself, it is exactly
the conduct I should have expected from
her. I see the whole thing  it is a conspiracy
organised by that old Jew cheat,
Mr Winter. I will give my mind to Mrs
Winter, I can tell you, a poor, weak creature,
without a will of her own ! I forbade
her to receive you,  I gave her my reason.
She passed her word to me, she would not
encourage you. I told her that, with
hereditary insanity and suicidal mania in
her niece's family  '

Mother ! ' cried Edward, with an indignant
start; 'did you do that? Is it
possible you said such things ? Have you
lost your reason ? '

No,' she retorted, trembling all over
with rage. ' Thank Heaven, my head is
strong enough for both. I can think for
all the family,  for you too, poor misguided
youth, who cannot defend yourself
! '

Here Mrs Maitland paused to take

breath. Edward's face had grown darker
and darker as he listened.

I am sorry you should address such
language to me, mother. I tell you plainly
I will not bear it. You must permit me to
come and go as I think proper ; to go
where I see fit, and to meet those persons
it suits me. You forget that I am three-and-twenty,
and that the sort of obedience
you exact would be degrading to a schoolboy.'


'Oh, Edward! Edward!' cried Mrs
Maitland, clasping her hands  ' what
words to your mother! If I were not in
the highroad, and with the chance of
somebody passing at any moment '  here
she gave a hurried glance round, and
lowered her voice  ' I should cry my eyes
out ! And you think it right to agitate
me like this ! But I don't care ; I will do
my duty. I will save you in spite of yourself
from that wicked, designing girl.'

Mother ! mother ! ' cried Edward, laying
his hand on her arm,  ' by God, these
are the last words you shall ever address
to me, if you speak in such terms of Miss
Escott ! '

Every feature in his face was set with
concentrated indignation.

He thought of Sophia's grand look as
she stood before the yellow curtains stifling
her feelings,  her feelings for himself. He
thought of the pang with which he had
parted from her, unable as he was to fold
her in his arms, and ask her to be his wife.
He thought of the secret despair her every
word betrayed. He thought of her as his
dear, dear love, his heaven, his idol,  aswarm
with the atmosphere of passion, the
witchery of her presence was still upon him.

He thought of all this as the work of his
mother, and at that instant he felt that
he all but hated her.

Ah ! it is come to this ! ' exclaimed Mrs
Maitland, walking rapidly on, hardly knowing
what she said.

She was greatly embarrassed between
her agitation and the stateliness of deportment
she felt indispensable in passing
along a public road. One of the gates of
the villas might open at any moment, and
some acquaintance find her in open altercation
with her son ! It was most awkward,
but her excitement egged her on to speak
She could not be silent.

I see what it is ! For the sake of that
girl, you defy me. Cruel  cruel boy !
Me, your mother, who have lived for you

ever since I heard your first cry, and was
told I had a son.'

Edward's face grew very white.

Mother, you distress me beyond measure
! But you are assuming a position
no man can permit. I have made you a
promise not to marry without your consent,
in the full belief that when you were
convinced that the happiness of my life
was at stake, you would give way. I am
ready to wait. I am ready to give you
time to convince yourself of the unreasoning
folly of your conduct. But I am not
ready to renounce Sophia Escott,  I swear
I never will. No ; not even for you, dear
mater, whose faithful and patient devotion
I so well know.'

He would have taken his mother's hand,
but she flung herself from him towards
the wall. The buzzing as of a thousand
bees was in her ears ;  for a moment she
thought, she should faint  her limbs seemed
to give way under her.

Where she was, for the instant she
forgot ; then, raising her eyes upon her
silk pelisse, and the painted gates of
the opposite villa, she suddenly remembered
; and, with an effort so powerful
her full-flushed face turned from crimson

VOL. II. F

to ashen colour  she became gradually
composed.

Much that Edward had said she did not
hear distinctly, with that confusion in her
brain, but the word 'promise' was clear
to her.

A promise ! ' she gasped out at last, ina
husky voice. ' And you dare to tell me
that you have kept that promise ! You
dare to tell me you did not go to Scatlands
to make love ? '

How she hissed out the words from
under her bonnet strings, the nodding
plumes answering to the sense.

Edward's face flushed with an angry
scowl.

Whatever took me to Scatlands, mother,
neither you nor anyone else has a right
to inquire into. I did not break my promise.
I did not propose to Miss Escott.'

He heaved a heavy sigh, remembering
how much it had cost him not to do so.
The more unreasonable and violent his
mother showed herself, the more bitterly
he repented having made her the arbiter
of his fate. It was quite evident that, far
from being able to remove her objections,
they were increasing under the action of
her own imagination,

a

Well, Edward, I am bound to believe
you.' Here Mrs Maidand, a lite mollified,
slackened her pace. She was not accustomed
to such rapid exercise,  her breath
was gone. * I should be sorry to think
you deliberately deceived me. You never
have done so. Yet you went there. And
you say you did not propose. Propose,
indeed ! What a notion ! But do you
suppose she will not boast that she has
made a conquest of you ? '

Edward negatived this by an indignant
gesture.

Mrs Maitland continued : 

'Well, let that be! In the meanwhile,
I have something to tell you, Edward.'

Here she stopped to take breath, and
with much portly stateliness drew herself
up at the entrance to the highroad.

Now, Edward, to show you what a
fool they are making of you at Scatlands,
Miss Escott is at this time enoracreJ to
marry Mr Winter's rich nephew, Mr
Bauer.'

Edward fell back ; he almost stumbled.
In an instant he turned deadly pale.

It is not true  it is not true ! I have
but just left her. I saw her alone ! '

His voice was thick and husky. Even

his mother was shocked at the effect her
words had produced on him.

And you really want me to believe that
a girl without a penny, with suicidal  *
an imperious look from her son stopped
her suddenly  ' would refuse a millionaire
like Mr Bauer ? '

I do believe it  I believe it on my
honour. Money would have no weight on
the noble nature of Sophia Escott. Your
insane prejudice against her makes you
forget the high position she occupied buta
few months ago. Her character was
formed then,  not in her present humiliation.'


Edward spoke with unwonted vehemence.
His mother's eyes travelled all
round, that she might assure herself no
one was listening.

Sophia Escott spoke to me of herself,'
he went on to say. ' She is not happy.
The Winters may have some plan ;  if soit
is formed in ignorance of her feelings.'

As he said this, Edward stopped short.
A sudden thought struck him. A light
flashed into his eyes,  the natural colour
flew back, mantling in his cheeks.

Did Miss Sterne give you this piece of
information, mother ? '

In his eagerness he approached her
closely, and looking into her eyes, seemed
to read her very soul. She would have
preferred not to give up her authority.
She would have liked to say she had
learnt it from Mrs Winter ; but with
Edward in that state of excitement it was
impossible.

]\Iiss Sterne did tell me,' she said
at last, lowering her eyes before his.

Miss Sterne! Ha, ha! And you believed
her ! Miss Sterne  the liar ! '

He laughed again. His heart felt so
light, that he did not even know how to
be anofrv.

Have I not warned you, mother,
against that woman ? She must go ! '

She shall not go ! ' cried Mrs Maitland,
in a loud voice, quite forgetting for the
moment they were standing in the highroad.
' You want to deprive me of everything
I like.'

Do not let us waste time upon Miss
Sterne,' answered Edward, every feature
of his face relapsing into a look of blissful
indifference ; ' that will do another day.
Shall I go back to Miss Escott, and ask if
it is true ? ' A rush of joy came over
him at the thought of finding himself

once more face to face with Sophia. ' But
if I go, I warn you I shall ask her to
be my wife.'

Edward, Edward ! How dare you
mock me ? If you go back, I keep you to
your word. You can ask her to marry
you, but I keep you to your promise.
You dare not without my consent.'

His radiant young face fell.

'Mother, mother! you are a true
tyrant.'

His whole soul was so wrought up, that
he would have knelt before her on the
road to supplicate her to loose him from
that fatal promise ; but the sound of footsteps
behind them warned him that someone
was approaching. It was two workingmen,
who stared as they went by, at the
mother and the son standing under the
trees.

Then I must go ? ' said Edward sorrowfully
; ' I must leave Rosebank ? '

Leave me ? No, no ! ' cried Mrs Maitland,
glancing up proudly at his tall, erect
figure and the manly beauty of his frank
face,  the light of the passion within
beaming in every feature. ' Oh, do not
leave me, Edward, just as you are
come ! '

Yes, mother. I must be very plain
with you. I have made you a promise
that is costing me sufferings you do not
appreciate. If you keep me to it, I must
go. I cannot stay here close to Sophia
Scott, whom I love, and be silent. If I
stay, I shall break my word. In the position
in which you place me, I have no
right to engage her affections. I feel  I
think,'  he stammered, ' she is not indifferent
to me.' Here he broke down and
blushed crimson.

His mother tossed her head indignantly.

Indifferent to you ! I should think
not!'

Ah, mother ! how little you know her !
I do not dare to propose to her, and in
her desolate position, to keep off others
would be wicked,  base,  selfish.'

He piled up adjectives to convince himself
that silence was the only line of conduct
honourable towards her.

She must be free, free as air. I do not
believe one word about Bauer. But, even
if it be true  if she is enoraored to him  I
can but bow my head, and bear it. It is
all your doing, mother, to gratify some
miserable vanity. If she does marry him,
I warn you, I will never forgive you ! '

These bitter words were wrung from
him, spite of himself. Mrs Maitland was
going to reply, but he was too agitated to
listen.

I swear that no other woman shall
ever be my wife. You will make me an
old man before my time, mother, if you
persist in this opposition. You will be
defeated ; God is my witness, I will marry
no one else.'

My dear Edward, this is all great nonsense.
You have seen this girl two or
three times. She is designing and unfortunate,
and she has worked upon your
feelings. You are young, and she is
your first love. When you return, after
a little while, you will have forgotten
her.'

No, mother, no,' answered Edward.
I am your son ; but you have yet to learn
what manner of man I am. I shall not
change. Until you withdraw your restrictions
on my marriage with Miss Escott, I
shall not return home. Good-bye.'

He took her hand gently in both his
own, and looked into her face.

The tears were swimming In Mrs Malt-land's
eyes. She could with difficulty
restrain them, and kept wiping them away,

as, one by one, they overcharged her
eyelids.

Edward, Edward ! I did so look forward
to your coming ! ' she said, with a
sob. ' At Christmas, too ! And your
poor father, what will he say ? Don't !
don't  ' She could not finish her sentence.

You can keep me if you will, mother,
by one word. Say it, dear mother, say it !
I implore you ! ' He gazed longingly at
her. ' Oh, God ! say that word ! '

Mrs Maitland shook her head. She
had all the obstinacy of a tyrannical
nature.

Well, well ; you think you are doing
your duty. You are destroying me ! '

Indeed, dear Edward, I do think I
am doing my duty,' she answered simply.
I believe I suffer as much as you.'

Edward raised his hands and sighed as
if his heart were cleft in two.

'I suffer,' continued ]airs Maitland, feeling
that on the whole she had the best of the
contest, ' in loving you too well. You must
know that. If I hold out, it is because I am
right. You will bless me by-and-by. You
will come back to me soon, and bless me.'

I cannot say,' answered Edward, looking
out mournfully over the barren fields

stretching away under the fog. ' I can say
nothing. All depends on you.'

They had now advanced along the
pathway bordering the wide road. Thereunder
that hedgerow, broken by pollarded
elms, Maitland had first seen Sophia.
There, in the mud, lay her box, with the
address by which he had discovered her.
And there she had stood, drawn up like a
queen,  a solitary figure in the November
mist.

You will soon come back dear,' repeated
Mrs Maitland, nodding her head.
Very soon.' She had grown suddenly
cheerful. Better to part for a little than
to lose him altogether.

No, no ! ' cried Edward, recalling
vividly the loneliness of his love, and
how, from the first moment he had seen
her, the splendour of her beauty had
worked upon him. ' No, no ! I shall
not come unless you give me my liberty.
I shall go into Berkshire for some
hunting. Nothing but hard riding will
suit me in my present mood. You
can write to me at Beverley. I shall
be about there, or in London. Now,
mother, good-bye. Go on with your
walk. It only distresses us to be

together. I shall go home to pack. No ;
I swear to Almighty God ! I am not
going to Scatlands,' in answer to a suspicious
glance from Mrs Maitland. 'If I
did, she should be mine. But I have no
right to go. slake yourself easy. Goodbye,
mother.'

He raised his hat. His eyes were moist,
his cheeks flushed,  the wind blew
lightly, raising the delicate curls of his
auburn hair from his broad white forehead.

Poor Edward ! He was only twenty-three,
and he was leaving behind him all
he loved. Xo wonder his eyes Averse moist.

To part in anger from his mother was a
real grief. Of the parting from Sophia he
did not dare to think. For the time his
heart was broken.

Mrs Maitland stood still. ' Such a
sacrifice ! ' she murmured, gazing at him.
To spend Christmas without you. Good
heavens I "

Suddenly she remembered that she
would be alone on the highway. She had
never been there alone before. It was not
suitable.

Don't go now, Edward. Come with
me to the Shores.' I want to call there,
but I do not like walking alone.'

Walking alone won't hurt you, mother,
at your age,' said Edward, with a sad
smile. His mother's fits of dignity were
inexpressibly comic. ' I cannot go to the
Shores'. I should be so strange, Minnie
Shorne would be disgusted, and turn me
out'

Ah ! I am always sacrificed ! ' exclaimed
Mrs Maitland tearfully,  * always. I
think you might have done me the little
favour of going with me, Edward.'

No, mother, you must excuse me.
Good-bye,' and in a moment he had turned
back into the lane.

His mother w watched his darkening figure
until it vanished among the trees.

Dear boy. He will soon come back,'
she repeated. ' I know it. Bless him !
He always did his duty.'

Then Mrs Maitland continued on her
way.

N the presence of his mother,
Maitland had been brave  almost
heroic. But no sooner
had he turned his back on her
than he began to repent the precipitancy
with which he had acted.

True, she had provoked him beyond endurance,
and exactly on that point on
which a young man is most sensitive  his
liberty of action. No man of spirit could
stand that. Now Edward Maitland not
only had a great deal of spirit, but he had
great resolution, and was, moreover, firm
to his principles, and gifted with a power
of making up his mind not usual at his
age.

What he felt so acutely was the sudden
parting from Sophia. What would she

think of him when she heard he was gone ?
Did it not seem Hke downright desertion ?
How could he communicate with her,  how
tell her that it was for her sake that he
was leaving ?  Nothing but a move ina
contest which was ultimately to result
in uniting them as man and wife ?

He would give his mother time,  he
would bear with her prejudices. But if she
persisted in opposing him he would formally
appeal to his father. When his influence
as opposed to his mother's was brought
to bear upon that hard-headed and excellent
merchant, there could be no doubt,
thought Edward, that he, at least, would
yield to reason.

All this, however, did not mend his
present position. He dare not account
to Sophia for his absence. It would be
too offensive to tell her the truth.

But could he not at least help her
to understand him by a message, or
by a note ?  not coldly leave her when
he had quarrelled with his dear mater
for her sake, and was willing to sacrifice
everything he had in the world to
bring them together.

Here the awkwardness of his position
quite overcame him. Confound it ! what

could he say to Sophia if he wrote ?
How could he go to her (which, considering
he was standing a couple of
stones-throw from her door, seemed the
most natural course), unable as he was
to offer any rational explanation ?

That accursed promise! It shackled
him at every turn. Even in the intoxication
of her presence, he had felt what
a coxcomb she must think him to stand
there, and say nothing !

All this while he was gazing up at the
grim, old Queen Anne house visible above
wall. Ugly as that house was, it had
become to him, as the shrine of a treasure
the object of intense longing.

From Sophia his thoughts glanced off
to Miss Sterne. It was she who had informed
his mother of Sophia's supposed
engagement.

As a rule, Edward despised her too
much to let his mind rest upon her ;
but it was certain that In his absence she
would do no end of mischief. He clenched
his fist with absolute rage as he thought of
it. Yet was he justified in betraying her
secret to his mother, because she had
repeated or invented a mere piece of
gossip ? It certainly would not mend

matters to open the whole question of Miss
Sterne at this moment. His mother
would never forgive him for seconding
with his influence the mysterious letter
from the deceased lady,  so warmly recommending
her ; although, heaven knows,
his share-of the deception was but an
act of the purest humanity, into which he
had been drawn by the entreaties of
his friend.

As to John Bauer, Edward had seen
him at the Winters', and could in some
sort speculate upon the effect that worthy
young man would produce upon the stately
Sophia. Think of it as he would, he
could not work himself up to the fear
of a dangerous rival in Mr Bauer ; only
he was at hand, and he had doomed
himself to a voluntary exile.

 My darling ! ' he said aloud in a
burst of emotion ; ' you have called me
your friend. How much more am I
to you ! But I will deserve that title
also. Until I can ask you to be my
wife, I will avoid you.'

Just at the moment he had come to
this stoical resolution, driving the while
a stick he carried into the hard gravel
of the road with a kind of savage persistence

perfectly irrational,  a small
neat figure in black approached, and
was about to pass him, when he turned
and found himself face to face with Mrs
Winter.

Aunt Amelia, conscious of his mother's
late harangue on the subject of Edward's
visits to Scatlands, as she bowed, coloured,
and endeavoured to take the opposite side.
But Edward, who greeted her appearance
as a kind of God-send, altogether frustrated
her intentions by advancing and taking her
hand.

I am so glad to see you, Mrs Winter.
Do forgive me for not calling oftener. I
have no excuse to offer, but you must
forgive me all the same.'

The look of real pleasure on his face
quite satisfied Aunt Amelia that he at least
took no part in his mother's rudeness.

Ah ! you are come for Christmas 'i '
she said, with one of these soft genial
smiles that made her face still pretty.
We are all assembling for Christmas.
I am expecting my sister ; I have looked
forward for months to her visit ; but there
is so much to do in our miserable house,
I do not know if the pain is not greater
than the pleasure.'

VOL. II. G

But you have Miss Escott to help
you, Mrs Winter.' Edward was conscious
of a considerable difficulty of articulation
in pronouncing Sophia's name. He rushed
at it as a hunter rushes at a bad fence,
and cleared it. ' You must find her
assistance invaluable.'

Mrs Winter dropped her eyes on the
ground, and sighed. She always did sigh
when any one mentioned Sophia ; and the
sigh became deeper and deeper as time
went on.

Sophia is not used to English ways,
Mr Maitland,' she answered curtly.

'Are you reconciling Miss Escott a
little more to England?' he asked, grown
bolder after the first plunge  a brilliance
coming into his eyes as he named her.

Aunt Amelia must have noticed it,
had she been suspicious, which she was
not.

'Why! what do you mean, Mr Maitland
? ' she asked, the utmost surprise
depicted in her face. ' How do you
know my niece's opinion of England ?'

Edward gave a little laugh,  then
looked down at Mrs Winter, who met
his gaze with a stare of the most unaffected
curiosity.

'Why, Mrs Winter, surely you must
know I was the first to greet her on her
arrival at Twickenham, and that I helped
her to find Scatlands ? I have been trying
ever since to get that rascally guard
who Insulted her punished. It was a
cruel position for her to be placed in ! '

Aunt Amelia eyes rounded in her head
as she listened with upraised face. She
understood that something had been
purposely hid from her, but her natural
delicacy prompted her to conceal her surprise
as much as possible.

I did not know you had met my
niece,  she never told me she said
at last, turning quite cold at this new
proof of Sophia's duplicity and dislike.
Why else conceal what it would have been
so natural to tell ?

Edward, too, was sensible that he had
made a mistake, too late now to rectify.
So, by mutual consent, the matter dropped.

Mrs Winter, full of household cares,
and quite doubtful about Jacob  who,
though a married man, had evinced decided
indications of flirtation with the
new housemaid ; a state of things which
made him not only more stupid than
ever, but Idle also ; Lady Danvers was

expected to arrive that very afternoon, 
was hurrying on, and had put out her
hand from under her cloak to bid him
good-bye, when something in his attitude
arrested her.

He had not moved, nor did he seem
inclined to do so, but stood drawing figures
in the earth with his stick, apparently as
intend as if he had come out for that sole
purpose.

Suddenly, conscious that she was moving
on, and that every moment he detained her
made matters more difficult, Edward raised
his head and said, with a little hesitation, 

I am going away, Mrs Winter  I fear
for some time  '

Going away, Mr Maitland ? I thought
you had just come to spend Christmas at
home ! '

That was my intention,' he answered,
hesitating. ' But I am called away  I am
so anxious that you should understand how
much I feel  this sudden departure  without
seeing more of you. And that you
should explain to your niece, Miss Escott  '
Here he grew very red, and came to a
sudden pause.

Aunt Amelia, hopelessly puzzled, listened
in silence. She had known Edward

many a year, and they had always been
excellent friends, but never before had he
displayed any lively desire to inform her of
his movements, or regret for the loss of
her company.

Explain,' continued Edward, savage
with himself for his own nervous folly, 
the necessity of my leaving home so suddenly,
and  and for an indefinite period 
without asking permission to take leave of
her  '

How badly he was doing all this, Edward
read in Mrs Winter's astonished face.

Perhaps, as I have been able to tell you
this in person,' he continued, ' you will be
so kind, Mrs Winter, as to inform Miss
Escott  I  I  had no time to come.
That is  I do not know if a visit from me
would be agreeable ; but you will say to
her  to Miss Escott, I mean, that you have
seen me, and that I was overwhelmed to
find that unforeseen circumstances cause me
to leave.' (Edward could not shake himself
free from the charm of sending a message
to Sophia,  direct to herself) * Tell her I
hope soon to return  ' (He forgot he had
just said he was going for an indefinite
period.) 'Very soon, I trust, when I shall
be able to explain why I am leaving. You

will not forget, dear Mrs Winter, to say-all
this to Miss Escott  specially about
returning ?'

Mrs Winter at this moment looked so
utterly bewildered that Edward paused,
and in spite of himself smiled,  one of
those sweet smiles into which his features
so naturally formed themselves.

There was no response on Mrs Winter's
face. From bewilderment, it had passed
into an expression of distress.

Aunt Amelia, though very nervous and
suffering from an incipient heart-complaint,
was no fool. On the contrary, she was
quick-witted, and when left to act for herself,
of excellent judgment.

A whole revelation came to her with
these words.

Edward knew Sophia ! How, she could
not say. Edward was in love with her !
His mother knew it and disapproved of it ;
and it was this which was driving him
away. For this reason she had forbidden
Sophia her house, and had affronted her
old friend !

In the bitterness of her heart, Mrs Winter
could, in Scripture phrase, have ' lifted
up her voice and wept.' Sophia Escott
seemed fated to be a sorrow to her.

In a low voice, and studiously avoiding
the bright look on Edward's handsome
face  (he was so delighted at having been
able to deliver his message, that he had
grown quite light-hearted)  Mrs Winter
replied, very coldly, 

I will not fail, Mr Maitland, to deliver
your message to my niece. In the
meantime, pray excuse me. I must return
home.'

A thousand pardons, dear Mrs Winter,
for detaining you. Allow me to open the
door.'

Oh no ; don't give yourself the trouble ! '
She was hurrying on. She was so astonished,
that all she wanted was to get home
and be alone.

I am so delighted I met you,' Edward
was saying, now ringing the bell. * I should
have been grieved to go without seeing
you. I only wish I had time to come in,
but I fear it is impossible.*

Now, confound it ! why did I say that ? \
he asked himself, as he floundered in his
speech. So, to cover his retreat, Edward
fell to shaking hands with Mrs Winter with
much effusion, she saying her good-byes to
him with considerable chilliness.

Thus they parted  Edward turning into

the gates of Rosebank,  Mrs Winter climbing
up the stone steps to her own door,
feeling as if her heart would burst, so tumultuous
was its throbbing.

Too well she understood that some new
trouble was impending. If she delivered
Maitland's message, Sophia would resent
her having discovered her acquaintance
with him, and Uncle Louis would scold
her. And Lady Danvers coming ! Oh,
dear! Oh, dear!

For some time she could get no further
than the hall, where she sat panting on one
of the chairs, listening involuntarily to
Jacob chattering downstairs with the new
housemaid, instead of doing his work.

In her weakness and her nervousness,
Aunt Amelia had come to exaggerate
everything. Her life was becoming an
absolute burden to her. Maitland, Sophia,
Jacob, Lady Danvers,  all mixed themselves
up in her brain as but a succession
of tormentors.

How could she tell Sophia that Maitland
was gone, just as Lady Danvers was coming
? What a scene there would be ! She
saw her dark scowl,  she heard her contemptuous
words,  the bang of the door
as she strode out of the room with the air

of an imprisoned princess. Oh ! how
dreadful it all was.

Not to-day  not to-day,' she kept repeating.
' I cannot summon courage to
tell her to-day.'

Very cowardly of Aunt Amelia, nor can
I defend her, save in expressing the real
dread she had of her niece's temper. But
she did, then and there, resolve, sitting on
that chair in the hall, with Jacob's voice
sounding in her ears, that she would not
tell Sophia anything about Edward until
after Lady Danvers' arrival.

GAIN Maitland was In his own
room, with the French windows
opening upon the laurels, 
every drawer and wardrobe
thrown open,  boxes and portmanteau,
gun-cases and fishing-tackle, lying on the
floor,  also a carpet-bag so full that it refused
to close. Not only was he packing
to go away, but, in view of the length of
his probable absence, he was trying to
arrange his things,  all in a sort of fury.

Not for the world would he aoain meet
his mother. His father would not return,
he knew, till dinner-time. Before that
hour he should be far on his way to town,
leaving to his mother the care of accounting
for his absence. An interview with
his father at present would be a needless

aggravation, and necessitate an avowal of
the cause of his departure ;  a premature
avowal, for he hoped that time and absence
would induce his mother to change ; in
which case, that peace-loving and excellent
soul, Nathaniel maitland, need never
know anything about the breach between
them, and would be ready to receive Sophia
as the idol of his son.

Full of all this  hurt, agitated, distressed,
uncertain,  Edward rushed from
side to side, cramming a suit of shooting-clothes
here, a waterproof there, hunting-boots
into the wrong box, a scarlet coat
along with his towels, and evening clothes
among knives and fish-hooks. Of course
there was the inevitable box that resisted
every possible endeavour to lock. He sat
upon it, he stamped upon it,  in vain !
Kicking it into a corner, his bath, in the
confusion, overturned,  the water quietly,
but surely, inundating the floor.

This last was the climax of his misfortunes.
He did not want to call a
servant, and at least a quarter of an hour
was consumed. Then he sat down at a
table to arrange his books and writing
materials. Should he, or should he not,
address a few lines of adieu to his

father ? But here, again, as in the case
of Sophia, the difficulty of assigning an
adequate motive for his departure, held
him suspended.

As he hesitated, pen in hand, the sound
of approaching footsteps fell upon his ear.
He started up to lock the door, but before
he could reach it, it opened, and Miss
Sterne stood before him. Not Miss
Sterne as we have seen her,  timid, reserved,
docile,  but vith cheeks flushed
and figure erect, her fair ringlets thrown
back, and a fire in her pale eye, such ashe
had never seen before.

You here '. ' he exclaimed, with ill-concealed
displeasure. ' What do you
want ? You have driven me away. Are
you come to rejoice in your success '. '

His voice was so stern, his look so
repellant, that she stopped half-way, and
her purpose seemed to waver. Only fora
moment ; then she advanced, and laid
her hand gently on his arm.

Edward,' she said, In a voice of tender
supplication,  ' Edward, are you going
without telling me ?'

As she spoke, a longing, a desire shot
from her eyes, and the touch of her
fingers tightened into a grasp. Too much

annoyed to reply, Edward drew back and
looked her steadily in the face.

Oh, don't stare at me like that ! ' she
cried, as his chilling glance fell upon her.
You did not look like that that niorht

o

when you were dying of fever. Then you
were grateful, affectionate. Oh, how
sweet it was ! ' The last words came
from her like a whispered sigh. She was
very close to him when she uttered them.
I was the happiest woman in the world.
You were mine  all mine ! '

Still her hand grasped his arm. Her
bosom heaved, her breath came quickly.

Spite of himself, this reference to the
past troubled Edward sorely, and arrested
the hard words which were upon his lips.
It was too true. He was under obligations
to her,  her importunities had caused
him to forget ; and this consciousness
weighed on him painfully.

Surely,' said he, looking round at the
boxes littering the floor, ' you can judge
that your presence here at this moment is
singularly inopportune.'

I know, I know,' she answered ; ' but
why go at all } It is all for the sake of
that girl, Sophia Escott. Oh, do not 
do not ! Let her go ; she is not worth it.

You do not believe it watching the expressive
look of his face ; ' but I know her,
and so will you too, some day. Oh, my
love, my love ! take me instead of her.
For years I have worshipped you. I ask
nothing but to live under the same roof, 
see you from time to time,  follow you like
a dog.' Then, seizing on his hand, as he
stood silent before her,  ' Can you not
feel .' Are you a stone '. Can my pulses
beat so madly and leave yours unmoved ?'

For some moments Edward, in his
astonishment, found no words to reply.
This emboldened her.

He is mine ! ' sounded in her ears, with
the rush of blood like a flood. His silence,
his hesitation, seemed to assure her. A
fresh wave of passion flushed her pallid
cheeks, and she approached him so closely
that her breath met his.

You are my all, Edward,  my treasure,
my very soul ! ' she gasped faintly through
half-closed lips,  ' more than my life.
Heaven is where you are  joy, rapture!
Only to be near you, to feel you, to
breathe the same air,  ever in a delirium
of hope that you will come to me at last.
Shame, reproach  all  anything, so that
it is with you.' A veil seemed falling

before her eyes ; her arms raised themselves
to clasp him, but met the empty
air. Her voice broke into sobs. ' Yes,
I have borne a degraded life ; I have
been despised for you  for you ! To
be near you, to talk of you, to think of
you day and night,  inhabit the rooms that
speak to me of you. I have lived in hope
so long that each time you return you will
come to understand my love. But now,
to lose you for the sake of another woman,
a stranger, who does not deserve it,
whom you scarcely know,  oh, it is too
much ! Have mercy ! have mercy ! I have
no courage to uphold me, no hope 
nothing but despair ! '

She sank upon her knees  she clung to
him convulsively, then, as she raised his
hand to her lips and covered it with kisses,
the comb which held back the luxuriant
tresses of her pale, chesnut hair, altogether
sufficient for the weight, gave way, and a
mass of ringlets and plaits covered her like
a veil.

Gently, very gently, Edward disengaged
himself from her as she lay half-prostrate
before him, and placed her in a chair, then
stood over her with a grave pity more terrible
to her than words.

Edward ! Edward ! ' she gasped, endeavouring
still to cling to him, but he
withdrew himself beyond her reach, * if
you can give me nothing in return. Don't
speak to me! Don't look at me! It
maddens me ! '

She burst into passionate tears.

My love ! my lost love ! ' she murmured,
casting a long glance at him as he
stood opposite to her, leaning against
the mantelpiece, his head resting on his
hand, a look of grave concern darkening
his young face. Then quickly rising :
' What a fool I am ! I thought my love
was so great, yours must follow. And so it
would  ' standing up and approaching him
(he retreating before her)  ' it would, but
for that woman ! It is not in your nature
not to return love  you are too noble ! '
And she sank trembling into a chair.

All this had passed so quickly  her
utterance was so rapid  her vehemence
so overwhelming  her appeals so piteous,
that without actual violence Edward could
not disengage himself from her. Nor had
he even sought to do so. He was infinitely
shocked : pain and distress were
painted in every feature of his face. That
he had pleased her fancy he understood,

but such a wild excess of passion took
him utterly aback.

I cannot blame myself for this,' he
said at last, almost aloud. ' I am heartily
ashamed of having excited feelings I cannot
return. Come to your better sense,
Alicia ! Be calm ! Surely I have trouble
enough on my hands ;  you need not increase
it. You say you know all about
me,  perhaps you do. If so, I need not
assure you that such feelings as you express
are useless,  worse than useless, 
agonising to me indeed ! If you love me,
be magnanimous! I am going away. Help
me to return. You know how.'

'What!' cried Miss Sterne, suddenly
rousing herself from the lethargy into
which she had fallen ; ' at the very moment
when I come to Implore you but
for a look  a touch, to bid me wait for
years,  you dare to ask me to help you
with Sophia Escott ? Never ! Never !
The very sound of her name poisons me ;
the very fact that she lives, rouses me
to vengeance ! You do not fear me at
all, then } ' she cried, in a mocking tone,
a ghastly smile breaking over her face. 
Not at all ? '

Do your worst ! ' cried Edward, pro-vol.

II. H

yoked beyond control, spite of the real
pity he felt for her. ' I will suffer no
threats,  nor shall she ! '

As he spoke she rose and walked
rapidly up and down the room. Her
complexion, pale at all times, turned to
a dead whiteness, her hands tightened
and crossed upon her breast.

No, I am not ill,' she said, in
answer to his inquiring look. ' I amused
to suffer. I shall get over it soon
Then suddenly lowering her tone, a
change passed over her,  from excited
and restless she became passive. ' Marry
her! Marry her!' she murmured; 'your
misery will be my best revenge ! '

At this moment the clock on the mantelpiece
struck the half-hour. Edward
gave a start, and turned anxiously as the
hand pointed to four o'clock.

I see ! I see ! ' she murmured, casting
at him a lightning glance. ' You
grudge me these last poor minutes !
Cruel man ! May you live to suffer the
pangs you have caused me ! I asked
but for a little hope,  enough to drag on
life upon. Even that you refuse me.'

If you mean hope that I should return
what you are pleased to call your

passion, Miss Sterne,' answered Edward
firmly, looking down on the gathered-up
figure before him,  so pitiful, so small, 
' I have absolutely nothing to say to
you, but to repeat, that if, as you say,
you care for me, your better nature will
prompt you to help me to that union
which alone can restore me to my home.'

These last words were too much for
her. As if stung by a serpent, she pushed
back the stream of flaxen ringlets that
had fallen loose about her face, and
flashed upon him the full power of her
pale eyes. Hate, love, despair were
there, and the frail helplessness of a
woman bracing herself against her nature
to harm what she loves best.

Once,' she said, in a low voice, ' when
we spoke together here before in the night,
I told you that, rather than see Sophia
Escott your wife, I would drown myself in
the river and brand you as my murderer !
No,' she continued, drawing her breath
quickly ; ' I will not to do that ; it would
be helping you to win her. No !  ' and
her head raised itself with a snake-like
action, the fair curls glistening round
it like scales ; ' but from this time, I
will set myself as a wall before you.

When you find yourself forestalled, deceived,
forsaken, you shall say, " This
is Alicia's work ! This is her love ! " '

Suddenly, as she had entered, she
left the room, with steps so inaudible
that, but for the closing of the door,
and the position of the chair she had
occupied, Maitland might have deemed
the whole scene a vision.

If anything had been wanting to add
to his perplexities, it was this outburst
of love and hate  a hate he felt to be
so vehement that the love seemed but
as a spur to intensify its action.

And this unscrupulous woman had
sworn vengeance against Sophia !

My beautiful love ! ' he murmured,
as with a saddened face he again recommenced
waging war with boxes and
portmanteaux, ' God help you ! '

Then there rose up in his mind the
remembrance of the last glance Sophia
cast on him, as she stood framed in
the doorway of the yellow drawing-room,
and a wild longing came over him to
see her once more.

No, no ! impossible ! ' he cried aloud,
as if in answer to the thought ; * I am
pledged  I dare not ! Rapture as it

17

would be to me, it is not needful. She
understands me.'

Already Miss Sterne and her threats
had passed from his mind. He felt so
strong in his love that he could not
brinor himself to fear. As he had confidence
in her, so Sophia would have
confidence in him. True, he had said
nothing, but could not those wondrous
eyes read the secrets of his soul ?

An hour later he was driving at a
rapid pace to London, before anyone
at Rosebank, except Miss Sterne, suspected
that he was gone.

Lady DAN VERS was a great
lady, not only in her own
esteem, but in that of other
people,  a tall, dignified woman
of about forty, who never entered a room
without making a sensation.

Ten years ago she had been an acknowledged
belle, * the beautiful Circassian,'
as she was called, from a costume in
which she appeared at a fancy ball,
her head wreathed in silver gauze (weare
now in the days of turbans, gigot
sleeves, and coal-scuttle bonnets), her
dress entirely composed of heavy white
embroidered draperies and a profusion
of diamonds.

At the present time she retained
much of the stately grace and regularity
of feature which had won general admiration,
culminating in the offer of the hand

of the late General Sir Reginald Danvers,
K.C.B., of Faults.

No great talk of love on the occasion ;
Sir Reginald, at least thirty years her
senior, was a close-shaved, grey-haired
soldier, with a hard expression of countenance.
But so extensive were his
possessions  the bells rang for the marriage
in seven different churches, 
it was understood he could not be refused,
and that, being artistic in his
tastes, he desired to have so distinguished-looking
a young lady to grace the head
of his table.

The new Lady Danvers had several
sisters, and a father and three brothers,
all more or less impecunious,  the father
specially so ; having, it was reported,
passed, at various periods, some years
in the precincts of the King's Bench.
It was even said he had died there.
After her marriage it was tacitly understood
that all these relations were to
be placed in taboo, and by no means
to aspire to partake of the elegant
advantages naturally accruing to their
sister from an alliance with Sir Reginald
 a prohibition which, it must be said,
did not cost Lady Danvers much regret.

In due course of time Sir Reginald
was gathered to his fathers In a vault
within a country churchyard, overshadowed
by a prodigious yew-tree. Lady
Danvers' ideas of propriety Induced her
to attend the funeral (which, not being
the habit In those days, created remark),
taking with her her only daughter, Jane,
aged seven, who nearly died of fright
at the sight of the hearse, the mutes,
and the coffin.

When the will was opened, Sir Reginald
was found to have settled a handsome
dower on his widow, and entailed the bulk
of his fortune on his daughter Jane, to
whom she was appointed guardian ; Jane
inheriting also from her grandfather large
estates in Somersetshire besides.

It is not recorded that Lady Danvers
shed many tears, but she wore the deepest
crape trimmings that could be conveyed
upon bombazine,  also the most
elaborate widow's cap which skill could
construct ; which cap, by the way, was
rather becoming to her aquiline features.
Jane also was covered with black, to
her extreme bewilderment ; and Faults
Court, the superb Elizabethan mansion
where Lady Danvers' married life had

been passed, was hermetically sealed for
one year to visitors.

Everyone said, ' How perfect was Lady
Danvers' conduct ! ' Everyone remembered
her immaculate demeanour as the
handsome wife to an elderly husband, and
several single men residing in the neighbourhood
(in view of her excellent jointure)
determined to lay siege to her heart as
soon as the period of her widowhood
was completed.

Before the end of the year this life of
seclusion grew very wearisome to Lady
Danvers. The proper thing had been
done, the line cut  as with a knife  which
excluded her from the outer world. Everyone
had written letters expressing the
warmest sympathy and admiration. Everyone
had begged to call to offer appropriate
consolation, and everyone had been refused
this indulgence. Yet, gratifying as
all this undoubtedly was, it did not prevent
dulness. One cannot live on crape and
approbation,  a melancholy fact that came
home to her as she struggled through the
long days, dragging her heavy bombazine
dress after her along the Italian terraces
of Faulds, or, mounted on a pony, overlooked
the operations of the home farm.

One day, when returning from this
monotonous round, followed by the
bailiff, who feared her too much to converse,
a sudden thought struck her. From
the world she was shut out. Why not
invite some of her own relations to visit
her?

Such an idea would never have entered
her head during the lifetime of her husband.
But Sir Reginald reposed calmly
in the family vault in the church, under
the great yew, with his coat-of-arms and
military honours engraved over him ;
and Lady Danvers had always been
fond of her sister, Mrs Winter, in her
cold, formal way  an affection time had
not obliterated in her well-regulated
mind.

Mrs Winter was her elder by several
years. From a child she recalled her
gentle affection and pleasant ways. As a
girl, extremely fair and pretty, though ina
style totally different from Lady Danvers',
Amelia had made a miserable marriage
with a Frankfort merchant. None
of Lady Danvers' sisters had married in
the elevated world in which she lived ;
only her brother Charles in India was
prosperous, and, with his Brahmin wife,

might be considered as formlno a member
of the aristocracy. The worst of it was,
if she invited Amelia, Lady Danvers supposed
she must accept the Frankfort
merchant also, else she would not come.
It was a horrid bore, but she was very
dull ; no one would see him, and she
really had a sincere desire to be with her
sister once more.

So the Winters were invited to partake
of the lofty hospitalities of Faulds, and
accepted. At first they were very much
bewildered by the stiff and formal style
of living in a great house ; but Aunt
Amelia soon fell into her old place beside
her sister, and petted and loved Jane as
only a loving aunt without children of her
own can do. Louis Winter had not then
distinguished himself by any of those dishonourable
escapades which marked his
after career. He was bright too, and
pleasant, and artistic,  always amused
himself and Jane ; and with his silver-mounted
flute, in accompaniment to his
wife's piano, and his high-flown compliments,
passed away the time.

Even if a stray neighbour or two was
admitted, and old Field, the clergyman,
came to dine on Sunday, Aunt Amelia was

always lady-like and nicely dressed, and
Mr Winter fairly presentable,  a great
comfort to Lady Danvers, who could enjoy
her sister's society with no shock to
her nerves ; and Jane, an ardent, high-spirited
child, perfectly unamenable to
those conventional laws which lay at the
foundation of Lady Danvers' system of
life, conceived the most ardent and demonstrative
affection for her new relations.

Thus the visit to Faulds passed off with
mutual satisfaction. Aunt Amelia loved,
while she reverenced, Lady Danvers as a
superior being. Mr Winter, already falling
into the slough of dangerous speculations,
gazed prospectively on the riches of
his sister-in-law, in regard to future loot ;
and Lady Danvers allowed herself to become
interested in the Winters' concerns 
a sentiment she had sternly exterminated
from her breast in respect to her other
sisters.

Through all her subsequent misfortunes,
Lady Danvers stuck loyally to Aunt
Amelia. As to inviting her again to
Faulds when she resumed her place in the
world, that was out of the question. It
was bad enough to have poor relations,
and a Jew brother-in-law who had been

several times a bankrupt, without exposing
such sores to the eyes of the
public. Bad enough to be tormented
for money in every form the ingenious
brain of a speculator could devise, and
to be mixed up in the sordid details
of family life, but to present her to
her friends the Duchess of D  , Lady
Mac  , and that ill-natured Lady T  ,
who made fun of everything, was simply
impossible.

From time to time, when Mrs Winter
had a home in which to receive her, Lady
Danvers  feeling herself a thorough martyr
had paid her a short visit. Mrs Winter's
world vias not her world. There was no
danger of meeting any of her set at Scatlands.
The whole proceeding was like a
religious retreat  a little trying at the
time, but wonderfully remunerative to the
conscience afterwards.

Besides, at times, Jane's wild attachment
to her aunt and uncle (on the whole she
preferred Uncle Louis, the atmosphere of
fun and frolic which he evoked was so
delightful) became absolutely unmanageable.
Lately she had not been strong.
The family doctor had ordered change,
and Jane had so begged and entreated to

be taken to Scatlands to spend Christmas,
that a refusal was almost impossible.

As a rule, though Jane was her only
child, and she was  in her selfish way 
very fond of her, Lady Danvers was by
no means an indulgent mother.

She was full of fancies. Jane was to
be brought up not to know she was an
heiress. Not a servant at Faulds but was
made aware that to hint at such a fact
was to ensure instant dismissal. Miss
Oxly, the governess, was specially enjoined
to silence, and even flatly to deny it,
should any report reach Jane's ears. Jane
was also to be severely trained to make her
strong-minded and strong-limbed ;  to be
awoke in the cold winter mornings at
six o'clock to come down shivering to
practise the piano ;  to live in the open
air as much as possible ;  to read what
books she pleased in her father's library,
and always to be in the wrong in any
squabbles with her governess.

On the present occasion, Lady Danvers
had only allowed herself to yield under
protest. Contact with Aunt Amelia was
always attended with difficulty in regard
to Mr Winter. There was some fatality,
she thought, in her family, from whom

she had done wisely to keep herself aloof.
All her sisters had made bad marriages ;
and now, even her brother Charles had
shot himself, and his daughter had returned
to England, a beggar. Charles !
her only creditable relative  it was too
hard. She actually shuddered as she
thought of it. Certainly she ought not
to have consented to take Jane to Scatlands
; but she was so constant and overwhelming
in her entreaties, and looked
so pale and thin, she really had not the
heart to refuse.

A romp with Uncle Louis will soon
make my cheeks red,' Jane said, who
protested the doctor was a fool, and that
she had nothing the matter with her ;
and you know, mamma, when he throws
the sofa cushions at me, it is so delightful.
Do you remember how he ran
round the panelled parlour after me with
his little fat legs ? Oh, dear ! he does
make me laugh so ; it must do me good.'

So the visit was planned and the day
fixed. They were to arrive at Twickenham
on Christmas Eve, and spend a week
of the holidays at Scatlands.

Of course Lady Danvers travelled post :
no one in her position could do otherwise.

Post horses to her own close carriage,
with an imperial of shining leather on
the roof, and a box in the rumble where
the servants used to sit. But, on the
present occasion, rather than introduce
any of her establishment into the promiscuously
of the Winter household,
Lady Danvers preferred coming without
a servant. So she and Jane left Faulds
unattended.

The short day had dwindled into twilight
when Mrs Winter, with new grey
ribbons in her lace cap, and wearing her
best half-mourning gown, a soft lavender
silk, presented to her by Lady Danvers,
sat in the yellow drawing-room listening
to every sound.

Sophia  whose pallor and languor since
Maitland's departure not all her efforts
could conceal  sat leaning back in an
arm-chair, her large eyes fixed on vacancy.
It was utter abandonment. He had left
her without a word. Aunt Amelia had
never delivered his message  how so
conscientious a person could have so
acted can be only ascribed to cowardice.
She was afraid of a scene.

To-morrow, tomorrow,' she kept saying

to herself. * At all events, he is gone ;
a few days more or less can make no
difference,' and the poor little woman sat
palpitating on the edge of the sofa. ' I
wonder what it all means,' she thought,
taking a furtive look at Sophia's immovable
face, so white and still. ' I
wonder whether Maitland really cares for
her, or is only flirting ? '

Certainly nothing in his look or manner
bore this impress. His obvious anxiety
to impress upon her the absolute necessity
he was under to go, quite contradicted
such an idea. How strange it seemed 
quite a fatality  if, after all his mother
had said, he should really care for Sophia !
Then Mrs Winter recalled with a sigh
how absolutely silent she had been about
their meeting,  and what a fresh proof
this was of want of confidence.

Oh, dear ! oh, dear ! ' she kept saying
to herself; * how difficult everything is
become ! Why in the world could I have
been so unlucky as to have passed at the
moment ? Now everyone will blame me.
Mrs Maitland, if she hears of it, will
never forgive me ; and Sophia, who resents
the smallest interference, will be
sure to accuse me of something dreadful.'

VOL. II. 1

It was all very embarrassing and very
trying, especially just at a time when she
had looked forward to the quiet enjoyment
of her sister's society. Nor did it
take much reflection on Aunt Amelia's part
to perceive how detrimental all this would
be to the settlement of Sophia as John
Bauer's wife. No young woman in the
world could hesitate between the two,
except on the score of John's riches.
Now Sophia might have a thousand
faults, but she was not mercenary ;  the
very violence of her temper forbade it.

Edward Maitland was behaving very
badly, she thought. He had no right to
offer any attention when his mother was so
decidedly opposed to it. He was not  he
could not be, a free agent. Whether
Sophia cared for him or not, Mrs Winter
had no chance of knowing,  but a general
conviction of her niece's turn of mind, decided
her in a shrewd guess that her inclinations
would be very sure to fix themselves
where trouble and worry were to be found.

Contrary to her usual habit when alone,
Mrs Winter sat staring into the fire, not
uttering a single word. Nor did Sophia.
She knew from Jacob that, to the astonishment
of the household, Edward

Maitland had suddenly gone,  gone on
Christmas Eve, without one word of
adieu  one word to explain his mysterious
phrases, or to tell her when he would
return. Broken with suspense and disappointment,
but resolved to endure any
suffering rather than show what she felt 
dreading John Bauer  dreading Uncle
Louis, whom she instinctively felt she could
not trust, she sat on, opposite her aunt
(her face now pale, now flushed, as wave
after wave of emotion passed over it),
the folds of her black dress falling about
her like a statue. Tired of the room,
tired of Saint Sebastian, who seemed
to mock her with that look of holy calm,
her eyes vaguely turned on Aunt Amelia's
little band of robins who, encouraged by
the silence, came crowding on the windowsill
for their evening meal.

Didn't you hear wheels, Sophia ? ' cried
Aunt Amelia, suddenly starting up, and in
her haste almost upsetting the bee-hive
chair. ' Ah ! it is only the baker's cart.
How he does rattle by, that boy  like a
coach and six ! I am certain the horse will
upset him some day.' Then in another
tone,  ' I cannot think what is keeping
them. I hope the carriage has not broken

down, or robbers stopped them on Earshot
Heath, or Jane knocked up and obliged to
sleep on the road.'

Sophia, whose patience had been sorely
tried by seeing Aunt Amelia start up in
the same way a dozen times during the last
hour, only shrugged her shoulders. She
had declared so often that, as far as she
was concerned, Lady Danvers might remain
at home for ever, that she was tired
of repeating it.

Mrs Winter had become so accustomed to
her contemptuous ways, she had ceased to
notice them. The dread of not receiving
her august sister in a befitting manner 
with Jacob so unreliable, and the cook
quite capable of burning the joint and
forgetting the bread-sauce for the roast
turkey -though she had told her about the
dinner fifty times, and even written it
down on a slip of paper and hung it up,
pinned to the wall near the fire)  occupied
her mind at that moment far more than
Sophia.

Everything in the house that morning
was in confusion. The housemaid had put
coarse sheets on Lady Danvers' bed, and
forgotten the muslin curtains to the window.
Mr Winter had sent down from



London a large hamper of wine, which
they did not want, together with a basket
containing a choice tea-service of old Dresden
for Lady Danvers' own use ; and Aunt
Amelia had literally gone on her knees to
him, to induce him to replace them in their
leather case, seeing that Jacob would infallibly
break every cup long before Lady
Danvers' departure, and certainly drink
the wine as soon as it was decanted.

A letter, too, had come from John Bauer
(how many hours the excellent John had
spent over its composition in the solitude
of Wood's Green, who can say ?)  telling of
the deep impression Miss Escott had made
on him, and requesting his aunt's permission
to return,  ' Only to be allowed to look
at her,' wrote honest John, in a strictly
business hand, with dots on all the i's, and
the t's crossed to such a nicety, it would
have been a pleasure to look at them, to
anyone less worried than Aunt Amelia.

Pray, dear aunt,' wrote John Bauer, in a
flowing style, to which his hand was quite
unaccustomed, ' think it all over, and how
I had better act. Advise me ! I would
wait for years, if such were Miss Escott's
pleasure. All I want to feel is that I do
not annoy her b\' coming. If you should

have an opportunity of speaking to her in
the course of triste ' (these words strongly
underlined), ' tell her I would not worry her
for the world, but that after seeing her, I
never shall change my mind.'

What was she to reply ? with the idea of
Edward, too, as an admirer ?

A moment after this puzzling letter
came her husband, upsetting all her little
arrangements of the silver on the table,
which she had carefully taught Jacob, and
generally demoralising that person to such
an extent that, when he came up later, he
smelt of bad rum in such a disgusting way,
that she was obliged to order him out of
the room.

Like Maitland's message. Aunt Amelia
put John Bauer's letter aside  the letter
into her pocket, the message into the depths
of her memory, until she could summon
courage to deliver it.

Ah ! could she but have foreseen the consequences
of her silence, and how she would
lay herself open to Sophia's worst suspicions
of being her enemy, she would not
only have repeated the message ten times
over to her niece, but have hung it up allover
the house, as she did the cook's directions
before the fire.

iOPHIA, that is a carriage!'
cried Aunt Amelia, again
starting breathlessly from the
bee-hive chair. ' I hear the
I am quite sure of it ! There,
the postillion is cracking his whip. My
love,' to Sophia, who, finding her quite
intolerable, was frowning darkly to herself,

wheels.

manner ominous of comines storms

my dear girl,' and Aunt Amelia ran
across the room, and seizing both her
hands, pressed them in her own ; ' please
don't be offended ; I speak for your sake ;
but do, oh ! do try to make yourself agreeable
to your aunt ; do it for your father's
sake ; do it for mine ! It is so important
that Lady Dan vers should like you. And
Jane, too  dear little Jane.'

Sophia had no time to answer, for Aunt

Amelia was already out of the room, and
standing at the hall-door, where Jacob
had been stationed in permanence an hour
before ; but her unspoken reply was bitter.
Any allusion to her father from his sister
angered instead of softening her.

Yes ; that you may get rid of me,
Aunt Amelia ! I know your sly ways.
But you won't be troubled with me long !
My life grows very weary! It must soon
end!'

(What words would Sophia have found
to express her anger, had she known of
that undelivered message from Edward,
with which Mrs Winter was charged ?)

Greetings between Lady Danvers and
her sister and much kissing of Jane ; and
various inquiries as to how she was, and
assurances that she looked blooming ; inquiries
after Uncle Louis from Jane ; the
rustle of Lady Danvers' silk dress ; the
setting down of boxes on the stone floor ;
and Mrs Winter's interrupting her welcomes
with plaintive injunctions to Jacob
to take care and not upset anything, came
to Sophia's ears.

You are so late ! ' exclaimed Mrs Winter,
as the trio entered the yellow drawing-room,
Aunt Amelia hanging on to the

skirts of her stately sister like a slight
sapling beside a stalwart oak ; ' Sophia
and I were getting dreadfully uneasy !
That is Sophia,' and she pointed to the
tall, slender figure erect against the light,
' our poor Charles's daughter. Sophia,
my dear, your aunt,' in a timid, pleading
voice.

But Sophia neither moved nor spoke.

Ah ! my new niece,' said Lady Danvers,
in a clear, hard voice, sounding over
everyone's head, seating herself at the
same time on a sofa near the fire, where
the blue tiles gleamed out with a homely
glow of comfort. Then, taking a comprehensive
glance at Sophia, the yellow
drawing-room, the pictures in their rich
frames, the ornaments on the table, and
high-backed chairs standing in front of
the softly-tinted curtains, that aromatic
scent of rose - leaves permeating everywhere,
she gave a smile of approval.

Very comfortable, very nice ! my dear
Amelia. An extremely pretty room !
Thei carpet a little shabby, but what of
that ? And now, come hither, my dear,
and let me have a look at you,' addressing
her niece.

Without a smile or a semblance of

response, Sophia raised herself to her full
height, and crossed the room to where
Lady Danvers was seated, one of her
aristocratic hands stretched out tovvards
her; Aunt Amelia standing close by,
vainly trying to suppress a nervous twitching
about her mouth ; Jane, a tall, slight
girl of sixteen, with rather short petticoats,
and a young face as fresh as a
newly-picked rose, stationed behind, staring
with all her eyes.

You must make allowances, sister 
Sophia is shy  quite unused to English
ways,' whispered Aunt Amelia to her
sister, who either did not hear, or affected
not to do so ; but, taking Sophia's
hand, looked fixedly into her face, kissed
her on the forehead, then dropped her
hand.

Overawed for a moment, Sophia bent
her proud head to receive her aunt's
salute ; then stood motionless, her long
black eyelashes sweeping her finely-moulded
cheeks. But for her excessive
pallor and a trembling about her lips,
she might have been judged absolutely
passionless.

Yes, there is a great look of poor
Charles,' continued Lady Danvers, casting

on her a look of minute examination,  ' a
very decided likeness.'

Apparently her scrutiny was favourable,
for she gave an encouraging smile.

Jane, my dear,' addressing her daughter,
 why do you stand there ? Speak to your
new cousin. She is a stranger.'

Jane, coming forward, thought she had
never seen anything, even in a book of
beauty, so lovely as Sophia, so graceful,
so slim, so elegant,  her white throat and
the dark head rising out of the crape
trimmings of her black dress.

A small warm hand slipped itself between
Sophia's cold fingers ; a bright,
smiling face looked at her timidly out
of a fluff of brown hair parted from her
brow, and a pleasant voice said, 

I am your cousin, Jane Danvers ; I
am very glad to see you.'

Before she was aware, a warm kiss was
imprinted on her lips.

At this she drew back. A kiss was a
liberty she resented. Her aunt's kiss she
could not help, but she would receive
no unnecessary caresses from her other
relations, specially from the daughter of
Lady Danvers, who had hardly vouchsafed
her any attention, and would, she

was sure, take part with Aunt Amelia
against her.

Sophia,' whispered Jane, still holding
her hand, and fixing on her a bright pair
of hazel eyes under delicately-pencilled
eyebrows, suiting the hair, and a winning
look of intelligence ready alike to melt
into tenderness or brighten into laughter
and fun, ' you are much older than I
am, and so very  '

Here Jane stumbled in her speech,
blushing for a moment to consider if she
might  in the face of such a superb cousin
say what was in her heart.

But her genuine admiration so completely
conquered her, that she continued, 

You are so very beautiful that sou
frighten me. We must be friends ! I
am come here to enjoy myself; I made
mamma come. Ever since I heard you
had arrived from India, I have been longing
to see you. Now, I am satisfied.*
And her eyes travelled with frank admiration
up and down the fine lines of Sophia's
figure, from the firm, well-shaped foot to
the masses of black hair wreathed round
her queenly head.

Not even Sophia's morbid nature could
resist Jane's appeal. The angry folds

melted " from her features, her forehead
smoothed, and she gazed back at her and
smiled.

You are very kind, little cousin. I
want a friend.'

Here she sighed as she thought of
Maitland, and how little all his professions
meant.

You want a friend?' replied Jane,
still contemplating her with wondering
eyes. ' Why, I should think everyone
would worship you ! '

Jane's gushing ways were very sweet,
Sophia thought, and she gazed back,
shaking her head the while.

How little you know,' she whispered,
led on by the other's sympathy ; ' I have
no friend. You must think me strange,'
she continued, under her breath, reading
all the time fresh bursts of amazement
in Jane's brown eyes ; * by-and-by you
will understand me.'

But nothing could get the surprise out
of Jane's eyes. Sophia was a being full
of mystery to her. Her beauty (like a
goddess, she decided), her recent misfortunes,
her sudden arrival from to her a
distant and almost fabulous land, her air
of subdued misery, and her incomprehensible

Innuendoes exercised quite a fascination
over her.

What cottld it be which made her so
different from others ? How she should
like to know.

I am glad you have come ! ' whispered
Sophia, pleased in spite of herself.
I am sure I shall like you, though I
never knew a girl of your age before.'

I am so glad,' was Jane's laconic
answer, taking her eyes off her at last.
*I understand  you mean in India.
Well, you must tell me all about your
life there, and the rattle-snakes and
the jugglers and the nautch-girls. I
look forward to it, I can tell you.'
Then looking round,  ' What a sweet,
pretty room this is of Aunt Amelia's ! 
just suits you, Sophia, and your black
dress. How nice it must be to live
among such lovely pictures ! I should
never be tired of looking at them ! '

Before Sophia had time to reply, a
diversion was made by the entrance of
Jacob, bearing a silver tray with cake
and wine.

As he crossed the threshold, swinging
the tray forward in a most alarming
way. Lady Danvers put up her glass ;

and while place for the refreshments
was, with difficulty, made on the overladen
tables  everyone assisting, except
Sophia  a sensible odour of rum spread
through the delicately - scented room,
emanating obviously from Jacob, standing
beside the tray like a sentinel on
duty.

As Aunt Amelia contemplated him in
silent consternation, she suddenly remembered
that, in the confusion, she had
forgotten her keys upon the sideboard,
and dashed out of the room to rescue
them, calling to Jacob to follow, which
he did, fixing a somewhat saturnine look
upon the company, and retiring with a
bow.

How can you, Jacob ? ' cried she, in
the solitude of the dining-room. ' How
can you ? You have been drinking !
Don't talk to me. The company arrived,
and so near dinner-time ! Go at once,
take off your livery, and put your head
under the kitchen pump. Lots of water,
tell the cook, to pump on you to bring
you round. Go, Jacob ; you are a badman
to plague me so ! '

Jacob, with his arms crossed, evidently
intended language ; but Aunt Amelia, become

quite active and juvenile in the
presence of her sister, managed to hustle
him out of the room, and return in time to
pour out the wine.

Where is Uncle Louis ? ' Jane was
asking Sophia. 'Why is he not here?'

He never comes from the City so early.
He will not be long.'

Dear old boy ! You can't think how
I love him ! Does he ever throw the
sofa-cushions at your head, Sophia, and
knot up the napkins to tie you to the
leg of the table at dinner, as he did
to me at Faulds ? Or are you too
grand ? '

At this Sophia laughed outright, standing
in the shadow of a screen. Jane's
love of fun was infectious.

If you were anyone else, Sophia 
not so nice as you are  I should be
awfully jealous. But I think I can bear
to see him pet you. Can't we go upstairs
and have a chat ? Now I have
had a glass of wine, I feel quite fresh ;
and mamma and Aunt Amelia are, you
see, deep In conversation ?'

Certainly,' replied Sophia, moving towards
the door.

Mamma,' said Jane, always under a

certain awe of her mother, ' I am eoino-
upstairs with Sophia to take off mv
hat;

Very well, my dear ; I hope you will
not tire your cousin by talking.'

The door closed on the two girls.

She is a magnificent creature said
Lady Danvers, looking after Sophia.
And so distinguished too ! You had
not prepared me for this, Amelia. What
do you mean to do with her ? '

I am sure I don't know,' answered
the poor little woman, suddenly recalled
to her troubles, and shrinking under her
sister's eye. ' She is quite out of place
here. Now, if you had her at Faulds,
that would be just the position to suit
her.'

But I do not think it would suit
me replied Lady Danvers, raising an
embroidered handkerchief to her lips,
then letting it fall over her jewelled
fingers, as she played with the delicate
lace. ' I have enough to do with my
own daughter. Such a young woman
as that would be a troublesome inmate.
I am certain she has a bad temper, and
has been dreadfully spoilt. Now, if there
is one thing in the world which I insist

VOL. II. K

upon, It is obedience In my own house.
Sophia would never obey.'

Aunt Amelia could not contradict this ;
she said nothing, admiring meanwhile
the superior acumen of her sister, in so
readily reading a character which had
been such a puzzle to herself.

But as a companion to Jane ? ' she
suggested. ' Jane must have a dull life
now she Is growing up. Her cousin
would suit well for that.'

I am not so sure of It,' responded
Lady Dan vers. * Her wilfulness might
be infectious. But I agree with you that
this is no place for a beautiful girl like
her ; nor Is Mr Winter a suitable
guardian.'

Aunt Amelia winced at this unkind
allusion. Here was another element of
discord. She was in constant dread lest
her sister and Mr Winter should fall
out ; for Louis Winter was not a man
to put up with the sort of contempt
with which his sister-in-law regarded
him, and would. If driven too far, break
out into German oaths, after a fashion
that Lady Danvers would never forgive.


What am I to do ? ' she asked, with

a helpless casting up of her eyes.
Sophia is not happy, neither am I.'

I will consider,' said Lady Danvers,
giving her a kindly glance. She had
a mingled feeling of contempt and affection
for this amiable but weak vessel.
From her sister her eyes glanced round
the room, and rested complacently on the
glow a frosty sunset diffused over the
yellow hangings, the tables piled up with
Sevres and Nankin china, Hindoo idols
and Japanese figures, carvings and
bronzes, antique cabinets filled with
coins, spindle - legged consoles ranged
against the walls, and smaller ornaments.
The pictures behind, standing forth In a
blaze of light  St Sebastian prominent
In a ruddy haze,  a portrait, said to be
by Rembrandt, of a golden brown, 
and Dutch landscapes, with luminous
points upon tree and stream, calling up
an ideal world of warmth and summer,
to which the soft, penetrating odour of
rose-leaves, in large blue and white pots,
came as a fitting atmosphere.

You seem very comfortable here,'
was her remark, as her eye ranged
round. * Really cosy and comfortable.
I only hope it will last.'

A sigh was the reply.

Then with a kind of heavy movement,
natural to her tall figure, Lady
Danvers rose and wandered round the
room.

I wonder where all these beautiful
things come from,' she observed, examining
the miniatures, snuff-boxes, and
artistic treasures, opening and shutting
illustrated volumes in gaudy bindings,
and passing her long fingers over the
surface of cups and vases. ' Sent, I
suppose, for sale ; but what advantage
can it be to have them ? I wonder they
trust him.'

My husband's knowledge,' replied
Aunt Amelia, annoyed at the little consideration
Lady Danvers showed for her
feelings in alluding to Mr Winter, ' gives
value to art. The very fact that Louis
has had these things in his possession,
enhances their price.'

'Humph!' was Lady Danvers' blunt
rejoinder ; ' I hope they will go back
safe.' And here the conversation dropped,
as, putting down her glass, she transferred
herself to an arm-chair, which
she filled with a kind of lofty indifference
to Mr Winter and his doings.

With the ruddy sunset glow still on her
face, she looked what she was  a mature
beauty, with a dignity of form and outline
largely proportioned that defies the
trivial loss of youth and freshness. Like
a choice peach left hanging on the wall,
time had as yet but given a ripeness
to her charms, a grave authority to
her manners. No one, however bold,
would have taken a liberty with Lady
Danvers. The quiet determination of
her large grey eyes, the haughty carriage
of her head, her broad smooth
brow, the clear metallic intonation of
her voice, her accurate choice of words,
and the judicial decision with which
she dispensed her opinions on all subjects,
repelled familiarity. So thought
such single men as had ventured to propose
to her.

She never would marry again, washer
short answer ; and be it said in
passing, he would have been a bold
man who braved the chance of a second
refusal,  the ' never would marry '
being spoken in such a decided
way.

Perhaps she knew best, for she had
been but the slave of a man who neither

loved nor understood her, and had
crushed all her finer and more womanly
feelings. Now that she was free, she
prized that freedom as only a woman
can who has suffered for years the mortification
of suppression and neglect.

What a pleasure to have you with
me, sister,* said Aunt Amelia, as she
was arranging Lady Danvers' wraps.
And here it must be noted that Mrs
Winter always called Lady Danvers
sister.' Never, since they parted as
girls, had she addressed her by her
Christian name. What her Christian
name was would have remained a mystery,
had she not signed it at length
on all occasions in a large firm hand,
' Catherine Danvers.'

I can see, Amelia,' said she, pressing
Mr Winter's hand in thanks, with another
gracious smile, * that you are
nervous. You have found Sophia too
much for you. You won't own it,' she
added, seeing her sister's eager look of
denial,  ' cords would not draw it
from you, but I understand.'

I wish Sophia would love me,'
Aunt Amelia answered, with a sigh ;
it would make everything easier.'

She is an ungrateful girl if she does
not,' was the rejoinder.

I have looked forward to Jane's
coming,  Jane is so sweet-tempered, so
easy.'

She is kept well under control,' replied
Lady Danvers. ' I allow her to
show no temper.'

But Sophia is a woman, sister, and
a very lovely one, and she knows it. You
cannot put Sophia on a par with an unformed
girl like Jane.'

All unmarried girls are under control,'
retorted Lady Danvers. * You are
not the person to manage her.'

I am afraid I am not,' was the reply,
and again she sighed. ' I wish she
would marry.'

Is there any chance of it ? ' asked
Lady Danvers, in her abrupt way.

I think so,' answered Mrs Winter,
rather dreading her sister's inquisitorial
investigations. ' Louis's nephew, John
Bauer, admires her.'

A merchant in the City, is he not ? '

Yes, sister, but immensely rich.'

What does Sophia say .' '

Hates him, 1 fear, because she thinks
I encourage him.'

'A fine state of things, indeed!' remarked
Lady Danvers, rising to leave the
room, closely followed by her sister, laden
with her shawls. ' Sophia must be an
idiot to give herself these airs. Now, to
revert to another subject before I go
upstairs. You must understand, Amelia,
that your husband must not imagine that
because I am come to visit you  ' Here
she paused, for Mrs Winter, knowing what
was coming, cast at her a look so beseeching
that Lady Danvers seemed at a loss
in what manner to finish her sentence.
You must positively understand,' she
began again, ' that Mr Winter must not
deceive himself as to my resolution in
regard to money. Tell him from me to
avoid all transactions with, friends,'  Lady
Danvers emphasised the words ; * they
have ruined him. He is no relation of
mine (I have enough of them, God
knows !) ; but, for your sake, I have
assisted him many times with loans, which
he has never repaid. I have supported
you, dear Amelia, when he could not.'
As she said this, her sister's slight figure
seemed to shrink. * Do not misunderstand
me ; my purse is at your service whenever
you need it  '

Ah, sister ! ' exclaimed Aunt Amelia,
in a sort of moan.

But for Louis Winter I can do no
more. If he again falls into difficulties,
he must take the consequences.' Aunt
Amelia's head fell upon her bosom, her
hands dropped to her side. ' Let us hope
he may grow wiser as he grows older,'
added Lady Danvers.

How could she say that ? She knew
he would always remain what he was  a
child in judgment, and live as he had lived
upon chance ; a cheerful, self-deceiving
dilettante, beloved and dreaded alike by
all with whom he had dealings.

Thus a painful conversation ended.
Mrs Winter, quite cowed into silence by
the many allusions and suggestions of her
sister, having conducted her to her room,
returned to the drawing-room and the
solitude of her bee-hive chair, reminding
herself incessantly how charmed she
was to have her with her ; nevertheless,
strangely thankful to have a few moments'
rest, to think quietly out the best way to
avoid the various difficulties which Lady
Danvers' conversation had evoked.

meanwhile, the two girls had

been talking upstairs.
I ' I am sorry my room is so

dark,' Sophia had said ; ' and
no fire! But nobody thinks of me ; I amin
the way, and this is how they show it.
But, do sit down, Jane, unless you are
too cold.'

Oh, what a beautiful view there Is
from the window ! ' cried Jane, looking
out in the gathering twilight. ' What a
lovely place that is over there,  and those
old trees ! ' Then, without waiting for an
answer,  ' Why, that must be the Thames !
Oh, how delightful ! there are actually
swans among the rushes at the edge ; and
there is a boat, and an old gentleman in it,
on a chair, fishing. Now the swans are
after him ; they will gobble him ! Oh,

what fun ! How I wish Aunt Amelia
Heed by the bank.' Then, turning round,
her face all glowing, ' I would rather have
this room, Sophia, than any in the house.'

You are very easily pleased,' was the
answer. The tone of her voice reminded
Jane of her desire to fathom the cause of
her melancholy. She turned reluctantly
from the window and sat down. ' I
thought you were so happy at Twickenham.
Mamma said Aunt Amelia loved
you like her own child.'

No, no!' cried Sophia, with sudden
vehemence ; ' it is not true. Aunt Amelia
is a hypocrite. I am my father's child  '

But, Sophia, why should she have
taken you to live with her ? She was
not obliged.'

There were reasons, Jane. You don't
understand. She was obliged. My dear
father selected her before his death, and
the family thought it best, as she had no
children. In reality, she hates me. I am
very miserable. Since I came, she invites
no one to the house, not even her
nearest neighbours and friends, with whom
she almost lived before. It is insupportably
dull ! ' with a sigh. ' I believe she
does it out of spite to me,' and a flush  a

flush of anger  dyed her cheeks, as she
remembered how this had shut her out
from all chance of seeing Maitland.
Shall you be ashamed of me, Jane, like
my aunt ? '

Ashamed of you, dear ? ' responded
Jane, amazed at such a notion. ' Are you
not my cousin ? Sophia,' continued Jane,
leaning back in her chair, ' I should runaway
if I were not happy. Not now,
in the cold, but by-and-by, when it is
summer. It is lovely in the woods.'

So I would, if I had anywhere to go.'

But does no one want you, Sophia ?
I thought all grown-up girls had lovers.
All the books I have read say so. I
should look about until I found one. He
will be sure to come just at the right
minute  as Delville did to Cecilia. Did
you ever read Cecilia ? Delville came
just in time ; she was at the Blue Posts
Inn going mad, you know.'

What is Cecilia to me ? ' answered
Sophia. ' Don't talk nonsense, child.
Aunt Amelia wants to force me to marry ;
she has found me what you call a
lover.'

Oh, how charming ! Tell me all about
it and Jane rubbed her hands, and listened

with eyes and ears. This surely would
solve the question as to what made Sophia
so sad.

I will not speak of him ; you must not
ask me. He is too horrid,  a German !
I would rather die than marry a man she
chooses ! Yes,' she continued, seeing the
look of astonishment on Jane's mobile face,
I would rather die ! '

As she spoke, her eyes flashed, at
which Jane drew back, startled at her
violence.

But Is there no one else, Sophia ?' she
Inquired, with the persistency of conviction
that there must be someone. ' Do
tell me.'

Sophia's eyes fell before her scrutinising
gaze. She sighed ; then looked up with
such an expression of profound suffering,
that Jane called out in horror, 

I am sure he is dead.'

No ! not dead,' Sophia answered ; ' but
gone, gone away. He does not care forme.
Ah ! If you could only see him, with
his fair face so full of power, and such
earnest eyes. I never saw a man like
him.'

Then turning off abruptly, as she read
the intense curiosity in Jane's face.

Ask me no more questions, or  or  '
a convulsive sob stopped her.

Dear Sophia, I wish I could help you,'
responded Jane, pressing her hands.

There was a pause ; then Sophia spoke
again.

There is something about you, little
cousin, that pleases me. I wish I were
always with you. Kiss me, and tell me
you love me. I want love.'

In a moment Jane's arms were round
her neck,  her fresh lips pressed to hers.

Never fear, Sophia, I will stand by
you through thick and thin. I never met
with anyone like you ; ' and she passed
her hands in wondering admiration over
the rippling bands of raven hair that
crowned Sophia's head.

Listen to me. child,' she continued,
leaning back in her chair, Jane's round
eyes riveted upon her. ' I was born
under a hotter sun than you. I was
reared in a fiery Indian climate, which
makes fiercer natures than cold leaden
land. All my life I was my father's
idol ; he piled his riches upon me, 
he loaded me with his love. Then the
day came when he died,  ruined  and
I was left alone with my nurse, Zebula,

and an old Indian, my bearer. Everyone
loathed us, because they said they had
confided their money to my father, and
\vith his death, had lost all. Oh, it was
horrible ! They crowded round us,' and
Sophia put her hands before her eyes to
shut out the hideous image ; ' old and
young, the natives, and they would not
believe but that I had treasure hid in
the house. I threw open all the doors, 
I entreated them to satisfy themselves.
I lifted up my hands and told them I had
nothing. They would not believe me, but
stood round, scowling and chattering like
wild beasts. They would have murdered
me, but for the old negro bearer, who
persuaded them for that day to go away.
Had we not fled, they would have returned,
stabbed us, and ransacked the
house. Oh God ! I see it now ! Zebula
and I stealing out in the night. There
were merciful people who helped us to get
a palanquin  but secretly, or they, too,
would have been in danger. At last we
reached Calcutta,  there we found friends.
Until news came from England, I knew
not what would become of me. Then I
got letters to say it was decided I was to
go to my Aunt Winter. Zebula and I

clung to each other as if our hearts would
break. When the time came for us to
part, she ran down to the quay before I
embarked, and barred the way. She
grovelled on the ground, she tore her hair.
At that last moment the faithful creature
told me, that if I ever wanted to return,
she would spend her life in working forme.
If I did, not return,' Sophia's voice
sounded so hollow in the darkness, that
Jane grew cold, and shivered, ' she would
do as she bid me do,  die. Then she gave
me this,' and Sophia drew a delicately-worked
filigree bottle from her bosom,
then immediately replaced it. ' You understand
? It is snake's poison, taken by
the Indians, swift and strong. They use
it in their weapons,  one drop is enough.'
Then suddenly changing her tone, as she
marked the absolute terror depicted on
Jane's face, and giving a strange laugh as
she drew her closer to her. ' So you see,
little cousin, I need not run away to
avoid marrying anyone I do not like.
No one can force me. I am as free
as air.'

But no echoing expression met hers.
Jane's eyes were distended,  her cheeks
very white.

How terrible ! ' she said, in a suppressed
voice ; ' you frighten me, Sophia  indeed
you do ! There is something awful about
you ! To think of your carrying about
poison ! '

It seemed so strange to her that
death should walk hand-in-hand with
life,  beauty with the grave. She pitied,
she feared, she admired her cousin asa
being out of another sphere. For
some minutes not a word was uttered.
Sophia was the first to break
silence.

Jane,' said she, ' never breathe
what I have told you to any human
being. Promise ! '

I do promise,' answered the girl
solemnly. ' You have opened your
heart to me, and I will keep your
secret. I seem to have grown all at
once into a woman since I came into
this room. But tell me.' she asked,
with irrepressible curiosity, ' shall I seethe
German  Aunt Amelia's nephew ?
Uncle Louis told me once about him.
He plays the violoncello, and is immensely
rich. If you were rich, Sophia,
you could do what you please. And
the other '  hesitating  ' the one you

VOL. II. L

love ? Is he gone far away ? Surely
he will come back. No one could resist
you, Sophia. Perhaps, if anyone
told him how unhappy you are, he
would rush in as Mr B. rushed in to
Pamela, when his proud sister had shut
her up

Sophia looked displeased.

What a child you are ! You are
too inquisitive. I tell you he is gone.
Is not that enough ? But never, never
betray me, or I will never speak to
you again ! Now it is nearly dinner
time, and we must dress. But tell me,
before you go, do you think you ' can
love me ? ' and a rare smile passed
over Sophia's face, lighting up her brilliant
eyes, her voice taking that soft
cadence that answers to the minor key
in music.

Oh so dearly !' cried the ardent Jane,
with many kisses, her arms entwined
round Sophia's neck. * I will serve
you, Sophia, as faithfully '  (here she
stopped in want of a suitable comparison,
and, as her own experience
afforded her none strong enough, she
flew back to fiction),  * as faithfully
as Aladdin served the lamp ! '

As Sophia opened the door, a loud
talking below announced the arrival of
Uncle Louis. Not even the presence
in the house of his dignified sister-in-law
could silence his loud voice.

Dat von fool ! ' he was shouting
to Jacob. ' I will shoot you some day,
dead, in der stomack, if zee not obey.
Wer is der anti silver and der porcelain
sent down von London ? ' and, with
his spectacled eyes riveted on Jacob, he
advanced step by step, as if to select
the precise spot in his body at which to
take aim.

Don't ee ! don't ee ! ' mumbled Jacob,
hastily retreating into a doorway out of
the line of Mr Winter's bellicose attack.
Put away, sir,  put away, Mr Winter,
in the closet, and the keys in missus's
pocket, under her dress. Be I to blame
for that, sir ? I must mind missus'
orders.

What Mr Winter would have answered,
and how Aunt Amelia would
have felt, never can be chronicled, for
at that instant Jane's light step was heard
on the stairs, and she rushed down into
his arms.

CHAPTER XL

T dinner time Uncle Louis
appeared, arrayed in evening
dress, with a frilled shirt, like
the full breast of a pigeon, 
trousers buttoned at the heels,  his hair
brushed back wildly above his forehead,
and his nose looking longer and redder
than usual.

Before anyone was down, Jane, who
was waiting for him in the hall, dragged
him into the yellow drawing-room by
main force.

Zee 'ave not forgot der old Oncle
Louis ! ' exclaimed he, casting up his
eyes, in reply to the tight pressure of her
hand. 'How it can loose already, die
sweet maid ! '

Uncle Louis was very ugly, but Jane
did not perceive it. Youth bestows its

caresses blindly, inspired by the mind. It
loves from within rather than from without,
and innocently hangs over age and
wrinkles almost repulsive, with fresh pure
kisses coming from the soul, and leaving
behind something of its celestial essence.
Other kisses come later, that are given
in a different mood ; but youth's fervid
offerings ask for no return.

Seated hand-in-hand on a sofa, they
fell to talking of the life at Faulds,
Uncle Louis inquiring after Nep, the
great Newfoundland dog, Jane's constant
companion in her solitary walks, and
asking if he still laboured under a chronic
antipathy for pigs, and always tried to
throttle them ? And the doves, which
she kept in the orangery ; and the guinea-pigs
and rabbits in a corner of the
kitchen garden ; the dormice and the
squirrels  all subjects of the liveliest interest
to both.

And ave zee seen die Pao-an rods
lately?' asked Uncle Louis, with a wink,
alluding to Jane's fanciful ideas about
an illustrated edition of ' Ovid's Metamorphoses
' (the text she was not allowed
to read ; she was most conscientious, and
Lady Danvers could trust her). Unconsciously

she had become a Pantheist,
and had brought herself to believe that
the lazy Berkshire streams were haunted
by water-nymphs and dryads, concealed
among the flags,  that hairy satyrs swung
themselves among the alders, and that
a certain mossy hole in a gravel pit
hard by a brook, overshadowed b) snowy
sheets of clematis, was the gate into
the infernal regions, up which Proserpine
came at pleasure to meet poor mother
Cybele weeping among the ferns. Never
did Jane pass that spot without a shudder ;
the swaying of a branch sent her flying,
and the moan of the wind in the firs
awoke mysterious fears.

And die Venus in die cloud, and
Cupldon vit dee bow and arrows, in
der laurel bower  ave he comm to teach
you loose ? '

Jane turned crimson, and said she
was too old now for such nonsense. She
could not think how she could ever have
been so silly.

Silly ! ' exclaimed Uncle Louis. ' I
call sees die poorly of life. To create vat
die fantaisle paint, dat is die gate sense.
My littel Jane must nebber lose die childish
trust. It is zo sweet. It make

woman von angel. Der sees too much of
der Poetic in dees world,' added he,
drawing a profound sigh. ' Die great
should'  (thinking of himself and of his
many ingenious and elaborate plans for
making money,  specially the grand coup
lost by what he considered the most
trivial of all obstacles  the want of
funds)  ' leese in die Ideal.'

This was all Greek to Jane, who gave
him a saucy answer, pinched his cheek
and called him a dear old boy ;  then with
eager eyes inquired what he meant todo
to celebrate Christmas.

I have not come so far to spend a
dull day, remember.'

Nor shall zee!' cried Uncle Louis,
chuckling with delight. ' Do zee think
der old oheim von infernal ninny to ask
zee to Scatlands, and not to invent
some suns ? '

Oh, tell me  tell me, Uncle Louis,
what it is ; ' and her eager eyes danced
in her head.

But the arrival of Lady Danvers in a
rustling silk dress with Mrs Winter, and
of Sophia, who with a frigid air took
her place near the door, interrupted the
conversation. But so elated was Mr

Winter at the notion of the surprise in
store for Jane, that he remained totally-indifferent
to the studied coldness of
Lady Danvers,  his exuberant good humour
spending itself in nods and winks
at Jane, and all sorts of queer grimaces ;
he absolutely refusing to be classed as
the criminal his sister-in-law considered
him, for borrowing other people's money
which he could not repay. When he
offered his arm to lead his sister - inlaw
into dinner, his face was wreathed
with smiles, and he gallantly placed herat
the table beside him, with a low bow.
On his left sat Jane, with whom he was
still engaged in a course of surreptitious
winks and squeezes which kept her inconstant
danger of an outburst of laughter.
Then turning suddenly to Lady Danvers
he filled her glass and touched it with his
own.

Zee old laus sees honoured, my sister
dat zee comm. My pore Amalie rejoice
in die noble guest. Zee want your courage,
miladi. Ach Got ! See want dem mooch ! '

Lady Danvers drew herself up.

I have not been tried, like Amelia,'
she replied, glancing at Mrs Winter, sitting
silent at the head of the table, nervously

watching Jacob flourishing about the
various dishes, handed in by a maid.
Twice Lady Danvers had given him a
stony stare, and gathered up the folds of
her stiff dress, but with no avail ; and
Aunt Amelia knew too well that an inopportune
remark might frighten him and
bring about a catastrophe.

But die Amalle ave me,  my angel
ave her Louis,' replied Mr Winter, laying
down his knife and fork and emphatically
rapping the front of his shirt. ' Amalle,
my loose, sees It not zo ? am I not sur
slave ? '

At this appeal, his wife bowed her head
meekly ; but Lady Danvers was not to
be appeased.

Perhaps It Is possible my sister wants
something more reliable. When you extol
a gift, Mr Winter, it is well to appreciate
Its value.'

But the sarcasm of her words was
thrown away on Mr Winter, and Amelia
cast on her sister such an imploring
glance that she said no more. Conscious
of an unfriendly atmosphere, although
unable to account for it. Uncle Louis
turned to Jane, slipped a tender bit of
chicken on her plate, and winked, pretending

to watch his wife opposite with
awe.

Zee pore old boy who work zo hardin
der dismal City to keep de roof upon
der laus 'ave had no Christmas, no fest-tag
till Jane comm. Ve will ave such
romps, such surprises ! Ah ! scion 1
Such bountiful tings in store vor Jane.'

Do you really care to have me ? ' she
asked timidly.

Die child ! zee ask ? ' and his grey
eyes beamed under his shaggy eyebrows ;
at which Lady Danvers frowned and
put up her glass. Dinner was part of
the day's ordinance,  a family function to
be discussed with decorum. Jane was
being made too prominent. She could
not stop Mr Winter in his own house,
but she could silence Jane, which she did
with a look.

Sophia, sitting opposite, looked wonderfully
handsome by candle-light, in her
black silk dress, her eyes turned neither
right nor left, but gazing into her plate.
Even Jane's radiant smiles directed across
the table failed to rouse her, at which
she felt a little hurt. Why was Sophia
so different in her room ? Of dissimulation,
or the assuming of a part, Jane had

no conception,  her wildest imaginings
had never attained to it. To tell an
untruth she held to be a sin, but of the
lighter and more artistic modes of deception,
she knew nothing.

Now Sophia, in the strange contradiction
of her nature, was acting a part
in the presence of her new aunt. Although
personally she was more than
indifferent to her  for her distant manners
had already inspired her with dislike
she desired her to understand how
miserable Aunt Amelia made her. Not
by reason of any settled scheme, but on
the principle of the Athenians banishing
Aristides, because they were tired of
hearing him called ' the Just,' Sophia was
tired of hearing Mrs Winter called an
angel.

My dear,' said Mrs Winter, with
anxious kindness, seeing her empty plate,
you do not eat : I fear your dinner does
not please you.'

Lady Danvers, without noticing Sophia,
answered for her.

It is her own fault then ; the dinner
is excellent. I do not know, Amelia, how
you always manage to have such a good
cook.'

Less est my angel herself, bless zee ! '
broke in Uncle Louis. ' Dey comm savage
  zee tame zem.'

Why do you eat nothing ? ' asked Lady
Danvers abruptly, turning to Sophia.'

I thank you,' she replied coldly, ' I
have no appetite. Do not think of me. I
am of no consequence.'

But I do think of you,' replied Mrs
Winter eagerly, from the top of the table.

And so do I think of die Sophie,
mooch, ver mooch,' echoed Uncle Louis.

Please do not,' said Sophia. ' I can't
bear remarks ; I shall go away if you
notice me.'

When they returned to the drawing-room,
to the astonishment of everyone,
except Uncle Louis, there stood John
Bauer, with his back to the fire, blowing
his nose. Hastily pocketing his handkerchief,
he made a few steps forward ; then
stopped at the sight of the imposing
figure of Lady Danvers on Mrs Winter's
arm.

Why, this is a pleasant surprise ! '
exclaimed Aunt Amelia, advancing to
take his hand ;  how nice of you to come,

dear John ! Why did you not join us at
dinner ? '

Did not Uncle Louis tell you he had
asked me,' inquired John, in a whisper.
We met in Cheapside, and he pressed
me to come. You know, after my letter,
I thought I might venture to take a look
at her again, just a look, and go back.'
While he spoke, his eyes were seeking
out Sophia, who had again seated herself
near the door. ' I did not know any
visitors were here.' And he shrank into
the background of tables and consoles, as
Lady Danvers advanced.

You never told me John Bauer was
coming,' said Mrs Winter to her husband.

Zo, zo, and vhy ? Die chosen
tamen,' looking round at his guests ; ' ave
no one to amuse. Talk wit dem, mein
sohn ; or if die words comm not, bring
out die instrument.'

This was not a style of address likely
to assist a timid man like John, who
coughed, and again had recourse to his
handkerchief. Could he have guessed
the effect his appearance made on Sophia,
he certainly would have remained at home.
The idea of this homely German supplanting
Edward Maitland, raised a per-feet

tornado in her breast ; and the little
favour she had shown him on his first
visit, in condescending to play for him,
now turned into a jealous animosity. Did
he think that because Aunt Amelia encouraged
him, he was to force himself
upon her ?

Our nephew sister,' said Mrs Winter,
presenting John Bauer ; ' Mr Winter's
sister's son.'

I am glad to make your acquaintance,'
answered Lady Danvers graciously, extending
two of her jewelled fingers, which
were accepted by John as he would have
touched something sacred ; ' I have often
heard my sister speak of you with praise.
Everyone who is kind to her stands well
with me.'

Having made this gracious little speech,
she settled herself in an arm-chair, drawing
out her eyeglass to contemplate Louis
Winter's rich nephew at her ease.

Very unfair of my sister to call upon
me for help, with a millionaire in the
family,' she was saying to herself

I don't think him so very ugly,  he
has such a nice, good face,' whispered
Jane to Sophia ; ' but what a white man !
Have all Germans straw-coloured hair

and eyebrows, and blue eyes ? How nice
it must be to have a real lover ; I mean
someone who loves you for yourself  not
to make a match. And you have only
been in England a month, and you
have two ! I suppose he will give you
all kinds of presents. I should choose
a horse and a lurcher. Nep is getting
old. But your taste may be different.'

Meanwhile John Bauer, utterly abashed
at finding himself the centre of observation,
retreated into a corner behind
Sophia's chair.

Miss Escott,' he murmured, for the
first time raising his eyes to hers, ' I
hope you have not forgotten me ? '

No, Mr Bauer ; I am not likely todo
so : Mrs Winter takes care of that.'

What a strange look she gave him
with those lustrous eyes ! ' What did
she mean ? ' thought John. ' Surely
Aunt Amelia had not betrayed him ! '
and terrible doubts seized him.

Is this Miss Danvers ? ' he asked,
addressing her cousin seated near, feeling
it incumbent on him to say something.

Yes ; I am Sophia's cousin,' answered
Jane, eager to enter into conversation
with this new specimen of the German

race. 'We came here to-day. I am so
glad to be at Twickenham,  I am so
fond of Uncle Louis ! '

Everyone is fond of him,' rejoined
John, gaining a little more confidence,
under Jane's friendly glances. ' Miss
Escott too, I think, likes him.'

'He is the only person who makes
my life bearable ! ' was her curt
reply.

No wonder poor John found conversation
difficult. No one cared to speak
to him, and he wished he had not
come. Aunt Amelia was conversing
with her sister, and Mr Winter at
that moment was handing her a cup
of coffee out of the identical set of
Dresden china his wife had so earnestly
entreated him to send back.

Beautiful ; night war ? ' he was saying,
pointing out the exquisitely-painted
vignettes, surrounded by jewelled circles
on cup and saucer. ' Beautiful and die
old pate. Noting like ee now. I had ee
from a friend. He would look lovely at
Faulds. Look ! Johann,' fingering a cup
with the tenderness of an amateur, ashe
turned from Lady Danvers, who had
not vouchsafed a word, ' I had ee from

Gompertz, von great judge. Says Gom-
pert, " It is a chance vor a kings." '

They are very fine,' answered John,
thus appealed to ; ' but quite unfit for
common use.'

I perfectly agree with you, Mr Bauer
said Lady Danvers ; ' and while I am
here, I beg you will do me the favour,
Mr Winter, not to produce them. They
are treasures quite thrown away upon
me. Another evening I shall ask fora
cup of coffee out of Amelia's commonest
set.'

Foiled in his attempt to tempt the
old romans as he called her, to purchase,
Louis Winter, too good a general
to accept defeat, pounded across the
room in the direction of the two
girls.

'Tune up! tune up!' he cried, 'die
harmonie. Zee littel rogues,' to Jane ;
why zee never learn } Now here is
die Sophie. Let die new tante hear
Sophie, and Johann and I will accompany.'


'Not I, Mr Winter,' interrupted John,
quite loud ; ' I said I never would play
again in Miss Escott's presence, and I
never will. Her wonderful talent must

VOL. II. M

at least exempt her from being sacrificed
to me.'

Zee est von fools,' whispered Uncle
Louis, dragging him aside. ' Vy zee
spoil sport ? I ask zee here to pay die
court to die Sophie, and zee says no
von blessed word ! Is it not enough
to be froze alive by die old Danvers
there, but zee must put in von tanned
spoke dat die wheel not turn round ? '

Why will you not play ? ' Jane
asked of Sophia, whose side she never
left ; * I should like so much to hear
you.'

Not with him,' was Sophia's contemptuous
answer, which she hardly
cared to make low enough not to be
heard.

A very worthy young man, your
nephew,' Lady Danvers was saying to
her sister, ' and fairly good-looking. I
remember his name now ; but it was
very wrong of you not to tell me Mr
Winter had so rich a relative. How
much has he a year ? '

Many thousands,' was the answer ;
but it has come gradually, of course.
Now the business is increasing rapidly.
By-and-by John will be a millionaire;

and he is so amiable and sympathetic.
If I must tell you the truth, sister' (ina
low voice), ' he has been very much
struck with Sophia ; he says he will
wait to marry her for years.'

For years ! Why not at once ? It
is a perfect providence.'

Yes, if she only would have him ;
but because she fancies I encourage
him, she will hardly be civil. Poor
fellow, it is very hard.'

I never knew a young woman so
amazing in my life said Lady Danvers,
in her downright way. ' What does
she v.-ant ? I shall take an opportunity
of telling her my mind. Ask
him to come tomorrow, Amelia, to
spend Christmas. Bring them together ;
little by little she will get accustomed
to him.'

I shall be very glad to have him,' was
the answer. ' Louis has prepared a little
fete for Jane. But what will Sophia
say .' '

There you are again ; giving in to
that girl in everything ! She will become
a perfect tyrant ! '

Aunt Amelia was too kind to say how
much she was that already.

How wonderfully she has taken to
Jane ! I never saw her look so pleased.
And what a sweet girl Jane is ! so unconscious
of her brilliant position, 
nothing of the heiress about her ! You
will be marrying her soon. Dear little
Jane!'

Not a word about her fortune, Amelia,
I entreat you. She knows nothing about
it. When the proper time comes for
all those details, I shall tell her myself.
I hope she will take it sensibly. To
my mind, a woman who has money is
rarely happy.'

As to her further projects for Jane,
Lady Danvers made no allusion. Her
world was not her sister's, and the
views which influenced her she would
not understand. Aunt Amelia made no
reply. To her, money was that one
supreme good that answers to the sun
in the natural world. What would her
life not have been, had Louis had
money ?

By the way,' continued Lady Danvers,
leaning back in the arm-chair, the bright
fire lighting up the glazed tiles of the

grate Into a cheerful glow, * how Is your
ostentatious neighbour, Mrs Maitland ? 
as fat and fussy as ever ? I suppose
I must see her ; but I tell you beforehand,
I will not dine there. Her silver-plate,
and that dreadful old husband, who
looks as If he had worked In a mine, are
really too much for me. The nearer you
get to suburban London, the more mixed
society becomes. No one would visit such
a vulgarian In Berkshire.'

You need not be afraid, sister ; Mrs
Maitland will not ask you. We do not
meet now.'

Not meet! How Is that ? ' and Lady
Danvers turned, in her deliberate way,
and stared at her sister. ' Has Louis 
Mr Winter  been borrowing money of
her?'

No, sister,' answered Mrs Winter, an
indignant flush spreading over her face, 
no ; dear Louis has borrowed no money
that I know of from anyone, least of all
from the Maitland. But it is about her
son ; she is afraid he may take a fancy to
Sophia. When she was rich, Mrs Malt-land
could talk of nothing but her, and
almost told me how much she'd like the
match. I have felt her conduct very

much,' added Aunt Amelia, with a sigh.
She is an old friend

Afraid of Sophia ! ' ejaculated Lady
Danvers, astonished at the kind of havoc
this orphan niece seemed working in all
around. ' Well, that is most surprising !
I see nothing in Sophia so wonderful. A
striking-looking girl certainly, and undoubtedly
handsome, but with most unbecoming
manners. I cannot make it out.
You seem to fancy Mr Winter's nephew
is in love with her, and now you speak of
young Maitland.'

Oh, I do not mean that Edward
Maitland is in love with her, sister,' and
a vivid recollection of that message she
had to deliver in the morning to Sophia,
and the certainty of reproaches, chilled
her all over. ' As she has no money now,
his mother is afraid her beauty might attract
him.'

At this Lady Danvers tossed her
head.

Mrs Maitland seems to have formed
an exaggerated idea of the pretensions
of her son. Vulgar woman ! She might
be too thankful to have our niece for a
daughter, under any circumstances.'

That is not her view. Edward is to

make a great match, go into Parliament,
and found a family. If Sophia had arrived
with a great fortune, she would have
accepted her; not else.'

All this seems a most prodigious fuss
about nothing,' was Lady Dan vers'
remark.

If no one will play,' cried Uncle Louis,
in a strident voice from the piano, where
he was occupying himself in taking his
silver flute out of its case, * the old
woman and I must tune up. Comm,
my Amalie,' crossing the room to offer
her his arm.

Tears stood in her eyes at this little
attention. It was so long since he had
noticed her. Rising with alacrity she
stood beside him, while he carefully rubbed
the silver mountings with that eternal red
handkerchief of his, ever in some way
flourishing about him like a banner. Then
she sat down, and passed her hands quietly
over the keys, like the practised musician
she was. Once started, the two instruments
seemed to speak, the manifold tones
of the piano supporting and subduing the
sweet acuteness of the flute, and leading
the melody as with the modulations of
the human voice passionately pleading.

How beautiful it was ! Now one took
up the theme, now the other, then joined
for a moment in a union of harmonious
sounds. It was Beethoven's 'Adelaide'
they had chosen, that divine song breathing
the very ecstasy of passion  passion
strong as death, mighty as the whirlwind,
yet all subdued and purified to gentlest
uses, touching the soul by its fervour
rather than by its strength.

It could not be said that Aunt Amelia
played with the fire and brilliancy of the
impetuous Sophia, but she had her own
gentle way of dealing with the notes, 
a subtle, subdued touch that conveyed a
latent sentiment to be drawn upon indefinitely.
When Uncle Louis took up the
voice part, her eyes were fixed on him,
and her hands alone followed him mechanically,
as with rare skill he made his somewhat
feeble instrument interpret every
change in the utterance of the despairing
lover, calling upon the clouds, the mountains,
the flowers, streams, and springs, 
all the hidden treasures of earth, and riches
of summer in its grandest mood,  the
mighty ocean itself, in its thundering roll, 
every season and element  with the loved
syllables of the name of ' Adelaide.'

Everyone was touched, including Aunt
Amelia, who sofdy pressed her lips upon
her husband's hand, as he put down his
flute and passed his handkerchief over his
moist brow. Jane clapped her hands, and
flew upon him in an ecstasy of delight ;
and Lady Danvers rose from her chair
and kissed her sister.

You have forgotten nothing, dear
Amelia,' she said, quite warmly. ' Indeed,
you play better than ever, I think  with
more expression.'

Even Sophia forgot her wrongs so far
as to come forward and, in a moment of
artistic expansion, remark that it must
have been from Mrs Winter she inherited
her love of music. And John Bauer, after
rolling in his chair in a kind of musical
rapture, indulged his feelings by shaking
hands with both Mr and Mrs Winter,
and again declaring that nothing should
ever induce him to play before them
again.

Everyone laughed, for John Bauer
spoke with such earnestness, and seemed
so angry with himself; and there was
another laugh when Uncle Louis, addressing
his wife as his ' theatres fraidein '
formally offered her his arm, and led

her back, blushing Hke a girl, to her
seat beside her sister.

It was wonderful how Adelaide had
broken the ice and harmonised the party, 
toning down into a momentary calm those
conflicting elements of which it was composed
 so much so that when Jacob entered,
labouring under the weight of a heavy supper
tray, laden with wine, beer, and spirits,
assuming as he crossed the room, a perilously
perpendicular direction, which Mrs
Winter at once rushed to equalise, murmuring
some words into his ear, which
he answered out loud by saying,  ' As it's
maister's orders  don't blame me, ma'am.
Don't forget the beer," says master. " I
and my neffy is Germans, and we alius
drinks beer." ' Every one began to laugh.

John Bauer actually overcome his
shyness so much as to pour out a
glass of sherry for Sophia, which, wonderful
to relate, she accepted ; Uncle
Louis helping Lady Danvers and his
wife and Jane out of a china jug full of
hot negus.

I shall dream of Adelaide,' whispered
Jane to Sophia, carefully sipping the boiling
negus. * I am sure I must have seen her
in the laurel grove at Faulds, dressed like

Calypso, in the corner where the violets
grow.'

Nonsense ! ' returned Sophia, in the
same tone. ' I am an only child, too, but
am sure I never talked such nonsense.'

What nonsense about a lover, Sophia,
when you have two ! ' Which speech
made Sophia frown, especially as John
Bauer, whose prominent blue eyes never
left her, encouraged by her unwonted
graciousness, pressed upon her a second
glass of sherry, which she so sternly refused,
that he retreated crest-fallen to the
hall, where, suddenly remembering what
was due to Aunt Amelia, he put in his
head to bid good-night, adding, 

You have asked me for tomorrow,
aunt, and I mean to come. A Christmas
Day alone at North End is too much forme.
I should certainly be starved.'

Quite right, Mr Bauer ; quite right,'
was heard in the clear, high voice of
Lady Danvers. ' We shall be glad to
see you.'

]\Iy dear fellow  of course  ' from Mrs
Winter. What Uncle Louis would have
said, was lost in a fit of coughing, occasioned
by the haste with which he had
imbibed a glass of beer. ' Mein soin,

mein sohn  ' was all he could utter, followed
by inaudible sounds out of the red
handkerchief

So that what had .threatened to be a
dull evening to all but the ardent spirit of
Jane, turned out most cheerfully, thanks
to the charm exercised by the great magician
Beethoven.

HEN that dear little maid, Jane
Danvers, retired to bed under
the scantiest of dimity curtains,
and a slip of carpet like an island
in an ocean of deal floor, she could
not go to sleep for thinking of Sophia.
In her girlish, one-sided sympathy  so
sweet, yet so deceptive  Jane forgot what
everyone knew, that except an angel,
or a sister of mercy, no one ever was so
good and kind as Aunt Amelia ; and that
she should voluntarily have received an
orphan niece into her house and treated
her badly, was an impossibility ridiculous
to contemplate.

But fresh from the influence of Sophias
morbid conviction, that she was the

most ill-used of mortals, Jane, a rush of
young blood pouring through her veins,
then and there resolved to espouse
her cause, and rescue her from persecution.


I swear it ! ' she cried aloud, out of the
bed-clothes, clenching her soft little hands
together, as if to say her prayers. ' I will
never forsake her ! '

How could a girl like Jane understand
that it was not in the least Aunt Amelia
who had angered Sophia, but the social
system she represented of English life ? 
that any species of authority was odious
to her, and that the idea of marrying a
man who she imagined would continue
this system of repression, under the direction
of Aunt Amelia, wrought her up into
a perfect rage of opposition. How could
inexperienced Jane understand all this ? at
that happy age when the judgment has not
yet ripened to keep pace with the intelligence.
She saw her beautiful, and believed
her wronged. This was enough to
evoke the latent Quixotism of her nature.
To Jane she was the desolate, abandoned
one,  Ariadne, Dido, Andromeda, all in
one.

As she lay thinking over all this, a

bright Idea struck her. How delightful It
would be if Sophia could come and live
with her at Faulds. Lady Danvers washer
aunt as well as Mrs Winter, and If her
lovers cared for her (Jane was too much
Interested in the lovers to forget them),
they might come there also, as they always
did In books. A slight misgiving did
occur to her as she thought of what her
mother would say, but that was at once
over-ruled by her conviction of the manifold
fascinations of Sophia.

How delightful to have her always
with me ! ' was her thought. * I want a
companion,  I have no one but the dog.
She shall teach in the Sunday school,  the
biggest boys ; they will mind her. We
will go and visit the gipsies in the Red
Lane, and I will introduce her to the
duchess. If the duchess likes her, mamma
will be sure to approve. Then rose up
an image In Jane's busy brain of wanderings
together through the leafy avenues of
the park,  Sophia, pale and tall like the
chaste Una,  Nep at her side to personate
the lion ;  of sitting in the octagon parlour
where the antique collections of centuries
were ranged, and looking out on the terraces
from the Elizabethan porch, over which

were carved in stone Prince of Wales'
feathers ;  of loitering In shady nooks by
lazy Berkshire streams, buried in wishes
and alders, the moss-grown banks covered
by tall plants of willow herb, and watching
the passing shadows of the clouds among
the blue fir-woods, under which lurked
rabbits and field - mice, giving infinite
sport. Hitherto Jane had lived alone
with Nature ; she had caught a wild
charm from its freshness,  a radiance from
its bloom. Her out-door life had painted
her cheeks with the colour of the rose,
given a gloss to the curls of her brown
hair,  an elastic freedom to her movements,
more befitting a wood-nymph thana
modern young lady. But of this solitude
she had had enough. When at last
she closed her eyes in sleep, dreams came
to her of Sophia, a lovely apparition, before
whom the choicest flowers blossomed,
the lofty oaks bent low, the dark hollies
rattled their prickly leaves, and the birds
sang in chorus,  Sophia, supreme as
the spirit of the earth, wandering in
mazes of beauty, and she herself following
as her humblest and most devoted
slave.

While Jane slumbered peacefully, cradled

in happy dreams, a very different scene
was passing in the room of the object of
her thoughts.

Poor Sophia, once removed out of the
scrutiny of Lady Danvers' all-seeing eyes,
alone in the bareness of her slenderly
lighted room, was standing beside the
window overlooking Rosebank, her hands
clasped together, the veriest picture of
despair.

Not till that moment of silence and
solitude (the clock in the Gothic tower
of Rosebank had long struck twelve) did
she realise what the departure of Edward
really meant. Until now, although she did
not see him, he was near. A nameless
excitement supported her through the days.
At any hour he might come ; at any moment
she might hear of him, or some word
might drop that would reveal him to her
in a new light, or give a clue to his motives
and actions. Like life to the sick, while
Edward was at hand, there was hope ;
and in his absence death,  death as cold
and chill as the frosty distance on those
broad lawns and river-terraced walks under
the deceptive glitter of the wintry night.

And he was gone, without a word ! His
callous abandonment bowed her to the

VOL. II. N

earth. * A friend ' he had called himself 
a lover she had thought. Alas, he was
neither ! That sunny face of his, made to
inspire faith, was but a mask ; those fervid
glances which seemed to radiate happiness
 a fraud ! Was it for this she had
unlocked the secrets of her heart ?  told
him her life ?  described her feelings . To
him  a stranger ?

A burning blush rose to her cheeks as
she recalled how she had melted under the
charm of those deep-set eyes. Love her ?
Fool that she was ! No one would ever
love her ! Devils at her birth must have
cursed her. Zebula had told her such
things were. After all, why should he
care for her ? What had she to offer .-
Her life was done,  the world as dark as
when she landed from India. No one
should know it. But she would die, 
and she pressed her hand against her
breast to assure herself that the power lay
there hidden from all eyes.

A moment of rage stirred her bosom at
the injustice of the world ; then tears
rose in her eyes and washed out the
feeling. Why did fools talk to her of
her beauty if she could charm no one 
She was young, she felt, to break her

heart ; but so it was. No one could
comfort her.

As her eyes strained themselves to lookout
on the world which was fading from her
gaze, the soft radiance of the starlight was
gloomed by sudden clouds  darkness spread
over the fronts the house at Rosebank  the
outlines of the woods took strange shapes,
the night mist wreathed into the outline
of spectral forms,  and the low moan of
the night wind sounded hollow in her ears.

Cold and shivering, she turned from
the window to the dressing-table, on which
stood a lighted candle beside an oval
mirror in an elaborate ebony frame, which
Aunt Amelia had impounded from the
artistic furniture below. On the table
lay a letter, carefully sealed, and addressed
to * Miss Escott, Scatlands.'

She eagerly seized it, under the impression
that it came from Zebula. But she
could see no Indian postmark, nor indeed
any mark at all. As in all her life, Sophia
had never received more than one or two
letters, the arrival of this one filled her
with alarm. She turned it over, considered
the paper, examined the seal, then
put it down, and studied the bold, large
letters of the address.

All at once it occurred to her that it
would be as well to open it. She broke
the seal, and with eager eyes read as
follows : 

You flatter yourself that Mr Maitland
loves you. It is not so. He is only
amusing himself. Your forward conduct
has so disgusted him that he has left
home to avoid you. It is useless for you
to follow him ; he is about to marry a
lady to whom he has been long attached.
The violent efforts you have made to
secure him have only hastened this event.
He is perfectly aware of your engagement
to Mr Bauer, and despises you asa
coquette and an intriguer. The writer,
who watches you and your doings, advises
you to marry your rich lover as soon as
decency permits, lest he too may find you
out and turn his back upon you.

One who knows.'

As Sophia's eyes passed up and down
the lines, scanning them again and again,
until the characters seemed stamped on
her brain, an ashy whiteness overspread
her face,  she clutched the back of a chair

near her, or she would have fallen. Her
head reeled,  every sense seemed paralysed.


Thus she sat for some minutes, the
letter open on her lap. If she had fainted,
she never knew ; a dull vacuum took possession
of her, as if all the functions of life
were suspended ; then her pulses beat
wildly, the blood came rushing back to
her heart, her temples seemed to burn.
For a few moments memory wavered ;
then with a crushing force of consciousness,
her whole life since she came to
England stood out before her. The big
yellow coach in the highroad,  the tall
figure of Maitland rising out of the mist, 
their walk together along the lane,  the
tones of his voice so full of comfort,  the
gaunt aspect of Scatlands, and the green
park into which he turned,  his sudden
appearance in the yellow drawing-room, 
the scent of the dried rose-leaves,  the
music,  his grave, steadfast eyes, melting
into an infinite sweetness,  the last
longing look he cast on her as he stood in
the doorway,  the sound of his departing
footsteps in the hall, her wild impulse to
follow him and clasp him in her arms, 
all passed before her with the vividness

of life. Then her dull eyes turned
on the open letter, and, with a sob
that shook her whole frame and left
her powerless as an infant, she flung herself
upon the bed.

wm>

REAL Christmas day;  the
ground bound with an iron
frost, and sprinkled with a
thick layer of snow,  the
branches of the trees like lacework
against an ashy sky, every branch and
twig glorified, as it were, with countless
sparkling crystals,  the air keen and quiet,
without a breath of wind,  the sun shining
brightly out of a bank of red clouds, and
giving a touch of colour to the death-like
greys and azure of the veiled distance.

How sombre it all looked !  the familiar
lines of wall along the lane, so petrified
and cruel !  the edging of laurels hanging
over it, drooping with crusty masses of
snow !  the elm-boles, like gloomy pillars,
upholding the canopy of sky,  .he road an

unbroken expanse of whiteness, on which
some dark footprints showed up in black
outlines! What an ugly little world,
silent and mournful  the death-bed of
nature, lying wrapped in its pall !  The
old year dying out, white and cold, on its
bier of snow, the new one to be born again
out of the dark sods, in tiny baby buds
clinging tremblingly to the soil, brown
spiky leaves piercing the icy mould,  and
bursting seeds : the battle of the old and
new seasons with nature, weak and sickly
as yet, against the grasp of death.

Christmas indeed  a day of rejoicing !
Nothing looked like it. The earth had
folded itself up as in an iron frame, and
even the boisterous wind had gone to
rest. No bird or insect was present to
give its note of praise. The rooks on
the tall elms were silent,  the sparrows
chirped no more,  the owls forgot to
hoot, they were so cold,  and even the
robins, nestled in their deep shroud of
dry leaves, dumb waiting until the light
came freer, and the sun rose higher over
the desolate waste of the white world.

Christmas ! One needs to be as young
and fresh as the new year to welcome
these anniversaries as life goes on ;  not

only ushered In by the chills of winter, and
the frown of unfriendly skies, but accompanied
too often by sad memories linking
year by year in the dull chain of life, 
the empty places where death has passed,
the absence of loved ones, never to
return. Every grief, every pain, like
open wounds bleeding afresh,  the fear
of ills to come,  the heavy hand of care, 
the havoc time has wrought In faces that
once were fair,  whole families vanished,
the fervour of flashing eyes dimmed, 
the warmth of hotly-pressed fingers chilled.
The dead rising up between us and the
living, and speaking in spirit voices. 
What matter ? Earth Is but a grave.
Upon the brink you stand, catching at
shadovvs. Soon you too will fall headlong
and be seen no more.'

But no such mournful fancies troubled
Jane, waking up with the buoyance of a
young lark to an unmistakable power of
enjoyment  indicated in the corners of her
smiling lips, the rise of her eyebrows, the
crispness of her curls, the restlessness of
her feet,  as, with a little shiver, she
jumped out of bed to gaze through the
frozen window-panes ; her whole soul in

such a tumult of delighted anticipation,
that not even the dreary outlook could
chill it.

Meanwhile she must dress  a prosaic
necessity forced upon her by the cold,
although it was entrancing to watch a
group of boys, blowing on their fingers
as they proceeded, Indian file, through
the snow,  to see the muffin man, wrapped
in an old sack, sounding his bell,
and the postman, with heavy bags, ringing
at closed doors,  to listen to the church-bells
carolling gaily out of the mist, and
now and then a pop-gun exploding with
an imposing bang.

Jane was soon ready ; then, with a jump
or two, out of sheer lightness of heart, she
ran downstairs into the hall.

Comm, my littel Jane, my caiiaiade !'
called out Uncle Louis, in his deep bass
voice, from the depths of a distant passage.
' Put on de hat, and ve will zee die
skating bevor breakfast.'

Quick as thought Jane ran back, rammed
her hat on her head, her arms into her cloak,
and was downstairs again before Uncle
Louis had muffled himself in a furred cloak
reaching to his heels, and a cap resting
on the bridge of his prominent nose.

Opposite the door of Scatlands lay a
large pond, on which hundreds of boys
clustered, and peals of laughter rang out
as one got a tumble, and twenty others
were precipitated on his back.

'How I should like to slide!' cried
Jane, looking on with longing eyes.

'Impossible!' answered Uncle Louis,
red as a lobster, seizing her by the
arm. ' Vot vud die Danvers say ? '

Oh ! but I do at home ; mamma
always says I was meant for a boy.
Oh, do ! Just let me feel the ice.'

Before he could stop her, she had
cast him off, flown to the brink, and
taken a long slide, landing triumphantly
on the other side, among a crowd of ill-looking
boys, who crowded round her.

Never was Uncle Louis so nearly
being in a passion in his life. Rushing
after her on his short legs, he led her
off by main force in an opposite direction.


Ave zee no shames, my schists }
Die old teufel Maitland, dat watch like
von spider all who pass,  and Gompertz,
dat turn up at all corners. I will go
homes.'

Dragging the reluctant girl after him,

he took some steps towards the house,
then, suddenly remembering it was Christmas
Days and giving one glance at her repentant
face  where they had halted, her
cheeks glowing like the red plumes in
her hat ; her restless feet moving in spite
of herself  his heart melted, and he
changed his mind !

Will my angels take von beetle slide
bevor ve goes ? he said, in a coaxing
tone, drawing her to him, and kissing
her.

No, no, Uncle Louis,' was her answer,
turning her back resolutely on the fascinations
of the pond, and selecting a path all
encrusted with snow, leading towards the
Twickenham meadows, where the grass
lay like a carpet of crystals under interlacing
boughs, every branches and shoot
of the lofty elms glorified,  to where the
Thames spread out like a blanched highway
into rosy distances against the sky.

Absolute solitude  except a dark figure
here and there stepping out noiselessly
along the bank  of tidy countrymen in
smock - frocks bound for church, and
groups of ragged boys seeking among
the bushes for half-starved birds ; the
mists beyond wreathed in confused masses.

At the locks the Ice piled up In heaps,
with sweet, smooth stretches between, as
of diamonds following the river's curve ;
the frozen reeds bending and quivering
mysteriously, under a chill breeze, as
though touched by the fingers of an unseen
hand.

Opposite, on the right bank, the venerable
front of Ham House, with its deep
porch and arcaded wings looking down
a noble avenue of limes to a rustic
landing-pier ; the undulating park, dotted
with ancestral trees, joining on to the
long line of the Petersham fields and Richmond
Hill ; lower down, to the right, the
wide facade of Orleans House, where
Queen Anne lived with her only son,
whose death exhausted all the little heart
she had for her family. Further on, on
the same side, the quaint outline of
Strawberry Hill, heading a slight rise,
the sham towers and turrets and oriel-widowed
gables recalling the far-famed
collection of the little Earl to Mr Winters
active mind.

Jane listened  delighted, to all he said
about the pictures and armour, pottery
and Raffaelle ware, and the marketable
value put on them by him. Surely

Uncle Louis was a very clever man.
He knew everything, from china and
glass to Hudson the painter, who taught
Sir Joshua, and had lived near Pope's
villa ; Sir 'Godfrey Kneller and Mrs
Pritchard the actress ; the Duchess of
Lauderdale, George H., and Bishop
Warburton, who was buried in Twickenham
Church.

No breath of wind stirred the air ;
the osier beds and willows rose black
and frozen out of a sea of snow ; the
toy-boats lay high and dry under the
sparkling trees ; the barges and contrasts
blocked in by ice ; and the red
roofs of Richmond looming out bright in
the distance beyond.

Oh, how heavenly ! ' exclaimed Jane,
dancing on in front, and interrupting
Uncle Louis in his account of the
Vandyke and the Lely at Strawberry
Hill. ' Did you ever see anything
prettier ? Oh, dear ! I am perfectly
longing for some fun ! I wish Nep was
here, he would have set all those boys
flying.' Then pushing back the brown
curls which fell about her face, she suddenly
stopped under the shelter of a
screen of hollies, and turned round, 

Tell me, Uncle Louis,' she said, * 
Sophia always unhappy ? '

Die Sophie?' gasped Uncle Louis,
pausing to collect his breath. ' Zee fly like
von birds, my schists. Veil, vat can I say ?
Zee mourn die papa  zee have no golds.
Gompertz, der rascal, zee take all mines.
I plays die music, but die Sophie zee sulks.
Die tante and Sophie not get on at alls.
But zee very fond of Uncle Louis ! Poof ! *
contemptuously, ' Vat of dat ? Zee want
der goose mans to loose her. Dat sees
die vialadie. Johann would cover her
vit bank notes.' Then in a coaxing tone,
Incline her soul to der Johann, mein
littel darlings ; Johann will bear her tempers
like von rich angels as zee sees.'

Temper, Uncle Louis ? Do you really
think that anyone so lovely as Sophia
can have a bad temper ? When I first saw
her, I was quite startled ; except for her
black hair, she seemed just like Venus.'

Vot I know.'' returned Uncle Louis,
shrugging his broad shoulders. ' I am in
die City all day, making die pot boil for
my old girls.'

This idea of ' temper' presented a new
train of thought to Jane, who walked on
for some minutes in silence.

Don't tell anyone,' she said, at last,
but before you called me out of the hall,
I ran to Sophia's door, and It was locked ;
and when I begged her to let me in, she
told me to go away. And she had kissed
me the night before, and I could not sleep
for thinking of her. Now should you
call that temper, Uncle Louis, or is it her
strange Indian ways ?'

Again Uncle Louis suddenly became
cautious, and raised those broad shoulders
of his In reply.

Now, do you know, I was thinking,
if you and Aunt Amelia did not mind,
how nice it would be for Sophia to come
and live with us at Faulds.'

Ask die tante, my scheldt,' replied Mr
Winter cautiously, still feeling himself on
delicate ground. * Zee sees her niece, not
mine.' A wink from his twinkling little
eyes implied more than his words (a man
who had baffled his Jewish compatriots and
all the curiosity dealers of London, was
not likely to be caught napping by a girl
like Jane), and a sly pinch ended a conversation
upon which Jane had counted as
some guide in the important enterprise in
which she had engaged.

Then her attention was artfully drawn

off by Mr Winter, who after much fumbling,
drew from his pocket a paper carefully
inscribed in printed letters, setting
forth that ' The grand domestic entertainment
was to commence by eating each
other at four o'clock, the bones to be distributed
to the survivors at five.'

Not another step did Jane take before
collaring him by the fur cloak and assailing
him with questions,  he silently chuckling
the while, with that vein of natural
cunning which made him at once the
funniest and most unreliable of men.

Talking of ' the surprise ' reminded
Jane that she had had no breakfast ;  a
fact quite immaterial to Uncle Louis, who,
unless under pressure of his wife, never
took any regular meals at all, but ate
where he stood when he felt hungry.

Now, the sudden paleness of Jane's
cheeks and a check in her rapid progress,
struck even his vague perception. He
offered to return home ; then suggested
that as they were so near Mrs Joddrell's
lollipop shop, they should go there.

But I don't want lollipops,' cried Carve,
laughing, ' only a bit of bread. It is
so late, and we must meet mamma at
church.'

VOL. II. o

A few minutes brought them intothe
straggling street, face to face with Mrs
Joddrell, sitting in her little den, a Bible
spread open before her. She looked very
solemn when asked for bread, and muttered
something about ' the Lord's day ' ;
but the wan look on Jane's pretty face,
and her better nature prevailing, she dived
into the recesses of a dark cupboard and
produced a loaf.

If I was axed for hollies, I might have
served 'em on Sunday for the Royal
Princesses, bless their hearts ! but never
did I think to see a dear little lady on
Christmas, of all the days, a-starving for
bread, and the old Carman gentleman
a-standing by like the wolf in Red Riding
Hood a- waiting to spring.'

At this moment a loud peal of bells
had the effect of turning Airs Joddrell
into stone. Without a word she took
her latchkey from her pocket, and prepared
to lock the door,  Mr Winter and
Jane making their way down the slushy
little street, among the usual groups of
broken - down post - boys and red - faced
ostler, the country bumpkins in smock
frocks, sheepishly following their better
halves to church through the snow.

Uncle Louis, not at all in the habit of
attending the services of any religious
persuasion, and violently protesting against
his wife's endeavours to make him accompany
her, felt, as he entered, that
every eye was upon him ; Jane, as a
stranger, also coming in for her due share
of observation, as she seated herself in
the Scatlands' pew, lined with green baize,
beautifully printed prayer-books spread
before her, the walls around wreathed
with holly and laurel.

They were delightfully early, Jane
thought, as she studied party after party
coming up the aisle.

The body of the church was filled to
overflowing, and the boys in the western
gallery whispered and cracked nuts ; the
chancel arch was broad and massive, the
pillars had a low, slouching look ; on
either side of the painted window were
gold discs with the commandments, and
the altar cloth was worm-eaten and shabby.

Dere is dat tanned old cat die Maitland,'
Uncle Louis whispered, as that
lady rustled in, in a pelisse of purple
satin, and a white coal-scuttle chip bonnet
and plumes, her hair elaborately frizzed,
followed by her companion, deeply veiled,

and more nervous and startled - looking
than ever, taking their place in a high
gallery pew over the communion rails,
before which Pope and his family lie
interred.

The whole Shorne family followed,
with the exception of Mrs Shorne, who had
accompanied her husband into the vestry,
to tie on his bands. Many nods and
condemnatory glances exchanged between
Mrs Maitland and Minnie Shorne in
the direction of Jane's neat little figure,
which they evidently mistook for Sophia.
But a full view of her childish face,
blooming cheeks, and home-bred air, as
she turned her head to smile up at Mr
Winter (not one moment still, and whispering
to her unceasingly), dispelled this
illusion.

Just as the organ burst forth in what
to Jane seemed a flood of awful harmony,
and the white-robed choir-boys rose to
sing the hymn, the majestic form of Lady
Dan vers appeared in the porch, followed
by Mrs Winter carrying her shawl.

With an aspect of the profoundest respect,
Mr Winter rose, and stood aside
to let them pass ; then, while every head
was turned to look at them, with that

peculiar agility which had so often stood
him in good stead, he slipped out unperceived,
and dashed down the churchyard.


What had peculiarly riled him was the
tall gaunt figure of his compatriot, Gom-
pert, whom he knew to be still a Jew,
turning over the leaves of a prayer-book
with the utmost devotion.

Tain him, does he think he can deceive
der Lord Jehovah,' he muttered. ' Zee
will fall downs dead like Ananias, der
rascals, and be carried out.'

I fear Jane listened but little to Mr
Shorne's exhortations appropriate to the
day. The Reverend John was red and
sneezy, and the clerk diving up and down
in his box like Punch, gave out the
Psalms, dressed in blue cloth with brass
buttons. Her curious eyes were fully
occupied with the wealthy bankers' and
brewers' wives, whose husbands had
made fortunes, and settled in the rus in
tire of Twickenham.

As usual, there were a great many
more women than men, but those who
came made up for the want of numbers
by the rich colours of their cravats and
waistcoats, specially a little old French

refugee with a pigtail, who wore what was
called a  roquelaure ' of deep claret colour,
with boots and high heels, walking in on
the tips of his toes ; and some Bluecoat
boys, without hats, making a great noise.

At the conclusion of a wearisome discourse
on the descent of the tribe of
Judah  which sent everyone to sleep 
the Scatlands' party on going out found
John Bauer stationed at the church door,
holding in his hand a large nosegay, evidently
intended for Sophia.

(He had given his Alsatian cook warning
that morning, because in her haste
to start on an expedition of her own, she
had let the kettle boil over, and scalded
the tailless cat).

Poor John did not appear to advantage
on this occasion. He had a bad cold, which
dulled his round blue eyes, vainly searching
for Sophia among the crowd ; and his look
of utter dejection when he found she
was not there was altogether so pitiable,
that it touched the sensitive heart of
Jane, who would have liked to tell him
how sorry she felt, but, seized by a sudden
access of shyness, found no suitable
words.

Lady Danvers, who had expected a fly,



W.1 K ' r's T"" P"' st at having to
walk back m the snow, maintained a stony
silence and the kind little chirrupings of
Aunt Amelia, however well meant, were
not sufficient to raise the spirits of the
party. '

HERE was a large empty
saloon at Scatlands no one
ever used, down a long passage
opening to the garden,
which went by the name of the Dragon-room.
A richly-gilt girandola hung from
the ceiling, and there were antique sconces
for clusters of candles all round. A quaint
Chinese paper of sprawling monsters and
huge red flowers covered the walls ; a high
wooden wainscot rose from the floor, and
a mantelpiece covered with carved dragons
and wreaths of flowers, surmounted a hearth
with dogs.

Generally used as a repository for Mr
Winter's boxes and cases of artistic consignments,
it had been lately emptied,
the polished oak floor swept, the windows
opened, and the door locked. No

one was in the secret but Mr Winter
and Jacob,  who, ever since he came,
had been following him with the greatest
appearance of mystery, in and out, carrying
parcels and paper boxes without
end.

The master be going to do summit
splendacious,' he whispered to the cook,
who at once formed her own plans for
seeing what was going on, but was always
frustrated by the persistency with which
Mr Winter pocketed the key.

Now three o'clock is at hand, and
everybody waiting in the yellow drawing-room,
 Uncle Louis, quite pale with excitement,
going in and out, and speaking
to no one,  Jane, her eager eyes fixed
on the hands of the clock,  John Bauer,
blowing his nose nervously, his anxious
glances turned towards the door, and
Aunt Amelia, greatly troubled in respect
of the late dinner. Already she had detected
an ominous thickness in Jacob's
speech, and a stolid familiarity in his
manner which her reproving looks had
failed to check. The cook, also, sulking
at not being admitted to the closed room,
had the day before intimated plainly that
without help she should go ; and the little

housemaid, taken with what she called
the ' flitters was found sitting sobbing
on the stairs.

With all these domestic jars, and the
continual orders and questions and scolding
of her husband, it was not wonderful
that Aunt Amelia not only put aside
all memory of Edward Maitland's message,
but for the time forgot his very
existence.

A dozen times, at least, Mr Winter
had fidgeted in and out of the drawing-room,
coming up every now and then
to smooth Jane's hair and glare at her
benevolently through his spectacles, then
run off, flourishing his red handkerchief,
calling loudly upon Jacob, replying in a
stentorian voice out of what seemed interminable
distances.

At the stroke of four, Jane felt herself
tremble, and when Uncle Louis, with
an air of immense mystery, offered her
his arm, you might have heard her heart
beat under her stays.

As the door of the Dragon-room was
thrown open by Jacob, in a white tie, 
the cook all smiles now, and the housemaid
miraculously recovered ; also, a
dirty little boy, who blacked shoes and

ran on errands, known by the name of

Cinders, ranged behind in the passage, 
Jane could not believe her eyes. Every
gammer of day had been excluded. The
flood of light from the central chandelier
almost blinding,  the walls, lined with
evergreens, presenting the appearance of a
tropical garden, laden with oranges, pomegranates,
and grapes, between sheets of
winter flowers of every hue,  innumerable
tapers twinkling in between, and gleaming
on the dark varnish of the leaves ; and
bunches of red holly and white mistletoe
ranged on trellises of ivy, crossed by
gilt bars. In the large bay window a
fernery lined with moss, and a mimic
fountain, artfully lighted up with iridescent
light, where, among silver fronds,
shoals of gold fish floated.

In the centre of the room a table
covered with what at first seemed a
kaleidoscope of every shape and colour,
but which gradually revealed itself as
moulds of jelly and coloured creams inserted
among piles of sugar-work cakes,
tarts brilliant with tinted jams, dried fruits,
sugar-plums of every hue, and candied
chocolate of all forms,  in the middle, a tall
young fir, frosted with sugar  the German

Christ-Batmi  a novelty in those days 
laden with coloured tapers and hundreds
of little gifts, overhanging a tiny jet of
scented water, which gurgled between
flower-strewn borders of moss, on which
toy swans were swimming in the most
cheerful way.

Everything that could be placed on a
dish was arranged in Uncle Louis's choicest
specimen - china,  shepherds and shepherdesses,
nymphs and satyrs, cupids and
cherubs, bearing flowers in their uplifted
arms,  bacchantes crowned for the vintage,
small gentlemen in peruke and long-tailed
coats, flirting immoderately with
diminutive ladies in mob caps,  boys in
damascened waistcoats, engaged in impossible
gymnastics,  a court lady unfolding
her fan, her train held up by a blackamoor,
-  and Apollo and the Graces driving the
chariot of the sun,  an ideal world of perpetual
youth and never-ending smiles, in
shades of the most delicate colour, among
ruby pokals and jugs of lemonade and negus,
placed beside Sevres plates of fabulous
value, and Dresden baskets ;  the flowers
on the wall, the branches of the chandelier,
the wreaths festooning the cornice, the
ferns, the Christmas-tree, hung with every

possible toy and present  all bearing the
name of ' Jane ' in endless devices.

At the top of the table Jane stood
speechless ; then, with an unutterable burst
of delight, threw her arms round Uncle
Louis, and thanked him with a kiss.

A general burst of admiration broke
from everyone. Even Lady Danvers
was touched, and said,  ' No one but an
artist could have shown such taste.'

Now, zee must all think to Jane's
health,' cried Uncle Louis, standing erect
at the head of the table, with an air of
old-fashioned solemnity. 'Johann, mein
sohn, gif die " Hip, ip, hurrah," in good
English style.'

Yes, uncle,' answered John, as if roused
out of his sleep.

Then, turning to i\unt Amelia, Uncle
Louis gave, as his second toast, ' ly
dearest self,' at which there was a
momentary pause, a faint chime of the
afternoon church bells making themselves
heard ; glass clinked merrily against glass ;
every face smiled, and poor Aunt Amelia
so overcome, she could only clasp her hands
and look ineffably happy.

But,' cried Uncle Louis from the top
of the table, looking round, ' ver is die

Sophie ? Die Sophie must not think zee
lives not in my hearts.'

I am here,' answered a strangely-sounding
voice, as she advanced and took a
vacant place between Uncle Louis and
Jane,  who, with cheeks burning and
dancing eyes, received her with an ecstatic
clapping of her hands.

But this burst of innocent delight found
no response in Sophia. Her manner was
abrupt, her movements wanting in that
measured grace which usually characterised
them  her Hps colourless, her large
liquid eyes dull, and the hollows in her
delicate cheeks showing but too plainly
how the strain of suspense had told
upon her. Castdown and hopeless, she
was the ghost of herself.

Tell me, dear,' whispered Jane, a little
intimidated at the change, but overlooking
it in her excitement, ' what has happened
? Have I offended you ? I have
tried all day to see you  but in vain.'

Sophia shook her head.

It is nothing,' she said, with a strangely
constrained air about her,  an enforced
calm, which condemned Jane to silence
against her will.

John Bauer's eyes meantime never left

her, but with a true instinct of delicacy he
did not speak.

Zee must not think, my Sophie, dat
I and die tante 'ave forgotten zee,' said
Uncle Louis, taking her cold hands in
his. ' Die beetle Jane comm seldom, but
zee lis in our house, and are to us as a
daughter.'

At the word ' daughter,' a mute sob
heaved Sophia's breast. By a great effort
she calmed herself, then sat rigid as a
statue under the glitter of the clustering
lights, the background of evergreens and
flowers rising behind.

I have no father,' she answered, in a dull
voice,  ' no home. It is time this fiction
should cease. I belong to no one. I want
to go away. Aunt Amelia hates me. As
to my other aunt  ' and she fixed her deep
eyes on Lady Danvers, but was met by a
glance so cold, she instantly dropped them.

Her words thrilled painfully through
the room.

My dear girl ! ' cried Aunt Amelia,
running up to her and seizing her hand,
it is you who divide yourself from me.'

And I '. ' exclaimed Uncle Louis, his
red face the picture of consternation,  ' do
I not loose zee '. '

Everyone had risen and gathered round
Sophia.

This is most unbecoming,' said Lady
Danvers severely. ' A young woman
in your position, with neither means nor
ability to maintain herself, should at least
be grateful. Your accusations against my
sister are most unjust. Collect yourself,
Sophia ; be reasonable.'

I will withdraw nothing ! ' cried Sophia,
rising to her feet, her cheeks suddenly aflame.
' You forget I am your brother's
child, and as much unused to humiliation
as yourself. Ever since I came
here my life has been a torture,  a line
has been drawn round me as if I were a
pariah.'

Here her proud spirit gave way,  her
voice broke  and a great heave stopped her.

You have no right to say that ! ' came
from Lady Danvers, who spoke with the
accent of command.

You were not here  you cannot tell,'
answered Sophia, her brooding eyes fixed
on the ground. ' I am ready to go anywhere
and do anything, but I will not
remain here.'

Then the long pent-up sobs came like
the outburst of a flood, sweeping away all

obstacles. Her heart was breaking within
her, and covering her face with her hands,
she sank upon a chair.

At this moment, John Bauer, whose
blue eyes had never left her from the
moment she entered, and, unperceived by-all,
had been kneeling at her feet, gazing
up into her face, and thinking each movement
and action more winning than the
last  (honest John would have liked to
fall headlong on the flowers, and cast them
all into her lap, as an offering of his love)
now rose, and, before she was aware,
seized both her hands.

It is a strange time to speak,' he said,
what I have on my mind ;  but to see you
so distressed emboldens me. For God's
sake, Miss Escott, do not be unhappy 
there is no need. Come home with me,
and be my wife. Only love me a little, 
put up with me, Sophia  Miss Escott, I
mean. Adored Miss Escott! pardon me,
I am very bold.'

As he spoke, he glanced pitifully into
her face ; while Jane, till now, utterly
unbounded at the unexpected scene,
made her way timidly to Sophia's side.

'Thank you, Mr Bauer,' was Sophia's
answer, a proud bitterness in her voice,

VOL. II. p

as she hastily withdrew her hands, turning
her speaking eyes on Aunt Amelia, sitting
drowned In tears, half hidden by the creams
and jellies, the tarts and sweetmeats, on
which she had expended such loving care ;
Uncle Louis beside her, handkerchief
in hand, giving vent to many smothered
exclamations ; his keen eyes ranging dismally
over the untouched feast, the Christmas
tree In Its bridal whiteness, the scented
fountain gurgling to unconscious ears,
the priceless plates empty, and that lordly
pokal, ralnbowed with gorgeous colours,
brimming over with untasted wine : * Allow
me to ask, has Mrs Winter Instructed
you to say this ? '

Oh, Miss Escott,' groaned John, unable
to find suitable words, ' I have not deserved
this ! '

Then why do you come here to make
trouble and expose me to malignant remark ?
Am I not miserable enough already ? Do
you stand there to triumph over me ?'

Make trouble, Miss Escott ? Triumph
over you ? What cant you mean ? I am
here to offer you my life, my fortune, my
home, if you will accept them. What cana
man do more ? If you do not like it,
never mind. My furthest thought is to

trouble you. I should not have spoken for
years, perhaps never, I am so unworthy,
had I not thought I could be of use.'

John Bauer, from rosy red, had grown
almost livid under his fair skin. Emotion,
though it loosened his tongue, did not embellish
his complexion ; yet he stood his
ground manfully, facing Sophia with a
calm steadfastness which was not without
its charm.

Take me or leave me. Miss Escott.
Remember I only ask for your regard.
With me, you would be independent, and
could live as you please.'

His grave, reasonable manner silenced
her. For a moment, the prospect held
out of a calm and peaceful home seemed
to arrest her, but not for long.

What does it matter,' she said, wringing
her hands, 'what becomes of me? I
thank you all the same, Mr Bauer, and I
beg you to pardon me for the rudeness
with which I have treated you. You area
good man, and deserve to be loved. My
heart is broken, and not fit for you.'

Tears were coursing each other down
worthy John's cheeks as he listened, and
even Sophia's voice faltered as she said
the last words.

I would not press you, or worry you,
Miss Escott,' said he, struggling vainly
with his feelings. ' But if, at any time,
you want me, if I can serve you in anyway
 even as a brother  ' (spite of himself,
the word came grudgingly)  ' if
you require a home, and could bring
yourself to accept mine, I shall always
be ready.'

Poor John ! Like many another man,
he could not renounce the intoxication
draught that was presented to his lips,  
shatter the delicious wine-cup which seemed
within his grasp !

No, no, I can hold out no hope,' and
Sophia flung herself wildly backwards from
where she stood. Spite of herself his
pathetic devotion overcame her ; but the
image of her lost love rose up like a
Nemesis between them. ' It would bea
shame to mislead you ! Keep your
love for some woman not doomed to
misery like me. Good-bye, Mr Bauer,
try to forget me,' and, with a gesture
full of charm, she offered him her
hand.

Sophia ! ' said Lady Danvers, with
that judicial coolness of manner which always
made her listened to, 'pause before

you refuse such an offer. I am bound to
tell you, you are committing an act of
culpable folly. Mr Bauer, in the most
generous and moving manner, offers you
a magnificent position. Even you, withall
your prejudices, cannot doubt his sincerity.
You have been unhappy here,
because you are dependent. You will be
unhappy elsewhere for the same reason.
I cannot altogether blame you. Brought
up as you have been, it is but natural ;
but why refuse an offer which would relieve
you from these mortifications ? '

Sophia shook her head. ' I am not a
European,' said she. ' I do not appreciate
the advantages of wealth. I have been
taught to go where my heart leads me.
It suits me.'

Notwithstanding the annoyance she was
bound to feel. Lady Danvers was sensible
that a certain respect for Sophia was growing
upon her. Here was an utterly
friendless girl resisting every offer to
change her mind, with a courage which,
however she might depreciate it in
principle, recommended itself to her
feelings. Never acting upon impulse
herself, she felt a kindred spirit in her
new niece.

An audible groan broke from Uncle
Louis. Unable any longer to restrain
himself, he rushed forward, and seizing
upon Sophia strained her in his arms.

My schists, my bountiful schists, don't
break die hearts ! Don't sacrifice yourself.
Listen to der poor old oheim. Take die
goose offer of der honest Johann. Sees
hav a heart of golds. Take him vor my
sake  die sake of dee old man who 'ave
looked yee.'

Here he stopped ; no more words would
come.

No, Uncle Louis, no,' said John Bauer,
interposing in a calmer voice. ' I appreciate
your kindness, but no one shall urge
Miss Escott on my account. Although
every word I hear is like a sentence of
death to me, no one shall try to force
her. Now nothing remains but for me
to bid you all good-bye, and to thank
you for the kindness which I feel I
have abused. When I am a little recovered,'
and he held out his hand to
Aunt Amelia, who, with a fresh burst of
tears, accepted it, ' I will come again.
Till then, adieu ! '

With one last long look at Sophia,
standing under the burning lights, her

queen-like head crowned with that natural
diadem of hair, bent down as if to meet
the fury of the tempest which was passing
over her,  and a formal bow to Lady
Danvers, standing at the head of the
table, he hastily left the room.

END OF VOL. II.

COLSTON AND SON, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

OF THE

University

or Ill Noir

Bel
V.5

Hobart Whitehead,

lARGATE HALL,

MILLER'S DALE,

DERBYSHIRE.

THE Ill-tempered COUSIN.

I VoL Cloth, 3 J', dd.

The New and Cheaper Edition of Ie Popular Work
of Travel J

THE DIARY OF AN IDLE WOMAN IN SPAIN.

By FRANCES ELLIOT,

AUTHOR OF 'the DIARY OF AN IDLE WOMAN IN ITALY
AND SICILY,' ETC., ETC.

There is no more amusing writer of travel than Mrs
Elliot. . . . She never ceases to amuse and interest. This
has all the characteristics of her former works, and will be
as generally read.'  lVo7'ld.

She is bright and pleasant company wherever she leads
us, with a good eye for colour and scenery, and an intense
admiration for the romantic and thousand-storied history of
the land of her wanderings. . . . History and the beauties
of nature go hand in hand through these pleasant pages. . . .
The book is a creditable companion to the earlier volume,
and an admirable relish for the more solid study of " Murray,"
to those about to travel in Spain.'  Daily Telegraph.

LONDON: F. V. WHITE & CO.,

31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND.

.JlLy //

//

THE Ill-tempered COUSIN.

A NO VEL.

BY

FRANCES ELLIOT,

AUTHOR OF 'DIARY OF AN IDLE WOMAN IN SPAIN,'
'THE RED CARDINAL,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. III.

LONDON: F. V. WHITE & CO,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

1885.

wall Rights reserved

The Ill-tempered Cousin,

CHAPTER I,

N the general silence which ensued,
the sound of John's departing
footsteps echoed through the
hall. Then the front door shut
with a bang, and all was still.

Tell me,' said Lady Danvers, after a
pause, a somewhat softer intonation in her
high-set voice, ' have you any other attachment
to account for this ? '

In an instant a burning blush mantled
on Sophia's cheeks. She stretched out
her hands imploringly.

I had rather not say,' she faltered. ' I
beg you not to ask.'

VOL. III. A

Certainly not answered Lady Danvers
coldly ; ' but I am sorry to find you put
no confidence in those who have a right
to know.'

With these words, the remembrance of
Edward Maitland's message flashed across
Mrs Winter. It must be for his sake she
had refused John Bauer. It was his
absence which was driving her to despair.
By her culpable silence she had unconsciously
brought about this scene ; but if
her whole life depended on it, she could
not at that moment have summoned
courage to tell her.

May I speak ? ' said a faltering voice,
as Jane timidly stole over to where her
mother was standing. ' Dear mamma, I
beg your pardon for daring to interfere,
but oh ! the whole happiness of my life
is at stake.'

What do you mean, child ? ' said Lady
Danvers, sharply, bringing her glass to
bear on the alarmed eyes of Jane, raised
to hers in an agony of entreaty.

I mean  I mean,' she said, turning
now red, now white, 'that I am alone at
home, except the dog Nep, and he does
not count  quite alone, mamma. I love
Sophia dearly ; I think I understand her.

Could she not come to us, until she has
made up her mind ? You have always
been so good to me when I have asked
you anything in earnest And you are
Sophia's aunt, mamma, the same as Aunt
Amelia.'

Never did a few short sentences cause
such a commotion. Lady Danvers, who
had evidently never dreamt of such a proposal,
turned away with an angry frown.

Sophia, fixing her eyes first on Jane,
then on Lady Danvers, was uncertain
what to say. Aunt Amelia started to her
feet, and Uncle Louis, by a violent jerk,
presented his back to the company, with a
grimace of intense disgust,

This is a mad scheme,' said Lady
Danvers, after a painful silence. ' I suppose'
(to Jane) 'you and Sophia have
concocted it together.'

An ominous cloud darkened her brow.

No, no ! ' cried an eager, young voice,
and a pair of clasped hands were thrust
forward. ' I have not even told Sophia.'

No, indeed, Lady Danvers,' from
Sophia, the astonishment of whose looks
backed up her words. ' I never heard of
it before.'

Well, be that as it may, it is asking of

me a most unwarrantable sacrifice. You
hardly know Sophia, Jane.'

Oh yes, indeed I do, mamma ; I know
her, and I love her.'

(' Dear, generous little cousin,' murmured
Sophia, drawing her eager face to hers
and kissing it ,* it is no use.' Jane, in
the same low tone,  'No use, Sophia!
We shall see. No one can resist you,
not even mamma')

A most unexpected proposal,' continued
Lady Danvers, after a pause, during
which she reflected that Sophia would, in
all probability, shortly marry, and that a
temporary residence under her roof would
give her a much better chance of doing so
creditably, than the protection of such a
man as Louis Winter. Then turning to
Mrs Winter, who had never moved from
her seat,  ' I would gladly relieve you,
dear Amelia, from the presence of Sophia.
I see you do not get on ; but it seems tome
she will not like a residence with meany
better. You are all gentleness ; a
great deal too yielding. In my house,
I take into consideration no peculiarities
of temper, or accidents of position. Those
who enter my door as inmates must conform
to my rules. Because Sophia is a

motherless girl I can make no exception
for her: No, Jane. No ! '  putting back
from her eager Jane, whose face was
streaming with tears  ' don't be silly.
There is no use crying in that violent
way. You have sacrificed me enough
already to your foolish fancy without
making a scene. Let Sophia decide for
herself.'

Sophia was brave ; she was almost heroic,
but her heart sank within her as she
contemplated the stony expression of Lady
Danvers' handsome face ; but, stung by
the recollection of that insulting letter,
which had not only deprived her of Edward,
but had set all her old wounds
bleeding afresh, she was conscious of but
one overwhelming lonCTino- and that was
to escape far from the scene of her
degradation. No spot on earth could
humiliate her as much as Twickenham.

I understand you,' she replied, in a
voice out of which all expression was
gone, ' and I accept. If you will allow
me, I will come to you on a visit. I fear
I am not sufficiently grateful. I have
been differently brought up. People in
India are not ashamed of their poor
relations. Even the animals and plants

are cared for ; they may contain a human
soul.'

The implied sneer of these words went
far to extinguish that nascent interest
Lady Danvers had begun to feel for her ;
but too wise to be drawn into any further
altercation, she passed them by.

You have spoken very plainly
continued Sophia ; ' I will be equally
so. Be kind enough to form no plans
for my future life, as Mrs Winter has
done. I would rather beg than accept a
man I do not love.'

This was too much for Louis
Winter. Although scrupulously conscious
of his duties as host, this
breaking up of all his brilliant schemes
for Sophia's marriage, not only to
be the making of her, but, from
his nephew's well - known liberality,
sure to be largely beneficial to his
own pocket, he threw up his hands
with a frantic gesture, and exclaimed,


Caused teufels ! die Sophie sees
von lunatics ! Die tanned Danvers
have got her vay ! ' and in a burst
of uncontrollable fury, rushed from the
room.

His wife watched his exit with
dismay. It was too much to hope
her sister had not heard him ; but,
at all events, the moment had come
when, now or never, she must deliver
Edward Maitland's message. So,
leaving Lady Danvers' side, to whom
she had instinctively clung for help in
this crisis, with a deprecatory action,
she placed her hand on Sophia's arm.

You are so angry with me, dear,
already she began, suffering acutely
under the battery of Sophia's black
eyes, which expressed most clearly how
little Intercourse she desired, * I almost
fear you will never forgive me ; but the
fact is, I suffer so much from palpitation,
I really was unable yesterday to
speak.'

To what subject do you refer ? '
asked Sophia, instinctively drawing back
(she was longing to be alone, quiet, in
her own room).

Ah ! I forgot,' said poor Aunt Amelia,
reddening. * You do not know. Well,
yesterday, just as I was coming in, I
met Mr Maitland outside the door, and
he stopped me, and said,  " Tell Miss
Escott " '

I do not believe one word of it ! *
cried Sophia, her face suddenly crimson.
' This is one of your inventions,
Mrs Winter. Mr Maidand would
never,  no never, have spoken of me
to you ! '

But, I assure you insisted Mrs
Winter, now filled with apprehension
at the mischief her ill-advised silence
had brought about,' he did indeed ;
and he said, ** Tell Miss Escott I am
going away, but  " '

There is no question of Mr Maitland
any longer,' broke in Sophia, the words
of the letter rising like fire before
her eyes. ' What is he to me ?
A stranger ! What right has he to
deliver messages to you 1 Mr Maitland,
indeed ! Just now it was Mr
Bauer. I altogether decline to receive
any messages while I remain here ! '
and with these imperious words, and a
still more imperious glance, the haughty
girl dashed hastily out of the room,
running full against Jacob in the dark
passage, with his ear to the keyhole.


Lord a mussy ! ' cried he, bursting,
with terrified looks, into the room.

Who's that ? I thought it war a
ghost.' Then, finding himself full in the
centre of the company, he suddenly
came to his senses, and, pulling at
a lock in the middle of his forehead,
bowed.

Please ma'am,' to Mrs Winter, ' there's
a visitor in the drawing-room. (Now,
Jacob knew it was low to pull his hair,
and that it was only done by linen
and beggars, but in moments of excitement
early habits prevailed.)

'A visitor!' exclaimed Aunt Amelia
aghast, hastily drying her eyes. ' Why,
it is quite dark ! Who can it be ? '

Can't you say you are not at home ? '
suggested Lady Danvers.

'No, mari,' put in Jacob; 'I tell
her the missus wur in the Dragon-room,
along with the little miss. Then says
she, she says, " Tell the lady I am
come to call on her sister. Lady Danvers,"
meaning you, mum.'

Who is it, Jacob ? ' asked Mrs Winter,
still drawing back.

Mrs Maitland, mum, she as lives
at Rosebank ; we serves her with
cauliflowers, we do, when them's run
short.'

'Oh!' cried Mrs Winter, helplessly
sinking on a chair. * After this dreadful
scene, do help me. I cannot face
Mrs Maitland alone. She always insults
me. Heaven knows what she will
say ! '

Nothing: unbecoming while I am
present,' answered Lady Danvers, with
that calm voice which always reassured
her sister. 'Vulgar woman! Much as
I dislike her, I will go.'

It might be thought that, after that
interview with her son, Mrs Maitland
ought not to have come, but no one
would have said so who saw the meeting,
the cringing politeness with which she
received the cold greeting of Lady Danvers,
and the anxious civility with which
she accosted Mrs Winter.

It is true that she did feel, under the
circumstances, that she ought to cut
the whole Scatlands' party ; but her longing
for facts prevailed. Miss Sterne had
become so absent and silent she could get
nothing out of her at all. Edward had
not written, and Mrs Shorne had aggravated
her by hinting that she supposed
Lady Danvers looked down on the
Twickenham people too much to receive

them. This decided her. ' Not receive
me!' retorted Mrs Maitland, 'after the
shameful conspiracy in which they have
all engaged to rob me of my son! It
is / that confer a favour on her by
going.'

It is rather unusual, I fear, to break
into a family party on Christmas Day,'
observed Mrs Maitland, taking a comprehensive
view round, to satisfy herself
that the obnoxious Sophia was not
concealed somewhere ; * but I was anxious
to pay my respects to you. Lady Danvers,
on the earliest possible occasion.'


It is not my habit to receive visitors
when from home,' was her reply, with
a frigid bow. ' I only allow myself to
make an exception towards my sister's
friends. You have, however, I understand,'
said Lady Danvers, eyeing the
stout full-blown matron before her, positively
bristling in the richest silks, with
no friendly glance, ' seen but little of my
sister lately, and my new niece not at all.
She is a beautiful creature. The last time
I met you, you were so deeply interested
about her.'

With Lady Danvers' eye upon her, Mrs

Maitland bean to repent that she had
come. From red she turned to scarlet,
and grew hot to her finger-ends.

It is just that,' she said hastily, giving
Aunt AmeHa a supplicating glance. * I
felt that, knowing all about Miss Escott
as I did ' (and here, social coward as she
was, she plucked up a little courage, and
accentuated these words), ' I could not
delay offering my congratulations on her
approaching marriage, so very fortunate,
under the peculiar circumstances. Mrs
Winter and I have often talked them
over.'

To what marriage do you allude ? '
asked Lady Danvers, deliberately adjusting
her eyeglass and contemplating Mrs
Maitland with such a frigid stare, that
she intuitively felt she had delivered herself
up into the hands of an adversary too
strong for her.

Why, of course the marriage of Miss
Escott with Mr Bauer ' (moving uneasily
in her chair) ; ' such a godsend for poor
Mrs Winter, after all the dreadful things
which have happened.'

I am not aware that anything has
happened,' replied Lady Danvers, growing
more and more displeased ; ' Sophia has

had the misfortune to lose her father.
She has come to England under the protection
of her family ; specially of mine,'
she added, putting down her glass, and
turning over her sparkling diamond
rings, with a movement natural to her.
As to her marriage, you are under
a mistake, Mrs Maitland ; no such idea
exists. My niece leaves with me for
Faulds at the conclusion of my visit ;
she will be a pleasant companion for
my daughter.'

Poor Mrs Maitland was utterly dumb-foundered
; she had not the tact to hide
it.

Mrs Winter listened, with an irrepressible
twinkle in her eye. It was astonishing
what a sense of humour the little
woman had, when backed up by her
sister. (Heart-broken as she had been
at Sophia's rejection of John Bauer, now
that she had had time to reflect on the
possibility of a return to her former
quiet life by Sophia's departure, she
was not without consolation. After
all, why despair ? Her sister was so
clever, there was no saying what might
happen.)

I suppose Mr Edward is with you for

Christmas ? ' was slyly asked by Aunt
Amelia, with a smile.

Now this was not to be borne. Even
before Lady Danvers, Mrs Maitland could
not command herself.

No, Mrs Winter, he Is not with
us, and you know it,' was her answer,
bridling with Ill-concealed anger, ' and
the cause.'

Am I to understand that his absence
has anything to do with my niece ? '
asked Lady Danvers (determined, as
she afterwards said, to put down that
pretentious, low - bred woman). ' You
did not tell me of this,' turning to her
sister.

A great deal to do with It, Lady
Danvers, as Mrs Winter knows. I came
here because I was so glad to hear of this
marriage, as permitting a renewal of our
usual intercourse.' A toss of her coal-scuttle
bonnet accompanied the words.
Not that I need care,' added Mrs Malt-land,
provoked beyond bounds by the
aristocratic calm of Lady Danvers. ' I
too shall soon have to announce a marriage.
But a young man like Edward is
not so easily pleased

This was a pure invention of Mrs Maitland's,

imagined on the instant, under the
idea of causing the deepest chagrin to Mrs
Winter by the definite certainty of the loss
of Edward.

May I ask the name of his intended ? '
asked Mrs Winter, with the same provoking
smile. * As I have known Edward
from a boy, I may be allowed to wish
him well.'

At present we are not permitted to
divulge it ; the consent of a very distinguished
person is required,' replied
Mrs Maidand, with an air of the
utmost importance. (She had it in
her mind to say 'Minnie Shorne';
but the bearing of the stately Lady
Danvers had taught her that a very different
style of person would be required
to impress her)

When all the details are arranged,'
continued Mrs Maitland, spreading out
the folds of her rich dress, ' I will inform
you. In the meantime, good-bye. Good
morning. Lady Danvers. I hope you
will find Miss Escott an agreeable inmate
and an appropriate companion to your
daughter. I am sorry that my congratulations
were premature,' and with a low curtsey
to Lady Danvers, and a rather enforced

shake of the hand to Mrs Winter, she
found her way out of the room, under
such an overwhelming sense of discomfiture,
that for a long time after she
never, even with Mrs Shorne, alluded to
the fact of ' suicidal mania and hereditary
insanity ' as connected with Sophia.

What an intolerable upstart ! ' exclaimed
Lady Danvers, as Mrs Maitland
sailed out of the room. * Now, Amelia,
you must promise me to have nothing
more to do with her. The creature
actually came here to insult us.'

Aunt Amelia gave an odd smile.

That is true ; but perhaps she considers
there is sufficient reason, sister. I am
almost certain that Edward Maitland
cares very much about Sophia ; his
mother knows it, and for that reason he
is gone away.'

Then Mrs Winter related every particular
of her interview with Edward.

Lady Danvers listened attentively to all
she said. One of her principal inducements
in consenting to take charge of Sophia,
was to relieve her sister of an irksome
burden until her speedy marriage should
set them free. If Sophia persisted in
refusing John Bauer, there was Maitland



to fall back upon ; and the two sisters,
chatting together afterwards before the
fire, gleaming out cheerfully from the
Dutch tiles,  passed two of the happiest
hours Aunt Amelia had known for years.

VOL. III.

HEN the late Sir Reginald
Danvers, K.C.B., left Faulds
to Lady Danvers for her life,
he might be said by that one
act to have wiped out a great deal of the
selfish ill-treatment he had inflicted on her
for the last twenty years.

Situated in the charming county of Berkshire
(the royal county, as it is called, because
Windsor Castle, that glorious legacy
from our Norman kings, lies within its
limits), the house, a noble Elizabethan pile,
grey with age, and chequered with coats
of many-coloured lichens, stands on the
summit of a high hill, commanding the
whole country.

Over the principal entrance, lavishly
decorated with rich carving and devices.

appears in stone the peaked outline of the
Prince of Wales' plume (Faulds had been
built for Prince Henry, son of James I.),
and underneath the arms of the Danvers,
who had risen to wealth and eminence, and
purchased the estate, in the time of the
Georges.

Two long rows of high latticed windows,
with square mullions and cyphers, break
the line of mellow brick walls, and an
elaborate stone cornice like richest lacework
runs in an open pattern round the
roof.

It was not so much the size (for that
style of house, it is not spacious), as the
fineness and delicacy of the stone-work,
the elegance of the embroidered cornice,
the colonnade of three arches, approached
by steps which formed the principal entrance
 the happy blending of the Tudor
and Italian styles, and the splendour of the
position which makes Faulds so remarkable.
A more perfect residence cannot be
conceived. Thick hedges of cut yews,
planted on delicate turf following along
low walls, divide it from the park ; an
undulating expanse of hill and dale, studded
with ancestral oaks, calmly surveying their
huge shadows on the grass, a double

avenue of prodigious lime-trees extending
from the colonnaded entrance down the
approach, and the largest and weirdest firs
to be found out of Norway. To watch the
rays of the setting sun reflected on their
red-scored trunks, and shooting In long
arrows of light, lose themselves among
mimic forests of delicate ferns, knit together
In labyrinths of green, under the
shadow of over-arching boughs,  was a
sight not easily to be forgotten.

Every separate tree might sit for Its
portrait as a patriarch of the woods, and
graceful lines of shrubbery and plantation
back up the whole.

On the south side of the house lies a broad
paved platform, with an antique orangery
at either end, a bowling-green beyond, and
some flower borders. (I use the present
tense, as Faulds still remains in all Its
forest beauty.) But the flowers left much
to be desired. Lady Danvers, devoted to
amateur farming, and visited at times by
capricious fits of economy, had discontinued
the expense of the flowers, once the pride
of Sir Reginald's heart.

Before the grand entrance a succession
of broad terraces precipitate themselves
down the hill towards peaceful lawns and

woodlands, a kindly site for brightest
creepers and ruddiest fruits. Beyond opens
the view, the finest and the most extensive to
be seen in Berkshire. People used to say it
was the commanding position of her house
which made Lady Danvers so proud. That
proud she was, there was no gainsaying ;
indeed, her dignified and reserved manners
might be forgiven her, when you had seen
her home. But this ancestral splendour
had no effect on little Jane, never so happy
as when she could escape from the boundaries
of the park, and run wild in the
high bosky lanes, or over the wide stretches
of heathy commons.

Within, unfortunately, the house had
been partly modernised by the father of
Sir Reginald (a change approved by Lady
Danvers, who infinitely preferred the comfort
of modern furniture to straight-backed
chairs, and unimpressionable oak sofas,
but creating intense disgust in the soul
of Louis Winter, who, on the occasion
of his visit, had generously offered to
superintend the arrangement of the whole
according to the period, a little affair out of
which he estimated he should clear a small
fortune). But he urged In vain ; Lady
Danvers was as obdurate about her house

as she was about anything else. Such as it
was it pleased her, and so it should remain.

The regularity of the establishment was
distracting. Gongs and bells sounded
all day on various pretexts,  specially a
bell, which woke every one at six o'clock
A.M., when poor Jane, as has been said,
was expected to turn out of bed, and betake
herself to the piano in a fireless room for
the practice of scales.

Of course the servants were drilled to
an almost military exactness, and the really
shabby meals (it was for Jane's sake, Lady
Danvers said, that she did not permit an
over-laden table, but the truth was, she
delighted in small economies) served with
the regularity of a convent. The only
person who ever had dared to remonstrate
was the sharp-tongued governess, rather
fond of good cheer. Miss Oxley ; ' a valuable
person,' Lady Danvers observed, ' but
distressingly forward.' She, resenting the
frequent appearance of boiled mutton, had
inquired if Lady Danvers' sheep produced
nothing but legs . ' a question received
with such ominous symptoms of displeasure,
she never ventured to intrude her remarks
again.

Not only the sheep (never properly

fattened), but the management of the farm
(the money squandered on it was the
laughing-stock of her neighbours), and
Jane's education and prospects, principally
occupied Lady Danvers' thoughts. Already
a suitable parti had been selected for herby
her mother, or, rather, the two mothers,
for the Duchess of Upshire was quite as
anxious about securing the heiress for her
younger son, Lord Edward, as Lady
Danvers could be to bestow her on him ;
but as yet it could not be said that the
young people had fallen into the plan.
Lord Edward, as far as he dared, evinced
a decided antipathy to Jane's somewhat
rustic manners and rough bringing up, which
Jane took care to return, although severely
reprimanded by her mother, without effect.

That her daughter should seriously
oppose any desire she might happen to
express never entered into Lady Danvers'
calculation. As Sir Reginald had ruled
absolutely over her, so did she seek to
rule others.

The connection was satisfactory in all
respects. Lord Edward was heir to his
uncle, Viscount D  , and would eventually
inherit a considerable property in Wales.
If possessed of no striking characteristics,

he was his mother's pet, and Lady Danvers,
indolent by nature, and accustomed
to her own way, was anxious to see her
daughter married before a London season
had unsettled her ideas of duty, or that
she herself had been put to the trouble of
late hours and elaborate toilettes.

Nothing, to her mind, was so ridiculous
as a love-match. What was the use of
parents and guardians, but to avoid the
crude idea of these selections ? Besides,
people living in a certain monde were
subject to certain rules,  they must marry
in their own set, and endeavour to unite
both the advantages of rank and fortune.
In this respect Lord Edward suited admirably.
Jane's fortune was considerable
when she came of age, and would suffice
for the present until his uncle died.

Lady Danvers had stipulated that, inconsideration
of her extreme youth (those
were days in which people did not marry
as early as they do now), Jane should live for
the present in the country,  an arrangement
very agreeable to the duchess, who disliked
London, and was really attached to Jane.

Altogether nothing could promise better.
As far as her selfish nature allowed her,
Lady Danvers really cared for her daughter

; and remembering the sufferings of
her own ill - assorted union, her mind
turned anxiously upon the necessity of
avoiding as much as possible any chance
of unhappiness to her child.

That a lady in her position should
seriously occupy herself with the fate of
an orphan niece introduced into her house
against her will was not to be expected.
But as long as Sophia gave her no
trouble, she was prepared to let her stay.
Everyone likes to have their house to
themselves,' was Lady Danvers' opinion,
but, as a temporary arrangement, she would
bear it to please Jane. Fortunately, no
one in the neighbourhood knew anything
about her niece. She was a distinguished-looking
girl, and could be satisfactorily
accounted for as the only daughter of her
brother, the late English President at
H  . If further inquiries were made,
the world misht be informed that her
mother, the daughter of a Rajah  who
had lost caste by marrying Mr Escott, 
died at her birth, and that she had also
lost her father.

In a lofty kind of way she meditated
introducing her niece to the county society
as soon as her deep mourning permitted.

In the meantime, she hoped she would
improve her manners, which had struck
her as decidedly repellent and ill-bred.

It was just possible that her dependent
position might lead her to re-consider her
decision in respect to John Bauer. Lady
Danvers, as a shrewd reader of character,
feared, however, that with her sullen disposition
this was improbable. If not,
there was still Edward Maitland in the
background, a much better match, in point
of position, and a smile curled her well-formed
lips as she thought of his mother's
presumption in the yellow drawing-room
at Scatlands. ' Give her a good lesson,
impudent woman,' was her thought ; ' my
niece, indeed, not good enough for her
son ! Preposterous ! ' and then and there
Lady Danvers made a note of inquiry
about Edward, and perhaps of inviting
him to Faulds.

The morning after their arrival, Lady
Danvers called Sophia to her in the great
hall, before making her daily inspection
of the farmyard in company with the
bailiff, an imposing personage, popularly
believed to cheat her unmercifully.

I take no part in the housekeeping
myself,' she said, turning her bright diamond
rings upon her fingers, 'but, I assure
you, I gave most particular instructions to
the housekeeper about your room. Speak
to her yourself if anything is amiss.'

Sophia, with unmoved eyes, coldly
thanked her.

I want nothing,' she said ; ' I have no
right to express any wish.'

'Oh! as to that, I beg you will. In
England, we pique ourselves upon our
hospitality. When you are a little more
at home,' she added, with a gracious smile,
we must have a little talk together. I like
to know the minds of those who live with
me, particularly young people of your age,
without experience.' Then, in her clear,
authoritative voice, addressing herself to
Jane, who, in a frenzy of impatience, was
dragging her cousin off to see the grounds,
attended by Nep, contorting his body ina
series of joyous leaps and sudden
plunges to celebrate her return,  ' Do
you not see that I am speaking to Sophia,
and that it is your business to listen ?
I will take care you shall have a piano
in your room,' she continued, ' as soon
as it can be procured. I am not a

musician myself, like my sister, but I
wish Jane to play, and you will oblige
me by encouraging any taste she has.
I don't mean teaching,' she added, seeing
the dark lines gather on Sophia's brow ;
'Miss Oxly does that; though perhaps
it might not be a bad idea,' she added,
noting the rebellious look, and determined
to put it down, ' and exercise you
in the idea you suggested of " doing
something for yourself" as a governess,
I suppose, if you do not marry. I presume
at present, however, that this is not
needed. Perhaps,' in another tone, ' Jane
has told you that I require the utmost regularity
at meals, and it is my wish that
you should remain with me in the evening.'
With a toss of her proud head, Sophia
was about to reply that she preferred her
evenings to herself, but without waiting
for an answer. Lady Danvers betook herself
to her own apartments, a suite of
three spacious rooms on the ground-floor,
the handsome furniture arranged according
to the most symmetrical idea of order,
but without a vestige of those artistic
adornments which had made the shabby
old drawing-room of Scatlands so cheerful
and pleasant.

Poor Sophia ! Never had she felt more
humiliated in her life !

At least, at Scatlands she was her own
mistress, and what she did, or did not
do regarded as a matter of the utmost
importance. The poverty of the Winters'
house seemed more homelike than the
cold luxury of Faulds ; and, spite of the
horror of that fatal letter, she had grown
to love that bare bedroom of hers with the
damp stains on the paper, and that high
window overlooking Rosebank, where she
had been visited by such bright visions.
She missed the pressure of Uncle Louis's
kind arms, and the sound of the silver-mounted
flute in the honos evenings ! From
the first, he had been to her a reflex of
her lost father; and spite of her indignation
about John Bauer, she yearned to
be once more near him, and to be called
*his child.' For an instant her aching
heart had gathered round her cousin ;
but what was Jane to her ' She would
only grow up to despise  perhaps to hate
her.

A wave of hatred and revolt swept
over her, on the very threshold of her
new home, and as her eyes ranged through
the sunk arches of the door, into the

spacious hall, ornamented with deers'
antlered heads and suites of ancient armour,
lances and swords hung between, with
raised stands fitted with old china, a
wild feeling came over her to fly into
those wintry glades spread out before
her (where the overlapping boughs
formed into the semblance of an Indian
jungle), fly anywhere, rather than remain
to become the victim of the intolerable
tyranny of Lady Danvers.

Why did I ever come ? ' she asked
herself, looking round with a helpless
glance. ' Why did I listen to Jane ?
She is as much trampled on by the mother
as everybody else ! '

In the intolerably dull evenings passed
in the octagon parlour at Faulds, occupying
the space behind the oriel windows
that jutted out under Prince Henry's
stone plumes,  how she missed the glowing
face of Saint Sebastian, with his holy
calm, and hated the whole generation of
Danvers, looking down on her from the
panelled walls. Ladies in ruff and furbelow
; their simpering eyes all turned
one way, the powdered head of a bishop
with full sleeves of lawn ; a gentleman-alarms

in uniform, and a modern field
officer in the person of Sir Reginald,
sword in hand, charging at the head of
his regiment ; Lady Danvers herself sitting
opposite on a brocaded sofa, her
eyeglass brought to bear on Jane, seated
erect at the side of her governess, reading
aloud some stupid history to which she
was expected to attend.

Lady Danvers did occasionally address
an observation to her, or made inquiries
as to her health, but of her wondrous
talent for music she never spoke. This
would have involved admiration and applause,
both of which she rigidly withheld,
until she was satisfied that her niece's
temper was improved.

The girl is quite a savage,' said Lady
Danvers to herself. 'Just what was to
be expected, when poor Charles married
an Indian.'

If, by-and-by, she found her more docile
and ready to take advice, she should
change ; if not, she must follow out her
own plan of ' doing something for herself.'

As yet she had never summoned Sophia
to that antique sanction she called her
room. She hated talks involving discussion
where she could not dictate as

she liked, and she felt intuitively that
Sophia would oppose her in all she said.

In the meantime, though always scrupulously
polite, she watched with growing
anxiety the influence Sophia was acquiring
over Jane. Some incipient indications
of rebellion on the subject of Lord
Edward which she attributed to her,
were summarily crushed with an assurance
that if the like occurred again,
Sophia must leave the house ; and Jane,
in her devotion to her cousin, was so fearful
of irritating her mother, that ever
since this threat she had acquiesced in
all she said.

In every household arrangements,
Sophia was classed second to Jane, and
this was done in so obtrusive a manner,
as to infer the immeasurable distance
between them in the social scale. Nurse
Ludlow, an old servant who had lived
there ever since Jane was born, and was
permitted liberties and freedom of speech
denied to everyone else,  hated her, and
showed it.

*A stuck-up foreign minx, I calls her,
my lady, though your honour's niece. Ill
company for our Missed, I am afeard.*
And Jane and she had almost come to

fisticuffs one day when she had refused
to answer Sophia's bell. ' Let her call
her inly blackens to wait on her, not I 
No, Missey, I wont stir.'

Had Sophia been really as incapable
of generous feeling as she sometimes appeared,
such provocations would have
resulted in a bitter hatred of her cousin ;
but this was not so. In the dark English
world into which destiny had led her,
Jane was the one bright spot which redeemed
her from despair. Alone, Jane
looked up to her, spite of the change
in her life. Alone she loved her ; and
her child-like conviction that she could
do no wrong ' often brought a glow of
pleasure into her desolate heart.

If you only knew her, you would
think her perfect,' Jane would say to Miss
Oxly, in the solitude of the school-room,
when, with difficulty she was dragged
there from the bouoh of a convenient
fir-tree, book in hand, Nep sprawling on
the grass beneath  in answer to the remarks
of that bitter - tongued lady who
declared she really was astonished Lady
Danvers could 'put up with Miss Escott's
sulky ways.'

Poor dear, think what a change !

VOL. III. c

Not the beggar-maid turned into a princess,
but just the other way. As forme,'
in a louder voice, her clear honest
eyes shining out from under her hair,
all my life shall be devoted to her.'

All my life,' emphatically repeated, at
which Miss Oxly smiled the smile of experience,
and shook her head.

(* Nasty old thing,' muttered Jane, under
her breath. ' It is all jealousy,' and she
turned off in a huff to master the eccentricities
of the French verbs.)

Of all concerned, no one was satisfied
but Jane (a little sobered at times when
she recalled Lord Edward, and her
mother's imperious will), otherwise skimming
lightly as a bird over the surface
of secret pitfalls and hidden dangers too
near, and too apparent long to remain
concealed.

some here, Sophia, I have
something to tell you,' Jane
whispered to her next day,
casting a careful glance towards
the door (the fear of her mother never
left her), ' come along.' Then, taking
her by the hand, they went out, and
passed down flight after flight of the old
moss-grown terraces, bordered by high
balustrade walls, dulled to a sad grey by
the growth of centuries ; along lines of
broad gravel walks, marked out by yew
hedges, to a green expanse of emerald
turf, where a stream ran trickling gaily
over a pebbly bed, to lose itself in a
magnificent bank of rhododendrons and
laurels.

The country beyond, doted with a rich

growth of ancestral timber gathered round
half-hidden mansions and trim-walled
cottages, each with its bright garden
and thriving homestead  innumerable
neat hedgerows dividing the cornfields
and meadows into a verdant chess-board
around the precincts of a great open
common, over which the winter sun cast
purple shadows on ruddy gables and
chimneys.

To the right, screened in lofty woods,
the lodge gates of a great hero, portioned
by a grateful nation with a vast estate ;
opposite on a rise a red mass among
the oaks, the home of an aged statesman
who, in his long life, had seen chances
and changes innumerable in the political
world ; in a wooded dell, literally blinded
with trees, a famous novelist living beside
his church, who had brought all Europe to
his feet  while rising high above a wide-stretching
level horizon, rolled the sea.

Is it not charming ! ' exclaimed Jane,
forgetting what she was about to try in
her ever-recurring admiration of her home.
Just the place for you, Sophia, instead of
being boxed up at Scatlands. You will
like England now better than India, and
that is well.'

'Never!' cried Sophia, with such vehemence
she made the other start. ' Do you
think I can prefer night to day, or compare
this horrible climate to an Indian
sun ? These pigmy Httle woods to the
green walls of a jungle, where the trunks
darken the air ? The mangoes, every
branch forming a fresh tree  and the
tamarind, and the cocoa, higher than
the temples ! The sandal woods, so
full of scent, they perfume the air for
miles  and the lovely green roofs of
bamboo ? The magnolias and the
citrons ? Why, in India, we believe in
plants and trees. To us they are sacred.
No Hindoo would cut down the tulsi, or
injure a consecrated shrub. As to the
holy pipal, it may grow where it
pleases, undermine temples and palaces
no one dares to touch it. And the
palms, too, that are half human,  ' male
and female,  and refuse to live alone ! '

Jane opened her eyes wide at the enumeration
of all these wonders. They
pained while they amazed her. How
far off Sophia seemed ! Still her curiosity
suggested many questions, only Sophia
went on.

You would know what a tree meant

if you saw the palms. Sixty feet high,
with clusters of golden dates  and the
bananas spreading like the mangoes ; the
palmyra and sago, and the slender areca,
all growing in the compound behind the
residency.

Papa loved flowers. I dare not so much
as think of the roses and the jasmine
and the lotus swimming like white and
pink islands in the large tanks. The
sweet champak and the moon flowers ;
the birds rustling through the air, and
the death-like silence when the dust
storm comes ; the ground shaking under
a brazen sky ; the wild beasts crouching
in their lairs ; the serpents wreathed and
still ; the very elephants trembling in
the swamps, and the Indians veiling
themselves with their white head cloths
prostrated on the earth.'

For a moment Sophia seemed to lose
herself in the picture she had culled up,
and stood with widely-opened eyes benton
the grey horizon. Then seeing the
astonishment depicted on Jane's face at
the strange burst of eloquence, so unlike
her usual silence  she paused a moment.


You ask me to tell you about India,

I must speak the truth. I cannot prefer
nettles and briars to tree-ferns and
cactus. Your miserable little black robins
and sparrows to cockatoos and parrots,
and your meagre kind of life to eastern
magnificence.

Don't talk to me of these low flat outlines
and call them views. Everything
here is so miserably minute and colourless,'
and Sophia pointed with contempt to the
glory of Jane's heart, the famous outlook
from the terraces at Faulds stretched out
before her. ' After I have looked upon
the great ghats of India, covered with
rolling mists, and the endless plains
burnt up in the hot season, but lovely
in the rains. Your pigmy churches to
the solemn temples where Zebula led
me as a little child, and prostrated herself
before the images of Vishnu and Siva,
and such a small house as Faulds to the
white palace where I lived ; the great
audience hall lined with mirrors, my
father sitting on a golden throne, surrounded
by guards and servants, to receive
the native princes and Rajahs 
even the Nizam himself!

In India, little cousin, there is everything
 from an elephant to a firefly  so

you must not ask me to admire anything
here. If it were only the country, I
might bear it, but the people  '

Tears of disappointment were swimming
in Jane's eyes. No ; it was no
use. Sophia would never change ! How
she hated to hear of India now. It
seemed to sever them further and further
from all the little home interests which
were to her so dear.

Now, Jane,' continued Sophia, satisfied
with the impression she had made,
you were going to tell me something ;
what is it ? I am ready to listen.'

I think life is very melancholy,' was
Jane's reply, all the smiles gone from
her bright face. ' Everyone is disappointed.
I am sure I am. Here are
you abusing everything in England, and
mamma is telling me that I must be
married in a year, and that our neighbour,
the Duchess of Upshire, is coming
here this very day to settle about it ;
and I am to make myself agreeable,
mamma says, to Lord Edward, upon
pain of her displeasure. I know
mamma. She will give me no peace
nozu!

Why, I thought a lover was the

very thing you wished for at Scatlands.
What is Lord Edward Hke ? ' asked
Sophia, with some show of interest.

A lover, indeed ! Don't talk of it.
This one does not count. I never
could bear him. Such a little prig!
The duchess is very nice, and gives
me lovely things on my birthday ; but
Lord Edward thinks himself a o-reat
swell, and is full of airs and graces.
After all he is only two years older
than L I told mamma I wanted to
have nothing to do with him, but to
devote myself to you. She laughed, and
said I was a fool. But I am no fool,'
angrily, ' and will marry no one I do
not like. I know ; ' breaking off, abashed
at the boldness of her words. 'It is
my duty to obey mamma ; but, oh ! she
could not want to make me miserable
for life ! Anyway, if you were happier,
dear Sophia, I could bear a great
deal.'

Happier ! ' echoed Sophia. ' Happiness
is not for me.'

But, if you made it up with Mr Maitland,'
urged Jane, ' and he came here.'

' No, no ; impossible ! ' (at the sound
of his name all her wounds seemed to

bleed afresh). ' He would not come.
Don't speak of it ! '

'Then I must see him,' answered Jane,
with a decision worthy of her mother.
I must tell him how miserable you are.
I know I could convince him. No one
can speak to him of you like me. Somebody
must be happy; if not I, then
you.'

Yes, little cousin ; though you are
English, I feel you love me,' broke from
Sophia ; and, in a moment, her soft arms
were round Jane's neck, her lips pressed
to hers, and the pent-up tears flowing
fast, as she dropped her head on her
cousin's shoulder, who, out of pure
sympathy, cried too.

Do not mention him,' she murmured, as
she gradually grew more calm. ' You see
I cannot bear it ; ' then, with a sudden
revulsion of feeling, as she recalled the
anonymous letter, and how she had been
deceived, she put Jane back from her,
and looked sternly into her face. ' Remember,
child, I forbid you ever to
mention his name again.'

But Jane was not to be put off by
Sophia's changing moods temper, Uncle
Louis would have called it) ; but even

to herself Jane would not admit that
anything so perfect as her cousin had a
fault. These were her Indian ways, she
thought, which no one understood ; and
in her own mind she decided that
she would find Maitland, and tell him
how much Sophia was suffering for his
sake. Why should she not ? The unknown
paths of life lay before her, full
of possibilities and hope.

Youth readily believes in all its wishes,
and young eyes look forward to vistas
of novelty and hope. Later, these gradually
narrow  the glitter dies out, they
darken, and, alas ! at last vanish altogether,
as did the magic door that
opened in the thick wall of the Seraglio
garden before the eyes of amorous Named,
then closed, and never was to be found
by him again.

Until Sophia came, no shadow had
darkened the unclouded horizon of Jane's
life, which lay before her like a broad,
shining path, bordered by flowers, and
peopled by smiling faces. But already
there was a change. The gay flowers
were turning into thorns, and the smiling
faces wore a troubled air ; the sky before
so serene, was darkening with gathering

clouds, and the sombre gloom that
enshrouded Sophia was gathering about
her head.

Here the absurd behaviour of Nep interrupted
all further talk. Rushing madly
down the terraces, he greeted Jane with
the most extravagant demonstrations of
delight, tearing round and round her, and
prostrating his large body on the ground,
jumping up again with furious barks, and
tearing up the hill, as fast as he had comedown
 as the sound of wheels became
audible on the drive. The ringing of a
deep-toned bell followed by the appearance
of Nurse Ludlow, with difficulty
balancing herself on the top of the
terrace steps, crying in a shrill voice for
Missey.'

Another furious fit of barking announced
the arrival of visitors. A carriage was
heard drawing up before the colonnaded
porch, and the ringing of another loud
bell brought forth a maid running rapidly
down the terrace in search of Jane.

Please, miss, I have been looking for
you everywhere. You are to come in
immediately, my lady says, to be dressed.
She Is very angry that you are out.'

Do you want to lame my poor old less
for ever ? ' piped out Nurse Ludlow in an
irritated tone, when she caught sight of
Jane coming up from below, ' a-running up
and down after you like the dog ? You
are to come in directly, my lady says.
She is very angry as you is out.'

Upon which, without further waiting
for a reply. Nurse Ludlow turned her
back, and limped back into the house.

HEN Jane came down in her
best dress exceeding short in
the skirt and tight in the 
reason of her rapid growth,
she found Lady Danvers seated by the
duchess on a gaudily-gilt sofa in the great
saloon ; save for the too-modern furniture,
the very beau-ideal of an Elizabethan room.
The roof supported by open, painted rafters
in the Italian style ; the walls hung with
faded tapestry, representing the Titanic
battles of Pagan gods ; at one end a
carved balcony for musicians ; at the
other, elaborate oak panelling surmounting
a broad, open hearth. Down one
side, a range of lofty recessed windows,
looking towards the trimly-set bowling-green,
and a paved walk, the sculptured

arches of an orangery opening at either
end.

At one of these windows Lord Edward
was stationed, looking extremely bored,
contemplating a flock of peacocks disporting
themselves on the turf ; while
the duchess, laden with jewellery, wherever
it could be worn, and dressed in a
glowing shot silken tissue,  which looked
as if cut out from one of Titian's frames,
was discoursing of a bazaar to take
place shortly at W  , for the benefit of a
local charity, at which she was to hold
the principal stall.

The whole thing would be perfect,' she
said, ' if Jane could help with flowers.
She is so like a rosebud herself, she would
make no end of money ! Don't you think
so, Edward ? I know you are a great
admirer of Miss Dan vers,'  with a significant
glance at her son, who, thus appealed
to, was obliged to turn round.

Everything that Miss Dan vers does
must become her,' he replied with a
bow, like a schoolboy repeating a lesson,
especially if taught by Lady Danvers ; '
and there was some truth in this, for as
far as he had reflected on the subject at
all, he could never understand how his

mother's handsome friend had such a
rustic daughter.

Ah, here is the dear girl herself.
How much she is grown ! ' exclaimed
the duchess, addressing herself to Jane,
advancing a little awkwardly, it must be
confessed, towards her grace.

A cold salutation then passed between
her and Lord Edward, a sandy-complexion
youth, with steely blue eyes,
and a slight figure, dressed in the extreme
height of the mode, with a cut-away coat,
double waistcoat and straps to his shoes.

I must have you too, dear Lady
Danvers,' continued the duchess, placing
Jane beside her. ' You look so imposing.
Without you I shall never be able to
manage the farmers' wives and the shopkeepers
at W  . They will not dare to
grumble at the prices with you. You
have the art of making yourself obeyed.'

As this was exactly the kind of reputation
Lady Danvers loved to possess, she
smiled at the adroit flattery, and declared
that she put herself and Jane at the discretion
of her Grace. *Jane was rather
young,' she thought, to appear in public.

Oh, no. That is all right ; and if she
will only make me a few pretty little

trifles, as my other young friends have
done, she will be the sweetest of girls.
A taste for fine needlework,' added the
duchess significantly  herself being a
most adroit and artistic performer in
the mysteries of embroidery and Berlin
wool,  ' is, to my mind, a mark of distinction.'


I am so sorry,' answered Jane, reddening
to the roots of her hair, * but I
cannot learn to work.'

What ! * cried her grace, laughing.
After that beautiful gold thimble I gave
you on your last birthday, and your promise
to me to climb no more trees 1 Oh,
Jane, that is a shame ! '

Between shyness and confusion, Jane
found it difficult to reply. To be accused
of climbing trees before Lord Edward 
who, in default of anything else to look
at, was contemplating her with a fixed
stare, and at this gave a short laugh, 
was most mortifying.

I am sorry,' she murmured, with an
appealing look at her mother, leaning
back, blandly indifferent, a richly embroidered
handkerchief in her hand,  ' but
I do so love to spend my playtime out
of doors ; but I have my cousin here

VOL. HI. D

now, who is a great musician and plays
to me, so I stay in more.'

What cousin ? ' asked the duchess,
with that Hvely curiosity common to all
great folks. ' Have you a new inmate ?'
Turning to Lady Danvers,  ' There will
be music, you know, at the bazaar. Is
she pretty, and will she play ? '

Now, this mention of Sophia was exactly
what Lady Danvers particularly wished to
avoid, and she showed her annoyance by
a severe look at Jane.

An orphan niece, staying with me,' she
explained, ' the daughter of my poor
brother who died in India. In too deep
mourning at present to appear. Jane Is
such an enthusiast ; her whole mind is at
present wrapped up In her. By-and-by
it will be someone else.'

'Oh no, mamma, never,' put In Jane, most
anxious to explain the various reasons for
her devotion to Sophia. But a reproving
glance checked her in full career.

These were undemocratic days, when
rank enjoyed all its privileges. To assail
the House of Lords would have been
considered a crime tantamount to the
subversion of the Christian religion. No
one could bear her honours more sweetly

than the duchess,  a most gracious lady
with a pale, aristocratic face, and an unruffled
suavity of manner, which allowed
no passion or prejudice, no dislike or
caprice to appear, but toned all down to a
monotony of high breeding, incomprehensible
to those of a lower sphere.

Beside her friend, the frigid Lady
Danvers might pass for rash and impulsive.
She constantly shocked her
grace by the eccentricity of her ideas,
specially on the subject of education, and
the hardy country habits in which she
had brought up Jane. But with the
peculiar obstinacy and 
which marked Lady Danvers'
character, all her gentle hints and well-bred
innuendoes on the necessity of
feminine accomplishments and lady-like
habits, were systematically disregarded.

Jane had been allowed to grow up like
the flowers of the field, ' who toiled not,
neither did they spin,' in all respects save
that of a solid system of instruction such
as is generally only given to boys. If she
was wild out of doors, she was cultivated
within ; and an eager desire to learn made
the acquirement of knowledge easy and
delightful.

The duchess had long had her eye on
her as a fitting wife for her second son
(an alliance into a family of the highest
rank was reserved for the eldest  Lord
Browndale). She really liked Jane, and
looked forward with pleasure to ' forming
her,' as she expressed it to the duke, and
correcting those strange habits in which
no one ' of birth ' ought to indulge.

The duchess's mental horizon was narrow,
and every idea conventional and commonplace.
With no daughter of her own, just
what was most attractive in Jane met with
her special disapproval. Much of her
mind she dared not impart to Lady Danvers,
who, even from her grace, repelled
criticism, and disregarded advice. But, fortunately,
their ideas of an early marriage
were identical. Lord Edward, young ashe
was, and outwardly correct, had given
such indications of advanced fastness at
Eton, that the whole family was alarmed.
The plan of steadying him by an early
marriage was considered the best cure.

Plenty of money, and a pretty wife to
spend it,' was the duke's idea. ' Not a
town-bred young lady, but one with simple
tastes.'

In another year they considered Jane

would be quite old enough ; and once
removed to the aristocratic atmosphere of
Upshire Park, her rustic habits would
vanish of themselves.

As the day was warm and sunny, the
duchess proposed a visit to the orangery,
lying just outside the windows ; and for
some time they all paced up and down
the broad pavement in front, facing the
expanse of the bowling-green and the
balustrades.

Such a pity said the duchess, sighing
over the mouldering leaves of the orange
and citron-trees, and the meagre show of
oleanders and geraniums, ' dear Lady Danvers,
you are not fonder of flowers. If
you only devoted half the money you
lavish on your farm, the duke is always
saying, to the cultivation of your garden,
you would find it cost much less, and be
so much more satisfactory.'

I daresay the duke likes to spend his
money as he pleases,' was her dry answer,
and so do I.'

Then the two ladles fell into a long
conversation about Lord Browndale, and
his mother's anxiety as to the consequences
of a dangerous fall he had had out hunting
last week.

To this Jane, demurely following behind
with Lord Edward, did not attend, or
she would have heard that * when the
horse bolted, and threw his rider against
a tree, but for the prompt assistance of
a young man of the name of Maitland,
who, at the risk of his own life, caught
the furious animal and extricated him
from his dangerous position. Lord
Browndale most certainly would have been
killed.'

Hitherto she had followed in a silence,
which Lord Edward had only attempted
to break by observing that Faulds was a
fine old place, but that he preferred
modern houses ; when, suddenly recalling
her mother's injunction to make herself
'agreeable,' she stood still, quite awed. It
was all very well to call Lord Edward a
dandy, and laugh at him behind his back,
but there he was, a fashionable-looking
youth, with a high opinion of himself, and
a great deal more self-possession than she
could command. Not the kind of person
to whom she could appeal with any of her
ordinary objects of interest, such as guinea-pigs
and rabbits. Even that redoubtable
pet Neptune himself, famed as the tormentor
of pigs, she felt would be a mistake.

Nep was not a well-bred dog, and would
certainly be laughed at.

She thought of Sophia, and of all things
she would have liked to call her down to
help her ; but she knew her mother would
not like it. In this dilemma, she fell back
on the charms of nature. Upshire Park
was a flat, ugly place, and Lord Edward
must admire the copse.

Will you,' said she at last, with a half-frightened
air, * take a walk with me ?
There is such a pretty path I can show
you in our wood. Don't you like woods ? '

Oh yes, certainly,' answered he, brightening
up; anything was better than pottering
after his mamma and Lady Danvers.
Very agreeable indeed, when there is
plenty of game.'

But you have not got a gun, and
perhaps you would rather not.' Here
she ventured a timid glance at his inexpressive
face. ' I often go there  do
come.'

With a half smile at her simplicity, he
bowed, and she led the way, with terrible
misgivings as to his liking it. Still, she
must do something, and this seemed the
best.
As they turned, the duchess gave her

an approving glance, then said something
to Lady Danvers, and they both laughed.

*You cannot Imagine how I love this
place,' said Jane, leading the way, with
a sigh, as she recalled Sophia's want of
admiration for everything. * Is It not
lovely, on a sunny day like this ? '

Very pretty,' drawled Lord Edward,
playing with his watch-chain. ' A good
country for hunting. Do you ride, Miss
Danvers } I never meet you out with the
hounds.'

No ; mamma will not let me ; but I
walk a great deal. I often see you at the
meets near, and I and my dog Nep run
after the hunt on foot.'

An astonished stare met her eyes.

You lead quite a rural life, Miss
Danvers ; it must be very slow. You
should make Lady Danvers take you to
town and show you the world.'

Jane blushed crimson, conscious how
little she was initiated into the convenances
of life, and again wished for Sophia, who
was so dignified, and would have put him
in his place. Then, making her way by a
grassy path, under the dusky green of the
firs, their deeply-scored boles ruddy against
the sky, she traversed a belt of underwood

on rather moist grass, and, opening
a wooden gate, entered the solemn precincts
of a great wood.

The silence was tomb-like ; neither
sound nor sun. Absolute quiet, when
the winds were still ; an infinite sense
of rest, under the shelter of the great
trunks. The trees, planted In groups and
circles, formed into a succession of winter
parlours, carpeted with moss and dry fir
needles, and holly and yew making deep
screens, into which the sun never penetrated
; the maples still hanging out
crimson streamers, and the silver birch
casting down ringleted twigs. Now and
then a bird flew down and twittered on a
bare branch a few notes of its summer
song, a hare raced by among the underwood,
scared from his nest ; and on a
branch a little squirrel perched, who, at
the sound of footsteps, dashed wildly
away.

Where are you going ? ' asked Lord
Edward, looking round dismally, as he
picked his way along In shiny boots, in the
wake of the erratic Jane ; ' don't you think
a wood in winter is rather dull } '

Now, as this was a place fraught to Jane
with the romance of each succeeding year,

where every tree and shrub spoke to her
in a language of its own, she felt inexpressibly
humiliated.

I hoped you would admire it as much
as I,' was her reply, looking through the
glades of majestic oaks, gathering round
what had once been a kind of summerhouse,
now fallen into a moist decay. The
tottering walls knit together by a thick
tangle of ivy, and straggling cords of wild
briony ; a broken, waterless pond in front,
encrusted with green moss and the blackened
remains of what had once been flowerbeds.


Why, ye  es,' drawled Lord Edward,
giving another dismal glance round. ' In
summer, it might be well enough, but
looking at the summer-house, ' what a
hideous old ruin ; why does not Lady
Danvers pull it down ? '

I did not bring you to see that,' answered
Jane meekly, ashamed of the mistake
she had made, ' but to admire this
wild desolate spot. Do you know, before
my cousin came, I spent most of my playtime
here, because I like to be alone, and
to spin fancies about books and stories.'

Really ! ' answered he with a little
laugh. * You are very odd  quite an original,'

and taking out a scented handkerchief
he tried to conceal a yawn.

I am afraid you are tired ; shall we
return ? '

Ah, no, not in the least. Is there
much game ? '

I don't know, but I often run after the
pheasants through the underwood with
Nep, and the keeper makes a row ; but
mamma does not mind.'

Is this all there is to be seen ? ' asked
Lord Edward, casting a rueful balance
around. ' It seems but a small place.'

Another blow to Jane, whose imagination
painted it as of boundless extent.

The ultimate end of the walk was a deep,
narrow dingle, between two closely-cleft
banks scored with gravel and stones, over
which trailed wild screens of briar and
ivy, breaking through beds of yellow fern,
hart's-tongue and moss.

Path there was none ; a narrow track
led by deep banks of sandy earth, to a
kind of low-mouthed cave, veiled by
sheets of glossy creepers and trailing
thorns. Every little weed and plant
in festive array of winter red, wrapping
the earth in a bright blanket, and, in
between, a feathery vegetation of strong

rank grasses. The very stones and flints
full of colour, and here and there some
yellow buds of early primroses piercing the
dry leaves.

Never before had Jane doubted the
enchantment of this spot, which was to
reconcile Lord Edward to the dullness of
the walk. The scene she had peopled
with fairies, knights, monsters, and goddesses,
must impress him too. The cave
was the gate of hell, where Ceres watched
behind a laurel bush  the very spot where
she had called up the image Cupid. A
green bank beside it, veiled in deep folds
of wood  a trysting place for lovers 
Lorenzo and Jessica perhaps, or Rosalind
and Cella ; a chain of sand-hills, dotted
with broom and mountain ash, fastnesses,
infested with fierce robbers. A trickling
streamlet, deep in cresses and mint, where
Adonis gazed on his beauty ; and a little
well with a stone margin, the haunted spot
where Lucy Ashton met Ravenswood, and
vowed to break the spell.

Alas ! she was fated to be undeceived !

Why, this is nothing but an old gravel-pit
! ' exclaimed Lord Edward, with undisguised
disgust. * The next time I have
the honour of escorting you, Miss Danvers,'

looking at his spruce coat and elaborate
striped trousers, upon which several burrs
had settled, * I shall thank you to tell me,
that I may be prepared.'

The words were not much, but the sneer
with which they were accompanied was
unmistakable.

A feeling of womanly pride came to
Jane's relief. Was this the miserable little
lordling with a glossy hat, and neatly
buttoned gloves, who aspired to gain her
hand ? Was this the kind of wooing which
was to gain her heart? Heart indeed!
Did he think his rank entitled him to treat
her with contempt " Forbid it all the shades
of her favourite heroes, the Delvile, grandison,
Harry Bertram and Lord Orville.
If this was a lover, she would never hear
of one again. Until now, obedient and
submissive to her mother, a very passion
of resistance stirred her breast. Let the
duchess and Lady Danvers scheme as
they would, she would never consent to be
his wife. Had not Sophia refused John
Bauer when everyone begged her not ?
She would refuse Lord Edward, though a
dragon stood at her back !

On the way home, not a word was
spoken. Lord Edward whistled, and Jane

frowned. When they entered the house,
they found the duchess all smiles, drinking
a dish of tea with Lady Danvers out of
lovely mandarin cups, at a dainty Queen
Anne table.

Well, young people ? ' said she, interchanging
a gratified look with Lady Danvers.
(They had passed the afternoon in
arranging such social details of the marriage
as did not enter Into the province of
the lawyers.) * You have stayed so long,
we thought you had eloped. Of course
you have enjoyed yourselves.'

'Not at all answered Jane abruptly,
taking refuge behind her mother's chair,
from which coign of vantage she did not
stir. ' Lord Edward and I are not of the
same mind.'

'" Miss Danvers prefers rather rough
walking,' he put in, trying to explain. ' The
next time she shows me the country, I shall
put on hob-nailed boots.'

At this rather rude response, her grace's
charming face clouded.

You surprise me, Edward ; surely It is
for you to accommodate yourself to Miss
Danvers' tastes.'

To this rebuke, Lord Edward said
nothing, but turned his eyes regretfully on

the diminished lustre of his boots, and
Lady Danvers, drawing Jane towards her,
whispered In her ear, ' If this Is the consequence
of Sophia's example, I shall send
her away.'

Little more was said, but the harmony
of the meeting was troubled. The duchess
looked tired and annoyed ; Lord Edward
sullen and silent, and It was felt to be a
general relief when, at four o'clock, the outriders
made their appearance, and the brilliant
equipage drove to the door.

The duchess, who, gracious as she was,
never for an instant forgot her rank, stepped
in amid the bows and adieux of Lady
Danvers ; and Jane, then and there, standing
on the broad steps under the arches
of the porch, received such a severe reprimand
from her mother, as sent her indoors
In tears.

Bid me to weep, and I will weep, while I have

eyes to see ;
And having none, then will I keep a heart to mourn

for thee.'

WEEK ! only a week ! Was it
possible ? So great was the
change that it seemed a year
to Sophia. And that odd dreary
feeling that she was not herself at all, but
the victim of some malevolent demon, who
had cursed her at her birth !

Ever since that letter came, her life was
done ; and so dejected was she, she cared
not even to speculate as to how it might
have been had she received Maitland's
message. She had often courted death ;
but this breaking down, this abandonment
terrified her beyond words. To grow old

alone ! To lose that power of beauty
which she had learned to appreciate as
greater than that of fortune, seemed impossible
to bear !

The petulant defiance she assumed at
times, was often but a mask to her
agonised feelings. In the presence of
Lady Danvers, so haughty and composed,
her pride generally kept her calm when
her temper was not excited. She would
bear up  she would do anything rather
than show how much she suffered. With
the loss of Maitland her sun had set.
All her firmament was dark ; colour and
shape, and the fitness of things had vanished.
She dreamed still, and vividly, but
it was of things long gone by  yet so
strangely life-like at times, that, seated at
the piano alone in her own room, she
would start to her feet as if his voice
were speaking in her ear.

Was he already married ? she asked
herself, her hands resting on the keys,
as she leant over the piano, drawing out
acute cords in the high treble notes, ina
wild, troublous measure, a burden of
despair, almost of death  changing into a
melody, sad as a dirge,  Did he ever
think of her ? A longs-drawn succession

VOL. III. E

of chromatic runs ending in a fantastic
cadence in the minor key,  Should she
ever see him again ? Here insensibly
her fingers wandered into the weirdest
passages, with shrill shakes, fading off into
inexpressible accents of unutterable woe.
Then her mood changed, and a sad-phrased
ritornelle spoke of vague hope, 
floating, indefinite  but hope  with shifting
pathetic changes, like phantasies in
the air.

Ashamed of herself, she rose, and
hurriedly shut the instrument ; but no
appeal to her pride could banish his
image from her heart.

A very strange thing had happened to
her before she left Scatlands. One afternoon,
while waiting for Jane at the open
green-door (it was only the second time
she had left the house since her arrival),
a small pale lady, closely veiled, stopped
and accosted her. She was so sorry to
trouble her, she said, in a hurried manner,
but she had lost a little white dog. Had
she seen it ? ' No,' answered Sophia,
surprised by her address. It had strayed,
the lady said. The dearest little thing,
who carried letters to the post, and waited
until some one put them in the box. She

had not the heart to return home without
it, and had been walking up and down
the lane. As she was standing there, she
thought she must have seen it. Did she live
near ? And the small lady gave a curious
glance at Sophia, from under a shower of
light ringlets, over which fell a veil.

Yes, I do,' answered Sophia, referring
any oddness in the lady's manner to
English ways. Then apparently forgetting
all about the little dog, she looked up at
the blank house-front, and, affecting to
read the name ' Scatlands ' engraved on
the slab, under the bust of the Roman
emperor, gave a start, and turned her eyes
curiously upon her.

Then you are Miss Escott! ' she cried,
clasping both her hands. Sophia bowed.
How glad I am ! You will forgive me
for asking ? But I have so longed to see
you, ever since you came ! '

I should not have thought that anyone
troubled themselves about me,' was
Sophia's short rejoinder ; still, so winning
was the lady's manner, she could not
feel displeased.

On the contrary. Miss Escott. We all
know about you and pity you.'

Pity me ! ' answered Sophia, a frown

gathering on her brow ; ' no one has a
right to do that ; ' yet, for all she said
this, the lady's sympathy seemed sweet

So attractive,' continued the other
reflectively, fixing on her the full po-ewer
of her blue eyes, ' and so ill-used.'

Sophia drew back. What could this
stranger mean ? Her natural sense of
dignity made her feel she ought not to
remain, but an invincible curiosity rooted
her to the spot.

'Yes, Miss Escott, I mean what I
say. You are the victim of a plot.
You must forgive my frankness. I long
so to help you. Do you not know that
Mr Winter is a ruined man ? ' here the
lady lowered her voice and gazed furtively
up at the windows, ' and that he intends
to repair his fortune by the large sum he
will receive on your marriage with his
nephew ? So shocking,' seeing the mute
amazement depicted on Sophia's face, ' and
he your guardian too ! Yes, Miss Escott,
I am sorry to pain you ; but it is true.
Every one is to be kept from the house ;
no one to be admitted but Mr Bauer ;
even Mrs Winter's oldest friends excluded.
There was another's and the eyes of the
lady gleamed with an evil light, as she

cast them in the direction of Rosebank ;
but hearing of your engagement  '

My engagement ! ' gasped Sophia,
through her parted Hps (this revelation,
coming so immediately after the anonymous
letter, opened to her such a vista
of mystification, that her brain reeled).
It is not true. Stop,' cried Sophia,
stretching out her hand as the lady was
about to turn away. ' Who are you ?
How do you know this ? I have seen
no one. Spoken to no one. Answer
me.'

Everyone knows it answered the
other, from under her curls. ' Mr Winter
took care of that.'

Good God ! ' broke from Sophia. ' Is
it possible that he  ' she stopped, and a
white terror overspread her face.

Everything, my dear Miss Escott, is
possible in a little place like this,' and
the lady gave a low laugh that sounded
hard and mocking. ' You are so new to
England, you do not understand. I beg
your pardon if I have made a mistake,
but your engagement to Mr Bauer was so
formally announced.'

Again she turned to go, and again
Sophia arrested her.

'Is he married?' she asked, catching
at her breath. She was so much absorbed
by the thought most uppermost, she forgot
to be angry with this stranger who
knew so much.

Not yet.' the shadow of a smile
passing over her face. ' But soon 
very soon, everything is arranged. His
mother is delighted. She was terribly
afraid of you. He is the most dutiful
of sons ; he will never marry without
her consent.'

Sophia blushed scarlet under her clear
olive skin. Had she fallen so low as
to listen to all this ? Yet, do as she
would, she was so wrought up, she
could not stop questioning.

Then has he been forced ? ' (she
almost laughed, in the bitterness of her
spirit, as she asked the question. As
well talk of forcing a young Hercules,
as Maitland).

Oh no, not at all,' was the answer ;
he only changed his mind. All gentlemen
do that,' and the lady gave another
little laugh.

At this moment Jane's voice was
heard calling from the hall, and immediately

after her light footsteps sounded
on the stone steps.

Say nothing,' whispered the lady,
shrinking into herself. * For God's sake,
say nothing, or you may ruin me for life ; '
then adding, with a well-simulated aspect
of concern,  * Poor child ! So lovely ! So
abandoned! In me you have a friend.
Believe nothing Mr Maitland says. He
will never marry you. I have reason
for what I say ; ' and, noiseless as a
phantom, she glided into the shadows
of the lane.

Ah ! could Sophia have known what
hate and vengeance shook that fragile
form ! What a passion of envy lay
hid in those pale eyes, to which the
sight of her beauty but acted as a
spur. Could she but have known that,
instead of thinking of marriage with
anyone but herself, all Edward's heroism
in presence of his mother had broken
down ; and that, such was his distress
at hearing nothing of her, that he had
actually brought himself to write secretly
to Miss Sterne, promising to say nothing
to his mother, if she could only tell him
where Sophia was ? Miss Sterne, of
course, replying that she knew nothing

about Miss Escott, and imploring him
to return.

Then he had addressed himself to
Mrs Winter, entreating her to confide
to him where her niece was ; but, strange
to say, to this letter he had received no
reply at all.

under Jane's guidance Sophia
had lost all fear of walking
out alone, when that ardent
young spirit was detained by
lessons at home. Like her, bursting
from the umbrageous monotony of the
park, she wandered at will over the
long flat reaches of heathy commons,
by little tracks cut in the turf, where
red-coated cows wandered ; droves of
snow-white geese loudly protested against
all passers-by, and dismal-voiced donkeys
cropped the scant herbage tied to stakes.
The distant rumble of a cart on a sandy
road the only sound.

It was one of those days that shorten
winter  soft and golden. Not a breath
stirred the air, only the song of birds ;

the crackling of fallen leaves ; a perfume
of bursting buds, and sweet scents from
heath and furze where the bees buzzed
among the flowers.

The sun struck warmly, and an aromatic
breath came from the massed up pine
woods.

To-day Sophia had made her way
through close set lanes, where, even
in winter, the branches joined overhead
 to a mill, standing beside a
large tranquil pond. Before her was
a bridge. On one side the brawling
river, creamy from the mill wheels,
making a pleasant noise in the silence.
On the other, the miller's house, joined
on to the wooden hutch, up which
rickety stairs led to floury little rooms,
trembling all day from the power of the
machine.

Beyond lay the expanse of the widely
undulating heath, darkened by self-sown
fir trees, none the less beautiful for that ;
and from the chimney of a cottage  one
of a circle that stood in front  a thin strip
of grey smoke ascended in the still air.

All was so quiet in itself and so restful
that Sophia halted, and, leaning against the
parapet of a broken bridge, gazed down at

/o

the stream beneath. ' What is the charm
of running water ? ' asks a friend. ' It
seems to draw one's gaze and keep it.
It is the movement of life in the earth is
the answer. ' In running water one seems
to feel the pulses of nature audibly beating.'

No one was about ; the mill wheel
whirred and droned, and the stream
rushed by flecked with foam ; but the
fresh tracks on the gravel showed that
people passed, and beyond, duck pools
were collected to be crossed, with steppingstones,
over which the mud oozed.

Something in the still landscape touched
Sophia. As she stood still and listened
to the rural sounds, the air seemed full
of hope. The fresh breeze whispered of
love. Ah ! why not to her? ' He loves
you too well to despise you,' it seemed
to say. ' Love him in return without
measure and without stint.' ' Am I
mad ? ' was on her lips to answer,
when suddenly the sound of horses'
hoofs came to her ears.

First, a red-coated rider gleamed out
from under the fir-woods beyond, dashed
forward and disappeared ; then a black
horse passed as rapidly, mounted by a
groom ; a white one, by a farmer in top-boots.

A thin-flanked brown, leaping forwards,
held in with difficulty by a lady,
sawing at the reins ; then groups of three
or four riders, all pell-mell. Another lady
(these lady-hunters did astonish Sophia,
as a sight out of another planet)  this one
a more quiet and graceful horse-woman,
on a sorrel mare, followed by troops of
boys on foot ; men with sticks,  even girls,
screaming, shouting, halloing, away, away,
through the breaks in the hedges ; in
and out,  hurrying on towards a wide
fence, which left many a rider sprawling
in the mud. Some loose horses with empty
saddles, galloping about in the ploughed
field (notably the thin-flanked brown hunter,
which had thrown the lady, around whom
a little crowd gathered to set her on again ;
she, not one bit the worse for her tumble,
with a keen cut of her whip, gallantly
taking the fence a second time and clearing
it in style) ; away, away, until nothing buta
line of red hovered behind a screen of
hollies ; the huntsman far in the distance
too-cooing at his horn to gather the hounds,
loudly giving tongue, in the mazes of a
neighbouring wood.

A dratted blind county,' one rider on
a limping steed was saying to another, a

rough-coated farmer, mounted on a strong-bay
cob. ' And infernally rotten hedges
was the answer. ' Here goes, Sky,' to
his horse, with a heavy slash of his hunting
crutch on her flanks, forcing her, much
against her will, to clear the hedge,  the
sound of the hoofs dying away, as, by
degrees, all vanish helter-skelter into the
wood.

Sophia's alarm was great, specially when
she saw the lady fall ; and that she could
get up again and ride away, seemed to her
superstitious mind like the effect of magic.

She had heard of meets and covers,
hunting and foxes, and Jane had told her
not to be alarmed, as she might encounter
the hounds any day, as they always found
in the home-wood, and that it was beautiful
to see the run ; but, with her usual indifference,
she had forgotten all about it, and
wandered about alone.

Infinitely to her relief, the sounds gradually
died away, fainter and fainter, in an
opposite direction. Hurrying from the
road, she turned aside into a grassy lane,
in the direction of Faulds, when suddenly
the click of a rapidly advancing horse
struck on her ear, and a solitary horseman
bore down upon her.

Uttering a little scream, she threw herself
on one side to let him pass, then,
raising her alarmed eyes, found herself
face to face with Maitland, mounted on a
fiery chesnut, his young face flushed, his
tall lissome figure so firmly seated on the
saddle, he seemed no man at all, but part
and parcel of his horse.

In the amazement of the meeting, both
gazed at each other speechless ; then
Edward, flinging himself from the saddle,
was the first to break silence.

Good heavens, Miss Escott ! What
unexpected happiness to find you here ? '
A wild joy lighting up his face, as he
endeavoured to steady his panting hunter,
restive at being pulled up so abruptly, in
the middle of a run.

To what happy chance do I owe this
meeting ? ' and, fixing on Sophia a pair of
radiant eyes, he held out his hand. But
from Sophia came no answering sign  as
if a chill blast had passed over her, she
shivered and drew back.

I am staying with my aunt. Lady
Danvers,' she forced herself to answer,
shrinking from the scrutiny of his gaze.
She lives near,  at Faulds.'

Good heavens ! And I not to know it !

Why, I am close by, at some rooms I
have taken at E  . How cruel not to tell
me when you went away. I wrote home
when I heard you were gone, but no one
answered; I could hear nothing.'

Of me ? ' replied Sophia, casting on
him an indignant glance  (she is trying
to conquer the intoxication of his presence,
but in vain).

Maitland is so frankly overjoyed at finding
her, that at first he has noticed nothing ;
neither the iciness of her manner, nor that
she had withdrawn her hand.

Miss Escott,  Sophia ; oh, let me call
you Sophia ! Speak to me.' No reply ;
the dark eyelashes cast down, and the
tall figure more like a statue than a woman.
As he gazes at her, he feels how inexpressibly
dear she is to him. Every fold in her
dress appeals to him, a little band of lace
at her throat comes to him as a signal of
all beauty, a coarse glove on her white
hand  something to worship.

Still, this is not the meeting he had
pictured. Forgetting his own silence,
and the strangeness of his sudden departure
from Twickenham, it seemed to him
that Sophia ought intuitively to have understood
his feelings, and his eager spirit is

blanked, and the wave of unutterable love
arrested.

Tell me,' and he looks anxiously into
her face, ' what does this silence mean ?
What has happened ? Are you engaged
to Mr Bauer ? ' Again his hand seeks
hers. Again no answering motion. At
last her lips move. (It is wonderful she
dare speak at all, with her heart beating
as it does ; the more she feels his power
over her  the more she struggles to
escape it.)

Nothing has happened, Mr Maitland.
I have nothing to do with Mr Bauer. I
am amazed. By what right do you, almost
the husband of another, address me as
Sophia, and dare to take my hand ? '

As she speaks, she turns and looks full
into his clear grey eyes. To her astonishment,
they flash back on her with a merry
laugh.

Who can have told you such a lie,' he
cries, then, seizing her reluctant hand, he
covers it with kisses, and gently draws her
to him. ' My own Sophia, my queen, I
am no one's husband, engaged or otherwise.'
Then looking down on her with
unutterable love,  ' Did not your own heart
tell you so ? As mine whispered you cared

for no one else ? No husband  no lover
but your own. If you will have me,' he
added, trying to catch her eye. ' Married,
indeed ! To whom ? ' And again he
laughed, so pleasant did the notion strike
him, as his eyes wander over each detail
of the perfect symmetry of her person,
from the stately well-poised head, to the
firm, shapely feet supporting her tall figure
so gracefully.

Oh, my love,' drawing her, still reluctant
and shrinking, closer to him, ' if you
only knew how I grieved when I left you,
you would understand how hard it was to
part ! You had my message ' '

Sophia bowed her head ; she could not
tell him she had not listened to it.

While he spoke, the same feeling steals
over her as at their first interview. His
simple, straightforward words tell home ;
there is the same glamour in his voice 
the same magnetic power in his eye  the
same power in his whole attitude ; and
that depth of unspoken homage that lifts
her into a new world.

But you have not told me who invented
this confounded lie about my marriage.'
(Quick as thought the answer came to him,
ere the words passed his lips. This was

VOL. III. F

Miss Sterne's work. Her vengeance.
How weak he had been to leave her
where she could injure him.)

He dropped Sophia's hand, which
vibrated at his touch, and opened his
arms to fold her to his heart, when she
turned on him with such a wild
misery in her eyes he was fairly
startled.

How do I know that what you
say is true ? ' she asked, in a low
whisper. ' Hitherto you have always
deceived me.'

By God ! ' repeated Edward, * I tell
you it is a lie  a base, soundless He!
I can trace it to its source. Sophia,
have you no faith in me ? '

She is trembling now, and her face has
turned ashy white. The moment has come
that she had so passionately yearned
for. The words have been spoken she
had longed to hear. He was there,
and he loved her ; and oh ! how fondly
she dwells upon each feature of his
comely face,  his low, square brow,
the little rings of clustering curls under
his hat,  the mouth full of sweetness,
and that sense of power and protection
which goes out from him as part of himself.

He is there  and the whole world
seems reflected in his glance. Alone they
seem to stand like two disembodied spirits,
dissevered from all accidents of time and
space, floating in an ethereal atmosphere
all their own. But in the midst of the
wild leap of joy at finding him unchanged,
a sudden cold strikes at her heart, an
inward voice whispers,  ' Too late ! Too
late!' Her trust has been broken, suspicion
has entered her soul, and every
sense within her is alive to doubt.
'Not for me! Not for me!' keeps resounding
in her ears like a knell. ' Not
for me ! '

Speak to me, Sophia,' a tender voice
murmurs, at which a great weakness
came over her, and she sank into
his arms. ' You love me ! ' he cries,
straining her to him, the hot blood of
passion rushing over him like a fiery tide.
Spite of all you love me ! Let me hear
the words from your own dear lips. Speak
to me, Sophia ! ' She bowed her head.
The power of utterance failed her. At
that moment the world stood still, and all
her faculties with it.

Oh that I had only known this for
certain!' cried ]maitland, pressing ardent

kisses on her bloodless lips ; but even
while she lies a willing burden in his
arms, a sharp spasm of pain passed through
him as he remembered his mother's
words.

(His mother ! Her name speedily roused
him from the roseate trance into which
Sophia's presence had wafted him. Alas !
there is another world besides himself and
her. A hard, cruel world of facts and
realities! He must dally no longer in the
paradise of his love. The time had come
when he must speak.)

Know it ! ' murmured Sophia with a
happy sigh. * Did you not always know
it ? From the first day we met ? I
cannot act. I am sure you knew it.' In
the glance she gave him the splendour of
her beauty shone out supreme! No blushing
love-struck maiden, but an Eastern
goddess dispensing favours to a mortal.

HEN, side by side, they sat
upon a log of felled timber
upon the grass, and Sophia
told him all that had happened
since they had met. The anonymous
letter, at which he swore, sure of its
author,  the scene in the Dragon-room
at the Christmas feast  John Bauer's
generous conduct  Jane's entreaties  her
coming to Faulds  the haughty coldness
of Lady Danvers, and her resolve to be a
burden to no one and to maintain herself.
Yet, even at this moment, with her
hover s arm pressed round her, she said nothing
of the meeting with the mysterious
lady in the lane. Edward, all the time
consumed with such a mad desire to
clasp her to him and carry her away,

he had all the pain in the world to goon
listening.

But, my love,' he said feverishly, anxious
that she should conclude, ' that is all past
now and gone. In future you belong to me.
I know I can love you as no one else can.
I feel ' (here his voice deepened into an Impassioned
tone, and those grave eyes of his
flashed) 'that I only can make you love me.
Yes  the first time we met, all this was plain
to me. I never had a doubt.' As he was
proceeding In this impetuous outburst, a
haughty curl on Sophia's lip arrested him.
His passion carried her captive, but there
was the chill of doubt. She had been
warned, and even amid the ecstasy of
listening to him her suspicious nature was
all in arms. Arrested in the full swing of
his eloquence, Maitland hesitated for a
moment. Then his earnest gaze gathered
on her, as she sat stooping forwards, her
eyes fixed upon the ground, and with a
look of Ineffable longing, he continued, 
You think me presumptuous ? No. I
am not. I know that in whatever position
you find yourself you will command adoration,
for the power of it lies in yourself;
but, I think, I understand you as no one
else can, because my soul speaks as it were

to yours. Nay, I affirm that I understand
you better than you understand yourself.'

With the music of his voice breathing
into her ear she sat spellbound. Every
sensation lulled into a charmed listening-nothing

can change my love while you
are what I believe you to be.' This he
said emphatically. As he spoke he rose.
Impelled by a common force of motion she
rose also. Her hand wandered over the
front of her dress as if seeking to give him
something to seal the bond. Her fingers
struck against Zebula's death talisman.
A cold chill ran through her. Was the
end so near that this was to seal their
union ? Shaking off the sinister presentiment,
she drew from her waist a flower
which Jane had placed there,  a sprig of
jasmine. With a strangely subdued look
she held it out, the intense perfume rising
up like incense between them.

No, no,' cried Maitland, putting the
flower back, ' I will accept nothing from
you but yourself All, all, every perfection,
every fault, if you have any ! ' A
dangerous fire swam in his eyes. He
snatched her hand and imprinted it with
burning kisses. ' You may give flowers
to other men, and they may accept them ;

I want nothing but yourself. From the
first moment I heard you were coming to
England, I felt that you were mine

Then why did you not say so ?' asked
Sophia, drawing back, a sharp intonation
in her voice which grated involuntarily on
his ear. (These sudden changes of manner
were a defect as well as a charm. The
play of varying colour on her face ; the
quick protest of her features, the sudden
indignation that flashed so swiftly
athwart her eyes.) 'What suffering you
would have saved me ! Why did you talk
of being only a friend, and go away just
when Mrs Winter was pressing John Bauer
upon me ? You left a message, you say. A
message ! Oh, why did you not come yourself
and speak as you do now ? Why did
your mother not come ? ' remembering with
a pang the lady's words, * How can I believe
you ? '

At his mother's name, Edward's face
flushed scarlet ; he dared not meet the
questioning glance of her sombre eyes.
The embarrassment of his position was
becoming intolerable. The time had come
for explanation ; as a man of honour he
could delay no more.

I wish I could put all I have to say

in one word,' he said, with a sigh ; then
drawing himself a Httle back, he stood
before her, and in that full ringing voice
which came to him in moments of
emotion, he spoke with the directness
that was in his nature.

For myself, Sophia, I never had a
doubt. At our first meeting I knew
that, of all women, you were the one
I loved. But, my darling,' seeing her
look deepen and a dark terror come
into her eyes, ' I cannot conceal from
you that there is an obstacle. I am not
alone. I have a father and a mother.'

At the word * viother a deep shade
spread over her face as darkness before
a storm. What the mysterious lady then
had said was true : ' She was not to
believe hin ! ' Already her heart hardened
as she listened.

My choice of a wife,' continued Edward,
' is to my parents the crisis of
their lives. The advent of a daughter
only less dear than I. Now I must
frankly own that my mother is opposed
to our marriage. I will not state her
reasons ; it is needless to enter into them '
(seeing that Sophia was about to speak).
The briefness of our acquaintance justifies

her In her own mind. She argues that
my happiness cannot be set on one of
whom I know so Httle. From this view
all my entreaties have failed to move
her.' At these ominous words Sophia's
breath came hard, but she was very still.

If I was silent  if I seemed strange,
my love'  Edward was bending over
her in an attitude of the most passionate
earnestness  ' if I did not return to you
as was agreed, it was because I could
not honestly say, '' Sophia Escott, will
you be my wife?" But no sooner had
we parted than my conscience smote
me. Although I left a message for you
which, if delivered, you could not misunderstand,
I felt I ought to have plainly
told you the truth.'

Then why go away at all ? ' asked
Sophia, with averted eyes, the words
dropping out as though forced from her.

Is It possible '  a sombre reproach in
her voice  ' that you were not aware of
what I felt ? '

I went because,' his face all aflame
with the fear of offending her, ' I knew
nothing for certain. I was told you were
engaged. I had no right to urge you
to refuse the wealthy Mr Bauer. I had

nothing to offer you but an indefinite
engagement. I quarrelled with my mother.
I swore I would not remain at home
until she had given her consent. Then
you went also  I knew not where. I
wrote to Mrs Winter, but no reply
reached me.'

The truth was, Jacob had Impounded
the letter. Meeting his friend the postman
over a mug of ale, to save him
trouble he had put it in his pocket, where
it still remained.

During all this time, no sign came
from Sophia. There was silence, if the
wild drumming of blood hammering in
her ears is not rather the voice of thousands.
Clasping her head in her hands,
she had gathered herself together, and
sat leaning forward, with downcast eyes,
immovable. Edward felt isolated and depressed.
Vainly did he watch for some
token by which to shape his words.
None came. Had he, indeed, put her
to too severe a test ? The coldness
with which she listened startled him into
alarm.

With a weary sigh, he continued, 

Forgive me if I have erred. I would
sooner cut off my right hand than pain

you. Like a coward I put It off  I
know, I know,' breaking off from what
he was about to say, ' It is presumptuous,
unreasonable to ask for such a sacrifice.
But,' and he grasped her arm so tightly
a momentary flush rose on her cheek,
If you love me, you will have patience.
A little while  only a little. My mother
loves me too tenderly to oppose herself
for long. Sophia, darling, am I not dear
enough to you to accept this temporary
penance ? Speak  Put me out of my
pain ! Will you condescend to wait forme
?'

How handsome he looked as he pleaded !
How manly ! How ardently he loved her !
How steadfast to what he thought right !

Then you did not come here to meet
me ? ' asked Sophia, in a low, hushed
tone.

How could I ? I did not know where
you were.'

And you could go on living without
me ! Eating, drinking, talking  hunting,
even  with this upon your mind ? You
could calmly leave me alone to suffer ?
That Is not what I call love ! '

Ere he replied, he paused to look at
her. The break between her dark eyebrows,

which gave such expression to the
varying phases of her face, had deepened
into a hard line, the delicately-cut nostrils
were dilated, the lips tightly drawn. How
beautiful she was ! Yet how terrible !

This disclosure lay between us he
hastened to reply ; ' I dreaded, yet longed
to speak. I was a coward, and I put
it off. How might you take it ? How
could I dare to influence you ? I have
courage to speak, now that I find you
alone, and here I stand to offer you my
life. Believe me, my love,' his voice
melting into a low softness, ' these are
but petty troubles, easy to remove. Once
engaged to me, you are my own. Should
my mother hold out, I will appeal to
my father. All I crave from you is fora
little time.'

Though she stood near him, he dared
not approach. How he longed to soften
her by the ardour of his touch ! But the
mute defiance of her attitude forbade it.
Repelled by a sense of wounded pride,
he said no more.

Meanwhile an inexpressible conviction
of wrong was rushing over Sophia like
an overwhelming flood. Was she a pariah
to be asked to wait t What would Zebula

say ? Her father, too, who, had he
lived, would have bestowed her hand as
the choicest gift on earth! Wait! Why
wait if he loved her? He was free. She
had given him her love ? The echo of
the lady's warning rang in her ears. The
sound of his mother's name hardened her
into stone. No ; she would humble herself
to no one, much less to her. Words
wrote themselves in fire before her eyes,
her brain reeled ; but the unspoken answer
came promptly,  'Never!  Sooner
die ! '

Tell me the whole truth,' she said,
intense agitation giving her an aspect of
strange composure ; ' your mother refuses
to receive me ; you think more of her
than of me?' As Edward was springing
forward with a violent protest, she arrested
him with her upheld hand. * Tell me, are
you pledged to her ? '

His easier look darkened. In answering
this question, he could not frankly
meet her eyes.

Pledged to wait for a time  Never,
to resign you. You have my word, that
should suffice.'

A sense of his manliness was rising
within him, that even the fascination

Sophia exercised over him could not
control.

While he stood there, a subtle change
passed over her, for which he was unprepared.
The outward image remained, but
the spirit within had fled. She rose from
where she had been sitting and stretched
out both her hands as if to put him back.
Of all the bitter wrongs accumulated upon
her, this was the worst. Such a blow ! 
and from his hand !

Let me go ! Let me go ! ' she cried,
as she struggled violently to free herself
from his outstretched arms. ' I cannot
live to be so degraded in my own eyes.
You do not know what you are doing,'
wildly throwing up her arms. ' You will
repent It when it is too late. I am not
as other women in this cold English land.
]\Iy blood is heated by another sun. You
do not know  you do not know. You
will break my heart. I have been so
tried ! I am so broken ! '

Hysterical sobs choked her voice ; then
the overmastering pride of her nature
asserted itself, and she said no more.

Shocked beyond expression, Maitland
felt powerless before this storm of
mistaken passion. With his whole soul

longing to comfort and protect her.
Something about her forbade his very
touch.

Surely, Sophia '  (he was vainly trying
to catch her fierce eyes. If she would
only look at him, he would magnetise her
with his love),  ' you cannot mean what
you say ? You cannot really mean to
leave me ? I am a living fact in your life.
Part of yourself,  bound by a sacrament of
love, no wrench can seven'

No word came from Sophia In answer, 
further and further she was retreating with
that fixed, white face.

I hoped,' following her with pleading
hands, ' that when you understood me,
you would have deigned to help. Consider,
if I am true to my duty, I am
true to you.'

True ! ' she retorted with a bitter
laugh. ' Yes ! true to your mother.
Break your promise. Tell her that the
daughter of a long line of Eastern kings
is not born to wait. I will have all or
nothing.' And she turned to go. Yet,
scornful as she was, and with the
pride of her Oriental blood tingling
in her veins, she was arrested by the
haooard look on Edward's face,  the

sad, inexpressible tenderness in his grey-eyes.


'Is this your answer. Sophia?' he
asked, following her step by step.

'It is.' She was hurrying onward,
afraid to yield. ' As I give all, I will
have all in return.'

But my mother cannot be your rival.'

I understand it so. Take me. or
leave me, I will not consent to wait.'

The fur\- of jealousy that was working
within gave her no time to think.
Her attitude was superb,  standing in
the centre of the lane. The yellow rays
of the setting sun gathered on her glossy
hair, setting her face in a bright aureole ;
her clear, olive skin, where the veins
rose up so quickly, blanched into a
deathlike hue, the proud lines of her
head, the regal fall of her shoulders, 
the hanging down of her fingers ; the
winter mists risings va2:ue as a back

o

ground ;  but, harden herself as she
would, her limbs trembled, and her
brain whirled.

What could Edward answer ? He was
so amazed, so overwhelmed by the tone
she was taking, for what to him seemed
after all but a temporary sacrifice, speech

VOL. III. G

became difficult. He could not defend his
mother's conduct, nor her mistaken devotion
to himself. Every moment made
him more bitterly repent he had bound
himself to her as he had done ; still, if
Sophia really loved him, there was nothing
which might not be set right. Yet, how
persuade her ? Standing before her he
saw nothing but her eyes lifted to his
with the intensity of flames.

Remember, Sophia, I only ask for
time. In all but the fact of marriage
we are one. I warn you  you will be
brought by the force of my love never
to forgive yourself for having sacrificed
it. Oh, Sophia, I alone to you can embody
love ! '

Go ! ' she answered, looking away,
unwilling to see the dire effect her resolution
was causing. (Can he bear to
leave her ? Will he not put aside all
else for her sake ? She steals a glance
at him. No ; he will not yield in what
he thinks right.)

Are we to part thus ? ' he asks,
watching for some sign of softening.

Yes ; unless you break a promise you
never should have made.'

I am not to come again ? '

Of what use ? I refuse to await your
mother's pleasure.'

What ! never ? '

She bows her head. There is such a
tone of agony in Edward's voice, she
can hardly hold out.

And I am to live without you ? '

It lies in your hand ; '  she speaks
very low,  she is calmer now, and her
face set and bloodless. 'If you can bear
it, I must. I forgot  ' adding quickly,
in a scornful tone, ' your mother will
make amends to you for me.'

Edward's soul is chaos. He is one of
those men long to take resolutions, but,
once made, who never change. To be
forced to forego his promise, even by her,
would be dastardly. Besides, he is conscious
of the selfishness of her conduct.
After all, it is but natural he should not
desire to offend his mother.

He has turned from her. He is covering
his face with his hands. He is free to
go. She has dismissed him. There is
nothing to keep him, yet he cannot bring
himself to leave.

Oh, if I could ! ' he murmurs, with a
heart wrung cry. ' If you would but
take me as I am. I may seem obstinate,

severe ; but oh ! the folly of the woman
who plucks petal by petal of her rose
of love, and scatters it, with all its
fragrance, to the winds.'

At sight of his distress, Sophias heart
gives a great leap. A vision of what
their life might be at Rosebank rose in
her mind. The cool, smooth river, the
line of sun-lit woods, the fantastic turrets
of the modern villa lapped in luxurious
ease, the sunny rays of light athwart the
lawn, the ruddy sunsets of winter through
the trees, and the cool dews of summer
lingering on the buds. Why could she
not share them all with him 1 But
doggedly she shuts the portals of her
heart, and hurries on.

Is it possible?' he pleads, following
her. 'Without one kiss to sweeten the
long years that we must pass alone !
Think to what a solitude you condemn us
both.'

Her cruelty towards himself he must
bear, but the idea of her loneliness wrings
his heart.

What matter } ' she answers, carrying
her head high. ' It is but one life, a lost
existence. You have given me a glimpse
of heaven. Now it is gone ! '

With a glance of swift indignation
Sophia, rushing forward,
almost fell into the arms of
Jane, running at full speed,
Nep tearing after her. Stopping to take
breath, 

Oh, Sophia, I have been looking for
you everywhere. I am so sorry I let
you go alone ; you must have been so
frightened. The hounds are in our wood,
and they have found. Did you meet
them ? What did you do ? ' but seeing
Maitland she stops. Her eyes round
themselves with wonder, Nep also causing
a diversion by the most furious
onslaught on Mainland's horse, quietly
snuffing at the grass, causing it to bound
and rear. ' Is that handsome young man

Maitland?' asks Jane, in an excited
whisper. ' How like he is to Delville.'

A few seconds have sufficed for her to
take in the whole situation, with a perspicacity
beyond her years. They have
met, and quarrelled,  nothing at all extraordinary
to this youthful reader of
romances, whose varied imagination makes
everything easy.

What has he been saying to you that
you look so strange ? '

The two girls are standing in the middle
of the grassy way, where Sophia had
halted. The nervous tension removed,
which had sustained her in face of Maitland,
she feels very faint, and her eyes
fix themselves imploringly on Jane.

Do not speak to me, dear,' she murmurs,
her hands extended, like a blind
person seeking something on which to
rest ; ' I want to be alone ; ' and before
Jane can prevent her, she is again rushing
forward, and is out of sight, her tall figure
losing itself among the breaks of fir-wood
which darken the heath.

By some unknown process she cannot
explain, all Jane's childish terrors and
shyness vanish before this stranger, who,
she decides, must be Maitland. A new

nature reveals itself within her ; a veil
lifts from her eyes ; in a few magical
moments, she passes the borderland
which separates girlhood from womanhood.
Inspired by a strange confidence
in the man before her, she feels
no desire to follow Sophia, whom her
instinct tells her she can serve better
by remaining. The mission she has
proposed to herself is before her  the man
she is to address is here.

Looking at him, as he stands under a
belt of trees, driving off the assaults of
Nep with his hunting crutch, and soothing
his excited horse with voice and gesture,
she seems to behold the embodiment of
all the heroes her fancy had ever conjured
up,  from the broad-chested Perseus of
Ovid's illustrations, sailing down through
boundless space to rescue suffering Andromeda,
to the bold figure of Thaddeus of
Warsaw,  on the title-page of a well-thumped
romance,  sword in hand, leading
on the forlorn hope of Poland.

You are Mr Maitland,' she says, seizing
the rebellious Nep by the collar, and administering
a slap on his shaggy hide,
which, shaking himself all over, he appears
to consider in the light of a caress.

Her fresh, young voice rouses Edward
as out of an evil dream. He looks up.

I am,' he answers, lifting his hat.

He is so stunned by the interview with
Sophia, so amazed by her abrupt departure,
and the cruel persistency of her
refusal, that he hardly cares to speculate
who is this blooming damsel, glowing
with exercise and health, who, like some
woodland nymph, comes bounding over
the heath.

I am Sophia Escott's cousin,' she says,
her voice trembling a little, as Maitland
turns on her his grave, deep-set eyes, 
Lady Danvers' daughter. I live with
Sophia now, since she left Scatlands. You
must know Faulds. There is our house,' 
pointing to the lofty front of the Elizabethan
mansion, backed by woods, towering
over the level extent of fiats, with its
glistening rows of clustered windows, on
which the last sun-flecks fall.

Coming after the storm of his interview
with Sophia, the sweetness of this young
girl, and her winning manners, affect him
like a charm. Again he lifts his hat and
thanks her,  he does not know for what
(he cannot tell her that, by her coming,
she consoles him in a moment of utmost

need),  and, a little awkwardly, he explains
(he is looking at her all the time,
and thinking how different his future
might have been if his beautiful Sophia
possessed something more of her cousin's
feminine address) that he was ' hunting,
and, quite by chance, met Miss Escott.'

As he speaks, he unfastens his horse's
bridle, which he had twisted round a
bough, and is about to mount, when Jane
arrests him, with a blush.

Do, please, excuse me, Mr Maitland,
but I know all Sophia's secrets. Before
you told me, I guessed that it was you.
I hope'  approaching him a little nearer
' you have said nothing to hurt her.
She does love you so  '

Now it is Edward's turn to colour,
under the battery of Jane's clear, brown
eyes, as he bends down to arrange his
hunter's bridle.

'It is Miss Escott herself  ' he says,
then stops.

How can he frame his words so as not
to offend this bright young creature, who,
with a frank smile, bringing out two most
charming dimples about her rosy mouth,
generously places herself as a mediator
between him and her 1

Do you mean to say that Sophia, out
of her own free will, has left you ? Why,
she was dying to see you.' Then, reading
with alarm the grave expression of Maitland's
features, and the pained, haggard
look spread over his whole face,  ' But
you will meet again very soon ; you will
come to Faulds, I am sure,'  a winning
confidence is depicted in her eyes, as
she glances up at him.

(Never, no, never could she have painted
a hero so fitting at all points. How different
to the effeminate Lord Edward ! 
and that sad, melancholy air makes him
all the more touching. Happy Sophia,
to be loved by such a man !)

Alas ! ' is his reply, with a deep sigh,
that is impossible. She forbids it.'

Oh, don't believe her,' she cries, approaching
him still nearer. ' She adores
you. She will die if you quarrel. You
must make allowances for her. Poor
dear! I see her when she is alone. No
one understands her so well as I. She
loves you with her whole heart. Tell meat
once what is the matter. I cannot stay.
If mamma saw me talking to you, she
would be very angry. I am forbidden to
be alone with gentlemen. I do it for

Sophia's sake. Though '  with an arch
little glance, Maitland noted as inexpressibly
charming  ' I do not feel the least
afraid of you. Tell me at once,' she
repeats, looking round, and marking how
dark the evening has grown ; ' I will make
it up.'

That will be more difficult than you
imagine, Miss Dan vers is Edward's answer,
with a weary sigh, as the manifold
embarrassments of his position rise in his
mind. ' It depends on ]\Iiss Escott, not
on me.'

But you can say at least what it is,'
insists Jane. 'You think I am not to be
trusted, but Sophia does.' Then, looking
at Edward fixedly,  ' If it is anything
about Mr Bauer, it is nonsense, I assure
you ; Sophia will not look at him. He is
a good young man, but she does not like
him. Before we left Scatlands, he went
on his knees and offered her everything
he possessed, if she would give him any
hope, but she refused.'

All this shocks Edward beyond expression.
The more Sophia has sacrificed for
his sake, the more he feels the reproach
of his present position. What can he say ?

At his determined silence a look of

infinite distress spreads over Jane's beaming
face. The unconscious disquiet of
her feet shifting from side to side betrays
her impatience.

'How unkind!' she mutters half to
herself 'How unjust! My whole life
devoted to Sophia, and you will not
trust me ! ' Then in a louder tone, with
a touch of anger in it (it is so late, she
espies lights at a cottage door), ' I am
not a child, Mr Maitland, though you
may think so.'

No, indeed ; * and for a moment the
old sunny smile lights up his face.
Sophia  Miss Escott is happy in such
a friend  I leave my cause in your hands.
God grant, for both our sakes, that your
words may carry more force than mine I
But,' and his voice falls, and his brow is
clouded, ' there are things of which a man
cannot speak, even to one  '

What is he going to say ? Does he
know himself ?

More and more this singular girl rivets
his attention. Her perfect simplicity
and womanly persistency, her devotion
to Sophia and forgetfulness of herself,
charm him into listening.

But in face of this obvious failure,

Jane's courage flies. She shrinks before
the fixedness of his earnest glance. The
quiet determination of his manner impresses
her with a sense of awe. He
is the master, and she feels it. For the
first time, she feels bashful and hesitates,
uncertain whether to go or stay ; while
Edward, roused to attention by her
earnestness, notes the grace of her half-startled
movements,  the eager curiosities
passing through her eyes  her restless,
uneasy glances, and the tell-tale working
of her little feet.

What inward tremors they betray.
What unspoken eloquence! If she dared
speak, how she would overwhelm him
with arguments !

Again he sighs and turns to go, with
the bitter thought at his heart that Sophia
Escott so little resembles her cousin.

Good evening. Miss Danvers,' an unconscious
accent of regret in his voice, as
if parting with something he would fain
have kept ; * I hope you will forgive me
if I seem reserved. The truth is, I have
not yet recovered from a blow which has
overwhelmed me.'

Her glance meets his for a moment,
then drops.

I only want you to understand me
she says simply.

That I do,' returns Maitland, bowing
to her as he mounts his horse, which,
as it feels his pressure in the saddle,
rears and jumps, greatly exciting the
approval of Jane by the skill with which
he quiets it.

You will come and see us,' she says,
blushing rosy red as she approaches
dangerously near the legs of the excited
hunter, the veins in its bright chesnut
skin swelling with impatience, as it
tosses its shapely head and paws the
light soil.

Pray, take care,' cries Edward, reining
the horse back ; ' I do not think
so. I am leaving Berkshire. I cannot
tell. Besides, I have not the honour of
knowing Lady Danvers.'

Oh, I will manage all that ! ' exclaims
Jane, breaking into her habitual smiles ;
Mamma said that she should be glad
to receive any one who admires my
cousin.'

That is rather a large margin,' replies
Edward, laughing at the strange simplicity
of this singular girl ; * so much of a woman,
yet all the while such a child. I could

hardly venture to intrude on so general an
invitation.'

I know mamma wanted to ask Mr
Bauer, but Sophia would not hear of it
and again her restless feet note her impatience
to be gone. The light is getting
so dim she ought to be at home, but she
cannot bring herself to go without something
more definite.

I am greatly favoured by being put in
the same category as Mr Bauer,' replies
Edward, a touch of irony in his voice,
which Jane does not understand.

Will you allow me to escort you home,
Miss Danvers  'to Jane, calling loudly to
Nep, careering like an infuriated lion after
a drove of pigs  a moment ago peaceably
burrowing for acorns under an oak  one
he has just caught by the ear is screeching
dismally.

Now Jane would have liked nothing
better than to be accompanied by this
splendid cavalier  not from fear, for she
loves the twilight in the woods  but from
admiration, only the dread of her mother
withheld her.

No, thank you, Mr Maitland, but if
you will help me to get hold of the dog  '
Edward rode forward. In vain. With his

red eyes burning, and his hair bristling,
Nep is now prancing in the middle of the
pigs, which, conscious of their collected
strength, have gathered in a circle round
him and prepare for fight. A few cuts
from Maitland's heavy whip and they are
dispersed, and the vagrant Nep restored
to obedience, his humiliated tail dropped
between his legs ; the pigs, meanwhile, as
if pursued by furies, charging in a body up
a gap into a neighbouring hedge.

A wave of his hand and Edward is gone.
Not so his image, irrevocably impressed
on Jane's imagination.

'Just like Prince Charming in the Blue
Bird,' she is saying to herself as she races
along over the wide stretch of common at
full speed. How can Sophia send him
away ; I never could.'

Unconsciously to herself all through this
interview, she has been drinking to the
dregs a subtle poison, that already is
making itself felt.

After all '  she reflects  ' what good
have I done ? He never said he would
come  nor told me what Sophia and he
had quarrelled about.' * Not to come,'
seemed so sorrowful a conclusion that her
glowing cheeks pale, and her lips tremble.

He thinks I am only a child  ' which Is
a conclusion, In view of his manifold attractions,
so inexpressibly mortifying the
tears rise in her eyes.

Then she begins to take herself to task
for thinking more of herself than of her
cousin, so that, what with Edward's handsome
face, the musical tones of his voice,
and the pathetic glances he cast when
telling how much he had suffered, that by
the time she has reached the foot of the
terraces, her mind is in a state of perturbation
she never knew before*



'm:

VOL. III.

H

slowly Edward Maitland rode
through the grassy roads and
wooded lanes out into the
breaks of common,  the heather
just blushing into life under the breath of
spring ;  then along long dark avenues
dimly shadowed in approaching night, cut
in the thickness of the firs  the wind
breaking overhead in sighs and moans ;
lost in thought, his head bent down, his
reins loose on his hunter's neck  that of
itself picked its way across boggy gaps
and over peaty mounds.

How different from the exhilaration of
the morning start, when, with a light heart
he had ridden out, confident in the ever
present thought that, spite of temporary
separation and harassing obstacles, his

fate and Sophia's were sealed in one.
(The recollection of John Bauer had
never troubled him at all, so certain was
he of his Sophia's love.)

Under the first shock c f their interview
he determined to shut himself up in the
lonely farm-house at E  , where he rented
rooms, on the border of the wild district
which surrounds Faulds. What he most
dreaded, in his present state of mind, was
the friendly visit of Lord Brownhill, who,
full of gratitude since his accident, had been
unremitting in his invitations to Upshire
Park, and had now written to say, that the
first time he went out, he should ride over
and drag him from that ' confounded hole

To return home was impossible. towards
his mother, he felt at that momenta
rancour he dared not analyse. To meet
Miss Sterne, triumphant in her revenge,
would be a humiliation he could not brook.
How much or how little her fiendish jealousy
had brought about the downfall of
his hopes, he cared not now to inquire.
Never could the same roof cover them
again !

His mother had written constantly
imploring him to return. She had seen
Mrs Winter and had wormed out of her

that Sophia was with Lady Danvers.
But, fortunately, her knowledge of geography
being limited, she had not taken in
that Faulds was in Berkshire, and near to
E  . But, alas ! In all these letters, ill-written
and almost illegible, except to him,
the same bitter animosity pervaded all she
said,  the same abuse, the same opposition.
With pardonable maternal irreverence,
she insinuated that it was nothing
less than an interposition from on High
that anything  even absence from her 
had brought about his severance from
that God-forgotten Indian girl. ' Suicidal
mania and hereditary Insanity ' were
not mentioned, but the full sense was Inferred.


No  the struggle with himself must be
fought out alone ; the battle between every
fixed belief, every household tradition, and
the woman that he loved.

It was now that he first dimly recognised
the danger of yielding off-hand to
mere personal attractions ; the reaction
which follows, the self-accusation,  the
heart emptiness  the shattering of the
Idol which, sooner or later, is almost certain
to ensue.

In love, as In all else, there must be

reciprocity. To a grave though passionate
nature, marriage must be the corresponding
balance of intellectual and physical
attractions, reasonable sympathy, and
kindred affinities,  else that which began
in flame must soon come to end in ashes.

Sophia had led him captive by her
beauty, and appealed to him by her misfortunes.
He had given her credit for all
those womanly graces he most prized, and
had trusted to her to become, not only the
joy of his own life, but the support and
comfort of his parents.

But her imperious refusal to consider, or
even to discuss his position, argued a headstrong
will. No consideration for him had
weighed with her. No arguments born of
his love. Rather than yield, she had resigned
him altogether. As if weary of
playing the character of goddess  she had
descended from her pedestal, and become
as others are, reproachful, unjust, exacting.
The sacred veil that shrouded her was rent
in twain, the sanctity of their love made
common ground.

How it had come about he could not
say, but Sophia had suddenly fallen in his
eyes to the level of an ordinary mortal  in
some respects below it. There was the

sting too,  the folly of a blind, unquestioning
faith, taking for granted all it
desired  setting up, as it were, the back of
his pride, and bringing out in full relief
her unworthy qualities. It was failure 
absolute failure.

Looking at the matter calmly in solitude,
Edward could not but feel that, with all
her natural dignity, and that reserve and
coldness which sat on her so well, it washer
physical beauty which had enthralled
him. He had fancied that the soul
animating that mask of faultless features
must correspond, and echo it as note to
sound.

As there was nothing small or mean in
her person  so he fondly argued  there
could be nothing ennoble or selfish in her
mind. Had he found it so ?

She had delighted his imagination  she
had flattered him with her passionate attachment,
 but was she the Sophia he
had painted to himself ?

It is true that, even at their first meeting,
he had become aware that her way of
looking at life was not worthy of her.
That she gave way to sudden bursts of
temper, and was wanting in the more
feminine graces of patience and resignation,

to a man of Edward's type so necessary
in a true woman.

The ideal of his love had been wounded,
but it was not a deadly wound, and her
beauty and the love she bore him had
skinned it over. But this time she had
struck him sharply to the very core. He
was writhing in the death-agony of his love.
Could that love survive such a cruel blow
as she had dealt him ? Could that be real
which carried with it no softness  no yielding
? Was so harsh a temper in one so
young what he had given her credit for ?
Was she any longer the Sophia he had
evoked, but rather a beautiful stranger who
had crossed his path ?

Edward was very upright, very honourable.
He was neither vain, nor arrogant,
nor self-deceiving, but, he asked himself,
how could he bring home a wife who had
not the delicacy to feel for his position ?
Who would rather renounce him altogether
than show any regard to the wishes of his
parents ? Not only would it be misery to
himself, but an absolute breaking up of the
quiet felicity of their home. Was this the
gratitude he owed them ? They had
slaved to make him wealthy, and the very
coarseness which had adhered to them in

their worldly advancement, might have
been otherwise but for their simple desire
to accumulate riches for him.

It was a terrible and protracted struggle.
For awhile his better judgment prevailed.
He resolved never to see Sophia again.
Then came to him a picture of her desolateness
; the desert which her own wilful
nature had created ; and his heart
softened, and a wild longing came over
him, to breathe the air about her, to touch
her, to feel the fragrance of her breath, to
intoxicate himself in the enchantment of
her presence ; and again and again he
recoiled from his determination.

For the first time in his life Edward
could not make up his mind. One
moment his reason told him to acquiesce
in his dismissal ; the next brought to
him waves of remembrance that lapped
his heart and senses in folds of blindest
ecstasy.

It was well coldly to tell himself, over
and over again, all Sophia's faults and
shortcomings. That might be all true,
but, warm from her presence, could he
cease to love her ? Abandon her to her
own hard will i  No !  a thousand times
No ! Might she not have repented her

last bitter words ? Should he not give
her the opportunity to say so ? It was
cruel,  it was unmanly to expect too
much. He hated himself for doing it ; he
hated what had given occasion for it.
Every look, every grace, was fondly
remembered. He would tread lightly on
her faults, bear delicately on her failings.

But, alas ! what a dreary outlook ! 
What obstinate incompatibility ! As pole
from pole was his mother to Sophia,
and he the Atlas to bear the burden of
both!

Thus his mind balanced to and fro for
some days, until he came to a kind of
truce with himself. He would entreat
to be allowed to see Sophia ; then, kneeling
at her feet, with all the earnestness of
his fervid nature, he would implore her to
unsay her words.

Jane was far too conscientious to conceal
from her mother any particular of her
interview with ]maitland.

After her wild scamper home in the
dark,  a race, in fact, between the dog
and her,  which reduced her, with wildly
flying hair and crimson cheeks, to such
a condition of breathlessness she could

hardly articulate,  she went straight to
her mother's room, expecting to be reprimanded
for staying out so late.

But, with that singular indifference which
marked Lady Danvers' conduct to all concerning
the freedom of her outdoor life,
Jane found her mother calmly engaged In
finishing some letters before dinner, and perfectly
ignorant that she had been out at all.

Sit down on that stool, child,' Lady
Danvers said, looking up, * and try to get
your breath.' Then, laying down her pen,
the strong reflection of a lamp falling across
her aquiline features, curiously scanning the
face of her panting daughter, she listened
to her eager tale. ' Were you alone, or
was Miss Oxley with you ? ' she asked.

No, mamma, only Nep. Do you think '
in a reproachful tone  ' I should have
spoken to him before that nasty old
thing ? ' Lady Danvers smiled. Provided
her own authority was upheld, she
cared little for the ridicule cast on others.
Then Jane expatiated on the perfections
of Maitland, until her mother desired her
to hold her tongue. ' But you would think
the same, mamma, if you saw him,  I am
sure you would. Why not invite him here,
and judge for yourself ? '

That depends on Sophia,' answered
Lady Dan vers, gravely, leaning back in
her arm-chair, the dark hangings of the
room forming a sombre background, and
turning over her rings with a slow, thoughtful
action. ' What has passed between
you and her ? '

Nothing, mamma. When I came
home, I found she had locked herself into
her room, and there she has remained
ever since. She spoke to me through
the door, and said she was ill, and could
not come down to dinner. I asked her
what I could do for her, and she answered,
Nothing. All she wanted was to be
left alone. Oh, mamma, I feel so sorry
for her ! '  and Jane turned her glistening
eyes imploringly on her mother, in the
hope that, in her superior experience, she
might suggest some solace to assuage
Sophia's woe.

But in this she was doomed to disappointment.
Lady Danvers preserved
a stony silence, and that hard, inexorable
look came into her face Jane so
dreaded. When her mother looked like
that, Jane knew she might as well address
a stone.

This is a matter,' said she, contemplating

with evident displeasure the
intenseness with which Jane was watching
her, * for my sole consideration.
She is under my care.'

The influence that Sophia was exercising
over Jane she thoroughly disapproved.
This vehemence of interest was a proof
of it. It must be stopped.

Get up, Jane, and don't be a fool,'
she added, in her most chilling tones.
What are your cousin's love affairs to
you . I shall speak to her myself by-and-by,
and on her answer will depend
whether she remains here, or returns to
my sister. Amelia has written to say
that she is ready to take her back at
any moment I may desire.'

Oh, mamma ! ' interjected Jane, pressing
forward with eager, outstretched hands.
You would not send her away ? It would
kill her to go back to Scatlands. Indeed
it would.' At these repeated interferences,
Lady Danvers became seriously displeased,
and she showed it. Drawing up her
tall figure, she addressed Jane with an
emphasis which boded no good to her
ardent hopes.

I must remind you that it was
entirely against my judgment that I

received Sophia into my house. Her rebellious
temper and obstinate self-will make
her a dangerous companion for any girl.
But I had hoped, In your good sense and
duty, not to be Infected by what is so
wronof- I see I am mistaken. Ever since
Sophia came, you have sided with her in
all her caprices, and supported her in a sort
of mute opposition to me.'

Oh, mamma ! ' exclaimed Jane, fixing
on her mother the light of her speaking
eyes. ' Indeed, I have not done so
knowingly. I love Sophia dearly, but I
have never encouraged her to oppose
you. Indeed, she has not attempted it,
so far as I know.'

That is a matter of opinion,' replied
Lady Danvers coldly. * At all events,
you identify yourself with her. As to her
visit here, it was always understood to
be but temporary. What becomes of her
ultimately will depend upon what passes
between us when I speak to her. As
to yourself, you will do well to look on
her as a warning, rather than an example.
Of course I cannot help your liking her.
I feel as you do, that her position is a
hard one. But at present that is entirely
her own fault. I have no patience with

a penniless girl who refuses an excellent
marriage. None at all she added, tightening
her large, white hands together,
until the bones stood out, as she recalled
how family distress had driven her in the
bloom of youth to accept the hard-favoured
soldier who had tyrannised over her early
years. * When Sophia came, I was well
inclined towards her, but her sullen temper
has disgusted me beyond bounds.'

And what has she done ? ' Jane was
bursting out, when the graveness of her
mother's air warned her to silence.

I am not accountable to you for my
opinions. Instead of meddling in what
you have no concern,  think about your
own position. I am far from satisfied
with your behaviour to Lord Edward.
I have arranged an advantageous marriage
for you while you are young, specially to
prevent the possibility of such a crisis
arising as in Sophia's case. I deprecate
violent attachments of all kinds ; they are
vulgar and out of place. People living
in a certain monde control their feelings.
You must learn this. You will be received
into a ducal family of the highest
rank with the truest affection. Can you
desire more ? ' With a searching glance

at the crestfallen little figure standing with
bent head, a fluff of curls, before her, she
paused, then continued, 

The duchess, who is really attached to
you, will take my place. Lord Edward  '
here she hesitated, and left her sentence
unfinished. ' At the death of his uncle,
Lord Duncan, he will come into a large
fortune. Your behaviour to him when he
came here was not what I expected.'

And his to me, rnamma ? ' answered
Jane, plucking up a little spirit, as the
manliness of Maitland rose in her mind,
contrasted to the pettish insolence of the
little lord. ' He was downright rude tome
when we went out for a walk.'

Nothing but boyish embarrassment
provoked by yourself,' answered Lady
Danvers sharply, sore at the opposition
to her favourite scheme. * He did not
come up to your novel-reading notions ; 
nor will any one, if you listen to the wild
romances of your cousin, with her savage
Buddhist notions of earth-gods and spirits.
That sort of nonsense is not new to me, 
my poor brother fell into it in later life.'

But Sophia never saw Lord Edward
argued Jane. ' I was afraid to call her
down.'

No matter, there is such a thing as
mute influence,  specially with girls of
your age. It is most dangerous. She
ought never to have come at all,' she
murmured, as if speaking to herself,
Jane catching the words in blank consternation.
' I advise you,  instead of
star-gazing with Mr Maitland on the
heath,  to look after your own affairs.
They are quite enough to occupy such
a little simpleton as you. The ball at
Upshire Park takes place in a few days.
You know how I wish you to behave.
Although I disapprove dressing up young
girls, I have taken great pains with your
ball dress, to please the duchess.' (She
had directed Miss Oxley to do so, but for
herself had done nothing.) ' It is ordered
in London ; white Brussels lace on white
satin, with knots of roses and lilies.'

Oh, mamma ! ' exclaimed Jane, clapping
her hands in an ecstasy of delight.
White satin ! Why, it is like a bride.'

Well, and if it is, is it not appropriate
'. A bride, or shortly to become
one. It is all the same.' And again
she gave one of those searching glances
which seemed to read into the recesses
of Jane's inmost soul.

But, mamma,' she murmured, her brain
turning as in a maze,  ' surely you will
give me time? You will not force me?'
Her eyes filled with tears,  one big drop
over-brimming finding its way down her
cheek, and melting into the dimples about
her lips.

You are my only child,' was the
answer. ' Whatever is my duty towards
you, will be done, you may be sure ; '
then, with a softened voice, ' Jane, I
need not tell you, you are all the world
to me.' As she spoke. Lady Danvers
rose, and drawing her to her, gave her one
of those rare kisses she so seldom bestowed,
then signing for her to go,  ' I
must finish these letters before dinner,*
pointing to a heap of papers on the
table, ' and the first bell has rung.'

This conversation left Jane in such a
state of mental confusion, she felt as if she
should never be able to think clearly again.
If Sophia still insisted in refusing ?maitland,
whom would he marry ? It was her
duty to reconcile them, that was clear.
Her duty and her pleasure. And then ?
And then ? Would he care to remember
the little peacemaker who had bridged the

VOL. III. I

abyss Sophia's will had sunk between
them ? Would he thank her ? And
Sophia ? In the fulness of her girlish
fondness she had said, she could ' bear
anything if Sophia were happy.' Those
Avoids came to her now with a sharp
pang. Why should Sophia's union with
Maitland be anything but a matter of rejoicing
? Had she not willingly dedicated
herself to her ?

She was standing under the carved
niches in the great hall where the shadows
had gathered at the foot of the broad staircase,
losing itself in gloom among folds of
huge picture frames and tapestry. The
light still flickered on the big latticed casements,
and a star or two gleamed in the
frosty sky.

A dull pain came to her as she stood
there ; a strange desolate longing ! How
little value she was to any one ! Sophia
had Maitland. Whom had she ? Why
she began to cry she could not have told,
but she did, bitterly for a few minutes. A
great solitude seemed gathering round her.
No one In whom to confide. So much to
tell, yet when she came to consider it, no
one to listen !

Step by step she ascended the oak staircase
to her room. If she could only have
gone to Sophia ! If her mother were less
hard ! The whole world seemed turned
against her. Yet of what had she to
complain ? Then, as if her rapid steps
would free her from herself, she rushed
down the ancient gallery which traversed
the whole of the upper storey to an oriel
window at the end, and sank sobbing on
a bench, her hands pressed to her head.

If life was to be so difficult, what could
she do ? '

Bring had come in early April.
The west winds blew softly,
laden with vernal scents, clouds
roll across a blue sky ; a bounteous
sunshine plays on the outlines of
the great trees, and on the underwood
of coppice just reddening into bud. The
grassy glades and verdant alleys winding
along the chase, shine in a fresh greenness.
The little brooks take a deeper tint over
beds of dark moss and reeds  the lazy
river London overflows with abundant rain,
and nosegays form themselves on its grassy
brink of yellow flags and purple grasses,
bee orchids and stitchwort, in a matching
of colour no mortal could achieve. Gnats
dance in the air, the song of the thrush and
the blackbird echoes in the woods. The

young lambs bleat In the meadows,
and the frogs chirrup under the damp
banks.

Already the honeysuckles show signs
of life ; the ankle and dog mercury are
thrusting up curled leaves ; the white
buds of the wild violets gleam in the
warm uplands under the fallen leaves ;
the hawthorn in the hedges puts forth
green shoots ; primroses tuft themselves
on the dark soil of the shelving lanes ;
withys canopy themselves with fluffy
palms, and the dark network of nut
branches are tangled with pink.

Though the year is young, already the
days are lengthening,  the mornings open
with a gentle breeze ; the evenings at
sunset glow with a yellow light, and the
sunbeams have power, for the equinox is
near.

Marvellous is the change. Everything
in field and woodland prospers and smells
sweet ; the intoxication of spring is in the
air. The young corn shoots upwards in
the furrows in delicate green sheaths ; the
bees go from crocus to snowdrop with the
voice of spring ; the plum and the apricot
whiten on the garden walls ; the cherry
in the hedge, and the homely wallflowers

and stocks In the borders wake up as with
a kiss.

To this general rejoicing the heart of
Jane responds. Sad as she went to bed
last night, and haunted even in her sleep
by the desire to comfort Sophia, the morning
brings to her fresh ebbs of joy. Seen
under this medium how sweet and entrancing
life appears. Surely no one can
be unhappy in a world so fair !

No hour is too early for her to rise, and
race over the gravel walk, and up and
down the flights of steps connecting the
terraces, the keen morning air puffing in
her face. There is a magnetic ecstasy in
the mere act of motion as she bounds along
on those impatient feet of hers. The dog
leaping after her, breaking the morning
silence with his jocund barks.

(Never at any time a dog of judgment,
at this moment Nep has altogether lost
his head. Dashing at her spasmodically,
his big paws have torn her dress, wildly
barklnof the while at the havoc he has
made. She caring but little about it,
stopping to knot up the rent, then running
after him at frantic speed towards a drove
of geese, splashing in a muddy pond, their

long projecting necks and fluttering wings
open to engulph them. But what matter ?
Both Nep and his mistress strung up to
pleasure's highest pitch bound on.

A wild chase succeeds across the 
in which the dog beats, then with
a miraculous power of vision, and giving
loud tongue, he circles at full speed round
an ash where he spies a squirrel perched
upon a bough.

At last, panting and out of breath, Jane
visits her pets  gravely discoursing to the
cow-boy, who stands by, leaning on his fork
with stupid eyes and listens, as to a young
oracle, regarding the food to be dispensed
to a litter of pigs, whose savage-minded
mamma Is suspected of infanticide.

The spaniel puppies, nestling among the
fresh stable straw In a basket are engrossing,
and Muff, their young mother (inclined
to snap) has nevertheless to be decorated
with a blue ribbon about her neck; Nep,
with big flaming eyes, looking on. The
intense jealousy which rages in his breast
assuaged by a fussy bark. Round and
round, Muff intent on her maternal duties,
he ambles, snuffing at her condescendingly
as at a troublesome person fortunately removed
out of his path. A dog's thoughts

cannot be read. Perhaps Nep flatters
himself her absence may be permanent,
and he proudly kicks with his hind legs
morsels of straw into her face.

Then a young calf has to be visited, tied
to a stake in a nook of unkept shrubbery
behind the stable ; the mother-cow, fierce
in her injured maternity, separated by an
ill-kept fence, at which she butts perseveringly,
the calf replying in angry moans.

As to the horses, Jane would have lived
in the stable if she dared,  caring not one
whit for risk of kicks or bites in entering
the stalls,  but that was a pleasure firmly
forbidden by her mother, though she did
now and then edge herself in with a guilty
glance at the groom, touching his cap with
a deprecatory air,  her hands full of sugar
for a favourite mare, which, whinnying,
welcomes her and turns its head.

Then, with her hat thrown back, and
hanging on her back, her soft hair flowing
dishevelled about her, and her torn dress
knotted up like a kilt, she is kneeling on
the damp stones of the ancient orangery,
with its stone gargoyles and fretted roof,
gathering every flower she can find for
Sophia. Nep, not satisfied at the prospect,
seated on his haunches wagging his wiry

tail, and with intense doggish eyes asking
as plainly as language can say it, * Take
me a walk.' * No, Nep, no. Impossible
to-day,' answers Jane, patting his eager
nose ; ' you must take nothing for granted,'
to which he responds by a depression of
his tail, lifting up his head, and giving a
little whine.

Then the breakfast-bell rings, and Jane,
aghast at the appearance of her frock, with
one bound rushes into the house to confront
Miss Oxley, and confess to having
gone out and forgotten to practise her
scales.

But he is beautiful,' cries Jane, bursting
into Sophia's room an hour later, her
flowers in her hand. * Like a Greek god !
How can you find it in your heart to
quarrel with him ? '

Sophia starting as if a bullet had struck
her ; and, half rising, cast on her so strange
a glance, it seemed as if some evil soul
had passed into her eyes. She was lying
stretched on a couch where she had fluor
herself last night,  too bewildered fully
to realise the sudden calamity which had
befallen her.

It was a pretty room, with high latticed

windows, through which the sun poured,
spite of the still drawn curtains, which
flung a crimson glow upon the high, sable-draped
bed and sombre furniture  looking
out on the turfy bowling-green, set
with quaint borders of boxwood and yew,
and beyond a sunk fence the majestic outline
of the avenues of ancestral firs, lifting
their tawny masthead to the sky.

But, Sophia,' cried Jane, casting herself
down on the floor beside her, and
grasping her cold hand, will you not speak
to me, your little Jane ? '

Something in Jane's words broke the
spell of her suffering ; she rose, and sat
up, then with a low and exceedingly
bitter cry, stretched out her hands.

Beautiful  yes ! ' she whispered.
And I did love him ! He might have
known it.'

She had thrown a white dressing-gown
round her when she first returned last
night, and it clung to her  to Jane's
fanciful imagination  like the folds of a
shroud. She shuddered as she looked at
her. Surely nothing living could be so
ashy as the white misery of her face,  her
eyes heavy and dark under the lids, her
lips dry and colourless, the thick folds of

her long hair twisted In and out about her
head intensifying her pallor.

But I am come to make It up,' eagerly
cried Jane, all the warmth and tenderness
of her nature strung up to an intenseness
of sympathy. ' He asked me, Maitland
did. He trusted me. Everything shall be
put right if you will only tell me the cause.
He asked me himself  I come from him.'

'No, no!' exclaimed Sophia abruptly,
'that cannot be. He never saw you before
; he could say nothing to you he did
not to me. You dare not come in between
him and me ! '

She rose and tried to stand, but would
have fallen if Jane had not put her arms
round her,  and half-supported, half-led
her to a low chair before the fire, where
her head dropped wearily against a pile
of cushions at the back, Jane hanging over
her in a passion of tenderness, chafing her
icy fingers, which she repeatedly raised to
her lips.

I am better now,' said Sophia faintly,
trying to disengage herself from Jane.
Thank you. Only restless for want of
sleep. Forgive me for making a scene.
I hate It. I am very tired, and my head
feels so strange.'

There was an underlying reproach in
Sophia's manner, a nascent sense of injury,
which wounded the ardent girl to
the heart's core. When she burst into the
room with the flowers, which lay scattered
on the floor, she would willingly have
offered her life's blood for Sophia. Now,
without knowing why, she felt put aside
and ill at ease.

But you will surely tell me why you
fell out,' pleaded Jane, rallying gallantly
to the sense of her duty.

Ah, then, he did not show you that
amount of confidence when he made you his
deputy,' was Sophia's ambiguous answer,
lifting her weary eyes with a sudden flash,
as she sat languidly swaying herself to and
fro before the fire  which dazzled and perplexed
Jane. * Do you not think I had
better follow his example ', Of what use
is it to discuss the past ? '

Oh, do not play with me like this,' cried
Jane, coming very close, her little dimpled
mouth quivering painfully. * It is too
hard,' and she clasped her hands. ' Why
are you so changed ? What have I done ?
Why may I not help you .' '

No one can help me,' answered Sophia,
in a low tone. ' They may harm me, but

cannot help me. The good spirits have left
me, and so will you.'

Never, never,' cried Jane, in a wild
paroxysm of affection, folding her in her
arms. ' Have I not sworn that your happiness
is mine ? If you would only speak.
There must be some misunderstanding 
some mistake  he is so good, so noble !
Such a king among men ! Do you know,
Sophia, as he stood there in the Red Lane,
shading his face that I might not see how
he suffered, and spoke in that sweet voice,
I thought that, of all living creatures,
you had won the handsomest and the
best ! And he was not at all offended
either at what I said, and almost told me
everything. I promised for you, Sophia,
indeed I did. I took upon myself to make
it up. I asked him to come here.'

To all this Sophia listened with downcast
head.

Nothing can be more easy,' she said,
with affected calm. ' You seem to have
become so well acquainted with him
already, why refer to me ? '

But, Sophia, how strange you are ! ' exclaimed
Jane, not in the least understanding
the jealous passion that was working
at her heart. * Surely you would see him

when he comes only for you ? What am
I but your double  your little friend? I
want to act for both. Are you and he not
one ? '

No,' she answered, as, sunk in her
own dark thoughts, she rose, and paced
up and down the room, her arms folded
over her heart to still and crush its beating,
and jerking out her words, as if each
phrase was forced from her. * Not if you
have gifted him with all the perfections
in the world, which I have no doubt he reciprocates.
You have all I want : riches,
position, prosperity, and friends.' (With
what scathing bitterness it came over
her,  his hardness, his worldliness. Would
his mother have stood between them, had
she not lost her father, and become dependent
and poor ? At Faults she had
come to understand more of English customs,
and had heard much that to her
understanding seemed mean and sordid.
The image of Jane's fresh young face,
and the consciousness that she possessed
all which had once been hers,
added fuel to the flame of her anger.)

Sophia, you do me a great wrong,'
was Jane's answer, immeasurably shocked
as the meaning of Sophia's words shot

through her mind, the flush on her face
deepening to a swift, indignant scarlet.
If ever one was true to another, I am
so to you.'

True, yes, I believe it, until you
saw him. Can you look me in the face,
and deny that you love him ? ' She
paused in her weary walk, and fixed
her deep eyes full on the trembling
girl  her face white as marble,  even
her lips bloodless. No look of life was
in her.

Jane covered her face with her hands.
Her conscience smote her before the fixedness
of those glassy orbs. Never to herself
had she owned it. Now face to face
with Sophia, she found not a word to say.

I know it,' murmured Sophia, resuming
her pacing. ' All gone,  all turned
against me,  even my little Jane.'

Sophia, Sophia ! ' her honest eyes fixed
fearlessly on the other's face. Then,
springing up and seizing her in a wild
embrace, her lips pressed to the other's
poor cold cheeks,  ' No reproaches shall
part us. I never said it. You frighten
me. I don't know what I mean. I do
admire Maitland, but it is for you 
Tell me, only tell me, what I can do.

I feel as If my love for you could move
mountains.'

Perhaps,' was the cold answer, * but it
will not take out that which Is growing in
your heart. I saw it when you entered, 
he has cast his spell upon you.'

Jane's spirit sank within her ; her eager
arms fell to her side. Her whole soul
revolted against the falseness of the
charge. By no word or look had she
justified Sophia's accusation. But was it
true ? Painfully and vividly the whole
scene of the meeting rose before her.
Maitland's tall, manly figure, erect
against the evening sky, his gracious face
as he reasoned,  the passion of his
words. What could she have done
more ? Then, with a terrified start, she
remembered the warning of her mother,
not to interfere ; and the distracting fear
came over her that Sophia would repulse
Maitland, under the Impression of this
fatal jealousy. At this thought all her
tenderness welled up afresh.

Darling Sophia ! ' she cried, ' I am all
for you. I do not think of myself.
Whether I care for Maitland or not,
does not matter. You must be reconciled.
If you hold out, I do not know

what will happen. You love him, why
let some foolish quarrel part you ? If
it were a great thing, I should have
known it. Oh, yield, do yield ! '

The two girls stood opposite each
other  Jane, slender, and beaming as a
fresh-blown rose, her undulating figure
full of childish grace,  her brown, supplicating
eyes rounded,  her little hands
stretched out in an agony of entreaty, her
whole frame vibrating like some delicate
human instrument, whose cords awaited the
master-touch. Sophia, with the majesty of
a dethroned queen, trembling with passion
her Indian blood on fire. The vagrant
spirit that was in her bursting into flame.
With a wild gesture she rushed forward
as if she would sweep Jane from the
earth.

And you can stand there and own
that you love him, and offer your
treacherous help ! For shame, for shame !
Begone out of my sight ! ' And in a
whirlwind of passion she drove her from
the room.

VOL. III.

N hour later Sophia was dressed,
and seated before Lady Danvers
in one of that long, low suite of
rooms adjoining the hall, into
which no one ever penetrated without a
special summons.

I have sent for you,' said that august
lady, seated at her desk, her handsome
face immovable in its perfect composure,
to speak on a subject which, I fear, I have
neglected too long. Sit down, my dear,
and try to listen to what I have to say.'

Something about Sophia's entrance,
some little trick of face or carriage,  the
dull expression of her clouded eyes, as
she turned them on her aunt, with a
scared, weary look, as of some animal
brought to bay  forcibly brought before

Lady Danvers the image of her dead
brother. That was the look he must
have worn when, overwhelmed by ruin
and remorse, he had lifted his hand to
take away his life. And Sophia was in
trouble, and had taken refuge in her
house, and if she would change that
sullen temper and obey her, she might
take her daughter's place.

Under the pressure of these thoughts
her aspect softened, her voice took a
tone of unusual gentleness, and the
manner in which she offered Sophia a
chair, was more cordial than anything
that had passed between them since she
came to Faulds.

I hear from Jane that you have met
Mr Maitland,  accidentally, I believe?'
Sophia bent her head without speaking.
At his name, thus openly pronounced, a
pang struck through her. This putting
them together made her realise the more
how much they were apart.

Surely, Sophia, all this was needless.
Had you chosen to acquaint me with
your mutual feelings, I should have been
happy to invite him here. I had heard
of him from my sister, but I did not
know you were engaged.'

Sophia was so weakened by the weary-sorrow
of the past night, that the soft
gentleness of Lady Danvers made the
tears rush into her eyes. She turned
away her head to brush them off.

We are not engaged,' was her answer,
feeling as at the scarifying of a bleeding
wound. ' We never were. Now we are
parted. We shall never meet again.'

And why ? ' asked Lady Danvers, in
an irritated tone. At least, she felt, this
penniless niece she pitied might have
deferred to her before deciding,  asked
her counsel,  implored her help. * Why ? '

That,' answered Sophia, ' I must decline
to tell. There are many reasons
that part us ; but one is a condition to
which I cannot accede.' Her voice
sounded thick, and her words came slow.
This open discussion of her inmost soul
was agony to her. Hardly could she
contain herself sufficiently not to rise
and go.

Then you mean to say,' continued Lady
Danvers, with rising anger,  leaning back
in her chair, and bringing the battery of
her clear hard eyes to bear full on Sophia,
' that as you dismissed Mr Bauer capriciously
at Scatlands, spite of all warning

and advice, you are doing the same now ?
Do you remember what I then gave as my
opinion of the conduct of a young woman
dependent on her friends, who persisted in
refusing an advantageous marriage ? How
much more now, when, as I hear, you love
Mr Maitland.'

Love him ! ' echoed Sophia, waiting a
moment before she replied, catching her
breath, in a silent spasm, which made her
press her hand to her side, her ears drumming
with a sound like the peal of an
organ,  ' Yes, that is why I will not
marry him.'

This speech but tended to increase Lady
Danvers' indignation. Here was this impossible
girl, towards whom the common
blood flowing in their veins had warmed,
for whose desolate position she had, buta
moment before, felt real compassion 
putting her advice aside, as if it did not
concern her ; she, whom she had taken
into her house, and would have married
with the eclat which became her niece,
and started in the world, dowered with
her beauty,  the only creditable relation
she had alive ; here was this girl, despising
her, and rushing on her fate, deep down into
that family abyss of misery and distress

into which one after the other of her kin
had fallen. It was intolerable, exasperating
! She must be mad, she thought, as
she turned a haughty glance at her, which
brought a flush of colour into Sophia's face,
dying away again into the same marble hue.

Have you considered what this will
lead to ? ' she asked, with frigid courtesy.

I have,' answered Sophia, firmly ; ' and
I am prepared.'

If, for the second time, you refuse to
marry an excellent man who loves you, you
cannot remain here. I would not countenance
my own daughter in such a course.'

I am prepared to go,' answered Sophia,
with a natural dignity so true, even the
anger of Lady Dan vers faded before it, asa
thing of nought.

What ! penniless ?'
Yes.'

And alone ? '

Yes, alone ! Whither I go, no one can
follow me.'

Have you any money ? What are your
plans . '

Permit me,' said Sophia, rising, 'after
this interview, to think them over. As
yet, I am unprepared.'

Do you need help ? ' Sophia's lips

moved, but no words came. ' As my
brother's child, remember, whatever you
are in need of, I will supply most willingly.
If you desire to return to Scatlands, my
sister will receive you. If you wish to
earn a living  But, let me hope,' she said,
bringing her speech into a kinder tone,

that all this is useless. A mere display
of temper,  and that you will be better
advised than, with your tender nurture, to
go out alone into the world. A step which
my brother, your father, would have disapproved
beyond all words. It is in his
name I warn you. Poor Charles ! '

At her father's name Sophia started,
and, overcome by silent suffering, clasped
her hands. ' I cannot change,' she murmured
; ' it is too late.' Then, mastering
herself by a great effort, ' I thank you,
Lady Danvers,' she said, more calmly.

You mean well. Perhaps, had we spoken
sooner all might have changed, but my
mind is made up now, and I will go.'

Not hurriedly, or angrily,' said her
aunt, taking her hand, impressed by the
majestic composure that marked Sophia's
words. Had she complained or protested,
cried or used hard words. Lady Danvers
would have dismissed her without a

thought ; but this measured speech, and
calm oriental dignity, found such an echo
in her own proud soul, her heart yearned
towards her as it had never done before.

'Think it all over,' she said, laying her
large white hand on Sophia's arm. ' Decide
at leisure  no one presses you. Think
of what you are resigning in refusing such
a man as Mr Maitland. I hear nothing
but good of him. Do nothing in a hurry.
Jane,' she continued, with a smile, which
found no response in Sophia's colourless
face, ' will miss you greatly. Remember
you need not go.'

But she listened without understanding;
her soul was far away, in that sunlit
land where life had been all joy, where
her father had lapped her in arms of ineffable
fondness, and Zebula hovered round
her to ward the very winds of heaven from
rudely touching her.

So worn was she  so broken by want
of rest  so desolate in her loneliness, so
hopeless,  even her little Jane turned false,
and gone against her,  that, fumbling as
one blind, she found the door and turned
the handle.

Sophia, you are suffering,' said Lady
Danvers, rising and following her. ' Be

wise, my dear, reconcile yourself with
Maitland, and stay with me.'

Never,' cried Sophia, drawing herself
up to her full height, her fierce black
eyes flashing, and the long eastern eyebrows
raised, on the tawny richness of
her brow,  and with a quick step she closed
the door.

Slowly she passed through the long
suite of Tudor rooms  the walls alight
with a sort of dull magnificence, the
brocades and the velvets, the carvings
and the marbles calling out for a
gorgeous company which was not thereinto
a long stone gallery narrow and
vaulted  here and there a quaint old
deep-set casement  breaking the wall.
At the end a disused chapel, mouldy and
dusty, with an half-open door. Here
she took refuge. It was so still and
calm, the huge arched rafters making a
kind of throne of the disused altar, where
tufts of faded natural flowers bloomed
woefully in the shadows. Seated on the
remnants of what had once been a carved
stall blackened with neglect and age (for
many years the inhabitants of Faulds
have been staunch Protestants), conflicting
thoughts crowded into her brain. It was

all over then. Again ' she was adrift.'
She must go  what matter ? One word
would end it. Never could she bring herself
to speak that word. He was no true
man to ask it.

Alas ! was there no spirit among those
Zebula evoked that would help her in her
need? Zebula! As the name came to her the
air seemed to ring with the curses she would
call down on those who ill-used her child !
To prefer the vulgar pride of his mother
to the treasure of her love ! What was she
to him compared with her ? And to divide
himselffromher by a promise! Alas! This
was not what she had pictured ! A cold,
poor heart ! Duty ! Had he no duty to her ?

At the thought of her loneliness blank
misery overcame her. She turned her
throbbing head towards the wall.

Why is he so cruel as to sacrifice me
to another ? Rather than submit to the
insults of his family I would willingly die ! *

Die ! Had not Zebula told her to die if
the world was too hard ? Had she not
furnished her with the swift means ? How
often she had pressed that poison to her
breast, as a miser handles his treasure 1
Die ! and know that her spirit would return
to sojourn in a glorious day among

her people, far from this land of gloom and
anguish. Die ! And entomb her love forever,
in a sepulchre of night  as a thing
born  but to perish ; an unripe fruit 
nipped ere its prime,  never to be gathered
by that beloved hand  nor consecrated
by the avowal of a kindred soul !

Then the charm of his voice came to her
in its rich, deep tones. She seemed to
hear him as he spoke ; the troubled
brain could bear no more, the rhapsody-was
too near death. Life, hope, ruin, and
love deeper than the grave, overcame her,
and like a beautiful ghost that wanders
under the pale precincts of the moon, she
sank down inanimate on the cold floor,
as if life had already snapped asunder.

How long she lay there she knew not.
When she rose up, cold and bewildered,
she found herself in the quiet hall, under
the armour, and the trophies of shields and
crossed lances. Jane, who had been vainly
searching for her, standing before her.

Sophia,' she whispered, not daring to
approach too near, ' you must forgive me.'
Then, raising her voice, ' You must, or
I will not go to the ball. I am waiting
here to tell mamma so. If you will

not trust me as you used to do, 1 1, will
not stir. I don't care for the dukes nor
the duchess, and I hate Lord Edward
with all my heart ; whatever mamma may
say, no one shall move me unless we are
friends

There was such a plaintiveness in
Jane's appeal, such a longing fondness in
the way she held out her hands, that
Sophia paused, as she was turning away
and raised her eyes.

No, no ! ' she said, speaking in a low
voice, out of which all expression had
vanished. It can never be the same. Let
us not speak of it. Go to your ball, child,
and enjoy yourself. I shall not blame you.
You'  and a quick glance flashed across
the ashy misery of her face  ' are of the
future  I am of the past. Each follows
her own fate.'

And with a deep sigh she turned and
slowly mounted the broad steps of the
oak staircase, without one glance at the
slight little figure sunk helpless on a chair,
convulsed by passionate sobs, the full
rolling tears over-flowing her fingers as
she pressed them to her eyes.

As to the ball, Jane knew she must go,
and that any reluctance would only make

matters worse. This caused her to sob
the more. Her first ball, and to be so
wretched ! Oh ! it was too hard ! But
even if she could have stayed at home,
Sophia was angry and would not care.
Although, in the truthfulness of her nature,
Jane did not altogether acquit herself, and
a tell-tale blush dyed her rosy-red as she
thought of Sophia's accusation, yet she felt
she had done nothing to deserve such hard
and overwhelming reproaches. Even in
sleep the desire to help her had haunted
her very dreams  and now they had parted
in anger.

It was more than she could bear,' she
kept repeating to herself, and another and
another sob shook her where she sat 
the sobs longer between indeed, but very
bitter. For the first time in her life she
found herself doubted.

Not one whit less did she love Sophia,
nor cease to grieve over the breach, but
somehow, little by little, the recollection
of that immaculate white dress lying on
her bed  the satin so pure and sheeny, the
lace so lovely  came into her mind.

This very evening was the ball, and as
one by one the tears dried on her cheeks,
she began seriously to turn over the gravity

of the necessary preparations, among
which a new pair of " supports " (to her
simple mind a prison of iron, invented by
Philistines) took a prominent place ; also
the difficulty attending putting on the
lovely lace body, which was so tight upon
her slight person that three successive
laces had broken in the operation of trying
it on. Then there were the shoes with
the little cockades, and an embroidered
handkerchief as fine as a zephyr, and
some artificial roses for her hair more
beautiful than any real ones.

Remember ! ' Lady Danvers had said
to her, ' not to tread on your dress,' a
catastrophe which struck Jane as so
very terrible she could not glance at
the possibility without a shudder ;  and
you must hold in your hand a fan and
a bouquet ' (at which she expostulated).
Oh, nonsense ! You must do it, everyone
does. The duchess has sent over
some hot-house flowers, and I will look
you out a fan.'

Vainly did Jane plead her awkwardness
and her desire to keep her hands free.

'Impossible!' cried her mother, impatiently,
pointing to the flowers. ' A fan
and a bouquet are indispensable to every

young lady. Before we start I will place
them in your hand.'

But no happiness is without alloy.
The long-looked-for day had come, and
she was wretched, yes,  another sob, 
Wretched. Yet spasms of pleasure would
keep passing through her like electric
shocks, notwithstanding the thought of
Sophia offended and alone, and that probably
Lord Edward would be imposed on
her as her partner for the night. Still,
the ball was the ball, and with a final sob,
and a throwing up her hands, as at the
irony of fate, she turned away to surrender
herself a willing victim into the hands
of Nurse Ludlow, whose primitive ideas
of dressing had resulted hitherto in the
notion of a good wash, and who could
now only stand by in wonder and admiration
of her Missy's being so smart.

HE giving of a ball at E  Park
was a great event in the calm
times of which I write. Literally,
months beforehand it was
announced and commented on, the actual
fixing of the day subject to deep astronomical
and meteorological calculations as
to the state of the weather, and the fulness
of the moon.

When great county families drew out
the family coach to drive twelve and even
fourteen miles, it was quite necessary to
ascertain as far as possible, if fords could
be crossed, and that they would not be
plunged in Egyptian darkness if the lamps
went out ; or in case of being attacked by
highwaymen on Hartford flats, to see if
possible clearly how many foes they had
to point their pistols at.

Everyone visitable within possible distance
expected to be asked, and were soin
fact, for the popular duchess, prompted
by the duke, was playing her cards to
bring in her son, Lord Brownhill, for the
county  and, though in herself the most
exclusive of Tories, considered it good
policy to begin by rallying all parties to
the house. As to any little class distinctions
which might prevail in country
circles, she considered herself far too elevated
to condescend to take cognisance of
them  a largeness of view which did not
pass without comment nevertheless among
the small county dames which made up
the neighbourhood. Drags full of officers
were expected from Sandhurst in uniform,
dear to the imaginations of ingenuous
country misses, to whom the distinction
of dancing with a pair of epaulettes qualified
any amount of ugliness or dulness.
Guardsmen from London were expected,
and every unmarried curate and hunting
clergyman within visiting distance ; also
every member of the Berkshire hunt, by
special desire of the duchess, to appear in
pink.

But among the neighbours it was the
house-party which was the subject of

VOL. III. L

the most eager solicitude,  to know who,
or who not, among the famous beaux and
belles who figured in the London news,
were to be seen in flesh and blood.
What they would wear, and how they
would behave ? If any Royalties were to
grace the ball, from Windsor or Earshot,
and, if so, what was the proper etiquette
in case of need ? To be spoken to by a
royal duke,  or a princess,  and be unacquainted
with the proper mode of reply,
was a continency too awful to contemplate.
Whether Lord Brownhill
would be present i  he being a known
hater of balls,  but such a good fellow, 
his merry eyes had made many a rustic
little heart beat,  and if so, whether he
would wear his volunteer uniform, in
which he looked so well, or appear simply
in evening dress . As to Lord Edward,
he excited little curiosity. People spoke
of him as a haughty lad with impertinent
manners, quite wanting in the charm
which made his mother and brother such
universal favourites with all.

As Jane, after a long drive, seated opposite
her mamma, in the recesses of the
family coach, dashed under the lofty portico

o

of E  Park, and entered the illuminated
hall, through files of servants in gaudy
liveries, a demure gentleman in black, the
groom of the chambers, advancing to show
the way,  she was filled Vvith a trepidation
that almost took away her breath.

Now, child, don't be nervous,' whispered
Lady Danvers, as they were being
divested of their wraps by more elegantly
attired gentlemen, also dressed in black.
But, good heavens ! where is your fan ? '
Here, mamma.'

Now, mind and don't break it. And
your bouquet, too,' placing in her hands
some fragrant flowers. ' Knowing how
you fidget, I have held them for you
myself.'

But, mamma,' whispered back Jane,
quite overcome by the files of arriving
ladies, rustling in opera cloaks and
mantles, and the immovable phlegm of
the attendants waiting to announce them,
' I do feel so awkward, I think I had
better have my hands to myself.'

Impossible ; do as I tell you,'  arranging
the flowers. ' I don't care for all
these niceties myself, but the duchess
does. Remember what I said about
tumbling down. If you do anything

absurd, you will make yourself ridiculous
for life. Get a nickname, or some
horrid thing which will make us both
laughed at.'

Nothing but the perfect composure of
Lady Danvers, looking the very type of
mature beauty, in a heavily falling robe
of red velvet, a white turban, on her well-turned
head, starred with brilliant and
pearls, reassured Jane. Intuitively she
felt her mother was not one whit behindhand
in the great world in which she
moved with the step and bearing of a
finished aristocrat, and this gave her
courage.

To her mother, therefore, she hung on
with a feeling of helpless dependence, as,
faithfully clasping fan, bouquet and handkerchief,
she passed from a lofty anteroom,
decorated with banks of flowers
into the spacious ballroom, glittering
with innumerable alights, over a floor
prepared for dancing, so slippery every
step she took terrified her out of her
wits. Well as she knew the house,  everything
looked so unfamiliar in the unwonted
magnificence, she stared like a
stranger, when the duchess, resplendent
with jewels, and with a starred

coronet glistening like a firmament on her
head, offered the tips of her delicate fingers,
and in her gracious way saluted her with
a kiss.

How well our charming debutante
looks,' was her greeting, eyeing Jane
with a gratified scrutiny. ' Really, Lady
Danvers, most successful,'  with a glance
at the white tulle dress. * I congratulate
you. I hope, dear, you will enjoy
yourself. I have placed you under the
care of Edward.' Then, turning away
to receive party after party of arriving
guests, she left them.

After that the duke came forward to greet
them  the blue ribbon of the Garter across
his breast. A fair washed-out looking
man, with a thin, aristocratic face, whom
no amount of rank could make other than
the ' husband of the duchess,' a matrimonial
shadow, only gaining importance
from that substance.

To Jane's infinite relief Lord Edward
was not in sight, but Lord Brownhill came
forward, leaning on a stick, still lame from
his recent accident, to shake hands in his
hearty way,  the most unaffected of the
whole ducal party, and often discomposing
his mother by his rough friendliness with

what she styled * individuals of the lower
class', whose existence she would gladly,
except at election times, utterly ignore.

You see I am out of the running myself,
Lady Danvers, but can I be useful
in getting your daughter a partner ? ' he
said, with a wry face at his wounded
limb. Edward is loafing about, probably
playing cards,' with a knowing glance
at Jane, which made her blush scarlet.
Shall I endeavour to find him and bring
him up ? '

No, no, please not,' she cried, quite
forgetful of what was due to her august
mamma. ' I feel so shy, I would much
rather sit down and look about me a
little.'

Seen for the first time it was a study !
The rich dresses of the ladies, specially
of the dowagers', sitting round on
velvet benches raised against the white
and gold walls ; the voluminous hats then
in fashion, with masses of sweeping plumes,
the sparkling eyes, the heightened colour,
the low, musical laughs, the brilliancy
of the jewels, from the deep tint of rubies
and emeralds to the softened sheen of
pearls,  under the glitter of the enormous
chandeliers ; the unmoved dignity of the

wearers, looking like high-bred masks ;
the lovely artificial flowers on head and
dress, the waving of feathers to and fro,
the rustling of thick dresses as they swept
the parquet floor ; the red coats of the
hunt, and the decorations of diplomates
and peers,  formed as brilliant a tableau
as can be conceived. There were scarlet
uniforms of officers, hung with orders,
from Sandhurst, braided hussar jackets
hung over one shoulder ; guardsmen with
smooth, do-nothing-looking faces, superlative
in gold lace ; the dark but graceful
uniform of the riflemen looking always
ready to mount and ride ; a bronze-faced,
stout-built admiral,  one of Lady Danvers'
reputed protestants,  formed by nature
to pace the deck of a man-of-war ; an
ambassador, resplendent with jewelled
stars, talking and laughing in a loud
harsh voice ; Lord C  , the beau of
that day, rejoicing in a double row of
fair whiskers ; a tall judge, always draping
imaginary ermine ; a great lawyer, with
hurried step, as if on a continual circuit ;
the scarlet fez of a Turkish attache, the
resplendent vest of a Magyar grandee,
famous for his ropes of pearls ; a celebrated
poet and singer, whose last composition

had excited the town into genuine
admiration, short and vivacious, with a
dark curly head ;  and many of the choicest
oihjetiiiesse lorde of the day, who, protesting
all the while about the bore of coming
into the country, had still so far sacrificed
themselves as to obey the duchess's invitation
to join her distinguished party at
the ball ;  and when the music struck up
and the dancing began,  that did astonish
the rustic mind of Jane, taught at an
academy at R  , where she was deemed
a proficient. Dancing indeed !  flying
rather. This was another science altogether
when, slippery as was the floor,
pair after pair glided by in a sliding
shadowy sort of movement, utterly dissimilar
to the vigorous steps she had
been used to, and she inwardly trembled,
and her breath came short as she thought
of trusting herself on this ice-like surface,
among graceful forms that floated, light asa
feather, in undulatory movements she
longed, yet dared not attempt, to imitate.

All the men looked, Jane thought,
prodigiously alike, except that some were
old and others young. They had all the
same affected smile, the same little laugh,
the same mock attempt at being interested

about nothing, the same semblance of devotion
meted out to all, the same phrases, the
same looks and gestures, as they changed
their partners and paraded up and down.

As she stood, a little behind her mother,
surrounded by her usual circle of elderly
admirers  looking on with intense curiosity,
 a couple, fatigued by the dance,
passed near.

How full the rooms are,' said the lady,
yawning behind her fan, ' and the heat
overpowering.'

Quite so,' was the rejoinder ; ' but with
such a companion,'  with a soft glance
into the lady's eyes,  ' anything is an
advantage which enables us to talk.
Everyone is at their best to-night. Of
course I include you,'  with another soft
glance, which the lady returned with interest.
' How do you think the duchess
is looking ? '

Splendid ! That dress of green and
gold, and all those emeralds, are perfect.
She has two grown-up sons, yet it is
wonderful how she preserves her looks.'

By-the-bye,' returned the gentleman,
have you heard that there is an heiress
here to-night,  quite a raw little country
miss,  not yet presented ? I forget her

name, but Jack of the Blues knows her
mother, and says she has a splendid old
place down here, and at least ten thousand
a year. Quite the match of the season,
I hear.'

Have you seen her '. ' asked the lady,
an involuntary coldness in her voice.

No ; and I cannot find anyone who
has, though I know for certain she is
here. I have been looking out for a
kind of 'miss Hoyden' without her dog,
but, as yet, have seen nothing to match.'

Ah ! even if she is even ugly or awkward
she is sure to find admirers,' said
the lady, rather tartly. ' Poor little thing,
she is certain to be sacrificed to a mariage
de conveyance, and be made miserable for
life.'

Well, I don't know,' was the answer.
Jack says he hears she has a great deal
of character, and is quite an original.
Besides, report says she is already engaged
to the duke's youngest son. Lord
Edward. Lord Brownhill, who is a capital
fellow, looks higher, of course. His
brother has already, I hear, run into
absurd debts at Eton. He will spend her
money by-and-by. There are not so
many couples dancing now,  will you have

another turn ? '  to which, the lady assenting,
they dashed Into the throng.

Listening to all this, Jane's heart beat
almost to bursting. No one had ever
told her she was an heiress, though, had
she been less simple, she might have
guessed it for herself. Ten thousand
a year,  that, she knew, was ridiculous ;
but  well. It was all to be hers, though
her mother had never told her. For the
moment her heart leaped with childish
elation. Of course It was the money
and Faulds that made the duchess select
her. The dear duchess, to think she
could be so sly !  And Lord Edward, what
a miserable little cheat !

Scales seemed to fall from her eyes,
and it was with the greatest difficulty
she could contain herself. ' The match
of the season  engaged to Lord Edward ! '
Sacrificed to a 7nariage de conveyance I 
how It all ran dancing through her
brain !

Fortunately for her, her mother was
engaged in talking to Lord Brown-hill,
who was recounting his accident, 
and an unspoken animosity to her worldliness
chilled her to the very soul.

*An heiress!' Just what poor Sophia

had been ; and now, everyone was making
much of her and forgetting her cousin.

At that moment the name of Maitland
caught her ear.

Yes, by Jove ! But for Maitland it was
all over with me. The infernal brute had
me under him,  a rare, fine fellow, full
of pluck, and a splendid rider.'

Maitland ? ' repeated Lady Danvers,
looking up at Lord Brownhill swaying to
and fro on his stick, as if he fancied he
was on horseback. ' Does he live at
Twickenham ? '

Yes, I think he does. A rich old
father,  rather vulgar people, I should
say ; but he is number one  A. Do you
know him ? '

Well, not exactly, but my sister does.
I think I should like to be introduced to
him, if he is here, specially,' she added,
in her bland way, ' if he saved your life,
Lord Brownhill. That gives him at once
a claim to my esteem.'

Oh, that don't matter '  and he gave
a hearty laugh  ' to anyone but my mother.
First-rate for Edward, you know, if I had
been smashed. But, putting aside all
that, a capital fellow,  just the style I
like. I'll bring him up if he comes. For

some reason or other he has been quite
surly the last few days. Some love-affair,
I suppose. He is so good-looking. Didn't
want to face the world, and all that rubbish.
He said he would not come, but I made
him promise. For my part,' added Lord
Brownhill, with one of his hearty laughs,
I don't think I shall every marry. I see
men making such everlasting donkeys of
themselves, when they are in love.'

Marry without love, my lord,' said the
curly-headed little poet coming up,  ' much
more rational.'

What, such sentiments from you, Mr
M  ? I thought you lived on love.'

Not at all. That is all shop. I don't
believe in it. That is why I deal in it
with such success. If I were hit myself,
I should lose the trick.'

Well,' said Lord Brownhill, ' if two
such extremes meet as you and I, there
must be something in it. From different
premisses the same result. I wonder what
your daughter thinks, Lady Danvers,' with
a glance at Jane, who stood with round
wondering eyes turned on the dancers.

As yet I hope she has formed no
opinions,' answered Lady Danvers gravely.
That is to come.'

If the ball had appeared to Jane a scene
of enchantment before, now she heard
there was a chance of seeing Maitland,
her paradise was complete  Maitland
who, she kept repeating to herself, impressed
and occupied her for Sophia's
sake. Maitland might ask her to dance, at
which her heart beat wildly  and she could
talk to him of Sophia, and her mother
would ask him to Faulds, and Sophia and
he would be reconciled  and then 

But no time was allowed her to work
out the problem, or to ask herself what
part remained for her when all was over.
Her mother, in a circle of friends and
neighbours, drew her towards her to take
part in the conversation. There was
Lady Mac  , who lived in the large red
house on the hill, opposite the terraces, 
a sweet-faced lady in blue, a perfect
Greuze, with a mass of fair ringlets, renowned
in the hunt for her daring riding,
and Lady C  , with her cameo - cut
face and deliberate manners.

So glad to see you, Lady Danvers ! '
ran round. * You shut yourself up so
much. Is this Jane ? How do you do ?
Your first ball ? Timid ? Ah, you will
enjoy your next much more.'

Here a distinguished - looking man,
combed and scented like a barber, crossed
from the opposite side and astonished
Jane by bowing. Fully convinced he had
made a mistake, she did not return it.
Nothing daunted, he advanced and shook
hands with her mother.

I fear your daughter does not recollect
me,' he said, contemplating Jane with a
stereotyped smile.

Indeed, no  I beg your pardon  I do
not,' answered she, spite of her mother's
frowns.

Perhaps,' he added, with a little amused
laugh, 'you would recall me better in a
red coat on horseback. However, permit
me to stamp myself on your memory
in another dress by dancing the next
quadrille with you. Lady Danvers, do
you hear how I propose not to be forgotten
'. ' and he gave another affected
laugh, to which Lady Danvers responded
by her most gracious smile.

Who is that man so like a monkey ? '
asked Jane, as he fell back among the
crowd.

The Marquis of D  , you simpleton, 
the greatest match in Europe. You have
seen him over and over again at the hunt-breakfasts.

He is lively and agreeable
enough, if he likes, but abominably
verified.'

You heard he has just asked me to
dance, mamma.'

Lucky girl ! ' and Lady Danvers
smiled. * This is a good beginning. You
will be the envy of the whole room.
Don't tear your dress, or slip, or otherwise
disgrace yourself. Here is the duke
coming up with Lord Edward ; ' and taking
Jane by the arm she advanced to meet
them. ' Mind what you are about,' with a
glance Jane quite understood ; but since
she had overheard that conversation, her
mother's glances did not affect her so
much. Was she not as worldly as all the
rest ? Her childish deference and faith
were gone. Lady Danvers was her
mother, but henceforth she held her fate
in her own hands, and from that moment
she decided that no one should influence
her choice.

Far off the duke was seen approaching,
interrupted in his course by intervening
friends, and behind him following Lord
Edward, more ridiculously overdressed
and economical than ever,  the most provoking
air of superiority on his boyish face.

Jane glanced up at her mother  the diamonds
on the white turban sparkling, the
tightly-gored velvet dress falling round her
in statuesque folds  with a fixed resolve
once for all to set herself free.

If said the duke, bowing low as heled
his evidently reluctant son forward,
our brilliant little admittance is not already
engaged many times deep, will she do my
son the favour to dance with him ? '

Jane will be most happy,' answered
Lady Danvers, giving her daughter no
time to answer, ' if it is not the next quadrille.
For that she is engaged to the
Marquis of D  '

Fortunately, it is a waltz,' said the
duke, putting up a diamond-set eyeglass
to look at the placard hung out before
the gallery where the band was placed.
Edward,' to his son, with a pantomime of
offering his arm.

Perforce Lord Edward was obliged to
come forward, and the ill-matched pair
moved off.

How well they look together!' whispered
the duke to Lady Danvers, a gratified
smile lighting up his faded face. 'A
charming contrast! Miss Danvers has soo



much style and Edward such composure.

VOL. III. M

Her first dance and her first partner !
That is just as it should be, only I hope it
will be a partner for life. I suppose you
and her grace will settle everything
soon. For my part, I think the sooner
the better.'

Lady Danvers bowed.

I am altogether for an early marriage
she replied, ' especially for a girl with
money ; one does not know to what
temptations she will be exposed.'

Quite so. I am sure Edward is most
fortunate. We are all so fond of Jane.'

In a few moments the waltz began, and
Jane found herself launched into the vortex
of dancers. At first she forgot her indignation
against Lord Edward and that she
was ' the heiress talked of by the Blues,'
and remembered only that she had never
danced on waxed floors before, and was
entirely ignorant as to how the figure was
managed. Terrified and strangle, she clue
to the arm of Lord Edward, who, with a
malicious pleasure in his steely-blue eyes,
watched her embarrassment.

'You don't seem to like it much,' he
said, with a laugh.

This remark gave her courage. After
all it was exhilarating make one among

that brilliant circle,  to feel herself a unit
among those hundreds of elegant women.
The animation of the fine band, the glitter
of the crowd, the intoxication of the atmosphere
prevailed, and to her own astonishment
Jane dashed into a waltz with a
strange confidence, then, after a while,
drew up to take breath.

You are aware you very nearly slipped,'
said Lord Edward, dropping her arm and
taking out an embroidered pocket-handkerchief
loaded with scent. ' You seem
to be quite new to it.'

'And you?' answered Jane, resolved
upon revenge, and feeling herself, as an
heiress, full of courage. ' Does your father
always choose your partners for you ? '

Lord Edward winced, but made no
answer.

Has he so much power over you ? '
continued Jane, warming to the attack, as
she noticed how crimson his face grew.
How disagreeable it must be to be treated
like a child ! How glad you will be to
grow older, and have a will of your own !
For my part, though I am only a girl, I
could not endure that sort of thing.'

Not knowing what to say, he writhed
under her sarcasm, as she, with glowing

cheeks, prepared to continue In the same
strain. (what does It matter?' she was
saying to herself. * We hate each other
already as much as we can ! ') Then,
eyeing him with a look of deliberate mischief,
she continued, 

I expected to see you take your brother's
place to-night  as he Is lame. I wonder
how you would have done the honours ?
I suppose the duchess could not trust you.
I never saw you at all when we came In.
Are you shy ? Or were you hiding ? '

I don't like dancing,' answered Lord
Edward, becoming more and more sullen,
under Jane's continued attack. * I never
do. If I can help it.'

Then, why on earth did you ask me ? '
and she gave him a mocking glance
which went far to move him Into an uncivil
rejoinder. * I am sure I did not
want It. I think we had enough of each
other's company in the wood the other
day, at Faulds ? '

Lord Edward  from red grew pale 
as he listened and remembered how his
mother had lectured him all the way
home, and a kind of terror of what she
might say kept him silent. Not so Jane,
launched triumphantly on the rising tide of

her revenge : * Why don't you learn to have
a will of your own, Lord Edward?' she
continued, standing back from the circle
of dancers  to make herself more impressive.
' Take my advice and assert yourself,
as I mean to do  or something worse
may happen to you than only dancing
with those you don't like.'

A glow of angry colour, and a glitter in
his eye, showed he understood her meaning.
So enraged was he, that he dropped
her arm, and would have left her in the
middle of the room had he dared.

I quite agree with you. Miss Danvers,'
he said, trying to be composed, and succeeding
but badly. ' No one shall dictate
to me any more, I promise you. I have
been a fool to permit it.'

How glad I am,' laughed Jane, amused
spite of herself. ' Only think of my being
of any use to pott I You seemed to despise
me so the other day. As far as I am concerned,
Lord Edward, we are agreed. I
intend to be free.' As the last notes of
the waltz hurried to a close, she added,
Our duty dance is over. Please take me
back to mamma.' Then, with a significant
glance, ' I think we understand each other ?'

Perfectly,' was his answer, as he offered

her his arm, with a look as if he could
have strangled her. ' Nothing ever was
clearer. You will not find me de trop
again.'

Well, that is plucky for a school-boy 
I beg your pardon  an Etonian. I don't
understand the difference.'

What Lord Edward would have answered
to this Parthian shot never can be known,
except that an unmentionable word did
escape him ; for at that moment the Marquis
of D  came up and claimed Jane for
his partner. The fates had combined to
humiliate Lord Edward. The despised
country 'Miss' to be carried off by the
Marquis of D  ! She left him with a
look of triumph, and took her place at the
top of the quadrille, conscious that every
young woman in the room envied her. The
marquis was most agreeable. He named
and discussed all the London belles present
for her benefit. Jane was In the highest
spirits at the discomfiture of Lord Edward.
Her simple notions amused her partner,
and he laughed heartily at her naive remarks.
She informed him It was her first
ball. To which he replied that he perceived
it was, with a bow and a smile, at
which Jane blushed crimson, and making a

false step, would have fallen, had he not
held her up. To the quadrille succeeded
a galop, which they danced together ; and
again Jane, in the wild delight of flying
along the room, stumbled on the waxed
floor, and again his arm saved her.

By the time the galop was over he had
quite constituted himself her protector, and
she felt genuinely grateful.

Allow me to remind you,' he said, ashe
led her to her seat, ' that I have twice
prevented you from falling. I only mention
it in the hope that you will remember
me with goodwill.'

Oh ! indeed I shall ! ' cried Jane, quite
overcome at her awkwardness. ' For all
that, I have thoroughly enjoyed my dance,
because I was not frightened.'

Really ? Then, as we are near neighbours,
I hope it will not be our last. Miss
Danvers.'

And he bowed, and left her at her
mother's side.

mim

CHAPTER XIII.

HEN Jane joined Lady Danvers,
she found her in earnest conversation
with a gentleman whose
back was turned to her. Something
in the graceful lines of the upright
figure struck her as familiar, and when he
looked round she found herself face to face
with Maitland. Not beaming with health
and exercise as she had seen him in the
Red lane, but sobered and saddened,  his
fresh colour faded, his cheek pallid and
lined, and with a worn, haggard look in his
eyes that quite changed their expression.

My daughter, Mr Maidand,' said Lady
Danvers, presenting Jane. ' I believe you
have met before.'

Jane did not answer. She had involuntarily
so carried his image in her
heart, that when he appeared it seemed

only In the natural order of things that he
should be there.

I was not aware,' he returned, bowing,
a quick glance firing his dull eyes, 'that
Miss Danvers had come out.'

Nor has she,' answered her mother ;
but, at the request of the duchess, I made
to-night an exception.'

At this moment Lord Brownhlll came
up.

Ah ! I see. Lady Danvers, you and
Maitland are In india res  a great deal
to talk about, I daresay. Edward, old
fellow,' laying his hand on Maitland's
shoulder, ' have you disclosed to Lady
Danvers the secret of your changed looks ?
You won't enlighten me. But I have
some idea you will be more frank with her'
Then, in his rapid way, without waiting to
mark Edward's evident perturbation, he
turned to Lady Danvers, ' If you will put
up with a lame cavalier, will you allow me
to hand you to supper ? '

As they moved off through files of couples
preparing for a fresh dance, Maitland naturally
offered his arm to Jane, who accepted
it with such evident pleasure, he must have
been blind indeed not to observe it.

The way to the supper-room led through

a splendid conservatory, illuminated by
myriads of coloured lights concealed among
thick, feathery fronds of palm, tree-fern,
banana, and oleander,  a fairy scene that
might have recalled the tropics. Umbrageous
orange-branches drooped laden
with golden fruit,  the citrons shone like
pale lamps among the glistening foliage,
innumerable amelia formed into
beauteous bouquets of white and red
among the waxen leaves,  the yellow
mimosa fell in fluffy ringlets,  lilies
and geraniums formed perfumed banks,
and the ground was covered with a mossy
carpet, out of which every shade of hyacinth,
tulip, and primula raised their crested
heads. From a crystal basin in the centre
a fountain rose out of delicious water-plants,
in a perpetual gurgle,  to fall back
in a foam of spray, glittering like silver ;
and in a cunningly contrived rock-work,
breaking the flowering shrubs, seats were
set in darkest shadow among the clustering
boughs.

Couple after couple passed down among
the flowers,  rich robes swept upon the
tessellated floor, diamonds glistened in the
subdued light, the sound of low laughter
and soft talk fell on the ear, and the distant

notes of the band crashing through
the entrain of a Viennese waltz gave Hfe
to the whole.

Even while hanging on Maitland's arm,
Jane's eyes kept travelling round, insatiable
in wonder and curiosity,  until stopping
before one of the embosomed seats, Maitland,
in a low voice, asked her whether
she would like to rest a little before
attempting to penetrate into the blazing
supper-room beyond, where, on long and
heavily laden tables, the magnificent plate
of the house of Upshire was displayed
under the flashing of countless chandeliers.

Oh, so much ! ' she answered involuntarily,
blushing. ' I am so glad to leave all
these tiresome talkers, and have a quiet
moment with you. I have so much to say
about Sophia. Poor dear ! She is so ill.'

As her name passed Jane's lips, Edward's
colour changed.

111 ! ' he exclaimed. ' What is the
matter ? Surely nothing serious ? '

I don't know that,' was Jane's diplomatic
answer  her eyes fixed on him.
That depends  I think she is ill because
she is so unhappy.'

She stopped, and a very audible sigh
came from Maitland.

Are you not coming to see her ? ' she
asked abruptly, puzzled at his silence and
constraint, so unlike the ardour of young
Delville  to whom she was involuntarily
comparing him  when Cecilia was in such
distress at the Blue Post Inn. Delville
never forsook Cecilia.

A few moments passed before he replied,

If I might presume to think my coming
would be of service, of course I  '

*0h, Mr Maitland, it would be life to
her! '

Lady Dan vers has asked me,'  he
spoke with evident reluctance, * to ride
over to Faulds tomorrow ; if Miss Escott
permits it, I will come. I hope I shall
see you also he added.

A bright smile from Jane answered him.

Oh, do come ! ' and she was about to assure
him how glad Sophia would be  when, as
if to avoid continuing the subject, he went
on hastily to say that he was about to
leave E  , but could not do so without
paying his respects to Lady Danvers.

And you,' he continued, turning to Jane
a sudden curiosity animating his look
and gesture, ' I hear this Is your first
ball. Are you in ecstasies ? '

Jane coloured and dropped her head Ina

fixed contemplation of the now somewhat
faded bouquet she held so religiously
in her hand.

Oh yes, at first. It seemed like a
dream ; but I like sitting here quietly with
you much better than dancing.'

'Indeed!' answered Maitland. 'Then
you take a great deal of pains to appear
different from what you are if everything
lively does not please you.'

Oh ! ' more and more confused, as she
found Maitland was contemplating her in
an earnest gaze ; ' that is for the moment.'
(A pause.) ' But if you knew me better
you would understand. I love to live in
my own thoughts  all sorts of ridiculous
fancies I make out alone. If you knew the
life I lead at home you would believe me.
Until Sophia came I used to bury myself
in the woods. Everyone laughs at me for
my day-dreams, and now I laugh at them
myself. Life seems so full of suffering  '

She stopped and raised her eyes.
Maitland's evident disinclination to speak
of her cousin blanked her. Fain would
she have retrieved her character as a
loyal friend, and deserve no more reproaches
for want of zeal  absolute devotion
to her cousin possessed her.

Indeed! Is it possible?' returned he,
with unfeigned surprise.

'Yes, indeed. All this gaiety is very
amusing at first, but I could not live this
kind of life, especially '  in a lower tone,
venturing a glance at his resolute lip
and finely-chiselled profile,  then looking
down confused at meeting the full power
of his serious gaze  * when I think of
Sophia alone and miserable at home.'

An inexplicable look of pain passed
like a shadow across his expressive face,
and left it pale ; but again he ignored
Jane's allusion to her cousin, and continued,


Are you old enough to judge ? ' he
asked. ' Young ladies of your age are not
remarkable for consistency.'

He tried to call up a smile, but it was
not a genuine one.

Yes, that is true. But I want to
people my world with very different beings
to those I see here. I want some one
to live for  to think of day and night 
Since Sophia came' (at her name Maitland
turned away and bit his lip until the dent
of the teeth remained impressed on it)
I have mixed her up in all my thoughts
and actions. But much as I love her,

she Is not the companion I have dreamed
of. That one once found, I should never
change  no, never!' and her brown eyes
looked out Into Immeasurable space.

*And,' asked Maitland, imperceptibly
lowering his voice into a deep, harmonious
tone that came thrilling to the ear of
Jane through the varying measure of the
distant music, ' have you ever fancied who
this companion  this husband, I suppose,
I must call him' (at the word husband
Jane shook her head), ' is to be ? '

She hesitated  she trembled  she
thought It must have been fancy, but It
seemed to her that he touched her arm
as she sat under the gaudy walls of the
pink oleanders, the glistening light, the
gurgle of the lazy fountain giving a rhythm
to her thoughts.

Yes ; I have seen one who, if he cared
for me, would realise all my dreams.'

She stopped.  Where were her thoughts
leading her ' This was rank treachery,
and the words rang in her ears like the
confession of a crime. Maitland too grew
strangely embarrassed, his face and manner
became more and more reserved.

Another time,' he answered, rising and
leading her into the throng, * you must

tell me who It Is ; you must allow me to
advise you. However, if public report be
true, your choice is already made. May
it be a happy one ! '

It was not in the power of words to
paint Jane's chagrin. Lord Edward, indeed!
Did he think she had given her heart to
him ? After all she had said he did not
understand her in the least ; and of all
human beings she would best like to be
known by him ! Avoiding a gentleman
who was advancing to ask her to dance, she
drew Maitland into a corner, and whispering
rather than speaking, lifted a pair of
glistening eyes to his saddened face, 

It is most conceited of me to think
that you can care what becomes of me,
Mr Maitland. I don't know why I have
been talking, but it is not as you think 
The one I mean'  again she stopped,
and positively shuddered at her own duplicity,
 ' is not the person you allude
to. No  no; not at all. I hate him!'
Her agitation made her voluble, and the
silent attention with which Maitland
listened. * I have no right to mention
the other one at all ; I have nothing todo
with him  I never can. Please forget
what I have said. It is folly

One by one, as she spoke, she was
tearing out the freshest flowers from her
bouquet. One by one  with her eyes
vacantly fixed on the bright petals, and
her head whirling with an unknown pain,
as the rhythm of the distant music beat
a wild measure in her brain.

What lovely flowers ! ' said Edward, ina
low voice, bending down to examine
them until his sunny curls were on a level
with her glowing cheeks.

Are they not ? The duchess sent
them. I love flowers ; they have a
language to me of their own, specially
outside in the fields. What things they
say ! They are the sweetest offerings to
those we love. Even to the dead flowers
are offered  how much more to the
living ! '

A dreamy confidence was stealing over
her under the fascination of his balance.
A rosebud and a heliotrope were in her
fingers. Without daring to look at him,
she placed them in his hand ; then, seeing
the duchess pass, she rushed off after her.

She heard his rapid step close behind,
then she was caught up in the crowd,
and except for a moment in the distance,
she met him no more that night.

VOL. III. N

CHAPTER XIV.

OT one word did Jane utter
through the long drive home.
She knew her mother was
offended, and that feeling of
exultation at her heiress-ship,  and the
opinion of ' the Blues,' which had lifted
her out of herself in the midst of that
scene of enchantment  failed to sustain her
now. For the first time in her life she had
dared to disobey Lady Dan vers, and she
had actually laughed, and run away, when
the duchess, with her sweetest smile, had
made a special request that she should
lead Sir Roger de Coverley with Lord
Edward  and had taken refuge with Lord
Brownhill, who, tired out with standing,
was sitting in a corner. From him she
learned that Maitland had left.

Never saw a fellow so out of spirits,'
he added. ' Were you breaking his heart
afresh, Miss Dan vers, when you were sitting
in the rockery ? You seemed to fit
very well.'

At which Jane crimsoned to her
temples.

 No ; certainly not.'

Someone has been at work, then, in
good earnest. He is terribly cut up. I
wish I knew who it is. I would like to
give her a bit of my mind.'

So frank and friendly seemed Lord
Brownhill, Jane longed to tell him the
whole story. It was a very odd world
where the truth could not be spoken.
Honour and integrity were written on his
brow. He was Maitland's friend, and
would be sure to do good.

While she was debating in her own
mind what she should do. Lady Danvers
came up, and with that stern, hard look
she knew so well, seated herself beside
them, and whispered into her ear, 

As you seem completely to have lost
your head, we had better go. Young
ladies do not leave their chaperones to
talk to young men, nor refuse the mistress
of the house what she desires. I am

ashamed of you. Before supper I missed
you  now you have left me again. Most
improper.'

But, mamma ! ' ejaculated Jane,

Don't speak in that loud voice, or
everyone will hear,' was the reply. ' It is
quite enough that I know you have disgraced
yourself, and greatly annoyed the
duchess. Not another word.'

Then rising in her deliberate way, Lady
Danvers bid Lord Brownhill good-night
amid many protestations on his part 
against the cruelty of taking Jane away so
soon.

She must learn to submit to these
little sacrifices. I am a bad chaperone,
and have a headache. I don't see your
mother anywhere, so I will leave my
adieus with you.'

So sorry, but won't sou allow me to
find her ? She will be quite hurt if you
don't take leave of her.'

I prefer not,' answered Lady Danvers,
in that masterful way everyone was conscious
of who came in contact with her.
We have already given her too much
trouble  ' with a significant look at Jane,
standing by, pale and silent. ' Goodnight.
Do not rise.'

By Jove ! and I cannot hand you to
your carriage ! A thousand apologies ?
Where is that fellow Edward ? In the
card - room, I suppose,' with a sneer.
That boy will turn into a court card
some day, all over vermillion and paint.
Let us hope it will be the King of Hearts,
Miss Dan vers, for your sake.'

But poor Jane, suddenly fallen from
those empyrean heights of the heiress,
talked of by the Blues, and become
again an ordinary little mortal, turned on
him such a pair of frightened eyes, he
understood something was wrong, and
said no more ; but with a friendly pressure
of her small hand, let them depart through
a side door, leading from the duke's study
into the hall, the only room in that vast
mansion that, at its master's earnest request,
had been left undecorated and
unlit.

Lady Danvers sat a dark, immovable
outline, framed in the carriage window
just visible in the feeble moonlight. Rain
had begun to fall, and there was a dismal
moaning in the wind as they traversed the
wide stretches of flat commons which lay
between Upshire Park and Faulds, gloomy

''*~'

with broad plantations of fir, so weird
and still, they looked like an army of
ghosts called out of the shadows of the
night, as the road rose and fell from
the open spaces into bosky dingles, cleft
by close lanes so dark and narrow that,
spite of the lighted lamps, nothing but the
slowest walking pace could ensure safety.
Not one word had passed between them,
and Nep's cold nose thrust into her
hand as Jane descended from the carriage
seemed a joy. She stooped and
kissed his rough head.

Ah, doggie, doggie, I fear our happy
days are past,' she whispered. ' No more
scampering for you and me. Trouble
has come to your little mistress, Nep,
trouble she cannot help,' at which
the dog, licking her hand, gave a sympathetic
whine. ' Yes ; I believe you
understand me better than anyone else.
At least you love me, Nep. Goodnight.'


Next morning Jane was standing opposite
her mother, installed in the dignity
of her own room, behind the barricade of
her large rosewood desk, which, from her
earliest days, her daughter had always

contemplated vith awe as the depository
of mysterious family secrets.

The stiff arrangement of the furniture
was unpromising in itself. Everything
placed to suit the central figure presiding
as a judge. Nothing tasteful or
cheerful. No scrap of colour. The
heavy leather arm-chairs symmetrical ;
the barren tables strewed with papers and
letters. The open grate with a smouldering
fire, throwing out little heat. The
large Elizabethan windows uncurtained,
throwing a dull grey light against a
clouded sky ; a fresh damp breeze wafting
in from the woods, joined to the strong
perfume of a border of wallflower growing
outside.

Mamma,' said Jane, in a voice she
vainly tried to render steady, her lips
quivering nervously under the strain, ' I
had better tell you at once. I am so
sorry to vex you, but I cannot marry
Lord Edward.'

I expected this folly,' was the cold
reply. ' Will you be good enough to
impart to me your reasons, if you have
any ? ' said her mother, turning on hera
searching glance, much more terrifying
than anger.

ttdttiiiMMtoBtttf

Jane had been prepared for reproaches,
threats, punishment perhaps, but this chilling
contempt disarmed her.

I  do  not  like  him,' she stammered.
' I never can. As I am an
heiress  '

Who told you that ? Was it Sophia ?'
came from Lady Danvers sharply.

No, mamma, it was not.' (She was
gathering a kind of desperate courage to
proceed.) * Sophia has nothing to do with
it. I found it out accidentally.'

Accidentally ! Some fool's gossip at
the ball probably,' drawing herself up
and spreading out her large white hands
with the glittering rings. ' You seem to
have acquired much experience there. I
suppose someone has caught your silly
fancy.' Jane coloured to the roots of
her hair and shook her head ; her stiff,
frightened attitude suddenly changing into
soft lines of supplication as she leaned
forward against a chair.

And does this accident, as you call it,
justify you in your own opinion in disobeying
me 1 '

1 think it does,' answered Jane meekly.
I think the wrong would be to marry
anyone I dislike. Dear mamma, do not

quarrel with me. Some day or other I must
be a woman, and have a will of my own

A will of your own !  A child  an
idiot ! ' cried Lady Danvers, bursting into
sudden wrath, provoked by the quiet
determination of Jane. ' What do you
know of life ? What do 'ou understand
by being an heiress ? If I have not
hitherto told you that you are to inherit
your grandfather's fortune, it is because
I think money a misfortune to women,
and it has been my desire to educate you
with the utmost simplicity, to prevent
your head being turned. Now you know
all. Of course at my death Faulds will
be yours, but the bulk of your fortune
comes from your grandfather, who died
before you were born.'

Jane listened with downcast head.
Something seemed to shock her in having
forced all this from her mother.
Lady Danvers continued, 

Does this knowledge exonerate you
from your duty to me } '

No, no, mamma.'

Well, and what is to be the practical
result ? Do you suppose I shall repeat
this nonsense to the duchess ? Are the
careful schemes I have laid for years

to be overturned by the freak of an inexperienced
girl ? Because you are independent
do you intend to defy me ? You
will understand your marriage is to take
place in a year.'

Lady Danvers, no longer able to
maintain the mask of indifference she
had assumed, rose and paced slowly up
and down the room, pausing from
time to time to watch the effect of
her words.

Remember I am your guardian, at
least for the present. I can deprive you
of the means on which you count. Have
a care, child, not to provoke me too much.
Tell me the truth. You like someone
else. Who is it ', '

No, no, mamma,' cried Jane, throwing
herself before her, her loose, brown curls
falling like a veil over her face ; but. taking
her firmly by the hand. Lady Danvers
placed her on one side, as though removing
a useless impediment from her path ; ' no
one, no one. I only want to use my
liberty not to marry Lord Edward. Don't
press me. Don't hurt me,' she cried,
bursting into tears. ' I don't deserve it ; I
have difficulties enough.' And the scared,
bewildered look on her young face would

have appealed to anyone less severe than
Lady Danvers.

After all,' she continued, not heeding
Jane at all, * I have only myself to blame.
I might have known the result of bringing
Sophia here. Her insolent pride was sure
to teach you rebellion.'

Full of remorse at the effect of what she
had said, Jane was about to rush forward
to exculpate her cousin, when again Lady
Danvers imperiously put her back.

You are too ignorant to understand the
mischief you have caused. 1 cannot reason
with a fool,  I can only command her. Do
you think, after this proof of the effect of
her presence here, I will allow Sophia to
remain ? I have told her that she must
either marry or go away. If she ruins her
own prospects I cannot help it. It is my
duty to protect yours.'

Oh, mamma, mamma,' cried Jane, casting
herself at her mother's feet, her piteous
voice rising above Lady Danvers's loud
tones. ' It is not so. Punish me  kill
me, but do not blame Sophia.'

Don't be ridiculous. Her fate is in her
own hand ; there are many courses open to
her. If she will not marry, she can return
to my sister, or go out as a governess.'

A governess ! Oh, mamma, surely you
would not allow that. Why am I to be
cared for and petted and she despised ?
Mamma, mamma, have mercy. Have
mercy,' pleaded Jane. ' It was I who
brought her here.'

What ! more rebellion,' cried Lady
Danvers, reddening with anger ; ' every
word you say only convinces me of her
influence ! You never dared to speak tome
like this before. If you turn against
Sophia  '

I never will,' cried Jane, whose warm
heart beat indignantly at her mother's injustice.
* I must have my own money
some time. She shall live with me. I
have promised never to forsake her, and I
will keep my word.'

Child, your folly is really incomprehensible.
You have read novels until you
transform all life into a romance. ' Mr Maitland
is coming to-day. Why should not
Sophia accept him ? It is a very simple
way out of all difficulty.'

Then, as if a sudden thought struck
her, she advanced towards the lofty hearth,
carved and painted to the raftered ceiling,
the armorial shield of the Danvers conspicuous
in front, and rung the bell. The

sound echoed through the silent house
Hke an alarum.

Tell Miss Escott,' to the servant who
came hurrying in, ' that I request her to
come down and speak to me at once.'

Have mercy,' pleaded Jane, turning
an agonised little face towards her mother ;
let me tell her. Do not provoke her.'

Ere Lady Danvers could reply or meet
the wildness of the childish grasp which
was laid upon her arm, a sound of clumsy
footsteps in the passage outside came
nearer and nearer. A door banned overhead
violently in a distant room, several
voices were heard outside, and the
wrinkled face of Nurse Ludlow appeared
at the door.

She's gone, my lady ! '

Gone!' echoed Jane, turning ashy white.

And nothing she left but this bit of
trumpery paper in her room,  " Tell
Lady Danvers I am going to Scatlands."
Robert spelt her out before you
sent for her just now, and I looked in,
and the bed never slept in, and she
sitting so quiet when I took her her tea,
when you and Missey were at the ball.
The sheets folded as I put 'um, and
her long cloak off the peg. Oh, Missey'

(in reply to an agonised look from Jane),
don't look at me as though you'd eat
me ! 'Tis no one's fault, my lady,' curtseying
to Lady Danvers. ' I cannot help
it. She were a high 'un  God Almighty
knows ! '

How dreadful ! ' cried Jane, rousing herself
from the lethargy of fright into which
she had fallen, and devouring the paper
with her eyes. ' Let me go after her,
mamma. I will take the next coach to
Twickenham. I shall get there almost as
soon as she.'

To read Lady Danvers's face was at
all times difficult, but now, sitting with
that paper in her hand, it was so inscrutable,
that Jane stood, as it were,
suspended, her very soul in her eyes.

This is no matter for a child to meddle
with,' she said at last. * Without a great
deal of care, this may be magnified into
a great scandal. In my position, I cannot
allow my name to be mixed up in such an
affair. Sophia has released me from all responsibility
 the consequences are on her
own head. What is proper shall be done.
All I ask of you is to leave me alone.
Did no one see her this morning ? ' to
Nurse Ludlow, who stood smoothing her

white apron with shaking hands, watching
Jane, whose bloodless face was the image
of despair.

No, my lady ; nought saw her go,
only the lodge-keeper's son, who is in
the hall, do say, when he brought the
milk, that a young lady in a long cloak
passed through the park gates with her
veil down, and took the high road about
the same hour as the " Lightning " coach
passes to London. jabber the young
lady had some 'un to meet her. She were
allers sly.'

Here a furious glance from Jane silenced
her. Many, as has been said, were the
battles Jane had fought with the old
woman, who hated what she called
Sophia's ' Indian ways.'

That is enough,' said Lady Danvers,
in a voice of authority, pointing to the
door ; ' I want nothing more.'

Gone, all alone ! ' cried Jane, wringing
her hands, an overwhelming feeling of
remorse coming over her as to how far
she herself mioht have contributed to
drive Sophia to this rash act,  then, as
she stood, weary-eyed and stricken, before
her mother, occupied in addressing some
hasty lines to be sent express to her

sister,  ' Mamma, I don't believe you area
bit sorry Sophia is gone. It is a shame
a horrid shame ! '

Lady Danvers looked up.

Be silent, Jane, or I shall send you
from the room.'

I don't care where I go, or what
becomes of me,' was her answer ; ' I
brought her here, and she has been
driven out the very day that Maitland
was coming. Poor dear ! she did not
know. People call me an heiress  a
pretty heiress! If I had but a shilling
of my own I would go after her and
bring her back ! '

Not here ! ' cried Lady Danvers,
roused to attention by Jane's repeated
attacks. ' Not into my house, much as
I regret the manner of her going ; no
inducement shall prevail on me ever to
receive her again. I shall send a servant
with a letter to Amelia to assure myself
that she has arrived safely. Do calm
yourself, you foolish child,' to Jane, who
had covered her face with her hands to
hide the hot tears which streamed down
her cheeks ; ' she will be taken good care
of; and I will acquaint Mr Maitland
with what has happened. Very awkward

for me, all the same,' she added. ' I hope
no one will know it, especially the
duchess, who would ask me no end of
awkward questions.'

Jane, her moist eyes now raised to her
mother's, listened, but in her own mind
decided that she alone would break the
news to maitland. She would watch in
the park and catch him before he reached
the house.

No one but me ! no one but me ! ' she
kept repeating, and with this phrase beating
on her brain, she sprang up, flew
into the hall, and down the terrace steps
to find relief in the open air. The sky,
the clouds, the fresh blasts of air revived
her. The fir-trees stretched their
huge branches to comfort her ; the scent
of the woods calmed her. But oh, grief
and sorrow, how hard it was to bear !
Oh, tender blossom of returning love,
blossoming as on the verge of a volcano,
to be dashed and deadened by the despair
of the one poor heart for whom its petals
had opened !

No bonnet on her head,  her dress
saturated with dew,  Jane wandered on,
listening to every sound. The woodpecker
tapping on the trunk, the squirrel's

VOL. III. o

shrill squeak, the cooing of the wood-pigeons
in the depths of the wood, the
low, sad note of the sandrake far out on
the heath, the rooks cawing to each
other as they circled round the trees, 
sound, sight, sense, all rising out of that
nameless flush of colour and greenery
which hails the spring !

A little shower fell, then the sun
struggled out, but she waited on hour
after hour, her heart cold within her lest
Maitland should not come, her eyes fixed
on the approach  her ears dull with listening
for sounds which would not come.

Meanwhile Edward Maitland
was riding slowly down the long
lime avenue which breaks from
the main road through the lodge
gates at Faulds, the road rising and falling
in umbrageous lines as the architectural
boughs close in a thick network overhead.
As a man lost in thought, he sat low on
the saddle, the chequered light casting
shadows on his anxious face, so fixed and
resolute, with that look of power in the
massive moulding of the brow, and the
firm lines about the mouth and chin  a
man this not to yield to what he thought
wrong, or be swayed from side to side
by any force of argument brought to bear
upon him. Yet, calm as he seemed, he
dreaded, though he longed, for this interview

with Sophia. In the grief of not
seeing her, he had forgotten all the bitterness
of the struggle he had passed through ;
the harsh words which he had meant to
say died on his lips. He had decided to
tell her that the old love was killed by her
pride. But, behold, it was alive ! Ready
to burst into flame at her command.
Should he at once ask to see Sophia, or
plead his cause first with Lady Danvers ?
In these days of waiting he had resolved
to appeal direct to his father; that excellent,
though homely man, would, he knew, see
right done. A violent breach with his
mother would be the result, and accusations
and reproaches that would break up
his home. But that was not all. A terrible
fear haunted him that it was all of
no avail ; that, do what he would, Sophia
would never change.

Why, he asked himself, had he so persistently
repelled the gentle endeavours of
her little cousin to make peace ? He had
thought about her a good deal, and the
desire to ask her why she had left him so
abruptly at the ball seemed to take an undue
preponderance in his mind. Those
flowers she had placed in his hand  he
had them still, pressed into a letter which

he had carried ever since, and a feeling of
pain came over him when he thought of
her young Hfe sacrificed to a marriage with
such a scapegrace as Lord Edward.

With his head sunk on his breast he
rode on, his horse's steps making no sound
on the moist gravel ; his course now and
then arrested by the beauty of some special
vista In the breaks of the glorious old chase,
or as he emerged from the wilder portion
of the park, to dismount In order to unfasten
some gate, beyond which sheets of
emerald lawns spread out.

Suddenly he was arrested by a slight
rustle, and the figure of Jane rose before
him, her lips open trying to speak, but
falllnor in the effort.

She is gone,' she cried at last, holding
up her hands. ' Sophia  she went before
she knew  '

Here her voice broke, and clasping her
fingers together she sank upon the ground.

She loves you, indeed, she does. She
did not know you were to come.'

To Maitland the truth flashed in a
gleam like lightning ; but the blow was so
sudden, the elinor so bewllderlnp, he could
only stare at Jane, and repeat Sophia's
name.

I brought her here. I did It. I
would have sacrificed anthlng for her
and you : and now, without a word,
she is gone ! I love you better  I mean
her, it is all the same  than all the
world.*

She stopped, half choked. Maitland
looking on, his face working in Indescribable
emotion.

Where is she ? ' he asked at last, Jane
cowering before him, her face in her
hands. * But no one can blame you,
Miss Danvers,' he added, gently raising
her from the matted grass. ' Only try to
tell me where she is.'

At Scatlands,' was the reply. ' I
wanted to go, but mamma would not let
me. She has sent a messenger. Sophia
left a line to say she had gone there.'

Then she gathered her scattered senses
together, and told him how It was, his own
eyes melting as in an unsteady voice she
continued, 

Oh yes, I am alone to blame. I vexed
her, and I wronged you.'

Wronged me, Miss Danvers !'

Don't interrupt me,' she cried impatiently,
bracing herself up to a great
effort. ' I want to tell you  I want you

to know the worst. It is not her fault at
all ; I came here to say so.'

He looked at her in the utmost amazement.
Even in the heaviness of his heart,
at this crowning act of Sophia's passion,
the interest he felt in this strange girl was
for the moment uppermost.

Jane, in spite of the encouragement
she was o-ivincr herself in her heroic
scheme of self-sacrifice, felt her heart sink
lower and lower. How could she form
the words } Would he see it in the light
she wished  as against herself? It was
part of her purpose to paint herself blacker
than she believed herself to be to exonerate
Sophia.

We quarrelled,' she said, in a hushed
voice, catching at her breath as Maitland
came nearer, his eyes riveted on her face.
(He was her friend now ; in another
moment he would hate her. That winning
face, so tenderly indulgent as he
waited for her words, would change to
reproach and anger ; but it must be done.)
Yes, we quarrelled, because she was
jealous, and thought I cared for you.
Oh, Mr Maitland ! '  in a tone of sharp
anguish  'will you ever forgive me . It
was her love for you that made her go.

You will believe me ? You will follow her,
will you not ? And oh, do remember to
tell her that It was I, her little Jane, who
made you understand it.' (The dearest
thing she had on earth, she knew it now
it came to her in this speech  was
slipping from her. She seemed to clutch
It while she spoke.) ' And you will never
forgive me'  stretching out her hand 
You cannot ! ' (' He will curse me,' was
In her thought, ' now I have told him what
a wretch I am') But she waited In vain
for any change In his countenance.
Amazement was there  bewilderment,
pity  as he caught at her hands to steady
her trembling form  nothing more.

And you did this ? ' he said slowly.
But surely you are In jest } '

Oh no, no ! ' she exclaimed, in a voice
of anguish. ' Do you think I could jest
about such things ? I thought you understood
it at the ball, when I ran away.
You  you should never have known it
from me, but that Sophia is gone. But
you will go to Scatlands ? '  drawing herself
away  for the first time her cold cheeks
crimsoning with blushes. ' You will see
her  Promise me to go and comfort her.'

Can you doubt it ? ' was Edward's

reply, eyeing the confused little figure
before him with a glance so mingled of
pity and interest it was hard to say
which feeling had the mastery. ' I will
follow her at once ; but you '  and as he
spoke he turned the full power of his deep
grey eyes upon her,  ' you are alone.
Good heavens ! your clothes are dripping ;
your feet are wet.' For the first time he
noticed her uncovered head, her dishevelled
hair, and the wildness of her aspect. ' How
long have you waited } '

Oh, hours,' she answered In a low

 T-wi-i4- \~\-\ r\ /->>. r-%. c -\rf'+- t-v-s '-i 4- 4- i V I Q XW

used to waiting in the wet. I was so
afraid that you might have your mind
poisoned by mamma.'

Yes ; Lady Danvers,' said Edward,
with an abstracted air. ' Ought I not to
see her ?'

Oh no, no ! ' shrieked Jane, roused to
a sudden horror lest this ordeal which she
had so carefully prepared should be thrown
away if they met, ' Not mamma ; I will
make some excuse. Do not see mamma.
Sophia wants you ; go to her.'

But, Miss Danvers '  Edward was
unwilling to leave her without a word,
yet not knowing what that word should

be, lingered,  ' at least let me thank you
for your confidence before I go. I feel
quite unworthy of It.'

It was his turn to blush now, and his
comely face darkened with the rush of
blood that swept through him like a wave.

Believe me that your generous conduct
'  here he stopped, his ideas so
confused he scarce could mould them Into
words  ' shall never be forgotten. I am
ashamed of the cause as being my most
unworthy self, but I appreciate the motive

Oh, never mind me,' cried Jane, calling
up the ghost of a smile. ' Besides, what
is It but to make amends for the wrote
I have done } It is so good of you to
forgive me, but I cannot forget that It was
I who really divided you. It was most
wicked ; but I did  at the ball. Sophia
found It out. She questioned me.'

Then her heart swelled within her as she
looked Into his face, and felt she was for ever
cutting the ground from under her own feet.

No, you did not divide us at all,' he
replied, gazing with infinite pain at the
working of her features, some conviction
of the truth coming to him from her
strange Inconsistency. ' No, Sophia herself
raised a barrier, no one else.'

He would have wished to say more,
but something within him forbade it.

Still,' urged Jane, ' but for me she would
be here. Lose no time, Mr Maitland,'
pointing to his horse ; ' never mind me,* in
answer to an inquiring look round, as if
in search of some one with whom to leave
her, ' I am used to be alone.'

But I do mind,' he replied, speaking
wn'th unwonted warmth. ' Whatever has
happened  and I confess I cannot yet altogether
understand what it all means  you
will permit me to assure you that you will
ever be to me a subject of the deepest,
the dearest interest. Not Sophia Escott
herself can shut out the memory of this
day.' Then in a calmer tone. ' We may
meet again, when all this trouble will be
forgotten; but remember. Miss Danvers '
(and his thoughts struck off in the direction
of Lord Edward, and his firm impression
that she was engaged to him), * you
will ever find a brother in me. Call on
me whenever you like ; I will answer.
Good-bye.'

Taking her hand, he raised it to his
lips, and remounted, turning to cast a
last glance at the palpitating little figure,
backed by the shafted branches of the

trees. Like a ray of tropical sunshine,
that approving look shot through to her
innermost being.

No, no,' she murmured, as his tall
figure gradually dwindled and disappeared
into the shadows of the avenue. * He
does not despise me. I do not repent
what I have done ! ' And something of
the old joyfulness came into her face the
first time that day as her eyes wandered
round instinctively in search of something
that was missing. ' Why, where is the
dog ? ' she cried. * I must have been lost,
indeed, not to remember Nep ;' but
if his mistress had forgotten him, Nep
had not forgotten his mistress.

As if sympathetic to her thought, a wet,
touched head, with blood-shot eyes, appeared
at that moment, pushing through
the matted ranks of fern and briars,
barking wildly as he caught sight of her.
Then bounding forward, he precipitated
his whole weight upon her.

To say that he was a happy dog was
not to express half. He was a dog delirious
with joy. Where he had been, and
in what spot he had sought her, was his
secret. His long hair was stuck through
with brambles ; his body saturated with wet.

One leg so bound up by a thorn he Hoped
when he thought about it, but not else.

Down, Nep, down,' cried Jane, staggering
under his weight, as, with tongue
extended and outstretched paws, he peered
into her face, giving, as she shook him off a
little roughly, one of those plaintive little
whines with which he was wont to relieve
his feelings under the sense of wrong.

This was too much for Jane. Clinging
to him as if he were her only friend, she
pulled him down to where she had seated
herself among the leaves, and, burying her
face in his rough coat, burst into such a
fit of tears that if ever dog was initiated
into a knowledge of human woe, surely
that one was Nep !

wm

T was a sultry evening for the
time of year.

The wind swept fitfully across
the Twickenham meadows, and
dark clouds were rapidly impelled forwards
by high currents of air. Up from the river
came low muttering from the osier and
willow beds, and the big elms in the
hedgerows, swaying in the evening light,
cast deep shadows on the thorns, green
with the first leaves of spring.

A dark, tall figure appeared for a moment
on the high road, then turned quickly
down the lane, not taking the open in the
middle, but shrinking along those ragged
little tracts of grass under the damp walls.
Either illness or weakness made her
steps uncertain. Every now and then

she stopped and gazed round, then seeing
no one, moved on assail, with a languid
motion, her arms hanging at her side,
her head cast down.

Who would have recognised the haughty
Sophia in this crushed and dejected figure,
as step by step she advanced Hke some
wandering spirit revisiting the scenes from
which its mortal essence had disappeared ?
Gate after gate was passed of the many
cheerful villas bordering the lane, their
bright display of flowers lighting up the
gloom of the laurel and yew hedges that
screened the road.

At last the gaunt form of the house of
Scatlands rose to view, with its flat Anne
windows staring like unaided eyes, the
monotonous lines of white mortar on the
deep-toned bricks traversing the front,
the head of the Roman Emperor, in its
niche, dominating the range of upper
windows, and that pervading look of
penury revealed in the scaling paint of
the woodwork, and panes of cracked glass
in the windows here and there.

Arrived at the green door breaking the
garden wall, before which she had watched
for whole days, conjuring up a form that
never came, Sophia paused, her aching

brow hid In her hand. She did not heed
the big drops of rain that had begun to
fall, nor the tearing of the wind, lashed by
the gusts coming up from the river, which
played with her dark hair, bringing out its
glossy richness. How long a time passed
she did not know ; it seemed to her suddenly
to have grown very dark, as she
raised her hand to the bell, then shrank
back. The first time she had stood thereon
her arrival in England, Maitland was
by her side. Should they ever meet
again ?

At last the bell sounded. What had
she done ? What would they say to
her ? And with what words should she
reply ?

And then she knew no more until she
found herself in the yellow drawing-room,
opposite the picture of San Sebastian,
with those holy eyes bent on her, and
Aunt Amelia's arm round her neck, as she
tenderly placed her on a chair. * My love,
my love,' murmured the poor little woman,
with Ill-suppressed tears, the ribbons on
her cap trembling with emotion. ' How
ill you look !  what has happened ? '

Ask me nothing to-night,' was Sophia's
answer, spoken so low Mrs Winter leant

her head down to catch the words. ' I
have come away.'

Does my sister know it ? ' asked Aunt
Amelia, not able to overcome a feeling
of alarm at the idea of receiving Sophia
against Lady Danvers's will.

By this time she does,' was the answer,
as she lay back half fainting, her
face white and bloodless, with broad black
shades under her eyes. Then, with a
touch of the old pride, she raised her
head. ' I have done nothing wrong.
Aunt Amelia. Do not be afraid ; I have
only come away.

'Wrong, my poor child! No! no!'
and Mrs Winter's warm heart gushed up,
and flushed her pale cheeks, under the
tresses of the delicate fair hair.

(Aunt Amelia looked thinner and more
careworn than before. Louis Winter had
again got into trouble, quarrelled with his
partner Gompertz, and attempted to raise
money upon the works of art confided to
him, a fraud which fortunately John Bauer
stopped. Then he made a great cozcp by
discovering that a picture hid away in a
warehouse was an undoubted Titian, and
the dealers came in again and reinstated
him in the old way at Scatlands.)

VOL. III. p

I am sure,' repeated Mrs Winter
emphatically, ' my regal Sophia is incapable
of wrong.'

A deep sigh was the answer. Then
Mrs Winter rushed out to fetch wine,
tripping herself up in her haste across
the hall, and altogether losing all knowledge
of her keys, quite snug in a corner
of her pocket all the time, a fact she at
last discovered. Jacob had been turned
away, after much altercation on his part,
occasioned by the irregular payment of
his wages ; there was no one in the house
but a maid-of-all-work, far away at that
moment in the depths of the kitchen.

To behold her magnificent niece so
fallen filled Mrs Winter's benevolent heart
with infinite compassion. She was aware
that her sister and Sophia did not get on,
but this unexpected return was utterly
unaccountable. Something terrible must
have happened. How she longed to
ask!

Then Sophia sat up a little and looked
round. Yes, it was all very peaceful. There
was the tall window, where the robins came
to be fed. Moses and Pharaoh amid the
plagues of Egypt in the blue Dutch tiles of
the grate ; beautiful pictures beaming from

the walls ; the large china jars filling the air
with a subtle aroma of rose leaves ; the
little mandarin figures, with pig-tails ; the
scuffled Dresden ladies, in reds and purple,
in impossible attitudes ; the yellow curtains,
partly drawn to shade the light ;
the well-worn shagreen case, with Uncle
Louis's silver-mounted flute, lying on the
piano ; the torn piles of music  just as if
she had not been absent a day.

Aunt Amelia was so bewildered, and
her heart beat so, she could hardly speak,
when Sophia, in a low voice, asked if
Uncle Louis was at home. (The old fancy
had come over her that he represented her
father. Oh, how soft to be cradled like
a suffering infant in his arms !)

No, my love,' answered Aunt Amelia ;

he is dining with John Bauer. What
will he say when he hears you are here ?
Could you not have let us know ? '

John Bauer,' repeated Sophia absently;

he is a good man. Does he ever speak
of me ? '

Speak of you ?  why, surely he does !
John will never alter ; he worships the
very ground you stand on.'

But Sophia did not hear. She was
absorbed in her own dark thoughts. The

aspect of the room, and the sound of Mrs
Winter's voice, brought back the past so
vividly, she seemed to be standing again
in the doorway, watching Maitland in the
hall, with that wild desire to fling her
arms round him and never let him go !

Aunt Amelia,' she said at length, speaking
very low, ' you must forgive my silence.
I think I have been ill. All day in the
coach my head felt like lead. I am very
glad to come back,' a faint smile playing
round her lips. ' But,' in an almost inaudible
voice, ' it will not be for long.'

Bless you for saying that, my child.
How you reward me! You must never
go away,' and in that one instant the
generous heart forgave all the wrongs
Sophia had made her suffer.

She only saw in her her dear brother's
child. She would have given all she
possessed to ask what it all meant, and
why Sophia had left Faulds ; but her
delicacy forbade it. Something there was
so strange about her ; her beautiful features
were so set, her face so bloodless and
waxen, her movements as of one so unconscious
of what she did. Aunt Amelia contemplated
her with a kind of awe. Never
could she hope to approach to familiarity

with her brother's child, superb even in
her sorrow. And she heaved a sigh,
drawn from her heart of hearts, at the
abyss which lay between them. And
thus they sat for a while in silence, the
old ebony clock ticking in the hall quite
audibly between the gusts of wind roaring
round the corner of the house and the
clatter of the rain dashing against the
panes.

'Tell Uncle Louis,' said Sophia, rousing
herself, ' that I am tired and cannot sit up.
I should have liked to have given him a
kiss. Tell him that I leave him my love.
My love,' her eyes wandering towards the
door, * and my thanks ; and to you, too,
my aunt.'

'But, Sophia,' cried Mrs Winter, 'you
have but just come, and you talk as if you
were going away. Surely, 7iow, you will
never leave us.' Anxiously she laid her
hand on Sophia's shoulder and looked into
her face. Something she saw there which
silenced her. ' My dear, are you suffering? '
she asked hurriedly. ' What is it ? '

Nothing,' was the answer ; ' I only want
rest. Shall I find my old room ?'

Then from the lethargy in which she had
sat, a sudden impatience seemed to seize

her. She started up and hurried towards
the door.

Yes, certainly, my love,' answered Mrs
Winter, following her. ' It has never been
touched since you left. I told my sister
that if you were not happy you should
always have a home here.'

Now they had passed the hall and were
on the oak stairs, Aunt Amelia going first,
carrying a candle ; Sophia treading rapidly
in the shaft of light, the bare stairs creaking
under her footsteps and waking strange
echoes in the empty house. A door on
the first floor stood open, and showed a
frame of darkness against the light, and as
they mounted higher and higher, the wind
sounded louder and louder among the
passages under the roof. So quickly did
Sophia press on her aunt that the poor
little woman paused, panting, at the top,
and drew back to let her pass, her tall
figure forming itself into a shadow so dark
and spectral it engulfed the space. Then
she stepped proudly into her room and
closed the door, forgetting altogether poor
Aunt Amelia, who, terrified, without knowing
why, lingered outside, trembling on
the landing, her heart throbbing wildly
against her side.

How she wished Uncle Louis was at
home ! How late he was ! Never had the
old familiar stairs frightened her before, but
now a spirit of evil seemed abroad that
turned her cold. At each door she passed
she expected to see it open to disclose some
unearthly form. Every weird and horrible
tale she had ever read came suddenly to
her mind and seemed about to be enacted
before her eyes. Ashamed of herself, she
came down, followed all the time, as it
seemed, by ghostly footsteps. The hall,
too, looked strangely black, and the woodwork
in the oak panelling cracked as the
light she carried cast fitful gleams into the
corners. Nor did she recover herself until
arrived at last in the comfort of the yellow
drawing-room, where, ensconced in the
depths of her bee-hive chair, she laughed
heartily at her own folly.

whilst Aunt Amelia slept in
peace, after having with difficulty
prevented Louis Winter,
who came home late, a little
elated by all the good things John Bauer
had pressed on him, from rushing bodily
into Sophia's room  (* Amalie, zee sees von
beasts,' he kept repeating, as he tore off
his clothes, ' to shut me out von die
blessed schists ! Is dees not my house
not yours ? '  until fatigue and sleep
overcame him, and loud snores cut his
speech),  Sophia stood in the darkness by
the open window, looking towards Rose-bank,
in her old place, heedless of the
torrents which drove in upon her and
wetted her to the skin, or of the wild
wind which seized upon her hair, casting

about the long black tresses like serpents
round her head.

Such a stormy night !  the stars hidden
by drifting clouds, no moon, a spectral
light through rifted breaks, the tempest
howling away amongst the trees at Rose-bank,
swaying them to and fro ; the river
swollen into tiny waves, lapping the bank ;
a tall poplar close by, darkening the space,
its trembling leaves, like souls in pain,
shivering in the blast. Leaning against
the sill tumultuous and awful thoughts
passed through her brain, but all vanished
before the crushing reality of her abandonment.


Oh, my God, I cannot bear it ! ' she
cried, flinging herself down. * Let me
die!'

Her heart leaped up, then stood still.
For a moment her pulses ceased to beat.
She seemed hanging in space, seeing
nothing, feeling nothing, only that sense
of terrible sorrow over her, as the end
grew near.

Edward, Edward ! ' she murmured,
then laughed bitterly. Was this his truth
and honours * No more my Edward,
what do I care for else .' '

She gave a cry, and leant her forehead

against the cold wall. A sudden sensation
seized her of sickening dread, as she
raised her hands to her bosom. Yes, it
was there safe  her salvation. Nothing
had changed but herself. There were the
open lawns she had gazed on so often,
the blanched outlines of the house he
lived in rising up a white mass,  a wide-spreading
oak dark against the sky, a
flickering light from some boat upon the
river, and a distant hum of voices as of
revellers' return. Her whole life rose
before her. What a ruin it had been !
As the last look of a drowning mariner,
all was plain. In a flash of unreal light
she saw it all. Life might have been very
sweet,  she was so young. It might have
come laden with joy. Her soul seemed
to yearn for happiness, floating on the
nameless sea of the unknown. Was the
end then so near ? The vision faded out.
She was dreaming with her eyes open.
Again darkness closed round her in walls
of eternal night. To sleep for ever !  No
more weary time, but eternity in peace ! 
No more hopeless longings.  No more
visions of happy times  all done !

Again she turned to the window, leaning
against the sill, her face white and rigid,

with widely-opened eyes looking out into

the night, with an attention so fixed the
impression of the smallest object burnt
itself into her brain.

No sooner was she in her old place
again, than a sudden distress came over
her. A black cloud swept down and engulfed
her. There was neither sun nor
moon in the dark world in which she
stood. She groped in darkness, as in a
rayless vault, knowing not how she came
there or how she was to go. Oppressed
with horror she raised her eyes, and what
she saw turned her to stone. Out in the
wild night was the outline of a dark turbaned
head. She could not see the face
nor shape of form or arm. A pair of dusky
hands spread out and almost touched
her. The apparition stood for a moment,
then passed, and Sophia knew that Zebula
was there. The time was come. She had
appeared to call her. Her eyes filmed
over and her head swam. She had just
strength enough to clutch the filigree bottle
so long hid in her bosom, raise it to her
lips, and pour the poison into her mouth.

While Aunt Amelia slept and dreamed
happy dreams of a more cheerful home,

and John Bauer as a bridegroom in new-clothes,
leading her out to dance in the
dragon-room, while Uncle Louis played
the flute and the ice-figure of a woman
looked on  Sophia lay face upwards to the
sky.

Low muttering sounded from the west,
and a mysterious rustling in the leaves as
of human voices among the trees. What
wild spirits of the night ran shrieking
through those woods ; or was it but the
echo of the thunder in the blast ? The
black lips of the clouds shot out lightnings,
and gusty rain drifts raged through the
open room, tearing up carpets and draperies,
and flinging them over her where she
lay.

Let the storm come thicker and faster
and wash away her pain ! Let the lightnings
burn it out as they played around !
And as the wind rose, and great thunderclaps
smote the land, and the rain poured
down on her as she lay, her cold hands
clasped upon her eyes, sweeter far was
this tempest and tumult than the mocking
peace of her life ; for, if the Angels of
Death were abroad, who to her was so
sweet as they ?

Aunt Amelia's poor little robins flocked
for shelter among the leaves, and the cattle
in the meadows huddled together for
shelter under the trees, and still the thunder
roared louder and louder, and the lightning
flashed fiercer and fiercer, in the wild
turmoil of the night. Then the grey-eyed
dawn stole forth and there was a great
calm. The winds lulled, the lightnings
stayed, and the thunder growled forth its
last note ; the rain drops from the Anne
windows fell wearily drop by drop, and the
clustering woods lay silent, every leaf lulled
to rest.

Even so was she beautiful in death, as
she had been in life, with only a little dark
stain upon her lips just touching the
marble pureness of her cheek. No look
of pain or fear on her young face, which,
even breathless and inanimate, kept its
thrall, but the calm majesty of peace in
those widely-opened eyes never more to
smile, and on the chiseled features on which
the anguish of pain and weariness had sat
so long.

mmmm-

'ND have you heard,' said the
duchess to her friend the blue-eyed
Lady Mac (who out of
her saddle was the greatest
gossip going), speaking from the twilight
of her boudoir at Upshire Park, as she
leant back on a settee of pink brocaded
satin, the same material with which the
room was lined  shedding a delicate reflex
upon her pale aristocratic features, a little
more worn than when we last saw her with
the battles of fashionable life, but still winning
and gracious as heretofore,  ' have
you heard of the strange marriage Miss
Danvers is about to make ? Quite out of
her set, I understand. Some low man

Heard of it,' cried the lively Lady Mac,
who always sat in a lounging manly way as

if the remembrance of the saddle haunted
her, * I should think I have. No one has
talked of anything else at the meets. The
Staff College is full of it  even the cadets
I declare I am quite sick of it. At the
horse sale on Tuesday, where I went to
look at some colts, no business was done,
everyone forming into knots to discuss
the engagement of the Berkshire heiress.
The young men are furious she has not
chosen a stranger.'

I did what I could for the girl,' said
the duchess, just a little curl of contempt
forming upon her well-cut lips ; ' a strange,
wild little creature whom no one would
ever have looked at but for her fortune.
I could make nothing of her ; her tastes
are decidedly vulgar.'

No wonder,' rejoined Lady Mac ;
Lady Danvers let her run quite wild.
*' A hardy out-door education," she told me,
when I met Jane miles away from home one
day out hunting, sitting under a hedge
with a very disagreeable dog, who did his
best to throw me by dashing at my horse's
legs. The idea of a young lady with
ten thousand a year, and such a lovely
place as Faulds, being brought up like a
squaw ! '

Exactly,' said her grace ; ' I could be
of no use,' crossing her hands and playing
with her finger-tips. ' Brownhill's position
as member entails sacrifices, but I detest
people who live out of my sphere.'

But I thought,' said Lady Mac, who,
though adoring the duchess as the great
lady of Berkshire, had what the French
call un grain de malice in her composition,
which she could not always control 
that Jane Danvers was intended for Lord
Edward. People said they were engaged
at the ball you gave two years ago,
or was it three ? Really, duchess,'
with a gay laugh, adjusting some lovely
flowers at her waist, * you give us so many
splendid entertainments one forgets.'

Nothing of the kind,' answered her
grace taking up one by one some priceless
Dresden cups on the richly-inlaid buhl table,
which screened her off, as it were, from a
too close contact with visitors of less blue
blood  and examining them as minutely as
if she had never seen them before. ' Not at
all the person I should select for Edward.'

What ! not an heiress '. ' insisted Lady
Mac, not in the best taste, but her ladyship
was not always in the position she occupied
now. Rather obscure, in fact, in point of

pedigree. Some said the daughter of a
circus master, but that was all nonsense.
Still, a little wanting in refinement.  ' I
thought heiresses were born for younger
sons.'

The duchess bridled like a majestic
swan, which swells its snowy bosom to the
flowing tide, then calmly composes its
plumage, and sails proudly on.

Ah ! you mean a kind of barter,' a
distant intonation in her voice. ' I hate
that kind of elinor. \ know it was said ;
but my son never dreamed of Miss Escott
he is too fastidious ; nor would the
duke have liked the connection. anything
eccentric disgusts his Grace.'

Lady >\Iac longed to continue, but dared
not. This was a little strong in the duchess
when every one knew that the marriage
was arranged at her own desire, and only
postponed till Jane was older. And everyone
also knew that Jane had so violently
protested against being married against
her will, that it was rumoured she had
come over alone to Upshire Park, and had
told the duchess that she would run away
if it were insisted on  a threat it was
known she was quite capable of putting
into execution.

VOL. III. Q

And who is the person ? ' asked the
duchess, after a pause, during which the
two ladles sat opposite each other, somewhat
Hke two porte athletes studying
where the next home-thrust should be
made. * I hear he is not a gentleman.
Do you know him ? '

'Well,'  with a peal of that silvery
laughter, which so often sounded from afar,
after she had taken some desperate leap,
and was congratulated on her pluck,  
I certainly do meet many odd people
out hunting, and in the stables, but
the person in question is also known to
you, duchess. It is the same Mr Maitland
who saved Lord Brownhlll's life. I
have met him here in this house, at the
same ball of which I spoke just now.'

For once in her life the duchess, woman
of the world as she was, was nonplused,
and generously owned her defeat before
the savagery of Lady Mac, by a movement
of the most unfeigned surprise.

What ! is it l/ial Mr Maidand ? I was
not aware. But,' casting herself back on
the pile of many-hued Oriental cushions
gathered at her back, * he is quite a nobody,
 some city people's son. Of course
I am obliged to him, but that does not

alter his birth  and not so very rich, I hear.
Well in a moment of annoyance she
could not repress, * if Lady Danvers consents
to this she must be a fool. Mr
Maitland, indeed !  Lady Danvers is
really throwing her daughter away'

Lady Danvers cannot help it,' said
Lord Brownhill, entering from the library
beyond, his heavy figure and broad
shoulders sharply defined against the
rich binding of the books, arranged
in elaborately carved bookcases (the
library at Upshire Park was a superb gallery
of the time of James the First) ;
and shaking hands with Lady Mac, whose
bold riding and pleasant ways, to say
nothing of her blonde beauty and soft
violet eyes, made her a great favourite
with the members of the hunt.

And let me tell you, dear mother, you
must never forget, if you care for such an
unworthy duffer as myself (the duchess
winced,  she always did at Lord Brown-hill's
slang), ' what that man did for me.
He is my bosom-friend. One of the
noblest fellows God ever made. You
must remember my speaking of him  '
(the duchess murmured that Maitland
was such a common name). ' Well, don't

forget it now, ' said Lord Brownhill
gravely, entering and stretching out his
lone limbs as he seated himself on a
delicate spindle chair which gave an
ominous crack at the weight imposed on it.
He has been shut up ever since,  a
perfect recluse,  saw no one but his father
and me. I would not be excluded, and
so at least he got used to me. A most
romantic story, a beautiful girl nobody
ever heard of, a niece of Lady Danvers, 
she had her staying at Faulds,  who came
from India. She must have been a mad
kind of creature. Was engaged to him,
and took some offence at his not marrying
her straight off on account of his
mother, who wanted a great match.'
(Lady Danvers gave a little laugh, in
which Lady Mac joined. Lady Mac
always did join in ridiculing people who
wanted great matches in order not to
remind the world of her own.) ' And, by
God ! she went off and poisoned herself.
He was quite off his head for a time,
called himself a murderer, and all that.
The fact is, it was not his fault at all,
except being over desirous to do his duty.
He was deuced fond of her, but the violence
and fury of the girl herself, who

had Indian blood in her, her mother being-some
Rajah's daughter Mr Escott married
out in India. Well, Jane Danvers, it
appears, was very much attached to this
cousin, and she took on, too, in the most
tremendous manner at her death. She
had taken a fancy to Maitland also when
he came to Faulds, and between one
and other, she was at death's door.

Why, Lady Danvers told me nothing
of all this,' exclaimed the duchess. ' To
be sure I don't see her often now, and she
has been away.'

'Jane Danvers is a little brick,' continued
Lord Brownhlll ; ' she hid it all she
could. Seemed like treachery to her dead
cousin. But at last old Danvers pinned
her,  I should not like the process myself,'
and he laughed and aoaln stretched out
his long legs, producing another ominous
crack from the over weighted chair.
And she confessed ; then Maitland was
sent for, and these was fainting and
hysterics,  and God knows what a shindy
you women can kick up  Lady Danvers
declaring all the time in her most majestic
way that she never would consent (for his
people are rather low). Maitland was
furious and went away ; but the little girl

got so ill Lady Danvers took her off to
some warm place for the winter. But the
cold was in her heart, poor little beggar,
not outside ! And so her mother found
at last, and that she must make up her
mind to lose her, or to consent to her marrying
Maitland. He came to me about
it, to ask my advice, dressed in the deep
mourning he had worn ever since the
cousin's death. He followed her coffin
as chief mourner. He insisted on it, poor
fellow, and fainted at the grave. But you
are not attending to me, mother,' to the
duchess, who had raised a sparkling hand
to her mouth to suppress a yawn.

Oh, do go on ! ' cried Lady Mac, her
violet eyes turning in that seductive way
towards Lord Brownhill she knew produced
such an effect.  * I am so interested,
specially now th'dt yozi come into the story.'

Very flattered, I am sure,' said he,
but it is a case of love me, love my dog.
I want you to care for my friend.'

Oh ! I do immensely,' said Lady Mac,
a soft ogle in her eye. ' I want so much
to hear what you said to him  something
judicious, I am sure. Since you have become
a member I look up to you so much.'

Well continued Lord Brownhill, not

much pleased at the turn the conversation
was taking  Lady Mac was clearly making
capital of it for her own benefit,  * to make a
long story short, ** My dear fellow," I said,
you can't mourn for ever. The lady
you loved has been dead two years. You
have led a devil of a life since. Do you care
for the girl .' " For a long time I could get no
answer out of him, but at last a letter came
to say she was much worse and wanted
to see him. " Do you care for the girl ? "
I asked again. At last he said he did, ina
brotherly kind of way (never could love
any other woman, and all that), and that
she had been very kind and generous to
her cousin, who, as far as I can make out,
Lady Danvers treated very ill. " Then,
for the sake of all that's blue, marry her,"
said L *' If you are such an Adonis that
all the women run mad in love, don't kill offa
second." You know, Lady Mac, I like
my joke, but Maitland got very wroth, and
said I had no feeling. Well, that is neither
here nor there. He has, and he went off
to visit little Jane Danvers, as good a little
creature as I ever knew  to say nothing of
her fortune, which Maitland wanted her
to leave away, or some trash or other, to
show he did not want it. And now they

are to be married, and I am to be best

man.'

My dear Brownhill,' cried his mother,
with vexation, raising herself up from the
embroidered cushions, on which, with an
air of infinite ennui, she had been resting,
when will you leave off mixing yourself
up with common people ? Really, at election
times it is bad enough, but to 2:0 on
always ! '

Well, mother, you surprise me. Would
you have me cut the man who saved
my life because his father is not a peer ?
Maitland is a perfect gentleman. I wish
some of our nearest and dearest were as
good as he.' (This evident thrust at his
mother's favourite. Lord Edward, who
had at that moment contracted gambling
debts to the extent of fifty thousand
pounds, which the duke had to pay 
silenced the noble lady.)  And now, my
dear mother,' rising and taking her hand,
which he reverently kissed, then stroked
with his long bony fingers, ' I know I ama
great brute, with my rough ways and
canvassing and elections, and that in your
goodness to me you waive your feelings, 
but I am qroinor to ask you no end of a
favour.

The duchess's eyes rested on her elder-born
with a certain pride. Spite of the
constant annoyance he caused her, his
large-hearted, generous nature impressed
her with the charm it cHd everybody else.
As he stood there, not aristocratic indeed
in one sense of the word, but the image
of the strong, burly Englishman, whose
pluck and courage conquers the world, she
looked up and smiled at him.

Don't tax me too heavily, Brownhill,'
she said, with an almost girlish grace,
which made her even now attractive, ' and
I will try.'

I want you to be present at the marriage,'
he said. ' Considering your former
intimacy with Lady Danvers, and the brush
you had with Jane, refusing Ned' (all
the better for her,' in an undertone), ' I
think it would be but gracious.'

Was ever such an inconvenient son ?

The Duchess was suddenly seized with
a difficulty as to what to do with her
eyes, and dropped her head to hide the
blush which rose to her cheek.

Well, what do you say . ' he demanded
eagerly, all unconscious of the mistake he
had made, and which delighted Lady Mac
so much she was inwardly deciding to

whom she would first tell it as an excellent
joke.

No,' said the Duchess, rising to breakup
a conversation which, to her, had become
a downright defeat. * No, I think
not ; at any rate, we will speak of it
another time. Come, Lady Mac, don't
go. I know Brownhill will come with us
if you stay. I want to show you my
amelia ; they are lovely just now. I
don't think you have seen the new house
the duke has put up joining the conservatory.
I quite live there, I declare.'

Yes, you must give me a lapful of
those flowers,' said Lord Brownhill, following
Lady Mac, who, as she rose, had
managed to olive him a brood view of the
most bevvitchlnof little ankles in the
daintiest of stockings. It was not the
first time certainly he had seen them, but
still a good thing is always pleasant to
look at ; and so Lord Brownhill thought
as they had a little interchange of badinage
and he managed to press her hand.

Do you hear, mother ? Plenty of
amelia for the wedding next week.'

Really, Brownhill, you are too fatiguing
with your friends. You positively
pester me. I will give you the flowers,

but on one condition  that you do not
once mention Jane Danvers again.'

But the Duchess's good heart prevailed,
at least under her son's direction. She did
go to the wedding, and was most winning.
Lady Danvers receiving her advances very
coldly. She was a person never to forget
a social affront, and the Duchess had
dropped her ; but her Grace presented
Jane with a magnificent bracelet, and
kissed her, and a few months after received
her and Maitland on a visit at
Upshire Park, and gave a grand dinner
(at which all the ducal plate was displayed),
and a tremendous speech was
made by Lord Brownhlll to drink their
health, to which Maitland responded for
himself and Jane.

