CHAPTER I.

THE SWEET USES OF ADVERSITY,

CHAPTER II.
Ursula's mistake,

CHAPTER III.
christian's crotchet,

c*



CHAPTER IV.

ULRICA's AMBITION,

CHAPTER V.

A PAIR OF Netherland NOTABILITIES,

CHAPTER VI.

A FRIEND IN NEED,

CHAPTER VII.

3 A GRACIOUS WOMAN, .















Contents.

CHAPTER VIII.

MR MUNGO Machine,

CHAPTER IX.

Lichfield,

CHAPTER X.

A ROUND PEG IN A SQUARE HOLE,

CHAPTER XI.
MONCRIEFF,

CHAPTER XII.

MARRING HER FORTUNE,

CHAP TER XIII.

AN Atlanta RACE,

CHAPTER XIV.

AUNT EUPHEMIA,

CHAPTER XV.

VEXATIOUS !

Have





I38

l6l







'34

MISS ELVESTER's GIRLS,

PROLOGUE.

There is a world of difference
between Shetland, when her skies
are lovely, her waters are flashing
in the sunlight, her hillocks
and hollows are aglow with vivid flowers ;
and Shetland, when the mantle she wears
is dun, and the heavens lour gloomily, and
every loch and creek and voe gives back
the frown. She is in this latter condition
the day when I ask you to take your stand
with me for a moment on a certain mossy
height, unknown to geographers, but called

VOL. I. A

by the dwellers beside it, Vostaberg
Knowe.

From our observatory we look over to
the village of Brestaa, two or three score
cottages and cots of primitive design, scattered
in semi-circular fashion about the head
of a miniature bay. Yonder, marked outby
their respective sign-boards, are the establishments
of merchants (by ' merchant ' is to
be understood, in strict literalness, a dealer
in everything, ' from a needle to an anchor '),
baker  no butcher, alas !  grocer, ( Licensed
in Spirits and Ales,' and post-mistress, with
whom lodges the doctor, when doctor there
chances to be. Those houses, larger and
of a different class from the rest, we guess
to bawrianses ; and small as the village is,
therefore no fewer than four churches
within its borders. We judge, therefore,
thaftMts people nfcst have theology enough,
whatever else they lack.

It is mail-day, and the letter-carrier, hours
too late in arriving (that is nothing in Shetland),
now rests in glory after his thirty

miles' walk from the capital. He is the
most important person in the village, for
the nonce ; he is the weekly newspaper.

The various groups gathered round the
post-office form a picturesque whole ; storm-tanned
fishermen who know Greenland
waters well ; lads who have not yet been
farther than ' The Haaf ' ; old crones profuse
of pious speech, which daily life as
often as not belies ; younger matrons, nearly
as weather - worn as the men ; and girls,
with fine free carriage, and blue or scarlet
kerchief shading faces as bonny  many of
them  as faces need to be. Besides these,
there are the parish clergyman, handsome,
bronzed, and bearded, towering Saul-like
above the people ; the doctor, a jovial young
fellow, who came to Shetland in a sort of
frolic some months ago, and freely owns
himself more than a trifle tired of his diversion
now ; the Independent pastor's son,
riding a saddleless sheltie and grasping the
mane for reins ; the Free Kirk schoolmaster's
maid-of-all-works, diligently applying

herself to newsmonging ; and, to finish the
list pleasingly, the Methodist minister's
young wife, lately transplanted from amidst
Kentish hop-gardens, but wonderfully happy,
if appearances are to be trusted, despite
the change.

Many letters fell to this lady's share, and
she gaily remarked to the parish clergyman,
as together they left the post-office, 

1 You see I've got my basket quite full,
Mr Berwick. There is this advantage about
receiving letters only once a-week, that we
get such a number at a time.'

Mr Berwick was not so fond of letters
as Mrs Rich, and could not be very enthusiastic
on the subject. However, he did
his best, and said, 

And but one disappointment in the week
should an expected letter fail to come

'Indeed, yes; that is a mercy too. The
only thing to grumble over, is the being
kept waiting for one's budget so very, very
long after it has reached the island.'

The remedy for which,' said Mr Berwick,

is a mail-bag of your own and a special
messenger.'

1 I daresay, but unless you are the master
of Eastravoe, for instance, you can't afford
such luxuries. The girls at Eastravoe 
favoured of fortune that they are !  will
have read all their love-letters hours ago.'

Hours aofo ! ' echoed Mr Berwick. And
then he bade his companion notice how
creamy Brestaa Sound was, and how yon
inky clouds had blotted out the distant
Fitful Head.

1 You're otherwise,' said she, smiling
to herself, however, at his abrupt change
of theme ; ' shall we have it rough tonight?'


Won't we ! ' he rejoined. ' This evening's
steamer will enjoy a rare toss in
Hamburgh Roost. Be glad you are not
to be on board, Mrs Rich.'

1 It isn't to be another of your great
storms, I hope ? '

But you don't know anything about our
great storms, as yet.'

1 No ? What is it that you call a great
storm, please ? '

It is when my stable roof is lifted clean
off, and when going out to see what's likely
to happen next, I am forced to lie flat on
the ground to escape being blown over the
hills like thistledown.'

You blown over the hills like thistledown
! ' she laughed ; ' a very odd kind of
thistledown, indeed.'

So they went on talking till the Methodist
manse was reached. Here Mr Berwick
shook hands with a gentleman who came
to the front garden gate.

You have learnt Shetland manners to
some purpose,' he observed ; ' Mrs Rich
bears the burden ; you look on.'

Mrs Rich is very willing to be burdened
so,' said Mrs Rich's husband.

Sorry is the plight of him who has no
excuse ready!' exclaimed the other, laughing.
1 On first coming to Brestaa, I was full of
schemes for the reformation of the island.
Well, one day a woman toiled from Sculls

with a box of books for me, her lord
following her to the manse for the payment.
I told him rather hotly what I thought about
setting women to men's work, though I know
I might quite as well have held my peace.
They defend the usage, these Shetland husbands
; they have " Scripture fort,' and refer
you to chapter and verse in Nehemiah,
where it is written :  " And next unto him
repaired Shall the son of Halokesh, the
ruler of the half part of Jerusalem, he and
his daughters." But I must not keep you
longer from your letters, Mrs Rich ; and I
expect both your husband and I will find
among ours several of those interesting
communications which demand an immediate
answer.'

Oh, I know the kind ; they are addressed
in that ugly scrawl which students cultivate.
Talk of a lady's hand being hard to read !
It is print compared to a minister's. I  excuse
me, Mr Berwick, and you, Arthur  I
don't like ministerial communications at all'

Candidly speaking, I don't either, Mrs

Rich ; for if they be not claiming your
fulfilment of some hazy half promise to
give an address at the writer's forthcoming
congregational soiree, they are to excuse the
writer for breaking his word about your
congregational soiree ; he has caught a
cold, and must shun night air. Pes.  He
reminds you of his Fast-day, and, in the
present state of the roads, would advise
you not to risk the short-cut, but to take the
extra ten miles and the ferry.'

And having thus outdone Mrs Rich in
disparagement of clerical correspondence,
the Rev. Donald Berwick, Bachelor of Divinity,
set his face homewards. He went
so far along the margin of the sound, then
struck off to the right, and ascended Vistas
Knowe, from the top of which, across
an undulating grassy stretch of scattald or
common, strewn with stones, studded with
rough, grey boulders, and pastured on by
shaggy ponies, the parish manse could be
seen. It was a big, plain, substantial house,
just like any other Scotch parsonage. It

had an extensive glebe attached ; a little
fresh-water loch lay behind, and to the front
spread a grand panorama of the open sea.
From village to manse measured about a
mile ; but the way lay over the pathless
scattald, therefore if you, a stranger, should
attempt that distance alone and afoot on
any misty day, all the chances were, that
you would hopelessly wander, though, before
setting out, you had laughed to scorn the
very notion of losing yourself there, were
the day ever so misty.

Near his own house, Mr Berwick was
overtaken by one who had been shouting
after him in vain, while he, never turning
his head, had continued his quick march
across the scattald.

What, you, Gledcairny ! ' he exclaimed,
on looking about and seeing that he who
had laid hold of him with so ungentle a
grip was the young doctor, whom he had
left in the post-office.

Yes, I, Gledcairny,' said his captor.
Didst not hear my cry ? '

f No; or if I did, took it for a sea-mew's.'

Some fellows have no sense of the musical
; but I forgive you, and will be at your
place to-night to see if any of the master
of Eastravoe's cigars are left.'

'All right.'

I don't know about its being all right ;
for, fine specimen as I am, never a box of
cigars is sent to me. Is it any fault of
mine that I'm not a Cornrigshire man, or
any merit of yours that you are ? '

Who says it is ? '

Whether they say so or not, that's what
our autocrat of Eastravoe and his daughters
think. The master's first wife, as everybody
knows, was one of the Cornrigshire Means


'And I come of a stock of Cornrigshire
farmers. Yes, the connection is striking
and clear.'

They are nice girls, those Elvesters (you
swear to the fact, and you should know,'
pursued the doctor argumentatively ; ' but
it would do them a high mountain of good,

just to be shaken out of this corner where
every soul is subject to them, and set down
in a part of the world where somebody else
is supreme, and where they would be made
to see their own real importance. They
want to have it demonstrated to them that
they've fallen into a little mistake in thinking
themselves princesses.'

So they are princesses in Shetland.'

1 Ay, that is it  in Shetland ; but what
would they be anywhere else ? '

'Still Shetland princesses,' said Mr Berwick,
and being now at the manse gate, he
invited his friend to enter.

But Mr Gledcairny was on his way to
vaccinate a batch of babies.

'And the thrice unblessed post,' said he,
'has detained me too long already. It will
be good luck if I'm not belated in the wilds
this night, and swallowed by a peat bog, or
blown over a cliff, to have my elegy chanted
by the sea-fowls.'

Carry the Shetland's torch, a blazing
peat ! I'll send you a pair of tongs,' said Mr

Berwick. ' No ? Well, then, accept some
patient's hospitality for the night.'

I don't call myself fastidious  not very ;
only there is a limit to all things. But whom
in the region of Giersness would you recommend
as a hostess, say you ? '

Cheyne Allison ; she will bring the teapot
from among her bedclothes to refresh
you withal.'

Dr Gledcairny grinned.

I know all about that,' he replied ;
1 Mother Allison is a fast friend of mine.
Poor soul, she nearly yielded up the ghost
when she heard that you had been seen
skating on your loch down there ; and she
has been quaking ever since, through fear
that " a skating minister canna, canna bea
fitting guide to heaven." '

1 1 wish skating were the worst of me,'
was the response.

Then these two professional men parted
as unceremoniously as they had met, and
the one went up to his door, the other onto
his business.

The study into which Mr Berwick took
his way was lined round and round with
books ; packed with pamphlets and magazines,
and rich in manuscripts ; indeed, if
the truth must be spoken, it was a place
to make any methodical woman's fingers
fairly tingle. However, its owner saw
nothing amiss with his room. It suited
him ; everything lay just where he could
put his hand on it ; there were no nonsense
about to stumble over and make you
Curse that stool ! ' What then would man
want more ? And it was all right, to be
sure, seeing the man in question had only
himself to please. As he was in the act of
taking a seat to look at what he had brought
from the post-office, something in the letter-rack
over the mantelpiece caught his eye.
He drew it out, and standing before the fire
(the great heat of which probably accounted
for the sudden access of colour to his face),
broke the seal, and read : 

1 Dear Mr Berwick,  Kindly oblige me

by coming to Eastravoe as soon as you conveniently
can. My father is in great trouble,
and there is no one within reach except
yourself to whom he will speak of his
affairs.  I am, very sincerely yours,

Janet Mearnsmuir Silvester.'

Other letters, demanded they immediate
answer or not, got none of Mr Berwick's
attention that day. He rang the bell. Immediately
stood a red-cheeked, bright-eyed
little elderly woman in the doorway, with a 

Please, sir, an' what wanted you ? '

Bid Magnus catch and saddle the Howlet,'
said Mr Berwick.

And a storm coming on so surely ! ' she
ejaculated. ' It canna be.'

That meant nothing, however. To say
things could not be, was merely a habit the
housekeeper had got.

Peers (little) Peter O'Haavra is at the
back-door even now,' she went on to inform
her master. ' Would you be pleased to see
him, Mr Berwick ?'

She pronounced the name as Icelanders
pronounce that of their principal town,
sounding the w. Nor did the minister
object : on the contrary, used to hear himself
called so by certain pretty lips secretly
dear to him, he had come to think that
 Berwick ' was disagreeably harsh.

What should I see the laddie for ? ' he
asked. ' What's wanted to-day ? '

He has fetched a gran' ling fish,  a
present, sir.'

Mr Berwick abominated ling fish, and
presents no less. He knew what a Shetland
present meant, so 

How much, Barbara ? ' he inquired.

I donna ken, I'm sure,' returned Barbara
demurely ; 'just what you please, sir.'

There,' said this unthankful recipient of
ling fish, taking a florin from his purse,
1 give that to peers Peter, and tell him that
he needn't mind to bring any more presents
for a while to come.'

As she stepped forward to take the coin,
Barbara inquired, 

Please, got you yon letter Olaf brocht,

sir ?

Yes, yes ; I have seen it'

That is offa bad news for the master,
and'

1 My good Barbara, let news alone, and
attend to your proper business  which is,
just now, the H owlet.'

 I canna help the news, sir ; there is
always a good deal o' people comes this
airt. And Lily o' Runigarth was saying  '

No matter what. Spare me Lily of
Runigarth's gossip.'

Vera weel, sir. She was only asking
would the minister be for Hilyascord to-day.
That's great organs at Hilyascord, Mr
Berwick.'

The minister will not be for Hilyascord
to-day. I am going to Eastravoe  and immediately,
if it were possible to get away.'

And king you to Eastravoe fasting, Mr
Berwick ? It canna be. Shall I fetch  '

Nothing whatever. Am I to see the
Howlet this afternoon?'

7 a -> j a > that'll you ; he is none so far off
just round' by the raddle, sir. But yon i<
the handsome ride, it is, and the blawy ! Anc
the verra last minister o' Brestaa, he was
sic' like's yourself', Mr Berwick ; no thocht
o' refreshments would he take, nor no muffler
would he put on. Weel, sir, mony came
the Sabbath days when he could, could
preach, poor gentleman, coughing he was so
bitterly. Never was a wearier cough as his,
neither in Shetland nor Great Britain, sir.'

Impatient as he was, Mr Berwick could
not forbear laughing.

Shetland or Great Britain ! ' he echoed.
 And what may your notion of Great Britain
be, Barbara ? '

I donna like yon place, sir ; it is a' looses
looses, an' where it ista looses it is trees.
I could bide that, Mr Berwick; I would pine
an' think lang for the free Shetland hills.'

Then, her own time being come, Barbara
went to send Magnus to catch the H owlet ;
and soon after, her master, mounted on a
handsome black fetlar, set out for Eastravoe.

VOL. I. b

In this direction there was a road, and,
with stray exceptions, a pretty passable one
something to be thankful for in Shetland.
On the right hand lay a plain, bounded by
a multitude of little hills, with peat mosses
below, and many a tarn between, lighted into
momentary ruby by the setting sun ; for the
sun had half withdrawn the curtains of his
cloud-tent, and was flushing with an angry
crimson all the western heavens. On the
left the sward grew smoothly unbroken, save
where the headland had been scalped by
the peasantry for fuel, to the very lip of the
precipice which overhung the German Ocean.
It was spring-tide, and a strong swell stirred
the sea. Here was a very magnificence of
breakers ! Deep was calling unto deep, 
reverberating within mysterious rock caverns,
swinging bewilderingly round fantastic cliff-columns,
that stood up out of all the foam
and fury like grim sentinels on guard,  and
filling the whole space between earth and
sky with a great and mighty roar. It was
an impressive sight ; one to make you shrink,

perhaps, and pray for the speedy shelter of
comfortable curtained rooms ; or else, if you
had in you anything responsive to nature's
wilder moods, to set your pulses throbbing,
to blind your eyes with tears, you could not
tell for what, to steep you in an overpowering
sense of your own littleness.

Shortly after sundown was reached the
half-way point between the manse of Brestaa
and the house of Eastravoe,  a hamlet called
Stappensting, Mr Berwick dismounted before
one of the dwellings (one was a facsimile of
all), a rudely constructed stone hut, enclosed
within a low fence formed of ' pivots ' of turf.
Having vainly knocked, he lifted the latch
and looked in. The German tenant was not
at home, but tenants of other species were ;
to wit, a sheep, a pig, and an assortment of
fowls, perched wherever they could find a
roosting-place. A turf fire smouldered near
the middle of the floor, and an opening
overhead served the double purpose of chimney
and window. A heap of peat and ' feal '
(dried turf) was piled up in one corner ; an

arrangement which you dimly descried to bea
bed, occupied another, and a heterogeneous
jumble impossible to describe lay littered round
your feet. The clergyman of Brestaa had
sometime since got over such sentimentalism
as shuddering dismay in viewing interiors
like this (only, on Sundays when dazzled by
the gay garden of bonnets clustered about
his pulpit in full choir, he would once in a
way think of these miserable cabins dense
with peat-reek, and would wonder), so he
wasted no time in moralising, but put the
letter, which he had volunteered to deliver,
where it would be found by the hut-holder
on her return, and resumed his solitary way.
As the darkness gathered the storm came
on in earnest ; and when rain began to fall,
the rider, to save several miles, forsook the
road and plunged boldly into a marshy trackless
waste. He did not know his way
through, nor would he so much as attempt
to find it ; that was the pony's business,
not the man's. The Howlet took her
own course, accordingly ; and, thanks to her

sure-goodness and instinctive perception of
locality, she and her master in due season
stood safely within the great arched gateway
of Eastravoe.

The house of Eastravoe was a triumph of
solid masonry, as standing where it stood
(on a plateau above the voe from which it
took its name), and looking where it looked
(through the giant rock portals of that goethe
stacks of Eastravoe  on the Northern
Ocean), it had pressing need to be. All
the powers of the air seemed to have broken
loose about it when the minister of Brestaa
arrived. The rain was lashing it ; the wind
was howling frantically round the turrets of
it ; the voe was boiling like a witch's cauldron
underneath. But what did that matter ?
No harm would come to it ; for it was
founded upon a rock.

The servant who admitted Mr Berwick
ushered him at once into Miss Silvester's
parlour, where there was no light but that
of the flickering fire. A lady came through
the shadows and held out her hand.

This is a wild evening,' she said, and her
voice was a singularly pleasant contralto ;
but I am speaking to no carpet-knight, so
I don't apologise for having made you face
the storm. You know the distress ? You
have read the newspaper accounts ? '

I saw your note before I had looked at
the newspapers,' he replied, ' and I was not
likely to stop to examine them then. Is
anything seriously wrong ? '

It is only that we are ruined, Mr Berwick,'
was the perfectly quiet response.

Miss Elvester ! ' he cried.

Yes ; it is strange to think of,' she said,
but none the less true for that. The Great
Western Iron Company has failed, and my
father is one of the largest shareholders 
unlimited liability, unfortunately  read this,
and this, and I think you will see that
in calling it ruin I don't overstate the case.'

He read as requested, and soon became
convinced that there had been no overstate-ment
; that the case was in very deed as
bad as it could be. He turned from letters

and papers with a face full of the deepest
concern, and, 

You will have legal advice at once,' he
said, oblivious of circumstances.

Miss Elvester recalled him to facts.

1 You forget where we are,' she rejoined ;
our one steamer in the week, our present
want of telegraphic communication with the
south. Nor have we of Eastravoe any
Leander to swim so far for love of us  and
to lose his life in the venture, rash man.'

Though Donald Berwick was quite aware
that this lady differed in some respects from
the other women of his acquaintance, it jarred
upon him when she made such a speech. If
she were utterly distracted, it would be only
natural. But to jest thus ! As if devising
the thought, Miss Elvester said, 

I am perfectly calm, you perceive ; I
leave the hysteria to my sisters ; there will
be enough and to spare of that on their return.
They are at Hilyascord this week, in
happy ignorance of what awaits them. My
poor girls ! '

As she uttered the last three words her
voice shook ; and during the ensuing silence,
Mr Berwick felt  he could not see  that she
was having a struggle to retain the calmness
of which she had just boasted. But he dared
not say a syllable. He had not here the
kind of person upon whom could be lavished
any of the usual sympathetic ' chaff well
meant for grain.' Frank as Miss Elvester
was, a man might not come quite near to
her ; never near enough, certainly, to venture
upon the common-places of condolence. Mr
Berwick held his peace, therefore, and waited
till she again should speak. Very soon she
recovered herself.

You are a favourite with my father,' she
said; 'when he will see no other stranger he
will see you. He is in the library now, and I
am hoping it may do him good to have a talk
with you. Will you see him at once, Mr
Berwick ? or would you rather wait until
you shall have rested a while and dined ? '

Till he should have rested and dined !
Most certainly not. He would go to her

father at once. So she led the way to the
library.

Light enough was in that room. Soft
radiance, streaming from antique candelabra
upon a white-haired man, who sat bent and
motionless among his books. His face was
hidden on his crossed arms, and these rested
on the writing-table in front of him. The
door opened and closed again, but the
master did not raise his head.

Father,' cried Miss Elvester cheerfully,
here is Mr Berwick at last ; you've been
a little impatient for his coming, have you
not?'

There being no answer, she went up to
him and leant over his shoulder, at the
same time laying her hand upon one of his.
Suddenly she started back, uttered something
between a sob and a cry for help, and
staggered against the wall for support.

The master of Eastravoe's silence was
the silence of death.

THE SWEET USES OF ADVERSITY.

Daughter of Jove, relentless power,
Thou tamer of the human breast,
Whose iron scourge and torturing power
The bad affright afflicts the best.

N a certain midsummer evening
early in the seventies, there was
great commotion within Royal
Street Railway Station, Royal Square.
Netherlaw. The Fair week had come
that annual opportunity for the workingmen
to go at large and enjoy himself ;
so here the workingmen was, swarming the
platform, he. with his womankind.

What a medley ! what jostling and
laughing and declaiming ! what gallantly

plumed hats and flower-garlanded rainbow-ribbon
bonnets ! what bugle - spangled
jackets and costumes of the period !

In the crowd of holiday-makers, but not
of it, one stood patiently  or impatiently
perhaps  awaiting the train from the north.
She was quite past youth, but straight as a
dart, and light of motion as a girl. Having
once looked at her pale, resolute face, you
were sure to wander back to it again and
again ; sure, also, to make up your mind
that it was too sarcastic in expression to
be altogether pleasing. This woman owed
nothing of her dignity to the dress she wore ;
and it must have been this austerity of attire
which gave licence to a heavily-freighted
porter, whose course she happened to be unconsciously
obstructing, to bawl, 

Watch yourself', there ! Get out of the
way, my dear.' Instead of getting out of
the way, the obstructions turned full on
the speaker's face a pair of large grey
eyes, keenly bright as those of a falcon. The
man saw his mistake ; this was a person

accustomed not to be commanded, but to
command ; so he muttered something supposed
to be an apology, and made a circuit
to avoid displacing her whom he had the
moment before so unceremoniously ordered
to give way to him. In doing this, he came
into collision with a pair of by-standing
matrons ; and these took him sharply to task
for his clumsiness. He retorted in kind.
One of the women thereupon gave him
to understand that neither for him nor his
betters would she listen to ' the language Q f
Ashton ; ' counter-checks quarrelsome were
bandied ; and finally the porter proceeded on
his way, with hard thoughts of all Eve's
daughters in his heart.

The objector to ' the language of Ashton'
was a woman of a comely countenance ; but
her voice, eyes, and tongue vied each with
the other in sharpness. And her temper
was much ruffled to-day, for she had in
custody there bundles of inconvenient bulk
and unhandy shape, which were in constant
peril of falling away from her and being

trodden under foot by a mob, alike regardless
and unmannerly. Her companion in
travel was a heavy-faced sallow slip of a
creature ; and she too was hard bestead 
though not with bundles : a quartette of
boys of tender years hung about her skirts,
and in turn gnawed unripe apples, strove
every one with his brother, and whimpered
up and down unmusical chromatic scales of
inquiry, whether they would be ' sure gaff
to the saut water noo ? '

Presently the father of these pretty ones
came along. He was a small, wisp-like
mortal, hazy and irresolute ; and his undulating
gait betrayed a heart merry with
wine, let us say. Onward he moved,
with what was meant for a beam of disarming
fascination in his eye, but what 
so will men's best intentions fail of their
mark !  appeared to the public only a foolish
leer. Hard by his liege lady's side he
swerved from his equilibrium, and to regain
the same, clutched at the most convenient
object, which chanced to be the black-miss

Elvester's Girls.

draped figure already made mention of.
But he was doomed to woe. The hoped-for
prop eluded him, and behold! he buffeted
the air  he bit the dust. The children,
shrieking, spurned him from their path ;
the mother crossly bade them, ' Whisht,
ye sorrows, whisht ! ' and bent a gruesome
visage on the sire ; the man stumbled
up again, raising his testimony the while
against ' the rough, unchancy roads, ye
see, that minna let folk keep their feet the
day ava.'

The train from the north being now insight,
she who waited for it did not stay
to hear what sympathy the victim of unchancy
roads should receive from his spouse,
but advanced to meet the passengers as
they descended. After a moment her face
became tinged with colour, and a dawning
smile brought to view a pair of unsuspected
dimples. You were obliged to reconsider
your former decision now, and at the very
least to admit that the lady looked far more
attractive than you could have imagined,

while you had only beheld her features in
repose.

Two girls had alighted, and were gazing
inquiringly this way and that. Pale and
weary they were, and not a little bewildered
by this great and noisy crowd. But in
half a minute their sister was holding a
hand of each, and saying, 

Let me know the worst. How many
of their properties have my clever girls
contrived to lose by the way ? '

We have lost nothing, Jenny  except our
patience,' replied the younger, whose sweet,
pure voice had that faintest, prettiest suspicion
of a foreign accent that Shetland voices have.

And this is Netherlaw ! ' exclaimed the
other, precisely as she might, had she been
a Russian exile, have exclaimed, ' This is
Siberia ! '

This is Netherlaw,' was the reply. ' It
is a gala time here, I must tell you, and
the people are dressed up to the occasion.
Just make a study of the fashions, will you,
while I see to the luggage.'

The spot selected by the girls from which
to make their study chanced to be as nearly
as possible that on which Miss Elvester
had stood watching for the train. And
the owner of the erring husband was now,
heedless who might hear, putting the pointed
question, 

Is there ony ane hast i' the word you're
fit for, Geordie Choppin ?'

As George Choppin seemed to have no
idea on the subject, his wife's friend answered
in his stead, saying, 

Geordie's a thocht like or ane, gey an'
guide at haudin' up the door-cheeks.'

And from the tone in which she made
the parallel, one felt fully sure that the
man whom she claimed as hers, would
not be permitted to uphold his door-posts
unreproved.

Na, but ista this gran' weather for the
crops ? ' observed the culprit, thinking perhaps
to give conversation a less personal
turn.

But Mrs Choppin was not interested in

the crops, and the levity of Mr Choppin's
mind, as evidenced by his remark, had the
effect of provoking an even winter frown
than before, and the peevish exclamation, 

Haud your tongue, ye anderson, dorothy,
feckless little loon that ye are ! Was there
ever the like o' ye kent ?'

Ay, Betty,' said the neighbour ; ' I trow
there's a handle mair o' the same crabs whaup
he comes frae.'

But Mr Choppin muttered, 

I weel ken I was founded for a muckle
chief, but I ticket in the growth,' for he
tipsy resented the allusion to his outer man,
though he cared nothing for the slur cast on
his character.

Ticket in the growth, quo' he ! ' sneered
his consort. ' Weel, weel ; it's no been
for stint o' guide levin' ; for scrimp wha
may, I ken ane maun aye pick an' free
the best.'

'/ wad gar him ken the odds between
fou an' fare weel,' said the other matron.
My troth ! there's a hall squad o' men

VOL. I. C

in Laighbield wadna be so keen o' idlest,
gin they cam hame at e'en to get a toom
coggie glowering' in the face o' them.'

At mention of Laighbield the Shetland
girls exchanged glances, and the elder of
them for the first time surveyed the speakers.
In so doing, she attracted Mr Choppin's
roving eye. Mr Choppin himself was now
gently oscillating on the edge of a wheelbarrow,
and he took the young lady's notice
in such good part, that he responded with
a fixed smile, a nod which nearly overbalanced
him, and an invitation to come and
share his resting-place. To be hailed familiarly
by a workingmen, and asked to sit
beside him in a wheelbarrow, was something
quite novel in the experience of Miss Ursula
Elvester. It required a little time to grasp
the reality of the thing ; and during that
time Mr Choppin, who really imagined he
was being very obliging and kind, took the
additional liberty of informing the young lady
that she was ' a desperate braw lass,' and
that he ' would like gran' to hear her sing.'

Thus far he ventured, but no farther : the
proud face turned upon him, with ineffable
surprise and expression, such as a goddess
might have worn if so she had been accosted
by the meanest of earth's sons, and had due
effect ; Mr George Choppin was abased and
quenched. But now Miss Elvester reappeared
and piloted her girls to a cab.
And so ended scene first of their experiences
in Netherlaw.

On and away they rattled ; out of Royal
Square, with its rival hotels, its centre-piece
of ornamental gardening, its weather-beaten
statues of majesty and others ; past the
parish church of St Barnabas, big and bald,
across one and another street, where din, like
that which once arose in the plain of Shinar,
smote the afflicted ear ; and a great variety
of public buildings  new and old  florid asa
bride cake, or ornamented as a barn 
crowded upon the eye. When Miss Elvester
was at leisure to study the faces beside her,
she said to herself, 

Ah, just so ; I expected no less.'

For Ursula's expression told plainly that
life at this moment was very bitter, and tears
were glistening under Christian's lashes.

1 Come, let us try to be a little cheerful if
we can,' said the eldest sister blithely.

But how can we ? ' returned the younger,
faltering as she spoke. ' Things are so  so
sad, Jenny.'

1 And you want to make them sadder
still, by looking at them through tears ?
No, Christian, that is not the way to face
trouble.'

1 Have you no sensibility that you can
expect cheerfulness from us, placed as weare
? ' said Ursula mournfully. ' Are you
made of stone ? '

Of the nether-millstone,' replied Miss
Elvester. ' Sensibility is an ornament I can't
afford to wear. Sense is enough for me
just now ; the other I have locked away
against better times.'

Perhaps it is as well,' murmured Ursula
gloomily, ' considering the people amongst
whom we are to live.'

Some persons who spoke of Laighbield
were just beside us on the platform,' explained
Christian. ' One was a very impertinent
man. Think of it, Jenny !  he
asked Ursula to sit by him, and wished to
hear her sing.'

Oh, it is hard to bear ! ' groaned Ursula,
alluding to her lot in general rather than
to Mr George Choppin's politeness in particular.
' What have we ever done that
we should be tried so ? '

That is a question of cause and effect,
into the subtleties of which I can't enter,'
said Miss Elvester. ' You must go to the
Rev. Donald Berwick, I imagine, for light ;
problems of the kind lie more in his way
than in mine.'

They were now out of the business part of
the town, and driving up a narrow street of
plain, three-storey houses, with enclosures
before each, where grew grass and flowers,
and shrubs baked rather brown, to make
glad the heart of the dwellers and the
passer-by.

This is Chapel Street,' said Miss Elvester.
How do you like it ?'

Ursula having taken her sister's allusion
to the Rev. Donald Berwick seriously amiss,
said nothing. Christian therefore must speak.

It is  ' very pleasant, she would have
added, but could not, even to please Jenny,
tell an untruth ; so after considerable searching
of heart, she substituted, ' not so bad.'

Truly, my dear, it is not so bad as some
of the purlieus where poor tired Ulrica and
I went lodging hunting when we arrived,'
said Miss Elvester. ' Here is No. 50, then'
(for they had stopped before a close about
half-way along the street). ' We are reduced
to what some people might consider the
ignominy of a " flat." But never mind, the
disgrace will not be indelible. Now, go
upstairs at once. The driver will try to
overreach me  it is cab-driver nature  and I
won't be overreached, so a contest impends,
which I would spare your feelings.'

1 Do you mean to wrangle with the man
about a paltry sixpence ? -you ! ' and both

voice and features showed that Ursula felt
she was now indeed sounding the deeper
depths.

I must do it replied Miss Elvester ;
such be the sweet uses of adversity. But
away with you before we have our charioteer
sarcastically inquiring, " What coin is
this ? "  three stairs up  right-hand door 
name, Mrs Fairbairn.'

So instructed, the girls left their sister
and the cabman to come to terms about the
fare, and with languid steps commenced
the toilsome ascent of the long, dimly-lighted,
spiral staircase which led to Mrs
Fairbairn's furnished apartments.

Ursula's mistake.

Proud abroad and proud at home,
Proud wherever she chanced to come ;
When she was glad and when she was glum.'

HE entrance of Ursula and Christian
Elvester roused a small
person who had been prone
upon the sofa of Mrs Fairbairn's tidy but
threadbare sitting-room. This sister, as
much younger than these two as their other
sister was older, received them with an air
of much and dignified importance. She
sleeping ? No, and indeed, no ! She had
but lain down to think, and having closed
her eyes  she could think more consecutively
with shut eyes  had forgotten to open them

again. As for daylight slumbering, that was
a thing  But Miss Elvester, victorious
from the battle of opinion with the cabman,
appeared, and cut Ulrica's explanation short.

As she attended to the wants of her travellers
the manner of their eldest sister was
steadfastly cheerful ; and Christian, by the
time tea was over, had caught the infection
to the extent of being able to laugh now
and then. Ursula fared differently. Is life
worth divine ? would have evoked from
her an unhesitating no. She ate mechanically
what was set before her, but she
neither joined in the comparing of notes
which went on, nor yet took the slightest
interest in listening. Miss Elvester did
not approve of this brooding apart and
self-absorption, so after a while she remarked,


As I travelled through the wilderness of
this world, I lighted on a certain place where
was a den ? Isn't that how you feel about
it, Ursula ? '

Well, I don't say you have come to a

bower of bliss exactly ! I know that the wallpaper
is unspeakable, and that the haircloth
covered chairs and sofa are not just the kind
of seats to be described as the lap of luxury ;
also, I agree with you that one's idea of
young Lochinvar is not altogether realised
in yon work of art, where the hero is represented
at the moment when 

So boldly he entered the Nether Hall,
'Mong brides' men, and kinsmen, and brothers and all."

Still the room might have been worse. It
vas worse, before I suppressed a variety of
lively-coloured wool-work, and sent a collection
of wonderful artificial flowers to bloom
unseen, instead of above the gay, tinsel-filled
fireplace.'

I am not complaining of the room,' said
Ursula, with martyr-like meekness.

Ulrica, who, having been her father's
spoilt favourite, took far too much upon her,
hereupon observed, 

You ought to be so very grateful that
you have a house to come to. Jenny and I

hadn't. While you were comfortable at Hily-
accord, we came to Netherlaw and sought
out rooms for all of us. Such seeking !
I never was so tired  never in all my life,
tired I know than you who are so cross.'

1 And when you were tired, weren't you
too ever so slightly cross ? ' urged Christian.

I am not a grown-up person,' replied
Ulrica. ' Jenny was never cross.'

'Jenny could not be cross, I think,' said
Christian, admiringly. ' She would not know
how.'

Miss Elvester affirmed that Jenny could
very easily be cross, if she were only able
to discover the advantage of it ; and then
she bade the girls go and sleep off their
crossness and fatigue together. Christian
contumaciously refused to obey. Ursula,
on the other hand, seemed glad to seize
the earliest opportunity of shutting her eyes
on the world ; so she followed Miss Elvester
to a small, dull back room overlooking a
dingy bleaching green, where two charwomen
were beating carpets and an organ-grinder

was drearily droning selections from Norma
and Masaniello. The chamber was precisely
like a prison-cell, thought Ursula  who had
never seen a prison-cell ; and so thinking,
she sat down by the shabby little bed in the
corner, and, hiding her face on the coverlet,
broke into passionate weeping.

Ulrica had come after her sisters unbidden ;
and being so wise a woman in her own
conceit, she undertook to bring silly Ursula
to reason.

Why should you cry ? T she remonstrated.
You make yourself too conspicuous.' (She
did not quite convey her meaning here, but
she loved long words, and so, like all who
will be fine above measure, fell into confusion
now and again.) ' I've not cried one single
time since leaving Shetland, a whole week
ago ; nor has Jenny ; and it is we who have
had everything to do, and to think of.'

We are strong persons,' said Miss Elvester
; ' and we must bear with our weaker
brethren.'

1 But no one ought to be weaker brethren,'

objected Ulrica. ' Isn't it foolish of
them ?'

Go, get you gone, you small untimely
moralist ! Vanish ! ' cried Miss Elvester ;
and with good-humoured force the intruder
was ejected and the door secured.

Miss Elvester had in a general way scant
sympathy with anything lachrymose. She
could, however, make allowances on occasion.
For a time, therefore, she did not speak,
but employed herself in unpacking Ursula's
dressing-case. The sobs having at length
ceased, she approached her afflicted sister,
saying, 

e You will feel better now ; a hearty cry
is the cheapest medicine in the world  and
the best sometimes, I am told.'

Is there any need for ridiculing me because
I am miserable ? ' returned Ursula coldly (for
she was in the mood to see everything awry).

My dear, I am not ridiculing you ; on
the contrary, I am extremely sorry for you.
Indeed, Ursula, I would willingly make your
path smoother and brighter if I could. But

hear me : that things have gone badly enough
with us, nobody will deny ; you, however,
take a too gloomy view  you think we have
come to a pass than which there could not
possibly be a worse.'

I do not merely think it, I am sure
enough of it. Everything  everything gone
from us ; our home, our own Eastravoe, sold
to strangers. Oh, it is too cruel ! '

And if no other home had been in
readiness  if, with the loss of our father's
possession, all had been lost  how then ? '

1 It would have been little worse than it
is ; for I don't see how we shall be able
to subsist on that pittance of yours ; and
as for the house, is it not the merest hutin
an odious country town ? '

Miss Elvester might have resented this
contemptuous reference to the annuity and
the morsel of property in Cornrigshire, her
inheritance from her mother, which her
father's daughters were henceforth to share
with herself ; but she only smiled, and
said, 

1 1 am full of the spirit of enterprise when
I think of that hut. Glorious possibilities
unfold themselves before my prophetic soul.
Mark my words, Ursula ; you shall one day
beg my pardon for the scorn you now cast
upon the Brae. I hope to bring the garden
to grand perfection. Now, my garden, like
Mr M'Dow's, has a great many " berry
bushes isn't " (but I forgot ; you young people
don't read Miss Farrier) ; and as a certain
clerical friend of yours is an authority on the
subject of fruit trees, I must ask you to
use your influence with him to  '

She was suddenly interrupted. Her sister
rose up and stood before her, erect, flushed,
and with flashing eyes. Cold, haughty
Ursula could show fire enough, when put
to it, one well saw.

You are not to dare to jest to me about
Mr Berwick,' she said in a low, repressed
tone. ' Do you know what he has done ?
he has  asked me to marry him ! '

Miss Elvester betrayed no surprise.
'At Hilyascord ?' she inquired.

No ; but before we left Eastravoe, just
after you were gone. But I have spoken
of it to no one, not even to Christian ;
and I only tell you, so that you may leave
off making reference to him. You had
better.'

Am I to understand that you and he
have said good-bye ? '

1 Would you have had anything else ? '

I would have had you consult your own
feelings in the matter, as I trust you have
done.'

I have done exactly as I would if my
father had been alive, and this desolation
had not fallen upon us  only he would
not have ventured to ask me then. Even
as it is, he ought not to have forgotten
the difference that there is between him
and me.'

The difference ? Yes ; it is past measurement.
But did you remind the infatuated
man himself of this difference between
you ? '

1 Excuse me, I have said all that I care

to say on the subject ; so, if you please,
don't ask questions ; do just let the matter
drop.'

There needs no questioning indeed. I
know as well as if I had been told how
Mr Berwick entreated you to honour him
(save the mark ! ), by giving him a husband's
right to shield you from the poverty you
so much dread. That fine fellow metaphorically
 not literally, I hope  knelt at
your feet ; and you could not stoop to him.'

I could not stoop to him.'

1 1 am sorry, Ursula, and sorrier for you
than for Mr Berwick. My dear, you have
made a mistake.'

4 Is it a mistake to remember that, if
nothing else remains to us, there is still
our name ? I am an Elvester, and though
I have always liked and esteemed Mr
Berwick, to marry him would be out of
the question.'

1 You fancy there would be degradation
in an alliance with a farmer's son ; but I
don't quite see it somehow.'

vol. I. d

You would be content that we should
marry, not farmers' sons, but farmers themselves,
it seems to me ! '

Truly, if they were men such as Mr
Berwick, I really don't know that I should
mourn loudly over your declension ; for,
my dear Lady Lofty, I am apprehensive 
I am very apprehensive  that if you ever
do marry, it will not be to take your place
amid the noble of the land.'

You are to be envied, that you can make
a jest  even of our misery,' said Ursula with
a pitiful attempt at indifference.

Yes ; that is one of my pleasant little
peculiarities. But do you not know that
people must sometimes jest if they would
not groan ? '

What she had now heard had both vexed
and disappointed Miss Elvester. She had
the highest possible opinion of Mr Berwick ;
he and Ursula were exactly suited to each
other ; and, more than that, she very much
inclined to the belief that Ursula herself felt
the suitability  that the so-called liking and

esteem  but what was the use of dwelling
on the subject ? The mistake had been
committed, and no words of hers would
undo it ; so, bridling her tongue, she proceeded
to needful action.

Unwinding a tangled skein is held the
standing test of a woman's patience and
temper ; but some of us, who might come
triumphantly through the ordeal of the skein,
would break down utterly under the ordeal
of ministering to an unthankful, unreasonable
sister. Yet even here Miss Elvester did
not fail ; never was a woman more slow
to wrath than she ; indeed, it seemed as if,
in spite of her own assertion to the contrary,
she could not lose her temper, even if she
tried.

CHRISTIAN S CROTCHET.

1 A little, tiny, pretty, witty, charming darling she.

Bring the rest of that evening
Miss Elvester was busy at her
desk. Christian sat at the window
counting the chimney-stalks  which,
for this one holiday week, had ceased to
waft their clouds of sooty incense to the
skies  and much pitying the thousands of
Netherlaw. Ulrica, lost in a volume of
wonder-lore, was unconscious of outer things,
and so continued till the voice of authority
called her from fairyland r and ordered her
to dreamland instead. Christian saw her
safely off, and then, the gas being lit, and

the chimney-stalks no longer practicable, laid
hands on a piece of knitting for lack of
other resource.

Had I the wings of a dove, I would fly

Far, far away ; far away.'

As Miss Elvester presently paused in her
writing to hum 

Where not a cloud ever darkens the sky,

1 Far, far away ; far away.'

Christian looked up smiling, and caught
her sister's eyes.

Is that your own sentiment or mine ? '
she inquired.

Yours, yours,' said Miss Elvester. ' There
is a certain hardness of fibre about me  as
I daresay you are aware  which renders me
for ever incapable of such pretty sentiment
as wishing to be a bird, or a daisy, or a
butterfly born in a bower. My practical
mind is exercised practically ; as, for instance,
about that knitting of mine. What is
amiss with it, Christian ? The pattern is at
a crisis, and I am anxious about it, you see.'

Ulrica's kitten has been making a football
of it, I think. But I am putting it right
again ; and while I've been busy with it, I
have forgotten to envy the dove her wings.'

I daresay. Being busy is the best cure
I know of for vain wishing,' and Miss Elvester
resumed work.

The dropped stitches having been taken
up, Christian sat still for a time, busy no
longer, thoughtfully gazing at her sister.
Poor Jenny ! nobody ever heard a murmuring
word from her lips ; but there were lines
on her brow, and dark circles about her
eyes, and there was nothing left of her face's
former softness of contour. Indeed, this
scarcely looked like the Janet Elvester of
a year ago, so terribly had the past month's
anxiety told upon her. It became necessary,
ere long, to find means of giving expression
to the feelings which a contemplation of the
change awakened ; so Christian went quietly
round to the back of her sister's chair, and
began to trifle caressingly with the circlet
of jet beads about the sitter's neck  with

the fringe on her dress  with the plaits of
her hair. The mute attentions were neither
disallowed nor taken any notice of; and fora
good many minutes Christian stood thus,
watching the progress of the rapid, resting
pen. At last the work was done.

Here is a pile of business off my conscience,'
said Miss Elvester, the final letter
having been addressed. ' It is rather a
troublesome thing, this being an executrix ;
pray, Christian, that you may never be called
upon to undertake the like. Why ' (looking
at her watch) ' I have even been longer than
I thought ; and you are not going to have
any beauty-sleep, that is certain.'

 I am such a beautiful, beautiful creature
that I need none,' said Christian, who, by
the way, thought wonderfully little about
her looks. ' And I wanted to wait for you,
at animate ; for, oh, Jenny, you can't fancy
what a comfort it is to be with you again.'

Do you feel it so ? Then I have not
lived in vain.'

Of course you are laughing ; you will

never let one have the satisfaction of paying
you even the tiniest, most innocent of
compliments.'

Certainly not. Compliments don't suit
matter-of-fact elderly women.'

Elderly, Jenny ! Why, you are  '

Never mind the age, then ; sensible, let
us say.'

Christian was kneeling before her sister
now, earnestly regarding the white, shapely
fingers by which her own pretty hands were
clasped.'

Do I look like a person with something
on her mind ? ' she asked suddenly.

I'm not certain how persons with something
on the mind may be supposed to look,'
replied Miss Elvester, laughing. ' Not being
versed in fiction, I don't know how a
heroine bears herself when she is mentally
distressed.'

She has  let me consider  she has a
shadow on her fair young brow, her lake-like
eyes grow dim and hollow, her airy
tread becomes languid, and  and  '

And does she keep her sister up through

the early morning hours hearing her chatter ? '

1 She chatter ! A heroine has a voice like

flowing water, or silver bells  a " dulcet "

voice, that is the word for it.'

Delightful creature that she must be to
have about one ! But tell me now, what
is this load of yours ? Something very unheroic,
I venture to surmise.'

As unheroic as myself, Jenny. One
more question, please. What, upon your
conscience, do you think I am fit for ? '

I don't know that you are fit for anything
at all, my poor child.'

1 Do you not believe me good for anything
? '

Oh, if you insist upon the whole truth,
I do believe you are good enough for  I
will show you what,' and Miss Elvester
took the face of the querist between her
hands, and laughingly kissed it once and
again ; an unusual proceeding, for she was
sparing of such demonstrations, reserving
them for high days and holidays, as she

herself would say. ' That is what you are
good for,' she continued, ' to be petted and
spoilt by people who are foolish enough to
spoil and pet you.'

'It is so you always treat me, when I
would make myself of use,' said Christian
gravely. ' But I am now old enough to
judge for myself, I think ; and this is what
is on my mind. I  don't be astonished at
me, Jenny  I intend  oh, it is nothing
dreadful  to earn my own living.'

1 You are a free and enlightened little
person, to be sure ! ' exclaimed Miss Elvester,
an expression of amusement, well
mixed with satire, shining in her eyes.
1 You intend to earn your own living, do
you ? And since when have you been
pleased to cherish this magnificent resolve,
may one make bold to inquire ? '

Christian raised appealing eyes to the pale,
sarcastic face which was bent towards her.

Scold me if you must, but don't laugh at
me,' she said.

c Your pardon ! I ask for information.

How long is it since you began to think of
working for yourself ? '

Ever since rightly grasping all that our
changed circumstances means, though I
have never spoken of it till now.'

 No one, then  there are officious
meddlers enough, I know  put the idea
into your head ? '

1 No one. The idea is all my own. I
mean to be a governess, Jenny.'

I see ; in order to escape the limitations
of your present lot, you, like the sensible
little girl you are, must find an entirely
new sphere for yourself. But do you feel
that you have a vocation for the position
you aspire to ? '

I am fairly well educated, am I not ? '

Granted ; but let me hazard the mild
suggestion, that being fairly well educated
oneself, and being even fairly well able to
educate others, are things totally distinct.
To imagine that, without a special training,
or at any rate a special talent, you can bea
successful teacher in the proper sense of

the word, is as great a delusion as to fancy,
like some men, that all required of him who
would preach to his fellow-sinners, is unbounded
confidence, added to a pair of
strong - lungs. You may have chanced to
hear such self-elected prophets ; were they
likely to advance the planet's evangelisation,
think you ? '

But, indeed, the comparison is not a fair
one. I am as humble as can be. I want
to teach the alphabet ; couldn't I do that ? '

Why, yes, you might. And so to teach
the alphabet is the sum of your ambition ? '

1 Not quite. I'm presumptuous enough
to hope that I might even dare a slightly
higher flight. And if I be without either
training or talent, I have one thing to recommend
me. I dearly love children.'

1 No doubt. It happens to be an unpleasant
fact, however, that, while in theory
children are dearly lovable, in practice they are
sometimes exactly the reverse. I shouldn't
care about any of my girls being a nursery
governess, Christian, and I beg you to get

rid of this crotchet of yours. For the
present, at all events, content yourself with
such a home as I can offer you.'

I can't get rid of my  crotchet ; it has
taken too firm hold upon me. I must be
independent.'

Independent ! So it is a question of
woman's rights we have to deal with ? '

1 Yes, Jenny ; of her right to work for
herself.'

1 Very well put, my witty one. And it
seems so glorious a thing, this independence
! quite worth paying any price for !
But have you ever really counted the cost,
Christian ? '

'Again and again and again, Jenny.'

1 So often ? Well, it is hardly to be expected,
I suppose, that, having set your
heart on the assertion of your rights, you
should let a half-sister's objections have
any weight with you.'

1 It is unkind to say so. My half-sister
ought to know that she is more to me than
any one in the world, and that there is nothing

I will do, so long as she objects toit.'


Miss Elvesters cheeks took the colour of
roses ; so they always did when anything
touched the lady's heart.

Do you not understand,' went on Christian,
' how it is just because I love you, that
I am anxious to leave you now. I can't
longer stand idly by, while you bear all the
burden. I can only be miserable while it is so.
Call my wish to work a crotchet, if you like ;
I shall not mind, if you will but humour it.'

This, and a great deal more than this,
Christian said for herself. Having thought
much about the matter beforehand she
argued her case well ; and when she had
done, her sister, who had listened with the
utmost patience, observed,' 

Perhaps, who knows, a taste of the
sweets of governesses might send you
back to me, effectually cured of your passion
for independence.'

You consent to let me have my way ?
said Christian eagerly.

Not so hasty. I consent to nothing
yet. You have taken me by surprise, and I
can't say either one thing or another. I
must consider before I decide anything
so important. I move, therefore, that
the question be adjourned to a new
day.'

Adjourned it was accordingly. In the
meantime, Miss Elvester freed herself from
her sister's girdling arms, and proceeded to
put away her writing materials. Christian
drew up the blind and looked forth. In
Shetland it was tenderly light all through
these summer nights. The sun merely
dipped into the sea and was out again.
But here twilight did not so melt into
dawn. Netherlaw lay closely muffled in
gloom  gloom that might be felt ; and a
painful sense of pent-upness oppressed the
stranger, as her eyes wandered over the
shadowy streets which stretched away  away
away in every direction. One could not
breathe freely in this heavy atmosphere  this
forest of chimney-stalks. Oh, for a waft of

the northern breezes !  or the familiar sea-sound
!  or, 

c By your good leave,' said Miss Elves-ter,
turning out the gas. It does not suit
me to burn the candle at both ends ; and
as you are to share my room, it must not
suit you either. Hie you to bed ! '

CHAPTER IV.

ULRICAS AMBITION.

Large streams from little fountains flow ;
Tall oaks from little acorns grow :
And though I now am small and young,
Of judgment weak and feeble tongue,
Yet all great learned men, like me,
Once learned to read their ABC.

FIND,' said Miss Elvester, after
due consideration of the project
which Christian's heart was set
upon, ' that I dare not be the one to bar
the way of an eager young soul afire with
the spirit of independence. Do your will,
then, and prosperity attend you.'

But Ursula!  pen cannot picture the
dismay of Ursula when she heard of such
a thing. Of course Christian tried, and
VOL. i. E

tried again, to make her motives intelligible.
It was useless; Ursula could, or
would, see only that her sister meant to
descend to the ranks of the paid labourers ;
that an Elvester of Eastravoe intended to
work for hire. But Jenny would not surely
consent to such dishonour. To her, therefore,
Ursula appealed.

Have we Elvesters ever yet lowered ourselves
in the world's eyes ? ' she asked.

I daresay we have, a thousand times 
as you count lowering,' was the unpromising
reply ; ' you thought it a lowering of myself,
when I disputed the fare with a cabman the
other day.'

You choose to misunderstand, but I am
sure you know what I mean.'

About the honour of our sires, is it ?
Why are you disquieted on that head ?
Have you a dream of trying to make
atonement for the slips from honour of
your ancestors ?  because I wouldn't myself
advise you to attempt anything so
impossibly grand. Won't you rather be

satisfied with the humbler achievement of
keeping your own conduct as flawless as
may be ? '

I am not thinking either of myself or
my ancestors, but of Christian. You can
never intend to let her do what she is
talking of?*

I intend to let her do as she pleases

This assurance seemed to stupid Ursula ;
for fully a minute she did not utter a sound;
then, with tragic intonation, came the words,
1 Evidently you don't care how low we sink
now ! ' and she turned to seek the solitude
of her dreary back room, there to brood
over this new root of bitterness.

Miss Elvester put down the Shetland
newspaper she had been scanning.

You go just a little too far she said.
I haven't the slightest intention that we
shall sink, so long as we can keep above
water. No, don't go. Come here, and let
me talk a little common sense to you.'

Ursula did not want to have commonsense
talked to her. At this trying moment

she heartily disliked its very name. Still,
as she could not exactly refuse to listen,
she sat down ; but with a 
air about her, calculated to
excite ridicule or sympathy, as the beholder
chanced to be in a satirical or a
sentimental mood.

I suppose you remember the story of
Rosamond and the purple jar?' said Miss
Elvester.

Ursula supposed she did, but failed to
see its connection with the present question
at issue.

1 Why, don't you observe I have given
way about this purple jar on which Christian's
fancy is fixed ? I act as Rosamond's
mother acted  only up to a certain point,
however : I daresay I am wrong, but I
never could keep a mistaken one to her
bargain, after she had found it to be no
bargain at all, but a blunder. So Christian
shall try her luck; and then, so soon as
she discovers that she has overrated her
own strength and courage, she shall be

welcome to return to us again. But if 
which may be the case  this scheme of
hers should prove to be more than a piece
of mere romance ; if she should be brave
enough to persevere in her work, and
should make it plain that she is in the
sphere Providence had meant her to fill, 
why, I will never bid her leave it.'

What has happened to us already we
could not help,' observed Ursula bitterly;
now, we are voluntarily losing caste, and
descending from our position.'

My dear, I am weary of this harping
on caste. Live nobly, Ursula, and never
mind the rest.'

'Is rank nothing, then?' said Ursula,
still more bitterly than before.

It is something, certainly ; but it is less
than the man. And in any case it has
never been proved, so far as I know, that
a gentlewoman cannot work for wages and
be a gentlewoman still. Show me wherein
the degradation of receiving payment for
honest work consists.'

But there was no response. Miss Elves-ter's
common sense had fallen on ears that
would not receive it. She could not bring
her ideas to the level of her lot,  this proud,
foolish Ursula. It appeared to her that
things had gone wrong beyond power of
mortal to better them ; and now they might
take their own course ; she for her part
was done with protesting.

Since their father's death Ursula had
taken the place of governess to Ulrica (it
was only the post of a paid governess
that she objected to), giving herself great
trouble for small thanks ; or rather, for quite
the reverse of thanks, since Ulrica was
heard frequently to complain that the yoke
of her instructress was heavier than girl
could bear.

Ursula thinks of nothing  nothing 
nothing,  but how to keep me writing tiresome
exercises and learning strange French
conjugations,' grumbled the rebel. ' I almost
believe she invents irregular verbs as
she goes along.'

1 That is very clever of her,' replied Christian,
to whom this appeal for sympathy was
addressed.

Ulrica considered the remark flippant, and
passed it by.

1 There is no piano here,' she resumed,
but oh ! there will be practising and practising
when we get to Laighbield. I wish
Jenny would attend to my education then !'

I wouldn't wish that if I were you,' said
Christian ; ' Jenny would say far more than
Ursula ever says, if lessons were unprepared.'

But I shouldn't so much mind that.
Ursula doesn't say, she only looks ; and I
am sensitive. I don't like being looked
at by her solemn eyes, as if I were making
her very unhappy, and she were wondering
at me.'

The feeling was perfectly understood by
Christian ; she too knew what it was to
endure the speechless reproach of solemn-eyed
Ursula.

Ursula concerns herself with more than
my education,' said Ulrica, passing to another

source of discontent. ' She won't let
me read any books but fairy-tales, and childish
stories about good prim little girls with
such lecturing mammas. And you get so
tired of these at last

'Tired of Hans Andersen? Then I'm
sorry for you. But patience, Ulrica ; you'll
come to the other kinds in time.'

 Oh, it is all very well for you to say
'patience;" but suppose you found in the
cupboard of your room a delightful tale
called The Bravo s Bride; or, Doomed by
Destiny, and suppose you had got to the
middle of the third chapter, when Ursula
came upon you, and chose to say that you
mustn't read " that trash," and when you
wouldn't give it up, called Jenny, who then
came and took it away ; how should you
like that?'

Poor little victim ! ' laughed Christian,
patting the child's cheek. ' What a very
bad time she has with her hard - hearted
sisters.'

I don't think people should call a book

that trash," till they can write a better
themselves,' continued Ulrica, giving her
flowing fair hair an indignant shake. ' And
Ursula can't write at all ; not anything
original, I mean, only exercises and rules of
grammar, and Latin roots (I'm sure I can't
guess why the Latins should have been so
fond of roots). But let me tell you, Christian,
/ am going to do something for the
honour of our family. I have determined
I will be an authoress.'

1 That will be delightful,' said Christian ;
but she was not much impressed apparently.


When I told our old Jeromina at home,
she took much more interest than you do,'
said Ulrica, in an injured tone.

'It is so far off, you see,' apologised
Christian.

Not so far off as you may fancy. I grow
up rapidly, and I have already multitudes of
ideas in my mind. But, Christian, one thing
puzzles me. Jeromina says grown-up stories
were always about love ; I was sorry to hear

that, because I don't know anything about
love.'

Nor do I. But suppose, just for a
change, you were to write a story, a grownup
story, without love.'

1 did speak of that to Jeromina, but she
didn't think it would do ; it would be " offa
dry," she said. If I could have gone on
with The Bravo s Bride, I should have
learnt something, don't you think ? Oh,
Jenny' (for Miss Elvester had that moment
entered), ' have you overheard our conversation
? '

A few words of it only,' was the reply.
The Bravo s Bride forsooth. The grammar
and the dictionary would better suit
you.'

Think, Jenny ; our youngest is going to
be an authoress,' said Christian.

Miss Elvester raised her eyebrows.

Have I under my charge a woman of
intellect in embryo ? ' she exclaimed. ' The
sense of responsibility appals me, I confess.
But, my little girl, may I ask you kindly to

suppress your talent for the time, and to put
your room to rights. Books and papers are
in dire confusion yonder ; and if you are a
genius, that is no reason why you should be
untidy in your habits.'

The future authoress rose to obey. In
passing, she stopped and put her arms about
the mentor's waist.

I'll be as tidy as ever you like,' she
whispered, ' if you will only let me have
back The Bravo s Bride!

Let you have back what ? ' cried her
sister.

The Bravo s Bride', she said coaxingly ;
please, please, Jenny, give it to me back.'

Her wiles were wasted.

The Bravo s Bride is out of the question,'
replied Miss Elvester ; 'you shall have
Little Goody Two-shoes, rather.'

Papa would not have been so hard tome,'
murmured Ulrica, and her lips quivered
and her arms were withdrawn. ' He would
not be pleased if he were to know. He
would wish you to be less unkind to me.'

The colour sprang into the guardian's
face. But Miss Elvester did not generally
speak before thinking. She held her peace
for a moment, therefore, considering whether
she should condescend to justify her conduct.
Then she sat down and drew Ulrica
back to her side, saying kindly but with
authority, 

I hope I shall not hear anything of this
sort again ; and I believe I shall not, when
I have once shown you how mistaken you
are. Our father would certainly approve of
what you call my hardness to you. Let me
try to make you understand.'

But what she said need not be repeated
here ; it suffices that she did not let the
hungered for forbidden fruit depart, till she
had brought her round to reason and submissiveness.


A PAIR OF Netherland NOTABILITIES.

He that has ill-luck gets ill-usage.

T occasionally happens in this strange
world, that the public passes with
regardless eye some picture by
some young artist who fondly fancies himself
a greater than Turner ; that it will not
read the book whose author felt certain he
had written a thing which would take its
breath away with wrapt delight ; that it is
perversely determined to have no cognisance
of the ' eager young soul, afire with the
spirit of independence.'

So Christian, who had in her ignorance
imagined that one needed but to cry, ' I

have an ambition to teach ; bring me your
children, pray you,' and the children would
be brought, soon became painfully aware
that it was not at all thus, but that in the
commodity of governesses, the supply was
greatly in excess of the demand.

She advertised ; she replied to advertisements
; she made application at various
scholastic agencies, but nothing came of it
  nobody answered her. She was almost
in despair, when one auspicious morning,
glancing down the column in the Reflector
that she always turned to first, her eyes
were arrested by the cheering lines, 

'Governess wanted for a gentleman's family
in the West End; must be thoroughly qualified
to instruct in elementary English, and
to ground in the rudiments of French, Latin,
German, Music (vocal and instrumental) and
Drawing. Good accent indispensable. Un-exceptional
references required. Apply personally,
between the hours of twelve and
three, at Miss Colquhoun's Register Office,
Lockerbie Street

Hope at last ! in a personal application
assuredly there was hope ; and she could
eat no breakfast in view of it; though Miss
Elvester warned her that she would never
attain to a green old age if she allowed
every stray contingency so greatly to excite
her. Not much matter, Christian thought ;
she was not troubled about anything so
remote as a green old age ; her immediate
concern was about her accent. References
the most unexceptionable were not wanting;
but her accent? Miss Elvester dared
to say it would pass muster ; Ursula said
not a word ; but you may be sure her good
wishes did not attend her sister to Miss
Colquhoun's Register Office.

Lockerbie Street was the promenade upon
which fashionable Netherlaw daily aired
itself; but as Miss Elvester's girls had
hitherto walked abroad but little, and in
Lockerbie Street not at all, Christian wended
her way now for the first time through that
gay thoroughfare. Preoccupied as she was,
however, passing her qualifications in review,

speculating as to the children whose governess
was to c ground ' them in so many
rudiments, and hoping that Christian Elvester
might be the person selected to do the
grounding required, it seemed to her that
she had hardly quitted Mrs Fairbairn's
apartments before she arrived at the register
office.

Here she paused to summon up courage,
because  there was no concealing it from
herself, now that the much prayed-for moment
was come, it found her unmistakably
frightened. But the longer she lingered
outside the more afraid she grew, and when
at length she did cross the threshold, it was
with the feeling strong upon her, that she
was making a very desperate venture indeed.

Within was a good-natured looking, middle-aged
person, who immediately turned from
the huge ledger in which she was writing
entries, to inform Christian that the advertiser
for a governess, Mrs Baillie Gentes,
waited in the back room to give audience
to candidates, and that one such was at

present under examination. Even as it was
being told, there issued from the regions
behind a smartly dressed, rather pertly
mannered girl.

I've met a good many patterns of horrid
pretension since coming to your town, Miss
Colquhoun,' she said, ' but that woman beats
them all. Guess what her first words were ? '

Miss Colquhoun declined the riddle.

Then I must tell you. I had the presumption
to sit down, and her ladyship
desired me to " stand, please," and the rest
of her was to match. It was rather too
much of a good thing. Stand, indeed ! Did
she take me for a housemaid, I wonder ? '

Having thus delivered herself, this indignant
young person snatched at the parasol
which had been awaiting her in a corner,
tossed to Miss Colquhoun a by no means
amiable adieu, and swept from the register
office.

Such a prelude could not be called reassuring,
and it was with increased nervousness
that Christian passed into the audience

VOL. I. F

chamber where Mrs Baillie Geddes sate,
queenlike, to receive her. Then broke upon
her a confused consciousness of tawny surging
silk, and crest of white ostrich plumes,
and hard black eyes, and awe-inspiring nose ;
then a supercilious nod was vouchsafed her,
and then Mrs Baillie Geddes entered upon
the process of ' eyeing her over,' an operation
which, to give the lady due credit, she
performed in a style worthy of Mr Simon
Tapertit himself. The result of the survey
was not altogether satisfactory.

Hem  ha  ' said Mrs Baillie Geddes,
elevating her aquiline nose and outstanding
chin. * You look very young  too young
for me. Your age, if you please ? '

I shall be twenty in December,' answered
Christian, wishing that she could have said
thirty instead. And she was still more
ashamed of her youth when Mrs Baillie
Geddes rejoined. 

As I thought. Too young. Absurdly
so for a governess. But what experience
have you had ? '

Alas ! for Christian, she had to confess to
no experience at all.

No experience ! ' echoed Mrs Baillie
Geddes, and her hooked nose seemed to
become more hooked than ever. ' Why,
then, do you answer advertisements ? '

One must make a beginning,' ventured
Christian, in excuse.

The beginning ought to be made as an
articled pupil,' returned Mrs Baillie Geddes
with, if that were possible, an increase of
sternness. ' What I require is a person who
thoroughly understands her business, Miss
Axminster ' (Christian had on entering given
her name with perfect distinctness, and Mrs
Baillie Geddes was not hard of hearing),
and who has method. My present governess
has no method ; and besides that, she
is in failing health. A person in poor health
has no right to offer herself as a governess 
to do so is, I maintain, a species of fraud
which ought to be punishable by law. Are
you perfectly sound, Miss Exeter ? '

Though much struck by this view of ill-health

in a governess, Christian veiled her
surprise, and answered that her physical
condition was all that could be desired.

Hem ! You do not seem to me to have
much stamina,' said Mrs Baillie Geddes.
In my family a person with stamina is
required  with stamina] and, pausing, she
pierced Christian through with those relentless
eyes, as if in quest of hidden signs
of stamina.

How many pupils should I have ? ' inquired
Christian, when she had, with some
difficulty, screwed up her courage to the
point of asking the question.

Mrs Baillie Geddes did not approve of
the liberty, and she stared, as much as to
say, ' What are things coming to ? '

The governess has nothing whatever todo
with the elder Misses Baillie Goddess
she replied majestically, ' but only with
Masters Ferdinand and Leopold James, and
Miss Millicent Louise. And now, pray,
what references can you produce ? That
is a point upon which I am most particular

references. I must have first-class references.'


Particular as she was, Christian could
satisfy her here ; so fully, indeed, that it
seemed as if inexperience, and deficiency in
stamina even, might be got over. Mrs
Baillie Geddes did not commit herself, of
course  that would have been rash ; but,
having sifted the educational qualifications
of the present aspirant, she rehearsed at
long length the duties which would devolve
upon the person selected to discharge the
office of governess to the younger members
of the Baillie Geddes household, and
mentioned, by the way, that as for emolument,
provided the person were thoroughly
suitable, that would be on a liberal scale 
a handsome and a liberal scale.

But you are only one in a crowd,' she
wound up, ' so I can come to no conclusion
to-day, Miss  Westminster  Sister  what
do you say your name is ? '

Elvester,' replied Christian, trying to
pronounce even more distinctly than before.

1 Ha  well, as I say, I can settle nothing
to-day. You, on the whole, have pleased
me best so far. I am pleased with your
references. You may call tomorrow forenoon,
at Mr Baillie Geddes's place of business,
Seven, Alexander Buildings, and you
will be informed whether I have decided to
engage you. Seven, Alexander Buildings,
Miss Easter, about twelve o'clock.'

And a second nod, no less supercilious
than the first, gave Christian to understand
that for the present, at all events, Mrs
Baillie Geddes had done with her.

Miss Colquhoun was now parleying with
a domestic in search of a ' place,' and four
disengaged governesses were exercising their
patience till Mrs Baillie Geddes should find
it convenient to inspect them. Christian
would have left the office without speaking,
but when she bowed, Miss Colquhoun came
to open the door for her.

1 There is a chance of your not getting
this situation,' said the proprietress of the
register office, with a little shake of the head,

so, in case of that, here' (presenting a slip
of paper) ' is the address of another lady
who is looking out for a governess.'

You are very good,' murmured Christian,
with a rather forced smile.

1 Not in the least,' said Miss Colquhoun
briskly. 'All in the way of business, Miss
Elvester ; if I get you a situation you owe
me half-a-crown. I hope you will soon be
suited. Good-day.'

There was no doubt about it ; the prospect
of coming under the jurisdiction of such a
stickler for stamina as Mrs Baillie Geddes,
was the reverse of exhilarating. But
Christian dared not flinch already and drawback.
That would be disgraceful indeed I
So all the way to Chapel Street she kept
telling herself that it was very wrong to
judge from first impressions, and trying to
get up the persuasion that, Medusa stare and
magisterial manner notwithstanding, Mrs
Baillie Geddes might really possess even
more than the ordinary modicum of human
kindness.

Full of this charity, she slurred details,
when questioned in family committee as to
how she had fared ; whereupon Ulrica,
athirst for particulars (probably she was
thinking of material for volumes which were
to delight a future public), became very
pointed in her remarks about people who
would only draw their sketches in outline.
What was the good of living in this world at
all if one were to be so absolutely unobservant
of the niceties of colour and shading in
the characters whom one encountered ?

Next forenoon, as Christian was making
ready for Alexander Buildings, Miss Elvester
gave notice of an intention on her part to
play propriety on the occasion ; she did not
approve, she said, of girls running about unattended
among the offices of business men.
A protecting presence would not come amiss,
Christian admitted ; but, on the other hand,
who would engage a governess who needed
a sister to see her safely through the streets ?
The sister was willing to be invisible, if required,
and expressed herself ready to remain

outside during the interview with Mr
Baillie Geddes ; and under this condition her
guardianship was gladly enough accepted.

Alexander Buildings was a dingy quadrangle
in the centre of the town, so entirely
uninteresting, that this pen, even if it
delighted in descriptive passages much more
exceedingly than it does, would not be
tempted to portray it.

Do you still wish single handed to confront
your fate?' inquired Miss Elvester at
the entrance to No. 7.

I must learn to rely upon myself now,
must I not ? ' said Christian; 'and Mrs Baillie
Geddes will only engage a governess who has
stamina." '

Go, then, and may all that is good go with
you. Amen.'

Thus blessed, Christian took her way
upstairs. On the first landing were several
doors. One swung apart, and let out a
message boy, who opened his eyes wide on
the young lady, and then skipped away down,
three steps at a time. On the white panels

of another was inscribed the address :
Baillie Geddes & Co., Stockbrokers and
Commission Agents.'

This looks worse even than the register
office,' thought Christian, but she would not
give herself time to hesitate, so went forward
at once and knocked. It was a timid little
tap, and it got no notice taken of it. She
knocked again, and more boldly this time.

Push it open cried a voice within.

She pushed it open accordingly, and entering,
found herself in the presence of she could
not tell how many clerks, who simultaneously
raised their heads, and with one accord stayed
their pens to take note of her. She turned
to the youth who was nearest, and gave him
her card to hand to his principal. He looked
at it on both sides, then conveyed it to a room
in the distance, marked ' Private,' and there
delivered it. During the following few
minutes a good deal of whispering and suppressed
laughter went on. The funning
had nothing to do with Christian ; but as she
could not know that it had not, it made her

uncomfortable enough. After what seemed
an hour (fancy had magnified seconds into
minutes) there issued from the private room
a tall, stout, flowing whiskered gentleman,
wearing a small fortune in shape of a
diamond ring on one of his short fat hands.
Dead silence fell ; there was instant hurrying
on of every pen ; the visitor concluded that
she now beheld Mr Baillie Geddes. Mr
Baillie Geddes indeed it was ; and, without
wasting ceremony on Christian ; in fact
scarcely taking the trouble of looking at her,
he lifted up his voice aloud, and proclaimed, 

She said I was for to inform you that
she has engaged one that she saw before
that she went to the registry.'

And, his whole duty done, the flowing
whiskered gentleman retired into privacy
again.

mm

A FRIEND IN NEED.

If ye hae friends enow,
Though real friends, I believe, are few,

I've no insist,
But gif ye want a friend that's true,
I'm on your list.'

jT had been very dreadful altogether.
Christian would never want to seethe
obnoxious quadrangle, called
Alexander Buildings, again. Yet, determined
to let nothing daunt her, she, that
very afternoon, set out to try her luck with
Mrs Smellie, Elysium Villa, Cleveland,
whose address she had got from Miss
Colquhoun of the register office. Here,

A governess had

also, failure awaited her.

been fixed upon, Mrs Smellie told her,
only an hour before.

This Mrs Smellie, a jolly, kindly soul,
was much ' taken,' so she phrased it, with
the pretty Shetland girl, and Christian found
herself obliged, whether she would or not,
to rest and have refreshments in a 
so gaudy, so parti-coloured, as to
set her thinking of a kaleidoscope, and so
full of ornamental incongruities of every
description, that one felt all - perish only
to look at it.

A day or two after this, another advertisement
appeared in the Reflector. A
young lady was wanted as governess to
three little girls. She must have no objections
to travel, but that was the only
must in the matter ; and applicants were
invited to present themselves at No. 5
Chapel Street.

Without loss of time, Christian repaired
to No. 5. It was a main-door flat,
and a card, upon which was written in
flourishing letters, and with an extra p,

the word ' Apartments,' decorated one of
the windows. A small servant-maid, in the
last stage of slatternliness, opened the door
and consigned the ladies  for Miss Elvester
once more accompanied her sister, and there
was no talk this time of her remaining outside
 to the nearest ' appartment,' a dark,
unwholesome room, redolent of the fumes
of vile cigars. Scattered about the floor
lay a pack or two of very dirty cards ; on
the table were refreshments for body and
mind ; plenty of soda water and brandy,
and a copy of that most edifying publication,
The Police News.

1 We must have come to the wrong place,'
concluded Miss Elvester, as she observed
these various details.  The retainer seemed
too stupid to understand a word I said to
her ; but our business can't certainly be
with any one here,' and she took hold of
the bell-pull to recall the smutty little maid,
but, as might have been anticipated, the
wire was broken.

Just then was heard a shuffling sound

without, and next moment there slid forward
into sight a dishevelled young man,
in a stained and tattered dressing-gown,
and with feet more out of than in a pair
of what had been slippers once, but could
hardly, even by courtesy, be called slippers
now.

Your most obedient,' said this figure,
laying hand on heart, and executing an
exaggerated salaam.

1 There is some mistake, I believe,' said
Miss Elvester.

1 Oh, it's all serene,' returned the grimy
one ; ' you call in reference to advertisement
in to-day's Reflector. Pray, do be
seated, ladies. There's a pair of boots in
the easy-chair, miss, but you can pitch 'em
down, and welcome.'

But perhaps Christian, to whom this
liberty was accorded, thought it would bea
pity to displease the boots ; at all events,
she continued standing.

What will fit the party to appear for,'
the young man, still addressing himself to

Christian, ' is the girl who'll undertake todo
the teacher and friend and helpful companion
all in one. But you ain't very
particular now ; are you, miss ? For there
is a many parts we visit where we haven't
any more accommodation than only just
the travelling van.'

Christian again left her sister to speak
for her ; and, 

'I beg your pardon?' said Miss Elvester
inquiringly.

1 The caravan, don't you know,' explained
he of the dressing-gown. ' Sister and self,
ladies, are joint-proprietors of a travelling
menagerie  widowed sister, ladies, with
three small children.'

The situation will not suit this young
lady,' said Miss Elvester, with a manner
well calculated to check further jauntiness.
When next you advertise, you will perhaps
be good enough to mention the circumstance
of the caravan ; considerable
waste of time  both your own and others'
will so be prevented. Good morning.'

And thus, with a suddenness which the
travelling showman, judging from his looks,
had been by no means prepared for, the
conference came to an end.

Anew disappointed, Christian repeated the
experiment of advertising in The Reflector.
And she actually got an answer, too  but
then such an answer !  an execrably written
note, in which ' a personal interview ' was
kindly requested ; ' this pleasure, it need
scarcely be said, her weakness in favour of
authorised forms of orthography led her
cruelly to decline.

What next ? she wondered. But it
seemed as if there was to be no next ;
nobody in all wide Netherlaw needed her
services ; no Samaritan appeared to supply
her with the means of self-support. The
house at Laighbield, tenantless since Whitsunday
term, and now under repair, would
be ready for occupancy in October ; and
September was nearly run, and hope almost
gone out, when one forenoon a shiny-faced
visitor, elaborately trimmed and lavishly
vol. 1. G

bejewelled, made her appearance in Mrs
Fairbairn's threadbare little parlour.

1 1 never was invited said Mrs Smile,
grasping with painful heartiness the hand
held out to welcome her ; * but I've come,
you see  I've come ! '

Christian acknowledged the kindness, and
introduced the stranger. Miss Elvester
chanced to have gone out, which was unfortunate,
as she would at least have been
courteous. But so would not Ursula. She
encourage the familiarities of that absurdly
over-dressed person ! If Christian must
cultivate such a sort of friends, she need
not also look for her family to share in the
intercourse ; so not a hair's-breadth would
Ursula move beyond the most distant
civility.

But Ulrica, ready to be affable, stepped
forward, and, after Christian, submitted her
hand to the visitor's pleasure.

A kitten was perched on the child's
shoulder as Mrs Smillie said, 

'Would you not like a little doggie better?'

1 I haven't any dogs  not now,' replied
Ulrica. ' But this is not a common-place
kitten  he is my own ; our landlady has
given him to me, and I am training him ;
his name is Slyboots.'

'What a droll name for a beast

I wanted it to be droll. I wouldn't
have him called Spotty, or Flossy, or Jetty
any of those stupid things people call
their pets. Very well, Ursula' (as she
caught a glance from across the room),
1 I won't say any more, if you think I
ought not.'

Then she withdrew to a corner, and
confided to Slyboots her belief that Ursula
would want a suite of apartments all to
herself when she should get to heaven,
so as to be quite select.

It was not mere idle curiosity that had
brought Mrs Smillie to Chapel Street. It
was that she had heard from one Mr Fife
Armstrong, a young artist to whom she and
Pa ' were sitting for full-length portraits, of
an opening which might suit Christian. Indeed,

from all accounts, the situation would
be ' exactly the thing,' she thought.

Christian thought so too, when she had
heard details ; but she could not feel sanguine.
She had been disappointed so often
that it appeared to her almost impossible
she should ever succeed.

They want an Englishwoman,' said Mrs
Smillie, suddenly recollecting that fact. ' But
what about it ? ' she added reassuringly.
You speak as nice as any English lady,
though you're Scotch.'

Oh, we are not Scotch, indeed cried
Ulrica, who disdained the connection. ' Weare
Shetlanders.' She had forgotten her
promise to keep silent under the provocation
of being called Scotch.

Just that,' acquiesced Mrs Smillie, in
the ready, careless way one agrees with
the very young or the very old.

Again the small maiden's sense of dignity
was wounded, and in spite of Christian's
very evident disapproval, she was about to
assert her nationality ; had got so far as 

1 We are descended from the Scandinavian
sea-kings, we Elvesters,' when her eldest sister
came in, and she was once more suppressed.

Nothing beyond an interchange of civilities
passed between Miss Elvester and
Christian's new friend, for it was nearly
two now, and Mrs Smillie had promised
to lunch with 'Pa' at Price and Platter-fill's
exactly at two o'clock.

And the gentlemen never like to be kept
waiting,' she said, ' especially when there's a
knife and fork in the question.'

The door having closed upon the visitor,
Miss Elvester observed, 

An unlooked-for pleasure ; though you
don't seem to have found it a pleasure,
Ursula. You don't appreciate the attention?'

Am I likely to appreciate the attention
of that dreadful woman ? ' cried Ursula the
disdainful, tossing up her chin.

1 Don't be vexed about her having called,'
said Christian, ' for indeed it was good of
her. I am really obliged. Don't you think
I have reason to be ? '

I can't quite acknowledge that the Elves-tears
of Eastravoe stand in need of the good
offices of any Netherlaw shopkeepers wife,'
returned Ursula loftily.

If we were the Elvesters of Eastravoe,'
Christian put her in mind ; ' but we are the
Elvesters of nowhere now.'

We are the Elvesters of the Brae, Lichfield,
Cornrigshire, now,' amended Ulrica ;
aren't we, Jenny ? '

'We are the Elvesters who will only get
ourselves laughed at, if we go about proclaiming
our descent from the Scandinavian
sea-kings,' was the reply.

I wish you wouldn't always snub me,'
murmured Ulrica ; ' it spoils my disposition.'

1 1 like the kind Mrs Smillie,' said Christian,
returning to the defence. ' What does it so
greatly matter that she isn't dressed to please
you, Ursula, and that her manner isn't exactly
what you've been accustomed to ?
Have you only one standard to judge by ?
Do dress and manner count for everything
with you ? '

1 Social distinctions count for something
with me too.'

'Well, I suppose birth is something to
glory in ; but, for all that, I don't know what
good ours is to us now, or will ever be.'

Jenny ! O Jenny ! can you patiently listen
to her ? ' ejaculated the sorely - scandalised
Ursula.

'That can I,' said Miss Elvester calmly;
1 for if I should fret my soul about every
foolish speech I hear of from the triad, life's
burden would be too heavy for me. Not
that I consider Christian in the wrong just
now, but you rather. I wish you could rid
yourself of that fear of losing caste, my dear.
Have you no independence of character ?
Can you not be content to " do weel, and let
them say ? " '

There was no answer, but a moment or
two afterwards Ursula left the room.

Christian then told Miss Elvester about the
newly-arisen hope.

'And don't you think I should suit as
exactly as if I had been made for the purpose

? ' she asked, all having been described.


Let me see if I have mastered the summary
said Miss Elvester. ' Mrs Cassillis,
of 1 1 Argyll Gardens (uncle's widow, of
Cassillis of Laighbield), orphan, grandson ;
liberal salary ; duties light. That is all,
isn't it ? '

Englishwoman preferred,' appended Christian
dolefully. ' Why am I not an Englishwoman,
Jenny ?'

1 1 have not time now to seek a key to that
dark providence,' said Miss Elvester; 'for I
have a piece of business that will take me out
again immediately. By the way, there are
some letters here which I must have copies
of. Will you do the work for me while I'm
gone ? '

Of course I will do it ;  but while you're
gone ? Would not evening serve ? '

1 The letters must be posted before evening,'
Miss Elvester replied.

Christian said not another word, though it
was by no means with a willing heart that,

relinquishing her purpose of an immediate
visit to Argyll Gardens, she prepared to
devote the afternoon to the copying of
business letters. But she sought refuge in
fatalism, consoling herself with the reflection
that, what must be, must be ; and thus philosophically
minded, carried the appointed task
to her own room, and worked steadily on, till
the door opened, and the question, 

Well, my little copying machine, how
prosper you ? ' announced that her sister was
returned.

I never prosper,' she answered, rather
wearily. ' Look here, though, I have nearly
got to an end.'

Good girl ! ' said Miss Elvester, with
approval, and she came and glanced rapidly
over what had been written. ' Do you think
now,' she inquired when all was done,  ' do
you privately think that I have caused you
to lose a glorious opportunity of achieving
independence ? '

If you have, how shall I ever forgive
you ? ' replied Christian, looking up smilingly

into her questioner's face. She could not be
angry with Jenny  not although she tried.

1 I have been to Argyll Gardens,' said
Miss Elvester.

You have been  '

To Argyll Gardens. Did I not speak it
distinctly enough ? '

All eagerness, Christian sprang up and
exclaimed, 

How very good of you ! And have I
any hope ? Will Mrs Cassillis take me, do
you think ? '

1 Miss Christian Elvester, you will find it
expedient to put a little starch of propriety
into your deportment : repose of manner is
desirable in a governess.'

Jenny, tell me  tell me first ; and put my
deportment to rights afterwards.'

Then Jenny told her : 4 Mrs Cassillis, a
lady in whose hands one would not fear to
leave one's sister  since leave her one must
at all  wished Christian to call at 1 1 Argyll
Gardens early on the following day.'

A GRACIOUS WOMAN.

Madam !' (quod I) ' with all mine whole service
I thank you now in my most humble wise.'

HE houses in Argyll Gardens were
large and handsome. The 'gardens'
were so fresh of hue  thanks
to the perpetual care bestowed upon them 
that only a critic predetermined to find fault,
could describe them as smoked or sunburnt ;
in short, there was nothing here distinctly
characteristic of Netherlaw.

A carriage and pair waited at the door of
No. ii, and it was a man-servant who conducted
Christian through the lofty, marble-pillared
hall, up the stained - glass lighted
staircase, to the spacious front drawing-room.

Not an Elysium villa drawing-room this.
You had not to pick your steps gingerly,
and gather in your skirts with care, lest you
should displace or overthrow some wonderful
and useless piece of crockery or upholstery.
You had room here, and liberty. There was
no glare, no glitter. The tints were rich,
soft, harmonious ; ornaments did not run riot,
yet there was no deficiency of things graceful
and pretty, curious and quaint. There were
valuable pictures too ; and for the rest, as
many lovely flowers and ferns as heart could
wish.

Near the door stood Mrs Cassillis, a stately
woman robed in black. Her widow's headdress
became her like a crown. There was
a grand air of repose about her, and she
turned a pair of such serene brown eyes
upon Christian, while, with gracious bow
and smile, she begged to be excused for just
one minute. Her plea was beside her, in
female form  a very beautiful brunette,
habited according to the latest Parisian
fantasy.

How exceedingly tiresome of cousin Glen,'
this young lady was saying. ' Isrit he provoking,
Aunt Marjorie ? '

But you must recollect,' answered Mrs
Cassillis, ' that an officer has not affairs so
entirely at his own ordering that he can take
leave of absence at any time he chooses, even
if it should be to attend a cousin's birthday
party.'

Why, then, if he can't, he might as well
be a common soldier at once, and stand ina
sentry-box,' cried the beauty, tossing her
head.

Christian could not but wonder what sort
of girl this was  a wonder to be satisfied to
the very utmost by-and-by. As yet, however,
the fair creature remained a mystery ;
for immediately after her remark about the
sentry-box, she airily threw a flying kiss to
her kinswoman and departed, leaving Mrs
Cassillis and  that musty little governess ' (so
the beautiful brunette thought of Christian)
to get to business.

Mrs Cassillis heard the history of the

Elvester family, and she more than doubted
that a daughter of the house of Eastravoe
would not soon feel at home in the position
of a governess.

Before you charge yourself with the care
of my little grandson she said to Christian,
by way of friendly caution, ' you must allow
me to make quite clear to you what it is you
would undertake. The child is delicate and
must not have his energies in any way taxed.
Indeed, I want a governess less for educational
purposes as yet, than because it appears
to me advisable that the boy should have
some one about him, younger than his grandmother
and different from his nurse. You
see what I offer. Do you think you could
patiently devote hours every day to the
amusement and instruction, by the way, of
a child who is not only far from strong, but
yes, I must confess it, sadly spoilt as well ? '

Looking at the lady who was this spoilt
child's grandmother, Christian felt quite
hopeful that she could, and she said so.

But would you not  I speak very frankly,

you see  find it terribly irksome to be confined
for the most part to the company of an
old woman and a little boy? You are a
young creature ; you have been accustomed
to be waited on all your life. Could you,
with anything like cheerfulness, endure such
an existence as I have pictured ? '

I should like to have leave to try was
the response ; and a pair of very alluring blue
eyes eloquently seconded the appeal of the
pretty pleading lips.

So after a little more talk the thing was
settled, and a week later, her sisters having
left Netherlaw for Laighbield, Christian entered
upon her duties at Argyll Gardens.

mim

MR MUNGO Machine.

J

1 Your critic folk may cock their nose,
And say, " How can you e'er propose,
You, wha' ken hardly verse frae prose.
To mak' a sang?"
But, by your leaves, my learned foes,

Ye're may be wrong.*

Furniture and luggage had been

sent on before, under charge of a

highly-recommended general sent,

named Mysie ; and now Miss Elvester

her two remaining girls took their places

the Cornrigshire train, Ulrica carrying

Slyboots in a basket. m

From Netherlaw to Braidmoss by rail ;
from Braidmoss to Laighbield by stagecoach

; such was the mode of the journey.
At its appointed hour the train crossed that
treacle-like current, styled by Netherlaw
platform orators ' Our noble river,' pursued
its course high among the chimney-pots,
gave passengers a grand chance of refreshing
themselves with a view of the slums, entered
a mile-long tunnel, and at last emerged in
the open country.

The country, indeed ; but even the most
creative mind must have looked about in
vain for anything to feed fancy with in the
acres of flat monotony which constituted the
entire landscape between Netherlaw and
Braidmoss. There were several small towns
on the way  modified Netherlands  and
Braidmoss itself was a confusion of ironworks,
factories, model houses for working-
men ; and gimcrack cottages.

In front of the Braidmoss station the
Laighbield coach stood waiting. Its name
was the ' Defiance.' It was high wheeled,
low-roofed, ill-ventilated, and narrow ; faded
green cushions covered the seats, and straw
vol. 1. H

covered the bottom. The top was freighted
with farmers, cattle dealers and cadgers.
Inside sat three women  our royal street
acquaintance, Mrs Gillespie, and two others
of like standing in the social scale.

Ursula shuddered. It was dreadful to be
obliged to travel by such a vehicle and in
such company  dreadful ! But she had done
with fighting against her evil lot ; so in
bitter silence she accepted this final indignity
put by fate upon the Elvester.

Till the last moment it seemed as if the
nobler sex were to have no representative
within, but just as the driver was cracking
his whip, a man came past the station-house
in hot haste, and made for the ' Defiance
There was laughter from above, mingled
with shouts of, ' Tak' your braw leisure,
Mungo ! ' ' Weel dune you, Mungo ! ' ' Ye'll
be an unco heap the war of this, Mungo!'
and so on. But, heedless of these amenities,
the late comer pressed forward, scrambled
into the coach, and sat down on the same side
as the country women, opposite the Elvesters.

He was of uncertain age, and of medium
stature and of chubby form ; he had big wild
eyes, of the shade known to milliners as
French-white ; he had a pink smooth face,
and a thin crop of lank straw-coloured hair,
carefully arranged on each side of his full
flossy brow. He was clad from neck to heel
in a snuff-tinted overcoat ; he was crowned
with a Glengarry bonnet ; he wore black
woollen gloves. He was ignored by Mrs
Gillespie ; but the other two hailed him in a
friendly manner. Then he greeted respectively,
as Mrs Hairshaw and Jeannie Gebbie,
and proceeded to remark that it had been a
very hard morning ; then, though nobody had
dissented, he added by way of confirmation, 

1 Yes, yes, yes ; it was rather icily ; yes, it
was.'

Hereupon Slyboots, peering through a loophole
left for his convenience, caught the eye
of Mr Mungo Mauchline resting on him, and
not liking it, executed a remonstrative trill
with variations. In the middle of this performance,
Mr Mungo Mauchline blandly

remarked that cats always made him ' remember
upon the ark-enemy of mankind,'
and respectfully solicited Ulrica to ' topple
the leeches little four-foot out over the
windy ;' a suggestion, however, which fell
to the ground unnoticed. Slyboots having
presently ceased his lay, Mr Mungo Machine
indulged the ladies with a specimen of
his vocal talents, by lilting a few staves of
I'm over young to marry yet ;' but having
soon to collapse, he attributed his breakdown
to ' hoarseness occasioned by the conception
of the atmosphere.'

Ye'll thole to pu' that window close up to
the tap, Mungo,' said Mrs Gillespie abruptly.
I am fair foment the draught o't, d'ye see ;
an' I hae gotten a wild boast,' and in testimony
of her assertion she coughed violently.

Luckily the hinge of the window was out
of repair, and would not do its office ; otherwise
the whole party must have been nearly
stifled before reaching Laighbield. Mr Mungo
Mauchline, after vainly attempting to close
the window, fell into a fit of abstraction

Some weighty matter was evidently before
his mind. Suddenly he seemed to see light.
With an air of great good fellowship, he
exclaimed, 

As sure as my name is Mr Mungo Machine,
and if I am any joodge of the weather,
.this is a superfine day.'

There was really nothing special about the
day; but Mr Mungo Mauchline objected to
undue familiarity ; and this was his way of
making known how he chose to be called.

'It's a geyan course day,' returned Mrs
Gillespie, in an injured tone ; thinking of the
effects of that draught upon her ' boast.'

Yes, there is a wind into it, I own,' granted
Mr Mungo Mauchline, as if the day were his,
and he responsible for the quality of it ; ' there
is a little wind into it too  nut a ranting',
tannin', tearing' wind ; but a nookin', sought',
wurnin' wind, as the minister in the story says.'

Fist a wheen cleavers, a' the stories about
ministers,' cried Mrs Gillespie tartly ; ' ministers
is name dafter nor other folk, an' no sae
daft as some, Mungo.'

I yield to no man in my respect' for the
cloth,' rejoined Mr Mungo Mauchline. ' I
am at all times ripe and ready for a confab
with our most worthy cleric, I assure you.
Last time I forgathered with him, says he tome,
as friendly and confidential as you like  
Mr Mungo Mauchline, I see you are roost
foot for your evening walk."

1 Gin that was a' he had to say, he might
as weel hare keepit it till himsel,' opened Mrs
Gillespie snappishly.

His most honoured lady was alongside,'
continued Mr Mungo Mauchline, turning his
conversation from Mrs Gillespie to her who
sat next him ; ' she was in full rank and unicorn,
as the saying is  they would be for
Baronshaugh, I joodge.'

She's a leg wee wife yon,' rejoined
Jeannie Gebbie, a rosy young matron, whose
proper title was Mrs Andrew Hairshaw ; but
Laighbield had a fancy for continuing to call
married women by the maiden name.

She has the fine majestic swagger,' said
Mr Mungo Mauchline admiringly.

1 She's nothing but an upsetting' craters
put in Mrs Gillespie, deeply scornful. ' But
we're a John Samson's bairns ; an' I haud
myself' as guide as her, I can tell ye  an'
maybe a wee grain less ill-fared.'

1 Ye ken,' said old Mrs Hairshaw, Jeannie
Gebbie's mother-in-law, ' when the minister
brocht hame his bride, the folk teller that she
wasna' to ca' bonnie, but that he maun hare
been pleased wi' the airy gait o' her, an' the
takin' turn.'

Takin' turn,' echoed Mrs Gillespie ;
she has a tongue wad clip clouts. An' for
complexion  she's black enough to march
through the hall land o' Egypt, an' no a
cur yelp the mair o't.'

1 Hoot, she'll dae fine, ye'll see,' returned
Mrs Hairshaw; 'the minister himsel' is by
ordinary set on her.'

Ou ay, ou ay ! wise man's he is, he canna
see the cat wink on Matilda, though she
should skirl an' laugh in the verra kirk.'

1 It's no true,' said Jeannie Gebbie warmly 
she ne'er laugh in the kirk yet.'

1 Weel, maybe no  clashes ay gets buttons
an' tapes put to them as they gang  but sae
they teller me.'

There's ay twa sets o' a tale, anyway,'
replied Jeannie Gebbie, still warmly ; an as
weel hare the right's the wrong o't : on Saw-bath
was a-week the minister stooped wi' a
preacher frae abuse Auchterbrechan. He
wasna nae bright star  '

Whisht, lassie!' interposed Mrs Hair-shaw
; ' he was a wee hue blate in or muckle
kirk, the bit chief.'

I coot he wadna been a sparkler nae gate,
granny. I cinna like them 'hats fit to loup out
over the poopit  that's too muckle spunk ;
but yon ane had name ava ; nor I am no for
them 'at dings an' bangs the guide Book a' to
bits ; but I wadna hare them stain like a
stooky image, haudin' a grip o' the place on
the paper a' the time. That was the way o'
him ; an', quo' he  '

Hoot, toot, woman ! ' again interrupted
the mother-in-law.

*' Na, granny ; ye maun let me speak up

for or wee teddy,' persisted Jeannie. ' Quo
he, " Who can imagine or describe the
thoughts and feelings of a parent hen?"
an' wi' that, a young lassie the ministers wife
had aside her in the manse-pew, died a kino'
locket squeal o' a giggle. The minister's
wife herself' diana say cheep, sae did she
na.'

Not being in a position to call this account
in question, Mrs Gillespie passed it over
without notice; but she waspishly remarked, 

I wad be name sweet to give a screech
noo and than about hens myself', and sae be
I was to mak' five or sax hunger a-year
by't'

It wasna a' ta'en up wi' hens,' said Jeannie
Gebbie ; ' deed, no ! it was unco wersh ; an'
drench, drench, an' stopped fu' o' scripture texts
forby.'

Some thinks,' quoth cheery Mrs Hair-shaw
 'an' I'll no presume to say they're
wrong  that a sermon wanting' texts is nae
better than brose would be wanting'
lumps

"Weel I wat then, granny, yon was the
lumpy ones, an' sae frichtfu' lang. Our ain
doctor's is like midges ; but faith o' yon
man's was like bum-bees.'

You are correct' in your statements,' broke
in Mr Mungo Mauchline, with an air of
it's my turn now." ' You are perfectly
correct' in your statements. The cleric you
allude to is not by any means a startlesome
preacher. I myself am in favour of a carnal
discourse ' (practical, he meant, likely) ' though
at the same time I do not total prohibit
something wheel may jumble the judgment
and confound the understanding. But the
fac' is this,  the clergy is too pharisaical,
keeping their rostrum strictly from the laity,
when, if they would only invite the intellectual
members of their own congregation to
deliver an address or so, from time to time,
it would be a fine rest to himself, nut to
mention a recreation to the people. The
humble individual you now behold, for instant,
might not object' occasionally to throw
out a word.'

1 L wadna' be keen to expatiate,' said
Mrs Hairshaw dissuasively. ' I wad haud
to the poetry, an' I was you, Mungo.'

I could do something in the poetry line
over and above, mistress. My aim is to
projooce what is called an epic ; but I have
never yet exactly taken hold of my subject',
so to speak. Of course, I turn off a trifle
now and again  for diversion, not for lucre ;
one I forwarded to the manse the other day,
with which I have every grounds for hopping
our worthy cleric's lady was highly gratified.
It was to this effect', 

Your kindness, most respected sir,
Forget it shall I never ;
How you sent my assistant James some bottles

of wine,
When he lay sick of fever."

But being of a private nature, I suppress the
remains. Nut long since I enclosed a lyric
to the Cornrigshire Chronicler. The editor
was kind enough to decline it with thanks 
with thanks, you notice ; that was flattering,
I think. The sonnet was entitled, 

Lines suggested by beholding a Steam-engine.

Saw you the steam-engine, that great iron-horse ?
Like a puffing Leviathan he pursues his corse.
If into his way you ventured for to go,
Oh friend ! you would soon be laid very low.
Just as when you go along in the morning,
You may see a gay, gorgeous flower the side of the road

adorning,
But next day, when you pass in your early walk,
There is nothing left but the bare stalk.
A bye of bees would"'

Ne'er heed the hindered,' interrupted
impatient Mrs Gillespie ; ' we hanna nae skill
o' poetry here ava ; we gar the psalms o'
David ser' or turn.'

The loss is yours,' responded the bard ;
and he retired within himself, and gazed
with rapt attention at the roof.

You're unco quite noo, Mungo,' said
Jeannie Gebbie, after a while.

I may be cawing all the harder at the
thinking,' he stiffly answered, and continued
his roof-gazing.

Some folk's sir saddle wi' an ill temper,'
observed Mrs Gillespie.

'Ne'er fash,' said pacific Mrs Hairshaw ;
it's nae surer on than it's gaff.'

1 An' it's nae surer aff than it's on retorted
Mrs Gillespie.

On the other side, meanwhile, there had
been silence. Miss Elvester had been studying
Punch, with amused interludes between
the pages, to give ear now to the ' poetry '
of Mr Mungo Mauchline, and now to his
no less singular prose. And, in point of
fact, these were being displayed at present
not for the sole edification of the countrywomen
to whom they were addressed, but
chiefly for the sake of the distinguished-looking
strangers opposite. Mr Mungo
Mauchline, well up in Laighbield gossip, had
made a correct guess at the identity of the
sisters ; and he was particularly anxious that
the ladies of the Brae should now understand
that they were travelling in company with
one who was no common man indeed, although
his state were mean. And he did
succeed in impressing both Miss Elvester
and Ulrica with his out-of the-witness, 

126 Miss Elvesters Girls.

though whether in the way he intended, is
another question.

But Ursula never noticed him ; Ursula
sat with her eyes down, thinking her own
thoughts, and so would have remained till
the end of the journey, had not in process
of time the name ' Berwick ' suddenly penetrated
her self-absorption, and against her
will compelled her to attention.

Ay, Donal' Berwick's to be settled in
the Auchterbrechan Laugh Kirk syne,' Mrs
Hairshaw was saying. ' Keep me ! I mind
Donal' a wee, sonsie, curly-heeded callant,
speer the won'erfu'est questions that ever
could be, and ettlen' to ken the roots and
ins o' illa mortal thing. I had my ain fright
about the laddie when he was wa among
a' the throughither college chaps ; for he
was a gey severity ane himsel', an he was
just at the martin' o' the ways  between the
tinin' an' the winning', as ye may speak.
But I hear he has turned foot extraordinary ;
an' a gran' preacher, tae, they tell me that
should ken.'

Mrs Gillespie hurried in as usual with her
wet-blanket.

1 I see nae gran' preaching' isn't,' she said
contemptuously ; ' he leeks on ! '

But he's name o' your slavish readers
observed Jeannie Gebbie. ' He hanna to
kep the place wi' his finger, like that hankering'
ane wi' " the parent hen " ; as his Auntie
Jean says, he comes wa wit just beautiful'

Beautiful, beautiful ! ' sneered Mrs Gillespie
; ' trust his Auntie Jean for turning
the best side o' Donal' to the sun.'

'Jean Berwick is a fine, canty body.
Auld Scroggiehillock is unco fain to get her
for his second ; but you'll no be for believing'
that.'

'I'll believe weel enough; gin ye hare
gripped together a wheen bawbees, it's no
ill to buy yourself' a bit man,' carped the
female cynic.

Mr Mungo Mauchline having at length
sufficiently acquainted himself with the roof
decorations, came out of his pet with the
remark, 

1 I have the best grounds for stating that
Miss Jean Berwick has no present intention
of altering her conception of life.'

I wadna lippen her wi' the chance,' said
Mrs Gillespie pointedly.

I joodge Miss Jean to be a specimen of
firm tenacity of opinion,' was the rejoinder.
Forby that, if she was to lay her mind to
matrimony, she would certainly look for a
suitable partner, nut a patriarch hovering
on the brink of the sepulchre.'

Sepulchre or nae sepulchre, there's braw
need o' some hammer-like body at Scroggie-
hillock,' said Mrs Gillespie, who always
shifted her position when likely to be foiled
in argument ; ' for o' a' the looses I hare
ever seen, yon is the likest a Marymass
Saturday.' (Marymass Saturday was the
yearly fair at Lichfield, and Mrs Gillespie's
simile meant to imply that the house spoken
of presented an aspect of disorder sickening
to contemplate.) ' The donnert auld full
has put yon youngest doctor o' his to a
boarding-school  to learn manners, nae less,'

she continued, with a satirical laugh. ' But,
lost ! he needna fash his head ; sen' a calf
to Lunnon, it'll come hame a coo.'

You make me recollect' upon a good
stony,' said Mr Mungo Mauchline. ' There
was once a worthy minister in the north,
and one Sabbath day, says he, in his discourse,
" I warn all here, wheel make free
with mince-oaths  Lost, gosh, and  " '

You mind me o' something tae,' interposed
Mrs Gillespie, in accents of asperity.
You mind me o' the college fallow whose
head was swelled wi' knowledge, for yours is
swelled wi' meanly stones, Mungo.'

The unappreciated story-teller once more
subsided, and thoughtfully fumbled for a
while in his great-coat pockets. By-and-by
he produced a rumpled envelope, carefully
smoothed it out, spread it on his knee, and
read, with particular emphasis on the first
word, 

Mr Mungo Mauchline, postmaster, Lichfield,
Cornrigshire.'

This instructive ceremony over, he re-vol.
1. 1

turned the envelope to his pocket, and after
another search, brought to light a blue paper
bag, which, when with grave deliberateness it
had been opened up, he held towards Ulrica,
with the ' hop ' that he might use the freedom
of proffering her ' a few cocoa-nut
chips.'

But Ulrica declined the kindness.

A most innocent little condiment,' urged
Mr Mungo Mauchline ; ' no plaister of Paris,
I assure you. Do not be feared to deprive
me of the goodies, little lady ; I have plenty
more at home.'

Nevertheless Ulrica would not be tempted;
so the possessor of the cocoa-nut chips had to
bestow these innocent little condiments upon
tart Mrs Gillespie and blythe Jeannie Gebbie.

The girls were not sorry when they at last
received the intelligence that an end was
near. The coach was passing under an
archway of nearly leafless trees, before a
pair of high wide gates, which admitted to
an avenue, which led through the policies
which surrounded the mansion of the Laird

of Laighbield. When Miss Elvester told
her sisters that this was Baronshaugh, they,
on account of the connection between Cas-willis
the laird and Christian's Netherlaw
protectress, turned their eyes with considerable
interest towards the grey, dignified old
house seen far away, and continued their
scrutiny till an abrupt turn in the road hid it
from view. Baronshaugh left behind, they
went over a low, broad bridge, by kirk and
manse, down a narrow lane, into a broad r
winding, and very irregularly-constructed
street, up to ' The Cassillis Arms,' the
terminus.

Lichfield.

Having through all the village past,
To a small cottage came at last.'

HE little country town (its own
people called it a town, other
people called it a village) lay
snugly sheltered as in the bottom of a cup ;
and the land forming the sides of this cup
was richly agricultural, as it is the specialty
of Cornrigshire land to be. Baronshaugh
had an imposing aspect ; the parish manse
also was dignified in its degree ; but there
was nothing else imposing or dignified about
Laighbield. Not the Established Church,
though it certainly held its head pretty high ;

not the Free Church, though it prided itself
upon the fact that the laird and his mother
were members of it ; not their United Presbyterian
rival, though that was flourishing as
any green bay tree ; and still less the showy
new bank and the far from showy old Masons'
Hall. These were the only public buildings
in the place, excepting Mr Langbiggin's
bonnet factory at the mouth of the Wynd,
that lane through which the stage-coach had
to pass on entering the town.

The Laighbield housewife was thought of
small account indeed who did not, in addition
to her ordinary domestic duties, earn a considerable
sum weekly ; and machinery not
having then, as it has since, taken the place
of hand-work in this branch of industry, all
through the little town were to be seen women
knitting Prince Charlies, deer-stalkers, Glen-carries,
and so on, with perfectly magical
rapidity ; and this over and above what was
done in the aforesaid factory, which employed
most of the girls of the district, and many of
the men as well.

At the ringing of the six o'clock bell, the
workers began to appear about the street.
The girls wore dark drugget skirts and
aprons, light calico ' short-gowns,' and long
scarf-like plaids, arranged about the head
and shoulders by way of a wimple, both
ends falling loosely over one arm ; and
had they but believed it, they looked
out of comparison nicer so, than in the
Sunday finery in which their hearts delighted.


Dressers ' and knitters, and every straggler
and idler, ' glowered ' with undisguised
curiosity at the three strangers walking up
their town. Miss Elvester was calmly impervious,
and Ursula haughtily so. But
poor Ulrica grew more and more seriously
discomposed. And matters reached a climax,
when she heard her golden locks
described by one loud-voiced critic as ' a
pickle tow,' and her undulating gait compared
by another to the rocking of a
cradle.' But school board education was
in the future then ; it is therefore quite

open to us to believe, that any stranger
visiting Laighbield in the present day,
would have a greatly improved state of
manners to report.

Opposite the complaisant little U. P.
church, between a weavers shop and the
town pump, a broad road known as the
Brigand, struck away from the main street
to the right. Turning down here, Miss
Elvester and her girls came once more
upon the river, which they had crossed
near the gates of Baronshaugh, and had
lost sight of since. A second bridge
brought them to a road bordered with
lime-trees, banked and hedged on the one
hand, on the other looking down to the
stream, and across that to stretches of garden,
and a meadow, and a meal mill. At
the end of the lime-tree road they had
again to part company with the river ; and
this time it was to turn into a grassy lane,
which led between clover parks, right up
one side of the cup whose hollow contained
Laighbield.

A tiny house on the height above them
was their future home. It looked as unpretentious
as could be ; but there was a
pleasing effect about it, scarcely to be
described. It seemed so in harmony with
its surroundings, that it might have grownup
amidst them as the trees had grown.
Honeysuckle climbed the walls ; willows
shaded the gables ; a few late flowers still
bloomed in front, protected by a thick
laurel hedge ; a rowan tree stood at each
side of the rustic gate  to ward off witchcraft.


Ursula said not a word ; but her face
assumed an expression of relief. It was
not for nothing that she had lived so many
weeks in a flat in Chapel Street : this was
certainly a very great improvement upon
that. So also thought Ulrica.

Oh, the gem ! the little nest ! ' she cried,
mixing her metaphors.

But the rooms are few and small,' said
Miss Elvester ; ' and a state of woeful 
they must be in to-day. Be

*37

prepared to find the house piled roof-high
with packing boxes.'

This warning had no sooner been pronounced
than the door was opened, and
the Elvesters  once of Eastravoe  entered
the Brae.

A ROUND PEG IN A SQUARE HOLE.

She is too low for a high praise, too brown for a fair
praise, and too little for a great praise.

ID WAY between the bonnet factory
at the mouth of the Wynd
and the east gates of Barons-haugh,
were the ivy-grown walls which
surrounded the parish manse. Within
these walls, looking forth from the bay
window of a bright and pleasant breakfast-parlour,
on the fine variety of flowering
shrubs which beautified the grounds, waited,
about eight o'clock on an early November
day, a dark little  girl, was she ? in a
white and crimson morning-gown. Girl
she was none ; girlish as she seemed, she

was a wife of several years' standing. She
was no beauty (had not the tawniness of
her complexion passed into a proverb in
the town ?) ; but she possessed a peculiarly
piquant face, shaded by a profusion of the
softest, waves, brownest hair, and lit up
by a pair of saucy dark eyes, in whichever
lurked a laugh ; yet behind the laugh
were great possibilities in the way of
pathos too.

The pen hesitates, unwilling to record it ;
only it may as well be confessed at once,
this lady was far from being the ideal of
a pastor's wife. Nobody would for one
moment have thought of holding her upas
' an ensample to the flock ; ' nor was
she that sort of person upon whose tombstone
would one day be carved the encomium,
 Beloved by all who knew her.'
Alas, no ! not even the large charity of
grave-yard literature would dare so great
a deflection from fact as that. But negative
criticism is unsatisfactory ; you want
to know what she was rather than what

she was not. Assume as lenient a frame
of feeling as is possible to you, then, and
you shall judge.

The man who was being waited for presently
came in. He was a grave, scholarly
personage, about the prime of life ; and
he was singularly unlike the husband anybody
would have imagined for that elf in
the gay morning gown. At his entrance,
the lady turned from the window.

1 At last ! ' she exclaimed. ' Does Dr
Brackenburn realise that he has kept his
household waiting fully ten minutes ? Was
there a paragraph to finish when the bell
rang ?'

 Something of the sort,' he said. ' I beg
your pardon, Matilda.'

Which I grant,' she replied, ' because
I have found you to be in the main a
punctual man, even in spite of paragraphs.
Isn't it Byron who says that a woman should
never be seen eating ?  she should never
confess either, that she wants to eat, I
suppose ; but I am as hungry as a hunter

Alan ; so let prayers be short this morning,
please

Yet, when the couple did sit down to
breakfast, the lady was a vast deal more
interested in her husband's plate than in
her own. She marked with growing dissatisfaction
how the morning's letters were
usurping that attention properly due to the
morning's meal ; and when she could contain
herself no longer, she stole silently round
the table and blindfolded Dr Brackenburn,
by clasping her hands over his eyes.

Now, then,' she said, ' tell me what you
have before you  apples of Sodom or sawdust?'


1 Game pie, is it not ? '

Actually! ' said she, returning to her place.
Well, do try to look a little as if you appreciated
your mercies. It outrages one's
feelings, as a housekeeper, to see you so
indifferent to creature comforts. Alan, did
my eyes deceive me, or is the letter in your
hand from our dear but erring brother of
Braidmoss ? '

The glance that she received in reply-caused
her to inquire with a wicked smile, 

'Is it venial or mortal sin that I've committed
this time ? '

As there was no answer, she went on, 

Dear, you must forgive me, that ever
since hearing him call somebody who wasn't
orthodox about the sun and moon standing
still that day over the. valley of Ajalon, " Our
dear but erring brother," I can't leave off
so nickname your co-presbyter of Braid-moss.
But is the letter from the Rev. Daniel
Carnegy, Mea. ?'

The note is from Carnegy,' her husband
answered ; 'it is merely about pulpit supply,
my dear.'

'And where is Mr Carnegy now?  still
pretty near Paradise, of course  but geog
I mean ? '
He writes from Belfast.'

Then he must be visiting the bride's
uncles, those descendants of the Irish kings
that we have heard so much about. Poor
bride !  I beg your pardon  happy, happy

bride, I should have said. I wish I could
know how Mr Carnegy proposed to her.
I can fancy him droning in tones like the
concentrated essence of the tune Molehill, 
Oh woman greatly beloved, be my fond
partner through this vale of tears." '

Nonsense, my dear.'

I have strong premonitions of unpleasantness,
Alan. Mrs Carnegy will be forewarned
by her husband that I am an earthen
vessel ; for though Mr Carnegy is what
people of his school call " a consecrated
man ; " he isn't incapable of a fine, full-flavoured
aversion.'

1 1 suspect the aversion is on the other
side, Matilda.'

Not the monopoly. Do you think I
can't tell when people don't like me ? '

What I think is, that you take no trouble
at all to make people like you, but the contrary.
It still seems to be with you as of
old,  " Love me, if you dare ! "

At that she coloured a little. Then, with
a laugh, she asked, 

'Should you be greatly glad to see your
wife a world's favourite, Alan ? '

'To see her much less than that would
greatly gladden me.'

Then I must try what can be done.
When we call at Braidmoss manse, I'll
astonish you.'

'If you intend any mischief, I refuse to
go with you to Braidmoss manse at all.'

What do you mean by " mischief" ? '

Anything like a repetition of what we
had yesterday, for instance.'

'When the delicious Mr Langbiggin was
here ? Oh, Alan, you know the man hadn't
the dawn of an idea that I was quizzing
him. And I had to find some escape for
my feelings, when I heard the rich bonnet
manufacturer accusing the poor minister of
unreasonableness. Mr M'Spur has petitioned
the session for an addition to his
manse ; but Mr Langbiggin says that there
are seven apartments in the Free Church
manse, and wants to know what a minister
(not like a mercantile gentleman at all !)

would do with more. So the mercantile
gentleman must build a house nearly as big
as Baronshaugh for himself and niece ; but
Mr M'Spur, who has a wife and ten children,
ought to be humble and thankful in
seven apartments ! '

I can only say, my dear, that you took
a most extraordinary way of advancing Mr
M 'Spur's interests.'

But, Alan, we've rather wandered from
the point, haven't we? It was the call at
Braidmoss manse we were at. This is how
I'll make myself appreciated there : I will be
as artless as the cat when she has designs
on the cream-pot ; I will bring out my entire
stock of moralities thus, calling Braidmoss
this corner of the vineyard," and the Established
Church " our Zion ; " assuring the
bride that I consider her husband's preaching
to be "very refreshing" (which, indeed, I
don't) ; remarking that the flock at Braidmoss
is not only fed, but feasted on the finest of
the wheat, and that no other labourer divides
the word with such great acceptance as does
vol. 1. K

Mr Carnegy ; and winding up with the hope
that Mr Carnegy and myself may have many
sweet and precious hours of edifying communion
in times to come. I think all that
has the right "sough" about it. Mr Carnegy
will hail me as a prodigal returned 
what did you say, Alan ? '

He had not said anything; but he now
observed quietly, 

1 You are in what, I presume, you call a witty
vein this morning ; but I have prejudices, you
know ; don't you think it would be only kind
on your part to respect these a little ?'

Forgive me, forgive me, dear ; and I
won't be witty any more to-day. But I
wasn't mocking at anything sacred, only at
pious slang and maude. Why must some
good people fly to metaphor whenever religion
is the theme ? '

'Why, I might echo, must some other
people fly to metaphor, no matter what the
theme is ? '

Tu quoque does not settle an argument,
Dr Bracken burn.'

But it sometimes silences an arguer,' was
the reply.

And that, apparently, was what Dr Brandenburg
wished to do ; for immediately afterwards,
breakfast being over, he would have
left the room. His wife, however, interposed
her tiny person between the door and him,
saying,

Pray, oh pray, not yet. Is it fair that
all the parish should have more of you than
I, whose right is the greatest here ?'

At that reproach, he turned back and sat
down again.

I am to blame,' he said. ' I too often
forget what a young thing you are still, and
how dull your present life is as contrasted
with your girlhood.'

I don't complain of my present life,' she
answered. ' I know how to amuse myself
(though you don't always approve) ; and
there is only one small blessing I sometimes
fret for  a little more of your society.'

1 If that be all, you need not remain unsatisfied
; my study is not far to seek.'

But when I seek your study, I know that
I am disturbing you, and putting to flight
fine trains of beautifully-linked ideas. And
I am ashamed to call you away from among
the isms and ologies to listen to my small-beer
chronicles. I wish I were a learned
woman, dear, who could follow and appreciate
the abstruse articles you write for those
reviews, and who could discuss metaphysics
with you, and Comte and Schopenhauer,
and the higher criticism.'

I think I on the whole prefer you as you
are,' replied the husband, smiling.

Thus encouraged, the lady went and seated
herself on the grave doctor's knee, and put
her arms about his neck. And then she
laughed, and said, 

A learned woman would never be capable
of fooling like this ; would she, Alan ? '

1 I cannot tell. You know one of the
species  ask her.'

'What! Mrs Inverarity ? Oh no ; I am
holding aloof from her just now. She is
writing a book on the Ten Lost Tribes, and

if I were to venture near she would inflict
every word of her tediousness upon me.'

1 I am afraid you hold very much aloof
from all your friends, Matilda, and that
without their being any writing of books
in the question.'

My friends  who are they ?'

Your acquaintances, if you prefer it.'

We have nothing in common ; no fellow-feelings
to make us wondrous kind. I don't
care a straw for any of them.'

I must have been mistaken, then ; but I
was under the impression that, much as you
object to Langbiggin himself, you did like
that quiet little niece of his.'

But I don't dislike her, is as much as
can be said. There is no peg in her to hang
up a liking on ; she is neutral, conventional,
commonplace.'

She is a young lady who, I am very sure,
will never say an unkind thing.'

Nor ever do a kind one,' retorted Mrs
Brackenburn. ' But, thank you, Alan ; I
stand reproved. Let me tell you, however,

that Katie Langbiggin never criticises, only
because she never observes. She is colour-blind
where shades of character are concerned.
There is an exasperating absence
of spontaneity about her, too. I believe,
when she was a little child, some fairy godmother
gave her a casket filled with neat
cut-and-dry remarks, and bade her through
life use no other ; so always, when she needs
to speak, she brings out the appropriate sentences
as they are wanted, then folds them
nicely up, and puts them back till they shall
be required again

Well, there is Mrs M'Spur ; her conversation
has colour enough and spontaneity
enough to please, I should imagine

1 Her colour is used only to blacken everybody
in Laighbield except Mr M'Spur and
the ten children. But to go on with my
friends, there is Grizzel Cochrane  a good
girl, I know, only so obtrusively seemingly
complacent always, that I can't help wanting
to see her in a little distress, just as a healthy
variety. And last on the list, ecclesiastical

Mrs Cassillis, whose weekly drawing-room
prayer-meeting is a fortuitous concourse of
atoms, for the assembly is confused, and the
more part knows it is come together. The
last time I attended it, a demure maiden
lady prayed that " we here present might so
walk, as that all men seeing, should follow
after us." That wasn't quite so proper,
was it ? '

1 My dear,' said her husband seriously, ' it
is always painful to listen to a woman's disparagement
of women. Cannot you leave it
to men to point out your weaknesses ? It is
a task in which they need no help from any
of yourselves.'

1 Don't I know it well ! From Adam onward,
the great creatures have never let slip
a chance of casting in our teeth what poor
things we are. But I will not own myself a
traitress. I have not been bringing any
really damaging charges against the sisterhood
; and, indeed, if you want my opinion,
it is that, with all our spite and littleness 
which we hear so much and so often about 

we rank in heaven's sight quite as high at
least as you. Our faults are certainly more
irritating to each other than your faults are
to us ; yet we can admire each other too.
The feeling one of us bears to another who
is high above her is a feeling not understand
of men. For my own part,
whenever I come in contact with a really
noble woman, I almost want to worship
her.'

Why not be a really noble woman yourself
? ' it was very gently put to her.

1 If you but realised what it costs me to be
even such as I am, you would spare the questions
she replied. ' Yes ; I take fits of trying
to be nice  or estimable, at any rate 
and I get on wonderfully for a while. But
then, just as I begin to imagine that there is
only a pasteboard partition between me and
perfection, I stumble, and fall headlong from
my pedestal ; and so being once more
among the pots," as the psalm says, I
have it out for all my former self-denial,
and perfectly revel in the blackness. Oh,

it is ever the old story  but I've told you
it all before, Alan.'

1 Never mind that ; tell it to me again, if
it seems to do you good.'

Long ago I used to make periodical resolutions
to get up early to study. I would
do grandly for a time. Then must come a
morning when, instead of springing as soon
as called, I would choose to have five
minutes more of luxury. That meant falling
asleep again, of course. But do you
imagine that I, who had meant to be up
with the sun, would rise when I was
again wakened  this time by the breakfast
bell  not I ! At such times I generally
spent the most of the forenoon in
bed.'

Those in authority over you should not
have suffered it. But, tell me, are you in
one of those better moods to-day ? I ask
with a purpose.'

That's alarming ! What is expected of
me, pray ? '

Some poor people stand in need of you.

You have heard of them before, you may
remember.'

Yes ; and I have kept sending whatever
has been required.'

I want you to go now, not to send.'

1 Oh, what misery ! I would rather hear
the MS. of "The Ten Lost Tribes" from
beginning to end, or the longest sermon of
the most confirmed platitudinarian in your
presbytery ! I should not like parish
visiting.'

But are we in this world to do only what
we like ? '

I don't believe we can be intended todo
what we emphatically feel we have no
vocation for.'

1 Until you have given a thing of this sort
a fair trial, you cannot say you have no vocation
for it. You once believed you had no
vocation for teaching, yet now you get on
famously with your class.'

That is because my boys have come to
like me somehow.'

Doubtless ; and your boys' mothers would

also come to like you, if you cared about the
matter.'

Would they ? Ah, I must tell you an
anecdote illustrative of a boy's mother. One
of my dearest disciples was repeating the first
Psalm, and he persisted in having it, " Nor
sitter in the corner chair." I tried to get
him to see that there could be no harm in a
corner chair,  that when a boy was sent to
the corner in disgrace, the evil was all in
himself, none of it in the corner. Then I
went on,  " It is a scorner s chair that is
spoken of here. Who can tell us what a
scorner is ? " Immediately Tommy Gillespie's
hand went out. "Well," said I, "what is he ?"
Tommy's answer was rather startling,  " It's
no' a he, it's a she : yourself the scorner,
mem ! " I nearly laughed, though I looked
as stern as I could, and asked Tommy what
he meant ? But " My mither teller us," was
all the satisfaction I could gain. Such is my
character in Laighbield. They make out a
sad case against me, Alan.'

1 They don't know you ; and you are precisely

the person who, seen only on the surface,
is sure to be misjudged. That is partly
why I am anxious that you should go among
the people a little ; partly also because there
is crying need for some kindly, active woman
to make her influence felt in Laighbield.'

1 But if the kindly active woman have not
tact ? I feel no aptitude for being a Sister of
Mercy.'

1 The aptitude may come with the occasion
for it.'

1 Very well ;  please the Fates, you shall
have your way. And is there anything else
disagreeable that you can think of for me
to do ? I may as well be thorough. Might
I not take a missionary tour through the
Netherlaw Reformatory, for example?'

You had better, I think, confine your
energies to the parish.'

1 I have promised to energise in the parish,
then, but not to-day. To-day I must call at
the Brae, and make myself as charming as I
can to those Elvesters,  and after, I am
promised at Auchterbrechan. Miss Berwick

has got the manse in order, but she wants
me to do the finishing touches. By the way,
Alan, I've been thinking that I must find a
wife for Mr Berwick.'

That is a finding most men prefer to
undertake for themselves.'

Which is a pity ; they so often choose
unwisely, and rue ever after.'

Saying which, Mrs Brackenburn looked
up with an indescribable half-comic, half-pathetic
expression, as if asking, between
jest and earnest, 'Is it not so with you?'
but the eyes that met hers must have perfectly
satisfied her that her husband was far
enough from ruling the unwisdom of his
choice.

1 I have fixed on Katie Langbiggin for
the minister-elect of Auchterbrechan/ she
announced, after a pause.

1 What ! the young lady who is so neutral
so uninteresting ? '

'And why not? Men and women judge
differently ; and I don't know that a man
likes a woman any the less that her mind

resembles a sheet of unused blotting-paper,
and is all ready to become a fainter copy of
his own

And if Donald Berwick and you are
satisfied, nothing else is wanted, I suppose,
not such an unimportant item as the lady's
concurrence, for example.'

If she should not concur, I shall have to
turn elsewhere. But don't take alarm ; I
meditate nothing which you could not perfectly
approve of. I simply intend to give
the pair every opportunity of finding out for
themselves that they were made for each
other. Ah, but I should like to see Mr
Berwick in love ; it would amuse me more
than anything I can think of to see the
handsome giant blushing and stammering
under a girl's glance ! But I've set my
heart upon this thing, chiefly because of my
fellow-feeling with the licentiate who a few
Sundays ago interested us in the anxieties
of a parent hen. On every subject I tried
that young man, but found him blank. In
sheer despair I stumbled haphazard on the

question,  " Mr Mucklewham, are you sentimental
? " That roused him. He grasped
at the idea as if it were the elixir of life, or
perpetual motion, or any of the other things
men have gone mad trying to discover, and
with a fervency I couldn't a moment before
have conceived him capable of, ejaculated,
Real sentimental I " So I, too, am real
sentimental, though not one in Laighbield,
I know, would credit it,  or if any did, they
would put it down to me for a crime; for what
I do is a fault, and what I don't do is a fault,
and if I have no fault they manufacture one.
I am a much-to-be-commiserated woman,
Alan ; I am a round peg in a square hole.'

This was true enough, unfortunately ; and
the result of Mrs Brackenburn's first attempt
at parish work  for she did go out and
energise, though not that day  was an
anonymous billet, addressed to ' Dr Bracken-burn's
Meddlesome Matte,' and containing
the following pointed satire : 

1 Sometimes she'd lift the teapot-lid, to peep at what was
in it,
Or tilt the kettle, if you did but turn your back a minute.'

Miss Elvesters Girls.

1 Withdraw thy foot from thy neighbour's house, lest he
become weary of thee, and so hate thee.'

The minister's wife showed this production
to all her friends, and made much fun of it ;
but if in public she laughed, in secret, I
think, she cried a little too.

MONCRIEFF.

1 1 know a maiden fair to see,
Take care !
She can both false and friendly be,
Beware ! beware ! '

HE first acquaintances Christian
made after she had gone to seek
her fortunes as a governess were
Dugald and Moncrieff Urquhart, nephew
and niece by marriage of Mrs Cassillis of
Argyll Gardens. Mr Urquhart's place,
Craigie Urquhart, was in the neighbourhood
of Braidmoss ; and as Dugald had no
town-house of his own, he and his sister
made themselves very much at home in
their Aunt Marjorie's, and both stayed

VOL. I. L

there days and weeks at a stretch, as
often as it suited them.

The brother was rather over thirty  emphatically
fine-looking, in the hairdresser's-
model style of perfection, a landed proprietor,
and a marrying man. Conscious of
so much greatness, he set high value upon
his person ; indeed, Sir Roland de Vane was
carelessness itself on the bridal question
compared to Mr Urquhart.

The sister was one-and-twenty, and an
acknowledged belle. But if Nature had
generously given to Moncrieff a fair face,
Fortune had stingily withheld from her a
full purse ; her entire income, she would
many a time complain, was barely sufficient
to keep her in gloves alone.

This young lady soon grew very friendly
with Willie Ruthven's governess ; and Christian
had the privilege of becoming acquainted
with Miss Urquhart's whole history  with
the long list of her adorers  with the
flowery catalogue of compliments paid to
her by these. No confidence was expected

in return. That would have bored Mon-cries.
She had no interest in her neighbours'
concerns, as such ; her fellow-creatures
and their affairs she took cognisance of only
in so far as they stood in relation to her own
personality ; and she was absolutely devoid
of the imagination, or gift, or grace, which
might have enabled her to put herself, though
but for one moment, in anybody else's place.
But if the one girl were pleased to be autobiographical,
and if the others were content
to listen to autobiography, that was their
own business.

In close connection with her master theme
self, Moncrieff had a great deal to say
about her two cousins, Quentin Cassillis of
Baronshaugh, and Captain Glen Cassillis, of
Her Majesty's  th foot ; but from all
her multiplication of words, the only definite
notion to be extracted came to this 
both one and the other were steadfast
admirers of Miss Urquhart.

Early in December Captain Cassillis was
expected home, and for his better entertainment

during the visit his cousin came
to spend a fortnight at Argyll Gardens.
Mrs Cassillis was laid up with some slight
temporary illness ; but no matter, Moncrieff
would receive Glen, and do the honours to
his fullest satisfaction.

On the evening preceding the day on
which Captain Cassillis was to arrive, there
was a grand orchestral concert in the Town
Hall. Moncrieff went, of course ; not for the
music's sake certainly  who cared for orchestral
music ?  but, as she went to church, for
instance, because it formed part of the recognised
programme.

And while Moncrieff was thus sacrificing
inclination on the altar of conventionality,
Christian was suffering from a sharp attack
of home-sickness. She had no cause to be
unhappy in Netherlaw, but the reverse.
Her pupil was her pet and her plaything;
everybody was civil to her. and she received
even more than ordinary kindness
from Mrs Cassillis. Yet there were times,
as now, when she longed to be with her own

people, and felt as if she could not live
another day apart from Jenny. Driving
through the town one afternoon, she had
caught a passing glimpse of Mr and Mrs
Rich of Brestaa, and this fit of home-sickness
was the result. She had bravely striven
against it, and, so far, had been successful
in at least keeping appearances up. But
now, being left to herself, she became worse
and worse, until it seemed that nothing short
of a hearty cry would do her any good. That
weakness, however, she would not indulge in,
so went to the piano instead, that she might,
if it were possible, sing melancholy away.
But, no ! the sound of her own voice brought
tears to her eyes at once, and she had to give
up the experiment. Light literature might
serve the purpose better. She would try that.
And ready to hand lay a novel, on the couch
where Moncrieff had lately been reclining.

Miss Urquhart was a great reader, after
her sort ; that is, she would rush through the
realms of fiction at the rate of three volumes
an afternoon, and with about the same

measure of appreciation as travellers by-night
express have of the country through
which they pass. What Moncrieff had last
been running over was a work which Christian
knew by name, and remembered, because
reviewers had unanimously condemned
it ; had even, some of them, entreated
British women not to look at it. Well, here
it was, open in her hand, and so, in spite
of reviewers' warnings, this British woman
did look at it. One half-page she scanned ;
no more  that was enough. The very hot
love-scene, in the thick of which she had
lighted, did not attract  it repelled her  and
vexed with herself for having so much as
opened the book, she let it drop from her
fingers as if it had been a loathly thing, and
lifted her face to encounter a pair of keen,
dark eyes, whose owner had just drawn aside
the curtains which hung in the pillared archway
between the front and back drawing-rooms.


Miss Elvester, I believe,' said the
stranger, bowing.

Thus taken by surprise, and caught
in the very act of reading that banned
volume, Christian fell into some confusion,
and answered to her name after a fashion
highly annoying to herself.

And I am Glen Cassillis/ said the intruder.
And he begged the young lady's
pardon for having startled her, and explained
that some sudden alteration of arrangements
had occasioned his coming on to Netherlaw
a night earlier than he had intended. While

o

a few generalities were being exchanged,
Captain Cassillis, without thinking what he
was about, lifted the book which he had
seen fall from Christian's hand. Had it
been any collection of moral tales, or manual
of instructive reading, the man would never
have touched it ; but being what it was, it
could not, of course, be let alone.

Christian's face grew hot, when Captain
Cassillis turned his glance to it from the title-page.
She was angry, both with him and
with herself  for what right had he to look
at her like that ?  and she who had done no

wrong, whose conscience was perfectly clear.
Why, why must she so foolishly colour under
his satirical eyes ? As for him, he confined
the satire to those eyes.

1 An interesting story, isn't it ? ' he said,
in the most matter-of-fact tone.

I don't think so  I mean I haven't read
it, and can't say,' she replied, with as much
dignity as she was mistress of.

But the previous flush, and the amended
sentence were against her, and then she
immediately afterwards excused herself, and
went away, Captain Cassillis was left thinking


So much, then, for my mother's paragon ;
but what a pity that falsehood should bespoken
in so singularly sweet a tone.'

On coming into the breakfast-room next
morning, Christian found Miss Urquhart and
Captain Cassillis there before her. She was
about to take the place which the present
indisposition of Mrs Cassillis left vacant at
table, when, 

I'll save you the trouble, Miss Elvester,'

said Moncrieff, stepping in before her, and
sitting down.

1 Thank you very much,' replied Christian,
quietly moving round to the side seat.

Upon which Captain Cassillis, thinking of
Thackeray's women, who scratch each other's
face in private, but are all affection to each
other in the sight of men, came to his own
conclusions ; and these were again unfavourable
to his mother's paragon.

The beautiful Moncrieff was in great force,
and, not being one to waste her table-talk on
a woman, if a man were by, spoke right on
with her soldier-cousin, to the almost total
exclusion of the unfortunate third. Captain
Cassillis more than once attempted to bring
Christian in ; ineffectually, however, since she
made no effort to take the ball so thrown to
her, but always allowed Moncrieff to catch it
up again, and bear it away. This morning
Christian neither cared to be spoken to, nor
to speak. She knew that she had made a
bad impression, that she was disapproved of ;
and the consciousness vexed her to an absurd

degree, reducing her to the uncomfortable
state in which one is constantly obliged to
pause in one's employments to inquire 
What is amiss with me ? '

Such a thing as this had never happened
to her before ; and it fretted her the more, to
think that the opinion of an entire stranger
should have the power of fretting her at
all.

In the course of the forenoon she was in
the back drawing-room, guiding Willie Ruth-even's
fingers over the scales, when the cousins
passed through.

You don't instruct yourself in that kind,
do you ? ' said a voice, not meant for Christian's
ears.

Christian heard, nevertheless, and knew
quite well what ' kind ' was alluded to.

1 Not I, indeed,' responded Moncrieff,
lightly. ' It isn't my book, you know ; it is
Miss Elvester's.'

Well, don't read it, or any other like
it,' said Glen ; and the pair passed out of
hearing.

In a short while Moncrieff reappeared alone.

1 Did you hear how nearly I got into disgrace
with cousin Glen ? ' she asked, coming
up behind Christian.

I heard said Christian, speaking coldly 
how could she help it ? ' and heard you tell
your cousin that the book was mine.'

Moncrieff laughed.

1 Wasn't it a bright thought ?' she inquired,
with great glee.

1 Oh ! I must be excused, if I don't quite
appreciate the brightness of it.'

It isn't a bit nice of Glen to go poking
into things,' said Moncrieff. ' Do you think
it is, Miss Elvester ?'

It is no business of mine to think anything
about it (B flat, Willie, and third
finger) ; only, if it is such a dreadful fault
to read the book, it seems a little hard that
I should be supposed to have done so.'

Oh, it isn't dreadful at all ! And I had to
say something, hadn't I ? Cousin Glen is so
absurdly particular about me  you've no
notion.'

That must be very flattering,' said
Christian.

Do you think so ? I call it tiresome and
inconvenient. (Go on, Willie Ruthven ; don't
stare at me.) Of course, Miss Elvester, you
won't make mischief ; nobody would be so
ill-natured as to make mischief between
cousin Glen and me.'

I am no mischief-maker, Miss Urquhart.
But don't, please, do anything else that you
mean to be ashamed of; because I'm afraid
I shall not want to take any more upon my
shoulders for some time.'

Nothing  nothing more,' replied Mon-cries;
and away she went, satisfied.

It is perhaps putting it too strongly to
affirm that ugliness is the fault the most
rigorously treated by men ; but it certainly
is not going too far to say that falsehood,
when uttered by lips that are lovely, seems
robbed of a measure of its shame. And
Moncrieff possessed this great advantage of
beauty. Their was an airy frankness about
her besides, and an unshaken confidence in

the obligation of everybody around her to do
just exactly as she desired they should. So
beauty, frankness, and confidence together,
attained the gratifying result, that whoever
else's projects might be thwarted, Miss
Urquhart's were always triumphantly carried
through.

MARRING HER FORTUNE.

Where're you find ' the cooling western breeze,'
In the next line it ' whispers through the trees.'
If crystal streams 'with pleasing murmurs creep
The reader's threatened (not in vain) with ' sleep.'

HAT most delighted in by ladies,
and least appreciated by men, of
all forms of active benevolence, a
grand bazaar in aid of some local charity was
to be held at Netherlaw, consequently the
hands of every woman in the district were
full. MoncriefFs hands were full  by proxy :
she undertook all manner of fancy work,
passed it over to Christian, and to herself
appropriated the credit. When her friends
congratulated her upon the tastefulness of

productions which she had not produced, she
equably  yes, and in Christian's very presence
too !  accepted the praise. Nothing
of that sort surprised Christian now ; nor did
she even think it worth while to remonstrate.

Wasn't it funny!' Moncrieff said; 'for
instance, Maryanne Kirkpatrick would insist
upon knowing how I contrived the glove
sachets. I said I had forgotten how ; then
she wanted to see the copy, so I told her
it was lost. She is always hunting after
patterns and stitches. Such a bore of a
girl ! and isn't she plain ? '

Whether, on account of Moncrieff's absence
or not, Dugald found the country very
dull about this time ; and for some part of
nearly every day they were sure of the
pleasure of his company at Argyll Gardens.
On Christian he had at first cast an unfavourable
eye ; for, as he once observed to his
sister, ' Pretty governesses and companions
are fatal man-traps.'

'Is she pretty?' Moncrieff had carelessly
inquired.

Pretty enough to put a man on guard,'
he had rejoined, and had since been on
guard accordingly.

Whenever he chanced to find himself ina
room alone with Christian, he assumed
the defensive. But the shield he selected
was not taciturnity, it was reading. He
would fetch a book and offer to entertain
the young lady by reading aloud. Taciturnity
would have served his purpose
equally well, but reading suited his taste
better, for he loved to read aloud ; he believed
he had a special gift that way : there
Christian and he differed.

He had a gruff voice, which he himself
believed to be organ toned. When reading,
he would draw out every stop, and fill the
air with vibrations, which, by some absurd
conjunction of ideas, invariably brought to
Christian's mind the phrase, 'swellings of
Jordan.' Mr Urquhart did not affect prose,
but poetry only  poetry was much more
skilful, he would say. It was no use for
Christian to declare that she did not ap-prelate

poetry. Such an assertion Mr
Urquhart would not credit. Miss Elves-ter's
taste might indeed be dormant ; his,
then, be the task of awakening it. But
perhaps what they were at (he was on the
threshold of Milton's Pandemonium when it
came to this) might be too high-class fora
commencement. Should they turn to the
Idylls of the King ? ' But Christian looked
fairly frightened at the idea of having to
sit by while Mr Urquhart boomed through
any of these.

Not the Laureate either!' he exclaimed.
Shall it be Pollock's "Course of Time,"
then ?  But no, I think not ; that is buta
crude production, and lacks the magnificent
roll of Milton's music. Ah, yes ;
here is something, Miss Elvester, which you
ought to enjoy : " The Raven," by Edgar
Allan Poe, a gifted young American. It
is a fine effort of genius,  dirge-like,
melodious.'

Christian informed Mr Urquhart that she
already knew ' The Raven ' by heart.
vol. 1. M

1 Ay,' said he ; ' but you may never have
heard it read.'

She was obliged to admit that she never
had, and as politeness would not allow her
to say further, that she did not want to
hear it read by him, she resigned herself,
and during the following most sepulchral
declamation, tried to think of something
else. But 'The Raven' was not enough
for Mr Urquhart that day. Attuning his
voice to adagio cantabile, he now bore his
unwilling listener on waves of resonance,

Where Ralph the sacred river ran,
Through caverns measureless to man,
Down to a sunless sea.'

How he revelled in 

. . . . that deep romantic chasm which slanted
Down the green hill athwart a cedar cover !
A savage place ! as holy and enchanted
As e'er beneath a waning moon was haunted
By woman wailing for her demon lover ! '

Then how trippingly came 

A damsel with a dulcimer
In a vision once I saw; '

(In the fulness of his heart Mr Urquhart
pronounced it " saw'r " !)

It was an Abyssinian maid,
And on her dulcimer she played,
Singing of Mount Abra . . .'

Now that is what I call mellifluous,' said
the reader when he had done ; ' exquisitely
cadenced and mellifluous.'

Christian did not say what she called it ;
but one of the loveliest fragments in the
language was spoiled to her from that hour.

Though Christian had been pronounced
1 pretty enough to put a man on guard,' she
was one of those girls whose charm does
not strike beholders all at once, but gradually
steals over them ; so it was some time
before Mr Urquhart fully realised how greatly
her golden brown hair became her  how
beautiful was the curve of her milk-white
throat  how beautifully sweet were the long-fringed,
sea-blue eyes. Simultaneously with
the full perception of such details was reached
also the conviction that this pretty young
governess was no man-trap after all, and
that  well, in short, that she deserved to

be married ! She was fair, her ways were
all pleasantly feminine  above everything,
she would be easily moulded. This last
consideration was of quite paramount importance
; for, in Dugald Urquhart's estimate,
a wife primarily consisted of so much
material for a husband to mould. No suspicion
crossed Christian's mind of there
being these thoughts concerning her ; only
she more and more regarded Mr Urquhart
as a weariness, and wished more and more
fervently that he would try to make sure
at what hour his relatives were to be found
at home, instead of perpetually coming in
just after they had gone out. But matters
could not remain this way for ever ; something
must come of it. And something" did
come of it, which it now falls to relate.

One forenoon, Dugald having, for the
twentieth time, arrived to find that his
sisters, aunt, and cousin were off, did not
send his name to Christian as in general,
but unceremoniously proceeded to the back
parlour where she sat.

'Ah, Miss Elvester, you are here!' he
exclaimed, just as if it were a surprise to
come upon her there. ' The rest are away
to Mucklestanes, it seems. I have missed
them again. Life runs in similitudes

Christian clearly remembered to have
heard Mrs Cassillis mention the intended
hour of departure to Mr Urquhart ; she
could but think, therefore, that the gentleman
had a most leaky memory.

 Since I am here, I suppose I may as well
remain,' said Mr Urquhart.

Willie Ruthven, who was forming a procession
across the floor, of the tenants of
a Noah's ark, and who found his kinsman
of Craigie Urquhart an obstacle in the path,
made bold to observe, 

1 This is my Miss Elvester's room, and
she doesn't want you here, cousin Dugald ;
get out, please.'

Cousin Dugald lavished no wealth of
affection upon Willie : he held little boys
and girls to be, on the whole, a mistake.


1 You spoil that monkey among you, Miss
Elvester,' he remarked.

1 Forgive us it,' she answered, smiling ;
1 it is a way we have.'

'A child should be kept in his own place,'
said Mr Urquhart, rather testily, and forgetful
that in the present instance it was he and
not the child who happened to be out of
place.

Christian bade Willie ask his cousin's pardon
for having spoken so rudely; and Willie,
after considerable demur, yielded to say, 

If you please, cousin Dugald, I apologise.'

Upon which Mr Urquhart seemed appeased,
and, sitting down, watched Christian
at her needle-work.

'What do you call that, Miss Elvester?'
he would like to know after a while.

I call it an apron,' she replied, holding
up for better inspection the piece of green
satin, round which she was sewing in
coloured silks a wreath of variegated flowers.

Very tasteful indeed,' pronounced Mr
Urquhart.

A little too gorgeous, perhaps,' she said,
1 but it is for the bazaar, and Mrs Cassillis
tells me that over-colouring never comes
amiss in Netherlaw.'

'And what Mrs Cassillis tells her, Miss
Elvester swears to. Well, my aunt is rather
a superior woman.'

Mrs Cassillis is as near as possible to
perfection,' said Christian warmly.

But Mr Urquhart did not care to hear
what Christian thought about Mrs Cassillis.
He always found it to be more blessed to
give than to receive information.

Do you know what my ideal of womanhood
is ? ' he asked.

1 An Aurora Leigh, I should imagine,'
guessed Christian.

No, Miss Elvester, no ; there you mistake
me ; nothing so horribly clever could I endure.
A quiet, loving, domestic woman 
as feminine as she is fair : that is my ideal.'

1 Must she be very quiet ? ' said Christian.

Sufficiently so,' was the rather ambiguous
reply. ' We men exceedingly dislike anything

loud, or aggressive, or self-important,
in your sex. It is a mistake to suppose that
we want women to be intellectual, or even
clever. There is enough of intellect, of
cleverness, among ourselves. What we seek
and must find when we come to you is, a
rest  a change.'

1 This gets rather interesting,' said Christian
to herself. Then she continued aloud, 

1 Even though we be clever, our cleverness
is so different from yours that, if the rest
be in change, you have it still.'

Excuse me, but we want none of that
sort of thing at all. What end does it
serve ? Some young ladies court notoriety
by writing novels and the like, as if they
were competent to deal with the problems
of life ! But they waste their pains ; for
who reads such poor stuff ? '

Do not you, Mr Urquhart ?'

'// Never, Miss Elvester.'

How, then, can you tell that it is poor
stuff?'

Mr Urquhart passed over this question

as irreverent, and did so with an air as if
Christian had said something excessively
silly ; but he, out of the benevolence of
his nature, would try to excuse her for this
time.

Speaking of writing happens to remind
me,' he observed, in a careless, off-hand
style, that did not sit upon him well at all,
that I have with me a short poem, which
you might like to hear.' (Christian shuddered.)
'It is by a friend of my own,
who would, I am sure, be glad to have
an unbiased opinion as to its merits.'

This seemed odd ; for Dugald bore a
sufficiently strong family likeness to Mon-cries,
to make it matter of surprise that
he should feel so much interested in the
performance of any friend.

1 No poet could care for such an opinion
as mine,' represented Christian, most anxious
to get off ; 'it isn't in the least worth
having.'

You are a unit, and an aggregate of
units constitutes the great public,' replied

Mr Urquhart, speaking as if he were
divulging a new discovery to mankind.
1 The opinion of the public he added,
1 must be of a certain importance to every
writer.'

Then he got up, took a sheet of paper
from his pocket-book, and began to pace
the room. There was no help for Christian.
With as good a grace as possible she might
submit herself to circumstances.

You will be perfectly candid, I hope,'
said Mr Urquhart ; ' you will express
precisely what you feel.'

But that might be awkward she objected.
' How can I say so, if my opinion
of the poem should be as low as yours is
of ladies' writings ? '

The young person was really showing
herself painfully flippant. But Mr Urquhart
would forgive her this time also.

1 Say whatever you think he returned.
'It is a short thing ; it will not weary
you. Its title is, " Beneath the Trysting
Tree"'

And having thus premised, he unfolded
his scroll, prepared his voice, and began
sonorously : 

We lingered 'neath the trysting tree, 
She youthful, I in manhood's prime ;
Before us heaved the gurgling sea,
Unwrinkled by the touch of time.'

And so forth in like manner. The production
was rather under than over the average
merit of efforts fated to remain in manuscript
; and it was meant to be pathetic,
but not having - come from the writer's own

o

heart, it was little likely to touch the heart of
any other body. About midway through,
the lover was telling his beloved the sorrowful
news, that it would now be necessary
that they two should wrench themselves
asunder for all time, since, alas ! 

The forceful Fates have frowned on us,
Our high hopes they have trampled on,' 

when 

Oh, cousin, you've been and broken the
neck of my best giraffe ! ' interrupted Willie
Ruthven, in shrill distress.

And sure enough cousin had, in suiting his
action to that of ' the forceful Fates,' unwittingly
planted his heel full on the head of
the ill-starred giraffe with disastrous results.
Still, it was altogether insufferable to be cut
short after such a fashion, and Mr Urquhart
frowned (without meaning to imitate 'the forceful
Fates ' this time), and angrily muttered, 

Contemptible ! '

Whoever or whatever aggravated him
always was contemptible.

1 And he w r as my nicest giraffe,' lamented
poor Willie, with trembling lip, ' and I liked
him better than them all ; but now he's
gone ! '

Christian took the child on her lap, saying
soothingly, 

He isn't gone, my pet ; we'll have him
mended so that you could never know his
head had been off,  just as we had your carthorse
mended, you remember.'

This assurance comforted Willie, and he
hastened to the floor again to gather together
his scattered flock, and put them out

of further harm's way. Cousin Dugald the
while looked on in a state of extreme irritation,
which nothing would so effectually have
relieved as just to take a tramp of destruction
over the entire herd. But before we
condemn, we ought to consider how trying
it must have been for him to be wrested from
the very heights of Parnassus and confronted
with such a desperately prosaic fact as a child
whimpering over a broken toy.

But patience mends all. So, by-and-by,
the reading was resumed and carried on
without hindrance, till the parting lovers
were left with the consolatory hope that,
though sundered now, they should yet be
reunited, 

Amid the viewless winds to dwell, 
Ne'er, ne'er again, while ages roll,
To sigh that saddest sound, Farewell ! '

A pause. Mr Urquhart expected Christian
to be complimentary, and complimentary
Christian could not conscientiously be.

'Well, Miss Elvester ? ' he said suggestively,
when he was tired waiting, 

1 It  it  it goes quite smoothly,' was all
that she could muster in reply.

Of course  of course ; every line has the
proper number of feet. But the sentiment 
what of the sentiment ? '

Again silence. How could one speak so
as at the same time to be truthful, and to
avoid giving offence ?

Do you '  it evidently cost Mr Urquhart
an effort to conceive the possibility  ' do you
not like it, Miss Elvester ? '

Oh, I haven't said that.'

You have said nothing. Do you like it ? '

1 I don't dislike it.'

There is no getting at your opinion !
What faults have you to find ? '

1 Faults ? I don't wish.  what right have
I to find any faults ? '

1 My dear Miss Elvester, is this your way
of giving a candid opinion ? '

Is it fair, Mr Urquhart, is it fair to cross-question
me so ? '

Perfectly ; the object being but to obtain
an unambiguous reply.'

Driven into a corner, Christian saw nothing
for it but to tell her mind. First, 

Are your friend's verses founded on fact ? '
she asked ; ' because if they are, I won't say
one word.'

The poem is drawn from fancy entirely
responded Mr Urquhart.

Then, if I must criticise, will you show it
to me, please ? '

Instead of showing it to her he re-read it,
as resoundingly as at first, but more slowly,
that she might mark and consider every
separate cadence ; which done, he once again
requested to know what fault she could
find.

The " gurgling " sea  " gurgling " doesn't
seem to be a very happy expression, does
it ? ' she ventured.

I consider it an exceedingly apt expression,'
said Mr Urquhart, quickly, 'fresh and unhackneyed.
Have you never heard the sea gurgle ?'

No ; but perhaps our Northern Ocean
isn't civilised enough to gurgle,  it roars
generally.'

Ah,' rejoined Mr Urquhart, becoming very-stiff;
' and what other amendments have you
to suggest ? '

1 Have I not said enough ?'
Not so ; say all you think  say all.'
Goaded on at this rate, Christian would
say all.

The line below "the gurgling sea" reminds
one too much of a line in Byron's
address to the ocean she proceeded. ' Then
in the first line of the next stanza, your friend
has " a sea of tears," which is surely a sea too
many. Besides, I can't think that the lady's
eyes, " raining a sea of tears," could at the
same moment be fixed on his, as he says
they were ; one would hardly be able to
fix " one's eyes while tears flowed like
that.'

I beg your pardon,' said Mr Urquhart,
coldly desperate ; ' but this is the merest
verbal criticism, and I flat  my friend flatters
himself, that he quite understands what he is
about. Kindly leave these quibbles, and be
good enough to state how the poem strikes

you, viewed as a whole. Make your remarks
without reservation.'

Very well, if you will hear all, it is that
your friend's verses strike me as amateurish.
They want the ring of poetry written by one
who writes because the thing is in him and
he must. They are much like what I have
sometimes seen in the " Poet's Corner" of the
Cornrigshire Chronicler?

Thank you  thank you ! ' exclaimed Mr
Urquhart, mortified past the power of concealing
his mortification. ' You do assuredly
pronounce with great authority for a young
lady who lately professed to believe that her
opinion was of no value.'

I believe so still,' said Christian, rather
taken aback ; ' and but that you insisted, I
would not have given it.'

But black was the cloud that darkened
Dugald's brow as a second time he ironically
thanked Christian for her obliging remarks
upon his ' friend's poor lines ; ' and
bitter his smile as he quitted Argyll Gardens.
That was the girl whom he had
vol. 1. N

fancied ready to be as clay in the hands of
the potter  that ! Amateurish ! The poet's
corner of The Cornrigshire Chronicler. One
thing, at any rate, was now a certainty 
Christian Elvester should never be wife
of his.

AN Atlanta RACE.

I see, I see thee near ;
I know thy hurried step, thy haggard eye,
Like thee I start, like thee distracted fly.'

BOUT the end of December, Christian,
who had hitherto declined
all public amusements, got her
first sight of fashionable Netherlaw in the
mass. A singer of European fame was to
appear at a concert in the Town Hall.

It is but once in a while we provincials
have so great an opportunity,' Mrs Cassillis
said.  I will accept no excuse. You ought
to come with us, and you shall

So Christian went.

The Town Hall was in the heart of
Netherlaw  shoved into an out-of-the-way
corner, and jostled by the Vegetable Market
on this hand, by the police-office on that ;
and, in order probably not to put these its
neighbours out of countenance, it was the
dingiest, ugliest Town Hall ever tolerated
by wealthy townspeople.

On entering, Christian thought that the
concert-room, with its various decorations,
including printed notices hanging round, to
inform the public that no smoking or standing
upon seats would be allowed, was one
huge sin against good taste. But very soon
she lost sight of her surroundings. Listening
to the famous singer, she felt as if she
would be well content to continue there and
thus for ever. That could not be, of course ;
at the end of two hours or so she had to
rise and accompany the multitude from the
concert-room. Dreamily and mechanically
she went, for the music had powerfully
affected her. It does not do, however, to

be dreaming in a crowd ; and that Christian
proved, when she let go her companions, and
mistook the turning, and descended the
wrong stair, and only after considerable difficulty
succeeded in making her way to the
cloak-room.

On arriving there, whom should she find
in waiting but Moncrieff, who had gone
home to Craigie Urquhart a week ago,
and had not been heard of since.

How do you do ? Hasn't it been such
a slow affair ? I hate those ridiculous encores.
What an age that absurd creature
has kept you said Moncrieff, all in a
breath.

I stupidly lost my way ; no absurd
creature kept me,' replied Christian.

Didn't she ? Aunt Marjorie noticed a
Mrs Smilingly or something nodding and
waving her handkerchief to you ; and she
thought you must have stayed behind to
speak to her.'

1 Mrs Smillie ? I never saw her, nor you
either.'

We were behind you, and she was waving
from the front of the balcony. Aunt Marjorie
has gone down ; but she sent Glen to
hunt you up, and left me to wait here till you
should come, to tell you that you can't have
a place in the carriage. Dugald and I are to
go to Argyll Gardens to-night, of course, and
there isn't room in the carriage for everybody,
as Aunt Marjorie had offered a seat to Mr
Fyfe Armstrong before she knew of Dugald
and me. So Dugald has gone to bring a cab
for you, and I am to go now with Aunt Marjorie.
You must wait at the hall door, so
that he can't miss you.'

This seemed to Christian a very singular
arrangement, particularly the waiting at the
hall door part of it. Why could not Mr
Urquhart come to the cloak-room for her ?
That would surely be the more natural way.
Hers not to reason why, however, so she
merely said, 

Very well,' and prepared to obey.

How I shiver,' complained Moncrieff.
I've not wrapped myself up half enough ;

and some one must have run away with
my hood. I can't find it anywhere. What
a delightfully comfortable wrap yours seems
to be, Miss Elvester.'

I shouldn't w r under if she would take
it, and my hood, too,' thought Christian.
1 I must try.'

It is comfortable,' she answered. ' Won't
you have it, since you feel so cold ? '

Thanks very much. You are lucky in
never knowing what to feel cold is,' said
Moncrieff, drawing near as she spoke, that
the covering might be thrown over her.

And my hood,' suggested Christian ;
1 won't you take that as well ? I don't want
it myself any more than I want the wrap.'

Don't you, indeed? Then, if you will be
so kind, I shall be glad of it, since my own
has been carried off by some stupid.'

So the hood was given to her also, and
she, in her borrowed gear, ran down to the
carriage with Captain Cassillis, whom she
encountered in one of the passages, and
satisfied as to the object of his quest.

Moncrieff's selfishness was so thoroughly
ingenuous that it frequently, as in the present
instance, provoked Christian into trying how
far it would go. But Christian had better
have refrained from the experiment to-night,
for she felt need enough for her own coverings,
when she took her stand at the hall
door, and began to weary for the cab which
Mr Urquhart was to bring. Minute after
minute passed, each seeming longer than
the one before, but still it did not come ;
all the people went away, and the hall was
closed, and Christian was left alone  but
still it did not come ; the steeple-clock at
the cross struck eleven  but still it did not
come.

It was no time for a girl to be lingering
here. So bitterly cold as it was too ; and
she bareheaded, and with nothing warmer
over her evening dress than the lightest
of opera cloaks. How she trembled, as
she shrank closer to the hall door, under
the awning ; and even if she had not
trembled with cold, she would have trembled

before long with fear. Gradually the wonder
why Mr Urquhart was so tardy about fetching
the cab, gave way to the conviction that
he did not intend fetching it at all. What
could be the meaning of it ? Was ever
any girl in such a dismal plight ?

And now were heard the shouting and
laughter of a too hilarious crew, turned
into the streets from the tavern by the
Forbes Mckenzie Act, but jubilant resolved
not to go home till morning, till
daylight did appear. The sound came
nearer  nearer ; the tramp of unsteady feet
advanced.

Christian would wait here no longer ;
she dared not brave a gang of tipsy revellers
; she must at all hazards do the best
she could to get to Argyll Gardens. She
had not the faintest notion of the way ; only
she might be fortunate enough to guess
aright. Forth she came, then, and passed
fleetly along this narrow street into the wider
one beyond.

What a night it was ! The skies would

have been black, but that they were glare
with the reflection of many furnaces, and
the rain was falling in the way Netherlaw
rain does fall, as if it would never leave off
again. Not weather, assuredly, for a bare
head, gauzy dress, and satin shoes. Still,
the deluge, if in one respect it incommoded
Christian, in another was of service to her ;
since because of it the public ways were
deserted, and, excepting the boon companions
she had fled from before, no living
thing was abroad either to wonder at or to
molest the girl ; so at least for a time. But
when she reached Arcade Street, the show
street of Netherlaw  through which she
must have driven ere now with Mrs Cas-willis,
though she certainly did not recognise
it again,  and while she hesitated, not knowing
whether to go up that would bring
her right, or put her altogether wrong, a man
appeared from an opening opposite and,
catching sight of her, suddenly halted. She
at once hurried on, and  and  she was sure
of it ! the man crossed in pursuit. To the

other side she ran. The man increased his
speed and followed, Her heart gave great
wild throbs of terror ;  she sped on  up 
across ; no matter whether right or wrong
now. Yet, though she almost flew, she
could still hear the pursuer's footsteps keeping
fast behind. All the buildings here
were business premises, therefore empty
at this hour ; so there was no refuge.
What would she do ? What must become
of her ?

Still rushing on, as if for dear life, she
at the last extremity descried help afar off
in the shape of a policeman turning a corner,
and, thank Providence ! he came in her
direction. He advanced with measured tread,
looking, as a matter of form, to the security
of each door he passed. At sight of the
flying girl's figure, he stopped short and
waited. He was witness of too many sensational
night-scenes to be easily stirred
from his stolidity. He did not even speculate
; not he ! unmoved, wondering, he
was ready for anything that could betide.

When Christian got near enough for
speech, she gasped out, 

1 I've lost my way. Tell me how I shall
reach Cassillis Gardens.'

No such a place hereaway said the
policeman, and he turned the light of his
lantern full on the questioner's face  a very
frightened face, all wet with rain, and surrounded
with dripping love-locks. The
garments of this unlucky one were dripping
too, and her white satin shoes were no
longer white, and altogether she was in a
pitiable case.

I am a stranger in Netherlaw,' explained
Christian, speaking as well as she could for
panting  she saw that she was looked upon
as a suspicious character, nor could she
marvel at that. ' I got separated from my
party at the Town Hall to-night, and now I
can't find my way to Argyll Gardens

1 That's a different tale,' responded the
policeman ; ' you said Cassillis Gardens last
last time, miss.'

Then he gave the required directions ;



through by Saint Barnabas, straight up
River Street as far as Lockerbie Street,
along Lockerbie Street to the Western
Cross  '

I should know my way if I were at the
Western Cross,' said Christian, ' but I  '

She stopped, and scarcely knowing what
she did, grasped the policeman's arm for
protection.

1 Don't you be feared,' said the giant reassuringly
; 'I'll soon settle him;' and he
wheeled about to face the cause of this
pretty girl's alarm.

What's the meaning of this, sir ? ' he
demanded in tones of thunder.

The young lady has made a mistake ;
that is all, my man,' replied the pursuer,
quite unabashed.

And then Christian knew that she had
this whole time been measuring her speed
with that of Captain Glen Cassillis.

mm

Wdm

tmZM

CHAPTER XIV.

AUNT EUPHEMIA.

The Dowager, in ancient flounces,
With snuff and spectacles she folly trounce,
And, moralising, thus the age denounces.

N her return from the concert, Mrs
Cassillis found visitors : Quentin
of Baronshaugh. namely, and the
dowager lady his mother. The Laird of
Laighbield, though in his twenty-first year,
looked the merest boy ; and he was a vague,
limp lad, who would by no means have
answered the requirements of a Mrs Baillie
Cxeddes in respect of stamina.

What the poor Quentin lacked in individual
colouring, his mother more than made
up for. Behold her,  A tall, angular form,

with sharp features, small, dark, piercing
eyes, no lips to mention, and high cheekbones,
abutted on by grey, stern, stiff comb-curls.
This was a woman who wore dresses
of a proper walking length, and who never
allowed her back and the back of chair,
church-pew or carriage even for one half-minute
to remain in contact, so upright she
was. She held gloomy views in regard to
the rising generation,  gloomier than all,
regarding her niece Moncrieff; Moncrieff
lounged ; Moncrieff trailed yards of useless
material behind her when she walked ; Mon-cries
was wholly given up to vanity. The
dowager's salutation to this sad, young relative
of hers when they met in the drawing-room
at Argyll Gardens was, 

From home again, Moncrieff! You do
not obey the apostolic injunction laid upon
women, to be keepers at home.'

1 I have just been at home for a whole
week,' said Moncrieff righteously ; ' and one
stagnates when one is more than a week
without seeing anybody, Aunt Euphemia.'

Being of the class who are constantly saying
censorious things, and then taking credit
for their quite unnecessary candour, calling
it straightforward honesty, Aunt Euphemia
hereupon added to the apostolic injunction
her own opinion anent the subject of idle
gadders about, ranking them with tattlers
also, and busy-bodies, who speak things that
they ought not.

Moncrieff, it is to be feared, did not lay
the homily to heart as could have been
desired ; her attention wavered a good deal,
and on the first possible opportunity she
hastened to exchange the dowager's dreary
didactics for the more congenial attentions
of Quentin and Glen.

In process of time Dugald came in. But,
strange to say, he came alone ; so the question
at once arose, what of Miss Elvester ?
Mr Urquhart really could not say ; he had
never spoken to, never even thought about,
Miss Elvester to-night.

You were to bring her up in a cab,' said
his sister ;  I told you so.'

Ah, so you did ; it occurs to me now,' he
rejoined, with a supreme air ; ' but I told you
in return that I would do nothing of the
sort ; that it was no affair of mine to look
after my aunt's governess.'

Well, Dugald, it was a very nasty thing
to say ; but, anyhow, I never heard you say
it.'

That must have been because you were
listening to somebody else.'

It must have been because you have such
a hoarse voice. It was very disagreeable
not to repeat, especially when I told Miss
Elvester to wait for you at the hall door.'

Glen, who had been looking more and
more surprised, threw down the shawl  
Christian's shawl  which he had just taken
from his cousin's shoulders, and broke in, 

Told Miss Elvester to wait at the hall
door ? You said to me, when you left
her in the cloak-room, that she would not
come with us, preferring to wait and drive
up with Dugald. Mother' (as that lady
entered), ' there has been a misunderstand-vol.
1. o

ing, it seems ; Miss Elvester has been left
behind.'

Left behind ! ' echoed Mrs Cassillis.
'How has it happened?'

1 Moncrieff here will tell you how.'

You know yourself there wasn't room
for everybody in the carriage, Aunt Marjorie,'
said Moncrieff, thinking it too bad
that any responsibility should be thrown
upon her.

Miss Elvester, at any rate, would have
found room. But when I questioned you,
Moncrieff, you distinctly gave me to understand
that she had arranged to follow us
immediately with Duald.'

I couldn't have said " arranged," ' Aunt
Marjorie.'

'My dear child, you did say "arranged."
I particularly remember it, because I did
wonder a little that Miss Elvester should do
anything so unlike herself as to make such
an arrangement, without any reference to me.'

1 It is all your doing,' said Moncrieff,
shifting the blame to her brother ; ' and I'm

sure if Maryanne Kirkpatrick knew how
really unamiable you are at heart, she would
stop saying that the girl will be very fortunate
who marries you. But there can't
be any fear about Miss Elvester, can there ?
Lost children are always taken to the police-office
; so if she didn't know where to find
a cab-stand, she would only have to turn in
there and stop all night. I daresay they
would give her their most comfortable cell,
especially if she mentioned whose governess
she is.'

Not sharing his cousin's ease of mind
respecting Christian, Glen forestalled his
mother's charge by saying that he would
go to the Town Hall at once.

Dugald also, surely,' said Mrs Cassillis.
Miss Elvester may be trying to make her
way home, and in that case, by taking
separate routes, one or other of you will
find her most likely, in some intermediate
street.'

Whatever Mr Urquhart's private feelings
were, he could not decently refuse compliance.

At the same time, it required no
extraordinary discrimination to perceive that
he did not glow with any fiery ardour to
sally forth to the succour of this damsel in
distress. Chivalry was very well in romance ;
in real life Mr Urquhart loved above all
things to make and to keep himself comfortable.


Till Glen and Dugald were gone, Aunt
Euphemia sat silent, taking notes. And
the result of her observations when expressed
was, 

1 Yes, yes, Marjorie ; this is a very pretty
story indeed.'

'It is,' replied her sister-in-law. 'Alone,
and at midnight, outside the Town Hall 
unfortunate child that she is ! '

'Humph!' said Mrs Cassillis of Barons-haugh
dryly ; ' my own idea is that she's
not so much of a child as you suppose.
Miss Elvester must be a very foolish young
lady, indeed, if she could imagine that you
intended her to stay behind you, waiting for
Dugald. No, no, Marjorie ; she knew what

would happen, trust me, and decided that it
would be pleasant to return with your son
than in general company.'

The best way of answering many of this
acute woman's theories was not to answer
them at all. So the other lady looked about,
with the intention of saying something more
on the subject of the recent misunderstanding
to Moncrieff. But Moncrieff had very
wisely vanished.

Quentin still remained, though conversationally
he was null, having fallen asleep.
And he slept peacefully on, till the reverberating
tones of his cousin Dugald
first made him dream of an army composed
of drummers, and then wakened
him.

Mr Urquhart had been unsuccessful in
the quest. He had been to the Town
Hall, all round about it, up and down
every adjacent street and alley  yet here
they saw him, with nothing but damp clothes
to show for his infinite pains. He could dono
more. He gave the business up.

But even though he had felt eager to
carry it on, it would have been all one, since
the need for exertion had happily ceased :
while he was yet speaking, his cousin
brought Christian home. And Christian
came to light wrapped in Glen's overcoat,
which caused Quentin to observe, in a
drowsy aside to Dugald, 

You couldn't tell whether she's a boy
or a girl, you know.'

And caused Quentin's mother to cough
ominously : a young woman who could,
under any circumstances, parade the streets
in male attire, was a young woman about
whose principles there was grave reason
to stand in doubt.

We had an Atalanta race of it,' said
Glen, laughing at the recollection. ' Miss
Elvester took me for a midnight assassin ;
and she is as fleet of foot as a young roe 
she would not let me come within speaking
distance of her.'

Atalanta's race was a somewhat different
affair from yours, I take it,' said Mr Urquhart.

Who is Atalanta ? ' inquired the young
laird.

He fancied she might be, or have been,
a race-horse.

The less we say, or think, or know, about
these foolish Pagan myths the better,' cried
his mother, with decision.

Then she fixed her eyes upon Christian,
who was being disencumbered of the greatcoat
by Glen, and sympathised with by the
other Mrs Cassillis.

1 You have got yourself very wet, Miss
Elvester,' said the lady of Baronshaugh ;
1 and I have no doubt you feel extremely
uncomfortable. But do you mean to tellus
that you actually believed it to bethe
intention of Mrs Cassillis that you
should stay behind the party, and that
outside the Town Hall, waiting for Mr
Urquhart ? At the hour of midnight,
too!'

Put in this way, the thing did seem an
incredibility. Yet Christian had believed
it, and had acted up to her belief. Before

she could answer for herself, however, Glen
interposed, saying, 

My aunt is joking, Miss Elvester ; she
has a great fund of Scotch humour.'

And his mother hurried Christian away,
for Aunt Euphemia was looking dangerous,
and one never knew to what strange
lengths she might carry her straightforward
honesty.

As she passed Mr Urquhart, who was
posed statuesque beside a well-filled flower-stand,
and who looked down as from some
higher world upon the present proceedings,
Christian wanted to thank him for his exertions
on her behalf, but nothing of the
sort would he allow.

No thanks, Miss  ah  Elvester; no
thanks to me ' (he said it languidly, at
least as languidly as such a voice was
capable of saying it) ; 'I would have
taken the same trouble for anybody. There
is no obligation, I assure you.'

This disclaimer, while it caused Christian
to understand how very little she baulked

in Mr Urquhart's estimation, was so
highly relished by Aunt Euphemia that
the good lady several times over nodded
her approval, exactly as she was used
to nod in her Church's General Assembly
when a favourite divine made a telling
point.

No thanks fell to Captain Cassillis for his
share of the trouble : when he opened the door
for his mother and Christian, he and the latter
silently shook hands. That very silence was
fraught with meaning in the eyes of Aunt
Euphemia. Words could be weighed and
measured, but these significant silences, what
might they not cover ? If this soft-voiced,
blue - eyed Shetland was to remain long
under the same roof as Glen Cassillis, why,
let Marjorie look to it. Did young ladies of
fallen fortune enter households such as this
with no other end in view than merely the
winning of their bread ? Mrs Cassillis of
Baronshaugh rowed not ;  Mrs Cassillis of
Baronshaugh knew better.

Of course she did. It had always been

her specialty to know better and see farther
than any one else, and when she could not
possibly either see or know, she did the next
wisest thing, and suspected ; for, well-versed
in Scripture as she was, her biblical studies
had certainly not included the 13th chapter
of St Paul's first Epistle to the Corinthians.
Yet one cannot doubt her righteousness ; she
never doubted it herself. She frequently
drew a parallel between her own case and
that of just Lot, who vexed his righteous
soul from day to day with the unlawful deeds
of the wicked ; and was not her present
object in town to countenance a public
meeting called to protest against the running
of a proposed Sunday train between
Netherlaw and the capital ?

On the day after Christian's midnight adventure,
the doctor who was called in (fora
doctor had to be called) said something
ominous about fever. This caused a dispersion.
Dugald and Moncrieff were scared
out of the house at once  the latter still
-ranking it very ridiculous that everybody

should seem to blame her because Aunt
Marjorie's governess had happened to get
a drenching ! Willie Ruthven was dispatched
to a place of safety, and Quentin
of Baronshaugh was sent by his mother
afar. As for herself, the dowager would
stay where she was till her purpose of protesting
against Sabbath desecration were
accomplished, braving danger in the path of
duty as a sound-principled, rightly-regulated
Free Churchman should.

Notwithstanding medical prognostications,
Christian did not come to any harm ; nothing
befel her more serious than an influenza cold,
and in a day or two she was able to leave her
room.

There is no chance of your running away
from me this time,' said Glen, when he saw
her on a couch by the parlour fire.

And then, in spite of her rather constrained
reply (she always was a little constrained with
Captain Cassillis, somehow), he sat down and
showed every intention of making himself
agreeable. He, like his cousin Dugald, had

taken some time fully to realise Christian's
peculiar charm ; but now-a-days, he thought,
what a very pretty creature she was,  not
like Moncrieff, of course, flashing before
men's eyes with an almost blinding beauty,
but a flower-like little thing who, though
she would never dazzle, must surely always
please.

It's a hard case,' he said to her, smiling,

that you should have to spend Christmas in
this nunnery fashion. Have you anything
to read ?  anything interesting, like  ' and
he named the book she had had in her hand
when he saw her for the first time.

4 Thank you,' she replied, ' I have more to
read than I can manage. But I did not read
that, though I opened it,' she added proudly ;

only I see no reason why I might not, if I
had chosen.'

Nor do I. Yet I am rather glad that you
did not choose

I don't know why you should be glad ; I
don't know why a man should think badly of
a girl for having only done something which

he isn't one bit ashamed of having done
himself! '

I will tell you why. It is because men
want to be able to think very much better
of girls than they can think of themselves.
We are sorry whenever you condescend to
meet us on our own level.'

This brought to Christian's mind the
speech, 

What we seek and must find when we
come to you is, a rest  a change.'

And a smile flickered in her eyes for a
moment, then was gone.

Meanwhile Mrs Cassillis of Baronshauh
had heard the call of duty bidding her
hither ; so at this juncture she marched
solemnly into the parlour. She ignored the
chair which her nephew offered her, and
looked about for one sufficiently uncomfortable
to find pleasure in ; but, looking in vain,
she had to accept Glen's in the end. She
did so under protest, observing that this was
an age of self-indulgence indeed ; our very
seats were constructed in such a fashion as

to foster habits of lounging and sloth. Her
glance was upon the couch as she spoke,
and Christian, feeling the reproof, raised
herself into a position as erect as anybody
could desire.

That is right said Mrs Cassillis. ' There
is nothing like keeping up. Illness may
often be warded off by just refusing to
recognise it. Half of the disease we hear
about is really nothing else than indolence
and self-indulgence.'

So you see, Miss Elvester, if you have
a sufficiently strong will, you needn't be
ill at all ; and if you're only determined
enough about it you may live for ever, I
suppose,' said Glen.

But Aunt Euphemia indicated that this
was ' foolish talking and jesting, which are
not convenient

Had you a satisfactory meeting last
night ? ' inquired Glen, a little while after,
not that he cared about the meeting, but
only to divert attention from the couch, for
his mother had come in and was making

Christian once more resume the posture of
indolent self-indulgence.

A capital meeting said his aunt emphatically.
' Did you not read the report
of it?'

No ; I contented myself with the Reflectors
remarks.'

And scurrilously low remarks they are,
Glen. The Reflector s position must indeed
be weak, when it stoops to make use of such
sorry weapons.'

Yes ; it is a mean advantage to take of
your protestors, to ask them why, in their zeal
for the Fourth Commandment, they trample
under foot such more excellent precepts as
Let brotherly love continue." Though
there was a squabble on the platform, it
was cruel to mention it ; we others have
no business to take notice when doctors
disagree.'

Oh, fie ! there was no disagreement worth
the name. Reporters have a way of garbling
accounts, which says little for the
integrity either of themselves or of the

newspapers that employ them. Here are
the facts of the case : That able man, Dr
Does Sledgehammer, in lamenting Sabbath
desecration in England, went on to remark
that it had before now justly been observed
of Episcopalians, that their response after
the reading of the Fourth Commandment in
their churches would be, if they were consistent,
" Lord, have mercy upon us, for weare
resolved to break this law. " Upon
this Mr Harpsichord, the incumbent of St
Timothy's, got up in a most unseemly spirit,
declaring " that he was an Englishman, and
was proud of it ; he was an Episcopalian to
the back-bone, and gloried in it," and so forth
and so forth. It was ill-judged in the
extreme, and it has given the enemy occasion
to rejoice. But from such a quarter what
could we expect ? Yet, why speak of prelacy,
when there is in our very midst a church in
which Erastianism is rampant ; where the
flocks are starved, or, worse still, poisoned ;
where, as a rule, the ministry are slothful
and lifeless ; dumb dogs, as the Scriptures

calls such hirelings  the loaves and fishes all
that they desire.'

'Is Dr Brackenburn according to rule ? '
asked Glen, his aunt having paused to draw
breath.

Dr Brackenburn is latitudinarian,' replied
the lady, with disdain.

Does that mean that he allows people
to have hot dinners on Sunday ? '

1 It means that his views are dangerous,
unsound, and unscriptural, Glen. But,
even putting errors in doctrine aside,
what can be said for a man who, holding
Dr Brackenburn's position, makes a
giddy, spoilt, and pampered worldling his
wife ? '

1 Well, what can be said but that he was
very much in love with her ? '

Stuff and nonsense, young man ! Matilda
Cannibal has two thousand a-year, and
there lies her attraction. And naturally,
she is aware of her own power. Never did
a minister's wife act so arrogantly ; but in
fact Dr Brackenburn himself is little better
vol. 1. p

at times. One day lately, for example,
when I met him out-of-doors, and was
laying before him my conscientious reasons
for refusing to subscribe to his wife's soup
kitchen, or in any other way encourage her
so-called charities, also putting it to him,
as a preacher of the Word, whether a day
of fasting and humiliation throughout the
parish were not a likelier means of relieving
the Laighbield poor than any
number of humanly - devised soup kitchens
; when I was urging this upon him,
I say, he unceremoniously cut me short,
and for what purpose, do you suppose ?
Only that he might pass on to an old pauper
whom he saw waiting for him. Now, I
maintain that a minister ought ever to bear
in mind the scriptural precept, " Honour to
whom honour is due." '

1 For even in heaven it is quite plain,
As stars with different glory shine,
There shall be people poor and fine,
For perfect order there shall reign,
And one wouldn't like to go over the line

quoted Glen, from a poem just then on every
drawing-room table in Netherlaw.

And Glen's mother now turned from petting
Christian, to say a word for the accused.

I have always particularly admired Dr
Brackenburn just for his freedom from respect
of person,' she observed. ' To me it is
beautiful to see him in his parish, calling
the little children by name, and asking the
mothers all about sons and daughters who
have left the home. My present sewing
maid is a Laighbield girl, and that young
woman is a staunch believer in the infallibility
of Dr Brackenburn.'

Do you hold yourself justified m the
encouragement of such an exalting of the
instrument ? ' demanded the lady of Barons-haugh.


I would rather have young people hero-worshippers
than not,' said the other,
granted they choose their hero wisely.'

The fear of man worketh a snare,
Marjorie.'

Pardon me, by hero-worship I only

mean that reverent admiration of the higher
than himself, which is what one of our
moralists calls the perfect human faculty inman.'


Perfect ! ' echoed Mrs Cassillis of Barons-haugh,
wilfully twisting the sense to suit her
own purpose, ' perfect human faculty ! I open
a certain old-fashioned book, Marjorie, and
there I read, " The heart is deceitful above
all things, and desperately wicked." ' Then
without suffering a reply, she went back to
finish the sum of Dr Brackenburn's transgressions.


They had lately in Laighbield parish
church a sermon  or what they name
sermon ; / name it otherwise  on gossiping
: they go to get the gospel, and they
get gossiping.'

They needed such a sermon, I'll be
bound,' cried Glen. ' Dare one hope anybody
laid it to heart ? '

1 That is what Dr Brackenburn is pleased
to call practical preaching,' proceeded this
would-be tuner of the national pulpit. What

I term it is a secularising of the sacred calling
a degrading of the preacher's office. But I
thoroughly fathomed the meaning of the said
discourse. Dr Brackenburn is aware how
his wife is spoken about, and his idea is,
to shut people's mouths by convincing his
hearers that gossip is sinful. Had he been
a man of genuine stuff, he would have
scorned the pitiful subterfuge. But if he
wants texts of that description, I can supply
a text to him ; even this : " So must their
wives be grave, not slanderers, sober, faithful
in all things"'

Mrs Cassillis of Argyll Gardens never
argued with her sister of Baronshaugh ; so
she let this interpretation pass unchallenged.
Glen spoke.

How about your own parson's wife ?' he
asked. ' She's all right, I suppose  up to
the mark in gravity  sober enough to
please ? '

She is an estimable person enough in her
own way, I have no doubt,' replied Aunt
Euphemia, speaking as if this were a sore

subject with her. 'Mr M'Spur, when a
student, got entangled with a girl in his
then position ; and afterwards, though he
might have done much better, very much
better, he married her.'

1 I fail to see how he could do better than
marry the woman he had engaged himself
to,' said Glen.

A clergyman's wife ought always to bea
gentlewoman.'

That is an interpolation ; it is not in the
original canon. My dear aunt, I am shocked
at such morality ; even I, latitudinarian as I
am, have stricter notions about the nature of
a promise than your creed, so ultra-orthodox,
seems to require.'

Most ridiculous, Glen ; the boy's promise
is often wisely broken by the man.'

Hardly, I should think, when the breaking
of it may be breaking a heart as well.'

Sentimental refinement of their order Aunt
Euphemia did not understand ; and she demanded
with cold scorn, if Glen himself
would be prepared to throw distinctions of

class to the four winds, and marry some
village maid.

Yes ; if I had pledged my word to it,'
he answered, laughing ; ' and though you
might refuse to acknowledge the bride, my
mother would be gracious to her, I think.'

With that Captain Cassillis withdrew, and
went to spend the evening at his club ; he
could never manage more than half-an-hour
at a measure of Aunt Euphemia. Mrs Cas-willis
of Baronshaugh thought it a bad sign
in a young man, that he could not sit quietly
with his female relatives at home ; so she
shook her head after the retreating form.

I fear, Marjorie,' she said, ' that your son
has not been improved by a military life ;
and I know he imbibed reckless, unsettled
notions while he lived about the Continent.
Germany is a very hotbed of Socialism and
its accompaniments. As to the universities,
they are rationalistic to the core ; no student
who enters them escapes the taint. There
is that young man they have got in Auch-
terbrechan now, for example. He, not content

with the ordinary curriculum, must, in
his pride of intellect, have a course of German
theology, forsooth ! So to Germany he
went. Well ; what is the consequence ?
Simply this : his laxity of doctrine is such,
that had he belonged to the Free Church,
he would have been arraigned before our
higher court, and effectually silenced. Butin
the State Church, where such as he fitly
take shelter, heresy may come in like a flood,
yet none seeks to stem the torrent. I am
told that the said individual has the presumption
to treat the inspired narratives as
if they were mere ordinary human composition,
calling the story of Isaac and Rebecca
a quaint pastoral, if you please ! and denying
that Solomon was the author of Ecclesiastes,
and more of such profanity than I
can bring myself even to repeat. By the
way, Miss Elvester, you must know the man
I mean. I suppose you have heard that
he is a fortune-hunter like the rest of his
class. No ? Well, now I tell you of it.
He is engaged to the niece and presumptive

heiress of Greatfellow, the rich bonnet manufacturer.
I hope the match may not yet
be rued by all the parties concerned,' added
Aunt Euphemia  with ' but I know it will
be,' understood.

VEXATIOUS !

Oh, why should fate sic pleasure have

Life's dearest bands untwining ?
Or why sae sweet a flower as love

Depend on Fortune's shining?

:HE bazaar for which Christian had
i worked as Moncrieff's proxy was
opened with demonstration, and
carried on with energy ; and those engaged
in the gay fancy fair had all the satisfaction
of at the same time enjoying themselves and
advancing a good cause. It must be confessed
that the former consideration only
had any weight with Moncrieff. It was a
pleasant thought, that of figuring among a
garden of girls, herself conspicuously the

belle. And for a very little while the actual
fact was rather pleasant too. But as anybody
who knew Miss Urquhart might have
expected, the edge of the enjoyment soon
wore off. The sale was to last five days :
by the end of the first the pleasure had
begun to pall ; by the end of the second
Moncrieff had thrown the business up. The
heat and confinement had been ' too disgustingly
tiresome ' to her. Worse even than
that, her colleagues had behaved in the most
atrocious manner ; had actually objected to
her general method of procedure. For it
had not commended itself to them that Miss
Urquhart should systematically attend to
gentlemen customers only, and leave lady
customers to chance ; or that she should
carry matters as though there was nobody
so much as to be thought of except herself:
her characteristic ignoring of all claims but
her own did not amuse these young ladies,
as it sometimes amused Christian. They
were, with one exception, justly indignant,
and made no scruple of letting Moncrieff

see that they were so. This exception was
the fancy-pattern loving Miss Kirkpatrick ;
and she, whatever her secret thoughts might
be, spoke only words as smooth as butter to
Miss Urquhart. The other stall-holders
believed that they had the key to this ; and
they smiled among themselves when Miss
Kirkpatrick entreated Miss Urquhart not to
forsake the flowers  for it was the flower-stall
at which these young ladies officiated  they
would wither and die if she did. But Moncrieff
was not to be won back by this pathetic remonstrance
; she washed her hands of the whole
affair, and drove off in a pet to Argyll Gardens.

They had told her that if she did persist
in leaving them, she must find a substitute 
so she at once got hold of Christian, and
unfolded all her woes.

Of course, Miss Elvester,' she concluded,
you will be the substitute.'

I don't see that it is of course at all,' was
the reply. ' My sisters expect me at Lichfield
this week ; besides, I shouldn't know
how to be a salesman.'



Of the first objection Moncrieff took not
the slightest notice. The expectations of
Miss Elvester's sisters could be disappointed,
and no harm done. One week was as good
as another for Laighbield.

You'll have no trouble she answered ;
you needn't give any change back. And
you can ask what price you like for the
flowers. Cousin Glen offered me ten guineas
for a rose that I wore in my dress ; but he
wouldn't have given any one else so much,
of course.'

I suppose not.'

You can have some cigars by you,' proceeded
Moncrieff; ' men will pay anything
you choose, if you've bitten off the ends. I
wouldn't do such a sickening thing myself;
but you can, if you care.'

I don't think I shall care.'

Oh ! I daresay you will, if you can get
enough money. But I wish I had never
gone to these bazaars ; I wish there was no
such thing as a bazaar ; as Dugald says, you
get mingled up with such offensive people.

Now, Miss Elvester, hasrit it been vexatious
to me ? '

Vexatious to her as it had been,  a vexation
of a much more serious character followed
close in its wake. Christian agreed, out of
pure good nature, to be the substitute ; so
that was settled. But Moncrieff could not
be at ease till she had told the whole story to
everybody whom she came near, and asked
them separately and individually if they did
not think it had been vexatious to her.

When Glen, in his turn, was appealed to,
he did not show quite so much sympathy as
might have been looked for.

If it has been so vexatious to you, what
is it to be to Miss Elvester ? ' he would like
to know.

Willie Ruthven, playing about the room,
ran forward when this was asked.

My Miss Elvester has gone to keep a
bazaar,' he said, full of the subject. ' And
grand mamma has gone with her too. And
I'm to be allowed to stay here for a while
beside cousin Moncrieff,  I am.'

4 Well, see that you don't make yourself
troublesome, that's all said Glen. ' Cousin
Moncrieff won't stand any nonsense, I can
tell you.'

Something caught Willie's attention,  the
child gazed at the man with round innocent
eyes for a moment, then he asked,

Is the flower you've got in your coat the one
you gave cousin Moncrieff ten guineas for ? '

His uncle stared at him.

Cousin Moncrieff said that you asked her
to give you her flower from her neck for ten
guineas, Uncle Glen.'

Moncrieff, with unwonted energy, sprang
up, and herself rang for the nurse.

1 I was doing a long, long sum on my new
slate,' pursued Willie ; ' and it was then that
cousin Moncrieff came in. And I've eot a

o

whole guinea of my own, and ten fingers, so
that is how I could keep so good mind about
the ten guineas. And do you know what they
do at bazaars too, Uncle Glen ? they have
cigars  cousin Moncrieff took a box of cigars
from your room, nurse says so, and  '

Here fate in the form of 'nurse' seized
upon Willie, and he was borne off struggling,
and declaring that he would tell his Miss
Elvester as soon as she came home ; he
would  he would  he would.

That horrid little thing is quite idiotic,'
observed Moncrieff, peace having once more
settled down ; ' you can't believe a word he
says  so sinful ? What is the use of Miss
Elvester, if she can't teach him anything but
story-telling ?'

1 The use of Miss Elvester,' rejoined Glen,
satirically, ' is to go on with work that Miss
Urquhart has undertaken, and got tired of.'

Indeed, she was only too glad to have an
excuse given her for staying on here, as
long 2 you remain in Netherlaw : of course
she was, cousin Glen.'

1 For heaven's sake, Moncrieff, don't get
into the way of saying such things. You
can't know how they sound.'

1 Oh, well, you can scold Dugald, for it
was he who put it into my head. He
says  '

1 1 won't hear what he says, not one word
of it, Moncrieff; but if it was anything of
that sort, he never in his life talked more
absolute nonsense. But what about that
ten-guinea offer of mine, that Willie tells
us of? When did I offer you ten guineas
for a flower ? '

1 You would have done it, if you had
thought, cousin Glen.'

But as I didn't think, why did you say I
did do it ? '

I'm sure it's anything but nice to show
yourself so inquisitive ; indeed, it is quite old-maids
to be so prying and sly and curious.'

Old-maidish let it be ; but answer my
question, please.'

I quite detest to be questioned. It's
very unkind of you. But if you must
know, I said it just to keep up your credit.'

How very considerate of you ! '

1 How very quarrelsome you have grown,
cousin Glen. And men who are nice
always do those things at bazaars.'

More's the pity, I think.'

VOL. I. Q

'It is all for the poor,' said charitable
MoncriefT ; so I don't think you need grudge
it so much. And at any rate, you dicit
give it ; you didn't even buy a pair of gloves
or a flask of scent.'

I am a mean beggar ; but it can't be
helped.'

It was a horrible bazaar, of course ; still,
there were quantities of very useful things 
the sweetest fans and hair ornaments and
girdles. I daresay you couldn't afford it,
cousin Glen. But you could have borrowed
money, couldn't you ? '

From Dugald, for instance.'

 No ; Dugald is parsimonious ; he never
lends. But there are money-lending offices,
aren't there  Three Golden Balls, or Bells,
or something. At any rate, you might have
bought something, so that you oughtn't have
been called penurious.'

Penurious, did you say ? Well, it was
chill penury that repressed my natural desire
to stand high in your opinion and froze the
genial current of my soul. Yet, I did buy

a trifle or two which I hope you will deign to
wear for my sake.'

The attention was accepted quite as a
matter of course, with a cool. 

Thanks so much, cousin Glen

Moncrieff then went back to the borrowing
idea.

Why, if you are hard up, don't you raise
money on your prospects ? ' she inquired.
You will be so outrageously rich, you know,
when your old bachelor uncle dies.'

1 I have no bachelor uncle,' replied Glen.
I have learnt to-day that my uncle contracted
a private marriage years ago with
a woman in a different station of life, and
that he has now acknowledged his wife and
family. Quite right of him, too ; only, there
is an end to my prospects.'

Moncrieff was confounded ; she had always
looked upon Glen as the undoubted heir to
untold wealth.

1 Oh, wasn't it low of him ! ' she ejaculated.
And he nearly two hundred, the disagreeable
old mummy ! '

4 He wasn't more than one hundred when
he married,' said Glen ; ' and my mother's
brother is a far finer-looking man than I am ;
he cannot exactly be called a mummy.'

1 I wish old men weren't allowed to marry,'
cried Moncrieff. ' It puts one out so. There
is a farce called " The Wicked World," but
it isn't a farce, it is true, when old men
are allowed to marry. Aren't you very
furious, cousin Glen ? '

Don't I look furious ? But never mind.
I haven't lost all that makes life beautiful ;
I have still my cousin Moncrieff.'

And so Glen turned off the thing with a
jest. Nobody ever heard him adopt any
other tone. If he did take the disappointment
to heart, he certainly managed to cover
his chagrin most effectually.

It was Moncrieff who harped on the pity
of it, and wished that private marriages did
not count ; and made out her cousin's uncle
to be a hoary monster of iniquity. Yet, let
it not be supposed that Moncrieff was for
once making an attempt to forget self, and

bear another's burden. As a matter of fact,
nothing was farther from her mind. Among
the multitude of her admirers  or supposed
admirers, for on this subject the beauty
imagined a good deal  there was not one
whom she liked so well as Glen Cassillis.
It would be a mistake to say that she was
in love with him ; Moncrieff was incapable
of a passion ; yet she came as near to loving
Glen as it was possible for her to come.
She had always intended to share Glen's
fortune. Nothing had been spoken between
them about marriage, it is true, nor did she
desire that there should be any verbal
agreement about the matter just yet. Once
engaged to Glen, he would insist upon retaining
all one's favours to himself; and
how particularly poky one would have to be.
So, freedom from the present, and flirtation
to one's heart's content ; then, at the proper
time, Glen would speak out,  Moncrieff had
not a doubt of it,  and everything would
come round exactly as one had planned.
And now to be suddenly informed that there

would never be any fortune for Glen at all.
How cruelly disappointing ! This was a
vexation before which every other paled.
Yes ; it was a wicked world in which such
misdemeanours as private marriages could
be permitted  a wicked world, indeed.

Of course a marriage with Glen was now
out of the question. Trying as it was to
abandon that hope, it must be done. Glen
was deposed accordingly, and Quentin setup
in his stead.

Quentin's readiness to marry her was,
Moncrieff believed, quite equal to Glen's ;
and Quentin seemed, on the whole, more
eligible than any of the other men who were
dying for her ; his social standing was unexceptionable,
and his estate brought him
many thousands a-year. The one drawback
 Aunt Euphemia  could be got over,
by being disposed of in the distant dower-house,
and never invited to Baronshaugh at
all to worry one. (If Aunt Euphemia
could have divined the imaginations of Mon-cries's
heart !)

In the meantime, Glen must know nothing
of this to make him unkind and sulky. No
more presents from him, if he should discover
how he had been forsaken. And that
would be a loss ; for Glen was not really
stingy, though one might call him so, just to
tease him a little. Poor cousin Glen ! one
could not marry him, as bad fortune would
have it ; no, but one must as long as possible
keep on good terms with him.

So during the remainder of Glen's stay at
Netherlaw, MoncriefPs manner to him was
more affectionate than it had ever been
before.

CHAPTER I.

THE BRAE,

sage

I

CHAPTER II.

SIBYLLINE,



CHAPTER III,

A ROUND OF UNFASHIONABLE CALLS,

CHAPTER IV.

IN ' THE BARONSHAUGH Left,'

CHAPTER V.

MRS Brandenburg's TRIBULATIONS,

CHAPTER VI.

LITERARY CRITICISMS, .

CHAPTER VII.

THE CONTRARIETY OF THINGS,



6l







CHAPTER VIII.

PAGE

A HEROINE IN SPITE OF HERSELF, . . 1 32

CHAPTER IX.

WHY CHRISTIAN COULD NOT STAY LONGER IN

Netherland, . . . . . I42

CHAPTER X.

APRIL FOOLS, . . . . . .172

CHAPTER XI.

PROPOSING, . . . . . .189

CHAPTER XII.

DISPOSING, 205

CHAPTER XIII.

CHIT-CHAT, . . . . . .225

CHAPTER XIV.

DISUNITED, 239

CHAPTER XV.

BRIDEGROOMLESS, . . . . .262

CHAPTER XVI.

FRIENDS, . . . . . . 26S

CHAPTER I.

THE BRAE.

% Near some fair town I'd have a private seat,
Built uniform  not little, nor too great ;
Better if on a rising ground it stood 
On this side fields, on that a neighbouring wood.

A little garden, grateful to the eye,
And a cool rivulet run murmuring by ;
On whose delicious banks a stately row
Of shady limes or sycamores should grow.'

AN is born to trouble, as the
sparks fly upwards.' If there
is not this to come between him
and perfect peace, then there will be that.

VOL. II. A

When Miss Elvester got to know exactly
how she stood, she was relieved to find that
she should be able to make ends meet  and
even tie  with much less straining of them
than she had at first supposed would be
necessary. No sooner, however, were her
housekeeping anxieties so far allayed, than
care of a different kind sprang up to disturb
her.

A change had passed over Ursula. No
more repining were heard, nor high words
about family and claims of birth  nothing was
thought of but stern duty now-a-days. And
duty, as Ursula conceived of it, was the doing
of whatever one most particularly disliked todo
; for according to this, her new theory of
the universe, a schooling of herself to suffering
was the chief thing here required of man.
So it had come about that the very young
person who, a few months ago, would have
maintained that no lady ought ever to undertake
any kind of work which could sully the
delicate whiteness of her fingers, was ready
now, should nobody interfere, to roughen

her pretty hands beyond all recognition by
assisting Mysie in the coarsest household
drudgery.

But, as it happened, there was somebody
to interfere : though Ursula had taken this
surprising leap from one extreme to its opposite,
Miss Elvester kept the balance midway,
as she had always done ; so she told
her girl that, while it was proper to engage
to a certain extent in practical domestic
economy, the idea carried to the proposed
length would be a piece of the most fantastic
absurdity, and, in short, need never be mentioned
at The Brae.

Ursula, of course, felt that she was very
cruelly misunderstood ; but just in time she
remembered that here, too, in submission to
a well-intentioned if mistaken elder sister's
notions of propriety, lay the path of duty 
the opportunity for self-negation. But occupation
of some salutary nature she must
have ; so she busied herself with plain sewing,
which she did not love  studied ' Bishop
Butler's Sermons,' which she could not comprehend

; also ' Rank's History of the
Popes which she took no human interest
in ; attended a weekly drawing-room prayer-meeting
at Baronshaugh, which the more she
tried to profit by, so much the more she
loathed. And all this in addition to her
primary business, the instructing of Ulrica.
If she had been a Romanist she would have
entered a convent ; if an Anglican, she would
have joined a sisterhood. But Presbyterianism
will have no such cutting of the difficult
knot by troubled souls within her fold. She
will have them remain in their providentially-appointed
places, quietly doing their work
there, and waiting, watching, praying, till
the light comes.

In the end of January Christian paid a
visit to her sisters ; and Christian was pleased
with the new house quite up to the expectation
of Ulrica, who acted as show-woman.
The dining-room was so cosy ; the drawing-room,
containing whatever things of beauty
had been saved from the wreck, was
exactly what the drawing-room of such a

toy house ought to be. As for the little
bedchamber upstairs, how could Jenny,
with the scanty means at her command,
have succeeded in making such daintily
pretty places of them ? Then the garden 
it was not a conventional garden in the
least, but possessed an individuality of its
own, quaint and refreshing. Just now, to be
sure, it was little more than a framework for
future foliage ; but in due season what verdant
bushiness there would be  what bursting
into blossom  what a glow of fruit and
bloom !

Entering through a screen of lilacs, you
went up and on (for the ascent did not stop
with the house), till both brae and garden
terminated in a plantation of birches, poplars,
and laburnums. The rustic bower placed
here was a famous observatory. Perched so
high, you saw Laighbield far down in the
hollow to the left, with the river winding
between it and you ; on the other hand, you
had a fir-topped hill, a brambly thicket, and
a runaway burn ; while before you spread

out fields and fields, specked with white
farm-steady here and there ; and yonder in
the distance, rimming the horizon with silver,
glimmered the sea-line of the Auchterbrechan
coast.

So this is the state called poverty ? ' said
Christian on the evening of her home-coming,
placing herself, as of old, close to Miss
Elvester's side, that she might stroke the
hair or pinch the ear of that lady, or take
any other sisterly liberty that might occur
to her. ' If I had not been told I should
not have guessed it.'

1 Poverty has several circles,' it was
answered ; ' ours is the outer one, where
the flowers still blow, though with a subdued
colour and diminished fragrance.'

1 But oh, what a change from Eastravoe ! '
said Ursula sadly.  We Shetlanders have
the mal du pays as badly as the Swiss ; and
one sometimes grows sick with longing for  '
She suddenly checked herself, and instead of
finishing as she had intended, added,  ' But
we have no right to complain.'

Nobody but herself was showing any disposition
to complain. It is noticeable, though,
that whenever people prone to grumble feel
the folly of it, they kindly include the rest of
the company in their own condemnation,
saying,  ' We should study contentment ; '
1 we ought not to repine ; ' ' it would become
us to be thankful for so many mercies.'

1 The Brae is quite different in every way
from Eastravoe,' said Ulrica. ' Ursula and
I make ourselves very useful now. Mysie is
a good, strong servant ; but one person can't
do everything in an establishment like ours.
She thinks she could, but we won't let her,
because we are quite certain she would undermine
her constitution.'

 Christian will please observe that " we "
are as wise as ever, and as fond of sounding
words,' said Miss Elvester.

You will be happy to know that my
friend, Mrs Smillie, has been a good deal
impressed by you,' Christian informed Ulm
 She calls you " The little girlie that
speaks like the dictionary." '

Ursula and I don't take much account
of Mrs Smillie,' replied Ulrica ; ' she is quite
an ignorant person.'

So are we ourselves,  hopelessly ignorant
said Ursula.

And Christian looked at her to see if she
were in jest ; but no ; the beautiful, proud
face was only too serious to-night.

1 Mrs Smillie is not ladylike,' insisted
Ulrica.

Mrs Smillie is good, and that is better
than being ladylike,' said Christian.

One might be both,' observed Ulrica.

One might, of course. Mrs Smillie
hasn't forgotten Slyboots, Ulrica. Only
last week she made the kindest inquiries
about him.'

Did she, indeed ? Well, Slyboots is in
robust health physically ; but morally he is a
waste ; for, oh, Christian, though I have taken
every care with him, and have tried and tried
to bring him up well, he is really a depraved
cat at the core. There was a darling little
robin which used to come to our back windows

for crumbs. It got so tame that it would
hop on to my hand and look up at me with
its cunning little head to one side, so saucily.
But you will never see that bird, Christian.
One morning wicked Slyboots killed and ate
him. I hated Slyboots for many hours after,
till I began to think it might have been
jealousy that drove him to do such a dreadful
thing. He might have been afraid of my
liking the robin more than I liked him.'

But if he were only jealous, he needn't
have eaten your robin,' suggested Christian.

No, indeed, he needn't ; I did not think
of that. He is low-minded in another way,
too,' she went on pathetically. * He steals
everything he can. Jenny says it is an hereditary
vice ; so, perhaps, that is some excuse.
I try not to love him, because it can't be
right to love a thief when you know he is
a thief, and won't repent. But then he is
such a beauty ; and I am sure, besides, he
is a cat with a fine intellect. Jenny says we
have no business to overlook crime because
of beauty and intellect ; but I can't help

forgiving Slyboots. Have you any pets,
Christian ?'

' Willie Ruthven is a great pet,' said
Christian.

I wonder how you can live in hateful
Netherlaw!' cried Ulrica, rather apart from
the point, as it seemed.

Netherlaw is not so hateful,  not when
you get used to it'

Not so hateful ! Netherlaw ! Do you
hear her, Jenny ?'

1 To tell the truth, it's chiefly you that I
hear,' replied Miss Elvester.

Chapel Street and Argyll Gardens are
very different places,' explained Christian.

Ours is such a pleasant house, too ; and
I don't believe any one of you could live
with Mrs Cassillis and still hate Netherlaw.'

It did not please Ulrica that ' our' should
be used in such a connection ; so she rather
spitefully rejoined, 

How can you be so fond of everybody ?
People who like everybody can't like anybody
very, very much. And, I daresay, he

isn't at all a nice-little child that Willie, if
only one knew him all round.'

1 Oh, but he is though ; very much better
worth loving than your artful Slyboots.' .

We will rather converse about the people
who interest you so much than about Sly-boots.
I suppose you are fond of Mrs
Cassillis of Baronshaugh too?'

Not very.'

1 I'm glad to hear it ; neither am I, neither
is Jenny ; and oh, I was so disappointed in
the lad.'

In Quentin Cassillis? What business is
he of yours ? '

Look at my head, and you may easily
know what business he is of mine. I have
a large organ of benevolence, so that I can't
help interesting myself in people. I had
such hopes about Mr Cassillis (Mr Cassillis
and you) till I saw him ; then I gave them
up. Every time we meet he says the very
same thing,  " Do you think you are going
to like Laighbield ? I hope you are, you
know." And now he has got to add, 

And is the Baronshaugh Gallery comfortable
? I must come some Sabbath day
and see you in it, you know." But
he won't come,  his mamma won't let
him.'

Christian wanted to know how her sisters
had got into the Baronshaugh Gallery at
all.

1 I pay a rent, which the laird's mother
hands over to her church's sustentation fund,'
said Miss Elvester. ' There is a 
sort of ring about the transaction
which gives joy to her.'

1 People here hate the laird's mother,'
began Ulrica ; ' they say  '

1 Don't, dear,' interposed Ursula. ' People
here say very dreadful things ; but we need
not put ourselves on a level with them, by
repeating their idle stories.'

It must be owned,' said Miss Elvester,
that the Laighbieldites have not, as a rule,
any notion of proper respect for the powers
that be. They are the sons and grandsons
of men who, in the days of Chartism, had

to fly the country for sedition ; and even at
the present time, search all Scotland over,
and you will not find a more radical little
rookery than this same Laighbield.'

Oh, they are impertinent ! ' exclaimed
Ulrica. ' Think of this, Christian (it isn't
an idle story, Ursula, but something I
heard with my own very ears), Jenny and
I went one day to be shown through
Langbiggin's bonnet factory, and when
Jenny asked at the gate for Mr ,
the old foreman went to the office
door and called out, "Hey, Davy! here's
folk wanting you." '

Christian smiled.

I have heard a variety of stories of that
kind about Laighbield,' she said.

1 And who has told them to you ? '

1 Why ?  have you the copyright ? '

No ; but now I shall find out who talks
to you, and what they talk about. Does
Captain Cassillis tell you those stories,
Christian ? '

Some of them, I daresay.'

1 Describe Captain Cassillis ; you've never
mentioned him yet. Is he a beautiful man ?'

No, indeed ; not at all beautiful.'

Has he a handsome figure, then ? '

1 Well, yes ; I suppose he has.'

Tell us  won't you ?  tell us all about
him.'

I can't, knowing so little myself.'

1 And yet you've been living in the same
house all these weeks ? '

< I suppose I'm not like you, dear. I
haven't a large organ of benevolence.
Besides, I had nothing to do with Captain
Cassillis, and I had my own affairs to
attend to.'

Christian is not a guest at Argyll Gardens,
but a governess,' said Ursula.

Ulrica also was aware of this, but she
felt convinced that governess as well as
guest must have an opinion about all the
inmates of a house. And what sense was
there in holding the opinion back ?

1 Do you like Captain Cassillis as much
as you like your Willie ? ' she asked.

Christian unaccountably reddened ; Ursula
looked shocked ; both exclaimed in a
breath, 

1 Ulrica!'

And Miss Elvester said, 

1 That organ which you miscall benevolence
leads you astray sometimes. You
don't seem to know where exactly laudable
interest ends and impertinent curiosity begins.
But let me take the liberty of assuring
you, my dear, that our curiosity is far
more annoying to others than our interest
is flattering.'

Snubbed on all hands, Ulrica subsided
into silence, and sat ruminating through
the rest of the evening upon the puzzle.
What could there be about Captain Cas-willis
which made Christian object even to
mention his name ?

CHAPTER II.

SIBYLLINE.

1 Then sit ye toon, my bonnie doo,

And in this palm o' mine,
Crossed wi' a silver piece, ye'll lay
That gentle hand o' thine.'

of the

Laighbield houses

ANY

had been built in the time of
the window-tax, when economical
proprietors saved money by stinting themselves
of sunlight. The Brae, however,
was none of these ; it, fortunately, w r as
I blessed with plenty of windows. The 
had three  one looking down the
lane by which the house was approached,
the other two across the little clover park,
which bounded The Brae on its Laighbield

side to the lime-tree road, the river, the
meadow, and the meal-mill.

Just now the river was frozen, and the
landscape encrusted with snow  the finest
snow, like the sugar-coating of a bridecake
which sparkled but did not melt under
the rays of a sun that might be gazed at by
other than eagle's eyes unthinkingly.

On the day following her arrival, Christian
stood looking out upon this winter scene.
She saw a visitor draw near. The lady
walked remarkably well, and carried herself
with a wonderful degree of dignity for a
person of her inches. There could be but
one such in a parish, and Christian turned
to the only other occupant of the room to
ask, 

Whom have we here, Jenny ? Isn't it
Mrs Brackenburn ? '

Miss Elvester raised her head from her
lace-mending, threw a glance outside, and
answered that it was.

I can now understand the feelings of
Mrs Cassillis of Baronshaugh,' said Chris-vol.

II. B

tian. ' Her idea is that ministers' wives
ought to wear things that don't fit, and
bonnets four years out of fashion ; but this
one has velvets and sables, and a saucy
little plumed hat, and the look of a person
who only patronises the most fashionable
artists in dress.'

While speaking she heard the door of the
adjoining room  where Ulrica's studies were
in progress  being opened, and then saw
Ursula go down to the gate and meet Mrs
Brackenburn under the rowan-trees.

1 They are fast friends,' said Miss Elvester,
in reply to the look which so unusual a proceeding
on her sister's part evoked from
Christian. ' Day and night are hardly less
alike than these two are. Their mutual
attraction is only to be accounted for by the
rule of contrasts.'

And, entering together, a contrast they
certainly were  she whose beauty everybody
admitted at first glance, and whose exceeding
fairness was made all the fairer by the deep
blackness of her eyebrows, lashes, and hair ;

and she whom almost everybody directly set
down as plain, and as to whose complexion
enemies constantly asserted that it and her
hair were exactly of a shade. But even
about the appearance of Mrs Brackenburn
there could be difference of opinion it seemed,
for Christian thought that such a pair of eyes
would go far to redeem a less attractive face,
and that surely many a prettier woman would
willingly (if exchanges of the kind were possible)
part with some of her charms if in
return she could obtain so abundant and so
beautifully-tinted tresses.

Mrs Brackenburn had come, she said, to
take possession of Ursula for the day. There
was some visiting to be done in the parish ;
Ursula's company would be hailed 'with
great acceptance ; ' would Ursula come ?

1 Why, I thought you had resolved to visit
the poor of the parish no more for ever,'
remarked Miss Elvester.

Mrs Brackenburn laughed, then sighed,
then laughed again.

1 So I did,' she said. ' But what's the use

of resolving to give anything up if, at the
same time, your husband is resolving that
you shall carry it on ? Dr Brackenburn
compels me to continue my visiting, Miss
Elvester.'

Persuades, I should think, you mean
Persuades or compels, it is the same in
effect to me. If he were to bluster, and say,
You must and shall do this thing ?" I would
just reply, " I won't," and so end. But he
doesn't do that. Oh no ; he puts it in this
way, "Do you think it can be right to live
for yourself alone ; doing only what you like
what is easy and pleasant to you ? This
is an exceptionally severe winter, and inconsequence
there is more than the usual
suffering among our poor. Have these
people no claims upon you ? You send food
and clothing  that is well ; but personal
effort is wanted too. Will you not go to
these sufferers  feel with them, try to understand
them ? Surely I shall not plead with
you in vain ? " That is how my husband
lectures me. It is really affecting, you know ;

and I feel how right he is and how wrong I
am, and how good I am going to be. This
morning I had a homily  I've given you an
outline of it  and it moved me so that I
was obliged to take instant action ; therefore
you see me here. Will you come, Ursula ?
Don't you think that what is so proper forme
must also be proper for you ? '

You are the minister's wife, I am nobody ;
besides, I ought to be busy at home,' said
Ursula.

Ah, my princess, you don't think you are
nobody  not you ! And busy at home ;
with books do you mean ? '

I believe I have need to be busy with
books.'

You won't take warning ; you will be as
blue as Mrs Inverarity of " The Ten Lost
Tribes " celebrity.'

'Ohio; but if I had a tenth part of Mrs
Inverarity's knowledge how happy I should
be.'

'And how sorry I! One Mrs Inverarity
is enough for my powers of endurance. Yon

is a human creature without the shadowed
notion of what fun is. If you talk nonsense,
you must always be sure to tell her, " This
is a joke'' upon which she will look over
her spectacles at you, in a curious, pitying
way, and you know she is reflecting that
The laughter of fools is like the crackling
of thorns beneath the pot." '

I don't think that I either understand a
joke very well.'

Candidly speaking, I don't think you do.
But, Ursula, if you must be a Mrs Inverarity,
in mercy spare us some of the details  don't,
dort have your hair strained away from
your face, and knotted up so tightly, that
one's head will ache when one looks at it.'

Ursula assured Mrs Brackenburn that
there was no fear ; and then she went to finish
with Ulrica, for the morning's work must be
finished before she could feel free to accompany
her friend.

While she had to wait, Mrs Brackenburn
improved her acquaintance with Christian.
The mirthful greediness of her manner might

not be becoming a clergyman's wife  very
likely it was not  yet it was so genuinely
natural that one could hardly wish it changed ;
at least if that one were, as in the present
instance, a person whose liking Mrs Bracken-burn
thought it worth while to win.

I am afraid such was the tenor of her
discourse to Christian ' that we of Laighbield
may be apt to blind you by our brilliancy.
Let me prepare you a little. We are not a
desperately literary people ; we don't burden
our memory with who wrote what, but have
a sort of general impression that " John
Halifax, Gentleman," is by the author of
Lady Audley's Secret," and " Guy Livingstone
" by Thackeray ; and if a few of us
should sometime hear of " The Earthly
Paradise," we shall be divided in opinion
between Dante and Milton. And we are
mildly musical : we play drawing-room morceaux,
and sing what Pttnch calls " Love-songs
for Lunatics," and are happy. But
oh, as talkers ! it is there that we excel.
Words can't describe how entertaining weare,

or give any adequate idea of our chronologies,
genealogies, repetitions, and extraneous
details. We hunt a subject up and
down, and round and round and about 
such absorbingly interesting subjects, of
course. Where the laird went yesterday,
and with whom ; what private matter maybe
detaining Mrs Cassillis so long in Nether-law
; how many new bonnets Mrs Bracken-burn
(the odious little woman !) gets in a
season. And we are, every soul of us, fairly
and fully convinced that the cackle of our small
bourg is the echo of the world. Does the
picture please you, Miss Christian Elvester ?'

But isn't there another side to it, Mrs
Brackenburn ? '

1 There is. On it, you have Mrs Cassillis,
inquisitor-general ; Mrs Inverarity, learned
author; Mr Mungo Mauchline, local poet.'

Christian had heard of Mr Mungo Machine,
and, remembering Dugald Urquhart and
the ' Trysting Tree,' she inquired, 

What do you say when the poet asks you
to criticise his verses ? '

I tell him that if I were queen, he should
be laureate replied Mrs Brackenburn, laughing.
' Mr Mungo Mauchline has a bee in his
bonnet, as we say here. An odd character to
have in charge of our post-office, do you
think ? But Miss Elvester will tell you that,
outside of his one particular craze, the poet
does his work as well as many a saner man.
Now, I have showed you the reverse side ;
do you like it better than the other ? '

1 But you have left one figure out,' Miss
Elvester reminded her  ' that of Mrs Brandenburg,
composer of music'

Mrs Brackenburn coloured violently.

Have you heard of that ? ' she exclaimed.
Truly, men's evil manners live in brass.'

What ! you repent, do you ? '

1 I hardly know. My husband was excessively
annoyed ; and it may be, my penitence
is more for having made that good man blush
for me, than for having tried to extract some
grains of amusement out of the unspeakable
dreariness of a Braidmoss dinner-party.'

1 How exactly did you distinguish yourself?

Rumour credits you with a brilliant improvisation.
I heard him, in the shape of the
letter-carrier, telling my servant about it the
other day ; " and our minister's wife," he said
proudly, " has a voice would lure the laverock
frae the lift." '

I am obliged to him ; but he made a sad
mistake : brilliancy there was none.'

What was there if not brilliancy ?  but
may one ask the question without offence ? '

Quite without offence, Miss Elvester.
I think I am ashamed of myself  I really
think so ; and I will do penance by telling
you just how wicked I was. (Let me be a
beacon to you, Miss Christian Elvester !)
Well, then, we were at a dinner-party near
Braidmoss. In the long and tedious evening,
while the too, too well-known love-songs
for lunatics were running their usual course,
it was suddenly borne in on me that I would
out Herod Herod, and treat the ladies and
gentlemen to something more inane than they
had ever listened to yet. My turn having
come, I announced, " Wood - warbling : an

entirely new song, by an entirely new composer
; " and, amid solemn silence, chanted
four or five nonsense-jingles, like this : 

Hark ! in the thicket the blackbird sings,
Tira-la, tira-la, love me !
The thrush from the thorn her melody flings, 
Oh, the bonnie blue skies above me ! "

I found words as I went along, and the
tune took care of itself. I have no doubt
everybody thought it very satisfactory and
pretty  everybody but my husband and one
other, who saw through the merry fooling.
My husband took no notice then. Later
on he called me to account, and  but I drop
a curtain over that. The other acute one
privately informed the hostess that Mrs
Brackenburn had been making game of the
company, and a painful explanation ensued.
I felt myself a pariah for the rest of the
evening. The Rev. Daniel Carnegy, a very
dear friend of mine, looked at me speaking
every little while, and then at his bride, as if
to say to her, " You can see now  I told you
so ! " and when I chanced to sit down near

her, that sweet woman shuddered. Mr Carnegy,
anxious to preserve his treasure from
contact with pitch, instantly placed himself
between her and me ; then, as he must say
something, he complimented me upon my
voice. "You have had a precious talent
committed to your trust," he remarked.
Do you never think of putting your gift
to usury, so to say  turning it to account in
the sacred service of song ? Have you heard
the sweet female choir which that wonderful
trophy, the converted acrobat, has formed in
Netherlaw?" I believe it is good, I said;
but such work is not for me,  though I do
attempt sacred song of the kind that suits
me. Just now I should very much like to
sing,

Woe's me that I in Mescch am,

A sojourner so long,

That I in tabernacles dwell,

To Cedar that belong.

My soul with him that hateth peace,

Hath long a dweller been;

I am for peace, but when I speak,

For battle they are keen"

That made my disgrace complete. I should
not have said it, and I knew I should not ;
but sometimes when the fiend says " Speak ! "
I can not keep silence. Mrs Carnegy 
but no ; I'm not going to make any remarks
about Mrs Carnegy, except that she is stone-blindly
in love with her husband

Is not that only as it should be?' said
Miss Elvester.

Do you think so ? I imagine it is best to
have your eyes wide open to a man's faults
when you marry him. It must be such a
shock, don't you see, when the idol supposed
to be wholly gold (if blind, one doesn't even
guess about the brass and the iron) is found
to have feet of clay. Can't you imagine the
situation, Miss Elvester?'

Not a bit ; the thing lies so altogether out
of my province,' said Miss Elvester, smiling.

The first sight of the foot of clay ! It is
a subject for the painter. If I could paint
sufficiently well, I would attempt it. Is it out
of your province too?' and Mrs Bracken-burn
turned laughingly to Christian.

Yes was the answer ; ' for if there are no
real gold images to be had, I will go without,
I think, rather than have one of clay.'

1 Ah ! but we do many things, we women,
that as girls we little dream of. I used to be
quite determined never to marry, if it were
not a military hero, who should yearly lay
fresh laurels at my feet ; yet to-day you seeme
the wife of a sober country minister, who
sends me out, much against my will, to visit
the poor of his flock. And I had once a
friend whom no ordinary attention from a
husband was to satisfy  she was but to wish
for a thing, and he to fly to the utmost corner
of the earth, Ariel like, to fetch it. That girl
married a man who did not care one rush
either for her or her wishes. But she would
have flown to the world's end for him. Poor
thing ! she tried hard to win him ; only she
set about it in the wrong way, sighing, taking
no care of her appearance, haunting her husband's
footsteps incessantly, like a forlorn
ghost ; so, of course, it was less than no use.
That was how her dream of empire ended.'

1 One feels so very sorry for anybody like
that said Christian thoughtfully. * But what
would have been the right way? How should
you have acted in her place ? '

First of all, I would have dressed becomingly,
and so have made myself a something
pleasant to look at in the house, and then
I would have outdone my husband in indifference.
I would have been the brightest,
merriest woman in the world ; and if there
had been any other whom he would rather
have married when he married me, I would
have strained every fibre in me to the very
utmost to shine her down. All this might
not have succeeded, you know ; but the way
she went was certain failure.'

The words took a strange hold upon
Christian ; she could not tell why  not then,
but in aftertime they were to recur to her
with all the impressive force of a guiding
oracle.

My friend is dead,' continued Mrs
Brackenburn, 'and her husband is married
again. I hope it may be forgiven me that I

bear malice to the man. I should be sorry
to hear of his doing anything nice, or good,
or grand, because it would take away part of
the pleasure I have in detesting him. Miss
Elvester disapproves of malice, I see. She
thinks I use over-strong language, and likes
better the qualified fashion which our lords
have of abusing each other. K He does the
meanest tricks you ever heard of ; but oh,
he's no worse than his neighbours, when all's
said, or, he deserves hanging ; but after all,
he isn't such a bad fellow in the main." '

Before Miss Elvester could answer this,
Ulrica came hastily in, hardly able to acknowledge
the stranger's presence, so eager she
was to say, 

Do, Jenny, let me have a little money.
A spaewife is telling Mysie's fortune ; she
will tell mine too, if I cross her loos with
silver.'

1 Which you assuredly shall not do,' was
the unpropitious rejoinder.

But, indeed, she tells so true,' pleaded
Ulrica, hoping against hope ; ' she says

Mysie's heart is far at sea ; and so it is,
you know. And she says there are four
sisters in this house  one of them who only
lately came, and will soon go  isn't that
true too ? She says, besides, that before six
more moons shall have waxed and waned,
one of us will be a bride ; and if we will all
go to her, she will point out which it is to be.'

My dear child, I won't let either you or
Mysie listen to such folly,' said Miss Elvester,
rising. ' No, don't follow ; stay where you
are till I return. Excuse me, Mrs Bracken-burn,
I must run to the rescue of my too
credulous handmaiden.' And away she
went.

Jenny is so precipitate ! ' cried the much
aggrieved Ulrica. ' That spaewife said she
knew more, and could tell more than anybody
thought ; and I quite believe it.'

/ don't,' said Mrs Brackenburn. ' And
if I ever wanted to consult a prophetess, I
would choose one who looked impressive
and mysterious, not one wearing a tattered
Rob Roy shawl and horrible coal-scuttle
vol. 11. c

bonnet, and talking of crossing her loos.
But come, Ulrica ' (taking the child's hands
and drawing her near), ' I will tell your
fortune  a quite true fortune  shall I ? '

But can you ? ' said Ulrica sceptically.

At least as well as the sibyl whom I saw
on her way up a few minutes ago, and in
whom you trust. I predict that you shall bean
authoress ; that you shall have all the
success you deserve ; that you shall earn
a thousand a-year (more or less.'

While Ulrica was turning about in her
mind this somewhat doubtful deliverance,
Christian jestingly desired that she also
might have her fate read.

Let me study your face, then,' said Mrs
Brackenburn. ' Turn to the window  so.
Yes ; that will do. Now, look me straight
in the eyes. You must have a golden image,
or you will have none, do you tell us, Miss
Christian Elvester ? Well ; hear me  and
believe or not, as you like. Before six more
moons have waxed and waned, we'll say,
you shall be a bride, and there will be quite

as much clay as gold in the object of your
idolatry ; also you shall have cause, it is
feared, to sing to yourself, ruefully,  u Oh,
I wish I didn't love him, or that he'd love
me ! " I have spoken

Could you have given me nothing better
than that,' said Christian. 'But it will not
come to pass, neither within six moons nor
ever, I am sure, sure that it will not.'

And it did seem a thing impossible, that
she should ever be the bride of a man who
had given her his name for any other reason
than true love of her.

'Are you indeed sure, sure that it will
not,' mimicked Mrs Brackenburn, mischievously
smiling. ' Time will tell. But
here comes my princess Ursula ; so, as the
dear old-fashioned story books have it, let
us not anticipate.'

-m,

A ROUND OF UNFASHIONABLE CALLS.

1 Let not ambition mock their useful toil,
Their homely joys, and destiny obscure ;

Nor grandeur hear with a disdainful smile
The short and simple annals of the poor.'

T was Laighbield ' meal-hour ' when
Mrs Brackenburn and Ursula left
The Brae. A number of girls were
sliding on road and river, and roughing it
after a fashion peculiar to themselves. One
of a group under the lime-trees had the grace
to call to her comrades to make way for the
ladies.

Hare ye nae bashfulness in ye ava, lassies ?
she inquired ; to which one of the lassies
right merrily rejoined, 

Bashfulness ne'er cam' to or yet but ance,
Tibbie, an' that time we serena in

How can they be so boisterous ! ' exclaimed
Ursula, when at a safe distance from
the noisy crew. ' Will not anybody teach
them better ? '

Anybody may, who feels equal to it
said Mrs Brackenburn. - Have you a mind
that way ? It would be a boon to the community,
if you would undertake the manners
of the maidens of Laighbield.'

'I/. 9 and Ursula shuddered. * No, no,
indeed ; not I ! for it is one thing to say
that this or the other should be done, quite a
different thing to go and do it.'

Across the bridge, in front of a weaver's
shop, a knot of men had gathered, in animated
discussion. So much waving of arms
and such a strife of tongues would have leda
stranger to imagine that some fierce quarrel
was being waged. Not so, however; this
was merely the Laighbield parliament, which
assembled daily to criticise Her Majesty's
Government, and settle what ought to bethe

policy, home and foreign, of the
Cabinet.

1 These are they who bother candidates at
election times,' remarked Mrs Brackenburn,
as she and Ursula approached. ' Hark ! the
foremost speaker is blowing a blast against
the State Church, and none the less loudly
that he has caught sight of me. Oh, I like
that'

We do not seek to deny the orator was
saying, ' that good men are to be found in its
ministry ; good men may be found even in
the Papacy itself. But what we do and will
maintain, uphold, and assert is, that as a Kirk,
the Establishment is a dried, withered, sapless,
business, degenerate institution, with
the form of godliness, but denying the power
thereof. But the day is now come when
Scotland must be delivered from the religion
and the gospel of Erastianism ; when it must
be said, " Away with your fiddling ministers,
drinking elders, and dancing Sabbath-school
teachers ! Down with the iniquity of having
national funds appropriated by a faithless,

sycophant sect ! Out of the land of the Covenant
with liturgies, and read homilies, and
springs of the flumgummeries of Rome !  "

Ursula, Ursula! why do you hurry on?'
said Mrs Brackenburn, laughing. ' Isn't it
always well to hear both sides of a question?
And I wanted to know what would come of
that grand climax, but your impatience has
disappointed me.'

But to linger in such a vicinity longer than
could be avoided, was one of the last things
Ursula would have thought of. This phase
of the workingmen was new to her ; and his
assertion of himself, and outspoken freedom
in assailing time-honoured institutions, scandalised
her even more than the bold levity of
the girls had done. So she and her companion
left the parliament to deal out disestablishment
to the National Church, and
went quickly along the Bridged and into the
main street of the town.

Here they came upon the wife of the
Free Church minister out doing her marketing.
And Mrs M'Spur, it soon transpired,

had no great respect for the Laighbield
poor.

The curlers played a match last week for
meal to distribute  the losing side to pay
she said ; ' and, would you believe it, several
parties sold their share the same day they
got it, for money to drink ! They're a
bad set

'We are all bad enough,' said Mrs Brandenburg
; ' and who expects but that charity
will sometimes be misused ?'

Mrs M'Spur opined that misuse of charity
was the rule, and that a great deal of imposition
was carried on, and drinking ; and as
for greed !

'Just yesterday said she, 'Mr M'Spur
was visiting an old wife who seemed to beat
death's door. There was something on
her mind, he could see that, and he thought
it would be a burdened conscience, for she
has been a sore neglected of ordinances this
many a day. But when he put down his
ear to catch the whisper  she could scarcely
speak, mind you  it was just to ask,

Have you ony odd bawbees about you the
day'"

Poor humanity !' ejaculated Mrs Bracken-burn.


You'll know old Saunders Grubb, the
rags, bones, gather-away man " ? ' the other
continued ; ' I doubt he is near his last
journey now, poor body ; but he will take
no thought on his past careless ways  he
was another that never darkened a church
door,  and when Mr M'Spur went in to reason
with him, the poor hardened creature
flapped the bedclothes up over his face, and
said he, as bold as a trooper, " I am name
feared to dee, sir!" It is terrible, terrible!'

4 Isn't it!' rejoined Mrs Brackenburn ;
and the celibacy of the clergy would be
sure, if women only guessed what revelations
of the depravity of the human heart
a clergyman's wife has in store.'

But the humour of these things appealed
strongly to this little lady, so that it is to
be feared her tone was hardly so sympathetic
as it might have been.

Soon parting from Mrs M'Spur. the pair
stopped at the door of a thatched cottage
opposite the parish school, and knocking,
were bidden by the shrill voice of Mistress
Mirren Gillespie to, ' Come wa in by,'
which they did accordingly.

Mrs Gillespie dusted a pair of chairs with
her apron (they needed no dusting, it was
merely a ceremony), placed them in front
of the fire, and, without a moment's loss of
time, returned to her twofold occupation of
lining bonnets and rocking with the foot a
green-painted wooden cradle containing twin
babies. Mrs Gillespie, to her other virtues,
added that of being ' a capital manager.'
Her kitchen was speckless ; the stone-flags
were beautifully sanded ; the hearth was
ornamented with an original design in
pipe-clay. Opposite the window stood the
dresser a goodly sight, with its collection
of plates, jugs, bowls, ranged against the
wall, row above row, so as to make the
most satisfactory possible display. At the
side of this grand achievement towered an

eight-day clock. An instructive clock it was :
above the dial-plate glowed an historical painting,
John Knox on a vividly crimson mat,
preaching to Mary of Scotland, whose gown
was white satin, and who pensively rested her
elbow on a table, the cover of which was
very greenly green. Behind the queen's
chair of state hung a gold-fringed, bright
blue curtain ; in the background were two
attendants, a yellow fiddle, a quite modern
fireplace, and the Reformer's walking-stick.
But even this was not all. The face of the
clock was further illustrated with four notable
portraits : Luther, Calvin, Wishart, and melanchthon
looked out, stern eyed, each from
his corner. But in spite of this outward
fair show, 

She's name to be happened to, that ane,'
said Mrs Gillespie ; ' she 11 rin twa hours
fast i' the week, sae wull she.'

The sex of the clock, however, surely
sufficiently accounted for this rushing to
conclusions sooner than reason was.

Mrs Brackenburn was here now to ask

after the progress of her pupil Tommy,
who had broken his arm on a slide a few
days ago.

Tommy gazed back to his work yestreen
said Mrs Gillespie sententiously.

From what I heard, I expected to find
him still in bed said the visitor. * Are
you quite sure he was fit to go out ? '

Fit or no, there was nae other fort replied
Mrs Gillespie; ' somebody maun be
bringing in whaup the father hanna dune a
hand's turn sin Ne'erday. And it's no muckle
o' a wage I can mak' myself wi' sae mony
things else adam. A braw haunting' o't I
hae, I can tell ye

But don't your two great, strong girls
help you ? They should.'

Help, said ye ?' ejaculated Mrs Gillespie.
Na, na ; the hall place might be tassels
an' no a finger o' ane o' them wad
wag to set it straight. Over wearied when
they come in frae the work, wi' their tale
o't. But gin ony coffin's fit, they are sure
on the quiver  they'll rin like verra breezes

then. In my time, folk wad pit through a
lang simmer day's field work, or shearing' at
the hairs, an' think nocht o't ; but noo 
keep me ! it bates a wheen o' the lasses to
lift a riddles o' calf ! '

1 The race degenerates responded Mrs
Brackenburn ; ' every mother says so, but
they've got very low in the scale if they can't
so much as lift a riddle full of chaff. Your
husband has not been working since New
Year, you say. How is that ? '

1 You may ask ! Sandy's the loosest o'
the lot. Nothing ever frae him but a leak
an' a promise. A' the days he has been
brisk at the curling'  diverting' hissed' gran',
ye'll ken, but ne'er bringing' in a place to keep
the kail-pat bilin' for the weans an' me. But
I wull be even wi' him the noo ! He'll be
dunedin' hame or lang like a knotless three,
seeking' his dinner. Weel, his dinner he'll
get, nae coot,  a hard, dry kin' o' bite, ye'll
see.'

The much-tried wife, as she ended speaking,
pointed to a table in the farthest-away

corner; and, looking, the ladies perceived
that Alexander Gillespie's mid-day meal was
to consist of a pair of curling-stones.

Mrs Brackenburn's eyes danced. Ursula
was more struck than amused. Not a muscle
of the avenger's face relaxed from its wooden
immobility.

To save herself from laughing outright,
Mrs Brackenburn took refuge in a cough.

Ye'll hae catches a boast, mem, I jalooze/
observed Mrs Gillespie. ' Nae winner, for
this loose is as could as a lodge in a garden
o' cucumbers. It's between the deil an' the
deep sea here ; a wide door or a smoking'
lum,  the take or the tither.'

'Was that idea your own ? ' inquired Mrs
Brackenburn, with a struggle regaining her
gravity ; ' or did you take it from the Border
family who used to do with a pair of spurs
what you have done with the curling-stones ?'

I ne'er heard tell o' nae sic folk,' said Mrs
Gillespie ; * but if they had a man in the
loose like mine, they could but hae need
o' something to fright him wiV

Your way of frightening yours may be
just said Mrs Brackenburn ; ' I believe it is.
But won't you be a little less severe ? Think
what a keen, sharp day it is, and how hungry
your husband will be when he conies in

He's ay that,' cried Mrs Gillespie feelingly.
* He comes na wi' the shovel but withe
rake, him ! '

Intercession was of no use; the offended
matron would have her grim joke ; so, after
looking at the twins, and saying about them
what people must say to mothers about
babies, Mrs Brackenburn and Ursula rose to
go. At the same moment Mrs Gillespie's
husband crossed the threshold. On observing
visitors, he precipitately retreated, believing
himself to have been unnoticed. But
his wife undeceived him by calling out
satirically, 

1 You're there, are ye ? Ye needna aff an'
wa' like a hunted peasweep ; come ben angie
the eddies a sight o' a man that has been
fleeing' his dragon ' (kite)  ever sin' Ne'er-days


Alexander Gillespie disregarded the invitation.
He seized a pair of wooden vessels
which stood in the entry, cried back to his
wife that he was going down to the well to
fill her ' stops ' for her, and escaped through
the garden door, pursued by the ironical
rejoinder, 

1 That's right ; fill the stops, Sandy ; fill
the stops ! cast a bane in the deil's teeth, if
ye can.'

The next place to be visited was in the
same row. Here, too, perfect cleanliness
reigned ; only here the appointments were
pitifully scant ; a deal table, two chairs, a
bed, a grate, a clock  not a piece of art furniture,
like that of Mrs Gillespie, but a mere
wag-at-the-wa',  that was all. Three young
children were rolling about on the faded
carpet in the middle of the floor, and they
were watched over by their grandmother, an
almost helpless old woman, whose hands had
been disjointed out of all semblance to hands
by acute chronic rheumatism. Here was a
fit object for commiseration, one would have

supposed. But such she did not consider
herself to be. Her mercies were so manifold,
she said, that while at His own good time
she would be ready to join the great congregation,
she was meanwhile blithe to bide on
a blink in the house of her pilgrimage. As
for these children, whose father was dead,
and whose mother was absent all day earning
their livelihood and her own, ' The auld-warrant
ways o' them is a fine divert, and aye
keeps a body heartsome.'

1 What a happy thing for you that you are
so cheerful,' Mrs Brackenburn could not
help saying.

What would I be but cheerful' ? ' was the
reply. ' Providence is aye sae gran* tome.'


Very different was the succeeding scene.
It was through a kennel where the houses
were wretchedly tumble-down, up a rickety
outside stair, in a miserable little room. The
tenants were an old man and his wife. The
man was so deaf that he invariably mistook
what was said to him, and steadfastly per-vol.

II. D

sister in assuming that every remark had
reference in some way to * baccy.'

The wife was loquacious  but with the
unpleasantness loquacity. Her catalogue of
grievances was as long as Don Giovanni's
list of conquests ; the parish did not attend
to her ; the clergy did not do their duty by
her ; the members of board were in league
against her ; the clothing society had refused
to send a shawl to her ; of the coals distributed
by Baronshaugh, none had ever reached
her. The curlers' meal ? Oh, ay ; a peck
had been handed in ; but of what use was
that to one whose teeth refused pancakes,
and whose stomach did not lie to either
porridge or cadgers' brose ? But her chief
injury, the one she dwelt upon longest, was
the fact that, though in penury herself, she
had rich relations in Netherlaw ; her own
brother's son was rolling in wealth, and
driving his carriage.

1 Geddes is the name o' him,' she said ;
1 Bail lie Geddes he ca's hissed for pride, but
nought o' a bailie was ever isn't lang syne.

I senna in what airt he has bight his loose,
but when ye gang through the town ony
day, Mrs Brackenburn, ye might tak a bit
leak among the terraces, and when ye fin'
foot Aunerach, pit him in mind that his
Auntie Leezie is in the lain o' the levin'
yet.'

I certainly think he ought to be reminded,'
said Mrs Brackenburn. ' Should
you like him to be told that you weary to
see him ? '

Nae need to say that,' responded the
crone. ' Tell him to sen' some silver, that's
a'. I am name o' your wearying' sort. I hare
over muckle to tak up my head.'

And what does your head get taken up
with ? ' asked Mrs Brackenburn.

Wi' droll pliskies, whiles,' chuckled the
old woman. And as soon as her callers were
gone, she reverted to the mental pastime,
which their entrance had interrupted, thinking
how she could best manage to pierce a
hole through the bottom of the rain-water
barrel of a neighbour who had offended her.

The following visit was to an Irish washerwoman,
who was so good a Catholic that
she crossed herself before holding any communication
with heretics, and who always
kept twelve empty bobbins on her mantelpiece,
to represent the twelve apostles.

Then away from the kennel to the outer
rim of Laighbield, to speak comfortingly to
a dying woman ; then to see a bedridden
man ; after that, back to the main street
and into the post-office. Mrs Brackenburn
wished to procure a packet of pictorial cards
for her class, and Mr Mungo Mauchline,
illumined with smiles, appeared to serve her.
But soon he became overcast, for he could
not oblige his honoured customer to - day.
He had sent to Netherlaw for the ' yards '
in question, but none had been forthcoming.

1 From wheel I conclude quoth he, ' that
either the second edition has been referred,
or else that the author has stopped ushering
them. Which is undoubtedly to be regretted,
for these yards were, I noun, the
neatest thing I have yet beheld in the way

of a multymipaavy ' (multum in pavo, he
was supposed to mean) 'of use and beauty,
oh dear, yes.' And with this, Mr Mungo
Mauchline grew happy again.

Having heard of Mrs Brackenburn's present
doings (Mrs Brackenburn had little
chance in Laighbield of doing deeds, either
good or bad, by stealth), he took occasion to
throw in his word of commendation and
encouragement.

Indiscriminate charity is a bane, ma'am,'
he exclaimed ;  ' a perfect' bur lys kew ; but
yours and this young lady's, that is a different
story  that is a boundless blessing.'

And he thereupon became inspired with
matter for a song ; so that an ode was
penned within the hour, in which Mrs
Brackenburn was described as 

1 The welcome messenger of Day,
Who, what time she goes into the poor man's house,
Does of her purse make a proud, rich display.'

As the ladies were leaving the post-office,
a young minister, somewhat of a clerical

dandy, passed by, and with studied grace
made obeisance to Mrs Brackenburn.

'Our U.P. brother,' said she to her
friend.

And what of him ? ' was the careless
rejoinder.

Stage-struck when a boy,' drawled Mrs
Brackenburn ; ' speaks English mincingly,
and French with the Netherlaw accent ;
pulpit style,  "Who knows what strange,
mysterious tale the wild wind whispers to
the trembling leaf ? " '

This caused Ursula to look so serious
that her companion inquired what the matter
was. She did not say, and the question was
repeated. They were at the moment going
through the narrow, wood-walled passage of
one of the closes in the Wynd, and at the
reiteration Ursula stood still. Taking Mrs
Brackenburn by the hands, she said, in a
low tone, 

Matilda, you pick people to pieces so
mercilessly,  you so hold everything and
everybody up to ridicule,  your criticism is

so unsparing,  that if I did not love, I am
afraid I should hate you.'

Mrs Brackenburn gravely bowed her
acknowledgments.

I would rather be loved by a few, and
hated by the rest, than liked indifferently well
by all,' she declared, and airily led the way
up the steep and winding wooden staircase.
Up  up  up, till they reached a garret. It
was curtained with bright chintz, and it was
carpeted. It contained, besides essentials,
a mahogany chest of drawers, polished to
mirror-like clearness, and covered on the top
with a white mat, on which were set a ,
a few books, and a case of stuffed
foreign birds ; there was a cupboard too, as
lustrous as the drawers, with glass-door to
the upper half, displaying the gay-coloured,
old-fashioned ' tea-set ' within. The windows
were blinded ; and in the recess in the wall,
which was fitted up as a bed, a woman lay,
worn and pale, but most delicately clean.
She was gey an' downe ways,' she said, in
answer to inquiries. She had not been able

to do anything all day  not even to kindle
her fire in the morning.

But I'm thinking,' she added, with a faint
smile, ' it's as weel, when I am off work, to
hare the day's coal gained.'

'Without a fire in this miserably cold
weather ! ' exclaimed Mrs Brackenburn. ' It
is terrible to think of. And has no one been
near you all day, Christina ? '

The wee things frae below cam' an'
chaplet whiles, but could rax up to un-seek
the sneck, so had aye just to rin wa'
doon/ she replied.

'When you are ill, and Dr Brackenburn
tells me that you often are, you ought not to
be alone. Surely some friend would stay
with you.'

I canna burden strangers,' said the woman,
and I hare name o' my ain noo. But I amused
wi' wholesomeness, and cinna tak so ill
wit as you might think.'

Mrs Brackenburn's opinion was that, were
she herself in such case, she would far rather
die at once than live on in a world so

desolate. But she did not spend time in
sentimentalising ; she drew her gloves off,
and, in spite of the sick woman's horrified remonstrance
at sight of a ' deny teddy filing
her fingers,' found out where the fuel was
kept, and proceeded to kindle the fire.

I know very well how to make a fire,' she
said, as she put sticks and coals into the
grate. ' I have done it scores of times in the
woods, for gipsy tea.'

And she did not go until she had seen the
room looking comfortable and cheery in the
flame-light.

Christina had protested that she could not
touch any food to-day ; but something would
presently be sent from the manse that would
surely tempt her from her fasting. Meantime
Mrs Brackenburn called Ursula to halt
at the first door down stairs.

The mistress of the household was Mrs
George Choppin, she, you may recollect,
whose husband was celebrated for upholding
his * door cheeks.' Several women were in
the kitchen (which, by the way, was none of

the tidiest), knitting bonnets and gossiping
full briskly. Some children, newly home
from school, were dining at a small, round
table in the background.  the bill of fare,
sheep's feet and potatoes with the coats on.
The dinner service was not very extensive ;
no table-linen, nor even knives, forks, or
plates. Each child simply held a ' trotter '
in one hand and a potato in the other.

Mrs Brackenburn's account of matters
overhead was received with quite a chorus
of comment.

Did ever ye ! ' exclaimed one.

1 If she had as muckle to dae as a wheen
o' us, she wadna' hare nae time for peevishness
and dwaums,' said Mrs Choppin.

1 Kirsty Kerr's over proud and independent,'
cried a third  ' that's what she's !
She'll no loot to let on that she's needful'
o' help ; it's a' her ain wite she's no leukit
tae.'

That's true put in another. 'A cart o'
Baronshaugh's coals was brought till her 
an' she canna be foot o' the want o' them 

but what does Kirsty dae but sen' them
straight back. She hanna come to that o't
yet ; she could work for her ain coals, quo'
she. It was her great-granny, as I hare heard
my mither tell, wha, when umbrellas first
cam in fashion hereawa, wadna thole nae
sicca toy to cross her doorstep, for she
thought it faith sin an' shame to haud the
guide rain o' heaven aff ye. And Kirsty hasa'
the auld ane's dourness, whatever mair
forby.'

Christina Kerr is a good, brave, independent
woman,' said Mrs Brackenburn, ina
tone which made the click of the knitting-needles
cease. 'If all of you would follow
her example, instead of finding fault with
her, Laighbield would profit by the change.'

This was true enough, only the saying of
it was not the way by which a minister's
wife might hope to increase her popularity.

The sick woman having been commended
to neighbourly attention, the day's visiting was
done, and Mrs Brackenburn and Ursula left
the Wynd. Walking towards the manse they

could see, away among the crisp-white fields
in the distance, the Laighbield curling pond.
Stones were skimming the ice, besoms sweeping,
and players roaring amain. Another
match was in progress, having as its end
meal for the poor. The design of thus feeding
the hungry was laudable  no doubt of
that ; but, unfortunately, some of these charitable
curlers, like Alexander Gillespie, forgot
where all true charity must begin.

&

IN 'the barons haugh last. :

Twice holy was the Sabbath bell :
The silent streets were crowded well
With staid and pious companies,
Warm from their fireside oratories,'

N instrumental performance ! a
voluntary ! We shall have rubric
and surplice next.'
The speaker, as you guess, was Mrs Cas-willis
of Baronshaugh, who had met Miss
Elvester and her girls at the churchyard
gates, while the bell was ringing for morning
service.

'Excuse me,' said Miss Elvester, 'but I
fail to see the connection.'

The thin end of the wedge, the first

letting in of water,' replied Mrs Cassillis, with
a delicious confusion of metaphor not unfrequent
in her conversation. ' Instrumental
music now' (Mrs Brackenburn had lately
presented an organ to the parish church) ;
presently choristers, to turn the grave, sweet
melody commanded by the Psalmist into a
concert to minister to vain imaginations, and
in due time a service not unlike the Romish
celebration of the mass : blade  ear  full
corn in the ear.'

Through the gaps in his mother's oration,
the feebler tones of the young laird were
heard. He wanted to know if Ulrica were
still pleased with the Baronshaugh Gallery ;
and if she would come to the Free Church
for a change, some day ?

'Not an altoge trier unwholesome change,
I believe,' said his mother approvingly; 'and
should either Miss Elvester or any of her
sisters think of trying it, I shall be most
happy to accommodate them.'

Miss Elvester, on her own and sisters'
behalf, acknowledged the obliging offer ; and

Mrs Cassillis proceeded to say, addressing
herself to Christian, 

1 I am well aware that the old landmarks
have been removed, and that the leeks and
garlic of what is called "preaching to the
times " are more palatable to the rising
generation than the pure manner of doctrinal
teaching ; still, I invite you to give the
unvarnished preaching of the Word a trial.
This is your last Sabbath here ; I know what
husks are presented to you as spiritual food
where you worship at Netherlaw; come with
me to-day, and for once avail yourself of the
privilege of a sound gospel discourse.'

All the more that it was her last Sunday
here, did Christian object to spend it, or any
part of it, with Mrs Cassillis. Yet how excuse
herself ? Hardly by saying plainly what
was the truth, that she was not willing to put
herself under the influence of that ' sound
gospel discourse.' Would not Jenny interpose
to save her ? and she looked appealingly
at her sister to that end. In vain.
There was amusement mingled with mischief

in Miss Elvesters grey eyes ; but she would
not interfere. Christian was independent
now, and among the pleasures of independence
ranked that of saying yes or no for
one's-self. Since her sister would not speak,
then, Christian must.

This is our last day together ; should you
mind my leaving you, Jenny ? ' she asked ;
and her upturned face added plainly, ' Do
bid me stay

Not a whit!' said Miss Elvester, smiling
on her. ' Go with Mrs Cassillis, my dear,
and I shall be extremely glad if you hear a
better gospel than Dr Brackenburn could
preach to you

The answering glance was full of reproach,
and on Mrs Cassillis remarking that, ' naturally
she took an interest in the spiritual
well-being of Miss Christian Elvester,' Christian
ungratefully thought that the indifference
of the lady of Baronshaugh would be vastly
more convenient than the interest of her was.

The laird being now discovered telling
Ulrica that he did not curl nor skate,  there

were often accidents on the ice, and if you
get wet it made you feel very damp and ' 
was pounced upon by his stern parent, while
he paused, seeking for words to express
what else besides very damp it made you
feel, and solemnly reminded of the Fourth
Commandment.

Yet, next moment, Mrs Cassillis observed,
as a pretty fashionably-dressed girl entered
the gates, 

1 There goes the young person who is
engaged to your friend, the parish minister
of Auchterbrechan ; and no doubt ,
her uncle, has made her a prize well
worth Mr Donald Berwick's grasping at.
Langbiggin is one of our elders. I must
speak to him about allowing the girl to
flaunt herself in the Established Church !
That will let him see how much respect I
can have for the principles of a Free
Church elder, who countenances the engagement
of his niece to a minister of the
Establishment.'

And this surely was talk as secular as that

VOL. II. E

about curling and skating and accidents on
the ice.

Come, Miss Christian Elvester,' said the
lady peremptorily, as Christian was casting
a lingering look after the multitude, ' you
shall worship for one day of your life in the
Free Church, instead of in the House of
Bondage ; ' and then, having in this high-handed
manner taken possession, she told
her captive that a special collection was to be
lifted to-day on behalf of the evangelisation
of the Highlands and Islands. She spoke
much louder than she need have done, and
with intent ; the train of townspeople passing
into the House of Bondage might hear,
and consider, and feel rebuked ; for it was
well known that the Established Church was
shamefully remiss in the matter of making
a collection.

Laighbield parish kirk had no pretensions
to beauty ; the steeple was too thick for its
length, and the belfry too small for the
general bulk of the building ; the windows
should have been larger, and the doors might

with advantage have been wider. Neither
were the surroundings to be boasted of.
There were no yews and cypresses, no
flower-railed enclosures, no tomb - gardens
here. This burying place was grassy allover,
and instead of graceful obelisks, broken
columns, and marble urns, you had moss-grown
slabs, and death's-heads, and crossbones,
and cherubs most woefully defaced by
years and weather.

A dark spiral staircase at the back of the
church led to what was known in local parlance
as ' The Baronshaugh Last.' This was
the only gallery, and it bore the Cassillis
coat-of-arms on its oak panelling. The
family pew was fitted up with crimson curtains
and ancient chairs, high-backed and
elaborately carved. Behind were the servants'
sittings  unused now, for since the
death of the late laird Mrs Cassillis would
only employ domestics of her own persuasion
on church government ; so here Mrs Brandenburg
had found a place for her organ.

Everybody who could see the gallery stared

up at it when the Elvesters appeared. That
was Laighbield manners. The young women
might get hints in millinery and deportment
there. The manse pew had long been their
fashion-place, but the  Baronshaugh Last' had
of late made a pleasing variety ; so from week
to week the note-taking was practised with
perfectly frank obviousness.

To-day Ursula faced the scrutiny with a
colder, prouder air than usual. Only a
minute ago she had heard something which
moved her considerably, and the more Ursula
was ruffled inwardly, the more haughty she
would outwardly appear.

The pulpit, which faced the gallery, was
still unoccupied ; but yonder, in the manse-pew,
sat Mrs Brackenburn, and beside her
smiled Miss Langbiggin, the Rev. Donald
Berwick's second niece. So sweetly pretty
she was, too !  so in every way suited to bea
clergyman's wife. What could the rejected
suitor have done better ? Had Ursula not
bidden him forget her and seek some fitter
bride ? Should she not then be glad to learn

that he had so speedily obeyed ? And she
would be glad of it. Oh yes, by-and-by,
when the thought had become familiar, she
would certainly be glad of it. In the meanwhile
she mechanically opened her Bible, and
read some verses several times over without
having an idea what they were about.

How she hated herself for this weakness,
so unreasoning  so pitiful! But service
would commence immediately, and she would
get into a better frame. Dr Brackenburn's
grave, sympathetic voice had always a tranquillising
charm with it, and 

Her senses were scattered suddenly by a
voice which, instead of tranquillising her,
caused her to tremble violently, while the
hot blood rushed to her face, then back
again, leaving her paler than before ; for
during the moments she had been looking
at these uncomprehended verses, Donald
Berwick had ascended the pulpit.

She rose with the rest of the congregation
when they stood up to sing, and looked
intently at her open psalter ; but anybody

glancing over her shoulder would have made
the discovery that the book was held upside
down. Poor Ursula ! she had of late been
struggling so hard to banish everything connected
with her past life from memory, and
to live entirely in Laighbield and the present.
And this was the measure of her success  this!

The idea of leaving the church presented
itself to her ; but she had presence of mind
enough left to remember that to do so would
be owning to Jenny what she never  either
to Jenny or to any other  would own. So
she stayed still, and heard Mr Berwick
preach ; and he, if he looked at her at all,
would notice only that she seemed the most
impassive, most uninterested of his auditors.

When all was over, the Elvesters found
Mrs Brackenburn sauntering in the churchyard,
waiting for them. She was in a perfect
glow of self-renouncing ardour, she
declared. The sermon had gone to her
conscience.

1 You instinctively tell when a man is
speaking from the heart, and when only

from the ear,' said she, ' and Mr Berwick
spoke from the heart to-day. Yes ; before
teaching it to others, he must have himself
learnt the duty of refusing to sink into a
sullen grumbler when things do not go as
one wants, and of breaking through the
narrow limits of self, rising by suffering
into fuller sympathy with one's kind. But
I wonder what pleasant thing he has ever
longed for and had denied him. It is no
business of mine, however ; and, at any
rate, he has as many pleasant things now as
ought to satisfy him  though, indeed, he was
not looking quite so sunny as such a fortunate
man should when I bade him and Miss
Langbiggin good-bye a minute ago. He
is staying with Miss Berwick at the Neck,
so his way and Katie Langbiggin's lie together.'


Miss Elvester did not make any remark
about Mr Berwick's way and Miss 's
being likely to lie together through
life. She had heard of that arrangement
even before to-day ; Christian had told the

news to her, but neither she nor Christian
had thought it necessary to mention the
matter to Ursula.

1 Even the old farmers went to sleep with
one ear open to-days continued Mrs Bracken-burn.
' And there was not nearly so much
wondering on the mountains of vanity as
usual ; was there, Ursula ? '

1 Why not ? ' returned Ursula ; ' for who
could wander over mountains of vanity while
Dr Brackenburn preaches ? '

I both can and do,' said Dr Bracken-burn's
wife. * And I'm not sure about you
either. I daresay you are no better than the
weaver who felt so positive as to the fixedness
of his thoughts during sermon, that he
took a wager on the subject. (My husband
says I am as bad as Mr Mungo Mauchline
with my " stories ; " but bear with me.) On
the Sunday after the bet, the preacher had
hardly begun when that weaver caught himself
calculating how many looms might beset
up in the area of the church. And you,
Ursula, don't you think that if you were to

watch closely you might surprise yourself
counting the tulips on Mrs Gillespie's bonnet,
or wishing that somebody would kindly tell
John Craig, of Scroggiehillock, how much
to one side his wig is, or wondering if the
sleeper near you won't hit the book-board
with his nose next time he nods ? This
morning, attentive as I plume myself upon
having been, I yet once lost the thread,
thinking how becomingly Mr Berwick's
chesnut hair curved itself about his square
forehead, and what fine hazel eyes he had ;
and another time I missed what he was saying,
while I informed myself that, with all
his good looks, there wasn't one touch of
the ladies' pet parson about him. But I
suspect your wanderings would take a different
direction, for it seems to me that Mr
Berwick is no favourite of yours. Am I
right, Miss Elvester ? '

1 Not to my knowledge,' said Miss Elvester,
laughing it off. ' I have brought up my girls
well, I hope, and I never allow them to say
anything disrespectful of the clergy.'

1 One of your girls is missing, I see.
Does she worship to-day in the temple of
immensity ? '

No, but with Mrs Cassillis of Barons-haugh.'


Unhappy Christian ! for she has been
borne off against her will, no doubt, to
hear " that blessed word Mesopotamia." '

While her elders talked, Ulrica instructed
herself among the tombs. And when Mrs
Brackenburn had taken leave of the others,
she found the child standing at the side of
the church, gazing thoughtfully at a strong
leather strap, like a dog's collar, suspended
from the wall by a short iron chain.

1 I have often wanted to know what that
is,' said Ursula, ' but Jenny won't explain.
She is so provoking sometimes ; indeed,
you haven't any notion how she suppresses
one's mind.'

1 As Chinese ladies suppress their girls'
feet, is it ? '

1 Yes ; and the mind is of far more importance
than the feet. Please do you tell

me what that is  please do. Jenny calls ita
relic of the dark ages

I will have Miss Elvester excommunicated,
if she dares to call anything belonging
to Laighbield Kirk by such a naughty
name. What that is ? It is " the jougs."
Long ago, you must know, when people
didn't behave prettily, they were not left to
their own consciences  perhaps they hadn't
got any in those days; at any rate, they were
first " dealt with " by the session, and then
brought here and chained to the church wall
during the pleasure of their judges

Ulrica's eyes dilated.

1 I almost never know whether you are in
earnest, or whether you are only joking,' she
said.

4 I am in earnest now  in dead earnest ;
one never jokes on Sunday.'

Then I wish I had not asked about that
horrible, horrible thing,' said Ulrica, slowly.
1 I shall never be able to put it out of my
mind, never again ; and I so hate to think
of it

Hearing this, Mrs Brackenburn became
very angry with herself, and felt as one feels
who has unwittingly done a mischief to some
delicate piece of mechanism. She tried to
efface the impression of these thoughtless
words of hers. To no purpose : Ulrica
scarcely seemed to hear ; Ulrica had been
beyond measure shocked, and she would be
miserable, as only sensitive children can be
miserable, for the rest of the day.

MRS Brandenburg's TRIBULATIONS.

Thus roll I, never taking ease

My tub, like Saint Diogenes,

Now serious am, now seek to please ;

Now love and hate in twin, one sees

The motives now are those, now these ;

Now nothings now realities.

Thus roll I, never taking ease,

My tub, like Saint Diogenes.

UfTKI

mm

?3 less

H E study in Laighbield manse
was the veritable workshop of
a labourer ; yet there caught
the eye, here and yonder, amidst the
literary profusion, such incongruities as a
lace handkerchief, or a tiny silver thimble.
Mrs Brackenburn had no business to leave

these properties about the room, but then
she did not think that her husband had the
least objection to see them there.

He must surely have objected, however, to
a rustle  rustle   rustle of silken garments,
which, on the occasion now chronicled, prevented
him from concentrating his attention
on the subject he had in hand. Added
to this distracting sound, too, was the consciousness
that she who caused it was counting
the moments till she should have freedom
of speech accorded her. At length the
writer laid down his pen, left the philosophers
whose theories he was reviewing only half
discussed, shifted his position from the desk
to the fireside, and bade his wife come talk
to him.

Nothing loath was she. Having seated
herself on a footstool close to his chair, she
said, 

You see beside you a woman with a whole
chapter of tribulations on her mind. What
would you advise : to bear in silence, or to
recapitulate ? '

In her case to recapitulate might be the
better plan, I think.'

Ah ! it is as well you counsel so. I should
be sure to recapitulate, at any rate. I asked
advice, but meant to follow it only if it went
with my own inclination.'

So I imagine. / find that seekers of
advice generally, though not so candid as you
in avowing it, are pretty much of your way
of thinking.'

To be sure they are ; if your advice points
in the direction they incline to, that is charming,
for they can go on all the more joyfully ;
but if in the opposite way, why, they'll thank
you, and  let it alone. When I have not
really known which of two things I wished
to do, I have sometimes, instead of asking
advice, tossed a penny. That always settled
the question ; for I immediately wanted todo
just the reverse of what the penny had
decided for me. But now for my tribulations,
Alan. The first is, that nature should have
behaved so unhandsomely towards me that I
can be called " the unbrawest wee wife ever

a man waled for himself." I heard a woman
(they have such voices, those Laighbieldists !)
say so to one of my servants to-days

You do not mean to tell me that such a
remark as that troubled you ! '

Oh, it troubled me immensely, and it has
sent me to you to ask if I am really so bad as
they call me. Am I ? '

1 I could give you my opinion, of course ;
have I not been again and again assured that
it is of no value on such points.?

1 You are the most unsatisfactory man on
earth, Dr Brackenburn ; there is no possibility
of wringing, or beguiling, or surprising a compliment
from you. Even while you were my
lover, and ought to have had a glamour over
you, you never ceased to think me plain and
insignificant to the last degree.'

Was it not, then, all the more flattering
that I should have been your lover notwithstanding
?'

1 Perhaps, still, and just for the novelty,
I should have liked one man in the world
blindly to think me fair. Well, you know,

my first tribulation ; console me, can't you 
console me ! No, no ; not in that way ' (for
he was treating her as one would a child that
had come to one for comfort). ' But such
was ever your plan  caresses in place of
compliments.'

The next tribulation, Matilda ? '

1 You are the source of my next  yes, you !
and for this  you are hypercritical in regard
to my conduct, yet you never give so much
as one thought to my mode of hairdressing.
Now, I am rather proud of my hair (don't
grudge me the small vanity, it is my only
one !), and it is mortifying to find that
you take no interest in it ; that I may walk
before you a whole day, wearing it exactly
as Mrs Inverarity wears hers, and you will
never perceive the change.'

I did fancy that there was a something
unusual about your appearance to-day. And
it is the hairdressing, is it ? Let me look at
it rightly, now,' and he held her at arm's
length for the purpose.

The hair had been drawn back from the

VOL. II. f

face and up from the neck, and made as
little of as possible, and tightly gathered into
a twist behind the ears ; in fact, everything
had been done to render it as unbecoming as
such very pretty hair could be rendered.

You did observe that I looked unusual,'
she cried, laughingly, as he scanned her ;
you did come to the conclusion that I was
even less lovely than my wont. How gratifying
! Say, though, does my reverend critic
like the style ? '

1 I can't pretend that I do.'

Why? It is beautifully, smoothly, glossily
tidy  not one lock astray  every scrap of
brow I've got displayed. Why, do you not
like it ? '

Because it does not content the eye.
When it is in soft folds  '

Folds ! Alan ; folds of hair ! '

I don't know your toilet technicalities.'

You don't know a hair-pin from a .'


When it is arranged as you wear it
usually, the effect is that one is constantly

tempted to stroke it. Will that serve as a
compliment, my dear?'

By no means ; it only serves to show me
what value I may set on your endearments.'

Saying which, Mrs Brackenburn crossed
the rug and seated herself in an opposite
easy-chair.

Another tribulation is,' she said, ' the near
prospect of a visit from my forty-second
cousin, Dugald Urquhart. He is at Barons-haugh
now, and will be here immediately ;
and the thought is bitter to me.'

I am surprised to hear you  you who
are so hospitable.'

There are exceptions to every rule  if
you will excuse me for treating you to a
slightly threadbare piece of information 
and my exception is Mr Urquhart  I know
very well why he is coming here ; he thinks
it will sound impressive to say to his friends,
You have heard of Brackenburn of Lichfield
 the scholar and critic ? His wife is
a cousin of mine, and I have just been staying
with them. Brackenburn is a fine fellow "

(no, he wont say " fine fellow ; " his style is
too stilted for that)  " is a man of great
parts. He and I had many most interesting
discussions ; and some of them, I flatter
myself, will have their reflection on his next
contribution to literature." '

My dear Matilda, you have the most remarkable
habit of furnishing absent persons
with ideas and speeches, and then of judging
as if these were really theirs and not
your own. It is all very well to give your
characteristics a dramatic cast, but certainly
not so well to condemn people for
thoughts which you only imagine them to
think, and words which have never been
spoken, saving by yourself.'

I have made a special study of Dugald
Urquhart, Alan ; I have sometimes amused
myself by considering what he would say if
such and such a remark were made to him ;
then I have experimented, and received a
reply as nearly as possible what I looked for.
Oh, he is shallow as a summer brook, though
he makes believe to be deep as the sea where

it can't be sounded. Yes ; I understand that
simile, Dr Brackenburn ; it means that I of
all people ought to have patience with
shallowness. But I am not finding fault
with shallowness  we are not responsible for
our mental capacity any more than we are for
the cast of our features ; what I rail against
is the affection of depth. To hear Dugald
discourse grandly on art, for instance, always
makes me long to exclaim aloud, " Shakspeare
and the musical glasses'"

Is it quite fair to measure by your own
knowledge of art, how much or how little
your cousin knows about it ? '

Pardon me, pardon me, I do not measure
so ; but I know the difference between sham
and reality. Mr Urquhart has been about a
good deal, and has picked up the commonplaces
of artists and the like, and can echo
them glibly enough ; but it is all empty
sound. He will talk about spending hours
of rapture in the art galleries of Europe ; but
come to particulars, and not the ghost of a
perception does he convey to you of all the

glory and the greatness. Just once walk with
him through any collection of paintings, hear
his stereotyped praise of whatever it is the
fashion to speak well of, and notice how he
passes over all else with a remark flung
chancewise, that this is " badly grouped,"
and that wants unity, and the other has been
conventionally handled ; " after such a walk
you won't have much belief in his artistic
instincts left. Poetry is Dugald's speciality ;
yet whenever I have asked him to interpret
anything too high for me, he has found that
it would be very difficult to get a lady to
take hold of the meaning ; and so it would
be, if the man who was to explain it hadn't
taken hold himself. But there is one redeeming
point about my cousin Dugald  he
never, never makes a joke. I have often
been glad of that, because if he were seized
with a desire to be funny, I know what he
would do. He would make a round of all
the circuses in the kingdom, taking notes of
the conversation of clowns. Now, do you
pant for closer communion with the man ? '

1 Certainly not with the man as you have
painted him. But suppose the case is reversed
: suppose I knew little or nothing of
Mr Urquhart's cousin Matilda, but was on
terms of intimacy with Mr Urquhart himself,
and suppose he should one day sketch
the lady for my better information ; might
it not be that I would not pant for closer
communion with her, so sketched ? '

1 I am positive you would not, for the
sketch would be appalling. Dugald thinks
that a woman who can give an answer back,
and who asks, " What is the meaning ? " when
you use phrases you have no right to, is the
most unpardonable blunder in the universe.
He and I can never be in harmony. I amin
the key of six sharps, I suppose, while he
is in five flats, and we jar accordingly. We
have a demoralising influence on each other.'

1 Then decidedly he had better not come
here.'

But he will come here. He and his
sister have the most delightfully frank way
of requiring no invitation to the houses of

people to whom they are bound by the ties
of kindred or affection, as Mr Carnegy would
say. Well, now that I've abused the young
man to my heart's content, I feel much
better  I shall be able to receive him with
at least surface civility. You need have
no fear about me, Alan ; I shall not forget
what is due to a guest, as I once might
if the guest had sorely tempted me to it.
Surely I improve ; surely I may soon bethinking
of setting up a diary.'

My wife's diary will be a curiosity in
literature.'

As much a curiosity, I daresay, as the
copy-books of my boys are, which reminds
me of what I had nearly forgotten, the
heaviest of all my tribulations. I have been
praising myself, have I ? but now I must let
myself down again, for I am weary in well-doing
; so weary, alas ! '

I am sorry for that. What is the discouragement
? '

4 Those children make no progress. For
weeks I have laboured to feet in some faint

dawn of grammar and common sense upon
their minds ; for I don't confine myself to
either altogether, you know. I almost think
they could tell the difference now between noun
and verb, further I would not dare to vouch
for them. I was vain enough to cultivate
hopes about the adjective also, but to-night
these hopes were blighted utterly ; for on my
putting the question, " In what degree of
comparison is "Larger?" one boy hesitatingly
suggested, " Feminine," and another
improved upon the idea by boldly shouting
Tusculum ; " and all the rest were blank.
It sounds comic, doesn't it ? Yet it is very
sober earnest to me.'

I have not a doubt of that, nor any
wonder at your weariness. But, my love, no
work is without its discouragements, and the
work best worth doing has generally the
largest share of these. Workers, however,
are all the stronger for having bravely met
and overcome the obstacles and difficulties
by which they are withstood. And do not
think, Matilda, that your labour has been

lost, even though your boys cannot yet compare
the adjective. As a proof to the contrary,
I have several times been asked if I
could not induce you to open a second class
one for girls.'

Perish the thought !  I mean I would
rather shut up the class I have now than
open another. I know the extreme sketching
of female education in Laighbield  how
the women for the most part read with difficulty
and write with distress ; but don't, so
please you, don't give the task of reform tome,
who am over weighted as it is.'

Could Miss Ursula Elvester, do you suppose,
be persuaded to take up the matter ? '

My princess among the bonnet girls ! '

'And why not? It would do your
princess a vast deal of lasting good, if she
could be roused out of her high-flown, sentimental
day-dreaming, and got to take a
healthy interest in her fellow-creatures.'

Why so severe ? Does it mean that you
do not like Ursula ?'

1 Rather it means that I do like her, and

see in her the possibility of much good. In
teaching those girls, the young lady would
herself learn more than she at present has
any conception of. And if she would but
try to make brighter the lives of those about
her, she would at the same time greatly
brighten her own. Do you not think that a
woman's truest happiness lies in making the
people around her happy ? '

So men tell us. But I've a feeling that
it is a roundabout sort of route to happiness,
whereas I would have a shorter for Princess
Ursula. I want to see her married.'

'Matilda! Matilda!'

1 Yes, Dr Brackenburn ; and more than
that, I have a husband for her in view  a
very fine young man, dear  my cousin Jack.'

That is what has caused your sudden
access of affection for Jack, and your insistance
upon his paying a visit to Laighbield,
whether he will or no.'

Exactly. And I tell you of it now, so
that when he comes you may not be a
hindrance to me ; for, unless a man gets

warned off beforehand, he is fatally sure to
make a great rent right through any artful
little web his wife may be quietly weaving.
Don't shake your head though ; there is no
harm in this, but good only. I have the
interest of those young persons warmly at
heart, and I am convinced that it is not well
for either of them to be alone. When I am
dead and gone, dear, and you give memorials
of me to the world, don't forget to say that I
ever found my truest happiness in making
others happy. Height ! would anybody,
believe you if you did say that, I wonder ?
Shall you wear my ring, then, to keep me in
remembrance, Alan ? It must be enlarged
first, for, as it is, it would barely pass the
tips of your finger. Let me try.'

She drew off her wedding-ring for the
purpose, and went back to her husband's
side. Dr Brackenburn would not let her
carry her intention into effect. He took the
ring and replaced it on its proper finger,
and  well, there was no more talk of dying
that night.

LITERARY CRITICISMS.

'We need all the counter-weights we can muster to
balance he sad realities of life. God has made
sunny spots in the heart ; why should we exclude
the light from them ? '

HE parish church clock was striking
nine. A keen March wind  ' a
ranting tannin', tearing' wind,' as the
minister in Mr Mungo Mauchline's ' stony'
said  was searching Laighbield for people to
persecute. Ten or a dozen girls came from
a close in the Wynd, and having screened
themselves in their plaids, and exchanged a
few parting pleasantries, took their several
ways home.

That was Ursula's class. Surprising, is it ?

But Ursula was devoted to duty, it must be
remembered ; and even so far as this had
her devotion led her. Until now, it must
be owned, she had not entered very heartily
into the spirit of her work. She was new to
such labours, and there had been many trials
to damp, but never a triumph to cheer her ;
for the material she had in hand was unshapely,
and it was anything but plastic.

On this present cold March night, our
young social reformers felt particularly depressed
and tired, so much so, that it became
a question whether she would not go straight
home rather than follow her usual custom
after teaching, of spending the remainder of
the evening at the manse. She had not seen
Mrs Brackenburn for a week, though ; so,
after all, habit prevailed, and to the manse
she went. Being on no ceremony there, she
did not summon a servant to admit her, but
finding the outer door already open, opened
the inner glass-door for herself, left her wraps
in the proper place, and proceeded to the
drawing-room.

Ursula was sorry immediately that she had
not yielded to her first impulse, and gone
home  second thoughts were not always
best, it seemed. For her friend was not
alone as she had expected to find her. Standing
beside Mrs Brackenburn, gaily laughing
and talking with her, was the man who, of
all people in the world, Ursula Elvester was
least prepared to meet  the minister of Auch-
terbrechan. Near these two a young lady,
correctly pretty, and in every particular very
much according to rule, was being entertained
by a young man bearing a decided
resemblance to Mrs Brackenburn  these
were Miss Langbiggin and the cousin Jack,
whom Mrs Brackenburn designed for Princess
Ursula. Cousin Jack had arrived today.
There was also present another arrival
of to-day, the more distant cousin, Dugald ;
and he was looking over lithographs, marvelling
the while, in that superior way of his,
how any man calling himself an intelligent
being could possibly take an interest in
Matilda Brackenburn's chatter.

At the last meeting of Ursula Elvester
and Donald Berwick, nine months ago, she
had been cold and self-possessed, he  the girl
had sometimes trembled since, thinking of
it  terribly impassioned. Now parts were
changed ; he might never have cared a rush
about her, for anything his manner showed,
while she  oh, she was vexed with herself
for this weak and foolish flutter ! But, just
as that day in church, she was more concerned
on the score of appearances than she need
have been ; the flutter she was so ashamed
of was not on the surface ; any bystander
would merely have noticed that Ursula looked
proudly reserved, and would have inferred
that this was because she shrank from meeting
with one who had known her in better
days. Half-a-minute and the ordeal was
over  the pair, who might to-day have been
husband and wife, had touched hands, asked
each other ceremoniously how they did, and
fallen apart again,  she manifestly relieved,
he with something in his style which Mrs
Brackenburn could not make out  was

it dislike ? or was it only an excess of
indifference ?

Strange to tell, Dugald Urquhart's fancy-was
taken at first sight by the queenly girl,
whose garments were indebted to her for
their air of distinction, not she to them for
hers, and who had obviously the good sense
to remember that this popular preacher  this
encourager of Matilda Brackenburn's empty
puerilities, was only a son of the soil when
all was said. Besides this, Ursula had far
more presence than her sister Christian ; she
was statuesque beautiful in the manner of
Mr Urquhart forgot what statue exactly it
was, but that to be sure was neither here nor
there. Under the mellow influence of this
sudden admiration, Dugald reversed his usual
tactics. In place of assuming the defensive,
he lay in wait for Ursula, lured her to the
table where he had been solitarily feasting
his eye, and, not taking thought that she was
far less a stranger in the manse than himself,
proceeded to act as exponent of all the
albums.

vol. 11. G

Mrs Brackenburn's cousin Jack asked
Miss Langbiggin if she liked to look at
albums ; and Miss Langbiggin replied that
she liked to look at albums very much
indeed. But had the question been, did
she like to hear discussions on politics, or
to make wax flowers, or to listen to the
music of the future, the young lady's answer
would have been just the same.

I wonder if there is an album of horrors
among that lot,' said cousin Jack. 'The
Marionette (my cousin, I mean, she was
brought up with us, and we fellows called
her nothing but the Marionette) used to
rejoice in such a treasure. Once when Dr
Brackenburn was at our place, long before
there was any thought of his marriage it
was, my cousin forgetfully introduced her
album of horrors by name to him. He
opened it up, and, "the first horror I see
here is myself," he said. I suppose Mr
Brackenburn now -a-days keeps clear of
scrapes like that. She'll be just a little bit
unpopular, else.'

Miss Langbiggin smiled a small, neat
smile, and rejoined that Mrs Brackenburn
was very much liked by everybody in
Laighbield, which was a slight deviation
from fact ; but it is difficult, when one
thinks of it, to keep ever straight along
the narrow track of truthfulness, swerving
neither to the right hand nor the left.

Mrs Brackenburn now bespoke her cousin's
attention.

Do you remember a game called Literary
Criticism which we used to play at long
ago?' she asked.

Yes ; he accurately remembered.

'Well, games generally help a company
to amalgamate ; so we're going to have
Literary Criticism now. Ergo, you will goto
the study, paper and pencil-hunting, if
you please.'

'And have your husband presently turn
me out into the night for meddling with
his things,' demurred Jack.

1 No, my cousin ; even if you should upset
an inkstand or so ; Dr Brackenburn will

only sigh and say, " Oh, Diamond, Diamond,
thou little knowest the mischief thou hast
done ! " Come, Katie ; we are going to
make a literary woman of you  you are to
review a book.'

Miss Langbiggin rose at once and took
her place at the table, round which Donald
Berwick was arranging seats. Jack departed
for material.

Neither of the remaining pair was so
complaisant ; neither of them seemed to seethe
necessity for the amalgamation which
Mrs Brackenburn desired.

I could not write anything like that,'
Ursula said, when the thing was explained
to her.  I have neither invention nor
originality.'

Capital ! ' thought Mr Urquhart ; ' this
is the proper womanly spirit. She would
not presumptuously tell a man that his
verses were only fit for the Poet's Corner
in the Commissaire Chronicler'

The gentleman's own reason for withholding
from Literary Criticism was not

lack of invention and originality. No ;
but 

In my humble opinion, labour of the
pen is too lofty to be made the butt of
idle travesty. 7

'Is all labours of the pen lofty?'
inquired Mrs Brackenburn. ' The circular
of the Netherlaw warehouseman, who is
clearing off his entire stock at an immense
sacrifice, quoting prices fabulously low, and
offering bargains so rare and recherche as
to astonish all ladies and all gentlemen who
see them : is that lofty ? '

1 That is not literature.'

No ? Yet the writers of such circulars
must be clever in their way. Who are
they, I wonder ? Needy journalists, authors
of rejected pantomimes, or what ? '

Dugald could not tell. Such a field of
inquiry was far beneath his scope. He was
not one to speculate how the other half of
the world lived.

On cousin Jack's return, the quartette
who did not consider labour of the pen too

lofty to be travestied, were supplied with
pencils and paper.

'Well, Katie,' said Mrs Brackenburn, all
being ready, ' can you suggest any sweetly
pretty title for our supposed novel ? '

But no ; whatever Miss Langbiggin might
be, she was not suggestive. Cousin Jack
proposed 'Three Blind Mice' as a sweetly
pretty title ; at the same time Mr Berwick
made a point of interrogation on his paper,
and submitted it to the arbitress.

But what might be the interpretation
thereof ? ' she asked.

'Anything you choose. Indefiniteness
might be in its favour. But call it "Which?"
if you like; "Which?" by the author of
"How Much"'

'That is the name  thank you, Mr Berwick
" Which ? " by the author of "How
Much?" And mind, good people, that you
exaggerate sufficiently

How is this game played ? What are
we to do?' said Miss Langbiggin, looking
helplessly up at Mr Berwick, who was

mending his pencil. He smiled at her,
and replied, 

'You are to fancy that "Which?" is a
novel  foolish or clever, as you please 
and that you are a critic, at whose nod
poor authors tremble

This, however, was a stretch of fancy
impossible to the young lady ; and when
the papers came to be collected, while the
others had produced two criticisms apiece,
Miss Langbiggin was discovered to have
stuck fast in her first sentence, thus, 

I think that it is a very nice book, and
I think it is very  '

The second adjective had been a stumps
too formidable for her.

1 Never mind, Katie,' said Mrs Bracken-burn
; * we make all the pleasant women,
I daresay, for not making good critics. Now,
Jack, be our clerk, please. Read to us the
opinions of the press

Jack accordingly unrolled one of the papers,
and began, 

In this we have a work well calculated

to shake the soul. The phosphorescent" 
oh, I say, Marionette, what's this ? Hallucinations
? phosphorescent hallucinations ? '

Scintillations corrected his cousin.

I wish you wouldn't indulge in hieroglyphics,
then. Your penmanship is like nothing
in the world but a cuneiform inscription.
Look here' (lifting the paper upon which
was indited in sharp even characters, with
smart tails to the ys and elegant loops to
the long letters, Miss Langbiggin's opinion
of the niceness of the book), ' this is what I
call a good lady's hand.'

Mrs Brackenburn took the reproach meekly.
The reader proceeded, ' " The phosphorescent
scintillations of genius leap out everywhere
 a master spirit speaks from every
page. This book does not belong either to the
milk-and-water or to the blood-and-thunder
class of fiction. It is unique. We get below
the surface here, and feel ourselves put en
rapport with universal nature  now, here is
the intense subjectivity of the writer  "
What do you mean by such tall talk, Marionette

? What is " intense subjectivity of a
writer" ?'

1 Try and find out for yourself, Jack ; the
effort will impress the result on your memory
as my governess used to say when questions
were inconvenient. But you tax our
patience as badly as a preacher who comments
on every verse of a long chapter,
before sermon

Thus rebuked, Jack once more went
on : 

" Nowhere is the intense subjectivity of
the writer more subtly illustrated than in the
duel scene. As we read, we hear the beating
hearts of the antagonists, the plashing of
the brooklet, and the cawing of the rooks.
Nothing, we confidently assert, more powerfully
natural has been given to the world
since the Homeric age. The characters are
worthy of their setting. But our space permits
only mention of the heroine. She enchants
us. She is a creation, yet not a
creation. This statement may seem paradoxical.
We recommend our readers, however,

to secure the book at once, and see
for themselves whether the heroine of
Which ? ' be not a true creation by the
author of 'How Much?' and yet at the
same time a skilful blending of the Laureate's
young lady with the skipping-rope,
who warns her admirer to stand aside lest
she should hit him in the eye, and that
charmingly artless Ruth Pinch, who playfully
taps her brother's head with a rolling
pin, and with such bewitching airiness
compounds a steak pudding, not knowing
all the while whether it may not turn out
a pudding, a stew, a soup, or something
of that sort. Unfortunately, we have no
space for extracts ; we can only repeat,
let our readers lose no time in judging
for themselves."  Monthly Magnifying-glass'


1 " If Plato had sent a thing like this to his
publishers, or if the Stagyrite  " '

It's my turn now,' interposed Mrs Brandenburg
; ' and I beg to inform you that
that won't do.'

Was it not yourself, madam, who told us
to exaggerate ? '

To exaggerate. But that goes beyond
exaggeration. We want to have just a little
touch of nature, don't you see ? '

1 Well, well, I pass over " The Classic
Miscellany," and come to the next :  " We
frankly admit that we are in no condition to
set an exhaustive analysis of this new story
by the author of 'How Much?' before a
novel-reading public. In compliance with
the requirements of our position, we took up
the work intending to examine it, but truth
forces us to confess that about the middle
of the first volume we fell asleep, nor could
we afterwards compel ourselves to a resumption
of our task. We do not, however, say
that the book is any more dull, foolish, or
uncalled-for than a thousand others that we
come across."  The Effectual Extinguisher!

1 " Pelion on ossa ! Vinegar on Nitre !
These are not to be mentioned in comparison
with 'Which ?' superadded to 'How
Much ?' Since the days of ' Gum-arabic for

the Great Unwashed,' no sin against common
sense has been committed to equal this.
When shall the sorrows of the novel critic
cease ? When will crass ignorance, wedded
to outrageous presumption, tire of sowing
broadcast over the land these crops of sickening
folly, arrant rubbish, utter stupidity,
and blatant balderdash ?" (Oh, Marionette!)
It is not too much to say that, throughout
these six hundred pages of blundering absurdity,
there is not one solitary redeeming
characteristic : the manner is an unbroken
series of insults to the Queen's English, the
matter a continued outrage on ordinary intelligence.
For his (or her, which is more
probable) own sake, we trust this is the last
time we shall have occasion to notice the
author of ' Which ? ' and ' How Much ? ' "
The Morning Vivisect or.'

1 " This writer improves. There is a purpose
likeness in the handling of ' Which ? '
that was wanting in 'How Much?' The
author has also gained in depth of insight
and power of expression ; but he still continues

to betray a leaning towards what we
hope he will excuse us for calling maudlin.
There are various minor blemishes also, to
which we might take exception, as, for instance,
Dolly the milkmaid's preference for
one part of the country over another, because
of the former being ' Far mair moorish and
mair romanticker' than the latter. We do
not remember to have heard language in the
least like this during any of our sojourns
north of the Tweed. But in spite of a few
surface faults, we believe we may predict
that the author of ' Which ? ' will yet take
a very fairly respectable standing among
the imaginative writers of his time."  The
Monday Well-wisher!

*" Which?" is exactly the question we
keep asking ourselves all through these
truly absorbing volumes. Between the two
heroines, the pensive Sophronia and the
more sprightly Qualia, we, like the lover in
the romantic ballad of ' Bessie Bell and
Mary Gray,' feel our fancy falter. The
tender sensibility of the one and the ingenuous

gaiety of the other, are so equally
charming that, in place of awarding the
palm to either, we must divide it between
both. But in the exquisite pathos of this
tale lies its transcendent merit. Oftener
than once during the course of perusal
(bearded though we be, we are not ashamed
of the avowal) we were interrupted by the
sobs rising to our throat. We have been
informed by a lady friend that, on asking
for ' Which ? ' at the circulating library the
other day, she was told that the work was
not on hand, several copies having within
a few weeks been reduced to pulp by the
tears of an appreciative public. This fact
speaks for itself; and it is, so far as we are
aware, an occurrence unprecedented in the annals
of literature."  After-dinner Rhapsodist?
I am trying to imagine the sensations of
that author,' laughed Mrs Brackenburn, asher
cousin laid the last paper down. ' Rather
bewildering they must be. Don't you feel
as if you would like to read " Which ? " Mr
Berwick ? '

I feel as if I should like to read " Gum-arabic
for the Great Unwashed," said he.
My work brings me in contact with the
unwashed, and I might get some lights,
side-lights, at least, from your writer.'

But my writer's work was a sin against
common sense.'

'Well, even so. "How knowest thou,"
may the distress novel-wright exclaim, " that
I, here where I sit, am the foolishness of existing
mortals ; that this my long-ear of a Fictitious
Biography may not find one and the
other into whose still longer ears it maybe
the means, under Providence, of instilling
somewhat ? " '

1 1, too, can quote encouragement for the
potsherds of the earth,' said Mrs Bracken-burn.
' Everybody knows as much as the
savant. The walls of rude minds are
scrawled all over with facts, with thoughts.
They shall one day bring a lantern, and
read the inscriptions.'

1 You read that for the first time this
morning guessed cousin Jack. ' You have

heard me say that the way to find out
whether or not you've got hold of an idea
is to repeat it to somebody, so you are
making use of us poor fellows as a test.'

A guilty conscience speaks there retorted
Mrs Brackenburn. ' You remember
how often you have put me to such base
uses, when I was unable to protect myself.
But I did not read that for the first time
this morning. I wrote it long ago in the
extract-book I kept for pickings from my
readings which cheered or strengthened me.
That was in days long perished, when I was
working at the cultivation of my mind

Pray, let us hear about it, Mrs Bracken-burn,'
requested Mr Berwick.

Alas ! there is nothing to relate she
answered. ' I was no female Goethe. I
could never make anything of self-culture.
I tried various subjects as mental training 
metaphysics, moral philosophy  but, oh !
It was grand, too, the way I would attack
Whateleys Logic ; but all I remember now
of Whatever is : " Light is opposed to

darkness ; feathers are light ; therefore
feathers are opposed to darkness." But
enough of me. Tell us something about
yourself, Mr Berwick. You were talking
a moment since of your work among the
unwashed ; is it true that you have become
a teetotaler to please them ? '

1 By no means to please them said Mr
Berwick ; ' to strengthen my influence with
them rather.'

I see. And are very rabid on the
subject ? '

As rabid as can be

Like the temperance lecturer who foretells
for all who even touch " the intoxicating
cup " a drunkard's grave ? '

He only laughed in answer to that.

She laughed too. Then her eyes assumed
a mischievous expression. She set pencil to
work again, and after a few minutes' scribbling,
passed a scrap of paper to Mr Berwick,
saying, 

With my best wishes for the cause.'

And Mr Berwick read, 

VOL. II. H

'EPITAPH ON A TEETOTALER.

'Hie Janet one who could not think
Of looking at fermented drink ;
But then, 'tis said, that he would eat,
Unheard-of quantities of meat.
He ate so much, he ate so fast,
Beef, mutton, poultry, could not last.
So great demand reduced supply,
Till, " Lynch the Gourmand " was the cry.
Death heard, and lynched him on the spot 
Lo ! here he lieth, next the Sot 1 '

Meantime Mr Urquhart remarked to his
companion that this literary criticism they
had been listening to displayed 'a vast
amount of misapplied ingenuity

Ursula thought the people to be envied
who possessed such ingenuity.

The great thing, I believe,' returned Mr
Urquhart, ' is to possess a well-balanced
mind  a mind which can discriminate between
wholesome relaxation and what might
be called buffoonery.'

Mrs Brackenburn's ear caught the organ
tones.

Oh, life would' be too tasteless without a
spice of " what might be called buffoonery "

"5

to flavour it she cried. * Would you banish
nonsense from the world altogether if you
had your way ? '

Decidedly,' said Mr Urquhart.

Then I am glad to think you have not
any vote in the matter. Nonsense is a good
thing in its own place ; not as daily food, of
course, but as a salad ; and  '

Dr Brackenburn's entrance at that moment
put a stop to his lady's vindication of
buffoonery.

THE CONTRARIETY OF THINGS.

The best laid plans o' mice and men
Gang aft alley.'

HE newcomer threw a pair of
black gloves into his wife's lap.
The lady drew them on, and her
hands were lost in their depths.

Do you know what is the meaning of
these pretty things ? ' she asked Mr Urquhart.


Not I,' he said ; and his look added,
1 neither do I care

So ignorant of the usages of your
country ! ' she exclaimed, not in the least

quenched by the what-is-that-tome manner
of his reply. ' What a shame, Dugald !
These signify, then, that my husband has
been at a wedding, in his official capacity.
Our Laighbieldites would scarcely think
themselves legally married unless they gave
a pair of gloves or a white silk pocket-handkerchief
to the officiating clergyman.
Have many such blessed your basket and
store yet, Mr Berwick?'

A few. But umbrellas, that are lost or
exchanged the same week as received, are
the blessings which usually fall to me said
the minister of Auchterbrechan.

'And smoking-caps,' insinuated cousin
Jack, ' and slippers ; your fair parishioners
pile up these upon your shrine ? '

1 Do they ? No ; that is all an idea about
smoking-caps and slippers and fair parishioners.
My fair parishioners are very shy
of me.'

But didn't the earl's daughter give you
a penwiper ?' lisped Miss Langbiggin.

She did ; the merry-thought of a fowl got

up like an ecclesiastic, in gown and bands.
My aunt thinks it a great hit as a likeness,
but I decline to see that

1 Your aunt must be right,' said Mrs
Brackenburn. ' I never knew her wrong
yet. Your aunt is the nicest woman in
Laighbield (myself not excepted !), and the
handsomest. Miss Berwick much reminds
me of your Aunt Marjorie, Dugald/

The idea ! Mr Berwick's aunt, an unlettered
countrywoman, likened to Dugald's
stately Aunt Marjorie.

1 Can't say, I'm sure,' was the frigid
rejoinder ; ' not happening to have the
honour of Miss Berwick's acquaintance.'

Yes,' pursued Mrs Brackenburn, ' Miss
Berwick is one of those large-natured, sympathetic
women, who make creatures such as
I understand a little how it must feel to have
a mother. She is tall and large and handsome,
like Mrs Cassillis, too  so handsome.
On Sundays sometimes I just give myself
up to the pleasure of looking at her. I have
a special dispensation from my husband, you

must know ; he lets me off from paying particular
attention to his sermons in church,
seeing that I listen meekly to so many
sermons at home.'

My wife would hardly need to have a
rigidly literal interpreter,' observed Dr
Brackenburn, looking down at her indulgently.


Cousin Jack shrugged his shoulders. Mr
Berwick smiled. Mr Urquhart said to himself,
' How utterly preposterous is all this
babble V

Dugald and his cousin Matilda could not
shine in the same firmament : in Mrs Brandenburg's
vicinity a man of sterling qualities
had no chance of doing himself justice ;
near Mrs Brackenburn everything but false
flash and meretricious glitter was ignored.
Strange it was that Dr Brackenburn, marvel
of erudition as he was said to be, should
permit, nay, even countenance, such contemptible
prattle.

But Dr Brackenburn wanted ' a rest, a
change ; ' that was all. And this his wife

supplied ; yes, and for him, far more effectively
than would have been done by any
Ursula Elvester or Katie Langbiggin in
the world. So the little woman talked
nonsense, and the others encouraged her ;
and Dugald sat disapproving and apart,
till a messenger came in hot haste for Dr
Brackenburn. A Laighbield slater had been
killed by falling from the roof of a house in
the neighbouring village of Dykeside ; and
none but the minister must break the news
to the man's family.

Mrs Brackenburn followed her husband
downstairs, her laughter hushed, and big
tears gathering in her eyes.

Oh, I am sorry,' she said. ' I saw George
Choppin on Saturday coming from the public-house
; and oh, Alan, I laughed (was it not
wicked ?)  laughed at what ought to have
made me sad ; and now I shall never, never
be able to do anything for him to make
amends.'

\ Never for him, Matilda; but there are
many such left.'

1 Could I go with you to see if I might be
of use ? '

1 My dear, it would not do,' and Dr
Brackenburn unclasped the slim fingers
which clung about his arm. * You forget
your friends ; besides, you are better away
from a scene so painful as that will be
where I am going.'

Why better away ? Am I so tender
that I must not even go near another woman
in her suffering, in case my feelings should
be too much harrowed ? Is not this selfishness
? '

1 There is no selfishness in staying away
from scenes of distress, when your witnessing
them would do no good to anybody. And
I know from experience that you would dono
good there to-night. To-morrow you
shall see what service can be rendered.'
With that he kissed her and went away.

Wonderfully quiet and subdued she looked
when she returned to the drawing-room.
Dugald, who so strongly objected to his
cousin's liveliness, must be pleased now, one

would imagine. But not at all. The sobered
face, the lashes scarcely dry,  what of these ?
Tush ! Affectation, sham sentiment, the
assumption of an attitude intended to be
interesting,  nothing less or more. It was
too much to ask one to believe that Matilda
Brackenburn could really feel for the family
of some slater or other who had accidentally
got killed. This criticism of his hostess,
however, came in merely by the way ; for
he had once more established himself a
fixture, by Ursula, to whom he talked on
unceasingly, his subject :  I, my, mine, me.
He wound about, and in and out, telling of
the wonders he had looked at, the pageants
he had taken part in, and the words of
wisdom he had spoken, to his own supreme
satisfaction. We each have our weakness.
Even Mr Urquhart had his. And Mr Urquhart's
was a propensity to confuse himself
with his cousin Glen, and, so confused,
to appropriate lavishly of the experiences
and conversation of Captain Cassillis.

Ursula knew nothing about this mistaken

identity illusion ; she only did know that,
if ever a woman was weary of a man's talk,
she was that weary woman now. At an
early hour the little party broke up, and then,
for the first time since their formal handshaking,
Ursula came in contact with Donald
Berwick. Being sooner ready than Miss
Langbiggin, she went into the hall, and there
found the minister of Auchterbrechan waiting
for his lady. He was studying the barometer
; but turned at her approach, ready
either to speak or to be silent, as suited her.
It was hers to decide. Well ; what was
past and gone between them had left no
traces upon him, and certainly it was not
her place to remind him, by anything in her
manner, of what he had so wisely forgotten.
So she must speak.

I suppose Auchterbrechan is quite an important
little sea-port ? ' she remarked.

This was the extreme of common-place,
sure enough. She knew that, but could not
help herself.

Important as Cornrigshire goes,' he said ;

1 but I am afraid that Auchterbrechan is not
an interesting place to talk about.'

Not so interesting as Laighbield ? ' she
asked.

Why, no,' he answered ; ' in Auchter-
grecian we haven't got any factories.'

This was ironical. He did not choose to
be patronised and made to talk about what
his questioner did not care for one jot, but
only mentioned in order to give something
to say to him. Then fearing that he had
been rude, he put irony aside, and inquired if
Ursula had been through any of the Lichfield
bonnet factories. Ah, those factories !
Mr Berwick's thoughts naturally turned to
one of them, of course.

I have not been,' said Ursula ;  but my
sister Jenny has. She likes to see into such
things ; she is so very practical.'

Is Miss Elvester quite well, and your
other sisters ? '

Thanks ; yes. They are all well. My
sister Christian is not with us now, but is
a governess in Netherlaw.'

She coloured a little when she said this ;
it was a very sore point with her.

I was in Netherlaw the other day, and
saw your sister driving in the park,' said
Mr Berwick. ' She did not observe me,
however.'

1 If she had, I am sure she would have
got the carriage stopped, that she might
speak with you. She is  we are all  so glad
to see anybody connected with Shetland.'

For Ursula had now come to the conclusion
that she might as well speak freely
of her lost home, since to refrain only made
her think about it all the more.

1 It seems such a long, long time since we
left,' she added, with a sigh which would not
be repressed. ' Do you often have tidings
of Brestaa, Mr Berwick ? ' (The pretty way
she had of saying Berwick !)

I hear once in a while from Gledcairny,'
was the answer. ' I believe I shall be
wanted there early in summer to marry him.
I did not expect, when leaving Brestaa, to be
quite so soon back again.'

Ursula involuntarily drew a step closer
to him  he could not even suspect her of
patronising now,  and there was a strange
longing in the grave, blue eyes that gleamed
through their long jet fringes. Mr Berwick
was going back to Brestaa. Then, to be
beside him made one almost feel as if one
were a little nearer home. Home ! Poor
Ursula.

But whom does your friend marry ? ' she
inquired.

Don't you know ? I suppose you must
have heard. He marries Miss Ulla Gie.'

But Ursula had never heard till now, and
she exclaimed, 

Ulla Gie to marry the doctor of Brestaa ! '

Oh, but it is all right,' said Mr Berwick ;
1 he is of a family as good as her own, even
though he is only the doctor of Brestaa.' He
spoke in the most matter-of-fact tone, not
letting the sneer, if sneer there was, touch
the sound of his words at all.

I was not thinking of that,' she returned,
with a gentleness which surprised him. ' My

wonder was about not having been told the
news by anybody at home, in Shetland, I mean.'

No more could be said, for just then Miss
Langbiggin appeared, and her Mr Berwick
had forthwith to attend on her way.

Mrs Brackenburn was thoroughly dissatisfied
with the turn matters had taken. What
business had cousin Jack to usurp Mr Berwick's
place with the one lady ; and it was
even more provoking that Dugald Urquhart
should so completely have monopolised the
other. But having now seen Miss Langbiggin
safely off in charge of the proper man, she
tried to right the remaining wrong also, by
inciting her cousin Jack to escort Ursula.
But Jack said, 

1 What ! drive a friend mad with jealousy ?
No, I thank you, Marionette.'

Come, be a good boy,' she insisted.
You are not much to brag of, I daresay ;
still, I should like you to find favour in the
eyes of Princess Ursula.'

There must be no fighting,' said Jack.
I am a man of peace.'

1 Who thinks of fighting? And just confess,
now, isn't my princess every bit as
charming as I told you ? '

Every bit as charming as you told me,'
echoed Jack.

1 If I were a man, would / stand by and
see somebody else win such a girl, when my
chances were at least as good as his ? '

But Jack was obdurate.

She is too costly for every day,' he said ;
and I am like Beatrice in my tastes. I
would not have such a mate, unless I could
have another for working-days.'

So his cousin was left to bewail the contrariety
of things, and to ponder upon the
futility of all human schemes ; and Mr
Urquhart was Ursula's present portion.

Dugald had always some sanitary hobby
to ride. Just at present it was that all pulmonary
complaints might be mainly traced
to incaution, and would be little heard of if
persons would but adhere to one very simple
rule : on going out at night the lips must be
kept tightly closed, so that the air, instead of

being taken into the lungs at once, should
reach them by way of the nostrils ; this for
ten minutes, after which the mouth might
safely be opened, and the air permitted to
descend in its raw state to the now prepared
lungs. When she heard this theory propounded,
Ursula took courage. She would
walk home so fast that little time for conversation
would remain, and she did. Dugald,
in dumb show, entreated her to take more
leisure ; but either she was blind or would
not see, till at last he could hold out no
longer, and, leaving his lungs at the mercy
of chance, proceeded to remonstrate. ' Why
such speed ? Was it not pleasant to linger
under heaven's crystal canopy, watching the
silent march of these glittering stars ? ' But
pleasant it assuredly was not, with Mr
Urquhart as a companion, and less pleasant
than ever, when Mr Urquhart had ceased
to imitate the silent march of the glittering
stars. Not every night is one thrown into
the company of a poet ; but this foolish girl
did not appreciate the privilege. So far
vol. 11. 1

from that, she entered The Brae thinking, as
she drew her breath with a sense of liberty
and relief, that while Mr Urquhart might bean
excellent man and an estimable member
of society, anything like the oppressiveness
of his manner she had never before endured.

But she had soon something else to occupy
her. An open letter lay on the table.

From Hilyascord,' said Miss Elvester.
1 Ulla Gie is to be married to that young doctor
at Brestaa. It has come as a surprise on
all the connection. What  what, in the name
of common sense, is the meaning of this ?'

Her exclamation was caused by the sight
of an apparition gliding through the half-open
door.

I wanted to tell Ursula explained the
ghostly visitant  for it was only Ulrica in her
night-dress,  ' and of course she has been
later than usual to-night.'

I You unconscionable little soul, you ought
to have been asleep two hours ago ! ' cried
Miss Elvester.

I I took Christian's telegram with me, on

purpose that I might keep awake,' avowed
Ulrica.

Ursula was startled.

Christian's telegram ? ' she repeated.

1 Here it is,' said Ulrica ; ' a messenger
from Braidmoss brought it. Isn't it mysterious
! '

And she handed the slip of brown paper
to Ulrica, who thereupon wonderingly
read, 

" From Christian Elvester, Netherlaw, to
Miss Elvester, The Brae, Laighbield.

" Can't stay here longer. Shall be with
you tomorrow. Early train." '

A HEROINE IN SPITE OF HERSELF.

1 There's a lake in the midst,
And round its banks tall wood that branches o'er,
And makes a kind of fairy forest grow
Down in the water.'

[T was while Mr Urquhart was flying
from before the face of one young
lady that he found himself thus
suddenly at the feet (or at least in the state
of mind which was equivalent with him to
being at the feet) of another. Miss Kirkpatrick
was on a visit to Craigie Urquhart.
No doubt MoncriefT called this Maryanne
Kirkpatrick a ' bore of a girl,' resented her
inconvenient propensity for hunting after
patterns and stitches, and commented most

disparagingly on her personal appearance.
But with people of Moncrieff's stamp friendship
does not in the least debar, from criticism,
and it is more than likely that Maryanne had
on her side many a flaw to point to in the
character of her dearest Moncrieff.

It is seemly that a young lady should be
engaging. But Miss Kirkpatrick was too
engaging. Her friend's brother, at all events,
considered her so ; and when she playfully
reprimanded him for having absented himself
altogether from the bazaar, and called him
You naughty, naughty man, you ! ' he felt
that it would not do ; so piously remembered
various relatives whom he had not visited for
some time past, and, under cover of previous
engagements, got himself securely away.

Miss Kirkpatrick had been more affable
to Mr Urquhart than he could bear, yet hers
was not that impartial sunshine which freely
blesses all. Her sunshine was discriminative
; none of it was wasted upon  governesses
for example. To Christian, who with
her charge partook of Moncrieff s hospitality

one day about this time, Miss Kirkpatrick's
manner was not only not affable, it was
even a little less than civil, and at Craigie
Urquhart Christian was for the first time
made to feel how uncomfortable the position
of a governess may possibly be. Moncrieff
did not herself take any active part against
Christian, but if Maryanne chose to do so
what cared she ? For was it not quite true,
as Maryanne said, that Miss Elvester was
made over much of by Aunt Marjorie 
treated, indeed, far more like a daughter of
the house than a dependent ; and did not
Glen, too, always hold her up as a pattern
to one ? That was the really aggravating
bit. If Maryanne, then, liked to snub Miss
Elvester a little, no harm was done, and
Miss Elvester was only served right.

Christian, who had come to Craigie
Urquhart not to please herself, but because
Mrs Cassillis wished her and Willie to spend
a bright spring day in the country, fared
pretty much as the unbidden guest of the
proverb is said to fare. And besides having

to ' sit unserved ' she had to sit alone,
while, under one pretext or another, Willie
was kept apart from her and petted outrageously
by Miss Kirkpatrick, whose love
for children was a phase of character developed
for the occasion. So, forsaken,
Christian found her way to the great gallery
that ran along the top of the house, and
tried to make time go faster by wandering
up and down, studying the allegorical frescoes
which covered the vaulted roof, and reading
the French legends attached. Here she was
presently joined by Willie, who had made
his escape from Miss Kirkpatrick's caresses.
After a thoughtful promenade of the gallery
by her side, he asked, 

Miss Elvester, zxz you a lady ?'
Christian hoped and believed she was.
I was sure you weren't just a woman ! '
he cried.

My dear Willie, all ladies are women.'
Yes ; but aren't some only women and
not ladies ? And Miss Maryanne says you
are  '

Hush, dear ; don't tell me. It isn't right.
But why isn't it right?'

Christian had not time to say why, for just
as the question was asked, Miss Kirkpatrick
came tripping in search of the questioner.

1 You bad, little rogue ! ' she exclaimed,
snatching the truant up. ' Why did you runaway,
when I was so good to you ? '

I was tired ; I wanted my Miss Elvester,'
he replied, with the candour of extreme youth.

1 But you'll come with me now, darling.
Cousin Moncrieff and I are going out, and
you'll have such great fun. Come, Willie.'

I beg your pardon, Miss Kirkpatrick,'
interposed Christian ; ' but he will only be in
your way. I am quite sure he had better
stay with me.'

Such harshness ! Miss Kirkpatrick was
astounded.

1 How can you grudge the poor thing a
little pleasure ? ' she ejaculated. ' Tell your
governess, ducky, that she must let you come.
Cousin Moncrieff will show you such lovely,
beautiful things

What sort ? ' inquired Willie, with some
curiosity.

1 Just come and see,' said Maryanne.

I want to go and see,' cried the child.

Miss Urquhart asked me to fetch him
added Miss Kirkpatrick, ' and she is mistress
in this house ; isn't she, Miss Elvester ? '

Christian's face flushed. She understood
the situation perfectly, and how it was intended
to bring a contest about, but Christian
would not condescend to fight. She quietly
yielded the point, therefore, and suffered
Willie to be taken. Immediately afterwards
she too went out to the grounds, for she
dared not lose sight of her charge. She
must be at hand to receive him back when
his present companions should wish to get
rid of him.

Christian had never been to Craigie
Urquhart before, and as she crossed the
park outwards, she turned to have a good
look at the place, so as to assure herself that
her eyes had not been playing her false when
she arrived in the morning ; that the man-storehouse

was really like what it had then
appeared to her. This second view fully
confirmed the impression left by the first.
Such a mingling of odd whimsies and freaks
had surely never before been perpetrated in
the name of architecture. What school the
original building might belong to, no man
living could tell. It had been improved
upon, and overlaid, and heightened, and
widened, and broadened, until now you
could not so well say that it had been added
to, as that it was additions.

Passing from the park, Christian came
next into the shrubberies. Mr Urquhart's
shrubs were cut into patterns, Dutch style ;
and they were his special pride. No shrubberies
in Scotland touched his, he was fond
of telling people ; and if by ' touching,' he
meant coming near in strange fantastically,
he may well have had reason for the boast.
Yet, in spite of their owner's glory in them,
one could not help fancying that the plants
must feel and resent having been clipped so
out of all similitude to nature.

Out of the shrubberies into the woods,
where the moss was spangled with primroses,
and the trees were awake and waiting
to be dressed. Having emerged, Christian
climbed a knoll, from whose height
could be descried, looming through its smoky
vapours, miles away, the tallest chimney stalk
in Netherlaw. But she never even glanced
at that ugly reminder ; her whole attention
was given to a picture in the hollow on her
other hand.

A lake just large enough to sail a pleasure
boat on ; happy Willie throwing pebbles into
it ; Moncrieff and Maryanne sauntering arm-in-arm
through the trees that fringed its
margin. The air was full of soft brightness
; over the ground lay a suggestion of
green  the shadow of coming summer cast
before ; the voices of the birds went in
pleasant unison with the audible pulsing of
the water.

Christian was just taking notice how high
the bank was, and how, instead of sloping
gradually towards the lake, it stood steeply

up all round, when  a plash ! a succession of
shrieks. The child was struggling among
the rushes. Miss Kirkpatrick seemed petrified
past both speech and action ; those calls
for help came from Moncrieff.

A rope ! get a rope ! ' cried Christian, as
she made her swift way by ; and then she
flung off her heavy outer garments, and
plunged into the lake. To swim came as
easy to the Shetland girl as to dance ; so she
was fearless  fearless for herself, but in terror
indescribable about the child. Happily she
did not lose her presence of mind. Watching
her opportunity, she caught the unconscious
boy as he rose to the surface for the last
time, and so kept afloat till help came. Fortunately
the gardener's house stood near, and
MoncriefFs cries being heard there, the child
and his governess were soon safe on dry
land.

Willie required a good deal of care and
nursing for some time after this ; but
Christian took no harm from her wetting.
The affair got into the local papers

though, and was made the very most of
there, so that Mrs Cassillis's governess
became, to her own extreme confusion, a
sort of nine-days' wonder in Netherlaw  a
heroine in spite of herself.

WHY CHRISTIAN COULD NOT STAY LONGER
IN Netherland.

We'll draw thee from the mire

Of this (save reverence) love, wherein thou sticks

Up to the ears.'

ET one be really good and noble
through a lifetime, and likelier
than not it is never heard of
Christian was driven to exclaim impatiently
these days ; ' but just do something a little
out of the way, and though it may not have
cost you an effort, what an ado everybody
will make about it.'

Miss Urquhart's view of the case was
somewhat similar. She wondered why there

should be such a bother. Christian was
lauded to the skies for having saved the
child, and Moncrieff was quite passed by ;
whereas, in effect, Moncrieff had saved both
the child and Christian ; for if she had not
screamed so loudly, nobody would have
known of the accident and come to the
rescue. Yet not a soul thought of saying a
single word about her in the matter. One-idea
that she was, however, Moncrieff before
long had the vexation in question replaced
in her mind by anticipations of the
forthcoming Bachelors' Ball.

Now, about the date of this most select of
Netherlaw gaieties, Craigie Urquhart became
uninhabitable for the time being. The whole
house was thrown into confusion, in order
that the gas-pipes, laid only a few years
before, might be lifted again, Dugald having
somewhat fallen upon the alarming discovery
that gaslight is unfavourable to longevity.
Turned out of Craigie Urquhart, Moncrieff
lost no time in effecting a comfortable settlement
for herself at Argyll Gardens. Mrs

Cassillis had gone from home to pay some
visits, taking Willie with her for his health's
sake, and only the governess remained. It
was barely a week since Christian's trip to
Craigie Urquhart, but Christian did not allow
the remembrance of that day to affect in the
smallest measure her treatment of Moncrieff.
So she listened patiently to many hopes and
doubts and fears before the ball, then lent a
helping hand to adorn the beauty for the ball,
and subsequently gave ear to a full and particular
record of the belle's so brilliant course
throughout the ball. After all which, she
was very ready for a change of theme  any
theme, she said to herself; even Aunt
Euphemia's church politics would come as a
relief.

Moncrieff at last got tired of the topic
herself, and as there was none other to
supersede it, gave voice to the wish that one
could get rid of the dulness and stupidity of
things in general by going to sleep for a
week or a fortnight at a time. She was
dawdling between the front and back 

when she said this  a picture of
utter aimlessness.

Christian, busy at her usual forenoon fancy-work
among the flowers, was arranging primroses
in a basket of moss. It was pleasant
to watch her about it, she being one of those
women with that soft, caressing manner of
handling things, which imparts to the onlooker
a peculiarly restful sensation.

Glancing up at her listless companion
laughingly, she said, 

To sleep for half the year might be better
still ; never to have had an existence, would
not that have been best of all ? '

It would require an impossibly great mental
effort to lay hold upon the idea of never
having existed at all ; but to sleep during one
half of the year, that Moncrieff could grasp,
and that she did not approve of; for what,
in such a case, of ball toilets, skating costumes,
spring bonnets on the one hand, of
the summer and autumn equivalents of these
on the other ? Oh no, indeed ! even though
you did find yourself reduced to the extremity

VOL. II. K

of boredom now and then, as things were,
you would not be so absurd as to wish for a
sleep half-a-year long. That ridiculous notion
disposed of, Moncrieff had a demand to make.

Do put some of those Glen lilies in my
hair,' she said, stopping before the crystal
bowl, where a number of the flowers in question
floated amidst their supple, long green
leaves.

She was instantly gratified. Two of the
yellow lilies were taken out of the water and
set against the intense darkness of her hair.
There not being a mirror, great or small, in
either of the drawing-rooms (that was a whim
of Glen's), the beauty, for want of better,
declared that she would look at herself in
Miss Elvester's eyes. This was freely permitted,
but with a result which scarcely
pleased Moncrieff: one's neighbour's eyes
are by no means flattering looking-glasses,
she found. The sight of herself there sent
her off at once to seek reassurance at proper
quarters, an expedition from which she presently
returned completely satisfied.

Do you know,' said she, coming and
placing her arms round Christian's shoulders
not from affection, but she wanted something
soft to lean upon, ' I almost begin to
wish I hadn't had my front hair cut. Glen
doesn't like it.'

What a pity sympathised Christian.
1 And how obliging of your cousin to advise
you about your hair-dressing.'

But isn't it really ill-natured not to admire
the fringe ? I do wish he wouldn't be so
odd. Fancy his calling earrings a remnant
of barbarism, just as if the more civilised you
were, you didn't have the handsomer earrings.
Is it to please Glen that you have
laid them off, Miss Elvester ? '

Christian put up her hands, and pushed
away the hair from a pair of the smallest,
prettiest ears.

I never wore them,' was her reply. * My
eldest sister cannot bear the fashion, and none
of us have had our ears pierced.'

Christian's eldest sister's opinion and
Christian's family's ears were subjects which

did not tempt Moncrieff to glance at them
even aslant. She quitted her support, and
wandered to the window to reconnoitre ; fora
conveyance of some description had stopped
at the door.

Here is Aunt Euphemia,' she announced
discontentedly. ' She is lecturing the cabdriver,
and her jacket is like a sack, and her
bonnet as bulging as a tea-cosy. She will
want me to go into town with her  1 know
she will. But I can't go ; I caught a dreadful
cold at the ball; you know I did, Miss
Elvester.'

You forget to tell me,' said Christian ;
for indeed I've not heard of it till now.'

Oh, I feel quite ill !  yes, I do ! ' cried
Moncrieff; and she hurried to the diningroom,
wrapped herself in a sofa-blanket,
dropped into an easy-chair, simulated a
cough to the best of her ability, seized the
morning's Reflector, and fixed her eyes
steadily upon the leading article ;  such was
the fear she had of being carried by Mrs
Cassillis of Baronshaugh to any of the ecclesiastical

councils which that zealous Free
Church-woman was in the habit of frequenting.
What the newspaper had to do with
the performance is not so clear. Probably
Moncrieff felt that anybody seeing her reading
an editorial must directly be convinced
that she was very much out of her usual
indeed.

Christian, meanwhile, went on with her
work. Five or ten minutes passed, and she
was in the act of carrying a flower vase from
one stand to another, when Moncrieff came
back, with scarlet cheeks and in a state of
high excitement.

What is wrong ? what is wrong ? ' cried
Christian, thoroughly frightened.

Oh, but it is too dreadful ! ' pouted Mon-cries.
' Cousin Glen has been killed  too,
too dreadful ! '

Christian's hands fell by her sides, the
vase lay in fragments about her feet. She
gazed at the other girl with horror-filled
eyes, and her face was as drained of colour
as Moncrieff s was flooded with it.

It is all in the papers,' went on Moncrieff.
I saw it by chance just now. Another
officer shot him by mistake, and he is dead.
It has given me such a shock ;' and she
flung herself full length on the lounge, crying
that it was too cruel, and then got up again,
declaring that she was going to be ill  she
was sure she was going to be ill.

At this crisis entered Mrs Gassillis of
Baronshaugh, solemn and severe. After
brief scrutiny of the white-faced figure that
never moved from among the fragments of
the vase to give her greeting, she throned
herself upon the piano-stool  because it was
the only seat with no back to it.

'Good morning, Miss Elvester,' said she.
It is a pity you have broken that ornament.
Mrs Cassillis valued it on various
accounts. She will never be able to get it
replaced.'

Oh, how the harsh tones jarred ! Christian
tried to say that she was sorry for the'
mischance, but words would not come. She
stooped, and with trembling hands began

mechanically to gather together the scattered
pieces.

Aunt Euphemia now turned her attention
to Moncrieff.

1 You have raised a most foolish, a most
needless ado,' she said. ' If you had taken
time to read the paragraph to the end, you
would have seen that it refers to another
man altogether  a retired naval officer in
the south of France

The grating tones sounded quite melodious
now. But the sudden relief following
upon the as sudden alarm made Christian
giddy, and she had to take hold
of the nearest piece of furniture for
support.

Moncrieff, not. at all impressed by the
homily which Aunt Euphemia went on to
deliver on the duty of making sure of a
matter before proclaiming it, started up,
threw away her grief like a garment, and
gave lively vent to her satisfaction. She
would have felt really sorry, had Glen been
dead, but since he was not dead, she devoutly

thanked Heaven that mourning would
not be required, for 

Nothing in the world is so unbecoming
to me

I will tell you what is a great deal more
unbecoming to you,' said Aunt Euphemia
grimly, ' that cropped hair overhanging your
brow. Yes, my dear ; that is unbecoming
in every sense of the word. What would
Saint Paul have said to such a fashion, do
you suppose ? '

1 Oh, he was an old bachelor, of course,'
rejoined Moncrieff disrespectfully.

She, too, was of opinion that ' They didn't
know everything down in Judge.'

The apostle of the Gentiles was a
widower, it is now believed,' corrected Aunt
Euphemia.

'Was he, indeed?' responded careless
Moncrieff. ' How funny ! '

1 Not in the smallest degree funny, my
dear. But to keep to the subject : I ask
you how any well-reared young woman can
feel that it is proper to go about the world

reminding all who look upon her of a
convict ?'

1 Good heavens ! Aunt Euphemia ! '

1 Moncrieff, I beg and pray that you will
give up the use of such an unlady-like, not
to say unchristian expression. And I repeat
it with perfect deliberation,  your hair is cut
on the convict's pattern exactly. Something,
it appears to me, must be radically
wrong with the moral sense of any one who
voluntarily assumes the fashion of a felon.'

Felon had an even more offensive sound
than convict. But who would be cast down
by criticism coming from the wearer of such
a jacket ?  of such a bonnet ?  assuredly not
Moncrieff.

Christian had meantime recovered her
self-possession ; and to her the lady of
Baronshaugh now returned. Mrs Cassillis
would fain know the cause of this agitation.
What was Captain Glen to Miss
Christian Elvester, that the young lady
should break a costly vase to shivers when
told that the young man was dead ? Sudden

deaths among one's acquaintances happened
often, and yet one was not over much
perturbed.

An idea dawned upon Moncrieff.

1 Oh, it is too absurd ! ' she said ; ' but
you must be in love with cousin Glen ; are
you, Miss Elvester ? '

A look was Christian's only answer.

'It is true, it is true!' chanted Moncrieff
provokingly ; ' you may not deny that it is ;
you would if you could, but you can't.'

i A statement of that sort needs no denial,'
said Christian with dignity.

But it's true ! but it's true ! ' insisted Mon-cries,
in her aggravating sing-song. ' Dugald
said so before, only I had forgotten. Did
not Dugald say, Aunt Euphemia, that Miss
Elvester was quite plainly setting her cap
at cousin Glen ? and didn't Aunt Marjorie
tell him that  '

1 Such vulgar language, Moncrieff, is most
abhorrent to me,' interrupted Aunt Euphemia;
and it is, in the circumstances, highly indecorous
besides. If Miss Christian Elvester

has, unfortunately for herself, been guilty of
any imprudence, it is no subject for flippant
jesting. It is a grief to me that you are
not more seriously disposed. If, instead of
balls and theatres, you would accompany
me  '

Excuse me a minute, I believe I've left
my handkerchief downstairs,' said Moncrieff;
but no sooner was she outside the door than
she looked in again, and catching Christian's
eye, waved the said handkerchief towards
Aunt Euphemia, whose back was turned, and
indulged in a little pantomime of triumph at
her own cleverness, ere she finally withdrew.

Christian paid no attention to Moncrieff.

4 What have I done, Mrs Cassillis ? What
imprudence have I been guilty of ? ' she
inquired.

1 Your position here has been one of
peculiar difficulty and delicacy,' returned
Mrs Cassillis of Baronshaugh, nothing loth
to explain. ' I have said from the first that
you are too young and too  ahem  too
attractive for the post. Your employer,

however, believed that she knew best ; and
she looked on you as a young lady above
any sort of manoeuvring.'

'And I am above manoeuvring,' said Christian.
' And I don't think anybody will
accuse me of having forgotten on what
footing I came here ; though Mrs Cassillis
would have made me forget it if she
could.'

There can be no question about that,
Miss Christian Elvester ; and Captain Cas-willis
(who has been frequently at home since
his regiment removed to Mucklestanes, too
frequently, I think) has also, I daresay, done
his best to make you forget.'

Christian would not answer this ; how she
felt may be imagined.

My nephew's freedom of manner towards
young ladies is distinctly reprehensible,' proceeded
the Lady of Baronshaugh ; ' I do
not judge you. You yourself know what
object you had in coming here, and with
what object you remain.'

'Do you mean that I  ' commenced

Christian, but got no further ; she could
not put anything so repugnant into words.

I say nothing about you? returned Mrs
Cassillis ; ' nothing, except that you will not
be consulting your own dignity if you remain
here longer ; and that you had better go
home to your sensible sister and let her
take care of you : that is my opinion, Miss
Christian Elvester, and my advice

I thank you,' said Christian in a low,
but quite steady voice ; ' I will go home.
After what you have said, nothing would
tempt me to stay. As for Captain Cassillis,
there has been nothing in his manner towards
me such as you imagine  nothing ; not a
shadow of blame rests on him so far as I
am concerned.'

1 His attentions to you, I repeat, have
been distinctly reprehensible ! ' cried Mrs
Cassillis of Baronshaueh.

Captain Cassillis has paid me only the
attention which any one in his place would
naturally pay to any one in mine ; but excuse
me, please, from saying or hearing more on

such a subject ; ' and, with a manner quite
wonderfully like that of Princess Ursula,
Christian passed from the presence.

So Mrs Cassillis of Baronshaugh had at
last relieved her conscience by taking sure
measures for getting rid of what she had
all along held to be a serious mistake
in the household of her sister-in-law ; but
not thinking that the riddance would be an
immediately accomplished fact, she turned
to other matters for the time. Christian,
however, had no idea of delay. Not an
hour must be put off. She would not, could
not, should not wait for the return of the
mistress of the house. She rushed at once
into the thick of her preparations.

Presently, to the door of the chamber
came Moncrieff. It was locked ; but locks
did not instruct Miss Urquhart. That
Christian chose to deny herself was nothing,
if Moncrieff chose not to be denied.

Do, do let me in,' the besieger cried.
What is the sense of beings disagreeable
and cross ? '

What was the sense indeed ? And yet,
though one did almost exempt this butterfly
from the onus of moral responsibility, one
could not but feel a little resentful after such
things had been said.

1 Don't be silly ; there's a good creature,'
persisted Moncrieff. ' I have such a piece of
news for you  something quite too comical.
Won't you open to me ? '

So Christian was obliged to open to her.

It is a great secret, of course,' said Mon
criefif, as she came triumphantly in. ' Aunt
Euphemia is to be married in a week.'

Christian had, ere now, on hearing of
some unlikely match, taken a resolution to
be surprised at no matrimonial announcement
evermore. But such vows are seldom
kept.

Your Aunt Euphemia to be married ! '
she echoed in a sort of amused horror  ' to
be married ! '

1 To Dr Doig Sledgehammer,' said Mon-cries.
' I think Dr Doig Sledgehammer
must be rather mad, you know. Aunt

Euphemia calls him an apostolic man ; but
I don't believe the apostles ever wore such
boots  so creaking, and as big as boats.
Cousin Quentin will have a new parent now
how droll ! But he will marry as soon ashe
comes of age, of course. Should you like
to be Lady of Baronshaugh, Miss Elvester?'

Not I,' said Christian.

I should,' frankly avowed Moncrieff. ' I
am going there tomorrow,' she added, ' to
stay till after the marriage with Dugald and
cousin Quentin. Aunt Euphemia has an
appointment with Dr Doig Sledgehammer
now ; I wouldn't keep an appointment with
such a bugbear, I know.'

1 Dr Doig Sledgehammer, like Saint Paul,
is a widower,' supposed Christian. Moncrieff
nodded an affirmative.

'And the Sledgehammers,' she said, with
lowered voice and air of mystery, as if this
were a dark subject, and only to be handled
with gloved words, ' are all blue-stockings ;
they read Hebrew and study laws of things ;
they will never be married.'

And that is everything, of course,' said
Christian, putting up her lips.

Governesses have generally to be old
maids, haven't they ? ' presumed Moncrieff
gaily.

They haven't a quite fair chance, perhaps,'
suggested Christian ; but satire, however
well aimed, had a way of glancing harmlessly
aside from Moncrieff. She smiled divinely
therefore (atheist any of her numerous admirers
would have said it was divinely), and opined
that even governesses might sometimes marry
Old Calabar missionaries, prison chaplains,
or persons of that sort.' Then the notion
seized her to indite a note to Glen, congratulating
him on not being the Captain
Cassillis who was lately shot, and off she
went, never having asked the meaning of,
or in any way remarked upon the confusion
in the room. Her utter want of interest
was certainly convenient sometimes.

Until this day Christian had not herself
known how deep was her interest in Glen
Cassillis, and even now she would fain have

VOL. II. L

persuaded herself that she was not that much-scorned
creature, a woman who has given her
heart unsought, that she cared for the man
only in a friendly fashion, as for one who had
been very kind to her always. Much could
be said of the feelings which afflicted the
girl this unhappy afternoon  pages might
be filled, but silence is best. There are
feelings which one seems to have no right to
meddle with.

Delivered from Moncrieff, Christian completed
her arrangements, and wrote to Mrs
Cassillis. Mrs Cassillis of Baronshaugh, she
stated, had spoken in a way which made it
impossible to the writer to remain at Argyll
Gardens. She begged to be forgiven for her
breach of engagement ; she returned thanks
for the great and unvarying kindness which
she had ever received ; and she would always
remain Mrs Cassillis' obliged and affectionate
Christian Elvester.

And now to send a telegram to The
Brae, that the edge of her sisters' astonishment
might be off before the cause of it

should appear. On her way she came face
to face with Miss Kirkpatrick, and was
passed by, without a sign of recognition.
The incident provoked a smile, and the reflection,
 ' What great people we Elvesters
used to imagine ourselves, and now we are
too low in life to be acknowledged on the
street by the young ladies of Netherlaw.'

Threading the public thoroughfares has a
certain effect in diverting the mind from private
vexations ; so making her way through
busy Netherlaw, Christian lost distinct consciousness
of her trouble. It remained, of
course  as the dull pain of headache remains,
though you may not every moment be thinking
of it,  but she had that feeling which one
experiences when mingling with a crowd, that
curious sensation of merging personality in
the great throbbing life of the multitude.

In the spring sunshine Netherlaw was
looking its best. Royal Square had even an
air of freshness about it : indeed, the crocuses
growing in the centre part were as like
country crocuses as possible. Passengers

were bustling about the station ; tarriers fora
night were gazing from hotel windows ;
street arabs with merry whoops were forming
a procession after the jail van, and making
miraculous escapes every minute from the
cabs, spring carts, and worries which passed
and re-passed in uninterrupted stream ; infant
news vendors were spreading newly-printed
bills of evening-paper fare upon the pavement,
wherever room could be found. One of
these catalogues lying across Christian's path,
she informed herself that it began with 'A
lively scene in the Town Council,' and finished
with ' Dr Doig Sledgehammer on the Union
Question.'

A year since the girl might not have known
what this Union Question was ; now, thanks
to Mrs Cassillis of Baronshaugh, she was
well aware of the civil strife being waged in
the Free Church camp, and of how these
Christians loved one another ; and of the
certainty of a second Disruption, should
the proposed union with a sister dissenting
body be carried into effect.

This very afternoon Mrs Cassillisof Barons-haugh
and the Rev. Dr Doig Sledgehammer,
violent anti-unionists both, had been at a
meeting of those like minded with themselves,
taking private counsel together how
they might put a check upon the troublers of
their Zion, and when Christian looked up from
the news-bill, it was to behold this august pair
turning a corner within a few feet of her.

He has fallen away to the Voluntaries,'
the lady was saying, and she pronounced
1 Voluntaries ' with more virus than if it
had been ' Incendiaries.' ' As for the other,
he stands openly convicted of heresy  most
pestilent heresy. Dr Sledgehammer, I say, if
such as he be not made example of, the
ancient glory of Scotland has departed from
her

True, true, undoubtedly. Ay, undoubtedly,'
rejoined the able divine, her
companion,  whom, by the way, I do not
mean to describe ; one dares not rashly
comment upon the person of an apostolic
man.

The Westminster Confession set at
naught, the Standards disregarded, veiled infidelity
taught in more than one of our pulpits,'
resumed the lady of Baronshaugh ; but here
her eyes fell on the governess from Argyll
Gardens, so she stopped both discourse and
motion, and while her friend went slowly on,
waited to have speech with Christian.

Christian in Royal Square was no business
of hers, but there are persons who arrogate
to themselves the right of looking after everything
and everybody ; who would like nothing
better than to

1 See that the angels keep tune,
And watch that the sun and the moon
Do not squander the light they have got'

She tapped the wanderer's shoulder, therefore,
and required the reason of a young lady
being abroad by herself at an hour when the
counting-houses and offices were sending
forth their hundreds. An errand to the
General Post-office, was the explanation.
Was your letter one which could not

be entrusted to a servant ? ' Mrs Cassillis
would like to know.

And Christian saw that she was suspected
of a secret correspondence on the spot.

My letter was of no consequence,' she
said ; ' I came on purpose to send a telegram
to my sister.'

Money must be rife with you, Miss Christian
Elvester, if you can afford to correspond
by telegraph. I myself rarely use anything
but post-cards now  a great annual saving,
I can assure you. But young people have
no idea of economy.'

Economy being a favourite theme, she
might have descanted long enough on it, but
for the fact that Dr Doig Sledgehammer
awaited her under the shadow of St Barnabas,
in consideration of which circumstance she
contented herself with a few general ideas.

Sometime later, driving westward, she
espied among the pedestrians thronging
Lockerbie Street Christian Elvester again,
and  ah, yes, to be sure !  that vain-glorious
coxcomb, Fyfe Armstrong, the artist. It

was to be seen now why our artful little
governess should make errands to Royal
Street at this unseemly hour. Glen Cassillis
not to be had, a would-be genius would serve,
at least for flirting purposes, instead.

But had communication of a telephonic
nature been possible between Mrs Cassillis
and the pair she suspected, the flirtation
would have been found to be of a very
harmless character indeed. Christian was
disparaging Netherlaw, as strangers always
will ; Mr Fyfe Armstrong upholding it, as
natives always do.

You talk of our mists,' said he ; ' is there
no mist in Shetland ? '

'Yes,' she admitted, smiling  'dreamy,
silvery haze. But, pardon me, what Nether-law
calls mist is coffee-coloured, suffocating
fog, which one wants to cut one's way through
with a knife.'

Well, I give in about the fogs ; but fogs,
notwithstanding, there are good points about
Netherlaw. This very street, for instance 
this long, wide, broad-pavement Lockerbie

Street : look at the gay shops here, the handsome
houses with lawns and shrubberies
about them yonder, and say if we have
not before us as fine a promenade as anybody
could desire.'

The unfortunate thing about me is that I
don't appreciate promenades at all ; but that
may be because I haven't the poet's gift of
seeing the inner meaning of things.'

Ah, Miss Elvester, you are sarcastic
now.'

Not I,  only common-place. Don't you
keep telling us, you artists, that what we
every-day people see is but the outer husk of
what we look at ; what you seek for is the
truth within. I should like to get beyond
the symbol, if I might ; will you not help
me?'

1 How, pray ?'

Poets as they can, as it is revealed to
them, interpret Nature's picture-language for
us. Be an interpreter, then. Streets are
not Nature's works : of what are they the
picture-language, please ? '

And thus  and thus  went the ' flirtation '
on.

At the Western Cross these two young
persons parted. The one, as she went up
Argyll Gardens, said to herself, 

1 What spirits Mr Fyfe Armstrong is
always in. I shouldn't think anything ever
ruffles him. How happy he ! '

The reflection of the other at the very
same time was, 

1 That pretty creature is just a trifle too
sunny for a sombre world ; and you never
can be quite sure that she isn't laughing at
you ;  " dreamy, silvery haze, indeed ! " ' and
his lip curled Byronically as he ran up the
steps of a rather imposing house in a rather
imposing terrace, and admitted himself with
a latch-key.

Mist was a sore point with him to-day.
Upon his easel had lately been a coast-scene,
appointed to fill a vacant space on
the dining-room wall in the town residence
of Mr Baillie Geddes. The special charm
of the painting lay, as the artist himself

believed, in the half-revealing, half-concealing
veil of mist flung lightly over the faces
of the neighbouring hills. Not so judged
the Netherlaw art patron : the picture had
been returned to the studio in a hurry, that
it might have ' all that confounded fog
rubbed off.'

So Mr Fyfe Armstrong's heart was hot
within him, and his spirit as chafed as
Christian's. Yet meeting by the way, these
two had completely deceived each other, 
this happy young man, and that creature so
sunny as to be somewhat out of keeping
with a sombre world.

Early next morning, while MoncriefT was
still balmily slumbering, Christian set out for
Laighbield.

APRIL FOOLS.

1 Och-hon ! for somebody,
Och-hey ! for somebody.'

S not if the weightiest syllable in
the language ? In every affair of
life we find it. Yes and no are
qualified by it ; hopes and expectations, fears
and anxieties, hang upon it ; regret, remorse,
repentance, take up and echo it ; and sometimes
its consequence is greatest when
seeming least.

Now comes my fateful if.
If Moncrieff had penned the congratulatory
note to Glen at the time intended, her cousin
would have smiled over the billet, and there

would have been an end. As luck would
have it, however, something or other came
between her and her purpose, and two days
passed before she actually sat down to write.

She was at Baronshaugh ; and, oh, but
time was travelling at a snail's pace ! Not
rosy hours nor laughing hours ; but long,
dark, dreary hours were for the present
appointed her. The once delayed letter
would never have been written else. Shut
up with Aunt Euphemia, even letter writing,
so troublesome at other times, became a
resource.

It was the first of April. Spring showers
were plenteously watering the earth ; far too
plenteously, thought Moncrieff, for in such
weather she could neither visit nor expect
visitors. And this was what gave its peculiar
intensity to the dulness from which she suffered.
Her brother shared the confinement ;
but he, being a poet, was not so greatly to be
pitied. He could compose odes to rain drops,
or visions of cloudland, and so solace himself.

While Moncrieff wrote, Dugald occupied

the music-room, striking chords in a forcible
manner, and giving utterance to baritone
cadences of various lengths and degrees of
intricacy. His was the order of voice which,
unacceptable in solo singing, serves passably
well as background for a chorus ; but we do
not hear ourselves as others hear us, and Mr
Urquhart's own private belief was, that if he
should choose to become a singer by profession,
more than one public favourite might
bid the stage farewell.

While Moncrieff wrote and Dugald sang,
Quentin was out in the rain, for the first-named
had made a ' gowk ' of her easily-imposition
cousin, by despatching him to the
manse on the false information that Mrs
Brackenburn had sent, urgently desiring to
confer with him.

And while Moncrieff wrote and Dugald
sang and Quentin was out in the rain, Aunt
Euphemia sat opposite her niece in the
library, reading, with knit brow, " The Ten
Lost Tribes : An Enquiry and an Inference.
By Susannahh Inverarity."

This work had been sent to Baronshaugh,
with the author's compliments,' for which
reason Mrs Cassillis  unlike another friend
of ours in Laighbield, who skimmed recklessly
the books presented with authors' compliments,
and afterwards, if pressed sore for an
opinion, broke into admiration of type and
binding  would conscientiously read it to the
last sentence, and would not fail subsequently
to inform Susannahh Inverarity that she, the
author of " The Ten Lost Tribes," did diverge
in various essentials from sound doctrine
as set forth in the Standards and the Westminster
Confession.

Moncrieff having done with Glen, thought
she might next devote a few minutes to Mary-anne
Kirkpatrick, from whom she had received
several sheets of effusiveness in the
morning, and by whom she had been lovingly
besought to ' write by return.' So she would,
just for once in her life, write by return.
Perhaps you might like to see a specimen of
Miss Urquhart's epistolary style. Look here,
then, and admire.

My dear Creature,  I wish it would
stop raining. Everything is so stupid when
it rains. Aunt Euphemia is to be married on
Tuesday in a hotel at Netherlaw, but that is
a secret, so I mustn't tell. Nobody will be
there. She says there is no occasion for mummery.
They go to J jerusalem for the honeymoon,
and we stay here with cousin Quentin
till the workmen are out of Craigie Urquhart.
Do come and see us ; won't you ? I wish
Miss Elvester would call (she's not really
Miss Elvester, you know, but one can't calla
governess Miss Christian) ; but she never
comes near me, though she must know how
very dull I am. But it's because she's so mad
with me for finding out that she is so artfully
in love with somebody. He was thought to
have been killed, and she nearly fainted. She
couldn't then deny being in love, so Aunt
Euphemia gave her stick a scolding, and said
she ought to leave Argyll Gardens at once ;
and early next morning she left. It's too
funny to think of her being so fond of somebody,
when, of course, somebody never looks

at her. Poor somebody doesn't know that
I am engaged to cousin Quentin ; it isn't
exactly an engagement, but we understand
each other. I've been writing to somebody
just to please him ; he thinks so much of a
letter from me. If you come, bring me some
nice books, delightfully wicked, like " A
Fiery Furnace." Dear somebody was so absurdly
shocked when he saw that at Aunt
Marjorie's. I had to say it was Miss Elves-ter's,
and that made her so vexed. Of course
you know somebody means cousin Glen!

When she had written so far Moncrieff's
hand felt cramped, and her head probably
was in sympathy with it ; so she got up and
wandered to the music-room, to make an
April fool of her brother, by telling him that
Maryanne was coming along the avenue.
While she was enjoying Dugald's excited
stampede to the window, her cousin, newly back
from his fool's errand, went into the library.

On perceiving how his mother was engaged,
Quentin, like the good son he was, refrained
from disturbing her, and quietly seated him-vol.

II. M

self at the table which Moncrieff had quitted
a minute or so before. Taking note of the
two letters, the one unfinished, the other in
an envelope as yet unclosed, an idea stole
into his mind  his own experience suggested
it; he would  happy thought !  he would pay
back Moncrieff; he would make an April fool
of her, as she had made an April fool of him ;
he would change these letters. He had barely
carried into execution his daring design, put
the unfinished letter into the envelope, and
spread out the letter which had been taken
from the envelope in the other's place, when
Moncrieff re-entered.

Gloomily she came, for Dugald, instead of
appreciating her pleasantry, had been very
disagreeable ; had even gone the length of
saying that if she would imitate the graceful
dignity of demeanour which characterised 
Miss Ursula Elvester for example  it would
be an untold improvement on her present
style. But she brightened considerably on
seeing Quentin, and took great credit to herself
for having so adroitly fooled him.

1 Oh, but I say, Mrs Brackenburn thought
it wasn't much fun,' remarked the subject of
the joke. ' She said she wouldn't play tricks
at all, unless she could invent more clever
ones than that.'

Plain-faced people are always so faultfinding,'
rejoined Moncrieff. ' Don't you
think so, Quentin ? '

Oh yes, of course,' acquiesced the accommodating
young man. ' But look here, you
know,' he added seriously ; ' unless you're
quick about it your letter will be too late.
Sandy always takes our mail-bag an hour
before the time.'

How silly of him,' said Moncrieff.

But it isn't him,' replied Quentin, oblivious
of the requirement of the verb ' to be ; '
1 it is mamma ; she is such a one for being
in time.'

Well, Glen's can go ; this other doesn't
matter,' decided Moncrieff. And she sealed
the envelope and handed it to Quentin, who
took it to Sandy, who bore it in the mail-bag
to Laighbield.

Quentin not coming back, Moncrieff, after
trying in various ways to murder time, and
finding that time would not be murdered,
once more approached the writing-table, that
she might look over what she had said to
Maryanne. But, lo ! what had she here ?
This sheet commenced with ' Dear cousin
Glen ! ' How could such a thine be ? She
appealed to Aunt Euphemia ; but Mrs Cas-willis
was unable to throw any light on the
phenomenon.

Your letters have remained precisely as
you left them was her reply ; for she, pursuing
that heresy-hunt through the pages of
Susannahh Inverarity, knew nothing about
Quentin's feat of legerdemain.

You must have folded up the wrong
letter,' said she, as her niece continued to
exclaim. ' Very careless, indeed. This will
be a lesson to you

Whenever anything untoward happened to
one, Aunt Euphemia's sure consolation was
that ' it would be a lesson

Moncrieff protested that she had no need

of the lesson, had not been careless, had
never folded any wrong letter up. The
letter was still unfinished ; how, then, could
she have folded it up ?

There is only one alternative,' said the
elder lady. ' Do you imagine that it folded
itself?'

Perhaps it did ; or if it didn't, it might
have been the spirits,' opined Moncrieff.

The spirits ! What spirits ? '

Those we called last night, and waited
for so tiresomely. They couldn't come then,
but they must have come to-day ; and they
have changed my letters (it was at this
table we tried table-turning). I know I've
heard of changelings before ; and  '

'Table-turning, Moncrieff! Do I hear
you say that such a sinful delusion as that
has been practised under this roof ? '

It was Matilda Brackenburn and her
cousin Jack, Aunt Euphemia ; I didn't care
for it one bit. Indeed, cousin Matilda made
us do some very silly things. We had to sit
wishing, all of us at once, that Quentin, who

had been sent out of the room, would do
whatever we fixed on. But when he was
blindfolded and brought in, he didn't do anything
; he only stood. Cousin Matilda said
we couldn't have been wishing hard enough ;
and I know I hadn't, because I had forgotten
what it was we were wishing for, and so
wished instead that we oughtn't have anymore
of those stupid games.'

Very righteously indignant was Aunt
Euphemia on hearing this. Mrs Bracken-burn
was compared to Elias the sorceress ;
the playing at Spiritualism denounced as
1 hidden works of darkness,' and great was
the ado. But MoncriefTs letter concerned
her more than all the judgments predicted
as coming upon spirit-sappers. She must
recover it ; and she must be her own messenger,
for servants were such bunglers. So
she left Dugald to bear the brunt of Aunt
Euphemia's rhetoric, carefully encased her
beauty in waterproof, and sallied through
the wet.

It was what farmers call ' a growing day,'

and the buds and tender herbs could almost
be seen to sprout ; but Moncrieff looked
neither at tree nor grass  neither at children
playing in the puddles, navigating the
most delightful canals, formed by deep carrots,
and filled with rain  nor yet at any
illustration of life or character whatsoever,
till she stood in the presence of the postmaster
of Laighbield.

Mr Mungo Mauchline was in meditative
mood. He, even he, had been made an
April fool of by some light-minded jester
of the town : he had paced from end to end
of Cassillis Street with a paper between his
shoulders, announcing in large letters, 
The top flat of this clay tenement to let'
So when Moncrieff appeared, the martyr was
pensively musing on the petty trials which
intellectual superiority to one's compatriots
brings. The treatment of Dante by an
undiscerning Florence would, if Mr Mungo
Mauchline had ever heard of it, have seemed
an entirely similar case to his own treatment
by Laighbield.

But here was a lady from Baronshaugh,
so putting aside consideration of his grievance
for the present, he tip-toed forward
with his courtliest grace of action to receive
Miss Urquhart's commands. Moncrieff had
never for a moment doubted that her mission
would be successful, and she believed Mr
Mungo Mauchline to be mildly maundering
when, in answer to her demand, he said, 

4 Happy as I would be to oblige one of
your honoured family, ma'am, this is the
single straw on the camel's back, so to say,
wheel I am not fit to handle. Us officials
being underneath Government supervision,
our rules is strong and strict' ; a letter once
posted by the public is posted for ever.'

I sent the wrong letter,' represented
Moncrieff; ' it was a mistake so of course
you must give it back'

She thought that a sprinkling of emphasis
would have the desired effect. But no !

I could not do it,' said Mr Mungo
Mauchline, slowly nodding, and patting the
counter with two of his fingers ; * nut though

every avoidable argument was projooced ;
nut even though the Queen, or Mrs Dr
Brackenburn herself, was to implement the
request.'

This, then, was serious ; and Moncrieff
became so much the more importunate. She
must have the letter ; she must have it. She
would give the postmaster five shillings 
half-a-sovereign  a guinea  anything he
liked to name, if only he would place that
letter in her hands again.

The sight of beauty in distress is a moving
one, no doubt ; still, an official under Government
supervision must be of iron nerve
and inflexible will ; moreover, the offer of a
bribe was highly offensive to Mr Mungo
Mauchline.

 Never did I expect', ma'am, to be obliged
to refuse a favour to your beauteous sect,'
he cried, with pathetic dignity ; ' but if any
party in the public position held by me was
once to break through our by-laws, it would
certainly introduce havoc into the very core
of the postal system. As the Earl of Corn-rig

said to me, when he stepped in here not
long ago, to solicit my vot for his friend,
the gentleman wheel is now the honourable
M.P. for this county,  says his lordship,
in his free and friendly way, " I know
you, Mr Mungo Mauchline, for an honest
man." '

A customer who had entered in the course
of this reminiscence, flung herself into conversation
in the easy fashion prevalent at
Laighbield.

My troth, Mungo,' she exclaimed, laughing,
i but ye hide some airy ones ! '

Wheel lets you perceive, ma'am,' proceeded
Mr Mungo Mauchline, treating the
interpolation with the silent contempt befitting
it, ' that to any practice savouring of
corruption, I am, and always will be, deaf
and blind.'

At last Moncrieff became convinced that
there was no hope for her, and thinking
herself the most hardly used person on
the face of the globe, she returned to
Baronshaugh to inform her cousin that

Mr Mungo Mauchline ought to be immediately
deposed, and a postmaster less rude,
stupid, and disagreeable appointed in place
of him.

But, as it soon appeared, the laird himself
was an even greater offender than
the postmaster. Quentin met Moncrieff
in the hall, and rallied her on her wild-goose
chase, and with much giggling informed
her, 

You are the gowk now, you know ;
mamma didn't see me at it, but / changed
your letters.'

Two days afterwards, Moncrieff's letter
was returned to her under cover, with the
words : 

Miss Urquhart must be more careful in
future how she manages her correspondence.

< g. c:

She immediately replied : 

Dear Glen,  It was mean to read a letter

that came to you by mistake. I will never
forgive you. Moncrieff.'

1 Pes.  / don't want it now. You can
keep it.'

What reproach Moncrieff conceived to lie
in sending the letter back, is beyond being
guessed at.

To this arrived the answer on the morning
of the 6th, 

1 Dear Moncrieff,  It was only when I
had read as far as your letter went, that
I saw it could not have been meant for me.
I shall make a shift to struggle through existence
unforgiven. Glen.'

And there the correspondence ceased.

'm

PROPOSING.

Independence, o'er the day preside :
Propitious power ! my patron and my pride.

Miss ELVESTER was of opinion
that Christian's abrupt departure
from Argyll Gardens was decidedly
out of order. An engagement was an engagement
; the governess of one Mrs Cas-willis
had nothing to do with what another
Mrs Cassillis thought about her, provided
the governess's own conscience were clear.
And even if the strong provocation did make
it justifiable to forsake one's post, it would
have been a braver thing to stand by the
post until all one's duty had been done. It

was over and past, however, and this poor
Christian need not be made more unhappy
than she was by any course of lecturing, nor
should. She had come home ; and home
ought always to be a refuge from trouble ;
what she had to do for the present, therefore,
was simply to rest, and to make believe to
herself that there was no such thing in the
world as ' Independence.'

And Christian did what she could to follow
this advice, but the rest that fell to her was
curiously like restlessness, and the make-believe
was no belief at all. As the days
passed, too, her restlessness increased ; for
she had expected some message from Mrs
Cassillis, but no message came. Could it be
that Mrs Cassillis, merciful Mrs Cassillis,
considered her unpardonable ? Surely so,
else there would have been a reply, if not to
Christian's own apology, at least to the letter
which Miss Elvester had written since. With
this, then, as well as a private matter which
no soul must ever discover, fretting her, it
may easily be understood that her state of

mind was not a very enviable one just
now.

The 5th of April dawned and darkened,
and on the 6th Miss Elvester, sitting among
her girls, read aloud the announcement of
Dr Doig Sledgehammer's marriage to 
Rhynd, widow of the late Laird of
Baronshaugh. During the comments which
followed, a caller, Dugald Urquhart, was
shown into the drawing-room. For the first
time in their acquaintance Christian felt glad
to see him. Surely now she must hear something
about the household she had taken
French leave of the other day. In this hope
she was disappointed. Dugald only said, 

So you are tired of Netherlaw. Miss
Christian. I don't wonder at your, at anyone's,
preference for the country ; there is a
freedom, a genuineness about it that is most
invigorating.' And then he enlarged on the
aspects of rural scenery, which pleased him
most, and discoursed of ' blues,' and ' greys
and 'pearl-tints,' and 'sheets,' and 'shimmers,'
and ' effects,' and ' glades,' and ' azure

distances,' and ' vague shadowy vistas
stretching into space.'

Into the first opportunity which presented
itself, Miss Elvester edged mention of the
marriage which all Laighbield was discussing
to-day.

Yes, it took place at Netherlaw,' said
Dugald ; ' a strictly private affair, most strictly
private.'

Not a word more by way of information
did he vouchsafe ; it never was his custom
to expatiate on any sayings or doings save
his own  and such of other people's as he
appropriated. Christian saw that what she
would know she must ask ; therefore, watching
her chance, she inquired if Mrs Cassillis
and Willie Ruthven were home yet.

'Home! No  that is  well, in fact, I'm
not certain whether they have returned or
not,' said Dugald. ' My sister could, I daresay,
give you all the gossip,' he continued,
but / never bear such things in memory.
Indeed, I had almost forgotten the reason
of my present visit: you left a piece of your

property in my sister's possession, Miss
Christian ; she found this clasp, or buckle,
or whatever its designation is, among her
belongings after you were gone

Saying which, he produced a small brooch
of Roman mosaic which had been lent by
Christian to Moncrieff some week or two
before, and handed it back to its owner. He
spoke of it as a clasp or buckle, because not
to know the name of a feminine trinket gives
a certain air of superiority to a man, and is
rather calculated to produce an effect upon
weaker minds ; and he said that it was to
return this clasp or buckle that he had come
to The Brae, because one is not always
obliged to display his real motives. The
true cause of Dugald's call divulged itself
in the manner of a postscript : his cousin,
her sister, and himself were going to ride
this afternoon ; his sister would be delighted
if any of the young ladies here would join
the party. His cousin's people could mount
two  Miss Ursula was said to be a famous
horsewoman ; would she care to go ?

VOL. 11. N

Ursula looked at Miss Elvester, meaning
her, if she saw any objection, to say so.

My sister will be seriously disappointed,
if you cannot join us,' declared Dugald, smiling
towards Ursula insinuatingly.

Ursula might possibly believe this ; she
knew no better. But the thought of Mon-cries's
disappointment was nearly too much
for Christian's gravity. Meantime, Miss
Elvester said neither good nor bad ; but
the eager face of Ulrica caught Ursula's attention,
and decided the matter. Ulrica had
over and over again cried lately that she
would give anything  almost the hope of
authorship itself  just for a good canter over
the country. And now that the pleasure was
within reach, it would be cruel to disappoint
her of it. Accordingly, the invitation was
accepted (Moncrieff's invitation), and Dugald
went out well pleased, and nothing doubting
but that his footing with Ursula was perfectly
secure. Of this fond notion the sisters did
not dream ; not even Christian, who knew
him best, had any idea that Mr Urquhart's

ambition soared so high as to lead him to
imagine that he might have Princess Ursula
for the asking.'

Ulrica's joy was boundless.

You meant not to go,' she cried, hugging
Ursula with a fervour more flattering than
comfortable ; ' but you looked at me, and you
changed. It was so beautiful of you. And
Mr Urquhart is as unlike his cousin Quentin
as possible. He is quite a wise, intelligent
person ; is he not, Jenny ?'

Vastly so, evidently.'

1 And handsome too. Only there is something
about him that makes you think of the
gentlemen engraved on the bills which used
to come to Chapel Street, you remember,
that you might choose what kind of coat you
wanted, if you were a man. It is unfortunate
a little ; but still, Mr Urquhart is much
finer looking than your Captain Cassillis,
Christian.'

At this unexpected termination the colour
flew to Christian's face, which, being conscious
of, she coloured all the more.

'My Captain Cassillis ! ' she said. 'Not
mine, indeed ; it is very unlikely that I shall
ever see him again

The indifferent tone in which the words
were given was highly satisfactory.

I should think you'll be sorry for that
rejoined Ulrica ; ' for you elevate him high
over everybody else's heads. I know you do

4 You foolish Ulrica/

1 Yes persisted Ulrica, ' I am half a witch.
I often, oh, ever so often, when I look in
people's faces, know what they are thinking
of. I have great in  in  intuition*

People's faces don't think of anything,'
quietly corrected Ursula ; ' and I'm afraid you
talk too much about yourself, dear.'

While Christian's conclusion was, that one
must be very clever indeed, so to guard a
secret that her own people shall not suspect
her of having any secret to guard.

A little while, and Ursula with Ulrica set
out for Baronshaugh. Shortly after, Christian
returned to the drawing-room, and found
her eldest sister leaning back in a lounging-chair,

doing nothing. Nobody could lay-want
of energy to the charge of Miss
Elvester ; yet she was not one of those
rather uncomfortable women of whom their
friends proudly tell you, * Never will you see
her idle '  whose fingers must every moment
of the day be occupied ; hers rested now and
then, just for a change. She said that she
could always think out anything more
thoroughly when her hands were still. And
she was thinking now. Her ruminations
had been on the same subject as Christian's ;
for when that young person leant over her
sister's shoulders, saying, 

I'm sadly out of patience, do you know.
When are we to come to the question of
what is next to be done with me ? '

It was replied, 

I have been turning over that very question
now. You are most anxious for its
settlement, I suppose ? '

 Sure enough, I am anxious.'

1 Yes. And one sees that your longing is
still for independence ; so be it. But are

you ready just at once to lay yourself open
to " kind requests " for " personal interviews,"
and all the other delightful experiences
which fall to the lot of a governess out of
a situation ? '

Jenny, dear, I want, before searching for
any other situation, to fit myself for one. I
can only play at being a governess as it is ;
but I should despise myself were I to go on
so. I can't be an idler. I more than ever
want to do real work, if I only knew how.'

1 You are ambitious ; but you feel that todo
real work, preparation is necessary.'

You told me once to be content with my
day of small things ; and so I tried to be,
and was. But it would not serve for always.
I don't like the thought of never getting
from the foot of my profession ; it does not
matter just now, but when I come to be an
elderly woman, I shall want to have some
position.'

'Well?'

'Jenny, you have the most disconcerting
way of saying " Well," as if you expected to

be told what was really worth hearing, and
would be surprised and shocked at anything
common-place.'

Be as common-place as you like, my dear,
I shall neither be surprised nor shocked.
Tell me, will you, how you found out your
deficiencies ? '

I had no high opinion of myself to begin
with ; but I used to meet people who made
me feel what a cypher I was, by asking about
my theory of teaching, and what particular
method I followed. And then I saw governesses
who had universal history and biography
at command, as well as  as  oh,
well, as the royal genealogies of Oviedo ;
the internal laws of the Burmese Empire ;
by how many miles Mount Chimborazo outruns
Teneriffe, and all such lore. Think of
that, and then of me.'

I do. Naturally, you were found wanting,
when balanced against so much learning.'

I saw that as I was, I should never do.
I must have a theory ; but where to find one,
Jenny ? And I must have a multitude of

new facts, as well as a much firmer grasp of
old ones.'

You must, in short, study hard for a year
or two, fitting yourself for the sphere you
seek to enter. I knew it from the first, my
sister; what I did not know, and greatly
doubted was, whether your wish to work
would wear. That was best proved by just
letting you make trial of your strength.
Contact with the reality of the thing would
send the fancy flying soon enough ; but it
has been more than idle fancy, as it seems

I think it has ; at any rate it is stronger
than ever now. I did not speak when I
was with you in winter ; but I had already
made up my mind that I was only losing
time at Argyll Gardens, and that, as soon as
my year was out, I must give up the pleasant,
easy life I was leading, and ask you to let me
come home to study. I may stay and study
now ; mayn't I, Jenny ? '

You may certainly study, but not at home,
I think. Home study is apt to be a desultory
affair. You shall go, rather, to the

Hanoverian School, where Ursula and you
were boarders formerly. There you can
grasp well your facts, and make choice of
your theory. That place, at least, seems tome
the likeliest. Does it please you ? '

1 Of all things it would be best ; but,
Jenny, the expense ! '

Is my concern. You will infinitely
oblige me by confining yourself to your
own province.'

I suppose I can do nothing else ; but,
some day, I hope I may be able to pay back
part  I never can the whole  of what I owe
you.'

1 How dare you take that debtor and
creditor tone with me ? Are you not ashamed
of yourself ? Is it not my right to arrange
such matters for you ? '

So Christian was silenced. She would
never be allowed even to guess how many
things Miss Elvester would have to deny
herself, in order to send one of her girls to
Hanover. A consideration of details followed.
Then the elder sister said, 

1 Well, you may consider that vexed question
answered. Rejoice, therefore, in the
prospect of a career. I heartily wish you all
manner of success.'

'But I shall want a pair of spectacles to give
dignity to me,' rejoined Christian. * I have
nothing impressive in myself; I'm ridiculously
out of keeping with the idea of a career.'

1 You are, rather ; no, you're not exactly
what we call a capable woman  not one who
would have been quite after the heart of
King Lemuel's mother for a daughter-in-law.
Yet, for all that, you may have the teaching
faculty within you. I hope so, sincerely, since
without my sweet girl graduate, neither spectacles
nor anything else will very much avail.'

I won't have the spectacles after all, I
think. I want to be learned, not to proclaim
myself so ; for I did not so greatly like the
ladies I've mentioned, that I should care to
copy them. They were too aggressive with
their information ; they seemed pleased only
when they had put every other woman to
silence ; and they would talk about high art,

and the Platonic philosophy, till we ignorant
ones were so tired of both. And I don't
believe men enjoyed it either ; they like
better to be the talkers themselves. I used
to think that if I should ever succeed in being
as cultured as they (how they did harp on
that word "culture), I would try to wear
my wisdom less ostentatiously.'

Right, my dear. Put on blue stockings
if you will ; only remember Sidney Smith 
see that your skirt is always long enough to
cover them. In the meantime, this being
settled, do you suppose you can be at rest
here for a few weeks ? '

Christian thought of one circumstance
which just at present made it impossible for
her to be at rest, and after a minute, she said, 

Mrs Cassillis has taken no notice of me.
I am afraid she must have somehow misunderstood.
Might I write again, or would
it be better not ? '

What would you say ? '

1 1 can hardly tell ; there is so much I
should wish to say.'

Say it, then ; but be sure that you keep
your letter till tomorrow. Read it by morning
light, when, perhaps, instead of sending
it off, you may tear it up. I have known the
like happen. And while you are relieving
your feelings by putting them on paper, I
must be off to attend to some business of
mine in Laighbield.'

1 Charitable business, of course. Your
hands are as full as they used to be at
Eastravoe  dear Eastravoe  or even fuller,
Jenny

And why not ? But, truth to say, I am
obliged to keep watch over Ursula, who
would be unquestioningly benevolent. She
would rather be deceived three hundred and
sixty-five times a-year, she tells me, than go
about suspecting everybody. And that is a
very pretty sentiment too. I, however, who
am of harder grain than you romantic young
people, like to find out for certain that my
charity is not a mere encouragement of idleness,
though it does take a little trouble, to
be sure.' /

DISPOSING.

I hare a but and I hare a ben,

Lass, gin ye lore me* tell me noo ;
A penny to keep and a penny to seen',
And I canna' come illa day to woo.'

CHRISTIAN had retired upstairs
to relieve her feelings by putting
them on paper. Yet, notwithstanding
the 'so much' that there was to
write, she sat,- pen in hand, for fully ten
minutes, with no further result than,  ' My
dear Mrs Cassillis.' At the end of that
time tapped Mysie: Miss Langbiggin waited
in the drawing-room. It is always so : just
be particularly out of the humour for making
yourself agreeable, and that same hour Providence

will send one of the most tedious of
your acquaintances to call upon you.

It was the invariable habit of Miss 
to leave to her interlocutor, both the
suggesting of topics and the handling of
them. And conversation on such terms
was uphill work with Christian, whose inventive
faculties were not in good acting
order to-day  had nearly proved themselves
unequal to the composition of a letter. If
one could but discover Miss Langbiggin's
subject. Alas ! that was out of the question.
Miss Langbiggin had no subject. She was
at The Brae in her capacity of collector for
the Laighbield Clothing Society, yet she
did not know anything whatever concerning
those who were to be clad. Why had the
young lady become a collector ? Christian
ventured to inquire. Mr Berwick had
spoken of it to her ; that was the reason,
she replied. Ah, here was a theme of
mutual interest, surely !

1 Mr Berwick was certain to want you
to work,' Christian said ; ' I know him very

well  rather, I did once, when he was
minister of Brestaa.'

Indeed,' rejoined Miss Langbiggin.

'Indeed' may be pronounced so as to
convey strong interest, profound indifference,
or thorough scepticism ; as Miss Langbiggin
pronounced the word, it implied simply
nothing at all.

Isn't it the fashion here to call Mr
Berwick a heretic ? ' said Christian, driven
to desperate devices.

Any Free Church woman would, judging
from Mrs Cassillis  now Mrs Sledgehammer
be stirred to her depths by the sound
1 heretic'

Mistaken again ! With her usual measured
smile, Miss Langbiggin responded, 

1 Mr Berwick is a very pretty preacher.'

Though 'pretty' was the last term to
apply to the preaching of Donald Berwick ;
as well might ' lively ' have been used to describe
the conversation of Katie Langbiggin.

When she had sat for what she deemed
the exactly proper number of minutes, the

collector for the Laighbield Clothing Society
arose, and having received the contribution
of the Misses Elvester (such an extremely
correct young lady would not, on any
account, have said, 'the Miss Elvesters'),
stepped away primly down the slope.

The door had hardly closed after Miss
Langbiggin, when another hand was upon
the knocker; a man's hand now  the hand
of Captain Glen Cassillis. And Glen asked
for Miss Christian Elvester ; thus giving
Mysie a light, with which she immediately,
and under seal of strictest secrecy, proceeded
to illuminate a friend of hers who
was delving in the garden ; but inability to
conceal a matter is a weakness not totally
confined to the feminine half of our race,
so, through the agency of Mysie's gardener
friend, the fact (fringed and decorated with
fiction according to fancy) that ' the Captain '
was courting one of Miss Elvester's girls
became known all over the valley within
the week.

As he came up, Glen had been admiring

the idyllic aspect of the quaint, small house
looking out from the tender greenness which
spring was weaving all about it. And the
room in which he presently found himself
pleased him no less ; he had never beheld
an ' interior ' anywhere, he thought, so perfectly
picture-like as Miss Elvester's drawing-room.
Delightfully picture-like too, was the
girl who stood there, so evidently startled
at seeing him. Nor was she so love-lorn
but that she had  not indeed bound her
hair ' with bands of rosy hue,'  but at least
disposed of a bunch of violets amongst the
coils of it ; and she wore a companion bunch
as a breast-knot.

Yes ; Christian was startled. She was
at the same moment surprised, dismayed,
most glad. Her eyes fell before the steady
light of Glen's, and a tell-tale colour deepened
the wild-rose bloom of her cheeks. But if
she could not control her face, she would,
at any rate, be mistress of her manner ; so
she answered her visitor's frankness with
something quite ludicrously like the neat,
vol. 11. o

well regulated precision of Miss Katie ,
 Captain Cassillis had come to stay
at Baronshaugh, she supposed.

No,' he replied, 'not to stay at all ; only
to see Miss Christian Elvester.'

Well ? ' she said ; and, unconsciously perhaps,
intoned the monosyllable exactly as
she had objected to hear her sister intone
it about an hour ago.

1 Do you think it is well ? ' inquired Glen,
smiling ; ' or are you wondering how you
can most civilly bid me begone ? '

1 Oh no. You bring me some message
from Mrs Cassillis, do you not ? Is she
still at Bonnyfaulds ? '

She has been at Mucklestanes Manor fora
week; and for that reason, letters addressed
to her at Bonnyfaulds, as yours was, only
reached her yesterday  they had taken I
don't know what of a roundabout by the
way. In the interval she had written to
you once or twice, and was in a puzzle
about her letters being unanswered.'

1 Those letters must be lying for me at

Argyll Gardens now,' said Christian. ' I
expected no letters, so did not leave orders
to have them forwarded.'

Thus the silence of Mrs Cassillis was
simply and satisfactorily explained. But
Christian could not as yet realise the relief
she felt, being in present dread that she
should next be expected to throw some
light on the nature of the passage between
her and Aunt Euphemia. Glen, however,
knowing so much more, so very much more,
than Christian imagined, took good care to
put no awkward questions. Instead, he
talked of this, that, and everything, in the
pleasant, easy way which, in time gone, had
had only too much fascination for one foolish
girl at least, who used to listen to him. Of
his aunt, he casually remarked, 

1 Now she has given herself wholly to the
Church, it is expected that those outside of
her own particular pale won't be worth her
further notice. I, at any rate, am hereunder
that impression, to ask you to forget (if
not forgive), and  to come back to Netherlaw.'

He could have no conception of what
his aunt had found fault with her for,'
thought Christian, ' or he would never
dream of suggesting a return to Nether-laws


Her conduct, I've no doubt, has been
beyond speaking about,' he continued, more
seriously ; ' but is my mother therefore to
suffer ? Will you not return to her ? She
wishes it.'

Christian silently shook her head.

1 Do you mean that you will not ? '

I can't ; I have other plans. I am going
away.'

She tried to speak firmly, but succeeded
only in being pathetic. The ' I am going
away ' meant to sound so spirited, was very
sad in the heart of it. Glen looked at her
with a queer, slightly embarrassed air of
scrutiny.

And am I to tell her that you
don't choose to see her any more ? ' he
asked.

1 Would she come to see me before I

leave ? I should be so very glad,  but
would she really come ? '

He rose and went to her side  they had
been sitting at some distance apart  and he
said, 

Nothing will please her better ; only, you
must give her a claim.'

1 She has that already.'

A vague, general claim, perhaps ; she
wants one more definite.'

I don't see how it could be made
stronger.'

I do. It is a mother's claim upon you
she would have. Will you give her that ? '

Christian looked quickly up, and then as
quickly down.

4 While I have lived with her, Mrs Cassillis
has been like a mother to me,' she said.

Yes ; but she wants to be more yet to
you than she has been. Such is the message
she sends by me to-day ; and you will let
her ? I beg it of you.'

'I  I  don't understand you, Captain
Cassillis.'

Well, this is frightfully abrupt, I know ;
but circumstances leave me no alternative.
In plain English, I am here to persuade you,
if I can, to give me your promise that you
will come back to us, not as the child's
governess, but as my wife.'

There was no possibility of misunderstanding
him longer ; but, sure enough, it was
abrupt,  and bewildered, Christian, had no
answer ready. Having thus broken the ice,
her wooer went on to plead his cause, and
to plead it astonishingly well to, considering
that he did not throughout even once utter
the magic little word, love. It was strange
(though Christian herself was too confused
at the time to heed it) that a man should
offer marriage to a girl, and yet neither ask
her if she loved him, nor fill her ears with
protestations of his love for her. But how
was Glen Cassillis to talk of love ? He had
not fallen in love,  not he ! only, having read
Moncrieff's letter, it seemed to him that it
touched his honour, seeing he had engaged,
even though unfeignedly, this young lady's

affections, to make her happiness his concern.
But though he was not actually in love with
Christian, he did like her very cordially.
Also, the discovery of her secret had caused
to spring up in him a new tenderness for
her ; while the thought of what she must
have endured at his aunt's hands made him
not only willing but resolved, to protect
her from any future possibility of such
attacks.

If he had ever imagined that Christian
would at once throw herself into his arms,
he was speedily undeceived. Christian drew
back from him, and looked as if she would
be only too glad, courtesy permitting, to bid
him a hasty good-day. Not being carried
out of himself as the real lover is, Glen was
conscious of an odd half-amused feeling all
the while. He was not prosecuting his suit
in the orthodox way, he knew ; he ought to
be more demonstrative. Yes ; but if he
were to attempt anything in that line, the
chances seemed to be that Christian would
vanish from the room, which would be a

somewhat awkward consummation of so
important an interview.

My time is limited ; I must be back at
Mucklestanes Barracks to-night, and have
to ride to Braidmoss for the train he said,
looking at his watch.

And then he considered what an unlovely
speech it was, what an unlovely action, and
wondered whether his companion thought so
too.

But you won't send me away unanswered,'
he went on. ' What message shall I take to
my mother, if you haven't a word for me ? '

4 Give Mrs Cassillis my love,' said Christian,
with some hesitation.

Your love  yes ; and what now for me ?
I have nothing dazzling to offer a woman, I
know ; yet I do hope and believe that if you
could trust me enough to put your happiness
into my hands, you should not have to
repent it.'

Still Christian held back from him. She
felt that very certainly she loved him, yet
somehow she could not bring herself to give

the answer for which he waited. Mind
having a subtle influence on mind, probably
the utter absence of passion in her suitor
had, unconsciously to herself, the effect of so
restraining her.

'You're not afraid to trust your future tome
? ' he asked.

No,' she confessed, after a pause  ' it is
not that'

1 What then ? '

My sister and I have to-day settled about
my future, and arranged that I shall go to
Germany to study.'

To study what ? '

Whatever will make a good teacher of
me, and help me to rise in my profession

Your profession ! ' he echoed, smiling in
spite of himself. ' Your profession ! And
what have you to do with a profession, you
pretty flower ? '

To live by it, if I can,' said she, lifting
her head up.

There was nothing so very amusing in the
idea, she thought.

1 Let women who must make their own
way in the world he rejoined, ' but do not
you. Tell me, is this " profession " my only
rival ? Is there no other lover before me ?'

I never had a lover in my life,' she
answered ; ' but there is my sister, Captain
Cassillis.'

And is she very terrible ? '

You have seen her ; you know what she
is ; and I can do nothing without her
consent.'

Of course, I will ask her consent ; rather,
I have asked it already. Yes ; I met her
under the lime trees, and we talked for, I
daresay, half-an-hour. The end of it was,
that she gave me leave to win you if I could.
Can I?'

He pronounced the last two words softly,
persuasively ; and yet had come near to her
again as he spoke. Instead of retreating
this time, she turned a very little towards
him. The slight motion, involuntary as it
was, signified self-renouncement. Glen held
out his hands.

Your profession will be that of a wife,'
he said ; ' for you shall not go to Germany,
you shall stay with me.' Then, a second
later, ' Escape me now, my sweetheart, if
you can.'

Fast in so secure a clasp, it would not
have been easy ; but I do not know that
she even tried ; at all events, Captain Cas-willis
congratulated himself that, whatever
might be said for the beginning of the interview,
the final part of it was conducted
according to recognised forms. And, after
all, though a man might not be, strictly
speaking, desperately in love, this was such
a proud and independent creature (the pride
and independence would one day assert
themselves more than Glen now recked
of), that there was a peculiar piquancy intaking
a lover's liberties with her.

When about to go, her future husband
would have the bunch of violets which served
as Christian's breast-knot.

Oh, not those,' she said ; ' I will gather
fresh ones. I shall not be a moment about it.'

1 No, no he replied, with the kind of
authority which women do not rebel against.
I will have none but those sweet Christian
Elvester has worn.'

So, of course, she let him take them ; and
then she went away.

When Glen had received MoncriefTs
misdirected letter, he made no mention of
the matter, excepting in those two communications
to his cousin which you have already
seen. Though his mother happened to be
living in the same town with him at the time,
he did not acquaint her with Christian's flight.
So much could not well be told, without that
being added by way of explanation, which
no man in the circumstances could choose to
add. Christian herself should be allowed to
explain, in her own way and at her own convenience.
As for him, his course was resolved
upon ; but no mortal should ever
know by what blundering chance that course
had been suggested. Accordingly, when he
informed his mother that he desired to gain
Christian Elvester for his wife, Mrs Cassillis,

while expressing her entire satisfaction that
it should be so, did not for a moment imagine
that the desire had only now arisen. Neither
must anybody else have reason so to imagine.
There was, indeed, one who might have her
suspicions  his cousin Moncrieff; but even
should it be so, Moncrieff would for her own
sake keep silence if she hoped, as it seemed
she did hope, to marry Quentin of Barons-haugh.


If Christian herself had only guessed!
But Christian was in blissful ignorance. Sitting
still where Glen had left her, she was so
very happy as to be almost afraid at her own
happiness, She had not, until this afternoon,
dreamt that Glen's regard for her had gone
beyond the positive degree ; she had sometimes
even fancied that he loved Moncrieff.
But now he had declared himself her lover 
hers; and she need no longer blush to
remember how she cared for him.

She was roused from her reverie by her
eldest sister's return. For a few moments
after entering, Miss Elvester silently observed

the bright, flushed face before her. She
neither frowned nor smiled. ' So radiant ! '
she exclaimed at last. ' The wooing, then,
has sped successfully.'

Are you pleased, Jenny ? ' inquired Christian,
under her breath. And she drew Miss
Elvester down on the couch beside herl

Yozi are, clearly; and that is of more
importance was the reply. ' But what of
your career now, Miss Christian Elvester?
where has your ambition vanished ? where
your unquenchable thirst for independence ? '

I have let them all go : I could not help
it, I could not, Jenny. Are you very much
ashamed of me ? '

Well, is it not just a little humiliating
to think that a girl will forego her most
cherished projects of usefulness, if a lover
should but chance to cross her path, and cry,
I want you, pretty one " ? '

Christian protested that she would not
have dropped her projects if  if the lover
wanting her had been any other than Glen
Cassillis ; and also, that while she was

content to relinquish the idea of being a
teacher, she did by no means relinquish that
of being taught ; she would certainly go onto
learn what she could concerning the thousands
of things around her, of which as yet
she knew little more than the names. Then
she put her arms about her sister's neck
and insisted upon being kissed and forgiven.
And Miss Elvester, in spite of what had
been spoken regarding the humiliation of the
thing, did kiss and forgive her. But in
return, 

Pray, lighten my darkness a little,'
it was said. ' I have heard a good

deal about Captain Cassillis from others,
but never a paragraph so much from you.
Naturally, I should like to hear your love
story  as far, I mean, as a sister may be
told.'

But Christian's love story was not to be
related at this time. Another story was on
the threshold  a story not of love, but of
death. Ursula and Ulrica came in with
white, scared faces, and the tidings that

Quentin Cassillis had been thrown from his
horse : the animal had stumbled over the
edge of an unused quarry, and the young
laird was now being borne dead to
Baronshaugh.

CHIT-CH AT.

They called for tea and chocolate,
And fell into their usual chat,
Discoursing with important face,
On ribbons, fans, and gloves, and lace.'

T was Fair week once more at
Netherlaw, but the workingmen
had been unfortunate in his
weather. The Fair Saturday had been foul.
There had been a wild, misty drizzle ever
since, till to-day, Thursday, when it rained
heavily again, and seemed to mean rain.

The town was forsaken both by gentle and
simple  comparatively speaking, forsaken.
There were still enough of the latter class
left to crowd the Netherlaw Common, an

VOL. II. p

extensive public green to the east of the
town, where, in defiance of the weather,
shows of all sorts, merry-go-rounds, and
stalls for the sale of ' fairies ' were driving
a brisk trade. Away west, however, the
forsakenness was literal. Whole circuses,
quadrants, crescents, and what not were
done up in brown paper ; for upper-class
Netherlaw had gone 'down the water ' two
months ago.

Every house in Argyll Gardens was shut,
and the card in the lower bow-window of
No. 1 1 directed postmen and any others
whom it might concern to leave letters and
parcels at the West End Club. There was
life within No. n, however, only it was
looking forth from back and area windows.
It was calumniously reported (one cannot
credit it !) of some Netherlaw families of
the better sort that, if they could not afford
to be out of town quite so long as their
neighbours, they would at the proper time
display brown paper like the rest, and retire
behind the scenes for a month or more. But

had the mistress of this house seen it necessary
to stay in town all the year round, her
windows would frankly have confessed the
fact. So Mrs Cassillis was not to be found
here to-day  she was far enough from
Netherlaw. The life referred to as in the
background and area was contained in the
persons of Miss Urquhart, Miss Kirkpatrick,
and a servant or two.

The house was not open for the convenience
of Moncrieff; but Moncrieff, in
town for a little shopping, was making a
convenience of the house being open. The
young lady had visited various warehouses
in the course of the day ; had caused many
yards of silk to be unfolded, many boxes of
lace to be emptied, many rolls of ribbon to
be unwound; had made more than one
politely-smiling salesman hate her in his
soul ; had met Miss Kirkpatrick at Price
& Slatternly's (the fashionable Arcade Street
restaurant) ; and was now, together with
Maryanne, partaking of a cup of tea in the
back parlour, where her brother had once

upon a time recited before Aunt Marjorie's
too fastidious governess his ' friend's poor
lines.'

Maryanne, like Moncrieff, was in Nether-law
only for the day, being on her way
from Paris to join her family at their marine
residence on the west coast. She had been
several months in France, and was really
quite continentalised  so much so, that she
almost spoke broken English. She was now
telling with honest pride of the great personages
she had met, and the gay assemblies
she had graced, and the wonderful excitements
she had known.

Papa protests he spent a fortune on my
toilettes] said she ; ' but, figure it to yourself,
at some of those receptions people dicit
seem to know who we were ; and I did really
and truly feel sometimes just as if we weren't
of much consequence at all.'

Moncrieff slowly sipped her tea, and,
leaning back in her chair, followed with her
finely-shaped eyes the progress of a fly
across the ceiling. She was not paying

attention to one single word. And this
sublime indifference of hers had a damping
effect ; for even if you are talking less to
entertain your hearer than to gratify yourself
you like to have some slight interest taken
or feigned in your historiettes. So Maryanne
by-and-by stopped, stopped abruptly at the
climax of a sensational description, thus, 

I wondered what was coming next. It
was so exciting. And I took hold of the
burning taper, and just as Eugene said,
Helps, Mademoiselle ! " I put out my hand.
And there was a horrid sound like a dying
shriek, and an awful crash (the ambassador
supported me, or I should have fainted with
terror), and, looking round, I saw  '

Would Moncrieff have curiosity enough to
ask what Maryanne saw ? Moncrieff would
not. After there had been silence for a
moment, Moncrieff said, 

What a bore rain is. I wish it would
clear up.'

You are a horrid, selfish thing ! '  this
was Maryanne's innermost thought  'and

it serves you well to have lost both your
cousin Glen and Baronshaugh.'

But men with pretty, unengaged sisters,
and girls with handsome, highly eligible
brothers, cannot easily rouse the open resentment
of their friends ; therefore, though
Miss Kirkpatrick was not good-natured
beyond the rest of her kind, she answered
amiably, and said, 

1 Ah, how this triste weather and that
unfortunate marriage have made you distraite,
pauvrette. And no wonder you feel
the me 1 s alliance. Fancy one's cousin marrying
a governess ! '

Maryanne's paternal grandfather, by the
way, was commonly believed to have begun
life as a costermonger.

I wonder people can be bothered to
marry in mid-summers murmured MoncriefT,
in accents the most die-away. ' It is either
raining or sweltering, and yet there is such
a tediously long list every morning in the
Reflector!

1 Que voulez vous ? ' cried Mary an ne.

Nobody would marry in May, you know ;
everybody waits. Is my cousin Maggie
Macklurkin's in to-day's Reflector ? '

Moncrieff could not tell. Was she to be
expected to charge her mind with other
people's cousins' marriages ?

It wasn't in the Newsmen', said Mary-anne.
' There isn't a Reflector in the house,
I suppose ; but might I send a servant for
one ? I should just like to see if Maggie's
has been inserted.'

She might send a servant for one, if she
would  Moncrieff cared not. So the servant
was dispatched, and the Reflector
brought, and, to the much gratification of
Maryanne, ' Maggie's ' did prove to have
been inserted. Another marriage was there
too, which had not been in the Newsmen ;
the marriage at Hilyascord, Shetland, of
Glen Cassillis of Baronshaugh to Christian,
third daughter of the late Eric Elvester,
Master of Eastravoe.

Moncrieff seemed to have nothing for
her cousin's marriage but pettish silence.

Maryanne, however, had plenty to say about
the marriage of hers. Gossip averred that
there existed a family feud between the
respective households of Maryanne and
Maggie, and that the Macklurkins would
have no dealings with the Kirkpatrick ; soit
must have been from hearsay that she
told this Netherlaw young lady how many
guineas her cousin's wedding-breakfast cost ;
how much the presents were valued at ;
the estimated price of the trousseau.

1 Where is the sense of a trousseau ? ' languidly
drawled MoncriefT, closing her eyes.

Her own paraphernalia would intensely
interest when its time should come ; but
what to her was that of Maryanne's cousin
Maggie ?

'del!' ejaculated Miss Kirkpatrick, forgetting
that she was not now in Paris ; forgetting
likewise that she was the daughter
of a douce elder of the United Presbyterian
persuasion, ' hasn't every bride a trousseau ?
Hadn't even Miss Elvester something like
one ? '

1 I don't know ; I've not seen her since
she ran away from Argyll Gardens. She
has been at Hilyascord nearly ever since
she was engaged  Lady Trayll is her godmother
or something. Glen behaved very
badly about a letter of mine  but I wrote
you after the mistake, didn't I ? '

 Yes, dear ; but only once. You never
told me how it ended.'

'It ended in Glen's marrying Miss Elves-ter,
of course,' said Moncrieff.

But what did your cousin Glen say to
you, dear Moncrieff?' questioned Maryanne,
coaxingly.

She was curious to hear all the outs and
ins of that coil.

He never spoke about the letter. Wasn't
it spiteful ? For then I could have explained,
and everything ' (Moncrieff showed signs
of returning animation now), ' and if I ever
named Miss Elvester to him, he became
quite fierce  like some frightful, painted
savage with a war-whoop.'

It was all Miss Elvester's doing, you

may depend,' cried Maryanne, with much
outward sympathy. ' I always told you
she was sly, sly ; and now you have truly
found it. Captain Cassillis has been fairly
caught, and nothing else  that is just what
it is. Your poor Aunt Marjorie, how I pity
her

You needn't, for she is quite pleased.
She has always wanted it.'

Your Aunt Euphemia didn't want it,
anyhow. Is she very angry with Miss
Elvester and Captain Cassillis ?'

She is always very angry with everybody.
But cousin Glen doesn't mind her,
not in the least. You needn't call him Captain
Cassillis, Maryanne ; / never will, now
that he has left the army, for I think it was
rather grasping of him to take the property,
when he knew that I was engaged to
poor dear Quentin, who would have done
anything for me.'

But the entail, tres chere ? '

Oh, I know ; but entail is so stupid
altogether. I don't see why one shouldn't

have an estate as well as another. And I
wish Parliament would pass an Act that
people must not leave everything to their
sons and nothing to their daughters, so that
Dugald is quite nonsensically rich, while I
have hardly enough to dress myself decently
with.'

If this young person had possessed a
wishing-cap, some startling phenomena would
have resulted.

How very disgusted your brother must
be with your cousin's marriage,' observed
Maryanne. ' What does he say about it ? '

She took a deep and undying interest in
her friends brother. No length of Dugald
ever surfeited Miss Kirkpatrick.

One of Moncrieff's gifts was her knack
of evading questions even the most direct,
if to answer them would be at all troublesome
to her. So she looked blankly in
Maryanne's face, just as if she had never
heard the inquiry, and said, 

Dugald is going to stay in Shetland all
this month.'

The naughty wretch,' cried playful Mary-anne.
'You should have been there, dear,
to keep him in order

I was invited, of course, but I couldn't
go,' pouted Moncrieff.

'Mais pourquoi?' said Maryanne, and
forgetting that she was in Netherlaw.

Because I'm such a bad sailor. I should
have been quite odiously ill ; and I have
such a horror of sea-sickness. It would
make me look shocking for days afterwards.'

Just why I didn't go to Maggie's/ rejoined
Maryanne confidentially. ' I knew
I should look ill after newly having crossed
the Channel (She had never been invited
to Maggie's, if the truth were known. )

Moncrieffs notion was, that crossing the
Channel would not materially affect the appearance
of one who never did or could,
under any circumstances, look well ; and
that therefore Maryanne might have gone
to ' Maggie's ' with an easy mind. But
that was a matter of no concern to her ;
and ill-looks having suggested the subject,

she went on to a consideration of the misfortunes
of being obliged to wear mourning ;
mingling her plaint with reminiscences of
poor dear Quentin '  what a good creature
he had been, and how devoted to her,
and reflections against Netherlaw warehousemen
for not having on hand the exact
shades in lavender silk, which one imperatively
required.

A loud peal resounding through the silent
corridors, brought the interesting disquisition
to an abrupt finish.

That must be Glen,' said Moncrieff; 'but
I'm sure he needn't make so much noise.'

How  why  you told me he was perfectly
certain not to arrive till after we had got
away,' ejaculated Maryanne, hastily rising.

Well, I wish he hadn't,' rejoined Mon-cries
fretfully. ' But how could I know ?
Boats are ridiculously uncertain.'

If I could only leave without being
seen,' said Maryanne, in perplexity. ' Captain
Cassillis will think it so very strange
to meet me here.'

1 1 daresay he will agreed Moncrieff indifferently
; ' but never mind.'

It was vastly easy to say 'never mind
but Maryanne did mind a good deal. She
had no more than a bowing acquaintance
with the lady of the house, and it would
be awkward to be caught by that lady's
son taking tea in the back parlour. Unfortunately
there was no escape for her.
To leave the room would only be to encounter
Captain Cassillis in the hall. How
excessively annoying ! And the scrape had
not been fallen into through her own fault
either, but entirely through the misrepresentations
of that most idiotic Moncrieff.
Yet, indeed, when she came to consider it,
why need she be so greatly put out of
countenance ? Might she not fairly regard
herself as being above criticism ? in short,
was she not a Kirkpatrick ?

So she sat down again, dressed her face
with smiles, and blandly awaited the incoming
of the bride and bridegroom !

DISUNITED.

To marry one whom you could adore, and whose heart
is closed to you  to yearn for the treasure, and
only to claim the casket  to worship the statue that
you may never warm to life. Oh ! such a marriage
would be a hell, the more terrible because Paradise
was in sight.'

HE new Laird of Baronshaugh was
bringing his bride from Shetland,
where, owing to the extreme
urgency of the Travels of Hilyascord, old
and valued family friends, the marriage
had been celebrated ; and celebrated with
as much state as if Christian had been still
an Elvester of Eastravoe.

Moncrieff had assured Maryanne that
the travellers would not reach Netherlaw

till late to-night. Why she thought this,
or whether she did think it, was known
only to herself. The real state of the case
was, that Glen and his wife ought to have
reached Netherlaw on the previous evening
; but a mist had delayed the Shetland
steamer fully twelve hours. So it had been
a tedious journey, and now to refresh themselves
after it, they had Moncrieff.

The unexpectedness of the pleasure must
have somewhat influenced Glen's manner to
his cousin, for the young lady pettishly complained.
You don't look one bit pleased to
see me, cousin Glen.'

Oh, I'm tremendously pleased,' he replied.
' My pleasure, however, is a matter
of secondary importance.'

And he stood aside to let Christian manifest
herself.

To Christian, therefore, Moncrieff was
obliged to turn her attention. She did not,
of course, agree about Glen's wife's pleasure
being of more importance than Glen's. That
was infinitely absurd. She gave Christian the

right hand of fellowship, however ; told her
that she looked ' quite dreadfully washed-out
' ; asked her if she would have any
tea, and forget all about it the same minute.

But who now so exquisitely agreeable as
Miss Kirkpatrick, or so friendly to the bride!
In a style the most frankly delightful, she
accounted for her presence on the scene,
and from that proceeded to sympathise
with Christian for having had to undertake
a journey so fatiguing.

Though, when one remembers the circumstances,'
she added, with graceful waggishness,
' it would not be fatiguing at all.'

Then she read aloud from the Reflector
the notification of the marriage at Hilyascord,
and remarked that it did ' sound so pretty.'

When Aunt Euphemia saw it this
morning,' observed Moncrieff, ' she said you
must have telegraphed from Orkney ; and
she thought it was a judgment.'

About the telegraphing, my aunt displayed
her usual sagacity,' said Glen. ' But
the judgment clause is not clear to me.'
vol. 11. Q

She thought it so extravagant to telegraph,'
explained his cousin. ' She says
you are turning out quite a shocking squanderer,
and that it is a judgment on Aunt
Marjorie for not having brought you up
more strictly.'

If Moncrieff ever did chance to bear
in mind aught concerning a fellow-creature,
it was sure to be something of a disparaging
nature ; generally an offensive remark made
by somebody. But Mrs Sledgehammer's
animadversions did not trouble Glen.

Well, Moncrieff, what about the tea you
spoke of ? ' he asked.

1 Oh, I forgot,' said she ; ' but do you want
tea, cousin Glen ? '

/ don't, but I rather think somebody else
does. And while she's having it, I'll go
down to the club for letters.'

So Christian had the tea, and Glen went
to the club, and Maryanne, breathing a
benediction in French, departed, leaving
behind her an impression not quite so
favourable as she perhaps imagined ; her

change from superciliousness to suavity had
not heightened Christian's at no time high
opinion of her.

In Moncrieff there was no such change;
and so soon as she and her cousin's wife
were left alone together, the latter had to
hear how very tiresome Maryanne was,
always telling such stupid stories about such
stupid things ; and how unbusiness-like those
Netherlaw shopkeepers were, never having
in stock the shades one wanted ; then the
talk drifted into home grievances.

Aunt Euphemia is staying at Craigie
Urquhart this month,' Moncrieff said ; ' it
saves her the expense of a coast house.
But she is so dreadfully, dreadfully tiresome,
and Dr Sledgehammer is worse than a
funeral. I wish Glen would ask them to
Baronshaugh. Only, Aunt Euphemia might
not go ; for she says cousin Glen has furnished
so extravagantly, that it makes her
feel like the Prophet Jeremiah, or some
other old person of that nation. And she
says there will be a constant carnival or

saturnalia or some such thing, where she
and Quentin used to live so quietly. Poor,
dear cousin Quentin ! '

I daresay Glen and I shall live rather
quietly too,' said Christian.

If you do, visiting at Baronshaugh will
be very dull and stupid,' argued Moncrieff.
It used to be quite fearful in poor, dear
Quentin's life. If it hadn't been so slow,
you would never have been married to
cousin Glen ; for if anybody had done anything
to entertain me, I should not have
written the letter.'

Christian did not apprehend the allusion.

Don't you know about that ?' said Mon-cries,
discontentedly ; to explain was always
a very great hardship to her. ' And yet
Glen has been so nasty to me about it ; he
must have told you, Miss Elvester.'

Indeed not,' replied Christian ; ' but
never mind, it can't matter at all that I
should know.'

Haven't you seen for yourself that Glen
was an admirer of mine ? ' questioned Mon-cries,

in a somewhat querulous fashion.
And don't you know that he hoped to
marry me in time ? '

< No, I don't'

1 You can ask him if he didn't, then,  and
you'll see.'

Christian smiled.

Oh, he would never have thought of you,
if he hadn't got that letter,' pursued Moncrieff.

I ought to be obliged to the writer of
that letter,' said Christian. ' Is it to you I
must make my acknowledgments ? '

It was a letter I had written to Mary-anne
Kirkpatrick, telling her that I was
engaged to cousin Quentin,' rejoined Mon-cries.
' Glen got it by mistake and read it.
(So mean of him !) Till then he had always
hoped I would marry him, but when he saw
I was going to marry cousin Quentin instead
(I daresay we oughtn't have been married
after all  Quentin was ever a waverer), he
made himself quite diabolically disagreeable,
and went at once and proposed to you.
That was his spiteful way.'

This account of the letter and Glen's spite
had merely come in by-the-bye ; there was
no preconceived plan about it. Moreover,
Moncrieff no doubt believed in the statement
she had made ; that every young man
who looked at her should wish to marry her
was of course. And at Quentin's death she
would certainly have become engaged to the
next laird, had it not been for that most
unlucky letter. Yet she was not vindictive ;
there was not even any passion in her utterance
; her tone rather resembled that of
an aggrieved child, who fretfully remembers
that some time since it possessed a toy
which it has now lost.

The words fell as an idle tale on Christian's
ears ; for Moncrieff, everybody knew,
imagined so much. The thought did cross
her mind, ' What if this were true ! ' But it
passed like a flash. Glen could not be
guilty of such deceitfulness ; Glen was above
suspicion.

1 Cousin Glen is so very odd, you know,'
continued Moncrieff, after drawing breath ;

1 but he is a great match for you, isn't he,
Miss Elvester?'

Do you think so ? ' said Christian. ' At
any rate, I had engaged myself to him before
I knew he would be what you call a great
match for me and I should have been better ;
pleased to marry him so, than I have been
to marry him as he is, because then everybody
must have known that it was only for
himself.'

This pretty bride-like enthusiasm was to
Moncrieff so many meaningless words ; and
she put it aside as only some more of the
ridiculousness which she found so much of
in the earth, and passed to another subject,
asking what Christian would recommend her
to wear at a grand entertainment to be
given by the Baillie Geddes family at their
newly - erected castle in the hill country.
She had put the same question to every
fresh person whom she had met for the
last three weeks, would go on doing so for
the three weeks next to come, and the matter
would finally be settled for her by her maid.

Some people wonder at me for going
there,' she said, after Christian, knowing all
the while how useless it was, had given
an opinion on the toilet difficulty. ' And
Dugald is quite speechless. He says he
can't stand those vulgar rich, and that, undesirable
as the Kirkpatrick are, the Baillie
Geddes set is a great deal worse. But
then Dugald is such a poky person, don't
you think ? Anyhow, the eldest Baillie
Geddes girl is engaged to Sir Leveret
Landless of Hungerscarth. His property
is all mortgaged, you know, and he only has
an allowance ; but Baillie Geddes is going
to make him all right, if he marries his
daughter. He is quite an Adonis, Maryanne
Kirkpatrick says, but a gambler. Would
you marry a gambler, Miss Elvester ? I
never would, unless I could be sure he
would always win. I have had eleven offers
in all  no, twelve ; but let me count'

And she began to reckon up the list on
her fingers. While she was thus employed,
her cab came ; so she had to relinquish the

pleasing task in the middle  for trains, like
time and tide, wait for no man  and leave
the exact number of her offers an open
question, with a leaning to the side of twelve.
At the hall door she met Glen, and for
the first time remembered to inquire for
her Aunt Marjorie.

I refer you to Miss Elvester,' replied
Glen ; ' she has seen far more of my mother
lately than I have.'

Christian had not minded being called
by her old name so long as it was only
Moncrieff who called her by it ; but ' Miss
Elvester ' from Glen was a different matter ;
it was just such a mistake as he might
make, if he had married her under the influence
of pique at another woman's desertion.
But he never noticed his own slip ;
an omission on the part of Moncrieff called
for his attention.

'Haven't you forgotten something?' he
said, as his cousin was about to pass through
the doorway.

What have I forgotten ? ' she cried.

Martha has charge of all my parcels. How
teasing you are ! What have I forgotten,
Glen ? '

1 Only to say good-evening to  ' and heled
her back into the hall and turned her
about to face Christian, who stood by one
of the pillars, looking on.

It wasn't worth bringing you back for,
was it ? ' said the bride.

Moncrieff evidently considered that it was
not. She held out her hand, however, and
seemed to mean to kiss Christian (who
ignored that intention), and wished a second
time that the Sledgehammers would relieve
Craigie Urquhart of their dismal presence,
and gingerly took her way down the wet
steps. Then, with characteristic indifference
to everybody but herself, she was completely
surprised to find that her cousin did not
propose to accompany her further than across
the pavement. She would have taken her
departure without missing him if he had not
been on the spot ; but having so timeously
returned, what was he for but to pleasure her.

1 You are coming to Royal Street, surely ? '
she said, making room for him by her side.

The coolness of her could not but provoke
a smile.

It's not necessary,' said Glen ; ' you have
your maid.'

1 I haven't  at least she's above. Besides,
a maid is nothing.'

Just try for once to imagine that she is
something ; by striving very hard, who knows
but you may succeed ? '

Moncrieff drew her eyebrows together.

You used to be so very much more agreeable,'
she said.

I'm sorry to have deteriorated ; but even
yet I am not so bad as I might be, for I
don't want you to miss your train, which
you certainly will if I detain you longer.
Commend me to the Sledgehammers. And
be a good girl, Moncrieff. Good-bye.'

While Moncrieff, in a very bad temper
with her provoking cousin, was driving
through the rain to Royal Street, Glen
joined Christian at the back window, whither

she had gone to contemplate the drizzle.
He put the tips of his fingers under her
chin, and so raised her face that he could
study it at convenience. Then he shook
his head.

You ought to have been resting,' he said,
for the journey has fatigued you. You are
paler than I like to see.'

You know what happens to eyes that
look at the sun,' she answered brightly ; ' it
is not so much that I have lost colour, as
that you have been looking at the sun.'

Is that all ? I wish I could be sure of
it. Had Moncrieff offended you seriously,
Christian, that you dismissed her as you
did?'

'Offended me? No. And what do you
mean by " dismissed her as you did ? " I
did not dismiss her  she went.'

You were so provokingly cool to her, I
mean, my little lady ; you drew yourself up
with such an air when she would have
kissed you. I never saw anything quite so
grand before.'

I did not mean it, Glen ; I would not
knowingly put on airs. And I did not kiss
your cousin, only because I never do kiss
any but those whom I am really fond of.'

Never ? And if one whom you are not
fond of should by some perversity of fate
be fond of you, and so desire to kiss ; how
then?'

I must let her, I suppose. But one who,
like your cousin, rather dislikes me than not,
shall not  no, not even if by some perversity
of fate I care a very great deal for her.'

1 Which you do not for my cousin. Does
she weary you very much, Christian ? '

I weary her more than she wearies me ;
she amuses me sometimes.'

1 How did she amuse you to-day ? '

The question was asked in an off-hand
fashion enough, but Christian, very quick to
interpret Glen, perceived that he still retained
the impression that, with or without
reason, his wife was angry with his cousin.
To remove this mistaken idea, nothing, it
seemed to her, would serve so well as to

repeat to him, in jest, as much as he would
have of Moncrieff's conversation. So she
said, lightly, 

Your cousin amused me to-day by telling
me what I should never otherwise have
found out. Now I've been informed why
you married me : a letter fell into your hands
by mischance ; I needn't say what it was
about, only that it made you come to me
with  O ! Glen, Glen  '

The recital gaily begun, ended in a startled
cry, as Christian, feeling the hand in which
both of hers were enclosed suddenly tighten,
looked up and saw that her husband's face
had grown crimson, and that there was an
expression that could mean only one thing
in his eyes.

Well, my dearest ? ' he asked, with as
much carelessness as he could assume.

Tell me that it is not true,' she said
entreatingly, but at the same time drawing
her hands away from him. ' You could not,
you  have deceived me so.'

Instead of answering this, he mentally

anathematised Moncrieff for the pretty piece
of mischief she had made. Reasoning from
general observation of his cousin, he had
believed that more recent events must by
this time have crowded out the circumstances
of All-Fool's Day from among the things
that were of interest strong enough to bespoken
about by her. But it is never safe
to calculate upon what will or will not be
done in any unusual situation by such a one
as Moncrieff. Having got no reply, Christian
covered her face and ejaculated in faint,
broken accents of distress, 

If I had known sooner  but now  now
what shall I do ? '

Then Glen tried to draw the trembling
hands from before the downcast face, but
could not ; then he would have put his
arms about her, but she shuddered and
almost passionately besought him to let her
alone.

1 I really do not understand you,' he said.

And the remark was truer than he knew.

1 Was it indeed because you read the letter

that you asked me to be your wife ? ' she
inquired.

It was because I fully believed what
I do yet fully believe, that I was acting
for the best, that I asked you to be my
wife

I don't know what you call " the best," '
she said. ' Can it be best for me to be
married to a man who did not want me ?
or for you to have married a woman whom
you do not care for, while you  '

Love another,' she would have added,
but the words choked her and would not
pass her lips.

But I do care for you,' he responded.
I swear it, Christian ; and but for this
random talk of Moncrieff's, you should never
have had the shadow of a reason for doubting
my regard.'

He did ' care ' for her ; but for Moncrieff's
random talk, she should never have had the
shadow of a reason for doubting his ' regard.'
But this did not comfort Christian. What
matter that Glen did after an easy fashion

care for her ? She would rather have nothing
at all from him than such ' regard.'

Her dream of happiness had, while it lasted,
been very sweet. But what an awakening !
Her king of men had disowned himself.
Glen had mocked her by the gift of his
name, while his love had lone before been
given to Moncrieff. Shaken as her faith was,
however, she still held to the belief that the
man would never forget that a wife stood
between him and his cousin now. But this
did not for the present make much difference
to her. Nothing could as yet alleviate the
pain of knowing that Glen had lightly held
out his hand to her  to her !  only in order
that he might be revenged on the butterfly
who had thrown him over ; and the bitterness
of it was, if possible, made the more
bitter by finding that she, proud as she was
too, was quite expected by her husband to
be meekly contented with his ' regard.' So
a sense of humiliation mingled with the
misery of disappointed love. Poor Christian
! the sun had gone down for her at
vol. 11. R

noonday, and she was left shivering in the
dark.

She neither wept nor declaimed ; she sat
tearless and still, with a settled despair on
her face, wondering why Glen should go on
trying to make his peace with her, and how
he could be so little ashamed of what he had
done. At first he had been sufficiently disconcerted
no doubt  it was his own face
only which had betrayed him,  but he had
recovered himself almost immediately, and
now, to hear him talk, one would think that
he did not at all comprehend the reason of
such sharp distress.

And neither, in truth, he did. Glen was
under a complete misapprehension. He
never supposed (how could he ?) that Mon-cries
had spoken of him as a lover of hers.
What he imagined was, that his cousin had
kept to the real fact, as thus,  ' Your husband
must have married you because, in the
letter spoken of, he saw it stated that you
loved him, and stated so that he did not
doubt its truth.' And to a proud, sensitive

girl such a discovery must have come with a
shock. Vexation was natural ; vexation,
however, which would gradually give way
under the influence of soothing words, and
endearments, and protestations of 'regard.'
But this deep-seated resentment was more
than the circumstances called for. Christian
blamed him for having deceived her.
She had so entirely believed in him, and
all the while he had only been deceiving
her, she pathetically said. Yet he could not
vindicate himself by answering,  ' The deception
you complain of was resorted to in
order to secure your happiness. Unless I
had held back part of the truth from you,
you would not have agreed to marry me.
You yourself ought to see this, and so to
desist from your unreasonable anger.' Instead
of plain-speaking like this, Glen had
to deal in ambiguities and generalities ; and
these Christian paid no attention to, thinking
them so utterly inconsequent. Her mind
was full of one idea, his of another ; therefore,
as was only natural, they quite missed

each other. He considered her unjust ; she
looked upon him as unpardonable.

The bride's state of mind may be gathered
from the fact that she was actually unwilling
to go on to Baronshaugh. Her marriage
had been a mockery ; she did not see how
she could act it out, she said.

Glen looked at her incredulously when it
came to that.

Do you intend me to go to Baronshaugh
without you ? to Baronshaugh or anywhere
else ? ' he asked. ' Because, if that is your
meaning, let me assure you that I will do
nothing so mad. You may suppose it necessary
to proclaim to the world that you have
quarrelled with me, but I don't happen to
share your opinion as to the expediency of
that.'

It is not a quarrel, this,' she said. ' It is
only that I have been cruelly deceived by
you. Can I help feeling it, do you think ? '

He had already exhausted his eloquence,
trying to bring her to terms, and here she
was, woman-like, going back to the very

starting-point, and, with the licence of speech
claimed by her sex, accusing him of cruelty
added to deception. He was tired of it ;
he had not conceived her capable of such
childishness ; even sympathy failed him
now.

Whatever your purpose may be,' he said,
mine is to perform the vows which I took
upon me the other day. You are my wife,
and I will never give you up. (To think
that you could dream of proposing it !)
Please let me hear no more of anything so
impossible.'

Yes, she was his wife, there was no altering
that ; and even if he had deceived her,
most cruelly, her place was henceforth by his
side. She had spoken unadvisedly, but the
voice of calm reason must now be listened
to ; and, listening, Christian admitted herself
to be wrong, and acknowledged the necessity
of keeping the breach between her and Glen
a secret from the world.

BRIDEGROOMLESS.

Return, return, O mournful, mournful bride ;
Return and dry thy useless sorrow.'

BOUT eight o'clock that evening,
Christian sat in a railway carriage
at the River Street Station. She
was alone, Glen having gone to see about
securing the whole compartment. He had
been away some time, and seemed in no
haste to return. The guard, in his course
of door-slamming, came, but had to pass on
without the ceremony of seeing the ticket ;
then the bell rang, and Christian said to
herself,  * I daresay he will be too late

She almost wished he would ; for, when
evil has fallen upon you, you sometimes have
a reckless feeling that matters had better just
be a little worse when they are about it.
What is the use of anything at all going
right when so much else has gone wrong ?
She kept her place, therefore, and watched
from her window the humours of the busy
platform, wondering the while if, among all
those men and women walking up and down,
there was one other such a heavy heart as
hers. A bride and bridegroom stood full in
view ; an obtrusively enamoured pair, so
new-fangled that they could not keep their
honeymoon happiness to themselves, but
were taking all the travelling public into
their confidence. The sight was too much
for this other and less fortunate bride, and
her eyes filled. But such weakness would
never do, must be put a stop to at once ; so
Christian brushed away the tears before they
fell. As she did this, a black-coated figure
emerged from the crowd, invaded Christian's
compartment, and next moment Mrs Cassius

of Baronshaugh found herself contravening
the company's bye-laws by travelling
without a ticket.

Glen had indeed missed the train ; careless
Glen ! and there would be none other tonight.
But it did not matter ; nothing
mattered now ; let the very worst betide, and
Christian would bear it with stoicism. The
worst ? Glen absent, not through carelessness,
but because ' something had happened '
to him ; could she stoically endure such a
worst as that ? Scarcely, it is to be doubted ;
for at the mere idea of the contingency, her
heart went fast and faster.

The other occupant of the carriage was
none else than Mrs Brackenburn's pet aversion,
the Rev. Daniel Carnegy, of Braidmoss.
This gentleman made a conscience of drawing
a bow at a venture, wherever he might
be ; so, after covertly observing his fellow-passenger
for some time and marking the
intensity of the gaze which she directed
towards the iron works amidst which the
route lay, he politely put into her hands a

weekly religious periodical, entitled ' Zion's
Trump,' with the remark, that it might
be she would find matter of interest
therein.

Christian knew the minister of Braidmoss
by sight, and was aware that he had a habit
of offering ghostly council and instruction to
whoever would lend him an ear ; but she
was not exactly prepared to talk over her
most private feelings with any man. She
gladly accepted the periodical as an equivalent
for conversation, therefore, and abstractedly
turned the leaves. For frontispiece
there was the by no means alluring portrait
of Bounding Bill, the Converted Acrobat.
Then came a record of the great work being
done by that evangelist among the masses of
Netherlaw. Besides this there were many
surprising, not to say sensational, scenes and
incidents, most graphically described. The
question : Is it seemly in a clergyman to wear
a ring ? was discussed, and settled in the
negative ; the date of the battle of Armageddon
was definitely fixed ; and full details

given of the Millennium. In short, ' Zion's
Trump' stood in the same place to one portion
of the community as the Penny Dreadful
to another.

Christian followed the words with her
eyes ; but her mind was far from them. Her
anxiety was great. Her king had dis-crowned
himself ; but still, but still 

At Braidmoss a telegram relieved her.
Glen regretted that he had lost the train ;
would follow early tomorrow ; had telegraphed
to the people at the hotel to have
a carriage in waiting to convey Christian
to Baronshaugh.

So the bride went to her new home alone ;
and Laighbield gossiped ; and on the following
Sunday Mr Carnegy, who turned every
trivial incident to pulpit use, and sucked a
moral from each, as Jacques sucked melancholy
from a song, told his congregation
about the wickedness traveller from Netherlaw,
and drew a parallel between the Braidmoss
railroad and the railroad of life, wherein he
showed that the grand difference between

these lay in the fact that, while on the former
the want of a ticket could easily be made up
for, on the latter it would fare ill with those
who were found without a passport at the
terminus.

FRIENDS.

They made a paction 'tween them twa,
They made it firm and sure, 0.'

EXT morning betimes Glen came
riding through the grounds of
the goodly inheritance which had
fallen to him. On emennnof from the
maze of trees by which the house was
hidden, and getting into the clear space in
front, he glanced up and down the many
windows, as if thinking that at one of them
he miodit see his bride watching for him.
If he did expect this, he was disappointed ;
for no bride was there. But on his way
back from the stables, he looked casually
along a right wing of the mansion, without

any expectation this time, and did catch a
glimpse of Christian at an open casement.

She leant forward, with her hands outside
among the roses which climbed the wall, so
that her wedding-ring shone in the sunlight
like a circlet of golden flame. It was a
charming picture, the fair girl's head and
bust in frame of bloom and greenery. The
face was one which it would be well worth
a man's while to see flushing and growing
eager at his approach. Perhaps it had done
so before to-day for Glen ; but not now.
Now, if it flushed at all, it was not from
tenderness, and if it disappeared quickly
from amongst the foliage, it was not that
Christian might hasten to bid her husband
welcome. Not thus, indeed. If it so
pleased him, he might come to her ; she
need not, and would not go to him.

During the past twelve hours she had
fully considered her position. Her attitude
towards the husband who had deceived her
was decided upon. Now to practise it.

Not knowing what sort of reception might

be awaiting him, Glen proceeded to the
morning-room. It was full of sunshine 

o

the early shining which brightens, but does
not burn  and of the scent of flowers from
the garden beneath. General gladness prevailed
; the hum of bees came up cheerily ;
butterflies intoxicated with pleasure fluttered
by ; birds from every branch twittered satisfaction
with this brightness after rain. And,
as far as could be seen, there was nothing
about Christian out of harmony with nature's
rejoicing. She had put sighs and tears
behind her, and wore a face as fresh as the
roses which peeped in at her window. Seated
in a low wicker chair by the open casement,
she heard her husband come along the corridor
; and, when the door opened, she slowly
rose. It had been her desire to get through
her part without any semblance of constraint ;
but that she could not quite ; and, instead of
p-oino- forward as she had meant, stood still,
contemplating the tip of her tiny slipper
and playing rather nervously with the cord
and tassels of her apron. Whatever Glen's

misgivings might be, there was certainly no
nervousness in his manner. He shook hands
just as he used to do when Christian was
still Miss Elvester, and just as he would have
explained a matter to her then, he said, 

1 Now; hear my defence. It was not my
fault that you had to leave Netherlaw alone
last night.'

No matter about it,' she replied. ' You
see it has not harmed me in the least.'

This was no pretence, either ; there did
not lurk the faintest suspicion of anything
disagreeable in those pleasant low tones.

But I'm sorry we were separated, all the
same,' said Glen. * This is how it was : a
child was run over by a hansom at the
entrance of the station, and I had to pick
him up. It had got to be done, you see ;
and I, as the man nearest, was bound todo
it'

Of course you were,' rejoined Christian,
looking straight up into his eyes, her own
full of interest. ' And the unfortunate little
child,  what of him ? '

i He was taken to the infirmary, and will
do very well. A special Providence watches
over street waifs.'

Christian was not satisfied with this generalisation.
She must hear the whole circumstances
; for she had often looked at and
thought about those Netherlaw street waifs.
Glen gave the required details to her, and
having done so, remarked, 

So you see I could not help myself, But
alone as you were, you got here without
trouble, I suppose ? '

Yes, thanks ; you had arranged to save
me that.'

I hoped so. And I had a telegram from
the hotel when you left Braidmoss ; otherwise
I shouldn't have been able to feel quite
comfortable about you last night.'

She readily guessed why. But there were
certain subjects best avoided ; so she remarked
upon the loveliness of the morning,
and expressed her pleasure that the rain and
the clouds were gone. A silence succeeded,
during which Christian resumed her wicker-chair

at the window ;  for, in circumstances
which threaten to become embarrassing, a
window, when the situation permits, is one's
natural refuge ; a child, a dog, a cat, may
serve, but should none of these be in the
way, then certainly the window.

Glen did not know what to make of the
change of mood, but could only surmise that
his bride had come to see the unreasonableness
of her anger. It was well ; though
with satisfaction surprise somewhat mingled ;
surprise that that should be entirely condoned
to-day, which but yesterday had
been declared unpardonable ; still, it was
well.

Looking at his wife now, and assuming
from the expression of her face that he
might proceed to claim a husband's due, he
went across, and saying, 

Allow me, sweet,' stooped to serve himself
to a kiss. ' He was quickly shown his
mistake. Christian grew as red as a rose, and
she visibly trembled ; but would she permit
such an attention from one who offered it
vol. 11. s

merely because he had an idea that it was in
the bond ?

1 You must not !  you shall not ! ' she said,
with quickened breath and head thrown
back.

But why ? ' he demanded, laying hold of
her, as she rose to get away from him.

I beg you to let me go,' she only said.

1 First, tell me why I should. What are
you afraid of ? Am I really not to have the
kiss, Christian ? '

His grasp was tighter than he was aware,
and he did not think of the rings on the
hands he held, nor know that he was inflicting
pain, till Christian exclaimed, 

1 You hurt me, Captain Cassillis ! '

A million pardons ! ' he cried, and let go
straightway. ' Have I done much mischief ? '

It is nothing,' she replied, 'only it was
painful at the moment ; ' and after just glancing
at the finger upon which a diamond star
had left its impression, she hid her hand in
the pocket of her apron.

I am sincerely sorry,' said Glen. ' I



would not wittingly cause you a moment's
pain, even though you are so undutiful.'

Her lip curled ever so slightly, and she
thought, 

Undutiful, indeed ! Undutiful ! '

And this is your idea of how to treat a
husband,' observed Glen, leaning against the
wall with folded arms, and regarding his
bride with a kind of amused curiosity ; for
he was scarcely inclined to take the matter
seriously.

Christian answered nothing, only withdrew
beyond arm's-length and looked back over
her shoulder, as if daring him to follow her.
Interpreting the look so, Glen said, 

Excuse me, but this goes a short way
past a jest

It is no jest, indeed,' she rejoined. ' I
am very much in earnest.'

You are ! '

Christian turned and faced him then.

I am,' she said.

Well, I too can be very much in earnest
; and I feel half inclined to have that

kiss in spite of you. I could easily take it,
Christian.'

Oh, but you will not,' she responded,
still holding him at bay with a pair of such
clear, grave eyes. ' I am not afraid ; you
are too manly to put your strength to such
a use.'

Why is this ? ' he asked. ' Do you quite
hate me ? '

She knew that he did not, could not, think
she hated him ; and she also knew, or believed
she knew, which came practically to
the same thing, that he did not really desire
a kiss from her, but made this little ado
only because an unexpected difficulty had
been thrown in the way of obtaining one.

I don't hate you at all,' she answered,
lowering her eyelids, while once more a
deeper colour swept her face. ' It does not
follow that one hates a man, because one will
not have him kiss her.'

Glen was silent for an instant, rather disposed
to be angry, then the comic aspect
of the case struck him, and he laughed.

This is very hard on me,' he said. ' Was
ever any fellow served so unkindly ? But I
have been allowed to kiss you before now ;
have you forgotten it, Christian ? '

Have you forgotten yesterday ? ' asked
Christian, speaking very low, and shading
her too tell-tale face with a gay Japanese
hand-screen which had lain conveniently by.

There is no cause why yesterday should
not be forgotten,' he replied, ' but the very
best why it should.'

Ah, if it could be ! ' she rejoined. ' But
think, Glen ; when a girl discovers that she
is the wife of a man who has  ' she paused
to pick her words, for she did not want to
weaken her self-justification by the use of
too strong language.

Well ? ' he said ironically. ' Who has an
interesting habit of making short work with
the Decalogue every now and then, I suppose
you mean.'

No ; I only mean, who has concealed from
her what, if known, would have made it
impossible for her to marry him, she is not

likely to forget ; and she can't be expected
to be so dutiful  since you call it being dutiful
 as other wives are.'

When Glen had once already told Christian
that he did care for her, she had treated the
information in a style which showed that it
was not lukewarm caring for she wanted ;
that it was all or nothing she would have.
He therefore made no second mention of the
caring, but he said, 

1 Have I not assured you that you shall
have no cause to complain of me ? But let
me repeat it : I will do all that man may to
make you happy ; only give me leave to
try.'

Thank you,' she replied, half-smiling ;
but I shall not trouble you so far. I quite
mean to be as happy as I can ; but you must
kindly let me find happiness by myself, and
in my own way.'

By yourself ? That implies that you won't
have anything to say to me at all ? My dear
Mrs Cassillis, you seem to be a person of
most advanced ideas. Will you bow to me

when we meet by chance on the staircase or
about the grounds ? '

That as you like she answered, accommodatingly.


1 Oh no ; but as you like,' said Glen.

1 Well, then ; we have been tolerably good
friends all along ; let us be so still.'

 Ah, yes ; a most charming and desirable
arrangement,' observed Glen, raising his eyebrows.


If it isn't charming and desirable, it is at
least better than if you went on acting at
being my lover any longer,' said Christian.
And now, please, won't we talk of something
else ? Tell me if I may have Willie
Ruthven here to amuse me during these long
summer days.'

Need you ask ? If he is to form an
element in your happiness, by all means have
him without delay,' said Glen.

But for all that, he did not see the desirability
of the thing himself. It was, in truth, a
little annoying for him to find that the Mower
he had gathered  too carelessly, perhaps, but

certainly with the best possible intentions 
refused to be worn in his button-hole, but
proudly elected to remain much farther apart
from him than so. He had spoken of taking
the kiss his wife would not grant ; but he had
not for one moment seriously entertained the
thought. In such a case as this, if persuasion
were powerless, force was as entirely out
of the question. Christian must follow her
caprice, then, unheard of as it was. She
would tire of it by-and-by, without doubt.
In the meantime, it might prove a somewhat
amusing performance, on the whole  a kind
of drawing-room comedetta for two ; and
Glen was vain enough to imagine that his
part in it would not be the more difficult to
play.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

HOW THE ROUND PEG GOT INTO THE SQUARE HOLE, I

CHAPTER II.

DUNCAN GRAY,'



CHAPTER III.

THROUGH THE THORNS,

CHAPTER IV.

ARTISTIC,

CHAPTER V.

A DIFFERENCE ABOUT A KISS, .







CHAPTER VI.

glen's vow,



CHAPTER VI I.

IN THE FIELDS AT EVENTIDE, .

CHAPTER VIII.

PAGE

A SEVERE CRITIC, . . . . . Ii

CHAPTER IX.

AN UNJUSTIFIABLE METHOD OF SEEKING MORE LIGHT, 140

CHAPTER X.

RATIONAL AND IMPROVING, . . . . 148

CHAPTER XI.

A MIDNIGHT INTRUDER, . . . . l68

CHAPTER XII.

EXIT MISS URQUHART, . . . . 1 84

CHAPTER XIII.

HYMENEAL, . . . . . 191

CHAPTER XIV.

IN MOST GRACIOUS FOOLING, 203

CHAPTER XV.

Lichfield ILLUMINATED, . . . . 217

CHAPTER XVI.

A CONFESSION, 232

CHAPTER XVI I.

SURPRISING, 247

CH APTE R XVI I I.

CONCLUSION, 260

CHAPTER I.

HOW THE ROUND PEG GOT INTO THE
SQUARE HOLE.

1 1 will a round unvarnished tale deliver
Of my whole course of love.'

TANDALANE, an old-fashioned,
white-washed house on the Auch-
terbrechan shore, with fuchsias
against the walls and pinks under the windows,
had been taken by Mrs Brackenburn
for the months of July and August, while her
husband and her husband's friend, Donald
Berwick, spent their furlough travelling
about Russia. Mrs Brackenburn and Ure

III. A

sala Elvester sat now in the queerly-furnished,
low-roofed Standalane drawing-room ;
the first on the old-fashioned, high-backed
sofa, the other close to one of the narrow
windows.

An absent look had stolen over Ursula's
face, and her hands were unmindful of the
needle-work with which half-an-hour since
they had been busy. As for Mrs Bracken-burn,
she had been dutifully reading Hallam's
Middle Ages,' with a view to improve her
mind, but idle fancies having come between
her and ' The condition of the ceorls she had
closed her book now. It was nearly time for
the postman's evening call, and she, possessing
her soul in patience, was awaiting that
event. But the letter by-and-by brought to
her was not the letter for which she was
aweary, neither did it at all stand in the
stead of that. She frowned over it, threw it
from her discontentedly, then got up and went
to the side of Ursula, saying, 

Weep with me ; for again the post has
been, and I have got no letter from my
husband.'

But it can so easily be accounted for,'
said Ursula. * Dr Brackenburn must be
beyond the bounds of civilisation ; somewhere
out of the reach of post-offices, I
suppose.'

We can suppose anything we like, but
supposing doesn't take the sharp edge off
vexation, nor prevent me from feeling as
quite disappointed," as my last cook did when
she found she wasn't to have a private .
But, look here! Dugald Urquhart
has " dropped a line " (odious phrase ; as badin
its way as any of the " whom not to know
argues oneself unknown," and " conspicuous
by absence" company), to tell me that
he has been cruising about our coast in a
friend's yacht for some time, and will beat
Standalane to-night. Glad or sorry,
Ursula ? '

Mr Urquhart is your cousin,' said Ursula ;
that is enough.'

Enough to make you glad ? '
1 No ; but to make me silent about him.'
1 Yet I think I can guess what that silence
covers, and I sympathise with you. My

husband says I have no reverence, but he
is wrong. I own my superior whenever I
recognise him. I would rather any day
look up than look down, or even look level.
Isn't it a delicious sensation when one meets
a man such as this forty-second cousin of
mine, whom one can really reverence ? '

I don't know ; I can't tell ; I have not
thought about it,' said Ursula. ' Won't you
leave off fluttering round the room, Matilda,
and come here ? The outlook is very lovely

And it was : the sky radiant  pink, orange,
violet, barred and flecked with gold ; the
Frith alive with breakers, its margin misty
with the spray flung off by their breaking ;
swiftly they rolled up the white beach, one
following another in long, long foam-fringed
lines, which the setting sun, casting his rays
aslant, turned to transparent emerald as they
ran.

1 I see,' said Mrs Brackenburn, having
responded to the invitation. ' And when
Dugald comes, he will say fine things about
Neptune's chargers tossing their foamy
manes. But I can't talk prettily of the

beauties of nature. I shocked Mr Berwick
not long since by thinking that a blending of
soft ruby and pearl-grey, which he pointed
out to me among the clouds, would look nice
in wool-work. Should you suppose, Ursula,
that Mr Berwick is an admirer of wool-work
? '

Ursula declined to commit herself to any
statement concerning Mr Berwick, and called
her friend's attention to the splendours of the
sinking sun.

It is lighting up the manse windows
gloriously,' said Mrs Brackenburn, the perverse.
' See how they glint through the
chestnuts and sycamores ! A delightfully
rambling old place that manse is ; one of
those houses which always set you imagining
some story in connection with them. Don't
you think it is a pity there should be no Mrs
Berwick to enjoy such a pleasant habitation
? '

Are not all manses pleasant habitations ? '
said evasive Ursula.

1 As well ask if all ministers are pleasant
men, and all ministers' wives patterns to the

public !' cried Mrs Brackenburn. ' Now, all
ministers are not pleasant men. I remember
one whom I used to fear as I feared hobgoblins
after dark. He was a survival ; he
made the Sunday a weariness to me by the
length and doctrinalness of his sermons ; and
he caused me to learn the Shorter Catechism
from end to end, so that I could
repeat it like a parrot, though I hadn't an
idea what it meant ;  I haven't much yet, to
tell the truth. No good came of that discipline,
somehow. I was a terrible child. Till
I reached sixteen, I do believe my impression
was that our parish of Haroldsbay, as
well as all the region round, had been created
for my special and particular amusement.
There was no one to stand in a mother's
place to me, no sister Jenny to keep me
right ; and my too indulgent uncle and wild
boy cousins encouraged me when I ought to
have been checked and silenced. Be thankful
for your sister Jenny, Ursula. I might
have been a better member of society to-day,
if in childhood I had had such a woman's
care

1 What happened to you at sixteen ? ' inquired
Ursula. No talker herself, she liked
to listen to the talk of Mrs Brackenburn.

'What happened to me ? Just what happens
to most of us women one time or
another

Would you mind telling me about it ? I
should like to hear your story, if I might.'

Mrs Brackenburn declared that she had
no story, properly so called ; but if Ursula
wished to know how the round peg had got
into the square hole, it was easy to tell.
Such being indeed Ursula's wish, Mrs
Brackenburn, without further ado went on : 

When the old divine who taught me the
Catechism had been fifty years in the ministry,
he celebrated his jubilee, and immediately
after slept with his fathers. His
successor was an innovation. Under his
rule alarming changes were made in our
worship. Our ancient precentor, for instance,
disappeared, and in his room came a young
man who wore a blue necktie, and had some
faint notion of the difference between a
minim and a semibreve. The old folks

didn't like it ; one worthy, I remember,
retired to meditate among the tombs every
time we sang, for she could not abide to hear
the praises of the sanctuary chanted through
a moustache. The psalmody approved of
by Haroldsbay was, when we were not so
rash as to make up our mind about what
tune we had got, but were content to have a
vague idea of St Not's, with a suggestion of
Babel's Streams here and there, and an afterthought
of Palermo or Martyrs ; and when
the leader did not have the presumption to
soar beyond the lower edge of any note he
attempted, but hung on there flatly and
waveringly for as long as he could hold out,
then took his way to the next, up or down an
ingenious ladder of nasal grace-notes, we
following at whatever pace, and with whatever
style of flourish we liked best. But it
was the minister, not the precentor, I was
going to talk about. Well, the minister 
I can see him now !  w r as not clerical looking
: he had a great dark shaggy head, an
ugly attractive face, eyes that glowed like
lamps under an awsome crag, and grand, impressive

gestures, not taught by any elocution
master. His sermons were like no
other sermons I have ever heard ; pictures
after Gustave Dore, with something gruesome
in their gloom and something lurid in
their light. To suit his action he had a rich
rolling voice, and whatever he chose to say
sounded grand  at least so I thought then ;
I don't know what might be my opinion now.
One Sunday when my hero-worship was at
its height, I went into church, to see an
ordinary neutral-looking person, with eyes
and hair of no particular colour, take possession
of the pulpit. I was so provoked that,
instead of attending to one word of what he
had to say, I drew a wicked caricature of
the preacher, which I passed round among
the boys, who passed it to my governess,
who as soon as we got home scolded me well.
(Mademoiselle often did scold me for that
misused talent of mine, calling my pencil an
instrument of " wickedness," and prophesying
that if I should ever be shipwrecked on a
desert island, I would certainly peel the skin
from the palms of my hands rather than be

without something on which to draw " beetle
gentlemen") Next evening the stranger
dined at our house. My governess happened
to show him her collection of water-colour
sketches ; and what should he come upon
there but my yesterday's portrait of himself,
which mademoiselle, meaning to keep in
memory of me, had put into her portfolio
and forgotten ! The minister took it up,
looked at it critically, then looked as critically
at me. " This is what I noticed you busy
with in church," he said. " It is very clever
and spirited indeed." Clever and spirited ! 
I had never been so ashamed as I was at
that moment. My face flamed into such a
scarlet that, as Jack said afterwards, it casta
fiery glow over all the room. As I made
my ignominious escape, I heard mademoiselle
apologising for me, and the minister saying,
Poor motherless little girl ! " and I locked
myself up in the dark, and cried till I was
sick, to think that I was so wicked, and that
I had no mother. The end of the matter
was my going down, and before everybody
expressing penitence for what I had done

and asking to be forgiven. I can't think
how it was, but my husband has since sworn
that he there and then fell in love with the
pitiful, tear-stained little object who came
pleading for pardon. I did not guess that
at the time, of course ; indeed, in those days
of romance I would not have condescended
to any lover less pensive and heroic than
Thaddeus of Warsaw or Sir William
Wallace of "The Scottish Chiefs." But I
told my new friend, I remember, that I
should like to live always near him, as I
might so perhaps manage to be a little good,
or at any rate a little less bad. Years passed,
and I was with relatives in Edinburgh, when
chance  Providence, I should say  once
more threw Dr Brackenburn and me together.
I had still the same feeling about
the possibility of being better than I was,
if I could always live near him ; only I did
not tell him of it now. Shortly after I
had gone home, my uncle invited Dr
Brackenburn to Haroldsbay. Our house
was full. We had a man who wanted
to marry me, and one or two others who

thought it a passable enough amusement to
laugh with me, and a couple of worldly-wise
matrons who used to talk to me for
my good (how one does enjoy being talked
to for one's good !), and a few girls who
thanked heaven seven times a day that they
were not as Matilda Cameron. The grave
scholar could have little in common with
these ; yet when he was asked, he came.
I had an intuition why, and it made me
afraid of Dr Brackenburn, so that I kept
myself constantly surrounded by my gay
friends, when all the while  but no matter ;
I don't care to think, much less to speak,
of my behaviour then ; so let it pass.
Haroldsbay is one vast peat-bog, and so
flat all round about, that you have only
to mount a table to see the whole
county. The coast scenery is worth looking
at, however ; and as we had nothing else
to show, we took our visitors to all the
lighthouses within reach. One day we set
out to inspect a cave to which there was
no royal road ; indeed, with us, as in your
Shetland, if royalty wanted to see any of

our finest sights, it would have to go to
them afoot like the meanest of its subjects.
Our way led across a succession of headlands
which forms part of the northern
sledge of Scotland. Our descent was
by a "goe," veiled with a tangle of flowers
and ferns and grasses ; and desperately,
darkly uncomfortable, with unexpected rills
trickling from unseen watersheds ; and all
the way down set thick with pitfalls for
unsure, feet. After getting to the bottom,
there remained a congregation of smooth
round boulders as big as cottages to be
clambered over before the cave was reached.
I was used to such work, and the other
girls were not ; so without my being able
to help it, Dr Brackenburn and I got
separated from the rest, and arrived first.
The cavern was an opening in the solid
rock, like a cathedral aisle, except that the
massive of man's masonry would be as
nothing compared to it. A narrow chink
at the farther end gave us a peep of gloomy
sky, and a glimpse of still gloomier sea
tumbling about sullenly. After standing in

silence for a minute, I made my way over the
intervening stones towards this passage, and
when it was reached, called back, " I am
going to surprise the gulls and gannets, so
good-bye." Dr Brackenburn begged me to
desist, or at any rate to delay till he should
join me ; but I laughed and passed through
alone. The tide was full. One crag, only
one, showed above water. With a leap I
reached it  foolhardiness, not bravery, I
know ; but something uncanny had taken
possession of me that day  and so stood
on about a square yard of rock ; cliffs, I
can't tell how high, overhanging me, and
the Atlantic licking the slippery sea-weed
round my feet. I should not have cared
to confess how I shuddered as I looked
down into the green gulf of water which
one false step would convert into a grave ;
nor how I felt when Dr Brackenburn, a
moment or two later, appeared in the aperture.
Before he could say one word I was
at his side. In getting back I ought to
have fallen in and he to have drawn me
out, to make it tell well ; but it was not so ;

nothing but plainest prose has ever befallen
me. Seeing me stand safely before
the fissure, he said, *' If I had any right to
scold you, I would exercise it : one degreeless
sure-footed, and you must have been
there " (pointing below) " at this moment,
instead of here. You have no right to trifle
with your life." " It is my affair," I said ;
my life is my own to do what I like with ;
and if Sir George Hay had been with me
instead of Dr Brackenburn, I should have
been praised for fearlessness, not blamed
for folly." I knew very well that I was
talking nonsense, but I didn't care. Was
I  excuse him  was I engaged to Sir
George Hay ? he asked as quietly as could
be. " I am not, nor ever shall be," I
answered ; " I am a free spirit ! " " Free ? "
he repeated. " Quite delightfully free," I
replied, and added flippantly to cover growing
nervousness, " I care for nobody, no
not I, and nobody cares for me." I don't
mean to tell you or anyone else what he
said then ; but before Sir George Hay and
the rest of the party came stumbling over

the boulders, it had been put beyond all
doubt that somebody did care for me a
very, very, very great deal better than I
deserved. So I lost my freedom, and married
Alan Brackenburn ; and never was a
poor woman kept in order by a husband
as I by mine. That is my story, Princess
Ursula

'DUNCAN GRAY.'

His whisper'd theme, dilated and at large,
Proves, after all, a wind gun's airy charge,
An extract of his diary  no more,
A tasteless journal of the day before.'

Intimate as these two friends
were, there had been absolute
silence on Ursula's side concerning
affairs of the heart. Yet Mrs Bracken-burn
was not without her guesses at truth ;
and her conviction was, that if Ursula did
love any man at all, that man was not
Dugald Urquhart.

I know you would like to set when my
cousin rises she said laughingly, as the time
for Dugald drew near. ' I've heard a child
excuse itself for leaving food by saying that

VOL. III. b

the thing was "too good to eat." Is Mr
Urquhart's company, then, too good to be
enjoyed ? '

The sound of wheels coming to a standstill
outside (the ladies had left the window
now) did Ursula the good office of saving
her a reply.

He comes !' exclaimed Mrs Brackenburn,
starting up. ' Here is another fine opportunity
for self-denial, as one of Miss Edgeworth's
good little boys somewhere says. I
will hence to receive my trusty cousin with
a smile, and to bid him and his servant
make themselves at home,  as I wish they
both were.'

She went, but the man she expected was
not the man she saw. Just without the
drawing-room door she was caught in Dr
Brackenburn's arms ; and Ursula, within,
could distinctly hear the wife's glad ' Alan ! ?
and the husband's low ' My darling ! '

The moon, which had risen now, was
tipping the waves with light. It cast its
clearness full upon Ursula where she sat,
making her pure face all the purer and the

darkness of her hair more dark. Time
passed, but she did not move. Her hands
were loosely clasped ; her eyes were concealed
beneath their heavy fringes ; she did not
know that she was no longer sole occupant
of the room  that Donald Berwick, having
entered the house with Dr Brackenburn,
had now entered the drawing-room. The
door being half-open, he had come in noiselessly,
and he made no sign as yet, but stood
still amid the shadows, as if reluctant to disturb
Ursula's reverie.

He knew that pale, proud beauty by heart
already, but that did not prevent him from
reading it once more. And as he did so,
he thought he could discern some change :
part of the pride was gone ; Ursula of East-rave
had certainly had a haughtier face than
this. And after, when he went forward and
revealed himself, could he be mistaken ? 
could it be that suddenly the lily had become
a rose ?  and was it fancy, or did the
girl's hand really tremble as for the section
of an instant it met his ?

They inquired, as was but meet, concerning

each other's weal ; she asked him about
his wanderings in Russia ; he asked her
how her work got on at Laighbield. ' It
was not worth mentioning such poor work
as hers she said. The workers who got
no praise and made no display, he replied,
might be found some day to have been
the world's real helpers after all. And
then lights were brought, and Dugald
Urquhart arrived.

Dugald, as you may imagine, was anything
but delighted to find himself forestalled
; and at the prompting of what in a
lesser mind would have been called jealousy,
he remarked aside to Ursula, when, after a
good deal of planning and trouble, he had
succeeded in making her attention all his
own, 

Our friend, Dr Brackenburn, here, is an
honour to his profession. A fine physiognomy
that, " sicklied o'er by the pale
cast of thought," as the Bard of Avon has
it. But there are individuals in the pulpit
now-a-days who ought never to have left
the plough.'

Since Donald Berwick, though a farmer's
son, had never followed the plough, this
satire, brilliantly epigrammatic as it was,
fell somewhat wide of the mark. But
Dugald himself was so much pleased with
his impromptu that he mentally filed it, in
order to its repetition hereafter, as occasion
should serve.

That Miss Ursula Elvester could have
any other feeling than a sense of flattered
enjoyment at being singled out as the object
of his attentions, did not, of course, present
itself to his happily-constituted mind ; so
he no doubt believed himself to be quite
a benefactor, as he told her in many words
what places he had lately visited, and gave
little scenic descriptions of ' heathery hillsides
' and other ' delicious glimpses,' which
he had honoured by resting his eyes on ;
mentioning nothing for its own sake, however,
or its inherent loveliness, but everything
only because of the all-important fact
in its history, that Dugald Urquhart had
chanced to look that way.

Mrs Brackenburn, well contented at having

got her husband back a week earlier than
she had looked for, was also being treated
to travellers' tales ; but she, unlike Ursula,
was really entertained with what she listened
to ; perhaps she was more easily pleased
than the other, or it might be that Dr
Brackenburn and Mr Berwick had a more
telling way of putting things than nature
had endowed Mr Urquhart with.

I hope,' said Mrs Brackenburn to Mr
Berwick, when her turn for speaking came,
I fondly, fondly hope you are not now
going to deliver a lecture in the Auchter-
grecian Institute.'

1 Never,' he assured her. ' What makes
you think I could be guilty of it ? '

1 There is a dangerously seductive sound
about such a title as a " A Race Around the
Russia," ' she replied. ' And, besides, our
spiritual guides have a weakness that way.
Not my husband ; he puts his crotchets into
print ; but all the rest I know anything about.
Did not our U.P. neighbour tell an admiring
Laighbield how he had chased the
thistle-down over the breezy uplands of

Moab ? Did not our brother of Braid-moss
relate how he and a band of chosen
vessels  '

My dear, my dear,' interposed Dr Brandenburg.


He did call them "chosen vessels," Alan ;
I am not responsible for the expression.
Did he not deliver a lecture on " Our Visit
to Ireland during the Great Revival ? " Did
not Dr Doig Sledgehammer, on coming back
from pottering about the catacombs last year,
thrill the . Netherlaw Protestant public by
an account of how somebody had offered
to procure him an audience of His Holiness
the Pope, and how he had flatly refused,
bold man, to go near the Apocalyptic Beast ?
And does that popular lay-preacher, Bounding
Bill, ever tire of letting his admirers know
all about " the slime-pits of Siddim," where
he used to dwell ? '

You have made good your case,' said Mr
Berwick ; ' but fortunately I am not even
tempted so to offend ; though I were to invite
Auchterbrechan to race around the Russia,
nobody would respond ; all ears have been

lent to that same Bounding Bill for sometime
past.'

Quite true. And would you be surprised
to learn that Miss Langbiggin and I lent ours
among the rest? Wasn't it good of us,
Alan ? '

1 That is questionable,' rejoined her husband
; ' it would probably have been better
of you to have stayed at home.'

I am very sure Katie must have thought
so, when her pretty gold cross caught the eye
of the ex-acrobat, and called forth the remark,
that if a young woman esteemed the cross in
her heart, she would soon leave off dangling
it under her chin. I was sorry for Katie, but
I can't say I disagreed with Bounding Bill :
I would not myself wear the cross as an
ornament.'

And, pray, my little sensationalist, what
other new thing did this wonderful preacher
tell you ? ' asked Dr Brackenburn.

He told us, Alan, that the world being
round and the heart three-cornered, commonsense
might teach us that the world could
never fill the heart ; and a lot of other truths

equally logical and convincing. John Craig,
from ScroeSfiehillock, was in church that
evening; but // thought Bounding Bill did
not give forth a certain sound. There was a
leaning to Armenians : too much of Free
Will, and too little of the Divine Decrees.
John amuses me. He is so mean, and at the
same time so moral. He picked up a bargain
at an old-bookstall in Netherlaw the other
week. The title and the price together overcame
him. The book was called ' ' Pamela ; or,
Virtue Rewarded," which led him to expect
some treatise on holy living, but can't you
fancy his disgust when he discovered, too
late, that he had " dared his lily-white
sixpence on a perfect novelle ! " The goodman
is sorely exercised just now about " or
Witty : " if Witty have grace he is to be
made a minister of; if not, a schoolmaster-ship
will serve. And Dr Brackenburn is to
find out which it must be. It is full time you
were home again, dear ; many have been
missing the minister, I know.'

1 The minister's wife also, I hope.'

1 Not so,' laughed Mrs Brackenburn. ' My

place is far more efficiently filled by Miss
Elvester than by myself. You know what
Miss Elvester is, Mr Berwick.'

'She is an admirable woman,' said Mr
Berwick.

She is  well, if it were not for discomposing
your reverences, I would say  a brick ;
as it is, I'll call her an encaustic tile, instead.
Is that slang, Dr Brackenburn ?'

Dangerously near it, I'm afraid.'

Ah, you see, I should never have been
an appendage of the church ; I cannot frame
to say shibboleth aright.'

Miss Elvester is a miracle of quiet
energy,' said Dr Brackenburn, ' but I suspect
you have been trespassing on her kindness,
Matilda.'

1 Of course, I have ; there was nobody
else's kindness to trespass on.'

'Would not Miss Langbiggin's have done?'

Alan, I wonder at you ! Miss 
take classes of vulgar little boys and
objectionable girls ! Why, Miss Langbiggin
passes her uncle's work people with carefully
averted flounces. She is fastidious, and the

lower orders are not picturesque anywhere
outside of a certain rose-watery kind of
religious novel, read by ladies who think
ordinary fiction a sin. Which reminds me,
Alan,  something came from your publishers
to-day ; rather important, I imagine ; it lies
below.'

Mrs Brackenburn had a really astonishing
talent of engaging in lively conversation
herself, and at the same time following the
outline of any other conversation which
might be going on near. She had therefore
been keeping her cousin pretty well in view,
as he wandered up and down heathery hillsides,
danced over bounding billows, or lay at
rest on the placid bosom of some deep lagoon.
(He called a loch a 'lagoon,' because he had
the poet's license to sacrifice literal fact to
pleasing sound.)

1 He has been penning a journal with a
view to printing for private circulation,' was
Mrs Brackenburn's deduction, ' and unfortunate
Ursula is getting the cream of it beforehand.
But it has gone far enough ; I must
relieve the victim now.'

Accordingly, while her husband went to see
what his publishers had sent to him, she
sauntered carelessly over to a seat beside the
pair. She and her black, gauzy garments,
and her rose-coloured bows, made, as was
meant they should, a very effective whole ;
but Mr Urquhart saw nothing effective about
her ; he saw in her a most tormenting interruption
 that was all. But he might have
known better, he told himself, than to hope
for anything like a prolonged sensible conversation
in the same room with Matilda
Brackenburn.

The disturber of the peace took a fan from
the table  a black and crimson fan, to match
her dress  and began flirting it about, a procedure
which set Mr Urquhart completely on
edge ; for he loved to see a woman sitting
with hands meekly folded, or in default of
that, filled with some pretty foolish fancy-work.
Dugald, besides feeling annoyed,
looked so ; only Mrs Brackenburn would not
take cognisance of that. It was her purpose
to introduce general conversation, so, subject
being immaterial, she asked Mr Urquhart

what he had to say about Shetland, where he
had lately spent five or six weeks.

Shetland ! ' he echoed, as though he
had a difficulty in recalling the place 
Shetland ! '

About fifty miles to the north-east of the
Orkneys, you know,' said Mrs Brackenburn
helpfully.

Shetland ! ' he repeated once more  then
mused  then demanded what there could be
to say about an island with no trees and no
railways.

1 Mr Berwick can tell us, perhaps said
Mrs Brackenburn ; ' we refer it to him.'

Mr Berwick replied that the want of
railways was the romance of Shetland ; and
as for the want of trees, he had once heard
it gravely argued that Shetland with trees
would be as much of an anomaly as a woman
with whiskers.

Shetland is destitute of landscape asserted
Mr Urquhart, speaking to Ursula.
1 Landscape, as I take it, is impossible without
trees ; foliage, bosky foliage, that is
the thing one wants.'

1 We do not want trees,' said Ursula ; ' we
have grand cliffs and creeks, and lovely lochs
and little hills, and the greenest grass, and
the clearest water, and the brightest wildflowers,
and then the magnificence of ocean
all around.'

She had for the moment forgotten that
Shetland was no longer her home, but as she
ended, she remembered all, and sighed.

How high-gravel blind is Dugald Urquhart,'
laughed Mrs Brackenburn to herself.
1 Can he not see that he will make her
abhor him if he lightlies her Shetland ?'

1 Granted that there were no landscape
in Shetland, skyscape should be taken as
amends,' said Mr Berwick. ' At its best, it
is by far the finest I have ever seen ; a fair
summer evening's sky is simply indescribable
in ordinary prose.'

Mr Urquhart would not of course enter
into any discussion with one who ought
never to have left the plough, though again
the feeling which might in a different man
have been called jealousy made itself felt.
He did not for an instant conceive the

possibility of Mr Berwick being preferred
to him ; not that at all : the sensation resembling
jealousy was altogether concerned
with the fact that Mr Berwick should presume
to thrust himself under the notice of
a young lady whose whole attention was
already bespoken by Mr Urquhart.

My dear Miss Ursula,' said he, ' while
acknowledging that the details you mention
are all very nice in their way, I at the same
time humbly contend that there can be no
real landscape lacking trees.'

In fact, nature didn't know how to mix
her materials when she was composing-shetland,'
said Mrs Brackenburn. ' You
and I would have managed much better ;
we would have put in plenty of trees.'

Dugald had no answer for nonsense such
as this ; his fort was not repartee ; so he
turned his eyes away from Folly, with her
fan and her rose-coloured ribbons, and let
them rest once more on the graceful girl at
his other side, so pleasingly enrobed in neutral
tints. Ursula being in half-mourning, had
no choice, to be sure ; but no matter, the

neutral tints were counted to her for a
merit.

Hearing your intention of returning to
Laighbield so soon,' he said, by way of
taking up his interrupted conversation, ' I
was just about to offer my services as your
escort, for I, too, am bound for Laighbeild
tomorrow. My sister is at Baronshaugh,
and I have some rather unpleasant business
with her.'

1 How long has Miss Urquhart been at
Baronshaugh?' asked Ursula, wondering
how Christian liked it, and regretting, oh so
sincerely, that Mr Urquhart's rather unpleasant
business happened to call for his
going to Laighbield on the same day as
herself.

Not quite a week,' said Dugald ; ' but
Miss Urquhart] he added reproachfully, and
lowered his voice till he roared gently as a
sucking-dove, ' remember the connection ; a
truce to ceremony ; call her by the Christian
name.'

1 The connection is so very slight,' returned
Ursula distantly.

Mr Urquhart's tone was waxing too tenderly
suggestive ; she really did not think
she could bear it much longer. Any other
man in Dugald's place would have perceived
that his overtures were distasteful ; but so
much in love with himself was Ursula's
admirer, that not a misgiving ever visited
him. The manifest constraint, the persistent
avoidance of his speaking glances ; what
were these but proofs that the fair one's
heart was no longer in her own keeping ?
Had he been alone with the young lady at
this moment, he would probably have said,
that, if the present connection were slight,
he hoped it would soon be closer, or something
to that effect ; as it was, he contented
himself with the general observation, that
relatives by marriage need not stand on
ceremony, he thought.

Mrs Brackenburn laughed.

I know a Laighbield woman,' she said,
'who, when by some rare chance she has
occasion to write to her husband, subscribes
herself, " his truly, Mrs Gillespie." That is
too much ceremony ; but the line must be
vol. in. c

drawn somewhere, and I, like Miss Ursula
Elvester, would incline to draw it before
getting quite so far afield as the cousin of
one's brother-in-law.'

You have a wonderful memory, Matilda,'
said Mr Urquhart, in a peculiarly dry
tone ; ' your repertory of anecdotes is inexhaustible.'


1 I am like Varieties in a provincial newspaper,'
she rejoined. ' But allow me to express
the surprise which Miss Ursula Elves-ter
feels, but is too polite to put into words.
What has taken Moncrieff to Baronshaugh,
of all places ? '

'She has gone, I understand, at the express
invitation of her cousin and mine,
young Mrs Cassillis.'

Then, begging the pardon of young Mrs
Cassillis, I think she has made a mistake.
Newly-married people should keep by themselves
for a time, so as to get over their
mutual disappointment unobserved. Yes,
disappointment ; I know perfectly well what
I am saying ; he believes he has married an
angel bright and fair, and it is disappointing

to find that she is only a weak woman after
all ; then as to her, it is impossible to tell
how high aloft, at marriage, her godlike hero
sate ; but happily a bride is never now burnt
up, as Semele was, by the over brightness
of her sun ; rather, she soon sees so many
ugly spots on the face of him that she begins
seriously to question if he be a sun at all.
She, too, is disappointed.'

Mr Urquhart reared his head, and fixed
his gaze on vacancy, as if, sharing his aunt
Euphemia's opinion that Pagan myths were
best left out of Christian conversation, he
had sent his thoughts soaring far and away.

But when Mr Berwick observed,  ' Too
often he is not a sun at all, but no
more than a turnip-lantern at most, such as
children carry on Hallowe'en/ Dugald
came out of his interesting abstraction,
and begged to propose music ; for turnip-lanterns
and Hallowed, though no doubt
usual in Mr Berwick's sphere of life,
were subjects totally unsuited to the .


Mrs Brackenburn showed herself nothing

loth to discard the fan for the pianoforte.
What would they please to have ? Nobody
expressed a preference. Left thus to choose
for herself, she would take, she told them,
something with a moral in it ; a good and
tender moral. And she took ' Duncan
Gray.' She was in fine voice, as well as in
high spirits, and the song lost none of its
pawky drollery in the rendering. But what
had come over her audience ?  what ? One
could not wonder at the wooden expression
of Mr Urquhart's correct features ; no sense
of humour dwelt within. But Mr Berwick
was generally ready enough to join in a
laugh, yet there he stood, as unsmiling as
if he thoroughly endorsed Dugald's opinion,
that the song was altogether unfit ' for the
cheek of the young person.' And the cheek
of the young person had suffered. Surely
the colour there was other than the mere
reflection of the crimson flowers on Mrs
Brackenburn's fan, now raised to conceal
it. Dugald, at any rate, thought so, and he
was more charmed than ever with Princess
Ursula. Such sweet, blushing confusion betokened

sensibility, and sensibility was one of
the loveliest attributes of female character.
Mrs Brackenburn wheeled suddenly round.

No applause ! ' she cried. ' That accompaniment
demands notice of some kind. Will
no one pay it a compliment, Mr Berwick ? '

It fits itself well to the words,' said Mr
Berwick ; ' it is what I suppose you call
humoristique.'

1 I suppose it is. My cousin Jack composed
it ; he can arrange an air as well as
bamboozle a jury, clever boy that he is. But
you don't like " Duncan Gray," Dugald ?
What's the matter with it ? '

Since you ask my opinion, I must confess
that I look upon it as essentially vulgar,' said
Mr Urquhart.

Because it is in that pithy Scotch tongue
of which we are so ashamed now-a-days ? '

'A dialect is always vulgar,' responded
Dugald graciously.

Pardon me, no ; a corruption of any
language is always vulgar, if you please,
but not a native dialect'

Ah, do you say so, indeed ? ' quoth Du-gold,

as if he had soared out of sight of the
subject altogether.

Mrs Brackenburn faced the piano again,
and sang once more, and with increased
glee

1 Duncan fleeced, and Duncan pray'd,
Ha, ha, the wooing o't,

Meg was deaf as Ails Craig,

Ha, ha, the wooing o't.

Duncan sigh'd faith foot and in,

Great his been faith bleer't and blind',

Speak o' lupin o'er a linn,

Ha, ha, the wooing o't.'

And then 

How it comes let doctors tell,

Ha, ha, the wooing o't,

Meg grew sick as he grew well,

Ha, ha, the wooing o't.

Something in her bosom wrings,

For relief a sigh she brings ;

And oh, her been, they speak sic things !
Ha, ha, the wooing o't.'

I am so glad to think that Duncan " was
a lad o' grace," ' she added. ' I could not
have forgiven him if he had repaid that poor
Maggie with scorning for scorning. Could
you, Mr Berwick ? '

But Mr Berwick had not a word to say.

THROUGH THE THORNS.

Quit, quit, for shame ! this will not move,
This cannot take her ;
If of herself she will not love,
Nothing can make her.'

10 drive from Auchterbrechan to
Laighbield, with Mr Urquhart asa
companion  an only companion!
Alarming ! not to be thought of ! So on the
first opportunity of having a private word
with her, Ursula appeared before Mrs Brandenburg
with a heartfelt request, 

Your cousin has offered to save you the
trouble of driving me over to Laighbield tomorrow
; but you will very much oblige me
by coming yourself, as you meant to do.'

What a chance of having a sweet revenge
on you for your refusal to continue with me

during the rest of the time we stay here,'
cried Mrs Brackenburn, clasping her hands.

1 1 ought not to be from home longer,'
replied Ursula, quite seriously, not echoing
the other's laugh. ' My being away leaves
Jenny so much more to do.'

1 1 was only joking,' said Mrs Bracken-burn
; 'and I'll feel very pleased to be your
charioteer myself, since you prefer my protection
to Mr Urquhart's. Dugald will hate
me for it though ; he so evidently considers
that he has an exclusive right to you.'

That is a kind of joking I don't like,
Matilda.'

That is not joking, my dear ; that is a
fact. Anybody would see it. Mr Berwick,
for instance, must be fast under the impression
that you are an appropriated blessing.'

Ursula reddened.

1 It is hard,' she said, ' that a man cannot
be the least thing more than civil to you,
without giving rise to all sorts of unpleasant
speculations ; only I should hope that Mr
Berwick is above the silliness of misconstruing
people in that way.'

1 So should not I. But forgive him,
Princess Ursula, forgive him for sharing
in the weaknesses of his kind

Ursula was deeply annoyed. It was bad
enough of itself to fall a prey to Mr Urquhart's
conversational prowess ; but to have
it supposed that there existed any tender bond
between her and a man whom the longer she
knew the more she shrank from, was nothing
less than intolerable ; and I am afraid her rest
that night was a good deal broken by her reflections
thereupon. Next morning before
breakfast, to refresh and brace herself, she
went down to the beach. No sooner had she
got there, than Dugald was seen strollingbeam-
ingle towards her. She had no excuse for returning
indoors ; and even if she had, no end
would be served, for Mr Urquhart would of
a surety return with her. So she walked
slowly on, and wished herself miles away.

1 Good morning,' said Mr Urquhart, melodiously.


" One autumn morn, with pensive thought,
I wandered o'er the sea-beat shore."

You love the sea, Miss Ursula ? '

Yes.' Ursula, if she loved anything,
loved the sea.

Ay ! quite natural ; quite natural. But
trees, now, and flowers, Miss Ursula  these
softer objects of delight  you have a place for
them also in your heart, have you not ? '

Woods make me melancholy,' said Ursula;
and a luxuriance of flowers only stifles and
oppresses me with its sweetness.'

'Ah! Miss Ursula, Miss Ursula, what a
strange young lady you are. But, do you
know, you remind me of a flower yourself 
no, do not turn away  of a tall, fair lily,
queen of the garden.'

Things were becoming serious.

I think we had better go in to breakfast
now,' said Ursula hastily.

Breakfast ! ' echoed Dugald. ' Faugh !
Let those who like go in from this glorious
morning to breakfast ; exchange these delicious
draughts of sea-air for reeking coffee
and indigestible hot rolls. / do not think of
breakfast at such an hour as this.'

1 But / do,' said Ursula; 'so excuse me,
Mr Urquhart ; I am going in.'

Why, it is not ten minutes since you
quitted the house represented Dugald, with
an insinuating smile.

I don't see that that matters, if I choose
now to go in again,' replied Princess Ursula,
preparing to stand on her dignity.

But pride goes before a fall. Punishment
was on its way to her. The breakers on this
Auchterbrechan shore came up with the speed
of race-horses at full gallop, a fact which
Ursula was paying no attention to. So, while
her companion went on to tell her, in the
bated-breath fashion which was so much
more unbearable than the every-day organ
tones, 

4 If you go, then must I ; for with you the
whole brightness of the morning would
vanish. I have learnt lately, fair queen of
lilies (let me name you so !) that I was
not formed for solitude ; ' and, while she
was raising her head in the haughty
way less practised by her of late than
in days past, her feet were caught by an
advancing wave. Startled, she took a few
bewildered steps forward  false steps, as

it proved, for they brought her into the
middle of one of the quicksands with which
the shore abounded. A second wave followed,
throwing her on her knees, and in its
ebb sucking her down the slope ; and, as if
she had not been sufficiently humbled even
yet, instantly rolled up a third foamy monster,
dashed over her in full force, and laid her
level with the crabs and the jelly-fish.
Dugald had retreated from the breakers
which overwhelmed Ursula ; but now, that
detachment of billows having spent itself,
he rushed gallantly back, raised the drenched,
blinded, panting girl in his arms, and ejaculating,


1 Fear nothing ! / have saved you ! You
are safe with me V bore her over the
sands.

As soon as she got back her breath, Ursula
ungratefully tried to disengage herself. But
the attempt was futile ; Dugald had, and
would hold. He misconstrued her desire
for freedom, too ; it was only another pleasing
manifestation of the sensibility which he
so much admired.

Never mind,' he said, clasping her tighter.
Let the impudent fellow stare.' (Mr Berwick,
out for his morning walk, was crossing
the links.) ' Contemptible that he is ! But
we will take no notice of him ; we shall have
reached the house ere he comes so far.'

Here was the finishing 1 touch : Donald
Berwick to see her in the arms of Dugald
Urquhart ! Small blame to him if he should
believe her to be an appropriated blessing
now. As Standalane was scarcely two
minutes' walk from the shore, the pair
did reach the house before Mr Berwick
came so far. In the small, square lobby-ursula,
cold in body and crushed in spirit,
was set at liberty, and the tale of peril told
by Dugald to the Brackenburns. Eager as
she had been about breakfast a short while
since, slight indeed was the breakfast Ursula
took that day. Ungrateful still, she believed
that Mr Urquhart's help had come later than
it might; nor had she a doubt but that, had
it been only a degree later still, she could
have extricated herself without it at all.
Dugald, the hero of the hour, was of a different

opinion ; and while he made it practically-plain
that his despising of coffee and rolls
was confined to theory, he insisted on glorying
over Ursula as a trophy snatched by him
from a watery grave, and by a thousand reminders
kept it constantly in view that Miss
Elvester had him  and Providence, but Dug-alt
before Providence  to thank, that the
fairest of her girls was not now sunk low
under the whelming tide. His manner to
the young lady became more and more affectionate,
and his glances increasingly suggestive
; also, he oftener than once during the
forenoon addressed her as his queen of lilies.
He only waited an opportunity to make hera
formal offer of marriage, and that he should
have during the drive to Laighbield. Yes ;
then she should know the honour in store for
her, then, with none but the birds in the.
hedgerows to witness, he would tenderly pour
forth his tale, and listen in reply to the sweet
confession of Ursula's love. He naturally
felt himself aggrieved, therefore, when Mrs
Brackenburn tricked him out of being Ursula's
escort. H is thoughts of that lady were neither

gentle nor cousinly when he saw the pony-phaeton
depart. He nevertheless made a
shift to conceal his resentment under forced
smiles (nothing but smiles must be seen by
Ursula to-day), and followed on horseback
to Baronshaugh.

Ursula from Auchterbrechan, and Ulrica
from Hilyascord, where she had been
sunning herself all summer, returned on
the same evening to The Brae ; and Ulrica
would have had Ursula set out with her at
once to Baronshaugh.

1 Christian will think us such unkind creatures
else,' she urged, when Ursula refused.
And then I do so want to see the library.
Jenny praises it ; and you know she isn't
easily pleased. I know Christian means
to improve herself by studying every day, and
I am sure she will lend you as much informing
literature as you care for ; and I might get
something entertaining. Will you not come ? '

1 Not now,' said obdurate Ursula ; ' the
Urquhartss are at Baronshaugh.'

Well, isn't Mr Urquhart quite a nice
person ? '

1 Very likely , but I don't wish to meet
him to-night.'

1 I believe you find Mr Berwick more
lovable than Mr Urquhart after all,' said
this terrible Ulrica. ' Don't you think she
does, Jenny ?'

Miss Elvester, come to a critical part in
her work, perhaps did not hear the question ;
at all events she did not answer it.

One does not consider gentlemen lovable,
Ulrica,' said Ursula in her loftiest
manner, ' only likeable, at most.'

1 How when one marries?' inquired Ulrica.

1 You have nothing to do with marriage.
Have you been practising at all at Hilyard
? Do you remember the relative minor
of'

Not yet, not yet,' interposed Ulrica, and
her hands went up as a shield. ' It is too
soon to talk of minor scales. Let us discuss
things of general interest, Ursula. Do you
know Mr Berwick is to preach in our church
on Sunday ? Isn't that delightful ? Isn't it ? '

1 I am glad you think so,' replied Ursula
serenely. ' But if you can't answer for your

music, can you for your history ? How
much are you able to tell me about the
Gowrie Conspiracy, for example ? '

I shouldn't like to be you,' cried Ulrica,
in a highly injured tone. ' You have just
such a heart as that miserable Mary of England
had, except that " Education" is written
on yours instead of " Calais ; " saying which
she beat her retreat, accompanied by her
satellite Slyboots, now grown out of kittenish
folly into sleek and sober manhood.

Miss Elvester, busy making up tulle and
lace into a piece of adornment to be worn
by Mysie at some Laighbield wedding, having
now passed the critical part, stopped her
needle to remark, in a casual sort of way, 

Talking of Mr Berwick, he is really to
be married soon. Laighbield is so famous
for announcing coming marriages which
never come, that I must confess I was
sceptical about that engagement. At a
meeting of the Clothing Society the other
day, however, I was privileged to be by
while Mrs M'Spur gave Miss Langbiggin
a melancholy summary of the duties required
vol. in. d

of a minister's wife. Afterwards somebody
wanted to know when the marriage might
take place ; and Miss Langbiggin replied,
that she is only waiting till some alteration
is completed about the manse. Didn't you
hear anything of the matter at Auchter-
grecian ? '

It may be that Ursula too had been somewhat
sceptical about Donald Berwick's engagement
to Miss Langbiggin ; it may be
that the confirmation of the rumour come
upon her with a slight shock ; and this perhaps
accounted for the long silence which
there was before she answered, saying, 

Nothing. We knew nobody there, and
heard no gossip of any kind.'

Well, I suppose we congratulate Mr
Berwick heartily ; we feel, don't we, that
he could not do better than marry ? He
has our best wishes for his happiness ? '

1 Oh, if Mr Berwick cares for our congratulations,
he has mine,' said Ursula ; ' and
if my wishes for his happiness could do him
any good, he should have these too.'

But though she kept her countenance

bravely, it cost her an effort to say so much ;
and as soon as her sister had resumed work,
she rose and with slow and stately steps
went out to the garden. That was her usual
resort when she felt the little house too strait
for her. Indeed, the path half-way up, crossing
from right to left, was known by the
family as Ursula-walk, so many an hour
had she paced back and forward over it,
reading, or thinking, or sentimentally day-dreaming,
as might be. She did not turn
aside here now, but kept right on,  past the
bower,  through the plantation,  and only
halted when the thorn boundary at the top
was reached.

There had been a flying shower ; but the
sky was clear again, though here below every
leaf glistened still with wet. The poplars,
amidst which Ursula stood were all a-tremble ;
the hedge twinkled with a thousand raindrops,
mirrors for the moonlight. On the
hedge's other side a corn-field lay ripening,
its broad bosom stirred by just the faintest
ripple now and then ; while over against it,
above the belt of trees that bounded it,

hung the full moon in a background of crystalline,
that melted, as it neared her, into
opal. One strong star shone beside her ;
the rest had not yet looked out, or, having
ventured forth, had ; withdrawn again,
quenched in her greater glory. Away down
in the valley glimmered the lit windows of
Laighbield. But not a murmur was audible
from the village. The only sound heard
here was the rustle of the poplars ; and that
greeted the ear like a soft, continuous hush.

Suddenly the spell was broken by a footstep
 footsteps. Then a voice  the voice,
Dugald Urquhart's voice  reverberated along
the silence, calling Ursula from her contemplation
of heaven's calm mystery. Next
thrilled through the distance with silvery
clearness, 

'Ursula, Ursula, Ursula!' telling that
Ulrica was acting as Mr Urquhart's guide.

Ursula did not answer. Hidden among
the trees, she was making her way along by
the hedge to a spot where she knew a breach
had recently been broken by a band of 
boys. But on reaching the

place she was disappointed ; the gap had
been effectually stopped with dead branches.
What then? Must she surrender herself?
Emphatically no. She could not bear Mr
Urquhart near her to-night. The remembrance
of his arms about her in the morning
still made her shudder. The idea of any
further gallantries was not to be endured.
So she stooped, and with eager haste, oddly
enough at variance with the repose which
usually marked her, began to pull away the
obstructing branches. Alack, how stubborn
they were ! Had they leagued themselves
against her, that they refused to be moved ?
Nearer drew the footsteps.

Ursula, where are you ? ' cried the silver-voiced.


Where are you, Miss Ursula ? ' boomed
the organ-toned.

And these branches would not, would not
yield. Oh, for the power of a  But yes ; at
last ! With a strength which seemed born of
her extreme need, Ursula did finally manage
to tear out part of the obstacle. A portion
still remained, however, and let her tug and

strain as she would, continued to defy her.
Her seekers were by this time at the bower ;
in another moment they would be in the
plantation, and then  She might have
given herself up at the beginning, but could
she now ? The opening she had effected
looked impossibly small, yet the choice lay
between that on the one hand and discovery
on the other ; ignominious discovery, too,
inasmuch as, while flying from Mr Urquhart,
she was altogether ashamed of the manner of
her flight. Her choice of the two evils was,
then, to face the thorns. Down on the soaking
ground she knelt. By the assistance of
tufts of spear-grass which cut her fingers,
and bunches of nettles which stung them, she
contrived to creep into the hole in the thicket,
and once there, by sheer strength of will
succeeded in forcing herself through. The
shawl she had been muffled in was left in
the passage. Face, neck, hands were most
cruelly scratched with thorns. But what of
that !  Ursula was safe.

Dugald Urquhart would have neither sight
nor speech of her this night.

ARTISTIC.

'Through all the town his art they praised ;
His custom grew, his price was raised.'

R Fife ARMSTRONG was on
his way to be a man of mark in
Netherlaw. He had painted ' The
Forsaken Ariadne.' A nobleman had bought
the picture ; and for that cogent reason all
the artist's fashionable towns-folk crowded to
his studio to admire. Amonor the rest cameo



good Mrs Smillie ; and she had never seen a
handsomer frame  never ! But  well, it
wasn't just every wall that it would suit ; and
she would like it better if he would brighten
it up a bit  bring out the sun in the far
corner, like.

Mr and Mrs Baillie Geddes were among

the number likewise, and with them was
their son-in-law elect, Sir Leveret Landless,
Baronet, a bored-looking young man, with an
eye-glass, an aristocratic stare, and a really
distinguished drawl. Mrs Baillie Geddes,
after gazing stonily at the Ariadne for sometime,
observed to Sir Leveret that while,
mark you, it was not for her to say that there
was no talent in the thing, she would and did
aver that, so far as she personally was concerned,
she had more real satisfaction, much
more real satisfaction, in a contemplation of
Juliet Amelia Mary's study of ' Strawberries
and Cream.' To which Juliet Amelia Mary's
affianced, as in duty bound, replied that
1 Strawberries and Cream ' was indeed 'refection
! ' Mr Baillie Geddes having wondered
' who the mischief ' the Ariadne was,
and been informed by his lady that  she was
a young person who once gave some besiegers
a clue,' had gone round the studio
under the artist's guidance, casting a cursory
glance here and there, but venting no criticism
till he returned to his consort, when he
jogged her elbow, and whispered her to

1 come on out of this, Market, for I am sick
wearied of the hall hypothec

As Mr Fyfe Armstrong attended these
personages to the door, entered young Mrs
Cassillis of Baronshaugh ; but as she had
undergone a Cinderella change since the
day when she had been browbeaten by Mrs
Baillie Geddes in Lockerbie Street, and
treated with such scant ceremony by Mr
Baillie Geddes in Alexander Buildings,
neither of the pair was conscious of ever
having seen this pretty, graceful creature
before, till Mr Fyfe Armstrong's words of
greeting revealed the identity. Upon that
Mrs Baillie Geddes took a step backward,
to claim knowledge of a young lady whom,
as fortune's wheel had gone, it was decidedly
the thing to know.

1 Mrs Cassillis and myself have met ere now,'
she said, bowing with impressment. ' Will
Mrs Cassillis permit Mr and Mrs Baillie Gentes
to renew the pleasure of her acquaintance? '

Christian returned the bow, but not with
impressment.

The meeting Mrs Baillie Geddes refers

to is, pardon me, an incident in my life which
it pleases me best not to think of,' she replied,
and with the stateliest of courtesies,
left Mrs Baillie Geddes for the Ariadne.

There were hours in Christian's own experience
of which the picture was a transcript,
and this young wife felt glad that, with
nobody by, she could look at that lovely
despairing woman, standing solitary in the
mocking sunshine, unloved and desolate.

But Mr Fyfe Armstrong, who, by the way,
had enjoyed the episode at the studio door 
it was refreshing to see Mrs Baillie Geddes,
the magnificent, so neatly snubbed  was
before long beside her. And he was flattered
then ; for the expression he saw in those deep
sea-blue eyes told him that his picture had
been understood.

1 I can't praise it,' Christian said ; ' I can
only say, thank you.'

'/ thank you,' he rejoined. ' You are the
first young lady who has cared for the poor
thing.'

'Am I, indeed! What is it that they
care for ? '

Their own portraits first, and next to these
the " From Him," and "After the Ball," that
one is so fatally sure of in every Netherlaw
art collection. You know what I mean,
Mrs Cassillis?'

I guess at it : a happy girl, likely in a
garden alley, smiling upon a love letter ;
a lay figure, face and costume copied from
La Follet y nicely arranged in a becoming
attitude, thinking over the past evening's
conquests.'

Well,' said the artist, laughing, ' you can
perhaps fancy how a man of ambition like
myself must feel when he sees his achievements
sent aloft, while conventionalities of
that sort get hung on the line.'

Do not places go by merit ? '

We try to think so; but when a man finds
himself skies or shoved into a dark corner
to make room for the prettiness of lady
amateurs, his faith in the force of merit is
apt to fail.'

Was it the fear of lady amateurs that kept
Mr Fyfe Armstrong from exhibiting anything
last spring ? '

Well, no ; I sold the picture I had been
working at to Langbiggin of Laighbield,
before the Exhibition opened.'

I should like to see that picture ; Mr
Langbiggin's choice.'

It was something meant for a representation
of Jocund Day standing tiptoe on
the misty mountain tops  but I've got an
idea of it somewhere ; if you care to look at
it, excuse me, and I will hunt it up

Glen having had business in town, and
having appointed to meet his wife at Mr Fyfe
Armstrong's, came in while the artist was
still on the search for that ' idea.' And with
Glen came Moncrieff.

1 " We met  'twas in a crowd," ' explained
the former ; ' and Moncrieff, who is to dine
at my mother's, thought she would take the
Ariadne by the way.'

Believing, as she did, that Glen had been
his cousin's lover not so lone ao, Christian
had a somewhat peculiar feeling towards
Moncrieff. But she shook hands with what
frankness she could, and then, while Glen
made an examination of what he had come to

see, fell as naturally as possible into her old
position of listener. Moncrieff was soon in
the heart of a monologue ; a patchwork of
trifles not as light as air, but a great deal
lighter. After she had fully published and
illustrated herself, she actually evinced some
faint twilight of interest in Christian  the fact
is noteworthy from its novelty : she said, 

What a darling of a bonnet you have got !
You used always to wear such mean little
hats; didn't you, Miss Elvester?'

Glen, who had just done with his inspection,
threw in the reminder, which Christian herself
would not have taken the trouble to do,
that there was no Miss Elvester here.

1 Neither there is, of course,' acquiesced
Moncrieff; ' but it would seem so odd to call
her " Christian " ; if it had been " Christina,"
but "Christian"'

There's no need for " Christian " either,
if you object to it.'

Oh, isn't there ? Then I will call her
Christina." '

Glen took her by the shoulders, and made
her confront the Ariadne, saying, 

Now then, study that.'

As for studying, Moncrieff had no notion
of it.

Oh, oh, oh! ' she exclaimed, ' what a waist !
twenty-eight inches, I do believe ! And if
dresses like that were worn when she was
in life, I am glad not to have been born
then.'

I don't see it,' said Glen ; ' I rather fancy
you would look well, dressed classically.'

Do you think I should ? Well, I don't
mind trying. If you will get up a lot
of tableaux vivants, I'll dress so and pose
in that way. Will you have tableaux,
Glen?'

Here and now ?' inquired Glen.

How absurd ! How could it be here ?
At Baronshaugh, of course. I'm sure everyone
expects it of you.'

Glen did not burn with desire to have
Moncrieff at Baronshaugh ; he could not
sufficiently forgive her the mischief she had
wrought, to want her as a guest, so long at
least as the effect of that mischief remained.
Accordingly he said, 

Have us excused to everybody ; we are
not up to the tableaux vivants mark just yet.'
Then he turned to his wife with the information,
 ' There is a picture I do mean to have
though. I'm going to put you into Fyfe
Armstrong's hands, Christian.'

To have my portrait painted ? Thanks ;
but I don't think it is necessary  of what use
are duplicates ?  you have myself.'

'Have I ?'

And besides, I'm sure Mr Fyfe Armstrong
objects to portrait-painting.'

I wouldn't have him paint me,' cried
Moncrieff; 'no, not for suns and worlds.
He will paint your nose quite off the straight,
Christina, just as he painted Dugald's. Du-gold's
is rather aslant of course ; he says
everybody's is, if you only come to examine
them. But I know mine isn't at all. And
Dugald declares he has been swindled out of
his money, and that it was roguery to charge
so much for such a discreditable daub. He
tells everybody about it, you know, and what
a cheat and a charlatan Mr Fyfe Armstrong is.
He says his reputation will be made to suffer

for his being such a humbug ; and so it will,
of course.'

Glen had been doing his best to arrest his
cousin's flow of second-hand animadversion.
But she would not understand his signs, and
continued to the end, all unwitting that
Mr Fyfe Armstrong had lifted the curtain
which separated ante-room from studio, and
was standing close behind. When she
did become aware of this fact, she clung
to Glen's arm for support, and murmured
low, 

Take me out ! take me out ! for I am
going to faint.'

But as soon as Mr Fyfe Armstrong withdrew
to fetch water to stay her, she at once
raised her head to say reassuringly, 

I am not faint in reality, you know ; only
one had to do something, hadn't one ? '

1 Really, Moncrieff!' ejaculated Glen, in a
tone which expressed something quite other
than admiration of the young lady's ingenuity.
And he lost no time in transferring his fair,
confiding burden to the nearest ottoman.

With half-shut eyes Moncrieff languished

there, and drank the water which was brought.
It was only gradually, very gradually, that she
revived, though Mr Fyfe Armstrong acted as
if he had overheard nothing, and when she
could bear to look at it, showed her the
Jocund Day, just as if her brother had not
called him a cheat, a charlatan, and a humbug.
The lovely critic gave it as her notion
that the sketch submitted to her would be a
charming landscape if it hadn't been so dark
that one couldn't make it out, and immediately
afterwards conveyed privately to Glen her impression
that it was so crazy  wasn't it ? 
to speak as if days ever could have tiptoes.

When the party of three took leave of
him, Mr Fyfe Armstrong, with exemplary
politeness, trusted that Miss Urquhart felt
herself perfectly recovered. Miss Urquhart
assured him that she did, quite perfectly ;
and to remove any remaining suspicions from
the artist's mind, added, 

It was all owing to the smell of paint,
you know,' for though she herself had made
some futile efforts at painting in her boarding-school
days, she did not now pause to discri-

VOL. III. E

minute between house-decorating and nature-copying.
Once in the carriage, and on her way
to Argyll Gardens, Moncrieff was glorious.

1 Wasn't it a splendid piece of fun ? ' she
said self-approvingly.

1 Splendid,' returned Glen, dryly ; ' but
Christian didn't seem to appreciate the humour
of it somehow.'

1 Who didn't ? Oh, cousin Glen, how
wickedly you frowned while I was telling
you about Dugald's portrait ; quite as if you
had the evil eye. I thought you must be in
pain through tight boots. It was altogether
so absurdly ridiculous. And how anxious he
was to go to Baronshaugh to paint Christina.
I daresay he believes I am staying with you.'

That certainly would account satisfactorily
for his anxiety, especially after what he had
overheard. But I can't say myself that I
noticed the anxiety

1 Cross old thing ! Have you been noticing,
then ' (very coaxingly this),  how shockingly
low spirited I am ? I have been ages alone
at Craigie Urquhart.'

Four weeks, isn't it, my poor cousin ? '

Four centuries, indeed ! Where ought I
to go for change of air, cousin Glen ?'

'Ask your medical adviser, cousin Mon-cries;
for how should I know ?'

Christian's mind was made up ; Christian
said, 

4 Won't you come to Baronshaugh ? Weare
rather quiet there ; but I'll do what I canto
amuse you.'

I shall be glad to come,' rejoined Mon-cries,
most readily. ' I can come at once ;
unless ' (in a pretty pettish tone of appeal)
my cousin will not have me. What, cousin
Glen ? '

1 Christian's pleasure is mine,' was the reply;
not the reply Moncrieff wanted, though ; and
she took revenge by asking Glen, if he were
conscious that he quite ludicrously resembled
Aunt Euphemia when he smiled.

So it happened that Moncrieff got herself
invited to Baronshaugh. Christian did not
hope to shine her down  that would be
simply out of the question ; all Christian
meant was, that Glen should have no occasion
to call his wife jealous.

A DIFFERENCE ABOUT A KISS.

One kiss from thee,

Will counsel be,

And physic.

Hitherto Glen had been greatly
occupied with the affairs of his
estate,  too busy with lawyers and
deeds and settlements, it almost seemed, to
act the lover even if he would ; and if he
were not perfectly contented with the friendly
relations established between his wife and
him, he kept it to himself. Christian had
had Willie Ruthven with her all this time,
and would have retained him still, but that
her mother-in-law had refused to lend him
longer to a young woman who had a husband

to engross her ; so he had been reluctantly
returned on the day of the visit to Mr Fyfe
Armstrong's studio. Having seen nothing
to indicate in any way how the peculiar position
she had taken up had affected Glen
towards her  whether he cared a little more
for her than at marriage, or cared even less,
Christian feared the coming of Moncrieff.
Yet, even on second thoughts, she considered
that it had been wisely done to ask her to
Baronshaugh. Such a one as Moncrieff
would be certain to pay a visit sooner or
later, whether invited or not ; and surely,
reasoned Christian, it was more dignified thus
to take the matter into one's own hands, and
of one's own free will invite her. Reasoned
so, nevertheless secretly worried herself to a
pitiful degree, thinking how she should behave
in the trying circumstances before her.
In this she disquieted herself in vain, for
when the time of anticipated trouble came,
there was no need for the exercise of one of
all the exceptional virtues which she had been
invoking to her service. Either Glen was a
consummate dissembler (and that his wife

would not believe, even though he had deceived
her), or his sentiments towards Mon-cries
were of a cast entirely cool and cousinly.
Of course, she, still lost in a maze of misunderstanding
as she was, continued to
imagine that Glen had loved Moncrieff;
but Moncrieff after her nature had requited
him, and this, so Christian fancied, was the
outcome, this easy indifference alike to
the presence and the absence of the once
beloved.

It was not hard, then, to perform with a
good grace all that the position of a hostess
required ; not even though the guest was full
of whims, and follies, and contrivances for
putting everybody about her to a maximum
of trouble for a minimum of result ; not
though she walked, talked, rode with her
cousin, under the seeming impression that
she was still his sole earthly object of delight;
not though she treated one to the whipt-cream
of her conversation, as if to listen to
that were the single reason for one's having
been sent into the universe at all.

Such was the posture of affairs when, one

August morning, about two months after his
marriage, Glen came into the breakfast-room
while his wife was saying an affectionate
good-bye to her eldest sister, who had been
making an early call.

'There, that will suffice!' Miss Elvester
protested. ' I am willing to believe that
you're very fond of me, without all this
nonsense in testimony of it.'

1 I must be allowed the nonsense,' said
Christian; 'yes, I must and [will, Jenny'
(and the nonsense was repeated). ' Now I
am vain of myself for I feel morally certain
that there isn't one other creature in the
round world who dares kiss Miss Elvester
against her inclination.'

Glen walked up now, but Christian did not
know that she had been previously observed
till, Miss Elvester having left, it was said, 

1 So you keep all your kisses for your
sisters ? '

1 Yes she answered coolly   for my
sisters.'

One slightly envies them, which is, I
suppose, a sin,' said he.

Cool as she looked, Christian felt somewhat
uncomfortable. Oh, for Willie Ruthven
again !

1 Jenny expects to have both Ursula and
Ulrica with her this evening,' she observed,
by way of diversion.

As a special boon,' rejoined Glen, ' might
I request that when these favoured young
ladies come to see you, you get the tender
part over in private ? '

To this she did not reply. She had opened
the door of a fernery which filled the space
between two of the windows, and was touching
the leaves in that tantalisingly caressing
way she had. Glen watched her for sometime,
then drew near, to be shown how this
beauty had flourished, and that delicate
foreign thing was going to thrive after all.
As they stood so, both stooping over the
plants, it seemed a by no means unnatural
proceeding on Glen's part to let his arm
wander round the pretty supple figure so
alluringly near him. By no means unnatural,
yet by no means to be permitted in spite of
that. A flame kindled in Christian's eyes ;

she instantly got rid of the enforcement,
and drawing herself very straight, she
said, 

I beg your pardon, but you forget yourself.'

No man would have liked the rebuff, and
Glen's face crimsoned.

1 It is you who forget yourself, I think,' he
retorted. ' I had hoped that by this time  '

He stopped, for through a window which
stood open to the lawn sauntered Moncrieff.
An all-insanity expression rested on those
beautiful features under that gipsy sun-hat ;
the bright garden-terraces which her cousin's
wife so greatly affected were too tiresome ;
the park with its trees and its river, her
cousin's pride, was too 
; life at Baronshaugh was not stimulating
enough.

1 This story that you gave me is quite too
stupid, Christina,' she complained, as with
weary air she laid a volume down. ' I can't
read such dull stuff.'

Christian murmured something about being
sorry that she was unable to meet Moncrieff's
taste in literature. Glen's eyes were sparkling

angrily, but Glen was just, and would
not visit his wife's sins upon his cousin ; so
he took the trouble of civilly inquiring what
the name of the rejected book was.

4 "The Mill on the Floss'" replied Mon-cries,
when she had refreshed her memory
by reference to the title-page. ' So childish ! I
wish people wouldn't write such silly novels.'

1 Say, why don't you write a novel yourself,
if only to show the public how it might be
done ? ' inquired Glen.

1 I wouldn't be a blue-stocking for anything,'
she answered, taking the suggestion
seriously. ' I wouldn't have my fingers
stained with ink. And, besides, you might
get into a trick of putting a pen behind your
ear and walking about so.'

1 Ah, that would be sad, certainly ; but you
know there are authors who  '

Please, cousin Glen, don't talk about
authors ; books and writers are the driest
subjects, aren't they ?  so come now and
play croquet. Come, Christina ; you know
I must practise regularly for next season's
Tournament.'

Christian knew it only too well ; Moncrieff
had made her obliging hostess very heartily
tired of croquet.

I am not wanted,' said Glen, as his cousin
passed her hand within his arm, that so he
might bear as much of her weight as she
could dispose of ; ' Christian, who dotes on
croquet, will play with you. I should be a
superfluity.'

Yes, but you are wanted,' cried Moncrieff.
It is tame and prosy when Christina and I
play by ourselves. Do come, cousin Glen.'

Well, I suppose it is all in the day's
work,' reflected Glen ; and he went to the
croquet-lawn.

You shall be my partner, of course,' said
Moncrieff; 'we shall have one ball each,
and Christina can have two, and play with
dummy, as it were.'

1 Why not fight every man for his own
hand, like Hal o' the Wynd?' demanded
Glen.

Hoyle is for cards, not for croquet, cousin
Glen ; and I play best when I have a partner.'

It was arranged as she wished. But if she

played best with a partner, without a partner
she must have played deplorably indeed.
She blamed her luck, and blamed her mallet,
and blamed her cousin ; and when all would
not do, once and again surreptitiously insinuated
her ball where it had no claim
whatever to be.

That won't pass at the Tournament,' said
Glen, surprising her on such an occasion.
1 Take back your ball, if you please, Moncrieff.'

She took back her ball ; but at the same
time expressed unlimited astonishment at
Glen for turning against his own partner,
and then defended her conduct by accusing
Christian of having cheated all through.

She is incapable of it,' said Christian's
husband.

I'm sure she isn't, or she wouldn't have
been a rover already,' returned Moncrieff,
with fine logic ; ' should you, Christina ?'

Yes ; for I had made up my mind to win
said Christian, who was having things entirely
her own way, and enjoying it. Her husband
got no mercy from her ; and to make Glen's
already bad case the worse, he would not

revenge himself when he could. But having
been defeated in three consecutive games,
he said, 

Hold, hold ; it is enough ! ' for he did not
like to see his wife set herself so decidedly
against him, even in play.

Very good,' replied the victrix ; ' if
you would rather not be beaten any more,
I don't insist ; ' and she shouldered her
mallet, and, triumphantly smiling, walked
away.

The discomfited partners followed, Mon-cries
hanging on Glen's arm and wondering
what poor, dear Quentin would think if
he could see them two playing croquet at
Baronshaugh, and losing every time.

You said you were sorry when poor, dear
cousin Quentin was killed,' she continued,
Glen being unable to penetrate the veil ;
but you weren't really, of course.'

But I was,' replied Glen emphatically ;
1 very sincerely sorry.'

Dugald doesn't believe it ; Dugald declares
you were obliged to pretend, but that
all the while you were crowing with gladness.

Oh, you needn't toss your head so ill-tempered,
cousin Glen ; it wasn't I who
said so, it was Dugald. But look, Glen, look !
yonder is Dugald riding on some frightful
old hired hack. What brings him here ? '

1 Brotherly solicitude,' said Glen.

It soon transpired, however, that brotherly
solicitude had nothing to do in the matter,
but brotherly indignation rather. Unpleasantness
had arisen from what Moncrieff had said
in the hearing of Mr Fyfe Armstrong the
other day. Dugald took many words to tell
his tale in, but it can be stated in very few : 
The lawyer of ' that artist fellow ' had been
in communication with Mr Urquhart, and
Dugald now would fain learn from Moncrieff' s
own lips what had taken place in the studio.
But Moncrieff was the most unsatisfactory
person in creation to question or to scold ;
she would not explain ; anger made no impression
on her ; when it was demanded reverberating,
what she had to say for herself,
what she had to say was, that she quite
hoped Dugald would be put in the newspapers,
and would have to pay heavy damages,

tf

as he called them ; that was what he deserved,
for making himself so odiously disagreeable
to her.

On the first sound of strife, Glen thought
proper to withdraw. At the top of the grand-staircase
he met Christian and told her who
was below.

1 I heard the rumour of him she replied,
and am now on my way to see.'

1 Tarry awhile,' counselled Glen, holding
open the door of the music-room invitingly.
Moncrieff is in a bad way. Dugald,
threatened by Fyfe Armstrong with an
action, is thundering at her in the library

'Alas for Moncrieff! Why didn't you
stay to protect her ? '

I was afraid.'

How brave of you, Captain Cassillis !'

1 To tell the truth, I wished to have some
talk with you ; I was on my way to look for you
at this moment. Come in here, Christian.'

She slightly hesitated, then did as he bade
her, and passed before him into the music-room.
But instead of asking him what he
desired of her, she sat down at once to proceed

with the copying of some music which
she had commenced on the previous day.

Is it absolutely necessary that you should
always be busy about something when I am
with you ? ' inquired Glen.

Not absolutely necessary ; only, why
shouldn't I be busy, please ? '

1 Because it is scarcely civil to me.'

Oh, I beg your pardon ! But I sinned
in ignorance ; I did not know that civility
includes idleness.'

Once in a way it does, I believe,' rejoined
Glen.

He was standing by the window, and the
window overlooked the croquet-lawn, so that
there spread out before him the scene of his
recent defeat. He looked at it, and then
at Christian, obediently idle now, and he
said, 

Doesn't it happen to strike you that you
ought to make me some reparation for all
your sauciness down yonder ? '

1 What do you mean ? ' she asked.

I think you know very well what I mean.
It is that I hope and expect you will let me

have the kiss I have been waiting so long a
time for,  so long a time, Christian.'

She shook her head.

1 Anything you really want I shall be glad
to do for you,' she said ; ' but this I will not.'

1 I really want this,' he insisted. ' There
is nothing else just now I want so much.'

Christian smiled sceptically, and answered,
with a sort of mocking sweetness which was
trying in the extreme, 

You do not want it so much but that you
will go on living ever so comfortably without
it.'

You must excuse me, Christian, if I say
that this whim of yours is the sweetest piece
of absurdity. You are acting in a way (I
am forced to speak plainly to you) which I
could not have imagined possible to any
sensible woman.'

1 What ! because I will not have you
amuse yourself with me when you have
nothing better to do ? I do not think so.
And, don't you remember, we came to an
understanding about this before ? '

It is quite time there should be another

VOL. III. F

understanding. You can't say I have not
had patience. The wonder is, not that I
should persist in getting a kiss from those
undutiful lips now, but that I should have
left them kissed so long.'

Had Christian been persuaded that her
husband loved her, he should have had the
kiss, and welcome ; but this was not love,
she felt sure, but merely a desire to obtain
what was withheld from him, just because
it was so withheld. Thus judging, she
replied, 

I prefer to keep to the old one, Glen.
It has suited me very well so far, and you
too, whatever you may say

Again, as before, the discussion was interrupted
; and again, as before, by Moncrieff.
Dugald was making himself so very fearfully
unpleasant, and cousin Glen must take
a poor persecuted girl's part against a disagreeable
brother, who was raving like a
lion, only more insanely.

Am I a lion-tamer, that you come tome
?' said Glen,  moving towards the door,
however.

In passing Christian, he stooped, to
whisper, 

We shall settle that question later.'

It is settled now,' she replied.

Glen had at all times a determined visage,
and its characteristic attribute was peculiarly
noticeable now.

No, by your leave, it is not settled,' he
said, as he turned to follow Moncrieff; ' I
refuse to consider it so.'

He is growing angry, because he can't
get his way,' thought Christian. ' Well,
let him ! He must be more than angry
before he shall have a kiss from me.'

GLENS VOW.

Husband, husband, cease your strife,
Nor longer idly rave, sir ;
Though I am your wedded wife,
Yet I am not your slave, sir ! '

HERE are a few lucky and 
individuals here
and there, whom everybody
praises in the gate. Neither specially witty
it may be, nor very wise, but just good-naturedly
willing to live and let live, and
ready always to make the best and most of
things and people, in whatever circumstances
placed.

Such were the Cochraness of Dreichwinnock,
nearest county neighbours to Baronshaugh.
There was a large family, and the three

eldest, Grizzel, Robbie, and Rory (they
gloried in the Scotch form of their respective
names) were well known to the Cassillis connection
; indeed the mother of the late laird
had many a time striven to impress it upon
Glen that a more suitable partner he would
never find than Miss Grizzel Cochrane. But
though Glen had not questioned the admirable
qualities of Miss Cochrane, he had
apparently shared Mrs Brackenburn's objection
to so much of a good thing ; at any
rate, on the young lady's sunshiny imperturbability
being again and again urged upon
him, he had replied, that he would rather
have an occasional breeze than a perpetual
calm, and had gone and married his mother's
governess. It was privately believed by her
sisters, and her cousins, and her aunts, that
Grizzel would not have said no to Captain
Cassillis if he had sought her for his bride,
but even if it were so, she did not bear the
least grudge against Glen because he had
not sought her, nor cherish the slightest
pique towards Christian, whom he had sought
instead.

To-day she and her brothers Robbie and
Rory came to Baronshaugh shortly after
Glen, successful in negotiating a sullen truce
between Dugald and Moncrieff, had gone to
keep an engagement, which he had made
conditionally, and would not have considered
himself bound by, had things been other than
they were at home. In his absence, then,
these Cochraness arrived, and brought good
humour with them.

Grizzel Cochrane was not so entirely captivated
by the graces of Dugald Urquhart's
conversation as Maryanne Kirkpatrick has
been seen to be, but quite as far was she
from taking the view held by Ursula Elvester.
And as she to Dugald, so Dugald felt to her.
She might not be compared to Ursula, that
went without saying, but no more could she be
classed with the too engaging Maryanne; she
was, in fact, what he would call, a quiet loving
domestic woman of the second order of merit.

Miss Cochrane, who had a way of putting
one on capital terms with oneself, and therefore
by consequence with her, listened with
interest unfeigned to an account of the Fyfe-

Armstrong complication, and without blaming
either the artist or Moncrieff  blame was
not a commodity dealt in by the Cochraness 
refreshed Dugald with the grateful balm of
her sympathy (she had only Dugald's version
to judge from, bear in mind). Having heard
Mr Urquhart lengthily air his grievance, she
in the end changed the subject by asking the
gentleman to do her a favour, a great favour,
to write a few original verses in her new
poetry-album. The book was at hand, she
had brought it with her for possible contributions.
Would Mr Urquhart write something
? he knew so well how ; and would
he at once ? Mr Urquhart would, he said,
be most delighted to oblige, but really he
was afraid the Muse might not be forthcoming
just at a moment's notice ; and as for himself,
he feared he was not exactly in a proper vein.
Of course, if Miss Cochrane should insist,
why then he must do his best, but  The
end was that the Muse and he both allowed
themselves to be over-persuaded, and before
many minutes an address was being composed
to 

i Sweet Rintle water, limpid stream,
That through Laighbield's green valley glides

Grizzel, thus free to bestow her attention
elsewhere, now learned, by inference, that
Moncrieff had been the undisputed belle of
the Baillie Geddes' recent garden - party.
So she rejoiced in MoncriefPs joy  and
it is a harder thing to rejoice with them
that do rejoice than to weep with them that
weep. Then she complimented Christian
on the sensation which Glen's acting in a
theatrical performance at Dreichwinnock the
other night had produced, and, joined by
Robbie and Rory, insisted that Glen's wife
too could make a sensation in private theatricals,
if she only chose. There was no
insincerity here ; the Cochraness simply said
all the good-natured things they could, and
kept all the ill-natured things back ; and if
they did make their friends feel too complaisant
sometimes, it was an error that
there were plenty of other friends ready
enough to put right.

It was a pleasing scene which Glen's eyes
fell upon, when, some time after, he passed

through the first, and paused near the door
of the middle drawing-room. His wife
and her visitors were having afternoon tea 
rather had had it, all but Dugald, who still
stopped occasionally in his tribute to the
Rintle, to raise his cup abstractedly to his
lips. Moncrieff was gracefully ornamenting
one end of a window-seat. She had fallen
into a gratified brown-study over a something
complimentary which had been made known
to her by Grizzel, and corroborated by Robbie
and Rory. All unheeded by her was the
wild Shetland tale, which her cousin's wife,
seated by her side, was telling, and telling
with a great d ea l f unconscious dramatic
force, to the admiring Cochraness. Not to
interrupt, Glen stayed unnoticed in the
back-ground, and heard about a far-back
ancestress of the Elvesters, who lost three
sons by drowning, all on one afternoon,
but proudly braving fate, would not let fall a
tear.

A man's own admiration of a woman is
never lessened by observing that others
admire her as well as he ; and Glen felt

particularly satisfied with himself at this
moment, as the possessor of a wife so greatly
calculated to please. At the conclusion of
the story he went in and began to make
himself agreeable. To Christian among the
rest, for to her he said, 

You dawn on one gradually ; but I see
I've got to congratulate you on having the
true story-teller's gift, my love.'

He was not accustomed to call her his
love, nor was she willing that he should do
so, while she was his love only in name ; still
less, that he should do so only that the world
might hear. Therefore with a carelessly
smiling  ' Why, any one can tell a story,
surely,' she rose up from beside him, and
leaving him with Grizzel and Moncrieff,
gave her attention to Robbie and Rory.

These youths chanced to stray into the
near vicinity of the contributor to their sister's
album, and their animated talk, mingled with
Christian's low laughter, seriously interfered
with the free play of poetic fancy. That, no
doubt, was the reason why, as soon as the
Dreichwinnock visitors had taken leave,

Dugald remarked to his cousin (quite between
themselves of course, and no offence
meant to the lady) that, if he were a married
man, he would not permit his wife to encourage
the empty chatter of such a pair of
magpies as Robert and Frederick Cochrane.

Glen laughed at that.

Wives generally,' he said, ' bachelors'
wives excepted, have a way of doing pretty
much as they please.'

My wife shall do as / please,' quoth
Dugald.

And immediately after dinner he went to
seek an interview with her whom he had in
mind when he thus automatically delivered
himself; with what result, we have already seen.

I believe Dugald will marry Ursula
Elvester,' sighed Moncrieff to Christian, on
hearing withdrawal her brother was bound.
Fancy marrying people who keep only one
servant, and haven't even the smallest of
button-boys to make them a little respectable.
Oh ! excuse me; I really forgot about
your being one of them ; so awkward of me,
wasn't it ? And a single servant is, you know  '

'Too disgraceful to be discussed,' said Christian.
' We ought to be ashamed, perhaps ;
but somehow we aren't. And my sister Jenny
says that her single servant is better to her
than anybody else's regiment.'

But think of having to do one's own
hair!' ejaculated MoncriefT.

Yes, think of it ! ' rejoined Christian,
laughing. ' Of course your brother must
not marry a girl who has come so low as
that. But you needn't fear Ursula in any
case. You fancy your brother cares for her
that I know nothing about  but I am
very sure that she cares nothing at all for
him.'

I wish you would tell her that he isn't
one bit good-natured,' resumed Moncrieff,
just as if she had not heard the assurance.
You could say that she would find him
so tiresomely prosy, if she knew him well.
He can talk only of quantities of dry old
mouldy topics nobody minds about. And
when I have had my hair much dressed, he
has often said he would think it more natural
and becoming if it were brushed straight out

into two parts and tied under the chin. That
is Dugald ! Oh, I am positive your sister
wouldn't like him to live always with. Will
you tell her, Christina ? '

I'm afraid I can't promise to talk to my
sister about anything like that.'

Then I'll ask Glen to do it.'

Glen would not dare.'

Perhaps not if you wanted him, but he
does anything for me. Where is he ? and
what is he doing ? '

He is in the library reading.'

How slow ! And he is always reading,
or writing, or doing something dreary. No
man but he would go poking about in a
library all alone, like a hermit in a cell. So
selfish, isn't it ? '

1 Do you think so ? For me, I wouldn't
choose to have my husband keeping by me
like a shadow all the day. It would become
monotonous.'

1 I daresay it would, if the husband were
Dugald. I shall ask Glen to tell your sister
so, and to be sure he says " monotonous,"
for that just describes what Dugald is.'

But a letter was now brought to Mon-cries,
which put Dugald, and Ursula, and
everything else out of mind for the present.
A mighty mystery was made of that letter,
and great care taken that Christian should
not catch a glimpse of the handwriting on
the envelope or the coat of arms on the seal ;
indeed, Moncrieff carried precaution so far
as to discover that she was ' so quite distressingly
oppressed with lassitude ' that,
early as the hour was  and Moncrieff was
not addicted to early hours  she would be
obliged to say good-night. She retired
accordingly, with her bedroom candle and
her secret.

Christian had scarcely begun to enjoy the
lull which followed, when Glen came from the
library. Very fair in his eyes she looked,
and none the less so for being skilfully dressed
in the gracefulness fantasia of silk and lace
that mind of woman could devise. Christian,
once more than usually indifferent about what
she wore, had become most painstaking with
her toilet now-a-days, for she was determined
that she would be, to use the words of Mrs

Brackenburn, ' a something pleasant to look
at in the house.'

Glen came and took her hand, so to prevent
one possible way out of the argument
he was about to re-open.

1 Now, don't be frightened,' he said, as she
looked up questioningly, ' for I'm not going
to hurt you, as I did once before. I only
mean to secure that you shall sit still and
hear reason.'

I can do that without being held,' she said,
not, however, attempting to take her hand
away. This was no caress, so could be borne.
1 Yes, but would you ? I am not so sure
of it ; indeed, your past treatment of me
makes me doubt it altogether. But you're
going to be a good girl now, Christian. I'm
not to have another naysay, am I ? '

She coloured deeply red, and lowered her
lashes. It would be easy enough to be a
good girl, if only  oh ! if only Glen felt
towards her as a husband should. The fact
being otherwise, she said, 

Am I a fool, that you keep me saying
my words over so often ? '

1 If you were a fool, I should make allowance
for and excuse you. As it is, I will
admit, for argument's sake, that you have not
even been acting foolishly. But, taking your
own ground, and granting your conduct to
have been thoroughly reasonable, haven't I
been punished sufficiently yet for anything
you have seen amiss in me ? What would
you have more ? '

Either you have quite missed my meaning,'
she said, ' or you don't choose to see;
for it is not that I wish to punish you ; it is
only that I am a proud woman, who will not
be made a plaything of.'

1 Who wants to make a plaything of you ? I
don't. I simply claim what is my right. You
won't deny, I suppose, that I have the right ? '

Legally, but not morally, Glen.'

'Not morally! Tell me, Christian, what
does this signify ? ' and he touched the ring
on the third finger of the hand which lay free
in her lap.

It means partly that I am bound to do
all I can for your happiness,' was her reply.
And so I will. But what you want just

now has nothing to do with your happiness


What do you take me for ? ' he cried.
 Has it nothing to do with my happiness, do
you imagine, that my wife should persistently
turn her back on me in this fashion ? '

He was in downright earnest, that was
plain ; but then Christian thought it was only
the earnestness of a man who, used to command,
is unexpectedly thwarted in some
notion, and therefore becomes the more determined
to carry his purpose through.

I need not stand here begging for what I
could, without much trouble, extort,' said
he, never guessing her thoughts. ' But I
shouldn't care for such a kiss as that would
be,' he continued, persuasively ; and his tone
could be very persuasive when there was
cause,  ' I must have one freely granted.
Come, Christian,  my little wife  '

So saying, he, for the second time since
their misunderstanding, bent towards her to
take a kiss.

On this occasion, as on that, she eluded
him, so that it was not her lips that met his,

VOL. III. g

but only her brown hair that brushed his face.
Balked in his design, he straightened himself
and stood looking down at her.

Where has the girl I married gone ? ' he
ejaculated ; * and who is this that I have got
instead of her ? '

I am sorry you have been mistaken in
me,' she replied.

Don't be sorry ; be satisfactory : that is
all I ask.'

Glen,' she said gently, but with the gentleness
that means no yielding, ' if I had asked
you for any favour, and you had denied it tome,
no matter though I had believed you to
be wrong or foolish, I don't think you would
have had to deny me twice.'

At this appeal to his pride, he dropped her
hand, and his face grew darker than she had
ever seen it. He did not speak at once ; but
when he did, the concentrated displeasure of
his tone made his wife wince.

4 You do well to remind me,' he said ; ' butin
truth it is a new experience to me, this of
entreating for a  favour, shall I call it ? 
once denied. I have done, however ; the



denial shall not have to be repeated again.
For I vow that the first " favour" which passes
between us shall be offered by you to me,
and offered, too, unsought.'

With that, he strode from the room, leaving
Christian a good deal frightened, if it must be
owned, at the final result of her contumacy.

IN THE FIELDS AT EVENTIDE.

And ye shall walk in silk attire,
And silver hare tae spare,
Gin ye'll consent to be his bride
Nor think o' Donald mair.'

I hare nocht to offer ye,
Nae good frae mine, nae pearl frae sea,
Nor am I come o' high degree 
Lassie, but I lo'c ye.'

!R Urquhart made several
further endeavours to see Ursula
alone, unsuccessful endeavours, for
not once, either at The Brae or at Barons-haugh,
could he catch his queen of lilies
without Ulrica beside her. Yet it did not convey
itself to him that Ursula was responsible
for this. Nothing doubted Dugald but that
Ursula must be as much put out of gear as
himself by the continual supervision of that

exasperating little sister of hers, and his
astonishment would nearly have reached as
high as his anger, if he had been told that it
was by Ursula's express command that Ulrica
hovered ever in attendance.

After spending a few days at ,
accompanied by Moncrieff, returned
to Craigie Urquhart, that sanitarium being
once more habitable ; and from thence in a
day or two came a prolix letter, addressed to
Miss Ursula Elvester, and subscribed 

1 Yours (if you will) till death do part us,

DuGALD.'

The tone all through, to the ' Dugald ' at the
end, implied that nothing else than willingness
was contemplated. And this troubled Ursula.
She had heard it said that it must be a girl's
own fault if a man proposes to her ; yet she
was perfectly certain that Mr Urquhart's assurance
was no work of hers. He dwelt in
his letter on her ' shrinking sensibility,' and
coy ways  pretty harmless coquetry,' but if
he had been blind enough to mistake dislike
for sensibility, and coldness for coquetry,
whose blame was it but his own ?

Without loss of time Ursula thanked Mr
Urquhart for the honour he had done
her, but told him what she took comfort in
telling to herself sometimes, that she meant
to live and die a single woman.

She was in the garden when the return
communication arrived. It was brought to
her by Miss Elvester. There is an uncomfortableness
about receiving the reply letter
from a suitor who has just been rejected, and
Ursula's hand was not quite so steady as
usual when she broke the seal. No prolixity
this time ; for once Dugald had forgotten
to be wordy : stern and to the purpose
was the style in which he, so confident,
acknowledged his repulse.

Madam' (so the note ran),  ' The decision
at which you have arrived is, I humbly think,
very much more to be deplored for your own
sake than for mine.  I remain, Madam, your
obedient servant, Dugald Urquhart.'

The first letter Ursula alone had seen. This
one she passed to her sister, who still stood

beside her among the lilacs. That lady smiled
as she handed it back.

Well,' she said, ' do you not like it
much ?'

'It is to be deplored for my sake ! For
mine!' rejoined Ursula. 'It is scarcely to
be supposed I should like that.'

/ like it,' said Miss Elvester, ' for it is just
the most exquisitely characteristic thing I have
ever met with in the way of letter-writing.
To me there is a fine sense of satisfaction in
seeing a man act up to himself, and the delightful
symmetry of this, when taken along
with your friend's personality, leaves nothing
to be wished for.'

But to Ursula there was no fine sense of
satisfaction in the symmetry ; so when Miss
Elvester, still smiling, remarked, 

1 He has left you no room for repentance,
you observe ; you may rue your decision, but
you may not amend it.'

The reply was, 

1 There is no chance of my ruling it. I
have sometimes been forced by circumstances
to sit beside Mr Urquhart for a whole evening

; but in no possible circumstances could
I marry him.'

You would get a pair of leather gloves,
and go out as a housemaid rather ?'

o

Yes ; if I must make the choice.'

Happily, you need not make the choice ;
but all the same, I admire your spirit'

And ought not I to have spirit ? Am I
not an Elvester ? '

1 Ay  a daughter of the Sea-kings, as Ulrica
says. And at this minute you do look much
more like the princess who waved aside the
minister of Brestaa as no mate for her, than
the sister of charity who has for months past
been doing her utmost for the neglected girls
of Laighbield. But, if I may say so, I consider
the Ursula of The Brae avast improvement
on the Ursula of Eastravoe.'

So in the morning. But it was what Miss
Elvester called the Ursula of The Brae, who
set out that afternoon, with a little basket of
etceteras for a sick-room over her arm, to
visit a member of her class who lay ill at
Auldhame, a farm near the village of Dyke-side.
The grey-clad stately-stepping sister

of chanty was familiar to Laighbield eyes by
this time ; and thought so well of too, that
there was not a single captious criticism
concerning her as she went through the
village, nor one dissentient voice among the
sitters about Mrs Gillespie's entry, when it
was said, and said by no less easily pleased a
person than Mrs Gillespie herself, 

1 It's name o' your candle-licht beauties,
yon ! She can thole the guide braid glower
o' day fu' brawly.'

Mrs Gillespie's praise of one, you see, was
always set off by censure, either expressed
or implied, of the many.

It felt good to be out in the country on
such an afternoon. There were breeze and
brightness  while fleecy white clouds made
constantly changing pictures on the blue,
and cast fitful shadows athwart the autumn
fields. Reaping-machines not being very
much in vogue about Laighbield as yet, the
shearers' were at work : men whose faces
stamped them Emerald Islanders ; women
whose features were effectually screened from
observation as well as from the sun by calico

bonnets  white, pink, buff, green, or blue.
The farm-house of Auldhame was a one-storey,
white-washed line of building, with
a strip of flower-plot all along the front,
bordered with none-so-pretty (I give Lichfield
nomenclature), and crowded with such
effective favourites as blue-bonnets, beaches
ladies-bags, Baron's-rods, ,
and gardeners-garters. The principal
door opened into a passage between
the dairy and the large, white - flagged,
wooden-raftered kitchen, where the household
was, when Ursula got admittance, convened
at the evening meal. Master, mistress, sons,
daughters, servants, reapers, all sat round ;
and that without even ' the pale spectrum of
the salt' as a dividing line. Ursula did not
pause a moment here to disturb the good
people at their supper (their name for it was
supper ; you would have called it a ' high '
tea) ; but went through at once to the room
beyond, the sick girl's chamber. There she
remained a long time, reading and sympathising
; indeed, afternoon had passed into evening
before she left Auldhame.

The Rintle  Dugald Urquhart's ' limpid
stream '  curved and twisted in the most
arbitrary fashion all the way between Lichfield
and Dykeside, thus making the road
three times longer than it might have been.
When Ursula came to a turn of the river,
where by crossing on stepping-stones a
considerable round-about would be spared,
and saw that the sun was just sliding into the
distant Frith, she judged it as well to take the
short cut ; so made her way down the bank,
through the aromatic queen-of-the-meadows
and the wandering tendrils of the blackberry,
and commenced to cross the stream.

On the farther side, a short distance off,
was a small neat cottage, set in a small neat
garden, and inhabited by her whom it pleased
Mrs Brackenburn to describe as ' the nicest
woman in Laighbield.' Ursula saw the
nicest woman standing in the open doorway ;
but she did not notice the man sitting under
the willow whose branches swept the stream.
She had scarcely left the bank, however,
when again raising her eyes, she perceived
Donald Berwick quitting his willow-screen.

At the unexpected sight of a man where no
man had been, she started, the smooth stone
upon which she was in the act of adventuring
her foot turned half round, and Ursula
slipped into the Rintle. Nothing makes one
cut a more ridiculous figure than an accident
of this kind in shallow water. The dignity
of danger is absent, and the victim of mischance,
while with an agonised smile he
attempts to make it appear that he does not
mind at all  rather takes the thing as a little
joke,  cannot but be conscious that onlookers,
though they may guilefully condole, are sorely
put to it to keep up a due measure of outward
decorum to veil the mirth within.

This was the second catastrophe of the
sort which had chanced to Ursula, and just
as on the Auchterbrechan shore, there was
help at hand. Only, she did not wait for the
help this time, but slowly got to her feet
again  the slowness was by way of proving
that she had not been disconcerted much 
and went on to meet Mr Berwick in the
middle of the stream. She had no need of
his assistance, none whatever ; but assistance

has a trick of keeping away when wanted,
and then when not required, of thrusting itself
upon people, whether they will or no.
More assistance than Mr Berwick's offered itself,
and assistance for which there really was
a call : when the miserable one stepped dripping
up the margin, with skirts that seemed
to have turned to cloth-of-lead, so coldly and
weightily they clung about her ankles, the mistress
of the cottage stood ready to receive her.
Miss Berwick was a large and a very handsome
woman ; her features were striking ; her
hair  chesnut and curly as her nephew's 
was gathered up under a quaint mob-cap,
and her soft black gown was worn open at
the chest, as is the old fashion, to display
the snowy cambric kerchief beneath. Unmarried
though she were, she was an essentially
motherly person ; and it seemed as
natural as possible that Ursula, who, by the
way, had never met her before, should almost
immediately find herself comfortably settled
at a cosy fireside, waiting till the wet clothes
should be dry. Not a word of apology for
the trouble would Miss Berwick hear, and

Miss Berwick's nephew assured Ursula that
the obligation was all on the other side.

For,' said he, ' my aunt is never so well
pleased as when somebody gets into trouble
and gives her an excuse for .
She won't confess to it, but I suspect
her of owing me a grudge because I have
never given her the chance of nursing me
through some desperate illness. But I'm in
no anxiety to oblige her. Hers is the very
poetry of nursing, I allow ; still  '

1 Heard you ever the like !' interposed his
kinswoman. ' No, Donald, no; I have never
yet been so sore opprest with idlest, that I
have hankered after such a fearsome handling
as the sick-nursing of you would be.
But here come the things, fit to put on again,
so the young lady will get back to The Brae
or ever she has been missed; and Miss
Elvester minna need to send the bellman
through to " cry" her lost sister.'

If Donald Berwick expected his aunt to be
rapturous on the score of Ursula's beauty, he
was disappointed.

1 A pale bit thing ! ' said the matter-of-fact

Scotchman, when the girl had gone to
dress. ' What ails the lassie, that she has
tined the roses from her cheeks ? '

1 I don't imagine she ever had roses to
tine said Mr Berwick, stooping down to
examine a fuchsia on the window-sill. ' Hers
is no barn-door beauty. But you must
have seen her many a time ; was she not
always so pale ? You don't fancy her growing
paler, do you ? '

1 Keep me ! / taken' tent of ladies' looks,
so that I can answer how the colour comes
and goes ; but be the roses we speak of faded,
or be it that they never were in blow, they
will behoove to show themselves behave ;
minna they, Donald ? '

1 What may you mean by that ? ' he asked,
still admiring the fuchsia.

And what should I mean by it, trow ye ?
ah, there's her dainty foot on the stair !
Yes, away with you ; and blithe may you be
that the whimsy took you to give a keep in at
the Neck this day.'

When Ursula saw that she was to be
accompanied on her way, she demurred.

It is not as if I were unaccustomed to be
out alone,' she said. ' Tell your nephew,
Miss Berwick, that he must not come with
me.' For she thought, of course, that Miss
Berwick's visitor would by this time be due
at the glittering halls of Mr Langbiggin.

My nephew is a wilful man,' replied Miss
Berwick ; ' he minna be ruled by me. But
even although he would do my bidding,
could I say to him to stay behind and let a
young lady walk two miles in the gloaming'
by her lonesome lane ? No, no ; I could never
bide the thought of that.'

So Ursula and Mr Berwick went forth
from the Neck together.

Instead of threading Laighbield, they took
their way as the crow would fly, right across
the fields. The reapers were gone ; the
glamour of dusk was come ; there was light
enough to reveal the yellowness of the
stooks ' of corn, but not enough to show
how ruddy all the hedges were with haws.
It was the soft half-light favourable to lovers'
confidences ; and it seemed a pity that this
pair should abuse the gift as they were doing.

Both one and the other wished to avoid
awkward silences, and in order to this, both
pitched on remarks the most utterly commonplace
; so that Ursula was reminded of
a brief colloquy she had heard to-day between
a farmer's wife in a gig and a stone-breaker
by the wayside.

'Terrible blawy ! ' had cried the lady from
her gig.

Can ye no' tell us something 'at we cinna
ken already ? ' the man had cynically inquired,
without any pause in his metal-chipping.

Surely that saturnine stone-breaker would
have laughed aloud, if he had been within
earshot of Ursula and Mr Berwick as they
so assiduously kept talking against time.

All the while there was something that
Ursula had it in her mind to say to Donald
Berwick, which he did not know already.
She had often thought about it lately  she
had been thinking of it when she fell into the
Rintle ; telling herself that she must sometime
say it, that it was only pride which kept
her silent now, that such pride ought to be
overcome ;  and it should. If the opportune.

III. H

city were given, she would humble herself.
And here the opportunity was. Now to
make use of it. Two or three times she
trembled on the verge of utterance, and as
often with painfully beating heart drew back
again into commonplace. Once she even
began, and got so far as 

Mr Berwick, I wish to  '

When seeing her companion become all
attention, she lost courage and haltingly
brought up her sentence thus : 

1 To get home as fast as possible.'

In the end, Mr Berwick unconsciously
helped her. Over against Laighbield aspired
the white pinnacles of Vaudeville, the
tangible result which that mercantile gentleman,
Mr Langbiggin, had achieved for himself
out of bonnet-manufacturing.

Is not that pretty well in the way of
success ? ' said the minister of Auchter-
grecian. ' Even Mrs Inverarity has found
that trade pays better than literature, we
see.'

I don't understand,' replied Ursula ; ' I
don't know anything about Mrs Inverarity.'

Ah, you are above the tittle-tattle of
the place. Yet I should have thought you
must have chanced to hear what Laighbield is
rolling as a sweet morsel under its tongue
these days : the author of " The Ten Lost
Tribes," " Israel's Future," " The Year of
Jubilee," etc., is going to lay aside her weeds
and queen it at Laurel ville as Mrs .'


I thought Mr Langbiggin was past the
age for marrying,' said Ursula  she could
not fall upon anything else to say.

I have never been able to find out yet
what that age is,' was the reply. 'Anyhow, Mr
Langbiggin has the excuse that he is about
to lose his niece, for Miss Langbiggin, too,
has made up her mind to marry, one of
these days.'

Here was a most suitable opening ; there
would not come another so good. Ursula
felt that she must seize it.

1 I have been told about Miss Langbiggin's
intended marriage,' she said, in tones which
a strong effort of self-control on the speaker's
part rendered perfectly steady ; * and your

mentioning it to me gives me leave to say
something which I feel I ought to say. You
remember what passed when you came to
Eastravoe, one day just before we left ? '

It seemed to her a long, long time before
she got an answer ; and when Donald
Berwick did reply that the interview she
referred to was still fresh in his memory,
there was a change in his voice ; it sounded
to Ursula as it had sounded on that afternoon,
and as it had often rung in her ears,
when all was silent, since. And she held
her breath.

Why do you ask ? ' he continued, in his
strangely-altered manner. ' What have you
now to say to me about that  that  blunder
I committed ? '

1 I desire to apologise to you, Mr Berwick
 not for my answer, that I had a right
to give, but for my silliness in behaving as I
did  actually speaking to you as I might
have spoken to an inferior. I have learned
better since. I know now how shameful my
folly was, and how the un worthiness lay not
on your side, but on mine.'

Repressed feeling thrilled through every
word, and altogether Donald Berwick had a
difficulty in accepting the evidence of his
senses. Could it be Ursula who spoke ? 
could Ursula have come to such an extreme
of humility as this ? But Ursula it indeed
was ; Ursula, impelled by her strong sense
of duty.

1 1 should like you to say that you have
forgiven me,' she resumed, before he could
trust his voice to utterance. ' Of course I
must not have told you this, if it had not been
that you are engaged to Miss Langbiggin.'

That hurried him out of his silence.

Not 1/ he said. ' Miss Langbiggin is
engaged, it is true, but not to me.'

'Not to you?'

'Oh no!  to the United Presbyterian
minister of Laighbield.'

But they said  I thought  ' Ursula's
tongue failed her.

'What supreme nonsense people talk 
yes, and will believe ! But you  could you
credit it ? '

She did not answer. How could she ?

She had begged this man's pardon for having
slighted him, and  and he was not engaged.
A stile barred the way. In helping Ursula
over, her companion managed to get a
glimpse of her face. It was a revelation to
him.

Let us stand still for a moment,' he said,
as she alighted ; ' for I too have something
to say

So by the stile they stood, with clasped
hands  for he would not let go  facing
each other.

But it is no business of ours to inquire
what tale Ursula listened to in the fields at
eventide ; it is enough for us, that before
Donald Berwick was done, the daughter of
the Sea-kings, who had once rejected him 
the girl who had made up her mind to live
and die single  was sobbing, but not for
sorrow, in his arms.

*r*?%>?

A SEVERE CRITIC.

Be niggards of advice on no pretence,
For the worst avarice is that of sense ;
With mean complaisance ne'er betray your trust,
Nor be so civil as to prove unjust.'

Erica had been invited to walk
with Ursula to Auldhame, but
had excused herself; for, though
she did not say so to her sister, she was
under engagement to read a certain manuscript
story to Mysie to-day ; and Mysie was
such a valuable and trustworthy servant that
it would never do to disappoint her.

In course of the afternoon, accordingly,
Miss Elvester, from a window commanding
a view of the garden, espied Ulrica perched
on the bough of a plum-tree, reading to

Mysie, who was seated beneath, paring and
coming apples. More correctly, Mysie had
been paring and coming apples : an apple,
with a long curl of rind depending from it,
was in one hand, a knife was in the other ;
but the mind of Miss Elvesters valuable and
trusty servants engrossed in Ulrica's fiction.

Ulrica's propensity for scribbling had of
late become serious. For the sake of her
pen, everything else was either being carelessly
slurred over or altogether neglected ;
so that Miss Elvester saw that, if harm were
not to come of the matter, a check must be
administered ; and the spectacle of Ulrica in
the plum - tree decided her to administer it
now. Not at this very moment  the interruption
would be too cruel both to Ulrica
and to Mysie ; let them enjoy themselves
for one brief hour. She therefore waited
patiently till the reading was over and the
reader had come indoors.

Not guessing what was in store, Ulrica
placed herself at her sister's work-table, and
began to make herself troublesome with the
pin-cushion. A chain of romans was wound

about and about her neck, and a second was
intertwisted with the bright gold of her hair ;
and Miss Elvester, looking on the very
pretty picture, exclaimed, 

Vanity of vanities ! '

But Ulrica's vanity was not on the score
of personal appearance, nor did she know
what an exquisite foil the rich red berries
made to her fairness.

It was Mysie who strung them and put
them on me,' she said. ' I was sorry about
her having taken so much trouble, for they
will wither so soon.'

Was it to repay her for the trouble, that
you have been reading to her for the last
hour ? '

Ulrica having pulled every pin out of the
pin-cushion, was replacing them so as to
form the initials J. M. E., and she went on
with her letter-making, giving no reply.

Yes ; that is very nice,' said Miss Elves-ter.
' I shall quite regret having to remove
them when they shall be wanted by-and-by.
But when you have finished my monogram,
there is something else I should like you todo

for me ; I, too, want to hear your story,
my dear.'

To this Ulrica strongly objected ; for
it was one thing to read her sounding
periods and unique ideas to an admiring
Mysie ; quite another to submit them to
the scrutiny of a sister Jenny. It was
with extreme reluctance, therefore, that she
obeyed. Still, after a while she did produce
her manuscript, and having done this, would
have retired. But that would not meet
the views of the intending critic ; so Miss
Elvester said, 

'I wish you to remain. It is but right
you should hear one candid opinion about
this production.'

The answering plea, that she had heard a
candid opinion  Mysie's opinion was perfectly
candid  only evoked the reply, 

That may be ; but you will perhaps admit
that my opinion is rather more likely to be
correct than Mysie's. At all events, I choose
that you shall also have mine. Sit down,
pray you.'

Ulrica said in her heart that Jenny was

1 much too imperious.' Nevertheless she
sat down as desired, and prepared to defend
herself, even as it might be given her.

I am sorry I can't congratulate you on
your handwriting was the opening comment ;
1 you can write better than this, you know.'

Good writing is the dunce's talent,' said
Ulrica.

You enlighten me ; and bad writing is
the sign of intellectual greatness, I suppose.
Judging so, you must be a genius ; for your
penmanship here is worse than execrable.
You have affected back-hand ; does that also
mark an original mind ? '

1 1 1 takes less space than the copy-book
slope does,' Ulrica said.

1 I see ; and space is an object, when one's
supply of paper is limited. But now, how do
you call your tale ? for I perceive no title-page.'


The story isn't finished ; and I've not yet
decided on a title.'

So the title comes last ! I did not know ;
I am new to the ways of authorship. Well, to
begin :  " Chapter First. A Remarkable Girl.

Jane Jack was a very remarkable girl. She
was not at all lowly, but she was the most
intellectual of her family, and Mind is more
than Beauty ; for Mind remains when Beauty
has passed away.' "

Does " Jane Jack " stand for Ulrica
Elvester ? '

'Indeed not, Jenny. You are just like
Mysie, who thinks every character must be
meant for some one I know. But they're not ;
they are all out of my own head, every bit.'

'That is reassuring. But why call your heroine
such an unromantic name as "Jane Jack'"

1 In ordinary books they call the nice girl
"Amy Leigh" or " Lucy May," or something
else that will sound fine ; so, as I wanted to
be different, I called mine just " Jane Jack."

You belong to the realistic school, it would
appear. This " Jane Jack," then, was not " a
lowly girl,"  by the way, we used to spell
that adjective with an e when I was at school
but she had a lovely sister. The second
Miss Jack was beautiful  even astonishingly
so  " when the roses were kindled in her
countenance." Roses are not kindled, Ulrica.'



I beg your pardon, Jenny ; but I read
some quite charming lines in Miss Grizzel
Cochrane's poetry-album about " sun-kindled
roses in gardens gay." '

1 I own myself corrected. By a rose-kindled
countenance you mean, in common
English, a sunburnt face. You should put a
footnote to that effect, else you lay yourself
open to the charge of obscurity

Oh, please, give it back to me cried
Ulrica. ' It is my own ; I made it ; and I
don't want you to read it, since you only find
out faults.'

I'll not read it through ; I shall but look
over one chapter. Which is the best, Ulrica ?
Tell me your favourite part, that I may confine
myself to that.'

Ulrica declined to indicate her favourite
part ; and she sighed in bitterness of soul asher
sister made haphazard choice of a passage
and silently scanned the same.

Before many minutes the manuscript was
returned to its author, and criticism commenced.


1 You are right about your heroine said

Miss Elvester. "Jane Jack" was a very
remarkable girl. That was a striking adventure
she had in Cadzow Forest, when she put
to rout a herd of infuriated cattle  " the original
white cattle of Caledonia," as you call
them, by simply waving her portfolio of
sketches in their face. It is not mentioned
in the text, but there must have been magic
in that portfolio ; was it perhaps a gift from
Fairyland ? '

I don't write fairy tales ! ' was the indignant
disclaimer.

I cry your pardon ; I should have known
you were above that  you, who undertake
the minute description of a forest which you
have never seen.'

I've heard that Coleridge never saw the
Vale of Chamouni.'

Oh, if you couple your name with that of
Coleridge, I have done speaking.'

1 I have seen other forests, if not Cadzow.'

So you have ; and with persons of genius
to have seen one means to be able to describe
any  Epping will do for Sherwood, or the
Black Forest for Bois de Bologna. How delightfully

convenient. One need not travel
at all at that rate.'

You are so very unkind cried Ulrica.
I did not ask you to read my story ; I did
not want you to read it, for I knew  I knew
you would only mock at it'

4 My dear child, if three-fourths of the
young ladies and gentlemen afflicted with
the scribbling mania were treated by their
guardians with just such unkindness, an incalculable
saving of the time and temper of
publishers, editors, and reviewers would ensue.
You think this effort a very wonderful piece
of imaginative literature ; but if you should
cast your eyes upon it some few years hence,
you will judge otherwise. Listen to me, my
dear ; you possess neither the experience nor
the education necessary to authorship ; you
have much to learn before you can write anything
in the least worth reading, and the time
you spend ill, scribbling, would be spent well
in mastering those dry and troublesome facts
and details which you would so much rather
neglect.'

1 I know, I know,' said Ulrica; 'all you

mind about people is that they should be
well-informed. What I care for is being
original.'

What I care about is being properly
educated. Even a genius requires education
; and you will get laughed at by others
besides me, if you pose as a woman of intellect,
while you spell lovely without e and
write of a water-fall as " this roaring avalanche."
I once heard a rather pretentious
person express surprise on being told about
icicles formed by the spray of the Falls of
Niagara; she thought that salt water almost
never froze. And again, talking of the Philippines,
she supposed that the language of the
Malays would be Spanish. That lady would
not have been the worse for the 
which you depreciate, would she ? As
it was, she might be original ; but I beg you
will never make your friends ashamed of you
in that way.'

I don't mean ever to make my friends
ashamed of me,' said Ulrica.

In that case you will lay aside your pen
for half-a-dozen years at the very least. This

may seem a hard saying, but I can't help it.
You are not able to write ; what we have
here is the merest childishness.'

Mysie thinks it is quite as nice as " Uncle
Tom's Cabin," ' returned poor Ulrica.

Why as " Uncle Tom's Cabin," in the name
of wonder ?' exclaimed Miss Elvester.

Ulrica did not say ; she pressed her lips
tightly together, for her feelings were fast
becoming too much for her.

I should be delighted if this story were
indeed the brilliant achievement you imagine
it,' resumed her sister. ' But it is not so. my
poor Ulrica ; it is only a perfectly impossible
piece of idle fancy-work  neither more nor
less. I don't say, mind you, that you will
never be able to write ; indeed, it is not
improbable that, when you have reached the
years called of discretion, you may produce
something really readable ; and if so, there is
no one in the world who will be more heartily
glad than I. Meantime I must ask you
to attend to your studies and let romancing
alone. And I hope I shall not have to speak
to you on the subject again.'

vol. in. 1

You shall not,' responded Ulrica, in a constrained
voice. And she rose and left the
parlour, not in any haste, but walking proudly
and slowly, so that it might not be guessed
how hurt and angry she was.

Miss Elvester was fully conscious of her
own severity ; but after a livelong summer's
petting at Hilyascord such a wholesome tonic
as this was, she believed, a requisite and
necessary thing. Nor was she in the least
afraid that she might have been nipping
genius in the bud by her frosty comments
and counsels. If Ulrica's aspirations should
be killed by present discouragement, why,
they had no claim to live ; but if any real
talent were in the girl, there was no fear  it
would not so be crushed. So Miss Elvester
sat still contentedly for an hour after Ulrica
left her. At the end of that time, her
window being open, she was edified by hearing
a colloquy between Mysie and a sturdy
beggar-man. The latter having been served
with a handful of oatmeal and a plate of soup,
condescendingly put the meal into his wallet,
and then, having tasted the soup, ejaculated, 

Ay, ay, my lassie, an' ca' ye this
kail ? '

Mysie wondered if he could tell her how
it could have been better.

'Bravely!' he answered; 'just by herein'
a stoup' less water intilt. Od, woman ! I
wull hare to cast the coat aff me, an' soon '
(swim) ' for a pea.'

Mysie regretted that such an epicure should
have found his way to The Brae at all. But
his answer was, 

1 A city set on an hill cannot be hid.'

A most ungrateful and ungracious beggar-man
!

At this Miss Elvester put her work aside,
and speedily sent the connoisseur in soup
about his business, which having done, she
went upstairs to see what her little sister was
about. Opening the door of Ulrica's room,
she beheld a sorry spectacle. On the floor
lay the unlucky manuscript, torn into shreds,
and in the midst of the ruins sat the authoress.
Poor little authoress ! she had taken the adverse
criticism very grievously amiss, even
to the extent of wishing" that she could but

get at once beyond the reach of all such woe.
She had been pondering as to whether it
would be a sin to seek death by starvation.
Jenny might perhaps rue her unkindness
when an unappreciated sister should be no
more. If she had been a boy, Ulrica knew
what she would have done  she would have
run away to sea ; but for a girl was no such
resource, except starvation indeed, no resource
at all. And thinking it over, starvation
could not surely be called a sin, for it
was not killing oneself, but only letting oneself
die. She had just reached this conclusion,
when the door opened, and her sister came in.
Ulrica took no notice; she would neither lookup
nor answer to her name.

This won't do,' said Miss Elvester. ' I
can't afford to have my little girl on bad
terms with me ; nor would she find it pleasant
herself, I think.'

Still neither speech nor motion ; for a person
who meditates starving herself had need to
preserve her dignity of bearing.

What ? Are you not going to have anything
more to do with me ? ' asked her sister,

stooping over her ; ' for that would grieve me
very much indeed.'

Ulrica raised her face at last  a tragic
face, with lips that, in spite of pride, would
tremble as they parted.

1 You are stronger than I,' she said, ' and
you can make me do as you like ; but sometime
 ' but having got so far, she stopped,
fearing to utter that awful threat of remorse
in store.

Sometime you will be able to do as you
like yourself concluded Miss Elvester, as
she supposed the sentence stood in Ulrica's
mind, ' and then you will write a book, none
daring to prevent you. By all means, my
child; and let it be a grand book  one
to teach men how to live. Ah ! don't
transfix me with such reproachful eyes ;
I am wholly unable to feel that I have deserved
it.'

You. have been so cruel to me,' was the
dismal complaint.

Not really cruel, only seemingly so,' Miss
Elvester spoke most kindly now. ' Yes,
you find it difficult to believe ; but what you

call cruelty is the truest mercy I could show.
Try to take that on trust now ; you will see
it for yourself afterwards. Put away anger,
then ; and come, kiss me, Ulrica/

1 Thank you, but I would rather not today,'
said Ulrica, coldly ; and she got up
from her low position and took shelter
behind the window-curtains.

On being repulsed by Ulrica, as Glen
Cassillis had been repulsed by Christian a
few days before, Miss Elvester was at a
standstill for the instant, hardly knowing
how to proceed. That momentary pause
of hesitation over, she followed her sister to
the window, and saying, 

It takes two to make a quarrel,' leant
over the girl's shoulder and lightly kissed the
averted cheek ; then, without another word,
went out again and closed the door.

The kiss, though taken thus, had a somewhat
mollifying effect. After it, the idea of
starvation became less attractive than before.
Besides, Ulrica had been surely, though
gradually, awakening to a consciousness of
being hungry. She was loth to admit the

fact ; yet so it certainly was. To get the
better of this shameful weakness, she saw
good to employ herself by picking up the
torn paper which strewed the floor like
snow-flakes ; and while so busied, heard the
distant ring of silver, and clatter of china and
crystal, which told that the dinner-table was
being laid. Ulrica thought of the pudding 
her favourite of all puddings  which she had
seen Jenny compounding earlier in the day.
Yes, yes; she was hungry! No mistake
about that now. And must she starve, with
that delicious pudding in the very room
below ? Could she do it ? On that pudding
fell all the blame of the ignoble desire to po

o o

down to dinner, which was consuming her.
Had it been any other dish, it could have
been resisted; but that! but that! In her
mental conflict, Ulrica once more approached
the window. Two figures were drawing near
the house ; Ursula and some one so tall that,
tall as Ursula was, her head did not reach
his shoulder. It was too dark to see his
face, but height and gait were sufficient to
declare him, and Ulrica's eyes grew wide,

and her lips parted. She had sometimes
wondered  and had been snubbed as surely
as she mentioned it  why, frequently as Mr
Berwick visited Laighbield, he was never
seen at The Brae ; but the question with her
now was, why, having held aloof so long, he
should present himself at all. Yet, anxious
though she was to see Mr Berwick, and to
inquire why he had forsaken his old friends
all this weary time, she did not go downstairs.
Not so ; she would wait till she should
be sent for ;  and they would, they must,
send for her soon. They did not send, however,
and before many minutes Mr Berwick
went away. Ulrica had not been called to
say good-bye, though they must have known,
if they had only thought of it, how greatly
she would like to meet him once again. Oh,
it was too bad !

It is a hard lesson to learn, that one, so
very important to oneself, is so little important
to others that they will often overlook
one's existence altogether. And Ulrica
felt that this simply being let alone was an
unkind cut than even the criticism of her

story. It appeared that, on the whole, she
would rather be wronged than neglected.
She need not think of starving herself when
all was done ; there would be no satisfaction
in it, for nobody would care. This pointed
reflection finished what hunger had begun ;
so that, at the ringing of the dinner-bell,
Ulrica having assumed all the dignity her
small person was capable of, made her descent.
Her sisters were standing face to face on the
dining-room rug. There was an indefinite
something about the younger, a sort of glow
or halo, as if, thought Ulrica, Princess
Ursula had been gathering sunbeams. A
spirit of mischief danced in each of Miss
Elvester's grey eyes.

And has it come to this ?' the lady was
saying. ' How are the mighty fallen ! 
Ursula, Ursula !'

Ulrica looked from one to the other.
Plainly something had happened. She must
know what. All her so carefully arranged
majesty dropped away from her, and, 

What is it ? ' she asked. ' What does it
mean, Jenny ?'

It means orange-blossom, wedding-cake,
and bridesmaids,' replied Miss Elvester.

It means,' said Ursula, with the confusion
natural and proper to her position, ' it
means that I am going to marry Donald
Berwick.'

Ulrica received the news in a calmly reflective,
rather than an exuberant fashion.

And now,' she said, saluting her sister,
in token of goodwill, ' you will have something
else to think of than Gowrie Conspiracies
and relative minors, my Lady Ursula.'

Then, turning to her other sister, 

1 We shall not grudge Ursula to Mr Berwick
; 'will we, Jenny? You have me left,
and I have  '

Slyboots,' said Miss Elvester. ' Yes ;
these are sustaining thoughts.'

My studies, I was going to say,' rejoined
Ulrica, coming behind her sister's chair, as
Miss Elvester took her place at table. And
then she hid her face on Miss Elvester's
shoulder, and whispered penitently, 

1 I've been very wicked to you, Jenny ;
and I felt even wickeder than you could

guess ; but I suppose  ' she hesitated a
little ; it was not easy to say this  ' I mean,
I am sure,' she again proceeded, ' that you
do know best about what I was so vexed
with you because of. And, Jenny, if you
wouldn't mind, I should like to kiss you
now.'

Ulrica's kiss of reconciliation was at once
accepted.

M

AN UNJUSTIFIABLE METHOD OF SEEKING
MORE LIGHT.

But now, dear Doctor, not to flatter,
There is a most important matter ;
A matter which you never touch on,
A matter which our thoughts run much on ;
A subject, if we right conjecture,
That well deserves a long, long lecture,
Which all the ladies would approve,
The " Natural History of Love"'

Although there had been a
wedding in the family already,
Ulrica knew absolutely nothing
about lovers or their ways, seeing that her
sister Christian's engagement had almost
immediately been followed by her own departure
to Hilyascord. But chance was in
her favour this time, and she would avail

herself of chance. If she might not continue
the history of that remarkable girl,
Jane Jack,' she must amuse herself during
hours of leisure in some other way ; and if
she was not allowed to read about love in
books, neither Jenny nor Ursula should be
able to hinder her from studying it from
the life.

On the day appointed for Mr Berwick's
first visit, Ulrica expected to be excused
from lessons. That was a delusion ; and
Ursula surprise at the very notion of passing
over any duty for a reason so inadequate,
forced her disappointed pupil to the conclusion
that, whatever love was, it could not bethe
all-absorbing passion which Mysie's
favourite ditties celebrated. The heroine
of one of these, for example, 'a damsel
possessed of great beauty,' who ' stood by
her own "father's gate,' was represented as
addressing her lover in the following melting
strains: 

1 For six months on bread and cold water,
My parents confined me for you ;
Oh ! hard-hearted friends to their daughter,
Whose heart is so loyal and true.'

What would a person so unromantically
addicted to duty as Ursula was, think of
devotion like that ?

The lover of the damsel himself, it had
to be owned, did not seem to have appreciated
the loyalty and truth so highly as he
might have done ; for, so the song went, 

" Oh, fie ! " said young Edward ; "be steady,
And think of the dangers of war.
When the trumpet sounds, I must be ready,
So wed not your gallant hussar." '

Casting this about in her mind, a new
light broke on Ulrica. Perhaps Ursula,
warned by such examples as the beautiful
damsel in question, feared to have her attachment
undervalued if she should display it
too freely. Perhaps, who knew, she also,
might, if required, be ready to submit to the
bread-and-cold-water test of constancy ; but
meantime was only concealing her abundant
warmth of affection under a judicious
veil. Ulrica was not sure of this, however,
and she could not rest satisfied with mere
conjecture ; she must find out for certain.

So, while the studies went on as usual, she
kept a strict watch on her sister, hoping
sooner or later to be gratified by some faint
symptom of an errant mind. It was no
use ; Ursula was not to be caught, watched
you never so warily. Nobody could have
guessed, from any sign she gave, that she
cherished one single thought apart from the
business of the hour.

Baffled in this line of research, Ulrica
had a happy inspiration. She would outwit
Ursula ; she would be satisfied whether or not
this manner were her sister's only one ; she
would be present at the forthcoming interview.
Accordingly, when the proper time was
come, she made all haste and concealed
herself behind a screen in the drawing-room.
Her hiding-place proved even better
than she had expected, for between
the leaves of it she would be able not to
hear only but to see. Could anything be
more delightful !

Donald Berwick came, and Ulrica spying
through her chink approved of him exceedingly.
He was so good  so clever  so handsome.

The handsomeness was merely by the
way  a Nero might be handsome, was handsome,
Ulrica believed  as the mind expanded,
one became less and less sensible to the accidents
of feature and form ; one ceased to
think the jay more precious than the lark,
because his painted feathers are more beautiful.
Well, handsomeness altogether aside,
this was a lover-inlaw (so she chose to call
him) to be thoroughly satisfied with.

It now remained to be seen how Ursula
would carry herself. She did not come at
once ; and while waiting for her, her lover
stood before the largest painting which the
room contained : Ursula as a child, playing
with a Newfoundland dog on the broad stone
terrace in front of the house of Eastravoe.
Child and dog, they made a charming study ;
and Mr Berwick, though he must have seen
the picture many times before, became so
engrossed in it that when the real Ursula
entered he actually did not hear her. That,
thought the watcher, was not like the man in
the Serenade which Mr Urquhart loved to
sing ; he who cried 

1 She is coming, my own, my sweet !

Were it ever so airy a tread,
My heart would hear her and beat,

Were it earth in an earthy bed.
My dust would hear her and beat,

Had it lain for a century dead,
Would start and tremble under her feet,

And blossom in purple and red.'

That lover must have had a very much
quicker ear than this. On the whole, Ulrica
was beginning to suspect that all songs were
vanity. But Ursula did not seem to feel
hurt, not a jot. And lo, Ursula had two
manners  deceiving Ursula ! There was a
rosy light on her face and a happy brightness
in her eyes ; and, as if she were not quite
lovely enough already, she had decked herself
with the loveliest flowers in the garden.
The scene promised to be interesting, but
unfortunately Ulrica's gratification was alloyed
with a horrible inclination to cough.
She had not a cold, else she would not have
planted herself here ; what troubled her was
the dry, tickling sensation in the throat, which
will now and then seize persons for no other
imaginable reason than to make them disagreeably
conspicuous. She did what she

VOL. III. k

could to choke back the threatened outburst ;
and the situation was becoming alarming,
when Ursula half whispered, 

1 Donald, are you dreaming ?'

Instantly her lover was beside her. She
held out her hand, as if she thought he was
in the least likely to be content with that.
He did not take the slightest notice of it.

My princess,' he said ; ' my beautiful
Ursula ! ' and boldly proceeded to do just
as he liked about the salutation. He had
still an appropriating arm round Ursula, and
he was looking fondly down into the deeps
of her eyes, and talking as lovers will, when,
hark !  a strangled shriek from behind the
screen  then a cough  a quick succession
of coughs, forcibly broken from restraint.
Finally, Ulrica ran out of her concealment,
and with scarlet face and streaming eyes,
results of her efforts at suppression, thus
addressed the pair : 

Do not think me mad. I wanted to
see for myself. I've never been allowed
to read about love ; but now I know  I
know ! '

And with that she turned and fled, leaving
her ' lover-inlaw ' to deal with her
sister's confusion as he might.

It was Ulrica's first essay at eavesdropping,
and it was her last. On subsequent visits
Donald Berwick took care to assure himself
that no third party was lying in ambush
behind the screen.

RATIONAL AND IMPROVING.

The circle formed, we sit in silent state,

Like figures drawn upon a dial-plate,

Yes, ma'am," and " No, ma'am," utter'd softly, show

Ev'ry five minutes how the minutes go.'

Annoyances are so sociably inclined,
that they nearly always
pay their visits in company. So
Dugald Urquhart, with Mr Fyfe Armstrong's
threatened action hanging over him,
and Ursula Elvester's inexplicable refusal
embittering him, received a summons to
South America, the obeying of which would
entail an infinitude of pain and exertion.
A sister of his mother, married to a
landowner in Mexico, had lately been left a
widow. Her health was broken ; she had

lost all her family ; and her affairs were in so
miserable a tangle that she had seen nothing
for it but to entreat Dugald to come over and
help her. The annoyance to Mr Urquhart
was only in the being asked ; to go, he flatly
and once and for all refused. His Aunt
Nannie, who, he understood, had married a
spendthrift and a prodigal, against the urgent
advice of all her friends, was only gathering
in the harvest she had sowed. If his aunt
stood in actual need of money, why, he must
send some, he supposed ; but his time and
attention, these he would not bestow.

When this became known at Baronshaugh,
Christian said, 

What is to happen to that poor Aunt
Nannie ? Will nobody go to her V

1 I will replied Glen ; * and the sooner the
better, I'm inclined to think

1 You ! ' exclaimed Christian, with sudden
sinking of heart.

In saying, ' Will nobody go V she had not
thought of him. Aunt Nannie was his
father's sister; but Glen's father had disowned
his sister when she would marry

against his will, and there had been no
direct communication between her and the
Netherlaw Cassillises since.

Dugald's mother and your Aunt Nannie
were always friends,' Christian added. ' It
is Dugald who ought to go.'

This was spoken impulsively. Next
moment she was ashamed of herself. How
could she be so selfish as to say one word
against her husband doing what he would
for an aunt in distress ?

I had nothing to do with my father's
quarrel answered Glen ; ' and whether
Dugald ought to go or not, if he won't, I
must. I shall not object to the voyage and
the change.'

1 I'm sure you will enjoy them,' said Christian,
putting a bright face on the matter.
And, luckily, you are free now. You have
done with all business and lawyers at last.'

Yes ; at least, nothing lies over that such
a strong-minded woman as yourself will not
be perfectly able to see to, if you will be so
good.'

1 I shall be most glad, if I know how,' she

rejoined ; but she did not feel strong-minded
at all as she spoke.

When Glen's intention got wind, everybody
thought that, since he must go, he
ought to take his wife with him. Nevertheless
the laird presumed to know his own
affairs best, and he gave not a hint to
Christian of any desire for her company.
His mother wondered, but held her peace.
Christian's sisters also wondered, and they
went so far as to ask the reason.

1 Glen goes on duty, not for pleasure,' they
were answered.

 And you are only to share his pleasures,
not his duties,' said Ursula. ' That is scarcely
fair ; is it, dear ? '

Well, well,' observed Miss Elvester, ' I
daresay the lady in Mexico will, all things
considered, be better pleased to see her
nephew without his wife.'

And Christian felt thankful for the timely
suggestion.

1 It must be relieving to get a husband
away for a while,' said Ulrica ; ' you will feel
so emancipated, Christian. Glen is quite

agreeable, of course ; still, to have him with
you always  always.'
Miss Elvester laughed.

I take another view said she. ' With
me Christian is an object of commiseration
meantime  ivy without the oak.'

I am not of the ivy order of women,'
declared Christian.  My husband says 1
am strong-minded ; at any rate, an oak is
not a necessity of life to me.'

It goes with the luxuries, does it ?' said
Miss Elvester.

1 With the accidents,' replied Christian. ' If
it had happened to me to remain unmarried,
I could have lived perfectly contented so

1 What a pity you were not permitted to
develop your theory of independence,' said
Miss Elvester. 'A very fine thing you
would have made of it, no doubt.'

Christian might have answered that she
had developed it pretty well ; but she kept
that to herself, and passed from the subject.

No time was lost by Glen. Very soon the
day  the hour  the minute of departure
came.

1 Wish me god-speed,' he said at the last
to Christian.

1 I do,' she answered, giving him her hand.

He pressed it tightly, and held it for a
second or two in silence. Then he said, 

1 There's nothing else, I suppose ? '

She did not raise her blue eyes, for they
were ready to overflow ; and she did not
answer, for her voice would have failed her ;
and she did not throw her arms about his
neck as she longed to do, for  though he
might kiss her now if he chose, and she would
not gainsay him  she could not  she could
not be the first. He, however, did not seethe
tears, nor guess the longing ; and he had
made a vow which he was grimly determined
to stand to.

'Very well,' he said; 'just as you please
about it ; good-bye, Christian

1 Good-bye, Glen.'

And so they parted  as friends.

After her ' emancipation ' Christian entered
with what zest she could into the pleasant
bustle now going on at The Brae ; and she still
continued to rank in the estimation of Mr

Fyfe Armstrong, to whom she was sitting
for her portrait, as one of the pennies of
women. But for all that, her heart was
not in Laighbield. Weeks multiplied, and
Christian arrived in Netherlaw with the
November fogs. And Argyll Gardens with
Glen's mother was, she found, far homelier
than Baronshaugh without Glen. She was
made much of here ; and the company of
Mrs Cassillis rested and strengthened her.

Strange to say, she spent four entire weeks
in Netherlaw, before she saw either of the
Urquhartss. Mr Fyfe Armstrong had sometime
since offered to withdraw proceedings, if
Mr Urquhart would unsay those slanders and
make an ample apology for the same. This
the defendant had been very loth to do ; but
there being no easier way out of the dilemma,
the slanders had been unsaid and the
apology penned, and the town furnished with
the most delicious tit-bit of drawing-room
gossip of the season. So Dugald, disappointed
in love, and smarting under the mortification
of having had to apologise to a
creature so contemptible as ' Fyfe Armstrong

the artist,' had not of late been wasting himself
on Netherlaw. But we know what suffering
and wrong are to the poet-soul ; and it
was being whispered about, that the world
was more than likely soon to be a volume the
richer for the cruel buffets which the forceful
Fates had been dealing to Dugald Urquhart.
So, for the brother. As for Moncrieff,
rumour did not say how she was employing
herself, or guess what wonder was inducing
her to be a keeper-at-home.

To compensate, as it seemed, for the want
of the Urquhartss, Christian had a double doze
of Mrs Sledgehammer measured out to her.
Neither her marriage nor the loss of her son
had wrought any appreciable change in Aunt
Euphemia. She had as much to say as ever,
and she chose to say a great deal of it to
her successor at Baronshaugh (her husband's
daughters and she were scarcely on speaking
terms). Not only that, but she would carry
Glen's wife with her to stirring polemical
meetings in the Town-hall, and once even to
the strangers' gallery in her church's .
So Christian was witness of

some notable affrays ; while Aunt Euphemia
by her side nodded approval towards one
bulky form in the thick of the conflict, and
ejaculated under breath, 

I Well put, Dr Doig Sledgehammer ! '
Why did she go to these meetings ? Mrs

Brackenburn asked her once. Did she think
by such a course of penance to lay up a
stock of superlative merit for herself? But
Christian disclaimed the supererogation idea
altogether.

I I go,' she said, ' because it seems to please
Mrs Sledgehammer ; and it does no harm
to me

It was in a like spirit that she agreed un-murmuring
to be present at a tea-gathering
in the house of Dr Doig Sledgehammer
on Christmas Eve. Aunt Euphemia's
invitations were like those of Majesty 
commands.

1 It has always been Dr Sledgehammer's
custom to entertain the students over whom
he is professor, one evening annually,' she
announced. ' I have set apart the evening
of the twenty-fourth for that purpose, and

I look for you to join us. There is never
any of that questionable frivolity at Tower
Terrace which unhappily passes for pleasure
with so many of the young. You shall spend
a rational and improving evening, and one
which you will be able afterwards to look
back on without shame.'

Shame not being a feeling with which
Christian was accustomed to look back on
her evenings, the closing assurance was not
so great an inducement after all. However,
she thanked Mrs Sledgehammer and promised
to attend. Hours at Tower Terrace were
early, and it was rather past the specified
time when Christian joined the tea-party.
The drawing-room arrangements seemed to
have been made with a view to obviate
frivolity : the students sat on this side, the
ladies sat on that, and Dr Doig - Sledgehammer
loomed arose between. At a little
table overlooking all, presided the hostess,
with uncompromising brow ; she meant every
youthful levite there to feel that her eye was
upon him. As Christian glanced along the
line, she thought, ' This isn't amusing for

them ; they are all wishing themselves anywhere
else, poor boys.'

Twenty minutes late ! ' came the tones of
Mrs Sledgehammer, gratingly breaking upon
the compassion of young Mrs Cassillis.
1 There is nothing which has a more generally
demoralising effect than punctuality.'

But you will pardon me this once, won't
you ? ' said Christian. ' Willie is having a
Christmas tree, and I was wanted to help
with receiving the party.'

'A Christmas tree!' echoed Mrs Sledges
'a Christmas tree! What, pray,
is a Christmas tree ? ' and she fastened an
unwinking gaze on the sprig of mistletoe
which nestled amid Christian's brown locks.

It gives you an uncomfortable sensation
when your interlocutor, instead of looking
you in the face, selects an ornament in your
hair to make a target of. Something like
a guilty feeling crept over Christian. Aunt
Euphemia evidently regarded it as a weakness
verging on immorality to wear mistletoe
in the hair, and suppose, only suppose, she
should be moved to make that the text of a

harangue before all these people. Happily,
her spirit was touched to other issues.

Christmas trees,' she said, answering her
own question, ' are among the little foxes
that spoil the grapes. Christmas observance
ought to have no place in the country of
Knox and Melville ; but, as I often say, the
degenerate modern spirit of liberality so called,
is to re-introduce in full phalanx the very
mummers which the zeal of our righteous
forefathers swept from the land

Here some empty cups brought Mrs
Sledgehammer down to the trivial round of
replenishing them ; so Christian was free to
fall into the ranks. Just as young Mrs
Cassillis had found a niche for herself among
the ladies, an unexpected voice hailed herby
name.

Christina, don't you see me ? '

And she looked along the row to have her
eyes refreshed with a vision of Miss Urquhart,
in a glow of pale amber satin, established between
a stout and blooming maiden in azure,
and a fair citizeness in cardinal velvet. To
the first Moncrieff made her appeal.

1 Would you mind changing places with
my cousin, Miss Macculloch ? Oh, thanks ;
so kind! Now, Christina, come beside me;
I have an immensity of things to talk
about.'

So Christian exchanged seats with the
lady in blue, and pronounced herself ready
to attend to Moncrieff' s ' immensity.' The
first thing Moncrieff mentioned was the flatness
of the present hour.

1 Aunt Euphemia calls this improving,'
drawled the much bored one, in her sleepiest
of undertones, ' but / call it dry. And fancy
having such awkward creatures looking at
you ! Students do well enough in torchlight
procession, or in the gallery at opera,
but who wants to mix oneself up with
them in the drawing-room ? '

I do,' said Christian.  I only wait till
Mrs Sledeehammer can be got to introduce
me. I like the look of some of them very
much.'

You don't,' replied Moncrieff. ' Oh dear,
I wish I weren't here ! '

That is past praying for,' said Christian.

1 But you knew what you were coming to.
Why did you come ? '

To-morrow week is New Year explained
Moncrieff, behind her fan, ' and Aunt 
has promised to give me then a small
diamond-rose which was once my mother's.
But I couldn't wait till New Year, that's why
I came. I wanted my rose now  and I've
got it too.'

1 Then, can't you be happy thinking of it ? '

Yes, if I could think of it somewhere else
than here,' murmured Moncrieff. ' But dort
be introduced, Christina. You might have
to appear as a witness. I'm going back with
you to Aunt Marjorie's, and if you had encouraged
the students, a few might take a
fancy to follow us, and then to have a snowball
riot all along Argyll Gardens. That's
what they do whenever they get a chance,
and get taken up by the police afterwards, and
everybody else has to appear as witnesses.'

1 There will be no snow left for rioting
with, Moncrieff  nothing but slush. It rains
hard to-night.'

How very provoking! for it will be too odin
III. L

ously aggravating if it rain tomorrow when
I am going to  service at St Timothy's.'

The unusualness of Moncrieffs attending
service any oftener than conventionality demanded,
and the peculiar pause in the last
sentence, struck Christian.

1 I should have thought you would prefer
St Anselm's ; they have full choral service
there,' she said.

All services are alike to me,' confessed
Moncrieff, ' except High Mass, which is
more lively, especially at Rome. Only, at
St Peter's you have to wear black, that you
mayn't put out the Pope and Cardinals. When
Dugald told me I must go in black, I knew
what was meant by the Papal tyranny that
Dr Doig Sledgehammer preaches about.
Black is so hatefully dismal. I detest it.
Don't you ? '

The dress of the person spoken to was of
the detested colour, but the speaker never
thought of that, not even when in answer
to the ' Don't you ?' Christian's lace flounces
were shaken out suggestively. Moncrieff
would not have been Moncrieff if she had

not sought to alleviate the ills of her situation
by manifold wishing, so she wished that,
the diamond-rose notwithstanding, she had
not come ; that she might soon be gone ;
that she should never need again to be atone
of Mrs Sledgehammer's rational and
improving tea-parties ; and so on, till Christian
was caught away to be made useful at
the piano. Then her self-pity became even
more intense. She refused to suffer any of
the gentlemen to be made known to her ; she
looked askance at the ladies as being ' such
poky people ; ' she endured in a die-away
manner, and answered with monosyllables,
the remarks which Dr Doig Sledgehammer,
in making a conversational tour of the room,
doled out to her. Time stood still withal.
Each successive minute seemed to spin itself
out farther than the one before, and Mon-cries
felt verily assured that this was indeed
the most wearisome evening, by a long way,
that she had ever languished through. About
nine o'clock her power of endurance failed.
She was seized with tic-doulourcux, and, Aunt
Euphemia excusing her, she must go. Mrs

Sledgehammer looked suspicious, but never
a word said she. Dr Sledgehammer thought
it a pity any one should leave before the evening
Exercise and Exegesis. But at mention
of that, the tic-douloureux became so much
more agonising that, right or wrong, Mon-cries
had to be permitted to withdraw.

Christian, who had been amusing herself
very well among the students, in a few
minutes followed Moncrieff to the cloaking-room.


Get ready quick ! ' said Moncrieff. ' I've
sent for a cab, and  '

The door opened. Mrs Sledgehammer
strode straight into the middle of the sentence,
preventing the end of it from being
heard, and drew up ominously.

Moncrieff hastily muffled her head and
shoulders in a woollen shawl. But before
attending to her, Aunt Euphemia had a
word to say to Christian. Ursula was
to be married in church ; and this was
the subject for a tirade, commencing,  Is
marriage a sacrament, then ? ' and oroincr onto
throw all manner of scorn on Presbyterianism

turning aside to Prelacy, which is
the high road to Rome.

Christian listened in awed silence, and
considered what a power in the pulpit Mrs
Sledgehammer might be, if once the day of
the full acknowledgment of woman's-rights
were come.

Moncrieff did not listen ; she hated to
hear such slow stuff, and stopped her ears
with the fringe of her muffler.

Are you in acute pain ? ' demanded Aunt
Euphemia, suddenly turning to her from
Christian.

1 only wish you felt it ! ' moaned Mon-cries
from the depths of her wrapping.

1 If you have toothache, you don't leave
this house to-night,' said Mrs Sledgehammer
decisively.

4 As if / ever had toothache ! ' exclaimed
Moncrieff. ' How disgusting ! ' (And in
her disgust she spoke much less faintly
than last time.) ' But I can't stay, thanks ;
my things have gone on to Aunt Marjorie's.'

You can have them brought back again ;
nothing simpler.'

1 But the cab is at the door ; I hear it now.
I must go indeed, Aunt Euphemia.'

Not one yard. If you were too ill to
remain in the drawing - room during Dr
Sledgehammer's Exegesis of Scripture, you
can be in no state to expose yourself in a
cab. I countermanded your order ; so the
cab at the door is not for you

1 You have no right to keep me  has she,
Christina ? And I won't stay ; I must see
dear Aunt Marjorie ! '

(Affectionate Moncrieff!)

Take your things off,' said Aunt Euphemia
coolly. ' You shall go to bed, and have hot
water and pepper to drink  a very good
remedy for toothache

Oh, horrid ! ' gasped Moncrieff.

1 I have to request that you will not make
use of such expressions under this roof, my
dear

But it is ho  '

Not one word more, Moncrieff; not one
word more. I am going to give instructions
about a room for you, so you may make an
end

And Moncrieff did make an end. Her
aunt having disappeared along a side passage,
she darted forth, and down, and through
the entrance-hall, and out.

Argyll Gardens ! ' she cried, as she threw
herself into the waiting cab.

The driver was puzzled.

4 The lady was for Eastvale, as I was told,'
said he.

But she has changed her mind,' replied
Moncrieff, becoming inventive, as usual, in
her extremity. * And the fare will be the
same.'

That was a happy thought about the fare.
Without more ado, the man mounted and
drove off ; and the Eastvale lady, the real
hirer of the cab, was left to providence.

A MIDNIGHT INTRUDER.

1 Suddenly there came a tapping,
As of seme one gently rapping,
Rapping at my chamber door.'

HEN the twelve strokes of midnight
ushered Christmas in, Christian
was comfortably settled in her
own sitting-room at Argyll Gardens, letter-reading.
The apartments she had now were
not those she had occupied before her marriage,
but those which had at that time been
Glen's ; and as they had been used by him,
so they still stood ; for Christian, liking to
have her husband's books, pictures, miscellanea,
all about her, would have nothing
changed.

Among the letters which young Mrs
Cassillis had before her was one from the
lady whom Glen had gone to befriend. Aunt
Nannie had written a good many pages, telling
what her nephew had done for her, and
expressing the regret she felt at being the
unfortunate cause of separating him from a
wife who must miss him, and whom he must
be missing so sadly ; pages which would not
be in the least interesting even to my most
long-suffering reader, but which were quite
absorbingly so to Christian.

There was also a letter from Glen himself
a notelet, rather ; for it was so severely to
the point that it might have been written on
Aunt Euphemia's favourite medium of communication,
a post-card. Circumstances unnecessary
to detail had occasioned the
postponement of departure for a week. The
new date of sailing was announced, and the
belief expressed that, even leaving then, the
writer would be home in time for the marriage
at Laighbield. That, with the usual
courtesies, was all. And as this was, so had
been Glen's correspondence throughout.

Not much for a wife to console herself with
during a husband's absence ; but Christian
could hardly grumble, seeing she knew that
she had only herself to thank. One small
token of regard accompanied the letter ;
Glen had enclosed a photograph of himself.
Christian scrutinised it earnestly and long, as
if she would read in the face all that the letter
did not say. But it was not to be done ; she
could only see that Glen looked a trifle impatient,
as if he had been submitting himself
to the photographer under protest, which
indeed was most probably the case, and that
he had adopted a new mode of wearing his
necktie.

The dark face which those blue eyes gazed
at so wistfully was not handsome ; in that
respect it could never be compared to the face
of a Donald Berwick or a Dugald Urquhart;
but beside it the most perfect type of manly
beauty in the world would have been nothing
to Christian. Merely looking at the photograph
did not satisfy her ; before she could
lay it by, she stooped over the unresponsive
bit of cardboard and pressed her lips to it,

her cheeks, the while, taking a deeper tinge.
Yet it might have been well to have made
sure of her privacy before indulging in this
secret tender idolatry, for at that moment,
and after the very, very lightest preliminary
tap, the door opened to admit a beauteous
vision in picturesque undress. To do Mon-cries
justice, she had expected the door to
be fastened within, and had but moved the
handle to attract attention. When the door
opened, however, she was not obliged to close
it on herself again ; what remained for a
person in such a case but to pass through ?
And she would no doubt have explained this,
but seeing how Christian was engaged, the
necessity for an apology escaped her, and
she exclaimed, 

Kissing a carte-de-visite ! I never did
such a thing in my life ! Who is he ? '

Only my husband,' replied Christian ; and
her tone was very much cooler than her
countenance.

Moncrieff did not ask to see the photograph,
nor yet to hear anything about her
cousin's movements. Why should she ?

At one time she had taken as much interest
in Glen as it was possible for her to take in
anybody ; but that was past now.

You are so very comfortable here,' she
said, laying herself along one of those invitations
to lounging and sloth, which always
roused Aunt Euphemia to a new protest
against the sinful luxury of the nineteenth
century. ' But Aunt Marjorie has huddled
me into a place no bigger than a household.'

1 But you weren't expected,' represented
Christian, ' and the house is full, and there
wasn't time to build an addition.'

1 I might have had better if people had
chosen.'

1 I might have taken the household and
given you this, do you mean ? But you left
me at Tower Terrace, and when I got back
they told me you were in bed, so how could I ? '

'But I wasn't in bed. I stayed up on
purpose to have a chat with you

1 About the smallness of your room ? Oh,
please, wouldn't it wait till morning?'

It was not the room, however; it
was to talk over that most cleverly-effected

escape of hers from the house of Dr Doig
Sledgehammer.

'Now, woe betide you!' said Christian,
when interrogated, * for Aunt Euphemia will
be here herself tomorrow, to tell you all
about it. I shouldn't care to be in your
place then, Moncrieff.'

Moncrieff smiled to her reflection in an
opposite mirror, as if they shared between
them, she and it, the enjoyment of some
exquisitely flavoured morsel of drollery.

1 I shall not mind  I shall not mind  I
shall not mind,' she hummed.

Christian, who had been putting away
her letters, did not sit down again ; that
would seem to acquiesce in an indefinite
extension of the interview. She remained
standing before the writing-table, looking
with a sort of provoked amusement on the
fine figure stretched at luxurious length
among the velvet cushions.

1 Why did you choose tic-douloureux to be
ill with ? ' she asked.

I did feel dolorous,' Moncrieff replied ;
and it was a very safe little bit of a fib, just

to put "tic " before it. You tell white fibs
yourself, Christina  of course, you do  and
Glen  and everybody.'

Those " safe " untruths are the very
meanest of all,' said Christian, rather warmly.
1 It's less cowardly to tell a downright falsehood,
and brave the consequences, than to
say something that we expect to have all the
advantage to us of a falsehood, without the
punishment of one.'

Well, I don't think it is very nice of you
to tell falsehoods,' said virtuous Moncrieff.

I don't say I tell falsehoods ; I only say,
that of the two, the bold ones are, to me, the
less disgraceful'

This sounded prosy to Moncrieff, who
therefore hastened to be quit of the
subject.

You are a second Aunt Euphemia,' she
remarked ; ' she is always thinking a variety
of things disgraceful : it must be something
in the air of Baronshaugh, I believe. Mary-anne
Kirkpatrick calls you " the little Puritan,"
don't you know ?  so spiteful isn't it ?
(But it's true /) And Maryanne wonders

whether Glen means ever to come home to
you again.'

You can put an end to her kind anxiety,
if you like. I expect Glen is on his way
home now.'

Is he, indeed ! One does hope he will
get across all right ; but when I hear the
wind blow high, I shall think of castaways,
and wrecks, and ships on fire. A raft would
be a most inconvenient place to die on,
wouldn't it ? I should hate for myself above
everything to lie like the dead girl that
Dugald gave a penny-reading about to the
colliers at Craigie Urquhart last week  (I
had to go to countenance it, but it was
stupid)  who floated along a stream to a
castle called Camelot.'

You didn't see any sense in the poem ?
supposed Christian.

Oh, I didn't listen ; somebody told me
after about the dead girl on the raft. Why
do people ever write poetry ? It's so dreadfully
tedious to have it read to you. Dugald
says, if one doesn't like poetry, it shows a
want of mind ; but I would rather be without

a mind, if having one would make me so
much of a fogey as Dugald is ; so  what
was it you called him once, Christina ?  so
monotonous. He was in high anger when I
told him that ; he said that though you were
so absurdly conceited, you were quite unqualified
to judge a person like him. Isn't
he nasty when he's angry, don't you think ? '

But it was not I who called him monotonous,'
corrected Christian ; ' it was yourself.'

It's all the same,' rejoined Moncrieff, ' as
if people could remember who exactly says
everything they hear ! '

As this midnight intruder went thus
skipping from one mountain peak of nonsense
to another, her notice happened to fall
on some Christmas cards which, taking time
by the forelock, had reached Christian on
Christmas Eve. They were on the writing-table,
and a slight change in the relative
positions of Christian and Moncrieff revealed
them to the latter, who for some reason or
other took the trouble of rising and crossing
the room to look at them more closely.
After having turned them carelessly over,

and related how many she herself had received
on past occasions, and from whom,
and how ravishingly beautiful they all had
been, she put her hand on a desk which lay
by, saying 

This is cousin Glen's. What does he
keep in it ? '

Nothing,' replied Christian ; ' he left it to
be used by me.'

What has he in the secret-drawer ?  for,
of course, you've looked there.'

I haven't. I didn't know there was a
secret-drawer.'

How slow of you ! Of course, there is a
secret-drawer. I opened it once long ago,
when I was staying here : there were love-letters
in it from the girl Glen was soon to
have married, if she hadn't died. That was
when / was quite a child, of course. This
is the spring. See ; you push it so.'

At the accompanying pressure of her
finger, a panel fell down, and the drawer
stood open to view.

Don't, don't ! We have no right,' interposed
Christian, as Moncrieff immediately

VOL. III. M

seized upon the only articles the recess contained
 a bunch of withered flowers and a
solitary letter.

Moncrieff paid no attention.

'Mine!' she exclaimed; 'and how very
funny to have hoarded it up here ! Glen
was always such an absurd character.'

It was something else than absurd, Glen's
wife thought, with a pang ; she did not see,
for her part, why Glen need have treasured
his cousin's love-gift so faithfully.

Heedless Moncrieff had no sooner taken
the flowers than she let them drop from her
fingers to the floor. Christian stooped topick
them up ; these and the slip of paper
which had been wrapped round their stalks,
and which Moncrieff had unrolled. There
was writing on the paper : a date and two
words. But those words made all the difference
in the world to her who read them ; for
they were the words, ' From Christian.'
The flowers were her love-sift, then ; those
which Glen had begged from her one well-remembered
happy afternoon. It was a surprise,
and her voice thrilled as she said, 

1 Those violets were never yours, Mon-cries.'


I should think not, indeed,' laughed Mon-cries
contemptuously ;  ' the musty, disagreeable
old plants. It is this letter that is mine.'

Not now. If you sent it to Glen, it is his.
Do put it back, won't you ? as I shall the
violets. We ought not to have opened the
drawer ; we haven't any right to touch Glen's
things.'

Moncrieff was no logician to prove
her own way the disputed point ; her line
was to hold staunchly by the good old serviceable
maxim, that might is right. So she
answered this appeal to her honour, by tossing
the letter into the fire. Christian sprang
forward, and, at the cost of a scorched hand,
effected the rescue.

Frustration of her purpose drew a strain of
minor music from Moncrieff.

1 What did Glen mean by keeping it ? ' she
complained. ' I wish I had never written it
at all. He might make such trouble with it,
and I daresay he will ; for he was always so
particularly disagreeable, when he fancied I

cared for any one. And it wasn't meant for
him any way. It was poor, dear cousin
Quentin's fault. He wanted to play me a
trick on the first of April. That's how it was.
I went to the post-office as soon as I found
out ; but the man there is an idiot, and I
couldn't get it returned. And though he is
dead now, I will say it was most unpleasant of
him, and most provoking. If I hadn't sentit,
you would never have been married, Christina
; he could not deny it, if you were to ask
him ; and that is why he bullied me into
swearing never to say more to you about it,
when I went to stay with you at Barons-haugh.
And I never have, you know.'

As she listened to Moncrieff's jumble of
pronouns, Christian was kneeling on the
rug, holding her burnt hand over the fire, in
order that the greater heat might draw out
the less. From the last extraordinary effort
at English she gathered that the letter she
had just snatched from destruction was that
very misdirected communication, which, according
to its writer's former showing, had
betrayed to Glen the relations in which his

cousins Quentin and Moncrieff stood to each
other ; and she wondered why her husband
had preserved it, why Moncrieff should now
be so anxious to make away with it,  and
so on, similarly. But Moncrieff was hardly
the person to whom to apply for information ;
to Moncrieff she only said suggestively, 

1 It gets very late, does it not ? Think of
the morning.'

1 What matter about lateness and the morning
? ' rejoined Moncrieff. ' I shall have
breakfast in bed.'

But I shall not,' said Christian ; ' so don't
you see, it matters a little to me.'

Moncrieff did not see anything of the
kind ; her vision was always strictly bounded
by her own personal horizon.

What are you going to do with my letter ?'
she asked.

1 To give it back to Glen ; and not to read
it until I have his leave,' said Christian.

Moncrieff came and wound her arms round
Christian's neck.

1 I'll take care of it for you,' she whispered,
beguilingly.

Believe me grateful,' was the reply ; ' but
I've a feeling that I would rather take care
of it myself.'

1 Only let me see it then, Christina. I
have forgotten half I wrote ; I have, indeed ;
and I want to see if there is anything that
Glen, if he chose to be so spiteful, could
make mischief with.'

I'll answer for Glen that he will be no
mischief-maker ; but I won't trust you with
the letter ; since your cousin prizes it so
highly, he shall have it safely back.'

Unamiable thing!' pouted Moncrieff,
withdrawing her embrace. ' So shockingly
unpleasant !  a miserable, half-burned old
letter ! '

But it isn't only the burnt letter that
makes me unamiable ; there is this burnt
hand as well ; so try to excuse me. And
believe what I say about Glen. He get any
girl into mischief! why, even if he could get
you into trouble, he would rather get into
trouble himself in order to shield you ; I am
very sure of that.'

1 Then you needn't be, for nobody can ever



be very sure of anything, except that everybody
will always be as disagreeable as they
can.'

Soon after making this doleful summary of
matters here below, Moncrieff showed symptoms
of a disposition to retire. Her going
was an affair of pauses and degrees, however ;
but, scattering parting pearls from her lips as
she went  among others the thrice-repeated
wish that the rainfall should have ceased before
the hour of service at St Timothy's 
she did at last gradually get herself away ;
and Christian was left with her own thoughts,
the bunch of withered violets, and the letter.

EXIT MISS URQUHART.

They sought her faith by bower and ha' ;
The lady was not seen ! '

!Conformably to Moncrieff s desires,
it did not rain on Christmas
Day. Instead, a greenish-yellow
fog crept over Netherlaw, wrapping it up as
if in a wet blanket, while the rich oily mud
peculiar to that flourishing town made the
public ways uninviting in the extreme to foot-passengers.
Moncrieff, for her part, had no
intention of being a foot-passenger. On
appearing in the breakfast-room, but sometime
after breakfast, she mentioned to her
aunt that she had need of the carriage ; she
was anxious to attend service at St Timothy's.

As it happened, Christian with Ulrica, who
was also a visitor, and two other girl-guests,
were just going out. The carriage, Mrs Cas-willis
explained, could not be at Moncrieff's
disposal. On hearing this, Moncrieff's countenance
so mightily fell that Christian's heart
smote her. Life was feeling pleasant to
Christian to-day ; Christian could not bear
to see any one else vexed, so she said, 

1 Religion before pleasure, mother dear.
Moncrieff wants to go to church. As for us,
we can have the carriage later in the day.'

This was all very well, but as soon as Christian
quitted the room. Aunt Marjorie said, 

You really must not accustom yourself to
expect all the world to give way to you,
Moncrieff. I happen to know that it will
suit Christian best to go out in the forenoon,
though she makes light of her convenience,
that you may follow yours. And the others,
too, would be disappointed by any alteration
of plan. If you are anxious to attend Christmas
service, we must send for a cab ; for indeed,
my dear, the carriage is out of the
question.'

1 Oh, but I do quite detest these common
street cabs,' objected Moncrieff. ' One so
hates to be driven by a shabby, red-nosed
man and a horse scarecrow. It isn't respectable.'


I daresay we shall secure something for
you not quite so dreadful as you picture,'
said her aunt, pleasantly. ' At any rate, one
has sometimes to bend to circumstances, you
know.'

But Moncrieff's theory was, that circumstances
ought always bend to her ; she accordingly
filled the time that remained before
starting in bewailing the miserable necessity
which would send her abroad  not under cover
of darkness, as last night, but beneath the wide-open
eye of day  in one of those most unpresentable
of vehicles, a Netherlaw street
cab. Nevertheless the conveyance which indue
season appeared, proved much less of an
eyesore than she could have supposed ; the
fog, too, by throwing a merciful veil over her
ignominy, would stand her in good stead.
So, considering these ameliorations in her
lot, she took heart a little, and was even able

to extend a half-forgiveness to those who had
wronged her. She allowed Christian to lend
her some furs, and graciously accepted a box of
French confections from Ulrica, to whom they
had been sent by an admirer, the rising young
advocate, Mrs Brackenburn's cousin Jack.
It was a self-denying effort on Ulrica's part
to bestow her Christmas-box upon Moncrieff.
She wanted to enjoy the sweets herself, but
she still more wanted to be generous ; and
that virtue would, she considered, be best
attained by giving away the whole of what
she had received, and by giving it to a person
who would never thank her  a person,
too, for whom she could not entertain the
very least regard.

But I call Moncrieff 's a half-forgiveness,
because, though she kindly permitted these
attentions, she retained so much of her resentment
as to reply, when asked if she
would make one of the next evening s party
for the pantomime, 

Not I, thank you. I'm not coining back.
You might wish me to go to the pantomime
in a cab.'

1 We shall have some Shetland people at
dinner to-night,' said Mrs Cassillis ; ' won't
we have you as well ? '

Oh no, thank you. I shouldn't like it at
all. Shetlanders aren't much more than half-civilised,
are they, Aunt Marjorie ? '

'As witness my daughter Christian,' responded
Aunt Marjorie, with a smile.

1 Do you think we drink from our finger-glasses,
and eat with our knives ? ' chimed in
Ulrica, drawing herself up.

1 Moncrieff is only talking nonsense, darling,'
said Mrs Cassillis, patting the child's
flushed cheek.

At the same time Christian, who was at
the window, turned round, with the warning, 

1 Fly, Moncreiff, fly ! I see Aunt Euphemia
coming out of the mist. You've not one instant
to lose.'

Moncrieff needed no second advice. With
the utmost precipitation she fled to the shelter
of the despised cab, and so a second time
made good her escape from Mrs Sledgehammer.
But those whom she left behind,
as they watched her being whirled off, did

not know that they were having their last
sight of Miss Urquhart.

Moncrieff did not drive to St Timothy's, as
it subsequently transpired, but to the fashionable
luncheon-rooms of Price & Pfatterfill.
Arrived there, she dismissed her cab, and
afterwards  yes, that was just the rub  what
did she do ? where did she go afterwards ?
These were questions which, often as they
came to be asked, there was nobody found
to settle. She did not return to Argyll
Gardens ; nor yet did she go home to Craigie
Urquhart ; neither could she be found in
Netherlaw, though by day and night they
searched high and low for her.

Dugald, who might have been supposed
to know if his sister had any motive for
disappearing from the sight of men, was in
total darkness concerning her ; she might
have had strong reasons, or might have had
none at all, for aught that he could say. His
conscience was clear ; but he laid the blame
of neglect of duty on MoncriefPs maid, on
his aunts, on his cousin's wife even. They
ought to have taken care of her  they ! For

how should he, a man, and a man with weighty
matters pressing on his mind, have constituted
himself the girl's warder ? If Moncrieff
required watching, the women should have
known it was so, and have looked to it. For
what had happened, therefore, they, and they
alone, were the parties responsible.

As may be guessed, Mrs Sledgehammer
would not lie under the imputation  no, not
for an hour ! She soon made it abundantly
clear that on her part there had been no
failure in duty towards Moncrieff. Mrs Cas-willis,
on the contrary, knowing that Dugald,
by a necessity of his nature, must in any
crisis find relief for himself through the tongue,
let him argue his loudest without contradicting
him. Unfortunately, argument did not forward
the recovery of the missing Moncrieff.
Day followed day, and why she had gone
and whence, remained a mystery. Speculations
 evil surmising  vain rumours filled
the air, till the much-harassed Dugald bitterly
complained that the honourable name of Urquhart
was become a by-word in the mouth of
every vulgar scandal-monger in the kingdom.

HYMENEAL.

1 That she should love this fellow, and refuse me ! '

HE ninth day of wonder at Mon-cries's
disappearance was the day
of Ursula's marriage ; and in spite
of Mrs Sledgehammer's disapproval of such
a dangerous innovation, the ceremony was
performed by Dr Brackenburn in Laighbield
Parish Kirk. But what can a novelist say
about a marriage that has not been said ten
thousand times before ? Be kind enough,
then, to imagine for yourself the millinery of
the party ; how the bridegroom bore himself
as he waited in front of the pulpit during the
trying moments preceding the bride's arrival ;
with what grace the white-veiled Ursula

came through the aisle ; how impressively Dr
Brackenburn performed his part ; how satisfactorily
Ulrica managed hers. Fill up and
colour to taste, and you have the church
scene. Farther than the church, however,
you cannot be left to your own guidance, else
you would go on to fancy a wedding-breakfast
party ; whereas wedding-breakfast party
there was none. The stereotyped laudatory
speeches lavished on people at marriage as
at death, were spared, and all other like
auxiliaries dispensed with ; and though
Laighbield was thrown into a tumult of interjections
at the sight of its laird's sister-in-law
being married with so much less display
than would have been thought indispensable
to the nuptials of any bonnet-knitter, nobody
was a whit the worse.

Some time after all who had been at
church had gone their several ways, Christian
proceeded to The Brae to say good-bye to the
bride. She found her sisters side by side on
the sofa in the little parlour. Salutations had
been exchanged between her and them in
church, but nothing more ; and now there

was the question which had generally been
first of late, 

Nothing yet of Moncrieff Urquhart ? '

Not an idea said Christian.

Nor of Glen ? ' asked Ulrica, as she gave
up her place to the new-comer and descended
to a Persian mat in front.

The marriage had been postponed on
account of the absent brother-in-law, and
after all he had not come.'

1 No, nor of Glen,' murmured Christian
lugubriously.

Shame on him ! ' said Ulrica in parenthesis.


My dearest child, don't be nonsensical ! '
cried Miss Elvester. ' Your husband will be
with you in the course of a day or two ; never
fear it.'

I hope so ; and I try to think that I am
nonsensical. But, Jenny, pity me ! I kept
awake all through Sunday night listening to
the gale, and I read afterwards the list of
disasters at sea ; and the steamer is already
some days overdue, so how can I but be
nervous ? '

VOL. III. N

They at once set about reassuring her.
Ursula by dwelling on the fact that no serious
accident had ever happened to any ship of
the line to which Glen's vessel belonged ;
Miss Elvester, by asking her to think how
often at certain seasons the Shetland boat
was delayed a day or two over time, and
bidding her remember how, when Mr Rich
of Brestaa went south to be married, he was
kept a prisoner on board till the wedding-day
was past, to his own much vexation,
and the no small inconvenience of the
waiting bride.

These statements must be admitted. But
yet, if Jenny or Ursula had a husband in a
delayed vessel, would not she, too, give way
to anxiety, even in the teeth of experience
and philosophy ? This, however, was digressional.
Christian had not come to speak of
her personal concerns. The object of interest
to-day was Ursula. Princess Ursula had
taken her marriage very quietly, and there
was so little of anything like excitement in
her manner, that Ulrica felt constrained to
protest.

 Never, never was there such an unemotional
creature,' said she. ' She will not
be stirred into an ardour. Why is it,
Jenny?'

A mere matter of temperament,' replied
Miss Elvester.

Was it temperament that made her write
her signature to-day, as if she were setting
me a copy ? When Christian signed her
marriage certificate her hand wavered all up
and down the paper.'

Only temperament. I haven't a doubt
that the one felt as much as the other, all the
while.'

Wise little child,' said Christian, stroking
Ulrica's hair ; ' you will be sure to hit the
happy medium when your turn comes.'

I will never marry,' rejoined Ulrica.

6 Would it interfere too much with the
interests of art ? '

1 You need not quiz me, Christian. But
I shall tell you why : it would not suit my
character. I couldn't bear that any man
should have a right to say " You must," or
You must not," to me. When I have

grown out of Jenny's authority I will endure
no other.'

But it isn't so bad as you might imagine,'
said Christian. ' Ursula will tell you that
the dread of it has not made her at all
unhappy.'

And you have only to look at Christian
to see that the sooner the man who has a
right to say " You must," or " You must not,"
to her is back to say it, the better pleased she
will be,' observed Miss Elvester. ' Time is
up, I see,' she added, glancing at her watch ;
and may I without offence whisper in her
brideship's ear, that it would be advisable not
to inaugurate her new career by trying a
husband's patience too far ? '

So reminded, Ursula made herself ready
for the road, while Ulrica went to tell Mr
Berwick that he was free to take his wife and
begone.

1 I am grieved to leave you, Jenny,' said
Ursula, as she stood prepared ; ' I know I
shall never find a better home.'

1 Never a better home than a hut in an
odious country town!' ejaculated Miss

Elvester, with uplifted eyebrows. ' You are
talking at random, surely.'

Dear Jenny, forgive me ! I was bitter and
shamefully selfish when I said that;* and I
hated the lessons which I so much needed to
learn. You told me I should one day beg
your pardon, and I do.'

Of course the apology was accepted. Immediately
thereafter the bridegroom appeared,
with Ulrica on his arm, and there was a
general movement to the door. Ulrica
remained a moment behind the others, to
place Slyboots where he might conveniently
witness the departure. He was decorated
with a wedding-favour, he had eaten a piece
of bride cake with great satisfaction, and it
was only right that, to finish up, he should
have a proper vantage-ground from which to
wave his adieux. So his mistress laid a
cushion for him among the myrtles and
geraniums at the window, and recommended
him to ' keep his weather eye
open.' But, looking back soon afterwards,
Ulrica perceived that, regardless of his
high privileges, Slyboots had made a comfortable

coil of himself and gone to sleep. He
had no sentiment in him, the soft, furry ball!

Everything has come right now,' said
Ulrica musingly, when the carriage containing
the bride and bridegroom was lost to
sight ; ' everything but one. To make our
fortunes complete, to give a good ending to
them, we ought to get back our darling
Eastravoe.'

Ah, but how ? ' said Christian, sighing ;
'such endings are only for the story books,
dear. Did you know, Jenny, that Eastravoe
has been sold at last, furniture and all, just
as it stands ? Who can have bought it, I
wonder ? '

1 1 heard of the sale, but not the name of
the buyer said Miss Elvester. ' It must be
some speculator, I imagine, who hopes tolet
it furnished for the summer months.'

Tears were in Christian's eyes.

It makes our loss seem quite fresh,' she
said ;  I can't bear to think of  '

Excuse me,' interrupted Miss Elvester,
but you only want an excuse for crying, and
I am not going to encourage it ; and you

must not think me hard-hearted if I say that
the loss of Eastravoe was the best tiling that
could have happened to us. It has taught
us what we might not otherwise have learnt
something of our own proper relation to the
universe ; so, my foolish Christian, content
you. And you, my dear Ulrica, must makeup
your mind that Eastravoe is of the past ;
that for you and me Laighbield and The Brae
must serve.'

I daresay we shall be very happy, we
two said Ulrica. ' I shall miss Ursula, but
she will miss me more  much more. Very
likely she is just now asking Mr Berwick if
he remembers who Gildas was, and the names
of all the Bretwaldas of the Saxon Heptarchy

He has but to say " You must not,"
to her suggested Christian, making an
effort to laugh, though as her sister had said,
she only wanted an excuse to cry.

1 The probability is said Miss Elvester,
1 that Donald and Ursula Berwick will content
themselves to-day with matters less
remote than Gildas and the Heptarchy.'

And probably they would.

But whether Ursula had been talking
about Gildas and the Heptarchy or not, all
traces of the tears with which the parting
from her sisters had bedewed her lashes, were
gone by the time she reached Braidmoss.
A good many eyes were turned upon her,
as the change from carriage to train was
being - made. And among these were the

o o

pair belonging to Dugald Urquhart, for
Dugald happened to be pacing the platform
when the bride and bridegroom came along.
This gentleman had not seen Ursula since
their short correspondence in the autumn,
and it is not to be supposed that his gentler
feelings would be brought into play by now
beholding her being borne off by his successful
rival. What malicious fate had
brought him at such a moment to face the
woman who had rejected him, and given her
hand to one who, though he had mounted
the pulpit, should never have left the plough ?
It was a moment to be remembered. Dirks
and the like gear having gone out of vogue,
how ought an individual so circumstanced to
act ? Would he treat the lady as any other

lady of his acquaintance, and be frigidly civil
to the man ? Well, the commonplace weaklings
who crowd the world might do that,
but Mr Urquhart was of a different order.
He dealt the offensive couple one sweeping
glance, then fixed his disgusted gaze on the
clock over the entrance, and passed slowly 
slowly  on, with his chin on high, and heels
that spurned the pavement.

The cut direct ! ' said the bridegroom to
the bride, when they had got themselves comfortably
settled. ' My poor Ursula ! '

1 You laugh,  I thought you would be
angry,' remarked Ursula.

Angry to-day ! And may not I laugh,
who have won ? Little enough like laughter
I used to feel, when I had to stand looking
at you from afar, while you were being engrossed
by  '

Don't, don't speak of it ! ' she said. ' But
I never guessed you were watching me ;
and oh, it is true, Donald !  I was as little
inclined to laughter as you could be.'

It was clever Mrs Brackenburn who must
have done the laughing for all,' he replied ;

she guessed, if you did not ; and  what !
blushing about it, my  ' the pet-name was
lost in a steam-whistle, excruciating and prolonged,
which made Ursula press her hands
tightly over her ears.

Moral : never make love in a railway-station,'
said the bridegroom, as the train
started.

IN MOST GRACIOUS FOOLING.

" The time has come," the Walrus said,
To speak of many things :
Of shoes  and ships  and sealing-wax ;
Of cabbages  and kings 
And why the sea is boiling hot 
And whether pigs have wings." '

F Miss Elvester gave no wedding-breakfast
to her friends, she gave
a wedding-supper to a number of
poor children, in whose moral and social
well-being she had been taking a practical
interest for some time past. The gathering
was convoked in the well-sized, ground-floor
apartment in the Wynd, rented by Mrs Brandenburg
for educational purposes ; and it was
presided over by a gentleman greatly in
favour of the advance of learning, and one

who, like Magister Erasmus Holiday of respected
memory, had a happy knack for
conducting a certain species of social entertainments
to what he himself described asa
most satisfactory issue.'

Having heard of this faculty, Miss Elvester
put matters into the hands of Mr Mungo
Mauchline ; and he, well-pleased, did his very
best to justify her trust. He garlanded the
bare white walls with a judicious mixture of
evergreens and paper-roses ; he collected a
small army of naphtha-lamps from obliging
housewives, and hung them round ; he
borrowed a magic-lantern from a Netherlaw
friend; and lest amidst so many enchantments
time might fleet too carelessly, he brought a
painted china-clock from his own parlour
mantel-piece, and placed it upon a pedestal
where it would not fail to be seen by every
eye.

Ursula's bonnet-knitters came tricked out
in their Sunday bravery, so losing in picturesqueness
more than they gained in style.
The children, on the other hand, having no
choice of toilet, appeared in out-at-elbow suits,

which had descended from sire to son, or
frocks, the original patterns and colours of
which was a riddle to be guessed at, but never
solved. Hands and faces were tolerably-clean,
and hair had in most instances received
at least an effort at attention. But came they
in finery, or came they in tatters ; with well-oiled
hair, or tangled elf-locks, they were received
with equal cordiality by Mr Mungo
Mauchline, and planted round ' this free and
joyful bord ; ' where, as the Cornrigshire
Chronicler afterwards informed its public,
All did ample justice to the good cheer
generously provided by the open-handed lady
of The Brae, and purveyed by Mr Adam
Grubb, baker, Owned.'

This ample justice having been done, Mr
Mungo Mauchline arose and said, 

It is now my highest privilege, as it is my
bounden duty, to intimate that though our
worthy and revered divine, Dr Brackenburn,
has left Laighbield this afternoon, to deliver
a literary lecture in Netherlaw, and will be
debilitated from jy mn g us on this occasion,
his honoured lady and the lady of our respected

laird have promised to do himself
the pleasure of looking in on this assembly in
the corse of the evening. And when thir
amiable ladies arrive, let every one present
remain in your respectable places, and show
your good manners by rising to your feet suddenly,
and greeting them with three sincere
rounds of applause. In the meantime I and
my kind assistant shall exhibit before you
a most superior magic-lantern, with nanny
chace views, and wheel I will also illustrate
with a serious of humoursome stories.'

Magic-lantern and illustrations were followed
by a service of fruit, during which the
expected ladies arrived, and were marshalled
in grand form by the master of ceremonies to
the two chairs of state at the head of the
room. Mr Mungo Mauchline had reserved
the feature of the evening until now, and, the
pre-arranged applause having ceased, he took
his place, with an air, behind a table which
stood under the china clock. It was a kitchen
table, but people were not supposed to know
that ; it was covered with a crimson cloth,
and held a carafe and tumbler. And here

Mr Mungo Mauchline was about to exercise
the gift of oratory that was in him.

He drew himself up, slowly raised his arms
and folded them on his breast, after the most
approved method of amateur actors, whose
part is the discussion of some conspiracy,
such as the assassination of a tyrant or the
concoction of a revolt. The address been
with a string of high-flown encomiums on ' the
fair and beauteous bride of Baronshaugh,' and
Christian heard herself successively likened to
a bird, ' an opening gowan wet with dew,' and
a young angel. Mrs Cassillis, juvenile (junior,
he meant), was never so happy, Mr Mungo
Mauchline said, as when she was ' surrounded
by the poor, the sick, the afflicted, the destitute,
and the dying ; ' and it was her ' daily
toil to make the weeping orphans' hearts to
shout aloud for joy.' It was no small relief
to Christian when the panegyrist passed from
her to expatiate on the transcendent merits of
the highly energetic lady of the illustrious
minister of this most favoured parish.' Mrs
Brackenburn bore her share with consummate
composure. She would not smile, come what

might  not if Nestor should swear the jest
was laughable. A rain of compliments next
fell on the name of Ursula, who, it seemed,
had been ' limbs to the halt and maimed, and
eyes to the blind.'

But you all know,' said Mr Mungo Machine,
clasping his hands in an ecstasy of admiration,
' the superb young lady to wheel
I am now referring, has been wedded to-day,
and is no more fit to appear amongst us ;
wheel, though it is a sore grief to us all,
shall be partly recompensed by the habitual
presence of the good lady who has set those
most delicious bounties before you and me
on this occasion. Miss Elvester of The Brae,
her own self, has been induced in future to
superintend your studies and supervene
your seams.' (Here Mr Mungo Mauchline
paused, to give an opportunity for cheering,
but his audience being slow to take the hint,
he finally led off the applause himself.) ' Now,
boys and girls,' he resumed, ' there is a good
few things I could advise you this evening ;
but I can only strike upon two or three of
the most special scores. One leading pint

is : Smocking. James the Six used to utter
the remark that he had no conceit of socks
wheel makes a chimney of their mouths. It
was a king said that, mind  a real, 'born,
crowned king of Scotland, wheel also won
possession of the English throne. But I myself
once knew a well-doing young lad, though
addicted to the pipe, and he had the notion
of an uncommon fine lass of the name of
Mery. He was backward, and that blate he
did not exactly know how to declare himself, till
one night he roost sat down by the ingle side,
and up he started with that most lively little
ballad, " Tell me, Mery, how to woo thee!"
Well, she took him at his word, and says she,
I minna hare a smoker, Fully lad ; but
break the pipe an' we'll agree." So he brock
the pipe, and Mery helped him, and they were
jyned in marriage within the year ; and the
last I heard of both the two of them was, that
they had migrated to the Antipodes. There
is another most important subject' wheel I
have to brin before your notice on this
occasion, and that is : the Demon Drink. In
leeches literature you will read such-like
vol. in. o

temptations as, " Fill, fill the flowing soul,
until it does run over ; " but my advice unto
every boy and girl of you is, never rest the
shadow of an eyelash on the intoxicating cup.
There was once a woman in London wheel
was a Jewess, and she owned a pote. She
gave the use-and-wont of this three-legged
cooking apparatus to a neighbour; and when it
was returned, there was a hole into the pote.
The case went before a joodge and jury, and
the woman that did nut belong to the pote
took her sacred affidavit (wheel means  oh,
well, whenever any of you needs to take an
affidavit, you shall know soon enough what it
means)  took her sacred affidavit, I say, first,
that she never gone the pote ; second, that
there was a hole into it when she note the
the pote ; third, that there was no hole into
it when she gave back the pote. I do not
know what the court said about it ; but the
pint of the story is, that if that female had
never filled the flowing soul, she would nut
likely have brocken a hole into no neighbour's
pote. I, even I myself, boys and girls ' (taking
off a glass of water at a draught) ' have

gone on the total-abstinence principles for
this nanny years. And if ill companions
should ever temp' you to approach the flowing
soul, roost have your answer ready,  "' Mr
Mungo Mauchline was a total abstainer before
/ was born." '

1 Oh, carry me out ! ' came a voice from
among the bonnet-knitters. Mrs Bracken-burn
rose and cast her eyes about among
the forms, and her glance was stern and high,
so that the laughter which had threatened to
follow the impertinent sally was stifled.

Cultivate higher diversions than these,
Mr Mungo Mauchline continued. ' Poetry
shall be above you, I suspect' ; but cultivate
music, boys and girls ; cultivate music.
Nut rascal music-hall Govannies or Letro-
vapors  these is not true music. But the
harmonies which these competent ladies
which have graced us by their presence
on this glad occasion, discourse upon the
piano at their own homes ; these, I think,
is music; yes, yes, yes!  yes, yes! But
there is nanny kinds of musical instruments,
from the organ even to the cornucopia

; and there is also the human vice.
The milkmaid goes singing, as she fills her
pails ; the sailors sing as they heave their
anchor from the raging deep ; and though I
have never heard it myself, I noun, there is
the music of the sphere. None of you ever
heard tell of such-an-a-creature ; but you are
always learning, boys and girls, always learning.
The sphere is a famous object' nigh
the great river Nile, and  '

Matilda, it is too much,' whispered Christian
; ' Jenny certainly never meant this.'

1 Never mind,' rejoined Mrs Brackenburn
equably ; ' sphere or sphinx, it is quite the
same to these. As for the " total abstinence"
part, I liked it very much myself.'

Of course we want the drinking habits
of our people reformed ; but how such a
parody will do anything towards it, I
can't see. It seems a shame to let him goon.
Will you not find some excuse for
stopping him now ? '

1 Am I a dog, Christian, that I should do
this thing ? How can I, with or without an
excuse, stop him?  I, who have had so

many sugar plums showered on me, and
who am so little used to sugar plums ? But
listen, listen ! '

I doubt nut one of you could mention tome
what the great river Nile is celebrated
for ? ' Mr Mungo Mauchline, was saying.
Not one could.

For his sources cried the orator, emphatically.
' Ay, but that is a subject' wheel
has not been unravelled yet, for all so nanny
has been working at it. The fac' is, one
says this and one says that, very like the
two gentlemen which met in the mediaeval
ages, and came to bad words about a shield
on a country road. Now, here's a chance
for you ! If any of you can express to me
what a shield is for, I will relate the spirit
story I have mentioned. I clean forgot it
among the serious of humoursome little
sketches with which I illustrated the magic-lantern.'


A moment's blank silence.

1 Speak up ! ' urged Mr Mungo Mauchline,
in tones of bland encouragement.

Then a voice, which Mrs Brackenburn

recognised as that of her disciple, Tommy
Gillespie, spoke up, 

For to kep the licks,' it said, confidently.

Well, my little man, you are not so far
from it either,' granted Mr Mungo Machine,
with a patronising nod. ' A shield is
to stave off the blows, as you say ; or, in
more suitable phrases, to protect' the warrior
from the attack of the enemy.'

And then, according to promise, he related
the story of the knights' combat ; which,
having finished, 

Finally and in one word,' said he, ' you
none of you know what will become of you ;
some may circumnavigate the briny ocean,
some may climb the North Pool, some may
discover inventions, like Gallic wheel introduced
spectacles, or Hercules the astrologer,
wheel first used microscopes, and some may
follow most strange corses; but I truly joodge
that nut one of you all shall forget this joyous
and cheering occasion for ever and ever. I
could tell a heap more stories, but the knock '
(pointing to the china timepiece) ' warns me
to stope ; so, before we sail, I would only

in conclusion bid you wish health and wealth
to the newly-married Mr and Mrs Berwick,
and to couple it with a vot of grateful thanks
to the kind, benevolent lady wheel has fed
you at this groaning bord, and to these other
admired ladies that honour you by their esteemed
presence on this remarkable occasion
a vot of thanks, boys and girls  loud,
proud, and long ! '

Whether the burst of acclamation which
followed was proud or not, perhaps only Mr
Mungo Mauchline was competent to determine
; but assuredly it was loud enough ;
and for length, it continued some time after
the * admired ladies ' were well out of hearing.
The master of ceremonies thereafter saw the
company disperse ; but in such a state of
mental elevation was he, that he failed to
observe how, the room being empty, two
waifs, cream of Laighbield juvenile riff-raff,
crept quietly in and secreted themselves in the
bottom of a large portable wooden press, in
which books, copies, and other educational
appliances were stored.

The lamps were put out, the door was

locked, silence reigned. Then the marauders
came forth from their lair, and having
lighted a candle, straight proceeded to make
merry, dancing round and round ' the joyful
bord,' and greedily devouring the fragments
of the feast. They were in the midst of
proving how pleasant a thing bread eaten
in secret is, when (such contingencies are so
apt to attend stolen delights !) their enjoyment
was suddenly interrupted from without.
Mr Mungo Mauchline having in his loftiness
of mind forgotten to carry away his china
timepiece, was now returned, and he stood
fumbling at the lock. To avoid shame, or
worse than shame, punishment, the scapegraces
blew out the candle and flung it,
smoking as it was, into the open press ; then,
while Mr Mungo Mauchline, suspecting
nothing, groped his cautious way forward,
these sons of darkness escaped through the
window, and were lost in the night.

Lichfield ILLUMINATED.

1 At first a glowing red enwraps the skies,
And borne by winds the scattering sparks arise ;
From beam to beam the fierce contagion spreads,
The spiry flames now lift aloft their heads,
Through the burst sash a blazing deluge pours,
And splitting tiles descend in rattling showers.'

getting home from the feast of
unreason in the Wynd, Mrs
Brackenburn turned her attention,
not to any good works, nor even good words,
but to a highly-spiced novel of the period.
It was exciting, and it caught her interest,
so that having once begun, she sat still till
she had made a full end ; and the hall clock
struck two when the minister's wife rose from
her dressing-room fire, stretched herself, and
dropped back into real life. Then repentance

came, and the self-dissatisfaction which usually
follows vigils of such a sort.

This is charming,' she reflected. ' And a
nice person I am altogether, am I not ? Why
cannot I take things in moderation, as a right-minded
human being should ? '

She was quite disposed to look at her conduct
in the severest light, and it is impossible
to say to what length her self-reproach might
have carried her, had its course not been interrupted
by some unusual commotion outside.
At first she fancied that the sound
must proceed from a band of villagers
returning from an evangelistic service at
Braidmoss ; for the Laighbield girls and
their sweethearts thought nothing of walking
many a mile o' nights if any popular
lay-preacher, such as Bounding Bill, were to
address an assembly. But it soon became
clear that the noise was not of a kind to be
raised by people returning from a revival
meeting. Hoarse shouts of men were heard,
and women's distressful cries, and there was
an ever-increasing hubbub. Mrs Bracken-burn
opened her window-shutters and looked

out. That instant the matter was made plain.
Beyond the high walls of the garden, in the
direction of the village, floated a great palpitating
crimson cloud, and a shower of golden
sparks danced through the rising smoke.
Forgetting that she was in her dressing-gown
 forgetting everything  Mrs Bracken-burn
flew downstairs, unlocked the hall-door,
and ran out.

Where ? ' she inquired of a woman whom
she met in the shrubbery.

A' the Wynd's in ae lowe,' replied Mrs
Gillespie  for it was she. ' Folk's ettlin' to
save the work, an' we lippen on your lassies
to oqe's t h e ] en > ' a w been watering-cans.'

Surely,' said Mrs Brackenburn. ' Call
the servants up to help you, and take whatever
in the way of pitchers you can find.'

Then, just as she was, with slippers,
dressing-gown, and unbound hair, she passed
through the gate, crossed the road, and went
on to a point from which she could look
directly down on the scene of destruction.

That candle among the copy-books had
kindled a grand illumination for Laighbield.

All one side of the Wynd, with the exception
of a single house at the further end of the
tenement, was in a blaze, and that, too, would
soon be as the rest ; man need not think to
save it, every effort must be concentrated on
Langbiggin's factory.

There was no fire-brigade, but in lieu of
that, Laighbield had started from slumber
and come to cast water on the flames. Two
lines had been formed from the factory to
the river ; water-vessels passed from hand to
hand down one side to be filled, then up the
other to be emptied. Yet, in spite of mutual
and continued endeavour, the factory caught
fire, and soon went blazing up with the merriest
crackle of defiance, while owner, foreman,
and work-people wasted their strength
in vain. The tenants of the Wynd were
supposed all to have turned out, both from
the side which was on fire and the side which
was only in danger; but as Mrs Bracken-burn
looked, a woman appeared at a second-storey
window of the last house in the burning
row, and that woman was Mrs Choppin.

Now, Mrs Choppin was in the very essence

of her a stupid person  a person whose ideas
were rudimentary and few. One of these
ideas was, the necessity to a housewife's respectability
of a show tea-service of china.
So she had stayed behind her neighbours,
that she might gather her ' tea-set ' into her
apron, and here she had it now, safe and
sound. But, pitiful to tell, such was the
confusion of her dull brain that, to save the
precious cups and saucers from the flames,
she came and dropped the entire lapful over
the window. For a moment afterwards she
stood still, staring blankly down, then she
flung her apron over her head, and lifted the
lament, 

Wae's me, wae's me, for my deny cheery
cups and fleets ! '

The crash had attracted attention below.

1 Save us a' ! ' ' The wife's in a creel ! '
1 Haste ye, Betty, woman ; come wa' down ! '
cried one and another in the crowd.

Betty wants but an ace o' being a wanderer
at best, but she maun hare parted wi'
ony wee wut she ever had,' came from Mrs
Gillespie.

1 She will throw over her babies next, if
nobody prevent,' cried Mrs Brackenburn.
And nobody else apparently being at leisure
to prevent, she herself took it upon her to
see that the china was not followed by the
babies.

Presently, being called by name, Mrs
Choppin unveiled herself, and thereupon
beholding a lady in the doorway, she ejaculated,


Murnfu ! '

1 Where are your children ? ' demanded
Mrs Brackenburn.

1 At their granny's,' was the reply. ' Heh,
sirs ! for my cheery cups and fleets, and my
bonnie saucy punch-soul, and conceit crystal
pourra.'

It's not your china and your cream-pot
that you've got to think of now,' said Mrs
Brackenburn, ' it's your precious life. Come '
(laying a small firm hand upon the woman's
wrist), ' no good is to be done by staying here
any longer.'

Mrs Choppin blindly permitted herself to
be led forth. But when they were on the

landing, a thought struck Mrs Brackenburn.
What of Christina Kerr, who lived in the
attic above ? Mrs Choppin, interrogated,
deponed,  . -

I ken nocht o' her. Na ; she ne'er gazed
down the stairs name. She may be lying' inane
o' her fainting' fits, for audit I ken.'

We must see about it,' said Mrs Bracken-burn.
And she turned at once, and climbed
the narrow wooden stair.

Christina Kerr's door was fast. No answer
was given to either words or knocks. Knowing
the nature and frequency of Christina's
illnesses, Mrs Brackenburn called upon Mrs
Choppin to come up immediately : they must
push open the door. Mrs Choppin came up.
But how could the door be forced ? Not with
unaided hands, most certainly. Was there
a hatchet anywhere ?  an axe ?  a hammer
? Mrs Choppin supposed so, but, hopelessly
dense woman that she was, could not
remember where. Search had therefore
to be made, and longer time than the
searchers were aware of passed before they
got what they wanted ; and again a while

slipped by before the door yielded to their
attack. They had better have gone and besought
help outside ; but it seemed to Mrs
Brackenburn that much more time would be
lost in that way than in this, and every
moment was precious now.

When the panels gave way, and the besiegers
could see into the beautifully-kept
little room, it was but to find the garret
tenantless. Any inmate of the Wynd except
Mrs Choppin could have told that Christina
Kerr had left Laighbield the evening before,
to assist in making the ' brass ' of some farmhouse
bride in a neighbouring parish. But it
was a pity that Mrs Choppin should on the
present occasion have been behind the rest
in knowledge of a neighbour's movements ;
for while she and her companion had been
engaged about their bootless undertaking,
retreat had been cut off from below. The
garret stair was wrapt in flames.

Those who had witnessed the catastrophe
of the china and what followed, naturally
enough assumed that Mrs Brackenburn and
Mrs Choppin must have quitted the house

by way of the garden. So an immense sensation
was created when cries for aid were
heard, and through smoke, fire, and soot-flakes
the minister's wife was seen at an'open
garret window. The manse servants shrieked
in chorus. There was a general confused
rush. Ejaculations,  questions,  suggestions.
Vain any attempt to get through the
entrance. If the house were to be left at all,
it must be left by the window. But there
was no fire-escape in Laighbield, any more
than a fire-brigade ; nor was there even a
ladder at hand long enough to reach so high.
Plainly, the best that could be done was to
stretch a plank across from the opposite roof.
A plank was accordingly brought from a
neighbouring wood-yard, and placed from
window to window. It looked but a perilous
path to safety  so narrow, and so sure to
swing up and down with every slightest
motion. Still, Mrs Brackenburn would
have taken it, could she have persuaded
her companion also to make the attempt.
But Mrs Choppin was completely unnerved.


vol. in. p

I could ne'er hare tried the like o't a' my
days,' she said, ' an' I daurna', 'deed I
daurna', noo.'

Must we then both be lost?' asked Mrs
Brackenburn.

1 Diana' leave me my lane !  cinna' leave
me my lane ! ' she ejaculated.

-'I will not,' said Mrs Brackenburn. 'It
was I who brought you into this position ; I
may not leave you in it.'

Still she continued to urge the practicability
of at least making an effort for life.
But the woman beside her was in a delirium
of terror, and incapable of reasoning. One
might as well try to persuade the fire itself
as Mrs Choppin.

Meantime a mason had volunteered to
cross the plank, and he emerged from the
opposite window just as Mrs Brackenburn
had fallen into a despairing silence. She
saw him come out and commence his Blond
walk. She knew that in all probability
only one could now be rescued ; and
life was sweet to her, and the instinct of self-preservation
strong. But even so, she could

not, would not, look to herself and leave
another woman to perish.

1 Try to listen to me,' she said. ' You
want to be saved, don't you ? Well, yonder
comes Andrew Hairshaw. He will take you
across. Only, you must keep quite still ;
shut your eyes when he lifts you, and leave
everything to him

'But it is you he's for, nae fear ; ' wailed
Mrs Choppin. ' No are hast will he heed
for the likes o' me

Yes, but he will, if you do as I tell you.
See ; I am taking off my dressing-gown.
You must put it over you. Now, let down
your hair, and conceal your face with it. I
don't think you have been observed by anybody
below. You are not very much taller
than I am, and unless you speak, Andrew
will be too hurried to know the difference.
I am going out of sight. You stand just
here.'

4 But oh, mem, what's to come o' yourself',
gin I gang?' said Mrs Choppin, forced
for one instant to look beyond her own salvation.


I may still have time to cross after
you,' was the reply. ' But anyhow you must
go first' (there was a grand look in Mrs
Brackenburn's eyes as she said this) : ' you
have children ; I have none.'

The factory had been now abandoned.
And Laigbbield held breath and stood with
straining eyes, to see what was going to
happen here. The mason reached the burning
house in safety  he was used to walking
on high, and to precarious footholds  the
real danger would be in coming back.
There was a profound silence while the man
was lost to sight for half a minute, and the
most painful suspense as he re-appeared with
his burden, and addressed himself to the
return. The plank swayed at every step.
He traversed it cautiously as a cat, but far
less securely. About half-way, either owing
to some motion on the part of her he carried,
or some slip of his own, he nearly missed his
footing, and all but over-balanced. What
an intense thrill there was then ! Nothing
nearly so exciting had been seen in Lichfield
for many and many a day.

Looking steadily before him, he, having
recovered himself, pursued his way through
the air. It was but a short distance altogether
; yet to him it appeared most marvellously
long. Indeed, he could nearly have
sworn that it had an elastic property of
stretching itself out and out, as fast as he
went on. But ultimately the goal was
reached, and as he delivered his fainting
charge into the eager outstretched arms that
awaited her, the people below raised a ringing
shout ; a shout, however, which changed
to a groan on its being discovered that it was
not the minister's wife whom they had there,
but only Betty Choppin. Mrs Choppin's life
was as precious, maybe, if you came to
reason about the matter, as that of Mrs
Brackenburn ; but still 

How happened Betty to be disguised as
Mrs Brackenburn ? and what had kept her
and Mrs Brackenburn so long amid the
burning ? and where was Mrs Brackenburn
now ? But Mrs Choppin, lying in a swoon
there, could by no means answer these or
any other questions, and Andrew Hairshaw,

speaking according to his conviction, affirmed
that wherever Mrs Brackenburn might be,
she was not in the garret. She must have
made the impossible attempt to escape by
the staircase. No sane man, therefore, could
believe that there was the slenderest hope of
saving her now.

While the crowd, horror-filled, concluded
that her doom was already sealed, Matilda
Brackenburn came groping her way back to
the window. She had by this time grown
faint and giddy, so that it would be out of
the question for her to steady herself on it,
even should she succeed in reaching the
plank. Nothing for her now, it seemed, but
submission to her fate. And it was such a
dreadful fate; and she who must face it was
one on whom the winds had never been
suffered to blow too roughly. She had been
praying earnestly  for deliverance, if it
might be ; if not, for strength and resignation.
And now, with her powerlessness to
save herself, a numbing indifference crept
over her senses ; the crash of falling rafters
and roar of devouring fire lost their terror ;

the long blue tongues of flame which had
begun to dart back and forward where the
walls and flooring joined, did not concern
her ; and the horrible curling smoke which
gushed through every crack and crevice, just
because it was robbing her of consciousness,
ceased to oppress her.

Alan will miss me,' she murmured,
dreamily ; ' poor Alan will miss me.'

Then she sank down before the window,
and knew no more.

Kara

CONFESSION.

1 1 am not merry, but I do beguile
The thing I am by seeming otherwise.'

HILE Christian was so uneasily
listening to Mr Mungo Machine's
height of nonsense, Dugald
Urquhart called at Baronshaugh ; but, being
told that the laird was not yet home, he went
on to Dreichwinnock, leaving the message
that he might be expected back sometime
on the morrow. Dugald's instant departure
on learning that his cousin had not returned,
might be rather unflattering to his cousin's
wife. That, however, the lady could forgive
; in fact, relief rather than resentment
was her feeling about the slight ;  such a

OJ

wealth of prosiness as Mr Urquhart was
master of, would in present circumstances
be even less of a jest than the crack-brained
eloquence of Mr Mungo Mauchline.

While Christian was not one of those
gifted beings who can proudly sing, ' My
mind to me a kingdom is she did like to be
left to herself on occasion  and particularly
so to-night. That her reflections were not
of a cheerful description, must have been
gathered from her tone at The Brae. Very
far from cheerful they were, indeed. Her
imagination was much too lively, and it was
making her miserable.

Since she had begun to harbour misgivings
about the overdue vessel, every successive
hour added new intensity to the passion
of her lonmn for Glen's return, till now she
had reached the pass at which she could
neither eat nor sleep. She, too, sat long
over her dressing-room fire that night ; but
there was no novel-reading for her. The
awful dread that the delayed ship might
never come to land, that she might never
see her husband's face again, possessed her ;

so there she sat, as she had sat for the two
nights previous, nursing her fears.

Not an echo of the commotion which broke
the slumbers of Laighbield reached Barons-haugh
; and as Christian did not even approach
her window when at last she crept wearily to
bed, she missed seeing on the sky the reflection
of what was going on in the Wynd. Her
down-lying could not well be described as a
retiring to rest ; for, though she had a few
snatches of sleep, they were worse than wakefulness
 she always opened her eyes with a
start, and in great trouble  and she rose in
the morning unrefreshed.

She would not have a curious maid about
her, so waited on herself, and thus missed
hearing of something that had happened since
last night.

It wanted an hour of breakfast-time when
she descended ; and she went into the library,
thinking to find vent for her distress in writing
about it to her mother-in-law. But she
had not got herself seated, when the sound
she wanted most in the world to hear, her
husband's voice, caused her heart to stand

JO

still. Within the high arms of an old-fashioned
black oak chair yonder in the shadow of the
curtains, Glen had been watching her since
she appeared. The heavy eyes and ' the
languor, signs that his pretty Mower was
drooping somewhat (for want of tending,
perhaps), were not lost upon him ; but however
much solicitude he might feel, he did
not betray it yet. His tone was quite as
cool as his words, when he rose and took his
wife's breath away by inquiring, 

Well, Christian, how are you ? '

With a start, she turned about, and a flash
of light passed across her face as she saw
Glen standing in bodily presence so near her.
She took a quick, impulsive step towards
him, but suddenly recollecting that it was
not for her to greet her husband as another
wife might, she checked herself. He must
take the initiative. And seeing what was
expected of him, Glen came to her at once.

Have I surprised you past speech?' he
said, taking her by the hand.

They trembled pitifully, those slight
fingers ; and he could not help noticing how

much thinner they were than when they had
last lain in his.

She was glad to see him  if he only knew
how glad ! Yet his manner somehow prevented
her from telling him so ; he did not
look, she thought, as if he would care to hear.

We've had a rough, long passage,' he
told her. ' But I have travelled day and
night since landing ; and got home just after
the servants had begun to be about, so had
not to storm the entrance.'

Why was I not told ? ' she said. ' I should
have liked to meet you.'

Thanks ; that would have been too kind.
I would not on any account have had you
disturbed.'

Then he set a chair for her, and took one
himself at a decorous distance, and was ready
to give information, or to receive it, as required.

Half-an-hour since, Christian had been
praying for her husband's return. Yet,
there he was, safe and well ; and here was
she, bitterly disappointed. During his absence
from her she had persuaded herself,
that from his manner at their re-union she

should be able to decide whether or not he had
begun to feel towards her as a husband ought,
and that if he did not then, he would never.
Judging thus, it appeared that Glen had come
back more indifferent than he went away.
Formerly he used to be vexed and angry
because his wife would have no meaningless
love-making ; now, instead of vexation
and anger, there was the most equable acceptance
of the situation, as if no other
situation were either looked for or desired.
From time to time before his departure, there
had been signs which had seemed to point
to hope ; during the past solitary months
hope had almost passed into belief;  and
this was the end !

It was very hard on Christian, for she
loved him  she loved him so. Yet hard as
it might be, she was as much as ever resolved
that she would put a brave face on the misery ;
if she could have no more from her husband,
she would at least command his respect. So,
pride helping her, she played with the breakfast
which she could not eat, and resumed the
friendly tone which she was so well practised

in, and which, truth to say, she was so unspeakably
weary of, and fairly outdid her
husband in cool, easy affability,  but with
what an effort no one but herself would ever
know.

In talking of things in general, of course
they talked of Moncrieff, and in that connection
the episode of the secret-drawer transpired.
Glen remembered nothing about the
letter ; not he (nothing about the violets
either, Christian supposed) ; but there had
been a hundred thousand matters to think of
at the time, and naturally an incident here
and there would be forgotten. To refresh
his memory the letter was produced. Yes ;
it did recur to mind now ; but why he should
have cared to preserve such a memento, he
could not tell ;  only because of the transcendent
folly of it, he imagined.

You can recall the circumstances connected
with this letter, no doubt ? ' he said,
not looking at Christian as he spoke, but at
the superscription on the charred envelope
Moncrieff, though more unstable than
water, wrote a boldly effective hand.

A Confession. 239

1 I can, but indeed there is nothing I would
not rather talk about,' she said.

Still gazing steadily at the envelope, Glen
went on, 

It is above my reason ; I am not clever
enough to comprehend your extraordinary way
of regarding the mistake  it was no worse
than a mistake, at most  that I made.'

No worse than a mistake ! If Glen could
not comprehend Christian, quite as little
could Christian comprehend Glen.

Do, please, let us get away from that subject,'
she begged ; ' we have never found it do
any good to discuss it, and it is always painful
to me.'

Then he raised his eyes, and silently turned
them upon her. The light had gone out of
her face now. But it was such a charming"
face ; so proud too, with all its sweetness.

One would imagine that I had been guilty
of some crying wrong towards you,' he said
at last.

She did not answer.

1 Our marriage has been a curious affair
enough,' he resumed. ' It seems to suit you

to consider yourself wronged. There is no
accounting for taste, I know ; but what is the
pleasure of it, Christian ? '

Why would he keep harping on that theme ?
Not because he really cared about the matter,
Christian was certain. Of course not ; he
had come home more indifferent than he had
gone away. Well ; if he would pursue the
unprofitable theme only to annoy her, on his
own head be the blame of the bitter things
she might be forced to say to him.

1 And was I not wronged ? ' she asked.
1 Can you think that you were in the least
justified in marrying me, only because you
could not have your cousin ? '

Once she had not been able to speak out
so plainly ; but there was a stony feeling at
her heart this morning. Besides, she had
grown familiar with the facts of the case
now, and the mere utterance of them did
not hurt her as it would have done when
the discovery was fresh.

Because I could not have my cousin ! '
Glen repeated slowly,  ' Could not have my
cousin ! '

She rose, and, throwing her head back,
encountered the eyes that rested on her, with
a gaze steady as their own. Christian could
look the daughter of the Sea-kings as well as
Ursula, when she was just put to it.

1 If, after marrying me, you had by chance
got to know that I cared nothing for you,
but all for some other than you, how should
you have taken it V she inquired.

Not very meekly, I'm afraid,' said he ;
1 that other had need to have kept well clear
of me, I fancy.'

Yes ; and yet you find it so impossible to
understand me. Though I discovered immediately
after marriage that you loved not me,
but your cousin Moncrieff, / should have
taken it meekly. I ought to have accepted
with gratitude any crumbs you were good
enough to spare to me. It was mere unreasonable
folly in me that I would not be
thankful for crumbs when the alternative was
starvation.'

1 So ! ' he exclaimed softly, the truth evolving
itself to him ; ' did my cousin do me the
honour to class me among her lovers ? '

VOL. III. o

This was an idle play of words. He
needed no reply to the question, nor should
have one.

1 Moncrieff is apt to make little mistakes
at times,' he went on. ' Her word is not
the best authority upon which to found one's
beliefs. And in this instance she seems to
have credited me with filling a position I
never even aspired to. If you will think of
it, how very lover-like my conduct to Mon-cries
has always been.'

1 I don't say you love her now ; I don't
believe you do ; but you did love her
when you engaged yourself to me ; that is
enough.'

1 It would be enough, if it were the case.
But I have most emphatically to plead
not guilty. It must have been in some
former state of existence, if I ever loved
Moncrieff.'

This was indeed news. But Christian
could not grasp it all so suddenly.

1 It was because Moncrieff preferred her
cousin Ouentin to yourself that you ever
came to me,' she said.

Do you happen to have read this letter ? '
asked Glen.

'/ read a letter that was not meant forme
! ' she cried.

Oh, I beg your pardon ! What do you
know of its contents, I should have said ? '

As much as Moncrieff told me, which
was only the part about her engagement
to Quentin. I needed to hear no more.'

Didn't you ! Why, it is just there that
your mistake has come in. But if I had
been aware earlier (I wish I had !) that you
imagined it could be anything to me whether
Moncrieff did or did not marry Quentin, I
would have lost no time in undeceiving you.
What I have all along believed has been,
that you understood, through Moncrieff, how
I by this letter became informed of what had
one day passed between you and my Aunt
Euphemia. Can you understand now ? '

If Glen had been astonished on hearing
that he once loved his cousin, Christian was
even more astonished on hearing this. It
was because he had believed she loved him
that he had married her, not because he had

been thrown over by Moncrieff. Yes, she
understood now ; and she too wished that
she had known earlier this that came so
late. Her eyes had fallen again, and she
interlaced her fingers tightly to conceal their
tremulousness.

I have greatly misjudged you  forgive
me  I am so very sorry,' she said at intervals,
as she could find words, however inadequate,
in which to clothe her feelings.

He was not free from having misjudged
her; and probably he also was sorry. However,
he would not own that just now.

But you have not heard all,' he told her.
What will you say if I make the confession
that, though I was neither in love with Mon-cries
nor any other woman when I came to
you, I am hopelessly in love now ? I couldn't
help myself; for I drifted into the depths
not thinking how I went. We were merely
friends at first  she that I tell you of and
myself  but I saw her daily, and she was
the most seductive of women, and any one
can guess the rest. I cut off a lock of my
darling's hair the morning before leaving her,

while she was asleep, and  but what ails
you, Christian ? '

Well might he ask ! Was she under some
strong delusion ?  was she losing her reason ?
Or was it Glen who was losing his, that he
dared so audaciously to insult her ? But she
neither spoke nor stirred, only unclasped her
hands and pressed one of them to her brow,
as if to dispel the horror.

It is the prettiest hair possible resumed
Glen, half smiling, and quitting the decorous
distance which had hitherto been between
them  ' the very prettiest ; though, perhaps,
I should not expect you to say so. But did
you ever see any like it ?  excuse me,' and
he undid one of his wife's coils, and as it
fell, placed beside it the soft brown tress he
had in his hand.

'Why  why,' breathed Christian midway
betwixt tears and laughter, ' it is  it is my
own !'

1 It is my darling's,' said Glen. ' There
isn't much of it, you see ; I dared not take
more, in case she should discover the theft.
But I wonder  now she has discovered

it  if she will pardon me the rape of the
lock?'

I will try very hard to forgive you,' she
answered after a while, smiling through
unshed tears.

He thanked her for that ; and then, 

'Now to make an end of Moncrieff's letter,'
he said ; and the All-Fool's-Day production
was burned forthwith, no hand being scorched
this time to recover it.

Christian was close beside her husband at
the moment ; she was very fair ; her face,
touched but not stained with tears, shone
like a dewy flower ; her lips were ever so
sweetly tempting ; and she was his darling 
not a doubt of it ! Yet Glen Cassillis would
not break his vow.

SURPRISING.

A hundred thousand welcomes : I could weep,
And I could laugh ; I am light, and heavy ; welcome.'

T is not altogether unpleasant to be
laid aside from active service fora
short time, not really ill, only
a little tired or so. The gentle languor
makes rest enjoyable ; while it is delicious to
feel just once in a way, that nothing is expected
of you  that even your own conscience
frees you from some disliked task,
which on other days you go to only from a
strong sense of duty.

Such were the conditions under which Mrs
Brackenburn passed the forenoon after the
fire in the Wynd. She herself would have

it that she was none the worse of her fright
and semi-suffocation ; but her husband, who
had come home in the morning to find her
famous, would not understand that, and authoritatively
prescribed rest and quiet. The
first she took on a couch in her comfortable
little private parlour, the other she could by
no means come at; for though the general
public was not admitted, exceptions kept
treading one on another's heels the whole
day through.

Among these, our lady of Baronshaugh.
Christian arrived at the manse, prepared
to find Mrs Brackenburn laid up  hardly
able to speak, perhaps ; at all events, suffering
visibly from nervous excitement. But
not a bit of it ! Mrs Brackenburn, dressed
with all her usual taste, was talking saucy
nonsense to her husband, with little short of
her usual vivacity.

1 Is she not splendid ! Was it not noble!
I want to kneel before her,' cried the visitor
enthusiastically, as soon as she entered.

1 It is hardly for me to extol her said Dr
Brackenburn, smiling ; but he had a look as

if he rather agreed as to the splendour and
the nobility. * As for kneeling, this ' (wheeling
a chair round to face his wife's couch)
will be more comfortable, I think

1 Now, do let me admire you,' said
Christian, for Mrs Brackenburn was frowning
with all her might.  Don't you know
you are at the very top of my private list of
heroines in real life ? '

1 Save me from my friends ! ' ejaculated the
heroine. ' Keep your admiration for your
husband, dear Madam Cassillis, and if you're
strongly inclined for kneeling, kneel to him,
or wait till I can join you, and we shall
kneel together.'

Christian did not see the drift of this.
Why, should she kneel to her husband ?
Why if she did so, should Mrs Brackenburn
join her in the act ?

What did he say to you of his doings in
the early morning ? ' it was asked.

Nothing whatever : Christian had heard
of no doings in the early morning.

1 Is it possible! ' exclaimed Mrs Bracken-burn.


Captain Cassillis has not told you, then.
to whom my wife owes her life ? ' added her
husband.

From Glen Christian had merely learned
that he, attracted by the glare, had that
morning gone on to Laighbield instead of
stopping at Baronshaugh, and that he had
reached the Wynd in time to see Mrs
Brackenburn's escape. But she now heard
how that escape had been effected ; how
Glen, having come upon the scene just after
Mrs Choppin awoke to utterance, had coolly
waved aside all opposition, crossed the plank,
snatched from amidst the burning the unconscious
form which lay stretched below the
window, and got clear of the house only one
single instant before the roof fell in.

That is the history of your husband's
doings,' concluded Dr Brackenburn. 'And
in saving a life so precious to me, at imminent
peril of his own, Captain Cassillis has
laid me under a weight of gratitude which
words are wanting to give expression to.'

And never a syllable of all this had been
hinted at by Glen. In the midst of her

abundant admiration Christian could not help
remembering that oft-repeated assertion of
Moncrieff's, that Glen was so very odd a man.
Her heart went beating high, but what could
she say. A woman cannot gracefully sing a
pain in her own husband's praise. It was
therefore decidedly a relief when by-and-by
Mrs Brackenburn gaily changed the subject,
saying 

1 Alan, excuse me, but, in the politest
way in which it can be done, I should like to
suggest that though I appreciate you very
much, you are just that sort of man before
whom one can't have a comfortable gossip,
or freely indulge one's fallen nature by
pointing out motes in neighbours' eyes,
while all the time there is a frightful beam in
one's own. Oh ! you can't think, dear, what
a famous magnify king-glass a beam in the eye
is for making plain to you the motes in the
eyes of other people.'

So Dr Brackenburn took the hint and
soon withdrew, leaving the ladies to their
gossip.

I adore my husband, as all the world

may know,' laughed Mrs Brackenburn then ;
but sometimes I like him best in his study.
Christian Cassillis, listen ; I had a call from
Dugald Urquhart this morning.'

Oh, had you ! And for once he was
drawn out of himself surely ? ' said Christian.

1 You fancy him, with horrent hair and
uplifted palms, listing to my tale. Quite
wrong. Dugald had such a tale of his own
to tell, that mine had no chance of even
faintly interesting him

About his sister ? '

Even so. Brava, Moncrieff! ,

Tell me then, is she safe ? '

More than merely safe ; she is woo'd an'
married an' a', Christian.'

Oh ! oh ! and which of all her admirers
has she loved enough to compromise herself
for the sake of ? '

1 Only Sir Leveret Landless, whose marriage
with one of the daughters of Netherlaw
had already been fixed. Moncrieff and Sir
Leveret met at the Baillie Geddes's coast
house a few months ago, became enamoured
madly enamoured  at first sight ; established

a secret correspondence' (Christian
remembered the mysterious letter), ' saw
there nothing left for them but either a runaway
marriage, or " the grave, the grave."
So they eloped very cleverly, and while
Dugald has had his emissaries prying high
and low and afar for Moncrieff, she and Sir
Leveret have been discreetly hidden away in
some London fastness. But they are tired
of seclusion now and anxious to shake hands
with society ; so Moncrieff writes asking
Dugald if it will be safe to face the light of
day and the wrath of the Baillie Goddess.
It follows that Dugald is making a circuit of
his friends, to tell us that we must not say
or think anything more about the romantic
little episode, since he himself is perfectly
content to accept so satisfactory an end to
the matter.'

And is he content to think of the girl
whom Moncrieff's husband has forsaken ? '
wondered Christian.

My dear Mrs Cassillis, how innocent you
are! What is a forsaken girl to a man who
hears that his sister has just become my

Lady Leveret ; sister-in-law of the Countess
of Cornrig, that is ! Still, I must confess,
Dugald's complaisance in that fact did make
me long to tell him that I considered the
whole affair most shameful. But I opportunely
remembered my husband's last Sunday's
text : "He that ruleth his spirit is
better than he that taketh a city," so did
not let drop one of all the disagreeable
things which by turn trembled on the very
tip of my tongue. I suppose Dugald thought
it was awe of his reflected honour which
silenced me.'

'Honour!' echoed Christian; 'it is a
disgrace ; no matter for the Countess of
Cornrig.'

Of course it is. Somebody (Madame de
Seine, is it ? I forget) says that cousins
are one's natural enemies. I don't know
about that, but I do know I am thankful
that Moncrieff is only a far-off cousin of
mine. I should have to go into sackcloth
and ashes, were we cousins of the first
degree ; as it is, I shall get off with a slight
complimentary trimming of sackcloth, and

may let the ashes alone. But we've been
cheated out of a good deal of honest anxiety ;
and I, for my part, as much resent being*
cheated in that way as in any other. Don't
you feel aggrieved, Christian ? '

That did not strike me,' replied Christian.


No ? Well, you are looking all manner
of scorn ; but what have you got to say ?
or are your sentiments of the convenient
kind,  " more easily imagined than
described ? " '

'I am glad Moncrieff is safe and well,'
returned Christian ; ' as for the rest, I believe
I had best not speak. There will be
people enough to do that, won't there ? '

Most surely. When Moncrieffs day of
trouble comes, Elisha the Emanate, Sopha
the Naarnathite, and Bildad the Suite
will not one of them fail her. But I think
we may leave her to her happiness for the
time ;  there are those near at hand who
want all the thought we can spare to-day.'

Christian knew it. She had already been
to the Wynd, and had seen the idle work-people

wandering about the heap of blackened
ruin sometime called the factory.

'Jenny is looking after the most helpless
ones,' she said. ' So busy she is ! she had
hardly time to say good-morning to me when
we met, a little while ago. Glen has authorised
me to head a subscription list ; for, of
course, we shall want as much money as can
be had.'

1 1 am truly glad to know that Miss
Elvester is up and doing ; and I shall be
grateful for your subscription (yes, indeed,
money will be wanted !) ; and I wish Princess
Ursula were unmarried, and here with a
strong fit of duty on her, that she might be
sent to and fro in the parish, and up and
down in it, collecting. But we must have
talent as well as money ; talent to make
money by. And even so soon as this I
have had some generous offers. Mr Mungo
Mauchline is going to print a poem (at his
own expense) : subject, " The Fire ; " proceeds
to go to the fund in aid of the
sufferers.'

Oh ! but you won't let him, Matilda ? '

1 Nothing will prevent him, Christian. Only
I know I shall have to buy it up, to save
myself from the inextinguishable laughter of
all my enemies. That other genius, Dugald
Urquhart, has also put himself at our disposal.
His idea is a dramatic entertainment.
Hamlet he would have, with  shade of Shakspeare
hear it !  himself in the principal part.
There would be a case for you, in which
Hamlet wotild be improved by leaving Hamlet
out ! I didn't say that to Dugald ; but I
delicately suggested that Laighbield isn't yet
educated quite up to the Hamlet pitch, and
would probably like light comedy better.
Dugald was afraid that in all classes there
live and flourish puny souls who will sooner
listen to some vulgar farce than to the most
inspired breathing of the Immortals. We
ended by a compromise : Laighbield is to be
spared Hamlet entire, and treated instead
to a selection of readings from the great
dramatists. Fair fall the night ! '

Christian was privately of opinion that she
would not be one of the audience on such a
night. Earlier in her history she had heard

VOL. III. R

enough of Mr Urquhart as a reader to serve
her for life.

Our new light of science, Dr Rhubarb-son's
assistant, is another volunteer,' continued
Mrs Brackenburn. ' A lecture on
chemistry is to be his contribution. A
cutting which he showed me to-day, from
the Intelligencer of the last town where
he practised healing, tells how Dr Goose
delivered his popular lecture on chemistry
'with all his known wit.' Wit as an
outcome from chemistry will at least have
a novel effect, and a delightful, I should say.
Laughing-gas will likely be a principal agent
in the experiments. In private life this
young professional's wit is of the sort that
makes him wonder whether Cassillis the
laird is any relation of Castles in the Air 
a kind of funniness that isn't very telling,
perhaps.'

While she had been speaking a phaeton
had rounded the shrubbery, and now from it
alighted Mr and Mrs Carnegy of Braidmoss.

1 Alack and well-a-day ! ' exclaimed Mrs
Brackenburn, with a comic gesture of despair.

' Am I meek enough ? Have I
anything of a chastened expression ? '

Christian, who had risen to go, took a
survey of the little figure before her, from
the bonny brown hair, that tempted one to
stroke it, to the tiny foot, that looked as if
Cinderella's slipper might well have fitted it.

No ; there is not one touch of meekness
anywhere about you,' she said.

That is sad,' replied the other, ' because
those people will hold that there ought to be.
But, Christian, let me tell you, at any rate,
that however I may seem outside, I am very,
very full of gratitude at heart. I can't think
without trembling of my nearness to death
during those few awful minutes.' (Her voice
had dropped, and her face gathered gravity
enough.) ' And if I do make merry to-day,
instead of practising phrase-making, my
laughter is not very far from tears.'

But the Braidmoss visitors were being
shown in, so having received a whispered
message for Glen, and a warm caress herself.
Christian departed, leaving in her room Mr
and Mrs Carnegy.

CONCLUSION.

Upon thy cheek I lay this zealous kiss,
As seal to this indenture of my love.'

ROM the manse Christian hurried
to The Brae ; for she had something
of importance to relate.
Not to tell about Glen's bravery, or Mon-cries
's marriage ; these were pipers-news by
this time ; but to communicate a thing so
startling that it could not even be hinted at
when she and her sister had spoken for a
minute in the Wynd.

Miss Elvester was found seated in her
pretty drawing-room, looking so cool and undisturbed
that you would not have guessed
how much her clear head had planned that

morning ; how much her capable hands had
carried out. Active woman as this was, nobody
ever saw her in a bustle ; neither were
her friends ever oppressed by her business ;
they did not have to suffer because of it ; she
seemed always to have abundant leisure for
them.

This is indeed flattering,' she said, when
Christian came in. ' How could you spare
us half-an-hour to-day ? '

This is your birth-day, Jenny.'

I am deeply aware of that painful fact.
Have you anything fresh to say upon the
subject ? '

Instead of a direct reply, Christian said, 

1 You have no idea how Glen admires you.
He thinks you are the most  '

That will do, my dear ; when I want to
know what Glen thinks of me, I shall be
sure to ask. So don't make my character
a pretext for talking about your husband.
There is no need of an excuse. Behold me
waiting to hear with delight all you would
like to say.'

Isn't Jenny such a singular person ? ' said

Ulrica, who had hailed Christian's advent
with pleasure, as a means of escape from the
practising of scales. \ She will not listen to
praise ; that is one of her greatest idiosyn-
crasies/

She stumbled slightly over the last
word, however, and Miss Elvester exclaimed,


'Hurrah, Ulrica; you have managed it!
though that was a narrow escape you made.
Now then, Christian, I am all attention ;
pray you, proceed.'

She did not expect her sister, so invited,
to proceed ; but Mrs Cassillis of Barons-haugh
was so steeped to the lips in sunshine
to-day, that one could not help quizzing her
just a little.

Glen  ' began Christian ; then paused.

1 Is the grandest man the world e'er saw,'
supplied Miss Elvester. ' Yes ; we know it.
Well, what more ? '

'Glen sends a message to you, Jenny. It
was he who bought Eastravoe ; and he makes
you a present of the title-deeds. He left the
business in his lawyer's hands when he went

away ; but I have known nothing about it
until this forenoon.'

All the playful mockery had gone out oY
Miss Elvester's face ; it became deadly pale,
and for a moment Christian thought that
her strong, self-reliant, resolute sister was
fainting.

She sprang forward to give support.
Ulrica rushed for the carafe, and was in the
act of pouring its contents over Miss Elvester,
when Miss Elvester herself stayed the proceeding,
saying, 

1 There, there ; I am all right. I have
never fainted in my life, nor shall I now.
Give me a glass of water, please ; don't
deluge me with it.'

But she was not ' all right ' yet. She could
scarcely steady her hand sufficiently to raise
the glass to her lips.

It was all m/ fault,' said Christian, as she
hung over her with anxious solicitude. ' I
should not have told you so suddenly ; but,
dearest Jenny, forgive me. I did not know
how very much you cared.'

Not know how much I cared ! ' ejaculated

Miss Elvester in a low tone, and she got up
and left the room.

Her sisters perceived now how they had
mistaken her in supposing that she had borne
the loss of Eastravoe more lightly than they ;
they felt now that their grief had been mere
noisy petulance compared to hers.

When Miss Elvester came in again, Christian
was saying, 

So it has all turned out as you would
have it, dear. Jenny is once more Miss
Elvester of Eastravoe.'

How could Glen be so very, very magnificent
to us ? ' said Ulrica in reply.

For his wife's dear sake,' observed Miss
Elvester. And her sisters saw that she was
looking like herself again.

1 For Jenny's own dear sake,' amended
Christian.

But, my good child, listen to me : I can't
think of taking such a gift from any man,
even though that man is your husband,' said
Miss Elvester.

1 You and he can settle about that,' replied
Christian. ' When Glen takes up an idea he

can be as determined as you ; even as you,
Jenny. But who has so often spoken to us
about our pride, and the sin and folly of ;t ?
Now, what would it be but pride that would
make you refuse to accept of Eastravoe ? '

Yes,' cried Ulrica ; ' what would it be but
pride ?  hut pride, Jenny ? '

And for once Miss Elvester's girls had the
best of an argument with her.

Oh, it was glorious of Glen !' said Ulrica,
as Christian was going away ; ' you kissed
him a thousand times for it, I hope ? '

Not even once,' she answered ; ' wasn't
it ungrateful of me ? But you and Jenny
are coming to Baronshaugh this evening, and
you will make up for my deficiencies.'

Happy Christian ! the heavens shone more
brightly for her than for any other this
afternoon. It was well worth, she thought,
to have lived so long in the shadow. But
for that, she would not have felt, as she did
to-day, how exquisite a blessing was the light.
People whom she passed on her way remarked
that it was easily seen the laird was
back ; and even Dugald Urquhart, whom she

encountered riding villagers through the
avenue, was struck by her appearance. She
had always been pretty, but really she had
bloomed into actual beauty to-day. He did
not waste words on her for all that ; even if
she had not in her own person offended
him, she was the sister of Ursula, a crime
never, while recollection lasted, to be condoned.


Bowing ceremoniously in his saddle, he
said, 

1 Ah, how do you do ? I have been informing
Baronshaugh ' (he would not say
1 Glen,' as being too familiar for the occasion,
nor ' Cassillis,' as being too free-and-easy, nor
my ' cousin as being to feminine, nor ' your
husband,' as making Christian's position in
the family too prominent ; ' Baronshaugh ' was
exactly the thing he wanted)  excuse meno
; I cannot turn back with you  I have
been informing Baronshaugh of my sister's
marriage to Sir Leveret Landless. He will
doubtless furnish you with the details, which
I am too hurried to afford at this moment.
I am obliged to be at Craigie Urquhart tonight.

Sir Leveret and Lady Landless will
arrive there  so I am advised by telegram 
in the course of tomorrow, and a suitable
reception must be prepared.'

I What a relief it must have been to you
to hear of Moncrieff's safety,' said Christian,
not at all seeing her way clear to be otherwise
congratulatory.

I I presume there has never been any question
as to her safety,' replied the brother of
the sister-in-law of the Countess of Cornrig ;
Lady Landless has been with her husband
from the time of her leaving Netherlaw.'

And with a parting obeisance, as stately
as the restive steed under him would permit
of, he bade his cousin's wife good-bye, and
rode forth on his way. . . .

*******

Half-an-hour later Glen Cassillis sat alone
in the library. Tired out, he had begun to
wander in the value borderland between
sleep and waking.

'A pleasing land of drowsy-head it was,
Of dreams that wave before the half-shut eye ;
And of gay castles in the clouds that pass.'

Resting himself there, he was not conscious
of any one's approach, till the whisper, 

Glen, Glen, I am so proud of you ! ' caressed
his ear, a pair of soft arms stole about
his neck, and a pair of yet softer lips just
touched his cheek.

It was indeed the lightest, sheet kiss, as if
a summer breeze had blown a few rose-petals
against his face. No matter. Sooner than
one takes to record it, Christian, all flushed
and radiant, was fast in a close, strong clasp.

You yield at last ! ' Glen cried triumphantly.
' But, sweet, my wife, do you call that
a kiss ? I shall have to teach you how it
must be done ; so  '

But much love-making is a weariness to
any onlooker. Quick !  let the curtain fall.

