PROLOGUE.

Philip DEBENHAM, at the advanced
age of eighteen years, was, to use
his own words, 'a desperate man.'
The cause of his desperation was a piece of
information he had just received in a letter,
which lay open before him, and which was
signed 'Your affectionate uncle, Alfred Classis.
The piece of intelligence was this, that his
affectionate uncle had secured for his young
nephew a clerkship in a City merchant's ,
and that he was to repair thither
on the following day to commence his uncongenial
labours. In consequence of this arrangement,
the affectionate uncle went on to explain,

VOL. I. 1

it would be impossible for the lad to pay the
visit to the West-country home to which he
had so long looked forward. ' Indeed, we have
all been anticipating with pleasure this visit,'
said the letter ; ' for eight years of continental
school-life must have taught you much, and
would doubtless render you a delightful companion
for your cousins, to say nothing of dear
Maud, who is spending her holidays here, and
is greatly disappointed, as we all are, at this
unforeseen turn affairs have taken. But business,
my dear boy, must come before pleasure ;
and your sound common-sense will tell you
that this opportunity is not one to be lost.'

The old hypocrite ! The old scoundrel !'
muttered Phil savagely. 'As though he didn't
know he had always promised not to set me
down to a desk at all ; but to let me have an
art education, or at least to teach me farming,
and let me lead an outdoor life. I can't
stand a counting-house. I'd sooner run away
to sea at once, only I'm rather too old to
play that game. That Classis is the biggest
scoundrel that ever walked the earth ! Does
he think I don't know how , he ruined my
father, and drove him into his grave ? And

now he wants to drive me to desperation and
despair too f

Phil pushed back his chair, and paced the
narrow, dingy room angrily, looking and feeling
not at all unlike a caged wild beast.

Then he took up and opened another letter,
which lay upon the darned white table-cloth.
His breakfast was growing cold ; but Phil was
too much excited to think of food. This
second letter was in a sprawling, schoolgirl
hand, and ran as follows :

'Dearest old Phil,

It is a shame 1 How I do hate Uncle
Classis ; and Aunt Celia is just as bad !  so
horrid and cold, she makes me think of a
snake ! I hate being here ! I'd rather spend
my holidays at school, as I generally do ; only
poor Aunt Olive likes me to be here. They
are so horrid to her. We did so look forward
to your coming  it is a shame ! Do you know
why Uncle Classis is determined to keep you
away ? It's because he's afraid old great-uncle
Maynard may leave you his money, and he
wants Lewis to get it, and so he won't let you
come here at all ; and he doesn't let me come

12

often. I can't bear Lewis. He is a horrid
lout of a boy, who pretends to be grown up,
and says stupid things to me. I box his ears
when he does ; and then Aunt Celia says, in
her cold, horrid way, that I don't know what
I am doing. I'm sure I don't care if I don't.
She told me the other day that Uncle Classis
will be my guardian till I'm twenty-four ;
that papa said in his will that I wasn't to be
of age, or to have any money, till then. I
know Uncle Classis made him do that  Aunt
Olive is sure of it ; and she says she isn't
sure that I shall get my money properly then;
but I don't understand, and I don't care,
except to get free from Uncle Classis. I
should like to be able to take Aunt Olive
away, and live with her somewhere, and never
see any of these people any more. It is a
shame you're not coming back, Phil. I
haven't seen you for eight years ; and I can't
even remember you properly, for I was only
six. If we didn't write to one another, it
would be as bad as having no brother at all.
How horrid Uncle Classis is to us both !

Your loving sister,

'Maud.'

This rambling epistle only added fuel to the
fire of Phil's wrath.

So that's it, is it ? That's why I've been
kept abroad, and never been allowed to see a
single one of my own relations all these years ;
lest the old miser Maynard should make me
his heir, and spoil my cousin Lewis's chance!
Oh, Uncle Classis  Uncle Classis ! I'm only
eighteen  I haven't a penny of my own  I'm
a minor, and your ward, and miserably powerless
; but if my turn should ever come, won't
I make you smart !'

Whilst Phil continues his impotent ravings
and his wild-beast walk in his dreary London
lodgings (of Uncle Classis' choosing), the
reader must submit to the infliction of a brief
summary of Phil's family history.

His grandfather, Mr. Charles Maynard, was
the younger of two brothers, both men of
considerable wealth, who owned adjoining properties
in one of the western counties. Mr.
Maynard, the elder brother, a confirmed
bachelor, and a man of eccentric, misanthropic
nature, was yet living and in good health, in
spite of his seventy-four years, although his
brother had died many years before.

Mr. Charles Maynard married young, and
had three daughters, but no son. The eldest,
Maud, married Mr. Debenham, a man of some
means and of good family. He had cultivated
literary tastes, but no business faculties, and
was only too glad to entrust his affairs to the
capable hands of his wife's sister's husband,
Alfred Classis. Celia, Charles Maynard's
second and favourite daughter, had married
the son of the family lawyer, and did very
well for herself, for at his father's death Alfred
Classis became a wealthy man, and retired
from active business, though he was always
ready to ' do a good turn ' for any of his relations,
by advice or by transacting business for
them.

Olive, the third daughter, ' did for herself
by marrying, against her father's consent,
a young clergyman, and she was accordingly
cut off with a shilling, whilst Mr. Charles
Maynard's property was divided between his
two elder daughters, Maud having the most
money, whilst to Celia was left the landed
property, including a fine house and grounds,
a home farm and several outlying farm-steady.
This arrangement of the testator's property was

always believed to be due to the manoeuvring
of Alfred Classis.

When Mrs. Debenham died, her fortune
was left unreservedly to her husband ; and
his will left all his own property (then supposed
to be considerable) to his son Philip,
whilst his wife's money was left to his
daughter Maud, who was to remain a minor,
and Alfred Classis' ward, until she was
twenty-four years of age, after which time
she would inherit this fortune  but only
upon the condition that she married her
cousin Lewis Classis, Alfred Classis' eldest
son. If she declined to marry the said Lewis,
one third of the money would be hers, and
two thirds would pass to Lewis. If he declined
to marry her, she would have two
thirds, and he one.

What had induced Mr. Debenham to insert in
his will this extraordinary clause was a matter
of profound perplexity to all who heard it.
The only solution of the mystery lay in the fact
that Alfred Classis exercised a very peculiar
influence over his brother-in-law, and had in all
probability induced him by threat or entreaty
to couple his bequest with this condition.

Mr. Debenham died insolvent, as appeared
when his affairs came to be looked into. How
or why his money had vanished none could
tell. Phil was thus left totally unprovided
for ; but Mr. Classis, with great show of
liberality, took upon himself the care of his
nephew and ward, and sent him abroad to be
educated, and abroad he had remained ever
since.

This was not the only generous act of Mr.
Classis ; for the disinherited Olive (soon left
a widow, childless, and almost penniless), who
had lived since her husband's death with Mr.
Debenham, managing his house after his
wife's death, and taking care of his children,
was by his death left once more to poverty
and homelessness ; but Mr. Classis had
opened his own doors to her, and she lived
under his roof in a state of passive, uncomplaining
servitude.

Meantime old Mr. Maynard still lived on,
and his wealth, gradually accumulating, must
have grown to something very considerable.
The old man held aloof from all his kindred
and shut himself up resolutely alone, only
seeing his relatives from time to time, and

never giving anyone the smallest reason to
suppose that he looked upon him or her with
the least favour. But as Alfred Classis said
to himself, he must leave his money to somebody,
and certainly he would not bequeath it
to any charity.

He gave a home to Olive, lest her uncle's
compassion should be aroused on her behalf.
He banished Phil utterly, that his existence
might if possible be forgotten ; for the old man
had been more friendly with Mr. Debenham
than with Mr. Classis, and Maud had been
his eldest niece.

The little Maud was kept as far as possible
in the background, and the one great hope of
Alfred Classis' heart was that his wife Celia
or his son Lewis should come in for the large
fortune the old man must shortly leave behind
him. He surely could not have the conscience
to live many years longer. It seemed almost
an insult to Providence to outlast the threescore
years and ten allotted as the span of
man's life.

Most of this family intrigue Phil suspected ;
but it was little that he actually knew, for
Maud was only just emerging from childhood,

and Aunt Olive's letters were but few and far
between. As for Uncle Classis, Phil disbelieved
on principle every word he wrote. He
had not seen him since he was ten years old,
when he had told him to his face that he was
an ' old villain,' and had received a sound box
on the ear. However, Phil was obstinate
enough to stick to his opinion, and had never
seen any cause to change it.

He was eighteen now, a tall, good-looking
youth enough, made more manly and self-possessed
by the sort of life he had led, than
those who had known him as a boy would
have imagined; yet withal of a gentle, winning
disposition which might, under other training,
have grown weak and vacillating.

It had been his own wish to come to
England at last, and learn to be independent
of his uncle. He had decided talent both in
art and music, which had been strengthened
and cultivated by his foreign masters, and
would doubtless, after some further study,
enable him to make his way in the world.
He had a keen love of outdoor life, too, and
had been always used to much physical
exercise. He was dismayed and disgusted

with the smoke and dirt of London, and
longed to leave it as early as possible. His
uncle was to consider what was to be done,
and let him know, that he might make some
arrangements before he set out for his promised
visit to his relatives.

The letter containing his fate had now come,
and doomed him to a City clerkship. Phil was
thus driven to desperation.

There was a third letter still lying unopened,
and at last that too claimed attention.
It was written in a clear, bold hand, and dated
from an hotel in Kensington.

Dear Phil,

1 suppose by this time we have each

learned our respective fate. My summons to

England has been to hear profitable tidings.

I trust you may have heard as good. Come

to me here as early as you can, to talk things

over.

Yours truly,

1 TORPJNGTON Rosewood.'

Torrington Torwood, otherwise Tor, was the
one friend Phil had made during his boyhood's
years. Both English lads at foreign

schools, they had drawn very closely one to
the other, and had contrived to be almost constantly
together for several years past. Tor
was singularly alone in the world, his only
relation being a grandfather, who kept him
liberally supplied with pocket-money, but
never expressed the least wish to see him.
Phil, too, was very much alone, despite his
family connections, and the two lads had
formed a very sincere friendship.

Phil, who clung to Tor, as the weaker nature
must always cling to the stronger, and desired
nothing better than to pour out his woes and
his wrath into sympathetic ears, hurried away
and quickly found himself in a comfortable
private room, where Tor was sitting amid
papers and parchments.

Phil lost no time in recounting his misfortunes,
and Tor listened, and read the letters,
and heard all that had occurred. He was
only eighteen himself, but looked many years
older, and his character was more decided and
more fully developed than his age would
indicate. He was a handsome youth, with a
daring look in his eye, and a mouth that
expressed a vast deal of determination.

1 Phil,' lie said quietly, at the close of his
friend's story, ' we have always had a great
wish to knock about the world together. My
grandfather is dead. I am his heir. I shall have
more than a thousand a year. I am to receive
the income at once, without waiting for my
majority. Will you cast in your lot with mine,
Phil, and come with me ? I am going to start
almost at once, when I have signed the needful
papers. Leave your uncle Classis and all his
crew  cut the connection and come with me.
Where one can dine, two can dine, ,, you know.
A thousand a year will keep the pair of us. An
office-stool, or a life of travel and adventure
which do you choose, Phil?'

Phil's face had flushed crimson.

Tor !' he cried, * do you mean it really V

You know I mean it. I meant it as soon
as ever I had the news, before I knew what a
welcome you would get. I have had the
plan in my head these three or four years
past. Don't disappoint me, Phil ; don't desert
me. You know we just suit one another.
You know your uncle Classis is a scamp, and
will ruin you if he can. Don't give him the
chance. Give him the slip instead. Tell him

nothing, but come away with me. After you
are of age you can write to your sister  or
before, if you think he will not follow and
claim you. I think we could be a match for
him if he did,' Tor added reflectively ; 'I
don't think he'd come a second time. Well,
Phil, will you come V

6 But, Tor  don't be offended with me  how
can I ever hope to repay you for all I shall
cost you V

Tor laughed lightly.

Don't trouble yourself over that, my dear
boy. Wait till I ask for payment. Besides,'
as he caught a dissatisfied look upon Phil's
face, ' I have a strong presentiment that' the
old uncle will leave you his fortune in the
end. You are his natural heir ; you can pay
me then.'

 'You promise, if that happens, you'll take
the money V

c Oh yes ; I promise.'

Then I'll come. I'll run away. I'll vanish
from the face of Uncle Classis' earth, and go
with you, Tor. Oh, Tor, it will be splendid !'

They were too young and enthusiastic to be
troubled with thoughts of the future, to consider

the possibilities of life and the impractical
nature of such a partnership as the one just
proposed. The possibility of Tor's marriage,
the danger of a quarrel, the chance of accident,
sickness, or death never troubled their heads.
They had money ; they had health ; they had,
or would obtain, freedom ; and they would seethe
world together. This was the sum-total
of their reflections, and all they cared for was
to get off as fast as possible.

Phil never returned to his dingy lodgings.
He lay perdu for a few days, for fear of search,
and then he and Tor sailed together for

America.

NEWS FROM ENGLAND.

JEN years later, upon a hot clay in
May, Torrington Torwood sat beside
Philip Debenham's sick-bed ina
large, bare room of an odd little hotel in the
village of Hornberg, in the Black Forest.

Phil had had a severe sunstroke two days
before, and had, the doctor thought, hurt his
head in the fall that ensued. At any rate, he
had remained insensible ever since, and gave
no symptom of returning consciousness.

Since that memorable day ten years ago,
when the two lads had sworn an eternal 
friendship and gone away together over the
sea, they had never been separated for any
but the briefest periods, and their romantic
youthful friendship had ripened into something
worthy the sacred name.

Tor was the leading spirit, and Phil's
1 guide, philosopher, and friend Tor planned
and thought; Tor plunged them into strange
adventures and difficulties, and piloted them
manfully out again. Tor was Phil's hero and
referee, and unconsciously he grew to lean on
him, to imitate him, and to become, in fact,
his very shadow.

As lads, the two friends had been thought to
resemble one another in disposition ; but as
their characters developed they grew widely
dissimilar.

Phil was brilliant in conversation, fascinating
in manner ; and gifted with an almost
boyish ingenuousness, w r which went far to win
hearts. His nature was, without being exactly
indecisive, so far facile and easy-going
that ' no ' was a hard word to him, and many
people felt that but for the moral support
given by Tor's influence, he would be easily led
and easily overcome by anyone with a strong
will and a purpose to serve. His outward
man was prepossessing. He was tall and rather
slight, with dark brown hair which lay in
silky waves across his brow, and well-shaped
brown eyes which were particularly frank and

vol. I. 2

expressive. He had regular, clearly-cut
features, a well trimmed dark moustache, and
a very engaging smile. Altogether, Phil
Debenham was considered in society a very
charming man ; and very much did some people
wonder how it was he seemed to prefer the
society of his friend Torrington Torwood to
any other.

Tor was cast in a manlier mould than Phil.
He stood six-feet-two in his stockings, was
broad in proportion, and was gifted with physical
strength to correspond. His thick curly
hair and long moustache were of a tawny gold ;
his face was deeply bronzed by exposure to the
weather, and, although the features were good,
the face attracted more by its power and singularity
of expression than by its symmetry of
form. Tor's great grey eyes were the marked
feature of his face. They were bright and
piercing as an eagle's, and yet could soften ina
manner one would hardly have looked for ina
man of his calibre. They could flash, too,
upon occasion ; and when they did so upon an
offender, he always showed a marked reluctance
to encounter their glance again.

Tor was possessed of a strong nature and a

strong will, yet, like most strong men, his
manner was gentle and quiet. He was not so
ready of speech as was Phil, though when
roused to wrath he could be eloquent enough,
and showed a fine command of language.
Under his outward shell of easy-going carelessness
lay a reckless ' dare-devil ' nature, which
at times broke out so strongly as almost to
surprise himself, and often quite astonished
others.

At the present moment he looked quiet and
gentle enough, sitting by Phil's bedside, and
from time to time changing the wet cloths
upon his head. He was uneasy about his
friend, for unconsciousness is an unpleasant
symptom ; and although the German doctor
declared there was no danger, that there
was nothing to be alarmed about, Tor was not
altogether reassured. For the physician had
warned him that many weeks might possibly
elapse before the balance of the patient's
faculties was restored : he had had such
cases under his care, he and his brother
physicians ; and Tor did not at all relish
such a thought. It was uncanny to see Phil
lying there, unable to speak, or even to

recognise him. Tor frowned, and pulled at
his moustache, and swore softly to himself in
German.

A knock at the door interrupted his musing-fit,
and a packet of letters was handed in.
They were all for Phil, and one was very large,
and looked legal.

For three years after his flight Phil had
held no communication with his relatives, but
during the past seven, he had corresponded
regularly, though not frequently, with his
sister Maud ; and he had written to her on
their arrival at Hornberg, some eight days
since.

From the number and bulk of the letters, it
seemed as though some important communications
had been waiting to be despatched as soon
as an address was made known.

Tor looked at the envelopes, and then at
Phil's prostrate figure and vacant face.

Strikes me I must look into this business.
He can't, poor old chap! I imagine I know as
much of his affairs as he does himself  or
more.'

So saying, Tor took up the bulky legal-looking
packet and opened it without more ado.

It contained several papers. The first of
these was from the lawyer employed by Phil's
great-uncle, Mr. Maynard, and announced the
death of that gentleman at the advanced age
of eighty-four years. He had bequeathed his
entire property to his great-nephew, Philip
Debenham, and had appointed his lawyer and
a man of whom Tor had never heard  a Mr.
Meredith  as executors.

More than two months had elapsed since
Mr. Maynard's death, but until the previous
day they had had no means of communicating
with Phil. This interval had given time
for the proving of the will, and enabled his
executors to make the following announcement.
Phil had come into a valuable landed property,
with a fine house and park, and valuable
plate, pictures, and family furniture and heirlooms,
and about 80,000 in money. The
lawyer concluded by urging his coming at once
to England, to assume the control over his
fortune and estate.

Enclosed was an order upon a well-known
German house for 100, and a sealed document,
on the outside of which was written, in a
cramped, clear hand :

1 To be given to my great-nephew Philip
Debenham, when the contents of my last will
and testament are made known to him. 

T. m. m;

Tor was pulling mercilessly at his moustache,
whilst a perplexed frown knitted his brow.
After one more glance at Phil's prostrate figure,
he proceeded to open this sealed missive.

It was dated three years back, and ran thus :

'To my great-nephew Philip Debenham,
whom I have never seen.

If ever you get this letter it will be at a
time when you will just be gloating over the
news of your accession to wealth. Gloat on 
I don't wish to stop you. I merely wish to
rid your mind of any foolish notion you may
take that I have any affection for, or interest
in you. I have not one spark of either. If
you care to know why I have made you my
heir, I will tell you. My chief reason is to
spite that fawning scoundrel Classis and his
worthy spouse, who have been flattering me and
grovelling at my feet, and longing and praying
for my death these score of years past, and it
will enrage him far more if I leave it to you,

than if I bequeath it to some philanthropic or
public object ; therefore, as you are my natural
heir and Classis' natural enemy, I leave you
all I have, and trust that your right feeling and
your father's wrongs will enable you to keep
up the quarrel and ruin your rascally uncle.

It is a good thing that your uncle's spite
kept you away from this place. He meant todo
you an ill turn, but he has done you a good
one. If I had ever seen you, most probably I
should hold you in profound contempt  the
young men of the present day are supremely
contemptible  and perhaps I should be unable
to make up my mind to enrich you, even with
the inducement of arousing the Classis fury
As it is, I can give my imagination play, ana
picture you what I choose. You cannot be
quite a fool, or you would not have given
Classis the slip and bolted as you did. When
I first heard of that act, I said to myself,
There is stuff in that lad. If I see and hear
no more of him I will make him my heir."
Classis has taken care that I should hear and
see no more of you, therefore he has made you
my heir. Pay him the debt you owe him, lad,
and pay him in his own coin.

Philip Debenham, one charge I give you :
take care of your sister. As girls go, she is a
good girl ; but what can a woman do ? I
have left her no fortune, because it would only
add fuel to the flame of Classis' determination
to make her his son's wife. I trust to you to
stop that marriage, and to make over to her
the fortune she will thus lose. If you are a
man of honour, you will do this. When Maud
is twenty-four, her choice has to be made 
you must be there to counsel and support her.
Classis is a crafty, determined man ; and Maud
is but a woman, and women will marry anything.
You must never let a Debenham mate with a
Classis.

I have no more to say. Most likely you
will be too idle and too selfish to carry out a deadman's
wishes. Be that as it may, my duty is
to speak. You must heed or not, as you will.

< T. M. Maynard.

Ladywell Manor,
March 3rd, 1872.'

A charming old man,' was Tor's comment
as he laid down the letter. Then he glanced
at Phil once more, and fell into deep thought.

What a confounded piece of ill-luck that

sunstroke was ! What in the world is to
happen I don't see yet. He may be weeks or
months recovering, and who will meantime
manage his affairs ? Will it be the executors ?
  or will it be that worthy Classis ? I don't
know the law, so I can't sav. Here are two
more letters still unopened. Will they throw
any light on the situation ? That is from
Maud, by the writing ; this, if I rightly conjecture,
from Uncle Classis. Let us see what
he has to say for himself.'

Tor opened the letter and read :

'My dear Philip,

Now that we are at last furnished
with your address, I hasten to be amongst the
first to offer my very warm and sincere congratulations
to you upon your accession to this
very handsome property ; and to assure you
that, in spite of my silence during these years
of your wanderings in foreign lands, I have
taken a very warm, almost paternal interest
in your well-being, and am truly pleased that
at last you will be able to return to England
and settle amongst us in a position you are so
well calculated to adorn

The old humbug !' muttered Tor ; ' the last
time he saw Phil he was an urchin of ten.
Much he knows what he is qualified to do.
He is every bit as bad as Maud's letters have
always led us to suppose. What more has he
to say V

I do not know whether this change in
your affairs may induce you to quit your
wandering life and settle down ; but I presume
you will elect to visit your property,
which in your absence I am looking after for
you, to the best of my ability, and which I
shall always be happy to do whenever you
wish to be from home

The devil you will !' muttered Tor. ' I
fancy Phil will have something to say as to
that. He forgets he is eight-and-twenty, and
not ten. He thinks he can arrange matters
just as he chooses.'

Your executors know nothing of the
management of landed property. Mr. Twine,
the lawyer, lives in a distant town, and Mr.
Meredith is blind ; they have, therefore, empowered

me to superintend the business of
the estate until your return, which trust I
have gladly undertaken and faithfully performed,
as you will be able to see for yourself
upon your return. As we now own
adjoining properties, our interests are all in
unison.

Pray write soon and inform us of your
intentions, and meantime accept the hearty
good wishes of your aunt and cousins, and
believe me to remain,

Your affectionate uncle,

Alfred Classis.

Thornton House, Ladywell,
May 4th, 1875.'

Tor uttered a long slow whistle indicative
of a disturbed state of mind. Then he took
up the remaining letter.

Now let us see what Maud has to say.'

My dearest, darling old Phil,

Why dicit you write before ? Two
whole months I have been dying to write to
you, and have had no address, and no means v
of finding you out. We hadn't even Tors
banker's address, and you haven't a banker,

poor dear old boy ; but you have now, and any
amount of money, for the will is " proved,"
whatever that is, and you are quite a millionnaire
in the eyes of the neighbourhood. Oh,
Phil, it is quite too lovely ! Oh, why were
you not here to witness Uncle Classis' helpless
rage and despair ? He pretended not to
care, but he raged like a wild beast to Aunt
Celia in private, and I heard him. The next
best thing to seeing you a rich man is to
see Uncle Classis sold. Phil, I hate Uncle
Classis ! He is the meanest, contingent
scoundrel in the world, I think ; and Aunt
Celia is as bad. But, of course, it is only
people like Aunt Olive and me that know
this, Outsiders think, or pretend to think,
him most estimable, and hold him in high
repute. Even Mr. Twyne, though he doesn't
like him, I think, has given him power to
manage things till your return ; and blind
Mr. Meredith  have I ever told you about
him and Koma, Phil ?  well, anybody can
get round him, and he believes in Uncle
Classis.

Come home soon, Phil, or he will cheat
you right and left. You mustn't pretend to

think so, but he will. I do so want to see
you. I know you will have grown so tall, and
handsome, and strong, and bronzed  everyone
does who has travelled like you. You
will find yourself such a lion here. People
have been dying to see you these two months
and more.

'And oh, Phil dear, you ivill take Aunt
Olive and me to live with you in Ladywell
Manor, won't you ? like a sweet angel boy as
I know you are ! We are so miserable here,
though I can't quite explain why. I think
it is the atmosphere of the place that is so
oppressive, and the feeling they always try
to impress upon us that we are living on
charity, though I know I'm not. Aunt Olive
is a dear old thing ; I know you'll be very
fond of her. It would be lovely to live with
you at Ladywell, it is such a splendid old
place ; for Uncle Maynard was not a bit
miserly where his house and garden were
concerned, and spent any amount of money
upon them. We shall be so happy there
altogether if you will come and live there,
and let us keep house for you. Do, do, dear
Phil ! and mind you come straight off home

directly you get this, for we are all just
dying to see you.

I am nearly twenty-four now, and I think
you will find me rather nice-looking. When
I am nicely dressed I fancy myself a good
deal, but they don't often give me nice things
to wear. But they can't stop my hair growing
thick and long and curling prettily, which
it does  beautifully. Matilda has to curl her
fringe with tongs, and is always singeing the
ends off, and then she looks such a guy; and
Bertha wears a false front of ridiculous little
curls ! She has to put them into curl-papers
on damp nights !

When I'm twenty-four I ought to be rich ;
but they tell me now that there's a condition
I don't know what  if I don't do it I shall
get very little. I wonder what the condition
is. I shall comply with it if I can, for I
should like to be rich. I suppose you don't
know any better than I ? When my birthday
comes I shall be told, I suppose, and that will
be very soon indeed now.

Good-bye, dearest old boy. Write directly,
and say that you'll come as fast as ever you
can travel. I've no end more to say, but it's

post-time, and I must stop. Aunt Olive sends
best love.

Yours for ever,

1 Maud.

Thornton House.'

'Well,' said Tor, laying down this last
letter and pushing his hands through his
hair, * I'll be hanged if I know what
to do !'

He sat still awhile, and then he rose and
paced the room in silent thought ; and then
he sat down again and shook his fist at his
unconscious companion.

Phil, you villain, why on earth were you
such an ass as to get sunstroke at such a
critical time as this ? A nice puzzle you have
put me into ! What on earth is to be done ?
If I write and state Phil's condition, why then
that old scoundrel will go on feathering his
nest finely out of this property, and the old
aunt and pretty sister will be horribly disappointed
and will have to stay on to be
bullied by the estimable uncle. And then
when Phil does come to himself, he will be
sure to be weak in the head for a bit ; and

he never has too much backbone, and that
Classis will just turn him round his fingers,
and goodness knows what the end will
be!

Then there's Maud : she is coming; of age
soon  that may mean in a week or two, for
aught I know. From what old Maynard says,
I imagine the condition she speaks of is a
marriage with Lewis Classis. Somebody
ought to be there to stop that, if possible.
Without support she may let herself be bullied
into it. Confound it all ! What is a fellow
to do ?

Could I get a power of attorney drawn up,
authorizing me to act for Phil till his recovery ?
That might be a good plan, only he can't sign
it. Could I sign it for him ? He has modelled
his handwriting upon mine so long that I
can hardly distinguish them myself. He has
written to no one but Maud for ten years at
least, and to her he merely signs " Phil." His
actual signature is unknown to anyone ; mine
would do just as well  my representation of it.
But then  stop  no, that would be too
dangerous a game to play. It would have to
come out all about his stroke and illness, and

some one might start the reasonable objection
that a man in Phil's state couldn't sign a power
of attorney.'

Tor thought Ions: and earnestly. Plan
after plan entered his head, only to be found,
upon a little study, hopelessly impracticable.
Half an hour passed in vain speculation, and
then an inspiration seemed to seize him; he
paused, and slowly a strange expression stole
over his face, and his eyes began to shine with
a variety of stirring thoughts. When he
spoke again, it was with peculiar deliberation
and composure.

Yes, certainly that seems the best and
simplest plan, just to personate Phil  change
names and positions with him, until he is in a
fit state to act for himself. No one over there
has seen him since he was ten, so that my
extra inches and more Saxon complexion
cannot tell against me. Phil always says that
his hair was light as a child. His eyes are
brown, and mine, I suppose, are grey ; I
don't think there is any danger there. His
mother is dead ; and nobody else would be
likely to remember details. I know just as
much as Phil does about his people and his
vol. i. 3

affairs. I think I could play the part without
any fear of betraying myself

Tor paced up and down reflectively.
I suppose it would be looked upon as a
criminal fraud if detected, and would be
punishable by law ; but then only Phil could
prosecute, and as soon as ever he comes to
himself he will hear all, and then he can act for
himself, whilst I shall abdicate in his favour.
I don't think, without Phil's evidence, anyone
could prove me an impostor. I think I can
personate Philip Debenham without the least
fear of detection.

1 Of course I do not know the places he
lived in till he was ten  that is something of a
drawback; but I think I am clever enough to
keep my ignorance to myself till I have
mastered the situation : and I shall not have
to undergo a cross-examination, like the
Claimant. Phil saw next to nothing of the
Classis set during his childhood. Places and
people change vastly in eighteen years, and all
that time spent knocking about the world can
account for a good deal of forgetfulness. I do
not feel nervous there.

Yes, it certainly is the only feasible plan

for thwarting Uncle Classis, rescuing Aunt
Olive and Maud, and perhaps saving my
sister from what is likely to prove a disastrous
marriage (I quite rise to the situation, and
already feel surrounded by relations). Phil
would be delighted could he but enter into
the scheme. He would rejoice to put upon
my shoulders the responsibility of the first
battles with Uncle Classis. I wish he could
stand by to witness my personification of himself.
He w r ould thoroughly enjoy it ; but he
must wait till I can tell the tale in days to
come.

As to money, I shall of course use my own
for all personal matters ; his for the estate and
his sisters comforts. Stay, I cannot sign his
cheques and mine too. Now, let me see : I
am Philip Debenham; that fellow is Torrington
Torwood. I must take him away from here,
and leave him in the charge of some capable
medical man under his new name. And
before I assume my new name I must draw
out a good round sum of money ; and to
avoid trouble, in case Phil is long like this,
advise my bankers to honour, until further
notice, cheques signed " Philip Debenham for

32

-  -

T. Torwood." They will think me cracked, but
they must do it.'

Tor suited the action to the words. He
wrote out a cheque for 500 (he always kept a
heavy balance at the bank, being a prudent
man), and a paper empowering Philip Deben-
ham to sign his cheques. His own signature
('T. Torwood') he made feeble and shaky.

Now,' said he, drawing a long breath, ' I
have signed my own name for the last time.
Henceforth I am Philip Debenham.'

In his new capacity he proceeded to write
three letters.

The first was to the bankers to state that
his friend Mr. Torwood was seriously ill, and
the doctors feared the brain had suffered ; so
that in fear of what might ensue he had empowered
the writer to act for him in all
business and pecuniary matters, and desired
that his signature should be honoured at the
bank, as the enclosed paper testified.

Tor did not know whether such a paper required
the signature to be witnessed, but, to
avoid any awkward results on this point, he
got two innocent Kammermadchens to put their
names to it without having the least notion

what they were doing, or without knowing
that they were even supposed to have seen it
signed.

The remaining letters were to Uncle Classis
and to Maud, briefly informing them of his intention
of coming at once to England. He
hoped to be with them in a week's time.

All these letters were duly signed Philip
Debenham.

The plunge was taken.

DE. SCHNEEBEEGEE.

ES ; the plunge was taken, the die
was cast. Torrington Torwood had
taken upon himself the personification
of Philip Debenham, and by the time that
he had posted with his invalid friend from the
little village of Hornberg to the town of
Freyburg, he had quite accustomed himself to
his altered circumstances.

On the outskirts of Freyburg lived a German
physician, who had devoted much time to the
study of the human brain, and who had attained
to a considerable reputation in the eyes of his
contemporaries. Tor's German education had
made him conversant with the names of most
of the eminent men of the day, and very glad
had he been to hear that Dr. Schneeberger
was now living near Freyburg in comparative

retirement, whilst he prosecuted his studies
and gave up the bulk of his time to the production
of a scientific work, which was to make
his name and his fame all over Europe.

Tor had attended some of the doctor's
lectures in past years, and knew him for as
simple-minded and kind-hearted a little oddity
as ever trod shoe-leather ; and therefore, without
any misgiving or hesitation, he drove the
unconscious Phil straight to the doctor's own
modest abode.

Dr. Schneeberger was at home, and Tor was
admitted to his study, where the little spectacled,
sharp-faced man was seated at his microscope,
amid heaps of manuscripts and piles of books.

The handsome young Englishman, in fluent
German, made his apologies for his intrusion,
which were readily accepted, after which Tor
opened his case.

He and his friend Mr. Torwood were travelling
companions, and had been so for many
years ; but unfortunately his friend had been
struck down by a severe sunstroke some days
ago, and had remained unconscious ever since.
Important business now summoned him, the
speaker, to England-business which admitted

of no delay ; and as he had heard that Dr.
Schneeberger occasionally admitted under his
roof patients who were suffering from injury
to the brain, he had taken the liberty of
bringing Mr. Torwood to him, to request him, asa
great favour, to receive him as a patient, and
allow him to remain there until he had recovered,
and could follow his friend to England.
Dr. Schneeberger could name his own terms ;
whatever sum he fixed upon should be paid.

The doctor rubbed his hands together,
scratched his head, and in affable tones asked
a few questions about Herr Torwood's constitution
and the occasion of the stroke. He
seemed interested in what he heard, and when
he understood that the patient was in a carriage
at his own door, he jumped up and trotted off
to have a look at him.

Tor's cause was won. Phil's case interested
the little doctor. The patient was carried upto
a clean, bare, thoroughly German bedroom,
and Dr. Schneeberger made a most careful
examination of his condition.

Tor, who had some business to get through
before starting for England, took up his
quarters at the hotel, and sent off a good

many telegraphic messages ; and in a few hours'
time repaired to the doctor's house to hear his
verdict as to Phil's condition.

I will undertake the case of your friend,
mein Herr, for it interests me ; but I am sure
there is more injury than is to be accounted
for by the sunstroke. I suspect a slight
effusion on the brain, from the rupture of
some tiny vessel : there are symptoms of compression,
which are not to be explained by a
simple sunstroke.'

Tor looked disturbed.

You do not think him seriously ill, I
hope?'

Everything, my dear young friend, that
affects the human brain is serious. The brain
is a most wonderful and complicated structure.
I could demonstrate to you, by the aid of my
microscope, how '

Excuse me, doctor, but you have made me
anxious. You do not mean to say that you
consider my friend's life in danger V

Such a complication as Phil's death, before
his assumption of his own name and position,
could not be contemplated without a
shudder.

The doctor raised his hands with a gesture
of horror.

1 Oh no, no, no  vein, vein  not at all, my
dear sir  not at all ; pray do not alarm yourself
needlessly. Herr Torwood's life is in no
danger at all, so far as my experience goes 
none whatever ; but the case is, nevertheless,
a serious one  all cases of compression are
serious. He may be a long while getting over
it  he may remain many weeks in his present
state. You called him " unconscious ;" but
that is hardly the correct word to use. He is
in a torpid helpless state, and to you he seems
insensible ; but medically speaking, it is not
real coma. Still, he is absolutely incapable of
any thought or volition, and his mind is all
astray ; and this condition of torpor may last
some while. I heard of a case somewhat
similar, where the balance of the faculties was
not restored for above a year

Tor listened aghast. Dr. Schneeberger's
innocent zeal filled him with dismay, akin to
irritation.

You do not mean that you think my friend
will be a year in recovering V he asked sharply.

My dear sir, no, a thousand times no ; such

cases are most rare ; it may never be my good
fortune to meet with one like it. I merely
mentioned the matter to show you how impossible
it was to say how long a time will elapse
before a patient will recover his full consciousness.
Your friend will, in all probability, make
far more rapid progress. Still, if there is, as I
suspect, some slight effusion of blood upon the
brain, it may be some while before the system
will re-absorb it.'

Can nothing be done V questioned Tor impatiently.
' Would any operation hasten his
recovery? As it happens just now, it is of
great importance that he should be able to return
soon to England ; affairs there require his
presence. Can you do nothing of that sort,
doctor V

Dr. Schneeberger shook his head, and his
odd, expressive face put on a shrewd look of
gravity.

Mein Herr, I would not attempt such a
thing, save as a last resort. If Nature can do
her work alone, be sure she will do it best herself,
and in her own way, and at her own
time. Do you know the secret of my success
in my profession ? Simply this, that I study

Nature closely, and let her alone whenever it
is possible. If she cannot work unassisted, I
give her what assistance lies in my power ; but
I never interfere with her unless I am obliged.
Nature will cure your friend in due course if
she has her way. My part is to stand by and
see fair play, that is all.'

Tor pulled at his moustache, and considered.


1 Well, doctor,' he said at length, ' you
know your own business best, of course, and I
must leave the matter in your hands. You
lay me under a great obligation by undertaking
the case. Will you grant me one favour
more ? The moment you see any sign of returning
consciousness will you telegraph tome
? I am most anxious to be with my friend
when he comes to himself. I will travel night
and day to secure that object.'

The little doctor rubbed his hands together
his favourite gesture when in any doubt 
and smiled benignantly upon his young English
friend.

1 Mein Herr, I will do all I can to facilitate
your wishes ; but you know it is quite possible
your friend may recover his faculties

quite suddenly  in an hour  in a moment of
time. No one can say how it will be in such
cases ; whether recovery will come by slow
degrees or like a lightning-flash. If possible,
I will give you due warning ; in any case, you
will be immediately summoned ; but that you
can be with him at the moment of his recovery
no one can promise.'

Oh, he may come to himself any minute,
may he V mused Tor half aloud ; and a
momentary expression of perplexity crossed
his face.

It cleared away quickly, however, and the
young man turned to the doctor with a frank
smile.

In that case, doctor, I will mention to you
rather a curious thing that happened a few
months back, when my friend was seized with
cramp whilst bathing, and became unconscious
before I could get him to shore. When he
came to himself he was completely confused
for several hours as to his own identity and
mine. He could not rid himself of the notion
that he was Philip Debenham  myself, that is ;
whilst I was, he declared, Torrington Torwood,
which is, as you know, his own name. I do

not know, of course, whether he would do the
same thing again after a prolonged period of
unconsciousness ; but in case he should wake
up under the strange conviction that he is
Philip Debenham, and inquire anxiously for
his friend Torwood, you will know better
what to make of it.'

Quite so, quite so ; a most unusual phase ;
a most interesting circumstance. Mr. Deben-
ham, your friend shall receive every care I can
bestow upon him. His brain interests me
much. Confusion of identity ! A most remarkable
thing !'

The simple-minded little doctor gave all
credence to what Tor told him. Suspicion
was no part of his nature. He looked at
everything from a psychological and professional
point of view, and was delighted to get
hold of any patient whose symptoms might
give him a clearer insight into his favourite
subject.

Dr. Schneeberger had a sister Gretchen, as
kind-hearted and simple-minded as himself,
and given over, in true German fashion, to
household cares and domestic management.
She was highly prepossessed in favour of the

distinguished-looking young Englishman and
his helpless friend, and made many protestations
as to the care the latter should receive
whilst under their roof.

Tor's mind was relieved of all fear on Phil's
account, feeling confident that he would be
well looked after, and only dismayed by the
length of time which might possibly ensue
before he should recover sufficiently to assume
his own name and position, and free Tor from
the rule he had assumed.

Tor dined with the doctor and his sister,
and was put through quite a catechism by the
innocently-inquisitive Gretchen, as to his.
history and antecedents, and his prospective
visit to England. It seemed ungracious to be
too reserved towards those who had shown
him kindness and consideration ; so Tor told
the little German Hausfrau how he had come
into a property in the west of England, and
had to go over to take possession, and to see
his relatives, from whom he had long been
absent. He did not say more than was
needful, feeling strange in his adopted character,
and rather fearful of making a slip ; but one
thing led to another, one question to many

more, and before they rose from table Tor
felt that he was indeed Philip Debenham,
and that no drawing back was possible
now.

I did not mean to say so much,' he mused,
as he went slowly upstairs to Phil's room ;
but, after all, what does it matter ? It is
good practice. A slip here would matter
little ; over there it might be fatal. Confound
that fellow ! Why can't he wake up
and act for himself ? Suppose he lies like that
for months ? a devil of a mess I may have got
myself into by that time ! Was I a great fool
ever to make this attempt ? If that Classis
wasn't such an old scoundrel, and didn't lead
that poor girl such a life, I don't suppose I
should ever have thought of such a thing.
Well, I'm in for it now ; I can't draw back ;
I must 0 through with it till Phil comes to
himself, and then I can vanish like Mephistopheles,
and never appear again. I think I
can manage to annoy Uncle Classis more thana
little before I abdicate in favour of Phil.
Uncle Classis, I have some very strong suspicions
as to your honesty and integrity. I
think you and I will enjoy some private conversations

together which poor old easy-going
Phil might have spared you.'

By which speech it may be seen that Tor
looked forward with mixed feeling's to his
debut in England as Philip Debenham, but
that, on the whole, the careless daring of his
nature inclined him to relish the situation more
than he feared it.

Naturally, a few days' consideration had
made him think more seriously of his scheme
than he had done at first, and the fear that
Phil might be long in coming to his relief
added not a little to his perplexities. However,
as he said to himself, it was too late now
to draw back, and all that remained to be done
was to take every care that the truth should
not leak out before the appointed time.

His first idea had been to leave amongst
Phil's possessions a sealed paper, informing
him briefly of his accession to wealth, and
what step he (Tor) had taken to defeat Uncle
Classis, and release Maud and the aunt from
his guardianship. On second thoughts, however,
he decided to leave behind no such
dangerous document, which, were a suspicion
once aroused, and an inquiry instituted, would

vol. I. 4

damn him, and, for aught he knew, clap him
into prison at once.

No, he would leave no evidence of any kind
behind him. He and Phil had not been close
friends for nearly eighteen years for nothing.
No misunderstanding could arise in Phil's
mind concerning Tor's actions ; and besides
that, the moment he showed any sign of
consciousness Tor was to be summoned. Even
should Phil awake suddenly, he must wait
where he was until his friend came to him,
and then all would be made clear, and the two
could return together to install Phil in his
own rightful place.

That point settled, there only remained to
make an interchange of such little possessions
as bore upon them the names of their respective
owners. Fortunately none of their clothes
were marked, for Tors greater height would
have rendered an exchange of garments impossible
; but a few little trifles, as knives,
pocket-books and cigar-cases, had initials
traced upon them, and these were all carefully
sorted out and allotted to their wrong
owners.

Phil's watch and chain and a signet-ring

upon his finger had been already appropriated,
for both had belonged to Mr. Debenham, and
would be strong evidence as to identity.

I don't suppose it will occur to anyone to
dispute that, however said Tor to himself,
for I don't know how a man sets to work ina
general way to prove that he's himself.
Anyway, I could quite as easily prove myself
Philip Debenham as Torrington Torwood, if it
comes to that, and I suppose that is all that
is necessary.'

That same evening Tor said farewell to the
kind little doctor and his sister, and to the
unconscious Phil, and started on his journey
to England.

He had left with Dr. Schneeberger the
money that had been sent to Phil by the
lawyer ; but he was put out and vexed to
find, when he had got twelve hours on his way
to England, that he had carelessly left behind
amongst Phil's things the 500 he had drawn
out of his own bank, which was nearly all
in English notes. He remembered how the
blunder had been made ; it was during the
exchange of personal effects. He had exchanged
pocket-books and had omitted to change the

42

University W 

UtftAKY

contents, and the 500 was left in the possession
of his friend.

It was too late to recover the money now,
he could not go back for it ; and he was not
afraid that anyone in that simple, primitive
household would even discover its existence,
much less appropriate it. In his easy-going
way he decided to let it remain there,
unknown to anyone, until he visited Phil,
and then he could decide what was to be
done.

After all, it does not much matter he said
to himself ; ' that 500 must be Phil's, and I
will draw out 500 of his in its place. I
meant only to use his money for the house
and estate ; but after all, when I first arrive it
would seem odd not to want any cash for
personal expenses. Yes ; I must be careful
not to do anything to excite suspicion. Nobody
will have any reason to be suspicious,
that I can see ; still Uncle Classis would bean
ugly customer to deal with, I doubt not,
if he did get any idea of the sort into his
head, and he will naturally pry into everything,
until I have succeeded in kicking him
out. I shall do that as speedily as possible,

but undue rashness and heat may defeat their
own ends. I must be circumspect.'

So Tor smoked and meditated and slept at
intervals, during his hasty night and day
journey, and became more and more at home
with his new name and dignity.

On board the boat that bore him across the
Channel, the idea of the meeting with his
kindred was the uppermost in his mind.

I suppose I must kiss Maud  a man is
always expected to kiss his sisters, of course.
Well, she won't be shy, so I suppose I need
not be either ; and at my time of life it would
be a needless fabrication to pretend I had
never kissed a pretty girl before  nobody
would believe it. It may be a little awkward
for us both when the true hero appears, but
that cannot be helped, and I shall so soon
vanish into obscurity that matters cannot
become trying.

I fancy in the capacity of nephew I must
embrace Aunt Olive, too. What a capital thing
it is the old lady and Maud being such
cronies ! Maud could never have come to
Ladywell without the aunt, and I should have
been sadly put about for an excuse for keeping

her away ; but with the two there appearances
will be saved, Mrs. Grundy silenced (when the
true heir turns up), and I can come and go as
I please.

1 hope I shall be equal to the occasion if
unknown relations or ancient friends turn up ;
but I think I know as much about everybody
there as Phil does, except for the blind Mr.
Meredith whom I do not think he ever mentioned
to me. There is Matilda with the
singed front locks, and Bertha with the false
ones ; and the son Lewis who is sure to be a
cad, and whose marriage with Maud I am to
stop, which I am convinced I shall do con
amove. Yes, I feel equal to the ordeal ; my
spirits rise to the occasion. I am quite anticipating
the happy meeting between my long-lost
family and myself !'

THE EXILES RETURN.

IVE ladies were assembled in the
drawing-room of Thornton House,
and all five appeared to be in a
state of expectancy, which in the cases of one
or two amounted to positive excitement.

It was a bright, hot evening in May, and
the windows of the room stood open to the
soft air without. This was an advantage as
far as Maud Debenham was concerned, as she
could hear the sound of approaching wheels
from her position in the room, without wandering
perpetually into the hall, as she felt disposed
to do, only that her aunt had just forbidden
any such ' exhibition of restlessness.'

Mrs. Classis sat in an easy-chair, with a
gorgeous piece of silk embroidery upon her
lap, at which she worked diligently ; and yet,

to those who knew her well, it was evident
that she was listening with some impatience
for an arrival which was every moment expected
 the arrival of her nephew, Philip
Debenham. She was a handsome woman, but
with no softness or sweetness in her beauty.
Her face was cold in colouring and expression,
and the well-formed features were on a large
and commanding scale. Her eyes were dark
and penetrating, and there was no kindliness
in their keen glance, and the sentiment they
most often expressed was suspicion, contempt,
or dislike. There was a certain power and
cleverness in the face, but no trace of tenderness.
Many people admired Mrs. Classis,
many came to consult her and to ask her
advice ; but no one loved her, or would dream
of looking for sympathy from her in any
trouble of mind or body. People only had
their own folly to thank for nine-tenths of the
ills that befell them, she affirmed, and therefore
sympathy and assistance were misplaced if
lavished upon them. It was a comfortable
creed to hold, and one which her husband
was more than willing to accept. It absolved
them so satisfactorily from all claims of

charity or benevolence. Mrs. Classis was a
hard, self-willed woman, and she looked it
every inch.

Sisters are frequently the very antithesis of
each other, and so it was with the daughters
of the late Mr. Charles Maynard. Olive, the
youngest, the quiet, white-haired widow, who
sat at work in a retired nook, was as gentle
and loving by nature as Celia was hard and
proud. She looked years older than Mrs.
Classis, for her hair was like silver, and the
small thin face was seamed with tiny wrinkles.
Only the skin retained some of its old softness
and bloom, and the expression worn by the
patient, peaceful face was one of childlike
trust and tenderness. Maud often told her
aunt Olive that she was ' the loveliest old lady
in the world,' which, if not strictly true, did
not convey an impression altogether wrong, for
the little widow was beautiful in many eyes
besides those of her niece.

The two daughters of Mrs. Classis were
engaged. in their favourite occupation of novel-reading,
which did not prevent them from
talking as much as they read.

Matilda was fair, fat, and somewhat puffy-looking.

She laboured under the delusion
that she was a beauty, which was strange,
because she was possessed of a figure which
certainly had no great beauty, whilst her
features were heavy and badly made, though
not exactly ugly, and her whole appearance
was, what her sister summed up in the expressive
word, ' sloppy.' She also believed her
manners to be fascinating and her conversation
enlivening ; but there seemed no particular
ground for this article of belief.

Bertha was a brunette, and possessed of
much more activity and vivacity than her
sister. She would have been ' fast,' had her
mother permitted it, or had she understood
how to make herself so. As matters stood,
she contented herself with an assumption of
high-spirited audacity which she took for wit,
but which Maud, with cousinly candour, often
pronounced to be simple rudeness. She was
possessed of a pair of keen restless dark eyes,
marked, irregular features, and a very sharp,
sarcastic tongue. Her forehead was concealed
by a mass of tiny dark curls, and the sallowness
of her skin gave something almost foreign
to her appearance. She did not set up for a

beauty like Matilda, but she did believe very
firmly in her own cleverness.

Maud Debenham was in pleasing contrast
to her two cousins. She had a small, oval
face, delicately formed features, and a pair of
dark violet-blue eyes with long black lashes.
Her hair, which was very plentiful, was of a
soft dusky brown, without any gloss  wavy,
wayward hair, which never looked altogether
neat and tidy, but with which it would nevertheless
be hard to find fault, unless, like Mrs.
Classis, one were very orderly and trim.
Without being a beauty, Maud was a bright,
sweet-faced, unaffected English girl, with plenty
of spirit and a decided will of her own, and yet
a happy facility of disposition which had
enabled her to bear cheerfully an uncongenial
yoke of dependence, and to retain her gay
spirits in adverse circumstances.

Her bright face was flushed with excitement
at the present moment, and her slight, graceful
figure flitted from window to window with
an ever-increasing restlessness, though her
movements were studiously quiet. The silence
without seemed to cause her much disappointment.


That horrid old coach must have been lathe
ought to have been here ages ago. How I
do hate waiting !' sighed she at last.

If you had taken my advice, and settled
yourself to some occupation, you would not
find waiting so wearisome,' said Mrs. Classis,
in measured tones.

Maud shrugged her shoulders behind her
aunt's back, and only murmured again :

I do wish he would come. I hate
waiting.'

I dare say he has stopped at the Ladywell
Arms to " liquor up," ' cried Bertha flippantly,
throwing her book on one side. 'I think
that's a way travellers have.'

Don't be vulgar, Bertha,' returned Maud
quickly. ' As though Phil would do that !'

He will be here fast enough,' said Matilda,
yawning. ' What is the use of being so impatient
V

Matilda was in reality as anxious as anyone
for the arrival of the traveller, but she assumed
an indifference she was far from feeling. A
bachelor cousin, the owner of a fine property
and a handsome income, was a man of importance
in many eyes. To Matilda he was as

interesting an individual as the world could
hold.

1 Hark !' cried Maud suddenly ; * I hear
wheels. He is coming. I am sure it is he !
Yes, yes ; I know it is the dogcart f And
she made a quick rush towards the door.

Come back, Maud !' said Mrs. Classis
coldly. ' Wait here till your brother comes.'

Oh, Aunt Celia !' she remonstrated rebelliously,
yet knowing remonstrance was vain.

But she had not Ions; to wait. In two
minutes the door was thrown open, whilst the
servant announced :

Mr. Debenham.'

It was not the Phil of Maud's dreams who
now entered  the slight, dark, bright-eyed
youth, like the pictures of the former Deben-
hams which had hung in her old home, and
which were all of the type she herself closely
resembled. This Phil was much taller, much
more strongly built, with tawny hair and subjoined
skin, more like the ideal traveller
from far-off lands than the dimly remembered
brother of her childhood's home.

But it was Phil himself, her own brother,
come back to her at last ; and that was enough

for Maud. She sprang towards him, put her
arms about his neck, and covered his face with
kisses.

1 Phil  my own dear, darling Phil ! How
delightful it is to have you back !'

The traveller took her face between his
hands and looked into it with smiling eyes.
Then he kissed her on brow and lips.

Is it really Maud ? little Maud of old
days ? What a metamorphosis !'

Should you have known me ? I am like
papa  like all the Debenhams. But you are
like nobody  ever so much better-looking.
Oh, it is so good to have you back !'

Thanks, little sister ; but see, you must
introduce me to my aunts and cousins. Remember,
I am quite a stranger to them
all.'

Maud led him forward with sisterly pride,
and did as he requested.

Tor (with a terrible consciousness of the
humorous side of the question, and with the
feeling of one who is acting a hastily prepared
part in a play, where a false word or look will
be the ruin of everything) went through his
part with a seeming ease of manner and with

a graceful cordiality that was greatly to his
credit.

His keen eyes dwelt successively upon each
relative presented to him, and he summed up
their characters pretty accurately at the first
glance.

That woman may be dangerous he said,
looking at Mrs. Classis. c But, for the rest, I
think I have not much to fear.'

They all sat down after the first hubbub of
greeting had subsided, and that inevitable
pause of semi-embarrassment ensued, which
for a moment nobody seemed ready to break.

Was the coach late V asked Maud at *
length. ' We have been expecting you such a
while !'

We got in in good time, I fancy,' answered
Tor. ' Only I got old Adam to drive round by
our old home, Maud. I thought I should like
one peep at the garden and the dear old
orchard where we used to play ; don't you remember
? It all looks just the same ; but
what a shame they have pulled down the old
house !'

Yes ; isn't it ? Weren't you pleased to find
old Adam still extant ? He would drive himself

to meet you, though he is so old. Did
you know each other V

6 Well, we were not long making ourselves
known. Yes, I was very pleased indeed to
see him. We had fine talks over old times.
It brought a host of matters to my mind which
I believe I had quite forgotten.'

Indeed, that six miles' drive with the garrulous
old servant had been of inestimable value
to Tor, and had been turned already to profitable
account.

Do you remember this house, Philip V asked
Matilda languidly.

Not distinctly, at all answered Tor, looking
round him. ' I don't think I was much here
as a child, was I V

Bertha laughed sarcastically.

 Ah, you have not forgotten what a welcome
you always received from Lewis  not to mention
other names

Mrs. Classis quenched her daughter's untimely
reminiscences by a stony stare. Tor
quietly changed the subject.

Where is my old antagonist, Lewis ? Is
he at home, or abroad V

'At home,' answered Mrs. Classis (whilst

Maud added in a whisper, ' Worse luck I')
He will be in almost immediately, and your
uncle too. They were sorry business obliged
them to be out at your first arrival.'

I hope  my uncle  is well,' said Tor, with
just enough of hesitation in pronouncing the
name to give it a rather significant emphasis.

Quite well, thank you answered Mrs.
Classis, raising her piercing glance for a
moment to his face. ' You will be glad to
see him again. It is some years since you
met.'

Eighteen, only,' answered Tor quietly. ' I
imagine I must have been an uncommonly
disagreeable kind of child, as not one of my
relatives, save Maud and Aunt Olive, ever
expressed the smallest wish even to set eyes
upon me, since the far-off day when I was
banished to Heidelberg. I wonder if I have
at all improved since then ?'

Tor spoke lightly, but his shaft struck
home, as he had meant it should. He was in
reality fighting his friend's battle, not his own,
and he was indignant at the treatment Phil
had received from his kindred.

1 Travelling was costly, many years ago,

VOL. I. 5

answered Mrs. Classis calmly. ' And for the
past ten years, since you elected to live with
your friend, you have been your own master,
and have never paid us a visit.'

1 Visitors generally wait to be asked,
mamma quoth Bertha pertly. ' And you
never would ask poor Phil. Maud and I have
often begged you to.'

The conversation was becoming a little too
pointed, and Maud was too happy to feel
spiteful towards anyone, so at this juncture
she interposed :

Oh, Phil, what did Tor say to parting with
you ? I always call him Tor, because you do,
and I've quite forgotten his real name. Was
he very much disgusted at your running
away ? Why didn't you bring him with you ?'

Perhaps I should have done so, if I could.
It seems quite odd to be without him ; but the
fact is, he's ill  it was a sunstroke, and he has
been ill ever since. He is under the care of a
German doctor, and I hope he will soon be
well.'

Poor Tor!' said Maud. ' I should like to
see him. He has been very good to you,
hasn't he, Phil ?'

Yes ; we have been chums a long while
now, and very good times we have had together.
Yes, he saved me from a very uncongenial
fate  an office-desk.'

As things have turned out said Mrs.
Classis drily, * you can afford to be grateful
to your friend. Had you quarrelled, or had
he died or even married, and left you without
any means of support, or any profession by
which you could earn a living, you would
have felt differently towards him and towards
those whose efforts for your welfare you
thought fit to despise. By a mere chance, an
eccentric will has made a rich man of you ;
but for that, you would sooner or later have
had to taste the bitterness of poverty and
beggary.'

Tor smiled carelessly.

I should at least not have begged from
mine uncle. I might even have managed to
support myself by my own handiwork, had
that dreadful fate befallen me  the necessity
to earn my own bread.'

I am glad to hear it, Philip. That being
the case, I am only surprised that you have
been content to live so long upon charity.'

52

Tor laughed carelessly. Such a suggestion
merely amused him. It might have hurt the
true Phil.

I perceive I have reached the realistic
country, where everything is reckoned by
pounds, shillings, and pence. In friendship
we calculate differently. Tor always said 
and he spoke truly, I believe  that the debt
of gratitude was mutual

4 Your friend must be romantic,' remarked
Mrs. Classis, taking up her work.

On the contrary,' returned Tor, with a
little significance, ' I believe him to be a most
practical man.'

I am glad to hear it. It must have
been an advantage to you to have such a
friend

Undoubtedly so. Perhaps when my
uncle and I proceed to business, he will find
that I too have learned to be practical.'

It certainly was unpremeditated, this interchange
of hostilities ; for though masked
under a show of friendliness, Mrs. Classis
and Tor quite understood the antagonism
which had already sprung up between them.
Mrs. Classis was a woman who liked to reign

supreme, and to feel that her will dominated
over all others. Anyone who declined to
submit to her sway became at once suspected
and disliked. And it hardly needed any
demonstration to prove that Tor had not the
smallest intention of yielding to her. She
had found out so much before he had spoken
half a dozen sentences.

Matilda and Bertha were annoyed with their
mother, and thought it very hard that their
handsome cousin should be browbeaten like
that before he had been half an hour in the
house ; but they stood too much in awe of
Mrs. Classis to remonstrate, and were greatly
impressed by the fact that Tor seemed quite
equal to hold his own, even against his redoubtable
aunt.

In fact Mrs. Classis seemed for the moment
to be silenced, and perhaps she was relieved
from a passing feeling of embarrassment by
the entrance of her husband and son.

Tor rose and advanced to meet them.

I suppose, sir, that I shall have to introduce
myself anew to you. In all probability
I have changed more than you, I see, have
done.'

Mr. Classis seized his nephew's hand and
shook it with great show of cordiality.

He was a man of heavy build and unprepossessing
physiognomy. His features were
somewhat coarse, but they lacked the open
frankness which most of the type possess.
There was a craftiness in his smile, and a
stealthy cat-like expression was stamped upon
his broad red face. His small brown eyes were
placed too near together for symmetry, and
were full of cunning and a certain lynx like
watchfulness which was not at all pleasant.
Co Tor, who was well used to reading men's
faces, he was simply repulsive.

Very good, Uncle Classis,' he said to himself.
' I think I see what kind of a customer
you will prove. You are quite as nasty as I
expected ; but not so clever  not half so
clever as your wife. So much the better for me.'

Tor paid small heed to the oily words of
welcome which were being poured upon him.
He was mentally taking the measure of the
man before him, and if Mr. Classis had understood
the cause of the smile which passed
across the bronzed face, he might have felt
less at ease than before.

Well, Phil,' said the younger man, holding
out his hand, ' I suppose we neither of us
retain a vivid recollection of the other. However,
we can soon make up for lost time.
Glad to see you, old fellow I'

1 Thanks answered Tor. ' Yes, I believe
our old friendship chiefly consisted in punching
each other's heads ; that, at least, is the
prevailing impression on my mind.'

I believe that was about the state of the
case !' said Lewis, with a laugh. ' Strikes me
if we tried that game on now, you would have
distinctly the best of it. How you have
grown !'

Tor laughed in his turn.

I might say the same. Boys do generally
grow after ten.'

Why, yes ; but you're a Hercules. Can't
think where you get your inches from. Great
height isn't in the family.'

I suppose knocking about the world has
done it. Coughing it in all climates is supposed
to make a man tall, I believe. Well,
it's pleasant to be back in the old place again.
Can't say I have a vivid recollection of it ; but
it will all come back in time, I don't doubt.'

I'll take you everywhere tomorrow, and
show you everything, ' cried Maud eagerly.
Oh, it is so delightful to have you at last !'

I shall be nobody now, I suppose, Maud,'
said Lewis gloomily. ' You will have nothing
to say to me now, of course.'

Maud laughed, and shrugged her shoulders.

I don't know that I ever did have very
much to say ; and if so, I've no doubt it was
all said long ago. Why should I have anything
particular to say to you V

Lewis made no reply ; but Mrs. Classis
said, in her incisive way :

You are a very foolish, pert girl, Maude
You never will take advice nor act with
propriety.'

Maud tossed her head, and looked at Tor
for the smile of encouragement which came
readily enough. He understood better than
she did the full meaning of the words that had
been spoken.

Lewis stood pulling at his moustache, and
watching Maud. He was a good-looking
fellow enough, this young Classis, for he had
inherited his mother's handsome features and
dark eyes, without any of her hardness and

severity. There was nothing of that in Lewis's
face ; on the contrary, it was somewhat weak
and indecisive in expression. He was an only
son, and had been greatly indulged, but
though his life had been a pleasant one, it
had not brought out the strong side of his
character  supposing that he had one  and he
was easy-going, self-indulgent, and indeterminate.
He was very much in love with his
pretty cousin, who was, he believed, destined
to be his wife ; but although Maud liked him
very well, and allowed him to follow her about
like a dog, she had no special regard for him,
and in her heart despised his small masculine
vanities and foibles more than a little.

Mrs. Classis rose majestically from her seat.

1 We are dining late to-night, that all our
party might have time to assemble. It is
time to dress. Maud, show your brother his
room.'

When she was alone with her husband, he
asked at once :

What do you think of him V

He is dangerous,' answered the wife emphatically.


How so V

He suspects and hates us, I am all but
certain; and he has all his wits about him.'

Mr. Classis' face put on an unpleasing look
of mingled fear and craftiness.

Who could have thought it ? The Deben-
hams have always been unsuspecting fools.'

Philip is neither one nor the other. You
must be very cautious, Alfred.'

Mr. Classis broke out with an exclamation
which would sound decidedly strong if
written down.

What could have induced the old fool to
make such a will ? and how dares that boy
take such a stand as that ? He's no true
Debenham if he has a will of his own. Who
could have guessed things would have turned
out so unluckily ?

PHILIP S SISTER.

OW, Phil, at last we have got you
to ourselves  I thought we never
should do it. Oh, there is such
a lot to say, I don't know where to begin !'

This was Maud's exclamation as, after some
skilful manoeuvring, she escaped with Tor into
the twilight stillness of the quiet garden,
where in a secluded summer-house Mrs. Lorraine,
the sweet-faced Aunt Olive, was sitting
as if waiting for them.

Tor had hardly heard the gentle voice of
the widow in the confusion of many tongues
at the dinner-table, but her face had attracted
him ; and when Maud pulled him forward,
exclaiming : ' Now, kiss Aunt Olive  kiss her
as often as you like, for she's the sweetest,

dearest aunt in all the world !' then Tor
stepped forward and did her bidding willingly,
feeling wonderfully little ashamed of the
deception he was practising upon two confiding
women, and growing marvellously contented
with his present position.

My dear Philip, my own poor Maud's
darling boy !' murmured Aunt Olive tenderly.
I can hardly believe you are the little Philip
who went away eighteen years ago. You
were so like your father then, and your
mother too, and now I cannot see a trace of
either.'

He is like nobody but himself, and I am
glad of it !' cried Maud, leaning against his
shoulder as he sat beside Aunt Olive, and
caressing his curly head. ' He is just my
own dear, darling Phil ! Oh, Phil, we will
have good times now you have come
back !'

We will so !' answered Tor emphatically ;
and if I find upon inquiry that that precious
uncle of ours has been making himself disagreeable
to you in my absence, I shall speak
my mind to him candidly and freely.'

Aunt Olive clasped her wrinkled hands

together and looked anxious. Maud laugh-hed
triumphantly.

Oh, Phil, you cant think what a comfort
it is to hear somebody talk like that ; to
feel that there is some one who dares speak
out !'

1 Dares V he echoed, lifting his eyebrows.
Do you mean you are all afraid of him V

i I think most people are,' admitted Maud
frankly. ' And then there is Aunt Celia, you
know, and she is as bad every bit ; and what
with the two of them, one feels quite helpless


You need not feel that any more,' answered.
Tor, with a short laugh. 'I'll pretty soon
settle the pair of them if they dare to annoy
you any more.'

Oh, Phil, you're a real angel boy !' cried
Maud with enthusiasm. ' Oh, Aunt Olive,
isn't it splendid to hear him talk ? You told
me he would not dare to defy Uncle Classis.
You said papa and mamma were timid, and all
the Debenhams, and that Phil would not be
so bold ; but you're quite wrong, aunty  quite
wrong.'

Yes, my dear ; I suppose travelling about

the world does a great deal to make people
brave. And I am very glad dear Philip is not
afraid of your uncle, for I should not wonder
I mean, you know all the money matters  I
mean, well, what shall I say? You know, I
think everything ought to be looked into well ;
and your uncle, he does not like that kind of
thing very much.'

So my respected uncle is a scoundrel, is
he V quoth Tor coolly. ' That is the plain
English of what you were saying, is it
not V

Oh, my dear boy, you must not use such
words f cried the little widow nervously.
Suppose he were to hear !'

4 It's my private opinion he will hear uncommonly
soon,' was the careless reply.
What is there to be afraid of ? I think
I am equal to the task of speaking my mind,
if what you say is true

But, dear boy, I said nothing  I know
nothing. I don't understand business, and
your uncle is a lawyer, you know, and knows
everything,' replied Aunt Olive, with timid
haste. ' It may be all right ; how can I tell ?
I dare say everything is just as it should be.

Only, of course, it is always better that things
should be looked into by somebody else from
time to time.'

Tor smiled a quiet assent, and did not pursue
the subject further.

Oh, Phil f cried Maud, breaking in eagerly
with a new subject, ' you will stay with us
for good now that you've come home, won't
you ? You will live at Lady well Manor  it
is such a lovely old place ! and you ivill let
me live there with you, and Aunt Olive too,
to keep house for you and take care of you ?
Oh, do take us away from this horrid house !
You will, won't you, Phil ? like a dear, darling
boy !'

1 My first step will be to establish you there
as mistress of the house, with Aunt Olive as
your companion,' answered Tor readily, knowing
well what would be Phil's wishes on the
subject. ' You shall be lady of the Manor,
Maud, and the whole establishment will be
under your sway ; and if anybody dares to
interfere with you, or even to criticize you 
just let me know.'

'But you will be there too, Phil,' said
Maud, whose face had first expressed ecstatic

delight, and then a momentary dismay. 'You
will live at Lady well yourself now V

He laughed lightly, and gave his strong
frame a little shake.

I shall be there a great deal, no doubt.
Business is business, and must be attended to.
But you must remember the kind of life I
have been leading for the past ten years, little
sister, and not expect me to jog down into
harness all in a moment. You must give me
time, and let me break myself gradually of
my roving habits. No doubt in time I shall
settle down into a model country squire ;
but just at first you must not be surprised
if I come and go like the Flying Dutchman,
a wanderer from force of habit. But you
may be quite sure that if you and Aunt
Olive are established at. Ladywell Manor,
my visits there will not be very few nor
far between.'

With that Maud had to be content, and
indeed it was not difficult, for the idea of
becoming the reigning power in Ladywell
Manor was in itself like a dream of joy.

Oh, Phil, you are a darling ! Shall I really
be free from Uncle Classis and Aunt Celia ?

Shall I really be my own mistress ? It seems
too good to be true !'

You shall be as fine a lady as you choose,
and free from the whole crew of them. I
don't think any of them will care to offend
you then

Maud laughed a laugh of pure happiness.


It's like a dream or a fairy-tale, isn't it,
Aunt Olive ? Fancy us two living in independence
and luxury at Lady well, and with
only Phil to bully us ! Oh, Phil, it's such a
lovely old place ! To-morrow I must take
you to see it. You will so like it. I do'
want to show it to you.'

To-morrow I expect I shall be given over
to business and my respected uncle. Why
not take me there . to-night, Maud ? It's as
light as day, now that the moon is up. It
isn't far, is it ?'

Only a mile by the footpath through the
park  two by the road. Oh, it would be
lovely to go to-night ! It would look splendid
by this light ;' and Maud clasped her hand?
round his arm closely. ' But I don't know if
Aunt Celia would let me go.'

vol. i. 6

Tor shrugged his shoulders, and laughed
carelessly.

We won't trouble to consult her as to our
movements. Eun and get your hat, Maud.
I'll settle Aunt Celia when we get back.'

With a delightful sense of independence,
not to say defiance, Maud ran off to do his
bidding.

My dear boy,' said little Mrs. Lorraine,
when her niece was gone, ' you must be careful
with your sister. She is very high-spirited,
and a very little encouragement would make
her rebel against all authority; and your uncle
and aunt are not used to being opposed.'

1 So it would appear,' answered Tor. ' It is
an experience they have yet to learn ; and sofar
as I am able to judge, it will do them a
world of good to find they cannot have everything
their own way.'

Well, Philip dear, I dare say you are quite
right. People do get sadly overbearing when
there is nobody to oppose them ; though I
must not say anything against your uncle, for
he has been very kind to me.'

Kind !' ejaculated Tor. ' A queer sort of
kindness, by all accounts.'

And family quarrels are sad things, dear
boy, at best, and often lead to much mischief,
which nothing can cure.'

1 will be cautious. I will do nothing rash,'
answered Tor, his thoughts wandering to the
Phil whose duties he had assumed. He saw at
once the danger of starting a quarrel, which
he might be able to sustain with success, but
which might involve his more gentle-spirited
friend in much difficulty when he assumed the
reins of government. ' I have no love of
disputes. You may be sure I shall not embroil
myself needlessly.'

Mrs. Lorraine's face put on a look of approval
and relief.

1 You are a dear boy, Phil. You are like a
tower of strength amongst us

Maud now came tripping back, begging Phil
to make haste and escape with her, because
she fancied some of her cousins were coming
in search of them. Three minutes later they
were beyond the precincts of Thornton House ;
they had crossed the narrow lane that divided
the two properties, and had plunged into the
deep shadows of the wooded park which
surrounded Ladywell Manor.

62

Now, Phil cried Maud triumphantly, ' you
are standing on your own ground  your very
own ! What does it feel like to be a landed
proprietor V

Makes one feel a foot and a half taller, at
the least ! What a lovely night for a walk,
Maud  the moonlight and the shadows and
the dew upon the grass ! I don't remember
the Manor a bit, Maud. Were we often there
as children 

1 No, hardly ever. We used to play in the
park sometimes, but I don't know that weever
went to the house when we were little.
Since we have been grown up, we have been
sometimes to call on old Uncle Maynard  I
and my cousins, I mean. I dare say you never
were there at all.'

1 No ? Well, I certainly don't remember it.
But old Maynard must have been very proud
of the place. I hear he has stipulated that
not less than a thousand a year is to be spent
in keeping up the establishment in the way in
which he kept it up. I suppose he was afraid
that my roving habits would be too strong forme,
and induce me to shut up the house and
leave it to decay. Any way, he has provided

against any such intention by his will ; and
whether or not I live there, the gardens and
the house will be kept up in style, horses in
the stables and servants about the place. You,
Maud, as lady of the Manor, will reap the
advantage of the arrangement.'

Tor had been informed by his uncle, at
dessert, of this proviso in the will, and he had
been much relieved to hear of it. It lessened
the uncomfortable sense of responsibility which
haunted him at times, when the disposal of
Phil's property was under discussion, and made
his way plain in many ways.

Walking in the moonlight, with Maud for
his companion, was a very pleasant occupation
for Tor. He felt a very warm admiration for
Phil's pretty, lively sister; and her affection
towards himself was certainly most agreeable,
none the less so from its being unmerited.
So far as Maud was concerned, Tor enjoyed
the situation vastly. He liked being made
the recipient of sisterly confidences, and he
felt that during the first struggle for emancipation,
which would have to be fought before
she quite escaped from the sway of her uncle
and aunt, he would make a far better champion

in her defence than would the real
brother.

So they walked on together in the moonlight,
laughing and chattering, until they
suddenly emerged from the shelter of the
trees, and saw the great house before them,
its many large mullions windows gleaming
in the soft radiance of the full moon.

It was a handsome red-brick structure, with
a wide terrace running round three sides of it.
The fourth, where the servants' offices lay, was
shut off from view by a high wall, now overgrown
with glossy ivy, which completely surrounded
all the back premises.

The gardens were laid out with great care,
and a little later on would be a blaze of colour.
The lawns were like velvet, and were shaded
by magnificent trees  cedars, yews and graceful
confer. Everything about the place indicated
the utmost care, and art had aided nature in
making all around particularly beautiful. The
house stood well, and the lie of the land around
it was peculiarly picturesque. Nothing there
was new or raw-looking. The reel-brick walls
were draped with graceful creepers ; the wide
terrace and shallow stone steps showed, without

any trace of decay, that hundreds of years
had passed over them. The look of the trees
and shrubs, and the air of the whole place,
indicated a calm and solemn antiquity.

Isn't it lovely V said Maud softly. ' Isn't
it a lovely place to have for one's own V

1 Very,' assented Tor, feeling, though only
by proxy, a certain pride of possession. ' There
are never such places as this out of England.
Can we go into the house V

Oh yes  let us. *We must go round to the
front. This way, by the terrace. See, isn't it
an imposing frontage V

It certainly was imposing. A wide carriage 1
drive made a bold sweep round to the house,
passing beneath the terrace, which, on this
side, was adorned by statues and an ornamental
stone balustrade, whilst two wide flights of
steps, one at either extremity, led down from
the terrace to the drive.

What a lovely road for riding, to say
nothing of the turf ! Oh, Phil, do you think
we shall ever ride together ? Shall you be
able to keep saddle-horses ? Uncle Classis
never would let us ride ; but I do so love it :
and I know how to, because I have stayed

sometimes with Koma, and ridden with her.
It would be splendid to ride here with you.'

You shall ride to your heart's content,'
answered Tor, laughing ; ' so will I, when I
have got a horse that will carry me. Is this
the bell ? How astonished the household will
be at such untimely visitors

The door was opened by a footman in sombre
livery, and an ancient-looking butler stood in
the background, gazing inquisitively at his
visitors.

c I have brought Mr. Debenham here,
Walters said Maud, advancing into the dim,
vast hall. ' We have walked across the park
to see the house by moonlight.'

Tor spoke pleasantly to the old servant, and
followed his sister into the fine old rooms
which were for the present, at least, to be his
headquarters. They looked dim and vast in
the uncertain light, the shadows very black,
and the colours indistinct and ghostly. They
could get no adequate light to see the place
then, nor did they wish. They were content
to rove about the great moonlit rooms, which
were not so dark but that they could see how
rich were the decorations, and how costly and

magnificent was every fitting, picture, or article
of furniture.

It was but a cursory visit they paid that
night, yet Tor came away with the impression
that Phil had come into a very fine property,
and that his house was almost worthy the
name of a palace.

They walked back quickly through the
shadowy park, whilst Maud described to him
the beauty of parts he had not seen : the hothouses,
and the great conservatory, and the
stable premises, where it was said half a
hundred horses had been stabled in olden
times, when there was need.

If we should not make ourselves too late,
she said, ' we would go round by the ' Lady's
Well, down in a hollow of the park there. It
is so pretty, all overgrown with moss and
ferns ; and the dell is a sweet place. It is a
magic well, you know; and if we go at the
right time we can have a magic wish. Some
day I'll take you there, and we will have our
wishes  though, now that you've come back,
there doesn't seem anything left to wish for.'

She slipped her arm within his, and turned
her bright face up to him.

1 Kiss me, Phil ! You're not a bit demonstrative
; I suppose men aren't  real men, who
aren't namby-pamby like Lewis ; but you've
not kissed me once, except before them all,
when you first came. Kiss me now, in the
wood here. I feel as if I should like to hug
you!'

Tor, however, evaded any hugging. He
bent his head and kissed her quietly, and with
a smile that seemed to make up for any more
open demonstration ; then, feeling the position
a little difficult, he hurried her home.
Maud's kisses he found dangerously sweet.
He had not realized how sweet they might
be. He was not an impressionable man ;
not what is commonly called a ' woman's
man,' and it had never occurred to him that
he might be seriously bewitched by Phil's
sister.

It was ten o'clock when the two culprits
entered the drawing-room, and found the company
looking decidedly bored. They had
expected Tor to amuse them during the evening,
and had felt aggrieved by his disappearance.


We have been across to see Lady well by

moonlight,' said Tor. ' It looks quite romantic
in that aspect.'

You might have let me come too. I love
a moonlight walk,' cried Bertha. ' You're
always so selfish, Maud.'

 Phil isn't your brother,' returned Maud.
I had ever so many things to say to him.'

Well, I think he might have stayed with
us the first evening,' said Matilda, with languid
raillery. ' Are we such a dreadfully unendurable
family, Phil, that you cannot put up with
us for one evening V

It is the fashion now, I believe, for young
men to do exactly as they please, without any
regard for the wishes of others or the exigencies
of society,' remarked Mrs. Classis incisively.


Tor laughed ; for anyone to laugh after
such a remark showed a boldness, not to say a
recklessness, which was enough to provoke a
shudder of horror.

I am afraid my social education has been
sadly neglected, my clear aunt, and that
ignorance, not fashion, prompted this breach
of manners. When a man has been knocking
about the world for ten years, with nothing

but his own fancy to please, he grows sadly
benighted as to the " exigencies of society."
I am afraid I was ignorant that it possessed
any.'

4 Ah, indeed ! Then you w T ill find yourself
in many very unpleasant predicaments before
many days are past.'

If I can extricate myself as easily as in the
present instance, I do not think I need feel
appalled,' answered Tor, taking a seat between
his two cousins. ' Surely I have not sinned
past forgiveness ? I think I can see signs of
relenting already. Shall we seal the peace by
making a plan ? Shall we all lunch at Lady-well
Manor the day after tomorrow % Will
you all be my guests, and help at the housewarming
? and afterwards we can explore the
grounds together at our leisure. 5

The cousins brightened up wonderfully at
this suggestion. Tor made himself exceedingly
agreeable and entertaining during the remainder
of the evening ; and by the time the
ladies retired to their rooms, they were loud
in his praises  Mrs. Classis alone excepted.

Philip, my lad, I just want to speak a
single word to you to-night,' said Mr. Classis,

when he found himself alone with his supposed
nephew.

1 Certainly, sir ; what is it ?'

It is in reference to dear Maud,' answered
Mr. Classis, struggling to appear quite at ease,
when really not at all comfortable. * Are you
aware that your father, in opposition to my
wishes, made a very extraordinary condition
as to the money which Maud has to inherit ?'

I have not heard exactly what it was 
though I have my suspicions,' answered Toi
coldly.

It was a very odd will. I advised him repeatedly
against it ; but he would have it so.
He was very fond of my Lewis. He was bent
upon the match. He only leaves one-third of
the money to Maud, unless she marries my
son. I could not persuade him to act otherwise.'


Tor's lip curled slightly.

1 Very magnanimous of you, sir.'

1 No, no ; only just, my boy ; only just.
Lewis has no claim to the money.'

Not the least in the world.'

Exactly ; but he will have two-thirds, that
is 10,000, if Maud, when she attains her

majority, declines to many him. He is ready
enough to fulfil his share of the contract. He
is devoted to her

Tor felt as though he should much like to
kick the devoted Lewis.

'Well, sir, what is your object in opening
this subject to-night ?'

1 Because, my dear Philip, I can see at a
glance that you will obtain great influence
over your sister ; and I am most anxious that
your influence should be so exercised as to lead
her to make a wise and right choice when the
time comes.'

Tor looked anything but pleasant as this
suggestion was thrust upon him.

My sister must make her own choice,' he
answered coldly, conscious that he would feel
distinctly annoyed if she elected to marry
Lewis Classis.

Of course, Philip, of course ; the dear girl
must be guided by her own feelings : but most
likely she will come to you for counsel and
advice, when she knows how the matter stands.
All I ask you is this  remember how much is
involved in all this ; remember her interest is
to do her father's will, and use your influence

to make her act so that she will not forfeit her
fortune.'

Tor took a few paces backwards and forwards
in the room.

When will she be told ?'

Very soon now; any time, indeed. You
will be a true brother to her, Philip ? 7

Certainly,' answered Tor, rather haughtily.

And you will counsel her to accept my
son ?'

1 That depends upon circumstances. I can
promise nothing. I have yet to learn what
manner of man your son is.'

A MORNING WALK.

OR awoke next morning to a variety
of new sensations. This personation
of his friend, which had
seemed a simple thing enough at the first and
at a distance, looked a far more difficult and
complicated matter now that he was well
launched upon the adventure. He did not
shrink from the exigencies of the position : he
had no idea of abandoning the game, nor did
he as yet regret the daring resolution he had
taken ; but he was quite alive to the difficulties
before him, and was perfectly aware
that great caution and calmness were needful
for the successful development of his design.

I am glad I came. If Phil should be ill
long, it would have given that rascal Classis
opportunity to tyrannize still more over those

two poor women, and perhaps bully Maud into
a marriage with his precious son.' At this
point Tor's brow contracted, and his face grew
stern. ' I will not have her bullied. She is a
very sweet girl, and she shall not be forced into
a distasteful marriage for anyone. There is
nothing more improbable than that she cares
two straws for that affected jackanapes of a
cousin ; she has far too much sense and spirit.
Yes, it certainly is high time that some one
came over to look into things, and to put a.
spoke into old Classis' wheel. He may have
managed matters very cleverly, but I have
strong suspicions that he has feathered his nest
pretty well at the expense of the Debenhams.
I'm not a man of business myself, but I hope
I'm not a fool : and though I know nothing of
the law, I suppose I can find a man who does.
Honest lawyers may be scarce, but I imagine
they are to be found. Yes, Uncle Classis,
we will soon see how we stand together, you
and I ; and if my suspicions verify themselves
' Tor paused and laughed a little

to himself at the picture his fancy drew, after
which his face grew grave, and he continued
his soliloquy meditatively. ' I flatter myself
vol. i. 7

I shall manage this business better than the
true heir. Phil would let old Classis lead
him by the nose far too readily. He will find
me a tougher subject to deal with than his
own nephew ; only I must be cautious, and not
launch poor Phil into a family feud needlessly,
for that would be sorely against his peaceable
tastes. I expect there will be a row in time,
but meantime I must keep the peace as far as
possible. It is that Mrs. Classis who is most
hostile. She seems as ready for the fray as I
am ; but there must be no recklessness on my
part. I must not show my hand too soon.
At present I have no hand to show. My duty
just now seems to be to make myself very
agreeable to everyone.'

With that amiable resolution in his mind,
Tor completed his toilet and descended
leisurely. It was still early, and the morning
gloriously bright and fine. The door
into the garden stood wide open, and Tor
strolled willingly into the sunny world
without.

Next moment Maud was running to meet
him, as fresh and sweet, in her simple white
dress, as the flowers she held in her hand.

Phil, dear old Phil !' she cried, standing on
tip-toe to kiss him. ' It is so good to have
you here. How nice you do look ! I am so
glad you are tall and handsome and not a bit
like anybody else. I can't bear pretty-looking
men, with little neat moustaches, and glossy
hair, and dapper clothes. I like them to look
like men  just as you do.'

Tor laughed, and drew her hand within his
arm. He looked down into the bright face,
with its tender, gracious curves and loving fearless
eyes, and felt that it was a face which was
good to look at and good to love.

I think I must return the compliment,
little sister, and tell you that I like to see you
look just as you do.'

Do you V she cried gaily. ' How nice of
you ! Because, you know, I am not really
pretty  I wish I were, but I know I'm not.
My nose turns up just a very little (Matilda
calls it a snub, but it isn't so bad as that), and
my mouth is too straight, and my chin rather
square, don't you think V feeling it critically.
But if you like me as I am, I don't care a bit ;
and when I have pretty dresses  for I do
know how to dress, I think  then I flatter my -

72

self that I have a sort of je ne sais quoi
expression which is very nice.'

Tor looked down at her with an amused
look in his great grey eyes.

'Well, Maud, you shall have as many je
ne sais quoi expressions as ever you please
now, if those and new dresses are identical.
The mistress of Lady well Manor must certainly
" walk in silk attire and silver have to
spare." Well, little sister V

For Maud clasped his arm tight, and made
a little bound into the air.

Oh, it is so lovely to hear you talk !
Everybody here is so stingy and prosaic. It
is like walking into a nice novel.'

The tete-tt-tete was interrupted at this
moment by the arrival of Lewis upon the
scene.

Good-morning, Maud. Good-morning,
Phil. What a lovely day it is !'

Tor assented readily, casting a keen, quick
glance at his cousin, who was perhaps to be
Maud's husband before very long. This
thought he found unpleasant ; but he was not
unjust, and he did not on that account feel
any acute dislike towards Lewis. On the

contrary, he entered into amicable conversation,
and the half-hour before breakfast slipped
rapidly away.

Tor began to wake to the consciousness
that he was a very popular man in his new
surroundings. At the conclusion of the repast
he found that Matilda and Bertha had attached
themselves to him, and had evidently no intention
of allowing him to make a second
escape. These nominal cousins of his did not
specially attract him, but he was willing for
the moment to drift with the current and to
make himself agreeable to all, so he submitted
gracefully to their attentions ; and as he found
they intended to remain his companions for
some time, he proposed walking over to Lady-well
and arranging for the luncheon-party thereon
the following day.

This scheme was gladly acceded to, and
the plan carried into execution. Lewis led
the way with Maud, and Tor followed with the
other ladies.

Matilda was full of a gracious interest in all
that concerned her companion. For awhile
she had laid aside her laziness, and was
sprightly and playful.

We so much hope that you are going to
settle amongst us, Phil she said. ' We have
all set our hearts on seeing Ladywell Manor
opened at last, as such houses should be  a
centre for hospitality and merry-making. It
would be such an advantage to the whole
neighbourhood, and would make a popular
man of you at once.'

Phil will be a popular man whatever he
does,' put in Bertha glibly. ' There, Phil, I
don't often pay compliments, so you ought to
feel flattered.'

Tor bowed ; but there was no time to put
in a word.

You have not said a word yet as to your
intentions,' continued Matilda. 'You are
keeping us all on tenter-hooks. We are all in
dreadful fear that you will keep to your
wandering life, and your Fidus Achates, and
leave poor Ladywell desolate, and the whole
neighbourhood lamenting at your departure.
Do be a good boy, and say you will settle
down and live amongst us.'

It is rather early days to settle upon one's
course of action,' answered Tor ; ' but Lady-well
shall certainly not be left desolate.'

1 Oh well, I know that the house and place
have to be kept up, to a certain extent ; but I
don't call that anything. What's the good to
anyone of a splendid house and lovely gardens
if nobody lives there ? It's no more good thana
ruin

1 Ah ! but somebody will be living there
now.'

I Oh, then you are going to stay ! I am
glad !' cried Matilda. ' How you do like to
tantalize us !' she added, looking up archly.

I I believe he's only chaffing now,' added
Bertha doubtfully. ' I believe he means the
servants. Do let him have his say out without
interrupting so often.'

I was thinking of Maud,' answered Tor.
Of course she will live there now. She will
be mistress of my house, whether I am there
or not.'

Both faces fell visibly. They had failed to
realize that Maud would live at Ladywell as
mistress there, and the idea was anything but
palatable. They were not fond of their bright,
pretty cousin, whose cleverness and sweet
temper often threw their attractions sadly into
the shade.

Maud !' cried Matilda almost scornfully.
Maud the mistress of Ladywell ! Oh, poor
Phil ! you will have an odd menage f

How so V asked Tor quietly.

Why, Maud is a child  a mere baby in all
household matters. She knows nothing and
cares nothing for such things. She will make
a sad mess of your affairs, if you entrust them
to her, Phil

He laughed carelessly.

Oh, as for that, Maud need not trouble her
head over domestic details. I dare say there
is a housekeeper to see to all that ; if not, we
can get one. Maud can receive company, and
ride with me, and drive round to call on our
friends, and give dinners and dances, and all
the hospitalities of which you spoke just now.
Her part will be to dress elegantly and reign
as lady of the Manor. She need not be
bothered with housekeeping.'

Matilda and Bertha looked still more
blank ; and the latter said, with a short
laugh :

Oh, Phil, what an idea ! I suppose Maud
has been trying to get all the nonsense out of
her head into yours.  Such an arrangement

would be too absurd. She hasn't the least bit
of dignity or experience.'

Well, as she is my sister, I don't see how
any other arrangement is possible,' said Tor,
with inward amusement at the obvious jealousy
of the cousins.

You will find her very capricious and
wilful said Matilda. ' Mamma has always
had great trouble with her. She is a nice
child enough, but quite unsuited to such a
position.'

Not more so than I am, at any rate. We
shall have to learn our duties together.'

'You! Oh, it is quite different with you,'
answered Matilda. ' Anyone can see that you
were just made for such a position.'

Nobody ever saw it before,' answered Tor
good-humoureclly. ' Well, well ! Maud and I
and Aunt Olive must jog along as best we
can, and come to you for advice when we are
in difficulties.'

Aunt Olive 1 Is she going to live with
you V cried Bertha.

Yes ; Maud will want a chaperon and a
companion when I am away. Aunt Olive has
kindly consented to fill that office.'

What a great many plans you have made
already f remarked Bertha sharply. ' Maud
has lost no time.'

Those plans were pretty well made before
I reached England,' answered Tor coolly. ' Do
you not think them excellent V

Matilda had recovered her smiles, and
answered readily :

1 Oh, delightful ; only you know they will
so soon have to be changed again.'

< Why so 

I mean when Maud marries

She is not even engaged as yet, is she V

Oh, well, I don't know what you call
engaged, but she and Lewis know quite well
that when she is twenty-four she will marry
him. She has not actually said as much yet,
because she has not been told all about it ;
but Lewis has been in love for years, and she
is very fond of him, and of course everybody
knows how it will end.'

And then,' added Bertha, 'you wil] lose
Maud, and be left lamenting all alone.'

Matilda gave a little conscious laugh.

1 At any rate he need not be alone long,
unless he chooses.'

Aunt Olive might consent to stay on,'
acquiesced Tor gravely.

The sisters laughed, and Bertha said boldly :

I Matilda meant that you might get married,
but I don't believe you'd ever be so silly.'

You look upon matrimony as a snare and
a delusion, do you V he asked.

I don't know that I ever considered the
subject particularly ; but I know if I were a
man, and had led the kind of life you have
done, I should be precious careful how I gave
up my liberty.'

I should have thought,' said Matilda softly,
that after such a life, a man would feel a
great pleasure in settling down in his own
home and surrounding himself by family ties.
What is your idea, Phil ? You ought to bethe
best judge.'

Tor was thinking of Maud and Lewis, who
were on together ahead, and he had not quite
caught the drift of the question.

I I beg your pardon. Were you asking if I
intended to get married V

The girls coloured, and made no very distinct
response.

That entirely depends,' went on Tor composedly,

' upon whether the right woman
appears. At my age, I don't imagine a man
often falls in love simply with a pretty face 
at least, he is a fool if he does. He looks for
character and mind and compatibility of
temper.'

He spoke so gravely that his companions
felt half pleased and half fearful. As nobody
had as yet fallen in love with either of them
for their pretty faces, it was something of a
relief to hear their cousin speak so dispassionately
of good looks. But then came the
crucial question, would their respective characters,
minds, and tempers pass muster
here ?

1 He never would care for Bertha,' thought
Matilda ; ' she is so flighty and sarcastic and
bold. I don't think I need be afraid of her.'

Whilst Bertha said to herself :

He never could admire Matilda ; she is
so fat-and lazy, and never has two ideas in
her head. I'm sure nobody need fear her asa
rival. Phil is sure to like spirit and dash.'

And both girls thought with strange
unanimity :

What a good thing Maud is his sister !

What a splendid thing it would be to be the
mistress of Ladywell Manor P

Tor was perfectly aware that both his companions
were wishful to marry him ; but the
fact that such was the case did not awake any
vanity within him. It hardly could do so,
since he knew equally well, that this desire on
their part had nothing whatever to do with his
personal attractions, but had been in their
minds long before he ever appeared upon the
scene. In fact, it was not upon himself
that their young affections were set, but
upon the owner of Ladywell Manor. He was
only the owner pro tern., and would soon be
succeeded by another, to whom he must handover
the property, together with the hearts of
the two fair aspirants for marriage with the
heir.

Tor smiled to himself as this idea crossed
his mind. He was more amused than displeased
by the. calculations of his companions, ,
for he had outlived his years of youthful
romance, and understood very well the practical
value of money. Most likely these girls
had learnt the same lesson, and in a harder
school. Was it wonderful that they should

think as they did, or struggle after a good
marriage ? Most women in their circumstances
would have done the same.

Whilst Tor and his companions were indulging
in the foregoing conversation and
meditation, Maud and Lewis were not silent
on their part.

Maud was willing to let Matilda and Bertha
enjoy Phil's society without molestation. She
felt so rich in the possession of such a brother,
that she could afford to be generous.

She was in gay spirits, and chatted away to
Lewis as fast as her tongue could wag. She
told him of the golden future before her ; how
she was to be queen of Phil's splendid house,
to have servants and carriages and horses at
her disposal, beautiful dresses to wear, and no
wish, as it seemed to her, left ungratified. She
was so well used to chatter her thoughts to
Lewis, that her flow of language never failed,
and his silence passed unheeded.

Lewis was not very clever nor very amusing,
nor did he possess any of Maud's favourite
qualities or characteristics ; but then he was
very good-natured, and never disagreeable or
jealous, like his sisters. Then he always did

as she told him, and was always ready to be
her escort, to change her books at the library,
turn over her music when she played, water
the plants in her garden-border, and, in fact,
make himself useful to her in any capacity
she wished. Maud had, therefore, a strong
cousinly affection for Lewis, not unmixed with
a little feminine contempt for one so entirely
and unquestionably obedient.

Latterly she had been annoyed from time to
time by comments made upon her treatment
of Lewis. He had always been something of
a butt for playful raillery, with no spice of
malice, and he always took her jokes in good
part ; but Mrs. Classis had of late chosen to
make mysterious and cutting remarks, which
her daughters had echoed ; and Maud had wondered
why it should be so, and had resented the
implied rebukes without understanding them.

This morning, however, she was in no mood
to resent anything, and talked gaily for a long
while, until at last she paused, more for lack of
breath than of ideas.

Well, Lewis, you look as solemn as an owl,
and almost as stupid. Can't you say how glad
you are at my good fortune V

1 1 can say it, of course ; but I shouldn't
mean it.'

Not mean it, you disagreeable boy ! What
do you mean by that V

Do you suppose I shall be glad when you
leave Thornton House ? Is it likely V

Oh, you can come and see me at Ladywell
whenever you like explained Maud graciously.
I shall always be so pleased to see you.'

Lewis grunted, not seeming as grateful ashe
ought for this general invitation.

Don't be cross, Lewis,' said Maud, coming
down from her high horse and speaking naturally.
' You ought to be glad at anything so
nice coming to me

Well,' said Lewis slowly, ' I did hope something
nice would come to you, some change
which would make your life more pleasant ;
but not in this way  this makes it more
difficult.'

What do you mean, Lewis V

Can't you guess, Maud ? / wanted to bethe
one to make a new home for you. I
believe you'd have come gladly to it from my
father's house ; whether you will from Lady-well,
is another matter.'

Maud lifted her great eyes to his, full of
surprise and vexation.

Don't be silly, Lewis. Don't spoil everything.
We have always been such friends.
If you are stupid, we cannot be friends anymore,
and it will be your fault.'

Is it stupid to love you, Maud V

6 It is stupid to tell me so, when I don't
want to think about such things.'

But. Maud, you will soon have to think
about them, whether you like or not.'

What do you mean, Lewis V

1 mean that when you are twenty-four
you will be of age, and you will then '

1 1 shall then be rich,' laughed Maud, interrupting
him gaily. ' Is that why you want to
marry me?'

You will not be rich, unless you fulfil a
condition your father made in his will.'

Oh, I forgot. I did hear there was a condition.
Do you know what it is, Lewis ?'

Yes, Maud. The condition is that you
marry me. If you refuse, you only get five,
thousand pounds, and I get the rest. He was
so anxious about it that he made a will, as I
have said.'

vol. i. 8

Marry you !' Maud's face had flushed
crimson. 'Why, Lewis, when papa died, I
was six and you were nine. How could he
want us to marry ?'

He looked to the future, I suppose. I
have known this some time, Maud ; but I
loved you before I knew. I think it was a
very unjust condition to make ; but I cannot
help that. Only do help to cancel the injustice
; do think of your dead father's wishes,
and think a little of my love.'

Maud was silent, and her face was grave.

You like me, don't you, Maud ?'

1 Oh yes, Lewis ; I like you very much

Do you think it would be quite impossible
to love me ?'

I can't fancy ever caring for you in that
way,' was the candid answer.

But you will think about it ?  you will
try ?'

4 1 shall think about it, I am sure ; but it all
seems so odd  it isn't fair. I ought to have
my mother's money, as Phil did not get it.
You have no right to it.'

Not the least,' Lewis admitted frankly ;
but I did not make the will.'

No ; Uncle Classis did that, I suppose
said the girl rather bitterly.

Lewis did not contradict her ; he only said :

You value your fortune, Maud ?'

Of course I do. I am not a baby, and I
am not silly. I don't want to be dependent
on Phil, though he is so generous. I ought to
be independent and have my rights.'

Then take them, Maud,' pleaded Lewis
earnestly ; * take them, and take me too.'

I must think about it,' answered Maud,
with the petulance of a bewildered mind.
Don't talk to me any more. I must think
about it all ;' and, in her own mind, she
added, ' I must talk to Phil.'

It was rather a silent party that walked
back from Ladywell to Thornton House.

82

MICHAEL MEREDITH.

Three days had now passed since
Tor's arrival at his uncle's house,
and a good deal of business and
pleasure had been compressed into that brief
period.

The master of Lady well was winning golden
opinions from all around him. Mr. Classis
had found him pleasant and easy to deal within
a business capacity, and there had been no
awkward questions asked during the examination
of the papers and accounts relating to the
Ladywell property. True, his nephew declined
the generous offer he made of relieving him of
all the business and trouble in the management
of the estate, and elected to keep all in
his own inexperienced hands ; but then, as
Mr. Classis said to his wife, ' There was

nothing in that ; no implied distrust. Most
men would prefer to manage their own
property, though it's a thousand pities he does
not go abroad again and leave everything to me.'

If he went abroad a hundred times,' Mrs.
Classis answered, ' he would never leave anything
to you

What makes you say that, my dear V
asked Mr. Classis, who had a high opinion of
his wife's shrewdness.

I say it because I know it is true. He
has never forgiven you for banishing him to
Germany, and for refusing his absurd request
to become a musician or an artist, or something
ridiculous and disreputable. I found all that
out before he had been an hour in the house ;
and, mark my word for it, he will make things
disagreeable for us if he can.'

Mr. Classis looked uneasy.

You don't suppose he suspects anything V

 I dare say he suspects any number of
things ; but at present it is impossible that he
should know a single one. It is your business
to make sure that he never does know.'

Mr. Classis mopped his face in his handkerchief.


1 If Maud will consent to marry Lewis,
things are pretty safe to go smoothly, and no
questions will be asked. But if she refuses,

and matters come to be looked into ' He

paused, and again had recourse to his handkerchief.
His red face had grown a shade
paler. His wife looked at him rather contemptuously.


I always told you you were a fool to
speculate with that money ; and if you are
clumsy now, you will be a greater fool still.
If Maud declines Lewis, you must have five
thousand ready to hand over  now don't look
like that ; you know it will be the only way.

Only ' and here came a meaning pause 

we must take care amongst us that she does
not refuse Lewis.'

I don't know what more we can do than
we have done,' answered the husband. ' I
never do let grass grow under my feet. The
very first night he came, I tried to enlist
Philip's sympathy on our side, and in his
sister's cause ; but he has not given me any
answer yet.'

I wish you would speak to me before you
do these things,' said Mrs. Classis coldly.

1 You always make blunders when you act
alone.'

What blunder can I have made in that V
he asked blankly.

1 You should never have appealed to Philip
at all. He is your enemy, whether you know
it or not. You may trust him to oppose any
scheme of yours.'

Mrs. Classis, it will be seen, had not fallen
in any way under the fascinations of the
supposed Phil ; and so certain was she in her
own mind of his enmity to his uncle and herself,
that she looked with cold and amused
contempt upon her daughters' very evident
desires to entrap him into a flirtation.

Maud and her two cousins were having a
halcyon time under Tor's quiet generalship,
which always carried the day. Whatever
plan he proposed, he invariably contrived to
bring to pass, and he seemed bent on giving
pleasure to everyone about him. A wonderful
box had arrived from London the previous
evening, which contained all manner of articles
and fabrics most delightful to the female
mind ; and although Maud had received the
lion's share, Matilda and Bertha were so

generously remembered that there was no
room for jealousy in their minds. In fact,
just at present, they were more inclined to be
jealous of one another, and to make much of
Maud. Phil's affection for his sister was
evident, and policy certainly urged them both
to make a friend of her.

Maud, however, was unconscious of any of
the schemes and plots fermenting round her.
She was so happy in her brother's return that
all other feelings sank into insignificance.
Even the talk she had had with Lewis a few
days ago, had not made the impression upon
her that it would have done some time since,
and she had put the subject on one side for the
moment as a matter of minor importance.

Phil,' she said one evening, as they strolled
about the garden in the softened light, 'I
really think I must take you to see Mr. Meredith
to-night. I promised I would soon, and
you have been here four whole days. Let us
go now.'

1 Is it not rather late to pay a call V

1 Oh, times and seasons are all the same to
him, poor man ! He is blind, you know.'

1 Yes, I remember he was mentioned more

than once in that last batch of letters I had.
But I don't think you ever named him before
in your letters, Maud, and I have not an idea
who he is.'

He is a sculptor  at least he was before he
went blind ; and he was a great friend of papa's
once. He has lived a good deal abroad,
and only came here when he lost his sight.
He has been here about four years now,
I think ; but it is only lately that I have
got to know them well. He is a widower,
and has one daughter, who is a great friend
of mine. She is twenty-five, and her name
is Eoma ; she is so beautiful, and she is
a sculptor too, and so clever. She and her
father are wrapped up in one another. Eoma
has never been quite the same, they say, since
he lost his sight. It is a dreadful grief to her,
I know.'

How did he lose it  asked Tor.

They were walking along a smooth green
lane now, which was a short cut to a picturesque
house, nestling in a wooded hollow,
which Maud pointed out as the home of the
blind man and his daughter.

I do not know  I think no one knows but

Koma and he. They never speak of it to anyone.
It happened when they were in Italy 
before he came to England to live. I think
she feels it almost more than he does ; and
since then they have quite settled down, and
she has been working with her whole soul to
complete the works he began, and to earn
fame for his sake. She is so clever and so
beautiful, Phil, I am sure you will admire
her.'

They had reached the house by this time,
and its picturesque beauty did not decrease
upon a near approach. It was a charming
house without and within, and the exquisite
harmony and grace which everywhere prevailed,
betokened the artist's eve and the
cultivated taste of the connoisseur.

Let us go straight in,' said Maud, entering
the hall unhesitatingly. 'Mr. Meredith
will be in this room. He is always pleased to
see me. Come in, Phil. He wants to make
your acquaintance, I know.'

Maud opened the door of a small room, hung
with rare paintings, and full of beautiful
objects of art, and led her brother in.

An old man, with a magnificent head and

t)9

flowing white hair, was reclining in an easy-chair
under the open window, from whence the
light streamed with picturesque intensity upon
him. His dress was a black velvet gown
lined with crimson, which attire gave to him
a marked resemblance to the conventional
picture of a mediaeval wizard.

Welcome, my dear Maud,' said the old
man in low even tones, as the door opened.
I heard your step outside the door, and I
heard your sweet voice too. So I know you
do not come alone. Who is your companion
to-day V

Guess !' cried Maud, with her rippling laugh.
Guess, Mr. Meredith ! It is somebody that I
know you want to see.'

The old man's face changed and quivered
with emotion. He rose from his seat, and held
out both his hands.

It is Philip Debenham's boy come back at
last  my oldest friend's only son. Come here,
my lad, and take an old man's blessing. For
your dead father's sacred memory, I bid you
welcome here.'

Tor felt unpleasantly like an impostor as he
grasped the hands of the blind old man, but

he betrayed no hesitation either in word or
manner.

I am very glad to see you, sir. It is very
pleasant to be so warmly welcomed by almost
unknown friends and relations, after eighteen
years of banishment.'

The old man's face fell suddenly.

That is not a Debenham voice,' he said,
and he sat down with a sigh.

Maud laughed, and gave Tor a merry glance
from her blue eyes. Then she sat down at
the old man's feet, and stroked one of the
long white hands.

Now, Uncle Michael, don't be tiresome !'
she began in her winning way. When most
wishful to please him, she always called him
Uncle Michael.' ' If you go off into a melancholy
fit just because Phil's voice is not like
papa's, he will be afraid to come and see you
again. You know the Debenhams are never
very brave ;' and she gave Tor another laughing
look.

Michael Meredith smiled, and sighed with
gentle resignation.

4 Ah, child, you do not understand these
things ; you are too young to comprehend the

tender, lingering memories of the past  the
yearning for some living link of association
with bygone days. You have been one such
living link, my sweet Maud. I hoped in
Philip to find another. Come here, boy.
Kneel down before me here ; let me pass my
hand across your face. Perhaps I shall find
traces there of your father, my friend, whom I
so dearly loved.'

Tor did his bidding readily, with the same
consciousness of humbug that he had before
experienced ; but this time the comical side of
the situation was uppermost in his mind.

The blind man felt his face carefully, passing
his hands repeatedly over the boldly cut
features ; but his own face assumed an expression
of disappointment.

Not a Debenham face either,' he said, with
a sigh. ' You are only a Debenham in name,
boy.'

Tor smiled as he rose to his feet, thinking
how much nearer than he knew, was the blind
man to his mark. Maud laughed brightly.

Phil has struck out quite a new line for
himself ; and I am glad of it,' she said gaily.
1 1 like him to be different from everybody else.'

-t

Ah, yes ! you are a child  you are a child
returned Michael Meredith, with a gentle sigh.
You do not understand these things. But
let that pass  let that pass. It is, after all, only,
an old man's fancy. Come and sit beside me,
Philip. Tell me of yourself, your travels, and
of my beloved Italy. You must be familiar
enough with that, I imagine. Who does not
love Italy V

Tor was at his ease now, and in his element.
He could talk well and fluently of what he had
seen and what he had done in distant lands.
His tales were not as marvellous and thrilling
as those of many travellers ; his roving had
not extended, for the most part, beyond the
regions of civilization, but he had had adventures
enough and to spare, and experiences
of every description, and he could tell a story
graphically and well.

Maud listened delightedly for a long while.,
but when the talk turned upon Italy and
Italian art and society, her attention waned
somewhat, and presently she slipped quietly
from the room. She made her way under an
arched doorway, and down a long flagged
passage, which led to some building indes



pendent of the house, and only connected with
it by this passage. At the end was a red-baize
door, which opened noiselessly into a
great bare room lighted from the roof, which,
as could be seen at a glance, was a sculptor's
studio.

There was only one living occupant to this
large silent place, and that was a girl, who was
so intent at work over a group in terra cotta,
that she had not heard the quiet entrance of
her visitor.

Koma Meredith was very handsome, with a
dark, majestic, southern beauty, which she had
inherited from her Italian mother. She had *
magnificent dark eyes, and masses of hair of
an intense blue black, and her figure was tall
and perfectly proportioned, and her proud still
features were faultless as those of a Grecian
statue.

Koma f cried Maud softly. ' Koma, I
have brought Phil to see your father. He is
such a sweet darling boy ! You must come
and see him

Koma looked up at the sound of Maud's
voice, and a faint smile awoke in her eyes ; but
it died away again as the sentence proceeded.

1 am busy, Maud. You know that daylight
time is precious.'

Bother your old statues, Koma ! You must
come and see Phil. He is so handsome, and
such an angel-boy !'

Koma smiled, but only to please Maud.
She was fond of the bright-faced impulsive
girl ; but it was to very few that the young
artist extended her friendship.

I am glad he pleases you. Long-delayed
meetings do not always turn out so well.'

He is perfect !' Maud cried ecstatically.
Oh, Koma, we are going to live at Ladywell
almost directly, and Aunt Olive too. Won't
it be lovely to escape from that dreadful
Aunt Celia ! Things are a little better now
Phil is here, for he won't let anyone bully me,
and nobody tries ; but it will be splendid to
escape altogether, and to be mistress of a big
house, and to have nobody to order me about.
You must come often to see me, Koma : we
will have delightful times there !'

Everything was couleur de rose to Maud
now, and she was delighted to pour out her
soul to her friend. Koma put down her tools
and sat down to listen, her quiet face expressing

a certain amount of sympathy, but no
excitement. Maud thought her almost more
grave than usual.

But you must come and see him yourself,
Koma !' cried the girl, suddenly jumping up.
It is almost time we were going, so you must
come. I'm sure Uncle Michael would want
you to see him. He is amusing him so nicely
with his stories

Tor had already risen to go, had promised
to repeat his visit soon, and was looking about
for Maud, when the door opened, and she
came in, with Koma following.

My daughter, Philip,' said the old man,
detecting at once the well-known, quiet tread.
You must be friends.'

They shook hands, and exchanged a few
sentences, and then the guests took their
departure.

Isn't she lovely ?' asked Maud, the moment
they were out of earshot. ' Eoma, I mean ;
isn't she perfectly beautiful V

1 She is very handsome, and she has splendid
eyes, and a beautifully modulated voice ; but
is she not very haughty V

6 Well, perhaps she is. I thought she

VOL. I. 9

seemed so to-day. Perhaps it is her way with
strangers : she goes out so very little. Don't
you admire her very much V

1 Yes, I admire her beauty ; but it isn't the
style I care for most, Maud. She is just the
woman Ph  Tor would rave about. That dark
Italian beauty is more to his taste than mine.'

Is it ? He must have good taste. I wanted
you to admire Poma, Phil.'

So I do, little sister, and so I will ; but I
must be allowed to admire you more !'

Maud laughed archly.

You bad boy ! Yes, of course you may do
that. How could you help it V

When the father and daughter were alone
together, there was a long silence between
them. Poma stood behind his chair, gently
smoothing; his white locks with caressing;
fmg;ers. The old man's face was full of thought
and purpose.

Poma,' he said at length, ' that is the man
who is to be your husband.'

Yes, father,' she answered, in calm, even
tones.

Her dark eyes seemed to flash fire, and

then the lio;ht died out and left behind a
melancholy dimness ; but that the blind man
could not see.

'You are willing it should be so, my
daughter V

'Yes, father

The voice betrayed no shadow of reluctance.

It has been my cherished scheme for years
even when he was a friendless outcast. I
would for some reasons he were still poor and
friendless, so that my wealth might enrich him.
But now I shall see you reigning as queen at
Lady well Manor.'

Roma's face grew cold and haughty, yet "
her voice was gentle  even playful.

Perhaps he may have other views himself,
father. I am not the only woman in the
world.'

The blind man shook his head with a gentle
smile of certainty. He had all the quiet
egotism of a nature wrapped up in itself  of
a man whose will had never been crossed,
because he had never mingled with his fellows.

No, Eoma. I have read his nature already.
I can bend him to my will. But it will not be
needed, I think. He has seen you. He will

92

see you again. That will be enough. Koma,
you must do your part. I shall expect it of
you

Yes, father.'

He put up his hand and took hers caressingly.


You are quite heart-whole, my child ?
You have never loved any man except your
old father V

Her eyes softened with unspeakable tenderness.


Never, father  never, never !' she answered
passionately ; ' and I do not think I ever
shall.'

He smiled like a man well pleased.

Oh yes, you will, my little Eoma. You
will love your husband, and make him a goodwife,
as my daughter should do. You will
love him when you are married, Eoma. Love
should come after marriage, not before, if it is
to last

A TALK IN THE TWILIGHT.

T last Maud's cherished dream was
realized, and she found herself at
Ladywell Manor, reigning there
supreme, with only gentle Aunt Olive for
guide and companion.

The beautiful house, with its great rooms
and wide corridors, seemed like a palace to
her ; and the luxury and costliness of her surroundings
were delightful, after the somewhat
sordid treatment she had received at Thornton
House.

Such a brother and such a nephew had never,
surely, existed before ; of this fact Maud and
her aunt were from the first quite convinced ;
and they grew more and more certain of it,
when they found, each day, fresh proofs of his
generosity and care.

Tor, it must be confessed, spent Phil's
money somewhat lavishly; but, all the same,
it was not reckless or thoughtless expenditure.
During the ten years that the two friends had
travelled together, it had pleased Phil to keep
a rough estimate of the amount he owed Torso
that when his fortune was made (by the
finding of gold or diamonds, by some enormous
legacy, or some marvellous stroke of
fortune), he should know how much he must
pay back to his friend.

Tor had listened with good-humoured
amusement to Phil's dreams, though he never
for a moment supposed that any one of them
would be realized. To satisfy this fancy, however,
he always promised that, if ever wealth
did come, he would consent to be paid back in
full ; and Phil from time to time solemnly
handed over an I U for large sums, which
there seemed no likelihood of his ever being
able to repay.

Tor thus possessed Phil's notes of hand for
several thousand pounds, and, on the strength
of this, he felt entitled to spend money pretty
freely upon the household and upon Phil's
sister and aunt. As for his own modest wants,

he supplied those from his own funds, as he
had no wish to line his pockets at Phil's
expense ; but he lavished upon Maud everything
he thought she could fancy, and liked
nothing so well as the sight of her face when
it kindled with pleasure and surprised delight.

He was conscious of a dangerous fascination
in Maud's innocent confidences and caresses.
He played his part of a kindly, undemonstrative,
elder brother very creditably ; but he
was conscious at times that he did not feel
very brother-like, and that, on the whole, he
was glad he was not her brother ; also, that
it behoved him to act with care and deliberation.


He came to the conclusion that it would not
do for him to settle down at Ladywell, as
people expected him to do. Such constant
intercourse with Maud would be dangerous ;
and besides, he had no right to the position he
occupied ; and he did not wish, when the
time for elucidation should come, to find himself
in a more awkward position than was
absolutely necessary. Until he had known
Maud, he had fancied that as soon as the real
Phil came to claim his inheritance, he should

just vanish from the scene, directly his friend's
rights were made secure ; and he had said to
himself that what people said or thought of
him would be a matter of no moment. Now,
however, this opinion was changed. Tor
considered that it would matter a good deal
what somebody thought of his conduct, and
therefore he regulated it with great caution
and discretion.

He established Maud and her aunt as joint
mistresses of the household, with unlimited
control over every department. For himself,
he said, he was utterly ignorant of English
life and ways, and it was useless to appeal to
him. He could not settle down all in a
moment. He must have liberty to come and
go at will ; and although, when at the Manor,
he took the foot of the table, and was nominal
master in all things, he was as often absent as
present, slept as much at the Ladywell Arms
as at his own house, did much travelling backwards
and forwards, and was only master, in
reality, of the business matters of the estate.

It was necessary for him to be about the
place for a month or two, he told himself, to
keep an eye upon Classis, and to see Maud

over the difficulty of her majority. When
that matter was finally settled, he could feel
at liberty to do as he thought best. It was
much to be hoped that Phil would by that
time have recovered, and could appear to
claim his own. Until he did so, it was evident
that frequent visits would be necessary, just to
see that the uncle kept his place, and his
fingers out of other people's pies.

Maud would be twenty-four in six weeks'
time, and would be called upon to make her
decision as to her future. True, the property
could not be divided until a few months more
had passed ; but the question as to the marriage
must then be practically settled. Tor had few
serious apprehensions that she really would
marry her cousin ; yet he could not feel altogether
easy in his mind.

When a good opportunity presented itself,
he opened the subject to Mrs. Lorraine. He
had an idea that the quiet little widow could
give him information upon a good many
subjects, if he could induce her to speak out.

It was a lovely evening, early in June.
Tor had been too busy looking after the farm-work
to come in to dinner. When he strolled

into the drawing-room, about nine o'clock, he
found Aunt Olive there alone, sitting still in
the soft twilight, her eyes fixed dreamily upon
the saffron glow in the western sky.

Dear boy, have you had something to eat V
she exclaimed, as he appeared. ' It cannot be
good for you to be so irregular with your
meals.'

Tor laughed in his pleasant fashion.

My dear aunt, I have done excellently for
myself, and my digestion has learnt to accommodate
itself to circumstances, as a good
traveller's should. What glorious weather weare
having ! Where is Maud V

1 Gone for a stroll with Lewis. He dined
here to-night. She did not know you would
be in, or I am sure she would have stayed.'

Lewis comes here pretty often, does he
not V

Yes  rather. You do not object ; do you,

Philip V

6 1 1 Oh no. Why should I ? He's not a
bad fellow, so far as I know.'

Aunt Olive drew her chair a little closer,
and looked as if she had something on her
mind.

I thought I might venture to make him
welcome to your house, dear Philip, because
you see  I knew how much  I mean, I am
sure that you are very fond of dear Maud.'

'Do his visits please Maud very much 
and Tor's face grew grave. ' Is that what you
mean, Aunt Olive 

Well, I hardly know whether they do or do
not yet,' answered the widow ; ' but of course
we should all be glad to see her take pleasure
in his society  at least I suppose we ought ;'
and here Aunt Olive paused and shook her
head. ' Sometimes I am afraid that  perhaps
I am not as forgiving as I should be.'

Tor smiled a little at this ingenuous
avowal.

You mean, I imagine, that a marriage
between Maud and Lewis would not be quite
to your taste 

Aunt Olive looked round nervously, as
though she fancied some one might be prying
about.

You need not be afraid, aunt,' said Tor ;
1 you are in my house, not in my uncle's.'

She gave a nervous smile, and then a sigh of
relief.

I am afraid I am a sad coward ; but living
all those years in his house would have taken
anyone's courage away, I think. We were
always afraid to speak out, Maud and I.'

You can speak out now. I am most anxious
that you should speak out.' Tor rose, and
began pacing the room slowly in the dim uncertain
light. ' Aunt Olive, I can see that you
feel that this marriage ought never to take
place. Is it not so V

But Philip, dear boy, I did not say so.
How can you know ? And Lewis is a very
harmless young man, I think. Do you think
badly of him V

1 Personally, I know no harm of him ; but
he is a Classis.'

Mrs. Lorraine shook her head and sighed.

1 Think how much depends upon the marriage.
Ten thousand pounds, more or less, for
Maud.'

It was a most unjust will,' began Tor
hotly ; ' iniquitous, I should have called it,
had it not been her father's

And yours, Philip ; your dear father's will
put in Aunt Olive gently. * Poor, poor
Philip !'

Why did he make such an extraordinary
condition V questioned Tor. ' What could
have induced him to take such a step ? What
was Lewis Classis to him ? I cannot conceive
how such a scheme could ever enter his
head.'

Can you not V said Mrs. Lorraine. ' I
should have thought you could have seen.'

Tor drew near, and sat down once more
"beside her.

You mean it was under pressure he made
it ? You think Classis compelled him V

How can I tell, Phil ? Alfred Classis did
possess an extraordinary influence over him ;
but then your uncle declares that the will was
against his wishes.'

Tor snapped his fingers contemptuously.

That for his word ! Aunt Olive, let us be
open with one another. We both have Maud's
welfare at heart, and we both distrust Classis
down to the ground. Yes, you do, my dear
aunt ; and you cannot conceal the fact from
me. Shake off the paralyzing influence that
residence in his house has thrown over you.
Tell me frankly what you know, and what
you suspect. Let us band together against a

common foe, and let justice at last find out its
lawful prey. Alfred Classis is a scoundrel 
you know that as well as I do  better, perhaps
and I mean to bring him to book before I
have done with him

Tor spoke with quiet significance. Mrs.
Lorraine put her handkerchief to her eyes,
and gave one or two short gasps, almost like
sobs.

Oh, my dear boy she said, with a little
hysterical laugh, ' it is such a comfort to hear
somebody talk like that  to feel that there is
somebody to stand up against him at last.
He has made so many lives miserable. He
hardened my father's heart against my dear
husband, and he ruined us, and ruined your
poor father. Oh, he is a bad, bad man,
Philip ; and I have begged and prayed that
something might come to put a stop to his
evil ways

Well, I have come, you see said Tor
encouragingly. 'And if I cannot stop them,
I hope at least to expose them, which often
comes pretty much to the same thing.'

Tor's cool matter-of-fact tone quieted the
widow's agitation, as he meant it should.

Now, Aunt Olive,' he said, after a pause,
do not be afraid, and do not be excited.
Let us talk this matter quietly over, and let
me hear what you know of this precious
relative of ours.'

Thus called upon, Aunt Olive showed
symptoms of the old nervousness, which Tor
checked by asking a simple question.

Did you know my father well, Aunt Olive V

1 Yes, yes  very well. Maud (that is your
mother, Philip) and I were deeply attached ;
it was Celia who never seemed like one of us.
We loved each other dearly, and always lived
in close companionship. Your father was like
a brother to me. My first years of widowhood
were spent in his house  you were a child,
Phil, but I dare say you remember so much.'

Tor bent his head.

I do not remember my childhood very
clearly. I was at school the last two years of
my father's lifetime ; but of course I know the
circumstances.'

Your mother had died a few years back.
I kept his house for him afterwards. I knew
in that way, much of what went on, and of
how much he was troubled.'

How was lie troubled ? By Classis V

It was money troubles  heavy losses. I
don't understand business, nor did he, but
your uncle did. Your uncle managed his
affairs for him, and never lost his own money ;
but your poor father was for ever losing his
property  I never did understand how it was

Foul play, I suspect,' said Tor quietly. ' I
am no business man myself, unfortunately ;
still, one knows that such things are done.
But when my father died, he left me absolutely
nothing. Was he aware that all his property
had gone, that he left me quite dependent
upon my uncle V

No, I am sure he did not know that,'
answered Mrs. Lorraine quickly. ' I know he
believed there was almost as much for you
as for Maud. He was a wealthy man, your
father ; and heavy as had been his losses, he
still believed he left you amply provided for.
I was thunderstruck when the news came that
there was nothing left out of all the property.
I have never been able to understand it.'

Tor's face was stern.

This is worse than I expected ; and after
eighteen years it would be difficult, I suppose,

- ,

to institute an inquiry. I must think about
it. Who were the executors under my father's
will V

Your uncle and aunt ; and Alfred was
guardian and sole trustee for you and Maud.
Oh yes, one can well see under whose influence
it was that that will had been made.'

How was it my father was so much under
Classis' influence V

Mrs. Lorraine shook her head mournfully.

1 That I never could quite comprehend ; but
your father was a weak and timid man, Philip,
more of a dreamer than anything else ; and
after he lost his wife, he leaned more and
more upon anyone who would give him advice
and take trouble off his hands. He was
friendly with your uncle for a long while. I
do not think he suspected him readily ; but
his confidence was shaken at last, I know.
He feared, and I think he hated him before
he died.'

Tor pulled thoughtfully at his moustache.

'Things should have been looked into at
the time of my father's death. You did not
think of consulting a lawyer, and telling him
your suspicions V

vol. i. 10

A tremor of fear seized Aunt Olive's frame
at the bare thought of such a thing.

1 Dear boy, how could I ? I knew nothing
your uncle is a lawyer, and a much-respected
man. Oh, I could not have done such a thing!
It would have been dreadful. Can you not
see for yourself that it would have done harm,
not good V

Perhaps. I am not learned in the law,
thank goodness ! I understand common-sense
and plain justice, but not law. I should like
to have my uncle to deal with in South
America. We could have managed the business
quietly and easily there.'

Mrs. Lorraine shivered a little.

'Dear boy, don't say such dreadful
things.'

Tor laughed, and his face relaxed. He
mused awhile, and then asked :

Did my father ever speak to you about his
will V

1 Yes ; but he never said much.'

Was the will made before or after he had
begun to distrust and dislike Classis ?'

'After; and I think when the will was
made they were worse friends than ever.'

Then it stands to reason that the will was
not made according to his real wishes

c I have always thought that,' and the
widow sighed ; ' but what can be done now ?'

Will you tell me, if you can, what he said
to you on the subject V

Aunt Olive reflected awhile.

I know he said that I should be surprised
when the terms of the will were made known ;
but that I should understand better by-and-by,
and he thought in the end that I should
approve. I can't quite remember the words,
but I know they were to that effect.'

Tor pondered awhile over this communication.


Lewis was a mere child then ; he could
not have had any love for him. He could not
have told that he would not turn out as big a
scamp as his father.'



1 No, he never liked Lewis. He used to call
him a " little snivelling, mean-spirited cad."
He was not a nice boy at all, if you remember.
He is very much improved on what he
was.'

Very likely ; but he has not much to boast
of. He is an awful muff.'

102

Aunt Olive shook her head in her gentle
reflective fashion.

1 When we think from whom he would
inherit his character, can we regret that he
has none V

I think you are more cutting than you
know, Aunt Olive said Tor, laughing. ' But
now, one question more, for I want all the
light I can get. Did my father ever express
himself as uneasy about that will ? Did he
never seem haunted by a sense of its injustice'?
Did it never seem to trouble him V

No, never answered Aunt Olive. ' I used
to wonder afterwards that it had not done
so.' She paused, hesitated, made one or two
beginnings, and finally said in a very low
voice, ' Phil, if I tell you something, will you
promise not to be rash ?  it is only a suspicion
a groundless one, most likely. You must
not think too seriously about it.'

I will not abuse your confidence answered
Tor reassuringly. ' I know as well as you do
that suspicions are not of much value ; still I
should like to hear yours

Mrs. Lorraine leaned forward, and in a voice
that was little more than a whisper said :

6 1 have fancied sometimes that he made a
later will, unknown to your uncle, and that
that was why the unjust condition he had
made about Maud's money did not trouble
him.'

Tor started, and his eyes gleamed in the
darkness.

Nothing more likely ; but where, then, is
that will V

Aunt Olive shook her head sadly.

Ah, Phil, that is just the point ; where is
it % It could not have been deposited with any
lawyer, or it would have been forthcoming at
the time. He must have kept it, foolish
fellow that he was, amongst his private papers ;
and you know who had the examining of all
effects, and into whose hands it would fall.
Poor Philip never thought of such things ;
and even he, I think, would hardly believe

that a will once found would be ' and

here she came to a dead stop.

You mean,' said Tor quietly, ' that you
think Classis found the will and destroyed it?'

What can I think V questioned Mrs.
Lorraine nervously. ' It certainly was not
found, and you may be sure your uncle would

have his suspicions and leave no papers unexamined.
If it was there, he must have
found it ; but nothing was ever heard of it.'

The old scoundrel !' muttered Tor between
his teeth.

1 believe he is an old scoundrel,' said Mrs.
Lorraine, with more spirit than usual ; ' but
what can be done ?  We do not even know
that a second will existed at all. If we were
able to prove that one was drawn up, we could
not prove that your father had not destroyed it
himself. You may be quite sure that Alfred
Beiassis will have taken every precaution.
He will not have done any foolish thing that
could be proved against him.'

Tor rose and paced the room slowly.

If this will had existed, would not my
father have told you ? Would not he have
given it into your custody before he died ? It
seems incredible that he should have left it to
the mercy of Beiassis.'

Philip,' said Aunt Olive slowly, ' I believe
that is just what your father meant to do. I
believe he meant to confide in me at the last.
I was timid, and he knew such a secret would
be a burden to me if I had to keep it long ; but

I am convinced lie meant to tell me at his
death. But his death came suddenly ; it was
a stroke, you know, and in a few hours all was
over. He could not bear your uncle near him,
and though he could not speak, he made it
plain that he would not have him in the room.
Then he tried  oh, so hard  to tell me something,
and he could only stammer and stutter ;
and he tried to write, but he could not ; and
then he tried to tell me again, and grew so
distressed and agitated that I had to pretend
I understood, and that calmed him again.
Philip, I am convinced he was trying to tell
me of that will. At the time I had no idea of
such a thing ; but afterwards, when I was calm,
when I was not in such distress of mind, and
could think the matter over, I became certain
it must have been that. But it was too late
then. Your uncle has been over all the
papers : nothing could have escaped him.
Your poor fathers writing-table was hacked to
pieces ; they said it was old, and only fit for
firewood. I believe it was to find every paper
that was there. I know it had secret drawers;
probably in one the will was found. Oh, Phil,
it is a scandalous shame ! but unless Maud

marries Lewis, her fortune will go to enrich
the Classis family. What is to be done ?
How ought we to counsel the dear girl for the
best V

It seems to me,' said Tor slowly, as he
paced to and fro in the dusk, ' after what I
have heard to-night, that for no reason whatever
ought Maud Debenham to marry Lewis
Classis.'

Aunt Olive looked down and sighed. To
Tor's ears it sounded like a sigh of approval
and satisfaction.

Wormwood S TENANT.

CTlSpHE little town of Whitbury was
considered by its inhabitants to bethe
pleasantness place in the world.
On this bright June morning it certainly
did look very bright and picturesque, with its
old-fashioned red-brick houses and its wide,
clean main street, upon which all the best
shops opened. Most of these stood under an
old-fashioned arcade, which was a capital place
of resort for the ladies of the place, who
could meet there in all weathers to shop or
to gossip, and where everybody was quite sure
to meet everybody else in the course of a few
hours, and to hear all the news of the neighbourhood.
Above the arcade, the houses rose
more closely together, for the upper stories
overhung the lower ones, and the quaint

frontage were adorned by crossway beams of
wood let into the brickwork, as well as by odd
carved figures, little frail  balconies, heavy
looking gables and twisted chimneys. Very
cheerful and picturesque was the appearance of
the High Street of Whitbury, and it might
be taken as a good type of the characteristics
of its inhabitants, who were for the most part
quaint old-fashioned people, and full of cheerful
kindliness.

After the region of shops was passed, the
street widened gradually, and finally lost
itself in a great square, in the centre of which
stood a fountain. Opposite to the entrance of
the High Street stood the Town Hall, which
occupied one side of the square ; and to the
right was a fine old Gothic church, called by
the inhabitants of Whitbury the ' Minster,' and
the square was designated Minster Square.

The two remaining sides were taken up by
some solid old-fashioned red-brick houses, all
of them covered with ivy and roses and
clematis ; and in these houses dwelt the elite
of Whitbury  a ' set ' who formed a kind of
miniature commune, and ruled with undisputed
sway over the interests of the place.

Next to the church was the Rectory, in
which the clergyman and his wife passed their
quiet, useful lives, and were content to be
beloved by their flock without seeking popularity
or fame in other quarters. The doctors'
house came next. Old Mr. Blake and his son
divided the practice, and lived happily together
under one roof, whilst the children of the
younger man grew up around them, and were
in the eyes of their grandfather the most
remarkable children under the sun.

Mr. Graves, the lawyer and general referee
of the place, lived next to the doctor, and a
retired sea-captain of good family next to him.
But the largest house in the square was one
which stood opposite the church, and was surrounded
by a large garden, in which it stood,
as it were, aloof from its neighbours, in stately
superiority.

This house-was occupied by Miss Marjory
Descartes, second and only surviving daughter
of the late Thomas Descartes, Esquire, who had
been the most wealthy and respected man in
Whitbury so long as he lived, and whose
memory was still held in high repute by the
whole community of the little town.

The two Miss Descartes had been motherless
ever since they could remember, and fatherless
for the past ten years. Miss Marjory had
always held the reins of government, and
when her elder sister had died five years ago,
it seemed to make marvellously little difference
to the existing order of things, save that
Miss Marjory, as she was always called, complained
somewhat of the loneliness of her lot.
Even this trouble was soon cured, for within a
year of her sister's death, she received into her
house the son and daughter of a cousin in
India, and they had remained with her ever
since.

The young man had just taken holy orders,
and had been ordained curate to Mr. Long-more,
the rector, which arrangement pleased
Miss Marjory very well, and delighted Ethel
not a little, as it secured to her the constant
companionship of her brother.

In the pleasant dining-room of Minster
House the three were sitting at breakfast.
This room did not overlook the square, it was
at the back of the house, and commanded a
wide view of undulating country. The ground
fell away rapidly behind the house, and after

sloping lawns, broken by terrace-walks and
bright flower-beds, there came an almost precipitous
fall to the river-bed, and beyond the
river low-lying pasture-land dotted with
rustic farmsteads, and cornfields, and wooded
hills beyond.

Miss Marjory sat behind the urn and read
her letters. Ethel and Horace sat opposite
each other, and chatted of whatever was uppermost
in their minds. Ethel was pretty
and fair, not over wise, easy to please and
hard to put out. Horace was as much like
his sister as his faultlessly clerical costume
would permit. It was one of Ethel's puzzles
how her brother got in and out of his waistcoats.
She meant to inquire into the matter
some day, but had not yet had the courage todo
so. She was not the least afraid of Horace,
but she did stand in respectful and respectable
awe of ' the cloth.'

Miss Marjory's face was by far the best
worth studying of the three. It was a shrewd,
clever, sharp face, not at all unkindly, yet nota
face with whose owner anyone would care
to trifle. Her eyes were keen and penetrating ;
her words came readily, and very much to the

point  rather too much so, some people
thought  and she had no hesitation in speaking
her mind to anyone.

In stature she was rather under than over
medium height ; her figure was trim and active,
and she always dressed herself with scrupulous
care and excellent taste. She was nearer sixty
than fifty, but could ride and drive as well as
anyone in the county, and she could work for
hours in the garden without fatigue. Her
garden and her poultry were her two special
hobbies, but she had innumerable interests
beyond her own private concerns, both in the
small world of Whitbury and in the large
world beyond. She was a keen politician and
a staunch Tory, and was convinced that if the
world went on long at its present pace, it
would shortly come to an end, to which goal,
indeed, it was rapidly advancing.

Miss Marjory was reading her letters, and
by-and-by she said, in her sharp, quick way :

Bother the man !'

What man V asked Ethel.

Is anything wrong V questioned Horace.

Everything will be wrong if I am turned
out of my house,' said Miss Marjory. ' And,

what's more, I won't go  no, not for anybody.'


1 Who wants you to V questioned Ethel,
opening her blue eyes. ' Nobody would dare
to turn you out, Cousin Marjory.'

Miss Marjory laughed grimly.

Landlords and lawyers dare anything ; but
I'm not going, so there's an end of it.'

But what has happened ?' asked Horace.
How can you be turned out ? I thought you
had the house on a long lease.'

Long leases come to an end in time, child.
I did not know mine had so nearly expired.
Twenty eight years gone since we came here 
how time flies !'

And are you going to be turned out V
asked Ethel, with interest. ' Oh, Cousin Marjory,
what a shame !'

I'm not gone yet, and I don't see myself
going,' was Miss Marjory's answer, as she
nodded her head and looked unutterable
things. ' Besides, it has not come to that yet ;
ould it looks like the thin end of the wedge,
and I won't have it.'

What have you heard ? Has your landlord
written V

No ; only the agent, Mr. Wetherby, who
takes the rent and sees to the repairs. He
writes to remind me that the lease has nearly
run out, and says that it will be his duty to
advise his client that matters have changed a
good deal since that lease was drawn up, and
that a much higher rental might now be demanded.
Now I call that a crying shame.
Look at all I have done for the place  why,
no one would know it for the same, and then
to go and demand more rent ! But there is
no gratitude or honour left in the world nowadays,
I think. Oh yes, child, I know I have
plenty of money ; I could just as well pay
150 as 100 for my house ; but it's the injustice
of the thing that angers me. Here I
go spending time and money and labour unsparingly
to improve the place, and then I am
told I must pay a higher rent for it. Oh, it's
infamous !'

Well, perhaps the landlord won't take the
agent's advice. Perhaps he will go on in the
old way. You don't know yet.'

'Don't I know? Don't I know human
nature ? In old times things were different,
but this generation is all alike. Do you think

he'll go on taking 100 a year when he could
get 120 or 150 ? Not likely ! And then
this agent wants me to show my hand, and
say if I want to stay on  as if I should be
such a simpleton as that  and tells me his
client may possibly wish to live in the house
himself, as though I would turn out of my
house for anyone, landlord or no landlord. It
is quite disgusting to be treated so, ordered
about by a mere boy

Who is a boy V questioned Horace, as
Ethel was too much inclined to laugh to
put in a word. 'The agent or the landlord
V

1 The landlord, of course ; that Wetherby is
as old as I am.'

How do you know he is a boy V

'How do I know that you are a boy?'
snapped Miss Marjory, 'because I have eyes
and ears, and am not an idiot. Ears, indeed !
one need hardly have had ears to hear that
child yell. He was a baby when that lease
was drawn up, as cross and crying a brat as
ever tired a nurse's patience. His mother
died at his birth, and Guy Torwood couldn't
bear to live in the house after. My father

vol. i. 11

took it  we had been friends for years  and
we have lived here ever since. The poor man
took his child away, and travelled about, trying
to forget his trouble. He died eight or
ten years later ; so, unless the son is dead too,
that screaming baby is my landlord. Fancy
that ! What an odd world we do live in ! As
if I should turn out of my house for a baby in
long-clothes !'

And then Miss Marjory, her explosion of
wrath having blown itself off, laughed heartily
at the picture her fancy had drawn.

If you knew his father, and were friends,
perhaps he will not behave badly,' suggested
Horace.

Pooh ! As though young men ever cared
for their father's friends nowadays ! All
that is quite a thing of the past, quite old-fashioned.
He will just do what his agent
advises.'

Write to the agent, and ask him not to
say anything suggested simple-minded Ethel.
'Tell him what you have spent over the
garden, and explain that it wouldn't be fair
to raise the rent. I should think he would
do as you told him then.'

Horace laughed, and Miss Marjory smiled
silently, by which Ethel was made aware that
she had said something foolish.

1 know what I shall do said Miss Marjory,
after a pause. ' I shall demand young Tor-wood's
address, and write direct to him. If
he is in England I shall try to see him. I
hate middle-men  they always make mischief
where they can ; and that Wetherby and I
never were over and above civil to one
another. He has to come over and see about
the outside repairs, and I always do get my
way in the end ; but he owes me a grudge for
it, and I know he will do me an ill-turn if he
can. I'll have no more dealings with him.
I'll go straight to headquarters. I'll have
young Torwood's address  Torrington Tor-wood
I believe is his name ; his mother was
a Torrington  and I'll lay the matter before
him. His father was a true gentleman,
and his mother a gentlewoman. He has
gentle blood in his veins on both sides, and
ought to know how to treat a lady. At
any rate, I can but try. I'll have nothing todo
with Wetherby. If I am to get my own
way at all, I must set about things my own

112

way. I generally find when I do that, I am
successful.'

Miss Marjory gathered her papers together
and rose from the table, bidding Ethel go and
practise her music in the drawing-room for an
hour. Horace went off to assist at matins in
the Minster, and the aunt retired to her
morning-room to write her note. Miss Marjory
never let grass grow under her feet. She
liked to act as promptly as she planned. In
five minutes the letter to the agent was
written, demanding Mr. Torrington Tor wood's
address ; and as she folded and addressed it,
the writer heaved a sigh of satisfaction.

There, that is one step taken. I don't
mean to go, and I don't mean to pay more
rent ; and I'll have no dealings with that
Wetherby. I'll see young Torwood himself,
and put the matter fairly before him. If he's
his father's son, he will hear reason.'

Miss Marjory then donned a broad-brimmed
garden-hat and made a tour of her domain,
visited all the houses, gave orders to her
gardener, and pointed out with unerring
accuracy of observation anything that was
going wrong or that had been carelessly done.

Her poultry next claimed her attention, and
were closely inspected ; after which the active
little gentlewoman returned to the house, and
held an interview with her cook in the
kitchen ; and then, having set her household
in order, she put on her outdoor garments,
took her letter in her hand, and sallied forth
into the sunshine of the Square and the High
Street.

I'll post my letter first,' quoth Miss Marjory,
' and then I'll take Mr. Graves's opinion
about the matter. I'm determined not to act
through the agent, so if he advises that I
should, his advice will come too late. I don't
mind hearing different opinions, but I always
intend to manage my own affairs my own
way.'

So the letter was dropped into the post-box ;
and then Miss Marjory intercepted her friend
the lawyer on the way to his office, and treated
him to an animated recital of her wrongs.

Mr. Graves was a suave, kindly old man,
with a great liking for Miss Marjory ; so he
entered with interest into her story, expressing
great concern at the idea of her being
in any way disturbed, and denouncing any

attempt at turning her out of her house as a
monstrous iniquity.'

Oh, you needn't fear that, Mr. Graves, for
I shall not go answered Miss Marjory, with a
derisive laugh. ' Little Torwood was an infant
when I last saw him ; and, as I said to my
young cousins to-day, it isn't likely I am going
to turn out of my house for a baby in long-clothes.
I've settled what I'm going to do.
I will see the young man myself. I don't like
Wetherby, and I hate all middle-men. I'll
settle the matter with Torrington Torwood himself.
I've written now to demand his address.'

Ah, my dear lady, that would certainly
be a pleasant way of managing matters ;
but young men do not always care about
being troubled with business, and sometimes
decline to act except through their agents.'

Oh, that is all nonsense !' quoth Miss
Marjory sharply. ' I mean to see him myself.
He cannot say no to an old woman, his father's
friend  he is too much of a Torwood, I hope,
for that.'

6 Ah well, we will hope for the best. But
he may not be in England, you know ; his
father became a great traveller, and the son

may inherit his tastes. What then, my dear
madam V

Why, then I shall write to him,' answered
Miss Marjory, nothing daunted. ' I am determined
to deal with him direct.'

1 1 wish you all success,' said the old man,
lifting his hat. ' And if young Torwood does
come over in person, let me see him. I
should like to make acquaintance, for his
father's sake.'

Miss Marjory sped on her way, well-pleased
with herself and her decision. She made a
few purchases in the shops under the arcade,
and exchanged greetings with several friends
whom she met there. Miss Marjory's movements
were so brisk that it took her but a
short while to accomplish her errands ; and
when at length she consulted the little
memorandum she held in her hand, she said
half aloud :

Now I think I've done all my work, so
I'll go and talk to Alfred Classis about that
iron bar I want for the greenhouse roof.'

Alfred Classis lived some way down the
High Street, and did an extensive business in
ironmongery. He was an honest, upright

tradesman and a good workman ; and Miss
Marjory had a great deal to say upon the
subject of greenhouses, iron girders, and some
small repairs about the house, to which he
listened with respectful attention.

'And Classis,' said Miss Marjory, in conclusion,
' I wish you would look in yourself
some morning. My lease is nearly out, and
before I renew it I should like to make a note
of all that wants doing inside and out, and
consider how much I ought to do, and what I
shall demand of my landlord. I would rather
have you with me when I make the tour of
inspection

Very good, ma'am,' answered Classis respectfully;
and Miss Marjory said good-morning,
and walked home.

She waited with some impatience for an
answer to her letter, and she had to wait sometime
; and then, when the reply came, it was
anything but satisfactory.

Madam,' wrote the agent,

In reply to yours of the 10th instant,
I beg to state that I have never had direct
dealings with Mr. Torwood, but have merely

managed his house-letting for him, and have
paid the money over to his bankers. I am
thus ignorant of his present address ; but I
have applied to Messrs. Courts and Co., and
enclose their reply.

I am, madam, your obedient servant,

J. Wetherby.'

The enclosed note contained the information
that Mr. Torwood was at present in very bad
health, and was quite unable to attend to
business. He was in Germany, but his actual
address was unknown to his bankers. He had,
however, entrusted the management of his
affairs to Mr. Philip Debenham, whose address
was 'Lady well Manor, Ladywell, Devonshire.'
Any business might be referred to him, as he
was authorised to act for Mr. Torwoocl.

Bother !' said Miss Marjory sharply.
What business had he to fall ill just as my
lease was running out ? I don't want his
friend ; I want him. However, if I can't get
what I want, I must take the next best. I
shall ask Mr. Debenham to come and see me,
if he can, and explain to him how matters
standi

Perhaps he won't like to be bothered about
Mr. Torwood's affairs suggested Ethel. ' Perhaps
he won't come.'

6 He should not have undertaken to manage
them, then,' said Miss Marjory quickly. ' He
must abide by his own undertaking

Shall you write to him now ? I wonder
what he will say ? Perhaps he will be easier
to deal with than Mr. Torwood.'

I generally find men pretty easy to deal
with,' answered Miss Marjory. ' They mostly
see sense after a bit. Yes, I will ask him to
run down. Devonshire is a good way off, to
be sure. Still, there is no particular hurry.
He can take his time. In fact, I won't write
immediately. I will think matters over again
first.'

MAUD S MATRIMONIAL VIEWS.

HERE was no doubt that Maud
Debenham made a charming mistress
of Ladywell Manor. She
had a natural grace and freshness, and a
spontaneous vivacity that was very attractive ;
and when Tor, on Phil's behalf, entertained
the county, and made the Manor House the
centre of much pleasant hospitality, Maud
came in for a very large share of admiration ;
and she had no more devoted admirer than
Torrington Torwood  her supposed brother.

For a man to fall in love with the woman
who is, in the eyes of the world, his own
sister, is a distinctly awkward occurrence, and
the situation is as unpleasant as it is peculiar.
That he should become enamoured of Phil's
sister was a contingency which had never

seriously presented itself to Tor's mind. Ashe
had lived eight and-twenty years without
having succumbed to any serious extent to
the shafts of the blind god, he had, not unnaturally,
believed himself proof against all
such winged darts ; and he was more surprised
and disgusted than he could well express at
finding into what a mess he had driven himself.


There was no doubt that Maud would soon
have lovers enough and to spare, and of course
she would make her choice amongst them ;
how could it be otherwise ? And there was
Lewis Classis already in the field, with a
powerful bribe at his back, and Maud seemed
on the most friendly terms with him. She
would be sure to engage herself to some one
before long, and Tor would be forced to stand
quietly by, dispassionately discussing her
choice, and receiving the overtures of hopeful
lovers who were anxious to conciliate the
brother.

Such a position was all but intolerable ; yet
so securely had he bound his own hands, that
he felt utterly incapable of movement. He
dared not cast off the disguise he had adopted.

He dared not throw up the game he had
begun to play. All he could do must be to
hinder, as far as possible, any matrimonial
schemes, until the real Phil was ready to take
his place, and allow him, as Tor, to have fair
play with the rest. Phil's protracted state of
vacuity awoke in his friend's mind very uncharitable
feelings, and Tor felt himself a most
aggrieved individual.

Maud's caresses and confidences were bittersweet
to him, and often nearly shook his
determination to keep silence. Her love for
him was so genuine and so strong, that he felt
persuaded he could win her for his wife if
he could but tell her who he was. But he
would not burden her with his secret. That
must at once raise complications and difficulties
which would betray all to the world.
He would never ask her to play a part, and
destroy the innocent frankness and lightheadedness
which gave to her her greatest
charm. No ; he must keep his own counsel,
and guard her as carefully as he could ; and
meantime he suffered terrible pangs of jealous
uneasiness with regard to Lewis Classis.

Maud and Lewis certainly had ample opportunity

for becoming lovers if they were so
minded, and Lewis grew more and more
bewitched by his pretty cousin, as he saw her
reigning in unfettered freedom at Ladywell,
far removed from the petty restraints and
annoyances that were always disturbing her
equanimity at Thornton House.

Maud was as happy as the day was long 
so happy that she found it easy to be gracious
to all the world, even to Uncle Classis and
Aunt Celia ; and to her old friend and playfellow
Lewis, she was all that cousin could
wish. His silent homage and increased admiration
flattered and pleased her (for without
being vain or exacting, Maud was not above
the delights of feeling her own power), and
the knowledge that he was looked upon as a
desirable husband for her was not entirely
distasteful, although her mind was by no
means made up on that subject.

Maud was in no hurry to marry, or even to
pledge herself to do so. Her life with her
brother was far too pleasant to make her wish
for any change. At the same time she was
fully aware that her decision as regards Lewis
Classis must eventually be made, and made

at no very distant date, and she was fully alive
to the advantages that would be gained by
following her father's wishes in regard to her
future ; in addition to this, she was learning
in a pleasant and practical manner the advantages
of wealth, and she was insensibly growing
less and less inclined to yield up her
own fortune into the hands of another.

It had been Tor's wish that she should not
be troubled on this point, but allowed to
think the matter over by herself, so that
neither he nor Aunt Olive had ever alluded to
the subject in her presence.

This silence, however, did not quite suit
Miss Maud. Her nature was outspoken and
frank, and the matter which concerned her
and her cousin Lewis did not lie so near to
her heart but that she could speak of it
readily.

Aunt Olive, after that twilight talk with
Tor, had watched with some anxiety the frequent
meetings between Maud and Lewis, and
was growing uneasy at the apparent pleasure
she seemed to take in his society. So she was
not sorry when the girl at length opened the
subject of her own accord.

Tor was away on business. Lewis had
dined at Ladywell, and he and Maud had
strolled out afterwards, as they often did. In
half an hour the girl returned alone, and
stretched herself languidly in a luxurious
chair, clasping her hands behind her head.
The soft lamplight fell upon her white drapery
and dusky hair with picturesque effect, and
her aunt could not but think how very fair
she looked in her maiden grace and childlike
unconsciousness of scrutiny.

1 1 wish Phil would not go away so often. It
is so dull without him.'

1 He seems to have a great deal of business
to get through. Business must be attended to,
you know, my dear.'

I wish he'd leave it to the bailiff, then,'
answered Maud. ' I can't bear him to be
away. He's such a dear boy, isn't he, Aunt
Olive V

e He is most kind and good to everyone ;
a true gentleman, and a true Debenham.'

Maud gave a little soft laugh.

I thought he was too bold for a Debenham,
aunty.'

Well, my dear, your poor dear father was a

timid, peaceable man ; but I think you and
your brother have more of your mother in
you. Poor Maud was gentle, but she was not
timid

Maud sat silent and thoughtful. Presently
Mrs. Lorraine spoke again.

Where is Lewis V

1 Gone home,' answered Maud briefly.

 Then he will not be in for tea V

No ; he has gone home. AVe had a little
quarrel, and Lewis got into a huff. I laughed
at him, and told him he was like the old peacock
who has lost his tail, and looks so silly
when he puts on airs. It seemed to annoy
him, I'm sure I don't know why ; so he
stalked off, looking very dignified and foolish.
However, he will soon feel better, and come
back as meek as a whipped puppy. I shall be
very magnificent when he does.'

And Maud's pretty mouth curved into a
mischievous smile.

I am afraid you are a sad tease, my
dear,' said Aunt Olive, gently shaking her
head.

I think Lewis was made to be teased,'
answered Maud. She smiled, made a little

vol. i. 12

moue, and added slowly, ' You see, if I have to
marry him by-and-by, he will be able to have
his revenge. But I never can picture Lewis
my lord and master.'

I do not think he ever could be that.'

Well, my husband, then,' said Maud. ' You
know, of course, that he is bent on marrying
me V

Yes, my dear, everyone knows that ; but I
do not think you are bent on marrying
him.'

Maud gave a silent laugh.

Well, no, not exactly ; but then you know,
Aunt Olive, it's quite possible that I may.'

4 Do you like him very much V

Very fairly well ; sometimes I like him
quite a great deal, and sometimes he bores me
terribly. When Phil isn't here, I don't mind
walking and talking with Lewis ; but I'd
never go with him a minute if I could have
Phil instead.'

Aunt Olive sighed gently.

And yet you talk of marrying him !'

One must marry some one, I suppose,' returned
Maud, with a quaint assumption of the
air philosophical. ' It would be much the

nicest not to  to let things stay just as they are;
but then they won't stay. Changes always do
come, generally unpleasant ones ; people get
old and ugly (except you, Aunt Olive), and
often cross, and I should do the same, I suppose
; and then I should so hate to be an old
maid !'

1 Well, my dear, there are many things worse
to my mind than being an old maid said little
Mrs. Lorraine ; ' but still, you might avoid
that fate without marrying Lewis Classis.'

You mean, I suppose,' said Maud reflectively,
' that I might marry somebody
else V

Yes, my dear ; why not? there are plenty
of men in the world.'

Why, so there are, Aunt Olive ; but I
think there are very few nice ones.'

'Is Lewis so nice, then, as to be your
model 

Maud shook her head ; her face was grave
now, and she spoke with great apparent
seriousness.

The way in which I look at the matter is
this  marriage is a necessary evil, like measles
and whooping-cough. One must marry, and

122

perhaps by-and-by, when one is used to it, one
may find it less disagreeable than it looks ; but
all that must chiefly depend upon whom one
marries. Now, my feeling is that a known
evil is much better than an unknown one  by
an evil, you see, I mean a husband. As a rule,
it seems to me almost impossible for a girl to
know much about the man she marries. A
good many men have been here lately, and
they have been particularly attentive to me.
They have all got beautifully brushed hair,
charming little moustaches, spotless shirt-fronts,
and exceedingly pretty manners ; and they all
say exactly the same sort of thing to me, and
I say exactly the same sort of thing to them,
and we are all as nicely-behaved as people can
possibly be. Of course it would be absurd to
suppose that we know one another a bit ; but
it wouldn't be absurd, I suppose, for one of
these model young men to make me an offer of
marriage, or for me to accept him. That would
be considered quite an ordinary and natural
wind-up to an acquaintance of a few weeks.
Now listen, Aunt Olive ! Once at a picnic I
overheard one of these nice young men swear
like a trooper at his servant, because he had

buckled a strap wrong in his horse's harness.
I suppose he would soon swear at his wife if
he had one. Another young gentleman could
not come up again to dance after supper
because he was " so awfully screwed." If I
married him, perhaps he would soon get
screwed " before my face instead of behind
my back. No doubt all the other young men
have their nice little habits of speech and
manner, which are so very engaging when
suddenly discovered ; and therefore I think I
may well call them unknown evils, when I
think of them as husbands. Now with Lewis
it is different, for I do know him ; I know him
almost as well as I know myself. He is not
very good-tempered, he is not very good-looking.
His hair is not geometrically parted
down the back of his head, nor brushed till it
shines like a mirror. His clothes do not fit
like a glove. He does not always wear a
choice flower in his buttonhole. He does not
try to imply by his words and looks that life,
out of the sunlight of my presence, is little
better than a howling wilderness, and then say
the same to half the girls he dances with in
one evening. But all the same, Lewis would

put himself about a good deal to do anything
for me ; and when Lewis says a thing he means
it. If I married Lewis, he would not abuse
me, nor swear at me in private ; nor would he
get tipsy and humiliate me in public. I know
all his good points and his bad ones ; I know
his moods, and his manner, and his habits.
To marry Lewis would not be taking a leap in
the dark ; and therefore I call him a known
evil, and as such, prefer him to the unknown.'

Maud made this long speech with great
deliberation ; and the comical twinkle which
from time to time appeared in her half-closed
eyes did not detract from the serious good
faith with which she delivered herself of her
matrimonial views.

There was a silence after she had spoken,
which she herself broke by asking :

Well, Aunt Olive, have I not expressed
myself well ? Do you not think I am very
wise and prudent for my age V

'My dear child said Aunt Olive, very
earnestly and almost tremulously, 'if those
are your ideas of marriage, do not marry at all.'

Why so, Aunt Olive ? Why shouldn't I
marry V

Because, my dear, marriage is the highest,
holiest tie that can bind human lives together
a tie of God's making, not of man's, and
which must not be lightly or carelessly, or
irreverently thought or spoken of. Oh, my
dear, dear child,' and here the little widow's
composure almost gave way, ' you do not know
what you are saying. I think if marriage is
not almost perfect happiness  the union of
soul with soul  it must be the most miserable
state in the world. I could not bear that you
should thoughtlessly enter upon it.'

Maud looked earnestly at her aunt, and then
rose and crossed the room swiftly and silently.
Taking a low footstool at Mrs. Lorraine's feet,
she rested her arms upon her knee, whilst the
young face, in all its sweet, fresh trustfulness,
was turned inquiringly up to the wrinkled one
above, which bore upon it the impress of
sorrow borne with bravery and resignation, in
the strength of a love stronger than death.

Aunt Olive,' she asked, in the softest,
gentlest of tones, ' were you and Uncle Lorraine
so happy as that 

The question was put with too much tender
directness to give pain. It was the tears of

sweet, sad memories that filled the widow's
eyes.

Yes, Maud, I think so. As I look back to
those few years, there does not seem one cloud
to overshadow their happiness  I mean clouds
from within. We had troubles to bear from
without  none are exempted from those, and
ours were heavy ones ; but in the sunshine of
perfect love, Maud, nothing can be a very
great trouble. Oh, my dear, precious child,
do not marry without that perfect love, that
utter union of, heart and soul, without which
no marriage can be blessed by God.'

Mrs. Lorraine's face seemed almost to shine.
Her gentle timidity had vanished. For a
moment she was the stronger woman of the
two.

I have often wondered, Aunt Olive, how it
was you married against grandpa's wishes
and everyone's. I think I can understand
now.'

1 Yes, my dear ; love gave me strength of
purpose. I had given myself to Arthur, and
it was impossible to draw T back. They say
marriages are made in heaven ; and I suppose
ours was too, for nothing seemed too great a

sacrifice to make for one another. It was just
as if it had been made for us somewhere, and
we had only to do our part.'

Aunt Olive,' said Maud gently, ' was Uncle
Lorraine very, very good that you loved him
so very much V

No, my dear, I will not say that. I do not
think he was better, or wiser, or cleverer than
many men that we see round us. But then
we loved each other. Until you love, you
cannot understand what that is ; but it just
makes all the happiness in life.'

Maud's face expressed much sympathy, yet
not an entire acquiescence. She hesitated a
little before she asked her next question.

But  but  I mean, Aunt Olive, it must be
heavenly to love like that, if  if  you both
love and both live ; but suppose  well, you
know, Uncle Lorraine died. Many people lose
their husbands or wives. It must be so dreadful
when that happens. I should so wish I
had never loved him or married him, if it was
me.'

No, you would not, my dear,' answered
Mrs. Lorraine, not heeding the confusion of
construction or faulty grammar, but grasping

the leading idea. ' No, you would not. You
would feel then, what we often heard said,
about having loved and lost being better than
never having loved at all. Nothing can take
a great love away ; not even death. It must
always be a living reality ; and, by-and-by, I
fully believe, we shall take up the thread just
where it seemed to snap, and after that there
will be no more parting

There was a long silence after these words.
Maud had never before heard her aunt speak
in such a strain, and she felt half awed by it.
These ideas, too, of marriage were new to her
new, at least, as the practical outcome of experience.
She had read, of course, plenty of
intensely sentimental writing on the subject,
but naturally nobody out of their teens believes
what poets and novelists say on such a subject.
To hear some one speaking like that out
of her own experience  one whose life she had
looked upon as a sad and colourless existence,
and whom she had pitied sincerely for her
marriage  to hear Aunt Olive assert that she
would not give up this love at any price, that
what had seemed the bane, was really the
blessing of her life, was startling, to say the

least of it, and somewhat shook Maud's carefully
elaborated theories.

I should like to love like that,' she said.
I think I could love like that, too. But then
I'm almost sure I shall never find the right
man

Aunt Olive shook her head gently.

'There is no knowing, dear child. Only be
true to yourself. Never marry at all, rather
than give your hand without your heart.'

I could fancy falling in love with a man like
Phil'" said Maud, following out her own train
of thought. * He is so manly, and so strong,
and so gentle, and he just goes his own way,
and everything seems to give way to him ; and
yet he isn't a bit selfish, and he is always
thinking of other people, and doing kind
things. And he isn't afraid of Uncle Classis
nor of anybody else ; and he doesn't talk about
himself, nor bother everybody with interminable
traveller's tales. And he is bio: and handsome,
and dresses himself properly without being a
bit of a dandy ; and he has such nice manners,
and is always just as polite to you or to me,
though we are his relations, as to the fine ladies
of the county. Oh yes, I could fancy being

very much in love with a man like Phil ; but
he's my brother, you see, and there is not likely
to be another one anywhere within reach.'

Well, then, my dear, you had better remain
an old maid until a second Phil appears.'

Maud shook her head dubiously.

I would wait if I could, and never bother
myself about it, for I'm very happy as we are ;
but I can't. I must decide about Lewis. I
shall be twenty-four almost directly, and then
I shall be expected to make up my mind.'

6 You don't love him, Maud ; so don't marry
him.'

1 But I do like him, Aunt Olive. Sometimes
I like him very much. And then there is
papa's will and the money  my money. Aunt
Olive, I should so hate to be poor.'

You will have five thousand in any case,
and Phil will never let you be poor.'

But five thousand is very little, and I don't
like to be dependent on Phil always. Besides,
I ought to have the money  it really is mine.
Lewis knows it as well as I do ; and papa must
have wanted me to marry him very much.
Lewis says that Uncle Classis will give him as
much as 1 have when we marry  that will make

thirty thousand. We could have a very nice
house and everything we want in reason then.
We are not extravagant in our tastes, either of
us, and I think we should manage capitally r .
Lewis would be very good to live with, I think,
Aunt Olive ; and I know I could get my own
way with him.'

But but '

Maud playfully laid her hand over her aunt's
lips.

Yes, I know, Aunt Olive  I just know what
you're going to say ; and you know I haven't
a bit made up my mind that I will marry
Lewis : but I do think that if I did, I should
get to love him by-and-by  people do in books
often ; and though I don't go much by that, I
do think that I could get fond of him in time
quite fond of him. I know it seems very
horrid to marry for money ; but you see it is a
little different when it's my money, not his  
don't you think so ? And Lewis does really
care for me, because he would get most of the
money anyway, and yet he is always worrying
me to say that I will take him, and get it all
for myself. It's a very unpleasant position to
be put in, and I've not made up my mind what

I'll do, nor spoken to Phil about it either.
Still, I can't see why I shouldn't marry Lewis
if I feel inclined to. After all, there is something
in his favour, when he is a known evil.'

Maud's mischievous mood had returned to
her, and Aunt Olive dropped the subject. She
knew her niece's temperament too well to try
to oppose her. Opposition to Maud was
another name for encouragement, and she did
not wish to encourage her in her half-formed
determination to marry Lewis Classis.

AN ENCOUNTER WITH Classis.

Once his nephew's arrival in England,
Mr. Classis had felt anything but
at ease. To use a well-worn simile,
he felt like, one who walks over a powder-mine
which may at any time explode, and Wow
him into the air.

He could hardly have explained the cause
of his uneasiness, for he had always been a
cautious, not to say a cunning man, and had
taken all possible care to gloss over all his
doubtful transactions so as to make them
appear upright, and even disinterested. Still
he could not but be aware that there were
certain passages in his past life which would
not bear the light of day, and he was especially
anxious that these passages should not come
under the notice of his nephew.

Why Mr. Classis should stand in such awe
of his nephew is not very easy to say. Sofar
no unpleasantness had occurred between
them, and the younger man had given no open
sign of distrust or dislike.

Yet, all the same, Mr. Classis feared him.
Tor's cool independence and self-reliance gave
him great uneasiness, for he felt by intuition
that it would be a very difficult matter to
daunt or to deceive him, if ever such a course
should become desirable.

Such a character in a Debenham seemed to
Mr. Classis little short of a personal insult
had always before been able to do what he
would with the Debenhams. Even Maud, who
had a distinct spirit and character of her own,
had never given him any great trouble or
anxiety. There was a facile playfulness in her
composition, and a distaste of anything unpleasant,
which rendered it easy to coax or to
command her. She would put up with a good
deal rather than make a fuss and get into disgrace
; and he had always felt certain that with
care and diplomacy he should be able to get
her to do his will in great things as in small,
if only she remained an inmate of his house,

and was backed merely by such feeble support
as her aunt Olive could give her.

But now that the supposed brother had
taken her away to his own house, and would
evidently stand between her and any threatened
coercion or casement  who might possibly use
his influence, which was great, against the
Classis interest, then matters began to look
serious ; and the worthy uncle's brow was
often lined by anxious care, as he reviewed the
situation and wondered what would be the
end of it.

He was so used to find his will and his
wife's dominate over all others, that the sensation
he was now experiencing made him
feel helpless, and almost foolish. Mrs.
Classis, too, took a view of matters which
was anything but reassuring ; for she was
convinced that Phil was their enemy, and that
his present quietness and apparent cordiality
only formed a mask for a hatred which
would openly manifest itself when he had
assured himself of the strength of his
position.

Mark my word, Alfred,' she would say
sometimes, ' he hates us ; and some day he

vol. I. 13

will make us feel it. What a fool you were to
speculate with that trust-money 1 I always
told you it was too risky. You know better
than I, where a transaction of that kind is
likely to lead you ; and I know quite well that
Philip Debenham will have no mercy. One
can read that in his face.'

Mr. Classis wiped his forehead with his
handkerchief.

1 Lewis must marry Maud. We must manage
that. When her name is Classis, and her
interests ours, then he will have to stay his
hand. He will not bring disgrace upon her
family.'

When !' repeated Mrs. Classis sceptically.
If you marry Maud to Lewis now, you will
be a cleverer man than I take you for.'

But  but,' he expostulated, ' why should
we not ? He is devoted to her, and I think
she likes him. A few weeks ago you had no
fears.'

A few weeks ago Maud was under my control.
Now she is not. Our influence is at an
end. She cares for nobody now but Philip,
and he will be our enemy.'

Mr. Classis cursed his nephew with a hearty

goodwill. In his wife's society he allowed
himself the luxury of strong language.

What possessed the old madman to make
that boy his heir ? Why couldn't he have left
the property to you, or me, or Lewis ? What
a grand thing it would have been for us ! It
makes my blood boil to think of such a chance
lost. And for him to die just then, before we
had made sure of Maud f here followed more
unparliamentary language. ' Oh, it's too much
for anybody's temper ! What can make Philip
so different from his father, and everybody of
his name V

6 There is something very odd about Philip,
I always have thought,' said Mrs. Classis
significantly.

What do you mean V

I am not sure that I know what I do mean ;
but I am watching. I have a sort of suspicion,
but I can hardly tell yet what it is. If I
could, I should say nothing to you  you would
be sure to let it out, and spoil everything. If
you take my advice, you will have as little todo
with him as possible.'

Well, I don't want to have more to do with
him than I need,' answered Classis, looking

132

rather foolish and crestfallen as he heard his
wife's plainly expressed opinion of him. * But
I do think I know how to take care of my
own interests, Celia. You seem to have very
little confidence in my caution.'

1 In your caution, plenty ; but not much in
your judgment,' answered his wife frankly.

Well, I must speak to him about Maud, at
any rate. He said he would think the matter
over, and make up his mind whether to advance
or oppose our views. I wonder if he has
decided yet

If you take my advice, you will say
nothing at all about it,' said Mrs. Classis.

The ex-lawyer, however, was not prepared to
take his wife's advice in all thing's. He had a
great respect for her cleverness, but he considered
his own superior; and he was determined,
if possible, to be on friendly terms with his
nephew. He hoped still to conciliate him, and
win him over to his own interests, and was
half inclined to think his wife's prognostications
needlessly gloomy.

The Ladywell party had dined one evening
at Thornton House, and Lewis had speedily
followed the ladies into the drawing-room.

Tor would have accompanied him, and had
risen to do so, when Mr. Classis interposed.

Sit down again  sit down again, my dear
boy. We must excuse Lewis, I suppose ; he
has a right and reason to prefer the ladies'
society : but we so seldom have a chance to
talk quietly together, that I confess I am
anxious to avail myself of it.'

Tor sat down readily enough, and filled his
glass. It was not his way to assume heroics,
or to stand aloof even from people he considered
undesirable. His manner was always
unruffled and serene.

This friendliness of demeanour disarmed
Mr. Classis, and gave him courage.

Well, Phil, my lad, how do you like the
new life, now that you are getting settled
down to it ? Is it as much to your mind as
the old roving style V

6 I hardly know yet. Not quite, I think.
I do not feel settled even now. It would take
very little to start me off on my travels

again.

Mr. Classis seemed to breathe more freely.
4 Ah well, I can understand that. It is but
natural, I suppose. If I were young again,

and had your means and your experience, I
don't know but what I should do the same
myself. Have you made any plans yet ?
Have you settled anything definite V

'Oh no; I never do settle things beforehand.
I just do what I like, and go where I will. I
detest plans,' was the careless response.

I suppose Mr. Torwood always did the
planning in past days V suggested Classis.

Oh  ah  yes ; Mr. Torwood did all that.
Of course it was his affair chiefly

I suppose you will join him when you do
begin to travel again V said Classis, gently
feeling his way.

1 dare say. I really haven't made any
plans. I don't see my way to getting off yet
awhile.'

No, not quite yet, I suppose. You would
like to see dear Maud safely married first V

Tor made a quick gesture with his hand,
and his brow suddenly clouded.

See Maud married f he echoed rather
sharply. ' Who says she is going to marry V

Well, nobody says so yet ; but at the same
time we cannot be quite blind to what is
passing. She seems really fond of Lewis, and

she will reap so substantial an advantage by-marrying
him, that it is impossible not to
rejoice at the prospect. I am sure you must
feel as I do upon the point, my dear Philip,
and rejoice with me.'

I don't believe she cares two straws for
Lewis,' answered Tor coolly.

My dear boy, excuse me. I am sure she
entertains very warm feelings for him.'

I think she may like him next best to that
mastiff pup I gave her the other clay ; but I
think the dog stands first.'

Mr. Classis laughed in a rather sickly
fashion.

You are so amusing, Phil ; such good

company.'

Glad to hear it, I'm sure. I have to makeup
for so much lost time with my relations 
eighteen years of separation is a good spell.'

Mr. Classis coughed and fidgeted, and
allowed the challenge to pass unanswered.

To return to what we were saying about
dear Maud. She really is fond of Lewis,
though I admit she may not be what is called
in love " with him. Still, she has a strong
affection for him, and I trust you will use your

influence to lead her to make such a choice as
shall be so much to her advantage, as a
marriage with Lewis will prove.'

I don't feel disposed to interfere in the
matter one way or another,' answered Tor
coldly.

But think of your sister's future.'

I do think of it ; but I'm man of the world
enough to know that money isn't everything.
She shall marry according to her own wishes
a man she really cares for ; if he is rich,
her lack of fortune will matter little ; and if he
is poor, I shall take care she does not suffer.
I have enough for both, and I'll not have her
coerced by a question of L.S.D.'

Mr. Classis' face fell, and he looked sadly
crestfallen. Tor seemed lost in thought, and
did not heed for awhile the eager words and
arguments his companion continued to urge
upon him. At last he woke up, and met his
interlocutor with a glance in his eye which the
latter did not like.

Now look here, sir,' said Tor: ' you've asked
me a question, now let me ask you one. Why
are you so very anxious for this marriage V

1 Why am  I anxious  why  I,' stammered

Mr. Classis, taken aback by the tone rather
than by the words. ' You know my motive 
it is my interest in Maud's welfare. As her
guardian and her uncle, of course I am anxious
for her to do well for herself. Besides, I never
liked the terms of that will. I thought the
condition a most unjust one, and have been
very anxious to bring all right. Your father
made it entirely against my will  indeed I
never knew  or it never should have stood.'

Under Tor's cool, steady gaze, Classis
faltered and stumbled, and strove manifestly
for an assurance and ease which he was far
from feeling. He wished he had taken his
wife's advice, and let his nephew alone.

Suppose you drop all that,' said Tor
quietly. * I dare say it pays with women and
children ; but it doesn't do where you have a
man to deal with. My father knew, old Maynard
knew, and I know as well as you, how
and why that will came to be framed as it was.
Men in their senses don't rob their daughters
to enrich their nephews, or set their hearts
upon a match between mere children when
nothing in the world depends upon it. My
father was not mad, only very weak ; and I

have been told, on good authority, that his
legal adviser exercised a very strong influence
upon him. It is not hard, therefore, to understand
how such an iniquitous will came to
be framed.'

Mr. Classis sat mute and cowed under the
spell of Tor's cool words and keen eyes ; but
he dared not be silent too long. It would look
like a confession of guilt. He pulled himself
together, emptied his glass with rather a
shaking hand, and answered with creditable
firmness.

You are quite wrong in your inference,
Philip ; but I cannot blame you, because you
have reason on your side, and you cannot, of
course, remember how strange and eccentric a
man your father was. Still, I can point out
one weak point in your case. That will, which
you think was contrary to your father's real
wishes, was drawn up fully two years before
his death. Do you suppose, if it had not
satisfied him on maturer consideration, that he
would have allowed it to stand ? He had
plenty of time to alter the terms, or to make
a fresh will, had he so chosen.'

Exactly so,' answered Tor, ' and I am

strongly of opinion that he did make a later
one.'

He was watching Classis narrowly, and he
saw him start and change colour ; moreover, it
was some seconds before he was able to
speak.

1 Wh  what a very extraordinary idea !
A  another will ! Why, where ever is it then ?
Why was it not produced V

I fancy, Mr. Classis, that you could answer
such a question better than I ; for it was you,
not I, that had the handling of my father's
papers on his death.'

Classis grew livid about the lips.

1 Do you mean to accuse me of suppressing
a will V he asked, in a quaking voice.

I accuse you of nothing, because I know
nothing. I am merely informing you of a
suspicion of mine, which is, that a later will
was made, which has never seen the light. If
that will ever fell into your hands, I am convinced
it never will see the light now.'

Mr. Classis sat silent, glaring at his
audacious nephew ; but he did not fly into
a passion or attempt to carry war into the
enemy's quarter.

He knows something about it,' said Tor
to himself, ' or he would not tamely submit
to be accused of crime. I wonder what he
has done with it  destroyed it most likely 
certain to do that. I wonder who were the
witnesses ; but that would prove nothing.
Phil's father might have destroyed it himself
there would be no case. What a shame it
all is ! However, I think I can make that old
rascal pretty thoroughly uncomfortable

You do not deny my suspicion, I notice,
sir,' he said aloud.

Classis made a ghastly attempt at a smile,
and then assumed an air of dignity strangely
at variance with the expression of his face.

I say nothing, Philip, because I have no
wish to quarrel, and because I feel sure when
you come to think the matter over, you will
be sorry for your words, and be ready to dome
justice. Let us forget they were ever
spoken. I can forgive them, because I know
that they were prompted by a natural, brotherly
jealousy for a sister's rights ; but they were
very ill-advised, Philip, and will, I trust, never
be repeated.

Well,' said Tor rather significantly, ' I do

not imagine much, good will come of a repetition,
and at present it is certainly useless to
discuss such a subject. Shall we return to
the question from which we started ? I
asked you why you are so very anxious for
Maud's marriage with your son, seeing that in
any case he obtains a large share of her fortune,
and that the marriage will only bring him in
five thousand more. Maud will cost him more
than five thousand. He will be a richer manif
he remains single, and might then marry an
heiress into the bargain. You know all this
as well as I do. Why, therefore, are you so
anxious for the match V

Mr. Classis' face had been purple before ;
now it regained its livid tint.

Young man,' he said sententiously, ' I fear
you have been taking too much wine ; your
tone is becoming most offensive. Why do I
wish my son to marry your sister ? For the
best possible reason : because I love the girl as
if she were my own, and wish her to be no
loser because of her father's romantic attachment
to myself and my family.'

i I think I suggested before, sir, that it
would be better to drop all that humbug,' said

Tor blandly. ( I've no doubt you've repeated
such sentiments so often to your female relations,
that you have grown almost to believe
in them yourself. But at the same time you
must be quite aware that such protestations area
little out of character, and strike an impartial
observer as rather too much of a good thing.
You talk of loving Maud like a father. Bather
odd how delighted she was at escaping from
the paternal roof. She can never congratulate
herself enough yet that she is really free forever
from the shadow of Thornton House.'

Girls are so contrary ; never know when
they are well off,' growled Classis.

I find Maud anything but contrary ; however,
we will let that pass. I am not going to
condemn you simply because Mrs. Lorraine
and my sister were so thankful to escape from
your care  we all know that women will have
their whims. What I want to know is this :
why are you so bent upon this marriage ? You
would rather Maud married and was miserable,
than that she should refuse your son  you
know perfectly well that it is so. And as so
much comes to him in any case, why should
you care ? What is your motive V

Mr. Classis' eyes had grown sullen and
sombre. He only vouchsafed a few surly
words.

I have told you the reason, my only
reason. I have no motive. What is it tome
V

That is what I mean to find out,' returned
Tor, with cool significance. ' The reason you
allege is miserably insufficient. I must try
and find out the true one.'

At last Mr. Classis' rage and fury burst out.
Fear was the motive power, as Tor was quick
enough to detect.

You dare insult me like this, Philip De-bentham
! You dare cast these foul aspersions
on my integrity ! I, who have been an
honoured and trusted friend to your father,
and a father to his ungrateful children ! How
dare you sit there and heap insult upon insult !
How dare you look me in the face and utter
such words ! You viper ! you adder ! you
would sting the hand that has loaded you
with benefits ! Do you not know what you
owe to me ? Who was it paid for your education
and maintenance for eight long years
after your father's death ? You owe everything

to me  everything. Do you not know
that it was to my generosity yon owe it that
you were not brought up by the parish ? Do
you not know that your father died a ruined,
penniless man V

1 Yes, I know that perfectly,' answered Tor,
who sat utterly unmoved by this outbreak.
What I do not know, and what I want to
understand is, how it came about that he did
die ruined and penniless. Perhaps you can
enlighten me further on that point V

All the anger faded out of Classis' face.
He looked quite pale and scared, like a man
who has received blow upon blow till sense
has almost departed.

1 He speculated,' came the answer, spoken ina
gasp.

Possibly ; but he was a man of quiet,
studious mind, utterly averse to business
matters. He must have done it by advice.
Who managed his affairs for him V

Could I help his folly V questioned Classis
hoarsely ; ' I was but his tool, his agent. I
bought and sold for him, but it was all his own
doing.'

Classis looked so completely cowed that

Tor was half inclined to pity him. Indignation
on Phil's account, however, urged him to
speak out.

Indeed ! Well, sir, I am not a business
man myself, but it does seem strange to me
how completely my father's fortune vanished,
whilst yours steadily augmented. As you
knew so well how to manage your own affairs,
one would naturally suppose you might have
saved him from ruin. It looks a little strange,
on the face of things, especially considering
how little my father knew of the world, and
how completely he trusted his affairs to you.
I was ten years old, remember, when he died
quite old enough to remember a good deal.
I do not know yet how the thing is done,
one man enriching himself at his neighbour's
expense ; but of course such transactions are
common enough, and I can soon discover a
little of the method. Well, I will say good-evening
now. I dare say you will have a
good deal to think over, so I will not longer
disturb your meditations. I hope they will be
pleasant and profitable to you.'

Tor rose and quitted the room, without
waiting for a reply.

vol. I. 14

Alfred Classis had a great deal to say to
his wife that night.

1 1 told you he was our enemy,' she said. ' I
told you to let him alone. Well, if he is
going to be dangerous to us, I will see if I
cannot be dangerous to him too.'

And Mrs. Classis' face looked venomous
enough, as she lost herself in deep thought.

AN AWKWARD RECOGNITION.

lOR some days after that encounter
with Classis, Tor saw little of the
uncle or the uncle's family. He
was rather glad of this, because Matilda and
Bertha had grown somewhat pressing in their
attentions of late, and he neither felt disposed
to encourage nor yet to snub them. He liked to
take life easily, without disturbing himself or
others by needless display of feeling, and he
hoped that these two supposed cousins would
gradually ' slack off ' from their pursuit of
himself, without driving him to any definite
declaration of indifference.

The Classis family was, however, reaping
distinct social advantage from its close connection
with Philip Debenham of Ladywell Manor.
Houses which had heretofore been utterly closed

142

to the ' pettifogging, vulgar attorney,' were
thrown open to young Debenham's uncle, and
invitations to dinners, dances, and outdoor
fetes rained in thick and fast, to the great
delight of the Classis girls.

It was rather a bitter pill for them to swallow,
that Maud should take precedence of them
in everything  that she should be courted, flattered,
brought forward and made much of, whilst
little notice was vouchsafed to them. Maud
had been kept studiously in the background
at Thornton House, had been stinted in every
way as to dress, and made to look and feel as
insignificant as possible ; therefore it was the
more provoking for them to see how attractive
and winning she appeared, now that she had
cast off her chrysalis shell and had emerged as a
bright and brilliant butterfly.

Matilda and Bertha found it trying at first
to witness Maud's triumphs ; but motives of
policy taught them to conceal all ill-feeling,
and gradually Maud's simple goodwill and
generosity towards them took the sting from
their jealousy, and brought them to a more
reasonable and pleasant frame of mind.

They were in a high state of exultation now,

for they had been at last invited to the great
fete of the county, Sir William Gainsford's
garden-party, followed by a dance  an annual
glory from which hitherto they had been excluded,
and upon which they had looked very
much as the Peri did upon Paradise.

But here they were at last, walking in the
beautiful grounds, playing tennis with the
elite of the county, and tasting all the joys
of an increased dignity and self-importance.

Maud and Aunt Olive were there under
Phil's escort ; but Matilda and Bertha were
too well content with their own share of
glory to grudge Maud her triumphs. Was
not a young baronet now talking as pleasantly
to them as if he w T ere an intimate acquaintance
? What might not result from festivities
like these V

Mrs. Classis and her two daughters were
gathered together under the shade of a spreading
beech-tree, and the youthful Sir Herbert
was making himself very agreeable, when a
tall figure was seen leisurely approaching, and
Bertha said softly :

Here's Phil.'

Sir Herbert glanced up as the new-comer

approached, and then his face brightened
visibly.

Why, Torwood !' he exclaimed, ' who
would have thought of seeing you here, amid
all the resources of civilization I I am glad to
see you again. Is Debenham here ? Are you
still partners ? I think I did hear the name
mentioned ; but I never guessed it would be
Phil Debenham that I knew in Canada. Is he
here V

Tor looked into the lad's bright face with an
amused smile.

1 He is here, my dear fellow. He is standing
before you.'

Sir Herbert glanced round quickly, and then
up into Tor's humorous face.

You're not Phil Debenham !' he exclaimed.


Indeed ; that's news to me. Who am I,
pray, if I'm not myself ?'

Why,' said Sir Herbert slowly, ' I beg your
pardon ; but I thought you were Torwood, and
the other fellow Debenham.'

Whereas I am Debenham, and the other
fellow Torwood,' answered Tor easily.

No ; really though !'

Why, certainly. Not but what Tor and I
have very frequently got mixed in the minds
of other people, and I'm afraid we did not
bother ourselves always to put them right ;
still we did not go so far as to confuse our own
identity ourselves. All the same, you are
not the first person who has been confused


 Yes, I certainly thought you were Tor-wood
; however, I'm quite open to conviction.
Where is Torwood ? Are you still travelling
together, or have you divided company at
last V

I have come over to see about some property
I came into a little while back ; and Tor
is in Germany. He's been rather seedy, poor
old fellow ! I dare say, as soon as I can get
away, we shall go off again somewhere
together. Anyway, I shall go over and see
about it soon.'

You must miss one another, I should think.
He always seemed to lean upon you for everything,'
remarked Sir Herbert.

And then he was carried off by Bertha to
play tennis, and Tor was left with Mrs. Be-lasses
and her daughter.

1 You know Sir Herbert Moncrieff then,
Phil?' said the latter.

Yes, a little. We met in Canada, and
travelled for a week together. I think that
was the only time we met. He is rather a nice
boy ; but I fancy Tor saw more of him than I
did.'

Rather odd, that mistake he made about
the name,' remarked Mrs. Classis incisively.

Tor felt he was being closely watched ; but
he was not going to be put out by the scrutiny.

Yes, rather ; but he's not the only person
who has mixed us up together. We often got
taken one for the other ; but it didn't matter,
and we didn't care. I suppose sisters and intimates
do meet with that sort of thing.
Aren't you and Bertha mistaken for one
another sometimes, Matilda?'

Oh yes, often. People are very stupid. I
should think you and Mr. Torwood must have
got muddled up very often. Is Sir Herbert
very rich, Phil?'

I don't know ; pretty well off, I should
say. You can look him up in the " Landed
Gentry " if you want to know about him.'

1 Oh, I don't care, I'm sure ; he's a mere

boy. I don't think men are at all amusing
until they have passed five-and-twenty.'

1 And after that they become more fascinating
every year,' suggested Tor, with a
smile. ' What good taste you have, my fair
cousin ! I was beginning to fear I was getting
to be an old fogy. Now I shall have hopes
of myself.'

Matilda laughed and shook her head
coquettishly.

As if you ever thought such a thing !
You know quite well what is thought of you
all round here. You are only fishing for
compliments, you bad boy !'

Well, compliments are very nice things,
especially from the lips of ladies,' answered
Tor gallantly.

Matilda blushed and bridled. Mrs. Classis
looked at the two faces, and her keen glance
read at once the consciousness and vanity of
the one, and the good-humoured indifference
of the other. Towards her daughter she felt
a contemptuous pity for her conceit and
credulity ; but none the less did her indignation
rise against the man who was practising
upon it.

Philip,' she said, in her rasping tones, ' is
it true that you were the leading spirit in
your travels with Mr. Torwood, as Sir Herbert
seemed to imply ? Considering that you were
entirely dependent upon him, it seems rather
curious that he should depend upon you.'

Well, my dear aunt, I suppose when two
people travel and live together, year after year,
they do grow to lean one upon the other to a
certain extent. Of course I tried all I could
to save Torwood trouble, and he may have
come to depend in a certain measure upon me.
1 do not see anything peculiar in that. I
suppose I have the stronger will of the two,
and that always tells in the long-run.'

You had not a strong will as a child,' said
Mrs. Classis shortly.

Perhaps I was never allowed the use of it,'
suggested Tor, smiling.

Well, you have certainly made up for lost
time now,' retorted the lady, beginning to
wield her fan, a sure sign that she was put
out. ' Your friend no doubt found as much,
to his cost.'

1 We never quarrelled, anyway.'

But you always took the lead V

I did not say that ; but I may have done
so to a certain extent.'

Your letters always gave us to understand
quite the contrary. It was always Mr. Tor-wood
who planned and arranged and paid for
everything. I always thought that you were
a kind of tame dog or valet to him.'

I am sure you would always think what
was kind and flattering answered Tor, with
a little satirical bow, which greatly annoyed
Mrs. Classis, who was not used to retort.

You always gave us cause to think what
was flattering, did you not V she asked, with
a sneer. ' Running away from your uncle's
care the moment the time came for you to
earn a living, and repay him for all the
benefits heaped upon you  running away to
live on the charity of a stranger, who might
kick you over at any moment, rather than be
independent and do honest work. I wish
Mr. Torwood had turned you adrift, just that
you might learn what you had lost by your
folly and pride.'

4 1 am always grateful for good wishes,' said
Tor pleasantly. * Have you any more to offer
me before I go ?'

I am glad to hear, that you are grateful  I
should hardly have thought as much from my
knowledge of your character. I suppose you
consider yourself under obligations to the
friend upon whose charity you have lived all
these years ? Yet now that your prosperity has
come, you leave him ill and alone in Germany,
whilst you come over to enjoy your inheritance
here. Your ideas of gratitude are evidently
as original as the rest of your character.'

Mamma, how can you be so disagreeable to
poor Phil !' remonstrated Matilda, with indignation.
' I'm sure he has been as kind and
good to everyone, as anyone could be. But,
Phil, why don't you ask Mr. Torwood to Lady-well
? If he is well enough, he would certainly
enjoy the change; and if he is ill, he ought to
see an English doctor, I am sure. I don't
believe foreign ones are the least good. Why
don't you have him over, and get the very
best advice to be had for him ?'

I should have said that w T as the very least
you could have done for a friend, to whom you
owe so much,' said Mrs. Classis.

1 So I shall do, if this German man fails
answered Tor. ' That is to say, he shall come

if lie will ; but I have every reason to believe
he will soon be well, and there will then be no
need for further advice

But you will ask him to Ladywell, won't
you, when he is well V

1 Oh yes answered Tor, with a rather
peculiar smile. ' He shall come over as soon
as ever he is well. I think you will like him,
Matilda.'

Is he good-looking V

Yes ; I think so.'

As good-looking as you, Phil ?' archly.

Why, yes; decidedly more so, I should say,'
answered Tor, smiling. ' I always told him he
was quite the lady-killer.'

If he is so presentable,' remarked Mrs.
Classis ruthlessly, cutting short Matilda's
attempt at a flirtation, ' I cannot think why
you did not bring him with you.'

You must remember that he is not a " tame
dog." He had not the least wish to come.'

How odd ! I should have thought he
would have liked the fun. Did you ask him ?
Did he say he would not V

c He did not express the least wish to accompany
me, which comes much to the same

*

thing. I could not urge him, as he was seedy ;
and it would hardly have been fair to the
German doctor, to have taken him away before
he had given his system a trial.'

What is the matter with him ?' asked Mrs.
Classis sharply.

I do not know. He had a fall, and injured
himself somewhere. I fancy perhaps it is the
spine, for he has to lie on his back a good deal.
I must go over and see him soon, for he is an
awfully bad correspondent. Well, Matilda,
shall we go for a row on the lake there ? I
shall have much pleasure in sculling you, if
you have a fancy for a boat.'

Matilda complied joyfully, delighted to have
secured her handsome cousin for her companion
; but she found him disappointingly
absent and absorbed, though he concealed
any appearance of anxiety so successfully, that
she had no idea how much disturbance of mind
her mother's words had occasioned him.

She will be dangerous if she can,' thought
Tor to himself. ' I don't think she can suspect
yet ; but she is on the high-road to suspicion.
I hope to goodness no other fellows we ever
came across, will turn up. It would become

distinctly awkward if they all greeted me as
Torwood. By Jove! I half wish I'd never
begun the game. It grows more and more
complicated every week. I'd no notion it
would be such a bore. However, if I only
stop that marriage between Maud and young
Classis, I shan't have had my pains for
nothing. Confound that Phil ! Why can't
he come to his senses and act for himself V

Mrs. Classis sat still in deep thought after
the pair had left her ; and the result of her
meditations was expressed in a few words of
soliloquy.

Well, I don't understand things yet, and
I haven't got the clue ; but I'm quite sure
there's something very odd about it all.'

Matilda and Bertha were in high spirits as
they dressed afresh for the ball that night.
They were not staying in the house ; but as
they came from a distance, they remained
during the interval between the two fetes, and
a room was allotted to them, which their cousin
Maud shared. All three girls had new dresses
for the occasion, and therefore, it need hardly
be said, were in a high state of delight.

'Oh, Maud, how lovely!' was the exclamation

of the sisters, as they turned and beheld
the marvellous costume of creamy lace and
satin and pearls in which she had just arrayed
herself. c Why, it's perfectly heavenly ! Where
did you get it ? I suppose Phil gave it you?'

1 Yes, it came from Paris  Worth, you know.
Isn't it nice! Hes a dear boy, and gives me
lovely things. I almost wish he wouldn't. He
is so extravagant over me.'

It's well to be you, Maud said Matilda.
I wish Lewis was like that ; but then, he
hasn't any money. Maud, do you think Phil
means ever to get married ? Does he ever
talk of it ? Most men do, when, they come
into a property.'

Maud laughed, and shook her pretty head.

He doesn't ever talk about it. I don't
think he does intend to, vet.'

I think he ought to,' remarked Matilda
judicially. ' A man in his position ought to
have a wife. When you are married, Maud,
he will have to get one.'

I am not married yet,' answered Maud,
laughing. ' Perhaps he will when I am ; but
I do not think he will marry you, Matilda.'

This was not spoken with a shade of malice ;

only with the frankness of girls brought up
together, who had discussed matrimonial projects
many times before.

Matilda coloured, but did not seem to take
offence .

He might do worse she said. ' I think he
likes me. He was particularly nice to-day.
Why do you think such a thing so impossible,
Maud V

1 I'm almost sure he will never marry a
Classis,' she answered gravely.

That is all mamma's fault!' cried Matilda
angrily ; ' she is so rude to poor Phil.'

I told her it was horribly mean of her,'
added Bertha, ' spoiling our chances and everything.
Of course she said we were fools ever
to think we had any chance. One can never
do any good with mamma ; she will go her own
way.'

And make Phil hate us all.'

'He doesn't hate you at all,' interposed
Maud, ' but he doesn't like Uncle and Aunt
Classis ; and I'm sure he wouldn't like to
become a son-in-law.'

It is a shame !' cried Matilda, with something
like tears in her eyes.

vol. i. 15

1 Besides,' continued Maud frankly, ' I don't
much think he would fall in love with either
of you. It would be much more likely to be
Eoma.'

Eoma Meredith !' cried both sisters at
once. ' Why, she never goes anywhere. When
does he see her?'

'He goes there very often. Mr. Meredith
is fond of him. I think he would like him to
marry Eoma ; and she is so very, very beautiful
and clever. I don't see how he can help admiring
her. If he does marry at all, I think I
should ]ike it to be Eoma.'

'She would never have him ; she would
never leave her father,' objected Matilda,
looking rather blank.

She would do exactly what her father
wished. She has no will but his

She would be a horribly dull wife to have,'
cried Bertha, with a short laugh. ' She can
only stand in statuesque attitudes and look
handsome. She never has anything to say for
herself. '

Oh, but she has, when you know her ; only
she is very shy and reserved.'

I can't bear people like that said Bertha,

pinning in her flowers viciously ; ' I like fun
and quickness.'

There was silence for a minute or two ; then
Matilda asked suddenly :

I Are you going to marry Lewis, Maud T

I I don't know.'

Haven't you made up your mind yet V
'No.'

I You'll have to, pretty soon.'

Well, yes ; but I haven't done so yet.'

I I call it unfair to Lewis to keep him waiting
so long,' said Bertha.

Papa and mamma will be wild if you don't
added Matilda. ' I thought you were going*to
for certain.'

I did mean to, once ; but I don't feel so
sure now,' said Maud coolly.

I suppose Phil is against it, as poor Lewis
is a Classis,' remarked Matilda.

Phil has never said one word about it.'

Then why have you changed V

1 1 don't know, unless because I am so happy
at Ladywell, and because all other men seem
so stupid and tame after Phil.'

I believe you want to wait till he brings
Mr. Torwood back from Germany,' cried

152

Matilda, laughing, ' to see if he isn't like Phil,
and to go in for him.'

Maud laughed herself at the idea.

1 1 think I might do worse she said. * If
he is one bit like Phil, I should like him fifty
times better than Lewis. I will tell him he
must bring him to see me soon.'

And then the three girls descended to the
ball-room, and enjoyed one of the happiest
nights of their lives ; the enjoyment being
much enhanced by Tor's impartial attentions
to them all.

Roman REQUEST.

'AUD had spoken nothing but the
truth, when she said that the supposed
Phil paid frequent visits to
the blind sculptor's house. Michael Meredith
had grown very fond of the young man who
could talk so well and so willingly of Italy and
Italian art, who knew his beloved Eome as
intimately as he himself, and who would
listen to his raptures with perfect patience,
and sympathize readily with his love .for the
beautiful.

Tor liked Michael Meredith. He had a
natural taste for oddities ; and this handsome,
blind enthusiast, with his princely airs and
sublimely unconscious egotism, amused and
interested him not a little. Society at Lady-well
there was none. Even the rector and the

doctor lived a mile or two away. Maud's companionship
was too dangerously sweet to be overmuch
indulged ; therefore Tor was glad enough
of some house where he could come and go at
will, always welcomed and never in the way.
It was a charity to relieve the dull monotony
of the blind man's days, and Tor's visits soon
grew to be looked upon as regular events.

It is well,' Michael Meredith would sometimes
say to himself  ' it is well. Young
men do not come day by day, to spend the
best of their time with the old and the
blind, without a motive other than compassion.
What I have wished is coming to pass.
I am not the attraction to Philip Debenham 
I am not vain enough to suppose that for a
moment. Koma is the attraction. It is her
he comes to see. And though I cannot see
their looks, their voices tell me that her coldness
is melting before his quiet devotion, and
it is plain he is her warm admirer. All is going
well  very well. I shall call Philip Debenham
son " before I die.'

What Meredith said about Eoma was certainly
true. Her coldness towards her father's
guest had insensibly decreased. She could not

continue to treat with an icy indifference, a
man who had shown himself so considerate
and forbearing towards the father she passionately
loved.

Eoma was not blinded by her great love.
She knew that her father was not a
general favourite with the people who knew
him. He was an egotist ; he was wrapped up
in a few ideas, to the exclusion of all else. He
could not endure contradiction, and was never
open to conviction. Blind prejudices hemmed
him in on every side, and caused men generally
to quarrel with him first, and to despise
him afterwards. He seldom made a friend,
hardly ever kept one, yet he never seemed
conscious that there was aught amiss with himself.
He only gently bewailed the crotchets
of the world ; and wondered how men
ever got on there at all, when they were so
determined not to hear reason.

His daughter, little as she knew of the
world, could see farther than he, and she
understood only too well the reason why they
lived so very much alone. The consciousness
of her father's faults and weaknesses did not
diminish one whit the devotion and loyalty of

her faithful heart ; rather, she clung to him the
more for the failings, which left him so dependent
upon her for love, care, and companionship;
but at the same time, she could
the better appreciate consideration and kindness
in others for knowing how much patience
was needed in intercourse with her father ;
and Tor could not but rise in her favour when
she saw how regular his visits became, and
what great pleasure they always gave.

Had Meredith been wise enough to say
nothing to her of a wild and foolish plan
which had long been working in his brain, the
girl would doubtless have learned to like
Tor very much  she might even have loved
him ; for the cold, proud manner belied the
warmth of the feelings below. But the blind
man never could conceal anything from his
daughter, and he loved the sensation of power
which he experienced, whilst calmly mapping
out her future, as sure of the fulfilment of his
dreams as if he really possessed a prophetic
power. He talked himself into absolute confidence,
and became actually confused between
the real and the imaginary.

So Koma had been told years ago that it washer

fate to marry Philip Debenham, the son
of Meredith's first friend and patron ; and she
had never resisted this verdict, because it
seemed useless to dispute the [matter, when
the future husband was far away in foreign
lands, and might never appear upon the scene
at all. And when he did come back suddenly,
a rich and prosperous man, when her fortune
would no longer be needed to restore the
prosperity of his house, and when he most
likely would be expected to choose a wife from
the rich and noble in the land, then Eoma
did indulge some faint hope that her father
would abandon the curious plan he had made.
She might have known him better. Money
was dross in his eyes. Had Philip come home
a beggar instead of a prince, he would have
bestowed his daughter's hand upon him with
equal readiness. No change of fortune could
uproot an idea which had grown, as it were,
into the very depths of his nature. Eoma
had not crossed him at the early stage of
affairs, and now she dared not breathe a word
of opposition.

Not long since, during a sharp attack of illness
caused by a chill, Koma had persuaded

her father to call in medical advice  a thing
from which he greatly shrank. The slight illness
was soon thrown off ; but the doctor had
spoken seriously to her of the highly excitable
condition of his patient's heart and brain, and
had warned her that if his life was to be prolonged,
he must be carefully guarded from all
excitement or anxiety. That some mischief
was going on he did not doubt ; but of what
kind it was difficult to say, as his patient was
suspiciously reserved in answering questions
about his health. All that the medical man
could do was to warn the girl to avoid all
vexatious or exciting topics of conversation,
and to keep his mind serene and contented at
all risks.

It was now, therefore, quite impossible for
Koma to oppose his will even in small matters.
To resist him in such a matter as this long-cherished
scheme, would be to her nervous and
excited fancy to give him his death-blow at
once.

When Philip Debenham appeared upon the
scene, Eoma's feeling towards him was one of
intense dislike. She hated the sound of his
name and the sight of his face. She could

hardly bear to listen to Maud's raptures over
her ' angel-boys and she felt degraded by his
very presence in the house.

When, however, his visits continued, and
she saw more of him, and of his goodness to
her father, the strength of her antipathy wore
off, and she could not but feel a certain liking
for anyone who did not tire of the monotony
of the blind man's room. At the same time
she never quite lost the sense of constraint,
which had been so painful at first, and her
manner was always somewhat distant and reserved,
even when it had lost its first icy coldness.


Tor, for his part, had no special interest in
the handsome Italian-looking girl. He thought
her rather absurdly haughty, and needlessly
frigid in her manner ; but he did not trouble
himself about the matter, nor resent that of
which he was barely conscious. Michael
Meredith was much more interesting to him
than Eoma, and during his early visits he
hardly saw the girl at all.

As he became more at home in the house,
however, he grew to know her better, and to
feel on a more friendly footing. Not unfrequently

it was in her great studio that
Meredith would be sitting, and then, as he
listened to the old man's eager talk, his eye
would rest with a certain satisfaction upon the
graceful figure of the daughter, and he was
not sorry when she too became included in the
conversation. Maud had told him that
Roma's coldness was only a cloak for a painful
shyness, induced by her lonely life ; and so
the young man, feeling himself immeasurably
older and more worldly-wise than this handsome,
bashful girl, took some pains to draw
her out and put her at her ease ; and Meredith
listened to his pleasant voice and gentle,
brotherly gallantry with a curious smile upon
his still face, whilst Eoma unbent almost unconsciously
before the easy friendliness of Tor's
manner. There was not one spice of the lover
in any single word or tone to alarm her or put
her on the defensive. Tor was far too loyal
to Maud ever to wish for even a mild flirtation
with Eoma. Had he been fancy free, the
dark beauty and statuesque grace of the
young sculptor might have made an impression
upon him ; but with Maud's sunny face, mischievous
smile and winsome ways always before

his mind's eye, he was proof against
other charms, and only offered to her a frank,
friendly kindliness which she could not but
accept as it was meant.

Maud was delighted to find that he and
Eoma were friends, and was quite prepared to
hear later on that they were something more
than that. She had no wish that Phil should
marry ; but if he must do so, she would like
Koma Meredith as a sister-in-law better than
anybody else she knew.

Tor walked clown one day to the sculptor's
house. He was an intimate now, and did not
ring the bell, but walked straight to Mr.
Meredith's study, as usual. The room was
empty, so he naturally concluded that the
studio was his place of habitation that day,
and made his way thither without further
delay.

When, however, he entered, at Koma's
bidding, he found the girl alone at work.
The blind man's chair was empty.

I beg your pardon, Miss Meredith ; I
thought I should find your father here.'

He has gone out,' answered Eoma. ' Mrs.
Lorraine kindly called for him, and asked him

to drive with her. But  but  I think he will
be back very soon  if you don't mind
waiting.'

There was a little hesitation in the girl's
manner which struck Tor as being unusual.
And it was rather unlike her to ask him to
wait.

I will do so with pleasure. This room is a
delightful contrast to the heat out of doors.
I hope I shall not be in your way.'

No, not at all, thank you,' answered
Eoma, still intent on her modelling, and she
did not look up as she continued speaking.
In fact, I am rather glad you have come just
now. I have wanted to speak to you about
something ; and I cannot do it when you are
with father.'

Tor looked at her, and then seated himself
at a little distance, wondering what was
coming.

I shall be honoured by any confidence you
can make me, Miss Meredith. Is there anything
I can do for you ? I am afraid, by your
face, that it is not of a very pleasant matter
you have to speak.'

No  not very,' answered Eoma, without

looking up. And after a pause, she added,
It is something about my father

Tor guessed at her meaning by the pained
look on her face, and said, gently enough :

'Are you alluding to the state of his
health V

Eoma looked up quickly, with startled
eyes.

Do you know it, too ? Is it so apparent as
that ? Or has he said anything to you V

'No, he has not told me anything; but he
had an attack of faintness one day, when he
was reaching up for a heavy book of engravings.
It passed off almost at once ; but it
gave me an idea that there was some weakness
of the heart. I hope you will not be alarmed
at my frankness. It always seems to me that
the truth is best spoken out

1 Oh yes  yes f cried Eoma eagerly. ' It is
such a comfort to be able to speak the truth
about anything that is on one's mind. I have
known it for some months ; but I have never
yet been able to say a word to anyone.'

Have you had advice V

Yes ; it was a doctor who told me ; but
father does not know, and he must not be told.

He is so excitable, and so nervous  you have
noticed that, too V

Well, I have thought he might grow
excited if I were to attempt an argument ; but
then I never do. I am no logician  I don't
think arguing is ever any use. It only means
a terrible waste of words, perhaps of temper,
and everyone ends by thinking exactly as he
did at first.'

Roma looked at him gratefully.

It is so good of you always to let father
have his own way in everything. I have
noticed it, and been so much obliged.'

I was not aware I had done anything to
merit your gratitude. I have very much
enjoyed the talks I have had with your
father. '

1 1 am so glad you have,' said Roma, unbending
more and more, and growing frank now
that the ice was broken, and she was assured
of her companion's comprehension and sympathy.
' You know, there are so few to talk to
father here  in Italy we had lots of friends ;
but, you know,' and here a spasm of pain
crossed her face, ' he had an accident  he went
blind, and I think it has weakened him  his

brain as well as his heart. He is so irritable
if he is crossed. He cannot bear contradiction.
And so  and so  people have been vexed with
him, and have gone away, and not come anymore
; and he seems to have lost all his
friends.'

Eoma spoke with a good deal of feeling.
Indeed, she seemed half afraid she should show
too much, and her voice quivered at times, and
threatened to break. Tor hastened to her relief.

I think I understand you, Miss Meredith.
You mean that I am not to take fright at a
few irritable words, or be offended if I am
contradicted flatly. I assure you, you need
have no fears. Mr. Meredith and I are capital
friends, and mean to continue such. I shall
avoid all exciting topics, because I see they
injure him, and you need not be at all afraid
that I shall lead him into argument or do anything
to annoy or displease him. As I know
that his health is affected, I shall be the more
careful.'

Roma's face cleared visibly.

1 Thank you very much, Mr. Debenham. It
is kind of you to be so considerate. I did
want to warn you against anything exciting,

vol. i. 16

because the doctor said it was so very bad for
him. You see his blindness makes him live so
much to himself, that he does not understand
any point of view but his own

I can quite understand that. It is very
sad for him.'

Very, indeed and again the spasm of pain
pain that was almost like remorse  crossed
her face. ' It makes me want to spare him
everything I can. I never cross him  never
thwart him in anything. I would rather die
than give him pain ; especially now I know that
pain might almost kill him. Of course I cannot
expect others to feel as I do ; but you have
been so kind to him, Mr. Debenham, that I
cannot help trusting you, though I have not
spoken of this to anyone else. You will
humour him, won't you ? You will try not to
cross or disturb him % He is fond of you, and
I don't think he will ever be hard to deal
with ; but even if he is, you will try to soothe
him without letting him get excited V

Certainly, Miss Meredith ; you may trust
me,' answered Tor readily; and there was no
time to say more, for at that moment the door
opened slowly and the blind man entered.

Tor pushed back his chair and advanced to
meet him, talking gaily and unconcernedly;
but Roma had been too much moved to assume
in a moment her usual manner. Her voice
betrayed to her father's fine ear, that something
had occurred to disturb her customary
equanimity, and he smiled to himself as he
noted how particularly gentle, and almost
filial, the young man's manner towards him
had grown.

Roma made him some tea, and they both
waited on him and anticipated his wants, and
his peculiarly acute senses made him absolutely
certain that some ground had been gained
between them  some mutual understanding
arrived at. He was complaisant and benign to
both, and filled with a comfortable sense that
he had not over-rated his powers, and that
all was coming round in accordance with his
plans.

When Tor was gone, Roma resumed her
work, and her father was not ill-pleased to
find that she was unusually silent and preoccupied.


Well, Roma,' he said at last,  how long
had Philip Debenham been here V

162

1 Not very long ; perhaps a quarter of an
hour.'

I am afraid I interrupted you.'

Oh no !' Eoma laughed, not quite naturally.
It was you he came to see.'

Ah, well, I don't know so much about
that. You were very deep in talk.'

Now, father, you know you didn't hear ;'
and, in spite of herself, Roma's voice shook
with apprehension.

Michael Meredith smiled pleasantly.

Well, Roma, you need not make such a
mystery. Was he making love to you V

'No.'

She was so astonished by the sudden charge,
that she could only utter the monosyllable.

Ah, well, we must have patience. I had
hoped to hear that he had proposed.'

Father !'

Well, child '  he began to speak a little
irritably  ' it will soon come to that.'

I don't know answered Roma guardedly.

I do. Now, Roma, be frank with me ; do
you think he means marriage yet V

No, father.'

Has he not looked love, or spoken love ?

No, father.'

1 1 wonder at that, for I think he means it.'

Roma could not forbear saying :

I do not think such a thing has ever
entered his head.'

Meredith's face contracted with vexation fora
moment, and then he smiled genially:

You really think that, dear girl ! Then it
must be put into it, as soon as possible.'

What do you mean, father V

The old man was still smiling blandly and
dreamily.

I must open my mind to him on the subject
; and tell him my wishes.'

Father, father ! don't do that !' cried poor
Roma. ' Let the proposal come from him !'

But you say he does not seem inclined to
make it,' argued the old man, irritability
struggling with calm superiority for the upper
hand.  Things cannot go on like this. The
suspense is trying to me. I must have a conversation
with him, and see if we cannot get
it settled. I clo not think he will needlessly
thwart me. He is very fond of me, is young
Phil Debenham.'

Roma's heart sank. Her late talk with Tor

rose up in her memory with dreadful distinctness.
She had pleaded with him not to vex
her father  not to cross his will. He had
promised to avoid exciting him, had given his
word that he would not cause him annoyance.
And now her father was going to press
her hand upon him  ask him to make her his
wife ! and he would think that she had known
this all along, and had tried to entrap him
into a temporizing, which would be a check on
his liberty and a half-pledge to the egotistic
old man.

Such a thought was terrible, yet Eoma could
not shake it off. What Philip Debenham
would say to such a proposal she could not
guess. Whatever answer he made, the humiliation
to her would be the same. Refusal would
make her father ill and miserable  might it
not even cause his death ? That thought was
enough to prevent her from using her liberty
and declining the offer of marriage if it should
be made. Yet the idea of being handed
over to a man, who had not demanded or
wished her as a wife, was as repugnant to her
as being sold into slavery. However the
matter might end, poor Roma felt that she

would be disgraced for life ; and yet she dared
not speak one word of rebellion to her autocratic
father. Words, as she well knew, would
be worse than wasted upon him.

MEREDITH S PROPOSITION.

HAT talk with Roma in the studio
left an impression upon Tor's
mind which was decidedly favourable
to the young sculptor. Hitherto he had
thought her cold and proud, and decidedly uninteresting,
in spite of her beauty.

Now, however, when she had thrown off fora
moment her reserve, and had spoken her
mind freely to him, had trusted him as a
friend, and thrown herself, as it were, upon
his mercy, now he felt to understand her
better, and admired her more.

He was filled with a sense of compassion for
the fate, which did not trouble her one whit.
It seemed to him a melancholy thing for a
young girl to be thus excluded from the world
and all its gaieties, shut up all the best years

of her life in an obscure retreat, seeing nobody
but an eccentric and egotistic blind father,
and quite at the mercy of his whims and
crotchets.

That she herself was unconscious of the
hardship, and devoted to her father heart and
soul, made the situation the more pathetic in
his eyes ; and when he heard of her anxieties
on the score of the blind man's health, and understood
what such a fear ever before her eyes
must be to her, then he pitied her still more
sincerely, and determined at all costs to stand
her father's friend and hers, and relieve her, if
it were possible to do so, of some of the load of
care, which he now knew must weigh upon her
heavily.

He came often to the little house to talk to
Meredith, and sometimes he drove him out,
and, whenever he could, persuaded Eoma to
accompany them. He encouraged Maud to
go often to see her, and, without betraying
confidence, implied that he thought the poor
girl must have a dull time of it, and suggested
that she should be invited to Lady well more
frequently.

Maud began to think that her words to her

cousins were bringing their own fulfilment,
and that Phil was growing very fond of
Eoma.

Sometimes, in a mischievous mood, she
would try to tease her friend by hinting her
suspicions ; but Eoma always silenced her by
a look of pain and shame, which she found it
hard to interpret.

Michael Meredith was calmly content, feeling
somewhat as an emperor might, who had all
things in his power, even the hearts and lives
of his subjects, and had but to will, and the
thing was done.

No doubts as to the reason of Tor's visits
ever crossed his mind. He troubled himself
with no fears, and felt no smallest dread of
failure. Like most men who live entirely out
of the world, he believed he knew it profoundly ;
and mistook his theories, founded on his own
fanciful dreams, for the result of deep and experienced
observation.

He had lived so long in the world of his
own making, that he had almost forgotten the
existence of any other. Tor was a regular visitor
to his house, and was constantly thrown into
the society of his beautiful daughter; and it

never occurred to him that he might be an
equally constant visitor at other houses, and
see there other women even more beautiful and
attractive than his Eoma. Neither did it trouble
his head to remember how many handsome
women the traveller must have come across in
his wanderings, without falling into the snare
of matrimony.

All such calculations were quite out of Mr.
Meredith's habit of mind. He made his plans,
and looked for their fulfilment as a matter of
course.

Still, as days lengthened into weeks, and
nothing came of the many opportunities the
blind man gave for the young people to open
their hearts to one another, he began to grow
a little impatient. He did not see any need
for so much courting. He liked a man to
come to the point at once ; and Tor's self-reliant
boldness of speech and manner had
made him suppose that he would not hesitate
long, when once his mind was made up.

Michael Meredith, however, was not a bashful
man, nor a man given to scruples of delicacy,
in spite of his refined appearance and
fastidious tastes. He had hitherto held back

from opening the subject simply because Koma
had seemed to wish it, not from any feeling
that it would be out of taste for him to offer his
daughter in marriage to one of the wealthiest
men in the county.

But as time went on, and the young man
did not declare himself, in spite of his frequent
opportunities, Mr. Meredith grew annoyed by
his backwardness, and determined at length
to make his way plain for him.

Tor had joined him in the garden one
evening, to find him unusually silent and abstracted.
He hardly returned any answers to
his talk, and did not evince any interest in
the news with which the young man sought to
beguile him.

I am afraid you are not well, sir,' he said
at length ; ' I fear my talk tires you. I had
better perhaps leave you now. I suppose the
heat of the weather is trying to you, as it is
to many people.'

Meredith seemed to wake with a start, as
from a reverie. He held up his hand as if to
bid Tor keep his seat, and at the same time to
command silence.

Tor could not but smile at the unconsciously

melodramatic air adopted by the old man. It
was these little affectations which amused and
puzzled him in his intercourse with Phil's
father's friend.

Do not go, Philip Debenham, do not go.
I am but poor company to-day, I own ; yet do
not go. I have been thinking much of you
to-day  much of you and of my dear girl, my
peerless Eoma. My thoughts have been busy
with the future, boy.'

1 Indeed answered Tor, with an amused
smile. ' I hope they have been pleasantly
occupied.'

JL

Meredith shook his head thoughtfully.

A beautiful daughter, Philip, is a great
care.'

And a very pleasant one, I imagine, sir.'

Well, yes  yes, pleasant in the present, buta
sad cause for anxiety when one looks into
the future.'

Tor smiled again, for he was amused by
Meredith's solemnity of manner.

Perhaps, then, sir, it would be best to
avoid doing so. The future generally manages
to take care of itself, even without the benefit
of our care.'

Do not jest, Philip Debenham  do not
jest on so deep a subject.'

I am only speaking from experience,'
answered Tor lightly. ' You must admit,
looking back eighteen years, that the future
dealt kindly by me.'

The future of a woman is a very serious
matter continued Meredith, unwilling to be
diverted from his point, ' especially when she
has beauty and wealth.'

Those attributes are generally considered
an advantage to anyone,' suggested Tor. ' You
talk as if it added a load to your mind.'

So it does, boy ; so it does. You are
not a father, or you would understand. My
daughter is beautiful, you know. She is also
something of an heiress, for her mother was
rich, and we live now in Arcadian simplicity.
I fear greatly for her future, when I am no
more. Who will then watch over and guard
her as I have done V

I should think answered Tor, with gravity,
'that Miss Meredith would not be long in
finding a natural protector in the form of a
husband, if once it were permitted to her to
see more of the world.'

Michael Meredith smiled in his slow dreamy
fashion.

You think her, then, so beautiful V

Undoubtedly so.'

I can tell you, in all sincerity, that she is
as good as she is beautiful.'

I can believe it answered Tor heartily.
1 am convinced of it.'

'She has been the most devoted of daughters,'
continued the blind man, with deliberate emphasis,
' and I am certain that she will be the
most devoted of wives.'

I should quite think so too,' answered
Tor, rather wondering whither all this was
tending, but humouring the old man's
fancy, as his habit was. He did not for a
moment doubt Eoma's perfections, but the
subject was not of absorbing interest to
him.

The next question fairly startled him out of
all his lazy indifference.

If you think all this, Philip Debenham 
if you see her to be what she is, beautiful,
devoted, unselfish  if you know her birth to be
equal to yours, and her wealth not altogether
disproportionate, why do you not ask her in

marriage yourself, before any other man steps
in to carry off the treasure 

Tor sat silent and half stupefied for a
moment. He had had a good many experiences
in his lifetime before, but nothing quite
like this. His ready sang-froid almost deserted
him for a moment, and he looked completely
disconcerted.

I have not thought of getting; married lie
said, the colour mounting slowly in his face,
though there was nobody to see it.

Then it is high time you began to do so,'
returned Michael Meredith, with something of
judicial severity in his tone.

Tor felt much disposed to bid him mind his
own business, but a glance into the pale, eager
face deterred him. He saw that the blind
man's whole soul was in the subject he had
propounded, and that a very little would
agitate him profoundly, perhaps dangerously.
His promise to Eoma rose up before him. He
would not go from his word to her, yet the
position was distinctly embarrassing.

Really, sir, I have had so much to think
of since I came to England, that I have given
hardly any thought to the subject you name.'

Ah, indeed ; yes, I suppose a sudden
accession of property does bring many cares
with it. Still, you must be aware that it is
almost impossible for a man in your position
to remain long unmarried. It does not do ;
his duty to society demands that he shall take
a wife. Your own sense of the fitness of
things must, I think, tell you that.'

I dare say you may be right, but I am no
judge in such matters. Maud and my aunt
keep house and entertain guests, and I fancied
that was all that was needful ; but no doubt
you know best.'

Yes, Philip ; I suppose I do know more of
the world than you. I have been thinking a
great deal of you and of your future. I like
you, Philip, and I trust you. I would give
much to see you well settled in life, with a
woman who would make you really happy. I
believe that my Koma could do that ; and I
could trust her to you without a doubt and
without a fear.'

You pay me a high compliment, Mr. Meredith.
I am obliged by your good opinion.'

Not at all  not at all. My friend Philip
Debenham's son must always stand next to

vol. i. 17

my own child in my affections. Do you know,
boy, that I owe all my prosperity in life to
him V

No, I did not know it.'

I will tell you the story  then you will
perhaps the better understand the wish which
has grown up in my heart.

I am well born, Philip, and I was well
educated ; but misfortune fell upon our family,
and I was left alone in the world, without
money and without a profession ; for I had
been brought up a gentleman at large. Art
was my only resource ; Italy my only field.
I went to Italy and painted, and starved therefor
many long, weary years. I could not sell
my pictures ; but I found I had skill in modelling,
and I got some poor work to do in a
sculptor's studio. My talent in that line
became noticed, and I rose, by slow degrees, to
be of use to my master in his greater works ;
but before I had attained the fame he prophesied
for me, he died, and I was turned adrift
once more.

4 This time I was somewhat better off. I
hired a studio, and set up for myself ; but no
commissions came, and I was reduced to the

lowest depths of poverty again. It was then that
your father found me. Chance brought him
to my studio, and there his artist's eye taught
him at once the value of my work. He was rich,
and he was the leader of a certain art circle in
Rome. He took me up, and made me known.
Commissions flowed in, and I became prosperous.
He introduced me to the beautiful
and wealthy young countess, who consented to
share my lot, and become the wife of the once
penniless sculptor ; and as her husband, my
name was made, my fortune secure.

But I never forgot that to Philip Debenham
I owed all my wealth and happiness ; I am not
ungrateful, and I never was tempted to forget
that fact. I saw little of him in later years ;
but until the close of his life we never ceased
to correspond.

I knew little of his changed circumstances
till the accident of my blindness (Roma will
perhaps tell you of that some day ; I never
speak of it) drove me to seek an asylum in
my native country. My wife was dead, and
Italy had lost its greatest hold upon me then,
I thought I should like to settle near to
where my old friend had lived, and to give

172

my Roma the pleasure of friendship with his
children.

Very much shocked and surprised was I to
find that his wealth had all vanished in his
lifetime, and that his son was a wanderer on
the face of the earth, without money and without
the means to make it. My natural lethargy
and indolence prevented my taking active
steps then in your favour ; besides, Maud
always kept me informed of your doings ; and
I knew you were happy in your travels, in
the society of your friend. But none the
less did I make the resolution that half
my wealth should pass to you at my death ;
and that if you returned home heart-whole
and fancy-free, you should marry my Eoma,
and become my son in deed and truth, as
you are in the love my soul bestows on
you.'

The blind man paused, as if fatigued by so
long a speech, and by the emotions it had called
up in his mind. Tor, who had listened in A
gently, now spoke.

I think I understand better now. It was
to Philip Debenham  my father  that you
consider you owe your success in life ; and you

are anxious that the fruits of it should pass to
his son V

Yes ; I wished it when you were a poor
man  I cannot change because you are rich.
I wished that you should be Koma's husband
when I had never even seen you, and when
my fancy could not but conjure up the portrait
of a rough-and-ready traveller, half Englishman,
half Yankee. Even then I wanted you
for a son, for your father's sake. Can you
wonder that I want it more, now that you have
appeared upon the scene a polished English
gentleman, full of kindliness, honour, and
chivalry ? Philip, do not disappoint me ; do
not break my heart. Do not tell me that my
dream of years is but an old man's foolish
fancy, and must be cast on one side, like a
discarded garment. Tell me that you will love
and cherish my child, my Koma ; and that you
will be a son to me in my old age

Tor made no immediate response, but sat
still, feeling the position inconceivably awkward.


It was not to him at all that this offer of
Koma's hand was made, but to Philip Deben-
ham ; and the girl's dark Italian beauty was just

the kind he admired most, and her quiet, self-contained
nature the type which best suited his
facile and mercurial temperament. It behoved
him to act with caution, so as not to block his
friend's way too much, should he be prepared
to accept Meredith's offer ; and it was of great
importance not to excite the nervous old man
more than was absolutely necessary. At the
same time Tor's loyalty to Maud made him
very reluctant to compromise himself.

You have taken me by surprise, sir. I
am much touched by your expressions towards
myself and my father, but you must give me
time. I have never thought of your daughter
in this light before.'

A look of jealous distrust crossed the blind
man's face.

You have not gone and. entangled yourself
abroad? You have not got a wife in some
foreign place V

Tor's laugh was hearty enough to drive out
all suspicion of distrust.

1 Indeed, no, sir. I have seen too much of
such things ever to be tempted. If ever I
marry a wife, she will be one whom I am not
ashamed to own before all the world.'

Eight, boy, right ; you are your father's
own son. But tell me  pardon my intrusiveness
 have you come home quite heart-whole?
Is there no beauty on some southern shore to
whom your fancy roves lovingly back  whom
you would fain bring to England as your
wife V

Tor answered honestly enough in the
negative, and Meredith's face cleared.

You have not been long enough here to
have lost your heart. Koma cannot have a
rival yet.'

Tor smiled to himself, but his voice was
serious enough.

i Your daughter and my sister Maud are the
only two women I have really admired since I
came over.'

That is good. Then you are quite fancy-free
 your heart is in your own keeping.'

This was a comment, not a question, which
was well, for it would have been awkward for
Philip Debenham to have had to announce
himself in love with his sister ; and though
Tor had no great compunction in acting a part,
he had a distinct aversion to speaking a lie.
He felt his position growing more and more

complicated and uncomfortable ; but at the
same time his sense of humour could not but
enable him to enjoy it, when there was no
pressing danger to apprehend.

Then you will think over what I have
said, Philip V said Michael Meredith, after a
pause.

I will indeed, sir.'

1 And you will give me your answer soon V

I must ask you, sir, not to hurry me as to
that. I have a good deal on my mind just
now, and so important a decision as this
must not be hurried. I am afraid I am not
made of the inflammable stuff of which lovers
are generally supposed to be composed ; and I
do not know your daughter well  greatly as I
admire her  nor does she know anything of
me. Give us time to learn each other's characters,
and above all, say nothing to her to
disturb her unconsciousness and freedom. You
see, I treat you as frankly as you treat me ; and
when my answer is ready, you shall have it.'

He is safe enough,' said Meredith to himself,
as Tor strode away. ' He is cautious and
thoughtful ; perhaps at his age that is natural,
but he is safe enough. Eoma has no rival,

that is the great point ; the rest will all
follow.'

I think I managed that rather well,'
mused Tor as he walked home, half amused,
half annoyed by the interview. ' I didn't
agitate the old buffer. I didn't commit myself,
and I've gained time, which is everything.
Never thought I could combine the serpent
and the dove quite so neatly. Phil, you
young rascal, if you don't come to your senses
pretty quick now, I shall feel inclined to blow
your brains out, and have done with you and
your confounded affairs once and for all !
Why was I ever fool enough to make a friend V

DANGERS AHEAD.

matilda,' said Bertha Classis,
don't you think it rather odd
that Sir Herbert MoncriefT was so
sure that Phil was Mr. Torwood 

Was he  so sure ? I fancied he had only
made a mistake. Philip didn't seem to think
it so very odd. I suppose they have been mistaken
for one another before.'

Yes ; but he spoke of it again to me afterwards
; and did I tell you about Maud 

< No. What V

1 1 don't think I thought of it at the time
particularly; but afterwards, turning it over
in my mind, I couldn't help thinking it rather
strange.'

What  questioned Matilda impatiently.
1 1 don't know what you're talking about.'

Well, I'm just going to tell you. We were
walking about the grounds, Sir Herbert and
I (he really was very attentive to me, Matilda),
when we came across Maud, talking and laughing
with some fellow, and looking quite pretty
and animated. I noticed Sir Herbert looked
at her rather hard, and, when we had passed,
he said : " I think I cannot be mistaken in
identifying that lady as Miss Torwood ? She
is so like her brother." I stared at him, and
said : " That is my cousin, Maud Debenham ;
but I do not think she is at all like Philip."
He looked quite flustered and puzzled for a
bit, and said slowly: " Let me think; I can't
make it out. That lady is exceedingly like a
man whom I believed to be Philip Debenham,
and she is Miss Debenham ! But the man is
not a Debenham at all, but Torwood  I had
confused the two fellows. 'Odd coincidence,
isn't if?" He laughed, and then passed the
matter off, as though he had been surprised into
saying something rather strange, and wanted
it forgotten. I didn't trouble my head about
it at the time. It didn't seem to me to matter
much, if Maud did happen to be rather like
Mr. Torwood. But when one comes to think

over it all, it does seem rather odd, doesn't
it ? Everyone says Phil isn't a bit like a
Debenham.'

Goodness gracious, Bertha ! don't go putting
notions into people's heads !' cried Matilda, in
some alarm. ' It cant be anything but Sir
Herbert's stupidity  or, perhaps, some spite
against poor Phil. It would be very awkward
for him to have such things said of him ; and
papa and mamma would be simply offensive
if they could get hold of anything and
trump up a story. Mamma would be delighted
to try and make out that Phil wasn't Phil at
all, but an impostor. There's nothing too
nasty for her to say or do when she's disagreeable,
which she mostly is now.'

Good gracious, Matilda ! you're out-herding
Herod, talking about impostors. Why,
how could Phil be that ? He's got everything,
and knows everything needful to identify
him ! Of course he's Phil ! How could hebe
anybody else ? But, of course, I shan't say
a word to mamma or anybody. If she were
to get hold of such an idea, there would be
no peace for anyone. And I'm sure nobody
could be kinder or nicer than Phil ; and whoever

he is, we don't want him changed for
anybody else.'

An odd sort of fancy was suggesting itself
to the minds of both girls ; but they did not
choose to give it words even to themselves.
Neither of them had relinquished the hope of
becoming the mistress of the Manor, and Tor's
pleasant, flattering, cousinly air kept him a
prime favourite with both sisters. At the
present moment, neither would have moved
hand or foot, if by so doing any annoyance
could fall upon him ; but if jealousy or dislike
should be stirred up in either heart, it
was altogether uncertain how any secret might
be preserved.

It couldn't possibly be, you know,' said
Bertha, with a laugh, not specifying what the
it ' might be. ' It's not possible, of course.
But it will be fun to tease Phil about it, just
to see what he says.'

I'd advise you not to say anything at all
about it said Matilda. ' You'll only annoy
him.'

Nonsense ! Phil and I are capital friends.
He likes fun as much as I do.'

'Well, do as you like,' returned Matilda,

thinking to herself that if Bertha chose to 20
and spoil her own chances, it might not be
such a bad thing for somebody else.

Yes, I mean to. I like chaffing Phil, and
he likes it too.'

Bertha, on her part, was thinking that she
might do worse than have a secret with her
handsome cousin, for he could not but perceive
the awkwardness of Sir Herbert Mon-cries's

suggestion ; and if But not even

to herself did the girl complete that train of
thought.

The next time she had her cousin to herself,
she put her threat into execution.

Phil,' she began, looking up at him archly,
1 don't you think that was a very odd mistake
of Sir Herbert MoncrierT's the other day?'

What mistake ? Taking me for Torwood ?
Well, yes  rather, perhaps. It all comes of
that lazy beggar Tor giving me all the work
to do, whilst everything went down in his
name, as he had the money, you know.'

Oh, I see,' said Bertha, her half-formed
theory fading a little before his quiet nonchalance.
' You used always to act for him,
did you?'

Well, yes, mostly. He's a lazy beggar, as
I said before, and was ready to let anybody
and everybody cheat him. So I generally
made the bargains, and wrote the orders, and
signed everything " Torwood ;" so naturally I
got taken for him, and then Tor would say:
"Oh, don't bother to undeceive them, or
they'll all come pestering me. Let me be
Phil Debenham, insignificant and dependent."
Of course the old chap had to have his own
way.'

Tor's voice expressed a quiet amusement
and an obvious mimicry which was irresistible.
Bertha laughed, and felt her suspicions vanishing.



I wonder, then, what made Sir Herbert
think Maud so very like Mr. Torwood  the
one he had always thought Phil Debenham, you
know.'

1 Did he think that ?' asked Tor lazily.

1 Yes. Are they alike really V

Tor and Maud alike,' said Tor slowly and
reflectively. ' I don't know that it ever struck
me ; but some people have a faculty for seeing
likenesses ; I don't think I possess it. Let
me see : well, perhaps there is a sort of similarity

in style, hair and eyes the same colour,
and he has rather that oval shaped face of
hers ; but I think the likeness begins and
ends there. I think Maud is uncommonly
good-looking, and Tor never set up for being
a beauty. Well, when he comes over here on
a visit, we will put them together and see if
there is a visible likeness. I rather imagine it
exists only in Sir Herbert MoncriefFs imaginations


Tor spoke with such frank and easy coolness
that Bertha was disarmed. Her confidence in
her own penetration convinced her that she
should have detected him at once, had he been
the least bit startled or embarrassed, and he
had not evinced the faintest sign of being the
one or the other.

One more attempt did she make to force
his confidence.

Of course I don't mean to say anything of
this to anybody, Phil.'

Why not V

Bertha gave her head an expressive
shake.

1 I thought it might be awkward for
you

Tor laughed in his mirthful way.

Why on earth ? I think it's rather a good
joke. How could it be awkward for me, fair
cousin V

Oh, I don't know. It was only a silly
fancy of mine,' answered Bertha confusedly ;
for in the light of Tor's cool, unconcerned demeanour,
her suspicions did look both foolish
and uncalled for. ' All the same, I shan't
talk about it, because I shouldn't like anyone
else to fancy such things.'

Fancies are harmless luxuries, are they
not? I am sure I have no wish to stand in
the way of anyone's imagination,' answered
Tor lazily. ' At the same time, let me thank
you for your evident goodwill on my behalf ;
I shall not forget that you have wished to
stand between me and even an imaginary
annoyance. I appreciate your consideration,
my dear cousin.'

Bertha smiled and blushed, and felt greatly
delighted at having provoked such words as
these. He had not even guessed at the
ridiculous blunder she had made, and had been
quite grateful for her confidence.

Bertha was more than ever determined to

vol. I. 18

keep her secret, whether he cared for its preservation
or not, so that he would not have
cause to think she had made a vain promise,
which she intended to break.

Tor's face was somewhat grave and preoccupied
as he walked home. Could Bertha
have seen him then, she might have fancied
her words had made a deeper impression than
she believed at the time. However, his
meditations ended after all in a laugh.

Possession is nine points of the law.
They would find it rather a difficult matter to
oust me now, even if they got the clue ; and
it's too nasty a charge to bring up on insufficient
evidence. Young Moncrieffs recognition
and ideas as to likeness are about all that could
turn up against me  that, or similar identification.
Old Classis is too much afraid of
me to proceed, unless he was sure of his cause,
and in any case he would think twice before
getting quite out at elbows with me. I don't
think I need be much afraid. I am learning
the art of brazening things out finely. Practice
makes perfect. By the time old Phil comes
round, I dare say I could stand him out that
he was I, and I he, if he weren't so completely

the Debenham, and so like Maud. I wish he
would come soon, I know. I'm uncommonly
tired of playing the brothers part, and waiting
her pleasure as to young Classis ; though I
don't believe she will marry him, when it
comes to the point.'

Tor was so far settled clown in his new life,
and to his assumed character, that he played
the part quite naturally and without any effort.
He was interested in the farm-work upon
the estate, and entered into it with great zest.
He had been long enough in America to learn
the use and value of machines almost unknown
to the rustic population of Lady well, and he
made a few daring innovations, which were
at first the laughing-stock, and then the
wonder and admiration of all the people
round.

Certainly his management, combined with
the good season, made agricultural matters
look up again ; and the bailiff told him, with
wonder and delight, that this year he believed
the farm would pay its way, and not be a loss.
He was disappointed that Tor was not as rapturously
enthusiastic at this news as he should
have been, and discovered that the young

182

squire laboured under the delusion that farms
were profitable concerns.

But the quiet course of country life never
seemed to run smoothly for very long together.
Tor was not permitted to enjoy Phil's rights
undisturbed for any protracted period. The
next blow was dealt him from quite an unexpected
quarter.

One day he received by the morning's posta
letter bearing the postmark ' Whitbury.' It
was a square envelope, in thick, creamy paper,
and bore a handsome coat-of-arms upon it, in
place of a crest, by which Tor imagined his
correspondent to be a lady, and a lady of some
social standing.

He turned the letter over and over, with a
puzzled expression of countenance.

Whitbury, Whitbury,' he mused; 'surely
that name is familiar  it seems associated with
my dim recollections of my father. Why, yes,
I have it now. That is the name of the place
where I was born  where that house of mine
is. To be sure that's it. But who can be
writing to Phil from there ? It can't surely
be on any business of mine. The agent
sees to all that. I know nothing about

it. Well, I'd better open the letter and
see.'

Suiting the action to the words, Tor cut
open the envelope, and read the missive enclosed.


Sir,

I have been informed by Mr. Tor-wood's
agent that during some indisposition,
from which he is suffering, you are acting for
him in a business capacity. To you, then, I
must appeal upon a matter of business which
threatens to become pressing.

I am a tenant of Mr. Torwood's, and the
lease of this house, which I have occupied for
twenty-eight years, is all but run out. I am
anxious to renew it, and that upon equitable
terms ; but I do not like Mr. Torwood's agent,
and I am sure he will not fairly represent to
his client the state of the case, and will propose
terms which are only advantageous to him,
without being just to me. I always do dislike
middle-men, and I am quite determined that
this matter shall be settled without having
recourse to them.

1 know that if Mr. Torwood were able todo

so, he would be willing to undertake the
trouble of a journey to Whitbury, to see his
father's old friend, and do her a kindness. I
cannot tell how far you, his deputy, are prepared
to act, but can only say that I should
esteem a visit as a personal favour, and should
be extremely obliged if you would come and
see me and the house, and ascertain for yourself
the true state of the case. I feel convinced
that we should then have no difficulty incoming
to terms as to the new lease, for my
wish is to have justice on both sides.

I trust that you will grant me the favour

I ask.

 Yours faithfully,

'Marjory Descartes.

Minster House, Whitbury.'

Tor pulled vigorously at his moustache, and
paced the room thoughtfully. He was alone,
for he had been out upon the farm early, and
had come in before the breakfast-hour, and the
ladies were not yet down.

Marjory Descartes ! yes, I remember the
name. My father spoke to me sometimes of
Mr. Descartes and Miss Marjory. She is
evidently Miss Marjory still. Why, of course

she may have the house on any terms she likes
to propose. I believe I've had somewhere
about a hundred a year from it all this while.
I'll renew the lease on the same terms if she
likes. It would be a shame to try and " do '
a good tenant, such as she has always been.
But I don't see exactly why I need go down in
person to tender this assurance ; not that there
could be any danger to my incog. , as I haven't
been there since I was a baby : but I don't see
any good in mixing myself up more than is
needful with my own affairs just now ; and
Wetherby might know me, if I were to come
across him, as I have seen him from time to
time, though not for many years now. I
shouldn't mind seeing the place and the house
at all ; but I'll put it off, I think, until I can
go as Tor wood, not as Debenham. I'll write
to Miss Marjory, and guarantee that she shall
not be disturbed or annoyed. I think that
ought to satisfy her.'

So Tor, during the course of the day,
penned the following neat little epistle :

Dear Madam,

I have received your letter about the
house of my friend Mr. Tor wood, which you

rent, and am in a position to assure you that
you have nothing to fear in your dealings with
him. I hope, before very long, he will have
recovered his health, and be able to pay his
respects to you in person ; and meantime I
shall write to the agent to let him know that
things are to go on as they are for a year.
By that time Mr. Torwood will have resumed
the management of his own affairs, and will
be able to settle with you the terms of the
new lease, which I am sure he will draw up so
as to meet your views.

I trust this guarantee on my part will
relieve you from all further anxiety. If my
going to Whitbury could be of any service to
you, should be very pleased to accept your
kind invitation ; but if I take the steps I
propose, I do not see what advantage would
be gained by my doing so.

I shall acquaint Mr. Torwood with what
has passed, as soon as he is in a fit state to
attend to business matters.

Yours faithfully,

'Philip Debeneam.

1 Lady well Manor.'

There, I think that will satisfy the old

lady said Tor, as he folded and addressed his
letter. l How things come back to one ! I
can remember how often my father spoke of
Miss Marjory, and how much he seemed to
admire her force of character and determination.
I must certainly go and see her some
day when I have cast off my shell ; but I
will wait for that first, and go in propria
person'

Tor had yet to learn the extent of Miss
Marjory's force of character.

Two or three days later came another Whit-bury
letter.

1 Confound the old girl !' thought Tor irreverently.
' What can she want now V

That the letter speedily explained.

Dear Sir,

I am grateful for your prompt and
courteous reply to my letter ; but at the same
time there is so much I wish to say to Mr.
Torwood or his deputy, that I cannot feel satisfied
without a personal interview. Women,
as you know, are fidgety creatures, and I share
this weakness. Mr. Torwood's illness seems a
serious matter, by what I gather ; and I do

not like waiting and suspense. There are
several things I want done about the place,
and I do not like to settle anything until
I can see my landlord. You stand towards
me in that position just now, and therefore
I want to see you. You are a gentleman,
which the agent is not ; and I can deal with
you, as I cannot possibly do with him.

I trust that you will humour this fancy of
mine, and come over at your early convenience.
I think when we meet, I can convince you that
it is not a mere freak of imagination that a personal
inspection is necessary. Besides which,
now is the time for working. Our hard winter
frosts prevent any kind of building-work
during a great part of the year.

1 If you will kindly consent to come, and
will name your day and train, I will see that
you are met at the station ; and if you will
spend the night here, instead of at the hotel,
you will be doing me an additional pleasure.
The journey cannot be taken twice upon the
same day.

'Yours sincerely,

Marjory Descartes.

Minster House, Whitbury.'

I suppose I must go now,' said Tor, half
aloud.

Go where V asked Maud.

To Yorkshire, on some business of poor
Tor's.'

Maud put on an air of reproach.

I You are always tearing off somewhere,
Phil. Why must you go ? Can't you
write ?'

I did try to do it by writing ; but I find it
won't do.'

I wish that old Tor would come back,
and do his work for himself,' cried Maud.

So do I,' answered Tor, so fervently that
Maud looked at him and asked :

Is it disagreeable business, then, Phil ?'

Oh no ! not bad ; only some business with
a tenant about a house of his. But I'm shy,
you know ; and she's a lady, and I know she'll
get her own way with me, to the detriment of
Tor's pocket.'

Take me with you, poor, shy little boy !'
laughed Maud ; ' I'll see you're not bullied.'

I I should like to take you well enough ; only
I'm to be her guest, and couldn't bring a sister
very well.'

How did she know to write to you ?'

1 The agent told her I was acting for Tor.'

1 Oh ; and how is Tor, Phil ? You never
speak of him.'

He's much the same ; very queer and
seedy. I must go and see after him one of
these days.'

Everybody says you ought to bring him
to England to be doctored,' said Maud, flushing
up a little. ' It makes me quite angry,
but they keep on saying that you ought not
to leave him alone, and ill, when he did so
much for you. I know it's all right if you doit
; but I can't stop people's mouths, and it is
so horrid. I wish you would bring him over,
Phil.'

I will, as soon as ever I can ; but he is not
well enough yet to travel. He is under one of
the best men in Germany, and I don't believe
any English physician could do more for him.
Don't you worry over what people say, little
sister. I know that you will trust me
through thick and thin, and that is all I care
for

I will, I do !' cried Maud, with enthusiasm ;
and Mrs. Lorraine's gentle voice added :

I think nobody who really knows dear
Philip could do otherwise.'

Tor looked pleased, and bent down to kiss
his aunt.

I think I have made at least two staunch
friends, who will stand by me through everything.'


Of course !' cried Maud, with energy ;
but why should you talk as if you might
need people to stand by you ? And why
don't you kiss me too V

He laughed, and turned again to his
letter.

1 I'll write at once, and fix tomorrow.
Best get the business over as early as possible.'

So his note was written accepting Miss Marjory's
hospitality ; and Tor made a few relations,
consulted Bradshaw, and arranged to
leave in the morning and return the following
afternoon.

I hope this affair will not lead to any more
complications,' he said to himself, when seated
in the train. ' I have quite enough on my
hands without that ; but I don't see how it can.
Not a soul there knows me, so I think I may
feel quite safe.'

AN ODD INTERVIEW.

'Miss Marjory had got her way, and
Mr. Debenham was coming down
that very day, to see about the
business in hand.

He has not lost time, at any rate,' quoth
the brisk little gentlewoman, looking up from
her letter. ' He is coming this very afternoon.
Well, I'm glad to find young men are not
altogether too lazy to exert themselves in anybody's
business but their own. Horace, I'll
thank you to meet the 4.15 train this afternoon.
It will look more polite if you go in
person. He will remain the night  I am glad
to see he is not too stiff or too proud for that
so I will take care he has a good dinner.
Nothing like a good dinner to put a man in a
good temper. If it were young Torwood, now,

I'd have a few of his father's old friends into
meet him ; as it is, I suppose he would not
thank me for the attention, and would only
be politely bored. Well, well ! one can't
have perfection ; and Mr. Debenham has acted
in a very gentlemanlike manner throughout.
Let me see, now. Soup and salmon, of course,
and a light entree or two  two will be enough,
I think ; saddle of mutton, and two of my
best chickens ; pity game is not in season,
but that can't be helped. There's that Stilton
in prime condition, and sweets and fruits ;
but he won't care for them, I imagine. I
think he won't find much fault with my
father's wines, however. Yes, we can give
him as good a dinner as need be, and show
him what Whitbury hospitality is like. I
must go and talk to cook.'

Miss Marjory hastened away, her household
keys jangling as she moved, to interview her
model cook, and consult over Tor's dinner.

Ethel laughed, and so did her brother.

She talks dreadfully against young men,'
said he, ' but she does not seem altogether
indifferent when one is coming.'

I think it's very good-natured of Mr.

Debenham to come all this way,' remarked
Ethel. ' I hope Cousin Marjory will not tease
him very much, or bother his life out with her
theories.'

4 Cousin Marjory is a clever woman, Ethel,'
returned Horace. ' She does not bore people
half so much as you fancy.'

She never bores me,' Ethel said hastily,
1 because I am so fond of her ; but she is
funny, you know, Horace, and says one thing
one clas r and quite another the next, and
always seems to want to argue everything
with you. One never knows what she will
say next, and she doesn't care whom she
snubs.'

That is the chief beauty of it,' laughed
Horace. ' She is so delightfully impartial that
we all get it alike. Never you mind, Ethel :
her bark is worse than her bite ; and, depend
upon it, Whitbury would never be the place
it is, if it were not for her sharp tongue. They
all say that it is she who keeps all the tradespeople
up to the mark, to say nothing of
stopping society here from stagnating through
idleness.'

Certainly Miss Marjory was not going to let

anything stagnate that day. Within and without,
all her household were busily employed
making the old place look its brightest.

He shall have a good report to take back
to young Torwood. He shan't think I boast
in vain, when I talk of the improvements I
have made in the house. I can see he means
to be reasonable, but I don't choose to be
yielded to just because I'm a woman. I wish
him to see what I really have done, and appeal
to his sense of justice. And I want him to
sink me that new well, and to put continuous
iron fencing in place of that old wooden paling
that's all broken down. Nothing like being a
good tenant for making a good landlord ; and
if he has any sense of the fitness of things. I
shall get my own way.'

Miss Marjory certainly seemed to go about
with the air of one used to her own wav ; and
after Horace had gone to the station, she repaired
to her own room, to make herself neat
and attractive in the stranger's eyes.

Nothing like producing a good impression
at first,' she remarked to herself, as she
arranged her cap and the dainty lace ruffles
round her neck and wrists.

vol. I. 19

Miss Marjory always looked well dressed,
even when going about her garden-work in
what she termed her ' chrysalis-shell ;' in her
black satin and old lace she was undeniably
handsome, and a model specimen of a well-bred,
well-to-do English gentlewoman,

She heard the dogcart drive up to the door,
and the sharp ring at the bell ; and knew that
the stranger would be waiting for her alone in
the drawing-room. Ethel had gone to a tennis-party,
and Horace was due at the Minster for
evensong. On the whole, she was pleased
that this was the case.

She tripped lightly down the wide staircase,
and entered the room so noiselessly that the
young man, standing beside the window, which
commanded the fine view of open country,
did not at once perceive her, and she paused
for a moment before advancing to greet her
guest.

She had come in with a courteous smile of
anticipated greeting upon her face, such as a
hostess is wont to bestow upon a stranger she
is glad to welcome ; but when her eyes fell
upon the tall, well-made figure, the tawny
head and decisive features, a great surprise

flashed over her face, and the smile changed to
one of beaming pleasure.

Mr. Torwood !' she exclaimed, with an
accent of extreme gratification and pleasure.
Torrington Torwood himself, whom I saw last
a baby in long-clothes ! This is a delightful
surprise ! Are you better, then ? I am so
glad ! How delighted everyone here will be
to make your acquaintance f

She shook hands warmly with the young
man ; but he, although a pleasant smile, and
rather a humorous one, shone out of his eyes,
did not exactly respond to the warmness of
Miss Marjory's greeting.

1 Pardon me, Miss Descartes ; if you have
not seen my friend Torwood since his long-clothes
days, it is hardly to be expected
that you could recognise him. Did I not
make it plain that I am merely his substitute,
Philip Debenham V

Miss Marjory took one backward step, and
looked up into the frank, bronzed face above
her.

Do you mean to tell me that you are Mr.
Debenham V she asked.

Certainly I do.'

192

1 And do you expect to be believed V

1 Well, yes, I certainly did.'

Miss Marjory laughed in genuine amusement.


Don't talk nonsense to me, Torrington
Torwood. I know better than to believe
it.'

The stranger looked at her with his pleasant
smile.

But, Miss Descartes, you really must believe
me.'

Believe that your name is Debenham !
Stuff and nonsense ! As if anyone would ever
believe that, who had known your father. You
are the very image of what Guy Torwood was
at your age. Debenham indeed ! I never
heard anything so ridiculous in all my life 
never !'

1 But, my dear madam '

But, my dear sir, it is not the least use
your trying to make a fool of me. Guy Tor-wood
was a great friend of mine  indeed, he
once did me the honour to make me an offer
of marriage ; and if he had done so a second
time, I'm not sure but what I should have
said " yes." But he saw Lucile Torrington,

and it was all over with him then. However,
it isn't very likely that I have forgotten Guy
Torwood, or that I should not recognise his
son, who has grown up his very image.'

But, Miss Descartes '

4 But, Mr. Torwood, don't you try that
on any more with me. But for a mere
accident, I might have been your mother.
What is the use of your trying to deceive
me ? You had better give it up with a good
grace.'

The young man seemed to think so too, for
his face changed, and the smiling assurance
was replaced by an expression of serious
gravity, which surprised Miss Marjory, who
had merely fancied that a boyish trick was
being played off upon her.

Miss Marjory said Tor, unconsciously
falling into the name that he had learnt from
his father's lips, ' I see that I cannot keep up
my disguise before you. But may I ask as a
great favour, involving more than I can explain,
that I may still be Philip Debenham to you
and all here, and that you will not betray my
identity to any living soul ? I throw myself
upon your mercy, Miss Marjory ; I do not

think you will readily betray your old friend's
son.'

His earnestness startled Miss Marjory.

Sit down,' she said, suiting the action to
the words herself  ' sit down ; I must understand
more of this. I hope you do not mean
that you have brought your honoured father's
name into such disgrace, that you are obliged
to change it for a stranger's.'

1 No, no answered Tor quickly ; ' not that.

I have never ' then, bethinking himself

that his present course of conduct might not
be approved in the eyes of the world, he
paused, and added, ' I do not think I have
ever done what he would have been ashamed
to witness.'

Miss Marjory's face cleared. There was a
frankness in Tor's manner which disarmed
suspicion. This manner had often stood him
in good stead of late, and did so at the present
crisis.

She looked sharply at him, and then began
to ask pertinent questions.

You admit that you are Torrington Tor-wood
V

I have no choice in the matter,' answered

Tor, with a smile ; ' I am forced todo
so.'

And you wish to pass under the name of
Philip Debenham ?'

ado.'

Is there a Philip Debenham in reality V

'Yes.'

1 And have you and he changed names and
positions V

< Yes.'

How many people are in this plot V

1 Nobody knows of its existence save myself,
and now yourself. You and I, Miss Marjory,
are the sole conspirators.'

And Philip Debenham.'

No. He knows no more about it than
that table. He is lying ill, unconscious of what
is passing, at a doctor's house in Germany.'

1 Torrington Tor wood, you called me just
now a conspirator, and perhaps I may consent
to be one, for I cannot but like you for your
father's sake. But I must know the rights of
this. I never choose to act in the dark. I
shall not abuse your confidence, whether I become
an ally or not. You had better make a
clean breast of it, and tell me all ; and then, if I

approve your course of action, I do not say but
that I may be willing to help you, if I
can.'

'Thank you, Miss Marjory. I am sure I
can trust you, from what my father has told
me of you, and of Whitbury. I believe my
only course is to take you into my confidence.'


To be sure it is. I am a woman, so I am
curious, and of course I like a little bit of intrigue.
Come, now, tell me all about it. Mr.
Debenham is ill, and unconscious, and you
have adopted his name and position, and yet
nobody knows. How is that V

1 Because nobody has seen him since he was
ten years old. His father died then, and an
old brute of an uncle sent him abroad and
kept him there ; and before he had ever been
home at all, his uncle found him such an uncongenial
berth in an office, that he elected to
cut and run, and came to me, and we have
been travelling the world over, he and I, these
ten years ; but as none of his people have seen
him since he was a small boy, I pass for him
easily enough.'

But why should you pass for him ? Why

doesn't he  why don't you bring him over and
wait till he recovers V

Because the date of his recovery is very
doubtful, and the journey to England was impossible
for him then.'

'But why did you personate him? Why
could you not speak the truth about it V

I believe now, that that would have been
the best way ; but the idea struck me all in a
moment, and it seemed too good a joke to
lose. The comic side was certainly uppermost
in my mind at first ; and only when it was too
late to draw back, did I realize the more serious
aspect of the affair.'

But I want to understand better. Are you
trying to be of use to him  or what ? Why
did it become necessary for him to go to his
relations at all V

I am telling my story very badly said
Tor. i I forget how little you know T . Phil
has lately come into a large property. The
great-uncle, out of whose way he was so carefully
kept, ended by leaving all to him ; and,
of course, he was written for urgently. He was
hopelessly unconscious when the summons came,
and the prevailing impression left on my mind

by the study of various letters was, that unless
somebody with a head on his shoulders went
over at once to see to things for him, the
brute of an uncle I have mentioned before,
would feather his nest well out of the property,
which he would manage as next of kin, and
would probably force Phil's sister into a
marriage with his son, in order to secure her
fortune to his family. Phil couldn't give me
powers to act for him, and the scheme of personating
him flashed into my head, and I acted
upon it before I had really time to think the
question seriously over. Besides, I thought then,
that he would be sure to come to himself in a
few weeks' time, to relieve me of the burden of
his affairs ; and now it seems as though an indefinite
time might pass before he recovers, and
I'm getting precious tired of playing the part.'

1 You are not acting from interested motives ?
You are dealing fairly by your friend V questioned
Miss Marjory, with some little sternness.
' Don't be offended at the question ; for,
you know, you have placed yourself in a very
awkward position.'

Tor admitted this readily and fervently ; buta
little more explanation convinced her that his

motive had been disinterested enough, and that
he was guarding Phil's interests jealously.
Miss Marjory was interested, and listened
attentively whilst he enlarged upon his story,
and gave fuller details of the situation.

Maud's position was explained, and Miss
Marjory was quick enough to detect more in
Tor's voice than in his words.

1 suppose you are in love with Phil's pretty
sister yourself V she said sharply. ' And are
pretending to be her brother all the while, so
that you cannot try your luck with her V

Tor coloured through his bronze, but. did
not deny the soft impeachment.

1 You have put yourself in a very awkward
position,' repeated Miss Marjory. 'You will
have to be very careful how you act.'

1 am very careful,' said Tor. ' I never lose
sight of the fact that sooner or later the truth
will be known. And when she looks back
upon our intercourse, under the new light, I
do not think she will have any cause to say
that I have taken an unfair advantage of my
position. I am as cautious and reserved as I
can be, without exciting suspicion.'

You are quite right, young man,' said Miss

Marjory, with emphasis. ' Always act like
a man of honour, as your father did. You
will never have cause to regret it if you
do.'

I hope I shall never be tempted to do
otherwise said Tor, smiling ; ' though I suppose,
in the eyes of the law, I should be a
felon now, if I were detected.'

A felon F echoed Miss Marjory.

Why. yes. I sign Phil's cheques and
securities. Is not that forgery?'

Miss Marjory's face grew grave.

Is it really so serious as that V

It would be if I were detected before Phil
can come forward to support me. Whilst he
lies unconscious, I should be at the mercy of
his kindred. Classis, the unscrupulous uncle
I have told you of, would be delighted to
prosecute me.'

What name did you say V asked Miss
Marjory quickly.

Classis  Alfred Classis ! That is Phil's
uncle's name; and he hates and fears me more
than a little. He would have no mercy.'

Miss Marjory made no further comment

upon the name just then, though a curious
expression passed over her face. She was
more interested in the other question under
discussion.

If they were to find you out, he would
prosecute?'

1 Certainly ; and he could make good his case
fast enough. I could not stand a "Claimant'
cross-examination on places and events connected
with Phil's boyhood ; and one look at
his unconscious face would stamp him as
Maud's brother. My only chance lies in keeping
off suspicion, until Phil comes to his senses.
Then I am safe.'

Classis could not prosecute you then V

Not whilst Phil supported me ; and said
all was done according to his wish. He could
prosecute me, but nobody else can.'

You are sure of this V

Yes. I have studied the law of it.'

And can you answer for your friend's
acquiescence ?'

Tor smiled.

With my life.'

Miss Marjory pondered.

You may find yourself in a very awkward
fix one of these days, Mr. Tor wood. 7

I am quite aware of it. Well as I have
hitherto managed, and hopeful as I am of
Phil's speedy recovery, I am still quite aware
how insecure is the ground beneath my feet.
You can judge, then, that your determined
recognition of me as Torwood was a little disconcerting.'


Miss Marjory laughed at the recollection.


1 You acted very well, you might have convinced
most people ; but I always did have
my eyes in my head. But you may trust
me ; .1 will not betray you. You shall be Mr.
Debenham here, and the true name shall never
pass my lips, even when we are alone. You
are your father's own son, and I will stand
your friend. If ever you find yourself getting
into trouble, write and tell me, and if I can I
will help you. You have trusted me, and I
will not desert you.'

I am very grateful to you, Miss Marjory.
was afraid how my story might be taken.
I am in a very anomalous position.'

Pooh, nonsense ! what does the position
matter, so long as the conscience is clear ? You
have done a foolish, romantic, boyish thing, ina
freak of fancy, without counting the cost ;
but I don't see that you have acted dishonourably
in reality, only in outward show, and ina
way that can easily be explained. So far as
I can see, there is nothing to be regretted except
the original decision, which, as you say,
was made more in the spirit of jest than in
earnest. It was a pity you ever began it  -
and yet I don't know. Poor Maud might

have fallen into the clutches of Classis '

and at the mention of that name Miss Marjory
fell again into a reverie, from which she
roused herself to conclude, ' Perhaps all will
turn out for the best.'

I hope so,' said Tor, who was rather more
grave than usual, after putting into w T words, for
the first time, the actual peril of his position.
His secret, too, was not now entirely his own ;
and although he implicitly believed in Miss
Marjory's goodwill and reticence, he could not
but feel that a new complication had arisen,
as well as a new danger, in his marked likeness

to his father, of which he had before been quite
unconscious.

Don't be down-hearted, Philip Debenham,'
said Miss Marjory briskly.  By far the worst
of the danger is over. It isn't likely anything
will turn up now to disturb you ; but if
it does, just you let me know. I think I
might be able to help you if it came to a talk
of prosecution.'

I don't see how,' answered Tor, with a
smile that thanked her for her goodwill.

Miss Marjory nodded her head and looked
wise.

Evidence of this interview would be of distinct
value to you,' she remarked, ' and your
accounts would go far to show that you have
acted perfectly honestly, as trustee rather than
as owner. If you told your story, and I corroborated
it, and it was known that you had
told it me, when detection was not even
threatened, that would go far towards proving
the innocence of your intentions. What view
the law would take I canna I say ; but I should
be inclined to think it might be persuaded to
suspend sentence, till your friend could come
forward and speak for himself.'

1 do not know how that might be said
Tor, ' but I see that your evidence might have
weight. However, I trust the danger may
never threaten.'

So do I ; but promise to write to me if it
does

I will do so gladly.'

'And let me know, too, if that marriage
with Lewis Classis  stay, perhaps I should
not wait, only I do not yet know anything. It
may be a mere coincidence.'

I do not quite follow,' said Tor tentatively.


No, of course not. How should you ?
I was chattering to myself. I'm not
sure, though, but what I might be able
to help you to put another spoke in Classis'
wheel.'

You !' ejaculated Tor.

Yes, I. But stop  I hear Horace coming
in. We will talk more of this some other
time. I must go out, but I think you had
better not be seen ; n the streets of Whitbury,
or somebody else might recognise Guy Tor-wood's
son. Come, Horace, take Mr. Deben-
ham into the garden to smoke whilst I go out.

vol. I. 20

Show him the hothouses, or play a game of
billiards. We dine at half-past seven, Mr.
Debenham. I shall be in long before then.'

She seems very much at home with this
young Debenham/ thought Horace, as he
carried Tor off to smoke.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. A SECOND ALFRED Classis - - - 1

II. MRS. Classis VISITS LADYWELL- - - 21

III. THE MISSING PAPER 40

IV. WILD OATS 59

V. A VISIT TO GERMANY - - - - 79
VI. DISCOMFITED 97

VIL BETSY LONG 117

Vii BETROTHED 135

IX. A GUEST FROM ITALY 155

X. FRIEND OR FOE? 176

CHAPTER PAGE

XL MRS. Classis FINDS AN ALLY - - - 197

Nil MISS MARJORY'S OPINIONS - - - - 218

Xii PLOTS AND COUNTERPLOTS - - - - 237

XIV. AN AGREEABLE DINNER - - - - 258

XV. maud's Decision - - - - 278

CHAPTER I.

A SECOND ALFRED Classis.

f Miss MARJORY'S carefully planned
dinner was a marked success, and
was followed by a very pleasant
evening, spent partly in the SAveet, old-fashioned
and faultlessly kept garden, and
partly in the cool, softly lighted drawing-room.


Miss Marjory's guest and deputy landlord
made himself most agreeable. He talked
politics and science with Miss Marjory, told
anecdotes and traveller's tales to Ethel, and
discussed town talk with Horace, who had
not long left London for Whitbury.

When Tor reached his room that night, it

VOL. II. 21

was with the consciousness that he had made
at least one valuable friend, but at the same
time with the fear that his position was
gradually growing less and less secure.
Troublesome reflections would crowd into
his mind, and it was anything but a pleasant
possibility that loomed before him, the thought
that he might be branded as a felon and taste
the sweets of convict-life ! That would be
rather a heavy penalty to pay for the fraud
he had practised for friendship's sake ; and
yet it was just possible that an adverse fate
might drive matters even to such a crisis as
that. What then would become of his intended
proposal to Maud ? She would be as
hopelessly beyond his reach as if she were the
wife of Lewis Classis. The reflection was
not inspiriting, but Tor shook himself,
pulled himself together,' and smiled at his
own depression.

Never say die ! What can have come tome?
There's no reason why I should be
betrayed, or betray myself. Old Classis will
have enough on his hands, I should say, after
my hints, without trying to upset my claim.
I wonder what Miss Marjory knows about

him. I must have some more conversation
with her tomorrow. She is a clever woman,
I am sure ; and will, I think, stand my
friend.'

So Tor argued himself out of his fears, and
soon regained his customary elasticity of
spirit. He slept soundly, and woke in a
happier frame of mind.

He and Miss Marjory made the breakfast-table
very lively ; and when she requested
him to make a tour of inspection round house
and gardens, Ethel and Horace smiled at one
another, and said that Cousin Marjory had
evidently made a conquest, and would have
no trouble in getting her own way with the
landlord, even were her demands more exorbitant
than they were known to be.

Very brisk and business-like did Miss
Marjory show herself as she conducted ' Mr.
Debenham ' round ' his friend's ' property.
No smallest allusion did she make to what
had passed between them on the previous
afternoon, but confined herself exclusively to
the matter in hand. She showed what had
been done in house and garden since her
father had taken out the lease, explained what

212

she wanted done now, and discussed with him
what she considered to be her share of the
undertaking, and what she believed the landlord
should be ready to do. Her demands
were both just and reasonable, and Tor
assented readily to all she proposed, and
would have even done more, only that Miss
Marjory checked him.

Oh no, thank you. I don't wish to be
extortionate; and besides, that would be
wasteful. I don't say but what the stables
might have been better arranged originally ;
but they have done very well for us these
twenty-eight years, and will do so till the
end of the chapter. There's no end to the
expense when once you begin to dabble in
bricks and mortar; and if you take my advice
you'll let the matter alone. I've told you
what I want  the well, and the iron fencing,
and general outside repairs. You will have
to spend a good deal over those. Don't run
into needless expense.'

Well, Miss Marjory, I will be guided by
your judgment ; but you have done so much
yourself, that it would be shabby of me
not to be willing to meet you more than

half-way. Look at all the glass you have
put up

Yes ; that's my hobby. I can't do without
flowers; and when you once begin, you
must go on. There's no end to what one
wants. I should like to have seven acres of
glass, like Yeitch.'

And overlook all yourself, Miss Marjory ?'
asked Tor, with a smile.

Yes, of course. I always do want my
finger in everybody's pie. I suppose you
think I couldn't do it  an old woman like
me.'

I have a very strong impression that you
could do anything you've a mind to, Miss
Marjory,' answered Tor; and Miss Marjory
laughed and shook her head at him in implied
rebuke.

Trying to practise on the credulity of an
old woman, Mr. Debenham. As if I did not
know all your tricks by heart  idle young
good-for-nothings ! Come now, we have not
quite done our business yet. I have told my
factotum tradesman to meet you here to-day,
to give you a sort of general estimate as to
time and cost. You will find him a very

honest and capable man, this Alfred Classis,
and you cannot do better than employ him.'

Tor's eyes opened wide.

What name did you say ?'

Alfred Classis ; he is quite our model
tradesman in Whitbury, for anything in the
building line, within or without  a capital
workman, though still young.'

Tor was looking hard at Miss Marjory.

Alfred Classis !' he said slowly. 'Alfred
Classis ! How very curious !'

Yes, it is rather curious, isn't it ?' said
Miss Marjory coolly ; ' the same name as that
uncle of your friend's  of yours, I mean  of
whom you think so highly. He will be here
shortly, and my advice to you is  look well at

The significance of the last four words
convinced Tor that Miss Marjory knew, or
suspected, more than a mere coincidence in
this identity of names ; but no more was said
then, for the said Alfred Classis was already
approaching them, having been directed by
the servants to the spot where Miss Marjory
and the landlord were consulting together.

The talk that followed was chiefly carried

on between the tradesman and Miss Marjory,
Tor contenting himself by assenting
to what was proposed, and throwing in an
observation from time to time for form's sake.
He followed Miss Marjory's advice to the
letter, however, and looked well at Classis,
bestowing such careful scrutiny upon him as
would have astonished him, had he been made
aware of it.

Yes, Tor was quite convinced that there
was some vague likeness between this young
builder and Philip's Uncle Classis. There
was something similar in build and in voice;
and several little tricks of manner were
strongly alike. The younger man was a far
pleasant specimen of humanity, quiet, civil,
and unassuming, yet thoroughly up to his
work, and able to grasp Miss Marjory's meaning,
and even to make notes, in spite of her
rapid delivery, which puzzled Tor more than
once.

So he watched attentively, and the conviction
became stronger, and a sense of vague
bewilderment grew up, as he traced more and
more of the Classis form and colouring in
this Whitbury tradesman who bore their name.

What it could all mean, he was at a loss to

imagine.

When Classis was gone, Miss Marjory
turned round with something of triumph in
her tone.

Well, and what do you say to that ?
What have you made out there T

He must come of the same stock, I thinks
said Tor slowly. ' He certainly is rather like
my uncle, unless my fancy has deceived
me.'

*I do not imagine that it has,' said Miss
Marjory significantly.

 You believe he belongs to that family?'
asked Tor. ' I have never heard of him !'

Probably not.'

You think, as a poor relation, he has been
kept in the background purposely ?'

Alfred Classis is by no means a poor man.
He is very well-to-do in the world.'

But still in trade.'

 Yes, in trade ; but do you think a wealthy
man, even in trade, would be quite beneath
Alfred Classis' notice ?'

I see you know more than I do, Miss
Marjory,' said Tor, the feeling of perplexity

growing slowly upon him. ' Won't you
confide in me now, and tell me what it

is r

Come into the shrubbery, then, where we
can talk uninterrupted. I do not know much,
but I suspect a good deal. Perhaps we can
piece it together.'

Tor followed her, wondering, but not seeing
the end. Was this what she meant by
putting a spoke in Classis' wheel ' ?

Now,' said Miss Marjory, seating herself
upon a rustic chair, and bidding Tor follow
her example. ' I suppose, as you are a man,
you don't see an inch before your nose as yet ?
Men never do.'

Tor was forced to admit that he didn't.

Now, who do you suppose was the father
of that young man ?' ,

Was it a brother of Classis ?  a brother
who made a low marriage and was cast off,
and never heard of more ? That's what I
fancy must have taken place.'

AVell, you might have made a worse shot,'
returned Miss Marjory indulgently. * However,
you haven't quite got to the rights of it
yet, as you will see when I tell you that the

father's name was the same as the son's 
Alfred Classis.'
Alfred Classis!'

Yes, Alfred Classis, brothers are not
usually called by the same name's

A cousin ?' suggested Tor feebly ; but
Miss Marjory cut him ruthlessly short.

Cousin, indeed ! Don't make yourself out
denser than you are! I believe you have
grasped the situation now.'

Do you mean that you think he is my
uncle's son ?' quoth Tor. ' Impossible !'

I believe he is Philip Debenham's uncle's
son, most assuredly ; and so will you too, if you
will only listen to me.'

But has he, then, a right to his name ?'
Tor could not help asking. 'Do you mean
that Classis has been twice married ?'

Oh yes, he was married fast enough. Mr.
Longford married them  my pretty waiting-maid,
Nelly Roberts, and that young loafer
Alfred Classis, whom we none of us knew,
and none of us liked. But they would go
their own way, and nobody could hinder the
marriage. Nelly was one-and-twenty, and he
a little older. He made out that he was well-to-do,

and would make a lady of her ; and her
silly head was turned, and they got married, and
lived for a few months at the Angler's Arms,
where he had been stopping for the fishing.
And then one fine morning he got some letters
from home, he told her, and must go away
for a few days on business. He left no
address, saying he would write when he
reached his destination, and she was too
confiding to ask questions. He went away in
gay good spirits, and never returned again ;
nor did any word or message from him ever
reach her from that day forward.'

The scoundrel !' muttered Tor.

So we all said,' assented Miss Marjory  ' all
but Nelly, who was convinced that some evil
chance had befallen him. There had been a bad
coaching accident somewhere in the country on
the day he had left her, and she was fully persuaded
that he had been killed in it. Nobody
else believed this theory, for we had none of
us liked the young man, who was vulgar and
pretentious, without having anything to recommend
him. I told Nelly that no doubt
 his movements could be traced, and her suspicion
either verified or overthrown ; and that

if he was still living he could be made to
support her. But her pride revolted against
such a course. She showed what I considered
a very proper spirit, and said that if he had
left her of his own free will, he might leave
her. She would never force herself where she
was not wanted, and make him support her,
now that he was tired of her, and despised her
love. If he was dead, as she believed,
search would be useless ] and if not, she would
still not have him found. He could come
back to her of his own accord if he would ; if
not, he might stay away, and she would never
trouble him more. We Whitbury people
believed she had judged wisely for herself 
such a marriage could only end in unhappiness
and we all pitied and helped her, for she
was an orphan, poor child, and had no relatives
in the neighbourhood.'

Tor was listening intently, an uncomfortable
feeling growing up in his mind.

Did she live long ?' he asked. * I suppose
she is not alive now ?'

No. She lived several years though, and
brought up her little boy, Alfred, well and
respectably ; but when he was about four or

YQ years old, as nearly as I can remember,
her health failed very much, and the charge of
the child became more of a burden than she
could undertake. I found a home for the
boy in an institution, where he would be well
cared for, and taught a useful trade ; and his
mother, quite satisfied, went to live with some
relatives in the South of England, who had
offered her a home. I heard from her from
time to time, and then I went abroad for a
couple of years, during which period her
letters quite ceased. When I came back, and
could make inquiries, I found out that she had
died, though how and when, I do not exactly
know.'

When she had died was, in Tor's mind, an
important point. Miss Marjory and he were
both thinking the same thing.

Do you know when your uncle's second
marriage took place ?' asked Miss Marjory
abruptly.

I have been considering  I think it must
have been in or very much about the year
1850.'

Nelly Classis was living in November,
1849/ remarked Miss Marjory  ' living, and

in fair health, for I heard from her then. I
do not know how long she lived afterwards.'


 But surely Classis knew,' said Tor. ' He
is a villain, and a clumsy villain, too ; but I
think he knows better than to perpetrate
bigamy. He must have kept his eye upon
her, and verified her death.'

It is possible, of course ; but I do not
know how he managed it, if he did. Nelly
never heard one sable from him during the
years that followed the desertion, and you maybe
sure he would not let his face be seen in
Whitbury. He had left too many bad debts
behind him, perpetrated too many questionable
actions, in addition to his conduct towards
poor Nelly, ever to care to appear here
again in a hurry. When Nelly left, I believe
nobody but myself knew whither she had
gone ; so that, even if he did start an inquiry
after her, there is every probability he would
have been baffled. It is my very firm impression
that he just looked upon his doings here
as a crop of wild oats that he had sown in his
youth ; and trusted to the thousand and one
chances of life, that if ever there came to be a

harvest, it would not be his hand that would
reap it.'

Tor thought this supposition quite in keeping
with the clumsy rascality of Classis, as he
had seen it. He had no opinion at all of Phil's
uncle's capacity. His wife's shrewdness and
his own dogged determination and brazen dishonesty
had carried him safely on so far, when
not opposed by any far-seeing or strong-minded
foe ; but he could quite believe him
capable of running a tremendous risk rather
than lose a present opportunity of good, or
face a distinctly awkward position.

You may be right,' he said slowly. ' He
is a pitiful coward, and as covetous as Judas.
I suppose to have acknowledged such a
marriage would have ruined his prospects for
life.'

Just so. I imagine his father would have
had scant mercy, if it had come to his ears.'

If Classis takes after his father, I should
say he would.'

There was a pause for reflection.

I suppose you do not know much of this
uncle's past history ?'

No, little enough. The real Phil might

know more, perhaps, though I don't think it
would come to much. I could find out,
though, I. dare say.'

From whom ?'

'From Mrs. Lorraine, my aunt pro tern.
Mrs. Classis' sister, and Mrs. Debenham's.'

From what you tell me of your mother's
family  I mean, of course, Mr. Debenham's
mother's family  they seem very well born
people  quite superior to the Belassis'.'

Yes, quite, I should say.'

Then what made one of the sisters marry
Alfred Classis ?'

That I don't know, but I might find out.'
Do so if you can. Of course, a match like
that would be an immense advantage to a man
in his position ; one can understand that if
such a thing as that were in view, he would
be reluctant enough to confess his former
marriage with a lady's-maid. I wonder if
Estella was dead at the time, and if he knew it.
Mr. Debenham, unless you can make sure of
that fact, don't let your sister marry Lewis
Classis on any account.'

I will not,' said Tor resolutely.

You must find out the exact date of the

wedding, and I will endeavour to find out that
of Nelly's death. Unluckily, as all these
things happened more than a quarter of a
century ago, I am doubtful if I have even a
record left of the place the poor girl went to.
It was Devonshire or Dorsetshire, I think,
but I can be sure of nothing. Still, I will do
my best ; where there's a will there's a way.
And I think you have now another hold upon
your worthy uncle.'

I think so,' answered Tor, with some
satisfaction in his tone. ' If I wish to be
specially agreeable to him, or if he has been
particularly pleasant to me, I can tell him that
I have been over to Whitbury, and ask him if
he has any knowledge of the place.'

Miss Marjory seemed to enjoy the idea of
this question very much.

Yes, Whitbury must recall many very
pleasant associations ; for, as I tell you, he
sowed plenty of wild oats here before he spoilt
poor Nelly's life. Mr. Graves could, I fancy,
lay his hands upon some papers which would
be rather disconcerting to a man of his social
standing. You could ask him if he remembers
the lawyer Mr. Graves, or Miss Marjory
VOL. II. 22

Descartes. I should like to see his face if you
did!'

Did he know you, then ?'

Oh, he knew me well enough to come and
beg my intercession with Mr. Graves, for his
poor dear Nelly's sake. I was a silly young
thing in those days, with more money than
wisdom ; and I was fond of Nelly, and did
not want her to know what a precious sort of
fellow this husband of hers was. So I gave
him money, and got him off somehow ; but I
don't imagine his "gratitude would teach him
to welcome me very warmly now.'

Tor smiled to himself

I could go on to sing your praises, and to
assert my hope that some day I might see you
at Ladywell. May I really hope that you will
visit us there one of these days ?'

 I'll come if you want me  if things are
going badly with you, and a curb is wanted
for Classis. I'll come if my support will be
of service to you ; but I don't often pay visits
for pleasure. I always find that I wish myself
home again in two days' time.'

I trust you may not do that if you come
to Ladywell,' said Tor gallantly. ' Such a

promise almost makes a complication and
danger desirable.'

Stuff and nonsense ! don't talk rubbish
to an old woman like me. I'll come if I'm
needed ; and if not, I'll stay at home. But
don't you be rash and drive Classis to bay,
or he might turn upon you. I'd advise you
to say nothing about the kinsman you've
found here.'

I shall not at present, at any rate. I have
no wish to drive things to a crisis ; but I
think I shall be able to guess by his manner
whether or not he knew of his first wife's
death, before his second marriage. I hope it
is all right. I don't want, for the sake of wife
and children, to drag up anything that would
fall so hardly upon them ; but I don't care
how much of a dog's life I lead Classis.'

He deserves it all,' cried Miss Marjory,
with energy ; ' only be careful.'

I will. I live in a glass house myself ;
but I shall certainly hold you over his head
if he becomes objectionable.'

Yes, you may do that. I rather like an
encounter of wits myself. In the days of my
youth I was a good hand at retort. I don't

222

think my tongue has quite lost its cunning-even
now.'

I don't think so either,' smiled Tor.  Yes,
we must certainly contrive a meeting, face to
face. '

Miss Marjory would make no definite
promise, but Tor went away convinced that
he had gained a valuable ally, and one who
would never desert him, and who would,
perhaps, be more dangerous to Classis than
he himself could be.

There was something in Miss Marjory's
assured position and in the respect which she
always inspired, as well as in her age and
experience, which was very encouraging to the
young man, who certainly needed all the
advantages he could secure ; and he was now
exceedingly glad that the lease of his house
had fallen in, and that Miss Marjory had summoned
him to Whitbury.

MRS. Classis VISITS LADY WELL.

)T was on a Tuesday morning that
Maud said good-bye to her brother,
and saw him set out for Yorkshire;
and on the Wednesday morning, whilst riding
out through the seat avenue, she was surprised
to see her Aunt Celia, walking in her
resolute way up to the house.

Mrs. Classis seldom visited Ladywell, and
never before had she been there at so unseasonable
an hour. Maud looked wonderingly
at her, and stopped her horse, as she met the
business-like figure.

Do you want anybody. Aunt Celia?' she
asked. 'You will only find Aunt Olive at
home. Phil has gone into Yorkshire, but he
will be back this evening. Can I do anything

for

you

'Your brother is away, is he?' asked Mrs.
Classis, as though surprised. In reality she
was perfectly well aware of the fact. Had her
nephew been at home, she would not have
taken the trouble to pay this visit.

Yes; but he comes back to-night. Can I
give him any message?'

Mrs. Classis seemed to consider.

*Well, as I am so near I will go on and
see your Aunt Olive,' she said indifferently.
I had a question I wished to ask Philip ; but
that can wait. I will not interrupt you,
my dear. I hope you will have a pleasant
ride.'

Maud rode on, a disdainful look crossing
her pretty face.

I wonder if Aunt Celia is up to anything,'
she mused. ' She generally is when she
smiles and says " my dear," and puts on her
gracious air. How I do loathe Aunt Celia!
I do believe she is worse than Uncle Classis.
I am afraid she is Phil's enemy  not that that
matters much, for she couldn't do him any
harm. Sometimes 1 fancy Phil has something
on his mind ; but I don't see that he need. I
wonder why he said yesterday that he was

sure Aunt Olive and I would always stand
his friends, through thick and thin. I should
think I just would!' and Maud's eyes flashed.
I'd stand by him whatever happened  whatever
he'd said or done, or whatever people
said of him. There's nobody like my Phil.
I love his little finger better than all the rest
of the world put together. If ever he is in
any danger, won't I show him how I love
him !'

Maud's whole face glowed, and she urged
her horse to a gallop in her generous enthusiasm,
and rode far and fast that day.

Mrs. Classis walked boldly up to the
house. She did not ring the I ell, although
she was on anything but intimate terms with
the household at Ladywell ; she preferred to
walk straight into the great hall, where she
paused and looked about her.

Nobody was in sight. Neither manservant
nor maidservant, bond nor free, had observed
her entrance, and with a certain snakelike
look of satisfaction, she quietly crossed the
hall, and entered a small room which looked
over the garden, and which generally went by
the name of ' Phil's den.'

Once inside this room, lie closed the door
softly and stealthily, and looked for a moment
as though she would have locked it too ; but
on second thoughts she seemed to decide
against doing so, and muttering, ' It might
look suspicious if anyone should come,' turned
away.

The room was not large, and was furnished
quite in bachelor fashion, with a shabby but
luxuriously easy leather chair, a multitude
of pipes and cigar - boxes ; one small table
beside the easy-chair, which was strewn with
newspapers and smoking apparatus, and a
large writing-table full of drawers which stood
in the window. The walls were adorned by
guns and fishing-tackle, and by some engravings
which showed greater taste for art,
and less for sport, than do most bachelors'
pictures. It was a snug, cosy room ; and the
presence of a second and much daintier armchair,
in the opposite corner, seemed to indicate
that Maud liked at times to be her
brother's ' den companion.'

Mrs. Classis' keen eye took all this in
at a glance. She saw in a moment where
lav her work, and she seated herself ina

quiet business-like way at the writing-table.


It will be rather odd,' she muttered to
herself, 'if amongst all his papers I do not
find something to give me a clue, if there
is anything wrong, and Ism not generally
deceived when I take an idea into my
head.'

Mrs. Classis set to work in a methodical
way. She began with the small drawers at
the top of the table, and turned the contents
rapidly over, spreading out the papers and
glancing quickly over them. She did not
seem to find anything of any interest amongst
these, and in ten minutes that part of her
search was completed.

It was with greater deliberation that she
commenced to open the larger drawers on
either side of her; and her face was more set,
her eyes more curious than ever, as this task
proceeded.

First came papers and memoranda connected
with the Ladywell property, bills, receipts,
correspondence as to cattle, hay, poultry, and
the thousand and one transactions necessitated
by a farm and estate. Tor was not a specially

orderly man, but he had a method of classification
with his papers, which enabled him
to lay his hand readily upon anything he
wanted.

A few minutes' study convinced Mrs.
Classis that there was nothing to be gained
by a minute inspection of these papers, so
they were replaced in their drawer, and the
next one opened.

This contained private bills and correspondence,
and Mrs. Classis looked as if she
anticipated considerable information from the
heap of papers she drew out.

 Extravagant !' she muttered more than
once ; a dark look crossing her face as she
came across receipted bills for dresses, jewellery,
and finery of all kinds for Maud, and handsome
silks and laces, in which she knew her
sister Olive had appeared.

Still, amongst all these bills and papers
she did not seem to find what she wanted,
although more than enough to annoy and
anger her. The letters were all addressed to
Philip Debenham, Esq,' and were for the
most part petitions from charitable institutions,
notices from picture dealers, or offers

of everything for nothing from companies and
tradespeople.

These papers were replaced in their drawer,
and the search continued.

The third drawer upon that side was
locked, so with rather a significant smile
Mrs. Classis tried the first on the next side.
This opened readily enough, but merely contained
a supply of writing-paper, envelopes,
stamps, and pens, which, by its orderly
appearance, seemed to have been given over to
Maud's willing care. The drawer below contained
the farm-books, the garden-book and
the stable-book, which had been kept with
scrupulous exactness by old Mr. Maynard,
and which his successor had taken some
apparent pains to keep in their old accuracy
under a new regime.

The third drawer, again, was locked.

These must be the two that I want,' said
Mrs. Classis under her breath ; and again she
glanced towards the door, as though she would
have liked to lock it, but considered it more
prudent to abstain.

A looker-on might have been tempted to
wonder how Mrs. Classis proposed to get at

the contents of those locked drawers. Was
she going to force the locks ? Not at all.
Whatever her husband might be, Mrs. Classis
was never clumsy. What she undertook todo,
was done neatly, and even artistically.

Ladies of some social standing do not
usually visit their friends' houses with
skeleton-keys hidden away in their pockets;
but it was nothing more nor less than this
useful little implement that Mrs. Classis
drew out now; and with the snake-like look
more visible than ever in her eyes, she set
about her task.

Kneeling down upon the floor, she soon
had the first drawer open, and had taken
from thence the documents it held.

There was Phil's cheque-book first of all,
and then a few papers folded and held together
by an elastic band. There was a bag, which
evidently held some money, and behind all
these some papers and relics, which were
evidently all that had come to him from, the
effects of the father and mother. Classis had
taken care that such mementoes should be but
few.

The cheque-book first claimed Mrs. Classis'

earnest attention. She studied the counterfoils
closely, and then began comparing the
sums with the amounts upon the bills she
had previously found. Naturally they corresponded
accurately enough; but what Mrs.
Classis noticed was this, that for at least
six bills (all presents for Maud) which were
specified to have been settled ' by cheque,' no
counterfoil was to be found : and this fact
seemed significant of something, though of
what she could not yet say.

Next the family relics were contemptuously
turned over, and put back in their place,
and Mrs. Classis now commenced the
study of the papers enclosed by the elastic
band.

There were but two of them after all,
though one was of a bulk and importance
that gave it the substance of half a dozen
ordinary letters. The crabbed characters were
familiar to her eye, and it did not need the
colossal signature ' T. M. Maynard ' to tell
her that it had been penned by her late uncle,
the former master of Lady well.

It was, in fact, nothing less than the deadman's
letter to his nephew, Philip Debenham,

which Tor had read in the little hotel at
Hornberg.

With a subdued exclamation of curiosity
and satisfaction, Mrs. Classis sat down to
read the document ; and as she did so, her
face assumed an expression not at all agreeable
to look upon. She read the paper not
once, but twice ; and the venomous expression
deepened upon her face, until it grew positively
hideous in its intensity.

Then she turned the paper over and over, and
opened out its stiff folds, although the writing
had only occupied the first page, and in so
doing her attention was caught by a few
pencilled words written on the inside, as if
by an afterthought. And she was convinced
by the manner in which the paper opened,
that hers had been the first hand which had
unfolded it. An eager yet dark look crossed
her face, as she took in the sense of that after-message.


Your father once gave me to understand
that he had drawn up a more equitable will,
and had hidden it away somewhere in my
library. I told him he had better take it out
and give it to a lawyer to keep. And I think

he must have taken it out  and destroyed it;
for I never could find it, though I took the
trouble to make a thorough search. He was
just a muddle with his affairs, and a dreamer
too. You may be sure he made away with
the will in a moment of weakness; but of
course if you choose to search for it, you
can  you won't find it

As she took in the import of these words,
Mrs. Classis fairly trembled. The anger
which had disfigured her face before, gave way
now to a look more nearly approaching terror ';
and then, after a few minutes of deep thought,
she folded the paper once more and put it in
her pocket.

I will show it to Alfred. He must see it.
Then the pencilled words shall be erased, and
I will take an early opportunity to return the
paper. There are a hundred chances to one
that it will not be missed. Now for the other.'

The other was Maud's eager letter to her
brother, written to him at Hornberg, to
announce her delight and eager anticipation.
The terms in which it was couched were not
calculated to soothe Mrs. Classis, and a look
of bitter hatred crossed her face.

The little reptile, the little toad  making
mischief from the very first ! Oh, but I will
be even with her ! She shall learn to rue the
day when first she tried to poison her brother's
minds against us  putting all sorts of suspicions
into his head. Faugh ! the ingratitude
of the little viper !'

Mrs. Classis folded the letter, and flung it
into the drawer after the other things, and
then she viciously locked it. Her mind was
so much disturbed by her late discoveries, that
she was almost tempted to pursue her researches
no further, confident that she had
found the most important papers in existence.
But the doojo'ed stubbornness of her character
prevailed over her preoccupation and dismay,
and she remembered that although she had
found something of the greatest importance,
she had not found anything of the character she
had hoped  nothing to compromised nephew,
or to verify the very dim suspicion that had
entered into her head. What that suspicion
was she would have found it hard to say ; all
that she told even herself as yet was that there
was ' something odd ' about Phil, and that she
believed there was ' some mystery ' going on.

So flor, however, she had found nothing to
encourage such an idea, and with a certain
sense of having been baffled, she opened the
sixth and last drawer.

There were not many papers here ; but
there was a second cheque-book, and upon the
inside of the cover was written ' Tor's cheque-books
There was also a bank-book labelled
Torrington Torwood, Esq. ;' and rapid reference
to the former showed Mrs. Classis that
the missing counterfoils of cheques she knew
to have been written by Phil, were to be found,
not in his, but in Mr. Tor wood's cheque-book.

This was something of a facer, and she felt
a triumphant joy in finding anything so like
a mystery. She did not pause now to try and
unravel it, but passed on to the other contents
of the drawer.

There were two letters from a certain
 Marjory Descartes,' asking Phil to go over to
Whitbury ' to settle some business for Mr.
Torwood, and there were one or two business
communications from agents or bankers,
referring to Phil some question about Mr.
Torwood' s affairs. These were read with a
certain sense of disappointment, as they seemed

VOL. II. 23

to show that Phil was openly acting as his
friend's agent ; but hope rose again when a
deeper dive into the drawer brought out a little
packet of papers, some quite old and yellow,
which proved to be I U's for various sums,
all signed ' Philip Debenham.'

Moneys Mr. Torwood lent him, evidently
mused Mrs. Classis. ' Oh, then Phil's friend
was not quite so disinterested, after all, as we
were led to think. I thought there was something
odd about it. But how comes Phil to
have these papers now ? There is no evidence
that he has redeemed them. It is a large sum
nearly 3,000, I should say. His cheque-book
shows no mention of Mr. Torwood, and
I should have heard from Alfred, I think, if
he had handed over any very large sum
whilst the securities were beinjy settled. I
don't understand why he keeps them if they
are redeemed, and why he has not a receipt
for the amount if it is paid. If not, how
comes he by the papers at all?'

Certainly, what with one thing and what
with another, Mrs. Classis had ample food
for meditation ; but she had stayed so long
that she feared to linger. She locked up the

drawer, and was preparing to leave, when
Maud came suddenly in, in her riding-habit.

'Aunt Celia, you here!' she exclaimed.
Have you been here all this while? Aunt
Olive says she has never even seen you.
What can you have been doing all this time?
Two whole hours !'

Maud looked both excited and suspicious.
This was her house, and she was mistress ; and
she considered that her Aunt Celia had taken a
great liberty in making her way in unobserved,
and shutting herself up in Phil's den. Her
face showed as much very plainly.

Mrs. Classis looked at her with her cold
smile.

Do not act and speak like a spoilt child,
my dear. It is not becoming to a young
mistress. I fear you are forgetting the lessons
I instilled into your mind at Thornton House.'

Oh, there is no fear of my forgetting your
lessons or Thornton House either,' cried Maud,
with what sounded very like defiance in her
tone. * But I hope I have shaken off the
effects of that yoke. What I want to know
is, why you have been shut w in Phil's room
for two hours  in \\\ private room.'

232

Mrs. Classis looked at the indignant Maud
with a smile of cool disdain.

As this is your brother's house, over
which you preside, I will condescend to reply,
otherwise I should decline to answer such
an insolent interrogation. After I left you I
made a tour of the gardens and hot-houses,
which I am never invited to inspect, of course,
owing to the kind politeness of the mistress
of Lady well. After I had enjoyed the sweetness
of the flowers and trees for above an
hour, I came here to write a note to Philip;
but what I wrote did not satisfy me, and I
tore up the letter and determined to wait till I
could see him personally. Just as I was about
to leave the room my niece entered, and here
we are now, face to face. Are you satisfied?'

*I don't know,' answered Maud; 'but I
hear what you say. Are you going ? Goodbye.
If you care to see Aunt Olive she is in
the drawing-room. We shall have lunch in
an hour.'

I will go home, thank you,' said Mrs.
Classis coldly. ' Good-bye, my dear.'

Maud watched her cross the hall, a distrustful
and angry light in her eyes.

She always gets the best of it with me. I
can never be politely cutting to Aunt Celia, as
Phil is. I am always rude, and she makes me
feel like a schoolgirl. How I detest her ! I
wonder why she came. I know what she
said was all lies. What can she have been
up to? I wonder what that letter to Phil
was that she wrote and destroyed. Did she
write a letter at all?' Maud went forward
and carefully looked about for torn fragments
of paper, but could find none.

If she wrote it she took it away in her
pocket said Maud; and then she opened the
ink-bottle and saw that it had been washed
out that morning and not refilled. Mrs.
Classis had certainly written no letter there
that day. What she had done, the girl was
at a loss to imagine. All that she could tell
was that her aunt's visit was certain to mean
mischief of some kind.

Mrs. Classis had ample food for reflection
on her homeward way, and very earnestly did
she strive to form some theory as to the
respective position of Phil and his friend, so
as to prove, if possible, that the former was
acting in a reprehensible manner.

At last an idea was hit upon which seemed
to satisfy her; at any rate, it gave a semblance
of reality to her suspicions.

I believe he has got his friend shut up ina
lunatic asylum somewhere  unless he has
put him out of the way altogether; and he
is playing a double game  sometimes Tor-wood
and sometimes himself. I suppose he
was Torwood abroad, whilst he was the rich
man ; and here he is Debenham ; thus reaping
the benefits of both characters. Perhaps Mr.
Torwood's mind has been failing of late, so
that he has learned to depend upon Philip;
yes, that is very likely. And now that he
has money of his own, he has just disposed
of his friend anyhow  no doubt in a madhouse
 and is figuring about here as a great
man, and spending his friend's money as well
as his own. Oh, you're a nice young man,
Philip Debenham ! No wonder you keep
your friend at a distance, and don't trouble
yourself about him. No wonder nobody can
get to know anything definite about the
Tor " who was once all sour talk. A very
nice thing it will be for you when I bring
it home to you I Oh yes, you will enjoy that

very much ; and I wonder what the law will
say to these little transactions with Torwood's
money ;' and in this strain Mrs. Classis kept
on, her spirits rising and her confidence in
her theory increasing with every step she
took. But when she felt in her pocket, and
her hand came in contact with the stiff paper
it held, her face changed suddenly, and the
old look of rage and fear returned.

If old Maynard is right, if there is another
will, and if that will is ever found  then we
shall be ruined ! Why did I ever marry such
a fool as Alfred Classis? I could do anything
if it were not for his clumsiness!'

THE MISSING PATER.

OR did not return to Lady well until
late at night, having missed a
train at one of the junctions, where
his cross route obliged him to change.

Maud, therefore, said nothing to him about
Mrs. Classis' strange behaviour until the
following afternoon, when they rode out
together, and then she told him as much as
she knew of this oddly-timed visit.

Wanted to see me, did she ?' said Tor. * I
wonder what for. I'll call at Thornton House
this evening and ask. I can walk over after
dinner.'

'Oh no, don't!' cried Maud coaxingly.
The evenings are so dull without you.
Never mind Aunt Celia. She is quite horrid.

Let her come again if she wants you. I
believe it was just a lie.'

Come, little sister, don't be spiteful. I
know Mrs. Classis does not greatly love
either of us, still we must be civil as long
as we can, or we put ourselves at a disadvantage.'


I know I do,' assented Maud. ' I can't
manage as you do; I wish I could. She
would give anything to be able to put you
into a rage as she puts me ; but she never

can.'

Tor smiled calmly.

 Just so; and I have no intention of affording
her that gratification.'

It must be nice to be a man  a man like
you, 1 mean,' said Maud, regarding him with
a loving admiration distinctly flattering to its
object. Then, after a pause, she added, ' I
wonder what Aunt Celia really came for.'

You think she had some ulterior motive ?'

I don't need to think  I know she had,'
cried Maud. ' I saw it by the look in her
eye  just like a snake. I haven't lived
eighteen years in Thornton House for nothing,
Phil.'

Phil ' rode on in silence, wondering if
there could be any truth in Maud's surmise;
for he was convinced that Mrs. Classis was
his enemy, and a more dangerous one than her
husband.

Pondering, however, did not bring him any
nearer the truth; so he gave up puzzling his
head about the matter, and determined to take
this opportunity to speak to Maud about
Lewis Classis.

Maud he began, ' when is your birthday
?'

Three weeks next Wednesday,' answered
the girl promptly.

 And you will then be twenty-four?'

Yes.'

Maud looked at him, and he looked at her,
and then she broke into a little soft laugh.

You dear old Phil, you are so handsome !
I wish I could marry you!'

A curious thrill ran through Tor, and his
eyes were eloquent, but he only answered
coolly enough :

'But as you cannot  what then, Maud?'

I don't know,' she answered; and her
face took the spoilt child expression Which

thoughts of Lewis Bekissis almost always
brought.

You have not made up your mid ?'

No ; I can't.

But it will be expected of you soon, will
it not?'

Yes, I suppose so. I know on my birthday
I am to hear the will read, and a letter
papa left with it for me. I believe I shall
be expected to give my answer then, though
the money can t be divided till a little while
later. Phil, do you think it would be
unfair to Lewis to keep him waiting any
longer ?'

I don't think you'll gain anything by
waiting, Maud. I should say the wisest plan
would be to get the matter off your mind,
one way or the other, as soon as you can. I
imagine you'll feel exactly as you do now", a
year hence, in regard to Lewis. If you
haven't fallen in love with him all these years,
you are hardly likely to do so now.'

I should never be in love with Lewis 
never!' cried Maud, almost disdainfully
Fancy feeling sentimental over a man like
that ! But then, I do like him, and I might

never meet anyone I liked so well ; and there
is my money, you know.'

Don't think about the money, Maud,' said
Tor quickly. He would have liked to promise
there and then, that she should never feel
the need of that  to tell her that he would
make the loss good ; but he could hardly
hand over 10,000 of Phil's money so coolly,
even though he felt sure of his ultimate approval
: and gladly as he would have sacrificed
his own fortune to her, lie knew that there was
only one way by which his wealth could be made
hers, and that way was, as yet, closed to him.

I can't help thinking about it,' answered
Maud. ' If I had come of age at twenty-one,
as other girls do, I should not have thought as
I do now. Five thousand would have seemed
riches, and love in a cottage the ideal of bliss.
I should have sent Lewis about his business
in double-quick time then, and bought the little
cottage behind Eoma's studio, and lived therein
glorious independence. At twenty-one we
know nothing of life, and are filled to the brim
with romance. But three more years teach
us a good deal ;' and Maud shook her head
gravely. * Things take very different proportions,

and we see that life isn't just what we
pictured. Do you think papa knew that Ashen
he fixed my majority ?'

No ; but I have no doubt Classis did.'

Uncle Classis !' cried Maud. ' What has
he to do with it ?'

Everything, I imagine. Do you suppose
our father would have made such an iniquitous
will except under compulsion ?'

Maud's face changed visibly.

But Uncle Classis says '

That for what he says.'

Gradually Maud seemed to take in the true
meaning of Tor's words.

Oh !' she said, and stopped short. ' Oh ! so
that's how it was ! I wonder I did not think
of it before. Phil, you don't want me to marry
Lewis Classis?'

Perhaps not ; but I wish you to decide for
yourself  to be guided by your own wishes.'

Tor was anxious, if possible, not to interfere
in Maud's decision. He had a strong hodie
that she would of her own accord reject
Lewis.

Papa wished it,' she said, hesitating.

'Indeed !'

You think not ? Could Uncle Classis
have had so much power as all that ?'

Couch your father have cared so much fora
little snuffling brat of five years old, as
Lewis was at the time of the making of that
will ?'

Maud considered this aspect of the case with
some gravity.

Yes, he certainly would be a " little snuffling
brat " at that age  I can just see him,
though I can't remember him, as you can. I'll
tell him some day of your description ; it is so
vivid.*

Do ; and if you want to know whether
the match was approved by other members of
the family, you can ask Aunt Olive what she
thinks.'

I knows she doesn't like it.'

And I have a letter at home from our
great-uncle, Mr. Maynard, expressing distinct
disapproval, and speaking in no measured
terms of his opinion of Classis' share in the
matter.'

Maud began to look amused and interested.

Old Uncle Maynard wrote about it, did he?
Oh, you must let me see the letter ! I am sure

it will be delightfully funny ; he was such a
dear, cross old man, and I was always so cheeky
to him. The Classis' were furious because he
took more notice of me than of anybody else,
though that didn't come to much ; but I should
like to see the letter.'

I'll show it you when we go in,' said Tor,
and then let the talk side into other channels.
He considered that he had given Maud food for
meditation sufficient for one day, and decided
not to press for an answer, until she had well
thought over the information he had bestowed.

Maud did not forget her curiosity about her
great-uncle's letter, and as soon as they returned
from their ride she followed Tor into
his study, and begged him to produce it.

'I know it will be so queer!' she said, a
smile of anticipation curving her pretty
mouth.

Tor unlocked the drawer, and put in his
hand. He took out Maud's letter with the
elastic band round it ; but no other paper
was with it. He pulled open the drawer to
its utmost limit, and looked again, but the
paper was evidently not there.

It's gone !' he ejaculated, in some surprise.

Try the next,' suggested Maud.

No good,' he answered, shaking his head.
'Twas only the day I left, that I locked up
the letters about Tor's business in the opposite
drawer, where I keep everything relating to
him ; and I opened this one too, and saw old
Maynard's letter lying with yours, strapped
together. I could take my oath of it.'

Witchcraft !' said Maud ; and then her face
grew grave suddenly, and she added significantly
: ' Witchcraft, or Aunt Celia.'

Couldn't have been Aunt Celia. The
drawer was locked,' said Tor.

Then it must have been a ghost,' said
Maud seriously. ' For nobody else could have
opened a locked drawer.'

The two looked at each other in silence.

You think her capable of such an o ct ?'

She is capable of anything.'

Tor considered, and failed to see any motive
for the robbery.

It was a misanthropical letter, anything
but complimentary to the Classis family;
but I can't see why she should have purloined
it. It is not a paper they would care to study
long or frequently, I imagine.'

Maud's face had clouded over.

Aunt Celia always knows what she is
about. You may be sure that that paper is
of more value than you know.'

If so,' said Tor composedly, ' I will take
care to get it back pretty quickly. I am going
over there to-night. In all probability I shall
bring it back with me.'

Maud looked admiringly at him, but shook
her head.

 You won't if Aunt Celia wants it ; besides,
you cannot ask for it.'

I'm not so sure of that,' said Tor, and
Maud wondered which half of the sentence he

was answering.

After dinner, in the soft summer twilight,
he walked over to Thornton House. Maud
accompanied him through the park, but he
would not let her come farther, nor be present
at his interview with the aunt, about which
she felt very curious.

After she had turned back, he pursued his
way slowly, thinking over what he should
say to her, and also to Classis, if he should,
as was not improbable, have to encounter
them both. On the whole, he felt he would

VOL. II. 24

rather face the two together than meet them
singly.

In this fortune favor-ed him. Lewis had
taken his sisters to a dinner-party in the
neighbourhood, and Mr. and sirs. Classis
were in earnest talk too-ether in the drawing
room, when the door was suddenly opened,
and the servant announced in loud tones :
Mr. DebenhamI'

From the distinct start and shuffle that
followed, Tor was convinced that he had
interrupted a conversation in which his name
occupied a prominent place. In nowise disconcerted,
however, he walked up and shook
hands in his easiest fashion, and then sat down
in such a position as commanded a good view
of both the countenances before him.

I hear you walked over to see me yesterday
morning,' began Tor, addressing Mrs. Classis.
I am sorry you had your trouble for nothing.
I have come over to learn the object of your
visit, and save you the trouble of a second
walk.'

Oh, thank 3-0 u  I am sorry you took the
trouble. I merely came to ask if you could
supply us with butter for a time. I suppose

it must be the hot weather, for we cannot
make half enough for ourselves just now.'

So that was the important message that
could not be trusted to paper,' said Tor, with
a smile. ' Yes, certainly you shall have all
you need. I will speak to the man tomorrow.
I am sorry such a small affair should have
occasioned you so long; a walk.'

It did not, thanks ; I was close to Ladywell
as it happened, and I wanted to see your
aunt.'

Tor knew she had made no attempt to see
Mrs. Lorraine, and his slight questioning smile
said as much ; but he made no open comment.
Mrs. Classis sat stonily composed. If she
had any inward trepidation she gave no outward
sign of it.

Tor turned to the uncle.

We are getting almost dried up here in the
south, sir. We look quite parched. In yorkshire
now, everything is beautifully fresh 
though not so forward as with us.'

You have been in Yorkshire, then?' questioned
Mrs. Classis, as if she welcomed the
change of subject.

Yes, upon some business of Mr. Torwood's.

242

fNlVlRSTY OF !Lli:<Q(S

It's a fine county, I should say, by what I saw
of it. Do you know it at all, sir?'

I  oh  Yorkshire, did you say?' said
Classis, seemingly rather flustered by the
sudden query. " Why, Yorkshire is a big
place, you know. Yes, to be sure, I was there
once, when I was a lad ; but that's a long time
ago now ;' and he gave rather a sickly laugh.

Tor fancied that his wife noticed his constrained
manner, and glanced curiously at
him.

It was a pretty little town I had to visit,
quite an ideal place for quiet picturesqueness.
Whitbury was its name. I suppose you do
not know anything of it ?'

Mr. Classis' face seemed to turn all colours
at once.

'Whitbury  Whitbury !' he stammered, with .
an immense effort to make his voice sound
natural. ' No, I don't remember that name.
I don't think I could ever have been there.'

I am sure you would never have forgotten
the place if you had seen it,' continued Tor.
It is so particularly pretty. There is a
fine old church there, and a river running
through the valley, which is quite a resort for

fishermen, I believe. I have some thoughts of
going there again some day to fish. The
Another's Arms is an inviting little inn.
There is something very attractive to me in a
simple little English town.'

'Ah, yes  very  very much so,' answered
Classis vaguely, feeling as though an iron
hand was clutching at his throat, yet experiencing
an insane desire to find out whether or
not this detestable nephew was talking with a
purpose.

The frank affable manner gave him a dim hope
that all was well ; but he dared not meet the
eyes which perhaps would have told him more.

You  you  went on business for your
friend, did you ? How comes he to have business
in Whitbury ? I thought he had lived
always abroad.'

He has property in Whitbury ; a very
charming old house inhabited by a very
charming maiden lady. The house stands ina
square, and faces the Minster, but looks
behind on to a lovely stretch of country. Its
mistress is a particularly clever and pleasant
woman  a Miss Descartes  Miss Marjory
Descartes as she seems to be always called.'

Classis' face had paled to a dull grey hue.
His wife's eyes Averse fixed upon it curiously
and unquietly. Tor continued talking in the
same frank, gossiping way.

It was some business about a new lease
that took me down ; but Miss Marjory and I
became great friends. She was good enough
to like me, and I was charmed with her.
Perhaps some day I may have the pleasure of
introducing her here. I have great hopes of
inducing her to visit us at Ladywell sometime
or other.'

The dull grey hue changed to a delicate
pea-green. Tor felt a sort of compassion
for the miserable man before him. He had
learnt all he wished to know. This man was
none other than Nelly Roberts's husband, and
he had not made sure of her death before
marrying again. Had he done that, he would
hardly have been so hopelessly cowed. The
discovery of a former marriage, and a low one,
would be an awkward affair enough for him
to face now; but would hardly account for such
a depth of terror as was visible in his face.

As Tor, however, had found out what he
wished, he rose to depart. His quick eyes had

not been occupied altogether with the faces
before him. He had caught sight of a corner
of thick parchment-like paper projecting from
a drawer in a small table, which was rather
oddly placed in front of Mr. and Mrs. Classis.
He had heard a crackle of stiff paper as he
entered the room.

By a quick, quiet movement, Tor reached
forward and secured the paper ; the drawer, of
course, opened as he pulled, and disclosed to
his view a number of soiled bread-crumbs and
some pieces of india-rubber.

'Rubbing out, by Jove!' he thought to
himself, and wondered what could have been
accomplished by that process. Aloud he
said :

Ah, my old uncle's letter ! How curious
it should be here! I had just missed it from
its accustomed place. What an old misanthrope
he was! Not, I suppose, that he
had any idea into whose hands it would fall.
How could it have been spirited here ?'

I brought it, Philip,' answered Mrs. Classis
imperturbably. 'I Alas just about to return
it to you. I found it by chance in your room
yesterday, as I was looking for some writing-paper.

Curiosity prompted me to read it, and
I could not refrain from bringing it back for
your uncle to see. He is slow to believe the
ingratitude of the world. I think that such
expressions as are put down here, by a man
who always received from him a respect and
consideration he was far from deserving,
should do much to convince him. I must
apologize for the liberty I took with your
property ; but you were absent, and I thought
you would not object.'

Oh, I have not the least objection in the
world,' answered Tor readily and pleasantly.
I had merely kept the contents of the paper
to myself because they were not over and
above flattering to those mentioned in it.
What puzzles me is how you came to chance
upon the letter, as it was always kept in a
locked drawer.'

It was not there yesterday,' answered Mrs.
Classis, the glittering look coming back into
her eyes. ' It was in the top right-hand
drawer, where your writing-paper is stored.'

It must have been spirited there, then,'
laughed Tor, * for I left it in the left-hand
bottom one, locked up, only the day before.

Well, I will say goodnight now. I think wee
understand each other ; and I will give instructions
about the butter to-morrows'

It was in rather a peculiarly silent and constrained
fashion that Mr. and Mrs. Classis
shook hands with their genial nephew and
saw him depart.

Then Classis wiped his forehead, and sat
dowai heavily.

We only just got that done in time,' he
said, drawing a long breath, 'Suppose he
had found it before we had done our Avork ?'

He would not have found it at all but for
you,' answered Mrs. Classis, with cool contempt.
* It would have been upstairs, where
it ought to have been, but for your folly.'

'Mine!'

Yes ; you would bring it down; and now
this has happened!'

What ?'

He knows that I have been overhauling his
private papers.'

He can't knows that.'

He does knows it. He is not a fool ;
besides, he said as much. If you had done as
I counselled, I should have replaced the paper

quietly; and if he had suspected, he could have
said nothings.'

You always think you are right, and I am
wrong growled Classis.

'Possibly,' answered the wife; and then,
fixing her eye keenly upon him, she asked:
And pray, what is Whitbury ? and who is
Miss Marjory Descartes ?'

Classis' face turned livid ; but he answered
with a sudden blaze of anger :

How the devil should I know ? I never
heard of either one or the other before tonight.'


He flung himself passionately from the
room, and Mrs. Classis sat quite still in the
twilight.

He is trying to keep a secret from me.
What a fool he is I'

WILD OATS.

flee, Maud here is old Uncle Mays
nard's letter, if you want to read
i it!'

So said Tor, as tie entered the drawing-room,
after his visit to Thornton House ; and
Maud started up with an exclamation of
pleasure at seeing him again so soon. When
she took in the drift of his remark, her eyes
opened wide with surprise.

The letter, Phil ? Had Aunt Celia got it,
then ?'

Yes ; she had borrowed it to show to her
precious husband. She found it amongst my
wtI ting-paper, she says.'

That's a lie,' said Maud, with the frankness
of her nature ; 'for I tidied out that drawer
the day you went to Whitbury.'

And I left the paper locked up that same
day,' added Tor, smiling. ' Aunt Celia must
have a vivid imagination.'

*Did you tell her she was lying ?' asked
Maud eagerly. ' I mean, did you say that it
was in the locked drawer ?'

There was no need to say very much. Mrs.
Classis is not dense. She quite understood
me. It is better to avoid saying disagreeable
things, when meaning them does as well.'

I always want to say them,' answered
Maud candidly. ' But isn't she dreadful ?
She must have a duplicate key of your table.
Do you think she has taken anything else?'

I shall look and see tomorrow. 1 don't
think there is anything in that table that she
would care to possess. What beats me, is the
motive for taking that letter. It is disagreeable
enough, but of no value. Read it, Maud,
and see if you can find out anything which
could explain her deed.'

Maud obeyed. After reading a little way
she became so much amused that she turned
again to the beginning, and read it out aloud,
so that Aunt Olive might have the benefit of
the joke. She enjoyed vastly the old man's

misanthropic utterances, and her comments as
she read amused the listeners as much as did
the letter itself.

Dear, cross old Uncle Maynard !' she exclaimed.
' Isn't it splendid how Uncle Classis
outwitted himself by keeping you away, Phil?
How savage they must have been when they
saw what he says ! Oh, I really am glad Aunt
Celia found it  it does so serve them riHit !
He must have hated the Classis family. 1
always thought he did. Do you think lee's
really right about the will ? Did Uncle
Classis make papa put that condition in,
Phil ? If he did, that settles the matter. I
won't have anything to do with a plot of
Uncle Classis' making:. I'll send Lewis to
the right-about pretty quick, if I'm just to be
made a dupe of that horrid Classis.'

Maud's cheek had flushed. Her eyes sparkled
with anger.

" Women will marry anything," will they?
Well, I'll not marry Lewis to please his father
nothing shall persuade me. Yes, Phil ; uncle

was right. If you had not come back in time I
might have been half bullied, half coaxed into
it  for 1 do like Lewis, and I hate a row ; but

if you'll back me I don't care for anything,
and I'll defy Uncle Classis to his face !'

Tor smiled and stood beside the girl, who
had risen in her excitement, and was standing
erect and indignant, with the letter held fast in
her hands. He put his hand upon her shoulder
and looked down into her face.

All rifiht, little sister. You need have no
fears on that point. You and I are more thana
match for old Classis ; and you shall neither
be bullied nor coaxed into doing anything you
do not like  I will take good care of that.
But leave the open defiance to me ; and content
yourself with the calm hauteur of the
grande dame''

Maud's face took a different expression, and
the angry light died out of her eyes. She
looked up at him with a grateful admiration.

You are just an angel-boy, Phil. I wish
I could be like you; but I'm afraid I shall
never be the (/ra7ide dame, I'm much too quick-tempered
and volatile ; I can't think how you
can keep so cool. I Lavish I could. I wish I
were like you.'

So do not I  I like you as you are,
Maud,' answered Tor. ' But I am not going

to let you make any important decision as to
yom' future in a moment of heat. You must
think the matter over dispassionately, and
come calmly to your decision. But you see
what the old fellow says about my duty. You
are not to be a loser by your decision, Maud.
A wish like that from a testator cannot be
lightly set on one side. Remember that,
Maud, when you weigh the matter in the
balances.'

Tor knew quite well that the more Maud
thought of a marriage With Lewis Classis,
the less she would like it, so he had no misgivings
about inculcating this dispassionate
consideration. He was doing the duty of an
elder brother, without any fear that his own
chances would suffer thereby. To be the dupe
of a Classis plot and to be the victim of his
scheming would, he knew, be the more intolerable
to her, the longer she looked at the
matter.

But Maud broke in upon his thoughts with
an imperious gesture.

Nonsense, Phil ! I won't have you do anything:
romantic and ridiculous. This is a bi"'
place, and you will want a lot of money to keep

it up. As long as you are not married, I'll live
here and keep house for you ; and when you
marry, I'll beg, borrow, or steal one of those dear
little cottages at the end of the park, and live
there on the remains of my fortune ; and you
shall keep a horse for me here, and ride outwith
me once or twice a week ; and I'll stay
there an old maid, until somebody as nice as
you turns up and makes love to me, and then
ril marry him. But,' and here she heaved a
melodramatic sigh, ' I'm afraid there is nobody
else in the world half as nice as you.'

Of course not,' he answered, smiling. ' Stow
sit down, Maud, and let us be sensible for once.
I do want to find out, if I can, why Mrs. Classis
cribbed that paper. She must have had a
motive, and a strong one. She would not
have done anything quite so suspicious without.'


That's true,' assented Maud; and she returned
to a minute examination of the paper.

After turning it round and round several
times, she proceeded to unfold it, and then
her eyes opened wide with a look of comprehension.


Look here, Phil ! She has been rubbing

something out. There was something written
in pencil on the inside. What was it ?'

Tor looked over her shoulder, and saw plain
traces of careful erasure. He pulled at his
moustache, and whistled under his breath.

By Jove ! So she has !'

What was it, Phil ?' asked Maud eagerly.
 What had old Uncle Maynard written
there ?'

I don't know, Maud. I had never unfolded
the paper. It never occurred to me
that there was writing on the inside.'

No,' said Maud slowly. ' I don't suppose
it did. Men are never curious, and there isn't
anything to make anyone turn over. I wonder
what it was. Something important, of course,
or Aunt Celia would not have troubled to run
a risk for it.'

All three faces were grave. Tor felt that
through an unconscious blunder of his, some
distinct damage might have been done to Phil,
though how or why he could not tell. It was
not easy to see what harm could ensue from
neglect of a few pencilled words  added quite
as an after-thought to the letter ; but at the
same time, Mrs. Classis* conduct had made it

VOL. II. 25

evident that importance did attach to them ;
and Tor was disturbed at this discovery.

It was useless, however, to try to conjecture
what the last message could have been, and
lamentations over the casualty were equally
purposeless. Tor had some dim hope that he
might surprise the truth from one or other of
the Classis' at some later date, but at present
silence was their only course.

Maud talked herself sleepy, and went to bed ;
Mrs. Lorraine was about to follow her example,
when Tor asked her to remain a little while
longer, as he had something of importance he
wished to say to her.

The gentle little widow looked half surprised
at this announcement, for nobody since her husband's
death had ever cared to discuss matters
of importance with her ; but she assented
readily, and settled herself once more in her
chair.

Well, dear boy ?'

I want to ask you what you know about
Alfred Classis  of his early life, I mean.
You have always lived in this neighbourhood,
have you not ? You know as much of the
family history as anyone.'

Yes, I suppose I do ; but I do not know
anything of Alfred Classis' early life. I
never saw him until a few years before he
married Celia.'

Who were the Classis' ?  the seniors, I
mean ? Were they not very much below your
family in social position ?'

Yes, I always thought so. I always
wondered how Celia could make such a marriage,
though we ought not to be proud I
suppose; and Alfred Classis had very good
worldly prospects.'

I want you to tell me how it all came
about, so far as you know the story. Begin
with the father. How did the intimacy between
the families begin ?'

The father was James Classis. He was a
solicitor in the town of Darwin  where the
coach stops, you know. He was a respectable
kind of man, but not a gentleman. Nobody
knew much about him until father  our father,
I mean  found out that he was a very clever
man of business, and gradually put all his
affairs into his hands. Other people followed
father's example, and Classis soon found himself
in very much improved circumstances,

252

and on the high-road to wealth. He had been
a careful, saving man always, and had made a
fair amount of money before ; and I can
remember father saying one day, that he had a
son whom he had educated almost like a gentleman,
and who was, he fancied, rather wild.'

When did all this take place ?' asked Phil.

I don't exactly know when father first
employed Classis. It must have been when
I was quite a girl. But it was, I think, in
1843 that Alfred Classis first appeared upon
the scene.'

What made him come ?'

His father sent for him. He was getting
on so well that he Avant his son to come and
take a share of the business, and learn enough
to step into his shoes. Alfred had been in the
office when quite young ; but his father had
indulged him, and it had ended by his going
off to see the world, that he might be made
into a gentleman.'

The world must be congratulated on the
gentleman it has turned out,' remarked Tor.
Well, the young man came back in '43, did
he ?  to a sudden prospect of wealth and
importance ; and what then ?'

 I have always thought it was at that time
that James Classis began to have hopes of
making a good marriage tor his son, and I
believe he always had his eye upon one of our
father's three daughters. We were not bad-looking
girls, Maud, Celia, and I ; but men 
marriageable men  were scarce, and it was not
to be wondered at if James Classis should
make such a plan. His son would be rich,
and he had had a gentleman's education, and
was not a match to be utterly despised in these
parts ; I think our father secretly favoured
him. He wanted his daughters well married,
I know.'

Did Alfred Classis fall in with his father's
plans for his future ?' asked Tor, in rather a
peculiar tone.

Yes, I think so. He came here often, and
paid us all a good deal of attention ; but for
several years nothing happened. I think it
was four years before he even proposed to Celia.
Maud had married your father by that time,
and I think it was soon afterwards that he asked
Celia; and they were engaged quite a longtime.
I used to think he didn't really want to
marry her  he kept putting it off so much.

Men were generally afraid of Celia; I think
that was why she never had an offer till Alfred
Classis asked her. I don't think she ever
cared very much for him ; but father was for
it, and she wished to be independent. I used
often to fancy Alfred was half afraid of her.
He was so very long in coming to the
point.'

When were they married ?'

In May, 1850  I remember I did not like
them to be married in May ; but Celia said it
was all superstitious nonsense. Alfred would
have waited till June, but Celia said if it
wasn't in May it should be in April; and then
they settled for May. Celia had got quite out
of patience with his " shilly-shallying." She
threatened to break off the match, if he never
intended to get married.'

Why didn't he break it off, if he was so
much afraid ?'

Oh, he never could bear her to talk like
that. He was bent on the marriage, but he
seemed so inclined to keep putting it off. He
acted very oddly altogether. You know Celia
was a good match ; for I was cut out of father's
will when I married, and Maud and Celia had

my fortune between them. Celia was father's
favourite, and she got the most in the end.'

Tor sat still, digesting what he had heard.
All pointed conclusively to the theory he had
formed, that Alfred Classis had not verified the
fact of his first wife's death, before his marriage
with Celia Maynard. He had evidently been
summoned home suddenly, to hear of an increase
of fortune, and fairly good worldly position,
and the prospect of an excellent marriage ; and
he had not had the honesty or courage to
confess that he was already married. A wifelike
Nelly Roberts would be a millstone round
his neck all his life, preventing his ever rising
to the standing he might otherwise hope to
attain; and with his usual lack of principle,
and clumsy cunning, he had trusted that
chance would favour him, and that the 
would remain in the seclusion
where he had left her, and never trouble him
more.

At the end of seven years he evidently had
heard nothing of her, and had then, though
obviously with some misgivings, entered a
second time into the bonds of 'holy matrimony.'


Why do you ask all these questions,
Philip ?' asked Mrs. Lorraine. ' What can it
matter now, how or when all this happened ?
I know it was an evil day for all of us when
Classis entered our family ; but why do you
want to know the details ?*

I will tell you why. Aunt Olive. It is a
disgraceful story enough, and I do not wish it
to go further ; but it will be safe with you ;
and I think one of the family should know
it.'

Mrs. Lorraine looked half surprised, half
alarmed.

What is it, dear boy ?'

Did Classis ever mention a former marriage
to your sister, or to anyone ?'

A former marriage ? Oh dear no ! He
was not married, and never could have been.
He was only about three-and-twenty when he
came here, and he lived here seven years before
he married. Oh no, he could not have been
married before that  it is quite impossible.
What makes you ask such a very odd
question ?'

Because he was married before  he made
a low sort of marriage, with a pretty lady's-maid,

only a few months before he appeared at
Lady well

And forthwith Tor launched into the history
of his visit to Whitbury, and the discovery
which had been forced upon him there.

Aunt Olive listened aghast, especially when
it dawned upon her that her brother-in-law
was a much greater rascal than even she had
ever before believed, and that he had shamefully
deceived her sister. Only too well did
she now perceive the cause of his uneasiness
before the wedding ; and her dismay at the
possibility, to which they could not blind themselves,
fairly took her breath away.

I trust all may be well on that score,' said
Tor, knowing well what was in her mind.
For the girl did die, poor thing, somewhere
about 1850, and we shall try to ascertain the
exact date if it is possible. I do not in the
least believe that this disgraceful episode need
ever be made public 5 but I think it will give me
the whip-hand of Classis if ever he is troublesome.
The secret is known only to me and
to Miss Marjory Descartes. I think we are
both to be trusted. I shall do nothing which
might bring down sorrow and disgrace upon

the innocent. If he lets my affairs alone, I
will let his.'

Tor was not long in finding that he had got
the whip-hand of Classis pretty considerably.
He was riding over the farm the following
day, when the uncle joined him, mounted on
an old screw, which was too broken-down inspirit
to frighten the most timid horseman.

Ah, Phil, my boy !' he cried with great
heartiness. ' Just the fellow I wanted to see.
Ride on with me a little away from these
clodhoppers  so, not too fast. I just wanted
a word or so with you.'

Certainly, sir.'

Hum  ah  well  you spoke last evening
of Whitbury, did you not ?'

I believe I did, sir.'

Ah, yes  well, perhaps you might have
observed a little constraint in my manner, did
you ?  a little absence of my usual frank
heartiness  eh ?'

I certainly did notice something odd. I
fancied it might be a threatening of cholera,'
answered Tor, ' you went so green.'

Ha ! ha ! Very good  cholera indeed !
What a wag you are, Philip ! No, no  now

let us see  what was I saying ? Oh, Whit-bury
? yes ; and Miss Marjory Descartes. I
suppose my name was not mentioned between
you?'

She seemed to know the name Classis,
when it came up casually in conversation. I
believe she had known a Classis in past days.
A relation of yours ?'

Ah well, never mind now. I know you're
not a chatterer, Philip, and I'm going to make
a father confessor of you. Ha! ha! that's
rather good, isn't it ? I say, old chap, do you
know what wild oats are ?'

He dug Tor playfully in the ribs. The
young man smiled, and answered readily:

Well, yes, sir ; I have some acquaintance
with the article. They are generally pleasant
things to sow than to reap.'

Why, yes, boy; so you have found that out
too ! Ah me ! we all run a bit wild in our
youth. I dare say you have played Don Juan
sometimes before now  eh ? Well, never
mind that. It isn't fair to ask too many such
questions. But to come to the point ,* what I
want to tell you is this  I sowed most of my
wild oats in Whitbury.'

Indeed!'

Yes, I did ; and that's why I didn't much
care to talk about the place. Now mind you,
boy, I did nothing really wrong  no, no. I
was wild and foolish ; but I never disgraced
my father's name '  here his face assumed an
edifying expression of virtuous complacency.
I was only a bit gay and wild ; but still one
doesn't like such episodes brought to light
after a number of years  you will know better
what I mean when you are married, and settled
down in life. My wife, now, is what I call a
fastidious woman  an uncommonly particular,
upright, conscientious woman.'

 Quite so,' ejaculated Tor softly.

 Eh ? yes, quite so ; I knew you would
agree with me, and you can understand that I
don't want old Whitbury gossip to come to
her ears. I don't want to meet Miss Marjory
Descartes, or for her to meet Celia. I'd rather
she never came near the place at all. And I'll
take it as a personal favour, Philip, if you will
not talk about such things before my wife, or
put ideas into her head, or have Miss Marjory
to Lady well at all.'

Classis was flushed, breathless, and coherent.
Tor answered gravely enough :

I can't promise not to ask Miss Marjory to
Ladywell ; but you can keep out of her way
as much as you please. If I were you, I
would tell your wife about these innocuous
wild oats, and get the matter off your mind.
However, I have no wish to introduce the
subject. I always think people had much
better not meddle with their neighbours' affairs.'

Even Classis' thick head caught at the
meaning of these last significant words.

Oh, ah  yes,' he answered uneasily. ' I
never do interfere  I don't mean to. We'll
just keep on good terms, and let one another
alone.'

Classis rode off as rapidly as he dared,
feeling unequal to prolonging the interview.
Tor, who had seen Maud's hat over a distant
hedge, put his horse to a gallop, and joined
her by a flying leap.

 Phil ! how you do startle one ! What are
you up to now ?'

I've been talking with our respected uncle.
I don't think he'll bother us much more. The
open defiance will hardly be needed.'

You met Uncle Classis ?

Yes ; I have just parted from him.'

Was he riding ?'

Well, I can hardly say that. He sat on
his horse, and the horse ran.'

Maud laughed delightedly, and her mind
was diverted from the question of the interview,
as Tor intended it should be.

Oh, Phil,' she said, ' there came a letter for
you by the mid day post. It's from Germany,
and I think perhaps it's from Tor, or about
him. '

Tor hastened home with all the speed he
could, an eager hope possessing him that he
might see at last Phil's familiar handwriting.

A VISIT TO GERMANY.

eut no, the letter was not from Phil ;
but in the crabbed, minute writing
of the German brain doctor.

Tor opened the envelope with haste, and
ran his eyes rapidly over its contents, a look
of impatience and dismay crossing his face ashe
did so.

The letter was in German, and was somewhat
floridly worded ; but its meaning was
only too plain.

Phil was no better  was in fact worse; that
is to say, the prolonged insensibility was
an unfavourable sign. But Dr. Schneeberger
was not despondent. On the contrary, he still
held to his original statement that he believed
time and patience would effect a cure ; but he
strongly advocated a different method of treat-merit.

He was, in fact, very anxious to send
his patient away on a sea voyage, feeling confident
that the change,' the sea air and easy
motion of the sailing vessel, would do him
much good. A friend of his was just about
to start on a cruising expedition in the Pacific,
and had volunteered to take charge of ' Herr
Torwood.' He was a medical man, a friend
of Dr. Schneeberger, who was going himself
for rest and change, and would be absent only
four months. Four months might do wonders
for the patient, and he was most anxious that
the experiment should be tried. Both doctors
were in its favour, and they only awaited
Mr. Debenham's consent.

Tor read the letter thoughtfully, and looked
at the case in all its bearings. Just once the
doubt crossed his mind, whether it would not
be better to bring Phil home as he was, tell the
whole story, and let him await his recovery in
his own house, and in his rightful position ;
but a little thought decided him against
such a step. Were Phil brought home in
that state, Mr. and Mrs. Classis, as next
of kin, would have great power; and their
first step would doubtless be to prosecute

Tor for his ' felony and forgery.' Matters
had now gone too far for such a step to be
practicable, and the game had not grown
so desperate yet that Tor felt in any way
obliged to throw it up. Indeed, since his
late discoveries with regard to the rectitude of
both Mr. and Mrs. Classis, he had felt
strengthened in his position, through the sense
of having his enemies to a certain extent in
his power.

On mature consideration, Tor decided that
it would be best to allow the experiment of the
sea voyage. Should it succeed, as the doctors
seemed convinced that it would, all would
be well; and if not, no risk was run, so far ashe
could see, and matters would be in no worse
state than they were now. Meantime, it
might be rather a relief than otherwise to feel
that Phil was safely away at sea, because Mrs.
Classis was certainly suspicious of something
of what, Tor did not know ; and if by
chance her prying eyes discovered Dr. Schnee-
berger's address, and she took a fancy to visit
him and see his patient, there was no knowing
what unpleasant results might not ensue.
This idea had struck Tor when he realized
VOL. II. 28

how his locks had been tampered with, and it
was not a welcome thought. Mrs. Classis
was anything but a stupid woman; and once
let her get a clue into her hands, she would
pursue it relentlessly and sagaciously to the
bitter end. Therefore, it might be no bad
move to get Phil quickly and quietly out of
her reach.

Tor therefore wrote his consent, but determined
to see Phil and the doctor before the
plan was put into execution ; and, to Maud's
despair, announced that he was going to start
for Germany at once.

Oh, Phil !'

Well, Maud, I thought you were so anxious
for me to go and see Tor.'

Are you going to see him ? Are you
going to bring him here ?'

The doctor recommends a sea voyage 
you can see what he says if you can. read his
German hieroglyphics. I must go over and
see about it.'

Maud tried to decipher the letter, but ended
by bringing it across for Tor to translate. She
looked half-pleased, half-disappointed to hear
of the plan. Tor left out the piece where the

prolonged insensibility ' was mentioned. He
did not wish the nature of his friend's malady
to be generally known. The reason for his
reticence on this point was simply this. If
Mrs. Classis got hold of the right idea as
regards Phil and his friend, and knew that one
man was in a state of helpless torpor, it would
at once be plain how easily a clever deception
might be practised by the other. But if both
were in possession of their senses, it was
evident that what was done must be by mutual
agreement ; and so long as this was the case,
nobody but the man concerned had any right
to interfere with the part his friend was
playing.

I wish he had suggested sending him to
England instead. I believe English doctors
could cure him.'

Well, if this little fellow fails, we will
employ the faculty here ; but I'm inclined to
try this sea voyage first. The doctors speak
with confidence, and one does not like to
thwart them on such a point.'

But why does he write to ask you ? Can't
Mr. Torwood decide for himself ?'
' I'm afraid by this that he's not so well

262

again, and that he has referred them to me to
judge for him. He always threw the management
and responsibility of things upon me at
the best of times. He is sure to do so more
than ever now. I must certainly go over and
see about it.'

So Tor went, and Maud was left alone; and
in the afternoon, when she had seen him off
upon the coach, she drove to the Meredith,
and dismissed the carriage, so that she might
spend some time with the blind man and his
daughter.

Tor had been a little less frequent in his
visits since the strange proposition on behalf
of his daughter which Mr. Meredith had
made to him about ten days before ; and his
journey to Yorkshire and this sudden call to
Germany explained his absence most satisfactorily.


Alone, Maud ?' said Mr. Meredith, as he
heard the girl's step in the room. ' I thought
you would have surely brought Philip with
you to-day.'

I have just taken Phil to the coach. He
sent me to explain matters to you. Phil has
to go to Germany to see his friend, who

is ill. I'm afraid he will be gone a whole
week.'

'Gone away again!' echoed Mr. Meredith,
in a tone of disappointment. ' Why, we have
not seen anything of him for fi\Q whole
days !'

He has been in Yorkshire, you know, on
his friend's business, and only came back the
night before last. Then, to-day came another
letter, which sent him tearing off again. I'm
afraid his friend is a sad plague to him just
now  though, of course, he owes ever so much
to him.'

A good friend  a good brother,' said
Michael Meredith, with his slow satisfied smile.
Such a man will make a good husband, too
eh, Maud ?'

Do you mean Phil, Uncle Michael ? Oh
yes ; I should think he would make the best
husband in the world. He is so good and
kind and considerate to everyone. But I
don't much fancy he means to get married 
not yet, at any rate.'

Ah, Maud, sisters are not always their
brothers' confidantes on such subjects.'

Maud looked rather nettled.

I'm sure Phil would tell me directly ; he
tells me everything about himself.'

He is a wonderful brother, then,' said
Meredith ; but his own face had clouded over
somewhat, and by-and-by he asked, with a
touch of sharpness in his tone :

Has he never spoken to you, then, of his
engagement ?'

His ensraorement ?'

Yes ; are you so much astonished ? Did
you not know that he was half-engaged ?'

Maud calmed down a little after her first
amazement. She knew that the blind man
was given to romancing, but she could not
yet understand the bearing of such a remark
as this.

No, Mr. Meredith. I don't know anything
about it. To whom is he half-engaged ?'

To Roma.'

This was said with an air of such pride and
satisfaction that Maud nearly smiled. She
wondered if it could be true. Phil had been
to see the blind man and his daughter a great
deal, and had of late seemed more interested
in Roma ; but certainly Maud had seen no
traces of anything like a romantic attachment.

'Phil engaged to Roma I' she repeated.
He never said a word to me I'

Well,' returned Meredith slowly, already
to retract what he had said, now that he
had produced the desired effect, * perhaps I
should hardly say "engaged," because there has
been no pledge asked or given on either side,
as yet. I do not wish the quiet current of
Roma's young life disturbed, and your brother
can afford to wait. But words have passed
between him and me ; I have read his inmost
heart, and have found it loyal and true  as his
father's was before him ; and now we understand
one another, and he is prepared to abide
by my wishes as to the time of probation.'

For by this time Michael Meredith had fully
persuaded himself that the delay was of his
owen making, that the young man was eager
and willing to come forward to claim Roma's
hand, but that he withheld him, in order that
his daughter's young heart should not be too
early or too roughly awakened from its sleep
of happy childhood. This Meredith fully
believed, and Maud half-believed it too.

It was a good thing for Tor that Mr. Meredith
had so deceived himself, as it had saved

him from any further allusions to a subject
not at all agreeable to him. Maud pondered
awhile over these words, and finally said :

 Is Roma so very young ? I always
thought her so wise for her age

Roma is twenty-five. She may be wise in
some things, I do not deny it ; in others, she
is innocent as a child.'

Is she ?'

Certainly. Have you not observed it for
yourselves' asked Meredith.

I don't know. I have never thought
Roma at all childish.'

 She is a child in all matters that refer to
the heart,' said Michael Meredith, in his
sententious way. ' A child to love.'

Well, but is it not time ' began Maud.

 Not yet  not yet,' answered Meredith,
anticipating her. ' I hold her sleeping heart
in my hand ; when I bid, it shall awaken.'

Maud considered this great nonsense. That
a sirl of Roma's aoe should be treated so like
a child or a baby was manifestly absurd, and
she thought that Mr. Meredith was very
foolish and very wrong. If Phil wanted
Roma, he ought to be allowed to propose

sensibly, as other men did ; and be accepted or
refused, as they were. What was the use of
waiting ? Roma was surely old enough to
know her own mind.

Mr. Meredith was acute enough to read dissatisfaction
in her silence, and a few questions
brought out the cause. Without the least
intention of doing any mischief, she infused
her own feelings into Mr. Meredith's mind,
and he began to wonder what was the use of
this delay, and to grow fretful and impatient.

Maud soothed him down, as she knew well
how to do ; but Michael Meredith was not
easily satisfied that day.

You must go and talk to Roma,' he said.
You said she would know her own mind by
this time, and would accept or refuse Philip.
She shall not refuse him  I will not have it.
Go and find out what she feels, and tell her I
will not have her do anything foolish. When
he asks her, she is to marry him ; I have made
up my mind, and she must not disappoint me.'

Maud went to seek Roma in her studio.
She had no fear that any sane person would
reject her idolized Phil ; and on the whole, she
was not sorry that he had turned his thoughts

in her direction. For Maud was sincerely fond
of Koma.

She had constituted herself a kind of ' guide,
philosopher and friend ' to this lonely girl
who led so secluded a life, and so seldom
mingled in any kind of society. Maud's
experiences were not very wide, nor her philosophy
very deep ; still she had a certain share
of shrewd worldly wisdom, and a warm, affectionate
nature ; and Roma had fallen into the
way of giving and receiving confidences when
Maud came to see her, which would have been
impossible to her with any other companion.

Now, Roma,' began Maud, when preliminary
matters had been disposed of, ' I
have come to say something, and of course I
shall go straight to the point at once. Is
Phil in love with you ?'

iso, certainly not.'

Are you sure ?' asked Maud archly.

Perfectly sure,' answered Roma quietly.

Maud looked rather blank. Something in
Roma's manner carried conviction with it.

I suppose father has been talking to you,'
she said. ' i wish he would not. It is one of
his fancies, Maud, that your brother is to

marry me ; but he never will. He does not
care for me, nor I for him  in that way.'

 But your father said he had spoken about
it  Phil, I mean.'

A look of pain crossed Roma's face.

That means, I suppose, that father has
spoken to Mr. Debenham  I wish he would
not. Your brother is kind, and humours him
because agitation is so bad for him. Please
do not talk to me any more about it. It is a
horrid state of affairs. But you may be quite
sure that your brother and I will never marry.'

Would you refuse him if he asked you ?'

 He never will ask me.'

But suppose he did,' urged Maud. ' You
know he might, Roma ; he likes you very
much.'

The girl clasped her hands tightly together,
with a look of keen pain upon her face.

I suppose then, I should have to say yes, for
my father's sake. I cannot  cannot go against
him  not even to save my own life. Some
day, Maud, I will try and tell you why. Oh !
I hope and trust it may not be, for I must do
my father's bidding.'

Maud was able to give Mr. Meredith the

required assurance, and to leave him in a state
of placid tranquillity ; but lie left the house
in a dissatisfied frame of mind, and wished
that she had never been there. She could not
believe that Phil would be so weak as to let
Mr. Meredith cajole him into a marriage that
he was not anxious to make ; and it was very
hard upon him to have to humour the old man
because it was bad for him to be vexed.
Altogether Maud felt annoyed and disturbed
vexed with herself for what she had said to
Mr. Meredith, with him for being so foolish
and irrational, and with Koma for talking
and looking as though marriage with Phil
would be the most dreadful thing in the
world.

She thought things had come to an odd
sort of pass, and determined that she would
not go to the house again until Phil had come
back, and could tell her the true state of the
case. For in spite of all that Mr. Meredith
had implied, she knew her brother would be
frank with her.

Meantime Tor was travelling rapidly towards
Freyburg, at which place he arrived one evening,

about twelve hours later than his letter
had done.

From the hotel he walked straight up to
Dr. Schneeberger's house, and was met by the
lively little Gretchen, who welcomed him with
volubility and warmth, and was genuinely
delighted to see him.

But she shook her head in mournful fashion
over the helpless state of his poor friend, and
lamented its sadness. Such a line handsome
young man  everyone said that who
saw the Herr Tor wood. Ah, it was what
nobody could understand, that he should be
struck down like that.

Tor asked for the doctor, who quickly
appeared, looking just as dried up as ever,
but somewhat more anxious and constrained
in manner, from which Tor feared he had
formed an unfavourable opinion of his friend's
case. But he spoke more hopefully than
before, and seemed to have great confidence in
the sea voyage. He had taken other opinions,
and all had agreed that the experiment should
be tried. Once or twice he had fancied he
detected some faint return of mental power,
but it had never lasted. Still there seemed

some probability that the change of air, the
movement and the stir, might awaken the
dormant faculties.

The little doctor talked rapidly and energetically,
and Tor quietly acquiesced in all he
said. Then he asked to see his friend, and was
taken up to the little clean, bare room that he
so well remembered, and which he could fancy
he had only quitted yesterday,

Phil lay upon the bed, just as he had
done before, his eyes closed, his breath coming
somewhat heavily through the parted lips.
His hair and beard had grown, and were wild
and tangled. Tor was almost glad that the
sheet half-concealed the lower part of the face.
The brow and eyes and upper part belonged
to the familiar face of his chosen friend and
companion. Those were Phil's well-known,
well-cut features. He did not care to look
below, where the changes induced by illness
had given an air of neglect to the once carefully
trimmed moustache and smooth shaven
cheeks.

He looked down upon the unconscious face
before him with an honest, manly compassion.

'Poor old fellow! Poor old  Tor!' he

muttered (the little doctor stood opposite
looking at him, so he must not trip, even in
English).

Well, mein Herr,' said the doctor, ' what
think you of your friend ?'

I don't know what to think. He looks
just the same to me. I suppose it's no good
my speaking to him ? He wouldn't hear ?'

You can try,' answered Dr. Schneeberger
with a dim interest in his tone.

If only he Avould go!' thought Tor, buthe
could not suofcrest this, and it sounded a
mockery to address the unconscious Phil by a
false name. Still, he bent over him, and called
rather loudly :

Tor ! Torwood ! wake up, old fellow !
Don't you know me  Phil Debenham? Tor,
I say !'

Perhaps there was the faintest motion of the
eyelashes  neither Tor nor the doctor could
be certain : but the eves remained fast closed,
and no other words evoked the slightest sign
of life.

Tor gave one last long look, and turned
away with a sigh. He almost wished he had
never come. It was so melancholy to see the

friend lie there helpless and vacant, whose
help he needed so much.

That evening was spent in consultation with
the doctor, and on the morrow Tor left for
England again. He would gladly have been
PhiFs travelling companion upon this voyage,
but affairs at Ladywell would not permit of
his prolonged absence. So he had to leave
Phil in the care of the kindly Germans, who
gave him many hopeful assurances, that when
next he saw his friend he would be restored
to health and strength.

Tor sincerely hoped that they would prove
right.

DISCOMFITED.

HEN Classis heard that his troublesome
nephew had gone to Germany,
ij) and would probably be absent fora
week, he seemed to breathe more freely
again ; for since the evening on which he had
heard of the sudden visit to Whitbury, he had
felt like one who lives with a drawn sword
suspended over his head. Not even his conversation
in the field on the following day had
restored his shaken equanimity, for he was
not at all assured that his statement had been
believed, although it had not been contradicted.
Classis and his wife had both ample food for
meditation, and were glad of the respite which
this visit to Germany had afforded.

Now is our time, if ever, to search for the
will,' said Mrs. Classis, the same evening that

VOL. II. 27

Lewis had told them of the sudden journey.

Why did we not have this clue before, when
Ladywell stood empty ? We could have done
anything then. Now it may be difficult, and
even dangerous.*

Classis shook his head helplessly, and did
not know what to suggest.

You never do,' returned his wife coolly.

i can't think what has come to you, Alfred ;
you used to have plenty of assurance, and
meddled with matters you had much better
have let alone, and now that a real emergency
has come, you are no better than a girl. I'd
be ashamed to be such a poor creature.'

Classis did not resent this language, for he
felt himself a poor creature enough at that
moment. What his wife said of him was only
too true. Some change had come over him
for which he could not account, and his old
cunning: and craft seemed to have entirely
deserted him.

As a fact, it was circumstances that had
changed, not his nature. Classis was a man
who could go on swimmingly whilst things
were prosperous, whilst the game was in his
own hands, and success within his grasp, but

he could not stand up against misfortune ; and
when the tide of his luck seemed turning, he
could only look on dismayed, feeling hopelessly
unequal to the task of stemming the torrent.

His father had been a clever man, and had
put his son in the way of becoming wealthy
and respected. He left him a handsome
property and a flourishing business, and had
secured for him a well-dowered wife. Alfred
Classis therefore had made an excellent start
in life, for he was trusted and respected for
his father's sake, and admitted into society for
his wife's.

So long as he had only had to deal with
men like Philip Debenham senior, all had gone
well. He had fleeced him with impunity,
speculated with his money, and had contrived
that all gain should be his own, and all loss
his client's. He had even gone so far as to
speculate with Maud's trust-money, and the
speculation had been a lamentable failure.

Classis' own fortune, too, had suffered
through his folly and ill luck ; and since this
new relative had turned up, with his cool
inquiring words and amused incredulous looks,
the ground seemed actually slipping away

272

from under his feet, and he could only lean
upon his wife for support. The idea that she
might now learn the treacherous part he had
played towards her, was an added terror ; and
Classis sometimes felt disposed to make a
bolt for it, and get away altogether from his
present surroundings, but his natural weakness
and irresolution deterred him.

I'm afraid I am but a poor creature, my
dear,' he answered, with a sickly smile. ' I
think I cannot be very well just now.'

'Pooh, nonsense! You're well enough,
only cowardly. Now look here. I'm nearly
sure that Philip Debenham has never seen
those words about the later will. For one
thing, I don't believe the paper had ever been
unfolded before I opened it out ; and for
another, if Philip had known of it, the search
would have been instituted at once ; and if the
will had been in existence at all, it would have
been found. I've never heard that any search
has been made ; and besides, although Philip
did ask you something about a later will, it
seemed to be pure guess-work, for he imagined
that it had fallen into your hands.'

I wish to heaven it had !' groaned Classis.

If there is another Avili, and if it is found, we
shall be ruined.'

Just so ; and as we both believe that
another will was made, we must take care that
it falls into no hands but our own.'

Classis groaned again.

You really think he made another ?'

You know I always did think he intended
making another, when you told me how
perfectly ready he was to agree to your suggestion,
and to make that condition, and write
that letter. You had plenty of bluster in
those days, Alfred, and Philip feared you; and
you could always get the whip-hand of him
by threatening to throw up his business
affairs, which he was fool enough to think
were prospering in your hands. He dared
not oppose you ; but I never trusted him,
when I knew how easily he had granted that
monstrous condition, and that without any
love for us or for Lewis. If he had argued
and disputed and then given way, I might
have believed better in it ; as it was, I never
had much faith.'

Nor I very much ; but I never could find
out anything suspicious, and I watched him

as a cat does a mouse. Nothing in his papers
was found to upset the will in my possession.'

Well, there can be no doubt now that the
will was made ; the only question is, was it
accidentally or purposely destroyed ? or is it
still in the library at Ladywell, hidden away ?
As Philip Debenham had the acuteness to put
it somewhere out of your reach, it is hardly
likely he would ever be weak enough to make
away with it himself. I believe it is still
there.'

Classis wiped his forehead with his handkerchief.


Old Maynard could not find it.'

Old Maynard would not look with the
energy that we shall. If it is there, find it we
must'

How ?' asked Classis vaguely.

That remains to be proved. After what
has gone before, it may be difficult ; but I will
make an attempt whilst Philip is away ; if
that fails, we must consider further.'

Mrs. Classis did make the attempt without
further loss of time. That same afternoon she
went over to Ladywell, in order to consult
some books of reference in the library.

She had done the same thing sometimes in
the former owner's time, as a means of gaining
occasional access, to her gruff old uncle.
In this lay her chief hope, that her visit
might pass unremarked, and that she might
be allowed to prosecute her search unsuspected.


The library at Ladywell was of great size,
and contained a really large collection of books.
If the will was concealed in one of these, it
might be a weary while before it saw the light.
Still Mrs. Classis was not daunted by that
thought. If it was there, she would find it,
if only opportunity were granted her. The
strong probability that, even if in existence, it
might lie undiscovered for generations, was buta
poor consolation to Mrs. Classis. So long
as she believed it to be there, she could enjoy
no rest. Any day some chance might reveal
its hiding-place, and then ruin stared them in
the face. It must be found by herself or her
husband, and destroyed as soon as found, and
then perhaps they would know peace again.

So Mrs. Classis went openly to Ladywell,
and was shown by her own request into the
library. Miss Debenham and Mrs. Lorraine,

she was told, were to start in ten minutes
time for a garden-party.

This was good news. Mrs. Classis took
down a few books, and sat down to study
them, to give colour to her story in case either
lady should come in. It was not many
minutes before Maud entered. Her cheeks
were flushed, and her eyes sparkled a little as
she addressed Mrs. Classis.

Oh, Aunt Celia, I heard you were here.
I am afraid you will be disappointed if you
stay. I don't think Phil keeps any of his
private papers in the library. Would you not
like to go up to his bedroom ? I do not know,
of course, as I am not specially interested in
his correspondence ; but I dare say you would
find there a good deal you might like to see.'

Mrs. Classis looked coldly contemptuous.
Inwardly she was raging.

Such a remark hardly deserves an answer,
Maud.'

What a good thing, for I am afraid you
would not find it very easy to make one,'
retorted Maud quickly. ' Well, I must go
now. I hope you will find the books interesting,
but I am afraid you will be disappointed.'

Maud swept away, and Mrs. Classis heaved
a sigh of relief. She believed that she would
not now be further molested ; and when she
heard the carriage roll away, a smile of
triumph crossed her face. The triumph was
short-lived. The door opened softly and
admitted Mrs. Lorraine.

Good-afternoon, Celia. I have brought
my work in here this afternoon. It is the
coolest room in the house, I think.'

She sat down beside the window, and drew
out her work, talking quietly and gently the
while.

I thought you were going to a party with
Maud,' said Mrs. Classis sharply.

I have changed my mind. It is too hot to
enjoy such things.'

You have never let Maud go alone ! She
is not to be trusted by herself anywhere.'

I have the greatest confidence in dear
Maud. But she will not go alone. We were
to call for Mrs. Nelson. Maud will go now
under her care.'

Mrs. Classis turned over her books with
the haste of deeply-seated annoyance. Then
she turned irritably upon the gentle sister,

whom she had been accustomed for so many
years to tyrannize over successfully.

Well, 1 wish you would go away now,
Olive. I can't bear company when I want to
study.'

I will not disturb you,' answered Mrs.
Lorraine, settling herself quietly back in her
chair.

Mrs. Classis looked rather as she might
have done had a dove turned upon her.

You decline to leave me, do you, Olive ?'

Yes, Celia, I do. You are our guest
whilst you are in this house  Maud's and
mine. It is not usual to leave guests alone.'

Mrs. Lorraine spoke timidly yet firmly.
She had not lived two months under Tor's
protection for nothing. She was not ashamed
or afraid to assume that position which he had
always accorded to her. But Mrs. Classis'
wrath knew no bounds, and to Olive she
allowed it to burst out.

In point of fact, you have remained behind
in order to spy upon my doings ?'

And whose fault is it if I have ?' asked
Mrs. Lorraine, not without dignity. ' What
should we have seen had anyone spied upon

you whilst you were shut up in Philip's room
the other day ? It is you who force us to
watch you, Celia. Philip is away, and we are
responsible for what goes on in his absence.'

Mrs. Classis sneered.

And so I cannot be allowed to make a few
notes from these books without supervision ?
Even old Uncle Maynard, the misanthrope,
was less cautious than you seem to be. Are
you afraid that I shall walk off with some rare
book ? I cannot think what has come over
you, Olive.'

I could say the same of you, Celia. Why
should you object to my presence here,
unless '

But Mrs. Classis rose with dignity.

I shall not remain here to be insulted.
Some day, Olive Lorraine, you shall be made
to rue the day when you played the spy upon
me, and made me Philip Debenham's declared
enemy.'

I think enmity is better declared than
secret, Celia,' answered Mrs. Lorraine tranquilly.
' You have always been Philip's
enemy, and you know it.'

And now you shall learn what my enmity

is like, and how it can affect your idolized
nephew. Tell him to look to himself !'

And Mrs. Classis, with a vindictive scowl
at her daring sister, turned and quitted the
room and the house, feeling for once that she
was foiled.

Lewis had gone to the garden-party whither
Maud vas bound ; and he had gone thither
with the fixed intention of having some serious
conversation with her. This intention was
partly the result of his own impatience, and
his desire to come to some more definite understanding
with his pretty cousin, and partly on
account of a conversation he had had with his
father upon the previous evening, in which
Classis had urged upon him with much force
and feeling, the absolute necessity there was
for him to marry Maud ; and had begged that
he would not lose the opportunity afforded
by the brother's absence. He felt certain that
Maud would be more easily influenced in
Philip's absence than if he were upon the spot;
and he implored his son with feverish energy
to lose no time, and to risk everything rather
than let his cousin throw him over.

His father's excited manner left an uneasy

impression upon Lewis's mind. He could not
see why it should be a life-and-death matter
to anyone but himself, and yet there was no
mistaking the eagerness of the elder Classis.
Lewis knew enough of his father to make him
distrustful of such earnestness.

At the same time he was willing: enough to
talk to Maud, for he feared now that she was
slipping from him, and lie was determined
not to yield her up without a struggle.

Poor Lewis ! He felt sometimes as thou oh
he had deserved a better parentage and better
prospects. He had been brought up in gentlemanly
idleness, to satisfy his father's idea of
grandeur and his mother's family pride, and
was always considered a very lucky fellow,
who would marry an heiress, or at least inherit
her fortune, and succeed at length to the
broad acres attached to Thornton House. But
of late an uncomfortable idea had suooested
itself to Lewis, that things were not quite so
satisfactory as he had believed. His father's
manner often perplexed him. His mother
looked gloomy and disturbed, and he could
not but fancy that some danger, unknown to
him, threatened them at this time.

So it was in a rather dejected frame of mind
that Lewis met Maud that afternoon, and
dejection is not the most favourable of moods
in which to commence a love-passage.

Maud was looking unusually bright and
animated, and was always the centre of an
admiring circle. It was some time before
Lewis could gain possession of her, even for a
few minutes, and not until quite the close of
the afternoon that he succeeded in leading; her
away to a more secluded spot, beyond the
reach of curious eyes or sharp ears.

Why, Lewis, where are you taking me to ?'
asked Maud, pausing at length and looking
back. ' See what a long way we have
wandered!'

Yes, and see how nice and cool it is here !'
returned Lewis. ' I'm sure you like it better
than all that heat and glare. There's such a
pretty little grotto down here by the water.
You'd better come and see it, now you are so
near.'

Oh yes, I'll come. It's a pretty sort of
place. It's been a nice party, hasn't it,
Lewis ?'

'I hate tennis-parties!' answered he, with
needless emphasis.

Then why did you come ?*

I came to see you.'

'To see me!' Maud looked at him and
laughed. ' That's good ! As if you didn't
see me nearly every day of your life!'

I never seem to see you alone now fora
moment,' returned Lewis discontentedly.
You always have a crowd of people round
you, or that everlasting Philip. I never can
get in a word edgeways !'

Maud looked at him, and patted his arm
gently with her delicately gloved hand.

Now don't be silly and tiresome, Lewis.
You know you haven't any real grievance.
Is this the grotto ? It is very pretty. Shall
we sit down here a little while ? Now you
can talk to your heart's content.'

They did sit down, but at the same time
Lewis did not seem to have very much to say.
He looked at Maud, and looked at the trickling
water, and held his peace. He had got the
chance he wanted, but he did not seem to
know how to use it.

Maud, too, was silent  and if not embarrassed,

at any rate less ready than usual
to chatter to him. She sat with a look of
gravity stamped upon her face, which deepened
as moments went by.

Well, Maud,' said Lewis, looking up at
length, ' I suppose we are both of us thinking
about the same subject.'

I dare say we are,' answered the girl
slowly. ' I suppose it is time we came to
some understanding, Lewis.'

It was not a very promising opening, and
Lewis was aware of it.

Well, Maud,' he said with a sigh, ' you
know I have loved you all these years, and
wanted to make you my wife. The question
is, will you have me ?'

Had Maud's feelings been in any way likely
to warm towards him, such a beginning would
have been fatal ; but as it was, it did not
affect the point at issue, because her mind was
already made up.

No, Lewis ; I'm afraid I can't, after all,' she
said slowly.  I do like you, and we've been
very good friends always, and I've tried to
make up my mind to it. I've looked at the
matter every Away, and considered everything,

and I'm sure it would be best for us not to
marry

Lewis sat looking gloomily at his boots.

Aren't you fond of me, Maud, after the
way we have held together all these years ?'

Yes, Lewis, I am fond of you, and you are
fond of me ; but I don't love you, and what's
more, you don't love me  not in the way you
think you do. I am sure wee should not be
really happy together, so you had better take
the money, and leave me alone.'

I don't want the money  I want you. It s
a beastly shame the money ever was left like
that.'

Yes, so it is,' assented Maud readily ; ' but
I can almost be glad that, you will have it,
Lewis, for you will find it very convenient.
And  and I hope you won't go right away, ordo
anything rash ; because I'm very fond of
you, Lewis, though I can't marry you.'

Maud spoke with sudden affection, and
Lewis took the little hand she held out and
kissed it.

Why can't you marry me, Maud ? Once
you thought you could. Do you care for any
other fellow ?'

VOL. II. 28

No, no, Lewis ; indeed it isn't that.

Then what is it ?'

It is partly because I don't really care
enough for you, Lewis ; and I don't think you
would like to find that out after we were
married ; and partly  partly because I do so
detest Uncle Classis and Aunt Celia. I could
not  oh, I could not take their name, and
make myself more of a relation than I am.'

Rather hard on me,' remarked Lewis.

Very hard on you,' assented Maud, with
emphasis. ' I know it is, Lewis, and I feel
almost mean to serve you so. Perhaps if I
were in love with you, I could put up with
even that ; but I'm not, and I really can't doit,
more especially as I believe that clause in the
will was all your father's doing  just a plot to
keep the money in his own family. I think
it's very hard on you to have such a father.'

Lewis shook his head gravely.

I'm afraid sometimes he'll get into trouble
one of these days. I believe he's been speculating
awfully, and that plays old Harry with
the money. I dare say I shan't be much of a
catch after all, Maud. Perhaps you're wise to
chuck me over.'

Now don't be disagreeable, Lewis,' said
Maud. ' You know if I wanted money, I should
get it by marrying you. I'm glad you will have
something substantial, even if Uncle Classis
does come to grief. I have thought him looking
very anxious and frightened of late. Do
you think anything has happened ?'

I don't know. I fancy he has something
on his mind, and the mater too. They will
be in an awful way when I tell them your
decision. I suppose you can't change i.t,
Maud ?'

I'm afraid not, Lewis ; I would if I could.
But don't you tell them my decision. I will
do that myself on my birthday. I will not
give my final answer yet ; I reserve to myself
the right of changing my mind. Don't build
on hope, but don't tell them anything. I should
like to tell them myself.'

Lewis accepted this suggestion with some
relief. He was cast down in spirit, and had
no wish to face a blustering or craven father.
He had taken his rejection more quietly than
he had planned, because he saw at once from
Maud's manner that his case was hopeless.
For some reasons he felt this final decision

282

almost a relief. Maud had not been far wrong
in saying that his love was not of quite the
risfht kind : and he was conscious that his
position as Maud's husband would be anything
but a pleasant one, did his father prove  as he
almost feared he would prove  to have committed
follies, and even worse, which would
brings name into unenviable notoriety. Lewis
had begun to have strong suspicions as to his
father's integrity, and these painful doubts had
been doubly painful when he had thought of
Maud. He loved her well enough to wish to
spare her all needless pain  well enough to be
almost disinterested. But this is hardly the
feeling; of the ardent lover, and Maud was not
wrong in saying to herself that night, that the
interview was well over, and Lewis's heart was
not broken.

BETSY LONG.

RS. Classis had been discomfited
by her sister and her niece 

by the two beings she had been
accustomed to snub and trample upon at will 
and her defeat at their hands was as bitter a pill
as she had ever been called upon to swallow.

Moreover, she was conscious of having
brought her defeat upon herself by acting with
less than her ordinary caution. What had
occurred at Ladywell only a few days back,
ought to have been enough to deter her from
a second attempt at search. She had known
this all along, but her intense eagerness to
gain possession of the document, of whose
existence they now felt certain, and the discovery
of which, if made by other hands,
would cause such a terrible gouvernement of

all their cherished plans, had overcome her
prudence.

With such a consummation staring her in
the face, it was no wonder that Mrs. Classis
was willing to run some risk ; but now she
wished she had been more circumspect. She
felt she had put herself at a disadvantage by
this second visit  had laid herself open to
suspicion and contempt ; and a fear arose in
her mind that, by showing her hand too
openly, she might have given a clue to others
as to the object of her search.

A little consideration, however, blunted
the edge of this fear. If that letter of old
Maynard's had not (as she felt certain) been
opened out by other hands than hers, no one
would ever dream of hunting for Philip Deben-
ham's last will and testament amongst the
wilderness of books in the library at Lady well,
which house had never been his home. If anyone
believed that a second will had been made,
they must also believe that it had been destroyed
before now. It was not likely to come
to light eighteen years after the death of the
testator.

Whatever Maud and Mrs. Lorraine believed

that she (Celia Classis) came to search for,
they at least would never guess that it was for
her brother-in-law's will. Of that fear she
might safely rid her mind.

But she could not rid her mind of others.
She knew that Roma Meredith came often
now to read in the great library, and any
day her unconscious choice might light upon
the volume in which the precious paper lay
hidden. Philip was himself something of
a reader and a lover of books, and she had
already heard some talk about rearranging the
library and classifying the works.

Such thoughts as these made her blood run
cold, and very earnestly and intently did she
ponder over the matter, trying to see someway
to rid herself of the haunting dread that
oppressed her. She knew Maud's trust-money
was all speculated away, and if anything
occurred which should oblige her husband to
deliver up the lump sum, it would be impossible
to avoid a fiasco that must bring the name
of Classis into open contempt.

What Mrs. Classis would like best todo,
would be to carry war into the enemy's
quarters, if only she saw her way to doing it.

She lead not at all given up her idea that this
nephew of hers was playing a double part,
and acting unfairly towards the friend to
whom he owed so much. Her own eyes had
convinced her that he was using the money of
his friend as freely as his own ; and if he could
do that, of Avhat was he not capable ?

She meant to keep her eyes and ears open,
and glean all the information possible upon
this subject. But it was not easy for her to
make discoveries now, because she had declared
open war, as it were, with those at Ladywell,
and was herself looked upon as little better
than a spy.

A spy!

Mrs. Classis repeated the word once or
twice to herself, and an unpleasant smile stole
gradually into her eyes.

Yes, there was certainly something attractive
in the idea. Would it be possible to
introduce a spy into that house, who would
keep watch upon what was going on, listen
and report upon all the talk of the servants'-hall,
and when it was possible, contrive to
hear what was said upstairs as well as down ?
Mrs. Classis had a shrewd notion that servants

generally contrived to find out the truth
as to what went on in a house, much more
quickly than they were supposed to do; and
she believed that if her nephew was likely to
get himself into trouble, he would probably tell
something of his difficulties to his sister or his
aunt, and then the secret would ooze out below-stairs,
and might be easily made known to
her. She thought she could perhaps set some
rumour afloat herself, which might startle him
from his high and mighty ease, and induce
him to make some admissions to his two
adoring relatives.

And again, if Mrs. Classis could but introduce
into that house some creature of her
OAvn, great things might be accomplished.
The library books might be gradually and
systematically examined; and if the underling
failed in the quest, surely she could admit her
employer at some unlikely hour, and with time
and patience Mrs. Classis felt perfectly certain
that she should be able to find Philip Deben-
ham's carefully hidden will.

But who was to be the instrument of this
promising plot ? A little more consideration,
and that point, too, was settled.

When Mrs. Classis reached her own house,
she said to the footman who answered her
summons :

Send Betsy Long up to my room.'

Her face and voice were so severe, that the
man informed the under-housemaid that ' she
was going to catch it now, and serve her
right too,' by which it might be argued that
the young woman was not a special favourite
of his.

Betsy Long was a good-looking, clever
girl, and Mrs. Classis had already made
use of her as a sort of spy upon the other
servants. It was her pride and boast, that
she always knew exactly what went on in her
kitchen and servants-hall, and naturally this
knowledge could only be obtained through
one of the servants themselves. The honourable
position of informer-general had been
held for nearly two years by Betsy Long,
who stood high in her mistress's favour, and
proportionately low in that of her fellow-servants.
Betsy Long could lie with an
assumption of simple veracity that was
touching to witness, and she knew when to
speak and when to hold her peace ; and she had

always been faithful, so far, to her mistress,
whom she feared whilst she fawned upon her.
So Betsy Long was selected by Mrs. Classis
as her chosen instrument.

Betsy came up in fear and trembling, not
knowing what might be in store for her.
She was, however, somewhat reassured by the
look and manner of her mistress; and the two
entered into a long and earnest conference, the
result of which will be seen later. The immediate
result was, that the girl went sobbing
down to the lower regions, with the news that
Mrs. Classis had turned her off with a week's
notice, and she didn't know what would become
of her.

The other servants could hardly be said to
be sympathetic, and told her plainly that it
served her right.

Betsy cried loudly in public, but never in
private ; and in spite of her mistress's supposed
displeasure, she and Mrs. Classis held,
in strict privacy, more than one long conference
together.

Mrs. Classis felt easier in her mind now,
as to matters connected with Lady well; but
she was not easy about the secret she believed

her husband was hiding from her. She had
so little faith in his acuteness, that she was
convinced he might get into some very unpleasant
mess, if he did not take her into
his confidence. She was angry with him for
his folly and recklessness in plunging himself
into difficulties from which he seemed unable
to extricate himself, and felt aggrieved to have
another burden added to the load she was already
forced to carry ; but at the same time she was not
going to stand by and let that stupid husband
of hers keep an important secret from her.

Alfred she said sharply, upon the first
favourable opportunity, ' I asked you once
before what you knew of Whitbury and Miss
Marjory Descartes. You were pleased then
to make a very ungentlemanly reply; perhaps
now you will answer me properly.'

Classis looked thoroughly frightened and
taken aback.

Wh  what do you kn  know about Wh 
Whitbury ?' he stammered, his face growing
pale.

I don't know anything yet ; but I mean
to know all pretty soon,' answered Mrs. Classis
coolly and firmly. * You are not such a fool

as to try and deceive me ? You ought to know
by this time that you couldn't do it.'

'Why should I know anything of Whit-bury
?' asked Classis, trying all he knew to
speak naturally.

Why should you turn perfectly livid at
the bare mention of the name, if you didn't ?'

I wasn't very well that evening  Philip
had startled me by coming in so suddenly
upon us.'

Look here, Alfred !' said Mrs. Classis
significantly. ' You know, and what's more, I
believe Philip Debenham knows, that you have
some mysterious connection with Whitbury.
If you won't tell me, I shall ask him ; and if
he doesn't satisfy me, I shall apply direct to
Miss Marjory Descartes. I have not any
reason to suppose that she will screen you, if
she knows of anything to your discredit.'

Classis thus brought to bay, collapsed suddenly
and hopelessly. In encounters with his
wife he invariably got the worst of it.

I  I  Indeed, my dear, I should have
told you all long ago, only it seemed useless
to rake up old stories of dead-antigone follies.
Young men will be young men, you know ;

and boys will be boys. I was little more thana
boy when I went to Whitbury to fish, and I
did get into some little trouble there  money
trouble, I mean  and I dare say if people hadn't
been good-natured, and not been too hard upon
me, it would have gone rather hardly with
me.'

Classis, with an air of great good faith,
gave the particulars of the little fraud he had
unsuccessfully perpetrated (to which Miss Marjory
had alluded in talking to Tor), and the
names given, and the circumstantial correctness
of the story, convinced Mrs. Classis that it was
a true one.

 And why did Miss Marjory Descartes
stand your friend and beg you off ?' she
asked.

Because  because Well, my dear, the

truth is, I believe, a favourite maid of hers
beef-ed her to do so, and interceded successfully
with her. You see, I  I '

You had made love to the girl, I suppose?'
put in Mrs. Classis scornfully. ' Just like
one of your low ways.'

I had not seen you, you know, my dear ;
and the girl was good-looking, and would

keep walking by the river in an evening, just
where I was fishing. Of course I paid her a
few compliments on her pretty face, and talked
a little nonsense, as other young men do in
similar circumstances. You needn't mind that,
Celia, my love ! I never looked at another
woman after I knew you !'

Mrs. Classis sneered.

Do you suppose I am jealous of attentions
you paid to a lady's-maid thirty or forty years
ago ? Was it fear of my displeasure that so
alarmed you ? or have you worse to tell ?'

Worse ? Oh no !  no  no ! That is all ;
the matter began and ended there. You
know all I know now. You see, my dear,
one does not care to have one's youthful sins
and follies brought to lioht after all these
years. I dare say it seems foolish to you ;
but I am fond of you, and I didn't care that
a story like that  exaggerated and made worse,
no doubt, by gossiping tongues  should come
to your ears. I shall not mind, now that I
have told you all ; but, I confess, I was taken
aback when Philip first spoke of Whitbury,
and people I had known there. I did not
know what ill-natured report he might not

set afloat. Put yourself in my position a
moment, my dear, and I think you will understand.'


Well, well,' answered Mrs. Classis impatiently,
' it is a pity, as you are such a poor
cowardly creature, that you ever had courage
to put yourself in such awkward positions as
you have been doing of late. You can do a
most daring and unscrupulous thing in the
calmest way, so long as detection seems impossible;
but as soon as ever the inevitable
crisis threatens, you are as helpless and
blundering as a child.'

Classis assented to this criticism meekly
enough, and took a good scolding from his
wife with unusual docility. He was so unutterably
relieved at the credence his story
had obtained, that nothing else disturbed him
much. Mrs. Classis had certainly accepted
his explanation with all readiness. His nature
was so craven in her eyes that his fear was
easily accounted for ; and even she was far
from suspecting him of the terrible and irretrievable
folly of which he had really been
guilty. That he would marry a second wife
without knowing that the first was dead, was

a thought that never crossed her mind for a
moment. She never even suspected that he
had ever been married, until his union with
herself.

Days glided quietly by, and the traveller
returned from his brief visit to Germany. He
did not bring his friend back with him, as had
been half expected in some quarters ; but he
announced that Mr. Tor wood had started on
a four months' sea-voyage, and was confidently
expected to return from it with much recruited
health.

Mrs. Classis smiled a peculiar smile on
hearing this announcement, and remarked that
she had quite expected some such step as
this  anything to keep his friend away. Her
own theory on the subject was distinctly
strengthened.

On the second day after his return, as Tor
was sauntering leisurely homewards through
the shady lanes, he came across a respectable-looking
girl, sitting by the roadside and
crying bitterly and uncontrollably.

He was too kind-hearted to pass by altogether
unheeding, so he stopped, and asked
the girl what was the matter.

VOL. II. 29

With a great many sobs, and tears, and
repetitions, the story came out.

She was, or had been, a housemaid at
Thornton House for nearly two years, and
her name was Betsy Long, and she was afraid
she had a quick temper and a saucy tongue.
The mistress had spoken about it more than
once, and she had tried ; but some things
would make a saint fly out  and to try and
take away a poor girl's character !

Recalled to the point, she went on to say
that Mrs. Classis had missed some money
off her dressing-table, and had accused Betsy
of having taken it. The girl had denied it
strenuously, and had lost her temper, and had
become violent. Mrs. Classis had discharged
her at a week's notice, and had declined to
give her a character ; and then Betsy, with a
burst of sobs, explained that she had a mother
and sick sister more than half dependent upon
her, and that it would break their hearts to
hear that she had lost her place without the
chance of getting another; for her character
was gone, and she didn't know what would
become of her.

There was sufficient sincerity in the girl's

manner to impress Tor with the belief that
she was speaking the truth, and was innocent
of the misdeed of which she had been accused.
He was sorry for her, and thought that Mrs.
Classis had been hard, as might, perhaps, be
expected from so hard a woman.

I will speak to Mrs. Classis for you
he said, after a little reflection. 'You had
better not give way like that. Come upto
the Manor House this afternoon at five.
We will see if something cannot be done for
you.'

Thank you, sir  thank you kindly,' said
Betsy, with a curtsey, drying her eyes.

Tor was not far from Thornton House, so
he turned his steps in that direction, and, at
a corner, encountered Mrs. Classis, bound for
her own abode.

He lifted his hat and joined her, with a few
words of greeting.

I have just met your housemaid in great
trouble at being summarily dismissed from
your service. Has she really been robbing
you?'

No ; I found out that my husband had
taken the money, unknown to me, and I shall

292

132 Betsy Long.

let Betsy know ; but at the same time she is
such a saucy, impudent girl, I am quite glad
to be rid of her.'

You will not take her back, then T

Certainly not, after such language as she
used.'

Had she not some excuse ? It was a
serious charge against her. A little heat was
only natural.'

Then she must abide by the consequences.
I will have nothing more to do with her. I
can't bear the girl. I never could.'

Will you give her a character ?'

I shall see about it. I'll give her one for
impudence if she applies.'

Don't you think you're hard upon her ?
She says she has relatives partly dependent
upon her.'

A mother and a sick sister, I believe she
has ; but I don't see that that's any business
of mine.'

Have you found her a good servant in
other ways ? Is she truthful ? Does she
work well ?'

I think those brazen-faced girls do speak
the truth  they have no shame about anything.

People say that bad-tempered servants
do most work, and 1 cannot complain of Betsy
upon that score ; but I can't imagine what
earthly reason you can have for taking up her
cause.'

I am not aware that I am taking up anyone's
cause. I merely want to know a few
facts. Betsy Long is a good servant, with a
bad temper ; is not that about the state of the
case ?'

I don't know your idea of a good servant ;
mine is that she should know how to keep her
place. If you're trying to trap me into saying
I'll have Betsy back again, you'd better save
your breath, for nothing would induce me todo
it. Are you satisfied now ?'

Perfectly so, thank you ; and I will now
wish you good-morning.'

Mrs. Classis smiled as she walked up the
drive to her own door.

I think he has taken the bait,' she said to
herself. * Men are so soft.'

Tor could hardly be said to be soft. He
did not give any special heed to this incident
of the forlorn Betsy ; but he felt sufficient
indignation at Mrs. Classis' hardness, and

compassion for the girl's distress, to be wishful
to do something to place her in a better

position.

He told Maud and Aunt Olive what had
occurred, and they at once suggested that a
place might be made for her in the Ladywell
household. They could do with another maid
very well, especially as Maud often wanted
some assistance with her elaborate toilettes ;
and she fancied that Betsy was a handy sort
of girl with her fingers, though she had not
given her much work of that kind at Thornton
House.

Anyone upon whom Mrs. Classis had
trampled, would be sure to be gladly received
by Maud ; and under these favourable auspices
Betsy Long entered into service at Ladywell
Manor.

BETROTHED.

S Tor sat at dinner with Maud and
Mrs. Lorraine, about three days
after his return from Germany, a
pencilled note was brought to him, which he
was told had been sent in urgent haste from
Mr. Meredith's house.

The note was from Roma, and only contained
a few words.

My father has been taken dangerously ilL
He wants you. Can you come at once ?

R. m;

Tor handed the note to Aunt Olive, and
rose from the table.

I suppose I must go. I hope it may be
nothing serious. Poor girl ! it is a hard thing

for her to be so much alone at a time like this.
I will be back as soon as I can. Good-bye.'

Tor strode rapidly along the path which
led by a cross-cut to Meredith's house. He
did not much like such a summons, for he
was always in dread of what the blind man
might require of him ; but common humanity
forbade him to refuse, when such a message as
that had been despatched ; so he walked on,
hoping for the best, and trusting that no very
awkward questions would arise.

He seemed to be expected at the house, for
the servant who admitted him asked no
questions, but led him direct to the sickroom.


As he approached it, the door opened, and
the doctor came out.

Ah, Mr. Debenham, I am glad you have
come. My patient seems very impatient for
your arrival. The sight of you will do him
more good than my draught.'

Is he seriously ill ?'

Everything is serious with a man whose
brain and heart are so abnormally irritable as
his. A very slight thing might upset the
balance of reason, or do hopeless mischief to

the heart. He wants the very closest Watching
and most perfect quiet both of mind and
body. With these, I see no reason why he
should not get over this attack ; but if he will
work himself up into a fever over any real or
imaginary grievance, I will not give that for
his chance. His daughter seems to understand
him thoroughly. I have great confidence
in her ; but the morbidly sensitive
condition of his mind is a very unfavourable
concomitant in his case. I shall look in again



before midnight. Do what you can to quiet
him. If all goes well during the next six
hours, I should say he would do.'

Tor nodded, and went quietly into the
room which the doctor had just quitted.

Michael Meredith lay flat upon his back in
bed, a strange, ghastly pallor upon his face,
and a wandering restlessness in his sightless
eyes. His face helped Tor to realize how ill
he was, better than the doctor's words had
done. He felt shocked and startled at the
change he beheld in the familiar countenance.


Eoma, as white as a marble statue, stood at
the farther side of the bed, bathing her father's

forehead with eau de Cologne. The room was
pervaded by the odour of strong stimulants
and restoratives. The only light was that of
a carefully shaded lamp. Hopelessly blind as
Meredith was, he would not permit any glare
of light in his room. Even in moments like
this, he never lost sight of his love for producing
effects.

Philip Debenham, you have come. It is
well !'

This was his greeting, as Tor came and
stood beside the bed. The young man took
the cold, powerless hand in his strong grasp,
and uttered a few kindly and cheering words.
There was something reassuring in his strength
and vitality, and he possessed that ready
gentleness which is the almost invariable attribute
of unusual physical power. Father
and daughter both felt the better for his presence
in the room.

Tor gave his hand to Roma, and looked at
her with the grave sympathy of comprehension.
Then he crossed over to her, and placed
a chair beside the bed.

Sit down,' he said, with quiet authority.
You must not waste your strength. Mr.

Meredith, I am going to prescribe for your
daughter.'

Do so  do so r said Meredith, with gentle
satisfaction in his tone. ' She needs more care
than I can give.'

Roma certainly looked less white and shaken
after she had swallowed the potion Tor mixed
for her. The shock and strain that had tried
her powers so sorely that day, had begun to
make itself felt, and it was time that help
should come.

When Tor came round to his old position
at the bedside, he fancied that Meredith's face
had changed somewhat for the better. Either
the extreme ghastliness had passed off a little,
or else his eyes had grown used to it.

You had better sleep if you can, sir,'
suggested Tor persuasively. ' 1 will sit beside
you, if that will be any satisfaction. Sleep
will restore you better than anything ;' and
he drew up a chair and prepared to follow out
his own part of the programme.

Stop!' said Meredith, slowly and softly, as
if speaking were still something of an effort ;
 sleep can wait. Sleep will come later. First
I must set my mind at rest.'

Will not you be able to do that better
after you have slept ?' suggested Tor, who
had a distinct dread of what he felt was
coming.

No. I cannot sleep yet. Who knows if
I shall ever wake again in this world ? I
must set my house in order before I go.'

No response was made to this speech by
either watcher. Tor fancied that the danger
could not be imminent whilst the patient could
talk in this strain. He fancied that men who
really were dying did not make set speeches to
that effect ; but Eoma's face quivered pitifully,
and it needed all her strong self repression to
keep under her emotion. Tor felt a very
great compassion for her in her loneliness and
devotion. All the chivalry of his nature
woke up within him, and urged him to do
what he could to lighten the load which lay
so heavily upon her.

Philip Debenham/ said Michael Meredith
slowly, ' I withdraw my veto. You have my
consent to your wish.'

Naturally, Tor was at a loss to comprehend
the drift of this remark. All he could say
was :

I am greatly obliged to you, sir.'

Then came a pause. Meredith seemed to
expect the young man to proceed. Tor was
trying hard to remember what it was to which
the blind man alluded  what veto he could
possibly have laid upon any expressed wish of
his. He had been quite prepared to hear some
allusion to Meredith's wish respecting his
marriage with Roma, but not unnaturally he
failed to recognise the old subject in its new
guise.

Young hearts should not be severed* I
have been selfish in my wish to keep my
daughter to myself. Take her now, Philip
Debenham. I yield her up to your care.
Take her with my blessing, and be a good
husband to her, for you have won a pearl
amongst women !'

Tor was too much taken aback to make
any immediate reply. He glanced at Roma,
who sat with hands clasped closely together
like one in pain, her head bent, and her face
covered with blushes, which were those of
misery and humiliation, with nothing in them
of maiden shame or joy.

Tor saw at a glance how matters stood

with her  saw that her position was infinitely
more trying than his ; and his one
desire now was to save her as far as possible
from needless pain.

But Michael Meredith must not be agitated.
Agitation meant death to him at such a time
as the present. Tor was perfectly aware of
this, and had no intention of killing the
father before his daughter's eyes.

Even the short silence which followed his
speech seemed to cause some slight uneasiness
to the sick man.

You do not speak  you do not answer !*
he said, with a certain sharpness, and a catch
in his breath which showed how easily he was
agitated.

Tor signed to Roma to give him brandy,
and answered gently enough :

If I do not speak, it is not because I do
not feel. I am deeply conscious of the honour
you do me ; Roma and I both understand all
that your words mean to us. But whilst you
are so ill, we would rather postpone further
discussion. What has passed already is enough
for us.'

The strained look upon the white face

relaxed, and the rapid breathing grew more
natural.

It is well lie said ; ' dutiful, filial, affectionate
! All is very, very well. Roma, give
me your hand.'

She obeyed, rising and standing beside the
bed, opposite to Tor. Her eyes were lowered,
her hand shook a little, yet something in Tor's
manner took away the keen edge of her pain
and shame.

Your hand, Philip Debenham,' said
Meredith.

Tor placed his own within the sick man's
feeble clasp, and thus Michael Meredith had
the extreme gratification of joining together
the hand of his daughter Roma, and that of
the man whom he believed to be Philip
Debenham.

Bless you, my children !' he said fervently.

Roma felt compelled to raise her eyes with
imploring deprecation to the young man's face,
and found that Tor was smiling down upon
her with such a kindly reassurance in his eyes,
that she could but smile back, and feel that heat
least did not misunderstand her.

Their right hands were still joined. Tor

bent his head over them and kissed  not her
hand, but the empty air.

Michael Meredith smiled slowly.

Have you a ring ?' he asked dreamily. ' I
should like the pledge to be given and received
before my eyes.'

Tor wore Phil's watch and chain, and there
was upon it, with Mr. Debenham's seal, a ring
which had belonged to his wife. This he disengaged,
and placed upon the third finger of
Roma's left hand, with another reassuring
smile.

Michael Meredith fingered the little antique
hoop of chased gold, and his face lighted up
with a peculiarly sweet smile.

'Kismet!' he said softly. *tis the same
ring I sent to Philip Debenham, as a wedding
gift to his wife. How all things have come
round according to my will I Kiss me, Roma,
my child !'

She kissed him silently and passionately ;
and almost at once he sank into a calm, health-giving
sleep ; and when Tor had watched him
for some considerable time in silence, and saw
how much more natural his face had grown, and
how tranquilly he breathed, he felt convinced

/*;

that the worst was over, and that the patient
Avould recover.

For an. hour he and Roma had sat silent and
motionless on either side of the bed. Tor had
been considering how best to put the girl at
her ease with him, to show her how completely
he understood the situation, and how little
need there was for her to trouble herself about
the matter. He would arrange everything
with the father when he was in a more fit state
to hear the truth. She was not to e afraid,
for he would make it all right.

This hour of watching gave him ample
time to mature his plan, and at the end of it,
he wrote a few words upon a slip of paper,
and handed it across to Roma.

 I think I had better see you alone for a
few minutes before I go. Your father seems
much better. Can you leave him for a short
time ? I will not detain you long.'

Roma rose at once, after she had read these
words, and quietly crossed the room to the
door, Which opened noiselessly. Tor followed
her out, and as soon as she had sent Mr. Meredith's
servant into his master's room, she led
the way down to the dining-room, where

VOL. 11. 30

some refreshments had been spread for the
watchers.

Ah, this is well  this is as it should be
said Tor, looking round with some satisfaction.
' I was summoned away in the midst of
my dinner, Miss Meredith, so I am hungry,
and you ought to be, whether you are or not.
In the character of your affianced husband ' 
here he smiled in his frankest way  *you
must allow me to insist upon your eating
something

Roma sat down and poured out the tea,
which was standing ready. She was confused
and unhappy, and Tor was sincerely sorry for
her.

Look here, Roma,' he said, addressing her
in a far more brotherly fashion than he ever
managed to assume towards Maud. ' I wish
you would not make yourself miserable over
your father's fancy. I know quite well how it
has all arisen, and it is a pity ; but, you know,
it is no bond, really ; only I think, just for
the time being, we must humour him by the
fiction of an engagement. I hope it is not
very distasteful to you. We will keep it as
quiet as possible, and I will take the earliest

chance that I can to put matters right. I
know it is hard upon you ; but it seems the
only way.'

Hard upon me !' echoed Roma ; ' as if that
mattered! I am his daughter; I would do
anything for him  I must ; but you  oh, it
makes me so ashamed!'

Why should you be ashamed ? You
cannot help the curious bent of your father's
mind, nor his feebleness, which makes agitation
so bad for him. We must take things as we
find them, and make the best of his Eccentricity.
I do not think it is so very bad, after
all. We quite understand one another, and
we can surely be friendly conspirators in our
cause, without being painfully afraid of one
another.'

Roma besran to smile in a tremulous sort
of way. ' You are very good to take it like
that. It might have been so dreadful.'

Dreadful for you, no doubt, though hardly
so for me,' he answered gallantly. Then, to
put her more completely at her ease, he continued
gravely, ' No, Roma, you need not beat
all afraid of me ; for I had lost my heart
before ever I saw you, and it is not mine now

302

to give away. I confide in you, because I am
sure that perfect frankness is best between
us ; but I must ask you to guard my secret
jealously, for there are reasons why I cannot
make it known as yet to anyone. You see,
you are already my chosen confidante, and my
only one.'

 Doesn't Maud know ?'

No ; and you must not teH her, please.'

Of course not. I would never say a word
to anyone. But  but  suppose she  she were
to hear something about  about this. Would
she not  I mean, might it not do harm ?'

Tor smiled, as though he were not much
afraid.

I must risk that. No doubt it can be explained
all in good time. But there is no
need for many people, or any people to know
of this little episode, four father and you
have very few visitors ; and we shall not
be likely to spread the story about. The
servants may get an idea and start a rumour ;
but I think that is all we have to fear ; and if
you have no objection, I should like to tell
Maud the story. I do not keep secrets from
her, as a general thing.'

Oh yes, tell her. I do not mind a bit. I
think she ought to know.'

Thank you, I will let her know how it
has happened ; and now that we fully understand
one another, and the parts we have to
play, is there anything more that I can do
for you ?'

Eoma passed her hand across her brow,
with an action that showed both weariness
and bewilderment.

' Thank you, no  I don't think so. You
have been very kind, and I am most grateful.
But it seems all so strange ; and when I go
back to father  and  and if he talks about
this, what am I to say?'

You need say nothing, or hardly anything.
Just let him go on his own way, and think his
own thoughts. Leave the explanation to me
when the right time comes.'

Roma looked at him mournfully.

'You do not know him  you do not know
what he is like. The right time will never
come. You will never be able to do it without
Oh, I can't guess what will

happen!'

She leaned her forehead upon her clasped

hands, as if to shut out the vision her imagination
had conjured up.

Tor looked at her with a compassionate
curiosity.

I wonder, Miss Meredith, if you will think
my question a very intrusive one. I cannot
help wondering, as I watch you with your
father. It seems to me as though you would
willingly sacrifice your whole future life, rather
than give him one hour's pain. Do you not
think that, making every allowance for filial
piety, you carry matters rather to an extreme
point ?'

No,' answered Koma, very low. ' For other
women it might be so ; but nothing, nothing
can be too great a sacrifice for me to make for
him. I must not shrink from anything.'

Why is this so ?' asked Tor.

Because,' and the voice was lower than
ever now  * because it is through my fault
that he is blind.'

I should not have asked the question,'
answered Tor gently, for he saw that she
was much agitated by the tide of recollection
which swept over her. ' I beg your pardon.
Forget it, and think no more about it.'

I cannot help thinking  it is never really
out of my thoughts when I am with him. I
will tell you how it was '

Excuse me, Roma, you will do no such
thing. I decline to hear the story. We will
have no more melancholy reminiscences tonight.
Maud will think I am lost if I do
not hasten home soon, and I do not mean to
go until I have seen you take something to
eat and drink. You are as white as a ghost.
Your father will think we have had a quarrel
already, if you go back to him so limp and
spiritless. I am sure he is much better. I
quite believe the worst is now past. These
heart attacks are very alarming whilst they
last, but they are soon over. I will look
round in the morning, and see how you are
both going on ; and if you take my advice,
you will not sit up with him. Most likely
he will sleep now, and you ought to g&c a goodnight's
rest too.'

Eoma shook her head doubtfully.

I don't feel as if I could sleep.'

'Why not?'

Everything is so strange. I can't bear
deceiving my lather, or seeing you victimized

like this ; and I can't see any way out

of it;

 Miss Meredith, there is no need for you to
see anything at all. All you have to do is
to play your part in the little farce with
which we are humouring him. All the rest
lies with me, and is out of your province
altogether. Leave it to me.'

I must ; but I dare not think what will
happen.'

Nothing will happen. Your father will
yield up his desire to make me his son-in-law,
as quietly and willingly as heart could wish.'

Roma shook her head.

You do not know him, Mr. Debenham, or
you would not say so.'

It is because I do know him well that I do
say so.'

She made no reply. Tor's manner was so
conclusive, that it seemed useless to dispute
the point.

You are a very wonderful man,' she said,
after a short pause.

Sometimes I think so myself,' answered
Tor, with a smile ; * but I assure you, Miss
Meredith, I am not deceiving you. My revelation

to your father, when the tie for it
arrives, shall not cause him any disappointment
or agitation

And when will that moment arrive ?'

That I cannot tell. It may be soon, or
may be late  probably not just yet ; but it
depends upon circumstances I cannot now
explain. Some day you shall know all, and
in the meantime I must ask you to trust me!'

Roma gave him her hand with her rare
sweet smile, as she said :

I should be ungrateful indeed, if I did
not.'

Tor looked down at her as he stood holding
her hand, and said :

We shall have to be good friends after
this, I think, Roma. Try and feel towards
me as if I were your big brother, and I will
be a brother to you as far as I know how to
play the part. I never had a sister  I mean,
practically, until I came back a month or so
ago  so that I am new to the part ; but I will
play it as well as I can. And you must let me
help sou with your father, so far as lies in my
power, and you must not mind deceiving him
a little while for his good.'

No, I dare not do otherwise ; and I should
like to feel that you were a sort of brother tome
 Philip.'

She spoke the name with a little hesitation,
and he smiled approvingly.

That is right. Now I think we understand
one another. I must say good-night ;
and hope to see you early tomorrow, and to
hear a good account of your father.'

So Roma went back to her quiet watch
beside the sick man; and Tor strode across
the dewy park to tell his story to Maud.

A GUEST From ITALY.

HE next few days passed rather like
a dream to Roma. Her father
improved slowly but steadily, the
tranquil and contented condition of his mind
going far towards ensuring his recovery.

Tor came in and out very much as a son of
the house might do, and Meredith was entirely
satisfied. He did not care to talk or discuss
the matter of the sudden betrothal with either
daughter or son-in-law elect. He remained
passively content, and accepted the fact with
the calm superiority characteristic of his habit
of mind, and the two most deeply concerned
were glad that it should be so.

Roma grew to watch with interest for Tor's
visits, and a strong liking sprang up between
the two so curiously thrown together. There

was not a spark of love (in the ordinary sense
of the word) in this friendship. Roma and
Tor would never grow sentimental over one
another milder any circumstances, for the
strange, subtle unity of spirit, which is the
essence of real love, was entirely wanting
between them.

Mr. Meredith had, by his injudicious treatment
of the subject, effectually prevented
Roma from feeling anything but aversion for
the husband he had selected, until Tor's quiet
kindness had overcome her repugnance ; and
he had Maud's image too deeply enshrined
within his heart to spare over-much thought
or admiration for another woman.

But a very friendly understanding was now
arrived at, and Roma was quite willing to
accept Tor as a kind of ' big brother,' and
to treat him with a frank cordiality that was
the surest indication of a mind at ease. The
confession which he had made to her, upon the
night of their odd betrothal, had been a wise
one, for it had taken away all sense of embarrassed
discomfort, and given her an interest
in him which she could not otherwise have
indulged. Altogether, an episode which might

have been very painful and trying, had, by a
little dexterous management on Tor's part,
led to a more comfortable state of mutual
understanding than had seemed possible atone
time; and Roma gained such confidence
in his skill, as well as in his kindliness, that
she ceased to trouble her head as to how the
matter was to end, feeling certain that he
would clear it up all in good time, and in a
way which would cause no painful shock to
her father's feelings.

Roma was at work again in her studio
about a week after her father's sudden illness.
Michael Meredith was downstairs again, sleeping
quietly in his own small study. The girl
had left him, as she could do now, with a mind
at ease, and had returned to her work.

She was modelling a bust of Maud Debenham,
to give to her brother as a token of friendship
and gratitude. Maud had given her a sitting
that morning and she was anxious to o-et on
with the work before the next visit, which was
promised for the morrow.

The bust was a great source of delight to
the two girls, and its existence was kept a profound
secret from the intended recipient.

Roma was hard at work upon the clay,
when a servant entered with a card upon a
tray.

It is a foreign gentleman to see master,'
was the explanation. ' He cannot speak hardly
any English. I think he is Italian by his
looks. What shall I do with him ? The
master is asleep.'

*And he must not be disturbed. I must
see the  is he a gentleman, Anne ?'

Yes, ma'am  I think so, by the looks of
him ; but one can never trust those foreign
chaps.'

Roma smiled at this insular prejudice, and
looked down at the card. The name was
written in the fine characters of foreign penmanship


Maixo Palliating.

I do not think I remember the name ; but
he may be a friend of father's, from Italy. I
must not send him away,' said Roma to herself.
Then aloud she added : ' Show the
gentleman here, Anne, and let me knoAv when
your master is awake.'

A few minutes later, a grave, handsome

young Italian was shown in, who bowed low
to Roma with a stately grace, which had nothing
servile in its reverence ; and relieved herat
once fi'orn the suspicion that the stranger
mioht be some foreign befro-ar who had come
to sponge upon her father. This man was
evidently of gentle birth and breeding ; and
the girl felt at once at her ease with him.

In her mother's tongue, which was as familiar
to her as the English she generally stoke,
she greeted him, with the grave and formal
courtesy which sat more naturally upon her
than the freedom of manner permitted in this
country. Roma had spent most of her life in
Italy, and felt herself more at home with her
mother's countrymen than with her father's.

She bid Signor Pagliadini be seated, and
explained to him that her father had been ill,
and was still very feeble ; that he was now
resting, and she feared to disturb him ; but
at the same time he must not be deprived of
the pleasure of a visit like the present, and if
the Signor would be so kind as to wait for
half an hour, her father would be delighted to
see him.

The Signor would be delighted to do so, and

expressed himself concerned to hear of the illness
of Mr. Meredith. In a short time the two
in the studio were talking easily and pleasantly
together.

Did you know my father in Italy ?' Roma
asked at length. ' I am not sure, but I fancy
I have seen your face somewhere.'

We may possibly have met, Signorina
answered the Italian. ' For I, too, have been
much in Eome ; but I had not the honour
of personal acquaintance with your father
then. I bring; with me an introduction from
Signor Mattel in Florence. When he heard that
I proposed to visit England, he insisted that
I should make myself known to the Signor
Meredith, who, he tells me, has been settled
here for some time.'

Yes, we have been four years in England,'
answered Roma, with a smile and a sigh; 'but
I think I like Italy best.'

I can understand that well,' he answered,
looking out into space with his bright, handsome
eyes. ' There is no country like our
Italy.'

No, I think not,' assented Roma -, and
forthwith they fell to discussing its many

perfections with a one-sided enthusiasm peculiarly
Italian.

Roma meantime studied with a certain
artistic pleasure, the handsome head of the
young foreigner. He had the thick, dark
clustering locks so often seen in Italians, and
his hair was rather longer than an Englishman's
would be, though not effeminately so.
His eyes looked different colours in different
lights, but they were good eyes, well formed
and expressive, and their long black lashes
and thick arched brows added greatly to their
force and beauty. His features were good and
delicately cut, and the expression of the mouth,
so far as it could be seen through the moustache
and silky black Vandyke beard, was both frank
and sweet. Altogether it was a pleasant face
to look upon, and Roma, who was without
any ' insular prejudice ' where foreigners were
concerned, felt that she should like this man,
and speculated a little as to who he was, and
what could be the object of his visit.

'Are these your works of art, may I ask,
Signorina ?' inquired Signor Pagliadini by-and-by.


Some are mine, and some are my father's,'

VOL. II. 31

answered Roma. ' I have been finishing, as
best I can, those that were left incomplete
when  when he lost his sio'ht. You know

o

that he has become blind ?'

Signor Mattel told me so much. I was
grieved to learn it. It must be a sad affliction
to one who loved art so well. I can have
a great sympathy for him, for my eyes have
suffered from a too close attention to etching,
for which work I have a great passion. Even
now I cannot use them quite as I would, and
a strong light tires them.*

And as he spoke he adjusted his pince-nez,
the glasses of which were slightly tinged with
blue.

I am sorry,' said Roma.

But it is nothing  a mere trifle. I am
better already, and a little travelling will set
me quite to rights. With the Signor Meredith,
unfortunately, it is not so.' Then seeing
a look of pain on Roma's face, he added
quickly, rising at the same time, ' Is this bust
the Signorina's work ? It is very charming.
May I ask if it is the work of imagination, or a
portrait ?'

It is an attempt to model a friend of mine,'

Eoma answered, smiling. ' I'm afraid it is
not very successful. It is not half pretty
enough. If you stay any time in this part of
the world, Signor, you will be sure to see
Miss Debenham of Lady well Manor. You
will then see how much more charming is the
original.'

What name did you say, Signorina ?'

Miss Debenham  Maud Debenham,' answered
Roma. ' Perhaps you know her ?'

He shook his head.

No ; but I think I know her brother. I
knew a Mr. Debenham once  a Mr. Philip
Debenham, who was travelling With his friend,
a Mr.  Mr.  What was the name ?'

Torvvood,' suggested Roma.

Ah yes  that was the name  Mr. Torwood.
I met them in Rome and Naples once. I knew
Mr. Debenham well, but his friend not much.
That accounts for the likeness  I have been
puzzling over that face as I sat here, wondering
of whom it reminded mei see it all
now. It is like my friend Filippo. So his
sister is a neighbour of yours, is she, Signorina ?
Then I may hear news of my friend.'

Yes, Maud is here certainly,' answered

312

Eoma, in a half-puzzled way ; ' but she is nota
bit like her brother  not in the very least.
Philip Debenham is here too. He came into
some property not long since, and has been
here about six or eight weeks, I think, taking
possession. You will be sure to see him, if
you stay ; but he must have changed very
much since you knew him, for he is not at all
like Maud now.'

Signor Pagliadini smiled with a kind of
polite incredulity.

I do not think a man can change so much
as you would represent in a few years ; but
then likenesses appeal so differently to different
persons. What appears to one a very striking
similarity, another will not even see. There,
no doubt, lies the whole matter.'

Perhaps,' answered Koma dubiously ; ' but
I cannot think anyone would see any great
likeness between Philip and Maud Debenham ;
for brother and sister, they are strikingly dissimilar
 at least most people think so.'

Ah, well, I may be wrong ; but I shall be
delighted to renew my acquaintance with my
good friend. Is Mr. Torwood with him still ?
They were constant companions in days of old.'

Yes ; but they cannot be so now. Mr.
Torwood is ill, I believe. I think he is trying-german
baths or something. Oh yes ; and he
has gone on a sea-voyage now. Mr. Deben-
ham went to Germany a little while ago to
arrange it. I suppose he will come here for a
visit when he is well.'

My friend Filippo must miss him. He
used to follow him about like his shadow.'

I cannot fancy Philip doing that,' Roma
said, with a little laugh. ' He is muqji too
independent. He seems quite happy here,
though I am sure he is fond of his friend.'

I suppose he is too well satisfied with his
accession to wealth and importance, to have
much thought to spare for anything else.'

 I don't know. I should not think he was
that sort of man. I fancy he really liked
travelling about better than he likes living ir
one place. But he knows his duty as a landowner,
and I believe he does it very well.
You will find Mr. Debenham very popular
here.'

Roma spoke with some little warmth. She
fancied, she hardly knew why, that the
stranger had thrown some slight disparagement

upon Philip Debenham, and she did not
approve his tone.

I think Mr. Debenham always was
popular,' assented Signor Pagliadini readily
and pleasantly. * I always found him most
interesting and agreeable. I am fond of the
English, I think. I am looking forward to
my stay amongst them. I wonder if I shall
meet any other friends here. I suppose that
would be too much good fortune.'

It is not very likely,' answered Roma.
For there are very few people at Ladywell 
it is quite a remote place. Mr. Classis has
never been abroad, or his family either ; and
except for them, there are hardly any more
people just round here.'

A few questions about the Classis family
and the neighbourhood kept the ball of conversation
going some minutes longer ; but the
subject of his friend Philip Debenham was
evidently of much greater interest to the
stranger, as was but natural, and Roma was
telling him a few general facts about the
people at Ladywell, when the maid knocked at
the door to announce that Mr. Meredith was
awake, and would like to see the gentleman.

Roma went to introduce the stranger to her
father, and then she retired, leaving the two
men to make their own way together.

She had not been long in her studio when a
well-known step came ringing down the long
passage, and she had barely time to fling a
cloth over the bust of Maud, before Tor had
entered, as he now did almost at will, greeting
her in frank, brotherly fashion.

 Well, Roma, how is the world going with
you to-day ? How is your father ?'

Better, thanks ; much more like himself
every day. Have you seen him ?'

No. I heard a jabber of Italian going on
in his room, so I walked past and came here.
Whom has he got with him to-day ?'

An Italian gentleman  an old friend of
yours.'

Of mine ?'

 So he says. He met you in Italy, and
talks affectionately of his friend Filippo.'

The devil he does!' breathed Tor to himself
; but aloud he said, ' Very kind of him,
I'm sure. What's the fellow's name ?'

Marco Pagliadini.'

Never heard of him, to my knowledge.'

' You must have a bad memory for I think
you must have known him quite well
once

Well, certainly I have known a vast
number of foreign fellows at one time or
another,' answered Tor, racking his brains in
vain to remember the name of Pagliadini in
connection with Phil or himself, ' but I
certainly have no recollection of this chap.'

 You will remember him when you see him,
for he is very good-looking, in an Italian sort
of style.'

Tor was not at all anxious to meet this
fascinating foreigner, and mentally consigned
'him to the infernal regions with hearty goodwill.
If he really had known Phil in past
days, he would certainly fail to recognise the
present Philip Debenham, and more likely
than not would be able again to identify him
as Torwood. Altogether, it was as awkward
an incident as could well have occurred, this
sudden advent of the Italian into the Meredithss'
household.

Mifjht have been another Debenham he
knew,' suggested Tor, by way of saying
something.

It couldn't be that, because he knew Mr.
Torwood too answered Roma.

Again Tor registered a mental aspiration
that the gentleman and his knowledge might
be consigned to a warmer region than that of
England, and determined more resolutely than
ever to avoid a meeting.

Well, I dare say I have met him somewhere
; but he can't have made a deep impression
upon me, as I have no recollection of
his name. One doesn't keep all one's acquaintances
in one's head for evermore ; and
as he might be pained by my oblivion, I'd
better not meet him, I think. Good-bye,
Roma. I'm glad your father is better. I'll
come and see him some other day, when I've
more time.'

Must you go now ? He will be sorry
not to see you. You have hardly been here
a minute.'

 Maud wanted me to ride with her as soon
as it grew a little cooler. I think I will do
so now. That Signor will engross your father
quite enough for one day. He ought not to
talk too much, you know.'

Won't you stay and see Signor Pagliadini?'

asked Roma, rather surprised at his decision.


No, thanks ] I don't think I'll bother about
it. He'll only detain me longer, and Maud
will be disappointed. I will see you again
soon. No doubt the Italian converse will
cheer your father very much more than my
society could do.'

So Tor took his departure in a more precipitate
fashion than usual, although his ease
of manner did not in any way desert him,
and he laughed and chatted with Eoma upto
the moment of his exit. She rather wondered
why he had not stayed to see the
Signor ; but men were odd, as Maud had
always impressed upon her, and did not act
as women would do under the same circumstances.


In a short time a summons came for her
to join the gentlemen in Mr. Meredith's study.
She found that the tea had been carried there;
and when she entered, one glance at her
father's face showed her how greatly he had
been charmed by the stranger's visit.

Roma, my dear, Signor Pagliadini has
kindly consented to become our guest for a few

clays. He comes, as sou know, as an intimate
friend of our esteemed relative Alberto Mattel.
It is a greater pleasure, Signor, than you can
well understand, for a man in my isolated
position to receive a visit from one who comes
direct from the land of his fondest dreams 
from the land where the brightest, the happiest
years of his life were spent ! Art is my
passion  my deepest delight ! and the converse
with one who knows and loves her well
is more to me than you can easily comprehend.
Your ready acceptance of the humble
hospitality which I can offer, has given me
more pleasure than I can well express.'

The stranger made a suitable reply to this
flowery address, showing that the advantage
was all on his side, and the obligation a
very deep one ; and after Meredith had made
his rejoinder to this declaration, he turned
again to his daughter.

Philip has been here, has he not ?'

Yes, father.'

I heard his step. I knew he had passed
the door twice. How was it he remained so
short a time ?'
' He was in haste, father. He came to

ask after you, but he was going to ride with
Maud.'

Ah, he is a kind brother. Did you tell
him Signor Paghadini was here ?'

Yes.'

Signor Pagiiadini knows Philip.'

 Yes, so I told him; but he could not
wait. However, he will see him another
day.'

The Italian smiled in rather an odd fashion.

My old friend Filippo was not anxious,
then, to renew the acquaintance ?'

Roma laughed in her quiet way, rather
amused at what she thought to be his
pique.

Philip is a thorough Englishman, Signor,'
she answered, explaining away, as best she
could, wdiat had evidently been taken somewhat
amiss. ' He goes his own way in his
own fashion, turning neither to right nor left.
He had promised to ride with Maud, and ride
with Maud he would, in defiance of all other
claims upon his time.'

Ah, just so ; I perceive. The sister stands
always first. It is quite as it should be.'

He is very fond of Maud,' said Roma,

thinking he was still offended, trying to lead
the conversation into other channels.

If she at all resembles the statue which
you are portraying, it is not to be wondered
at, this fraternal devotion.'

Maud is very charming,' said Mr. Meredith
; ' as you will see for yourself some day.'

And you will find that Philip is just as
pleasant in his way, when you do meet him,'
continued Koma. ' You must not mind English
ways when you come to England, Signor.
They are more blunt, perhaps ; but I think an
Englishman's word is worth its weight in
gold !'

The Signor smiled pleasantly.

My friend Philip Debenham is fortunate
in having such a champion.'

Mr. Meredith laughed, and Roma blushed
suddenly and vividly.

We allow our daughters more liberty of
speech and action than do your countrymen,
Signor. Roma has been brought up
a Anglaise ; and then my daughter has the
right to defend her friend.'

The Signor bowed and smiled, and Roma
blushed still more vividly. She thought it

bad taste on her father's part to give so broad
a bint to a perfect stranger, upon private family
affairs.

Signor Paoliadini seemed to divine her confusion
without looking at her, and turned the
conversation into new channels. He was certainly
a fascinating talker. Koma listened to
him With more pleasure than she had experienced
for many a long day.

The soft language of her childhood was
like music to her ear, and she listened to the
stories of her native land, and the cities in
which her happy early youth had been passed,
with undivided attention.

Michael Meredith dozed in his chair under
the influence of the low musical voice, and
the Italian spoke on, talking only to Roma,
looking into her fair, pale face, and delighting
with all the artistic feeling within him, in
her rare and perfect beauty of form and
feature.

When the blind man awoke to consciousness,
more than an hour had passed, and yet
his daughter and their guest were still in
earnest converse. A stroll round the dewy
garden after dinner, and some music in the

drawing-room later, closed the day ; and
Roma went to bed that nioht feelings
though something very strange had happened
to her, and as though some new interest had
unaccountably come into her life. This Italian
with the soft voice and earnest eyes, that
seemed to her half strange and half familiar,
interested her more than any man whom she
had met, since her childhood's dreams had
merged into the more definite ideals of womanhood.


FRIEND OR FOE ?

OR left Michael Meredith's house
that day with a presentiment that
this visit of Signor Pagliadini
boded no good to him.

He could not account for the feeling altogether,
because by a little dexterous management
it would surely be easy to avoid meeting
this Italian, who would not be likely to remain
more than a single night, or at most two, in
so remote a part as Lady well. Even if he
did meet the foreigner, he could but brazen
matters out with him as he had done before
with Sir Herbert MoncrieiF. He would meet
the man, if meet him he must, alone, and
then there would be no danger that the conversation
would be repeated abroad and reach

other ears. He knew quite well that if Mrs.
Classis found out that a second old acquaintance
had identified him as Torwood, it would
enable her to come to a conclusion which was
of all things to be avoided. That she already
entertained some suspicions about him, her
visits to his house in his absence plainly-proved.
He had been more uneasy than he
cared to show, when he heard of her second
attempt to be left alone in one of the Ladywell
rooms. And the declaration of open enmity,
which she had made in a moment of anger,
seemed to him to indicate that she knew
of something which gave her confidence to
declare war. He had ignored in her presence
any knowledge of her words or actions ; but
for all that he felt ill at ease before her.

Next day news came that Signor Palliating
was staying at Mr. Meredith's house,
and was an immense favourite there already.
Maud had been to see Roma, and had seen
him, and been quite captivated by his good
looks and gentle manners. Conversation had
not flowed easily, as her knowledge of Italian
was about on a par with his English ; but
Roma had made everything easy, and when

VOL. II. 32

the mistress of Ladywell understood that the
Signor was an old friend of Phil's, she had
asked him up to the Manor House that same
afternoon to see her brother.

I thought you would like me to, Phil,'
she said. ' I know your hospitable ways.'

Quite so  yes ; I shall be glad to see him,
though I confess I have no recollection of his
name. I may know him when I see him,
perhaps.'

I should think you would be sure to do
that. He seemed to know you quite well
once.'

Tor was right enough in denying all recollection
of the Signor s name. He did not
remember to have heard of a Pagliadini in
connection with Phil ; but then Phil had a
way of picking up foreign friends, about whom
Tor never knew much. His easy manners
and facile temperament had made Phil very
popular everywhere. Acquaintances seemed
to crop up round him Wherever he went ;
and Tor, who, without holding aloof, did not
so easily make friends, had often found himself
almost a stranger to men who for the
moment were quite intimate with Phil.

Pagiiadini was probably one of tliee, and
he would not be likely to admit easily that he
had been mistaken in the two men. Still, if
he was to stay in the neighbourhood, a meeting
was inevitable, and it had better take place
as early as possible. Ladywell Manor was as
good a spot as could be chosen, for a man in
his own house feels himself in a better position
than he can do elsewhere.

On the whole, Tor considered that Maud
had done well to invite the stranger to .visit
him this same afternoon.

He contrived without any difficulty that
Maud and Mrs. Lorraine should be out driving
when the Italian appeared ; and he received
him alone in the small drawing-room, with an
ease and friendliness of manner which did him
great credit.

Yes, he certainly had known this man somewhere.
The first glance showed him so much.
He could not recall the circumstances of their
former meeting, but there was something undoubtedly
familiar in the face, and in the voice
too, as soon as the stranger spoke.

Signor Pagiiadini entered, and glanced
round him in a manner which seemed a trifle

322

disconcerted. Then he smiled, and took Tor's
proffered hand.

I fear I have misunderstood my friends,
Signor Torwood. I believed it was my friend
Filippo I was to see here. They said you
were ill. I am delighted to see you so far recovered.
You are no doubt a guest here of
the Signor Debenham.'

On the contrary, Signor, I am the master
here  Philip Debenham. Mr. Torwood is
certainly ill, I am sorry to say ; but I am
not he.'

The Signor received this piece of intelligence
with a little smile and shrubs.

The Signor is pleased to joke,' he said. ' Is
it that we are masquerading ?'

No, Signor ; any masquerading that went
on was in old days, when my friend Torwood
and I used to change names with one another
in a foolish, boyish fashion, which now I
regret. You may have known my friend
milder the name of Debenham, but he was
really Torwood ; and I am Philip Deben-
ham.'

Tor spoke quietly and firmly ; but he did
not like the gleam of distrust that sparkled in

the stranger's eyes. Even the tinted glasses
did not conceal from Tor the glance of
astonishment and disdain which was undoubtedly
shot at him. It was evident that
this man might be dangerous, and it behoved
Tor to act towards him with all the firmness
and acuteness which lay in his power.

You are perplexed, I see, Signor, by my
statement,' he said courteously.

I am, Signor.'

But why so, may I ask ? Is it not enough
when I tell you that I and my friend were
more than once foolish and thoughtless enough
to change our names one for the other ?
The whole matter lies there, if you can but
see it.'

Signor Pagliadini made a little deprecating
foreign bow, as if to apologize for any doubt
he might cast upon his host's veracity ; but
all his grace of manner could not hide from
Tor the distinctly menacing look in those half-concealed
eyes of his.

I could see that well enough, Signor,' he



said, with a certain unpleasant significance in
manner. ' It certainly seems an odd sort of
amusement for grown men, this interchange of

names. It does not sound very amusing, or
profitable either. Still, of course, if the
Signor says it was so, why then, without
doubt, so it was. But still, I may be stupid
I do not see things quickly  I make hillocks
into mountains, very likely, as you English
say; but I cannot understand one thing.'

And what may that one thing be ?

I cannot understand how it comes about
that your charming sister and my old friend
Filippo  who is, I hear, Mr. Torwood  are so
strikingly alike. Even for brother and sister
which you say they are not  such a likeness
would be remarkable.'

The Italian was staring hard at him, but
Tor was on his guard, and his face betrayed
nothing. He merely smiled a little.

Are you not rather imaginative, Signor T

Not that I am aware of.'

Well, I don't know. It seems so to me.
I have not observed any striking likeness.'

Signor Pagliadini smiled a pleasant smile.

No, Signor ; it is quite to be expected that
you have not.'

What do you mean, sir ?'

Tor liked neither the words nor the true.

I mean that near relatives seldom see likenesses,'
he answered, with a reassuring smile.
It is strangers who do that, not intimates.'

Tor was silent, thinking out his plan of
action. He was perfectly aware that he was
suspected ; he already felt in a great measure
at this man's mercy, and he believed him to
be, for some unknown reason, his enemy.
He dared not make a confidant of a perfect
stranger, who might be anything, from a spy of
Classis, upwards; and yet he must endeavour
to keep on friendly terms, and if it were possible
bind him over to silence. If he were to
talk abroad as he was talking here, a catastrophe
would be inevitable.

Sit down, Signor,' he said courteously. ' I
see I must have some further talk with you.
Let us be frank with one another. Do not be
afraid to speak out. Truth is always the
best. You believe that I am an impostor  is
it not so?'

 That is your word, not mine, Signor,' said
the Italian. ' You knows best if the cap fits 
as your proverb goes.'

If it is my word,' returned Tor quickly,
it but expresses your own thoughts, unless I

have very much misread your face and your
words.'

'What can I think, in the face of these
facts ?' asked the stranger, with the significance
of voice and look which Tor greatly disliked.
The Signor puts me in a very awkward position
by asking such questions

Tor laughed, in spite of his inward discomfiture.


Pardon me, Signor ; I think it is you who
put me in an awkward position by your insinuations.
I am sure you cannot mean to
insult me; but if you will think the matter
quietly over, you will see, I think, that what
you would imply about me, is about as great
an insult as one man can offer to another.
You seem to me to suggest that I am playing
an impostor's part, living in my friend's house,
trading upon his fortune, adopting his name.
Come, come, Signor Pagliadini, when one
comes to put it all into plain words, I think
you must see for yourself how utterly absurd
and unfounded such an idea must be. Why,
the thing would be impossible!'

It has been done before now, I believe,'
answered the stranger.

Tor drew himself up haughtily.

Do you mean to say that you accuse me
of doing so great a wrong as this to my best
friend ?'

The stranger rose too, and faced Tor with
sparkling eyes.

Will you give me your word of honour
that you are not doing him a great wrong?'

I will,' answered Tor firmly ; and he held
his head proudly, as one who knows that he
speaks the truth. ' I give you my word of
honour, as an Englishman and as a gentleman,
that I have never wronged my friend even in
thought. I would cut off my right hand
sooner than commit a single act dishonourable
to our old friendship!'

The Italian's face softened somewhat, and
he sat down again with what sounded like a
sigh.

Signor,' he said, with a slight bow, ' I
accept your word. I must accept such an
asseveration as that. I have been taught to
believe in an Englishman's word, and I wall
try to do so.'

I am obliged by your concession, Signor.
It is not a pleasant thing to be doubted or

suspected, however innocent one may be in
reality. And now that you have done me
the honour to believe me, I will point out to
you how impossible your theory of imposture
must be. If things were as you would have
implied, why should Philip Debenham permit
such a substitution of names and places ? If
I were an impostor, surely the true man would
come forward and claim his own.'

Signor Pagliadini shot a quick look at him,
and said:

Undoubtedly so  if he could J

What do you mean, Signor ?'

I understood your friend was ill.'

Yes ; so he is.'

Perhaps that might account for his passive
condition.'

Tor smiled, and shook his head.

Hardly likely, if you come to consider
it.'

We are not going to re open the argument,
Signor,' said the Italian quietly. ' I
have told you I am satisfied by the pledge you
have given me. Appearances are undoubtedly
against .you, but we all know that appearances
are deceptive. Unless circumstances

force me to a different conclusion, I shall accept
the one I have already arrived at.'

And in return, may I ask a personal
favour from you ?'

Certainly.'

May I ask you not to discuss with other
people the circumstances which you deem so
strange? I think you can see for yourself
that to raise a doubt as to my identity would
be at the present moment very unpleasant forme?'


Very,' assented the Italian drily.

Tor felt disposed to give way to a natural
desire to knock the fellow down ; but he controlled
himself, and continued quietly :

When Mr. Torwood returns from the
voyage on which he has started for his health,
the whole world is welcome to say what it
likes. When he is here to answer for his
identity, as I can answer for mine, I do not
care one iota for what anybody may please to
say. He and I can convince everyone who
wishes convincing, as to who and what we are.
But whilst he is away, and beyond the reach
even of letters, I would much rather nothing
was said which could raise such a doubt in

my friend's mind. Not that I care so very
much about it ;' and here Tor held his head
up proudly. ' I can hold my own, I flatter
myself, before the world, and in defiance of
any doubts anybody likes to cast upon me.
You are welcome to say and do what you
choose. I am not going to sue to any man ;
but I advise you, for your own sake, to take
care what you do, because I am better as a
friend than as an enemy ; and I am honest
enough to tell you candidly, that to raise a
doubt as to my right to my name would be
unpleasant for me during Torwood's absence,
and that if you raise that doubt, you will gain
a tolerably dangerous enemy.

The Italian was silent awhile. He was,
perhaps, surprised at this sudden outburst.
Tor believed this declaration of strength and
independence had done good to his cause, for
Signor Pagliadini looked at him with more
of respect and less of mockery than he had
done before.

Signor Debenham,' he said gravely, ' it is
not my wish to cause you any needless annoyance.
I may be puzzled  I may not trust
you altogether as a friend  but I have no

wish to be your enemy. I will not be
treacherous. I will not take you by surprise.
If I have anything to announce to
the world, I will announce it to you first in
private.'

Tor smiled, and bent his head in seemingly
somewhat ironical gratitude. In reality, he
was really grateful for this pledge.

He could carry things off with a high hand
to a certain point ; but beyond that he dared
not go. He knew if any enemy of his once
got hold of the idea that this man evidently
possessed (that he was merely masquerading as
Philip Debenham, being in reality Torrington
Torwood)  if Mrs. Classis, or any enemy of
his, had this idea once put into their minds,
then in truth it would be hard to brazen
out his part. Close cross-examination must
bring out the truth. Beyond a certain point no
cleverness nor coolness could carry him; and
it was something to gain the promise Palliating
had voluntarily made. If the worst came
to the worst  if the Italian did discover his
secret, he could but tell him the whole truth,
and throw himself upon his mercy. If he
were really Phil's friend, he would most likely

be ready to become an ally. If not Phil's
friend, what interest could he possibly have in
the matter ?

These thoughts flashed through Tor's mind
in a few seconds. He was not, however, going
to show any open gratitude for the admission
just granted. All he said was :

I agree with you entirely, Signor. Whatever
passes upon this subject had better be
discussed privately between us two, before
being given to the world at large. And now
that this rather awkward conversation is at
an end, and we have come to a satisfactory
conclusion, will you allow me the pleasure of
showing you round the garden? There is a
good deal worth looking at there.'

The interruption was welcome to both men.
It was not pleasant, after what had just passed,
to sit there facing one another, trying to keep
up a conversation on indifferent subjects.

Whilst walking leisurely upon the terraces
and in the shady shrubbery paths, it was easier
to establish easy relations ; and the Italian
showed a great deal of intelligent interest in
all he saw.

He admired the whole place very heartily;

seemed struck by the knowledge Tor had so
quickly acquired, and was altogether both
friendly and pleasant.

Tor was more and more convinced that he
had known this guest of his before, although
he failed to recall the name. Voice, manner,
and expression all seemed in a manner familiar,
and left an impression upon his mind that he
had liked as well as known the Sho-nor at some
distant date.

When the ladies returned, the men joined
them at their tea, and Maud seemed much
struck by the handsome Italian, and made so
much of him that Tor was half inclined to
feel jealous. Although he could not speak
it, Signor Pagliadini understood English very
fairly, and seemed pleased and flattered by
the way in which she chattered away to
him.

When he had gone, she had a great deal to
say about his handsome eyes, and soft voice,
and courtly manners. Tor was somewhat
silent and absent ; but she did not seem to
observe it, and was rather startled by the
sudden way in which he changed the subject.


Maud lie said, ' do you think you and
Aunt Olive would mind very much if I were
to bring some lady-visitors to Ladywell ?'

Lady visitors !' echoed Maud. 'Why,
Phil, what an odd suggestion from a confirmed
old bachelor like you ! Of course we shall
be delighted  we always are delighted to do
your bidding. But who are they ? and why
do you want them ?'

They are Miss Marjory Descartes and her
niece, whose name I forget; but I think I must
include her. I like Miss Marjory immensely,
as you know; and I feel inclined to ask her to
come and spend a week here, before she has
time to forget the favourable impression I
produced upon her in Whitbury.'

Yes, dear boy, have her by all means. I
wish you joy,' answered Maud sweetly and
slily. ' But, Phil dear, don't you think she's
just a little bit old for you ?'

Well, I must consider the point,' answered
Tor, with a smile. ' She is wonderfully
young for her years, and I'm not at all sure
that she couldn't outward you, even now,
Maud, and I know she could beat you at
tennis. However, wee will make up our minds

on that subject later ; and in the meantime
you don't mind my asking her here ?'

'As if I ever minded anything you did,
Phil !' laughed Maud. ' I shouldn't mind if
you turned the whole house into a menagerie,
and brought up young lions in the drawing-room,
if only you'd stay yourself and keep
us in order. Everything is so flat and stale
when you go away. I can't think how auntie
and I ever lived without you !'

Well,' returned Tor, with a smile that

showed genuine satisfaction, ' if you don't

mind who I am, or what 1 do, so long as I

remain upon the spot, I have not much to

ear. '

To fear indeed !' laughed Maud, laying her
little hands caressingly upon his two shoulders,
and looking up at him with smiling eyes. ' I
don't believe you know what fear is, Phil. I
don't believe you could be afraid of anything
or anybody, you great, big, strong boy. You
are like the everlasting Bayard one gets so
tired of hearing about  sans peur et sans
reproche  only you really are so ; and half
the people one hears it said of are nothing of
the kind.'

VOL. II. 33

He bent his head and kissed her on the forehead,
and then strolled off by himself to
think matters over.

His idea of asking Miss Marjory down, was
a sudden inspiration on his part. He had felt
that the present threatened crisis required very
careful watching on his part, and that two
heads were better than one. He had a great
opinion of Miss Marjory's shrewdness, and was
confident that she would be a zealous partizan
in any cause she had once taken up.

Circumstances prevented him from taking
anyone else into his confidence. Much as he
would be relieved by discussing the position
with Maud or Mrs. Lorraine, he felt that he
must not be weak enough to gratify the
wish.

The fear and anxiety which it would
occasion them, and the embarrassment his
assumed relationship must cause, would be, he
felt, too great a burden to ask them to bear,
and they ought not to be put in so trying a
position. Then every additional person let
into the secret meant additional chances of its
innocent betrayal ; and more danger was
certainly to be avoided, not courted.

Miss Marjory, however, did know all, and
had promised her assistance if ever it should
be required; and Tor felt as though that
moment had now come.

So he wrote his letter, explaining what had
occurred, asking Miss Marjory's opinion as to
the motive the stranger could have had in
accusing him of the imposture, and speculating
whether it was by accident or by design that
he had found his way to Ladywell.
He concluded his letter thus :

I do not like to remind you of your promise
to come and help me if danger threatened,
because I do not yet know if there is any real
danger to be apprehended. At the same time
I promised to let you know if anything unforeseen
occurred to disturb me, and that
promise I now fulfil.

If you will accept an invitation to Lady-well
for any time you think good to  I
shall be more deeply in your debt than even at
present ; but I must not trespass too far upon
your kindness, and plead my personal woes
more than circumstances warrant. I will
only add that a visit from you and your niece

332

would be more of a pleasure and relief at this
juncture than lean well express.

Yours very sincerely,

Philip Debenham.'

When that letter was written, Tor's spirits
rose. He had great confidence in Miss Marjory,
and he believed she would come.

MRS. Classis FINDS AN ALLY.

WO days later Mrs. Classis, and
Betsy Long held a secret meeting
under an oak-tree in a secluded
corner of the park.

Well, Betsy,' said the ex-mistress graciously,
' have you anything to tell me yet ?'

Well, ma'am, I don't know as it's anything
you'll care to hear ; but I can't help
thinking there's something odd about the
foreign gentleman as is staying down at Mr.
Meredith's.'

A foreign gentleman ?' repeated Mrs.
Classis. ' I have not heard of him. Who
is he?'

I suppose he's a friend of Mr. Meredith's.
Folks say so. Anyway, he is staying down

there. But I believe he's come to see master,
really

Why r

'Well, he came to see him two days ago.'
He was took into the little drawing-room, and
I was in the big one, doing a bit of dusting
Fd forgotten in the morning ; for I knew
Miss Debenham and Mrs. Lorraine had gone
out driving.'

Could you hear what passed ?'

I could hear a good deal ; but I couldn't
understand a word, for 'twas all in some
foreign language  Italian, I suppose; but I'm
quite sure those two gentlemen weren't
strangers to one another, or they'd never have
gone on as they did.'

How did they go on?'

Well, they talked and talked, and seemed
to get quite excited-like, and once I thought
they were going to quarrel, and I peeped
through the curtains. There they were, standing
glaring at one another like two wild
beasts ; and Mr. Debenham, he had his head
back in that masterful way of his, and was
speaking as proud as proud could be. I
thought the foreign gentleman was a bit scared

by the look in his eyes, for he seemed to
knock under then ; but they went on talking
for ever so long.'

Do you think they did quarrel ?'

If they did, they must have made it up
afterwards, for by-and-by they went round the
garden together, and had tea with the ladies
when they got back. But James, he said as
master looked very grave all dinner-time, and
hardly talked at all.'

Mrs. Classis pondered over this communication
; but Betsy had not come to the end of
her revelations, and did not give her mistress
much time for thought.

There's something about that foreign gentleman
as master doesn't like, / know,' continued
the girl ; ' for he hadn't long gone before
master shut himself up in his study to write
letters. He was there up till the dressing-bell
rang ; and just as I was going in for the
letters, which is part of my work  I collects
them from the ladies and from master, and puts
them in the box ready for the man  I met
him coming out of his room. " There's only
one letter, Betsy," he said ; and so there was,
and he'd only just finished it, for the ink

wasn't hardly dry ; and it was addressed to
' Miss Marjory Descartes," at a place beginning
with W. I can't remember the name.'

Whit bury ?' suggested Mrs. Classis, looking
aroused and almost excited. ' Go on,
Betsy ; I see you have more to tell. You have
been very clever, and I shall not forget it.'

Betsy curtseyed, and drew a few steps
nearer, as she made her next communication
in a lowered voice.

I turned the letter over ; and it had been
done up so quickly that the gum hadn't
hardly stuck. 1 gave a little pull, and it
came open in my hands.'

A look of intense interest came over Mrs.
Classis' face.

And you read the letter ? What did it
say?'

Well, ma'am, I'm no particular scholar,
and the letter was too long for me to read
through. I was in a mortal fear as somebody
would come and catch me. If it hadn't
been dressing-time, I'd not have dared to do
so much as I did.'

Well, go on, Betsy. What did you make
out ?'

The master, lie wrote all about the foreign
gentleman, and I'm main sure he didn't like
his coming, not a bit. He talked about danger,
and not understanding what was coming, and
ended up by asking the lady to come and see
him. I couldn't make out no more than that;
but I'm quite sure as it was all about the
strange gentleman, and that master had been
regular put about by his coming.'

Ah !' said Mrs. Classis, and said no
more, because her thoughts were too confused
as yet to admit of the interpretation of
words.

Betsy, who saw that she had made an impression,
proceeded to deepen it. She was
enjoying very much her own cleverness, and
the sense of importance that her position gave
to her.

I fastened up the letter pretty quick again,
and put it in the box ; but I couldn't get
the thing out of my head. In the evening I
took a walk in the park, as I often do, and
there's one of the gardeners as has sometimes
come and had a talk with me. He's a nice
respectable young man, and I don't mind
having a little chat With him now and again.

Well, ma'am, that evening, as I was waiting
about amongst the trees, watching the shadows
get longer and darker, I thought I saw the
young man a- coming, and I went to meet
him ; but when I got close up, why, I saw it
was somebody all muffled up with a great silk
handkerchief, and he seemed sneaking up
towards the house, as if he didn't want to
be seen. I was behind him, and I came so
soft that he didn't hear me, and passed by;
but I kncAv quite well who he was. It was
the gentleman who had been with master in
the afternoon, and it's my opinion he hung
for hours about the house before he went ;
and I'm almost sure I saw him in the shrubbery
last night, too!'

A little cross-examination convinced Mrs.
Classis that Betsy was speaking the truth,
and she left the girl in a very contemplative
frame of mind, after bidding her keep a sharp
look-out, and notice particularly how often
the stranger visited Lady well, and how many
private interviews he held with Mr. Debenham.

There is something odd about this,' said
Mrs. Classis to herself. ' That foreigner
knows something which Philip wishes hushed

up. That is evident, I think. The point is,
what on earth can Miss Marjory Descartes
have to do with it ? If she visits Lady well,
perhaps I can find that out for myself; meantime
I must leave that question. But I will
see this foreigner. I will call on Michael
Meredith and inquire after him, as he has been
so ill. I do not frequently visit the house ;
but I do not see, under the present circumstances,
that my doing so can attract any
suspicion.'

Mrs. Classis walked on thoughtfully for
awhile, and then added, with an air of determination
:

Yes, I will go now, morning though it be.
All times are alike to the blind. Perhaps a
little dexterous flattery will induce Meredith
to ask me to luncheon, and then I shall see
this strange guest. I much want some conversation
with him. I wish I could speak
Italian ; however, no doubt French will suit
my purpose just as well.'

When Mrs. Classis had planned a certain
course of action, it was not often that she
failed to carry it through.

The Merediths and the Classis' were not

on intimate terms, but there had never been
any coldness between them. Michael Meredith
did not trouble himself with matters which
did not concern him ; and Maud's complaints
about her uncle and aunt never made any
impression upon him, neither did he pay any
heed to the hints he heard dropped from time
to time as to the honesty of the ex-lawyer.
His own finances were not in the hands of
Classis. He had never heard that his old
friend Debenham had doubted his brother-in-law's
integrity; and so he had no grudge
against Classis, and always received his wife
or daughters with his customary gentle empressement,


Mrs. Classis could be very suave and
gentle when it suited her purpose; and her
concern over the blind man's illness, her
anxiety to learn its every detail, and the
interest she evinced in the whole subject, quite
won Meredith's heart ; for if there was one
thing he loved to discuss more than another,
it was himself and his sensations, and a
new and interested listener was an immense
acquisition.

Mrs. Classis skilfully led him on to speak

more and more, until the luncheon-bell broke
in upon the interview, and with an apology
for her lengthy visit she rose to depart.

No, no, my dear madam ; indeed I cannot
permit you to leave so suddenly. Your kind
visit has quite cheered me up. You really
must remain and partake of our simple midday
meal. I want to introduce to you my
young friend Signor Pagliadini, who is at
present our guest. He is a most intelligent
young man, quite an acquisition to the
neighbourhood ; only, unluckily, he does not
speak English

 Who is he ?' asked Mrs. Classis, with
interest.

A young Italian, of good birth and considerable
wealth, I believe. A relative of my
wife's, Signor Mattel of Florence, knows him,
and sent him to me with an introduction. He
has known him for many years, and speaks
highly of his talent and love of art.'
Is he going to make any stay here ?'
I do not think his plans are made ; but I
hope to induce him to be my guest for some
days to come. Philip, I think, will join with
me in persuading him to remain in our part of

the world ; for he knows him well, I find. They
were quite . intimate friends, I believe, at one
time.'

Indeed !'

Yes ; he speaks very highly of our dear
Philip, as everyone does. I think my dear
Eoma is to be congratulated, as well as Philip,
upon the way in which matters have turned
out.'

'What!'

Ah, did you not know ? Well, young
people do like a little bit of mystery and secrecy,
so I must not betray them. However, my dear
madam, we have not grown so old, you and I,
that we have lost our sympathy for the first
romance of a young love. And now, let me
give you my arm to the dining-room, and I
shall then have the pleasure of making known
to you my young Italian friend.'

When Mr. Meredith and his companion
made their quiet entrance into the next room,
Mrs. Classis caught one glimpse of two dark
heads bent very closely together over a lovely
bunch of roses and heliotrope, which was being
transferred from his hands to hers. The blind
man was no hindrance to any such small passages

as these ; but Roma's cheeks flamed
crimson when she saw that her father was not
alone, and the ardent look m the young
Italian's eyes was not lost upon Mrs. Classis.

The introduction passed off easily, and the
conversation was carried on in French, so as to
be intelligible to Mrs. Classis.

What lovely flowers, Miss Meredith !' said
their guest, not altogether without malice.
Are they from your garden ?'

I had the honour of presenting then to
Mademoiselle,' answered the Italian gravely.
 They came from the garden of my esteemed
friend, M. Debenham.'

Oh, have you been to see Philip again ?'
asked Meredith. ' You go there very often.
You must find a great deal to say to one
another. '

I have not seen my friend to-day,' answered
the Signor ; ' but I took the liberty of helping
myself to his flowers without leave.*

You have courage. Monsieur,' remarked
Mrs. Classis, with rather a keen look.

That is a virtue much esteemed in your
country  is it not so, Madame ?' he asked.
Or have I taken an unpardonable liberty ?'

That is for my nephew to decide, not forme.
]o doubt you know best how far your
friendship warrants such an act.'

Madame is right,' answered he, meeting her
searching gaze with one equally keen and significant.
' I think I know how far I may go
with my friend Filippo.'

She could not be certain of it, but she had
an idea that more was meant than met the ear.
Her suspicion that this man knew more of
Philip's private history than appeared, was
gradually strengthened by what followed.

You know my nephew well  is it not so?'

I once knew Philip Debenham well, intimately
I might say ; but the master of that
great house yonder  I cannot say he is a great
friend of mine.'

How do you mean, Monsieur ?'

The Italian smiled and shrugged, with a
gesture far more significant than words.

Ah, Madame, we all learn the lesson of
life ; times change, and friends too  with circumstances
such as these, it is often the case.'

Has Philip Debenham changed so much ?'

So it appears to me ; but I may be mistaken.
My memory may be defective.'

I do not think Philip could ever have been
so very different from what he is now,' said
Roma. ' He strikes me as a man who would
change singularly little. He is so independent
of other people and their opinions.'

Mademoiselle is perfectly right there,'
answered the Italian. ' He goes his own way,
without in any way considering what may bethe
effect upon others.'

Roma smiled and shook her head. Her
colour was a little warmer than usual. She
was perfectly aware that the Signor was
jealous of Philip Debenham. There was no
need that he should be so ; but she could not
tell him that, and she could not be very hard
upon him if he did feel somewhat bitter against
his rival. Roma knew well that this man
loved her, and his love gave her a deep-seated
-sense of joy, as well as some embarrassment
and pain.

Mrs. Classis, however, put quite a different
interpretation upon his words.

 Was it always so with him ?' she asked.

On the contrary, he was once the kindest
and best of friends. This is quite a new
development.'

VOL. II. 34

The pride of his new position, perhaps.'

Yes ; a position such as his must have it
grave difficulties. My friend is very bold,
but I am not sure whether he has not undertaken
more than he can grapple with.'

I am quite of that opinion myself,' said
Mrs. Classis, still trying to read the face
before her, whilst she grew more and more
convinced that the stranger held the clue to the
mystery whose existence she had only vaguely
guessed. From the readiness he evinced to talk
on the subject, Mrs. Classis argued that he was
looking out for an ally to assist him in some
attack upon the false friend, and only too ready
was she to support him in such an attempt.

She must contrive to secure a private interview
 that must be the first step ; and fortune
certainly favoured her this day, for when she
rose to take her departure, Signor Pagliadini
rose likewise, and begged for the honour of
escorting her to her own house.

Side by side the two newly-made acquaintances
passed out of sight of the house, silent
at first, because a sudden sense of restraint
seemed to have fallen upon them ; but even
this silence encouraged-mrs. Classis in her

theory, and she determined to make a bold
plunge and see the effect.

Monsieur she began slowly and significantly,
' I am quite ready to help you.'

Madame is good to say so ; but I do not
quite comprehend.'

I think that you do, Monsieur.'

They paused by mutual consent, and looked
at one another keenly and steadfastly.

Will Madame sit down?' asked the Italian,
indicating a fallen tree-trunk which lay beside
the hedge. The narrow lane was shady and
secluded, and it was not likely that anyone
would pass by to disturb them. ' We had
better understand one another. May I ask
in what way Madame proposes to assist
me?'

Your object, Monsieur, if I mistake you
not, is to repair some great injustice which my
nephew has committed against his friend. Am
I not right so far as I go ?'

I will not say that Madame is altogether
deceived ; but I should like to know on what
grounds you suspect your nephew.'

Mrs. Classis hardly knew how to put into
words her vague suspicions. She would much

342

rather that her companion suggested the
nature of the injustice. She tried to draw
him out.

 I have been frank with you, Monsieur, and
have told you that I suspect my nephew. Is
not that enough ? It is your turn now to tell
me what it is you have discovered, that will
bear upon our suspicion.'

But the bait did not take.

Our suspicion is doubtless the same. I
am aware that one does not like to put it into
words. May I ask further against which of
Mr. Debenham's friends Madame believes this
injustice to have been done ?'

Against Mr. Torwood, of course.'
The sudden flash of some emotion, which she
could not fathom, passed over the stranger's
face as she uttered the name, and convinced
Mrs. Classis that she had been right in her
surmise.

 Quite so, Madame. It is his old friend Mr.
Torwood whom he has injured  the friend to
whom he owes so much. Your suspicion is
correct.'

Did you know Mr. Torwood once ?'
Slightly  yes.'

Do you know where he is now T

I do

A look of triumph gleamed in Mrs. Belassis
eye.

Good she said, with an air of satisfaction.
Philip Debenham asserts that he is on board
some sailing-vessel upon a sea-voyage. I do
not believe he is in any such place. I am
convinced that the sea-voyage is simply a
blind.'

Madame is again right  perfectly right.
Mr. Torwood is not at sea at present. The
sea voyage exists only in the vivid imagination
of his friend.'

Ah !' Mrs. Classis drew a long breath.
Monsieur she said eagerly, ' tell me, where
is Mr. Torwood ?'

Madame, you shall know that also in due
time. At present, I may not reveal his
abode.'

Mrs. Classis hardly felt this check, in her
excitement and triumph.

You know where he is. Monsieur ? You
could lay your hand upon him at any
moment ?'

At any moment, Madame. When the

time comes the man shall come forward.
Philip Debenham and Torrington Torwood
shall stand face to face

May I be there to see !' breathed Mrs.
Classis ; and after a brief pause she added :
Is Mr. Torwood in England, then ?'

Heis.'

He has escaped from the restraints put
upon him by his friend f

A curious flash passed over the young man's
face, as he answered steadily :

He has.'

Mrs. Classis would like to have known
more, but it was now the stranger's turn to
ask questions.

Madame he began, and the tone, although
quite respectful, had in it a certain ring of
authority, which obliged Mrs. Classis to be
more candid than perhaps she had at first intended,
'if we are to work together, we must
understand one another. I have a motive in
what I do. A friend of mine has been wronged,
and I am anxious to assist him to his rights
again ; my motive for what I do is friendship.
But you do not know Mr. Torwood. Philip

Debenham is your nephew and near neighbour
 why is it you are so anxious to disgrace
him ?'

Mrs. Classis was somewhat taken aback by
this home-thrust ; but she was equal to the.
occasion.

I will tell you, Monsieur. As you say, we
must be frank with one another; and I will
sot pretend that an abstract love of justice
alone actuates me, for it would not be true, and
you would not believe me. ]o; I have a
grievance against Philip Debenham, and it is
this. He has been more ungrateful to me
and to my husband than you would believe
possible. He owes us almost everything, for
from the age of ten years, he was adopted by
us, and brought up like our own child. He was
educated abroad by his own wish ; and after
eight years of school and college life, we found
him an excellent berth in a merchant's office.
This not being grand enough for my lord, who
had not a penny of his own, he ran away and
lived for eight years upon the charity of Mr.
Torwood, whom he is now using so badly. Then
he succeeded to a large fortune and property,

and came back to this place, and has behaved
with studied ingratitude to us ever since,
openly accusing his uncle of frauds, which no
doubt he would have perpetrated himself in
the same situation. I need not say that we
feel such base ingratitude keenly, and that
for my husband's sake I am justly indignant.
When I find that he is spending Mr. Tor-wood's
money almost more freely than his
own, I confess I do wish to see him brought
to book.'

A step came tramping down the lane, and
Tor's tall figure emerged suddenly into view.
He gave one quick glance at the two persons
seated upon the fallen tree, lifted his hat and
passed by without a word.

A handsome man !' said Mrs. Classis,
looking after him with an evil light in her
eyes. ' One would not think, to look at him
what a load of guilt he was carrying about
with him.'

Tor's appearance seemed quite to have broken
up the conference. Signor Pagliadini, with a
preoccupied air, made his-adieu, and left Mrs.
Classis to finish her walk alone.

Spends Tor wood's money almost more
freely than his own,' slowly repeated the Signor,
in Mrs. Classis' French phrasing ; and then
he added, in good vigorous English,  The.
deuce he does !'

MISS Majoris OPINIONS.

ND now,' said Miss Marjory briskly,
 let me hear what has happened,
or is going to happen, that makes
you so anxious.'

Miss Marjory and her niece had arrived at
the Manor House a few hours before ; but Tor
had not been able, until now, to secure her undivided
attention. Maud and Mrs. Lorraine
had been so much amused by her conversation,
that it had been impossible to secure any
privacy, and it was only when Miss Marjory's
enthusiasm over the garden and the hot-houses
had tired out the less comprehending and interested
part of the company, that Tor found
himself alone with his guest.

It is so good of you to come so quickly,'
said he, with real gratitude in his tone. ' I

feel as though I really did need an ally at the
present threatened crisis. I cannot thank you
enough.'

Oh, I shall make it worth my while to have
come. I shall leave you laden with spoil, I
can see. There are ever so many things I
have seen already that I want, and haven't
got. I shall take cuttings innumerable, with
or without your leave. Your orchids make
me break the tenth commandment on the spot.
I think I must put up an orchid-house myself.
Oh yes, I will make a good thing of this visit
never fear !'

If you will let me put up an orchid-house
for you, as a slight '

Stuff and nonsense ! I'm not going to let
you do anything ridiculous and romantic.
Too much glass might be more of a hindrance
than a help to the letting of the house in the
future. Now look here  we are alone at last :
tell me what is the matter, and what it is I
can do for you.'

The matter is, that a foreign chap has
turned up here a Signor Pagliadini ; he says
he knew Phil and me abroad, and I believe
that's true enough, for I know his face, though

I can't recollect him exactly. Bat lie knows.
too  of that I am convinced  who I really am,
and will not swallow the fiction I try to force
upon him. In addition to this, I believe he
has a spite against, me md comes with a
motive ; and though he doesn't speak out, I am
pretty certain that he knows a great deal more
than he has any business to, and that he means
mischief

'Why?'

By the ugly hints he gives, and by his
significant looks and words. And then I
came upon him and Mrs. Classis in deep talk
by the roadside; and by the startled look she
cast at me, I know of whom it was they were
talking.'

We can soon stop the Classis' mouths,'
remarked Miss Marjory grimly. ' I think
we can give them ample food for meditation
on their own account.'

Have you found anything out about the
first wife?'

'I have found out that in February, 1850,
she was alive and fairly well. I am making
inquiries, and I think I soon shall be able to
ascertain the date of her death ; but it strikes

that your virtuous uncle has run it very
fine. I should not wonder if he finds himself
in a desperately nasty position.'

Something like what I find myself in now
said Tor, shaking his head.

Now, don't you get low about it,' advised
Miss Marjory, with the air of a benignant
Minerva.  You'll never do anything
if you lose heart. For my part, I rise to the
occasion. I know I have a natural talent for
intrigue, though circumstances have not
hitherto been favourable to its development.'

I am glad you have,' smiled Tor, ' for my
powers seem deserting me. That confounded
Italian  I beg your pardon, but I feel strongly
upon the subject  with his smooth tongue and
offensive hints, bothers me tremendously. I
know he is my enemy, and will injure me if
he can.'

Have you ever made an enemy that you
know of ?' asked Miss Marjory.

Tor reflected a little.

I shouldn't say exactly that,' he answered.
I have had occasional disputes with different
men at different times. When my blood is
up, I speak my mind pretty freely, and lay it

on thick ; but then, I don't think I am easily
roused to wrath, and I have no recollection of
any row likely to have made an eternal enmity
between me and another fellow. No, I have
no clue at all to his motive, but I am quite
certain he has one, and possesses some knowledge
of the truth ; he would not go on as he
does, if he was actuated merely by a curiosity
to know why I was called " Torwood" in Italy
and am ' ' Debenham " here. His whole language
and bearing convinces me that he comes here
as an enemy and a spy. And if Mrs. Classis
once gets a hint as to the true state of the
case, it mil be all up with me. I wish I had
never sent Phil away on that voyage.'

Why so ?'

Because, if I could, I would fetch him back
at all risks. I would tell the whole truth  
show my accounts, get you as a witness as to
my motives, and take my chance of a prosecution.
I have Phil's I U for a larger sum
than I have yet expended; and although I
have forged his signature, and passed myself
off under a false name, I think I might, by
counsel's aid, get off pretty easily. But I
don't choose to risk it, with Phil out of reach

on the high seas. Things would be more complicated,
and disagreeable insinuations might
be cast at me. I wish he had never gone;
but as he has, I must try to hold out these few
months longer, and then, when he is once
back, whether ill or well, he shall come to
Ladywell, and I will abdicate in his favour. I
think I shall have pretty well broken Classis'
power b} that time, and opened the eyes of
the executors. He will never regain the ascendency
he once had here.'

Oh yes, you must certainly hold out. I
will help you. I am sure I can hold the
Classis faction at bay, if I can do no
more. You are certain that Philip Debenham
has sailed ?'

Quite certain. I have received, through
Dr. Schneeberger, a letter from his medical
friend under whose care Phil travels. It was
written on board the vessel, and said that the
journey had been safely accomplished, that
Phil had borne it well, though without any
sign of returning powers, and that they were
to sail before midnight. He will be far enough
away by now.'

Safely out of Mrs. Classis' or the Italian's

reach, anyway,' said Miss Marjory. 'I wonder
who this Italian can be? A spy of hers?'

Not possible, I think. He came as a guest
to a Mr. Meredith, a sculptor here, with an introduction
from a relative of theirs in Florence who
has known him for several years. I made, for
my own satisfaction, as many close inquiries as
I could without attracting attention. He says
he knew Philip well, and me slightly; that
he met us in Eome and Naples. I dare say
it is all true enough  indeed it must be, for
he recalls incidents that I remember quite
"vvell, only I don't remember him.'

This is interesting' and romantic,' said
Miss Marjory, fanning herself gently. ' I will
tackle this fascinating Italian, and see if I
cannot pluck out the heart of his mystery.'

 I wish you could,' said Tor.

 Does he speak English ?'

iso ; only Italian and French, so far as I
now.'

Well, well, I am old-fashioned enough to
speak Italian. When I was young, it was
the fashion to learn only a few things, and
those well. Girls were not encouraged then
to dabble in science and metaphysics, and

play at atheism and agnosticism when they
should be practising their scales and learning
their catechism. We were not at all learned
young ladies in my day. We didn't look
down on our parents, sneer at the clergy, or
aspire to the " higher culture '' and " higher
morality," or whatever their ncAV-fangled
jargon may be; but we were taught how to
behave ourselves in the company of our elders,
we did not lounge or yawn when obliged to
listen to conversation rather above our heads,
nor did we interrupt our betters or interfere
whenever we happened to disagree. We did not
talk big about universal equality or socialistic
philanthropy, but I flatter myself we understood
our duty to our neighbour better than
this generation understands it. And I venture
to say I can talk Italian against any modern
young lady extant, however learned she
may be.*

Once get Miss Marjory upon any of her pet
themes, and she was certain to wax eloquent.
Tor was quite content to listen, and the late
experiences he had had of nineteenth-century
culture inclined him to agree with Miss
Marjory's view of the case. Men are pro-vol.

II. 35

verbally averse to the higher education of
women.

Well, Miss Marjory said Tor, * you will
have that opportunity to-night ; for I have
asked Signor Pagliadini to dine here, and you
will be able to tackle him to your heart's
content.'

'To dine here!' echoed Miss Marjory.
'Why, I thought you were sworn foes.'

Not at all ; we are nominally on excellent
terms. In public he has not said one unpleasant
word. It is in a private interview
that he was so disagreeable. Whatever his
motive is, he does not wish to drive me to
strong measures. I believe I shall have fair
warning if he makes up his mind to attack
me.'

I will tackle him,' said Miss Marjory, with
a certain satisfaction in her tone. ' I flatter
myself I shall be able to discover who he is
and what he wants.'

Tor was quite of the same opinion. He
believed that Miss Marjory could do anything'
she had a mind to, and was content
to hand over Signor Pagliadini to her
tender mercies, to be turned inside out, or

submitted to any other process that might
seem good to her.

My sister and my aunt do not understand
Italian,' he went on to say, ' so that they will
not be a bit the wiser for any conversation
which they may overhear.'

Ah, perhaps that is as well,' said Miss
Marjory.

Ethel Hardcastle and Maud Debenham had
meantime struck up a great friendship, after
the manner of young girls. Ethel was always
ready to admire and adore anyone who was
kind and pretty and good to her ; and anything
like a strong will or an originality of
disposition struck her as something peculiarly
desirable. Thus in a couple of hours' time
the young mistress of Ladywell, with her
frank gracious ways, her fresh, charming face,
and her saucy independent speech, had altogether
bewitched the less-favoured but simpleminded
Ethel, and Maud became the object of
her youthful and generous enthusiasm.

Maud liked to be admired, and therefore she
liked Ethel ; and because she liked her, she
waxed confidential; and an acute observer of
human nature might safely aver that a stage

352

had already been arrived at when long conversations
in one another's rooms at night, of
a peculiarly and almost needlessly confidential
character, would become inevitable.

Tor became aware of this sudden friendship
when he arrived in the drawing-room
shortly before the dinner-hour, and found
the two girls deep in talk in a distant
window.

Miss Marjory looked remarkably well 
every inch the gentlewoman she was  in her
rich amber satin and costly lace, which set off
to peculiar advantage her small dark head and
bright animated eyes. She had the distinguished,
high-bred look which seems growing
more and more rare in these modern times,
and which no amount of outward magnificence
can ever simulate.

Signor Pagliadini,' announced the servant,
throwing open the door ; and Miss Marjory's
keen eyes were riveted in a moment upon the
stranger's face.

He was presented to the guests, and went
through the ceremony with all the ease of indifference.
He had certainly no cause to be
interested in these two ladies, whom he had

.

never seen before, nor was likely to see
again.

Dinner was announced in a few minutes.
Tor gave his arm to Miss Marjory; Mrs.
Lorraine followed with Ethel ; Maud and the
Signor brought up the rear.

He is very good-looking,' said Miss Marjory
softly to her host  ' too good-looking to
be dangerous, I think. Very handsome men
are always rather stupid.'

Tor smiled, and wondered how far this
sweeping statement was true. He was rather
inclined to accept Miss Marjory's axioms, for
he believed her to be a keen observer of human
nature.

The dinner passed oiF smoothly. Conversations
in English, French, and Italian were
carried on promiscuously, English predominating
somewhat, as three out of the four ladies
present much preferred their native tongue asa
medium of communication.

Only once did Miss Marjory address any
low-toned observation to Tor, and that was
when the Italian and Maud were laughing very
much together over some anecdote he had just
related.

Leaning forward slightly, she said in a quiet
undertone :

Whether that man speaks English or not,
he understands it as well as you or I.'

Do you think so ?*

I don't think anything about it. I how
it.

Nothing of interest happened when the
ladies had left the table. The Signor talked
easily and pleasantly of persons and places
that both had known, but made no allusion to
what had passed between them a few days
previously. Tor followed his lead, and was
only too glad to be left in peace. Tor wood's
name was never mentioned between them, and
both seemed quite ready to join the ladies, as
soon as a decent interval had elapsed.

The Italian was willing enough to take
refuge with Miss Marjory as soon as the 
had been reached. Tor could not
help fancying that he felt some relief at the
presence of strangers, as though he did not
feel disposed to show fight that day, and yet
had no inclination to become too friendly.

Miss Marjory never knew what it was to
want words. English or Italian, it was all the

same to her. She was wont to say of herself
that if she were to be cast away upon a savage
island, she should learn the language in a few
days, so impossible would it be for her to
remain silent.

The Signor seemed pleased by her conversation.
Maud had taken Ethel out into the
garden. Tor was talking to Mrs. Lorraine at
the other end of the great room. There was
nobody to hear what passed between these
two, and Miss Marjory could be charmingly
innocent when she chose.

Have you ever been in England before,
Signor ?'

There was the least possible hesitation
before the answer came.

'As a child, Madame, I was here ; but I
have little recollection of it.'

Was it this part of the world that you
visited then ?'

He smiled and shook his head.

That I cannot say. I cannot remember
well enough.'

You have seen London, of course ?'

I spent one night there on my way here.
That is all my acquaintance with it.'

You were in a desperate hurry to reach
these remote parts remarked Miss Marjory,
laughing. ' Most men would not have
hastened away quite so fast from the gaieties
of a London season.'

I  I had an introduction to Mr. Meredith//
answered the stranger with a very slight
embarrassment of manner, which did not
escape Miss Marjory.

Well, I imagine the introduction would
have kept,' she answered lightly. ' I suppose
the fact of the case is, that you had paid
Homburg or Baden, or Paris perhaps, a long
visit first, and had seen enough of the delights
of life to satiate you for a time. Or perhaps,'
she added slily, * you were afraid that your
reputation would reach this place before you,
and scare simple country people, who do not
understand gay doings.'

The young man looked relieved at having
his way made so plain for him. He bowed
and smiled, and remarked with edifying admiration
that the Signora was quite too clever
her eyes saw through everything, like the
sun at noonday.

I always did say my eyes saw a little

farther than other people's answered Miss
Marjory, with a little laugh. ' What a charming
man our host is !' she continued, after a
while. ' So superior to most young men of
the present day  just as his father was before
him; they are remarkably alike.'

You were acquainted, then, with Mr.
Debenham, our good friend's father?'

'Oh yes ; his father and I Averse great friends.
Like father, like son, you know, Signor. It
is quite so in this case  charming men both.'

Signor Pagliadini looked intently at her
through his glasses. Miss Marjory returned
the glance with the frankest possible ease.

Think I've puzzled him there,' she remarked
to herself ' If the son is so like the
father, he can hardly rank as an impostor.'

I did not know Mr.  our friend's father,'
said the Signor slowly. ' He is not at all
like his sister.'

Do you think not?' returned Miss Marjory,
in her brisk way. ' Well, now, I should have
called them quite as much alike as the average
run of brothers and sisters. He is a little
fairer, and is bronzed, of course, by sun and
wind, but they have the same clear skin and

good colouring, the same kind of open foreheads
and well-marked brows ; and a wonderful
similarity in disposition, so frank, and
pleasant, and unaffected. Oh yes, no one
can doubt that there is a strong affinity
between them.'

Signor Pagliadini sat silent and absorbed.

Come, Signor,' recommenced Miss Marjory,
after a pause, ' I must not become wearisome
on the subject of my old friend's children. The
topic cannot be very interesting to you, even
though you are a friend also;' and without
any effort she shifted the conversation
dexterously this way and that, seemingly quite
at random, as is natural when two strangers
sit down to ' make talk,' but with a method
in her apparent aimlessness, of which, however,
her interlocutor was quite unconscious.

They parted on the best of terms, and with
the mutual hope of future meetings.

I must have a breath of fresh air before I
am an hour older,' said Miss Marjory, drawing
a long breath. ' May I step out a few minutes,
Mr. Debenham, and look at the stars?'

We will look at them together,' said
Tor; and he gave her his arm, and walked

her oiF, unheeding Maud's demure look of
congratulation, and gentle pat on the back, ashe
passed her. ' Well,' he said, as they stood
together in the warm summer night, ' have
you made out anything ?'

'That man is a spy!' she answered With
energy and decision. ' Who and what he is
besides, I have not yet made out ; but he is a
spy!'

I believe it ; but what makes you so
certain ?'

I am certain because he has not got his
story right. He is masquerading  pretending
to be what he is not, and he is all
confused as to his antecedents. Fancy being
so stupid as to try and play a part without
knowing exactly how to do it, and what to
say  just like a man ! Men are such clumsy
creatures ! One time he told me he had just
come from Florence, from a Signor Something
who gave him an introduction. Then he
said another time he had been in Rome
until he came here, and had travelled straight
to England; and once he slipped out something
which showed he had been in Germany
quite lately ; but he saw he had tripped that

Miss Marjory Opinions.

time, and tried to explain his words away 
the very stupidest thing he could have done,
of course. He didn't know how many times
he contradicted himself, but I kept count.
Whoever that man is, he is playing a part,
and he is a spy !'

PLOTS AND COUNTERPLOTS.

miss MARJORY was convinced . by
the experiences gathered in a few

tI- hours' time, that Tor's position
was growing distinctly awkward, and might
easily become dangerous.

Signor Pagliadini was a spy  of that she
was fully convinced ; though what could be
his motive for playing such a part, or who
could have set him on to do it, still remained
a mystery.

He could hardly be an emissary of Classis.
If that worthy had discovered the imposition
practised by Tor, he would not have any need
to bring forward a foreigner to expose the
fraud. A much simpler and more effective
way would be to expose it himself, which

could be done, without any great difficulty if
once the clue had been secured.

It was improbable to the last degree that a
stranger, totally unconcerned in the matter,
should give himself all the trouble Signor
Pagiiadini was now doing, simply from an
abstract love of justice ; yet, if not a creature
of Classis, nor yet a total stranger, who could
this man possibly be ?

Miss Marjory was a shrewd woman ; and
although her quick wits often led her to conclusions
for which no logical premises could
be adduced, these same conclusions had a remarkable
way of turning out right in the end,
and therefore she had learned to put a greater
confidence in them than circumstances seemed
always to warrant.

No stranger, Miss Marjory argued, who had
simply known these two Englishmen abroad,
would care two straws about the matter, even
if he did find out that they had made an
exchange of names. He would either think
that he had been mistaken the first time as to
their identity, or else he would conclude that
one was acting for the other, and would never
dream of interfering. Englishmen were all

more or less mad, he would conclude, and
were best let alone.

Signor Pagliadini evidently knew of the
existence of the real Phil, and concluded, not
unnaturally, that an unfair advantage was
being taken of his helplessness. But why he
should interest himself in the matter, and take
PhiFs supposed quarrel upon himself, was a
question which was hard to answer, and the
only theory she could form was conclusively
negatived by Tor.

She suggested to him the doubt, whether it
was possible that Philip Debenham had had
a momentary return of consciousness, and had
gained some vague idea of what was going on.
Might he not (feeling himself helpless and injured)
have believed himself to be a prisoner,
and enlisted the aid of some able-bodied friend
to go and discover the true state of the case,
and do what he could for the absent master,
who was being thus defrauded ?

But Tor smiled at such a notion.

Phil and he understood one another far too
well for such a doubt to be possible. Eighteen
years of close friendship could stand a stronger
test than this. If Phil had recovered enough

to realize that Tor had changed the' names,
he would understand in a moment that there
was some good reason for such an act, and
would fall into the arrangement with the confiding
placidity of his nature. Besides, the
thing was impossible. The German doctor,
who was the simplest-minded of men, had
promised to give Tor immediate warning of
any change in his friend's condition. He and
his sister were the only people who had been
near Phil these three months past, until he had
taken the journey ; and he knew for certain
that there had been no return to sensibility.
The whole thing was too improbable to
be seriously discussed. The idea that Phil
could for a moment misunderstand him brought
a smile to Tor's face.

If you had seen the way the dear boy leaned
on me, copied me, all but worshipped me, for
eighteen years, you would know as well as I
do, that he would be utterly incapable of mistrusting
me, far less of setting a spy upon
me. It was very absurd of him to make such
a paragon of me ; but he did it, and the tra 
editions of years are not overset in a few days.
Besides I saw Phil a fortnight ago, and the

poor fellow was just as senseless as a log. If
my voice could not rouse him then, I'm convinced
nothing else could do so within the next
ten days. By the end of that time he was on
the seas. I wish now that he were not.'

So that idea of Miss Marjory's had to be
abandoned, and she was puzzled to find a
substitute.

However, a puzzle was rather a pleasant
form of amusement for Miss Marjory, and she
enjoyed the sense of mystery which surrounded
her. It was quite a novel form of entertainment.


But perplexity did not stop Miss Marjory
from acting. Not a bit of it. She felt perfectly
capable of doing a great deal to hinder
the machinations of the enemy. If he made
himself disagreeable to Tor  well, she would
soon contrive to make herself disagreeable to
him, and Miss Marjory flattered herself that
she could be uncommonly disagreeable when
she had a mind to be.

I can be a perfect ogress when I choose,'
she said to herself, with a modest appreciation
of her own merits.

If he enlisted the Classis faction upon his

VOL. II. 36

side, as seemed liiglily probable, after the private
confidence with Mrs. Beasts which Tor had
surprised  well, if they too joined in the hue-and-cry,
she would very soon silence them.
Miss Marjory did not believe Mr. Classis would
dare to be a very warm partizan in a cause
which would bring him into antagonism with
her ; though his wife, who was in all probability
ignorant of her husband's early life, would
stand in no awe of anyone ; but at the same
time it could not be a very difficult matter to
shut her mouth, and Tor's ally felt quite equal
to the occasion.

Why Miss Marjory had so warmly espoused
the young man's cause she could hardly have
explained to herself.

His own rather romantic solicitude over his
friend's interests had brought him into a
scrape, which he ought to have foreseen from
the first; and it was certainly his own business,
not hers, to get himself clear again.

But then. Miss Marjory had known and
liked Tor's father, and had taken a fancy to
the young man for his father's sake. She
had been his first and only confidante as to
the part he was playing, and had promised

her help if it should be needed. He certainly
did stand in need of assistance at this juncture,
and she was not going back on her word
now.

Miss Marjory never did things by halves.
Bis dat qui city dat, was a favourite motto of
hers, and certainly she had lost no time so far.
She had come as quickly as she could in
response to his appeal ; and now that she
was on the spot, she did not mean to let the
grass grow under her feet.

A long; talk with Mrs. Lorraine the following:
morning, enlightened her a good deal as to the
Classis family history ; and finding that Aunt
Olive knew already of Mr. Classis' first marriage,
she gave her the whole history, and
frankly stated her opinion of that gentleman.
The gentle little widow seemed to enjoy hearing
Miss Marjory's abuse of him, which is a
sad proof of the ingratitude of the world.

Lewis Classis came to luncheon. He was
hovering; a o-ood deal about Maud during these
last days of nominal uncertainty, notwithstanding
the rebuff he had received. The ]birthday
was only four days distant, and the whole family
from Thornton House was to dine at 



well ; and in the evening Maud was to hear
her father's will read, and was, if possible, to
give her answer. She did not tell anyone
what that answer would be, but announced
that it was quite ready.

There was one person, however, in whom she
confided, and that one was Ethel Hardcastle.
Maud's love-affair, or rather the matter
between her and Lewis, could not by its very
nature be kept a secret. Everybody knew
that her choice had to be made, and Ethel was
favoured by the information that she meant
to refuse her cousin.

For a sudden idea had entered Maud's
head. She liked Lewis, though she would
not marry him, and she liked Ethel very much ;
and it seemed to her that the two were just
made for one another. Lewis was sufficiently
clever and good-looking to please the fancy
of a simple-minded, Marm-hearted girl ; and
Ethel, with her plump, pink and white prettiness
and confiding disposition, would be the
very wife for him  far more really suitable
than Maud herself, who was much too wayward
and independent.

Ethel had confided all her history to Maud

almost at the first. Her father was in India,
and had married again ; but she and Horace
had inherited their mother's sortie, and had
about three hundred a year each. Miss
Marjory had given them a home for the past
six years, so that much of their money had
accumulated ; and Ethel would be a well-towered
wife for a man of not too ambitious a
mould.

Maud had enlisted Ethel's sympathies on
behalf of Lewis without any difficulty ; aid
when she saw him, she was duly impressed by
his appearance, and much touched by the
melancholy glances he cast at the merry, hardhearted
Maud.

Maud, however, was very gracious to him ;
and when the luncheon was ended, invited him
to ride with her and Ethel, which proposition
he accepted with alacrity. In fact, the two
ladies between them made themselves so agreeable,
that he found it hard to tear himself
away; and when he finally did so, it was on
the understanding that he was to come up the
following morning to play at tennis with them,
Maud having challenged him and Ethel to
play against her, single-handed.

Ethel's artless admiration for Lewis, after
his departure, afforded Maud great satisfaction.
Ethel secretly wondered how it Alas that some
people were so hard to please, but pulled herself
up with the reflection that Maud was of course
too lovely and delightful to be easily satisfied,
and she could afford to pick and choose.

I shouldn't be half so fastidious,' she said
to herself. ' I'm not pretty or clever, or anything
like that ; and then no young men ever
do come to Whitbury. It is a stupid place.'

Maud talked a great deal of Lewis, and his
kindness of heart and various good points, and
Ethel listened with avidity.

I'm getting quite an old matchmaker,' said
Maud to herself.  How ridiculous it seems
trying to make over one's cast-off lovers ; but
I should like Lewis to get a nice wife. I think
he likes Ethel, and I'm sure she is taken by
him. I can't see Why they shouldn't marry
and be happy, and then I shall have Lewis off
my mind. For I've not been quite easy about
the way I've kept him hanging on, though
that's less my fault than the force of circumstances.'


Maud's friendliness to Lewis had not passed

unnoticed. Miss Marjory's sharp eyes had at
once detected it, and Mrs. Lorraine had felt a
passing uneasiness, as she observed the gracious
manner her niece had adopted towards the
cousin, whose fate was trembling in the
balance. Tor, if he observed anything, did
not trouble his head much about it. Such
perfect sympathy existed between him and
Maud that he was certain she never meant to
marry Lewis Classis.

Whilst the riding-party was out, he mind
Miss Marjory paid a visit to Michael Meredith.
She was anxious to learn from the
blind man all she could about the mysterious
foreigner, and to see for herself what manner
of man this egotist and dreamer was.

Tor had related the story of the sick man's
fancy, and the odd relations that now existed
between him and Roma ; and Miss Marjory
had scolded him for being so foolish and
good-natured, always running into awkward
situations for the sake of other people's
hearts or purses, or what not !

As if the matter were not complicated
enough without your going and getting into
an entanglement like this! You're just like

your father  very big and strong to look at,
but just as weak really  as weak as  as 
well, as a man. I can't say more. Men are
all alike. You think you can get easily out
of this scrape as soon as the real Phil Deben-
ham turns up, do you ? How do you know
that ? Just as likely as not the girl will have
fallen in love with you by that time. (Now
don't run away with the idea that you're very
fascinating or magnificently handsome, because
you're not  far from it. But you're just
the big, brown, easy-going, cool-handed
sort of creature that the girls of these days
lose their heads about ; and this Koma may
go and do the same, and most likely will.)
And then the crotchety old father may, as likely
as not, declare that after all he prefers you to
the true Phil ; if he's as mad as he seems, he
isn't a bit to be relied upon. He likes you,
bat he may not like your friend ; and he
may try to keep you to your word. And
when father and daughter are both hanging
round your neck, metaphorically and
literally, and threatening you with broken
hearts and grey hairs, and all the rest of it,
then you will find what a nice mess you have

made of your affairs, and will, I suppose,
expect me to step in and get you clear of
them.' .

Tor, who had made one or two ineffectual
attempts to speak during this tirade, gave up
all hope of stemming the torrent, and ended
by laughing heartily.

Yes, Miss Marjory, that is just what I
shall expect. You have drawn my character,
and 1 will abide by it. I consider it is my
part to get into as many scrapes as I conveniently
can, and yours to pull me out again.
Is it agreed ?'

It is agreed that you are an impudent boy,
as your father was before you. Stop ! Look
through those trees there. Who is that with
our friend the spy ? If that is this far-famed
Eoma, the daughter will give us less trouble
than the father.'

Signor Pagliadini and Eoma were sitting
together under the shade of a great beech-tree.
They could only be imperfectly seen
through the network of green leaves that shut
them off from the drive ; yet something in
the manner m which they sat, and their
evident absorption in one another, prompted

Miss Marjory's remark, and gave it distinct
significance.

What a good thing !' said Tor. ' Old
Meredith likes him very much. And we shall
have him to ourselves, too, this afternoon,
which is another advantage.'

Michael Meredith was charmed with Miss
Marjory, and talked on with extreme affability.
It was so seldom that a stranger sought him
out, as this guest of Philip's had done, that
he hardly knew how to make enough of the
occasion.

Signor Pagiiadini's name, of course, came
up, and Miss Marjory displayed great interest
in him. She had been so delighted by his
talk the previous evening. Who was he?
Was he an old friend of Mr. Meredith's ? He
seemed so well-bred and well-read a young
man, he must be of a good family.

Mr. Meredith confessed that he knew very
little of the young man, save that he was an
old friend of one of his wife's relatives. He
brought an introduction from Signor Mattel,
who had . spoken of him as a young man of
rank and fortune, but beyond that he had no
knowledge of his antecedents.

Miss Marjory, secure in her unimpeachable
position, could ask a great many questions
quite naturally, which would excite suspicion
from anyone less generally vivacious and
talkative. It seemed only right for her to
ask a dozen questions, and make a hundred
comments, where other people would have
hardly a word to say ; and whilst Mr. Meredith
was perfectly unconscious of being
cross-examined. Miss Marjory had elicited
the information that he knew nothing whatever
about the mysterious stranger, except
what that gentleman chose to tell him.

As for his introduction,' said she afterwards
to Tor, ' we all know wdiat an introduction
is worth, when a man has a motive in
getting one. I could get an introduction from
the man in the moon, I haven't a doubt, if
once I made up my mind to have one.'

I believe you could,' answered Tor.

"Whereat Miss Marjory laughed, and told
him that he ought to be ashamed of making
game of an old woman.

Certainly Tor had a warm partizan in Miss
Marjory. Whatever she did, was done with
a wall ; and when she once became interested

in any cause, she worked for it heart and
soul.

Maud was her next victim. She was not
quite sure whether she was good enough for
her favourite Tor, and wished to satisfy
herself upon the point. For even if not
entirely what she should be, she might be
moulded to a better frame; and if Tor's mind
was made up  if he must have Maud and
nobody else  Maud he should have, and Lewis
Classis should be made to go to the wall.
Under existing circumstances, she could in
no case be allowed to engage herself to her
cousin.

Maud liked Miss Marjory, and was quite
ready to come and sit by her after dinner,
before Tor joined them. Mrs. Lorraine was
teaching Ethel some new stitch in rebels.

So your birthday is just imminent, is it,
Maud? You should have let me know earlier,
that I might have come provided. However,
I dare say I can find something in my 
which will supply the deficiency. We
shall see. Old-fashioned things are coming
into fashion again, I hear. Have you caught
the mania yet?'

Oh, Miss Marjory, you are too good !' cried
Maud, lauo'liino; and blustiin]. ' I think they
are perfectly lovely  everyone does now!'

Ah, well, we must see. Old ornaments or
old lace. I wonder if I ought to think of an
approaching wedding, too?'

Maud's eyes looked mischievous, her mouth
demure. She shook her head gravely.

Ah, Miss Marjory, you want to make me
commit myself. You are just as curious as
anybody else, I see. You know I am not
bound to give my answer till the 24th.'

No ; and I am not even curious about it.
I know already what it will be.'

'Has Ethel ?'

Ethel has told me nothing. You have
told me.'

What have I told you ?'

That a girl of your nature and your name
would look higher than that. Philip Deben-
ham's sister will never marry Alfred Classis.'

Maud laughed again, and came closer to
Miss Marjory, laying one hand confidingly in
hers, with a pretty, childlike gesture that was
half a caress.

Miss Marjory, you have guessed quite

rio-ht. I really couldn't. I have thought of
everything a hundred times over, but I can't
hiring my mind to it. Once I thought I
would. A little while back I quite fancied it
would come to that ; but now that I have seen
Phil  oh no! I really couldn't T

What has Phil to do with it ? Doesn't he
approve ?'

Oh, it isn't that ! Phil does not interfere.
I know he doesn't like the Classis' ; but he is
a dear boy, and would not stand in my way,
if he thought my happiness depended upon it.
But it is since I've known Phil that I've felt
as I do.'

Felt what ?'

Why, what men can be and sometimes are.
You see,' she continued naively, ' I used to
have a very poor opinion of them. You know,
Uncle Classis and Lewis, and old Mr. Meredith,
and a cross old great-uncle of ours, were
the chief specimens I had seen ; and really
amongst them, and the few local youths I
used to meet at the mild entertainments of the
neighbourhood, Lewis ranked quite as a
bright and shining light. I used to wonder
how it was real live men were so different from

men in books, but I did not believe till he
came that they were really bold and manly,
and  well, like Phil is, you know.'

Miss Marjory smiled.

So Phil came upon you quite as a revelation
?'

Yes, just that,' answered Maud, with her
bright enthusiasm, which found favour in the
eyes of her listener. ' After I had seen Phil,
and felt what it was to have a brother of
one's very own like him, wdiy, then I couldn't
fancy Lewis any more  I really couldn't.
And I should hate and detest to be made into
a Classis !'

My dear,' said Miss Marjory warmly,  I
think you have judged very wisely. And
after your final decision has been formally
registered, your brother and I must see if we
cannot find you a husband, the very counterpart
of himself.'

Maud laughed, and shook her head.

You are very clever. Miss Marjory, and
Phil is very good ; but I'm afraid, with all
your cleverness and goodness, you'll never
manage that.'

Don't be too sure,' returned Miss Marjory,

with a very wise, not to say mysterious,
look. ' I have a faculty for managing
anything I have once set my mind upon,
which may surprise you one of these days,
as it has surprised wiser people before
you.'

You are very like a sphinx, Miss Marjory.
Please condescend to tell me some
more, and that more plainly.'

'Well, if you must know, it would not
much surprise me, if, when Mr. Torwood turns
up, you found him almost as much of a paragon
as your pattern and idol, Phil.'

'Mr. Torwood! Oh, Miss Marjory, do you
know him ? What is he like ? and when is
he coming ?'

What a number of questions at once ! You
are as bad as I am, Maud. I don't know dien
he is coming back, because nobody can tell
when he will be well again ; but I do know
something about him ; and his father was a
very old friend of mine. I believe he takes
after his father, from all I hear ; and if so,
my advice to you, my dear, is this : don't
engage yourself to Lewis Classis until you
have seen Torrent-ton Torwood.'

Maud looked hard at Miss Marjory, half
smiling, half perplexed.

I don't quite understand you  you seem
in a dreadfully match-making frame of mind.
But Phil thinks so very much of your opinion,
that he has made me do the same. I will take
your advice, Miss Marjory.'

VOL. II. 37

AN Agreeable DINNER.

AUD'S birthday had come at last 
the important four-and-twentieth
anniversary, which completed her
long minority.

She had requested that there should be no
great ' fuss ' upon the day. She did not want
any festivities set on foot, or a number of
guests to entertain. It would be much more
of a treat to her, she said, to have ' a good
long day With Phil ] and in the evening was
the necessary dinner-party, to which the
Classis household was invited, which was to
be followed by the reading of Mr. Debenham's
will.'

Maud's decision would be asked at the close,
and it was generally understood that her mind

was made up, although opinions differed as to
what was the decision arrived at.

Mr. and Mrs. Classis were distinctly
anxious, now that the final moment had come.
They had terrible misgivings as to the validity
of the will which they were about to produce,
and could not rid themselves of the ghastly
notion, that at the last moment their terrible
nephew might coolly produce a later document,
and demand instant restitution of the
trust-money, principal and interest.

Mrs. Classis was certain that no formal or
public search had been made in the library ;
but she could have no confidence, until the
will was in her own hands, that some evil
chance might not discover it to the very people
whose knowledge of its existence was most to
be deplored.

Increased uneasiness had fallen upon Mrs.
Classis, she hardly knew why, by the knowledge
that Miss Marjory Descartes was a guest
at Ladywell. Personally she was rather glad
of this, for on thinking over the conversation
with her husband, she was not entirely satisfied
with the explanation he had given her of
his connection with Whitbury ; and she looked

372

forward with a mixture of malice and curiosity
to the meeting between them, which she would
now witness. Yet some instinct warned her
that Miss Marjory's visit to her nephew boded
them no good ; and she was made additionally
uneasy by the hints dropped by her spy, of
the long consultations now going on in the
house.

But Mrs. Classis did not give way to
dejection. She felt she had a game offensive
as well as defensive to play, and she believed
that she would find an able supporter in
Signor Pafliadini.

Once let this decision be made, and I shall
know how to acts she said many times to herself.
' If Maud refuses Lewis, then there is no
longer any reason to temporize. I shall worm
the truth out of that Italian, and then carry
open war into the enemy's quarters.'

Mr. Classis was miserable and anxious,
but he was not in his wife's confidence, and he
did not know what schemes of vengeance
were brewing. He did not know the close
proximity of his old friend Miss Marjory
Descartes ; had he done so, he would have
been tenfold more miserable and cowed. His

wife, by a little dexterous management, had
contrived that tee names of the guests at
Ladywell should not be mentioned in his
hearing, for she was anxious that the meeting
with Miss Marjory should take him unawares ;
besides which, she knew he was quite capable
of shamming illness, just to escape the encounter,
if it was not to his mind. The more
she had thought about his behaviour when
first he heard Whitbury named, and the story
he had told her of his dominoes there, the more
she grew convinced that she had not been told
the whole truth.

Miss Marjory was delighted to think that
she should at last be brought face to face with
the redoubtable Classis. She knew all about
the theory of the destroyed will, and Mr.
Debenham's impoverished fortunes, and was
not at all prepared to spare him. Being a
woman of a business-like turn, and one who
knew a good deal more than Tor did of the
ways of the world, she understood better than
he had done, how Classis had managed to
possess himself of Mr. Debenham's money,
and enrich himself at his client's expense ;
and she was inclined to think that a lawsuit

against him should be set on foot even
now.

Tor, however, did not see where the needful
evidence was to come from, as Classis had had
the handling of all the papers ; moreover, that
was a question for the real Phil to consider,
not for him to settle ; and in this verdict
Miss Marjory could not but agree.

'It's a sad pity you are not the real master
here,' she said. ' I believe you are twice the
man that Phil of yours will turn out to be.
It will be too bad if that old scoundrel gets off
scot-free. However, I think I can touch him
up a little. I shall certainly lay myself out
to be agreeable to him. Mind you put me
opposite to him at table. I think I can make
the time pass very pleasantly for him.'

Tor was mean enough to feel a sort of
amused compassion for Miss Marjory's prospective
victim.

You will not let out about the first wife,
will yoQ, Miss Marjory?' he said. 'I know
he deserves everything you can give him ; but
there will be the wife and family at table, and
a dinner-party isn't quite '

Don't be so dense, Philip Debenham. I

hope I know what to say and what to leave
unsaid in a mixed company,' interrupted Miss
Marjory sharply. ' Do you suppose 1 want
everyone to be covered with confusion ? You
are just like a man; you think nothing can be
said unless it is regularly set down in black and
white. Trust me. I will say nothing which
anybody else could take exception to. But
I'll just roast Classis.'

I believe you will,' returned Tor. ' Well,
he's too big a scoundrel to waste pity on. 1
hand him over to your tender mercies.'

Miss Marjory smiled.

You and I can enjoy it  and he. Nobody
else will understand.' Then, after a pause,
she added : 'Is it only a family party ? or
are any strangers coming ?'

I asked the Merediths, and their guest.
I saw the old boy expected to be included ina
family gathering. He accepted at once, but
now his doctor has forbidden him to come, and
Koma remains with him ; but that Italian fellow
holds to his engagement. Odd, isn't it ?
sticking himself into a party where he must
know he is not wanted.'

Odd and significant,' answered Miss Marjory

thoughtfully. ' I know that man means
mischief

I half think so, too,' assented Tor. ' I
have been wondering how I could win him
over. He can't have any very powerful motive
for making himself disagreeable to me. Do
you think if I asked him to spend a few days
at Lady well, it might bring him to a more
amiable frame of mind ? As a guest in my
house, he could hardly plot against me; and if
he could be won over, he might speak out,
and in the end be taken into our confidence.'

Miss Marjory considered this new idea.

I think it might do,' she said. ' I should
like to see more of him, and make out
what manner of man he is. I am not at all
satisfied about him ; and I don't think it
would be a bad move to have him here. We
could examine him at our leisure, and, as you
say, if he has any feelings at all of honour, he
will hardly dare to make insinuations against
you, whilst partaking of your hospitality.'

This conversation took place early in the
day. Half-past seven was the hour fixed for
dinner, and soon after seven the guests began
to assemble.

Matilda and Bertha were eager to see Maud's
presents, and went into raptures over the costly
and elegant trifles which stood upon a table,
 on view.'

Mr. and Mrs. Classis had brought a handsome
dressing-case, as a sort .of peace-offering.
It was certainly right for Maud to possess
it, as it had been her mother's once; but she did
not know that, and half shrank from accepting
anything socostlyfrom23eople she liked so little.

Tor did not look quite pleased either ; but
Mrs. Lorraine was equal to the occasion. She
recognised the old heirloom  for an heirloom
it was, although it had been ' done up like
new,' in the usual Classis good taste.

Our grandmother's dressing-case !' she exclaimed,
with a look of pleasure. ' It was your
mother's too, dear Maud. . I have been wandering
how it was that it was not restored to
you before. I see now" that it was waiting
for your majority. Ah, the dear old box !
We do not see things like it now. It was such
a favourite with your mother, Maud.'

And after hearing this, Maud was able to
turn and thank Mr. and Mrs. Classis for their
gift, without any embarrassment.

The party was seated, and rather stiff talk
was passing between the relatives, who had
not met in this friendly fashion for a longtime.
Suddenly and quietly the door was
opened, and Miss Marjory entered, her amber
satin, lace, and diamonds giving her an imposing
appearance, in spite of her short stature.

Maud thought she looked just like a fairy
godmother, with her yellow dress, bright eyes
and resolute determined manner.

Mrs. Classis eyed her curiously, not altogether
liking the first impression she received.

Mr. Classis' jaw dropped, and the florid
colour faded slowly from his face.

Tor advanced and introduced the guest to
his aunt and uncle, and Miss Marjory's bow
included the whole party, as she gracefully
subsided into a seat, and looked smilingly at
the wretched Classis.

Surely we are not strangers to one another,
Mr. Classis. I thought the name was too
uncommon to deceive me. A second Alfred
Classis, a contemporary, would be too remarkable
a phenomenon. I hope you are
quite well ?'

Quite, thank you,' muttered Classis, feeling

delightfully conscious that his wife's eye
was upon him.

You have not visited Whitbury lately, I
think ?' went on Miss Marjory pleasantly.

N  no, not lately.'

I do not think I have seen you since you
were quite a young man ; still, I am sure I
should know you anywhere.'

People were just beginning to wake up to
the consciousness that Mr. Classis was ill at
ease, when the dinner was announced.

Signor Pagliadini had come two minutes
earlier, and now offered his arm to Miss Marjory.
Tor took in Mrs. Classis, Mr. Classis
paired off with Maud, and gladly remained
behind with her till the rest had iron.

I did not know you knew Miss Marjory
Descartes. Is she not delightful ?'

Oh, very !  yes, quite so  delightful ! I
only knew her a little, and that was ages
ago.'

She seems to remember you very well,'
said Maud innocently. * You must have made
a great impression.'

Mr. Classis coughed and stumbled, as he
followed the company downstairs.

Miss Marjory's tongue did good service in
making conversation flow freely at table that
day. It was an oddly-assorted company, and
an effort was needed before the appropriate
air of festivity could be attained.

Mr. and Mrs. Classis distrusted one another,
and were at all but open enmity with their
hosts. Signor Pagliadini was a stranger, a
foreigner, and a supposed spy. Miss Marjory
was just the one woman upon earth Classis
most feared to meet. Lewis was awaiting dismissal
at Maud's hands in the course of the
evening. Almost everyone at table had good
cause to fear or distrust some one or more
of the company ; and with all these conflicting
elements, it was not easy to make talk
run smoothly.

Miss Marjory, however, was not to be
daunted by any such trivial difficulties as
these, and Tor backed her up boldly. When
the ice was once broken, there was not the
same necessity for exertion. People began to
talk to their neighbours, and a pleasant hum
took the place of the first silence, and grew
louder as time went on. Miss Marjory
felt at liberty to talk to her neighbours, and

to amuse herself, now that she had accomplished
her more difficult task.

You understand English remarkably
well, Signor,' she observed suddenly to her
partner. ' It is very odd that you do not
speak it.'

She spoke in English herself; but his
answer was in French.

Madame flatters me!'

Stuff and nonsense ! I never flatter anybody.
Anyone can see by your face that you
can understand every word that passes.'

Pardon, Madame '

And Avhat's more,' continued Miss Marjory
relentlessly, ' I don't believe you're an Italian
at all!'

Mais, Madame '

Now don't be affected, and don't tell me
lies. If you don't choose to speak the truth,
you'd better keep quiet. I detest mysteries
and heroics! Why can't you speak out at
once, and say who you are, and what you've
come for ?'

Signor Pagliadini looked tremendously taken
aback by this sudden and most unexpected
attack. He was silent, and the little deprecatory

shrug he gave, foreign as it was, produced
no impression upon Miss Marjory.

I believe he's an Englishman,' she said to
herself. ' A foreigner would always have something
to say. No Frenchman nor Italian
would be shut up like that, nor take an accusation
so quietly. Who in the world can
he be? Can some family lawyer have got an
inkling of the truth, and have sent a spy into
the camp? I don't believe lawyers out of
novels do things like that. I wonder if the
Classis party are at the bottom of it ? I
begin to think they must be. Well, I will
make it warm for them if they are troublesome.'


With her most agreeable smile, Miss Marjory
now looked across at her opposite neighbour.


Have you never paid Whitbury a visit all
these past thirty years, Mr. Classis?' she
asked sweetly. ' Surely you cannot have forgotten
us so utterly as that ? You were so
enthusiastic about the place when you were
there. Have you never been there since?'

No  in fact  you see, I had very much
to occupy my time;' and he looked at Miss

Marjory with a sort of helpless entreaty, which
she was hard-hearted enough to enjoy.

You left so suddenly, too, without even
making your adieux ! There was quite an
excitement about your sudden flight and expected
return. Nobody dreamed you had gone
for good.'

There was no particular  reason  why I
should return,' hesitated Classis, trying to
put a bold face upon the matter.'

Indeed !' returned Miss Marjory significantly
; ' I should have thought there was
an excellent reason.'

Classis was silent, and his plate stood
before him untouched. What would not that
dreadful woman say next ? He was ready to
wish that the earth would open and swallow
him up! The earth, however, as is usual in
such cases, showed no disposition to espouse
him or his cause.

People had a way of listening when Miss
Marjory spoke, and her last observation had
been heard by one or two, who seemed idly
waiting for what would follow. Miss Marjory
was quite equal to the occasion.

I fancied, perhaps, you had relatives there,'

she went on carelessly. ' There is a Classis
living in the town, but it may be another
family, of course. He is in trade, and doing
a good business.'

Mr. Classis had turned so yellow that
even Miss Marjory thought she had gone far
enough. Most likely he knew at once to
what family that other Classis belonged, and
it was not to be wondered at if the news gave
him a new pang of terror.

Must be another family,' he muttered
hoarsely. ' I've no  no  no relations in
Yorkshire.'

No ? Ah, then it is a mere coincidence.
Hardly likely to be anything more.'

Havens wreaked some of her vengeance
upon Classis, Miss Marjory was able to turn
her attention to the foreigner, who had now
recovered from his momentary confusion.

It was he who opened the conversation, and
he seemed inclined to be aorressive.

Madame has done me the honour to doubt
my word. Will Madame tell me her reason ?
Is it merely because I understand English,
although I cannot speak it with any fluency ?
Surely there are many in a like case.'

I dare say there are ; but I have other
reasons for what I said answered Miss Marjory
boldly, on the ' nothing-venture, nothing-have
' principle, going a good deal farther than
she had any warrant. ' I know more about
you than you think.'

A look of uneasiness flitted across the
young man's face, which his bland smile did
not disguise.

Madame is mysterious. May I not hear
what it is that you have learned of me T

I'm not sare that you may,' answered
Miss Marjory, wondering how far she had
better go.

My curiosity is burning,' he went on in a
low eager tone. ' Madame is cruel to make
accusations which she will not substantiate.'

Miss Marjory looked at him sharply.

What accusations have I made ?'

He hesitated somewhat, and then said :

You tell me I am not what I seem to be.'

Well, can you look me in the face, and tell
me that you are ?'

Signor Pagliadini did not even attempt todo
this. He merely said :

VOL. II. 38

That is a grave charge to bring against a
man.'

If it comes to that retorted Miss Marjory
boldly, ' I could bring a graver one if I
chose.'

Will you explain farther ?'

I am not sure that I will ; but I don't
mind telling you that you are playing a risky
game, and may get yourself into trouble one
of these days.'

How so ?'

He looked so ill at ease that Miss Marjory
felt her attempt to frighten him had been unexpectedly
successful.

You have come here bent on mischief ;
you know that as well as I do. You won't
succeed in what you mean to do, and you
stand a good chance of finding yourself in a
very unpleasant position.'

He gazed at her with an earnestness and
anxiety which told her that her words had
produced an impression. She had not chosen
them with any special care. Her object had
been, if possible, to alarm him, and induce
him to keep as quiet as he would on the

subject of the secret he had discovered. From
the expression his face had assumed, she
imagined that her random shaft had struck
home. '

He is not very bold,' she thought. ' I
must make him nervous.'

'I have not come bent on mischief,
Madame he answered gravely, but not
timidly. ' Madame is in error there. I have
come to put right a wrong  that is all  to do
justice to the helpless and oppressed. If
Madame knew all that I do, she would not
speak as she now does.'

I imagine I know a great deal more than
you do, Signor,' answered Miss Marjory
severely ; ' and I am sure I know a great deal
more than you think. I know pretty well
what idea you have got in your head, and it is
entirely wrong. My friend and our host, Mr.
Philip Debenham, is the soul of honour. You
do not and you cannot understand him. I will
give you this assurance, and also this warning.
Do not attempt to carry out this plan of yours,
for you will never be able to do it. Give it
up with a good grace whilst there is yet time,

382

and do not bring upon yourself the ignominy
of defeat.'

The dark face looked more dark than ever
more in bewilderment, it seemed, than in
anger.

Who will defeat me ?' he asked slowly.

 I will !' answered Miss Marjory, with all
the reckless daring of her nature.

You !' he echoed, looking very hard at her.
Why, what can you do ?'

I can generally do anything I have a mind
to,' answered Miss Marjory significantly.
You had better not make an enemy of me.'

He still looked hard at her  as if he would
read her very soul.

And you are a staunch supporter of  of 
our host  of Philip Debenham's ?'

I am,' she answered coolly; ' and I am as
firm a friend as I am an enemy. Any cause
I take up generally prospers.'

Maud's health was now being proposed, and
all private conversation had suddenly to be
suspended ; but when Miss Marjory sailed
away with the other ladies into the drawing-room,
it was with the comfortable assurance

that she had made profitable use of her time,
and had given Signor Pagliadini a good
scare.

Miss Marjory had enjoyed the dinner-party,
if nobody else had.

MAUD S DECISION.

HEN the ladies left the dinner-table
for the drawing-room, some of the
old constraint seemed to fall upon
the party.

It was not easy for anyone bearing the
name of Classis, to be thoroughly comfortable
at Lady well under existing circumstances.
Matilda and Bertha were in constant dread
of what their mother might say or do next ;
and she, on her part, was in a state of suppressed
restlessness and irritation, which she
found very hard to bear.

She had not heard what it was that passed
between her husband and Miss Marjory at
the dinner-table ; but she felt convinced that
there was some secret from which she was
excluded, and she would gladly have questioned

the guest from Whitbury, and elicited
from her the desired information.

Miss Marjory, however, had no disposition
to be pumped by Mrs. Classis  no inclination,
in fact, for any intercourse whatever with
her. If anything occurred which should make
it desirable for her to be told of her husband's
former marriage. Miss Marjory was quite prepared
to make the necessary communication ;
but then, she would make it after her own
fashion, and in her own words : she had, no
notion of being questioned or cross-examined.
She was perfectly aware that Mrs. Classis
was anxious to obtain a few minutes' private
conversation, and equally determined not to
permit such an interview to take place.

It may, under exceptional circumstances, be
possible to catch a weasel asleep; but under
no circumstances whatsoever, waking or sleeping,
was Miss Marjory to be caught if she did
not intend to be.

Mrs. Classis soon gave up the attempt as
hopeless, yet she had not the least idea that
her manoeuvres had been observed.

It was not long before the gentlemen joined
them in the drawing-room. Tor's face was

somewhat grave ; the Signor looked flushed
and indignant. Lewis seemed nervous and
preoccupied; Classis the same, only to a
greater extent.

Instructed beforehand by his wife (he did
not himself fully understand why), he had
started inquiries respecting Mr. Torwood, and
Signor Pagliadini had taken up the subject
with great zeal, and put the most searching
questions to their host.

The two Belassis father and son, had too
much upon their minds to take great interest
in what passed, and, indeed, a good deal of
it was beyond their power of comprehension ;
but it was evident that the Italian had become
excited, and that the coolness and imperturbability
of their host had annoyed him
more than a little.

Miss Marjory saw at a glance that something
had occurred, and took advantage of a
noisy moment to say in a low voice :

Has anything happened ? Has he made
himself disagreeable? I thought I had pretty
well silenced him.'

Tor could not but smile, as he answered :

 I thought you must have been talking to

him. He seemed as if he had been driven to
desperation.'

Desperate, is he ?' questioned Miss Marjory
briskly. * How very amusing ! I must certainly
see what can be done for him. Mind
you ask him here for a few days. I think it
is time he was brought under our jurisdiction.
I will keep an eye upon him, when once we
get him to LadywelL'

I will ask him, certainly. Whether he will
come, is a different matter.'

You have not quarrelled, have you ?

No ; but he nearly lost his temper. He
does not, I am sure, feel anything but enmity
towards me. He may not care to become my
guest.'

And how do you feel ?'

Strange to say, I can't help liking him,
though he is so troublesome. I'm sure I
have never known him under his present
name, but I am equally sure that I have
known him and liked him at some time or
other, and I can't shake off the old feeling of
liking. I suppose he was some old chum of
of  Tor's, you know. When he comes
back, I dare say it will be all clear.'

There was no time for private conference
now. People were looking impatiently at
Tor, as if to suggest that he should institute
the needful formalities.

I think,' said he, speaking generally to the
company, ' that we had better adjourn to the
library whilst the matter that has brought us
together to-day is discussed.'

Then, as there was a general move towards
the door, Tor said, turning to the Italian :

I'm afraid this next half-hour will be buta
dull one for you  it is merely some family
matter that has to be settled and discussed.
No doubt you would rather smoke your cigar
upon the terrace. I will join you there as
soon as I can.'

You are very good, but I do not care for
solitude and smoke,' answered the Signor. ' If
I am not intruding, I should be much more
interested by listening to Mademoiselle's decision.
I have heard from Miss Meredith
what is the nature of this family gathering.'

Tor thought this showed a very fair assurance
on the part of a stranger, but there was
not time to argue the point now.

Monsieur must please himself,' he said

coldly ; ' but all the conversation will be in
English, and it is of a nature which cannot
possibly interest a stranger.'

As Miss Marjory was to be present, by her
own and Maud's special wish, he could not
say that only the family could be admitted ;
so the Signor, with something like mockery
in his smile and bow, followed Tor into the
library.

Maud lifted her eyebrows as she saw him
enter ; but she had rather a liking for the
handsome Italian, and was more surprised
than annoyed by his appearance.

She was seated in a prominent position in
the great room, and looked quite equal to the
occasion. A flush was on her cheek, and a
light in her eyes which added greatly to her
attractions, and Tor looked at her with an
admiring pride.

He had never asked her, in so many words,
what her decision was going to be; but he
knew it nevertheless. He knew she could never
have been so proud, so gay, so self-possessed,
had she been about to surrender her life and
her future into the hands of Lewis Classis 
to sell herself in a loveless marriage !

There was an unbroken silence in the
room.

Uncle Classis,' said Tor, courteously and
coldly, 'I believe it is your place, as executor
and legal adviser of our late father,
Philip Debenham, and as guardian of my
sister during her minority, to read the will
now in your possession, and any other documents
you may have, which bear upon the
present question.'

He pulled forward, and placed at the head
of the table, a heavy leather covered chair,
and Mr. Classis came forward, with all the
dignity he could assume, and sat down facing
the whole company. He placed his papers
upon the table, and tried to cover his nervous
embarrassment by a pompous air of importance,
which was peculiarly difficult for him to
assume in Miss Marjory's presence.

Maud signed to Tor to come and sit beside
her. She was quite able to stand alone, but
she felt as if her brother was in himself a
tower of strength, and she liked to feel him
near.

Mr. Classis unfolded his document, and,
after a few preliminary remarks, in which he

spoke much of his dearly beloved and
honoured friend and brother, Philip Deben-
ham, and his most dear niece, towards whom
he had always felt like a father, and played,
as far as was permitted him, a father's part,
he proceeded to read such portion of the late
Philip Debenham's will as referred to the inheritance
of his daughter.

Everyone present was perfectly aware of the
condition imposed, before the money which
had been his wife's could pass to his daughter;
but yet, when the words were really read,
which milled away two thirds of a large
fortune from his own child to his wife's
nephew, simply because she might refuse to
become his wife, a murmur of mingled distrust
and indignation seemed to go round the
assembled company ; and, in the silence that
followed, Mrs. Lorraine's quiet voice was distinctly
heard, saying with distressful earnestness
:

 My poor, dear, loving brother never, never
could have made such a will ! He loved his
children too well. He was too noble, too
good, too just ! Oh, there is something very,
very wrong in it all !'

Silence, Olive ! for shame !' interposed
Mrs. Classis sternly. ' You forget yourself
strangely.'

Tor's eyes flashed a look at Mrs. Classis,
which it was perhaps as well for her peace of
mind that she did not see. He rose, and
crossed over towards where the two sisters
were sitting.

Pardon me, Mrs. Classis,' he said ;  but
so long as Mrs. Lorraine honours me by her
presence in my house, it is my place to shield
her from insult. She has full liberty to speak
her mind freely on this and all other subjects.
No one in the world has the right to bid herbe
silent, least of all in my house. Aunt Olive,
I think Maud would like to have you beside
her. Let me give you my arm across the
room.'

Mrs. Classis glared at him with an expression
of vindictive malice, not often so openly
displayed in polite society.

You shall rue this bitterly, Philip Deben-
ham !' she hissed, in a whisper which only he
and Mrs. Lorraine could hear. ' You shall
have good cause to know that I am not to be
insulted with impunity.'

Tor smiled and bowed in his haughty careless
fashion, and led Mrs. Lorraine away.

All this had passed so rapidly, that people
were yet exchanging whispered comments
upon the wording of the strange will.

Miss Marjory, of course, had plenty to say,
and it was not her custom to whisper.

It's the most ridiculous will I ever heard
in my life !' she exclaimed, with an emphatic
gesture of contempt.  It's positively
idiotic ! People are very odd, and there's no accounting
for tastes ; but really this is beyond
everything. Philip Debenham, I believe you
could get the whole thing upset in a court of
law. The man must have been mad when he
drew it up. I should dispute it if I were
you.'

Mr. and Mrs. Classis looked pinched and
blue, despite the warmness of the evening.
The Signor seemed listening with the most
profound interest to every word that was
spoken.

Maud gave Tor a look of half-impatient
entreaty, and he interposed to say to Classis :

Have you anything more to add, before
my sister registers her decision ?'

I have a letter written by her dear dead

father, whom that lady has thought fit '

Here Miss Marjory turned suddenly round
and looked him full in the face. The effect
was instantaneous. The words died away
into silence, and he concluded feebly enough :
A letter to Maud  from her father. Will
you read it, my dear ?'

I see,' said Tor, ' that it is neither sealed
nor fastened. No doubt you are master of its
contents. I think it would be better that you
should read it to us. Is that your wish, Maud ?'

 Yes,' she answered readily. ' I would
rather it was read aloud.'

Classis had no choice but to obey. Perhaps
he did not object to the task. The letter
might possibly convince the company that the
will did but embody the real wishes of Philip
Debenham, senior.

He cleared his throat, and began :

My dear and only Daughter,'

(' As if papa would ever have begun a letter
like that !' breathed Maud indignantly.)

When this reaches your hand, you will

have been made aware of my dearest wish for
your future  a wish that has been near my
heart for many long years, and which will, I
am convinced, secure at once the happiness
and well-being: of your future life. I mean
by this, your marriage With the son of my
dearest and most faithful friend, Alfred Classis.
I cannot doubt that the son of such a father
will grow up to resemble him ; and I feel that
I am doing the best that can be done for your
future, as well as gratifying my own earnest
wish, when I try to do that which will make
you a happy woman for life. When your name
is Classis I shall not know an ungratified
wish ; and if, as is probable, I shall not live
to see the day on which your choice is made,
you will know that by consenting to a marriage
with your cousin, you will be at once
securing to yourself the fortune which I have
conditionally left to you, and doing that
which has been, and always will be, the most
sincere wish of your affectionate father,

 Philip Debenham.'

Dead silence followed the reading of this
elegantly worded epistle.

VOL. II. 39

Philip Debenham had been a man of high
culture and refined scholarly tastes. His letters
had been models of the art of diction. Anything*
clumsy in construction, or faulty in expression,
had certainly never issued from his
pen; and anyone who had ever known him in
his lifetime, or had even known what manner
of man he was, must be convinced that whether
or not that letter was written by himself, its
contents had never been composed by him.

The prolonged silence occasioned Classis
a feeling of discomfort he hardly understood.
He broke it himself, by turning to Maud with
a smile meant to be insinuating and paternal.

There, my dear girl, you hear now what was
the real wish of your dear father. May I hope
that his wishes will be carried out by you, and
that I shall soon have the happiness of welcoming
you as a daughter ?'

Maud's eyes glowed with a strange light.
Dim remembrances of her dead father had
risen u within her, and she felt a burning
indignation against anyone who could so have
abused his confidence and exercised so great
a power over him.

She rose and spoke with a firmness which

showed that she was actuated by no mere
gh4ish caprice.

My decision was made long ago, Uncle
Classis ; but even had it not been, what I
have now heard would have settled the matter.
My father never wrote that letter, except at your
dictation. He only made that Avill under your
coercion. I know it as well as possible, in spite
of anything you may choose to say. Uncle
Classis, I will never marry your son ; and I
will never call you uncle again ; you have
been a false friend, a cruel guardian, anil a
dishonest man. I have made my decision, and
you hear it now. I will lose the money. I will
not marry any son of yours. Philip will take
care of me. He will be my guardian as well
as my brother now.'

She turned to him with a proud and loving
look ; and he stood up beside her, and drew
her hand within his arm. It was a quiet but
significant gesture, and Maud looked up in his
face with a smile.

Then she turned to Lewis, and held out her
other hand.

Lewis,' she said, ' you know I like you. I
am sorry I cannot like you better. It is not

392

your fault that you are a Classis  you are
not a bit like one ; and I am very sorry for
you. I am glad you will be rich, anyway,
and we will always be friends.'

But the conclave was not over yet. Miss
Marjory's tongue could never be silent in
moments of excitement, and now that she had
held her peace as long as it was possible todo
so, she burst out again.

It's the most infamous conspiracy I ever
heard of  as clear a case of coercion as ever
was brought into a court of law. Will !
letter! Stuff and nonsense! I believe the
whole thing is a great forgery!'

Classis looked furious ; but he dared not
fly out at Miss Marjory.

Anybody is welcome to examine them ;
they are absolutely genuine  will and letter
both. Who knows Philip Debenham's handwriting
and signature ? I appeal to them.'

But Miss Marjory paid no heed to him.
She had flown back to her former train of
thought.

Philip Debenham, you must dispute that
will. If there is any equity in law, you can
get it reversed as easily as possible. There

could not be a clearer case of bribery and
corruption, or whatever they call it  at least
of coercion and fraud. Anyone with half an
eye could see exactly how it had all happened.
You have as good a case, I should say, as a
man could wish. Take counsel's opinion' at
once, and act accordingly. I should dispute
that will to the death, if I were you.'

There will be no need to do that,' said
Lewis, coming forward and speaking for the
first time, ' for I decline to take advantage of
it. I am convinced, like other people, that
there is something: odd about that condition.
Anyway, it is a very unjust one. When the
money comes to me, I shall make it over to
Maud. I should be ashamed to live upon her
fortune.'

Miss Marjory jumped up, and shook him by
the hand.

Spoken like a man !' she said with approbation.
' You are no Classis, young man, in
spite of your name. ' I have a great respect
for your character from this moment.*

 No  no, Lewis,' interposed Maud. ' The
money is yours, and you must have it. I
think I am rather glad for you to have something.

You mast not make it over tome.'


If you do, you idiot of a boy,' growled
Classis, whose face was purple, ' I'll cut you
off with a shilling ! I'll turn you out of my
house  I'll make a beggar of you before a week
is over!'

I think I'd as soon be a beggar, as loafing
round at home doing nothing,' remarked Lewis
showy. 'I dare say if I tried I could get
some sort of a berth. I'm not such a fool as
I look.'

I'll help you !' cried Miss Marjory eagerly
' I'll stand your friend. I'll soon find something
you can do. I like to see a man who
wishes to be independent. Don't be down-hearted.
Trust to me.'

And to me,' said Tor, ' if you take a step
like that. I'll try to ensure that you never
repent it.'

Classis looked daggers at his son, and
would have spoken again, but that his wife,
who had crossed the room during the confusion,
laid a warning hand upon his arm.

 Say no more now. Lewis is a mere baby ;
but he is obstinate, and will only commit himself

deeper and deeper if you oppose him now.
We will soon take the nonsense out of him
when we have him alone.'

He must not do it  it would ruin us V
gasped Classis helplessly.

He shall not do it. I will take care of it.
Now come, don't give way, or play the fool.
Quite enough odium and contempt has fallen
to our share to-day, without your adding to
the burden by your cowardice. We had
better get away as fast as wee can, or that
hateful little yellow woman will be making
fresh discoveries.'

I'm sure I don't want to stay groaned
her husband, with evident sincerity. * It's *
the most awful evening I've ever spent in
my life. Let's get up and go. I'll tell them
that I'll not stay here to be insulted any
loiter.'

He tried to assume his dignified air, but
was promptly snubbed by his wife.

You'll do no such thing ! You'll just sit
there till I make the move ! We've had quite
enough of your muddling for one evening !'

Mrs. Classis spoke viciously, because she
felt vicious, not because she had any special

grudge against her husband at this particular
moment.

Her eyes wandered round in search of one
face, and when her glance encountered that of
Signor Pagliadini, something like a magnetic
attraction seemed to draw the two into an
isolated corner.

Mrs. Classis was furious. The last link
which bound her to a peaceable policy was
now snapped asunder, and she was eager to
declare war at all hazards. She was still
greatly in the dark as to how the onslaught
could be made ; but she knew that her nephew
could be attacked with advantage in some
'quarter or other, and that the Italian knew
better than she did how to plan the campaign.
Desperation gave her boldness.

Monsieur,' she began, in a vigorous
whisper, ' does it not seem to you time to
put an end to this game ?'

High time!' he answered gloomily.

If we do not bestir ourselves,' continued
she, feeling her way so as to lead him as far
as possible to commit himself, ' things will
have got beyond our power. We must not
let them go too far.'

A very sombre light glowed in the handsome
eyes of the stranger.

I agree entirely with Madame.'

She looked eagerly at him.

Are you prepared, then, to act ?'

After a momentary hesitation, he answered :

I believe I am.'

And I,' said she, ' will assist you.'

He did not respond warmly to this generous
offer; but Mrs. Classis would not be discouraged.


Two heads, you know, Monsieur, are better
than one !'

 Madame is right.'

And I am not an ally to be despised.
I know much of all the history of the
family.'

True  very true !' he seemed to reflect.
Perhaps, Madame, we had better meet somewhere
soon, where we can discuss this difficult
question.'

To-morrow, then,' she answered eagerly.
Meet me tomorrow bv that fallen tree, where
we talked before. At eleven o'clock T will be
there. Do not forget.'

I will not,' he answered.

But this appointment with Mrs. Classis
did not hinder him from accepting with
alacrity Tor's invitation to pay a short visit
to Ladywell ; and two days larger was fixed
as the date when he miofht commence his
sojourn there.

That man and Mrs. Belassis/ remarked
Miss Marjory, as she watched the departure of
the company  ' mark my word, that man and
Mrs. Classis mean mischief !'

CHAPTER

I. DETECTED -

II. THE ATTACK

III. A STRANGE AWAKENING

IV. ESCAPE

V. FIRST EXPERIENCES

VI. THE WISHING WELL -

VII. THE LAST STRAW

VIII. FACE TO FACE

IX. PHIL OR TOR?

X. MR. AND MRS. Classis

XL MR. MEREDITH'S VIEW

PAGE


21



















CHAPTER PAGE

xii. a man and a brother - - - - 219

xiii. lewis's fate 239

xiv. the lost will 259

xv. the fall of classis - - - - 279

xvi. the last - - 299

JV9

CHAPTER I.

DETECTED.

;OU have kept your appointment,
Monsieur  that is well,' said Mrs.
Classis, in her measured tones.
I am convinced that we ought to understand
one another, that we have the same object
in view. It would facilitate matters if
you would speak out more frankly, and
tell me what is the real object of your visit
here.'

I came to see Mr. Meredith// answered the
Italian, with irritating caution.

Mrs. Classis would not allow her impatience
to betray itself.

Ostensibly, yes ; but you know, and I

vol. in. 40

know, that your real motive was to watch
Philip Debenham.'

The stranger smiled significantly.

1 To watch the present master of Lady well 
Madame is right.'

And the motive of this watching is, I presume,
not friendship for him V

The answer did not come so readily as
she had expected, and it was still ambiguous.

Not friendship  not enmity  simple curiosity.'


Simple curiosity !' repeated Mrs. Classis ;
'that is rather hard to believe. Monsieur,
you know you had a deeper motive than that.
You have admitted as much on two other occasions.
You know that a great injustice is
being done.'

Madame may be right ; but on what
grounds does she bring so great an accusation
against her kinsman V

1 Kinsman !' she echoed wrathfully ; ' I
claim no kin with him. He is a traitor, a
false friend, a treacherous foe. I wash my
hands of him altogether. He has behaved
villainously to me and mine ; I would ruin
him gladly if I could, and so would you.'

The Italian looked steadily into her flushed
face.

1 am not sure he said slowly, ' if I
would.'

You would if you were a man,' she said
with some scorn. ' Think of the wrongs your
friend is enduring !'

1 What friend V

Mr. Torwood. Have you forgotten our
conversation of only a few days back ? You
know better than I do what the wrong is ; but
I know enough.'

What does Madame know V

I know that he is keeping his friend
hidden away somewhere, in a kind of captivity
(unless he has escaped, as I believe you
assured me he had), that he has gained possession
of his money and the management of
his affairs. I have seen with my own eyes
that he is spending Mr. Torwood's money as
lavishly as his own. He is behaving scandalously,
there can be no doubt whatever of that.
If you are a friend of the injured man's, can
you not do something to put a stop to it V

1 Why does not Mr.- Torwood act for himself?'
, .

402

How can I tell ? Most likely lie cannot.
His friend has contrived to settle that point
satisfactorily. He may be in a mad-house, for
aught I know.'

Madame does not know anything, then V
1 No, no facts ; but I know quite well that
evil is going on, and I mean to check it.
Monsieur, will you not help me ? If you will
but tell me what you know, I will be the one
to act ; I will relieve you of all the burden of
responsibility

What does Madame wish to know V
I wish to know where Mr. Torwood is.'
He is not far away from here.'

You mean he is in England V
Yes, certainly.'

And near this place V

Quite near.'

Mrs. Classis looked eager and triumphant.


1 Monsieur is not jesting ?'

1 By no means. I do but speak the
truth

Can he be at Lady well  in the village V

6 Madame is right. He is at Lady well ; he
has been there for some time.'

Mrs. Classis stared at him.
1 At Lady well ? And I have never seen
him'

The Italian smiled significantly.

I never said Madame had not : * seen

 

him.'

>

Mrs. Classis began to grow Excited.

Signor Pagliadini, are you Mr. Tor-wood
V

He shook his head, and she looked disappointed.


I have not that honour

1 Where, and who is he, then ? Monsieur,



I entreat you, introduce me to your friend.'
Madame needs no introduction. Madame

is already well acquainted.'

A long silence ensued. Mrs. Classis' face

had grown dark She seemed half afraid to,

offer another suggestion.

You must tell me more, Monsieur.'

But the eager look on the Italian's face had

given place to one of hesitation. He looked

like a man who has been led on to say more

than he at first intended.

1 have said enough,' he answered quickly ;

1 Madame must not misunderstand me.'

1 1 begin to think I understand at last.'

Mrs. Classis spoke very slowly, as if her
mind was full of thought  too full to admit
of free speech. She pressed her hand to her
head, and her eyes seemed to darken and deepen.

Oh, if that is it, what a villain, a scoundrel
he has been ! But the law will lav a hand
upon him. He shall not be allowed to
escape.'

What do you mean ?' asked the Italian,
who looked somewhat uneasy.

I mean, Monsieur, that you have let out
your secret at last. I know now who and
where Mr. Torwood is. Ah ! why did I not
think of it when Sir Herbert Moncrieff identified
him as Torwood  when we all said how
utterly unlike any Debenham he was ? How
could he ? How dared he ? But he has
reached the end of his tether. Now it is my
turn

The Signor moved restlessly. He looked
half interested, half annoyed. He seemed
eager, yet reluctant, to speak.

Madame must be careful and secret. Mr.
Torwood is a good friend, but a dangerous
enemy.' 

Mrs. Classis pondered over this.

Where is Mr. Debenham ?' she asked suddenly.


1 At sea  on a sea voyage for his health.'

Does he know of this ? Can he have given
Mr. Torwood powers to act V

1 He has not done so. He is too ill to know
anything about it.'

' Could he not be brought back ? He
should prosecute at once.'

Perhaps he would decline to prosecute his
friend.'

Friend !' repeated Mrs. Classis enviously.
Then she added, with an evil look,
1 We are Philip Debenham's next-of-kin. We
will prosecute.'

Her eyes glowed with malicious triumph.
She spoke with a relish that was malignant.

Forgery, fraud, false pretences, gross
treachery and wholesale robbery  a very nice
list against an English gentleman of honourable
name. Yes, Philip Debenham ; a little
quiet conversation with me will open your
eyes considerably. You will not look so bold
at the close, as you do at the commencement of
our interview.'

1 I begin to think I understand at last.'

Mrs. Classis spoke very slowly, as if her
mind was full of thought  too full to admit
of free speech. She pressed her hand to her
head, and her eyes seemed to darken and deepen.

Oh, if that is it, what a villain, a scoundrel
he has been ! But the law will lav a hand
upon him. He shall not be allowed to
escape.'

What do you mean V asked the Italian,
who looked somewhat uneasy.

I mean, Monsieur, that you have let out
your secret at last. I know now who and
where Mr. Torwood is. Ah ! why did I not
think of it when Sir Herbert Moncrieff identified
him as Torwood  when we all said how
utterly unlike any Debenham he was ? How
could he ? How dared he ? But he has
reached the end of his tether. Now it is my
turn.'

The Signor moved restlessly. He looked
half interested, half annoyed. He seemed
eager, yet reluctant, to speak.

Madame must be careful and secret. Mr.
Torwood is a good friend, but a dangerous
enemy.' 

Mrs. Classis pondered over this.

Where is Mr. Debenham V she asked suddenly.


At sea  on a sea voyage for his health.'

1 Does he know of this ? Can he have given
Mr. Torwood powers to act V

He has not done so. He is too ill to know
anything about it.'

1 Could he not be brought back ? He
should prosecute at once

Perhaps he would decline to prosecute his
friend.'

Friend !' repeated Mrs. Classis venomously.
Then she added, with an evil look,
1 We are Philip Debenham's next-of-kin. We
will prosecute

Her eyes glowed with malicious triumph.
She spoke with a relish that was malignant.

Forgery, fraud, false pretences, gross
treachery and wholesale robbery  a very nice
list against an English gentleman of honourable
name. Yes, Philip Debenham ; a little
quiet conversation with me will open your
eyes considerably. You will not look so bold
at the close, as you do at the commencement of
our interview.'

strength, wealth, determination, and this three
months has enabled him to settle himself
firmly in possession. Philip Debenham had
better look to himself when he returns from
sea. This man has all the property, and will
take care that he keeps it. He will dispute
the possession by every weapon in his power,
and he will win.'

The Signor looked uneasy.

You think that V

1 1 am convinced of it. I have studied his
character closely. He is proud, and he is unscrupulous.
He will never submit to be
humiliated. He will fight to the death. It is
might, not right, that conquers in such a
struggle, and he has the power

Signor Pagliadini looked irresolute, like
a man who half wishes, half fears to
speak.

1 Then you would not prosecute V

I should have to think seriously before I
did so. My husband would be swayed in the
matter by me. If we were absolutely convinced
of our cause, we might be inclined todo
so ; much would depend upon the character
and appearance of Philip Debenham when he

appeared. We could not act unless the
whole case were frankly confided to us.'

She paused, but the Italian did not seem
inclined to speak, so she added impressively
:

If you are concerned in this matter, Monsieur,
and have the interests of your friend
really at heart, you cannot do better than confide
in me. I am anxious that justice should
be done ; but T cannot act in the dark. Have
you nothing more to tell me V

There was a little hesitation before the
answer came ; but it was quite decided
then.

 ' No, Madame ; nothing more, I thank
you.'

I hope you may not regret your decision
when it is too late,' said Mrs. Classis loftily,
as she rose and turned away. * Good-morning,
Monsieur

Mrs. Classis walked home in a state of
mind bordering on distraction. She would
have given anything in the world to have been
absolutely certain that this supposed nephew
of hers was an impostor. She hated him so
cordially, that no trouble would be too great to

compass his ruin, if only she could be sure of
her position.

She had many grounds of suspicion ; many
incidents rose to her mind, all pointing to the
desired conclusion, and the Italian had certainly
told her that Torwood was at Lady welland
Philip Debenham at sea. But then came
maddening doubts of the stranger's truthfulness
; and it would be too humiliating to seton
foot a charge which could not be substantiated,
especially such a serious one as
this.

She reached home in a restless and perturbed
state, and found that a cloud seemed to
hang over the atmosphere of Thornton House.
Bertha was pouting and kicking the leg of her
chair, and Matilda's eyes looked as if they had
been shedding tears. Her face was angry and
discontented.

Is anything the matter V asked Mrs.
Classis, as she took her seat at the luncheon-table.


Neither her husband nor her son were
present, and the three ladies had the room to
themselves.

;' Nothing particular. I don't suppose you

will care. You never do care for our interests,
Matilda's or mine. Only Phil's engaged to be
married

1 Philip engaged ! To whom, pray V

To Eoma Meredith, of all people in the
world ! We met old Mr. Meredith out driving,
and he told us. It is a shame ! There's
nothing whatever in her to make him care for
her. It's only because she's had such
chances.'

Mrs. Classis made no reply. She fancied
she might make capital out of what she had
just heard. She was convinced that the Italian
was in love with Koma, and jealousy is a
powerful incentive to revenge.

It is too bad I' cried Matilda, with a half-sob.
'And Phil was so nice and kind and
attentive when he first came, and was always
quite friendly until people made it so horrid
for him that he couldn't come any more. I
do call it too bad !'

'So do 1,' rejoined Bertha. 'It's a great
shame. I'm sure we had as good a chance as
anyone, until mamma spoilt it by being so
disagreeable to him.'

Anger and disappointment robbed the two

girls of their customary dread of their
mother.

The best match in the county grumbled
Matilda. ' And we might have taken our
chance with anyone, if we'd only had fair
play.'

Mamma, how can you sit there smiling in
that aggravating way ?' burst out Bertha
spitefully. 'You know it's your fault.
You've always set yourself against our interests.
I call it dreadful for anyone's mother
to be so unkind. And now you don't seem to
care one bit J'

What should I care about, pray ? Do be
more explicit and less violent.'

Bertha turned away angrily.

Matilda answered sulkily enough :

One of us might have married him, if we'd
had a fair chance.'

A good thing for you you have not ; he is
no fit match for one of my daughters.'

Mamma ! "What do you mean V

I mean that I shall look higher for you
than that  cousin of yours.'

1 Mamma ! He is master of Ladywell !'

Is he master of Ladywell  responded Mrs.

Classis, with more spitefulness than caution.
That remains to be proved.'

Mamma ! What do you mean V
6 That I hardly know. I have been hearing
a very curious story to-day.'

< Oh, what ? Do tell us 1 About Phil V
Well, to speak more accurately, I should
say about the man we have called Phil all this
time.'

Bertha's eyes were bright with excitement.
i Oh, then there is a mystery after all ! I
always did think there was something odd
about Phil, ever since Sir Herbert Moncrieff
was so surprised that he was Mr. Debenham,
not Mr. Torwood.'

Mrs. Classis looked at her.
You suspected something odd then V
Yes ; what Sir Herbert said afterwards, when
he saw Maud, was so funny. I didn't mean to
tell anyone, and I promised Phil I wouldn't ;
but if he's going to marry Roma, I don't care
about keeping his secret any longer.'

Speak out, child. What secret ? Did he
confide in you, and ask you to keep quiet ?
Just explain yourself,' said Mrs. Classis impatiently.


I will, if you'll only give me time

Bertha, who liked to be important, was
delighted to be able to impart anything so interesting
to her mother.

You heard how Sir Herbert greeted Phil
as Mr. Torwood, and how surprised he was
when Phil told him his name was Deben-
ham V

Yes, yes ; go on

'Well, when we were walking about the
gardens together, and he saw Maud, he knew
directly who she was, because he said she was
so exactly like the Philip Debenham he had
met in America. When he remembered that
Tor had just said he was Philip Debenham he
got a little confused, and evidently didn't
quite know what to say. However, I didn't
pretend to notice particularly what he had
said, and we dropped the subject. But I didn't
forget it, and I told Phil about it one day soon
afterwards.'

Did you ? What did he say ? Was he
put out V asked Mrs. Classis eagerly.

No, not at all ; at least, he didn't seem so.
He didn't seem to care a bit ; and he laughed
when I promised to say nothing about it, and

didn't appear to mind at all. He made me
think very little of it myself.'

1 That was his cunning,' said Mrs. Classis
viciously. ' It is quite in keeping with his cool
audacity and daring all throughout. Bertha,
your evidence is of the greatest value at such
a juncture. It is proof positive of the suspicion
I have been puzzling over for an hour
or more.'

Oh ! what, mamma ? Do tell us !' urged
Matilda. .

I believe I know !' cried Bertha, whose
wits were the quickest. Phil is not Phil at
all, but Mr. Torwood ; and he has been pretending
all the while to be Phil. Isn't that
it, mamma V

That is what I strongly suspect,' said Mrs.
Classis, with more of her usual deliberation ;
but girls, no word of this is to be breathed
until I give you leave. A gross wrong has
been committed, and a heartless fraud perpetrated.
We, as Philip Debenham's ,
cannot suffer things to go on unexposed
and unpunished ; but we shall defeat our
own ends if we go to work rashly, or show
our hand too soon. You must be silent as

vol. in. 41

the grave until the time comes for the exposure.
7

The girls looked excited.

But what will happen, mamma ? Will Phil
be sent to prison V

1 should hope so. I should expect a heavy
sentence for so deliberate and treacherous a
crime. The penalty for forgery is a heavy
one

A few days  nay, a few hours back, Matilda
and Bertha would have been filled with compassion
for the unhappy criminal. Now,
however, their feelings had undergone a revolution,
and their interest in him had dwindled
to a mere shadow. The excitement of a crime
and prosecution far outweighed any feeling of
commiseration for the victim.

Oh, mamma, how dreadful ! Will there
be a trial ? Shall we have to be witnesses ?
What will Phil look like ? Oh, how wicked
he must be !'

 And then there will be another Phil to
come here !' cried Matilda, with animation.
Another Phil ten times as nice as this one, I
dare say. I wonder what he will be like, and
what he will say to it all. Mamma, where is

the real Phil ? Why didn't he come ? Why-did
he let Mr. Torwood go on so V

I believe he has been very ill, and entirely
in Mr. Torwood's power. I do not yet know
exactly where he is, or what is the matter with
him ; but I shall find out all in due time, no
doubt. It is evident that he has not been a
free agent during this crisis ; and now he has
been sent on a sea-voyage to get him still
farther out of the way, whilst Mr. Torwood
strengthens himself more and more in his
position. I shall make every effort to find
Philip, and bring him over here. When we once
have the true heir in our keeping, the false one
must abdicate. Maud's likeness to her brother
will prove of inestimable value.'

And Maud is so fond of that dreadful Mr.
Torwood,' said Matilda. ' Whatever will she
say !'

It has been the most disgraceful affair from
first to last,' said Mrs. Classis, with righteous
indignation ; ' but it shall soon be brought to
an ignominious conclusion.'

1 And Phil, the real Phil, will be so fond of
us !' cried Bertha eagerly. ' He will be so
grateful to mamma  and to me too  for having

412

found it all out ; and to papa and mamma for
bringing him back, and helping him against
that wicked man he thought was his friend !
Oh, it will all be so different and so nice!
There will be no more quarrels now. Phil
will quite seem to belong to us ; and I'm sure
he will always feel that he can never be grateful
enough, or do enough for us, for doing so
much for him. It will be altogether delightful f

This was an eminently pleasing view of the
matter, and the sisters became enthusiastic.

c Oh, mamma, how long will it be before
something happens ? Please tell us what you
are going to do f

4 My first step,' said Mrs. Classis deliberately,
' will be to have an interview with this
man who calls himself Philip Debenham. After
that, I shall know better on what ground we
stand.'

THE ATTACK.

AVE you ever examined the securities
of Maud's trust-money V asked

&&Q&B Miss Marjory of Tor. ' Do you
know how it is invested, or what interest has
been accumulating? The interest, even of
the five thousand only, will have mounted up
in eighteen years. Have you ever made inquiries
into the question V

I have made a few inquiries ; but I have
not elicited much information. Mr. Classis
as guardian, trustee, and executor  has had
full power over the money all this time, and
has seen fit to resent any kind of questioning
from me.'

That looks bad,' said Miss Marjory. ' That
man is a rogue, Philip.'
' I am aware of it.'

A pretty sort of trustee ! How could Mr.
Debenham have trusted him V

I believe he did not do so. I believe he
made a later will. I believe this one was a
mere blind '

A later will !' cried Miss Marjory exultantly.
Why, of course he did  that would explain
it all. I could not conceive how a sane

man But where is the later will, then ?

Why is it not produced ? Why does this one
stand V

Tor shook his head.

We are afraid it fell into the hands of
Classis, as the mass of papers did. You know
as well as I, what its fate would be then.'

You think he has destroyed it V

'Ido

Miss Marjory paused, with her head on one
side. By-and-by she said :

'so do not I.'

'Why not?

Because he is so unequivocally anxious for
Maud's marriage with his son. Maud would
only bring in a dowry of five thousand, as
matters stand now  a mere pittance for a
young lady of refined and expensive tastes.

But if he suspects the existence of a later will,
his anxiety is explained. When Maud is his
son's wife, he could snap his fingers at any
discovery.'

Tor's eyes brightened.

There is a great deal in what you say,
Miss Marjory. I have not been blind to the
strangeness of Mr. Classis' eagerness for the
marriage. I taxed him with it once, and
asked point-blank for his motive. You may
guess whether he told it.'

We must find that will !' cried Miss
Marjory, with energy. ' It must be hidden
away somewhere. But where can it be ?'

I am much afraid it must have perished.
The house Mr. Debenham lived in has been
pulled down and rebuilt, and the furniture
sold. You may be sure Classis would have
made an exhaustive search, if his suspicions
had been excited, as is likely enough

If his were not, his wife's would be,' said
Miss Marjory decidedly. ' Those two Classis',
husband and wife, are as big a pair of knaves
as ever walked the earth.'

The door opened, and the servant announced :

1 Mrs. Classis.'

Talk of ' began Miss Marjory.

Show her in,' said Tor aloud ; adding, in a
low voice, ' What can she have come for V

Mischief,' answered Miss Marjory, her eyes
sparkling. ' May I stay V

By all means.'

If she is too disagreeable, I shall put in my
word. I can silence her if needful.'

There was no time for more, for Mrs.
Classis was at the door.

Tor rose to receive her ; but his greeting
was somewhat cold. After their last passage-alarms,
Mrs. Classis had not disguised her
unfriendly feelings.

Miss Marjory merely bowed slightly ; and
the keen brightness and alertness of her gaze
did not altogether please the visitor.

I have come to see you on business,'
said she, as she seated herself and looked at
Tor.

I shall be happy to give your business all
possible consideration,' he answered politely.

It is not my business,' said Mrs. Classis,
with significance. c But it is of a private
nature ;' and here she looked at Miss Marjory,
who did not stir.

Does the privacy of its nature concern you
or me V questioned Tor.

1 You, of course. Do you imagine I should
discuss my private affairs with you f

6 And yet remarked Tor, with a smile, ' you
expect me, it would seem, to discuss my private
affairs with you.'

I shall give you no option,' said Mrs.
Classis, with acrimony ; ' but remember they
are private.'

Again she looked at Miss Marjory, who
merely smiled, not altogether without malice.

I have a taste for dabbling in other people's
private affairs,' she said audaciously. ' I think
you would be surprised if you knew some of the
things I know about the lives of people almost
unknown to me.'

Mrs. Classis made no reply, but felt vaguely
uneasy. Tor said quietly :

Miss Marjory Descartes is my very good
friend. If what you have to say relates only
to me and my affairs, she is welcome to
hear it.'

Oh, very well,' answered Mrs. Classis
viciously. * If you have no sense of shame
yourself, I'm sure I do not wish to spare you.

All the world may know what I know, for
aught I care. Indeed, they soon will do, and
you will see then how far your precious popularity
will carry you. You will find yourself
in a felon's dock before the next assize is over,
if you do not play a very different game from
the one you are doing now.'

Tor listened with a coolness which was a
little disconcerting to the excited woman
before him. Forewarned was forearmed in his
case, and he evinced nothing but an amused
incredulity in face or voice.

Indeed ! this is most interesting. I had
no idea such greatness loomed before me. Pray
go on ; it is like a chapter from Wilkie Collins.
Isn't it exciting, Miss Marjory V

Very. It always amuses me to see people
make egregious blunders answered Miss Marjory
affably. ' I hope Mrs. Classis has a
great deal more to tell us.'

Mrs. Classis felt her face grow pale with
rage. She had never before had any statement
of hers treated with anything so like
ridicule.

1 1 have a good deal more to tell you she
answered, with suppressed savageness ; ' and

you may thank me for great consideration that
you hear it first through me, and not through
a lawyer.'

I am ready to thank you even for a fancied
consideration answered Tor quietly ; ' but let
me tell you that I would much rather hear
anything you may have to say from a lawyer
than from you. I know how to deal with a
man, and with a libel ; but to a lady and a
relative, and in my own house, it is difficult
to find any suitable reply to whatever charges
she may see fit to bring.'

I am not a relative ; and you are not in
your own house  you know that as well as L'

Miss Marjory lifted her eyebrows, shrugged
her shoulders, and smiled a smile that was
truly exasperating, as she glanced at Tor. The
look said as plainly as words could do, ' Is she
mad V

Mrs. Classis, strong though she felt her
cause, began to wish she had waited for a few
proofs before making an attack. The ground
under her feet was not secure enough to
warrant an encounter with two such foes as
she now saw before her.

1 1 am quite ready to repudiate our relationship,

now that I find it is as unwelcome to
you as it is to me said Tor coolly ; ' but I
repeat once more, that in my own house I
cannot answer in fitting terms a lady who
chooses to insult me. If it is all the same to
you, Mrs. Classis, I would rather you let me
hear whatever you have to say through your
husband, or through a lawyer. If you have
any charge to bring against me, as your words
seem to imply, you had better have your case
made out in the usual way.'

Mrs. Classis knew that as matters stood at
present she had no case ; and the cool scorn of
her adversary's tone stung her to the quick.
She knew he was an impostor, yet she had no
real evidence to bring forward. But she was
not going to be silenced so easily.

I shall act as I choose, and speak as I
choose, and when I choose,' she answered
angrily. ' Bold and wicked as you are, I have
my hand on the clue which will in the end
bring shame and ruin upon you. Where is
your friend, Torrington Torwood V

At sea, on a voyage for his health.'

He is not. He is in England. He is at
Ladywell. He is in this very house V

Indeed ! If you are so well informed as to
my friend's movements, why come to me V

1 Your friend !' she echoed scornfully ;
1 friend, indeed ! Why do you even try to
keep up the deception when all is known ?
You are Torrington Torwood yourself !'

How very interesting ! Well, I have
played the part often enough to feel quite at
home in it. Produce your " Philip Deben-
ham," and I will gladly abdicate in his favour.
It will not be the first time we have changed
names and situations.'

Mrs. Classis grew more and more excited,
It is very aggravating when we know we have
got hold of the truth, not to have power to
make it recognised and admitted by others.

Do you mean to say that you are prepared
to swear' she began, with great emphasis 
to swear that you are Philip Debenham V

c I am prepared to swear a good deal in the
right place and at the right time,' answered
Tor, with a steady look at Mrs. Classis out of
his great grey eyes, which was not agreeable
to her. ' But to you I shall certainly decline
to swear anything at all. You have thought
fit to accuse and insult me in my own house,

being fully aware that under the circumstances
you could do so with impunity. You have,
however, reached the extreme limit ; and for
your own sake I should advise you to be content
with the answers you have already received.
As I have said before, if you have
any charge against me, you had better send
it through the right channel  that of the law

Miss Marjory nodded her head approvingly ;
she admired Tors high-handed way of carrying
things, and could, see that it quite took his
enemy by surprise, and disquieted her somewhat
; at the same time, she thought a little
more diplomatic questioning would have been
advisable before a declaration of open defiance
had been made. They were quite ignorant as
to the strength of the adversary's cause, and it
was hardly politic, perhaps, to court the intervention
of the law, although it was probably,
in the present position of affairs, something of
an idle threat.

She was not altogether sorry that at this
crisis of the conversation, Tor was called suddenly
away. He was not sorry, neither was
Mrs. Classis, for the interruption. She had
no intention of leaving: without another attempt

to elicit the truth, bringing forward at
the same time her evidence, such as it was,
which would most likely produce some effect ;
and she was glad of a pause, which would
enable her to think over what she meant to
sav.

Miss Marjory, however, did not leave her
long in peace. The door had hardly closed
behind Tor before she began briskly :

Really, Mrs. Classis, I am intensely interested
in all you say. It is quite like a
romance, this doubt you have cast upon my
friend's identity. Do tell me some more.
What can have made you think such a
thing V

Everybody can see that this man is not a
Debenham, and people who met him abroad
all know him as Torwood. Signor Pagliadini,
though not willing to take an active share in
the accusation, knows perfectly well that this
man is Torwood, and that Philip Debenham
is at sea. And, moreover, the real Philip
Debenham is strikingly like Maud, who has,
as you see, no resemblance at all to this impostor.'


Really, how very interesting ! You surprise

me. That point about the likeness is
very remarkable. You are perhaps aware that
I was intimately acquainted with Mr. Tor-wood's
father ; and when I happened to see a
photograph of Mr. Debenham's friend, I was
much struck by the very strong likeness it
bore to Guy Torwood, whom I once knew so
well. Curious how likenesses strike different
persons, is it not % Signor Pagliadini thinks
him like Maud. I think him like my old
friend. Odd, is it not ? There is no accounting
for such things

Mrs. Classis looked floored. Miss Marjory
spoke so easily and naturally that it was hard
to imagine she was playing a part ; yet, if
what she said was true, one great fraction of
her evidence was all but demolished.

You knew  Mr. Tor wood's father,' she
stammered. ' And the photograph this  this
man showed you, as Mr. Torwood's, was like
his father V

Strikingly so. I recognised it at once from
its likeness. I must see now if I can trace in
it any likeness to Maud.'

Sir Herbert Moncrieff, who met Maud at a
party, was much struck by it ; and he called

this Philip Debenham, Torwood,' said Mrs.
Classis.

Miss Marjory seemed to consider.

'Well, Mrs. Classis, the whole question
seems rather a puzzling one ; but I cannot think
it likely, from what I know of our friend, that
he would run his head into a noose for nothing.
In all probability things are as he says ; but,
if not, you may be quite sure he is acting as
his friend's agent, with his friend's consent 
probably at his request. Those two men have
been devoted friends for eighteen years  is it
likely one would suddenly take a mania-for
robbing and defrauding the other ? Whatever
is being done is, you may be certain, done by
mutual agreement ; and you would find yourself
in a very awkward position if you took my
young friend's hint, and went to law, only to
find yourself the laughing-stock of the nephew,
whose cause you thought you were promoting.
I believe, too, that no one could prosecute but
the injured party. I leave you to judge
whether this is probable

But Mrs. Classis, though somewhat taken
aback, was not to be so easily suppressed.

My nephew is ill, and unable to act for

vol. in. 42

himself. I have reason to believe that his
mind is temporarily affected. He is quite in
his friend's power, and most unscrupulous use
is being made of this power. We, as ,
are bound to protect him, and we will
do so at all risk. Let Torrington Torwood
look to himself!' the last words were added
with such animus that Miss Marjory's lip
curled.

1 You are very generous, certainly, towards
this mythical nephew of yours, whose existence
you have presupposed. Do you not think
you are actuated in reality by your curious
and incomprehensible dislike to  my Mr.
Debenham ? If so, you may soon find yourself
in a very awkward position.'

Incomprehensible !' echoed Mrs. Classis.
He has done nothing but insult and oppose
us ever since he came back. He has a smooth
tongue, but he is our enemy at heart, and he
will do us an ill-turn when he can. He knows
that, and I believe you know it too.'

1 do not know it. What I do know is that
he has been wonderfully considerate towards
you ; and although he is acquainted with facts
which must seriously affect your peace of mind,

and might bring you the greatest unhappiness
a woman can suffer, he has refrained from
letting fall one syllable which could injure you,
in spite of all the provocation you have given
him. I advise you, however, not to go too
far. A man's patience is not supposed to bea
very elastic article. If you do not take care,
you may find the tables turned upon yourself.'


Mrs. Classis looked uneasy.

What can you know about my affairs ?
Has this Philip, as he calls himself, told you
more than he tells me V

Perhaps he has ; but in this instance it was
I who told him.'

What did you tell him V

Miss Marjory looked at her without answering.


What did you tell him V repeated Mrs.
Classis.

Do you really wish to know ? It will not
be pleasant news.'

I do wish to know.'

I suppose you are not aware that your
husband was married in 1843 V

Married !' gasped Mrs. Classis.

422

'Married, in Whitbury Minster, to a girl
named Nelly Roberts, who bad been in my
service as lady's-maid. He deserted her two
months after the marriage, and, so far as I
know, never heard of her again.'

Mrs. Classis sat like one turned to stone.

1 What became of her V she asked, when she
could find voice.

I She lived for some time in Whitbury, and
then her health failed, and she went away.
Eventually she died ; but I lost sight of her
before then.'

When did she die V

'Not long after February, 1850 ; but I do
not know the exact date.'

I I was married in the May of that year,'
said Mrs. Classis.

I know ; and I hope  I hope  at any rate,
inquiries are being made, and we shall soon
learn the truth ; but I do not for a moment
believe your husband knows anything about
the matter. I believe he lost sight of her
utterly.'

Mrs. Classis said nothing for awhile. ' Then
she asked :

My nephew knows this V

He does.'

c Why did he not tell me V
1 believe he wished to spare you.'
Then why do you tell me now ?'
Because I wish to warn you. It seems tome
that you are taking a very unwise course ;
and I think it fair you should know to what it
may lead you, if you too far provoke your
nephew.'

Mrs. Classis, however, was not long subdued.
Her heart certainly misgave her ; but she would
not show it ; and she had a lingering hope
that perhaps Classis did know more of the
history of his first wife than Miss Marjory
supposed. She had no great opinion of his
moral character or ability ; but she doubted
whether he would dare to commit a crime like
bigamy.

I shall do as I think right,' she said, with
a loftiness of manner which was well assumed,
though only an assumption. ' Justice must be
done, at all costs. I may have been wronged,
but I will not permit wrong to go unpunished.'
Vials of wrath were being stored up to be
poured upon the head of Classis ; but here
matters must be carried with a high hand.

1 Please yourself,' answered Miss Marjory
pleasantly. ' You seem to me very anxious
to court defeat and ridicule, but that is certainly
your business, not mine. ,

Mrs. Classis felt that the interview had
lasted long enough, and she rose to go.

Mr. Torwood does not seem inclined to
hurry back she said,  so I will not intrude
upon you longer. Tell him, with my compliments,
that if he declines to listen to me, he
will soon be forced to listen to Signor Palliating.'


Mrs. Classis walked rapidly from the house,
her mind in a tumult of angry feeling and
horrible uneasiness as regards her own position.
So engrossed was she, that she did not perceive,
until close upon him, the Italian, who
was walking up to Ladywell to pay the
promised visit. When face to face, she stopped
short and said :

They will dispute it. He means to keep
the name and position he has assumed. Try
your power, if you will ; but his mind is
made up.'

Then, without waiting for a reply, she resumed
her rapid pace.

Signor Pagliadini was strangely preoccupied
that first evening at Ladywell. Make what
effort he would, it was plain to all that he had
something on his mind. It did not, then, surprise
Tor overmuch when, as the household
was preparing to disperse that night, he said :

Can I speak with you a few moments in
private V

Certainly, Signor said Tor readily.

1 1 am anxious not to be interrupted continued
the Italian, with something of nervous
constraint in his manner. ' Would it be asking
too much that you should join me in my
room, when your leisure permits it V

6 1 will be with you in ten minutes said
Tor. ' I have to go round the house, as usual.
I will not keep you waiting long.'

Do not hurry, Signor said the Italian
courteously. ' I will await your convenience.'

He went upstairs with his candle.

1 It is coming now said Tor to Miss Marjory,
as he handed her hers. ' Whatever it is,
I shall hear it now.'

Put on a bold face, then,' advised Miss
Marjory, 'as you did this afternoon. Never
say die ! You will pull through yet.'

Perhaps ; but something tells me that this
man is a very different kind of adversary from
Mrs. Classis.'

Miss Marjory was privately of the same
opinion, but she would not betray her uneasiness.


I wish I could be present to support you
again, but that would hardly do. Be bold,
and admit nothing. You have my best
wishes ; and come what may, I will stand by
you.'

I believe it, and am grateful said Tor ;
and then they shook hands warmly, and after
the nightly prowl round the house, Tor, with
rather a sinking heart, mounted to Signor
Pagliadini's room.

A Strange AWAKENING.

;T will be necessary now to make a
break in the continuity of the story,
and return to the spotless bedchamber
in Dr. Schneeberger s house, where
the real Phil Debenham lay so long.

For many weeks after Tor had left him, he
remained in a state of helpless torpor 
knowing nothing, hearing nothing, seeing
nothing  merely taking what nourishment was
given in a mechanical fashion, from which all
power of volition seemed absent.

But gradually a change came over the sick
man. By slow degrees, and without any
visible alteration in his condition, his brain began
to recover its faculties, and long before he
was inclined to evince any sign of life, he was

able to hear, and in part to comprehend, what
went on around him.

At first his thoughts were very dim and
indistinct, and he was chiefly disturbed by a
haunting dread that Tor had left him. He
missed him, in a blind, unreasoning way, and
was vaguely distressed by the absence of his
friend, before he had really realized that he
was alone.

As his brain-power gradually strengthened
he took in other things.

He found that, to this unknown household,
wherever it might be, he was known as Herr
Torwood, and over this strange metamorphosis
he puzzled long and helplessly, and threw
himself again into unconsciousness for some
clays.

When he woke again, his mind was still
clearer. He gave, however, no sign of comprehension,
partly because the effort to awake
his benumbed faculties seemed greater than he
cared as yet to make, partly because a vague
mistrust and uneasiness had fallen upon him,
and he felt that he must gain a clearer insight
into his surroundings, before he allowed it to
be seen that he had come to himself.

One day, whilst he was in this state, the
little German, whom he supposed to be a
doctor, because of his daily visits and careful
examinations  one day this German doctor
brought with him a medical friend, to whom
he talked long and learnedly over the supposed
condition of his patient's brain.

Doctors and Germans, however, are not
above gossip, and after the medical side of the
subject had been exhaustively discussed, they
fell into another vein.

The Herr Debenham, his rich friend, will
be very much disturbed at this long insensibility,'
remarked Dr. Schneeberger.

Where, then, is this Herr Debenham ?
Does he visit his friend often f

1 No, he cannot. He is in England. I think
he is a great lord there. He has come into
some very vast property, I believe. Gretchen
thinks so, from what he told her when he was
here, after he had brought his friend to us. His
letters come from a Lady well Manor. I believe
an English Manor is equal to a Schloss with
us. He may be a Gras, for all I know.'

He pays well for his friend here, I suppose
V

Very well. He is a true Englishman for
that. He was so anxious to leave Herr Tor-wood
with me, that I believe he would have
paid any sum I chose to ask. Ah ! yes ; he is
a liberal patron. I have a great respect for
Herr Debenham. Such a handsome Englishman,
too!'

Well to be his friend, then,' said the other.
Does he purpose to come and see this one
ever V

I am to send for him the moment I detect
any sign of returning sensibility. He is
very anxious to be with his friend when he
awakes from this long sleep. I confess I, too,
am anxious that he should be here, in case
what he expects should take place

What does he expect V

He tells me that upon a former occasion,
when the Herr Torwood became unconscious
for a short time, he came to himself, believing
himself to be Herr Debenham ; and
it was a good while before he could be convinced
of his own identity. Now this is a
very curious symptom, and will be interesting
to watch ; but as I am a stranger to Herr
Torwood, I would rather his own friend was

with him to convince him of his error. I might
find it difficult.'

4 What an odd thing!' said the second doctor.
I never heard of a similar case. I wonder
if it will be so V

'Herr Debenham, I am sure, anticipates it.
He has alluded to it more than once in his
letters. He tells me that they have, from
time to time, passed under each other's names
during their travels, which may perhaps
account, to a certain extent, for the confusion
of ideas.'

Perhaps ; still, it is an odd symptom. One
would be curious to watch its development.'


And then the two doctors took their departure,
leaving the patient, they supposed to
be so utterly vacant, in a very perturbed
sale.

Phil's mind was not altogether clear, the
true balance of his faculties was not entirely
restored. He could understand a great deal,
but he could not weigh possibilities, or grasp
a complex situation, as he could have done at
another time.

Had he been able to do this, it is probable

lie might have guessed somewhat at Tor's
motive for acting as he had done. His entire
confidence in his friend would have sustained
him until he could see him face to face, and
learn the truth from his own lips. But in its
present clouded state, his mind could only take
in one thing at a time ; and the fact which he
had firmly grasped, through overhearing this
conversation, was that his friend had defrauded
him of his name and position, and was living
upon his estate, whilst he had taken care that
the real possessor should not be believed when
he did recover consciousness, and have power
to assert his claim.

Ladywell was a name well known to Phil.
The Manor House had been his ideal of all a
house should be, from his childhood's days,
when he and little Maud had played in secluded
corners of the park. The old uncle, who was
regarded as something of an ogre, to be feared
and avoided, was only dimly remembered ; but
Phil had always known that he was his great-uncle's
natural heir, and with the buoyant
hopefulness of his nature, had entertained a
dim expectation that the property might, by
some lucky chance, come to him, either by

testamentary bequest, or (in absence of will)
as heir-at-law.

Evidently this is what had taken place.
The old man had died. The property had
come to him, and Tor, forgetting under pressure
of temptation all his old honour and uprightness,
had taken advantage of Phil's helplessness,
and of the fact that he was a perfect stranger
to his own relations, and had claimed the
inheritance as his own, calmly transferring his
own name and personality to his unconscious
friend, and adopting Phil's instead.

Phil writhed in helpless irritation and dismay
when the whole force of the situation
broke upon him. He had no clue to Tor's
real motive ; naturally it did not occur to him
to imagine it. He could think of nothing but
the treacherous way in which he had been
defrauded, and of what possible steps he could
take to free himself from the net which had
been cast about him.

One thing was self-evident. He must
remain in a state of apparent insensibility for
the present. If he betrayed one gleam of
consciousness, Tor would be summoned ; and
once let Tor's strong hand close over him, and

Phil knew that he should be powerless. He
had not lived eighteen years in close company,
without knowing Tor's strength of will and
purpose ; and he knew that in an open struggle
he would simply be crushed. Tor's word, not
his, would be believed ; and if he were to be
resolute in his declaration that he was Philip
Debenham, he might, for all he knew, be housed
in a madhouse before many days were over.

It was a terrible suspicion, and quite sufficed
to keep up all Phil's determination to remain
quiet until he had matured some plan of
escape.

From time to time some of the old loving
confidence in Tor would assert itself, and Phil
would be half tempted to have him summoned,
and learn from his own lips how it was that he
had acted thus ; but then again doubts and
fears filled his mind, and the risk seemed too
great a one to run.

Suppose Tor was his enemy ? Suppose, having
made one false step, he had then advanced
until retreat should be impossible ? Such things
had happened before, and might happen again.
When once a man had fallen, had begun a course
of deceit and treachery, it was a hard matter to

draw back. Phil was ready to believe that
Tor might have acted, in the first place, simply
from an impulse of ambition ; but he could
not get over his fear, that having once announced
to the world that he was Philip
Debenham, and assumed the position at Lady-well
Manor to which the name entitled him,
he would be prepared to stick to his colours at
all cost, and would never admit himself a liar,
an impostor, and a forger.

No ; come what might, Tor would make up
his mind, and he would yield to nothing but
actual force. He would never submit to humiliation
and disgrace, and he had evidently
taken every means in his power to ensure
himself against danger. He would never willingly
let Phil escape from his clutches, and
therefore it would be necessary to use subtlety
before he could hope to obtain his freedom.

For many days Phil lay silent and motionless,
making plans and weighing possibilities.
As the helplessness of his condition grew more
and more apparent, so did his bitterness increase
against his former friend.

Friend' indeed ! Phil often smiled mournfully
over the mockery of the word ; and

vol. in. 43

would lie for hours brooding over the strange,
mysterious change which must have come
over Tor, before he could stoop to such
treachery and baseness. ' Mine own familiar
friend,' he would sometimes murmur to himself
over and over again ; ' mine own familiar
friend,' until the words seemed to haunt him
night and day, as the most expressive in the
whole language of thought. Yes, it was ever
so ; it was no new thing, this sudden betrayal
of confidence, this treacherous attack from one
who had answered to the sacred name of
friend. It had been true thousands of years
ago, and it was true that day. The history of
the world could furnish countless instances of
that same crime ; and as the great Woman
Emperor found, it was the hand of the familiar
friend which was readiest to strike the deathblow.


Et tu, Brute f

Those words of dignity and pathos have
passed into a household word, but never
before had Phil so realized their melancholy
and touching significance.

Mine own familiar friend '  yes, indeed.
It was to that very familiarity, that implicit

confidence which existed between them that
Tor owed the power to practise this 'great deception.
This was an added pang, and cost
Phil many hours of bitter thought.

He had learned during these days of consciousness
how this household, of which he
seemed a member, divided its time. He knew
when food would be brought up for him, and at
what hour the doctor paid his daily visit. He
knew when to expect the maid to sweep) out
the room and dust the furniture, and he
equally knew when he should be left long
hours in solitude.

One day, at this time, he tried the experiment
of getting up. He found his strengthless
impaired than he had feared, for he had
but a dim idea of the flight of time, and did
not know if months or weeks had passed since
he had been laid low, nor did he understand
exactly what it was that had ailed him.

After a few trials, made day by day, he was
able to stand and walk without any great
difficulty ; the giddiness he experienced at first
diminished with every trial.

Soon he was able to stand and sit for sometime
; and he then began a careful search for

432


Library

any papers which Tor might have left behind,
by accident or design, which could throw any
light upon the subject which so haunted
him.

He soon saw that an exchange of personal
trifles had been effected ; watches and seals,
cigar-cases, pencils, pocket-books, all had been
changed, evidently because they bore upon
them some clue to the owner's identity. In
Tor's pocket-book, which had been left behind,
was a sealed packet, which, to Phil's great
astonishment, contained English bank-notes
to the value of 500.

He looked utterly amazed, and then his face
clouded.

Is it a bribe ? or is it a trap ?  I cannot
tell. But if I can escape, this money will be
everything in my chance of success. Ah ! and
here is a paper  what can this be V

It w r as the lawyer's letter informing Phil of
his accession to wealth and property. The
very reading of it, with the associations called
up by the various items of intelligence, was
enough to set Phil's heart beating with impatient
longing. The other papers Tor had
taken away with him, so that Maud's letter

and Mr. Maynard's could explain nothing ; although
in them lay the clue to Tor's reckless
deed.

Phil placed everything exactly as he had
found it, and lay down again to meditate.

His plan  the plan which for days and days
had been slowly shaping itself in his brain,
was this : He must escape from his present
captivity, but must escape in such a way that
no uneasiness should be excited in Tor's mind
he must remain in ignorance of the matter.

Once free from restraint and with money in
his pocket, Phil would go in disguise to Lady-well,
and watch what the enemy was about.
He could then calculate what were his chances
of success, should he bring an action against
him ; and he might possibly be able to detect
some extenuating circumstances which should
make the crime less black.

Not willingly had Phil believed his friend a
traitor ; and there still lurked in his heartsome
hopes of a future reconciliation. But
doubt and distrust were very strong, and the
feeling of helplessness most trying. Tor had
taken possession of every credential Phil could
have brought forward as proof of his identity,

and, as it were, cut away the ground from
under his feet in every possible way.

Phil knew nothing of his likeness to his
family, and was not man of the world enough
to see that his own knowledge and recollection
of the events of his childhood and of his native
place, as opposed to Tor's ignorance, would
go far towards making good his case, were
it brought before competent authority. He
could only see at present that it would be his
bare word, against Tor's word backed, by all
the credentials which should have been his.
He knew Tor would be no mean opponent,
and his heart sank at the thought of a hand-to-hand
fight.

No, he must go disguised, whilst Tor believed
him still in Germany, and then he
would try to read the riddle ; and if he dared,
he would confront his false friend face to face,
and wrest the truth from him by threat, or by
sheer force of justice.

But this plan of escape involved the cooperation
of the German doctor, in whose care
he had been left ; and it might be a difficult,
even a dangerous matter to secure it.

However, Phil was not without a certain

dogged obstinacy of his own, and he determined
that he would at least make a bold
attempt, and trust to chance for success.

Upon the following day, when the doctor
visited him, he received him with wide-open
eyes, and a look of quiet comprehension, which
sent the little man into a silent ecstasy of
delight.

'Dr. Schneeberger/ began Phil, after he
had calmly and rationally replied to some
dozen searching questions, ' will you sit down
for a few minutes and listen to something of
importance that I have to say V

Certainly, my dear sir, certainly. I am
only too delighted. What news this will befor
your good friend ! I think I ought to send
him a telegram at once to inform him.'

Not just yet, if you please, doctor said
Phil quietly ; * I want you first to hear
what I have to say to you.'

1 will listen to. any thing, so long as you do
not too greatly fatigue yourself. 1

I will be careful not to do so. Now,
doctor, I am going to ask you a few questions.
Was I not brought here several weeks ago by
a tall, good-looking Englishman, who gave his

name as Debenham ? And did he not inform
you that my name was Torwood V

Dr. Schneeberger nodded his head.

Certainly  exactly. You have accurately
stated the case.'

And did he, or did he not, warn you that
when I recovered my senses, I should be under
the impression that my name was Debenham V

The doctor stared.

Well  ah ! let me see  well, yes, he certainly
did give me some such warning ; but I
cannot imagine how you came to know it.'

He was looking very curiously at his
patient, as if to detect some new and strange
phenomenon in his case. But Phil confronted
him with an unwavering eye, and spoke on
connectedly and quietly.

1 1 know it, or guessed it, from what I know
of the circumstances which surround me, and
from what I heard and remarked whilst I
seemed to you to be still unconscious.'

You have recovered, then, gradually V
cried the doctor eagerly. ' It was not the work
of a moment V

I have been slowly recovering for several
days ; but this is the first time that I have

felt any inclination to rouse myself and let it
be known. You have doubtless known similar
cases V

Dr. Schneeberger assented readily, and
talked a good deal of the brain and its various
developments. Phil listened with praiseworthy
patience, until a pause gave him the
opportunity to proceed.

When this friend of mine informed you
that he considered it probable I should claim
the name of Debenham upon my recovery, did
it not strike you as a very odd thing for him
to suppose V

Well, yes ; certainly it was a remarkable
symptom, one which interested me greatly

'Did you ever know of a case in which,
after the brief confusion of ideas on first recovery,
a man did not know his own
name V

Well, no ; I certainly have not known of
such a case ; but one is always making fresh
discoveries in the book of Nature.'

1 Or of art suggested Phil. ' And now,
doctor, your candid opinion : do you think it
likely, do you consider it practically possible,
for a man to recover the full use of his

faculties, and yet not to know who he
is?'

The doctor hummed and hawed a little,
but admitted that it seemed rather an improbable
idea, when looked at in that light.

I want you to look at it in this light ; not
simply from a medical point of view. Treat
me as a man, not as a patient, and tell me if
it never occurred to you what could be the
reason for such a statement on the part of my
friend

He said it had occurred before, and might
recur in this instance. '

And it never struck you as possible that I
might really be Philip Debenham, and he the
Torwood he wished to make me out V

The doctor stared, and eyed him suspiciously.


1 No, certainly ; such an idea as that never
occurred to me for a moment

Think over the idea for a moment, doctor,
and see what you make of it.'

Dr. Schneeberger looked puzzled, and
seemed to turn the matter over in his mind,
looking all the while meditatively at Phil.

You see that I know what I am saying V

Yes, you certainly do that.'

I am talking to you now in a foreign
tongue. I am ready to answer any and every
question you like to put upon any subject with
which I am acquainted. I can tell you, as I
mean to do, the whole of my past history, or
talk to you in half a dozen languages. Do
you think it is possible that I do not know my
own name V

1 It seems improbable ; but we will have
your friend over, and hear all he has to say.
Why should he say he is a Debenham if he is
not ?'

He had a very adequate motive, as I will
show you. My name gained for him wealth
and position, and landed property of considerable
value. I will tell you all about it immediately
; but first promise me one thing  not
to write yet to my friend to tell him of the
change in my state. You must promise me
this

But I promised him '

Never mind that promise now. Wait at
least until you have heard my story. One
day cannot make much difference. You will
do dreadful mischief if you do not listen to me.'

The poor little man, unused to face difficulties
of this kind, gave way without much
demur.

I will hear your story, at least. That
cannot do harm, nor lose much time. If it
will not tire you, mein Herr, I am ready to
listen to it now.'

So Phil began the story of his life, and told
it clearly and consecutively from beginning to
end. He told of his eccentric great-uncle and
the Ladywell property, to which he was
natural heir. He told all the family history,
and was too clear and succinct to speak from
mere hearsay. Finally, he told of his awakening
from this strange sleep, to find that the
property had suddenly become his own, and
that his trusted friend and comrade had played
Jacob's part toward him, and had supplanted
him in his inheritance.

ESCAPE.

Y the time PHI had finished his story,
his listener was quite convinced that
he was in his right mind, and that
he spoke the truth.

He had tested him by questions likely to
confuse a mind not perfectly clear, but Phil had
answered everything with perfect readiness,
and had avoided any of those blunders or contradictions
which any hallucination must have
occasioned.

Dr. Schneeberger, though simple-minded,
was a shrewd observer of human nature, and
he was convinced that Phil's story was true,
and that he was the victim of gross injustice
at the hands of his supposed friend.

Tor, he said to himself, just looked like a
man who would dare anything, and make

everything and everybody give way before
him. He had been pleased before by his open,
authoritative manner ; but now it struck him
as an index to a wild, unregulated nature.

Friendship was a sacred thing in the eyes of
this little German, and he was much horrified
at this cruel desecration just revealed to him.

1 Dr. Schneeberger,' said Phil, ' you see, I
think, that it is necessary for me to escape
from the power of this false friend.'

Are you in his power V

I fear I shall find myself so. He will compass
everything rather than give me liberty to
speak the truth before the world. Can you
not see for yourself how he has manoeuvred to
keep me in his power ? He told you I was
given to delusions as to my identity. He
urged you to send for him the moment I
showed any glimmer of consciousness. Does
it not all point to the one conclusion that his
aim is to make me out an imbecile, and so
retain control over my movements ?

It may be so,' answered the doctor slowly ;
but yet he did not look like playing so base
a part.'

1 No ; he had barely taken the first step

then. Now he has plunged recklessly into the
mire of treachery and deceit. Think for yourself,
doctor  if he is capable of assuming my
name and my inheritance, is he not capable
also of doing much to keep me from exposing
him V

Dr. Schneeberger shook his head gravely.

I cannot say it is impossible. I fear you
have only too good cause for all you say.'

You would indeed say so more emphatically
still, did you but know Mr. Torwood's
strength of will, and his power of bending circumstances
and individuals to it. I stand in
no small danger  of that I am convinced ; and
I must act at once, and that secretly. I have
a plan, but I shall want your help in carrying
it out. Will you stand my friend, doctor V

I will, mein Herr, as far as possible.'

Your part is simple. All you have to dois
to let me leave your roof, without letting
the would-be Mr. Debenham know. He must
suppose me to be here, whilst really I shall be
watching him at close quarters.'

Watching him ! Will you then run into
danger by going near to him V

1 1 shall go disguised. I have money : I can

soon so alter myself that none will know me.
My beard has grown, and that in itself is a
great disguise. I hardly knew myself when I
saw my own reflection for the first time. I
must watch the enemy at close quarters before
I can strike. I must find out his weak points,
and see if there are any in my old neighbourhood
who will stand my friends. I must be
on the spot ; but it must be impossible for
him to suspect who I am. You must write
from time to time to say that I am here,
and continue in the same unconscious state.
He cannot then suspect

Dr. Schneeberger considered this proposition
awhile, and then slowly shook his head.

f It will not do,' he said. ' It would be
dangerous for us both. Any time the Herr
might take it into his head to come over and
visit you  I wonder he has not done so
already. Suppose he came and found you
away, what then would happen V

Phil looked blank as this idea was propounded.
The suggestion was reasonable
enough, and showed him more and more how
much of a prisoner he was.

4 What, then, can be done V

The doctor sat in deep thought. This time
it was from him that the suggestion came.

1 Mein Herr, does your friend know much of
the science of medicine V

Not an atom, I should imagine

Then it would not occur to him, perhaps,
as an odd method of treating supposed compression
of the brain, to send the patient upon
a sea voyage V

Phil's eyes brightened slowly.

No, doctor ; I don't suppose it would. Goon.'


Anyone who had studied the subject would
not be likely to approve such an experiment ;
but if your friend does not understand these
matters, I could easily lead him to suppose
that such a course of treatment would be
beneficial to you, and he might be willing for
you to go.'

And then V questioned Phil eagerly.

And then, mein Herr, whilst you were supposed
to be sailing over the wide ocean, under
the care of a medical friend of mine own, you
could in reality be playing the part you have
laid down for yourself ; whilst I, for my part,
could forward to the Herr letters, purporting

vol. in, 4to

come from my friend, with accounts of Herr
Torwood's health. As they would be written
to me, no envelopes need be sent ; and I could
fabricate the date, and the port from which it
was written, as easily as the letter itself with
its medical details.'

Doctor,' said Phil solemnly, ' you are a
brick !  if you know what that is. Write to
Ladywell this afternoon ; don't lose a single
day nor hour. Propound this idea of the sea-voyage,
and urge it so that in common
humanity he can hardly refuse.'

I will,' answered the doctor, who could bea
warm partizan when he once espoused a
cause. 'And now, mein Herr, I think you
had better return to your former state of
torpor. It will not be well for Gretchen or
the Matches to know that this change has
taken place ; only we ourselves must be in
the secret. But I will write at once to Herr
Debenham.'

Tor's answer came as quickly as post could
bring it, and contained the information that
he was following his letter with all speed.

For one moment Phil was filled with a great
longing to meet his old friend face to face, and

ask him, then and there, what was the meaning
of this strange treachery ; but soon the new
fear and distrust rose up again within him 
the knowledge of the power Tor always had
exercised over him (to which in old clays he
had loved to submit, and which had always
been generously exercised) came back to his
memory, and made him fear to meet him ; for
there could be no doubt that the old generosity
and friendliness must all have vanished, and
given place to a malice and treachery which
would make him a most dangerous enemy.

And yet Phil's heart misgave him sometimes,
and smote him for the part he was
about to play. True, he had been greatly
wronged, ruthlessly betrayed and deceived ;
but did that justify him in deceiving, in his
turn, the man to whom he owed so much %

Phil felt restless and miserable as he turned
over the question in his mind.

If he calls me " Phil " again, as he used todo,
I don't believe I can hold out. Oh, Tor,
Tor ! why are you treating me like this V

Sounds in the hall below announced the
arrival of the expected guest. Phil, with a
hasty movement, drew the sheet over the

442

lower part of his face, so as to hide the beard,
upon which he was to rely in a great measure
for his disguise. Then he lay motionless and
rigid, with closed eyes and set face.

He knew that Tor was standing over him,
but he moved not an eyelash, although his
heart beat so loud as to drown the sense of what
was passing between the two men who stood
beside the bed.

He is going to speak to me,' said Phil to
himself, when first he was able to grasp the
meaning of words uttered in that familiar
voice. ' What will he say V

Tor  Torwood ! wake up, old fellow !
Don't you know me  Phil Debenham ? Tor,
I say !'

Phil's heart seemed turned to stone, and he
lay still and motionless. Hope died within
him as suddenly as it had leapt up. Tor had
adopted his role in earnest, and he would
abide by his choice. By stratagem, not by
force, was he now to be overcome.

On the following day Tor departed, and
upon the next, Phil did the same. Greatly to
his relief, no mention had been made of the
money so strangely left in the pocket-book.

Either Tor had forgotten the matter, or else
he had his own reasons for keeping silence.
Phil cared little as to that, so long as he
retained in his hands the necessary funds for
his enterprise.

He was carried from the doctor s house like
a log, and his host accompanied him in the
carriage. By the time he reached the wayside
inn, where a halt was called, the doctor
assisted him to alight and dismissed the
driver, who merely observed that the sick man
had recovered somewhat during the drive.
He was not the man usually employed by
Dr. Schneeberger, and knew nothing about
him or his charge.

Once at the inn, Phil recovered rapidly,
and by four o'clock the doctor and he bid
each other a cordial adieu ; and the former
returned to his house, to give the innocent
Gretchen a graphic account of the journey,
and to tell her that his patient had been duly
handed over to the mythical medical friend,
who was to convey him down to the ship.

As for Phil, he felt like a bird escaped from
the snare of the fowler, rejoicing once again in
the full use of his liberty.

He remained that night where he was, for
he had a vague fear that too rapid travelling
might bring him into collision with Tor, and
he was anxious above all things not to
risk an encounter with him, until the right
moment had arrived.

His disguise occupied much of his thought
and attention, and he determined to go to
Paris to obtain it ; having unbounded faith in
French art.

He made a wise choice ; and Paris certainly
turned him out a vastly altered man.

First, his brown beard was cut in truly
foreign fashion, and dyed an inky black. A
costly wig of raven-black hair, of distinct
Italian style, so altered the character of brow
and face, that Phil hardly knew his own reflection
in the glass. Art had no difficulty in
darkening his eyebrows and giving them anarch
not actually intended by nature ; and a
pair of gold-rimmed glasses with smoked lenses
gave a totally altered expression to the one
feature he feared would betray him.

One or two carefully padded coats, of distinct
Parisian cut, gave a breadth and solidity
of figure quite unlike Phil's own slight and

wiry proportions, and transformed him into a
foreigner quite as much as did the Italian
hair.

Well, I'm not a bad-looking fellow, at any
rate said he, carefully surveying his reflected
image, when all his preparations were complete.
' But I'm hanged if I should know
myself if I were to meet myself in the street.
A few more applications of that fellow's wash
will produce a clear olive complexion, and I
don't think I need be afraid then of Tor or
anybody else. I look most like an Italian,
so an Italian I'll be. I think I'm equal to the
language. I was always told I spoke it like a
native, and I don't feel as if I could easily
be puzzled. Yes, I'll be an Italian, and my
name shall be  shall be  say Pagliadini, Marco
Pagliadini ; that will do as well as any other.'

Since his metamorphosis, he had left his
first hotel, and just arrived at a second, in the
empty salon of which he now stood, surveying
himself in the long mirrors.

A confusion of tongues became audible in
the hall without, and a waiter put his head
into the salon, and then advanced with a
bow.

Is it possible that Monsieur is an Italian?'
he asked obsequiously.

Yes, certainly,' answered Phil, with a half-smile
at his own readiness.

Then might I solicit the aid of Monsieur
for one of his compatriots, who cannot make
himself to be comprehended in our language ?
If Monsieur would have the complaisance to
go to his assistance, I am sure he would receive
a thousand thanks.'

Phil assented readily, and found a fine-looking
old Italian in the hall, vainly trying to
make known his wishes to the mistress of the
hotel ; but his command of the French
tongue was not great enough to make her understand
that he had been taking photographs
of some neighbouring landscapes, and was now
anxious to expose his negatives in a dark
cellar.

With Phil's assistance, however, the matter
soon became amicably settled, and the Italian,
in his gratitude to his young countryman,
insisted on his company at dinner that
night.

Phil spent a very pleasant evening with
Signor Mattei, his intelligent and courteous

host, who, after much talk of art, during
which Phil rose higher and higher in his
estimation, began to question him a little as
to his own plans.

I am going to England,' Phil told him candidly.
' I have not been there since I was
quite a child. I am curious to see something
of so great a country.'

1 Are you going to visit friends V

No ; I go simply as a traveller, bent on
pleasure and instruction.'

1 But you surely have introductions V

No, not even an introduction. I shall be a
stranger to everyone I meet.'

Surely that will be very triste f

If so, I can but return.'

Signor Mattei pulled his long white moustache
and considered awhile.

You have done me a very kind service,
young Signor,' he said. 'I should like, if it
were possible, to be of some service to you ;
but unfortunately I know little of England or
the English.'

I am exceedingly obliged by your kind
wish, Signor ; but pray do not give any
anxiety to such a matter. I shall make my

way excellently, I have no doubt. I am not
afraid.'

Still Signor Mattei seemed to ponder.

I suppose, Signor, you will not be going
into remote parts  into the West-country, for
instance, where the scenery is said to be very
beautiful V

Well, yes ; I am thinking of visiting
Devonshire. I was there as a child, and should
like to see the country again.'

In that case I might perhaps be of use to
you. A very good friend and relative of
mine (by marriage, you understand, for he is
an Englishman) lives in that country, at a
place called Ladywell. His name is Michael
Meredith, and when my niece, his wife, died,
he returned to his native country, to live near
an old patron of his, a Mr. Debenham, who
also lived there. He is a great lover of art,
and of all that belongs to our country. He
is blind, which is a sad trial to him, and
would make a visit from one of our nation
doubly grateful. If you would accept an introduction
to him, I am sure it would be
doing a kindness to him, and might be advantageous
to yourself.'

This marvellous coincidence had almost
taken Phil's breath away. Michael Meredith's
name was dimly remembered by him ; and he
accepted with alacrity the offered introduction.


What wonderful luck he had !

The one difficulty he had seen looming before
him was now overcome.

He had wondered how he should be able to
gain the first footing amongst the people he
was so anxious to watch.

He could not hang about the place for ever,
though sketching* or fishing might give colour
to a good deal of loitering round. But, as a
rule, foreigners do not remain very long in
isolated country villages, for no ostensible
reason. Suspicion might be attracted to him,
which he was most anxious to avoid ; and it
might be very difficult for him to gain the
entree of his own house.

Now, however, his way was made plain.
He would appear at Laclywell as Michael
Meredith's friend. Not a ghost of a suspicion
could attach to him, unless he chose to arouse
it. Tor, as a supposed Debenham, must be
acquainted with his father's old friend, and a

meeting would be easily contrived. Nothing
more fortunate could have been conceived,
and Phil felt as if victory was almost attained,
when Signor Mattei handed over to him a
very cordial note of introduction to Michael
Meredith.

I trust it may be of use to you, Signor he
said politely.

I have no doubt of it answered Phil, as
calmly as he could. ' I shall make an early
expedition to Devonshire to see the Signor
Meredith//

You will do him a great kindness, I am
convinced,' said Signor Mattei.

*' And myself also responded Phil truthfully
enough ; and the elder man bowed and
smiled, and was all the more favourably impressed
by the courteously-worded thanks of
his young friend.

The two i compatriots ' parted soon afterwards
upon the best of terms.

When Phil read through the open letter
which the Signor had given him, he was
pleased to find it so worded, as to give the impression
that Signor Pagliadini was no mere

acquaintance of an hour, but a friend of some
standing. Signor Mattei, with a somewhat
exaggerated wish to speak well of his young
friend, had thought it best not to give any
hint as to the length of time the friendship
had lasted, and leave the date of its commencement
to the imagination of his relative.
From what he said of Phil's knowledge of art,
and his taste upon all questions relating to
painting and sculpture, one would certainly
imagine that the two men had been acquainted
for some time. He had also omitted to
date the letter from Paris, and so it might
naturally be supposed to come from Florence,
where, as Phil had discovered, the Signor
habitually resided.

It's not a matter of much importance, I suppose,'
he said to himself : ' still, it's as well to
throw as much dust in people's eyes as one
easily can. It might just as well be supposed
that I have come direct from Florence, so
that if Tor should ask questions he will not
learn the truth.'

He paced up and down, speaking from time
to time to himself.

1 I won't be harder upon him than I can  I
don't want to disgrace him. He has been a
good friend to me ; and I will be as generous
as he will let me. But I cannot stand by altogether
and see myself supplanted. I cannot
change myself into Torrington Torwood because
he has chosen to make himself Phil Deben-
ham.

I will feel my way carefully. I will say
that I have known the two abroad. Perhaps
I will even greet him as Torwood, and see what
he says. That might be a good thought, and
might give him an opening to confess the
truth. I might put the same doubt into other
people's minds, and let an uncomfortable state
of uncertainty fall upon them in regard to his
position. I am sure I shall not be recognised.
I will speak no English, only Italian, and then
my voice will be in a great measure disguised.
I will haunt him and trouble him, and give
him every chance to retract his false step and
tell the truth ; but if he will not yield, even
when he finds that I know the truth, then I
must take up arms in my own defence ; and
he must look to himself.



Oh, Tor ! Tor !' cried Phil, with sudden,
irrepressible bitterness. ' Why do you drive
me into such a course ? Why do you make an
enemy of me  I who have so loved you ? Oh,
Tor ! Tor ! Mine own familiar friend f

First EXPERIENCES.

T was with very strange and mixed
feelings that Philip Debenham
found himself once again in his
native village.

The place was almost unchanged by the
eighteen years that had passed since he had
seen it last. A few cottages had vanished ; a
few more had been built. His old home had
been altered past recognition ; but little else
was changed, so far as the larger houses were
concerned.

He saw the well-known, square, uncompromising
mansion of his Uncle Classis, and gave
it a look of instinctive aversion, remembering
dimly the unhappy hours he had spent there
as a boy.

He recognised with a smile the grey, ivy-covered

church which he had attended as a
child, and could even recall the subjects of the
stained windows which he had so admired, and
recollect the half-fearful, half-delighted interest
he and Maud used to take in a carved death's
head and cross-bones, which surmounted one
of the tablets facing the pew in which they
had sat.

A great longing rose up within him to see
again the little sister, who had been his playfellow
and devoted slave in the far-away childhood's
years. Where was she now ? Living
still at Thornton House ? Tor could not have
brought her to Ladywell, he thought  odd as
it might seem not to do so. He would have
given much for one loving kiss from Maud,
for one of the caresses he knew were his due ;
but he was a stranger and an alien, and could
only come in disguise to see his own inheritance.


Ladywell lay embosomed in woods, which
now wore their full summer foliage. He could
not see his own house, and yet the very
thought that it was his own, thrilled him with
a pride and delight he had not felt before.

He remembered well the fine old place he

vol. in. 45

had visited from time to time with his father.
He could see, with his mind's eye, the great
terrace, the smooth lawns, and brilliant flowerbeds
; the hot-houses and conservatories, and
the fine stables where he had loved to wander,
petting and admiring the horses who were
stalled there.

The inside of the house he remembered less
vividly, but the idea of size and magnificence
was strongly stamped upon his brain ; and he
heaved a sigh at the thought which rose in his
mind, that his accession to his own property
could only be obtained by the disgrace of the
man who had once been his dearest, almost his
only friend.

What's that fine place V asked a fellow-traveller,
of the driver, as the conveyance which
had brought them both from Darwin drove upto
the village.

'Ladywell Manor, sir  finest place in the
county.' For the village people were loyal in
their admiration of their own Manor House.

Who owns it V

c Old Squire were Mr. Maynard  a queer
old gentleman by all accounts, who never saw
nobody. He never was married, and left the

place to his nephew, Mr. Debenham. He's
main popular is the new Squire, though he's
not long come back from his travels ; a pleasant-spoke,
free-handed young gentleman as ever
trod shoe-leather, and as strong and big as
John the blacksmith, and he's the biggest man
down these parts.'

Is he a married man ?  the Squire, I mean,
not the blacksmith.'

No, he ain't married not yet. He's been
a- knocking about the world, they say, till now,
and hasn't hardly had time to turn round, so far.
He's got his aunt living up there now, a widow
lady, and his sister ; but he won't want for a
wife long. Why, he's the best match in the
country-side, to say nothing of his good looks.
Oh yes, sir, we're a bit proud of our new
Squire. You see, the old un wasn't greatly
thought on ; and this here Mr. Debenham, he's
the right sort all round. There's not a soul in
all Ladywell as hasn't a good word for the
Squire, or who wouldn't stand up for him
through thick and thin, so as he needed it.'

This conversation, casually overheard, had
given Phil a good deal of food for meditation.


452

It is plain he has not let grass grow under
his feet,' he thought. ' He has played the
old trick  won the hearts of the people to
strengthen his own position. Who could have
thought it of Tor ? Yet what else can I think %
Facts speak for themselves.'

That evening and the following morning he
spent in restless wanderings and anxious
thought.

He could not talk to the people, because he
wished to make out that his English was of
the most imperfect kind ; and, with all his
brooding and thinking, he could not decide
upon a regular plan of action.

The Debenham indecision was in his nature,
and there was now no Tor at his side to give
ready advice and assistance. He had for the
first time to stand alone and act for himself,
and all he could make up his mind to do,
was to drift along with the tide of circumstances,
and be guided by his own impulse
what to say and what to leave unsaid.

It was not perhaps a very wise resolve, but
it was eminently characteristic of Phil's habit
of mind. Had Mr. Classis had his real
nephew to deal with from the first, things

might have turned out very differently for all
parties concerned.

In this indecisive frame of mind Phil stood
at Mr. Meredith's door, and was admitted to
Koma's studio.

Eoma, as Tor had said to Maud, possessed
that type of beauty which Phil most admired,
and the longer they talked the greater grew
his admiration.

The bust of Maud in the studio at once
arrested his attention, and he saw at a glance
whose portrait it must be, from its obvious
likeness to himself. Given this , opening, he
followed it up, talking of the Filippo he had
once known, making up his mind that he
would contrive to make Tor pretty uncomfortable.


His next interview, with Mr. Meredith, was
very satisfactory. From the first moment it
was evident he had made a favourable impression.
Something in his voice fell pleasantly
and familiarly upon the sensitive ear of the
blind man, and caused him to assert more than
once that he must have met Signor Pagliadini
before.

When the introduction from Signor Mattei

was brought forward, Phil had himself to
read it to the blind man. By a dexterous
and very slight transposition and alteration,
the impression conveyed by the letter was, that
Marco Pagliadini was quite an old friend, and
had been known to Signor Mattei from his
youth upwards.

The invitation to become an inmate at
Michael Meredith's was very welcome, and
was so warmly pressed that it had not to be
too eagerly accepted. Fortune certainly
seemed to favour Phil, for as a guest in this
house he could not fail to have many opportunities
for making inquiries and finding out
all that was possible about Tor's line of action.
His former acquaintance with the two Englishmen,
which he lost no time in making known,
gave colour to the interest he could not but
show in all connected with Ladywell, and
especially in the actions of its present master.

He was ill pleased to find what warm allies
he had made even in this house. Mr. Meredith
was never tired of singing his praises,
and even Eoma threw off something of her
usual calm to defend, when Phil made a
covert attack upon him, the man who, did

she but know it, so ill deserved her goodwill.


Tor's hasty disappearance, to avoid a meeting
with anyone who had known him abroad,
was a significant fact, and showed that he was
really ill at ease, in spite of his popularity.

But that evening spent in company with
Eoma lulled into temporary oblivion all
thoughts of anger or vengeance. Eoma was,
in his opinion, the most beautiful woman he
had ever met, and his somewhat fervent nature
was soon all ablaze with the ardour of a
dangerous admiration, all the more dangerous
because Eoma seemed with every hour to grow
more gentle, more pensive, more trustful.

He almost forgot the object of his visit in
the happiness of her society, and he was far
upon the way from which there is no retreat,
before the first evening had passed. It
seemed to him that his one object in coming
to England had been to find Eoma, and that
to win her love was now the only object worth
living for.

But his thoughts were turned into a different
channel the next day, by a visit Maud paid to
her friend's studio.

Phil was with Koma, watching her work, for
Michael Meredith was not yet clown ; and the
young man forgot, as did also Koma, the
foreign ideas of fitness of things, and assumed
an English freedom, which seemed to them
quite natural and proper under the circumstances.


I am expecting Miss Debenham for a
sitting. She promised to come this morning.
You will see then if she so resembles her
brother.'

Phil, so to speak, pricked up his ears.

Miss Debenham coming here V

6 Yes, Signor.'

May I be permitted to stay ? Will she or
you think it too great an intrusion ? I should
so like some converse with my old friend's
sister.'

Maud will be delighted, I am sure. She is
the merriest girl in the world, and adores her
brother. Any friend of his will be welcome.'

There was the sound of a light footfall down
the long passage.

Here she is P said Koma.

Maud entered, a fair vision, in her white
dress and shady hat, with her bright eyes,

clear, rose-tinted skin, happy smile and ready
laugh.

Eoma ! Here I am, you see ! Not so late
as usual. Oh, I beg your pardon. Are you
engaged V

No ; this is our friend Signor Pagliadini,
who is visiting us, and is anxious to be presented
to you. He knew your brother in
Italy

On hearing this, Maud's face lighted up
brightly, and she held out her hand.

I am always pleased to see any friend of
my brother's

There was an unconscious, fond pride in the
way she spoke the words ' my brother which
brought a keen sense of pain to Phil's heart.

It was hard, he felt, looking into his sister's
face, after eighteen long years of separation,
that it was but a stranger's welcome he received,
and that its cordiality was only due to
the fact that she believed him to be Tor's
friend.

He was glad that he had not to say much,
glad that she was unable to converse freely
with him, and glad that preparations for the
sitting were at once commenced.

Poor Phil was not endowed with any very
large amount of self-control, and to meet thus
his only sister, and a sister whom he had
greatly loved, was a hard task, and one which
roused in his heart all the bitterness which
had been nearly lulled to sleep.

Time, however, brought him calmness, and
he was soon able to listen to what the two
girls were saying, whilst he appeared to be
looking over some books of photographs.
Eoma knew that he could understand, although
he could not speak English, so he was
not afraid of taking an unfair advantage of
his position.

Isn't Phil a dear boy V Maud was saying,
with her usual enthusiasm. ' He says if things
go on smoothly, he'll take Aunt Olive and me
to Italy in the winter. Won't that be lovely !
I do so want to travel, and I've never been
out of England. He would have taken us to
Switzerland this summer, only it's too soon,
he thinks, for him to go away; and there's my
birthday to get over, you know. But another
summer he'll take us, and he'll let me do
some mountaineering, he says. Won't that be
splendid ! I should love to go up Mont

Blanc, or the Matterhorn, or some really big
mountain. I believe Phil's done all the
hardest. He's just the most wonderful boy
in the world.'

Eoma let her talk on in her favourite strain,
glad to catch the animated expression such
conversation always gave to her. She wound
up by her favourite and well-worn phrase :

Isn't he just an angel-boy, Eoma V
He is very kind and good.'
Maud laughed, and shook her head.

Ah, you don't understand a bit. Lots and
lots of people might be kind and good, but
nobody could be like my Phil. I'm sure
there isn't such another brother in all the
world. I can't think now, however I managed
to live without him.'

Eoma smiled at her enthusiasm. Signor
Pagliadini's face was turned away.

1 It's quite true, and you needn't laugh.
And oh, Eoma, do you know what he is
going to give me for a birthday present V

1 No. What V

A horse ; a horse for my very own. Such a
little beauty ! You know those at Lady well are
all his, and are very nice ; but he never gave

one to me, though I ride them just as I like.
I never thought of wanting one ; but the
other day the loveliest, sweetest, most delicious
little horse appeared in one of the empty
loose boxes. I happened to see him, and
asked Phil. First he wouldn't tell me, and
said I'd no business to play the spy ; but I
coaxed and coaxed, and at last he gave in.
He said it was there on approval, and if its
paces and temper and everything else were
right, he was going to give him to me on my
birthday. He said he had been looking out
for a horse for me for a long time. He
thought I must wonder why I had not had
one before. As if I ever should !'

What did you say V

Oh, I told him he was just a darling, and
asked him why he didn't give me the horse
I generally ride, who is quite nice in every
way.'

What did he say V

Oh, he laughed, and looked amused, and
said he didn't mean to give away the Lady-well
horses, not even to me. I didn't quite
see why, I said ; and he told me I should
know better some day. Anyway, he's got me

the loveliest little horse you can imagine 
bay, with black points  and I love him ever
so much already.'

Shortly after this Signor Pagliadini drew
closer, and sat down near to sculptor and
model, whilst he entered into conversation.

Maud was ready enough to talk, and, though
a good deal of interpretation had to go on for
form's sake, Phil felt that he was growing to
know his sister better than she imagined.

He was ready enough, and she eager
enough, to talk of the ' friend Filippo and
poured out so many stories of his prowess and
generosity, that poor Phil was quite dismayed
to find how he had been supplanted in Maud's
affection, and felt that she would not readily
transfer her love to him.

Maud liked the dark foreigner with his
somewhat sad, appealing eyes. Some subtle
sympathy seemed to draw them together ;
and, impossible as she knew it to be, she
could not help fancying she had known him
before, at some far-distant period.

Some of the tones of his voice and the
turns of expression made her fancy this ; but
rack her brains as she would, she could find

nothing to account for the odd idea. It was
out of the question that they ever could have
met before.

A servant came to say that Mr. Meredith
was down, and would be obliged if Signor
Pagliadini would join him in his study.

Maud gave him her hand again, as he rose to
obey the summons.

If you knew my brother once, I wish you
would come up to Ladywell this afternoon,
and have tea with us. He will be delighted,
I am sure, to renew the acquaintance.'

I shall be most happy to do so, if the
Signorina is sure I shall not intrude.'

Quite sure,' answered Maud brightly.
i Au revoir, then. Remember, you will be
expected.'

1 Who is he, Eoma V she asked, when he
had gone.

A friend of an uncle of my mother's, in
Florence. He sent him here.'

He is nice, is he not V

I think so.'

And very good-looking V

< Yes.'

I can't think who he reminds me of. It

quite bothered me whilst he was talking ; nota
likeness, you know, but just a look every
now and then. Why, yes, I know now !'

< What V

There's a look in his eye like the picture
of papa, in Aunt Olive's room. That's what
it is. I'm glad I've remembered. I can't
bear being puzzled like that  it's so irritating.'


And so Philip Debenham was to go in
disguise to his own house, and meet, face
to face, the man who was personating him.

It was a trying situation certainly, and
some little cleverness and resolution was required
in the carrying out of his part.

Phil did not lack cleverness, but his
uncertainty and irresolution boded ill for
his wish to carry things off with a high
hand.

He believed Tor, warned of his visit, would
contrive to meet him alone, and of this he was
glad ; and he had little fear that his disguise
would be penetrated. It was peculiarly good,
and lacked any sign of the grotesque which so
often, in such cases, defeats its own object, by
provoking suspicion and curiosity.

He looked so completely the Italian of rank
and wealth, that he almost at times believed
himself to be what he represented ; and Tor,
who knew that his friend was upon the open
sea, could have no reason for suspicion.

Phil, as has been recorded, began boldly ;
but it was by a strong effort that he did so.
When he stood face to face with his old
friend his courage almost failed, and he was
only withheld by distrust and fear from tearing
off his disguise and calling out :

c Tor, old fellow ! Here I am ! What
are you doing ? and what am I to do V

But he restrained himself, and spoke the
more coldly and threateningly from his very
agitation. He grew angry and desperate ashe
saw how coolly and calmly Tor stood his
ground, and parried attacks which he thought
would have forced him to lay down his
arms.

To see this man standing before him,
assuming his name and station, and almost
scoffing at his well-aimed blows, was too
much, and Phil felt lashed into fury.

He charged him straight out with wronging
his friend ; and then Tor gave such a bold.

fearless denial to the charge, that, in spite of
himself, Phil's distrust was shaken. It
seemed his fate at this time to make up his
mind that Tor was a villain, only to have this
conviction shaken by some earnest assurance
or chance discovery ; and then, hardly had the
balance weighed down upon the side of
friendship, before some new revelation would
wake up all the old animosity and fear.

Tor's next asseveration, that he could hold
his own against the world, and would defy all
the innuendoes cast at him by anyone, was certainly
a ' facer ' after what had gone before ;
and Phil left Ladywell in as troubled and
doubtful a state as he had entered it, and
more and more convinced that Tor, with his
strong will and high hand, would be no mean
opponent, all the more dangerous for the
general enthusiasm he seemed to inspire in
others.

It behoved Phil to walk with great care,
and to avoid raising suspicions in the minds
of his hosts. Michael Meredith, however, was
too much absorbed in his own dreams to give
over-much heed to what might be going on in
other people's minds ; and from him Phil could

vol. in. 46

learn a great deal that was valuable to him,
without running any risk.

He heard with a sort of satisfaction, that
Tor had enemies in his supposed uncle and
aunt, Mr. and Mrs. Classis. Now Phil knew
nothing absolutely conclusive against these
relatives of his, save that he had not liked them
as a child. His father, however, had been an
intimate friend of Classis, and his mother had
been closely related to them.

Old Maynard's letter and Maud's, which
would have given him the clue to the real
character of his uncle, had never reached him,
and he had not the faintest idea that any
suspicion of dishonesty could attach to his
name. All he knew was that he had feared
and disliked his uncle as a boy, and had been
very indignant when he had doomed him to
an office-stool instead of bringing him up ' asa
gentleman.'

Time, however, had somewhat modified this
feeling. Phil knew enough of the world now,
to be aware that a penniless youth of family
has a better chance of rising in the world by
beginning life at a merchant's desk, than in
any capacity that he would have selected for

himself; and he could forgive the uncle for
the choice he had made. At the same time,
he could not shake off the impression that he
had been unfairly treated by being so long
banished from home, and not allowed to see



his sister or any other relative ; and he knew
that Maud had been anything but content
with her life under her uncle's roof.

All these considerations rose up one by one
before him, and he could not yet say whether
or not he would take advantage of their dislike
to Tor to make allies of the Classis'.
Instinct warned him not to trust them. Reason
told him that his wisest plan would be to get
his nearest relatives upon his side.

462

THE WISHING WELL.

Phil's perplexities, however, did not
trouble him much, when once he
found himself in the quiet seclusion
of Meredith's house.

Implicitly trusted by the blind man, and
liked by his daughter, Phil found himself
wonderfully at home there, and with every
hour a deeper contentment settled upon his
spirit.

He wandered with Roma that evening in
the dewy, moonlit garden, and neither remembered
to wonder what it was that made the
quiet hour so sweet. To neither did the
sudden intimacy which had grown up between
them seem strange. Rather it appeared as
if they had known one another all their
lives.

Or in another life before this one, Roma,'
said Phil, as they stood looking at the stars
together. He had accidentally called her
Koma ' before now, and neither had observed
what seemed so natural. ' Surely this life is
not the first. Do you not often feel that
long, long ago you have lived out a previous
existence  somewhere V

I suppose everyone has some such feeling
from time to time,' answered Roma dreamily.
Only we cannot be sure of it.'

Why do we want to be sure ? "Why should
we not be content to dream and to wonder ?
Certainty does not bring satisfaction  rather
the reverse. Life is eternal, is it not  without
beginning and without end ? We must
have lived before this. When we did so, I
am sure that you and I were very near
together. Does it not seem so to you,
Koma V

She smiled a little.

1 Perhaps it does.'

You feel it too ; then there is no room for
doubt. One life has been spent side by side  
shall this one be so spent, too V

The last words were little more than a

whisper. He was not sure that she had heard,
for her head was turned slightly aside.

Have you no answer V he asked, taking
her hand, and forcing her to look at him.

An answer V

Yes, Eoma. You admit that we are not
strangers really. Love knows no dates  time
has no power over it. Days are as years,
and years as days. We have known each other
for years. You have said it yourself.'

Not quite she answered gently. ' We
were talking then of dreams and sweet fancies.
Life, Signor, is not made up of these

Signor !' he repeated reproachfully. ' How
can you be so cold ? Call me Filippo

Filippo !' she repeated wonderingly.

I mean Marco he answered, with a confusion
which was not noticed in the darkness.
J I was thinking of my friend whom I saw this
afternoon. Will you not call me Marco sometimes
V

1 1  I do not know faltered Eoma. ' I
think  I think we ought not to stay here
~ * Why not ? Is it unpleasant to you to be
with me V

It is not that said Eoma softly.

Then we will stay answered Philip, taking
her hand and placing it upon his arm. ' Come,
let us go together to the park  Ladywell park
and look at the moonlight through the great
trees. Your father is tired to-night, and will
be best alone. Come, you shall tell me how
you like Ladywell, and if '

He pulled up there, but Roma answered
softly :

1 Ladywell is lovely  the loveliest place in
the world, I think

He smiled, and said half to himself :

You would be happy, then, to call it
home?'

Roma took her hand away, and said in a
pained voice :

Do not talk so, Signor.'

He understood, he thought, what she would
imply, and smiled to himself, well pleased.

They were now in the park, wandering amid
the chequered lights and shades of the wooded
hollows. Phil looked round him with a sense
of recollection.

Is there not a well somewhere here, Roma ?
a wishing well V

Yes ; but how do you know V

I must have been here, I think, in that
former life, of which we were talking just now.
Full moon and a summer's night  is not this
just the right time ? Shall we go and wish
there together now, Roma? Surely such an
opportunity is not to be lost !'

She smiled an assent.

Are you superstitious, Marco V

He looked at her with a glad, proud
smile.

e I think I could be so to-nights

Phil led the way through the woodland
path, down to the secluded well. He remembered
the path as well as if he had only
traversed it yesterday, and Roma forgot to be
surprised.

It was in reality a spring, this so-called
wishing well :' a clear bubbling spring, rising
up in a natural stone basin, lined with moss
and fringed with fern. A quaint stone cup
hung by a rusty iron chain beside the spring,
and round the edge of the basin a quaint inscription
was carved, stating the magic properties
of the well.

Phil stood looking thoughtfully into the
dimpling water, where faint reflected lights

and shadows played, and then he took the cup
and filled it.

Have you a wish ready, Eoma V

< Yes

Then wish and drink ; for something w T within
tells me that the hour is favourable, and the
spirits propitious to our wishes

Eoma smiled and drank, and Phil tossed the
remaining drops upon the grass in a silvery
shower, pronouncing a few mystic words.

I Why so  asked Eoma.

We always used to do it ' there was a

momentary pause  ' in my country, at a fairy
well, which my sister and I sometimes visited
as children. But I must wish now, and the cup
must not be used twice upon the same night. I
must take the bolder course, and brave the
wrath of the spirits. Do they not say that
those who do so, gain a more generous fulfilment,
or a marked repudiation of their wish 

How do you know  asked Eoma again.

I I suppose wishing-wells are pretty much
the same all the world over,' he answered
lightly. 4 Anyway, I will be bold. Now
for it !'

\ He bent his head over the sparkling spring,

and took a long, deep draught. Then he
stood upright, and his face looked earnest and
steadfast.

'You have wished a long wish,' remarked
Roma, when at length he moved.

I have  a long and complex wish  so
complex that I fear even the spirits of the well
will find it hard to answer every part, even if
they try

You should have faith said Roma, smiling.
1 To doubt them is fatal

1 Then I will not doubt,' he answered
quickly. ' I will believe they can accomplish
all ; but they have a hard task before them !'

Roma looked curiously at him.

I wonder what you can have wished.'

Something concerning my own personal
history  you know we must not reveal our
wishes.'

Of course not she answered seriously ; but
as they lingered round the quiet spot, where
the silence was only broken by the murmuring
of the magic spring, Phil began again to speak,
and Roma fancied he was still thinking of his
complex wish.

Now I want you to give me an opinion

he said, 'for I am very much perplexed.
Which should be the stronger claim upon us,
the claim of justice or that of gratitude V

What do you mean V asked Bon a. ' It is
a hard question, as you put it.'

It is a hard question, put it as you will. I
mean just what I say. When justice urges
you to one course, and gratitude to another,
which motive should be allowed to triumph V

Eoma's brow became knit by a frown of
perplexity.

It is not easy to decide without knowing
more ; but I think gratitude should be held
very sacred.'

1 And injustice allowed to go on V

Oh no ; not quite that. Injustice can
never, never be right. It should always be
checked, if possible. Only gratitude should
not be set on one side.'

You answer by a paradox in this case.
Either gratitude or justice must be set aside.'

I cannot think but that both might be considered
: there must be some right way of
doing right  there always is. Can you not
tell me more V

1 I can only tell you that one who was my

friend, and to whom I owe much gratitude,
has now turned traitor, and done me a grievous
wrong. I must right myself before the world.
I cannot submit to be defrauded of my all, to
be made an outcast and a wanderer upon the
face of the earth ; but I can only do so by bringing
disgrace upon the man I once loved well, and
to whom I certainly owe a debt of gratitude.'

Eoma pondered deeply. It seemed a hard
case, and she scarcely knew what to advise.

Is there no middle course V

1 I fear he will not accept a compromise.
What I know of his character, and what I have
heard of his actions, lead me to suppose that
he will fight to the death, and leave me no
option but to expose and disgrace him.'

I suppose you have come to England for
legal advice,' said Eoma.

Yes, and to take a calm and dispassionate
view of things. It is an unpleasant position
to be placed in, is it not V

Very indeed

c And have you no advice for me V

I'm afraid I know so little of the world
that mine would be sadly unpractical.'
v ' Perhaps unworldly counsel might be better

than that of the law,' answered Phil thoughtfully.
4 Let me hear what you have to suggest,
Eoma/

Have you so quarrelled with this friend
that you could not get speech of him V

1 Well  no, hardly that yet, I think ; for I
have only just learnt the injury he has done
me.'

Then I think I should go back and make
him see me, and I should tell him that I did
not want to harm him, but that justice must
be done. I should say how it hurt me to have
to fight anyone who had been good to me. I
should say how grateful I still felt for his
kindness ; but I should be firm, and say at the
same time, that if he would fight for the wrong
instead of yielding to the right, I should be
obliged to become his enemy.'

1 It might be a dangerous step for me to
take,' said Phil. 'For he is very strong.'

What course are you thinking of pursuing
V

I cannot make up my mind. A sudden
blow would be most effective.'

If he has ever been a friend to you, and if
you owe him gratitude,' said Eoma gravely,

you ought not to strike him unawares. You
owe it to him to be frank, even though he
may have been treacherous to you. Never
do wrong; because another does it. You do
not mind my speaking out V

6 No, indeed. I thank you for it, Eoma ; and
I will take your advice. I had almost pledged
myself to it before ; now my mind is made up.
Whatever is done shall be done openly, and
my friend shall have due warning before I
strike a blow.'

e I am sure you will never regret your decisions
said Eoma warmly.

That episode of the wishing well made a
deep impression upon Phil and his companion.
The mutual confidences they had exchanged
seemed to draw them more closely together,
and the secret which was known only to them,
and which was to be inviolably kept, was a
link which strengthened the bond between
them.

She is a noble woman and a sweet woman,'
Phil said to himself that night. ' I will win
her for my wife when I have my own again ;
and I think she will not shrink then at the
idea of calling Lady well her home. I can be

paving the way with the father, though my
lips are sealed at present, for I cannot give a
false name and antecedents when I plead such
a cause as that. With Eoma, I cannot think
my task will be a hard one. I am sure she
is not indifferent to me. I think, too, she
must know how I love her.'

It was not difficult to lead Michael Meredith
to speak of his daughter. He was proud
of her, and proud of any admiration bestowed
upon her. He knew by the way in which his
guest spoke and acted, that he had from the
first been struck and impressed by Eoma, and
he was pleased that it was so.

{ She has been my stay and solace all
through my declining years,' said Meredith, in
his studied, artificial way.

f I wonder you have kept her with you so
long hazarded Phil.

Ah, yes, you may say that with reason ;
but we have lived for one another, and apart
from the world. Few men have even seen
my Eoma.'

6 Father hard on the men said Phil gallantly.


Meredith smiled, well pleased.

Ah P he said, ' but I knew my own mind.
My choice was made before.'

What do you mean, Signor V

I meant to choose her husband. Englishman
though I am, I am foreigner enough to
believe in marriages made by the parents.
But I love my child, and would not willingly
compel her fancy.'

Phil sat silent, and looked much taken
aback. Meredith gently wandered on, as was
his way when once started on a favourite theme.

But I find, Signor, that a steady will and
a gentle tact mould circumstances as well as
individuals. I cannot act as other men do.
I might even be held as helpless and dependent,
and yet I find I have but to sit here and
plan and will, and the rest follows of itself.
I could say much upon that wonderful power
the human will.'

The monstrous egotism of the man passed
unheeded ; but his vague hints made Phil very
uneasy.

I do not know if I have followed von,
Signor ; do you mean that your will has
brought to you such a husband as you have
desired for your daughter V

Circumstances have brought the man ; my
will, or my child's charms have done the rest.
I knew all would follow when he had appeared.'


Phil almost feared to ask the next question.


1 Is the Signorina, then, already betrothed V

Yes,' certainly.'

There was a brief pause before the next
question.

1 And may I ask to whom V

1 Oh yes ; to our good friend Philip Deben-
ham, the master of Lady well Manor.'

Ah P

You are surprised, it seems. Is it anything
so very strange that he should love my
child V

1 Why, no  oh no  not at all ; but I did
not know  I had not heard.'

1 No, probably not. I have not alluded to
the matter before, and young maidens do not
speak of what lies so near to their hearts.'

1 The Signorina is, without doubt, deeply
attached to  to Signor Debenham.'

Most deeply. It is a warm attachment on
both sides. I perceived it from the first, long

vol. in. 47

before the young people were aware of it
themselves ;' and Mr. Meredith smiled his
quiet, satisfied smile.

8 They have known each other long, no
iloubt V

1 Not very long ; but time has little to do
with such matters, as you may find out for
yourself one day, Signor. It is we elders who
think of time, and count the weeks the acquaintance
has lasted, before giving our consent.
But in this case I had no scruple. I
had loved the father  I loved and trusted the
son, and could give my daughter to him with
my blessing.'

For the sake of the father V said Phil, in a
strange, forced tone.

First for the fathers sake, then for his own.
No one who owns the name of Debenham can
but be dear to me

Phil mastered himself by an effort ; but his
silence had not passed unnoticed.

c I weary you by these personal details,
Signor,' said Meredith courteously. ' I forget,
in my blindness, that my little world is not
all-absorbing to. others. I hear Eoma's voice
in the garden. She will prove a pleasant

companion than I ; and I will rest awhile, as I
feel fatigued by this heat

"With bitter feelings surging in his heart,
Phil left the presence of the blind man.

1 Is he not rightly called Jacob V muttered
he, in his wrath, recalling half-forgotten words
which seemed now to burn themselves into his
very brain. ' First he takes away my birthright,
and now he takes away my blessing also

Roma was in the garden, singing softly to
herself. She sang because she was happy,
though why she was so, she did not pause to
ask herself.

Marco !'

The word seemed to escape her unawares,
and her face brightened into a beautiful smile
as she saw him.

Roma f

He had seen the look upon her face, and
now he strode forward and seized her
hands.

1 Roma,' he said abruptly, ' I love you, and
you know it. Do you love me 

He was in earnest now, so much in earnest
that all weakness and hesitancy had fled in a
moment. He was stronger than she at the

472

present moment, and his earnestness compelled
her to answer, and to answer truly.

For a moment the nominal pledge that
bound her was forgotten. Eoma knew that
she was really free, and that she had given her
heart to this stranger.

Yes, Marco she answered, lifting her dark
eyes fearlessly to his, ' I love you.'

1 My darling  my Eoma !'

He drew her towards him, and she did not
repulse him. Everything was for a brief
space buried in oblivion, save the one all-important
revelation that they loved one
another.

Phil was the first to recover himself.
After one pause of forgetfulness memory
returned.

1 Eoma/ he said, ' I cannot believe my own
happiness. I have won you in a moment of
profound despair, just when I had heard from
your father's lips that you were the promised
bride of another. How has he made so great
an error V

The light died suddenly out of Eoma's face,
and her arms fell to her sides.

I had forgotten she said hurriedly.

Forgotten what V

1 That I am not free  yet.'

Not free ! Eoma ! Eoma ! And you have
said that you love me !'

I do love you, Marco. I cannot take back
words I have spoken ; but I had no right to
speak them.'

< No right V

No ; you know why  my father has told
you.'

You are betrothed to  Philip Debenham V

She bent her head in a voiceless assent.

Roma !' he cried, with pain and indignation
in his tone, ' have you pledged your
hand without your heart ? or do you love this
man V

You know I do not she answered
proudly ; ' I have told you whom I love.'

His face softened instantly.

Forgive me, Roma. I should not have
spoken so ; but indeed you gave me cause.
Let us come to your father now, and tell
him all. Tell him you pledged yourself
before you knew your own heart. We will
kneel to him to grant what we ask, and to
bless our love

But Koma shrank back with a frightened
look.

Oh no, no ! Indeed you must not. It
would kill him !'

Kill him ! He cannot care so very much.'

1 He does ! he does ! Oh, Marco ! you
must have patience. If you cannot wait till
I bid you speak, we must part now and forever.
I can die myself, but I cannot, I cannot
give him such pain !'

Phil gazed at her in amazement.

1 Eoma, I cannot understand. Why should
we wait ? He must be told sometime  unless,
indeed, you mean to sell yourself, and
marry '

Oh no, no, Marco ! how can you be so
cruel ? I will never marry him ; but I cannot
tell my father yet. You must trust me ; you
must be patient

If only you would explain ! How can
things get anything but worse by waiting ? I
know Philip Debenham well, Eoma. He will
hold you to your promise through everything.
He never gives way when once his
mind is made up. You stand in great
danger.'

Something in the warning tone made Eoma
tremble. Had the man she had believed in
played her false ? Would he hold her to her
plighted word ?

'Let me go in, Marco,' she said in low,
trembling tones. ' I am very miserable. 1
don't know what to say or what to think. I do
love you ; but you must bear with me. Some
day I will tell you all ; till then you must
keep silence. Think as kindly of me as you
can. I must speak to Philip before I can
speak to you any more of  of  love.'

She turned and left him, and Phil, with
a dark look on his face, turned and shook
his fist in the direction of Lady well Manor.

Torrington Torwood,' he said slowly
and deliberately, ' I will make you pay for
this !'

THE LAST STRAW.

T was very well for Roma to tell Phil
that he was not to speak again to
her of love ; but he was not at all
prepared to submit to such a prohibition.

Roma loved him, and had admitted her
love, therefore he had a right to assume
towards her something of a lover's part.

'All is fair in love and war,' he said to
himself; and he felt that against his false
friend any step he chose to take was
fair.

The fact that he had, by flattering the
father's foolish vanity, obtained the promise of
the daughter's hand against her own will,
added fuel to the fire of his anger against
Tor, which he had been able only fitfully to
keep burning so far ; and he now felt that he

could proceed to severe measures with less
scruple than heretofore.

Roma was unhappy ; he saw that plainly
through the evening hours that followed
their declaration of mutual love ; and the
thought that Tor was making her suffer
was enough to rouse, and to keep stirring
within him, deep feelings of animosity and
scorn.

Eoma need not have been unhappy ; but
when a false position has been forced upon a
woman, it must sooner or later become a
trouble and an anxiety.

The girl had, in a great measure, forced
herself into the position she thus occupied, by
her feverish dread of agitating her father, by
the promise she had obtained from Tor, and
by her determination to sacrifice anything 
her life's happiness, if need be  to his whims,
which in her eyes were sacred.

It had seemed to her a trifling thing, this
sacrifice, so long as no love had ever entered
her life, save her love towards her blind
father. She would even have made a loveless
marriage rather than have given him pain, for
she wrongly believed that her one duty in

life was to shield him, at all cost, from any
kind of trouble.

But the events of the past few days had insensibly
wrought a change in her. She saw
now that the sacrifice of her life would involve
deep pain to another ; and in the light of this
new love a hundred doubts and fears, which
had never troubled her before, now woke into
active being.

Foremost amongst these was the haunting
dread which Phil's warning had aroused.
Would this man to whom she was pledged
really give her back her word ? Or had he
been deceiving her ?

She had never doubted Tor before, and she
certainly need not have doubted him now ;
but if love brings with it a thousand bright
hopes, it as certainly brings quite as many
nervous fears.

Phil had unconsciously infected her with
some of his own distrust of the man who
passed as master of Lady well, and she began to
tremble lest he had deceived her, as the Signor
said he had deceived others before. She tried
to rid herself of these thoughts, she always
spoke on behalf of * Mr. Debenham ' when he

was attacked, yet the cold fear which had
clutched at her heart would not relax its grip.

She had seen very little of Tor lately,
which partly accounted for this change in her
feelings.  There was something straightforward
and kindly in his presence, that
always gave her confidence, and would have
driven away her fears had she but seen him
frequently face to face ; but of late he had
had much to occupy his time and thoughts,
and he felt it well, under existing circumstances,
to see but little of Eoma.

True, not many days had passed since he
had paid a hurried visit to her studio ; but
that did not count for much, and it seemed to
her a long, long while since they had spoken
together of their mutual understanding respecting
their nominal engagement.

The girl's heart was heavy, and her face was
pale when she met their guest at the 
upon the following day.

Phil saw this, and indignation waxed hot
within him.

That morning Eoma declined to allow him
to enter her studio. She wanted, she said, to
work hard, and should do so better alone.

Phil walked across the park to Ladywell,
and wandered aimlessly about in its grounds
and gardens, thinking bitter thoughts of his
strange and anomalous position  a trespasser
and an alien upon his own property.

He saw no one but a few gardeners, who
looked curiously at him, but made no remark
upon his presence there. He wandered at will
amongst the flowers and shrubs, remarking to
himself upon the beautiful order which reigned
there, and wondering whether under his rule
if ever he obtained his own  things would
be as well kept up.

Tor always was made to rule  I used to
tell him so : now perhaps he has found it out
for himself, and has learned his own power

Phil was in a depressed frame of mind, restless
and angry, yet still irresolute, from the
feeling of helplessness which always came over
him when he pictured himself standing up
against Tor.

4 He can turn me round his little finger,'
said poor Phil dismally enough. ' He can do
anything he likes with me, and he knows it.
I believe if he had me to deal with, and only
me, he could almost persuade me that I was Tor-wood,

and lie Debenham. I know the old feeling
would all come back, and I should be like
a child in his hands. I must have some help.
I must make allies somehow. I wonder what
these Classis people are like. After all, they
are my next of kin.'

Phil gathered a great bunch of roses and
heliotrope for Eoma, and then slowly turned
his steps back to the house.

My flowers f he thought bitterly. ' I have
to steal my own flowers, and run the risk of
being prosecuted for it.'

No harm, however, resulted from his boldness.
He met nobody as he retreated with his
fragrant burden ; only as he crossed the park,
under the shadow of the great trees, he saw
Maud and Tor riding gaily over the elastic
sward up to the great terrace.

What a handsome couple they are !' thought
Phil. ' And how fond she is of him ! I wonder
what she will say when I have brought him to
ignominy and disgrace. Will that steel her
heart against me ? I don't believe women have
any sense of justice when their pity is aroused.'

He found Eoma alone in the room, where
the cloth was laid for lunch.

Oh, how lovely !' she exclaimed, as she saw
the flowers.

'For you he said softly. 'You know,
Koma, what the heliotrope says V

She bent her head over the flowers, and
answered nothing;.

 Tell me,' he said, with that gentle authority
which a man in his position seldom assumes in
vain.

1 " Ici liege dicti" ' she answered so softly
that he, too, had to bend towards her flowers
to catch the words.

Next moment they had started apart, for
Mr. Meredith had entered the room with a
lady upon his arm, the sight of whose face
made Phil start with surprise.

He knew at a glance who she was  his aunt,
Mrs. Classis.

Eighteen years had passed since he had
seen her, but yet that handsome, cold face,
with its hard lines and clearly cut features,
had not been effaced from his recollection ;
and time had wrought little change in Mrs.
Classis.

Phil felt repelled by the face, though he
tried not to let himself be too much led by his

instinct of distrust. He had that gift of a
somewhat finely strung nature, of reading
faces with tolerable accuracy, and yet he did
not wish to dislike or suspect Mrs. Classis.
She might prove a useful ally, and he was
anxious not to allow prejudice to warp his
judgment.

He talked with a purpose at table, and in a
moment he saw that she understood and responded.
It needed but a short time to convince
him that Mrs. Classis was a clever
woman, and that she had some suspicions
of her own respecting the character of her
supposed nephew : though in what channel
her suspicions ran, it was not the time and
place then to discover.

Opportunity, however, was not long wanting,
for an offer of escort home gave him the
chance to speak to his aunt alone, and find out,
if possible, what it was she really thought
respecting Tor.

The interview was not entirely satisfactory,
for, do what he would, Phil could not shake
off the old distrust of his aunt ; and the idea
of plotting against Tor with a Classis was so
repugnant to all the instincts of his nature,

that he could not bring himself to speak out
plainly.

He saw that Mrs. Classis was upon the
wrong tack in her suspicions. She had no
idea, as yet, of the trick that had been played
upon the family ; and Phil had, therefore, the
acuteness to wonder how it was she so hated
Tor, as to be willing to ally herself against him,
and that with a perfect stranger. She must
have a motive, and an interested one, else she
would not trouble herself over the matter.
What was it to her if Mr. Torwood was
wronged ? It was no business of hers to
arbitrate between two friends.

So he plucked up his courage and put the
question, and learned by the answer that Tor
had treated with contumely his next of
kin.

He could not help inwardly rejoicing that
the Classis faction had been so treated, for
his soul abhorred them, even whilst his reason
tried to persuade him into taking them into
his confidence.

How he would have answered Mrs. Classis
he never had to decide; for as she finished
her tirade against her ungrateful nephew, Tor

himself came striding down the lane, and Phil
felt himself crimsoning all over.

Suppose Tor could know him ! Fancy such
a juxtaposition ! Phil in league with a Classis
against his old friend !

A sudden sense of shame fell upon him, ashe
met for an instant the keen, quick glance
from Tor's eyes. There was no guilt, no
shame in Tor's face ; but the frank, open
courage and truthfulness which had always
characterized it.

No, come what might, he could not plot
against his friend. He would speak to him
openly, face to face. Phil's better angel was now
in the ascendant, and he bid Mrs. Classis a
hasty adieu,. whilst some words she had uttered,
which had passed almost unnoticed before, now
recurred to him with considerable significance.

Spends Mr. Torwood's money almost more
freely than his own,' he muttered in French ;
and then he added in vigorous English, ' The
deuce he does !'

Phil pondered over this piece of intelligence
a good deal. So Tor was spending his own
money freely. Spending his own meant saving
Phil's. If he was saving Phil's, what could be

vol. in. 48

his object ? Why should he save it, if he
looked upon it as his own, and meant to claim
it as such ? Was it caution ? or was it
honesty ? What could be the reason for
economizing money supposed to be his own 1

Phil puzzled over this question without
solving the problem to his own satisfaction.
On the whole, he inclined to believe that Tor
was acting more fairly towards him than he
had once believed ; and yet he could not see
his way out of the difficulty, nor understand
how it was possible for his friend to be anything
but false and treacherous.

He hung about Ladywell as a moth flits
about a candle : it fascinated him to watch, as
far as possible, the life that went on there ;
and yet the more he watched the more he
saw how strong was Tor's position, and the
more did he fear the result of trying to oust
him.

What would be the good to me of house
and lands, if my sister hated me, and my aunt
the only aunt I care about  feared and
blamed me ? I should be detested at Ladywell,
I know, if Tor were in prison. They will
never love me as they do him. Maud is just

wrapped up in him. Even Eoma might turn
against me then. Though she does not love
him, she would pity him, and as everybody
knows, pity is akin to love.'

It never occurred to Phil that Tor might be
as much wrapped up in Maud, as Maud was in
him, and the idea of his being in love with
her never so much as entered his head. Ashe
had been told that' he was engaged to
Eoma, this was perhaps natural. As her heart
was not concerned in the matter, his must be ;
otherwise the engagement could never have
been formed.

The next event that followed was an invitation
to dine at Ladywell.

This invitation Phil accepted readily. He
was not now at all nervous of being detected,
and his interest in that household was most
absorbing.

Tor, in giving the invitation, had implied
that it was merely a friendly dinner he was
asked to share, that no company would be invited
; and he thought that perhaps some opportunity
would arise which would give him
that private interview which he longed for

whilst he dreaded.

482

When he reached the drawing-room he
found two strange ladies there, as well as Maud
and Mrs. Lorraine. One was a young girl of
blooming countenance, the other a handsome,
keen-eyed, well-dressed elderly lady, whose
name was given as Miss Marjory Descartes.

Phil fancied the name was not altogether
strange to him. He had a vague idea that he
had heard it before, and that in some way or
another it was associated with Tor ; but he
could not find the clue to the dim train of
thought aroused, and as dinner was announced,
his duty of conducting Maud to the head of
her table now occupied his mind to the exclusion
of all else.

Maud was very charming and very winning,
of that there could be no doubt ; and the
more so from the little difficulties which arose
in making herself understood to her neighbour.
Her French was more broken and pretty than
fluent, but her bright smiles and speaking
gestures quite made up for lack of words ; and
Phil was more and more delighted with his
sister, and more and more impatient to claim
her as his own.

He noticed, even when in company and

entertaining guests at her table, how her eyes
were turning continually to Tor, how her face
lighted when their glances met, and how she
tried to catch what he said, and to include
him in her own talk.

How she does love him !' thought poor
Phil. 'Will she ever love me like that? I
should so hate to do anything to make her
shrink from me. I will say nothing to-night,
at any rate.'

This decision was a relief, and the short
interval that he spent tete-astute with Tor,
passed more easily than might have been expected.
Phil concealed the nervousness he
felt, and Tor seemed always at his ease. Tfye
interview did not last long, for they soon rose
by mutual consent, to join the ladies.

Phil was glad to escape from his host, and
fell readily into conversation with Miss Marjory
Descartes, who attracted him by her
bright, pleasant manner, and by her fluent,
amusing speech.

But he was not altogether easy as the conversation
proceeded. He could not define the
impression produced ; but he certainly experienced
some sensation which suggested the

idea that he was being 'turned inside out'
for Miss Marjory's inspection.

If it was so, it was so cleverly done that
he was barely conscious of the operation. It
might be all his morbid fancy, he told himself.
Miss Marjory could not by any chance know
anything. Tor would know better than to
betray his own secret. Still he could not be
quite comfortable, and the more he reviewed
the talk afterwards, the less he liked it.

He had committed himself, he feared, more
than he had intended, and had not been clear
as to his antecedents under cross-examination.
He had come without a properly prepared
story, and Miss Marjory had either found
it out, or might have done so, if she had
had any motive in her apparently innocent
queries.

Miss Marjory had half fascinated, half
frightened him.

He could not rid himself of the idea that
she was in some way an ally of Tor's, and in
his confidence. If so, it boded ill for him, for
he knew that a clever woman was a dangerous
enemy; and what Miss Marjory had said of
Tor's likeness to Mr. Debenham and Maud

seemed to imply that if an ally, she would bean
unscrupulous one.

Such remarks as hers must have been made
in all simplicity, or else with a deep motive.
Phil was inclined to believe the latter theory ;
though at times he accused himself of morbid
fears, which led him to suspect danger where
no danger was.

Just at this juncture of affairs, came the invitation
to join the dinner-party that was to
celebrate Maud's majority. Michael Meredith,
in his presumption that he and Eoma almost
belonged to the family, had all but asked for
an invitation, and Tor had given it, including,
as was almost necessary, the Signor.

At almost the last moment, after all, Meredith
and his daughter decided against going,
as his health was not considered strong enough
to bear the fatigue. The Signor, however, to
everyone's surprise, announced his intention
of holding to his accepted word ; and nobody
exactly liked to say to him that his presence
would be rather an intrusion. Roma had
told him beforehand something about Mr.
Debenham's odd will, and the decision Maud
was expected to make. He was interested, but

having no suspicions about the validity of the
will, nor even of any compulsion put upon the
father in its making, he did not attach the
same significance to the matter that others
had done.

Phil never forgot that dinner.

For the first time in his life he sat down to
dine with a family party, and saw, for the first
time since he had grown up, the three cousins
he had played and quarrelled with as a child,
and the uncle whom as a child he had so
cordially hated. He did not now look in anyway
lovable. Phil could well believe that
youthful impressions had been correct.

It was rather a terrible dinner for Phil. He
could not disguise the interest with which he
listened to the conversation that went on ;
and then Miss Marjory turned upon him, told
him he was not an Italian, and asked why he
could not say straight out who he was and
what he had come for.

Phil had not a word to say, and for awhile
sat dumb and confounded ; but even a worm
will turn, and he felt that he must do so. He
tried to attack Miss Marjory, and find out
what she did know ; but he was defeated at

all points. He was no match for his opponent ;
and all he could find out was, that he was
known to be a spy, and, even if his identity-was
not guessed at, the object of his visit was;
and that every means would be taken to defeat
him, and to upset the claim he was about to
put forward.

The enemy was even so strong that he was
warned on his own account to desist, and
plainly told that an attempt to coerce ' Mr.
Debenham ' would only recoil upon his own
head.

Miss Marjory undertook to defeat him
single-handed, and such was the respect inspired
by her indomitable will and aggressive,
confident manner, that Phil almost believed
his cause already lost.

Like one in a dream he made his way to
the library, where Maud's decision was to be
heard. He resented Tor's attempt to exclude
him as a personal affront. Who had the best
right to be there, the brother, or the brother's
friend ?

Phil listened to all that passed with a
feverish interest, not taking in its full significance,
but observing only what he thought

might be afterwards useful to himself. He
saw that Tor had made bitter enemies of the
Classis', husband and wife, and knew that
they would now support him, heart and soul,
in his claim to wrest his own from the hand
of their foe.

Very willingly did he now agree with Mrs.
Classis that the time had come to put an
end to the game, and ready enough was he to
meet her upon the morrow to discuss their
campaign.

But then, again, when they had met face
to face, he could not quite make up his mind
to be frank. He despised the tools he had
brought himself to employ, and was ready to
hate himself for stooping to use them.

He did betray the secret, half unwittingly,
and gave the clue of the tangle into his
aunt's hands ; but he let her believe that
Philip Debenham was away at sea, for not
yet was he prepared to give her his full confidence.


Their conversation has already been given ;
they nearly came to an understanding more
than once; and then Phil, with instinctive distrust,
pulled up, and would not commit himself

further ; but lie knew that he had betrayed
too much for it to be possible any longer to
keep the game in his own hands ; and that, if
his promise to Tor were to be redeemed, he
must see and speak to him without delay.

He was to go to Lady well as a guest next
day. Nothing could be done before then, he
thought, by Mrs. Classis ; yet, as he approached
the door on his way to the Manor House, he encountered
her coming forth.

They will dispute it,' she said, in a hurried
whisper. ' He means to keep the name and
position he has assumed. Try your power if
you will ; but his mind is made up.'

Phil went slowly up to the house.

I must try my power. I will. There is
no other course open to me now. Whatever
may be the result, I must make myself
known. I will demand an interview this
very night. I am glad that I cannot hesitate
longer, that things have gone beyond my
control. What will he say ? How will he
take it ? Shame and fear and anger I must
see, but oh ! how strange they will look
when stamped upon his face ! Oh, Tor, Tor !
why have you done this thing V

CHAPTER VIII.

FACE TO FACE.

Signor Paladins, on saying
goodnight to the company assembled
at Ladywell, demanded
a private interview with the master of the
house.

Phil watched his host's face closely whilst
he made known his wish, and saw that an
expression of uneasiness passed over it,
although Tors manner was as frank and
pleasant as possible.

He saw, too, a sharp look of inquiry in
Miss Marjory's keen eyes, and felt more than
ever convinced that this dangerous little
woman was the confidante and accomplice of
his former friend.

But every moment now was of value to him,
and he could not linger to watch or think.

He had a good ten minutes' start of his
host, and he meant to make the most of
it.

Dashing up to his own room, he locked the
door, and flung off the dark, Italian-looking
wig, leaving exposed to view his own dusky-brown
hair, which was so like Maud's in
colour and growth. Then out came a sharp
razor, and after five minutes' rapid shaving
the black, Vandyke beard had vanished, and
the heavy moustache, with its long, pointed
ends, was reduced to the ordinary dimensions
accorded to Phil's.

Next, the padded coat was discarded, and
an old blue smoking-jacket donned, which
displayed the true proportions of the slightly-built
figure. Some colourless fluid from a
stoppered bottle removed a little of the intense
blackness from eyebrows and moustache,
and robbed the face and hands of some of
their olive tinting ; and Phil, glancing at
himself in the glass, saw that, save for the
slight swarthiness of complexion that could
not be at once removed, his old self was
entirely restored. The transformation was
complete.

Then he unlocked the door, and waited
with a beating heart for the arrival of his
host. He could not decide how to meet him,
nor what to say ; he could not even think connectedly,
so great was his excitement and
agitation now that the supreme moment had
come, when he and his false, treacherous
friend should stand for the first time face to
face.

There was a firm footfall outside, a hand
was laid upon the handle of the door; Phil
stood still in the middle of the room, and
gave permission to enter.

The door opened.

Now, Signor '

There was a sudden pause, and for ten
seconds utter silence reigned in the room.

Phil !' shouted Tor ; and with one stride
he had reached his friend and grasped him by
both hands, in a strong, warm clasp that
seemed as if it would never relax. ' Phil himself,
by all that's wonderful ! Phil it is, by the
powers ! though how you got here passes my
comprehension ! Phil, my dear old fellow, I
can't tell you how thankful I am to see you.
Oh, this is glorious !'

With an almost boyish gesture of delight
Tor flung Phil's hands from him, and walked
round and round him with a laugh of intense
appreciation.

Phil stood aghast. He had pictured this
meeting day by day for weeks, and never in
the wildest flights of his imagination had he
heard himself greeted thus.

Tor did not even observe his friend's silence
in his own gladness of heart.

Phil, you rascal, tell me how you came
here ? How did you escape from your vessel
without my knowledge ? I can't conceive now
you came, but it's such an immense relief to
have you back that I don't care for anything
else. Did that Italian fellow smuggle you in ?
By-the-bye, where is he V

Tor looked round him with a comical air of
perplexity ; and then, seeing the coat and wig
lying on the bed, and the shaving apparatus
upon the washstand, the true meaning of the
situation dawned upon him.

He sprang upon Phil, and smacked him
upon the back with all the force of his strong
right arm.

1 Phil, you scamp ! you don't mean to say
it was you all the time f

And then he flung himself into a chair, and
laughed till the tears stood in his eyes.

Phi] stood gazing at him, feeling more and
more like one who dreams, not knowing what
to say, or what line of conduct to assume.

You young villain !' cried Tor, as soon ashe

could speak, and he shook his fist at Phil

with an expression that defies description.

You young villain ! you dare play me such a

trick as that ! You deserve to be hung, drawn,

ID" '

and quartered; and I'd string you up in two
seconds if I weren't so glad to see you back.
What have you got to say for yourself, you
scamp !  worrying honest folks almost out of
their senses with your dark sayings and
sinister looks? And to think it was Phil
Debenham all the time ! Ye gods ! What
will Miss Marjory say ? I shall be a laughingstock
to her for evermore. Phil, you rascal,
I'll never forgive you f

And Tor laughed again more heartily than
before ; and after a long effort at dignified
composure and coldness, old habit triumphed,
and Phil's gravity gave way. He sat down

opposite Tor and laughed with him until both
were fairly tired.

Tor, old man,' he said at last, 'I can't
understand things yet ; but it's borne in upon
me that I've been a most infernal fool.'

1 It's a way you have, dear boy, when left
to your own devices,' answered Tor genially.
I'd never have believed you could have
played any game long, which I shouldn't detect
; but how could I guess, when I believed
you safe on board the Medusa f I can't make
out how you did it, nor why. Phil, my boy,
if you only knew how I've longed for you,
and worried myself nearly into a fever, you'd
never be able to say enough of my goodness
and generosity ! Why did you keep me a
moment longer in such a position than was
necessary ? I should feel inclined to shake
the life out of you, only this makes up for
everything.'

Tor,' said Phil, 4 I've been such a consummate
ass that I don't know how to tell you.'

Let's come downstairs and smoke,' said
Tor. ' I'm sure we shan't have done talking
this side midnight. I'll mix some whisky
punch, and we'll make a night of it. I'll do

vol. in. 49

the honours of your house for this one night,
old boy ; and tomorrow, thank goodness, I'll
resume my own personality and my humble
name. Phil,' and he seized his friend's hand
and shook it nearly off, ' you can't have a
notion how glad I am to see you again !'

They went down to Tor's 'den.' On the
way thither, Tor took the opportunity to slip
a piece of folded paper under Miss Marjory's
door.

The paper bore these words :

1 It's all right. Phil has come back. Lookout
for larks tomorrow morning.  T. T.'

1 What a comfort it is to sign one's own
name again !' he thought, as he wrote the two
T's.

This is like old times,' said Tor, a quarter
of an hour later, as the two sat together
with pipes and punch. ' Well, Phil, how do
you feel in your capacity as monarch of all
you survey ? Are you as glad to reign as I
am to abdicate V

I may like it in time, when I don't feel
such an egregious fool as I do now remarked

Phil, as he smoked his pipe and looked at
Tor, whose face expressed a sublime satisfaction.


Well, what is it you've done V asked the
other. ' You'd better make a clean breast of
it, as it seems so to weigh upon your mind

Can't you guess V

I should be sorry to try. There are a vast
variety of ways in which a man can make a
fool of himself, and you always had a special
aptitude in doing so.'

Do be serious, Tor. You'll be serious
enough when you hear.'

1 Shall I ? I don't feel overwhelmed with
gravity so far. I can't get over the fact that
you really made a fool of me, for once. To
think that you and Signor Pagliadini were one
and the same, and that you could meet me
time after time, and I not find you out ! I
shall never be able to look Miss Marjory in
the face again !'

And Tor broke anew into laughter.

1 You're incorrigible, Tor !' cried Phil. ' I
must tell you, if you can't see for yourself. I
came in disguise because I was afraid to come
otherwise.'

492

Afraid !' laughed Tor ; ' that's good. Afraid
of what ?'
< Of you.*

Of me ! Good heavens ! why V
'Now just be serious a moment, and put
yourself in my place. I knew you had adopted
my name, passed yourself off as my great-uncle's
heir, and obtained possession of Lady-well.
What could I think but that you intended
to keep it V

1 Keep it !' shouted Tor ; c keep Ladywell !
Be Phil Debenham all the rest of my natural
life ! No, thank you, my boy ; not at any
price ! My dear old fellow, you never were
very practical or very wise ; but you don't
mean to tell me you thought such a deception
as that would be possible for any length of
time V

I did,' said Phil. ' I suppose I was an ass
for my pains. Perhaps my head was stupider
than usual, but I thought it could be done,
and that you could do it, if you had a mind.'

Tor opened his great grey eyes, and looked
steadily at Phil.

f And did you think I had the mind V
'What could I think? You had got possession

of all that was mine. Why should you
take it if you didn't mean to keep it V

Of course you couldn't understand why I
should take such a step, without seeing some
of the papers I must show you, now that you
have come back ; but Phil, have we lived ten
years together, and known each other since
childhood, and have you so little confidence in
me as that V

Phil's eyes fell.

I'm afraid I've been an awful fool  a fool
and a brute both. I ought to have known.'

Yes, Phil, you ought to have known. I'm
not a saint, as you know, and I've never setup
for being better than my fellow-men ; but
I don't think I've ever given you cause to
think me a blackguard. Could you really
believe in cold blood, that I should deliberately
set about to rob you of your inheritance
V

'Old fellow, I'm awfully sorry. It must
have been that sunstroke that muddled me.
Don't be in a rage don't cast me off. If you
only knew how I feel now, you would see how
much I am to be pitied.'

Tor smiled. He could not be angry with

Phil  with the man who would always be a
boy to him, whose oracle and king he had
ever been, and whose allegiance could never
be seriously shaken.

1 You deserve a thorough good licking for
being such a confounded muff ; but you never
do get your deserts in the way of chastisement.
Phil, I have answered, and would answer, for
your trust in me with my life ; and you could
believe this of me  you, my chosen companion
and comrade  mine own familiar friend. '

1 have been punished said Phil slowly.
I have not distrusted you without more pain
than you can easily imagine. Can you forgive
it and forget it V

'To be sure. We will only think of the
comic side of the question, for it is infinitely
comic. After all, you had cause for bewilderment
 only you might have trusted me. Come,
Phil, tell me your tale. I can't still understand
how you escaped without my hearing of it.'

So Phil told, graphically enough, the story
of his awakening.

1 The little wretch  so he played me false 
cried Tor, as Dr. Schneeberger's share in the
conspiracy became known. ' I'd have sworn

he was too deeply buried in the human brain
to have risen to any kind of conspiracy. Why
couldn't he have kept his word to me ? I
should like to punch his head so well, that his
own brain should become an object of immediate
solicitude.'

1 Don't abuse him too much,' said Phil. ' He
was loyal to you until I painted you so black
that he couldn't well trust in you. When he
was won over, he made a famous ally. It was
he who devised the fiction of the sea-voyage,
so as to account for my absence from his roof,
should you chance to come over.'

Tor's eyes opened wide.

Phil, you villain !' he said slowly, ' you
don't mean to say you had come to your senses
that last time I saw you in Germany V

Phil looked at him, smiling deprecatingly.

Well, that beats all ! What a confounded
ass you were not to have it out, then and
there f

I would have done so, if you had only called
me "Phil." Why did you keep up the fiction,
To*?

1 1  I like that ! As if I could possibly be
two people at once, or betray myself to anyone

! As if I wasn't playing a risky enough
game as it was, for the sake of your interests,
without being expected to let others see what
I was at. / was Phil Debenham when I went
to Germany. You were Tor. A nice thing it
would have been if I had gone and reversed
positions !'

But why were you Phil, and why was I
Tor ? and why were you so bold and defiant
when I  Signor Pagliadini  told you that you
were Torwood ? It was enough to make anybody
believe you meant to hold what you had
got. Miss Marjory Descartes as good as told
me that you would fight to the death.'

Phil, you are a greater fool than I took
you for ! What else could I say or do until
you came to claim your own ? So long as you
remained insensible and beyond my reach, I
had to stick to my story like grim death ; or
I should have had the Classis faction at my
throat, and should have tasted all the sweets
of prosecution for forgery and fraud.'

Good heavens, Tor ! What a risk you ran !'

1 1 did ; and if I'd half realized the risk, I
doubt if I should ever have run it, even for
your sake.'

For my sake !'

Yes ; you don't suppose I've put myself ina
false position, and nearly got myself into a
convict's cell, for my own amusement V

But what good could it do me V

Tor rose, unlocked a drawer, and took out
two letters : one from old Maynard, and one
from Maud.

Read those,' he said briefly ; * perhaps then
you will understand better

Phil read in silence, and looked up at Tor
for further enlightenment.

Well V he said.

Well ? Can't you see ? These letters and
the lawyer's, which you have seen, came whilst
you were hopelessly insensible. Here was the
lawyer, urging immediate return of the heir ;
Maud, begging and imploring her brother to
come and release her from an uncongenial
home. There were hints that Classis was not
to be trusted in the management of the estate,
that you ought at once to come and take
matters into your own hands. Then there
was this marriage of Maud's to stop. You
see how old Maynard wrote  and he wrote
with sense as well as cynicism ; and the important

birthday was said to be imminent,
though the date was not revealed. It seemed
most urgent that some one should go over and
look to things ; and there were you, lying like
a log, and with every probability of remaining
in that state for weeks, perhaps for longer.
You could not act yourself, you could not even
empower me to act. If I had gone over as
your friend, I should have had no power ; and
Classis, as next of kin, lawyer, executor,
guardian (under your father's will, I mean),
would have had all his own way. For aught
I knew, before you recovered, Maud would
have been bullied into marrying his son ; and
you might have fallen so completely into his
power, that he would serve you as he has
served your father.'

Phil looked impressed and interested.

You thought all that ?'

I did. You know what we have always
said of Classis between ourselves. I distrusted
him then, though without the same
ground, no less than I do now that I have
had the honour of his acquaintance. I don't
know what first put the notion into my head.
It seemed to come all in a moment ; and at

first, I confess, my chief thought was that it-would
be a fine practical joke to play upon
your people, just to personate you until you
could come over and take up the rule yourself.
I knew nobody had seen you since you were a
small boy, and I felt that I could play the part
quite naturally and well for a few weeks, and
rather enjoyed the idea of being the first to
bring Classis to see that his power had reached
its zenith. I felt that that task would come
easier to me than to you, old chap.'

Phil nodded.

c Go on. I begin to see

I should hope you do. Well, I've about
told you all now. Of course, once the irrevocable
step taken, I began to see that it was
something more than a joke ; and I had to be
very careful to leave no clue which could tell
against me, in case a suspicion were raised. I
believed every precaution had been taken, for
that you would ever turn against me, never
once entered my head, and even then I should
not have thought you clever enough to overturn
all my carefully laid plans. I had goton
very well, on the whole, and weathered
several threatened storms before you turned

up ; but, when you appeared, I knew there
was danger ahead, and I sent for my only ally
and confidante, Miss Marjory Descartes. I
think she gave you a taste of her tongue on
one or two occasions, did she not V

Yes, she scared me half out of my senses.
Who is she, Tor ?'

I An old friend of my father's  a very clever
woman. You will like her, Phil.'

If she doesn't make me nervous. How
came you to confide in her, Tor V

I I had to ; she gave me no choice. She knew
me from my likeness to my father ; but I never
regretted it ; she has taken my part boldly

She has. You ought to make her Mrs.
Torwood/

I might do worse, if I were thirty years
older ; but, Phil, old fellow, my young affections
are bespoken elsewhere.'

1 I know.'

And poor Phil's face clouded suddenly.

Do you \ You have sharp eyes if you do.
Think, Phil, what I have had to put up with
for your sake  to pretend to be her brother
all the time, and dispassionately to await her
acceptance or rejection of other suitors. It's

not many men who would have been so
patient as I have been.'

6 What are you talking about V cried Phil
eagerly. ' Whom is it you want to marry V

Maud  my sister up till to-night  your
sister henceforward, thank goodness! Have
you any objection V

Maud !' cried Phil ecstatically. ' Maud, is
it ? Oh, Tor, old fellow, what could be more
to my mind ? Oh, if I had only known !
And I have been so madly jealous, thinking it
was Eoma f

Ah !' and Tor's eyes suddenly opened
wide. ' So you and Eoma have fallen a prey
to one another, have you V

Yes, we understand one another ; but she
tells me, and her father tells me, she is engaged
to you

Eoma knows that it is merely a fiction,
our engagement, just to humour her father,
who was very ill when he desired our betrothal
 too ill to bear the irritation of a
refusal. She could not explain this, but she
knows it, and has, I hope, bestowed upon you
the affections which certainly have never been
mine. She will be glad enough, and so shall I,

to be released from the bond. I am more
tired than I can express of the continual
fetter of a false position.'

But Mr. Meredith '

He will not care, the old egotist ! It was
not me at all whom he wanted for his
daughter ; it was your father's son. He has
always flattered his stupid old self that his
will would bring about such a marriage. Now
that you, the real son, have opportunely fallen
in love with Eoma, all will be well. He will
transfer his affections, and those of his
daughter, to you with perfect equanimity, and
wonder the more at the magic power of his
will. He is an old fool, but he is blind, and
her father, so we must bear with him ; but
you need not fear opposition in that
quarter.'

Phil drew a long breath of relief.

Tor,' he said, ' yesterday I never thought
I could be so happy as this again. If only
I hadn't been such a brute as to doubt
you!'

Well, it's over now, and won't be likely to
occur again ; this makes up for all. Tomorrow,
Phil, we'll go over the accounts together,

and you'll see that I've not robbed
you. I've spent a few hundreds of the money
you were supposed to owe me, and a good deal
of my own ; but with yours I've merely kept
the house going, and defrayed the expenses
which you would have incurred in any case.
I've quite turned into a business man, under
stress of circumstances, and you'll find all as
plain as a pikestaff. You'll never keep accounts
like that yourself, my boy, not if you live till
Doomsday. And now I can look the whole
world in the face, and snap my fingers at the
whole of the Classis party. They're on the
right scent now, and, but that we shall forestall
them, might be nasty ; but they are
helpless so long as you stand by me, Phil, and
say that all I have done has your sanction
and approval. I suppose I may count on so
much  eh, old boy V

There was so much to say, now that the
friends had once come together, so many
jokes to enjoy together, so many episodes to
laugh over, that it was two in the morning
before they separated.

Phil's mercurial spirits had risen to the
highest pitch of enjoyment.

1 say, Tor, we must have a lark out of this
tomorrow.'

< All right. How V

6 I'm like Maud, am I not V

6 As like as two peas, and the image of your
father, too.'

Then introduce me at breakfast as your
friend Mr. Torwood, and be Philip Debenham
yourself, and see what they all say !'

All right answered Tor, with a grin ; ' I
will

PHIL OR TOE, ?

HE following morning dawned bright
and clear. Tor woke early, despite
his late hours the previous evening,
and woke with a joyous consciousness of being
once more his own self  Torrington Torwood ;
no longer obliged to play a part, no longer
obliged to watch his words and guard his conduct,
and, above all, no longer forced to act
towards Maud as if he were merely an affectionate
brother.

With intense satisfaction Tor awoke to the
fact that his task was done ; and as he lay and
considered the events of the past months, he
thought to himself that, on the whole, it had
been well done.

Things at Ladywell were on a very different
footing now, from what they had been three

vol. in. 50

months back. Then Mr. Classis had had
considerable influence in all affairs which concerned
his nephew's property ; he knew
exactly what was done upon the estate, and
how it was done. He had, during a brief
period, managed all the buying and selling,
and regulated the expenditure of the household
and farms. Maud was all but engaged
to marry his son, and did not attempt to deny
that, had no strong hand held her back, she
would most likely have pledged herself todo
so.

Now, all idea of this marriage had been
abandoned, and Mr. Classis had gradually
sunk into a very different position from the
one he had formerly occupied in reference to
the Lady well property.

Firmly and quietly Tor had shelved his
supposed uncle, and had gradually deprived
him of every opportunity of tampering with
his affairs.

He had not quarrelled with him, had not
openly told him that he thought him a knave
and a fool both ; but he had conveyed to him
in a hundred different forms the suggestion that
he had much better mind his own business.

He had soon found that when he and the
bailiff had the buying and selling to manage,
the profits were much larger and the expenses
less heavy. Classis had been making a
pretty profit out of the transactions he had
carried on for three months, and was evidently
hoping that his nephew would leave a good
deal of responsibility in his hands still.

Phil might have done so, as Tor was fully
aware. Phil was good-tempered, easy-going,
and perfectly innocent of all malice or resentment.
Anybody could get round Phil,
who was a true Debenham in his dislike
for ' a row ' and his distaste for trouble ; and
any couple so unscrupulous as Mr. and Mrs.
Classis would soon have had him quite in
their power.

I don't think they can catch him now,
though said Tor to himself. ' I've put them
in their place, and they'll be obliged to stay
there. Phil isn't a fool, though he's something
of a muff in his laziness and good-nature ; but
I am pretty sure, after what I have to tell
him, that he'll never have much to say to his
precious relatives. And I think the Bellasis'
have too much sense to try to get round him,

502

as long as I am on the spot, and that may be
some time, unless Maud will have nothing todo
with me ;' and here Tor smiled to himself,
as though he did not anticipate any very
severe rebuff at Maud's hands.

When he was dressed he sought out Phil,
who looked more than ever like himself, after
another shave and a more vigorous attempt to
remove his bronze.
Tor laughed aloud when he saw him.

To think that yesterday you were that
confounded Italian ! Oh, Phil ! I'll never
forgive you for playing me such a shabby
trick P

Now just hold your tongue, Phil Deben-
ham,' laughed Phil. ' Don't you know I'm
Mr. Torwood this morning, just returned from
my travels  arrived late last night ? There,
let me brush my hair over my forehead.
Don't I look just like Maud ? Why don't you
make love to me, Tor, old man V
' Make love to an ass !' retorted Tor. ' Just
part your hair decently, and come along. I've
heard Maud and Miss Marjory go down. Don't
snigger when you're introduced, or I won't go
through with it.'

1 All right answered Phil, beginning, nevertheless,
to ' snigger ' promptly. ' I'll be propriety
itself. I don't promise not to grin when
I see you kiss Maud, though !'

If you do '

Oh, well, then I won't. Anything for a
quiet life. Do come on. I want to see them
all, and how they'll take it. Will Miss Marjory
know V

Yes, but she won't spoil anyone's game.
Come on.'

Two minutes later, Tor brought his guest
into the breakfast-room. All the ladies were
assembled there, some seated, some standing
about, looking at their letters, and exchanging
amiable remarks.

Maud sprang forward to greet Tor.

Phil, you bad boy, you're late !' she said ;
and then she saw that he was followed by a
stranger.

1 My friend, Mr. Torwood, Maud !' said Tor,
presenting Phil, who behaved very well, all
things considered. ' He turned up late last
night, and gave me no end of a surprise.
You would give him a very warm welcome, if
you half knew how glad I am to see him here

Maud turned to the stranger with her
brightest smile, gave him her hand, and
glanced into his face. Then the words of
welcome seemed suddenly to die away. She
looked at him, and then she looked at Tor,
and back again at the new-comer, and she
held her peace.

Very glad to make your acquaintance,
Miss Debenham,' said Phil, in a voice as
exactly like her own as a man's can be like a
woman's. ' My friend's relations almost seem
to be mine.'

A warning look from Tor checked any
further claim to relationship, otherwise he
might have gone on from bad to worse.

Mrs. Lorraine had turned somewhat pale,
and had sat gazing at Phil ever since he had
entered, very much as one might gaze at one
returned from the dead. She had not moved
or spoken, nor did she seem capable of doing
either.

Ethel was staring hard at Maud and the
stranger, her round eyes full of astonishment.


Miss Marjory alone was equal to the occasion
 as when was she not ?

Mr. Tor wood !' she exclaimed, rising and
advancing with her most gracious smile, ' this
is an unexpected pleasure. Mr. Torwood,
senior, was one of my best and most intimate
friends, and I am delighted to make the acquaintance
of the son, whom I have not seen
since he was a baby in Long-clothes.'

He has grown a little since then, has he
not?' said Phil, with his merry, mischievous
smile (which made him more like Maud than
ever), as he shook hands with Miss Marjory.

The ice thus broken, the remaining ladies
were presented, and the party sat down to
breakfast  Tor and Miss Marjory, as usual,
making talk, to cover the unwonted silence of
the others.

There was no mistaking the puzzled look
on the faces round the table. Phil, of course,
was all ' on the grin and the giggle as Maud
afterwards described it, and was so bubbling
over with secret amusement that it was all
Tor could do to preserve a decent gravity, and
address him in a natural way.

Mrs. Lorraine could do nothing but look
at the stranger, and from him to Maud and
back again ; and her face wore an expression

of bewildered perplexity that was almost
pathetic.

Ethel's eyes were abnormally round ; and
Maud sat as if tongue-tied. She did not even
wish to think ; but she could not rid herself
of the presentiment that some startling revelation
was imminent.

Where is Signor Pagliadini V she asked
presently, remembering for the first time their
guest of the previous evening.

Phil sniggered audibly.

He seems to have taken to himself the
wings of the morning answered Tor readily.
His room was empty as I came down. He's
an odd chap. Perhaps he's off to Meredith's
again. He's always doing something ridiculous.*
Here he looked severely at Phil.

I never thought Signor Pagliadini at all
ridiculous,' observed Maud, by way of keeping
up the conversation. ' He always seemed dignified
and self-possessed.'

So does a jackass at times,' returned Tor.
Whereat Phil choked in a way which drew the
eyes of the whole table upon him.

Tor felt that this state of things could not
further be prolonged ; but his instinct of mischief

had been aroused, and he was determined
to get what amusement he could out of the
situation.

What makes you stare so at Mr. Torwood,
Maud?' he asked suddenly. 'You hardly
ever seem to me to take your eyes off his
face.'

Maud coloured vividly, and looked daggers
at her wicked brother.

Mademoiselle doubtless admires me greatly
said Phil, with his Signor Pagliadini bow and
smile. 'Mademoiselle flatters me more than
I can say.'

Although he spoke English, there was something
in tone and look so unmistakably identical
with those of the supposed Italian, that an
expression of utter mystification passed overall
faces, save those of the two conspirators.
Even Miss Marjory looked puzzled for a moment
; but she quickly mastered the true
bearing of past events, and laughed to herself
heartily and silently.

Tor continued in his gravest way :

Aunt Olive, you seem equally fascinated
by my friend. His charms of person seem so
to entrance you that you cannot even eat your

breakfast. Tor, old man, I shan't be able to
take you into society again, if you are going to
cut me out like this

Phil's face quivered. He tried to answer,
but failed signally, and, after several struggles
to restrain himself, gave way and laughed irrepressible.


Maud sprang from her chair with flushed
cheeks and dilated eyes. She made a sort of
rush towards the man she had believed to be
her brother, and then stopped suddenly short.

1 Phil she said, in a trembling voice, ' what
does it all mean V

1 What V

You know  you know quite well. Who is
that man ? and who are you V

" That man," as you forcibly describe him,
is your brother, and my esteemed friend, Philip
Debenham ; and I, who by force of circumstances
have heretofore been his locum tenens
and representative, am now able to lay aside
my borrowed plumes, and make myself known
to you under my true name  Torrington Tor-wood.'


Phil had risen too, and was standing beside
his sister.

1 Maud he said softly, ' my own dear little
sister, have you no word for me ? You used
to be fond of me, when we were little children
playing together by the wishing-well. Our
wish has come true  Ladywell is mine, but I
shall not value it half so much as I do my
sister's love.'

She knew him then, knew without a doubt
that this man was her own brother ; and with
a sense of mingled sorrow, joy, and relief, she
turned to him, and put her arms about his
neck.

Phil, dear Phil ! It is you after all, then !
Oh, Phil ! what does it all mean V

It means that I have had the noblest,
most generous friend that ever man did have.
Maud, my little sister, you must love him for
my sake and his own. We both owe very
much to him.'

Phil had whispered these words as they
stood close together, and the tumult of wondering
voices drowned his low tones, which were
only heard by Maud.

She knew well enough that what he said
was true, and that to Tor : s courage and independence
of action they did owe very much.

He was not her brother at all ; but she
could not lose the sense of intimacy which the
past three months had established between
them. It was impossible all in a moment to
realize that, in a manner, they were now
strangers to one another.

She turned from Phil, who was at once
folded in Aunt Olive's loving embrace, and
faced Tor with one of her most bewitching;
looks  smiles, blushes, shyness and confidence
all struggling together for mastery.

I don't know what to say to you, sir, who
have deceived us all these months : but I can't
help being very glad you did, for I'm sure
things would never have been so comfortably
arranged if it had been Phil, not you, who had
had the first settling to manage. I am ever
so much obliged to you  Mr. Torwood.'

And she held out her hand, which he took,
and kept possession of, whilst he looked long
and smilingly into her downcast face.

Thank you, Miss Debenham,' he said, releasing
her ; ' I am glad you have not cast me
off altogether, in indignation at my deception.
I have no intention of being cast off, I can
tell you ; and I shall lay claim to my privilege

of a walk round the garden with you after
breakfast, as usual.'

Very well,' said Maud.

Her face suddenly crimsoned, and she
hastily retired to her own seat behind the
sheltering urn.

Her feelings were in such a tumult, that it
was no wonder she desired to elude observation
and give herself time to recover.

'But who and what was Signor Pagliadini?'
cried Miss Marjory, when a little of the
hubbub had subsided, and all had returned
to their seats.

Signora,' said Phil, in his polished Italian,
1 you see now before you that misguided man,
whom you so mercilessly frightened by trying
to strip him of his disguise, before the time had
come.'

You Signor Pagliadini !' exclaimed Miss
Marjory. ' Why, I shouldn't have thought
you'd have the brains to play the part so
well !'

Exactly what my friend Tor told me. Ita
great thing to have a faithful friend, isn't
it ? I see he has been faithful in his delineation
of my character to you. It is gratifying to

my vanity to have successfully deceived two
such clever people.'

You'd not have deceived me if I'd ever
seen you as you are answered Miss Marjory
stoutly.

No, I don't believe I should,' Phil assented
readily. ' Miss Marjory, you nearly frightened
me into a fit at Maud's majority dinner.

I wish I'd frightened you more,' returned
she viciously. ' You've not got half what
you deserve, practising on the credulity of
honest people, and making us all so uncomfortable.
What did you do it for V

Because I was an ass  a dignified jackass,
as Tor has so aptly described me. I can't resent
the description, because it's true to the
life. I'll tell you all about it soon ; but let
me enjoy myself now.'

The dear boy f murmured Mrs. Lorraine
tenderly. ' The dear, dear boy ! So like his
father! Poor dear Philip  if only he could
have lived to see this day !'

Aunt Olive, you've not changed a bit,'
cried Phil. 'You're just as pretty as ever. Do
you remember how I used to upset your work-basket
every day, and tell you not to mind,

because I'd marry you when I'd grown as big
as you V

'Bless you, I remember it like yesterday
answered Mrs. Lorraine, with tears in her
eyes.

I'm so sorry the old house has gone. I
should have liked to have seen the little octagon
room again, where you used to sit and work,
Aunt Olive. I slept in the room over it, I
know, and liked it so much because it had the
evening and morning sun, both. Do you remember
the big griffin I drew on the wall to
frighten Maud ? And how frightened I was
myself because it wouldn't rub out, and
always seemed grinning at me in the dark ?
You papered the room with rosebuds yourself,
then, you dear old auntie, to save me from a
scolding from papa

There was certainly no mistaking the real
Phil when once he had come. He was full
of reminiscences of former places and old
friends. Tor had done well with what slight
knowledge he possessed of Phil's childhood ;
but the real Phil could go on by the hour with
boyish recollections of Lady well and home.

Maud escaped to the garden when the

breakfast-party rose. Just at present she
could not talk freely to the newly-found
brother ; she was too much startled and perplexed
by the suddenness of the change.

It had been a habit from the first, that she
and. Tor should stroll round the garden together
before the day's work began ; and from
what he had said, she fancied that he intended
still to keep up this habit. How would he
treat her now ? how would he behave ? He
had always been so quiet and reserved in his
affection, she so open and familiar.

She felt glad now that he had acted thus,
for she saw that he had taken no undue
advantage of his position, and respected him
the more for it ; but she did wish (and her
cheek crimsoned at the thought) that she had
herself been a little more reserved in the affection
she had expressed for himself.

But it wasn't my fault,' she said to herself,
half aloud ;  for I thought he was my brother,
and I did love him ever so much.'

Don't put it into the past tense, Maud
said a voice behind her ; and she found that
her hands were held fast by Tor. ' Is a brother
the only person in the world you can love V

Maud's eyes fell before his, but she did not
try to withdraw her hands.

1 Have you transferred all the love you
had for me to the real Phil?' he asked
again.

I suppose I ought,' answered Maud, beginning
to smile. ' I suppose in time I shall ;
but, you know, you have told me that transfers
are tedious and tiresome affairs.'

So they are, Maud,' he answered  ' much
too tedious and tiresome to be worth the
undertaking in some cases. Look here  let me
help you out of a difficulty. Give Phil as
much love as ever you like  new love for the
new Phil, and let me keep the old love that I
have won. It was not all given to me, was
it, Maud, because I was thought to be a
brother ?'

He drew her towards him, and she did not
resist, not even when her head was touching
his shoulder.

You love me, Maud V

You know I do. I'm sure I've told you so
often enough. It's no good going on in the
proper way and pretending I don't said poor
Maud, who felt that her maiden's privilege of

VOL. III. 51

fibbing was taken away from her by force of
circumstances.

I have loved you ever since I knew you.
You don't know how hard it has been to call
you " sister." '

Maud nestled more comfortably against his
shoulder then.

1 You dear boy ! Are you sure V

Quite sure. I've had a few youthful
spoons, Maud. I won't lie to you, even in a
moment like this. But I've never really loved
a woman till I loved you ; and I feel as if I
could love as well as most men. You shall bethe
one to prove if it is not so.'

You dear boy !' said Maud again.

1 Sometimes you've complained that I haven't
kissed you often enough, Maud. If you don't
mind, I'll make up for the deficiency now.'

Maud did not seem to mind at all. She
turned up a happy face, which was certainly
well kissed.

I'm glad you're not my brother, Tor,' said
Maud, when the kissing was over.

So am I,' he answered gravely. " This is
much more satisfactory, isn't it V

1 Very much more,' she answered ; and by-and-by

she added, ' and Tor's a much, nicer
name than Phil. Phil doesn't suit you : it
sounds too small. I wonder I never thought
of it before.'

If we stay here much longer, we shall have
other people upon us remarked Tor.

1 Let us go, then, and hide,' cried Maud
eagerly. ' We've got such lots to say.'

Haven't you lots to say to Phil V

Oh, Phil can wait !'

Not displeased at this sentiment, Tor led
Maud away to a secluded part of the park,
where they passed a couple of hours in a
fashion infinitely satisfactory to themselves,
but not interesting to the historian.

They were soon missed by those that remained
; but Phil and Miss Marjory only
smiled, and said they had better not be sought
for.

Phil told his story to her, and received a
good deal of the verbal castigation for which
Miss Marjory was famous.

Not trust Mr. Torwood ! You who had
known him eighteen years ! I never heard
anything so disgraceful in my life ! You ought
to be ashamed of yourself ! I knew he was to

512

be trusted before I had known him eighteen
hours

1 We cannot all be so clever as you, Miss
Marjory.'

Now ' she began warningly ; and Phil

was silenced, though not for long.

Don't hate me, Miss Marjory, please.'

I don't think you're worth hating.'

No, I'm not  I assure you I'm not. You've
just hit the mark. I'm not worth your lofty
scorn and contempt, so please reserve it for a
more deserving object.'

And then Miss Marjory laughed, and she
and Phil made friends.

Ah, my dear,' she said, an hour or two
later, as she met Maud dancing and singing
along the corridor, ' didn't I give you good
advice, when I told you that you had better
wait for Mr. Torwood V

You did indeed, Miss Marjory.'

1 Was I very wrong in asserting that he
might possibly resemble the adored " Phil " V

Maud kissed her suddenly on both cheeks.

You were right, as you always are  a real
fairy godmother ; and I was a very good child,
and did exactly as you advised !'

MR. AND MRS. Classis.

THINK I must take you over to
Thornton House this afternoon,
Phil said Tor, ' and reintroduce
you to your esteemed aunt and uncle.'

Phil made a grimace, which indicated that
he did not look forward with eagerness to the
impending introduction to his kinsfolk.

4 1 wanted to go and see old Meredith.'

We'll take him on the way hack, if you
like,' answered Tor ; * but you ought to go
first to see the Classis family.'

They were sitting at lunch when this conversation
took place, and Phil, for the first
time, had taken his place at the foot of the
table. Tor sat beside Maud, and seemed to
feel in nowise degraded.

The servants knew nothing of the transformation
which had taken place. They
believed that the young squire had arrived
late the previous evening, and that the Signor
had been called away the following morning.
They were too much excited by the sudden
change of master to have much interest to
spare for the Italian.

All their thoughts were given to puzzling
over the strange change which had taken
place ; and all tongues were uttering speculations
as to why Mr. Debenham had sent Mr.
Torwood in his place, and made him take his
name for three whole months.

Phil was glad enough that it should be so.
He was heartily ashamed of his distrust of his
friend, and consequently the whole of the
Signor Pagliadini episode was highly distasteful
to him. He felt degraded by the thought
that he had come in disguise to spy upon Tor;
and he was really anxious that the matter
should remain unknown, outside the walls of
his own house.

Hence his reluctance to face Mrs. Classis.
* I was almost conspiring with her against
Tor he said ruefully. 1 1 could not bear her

ever to remind me of that, and I know she
will

Why should she ever have the opportunity ?'
said Miss Marjory. ' It will be your fault if
she does

How ?'

It was Signor Pagliadini, not Mr. Philip
Debenham, who nearly made a confidante of

her.'

Miss Marjory spoke with some significance,
and Phil's face brightened.

You think I needn't say that I was the
Signor ?'

4 Why should you say so ?'

I don't know, I'm sure. I fancied it would
all have to come out.'

 Why r

'I don't know. Don't you think she'll

suspect ?'

No, I don't  I'm quite sure she won't,'
said Miss Marjory, nodding her head emphatically.
' If you deceived me, young man,
I'm quite sure you equally deceived Mrs.

Classis.'

4 1 think,' said Mrs. Lorraine gently, ( that
no one besides our six selves need ever know

exactly how matters really stand, or that Mr.
Torwood ever acted as anything but dear
Philip's deputy

Quite so said Miss Marjory. ' Mr. Tor-wood
was doing the best thing possible for
his friend's interests ; and if not very wisely,
he acted most generously, and great good has
been done by it

Indeed, yes cried Phil eagerly ; ' and do
you really think nobody else need know what
an ass I've been ?'

i If you don't betray yourself,' said Miss
Marjory, ' nobody else will betray you.'

Phil drew a long breath of satisfaction.

Oh, jolly !' he cried in his boyish way ;
and won't my uncle and aunt be sold !
They'll think I knew all the time that Tor
was here, and that I was in the plot. I hope
they will feel properly " done." '

i You must be bold and firm with them,'
said Miss Marjory ; 'you must stand up for
every measure your friend has taken. You
must say that everything ,he did has your
complete sanction.'

Of course I shall.'

And they can easily be made to believe

that you were aware the whole time of your
friend's movements. 7

4 And they shall think so too !' cried Phil
eagerly ; ' and if they try to cast in my teeth
what that old Pagliadini said, I will lay it
hot on him!'

'I think you will enjoy abusing the Signor,'
remarked Maud, smiling.

That I shall cried Phil. i I abuse him
to myself every time I think of him.'

4 Well,' said Tor, bringing matters round to
the point from which they had strayed, ' is it
agreed that we call together at Thornton
House to-day ?'

< It is,' said Phil.

At Thornton House that day a somewhat
animated interview was taking place between
Mrs. Classis and her husband.

It will doubtless be remembered that it
was only upon the previous afternoon Mrs.
Classis had made an attack upon Tor at
Lady well, and had heard from Miss Marjory
the disgraceful story of her husband's first
marriage, and his subsequent desertion of his
young wife.

She had appeared to take the news quietly,

for she had not been, able, in her excitement
and indignation against Tor, to consider with
calmness her own possible position ; and she
had, at the moment, felt convinced that the
first wife must have died, and that he must
have known of her death before he had dared
to marry again ; but when she began to review
the subject dispassionately, a great fear fell
upon her that this might not be so, and a
hundred little forgotten incidents rose up
before her, all tending to increase her doubts.
Her husband's eagerness to engage himself to
her, and his constant postponement of the
wedding, looked significant enough to her now.
His ill-assured manner all through the marriage
day and later, and his wish not to
advertise the ceremony, came back to her
memory now and made her tremble. Then
his fear and anxiety when Whitbury was
named were certainly strange, as was also his
craven and cowed air when he had met Miss
Marjory.

It was possible, of course, that he might be
cowed and timid, in any case, at meeting one
who could reveal the fact of the first marriage ;
but all seemed to point to the conclusion that he

had never really ascertained the fate of the
woman he had wedded only to desert.

Mrs. Classis could not speak to her husband
on her return, for he had started upon a
business expedition from which he was not
expected home until the following day.

Time, however, gave Mrs. Classis opportunity
to nurse her wrath and plan out a course
of action, and certainly the expression of her
countenance, as she sat at the luncheon-table
opposite the husband, who had just returned,
boded him no good ; and after one or two
feeble attempts at conversation, he sank into
silence, quaking inwardly and wondering what
was to come.

I wish to speak to you, Mr. Classis,' she
said, as they rose from table.

1 Certainly, my love.'

Lewis and the girls looked on aghast.
The latter had felt that a storm was brewing,
and had not dared to tell their father and
brother, as they were longing to do, that
Phil ' was engaged to Roma, and that he was
not really * Phil ' at all, but an impostor.

They had felt bound to keep silence at
luncheon; but when their father and mother

had retired to the study, they pounced upon
Lewis and poured into his ears the bewildering
tale which they had lately heard themselves.


Mr. Classis followed his wife slowly and
reluctantly into his study, feeling that an evil
time lay before him.

8 Sit down, Mr. Belassis/ she said.

He sat down meekly.

8 Well, my love, what is it T

1 Don't call me " my love' again, until I
give you leave. What has become, Mr. Be-lasses,
of your first wife ? Tell me that.'

'My f-first wife J'

8 Yes, your first wife  you are not going to
look me in the face and say you have not had
oner

He did not look her in the face, and he did
not utter a word.

8 Where is the first Mrs. Classis  tell me
that!'

8 Dead.'

8 Are you sure ?'

8 Y*yes  I'm as sure as I can be.'

Mrs. Classis shivered slightly. It was, then,
as she had suspected.

When did she die ?'

There was a pause ; which he broke by answering
with assumed assurance :

Ages ago ; long before I married you.'

< That's a lie!'

He shrank before her tone and look.

How  how do you know ?'

I know that she was alive three months
before you married me.'

His face turned livid.

6 How do you know ?'

4 1 was told, on good authority.'
' By whom ?'

1 By Miss Marjory Descartes.'

Good heavens !' cried the miserable man,
starting up. ' If you've been talking to her,
it's all over with me. She has no mercy.'

Then there was a long pause, which at first
neither seemed inclined to break.

You mean to tell me, then,' said Mrs.
Classis, at last, 'that I am not your wife at
all?'

don't know,' he cried desperately. ' I
can't tell you anything  I don't know myself.
I never could find out what became of
her. I did make inquiries  I did all I could.

I found out that she had left Whitbury, that
she was in a consumption, and was gone away
south, and was not likely to live through the
winter. I couldn't get to know where she
was, and you wouldn't wait longer. I made
sure she had died in the winter, and I believe
still that she did; but I don't know, and I
can't say more.'

Mrs. Classis looked coldly and scornfully at
him.

1 wouldn't wait ! Hadn't I waited five
years for your whims ? Was it likely I cared
for you enough to waste my whole life waiting ?
Why didn't you tell me you were a married
man ?'

1 1 didn't know whether I was or not,' he
answered sullenly.

Then why didn't you say that you didn't
know ?'

He glared at her like a wild beast at
bave

Take care, Mrs. Classis  take care ! Don't
drive me too far.'

I am not aware that I am Mrs. Belassis/

6 You're not aware that you're not, anyhow.
I believe you are ; and when I've proved this

miserable creature's death, I'll make you feel
that I am your lord and master

Some of the old brutal power of the man
was returning to him in this extremity.
There had been a time when Mrs. Classis
had half feared and admired, whilst she half-despised
him. It seemed as though danger
of disgrace had roused in him some of his old
force of character.

1 You'd better not threaten me, Mr. Classis.
So long as the doubt remains a doubt, I will
stay where I am, and act as your wife ; but
remember, that whether or not our marriage
is legal, you have behaved abominably; and
if I expose you, you will not find it
pleasant.'

i It will hurt you more than it hurts me 
exposure will !' began Classis savagely; then,
catching the look in her eye, he paused and
said : ' Come, Celia, be reasonable. What is
the good of our quarrelling ? Nobody need
know this miserable story, unless you betray
it; and they'll find it hard to prove that she
was alive, as nobody seems to know where
she went to, when she left Yorkshire. I don't
see that anybody can have any interest in

raking up an old story like that ; and I shall
be always ready to swear to her death. I'll
get a certificate if necessary I can easily
manage that

Mrs. Classis sat silent.

c I must know the truth. I cannot go on
like this,' she said slowly. l But so long as
matters remain uncertain, I suppose things
must go on as they are. We have one enemy,
however, who knows of the existence of the
first Mrs. Classis, and of the doubt of her
death. He will ruin us if he can!'

'Who is he?'

1 The man now calling himself Philip Deben-
ham and our nephew.'

Calling himself ?'

4 Yes ; that man is really Torrington Tor-wood
!'

'Celia!'

1 He is. I have suspected him for long. I
knew all was not well, though I could not lay
my finger on the fraud. I know, now, what
it is  the man is an impostor  only that ! 
an impostor and a forger !'

i How do you know ?'

1 Signor Pagliadini told me

That Italian ? Does he know Philip and
his friend ?'

1 He has known them both well. It is Mr.
Torwood who is reigning here. Poor Philip
is in a kind of captivity, awaiting his tyrant's
orders. At present he is at sea  safely out
of the way.'

'We must rescue him!' cried Classis, a
vision of golden possibilities rising at once
before his eyes. ' We, his next of kin, will
rescue him from the clutch of this villain,
and reinstate him in his own inheritance !
Celia, my love ! the tables will be turned, and
our fortunes will be made! We will drive
out this impostor with scorn and obloquy!
I will prosecute him myself, and he shall be
transported for life! Penal servitude is just
fit for him, and such as he ! When dear
Philip has his own again  ah, how different
it will all be ! I knew that man was not a
Debenham, and Philip must be his father's
own son, or this Torwood could not ride
rough-shod over him as he does. Ah, my
dear ! when we get our own nephew safe
under our protection at Ladywell, how different
everything will look !'

vol. in. 52

This had been Mrs. Classis' own conclusion,
but she saw more difficulties in the
way.

'We must prove our case first. Torwood
will not give way readily. I charged him with
the fraud yesterday, openly, but he had the
impudence to look me in the face and tell me
that he should prefer to hear of such matters
through my legal adviser! Oh, you needn't
be afraid! He's Torwood, as sure as you're
Classis ; but he has got the property, and he
will fight for it.'

Classis considered awhile, and his eye
began to glitter.

k So much the better, perhaps. Phil's
gratitude will be all the greater, after a hard
fight.'

We must find Phil first

True. Does anyone but this impostor
know where he is ?'

1 I fancy Signor Pagliadini does.'

Who is this Signor Pagliadini ?'

I don't know. Evidently some friend of
Phil's, who has come over to look after his
interests.'

Has Phil sent him ?'

1 1 don't know. He cannot speak English,
and he is very reserved about himself

But he is Torwood's enemy ?'

1 should say so.'

1 And therefore our friend.'

Don't be too sure of that. He was anything
but open with me. I wormed a good deal
out of him ; but I'm not sure that he intended
me to.'

We'll make him speak out !' cried Classis
heartily and eagerly. ' I've not been a lawyer
for nothing ; and I flatter myself I know how
to get at information when I want it, and how
to get up a case when I've an object to gain.
The first thing to do, when we've won over this
Signor, is to find our poor wronged nephew ;
and the next, to prosecute this Torrington
Torwood for forgery and fraud.'

A knock at the door had passed unheeded,
so it was simply thrown open, whilst the
servant briefly announced :

Mr. Debenham and Mr. Torwood.'

Dead silence reigned in the room, as the two
young men made their entrance.

Good-afternoon,' said Tor pleasantly. c I
hope we do not interrupt anything very 



portant. I felt I must not lose time in introducing
to you your real nephew, Philip
Debenham, or in explaining to Mrs. Classis
that her shrewd surmise as to my identity is
perfectly correct. Yesterday the time had not
come to declare it; but now it has, and I have
great pleasure in withdrawing from the position
I have hitherto held as your nephew, and
in presenting the rightful claimant for your
affections, Philip Debenham.'

If a bomb had exploded in their midst, it
could not have produced a more profound
sensation of dismay and consternation.

You seem surprised, uncle said Phil,
advancing with a smile. ' I should have
thought you would have been prepared by
my aunt

My dear, dear boy !' stammered Classis,
with all the fervour his confused mind could
muster. ' My own dear Philip ! welcome,
welcome home to your true friends, who really
care for you and your interests !'

1 Well, uncle, I'm glad enough to get home,'
said Phil. ' It's not been my fault I've stayed
away so long; and for the rest, this friend
here has looked so well after me and my

interests for the past ten years, and especially
for the past three months, that I can't
say I feel any special yearnings after new
ones.'

Mrs. Classis was gazing coldly and fixedly
at Tor, who seemed quite at his ease even
under the awful glare of her eyes.

Young man she said threateningly, ' do
you imagine for a moment that you will be
allowed to escape all the consequences of this
gross imposition and fraud, which you have
been practising upon us ?'

1 I'll take my chance of that answered Tor
serenely. ' I , don't feel under any pressing
anxiety, so far.'

We shall prosecute said Mrs. Classis
grandly.

1 I shall be delighted if you do answered
Tor. ; I'm afraid you will find some difficulty
in procuring counsel.'

'Difficulty!'

Well, it's generally rather difficult to get
counsel when you've got no cases explained
Tor affably.

Mrs. Classis was silent, through extreme
indignation. Her husband, who better understood

the law, appealed with more zeal than
discretion to his nephew.

Yon must prosecute, Philip ! You must
not let this act pass unnoticed and unpunished.
He has signed your cheques and papers, and
perpetrated every kind of fraud. You must
not allow such a monstrous imposition to go
unpunished  for the sake of justice you must
not

Well, sir, I think justice can take care of
herself without any protection from me ; and
as for prosecuting Tor, for doing me the
greatest service in his power, I never heard of
anything so monstrously ridiculous in all my
life.'

i The greatest service !' echoed Mrs. Classis.
4 A service to rob you of your name, get your
affairs into a shocking state, and quarrel withall
your friends. Fine service, indeed !'

Yes, a great service. I was ill  I could
not attend to things myself; but he has
brought everything round to a most satisfactory
issue. My agent did much better than
I could have done

Your agent ! He did not come as your
agent, but as yourself.'

Exactly  the only satisfactory way in
which he could come. Why he did so, is his
business and mine. You had better not
inquire more closely into the matter.'

4 Your agent ! Signor Pagliadini said '

Signor Pagliadini is an old fool.'

You know him, then ?'

Yes, for a meddling, blunder headed fool.
You will see no more of the Signor, Aunt
Belassis/

Has he gone, then ?'

Gone to the place he came from, to hide his
diminished head. He vanished double-quick,
I can tell you, when I appeared upon the
scene.'

This was the final blow. All lingering
hope of proving Tor a villain, was crushed by
the news of Signor Pagliadini's sudden flight.

Well, I don't think I'll stay longer to-day,'
said Phil. 'You seem altogether too much
astonished to have anything to say. I'll lookin
another day when you have got over your
surprise. Tor would have me come to report
myself at headquarters, and I've done it now.
You may congratulate yourself, uncle, that
you had Tor to deal with in the first place, not

me. I'm an awful duffer at business, and
never do understand things. Any fool could
cheat me. But Tor, he's made of different
stuff, and he can't have tried your patience
half so much as I should have done. You'll
be saved all trouble now with my stupidity,
for he will teach me everything. He's so well
up in all my affairs, that I feel as if he ought
to be the master.'

So Phil and Tor departed, leaving the husband
and wife alone together.

They looked in silence into each other's
faces, as if they both felt that a great calamity
had befallen them.

Can we not prosecute, then ?' said she.

 Impossible, so long as Philip supports
him.'

It's a disgraceful scandal!' said the wife.

It is,' assented the husband. ' Oh, what a
monstrous shame it has all been ! If only we
had had that other man to deal with, all would
have been safe, and Maud would have been
Lewis's wife by this time. He is the very
image of his father. I could have turned him
round my little finger.'

It seems to me that we are pretty nearly

ruined every way,' said Mrs. Classis ; ' and
we shall be most certainly, if that will in the
Lady well library is ever found. Five thousand
} 7 ou can pay, and the interest we claim as recompense
for Maud's expenses whilst under
our care. But fifteen thousand with interest
for eighteen years '

1 Would mean simple ruin. The trust-money
is all gone.'

I know it, and we must find the will,' said
Mrs. Classis ; ' though I don't know if there
is any reason why I should trouble myself
over your affairs now.'

ME. MEREDITH S VIEW.

think I gave him one that time
said Phil, as they walked away.
How I hated him, when I saw
him again!  just as I did when I was a
small boy and he bullied mei

They are mad that they can't prosecute
me said Tor, laughing. ' I should get scant
mercy at their hands.'

1 He looks a regular old scoundrel, and I
believe he is one ; but I don't believe I should
dare to defy him, if I hadn't you at my back.'

{ The old story  eh, Phil ?'

It will be the old story till the end of the
chapter, I expect, old man. You mustn't
desert me when you marry Maud.'

No fear

I shall do as old Maynard wished, and

make good the money to her ; he would have
left it to her, if he hadn't been afraid of doing
more harm than good.'

Well, it's not for me to stand in the way
of what you think right ; but I have plenty
for both, you know, and Lady well wants
keeping up.'

'Maud shall be well dowered, anyway 
that's my positive duty as head of the family ;
but is there no way of punishing that Classis
for ruining my father, and destroying his last
will?  for I know he did both.'

We can't prove even the existence of that
other will, much less its destruction, though
we are quite convinced of both. As to the
other question, I have made out that it
would be a difficult matter to open an inquiry
at this distance of time. Besides, you know,
a knave can ruin an honest man without going
beyond the limit of the law, if he only knows
how to set about it. I believe Classis did
know that well.'

'The old scoundrel!' muttered Phil. 'I
wish we could ruin him.'

Strikes me he'll ruin himself some of these
days, without any assistance from us.'

How so ?'

I Speculation.'

Ah ! you think that ?'

4 1 do ; and it strikes me it will be all he
can do to produce the 5000 of Maud's trust-money,
which will have to be handed over.'

i You don't mean to say you think he's
played fast and loose with that ?'

I do. I am pretty sure it is so, otherwise
he would have cared little about the marriage.
It is either that, or else the fear that the later
will may turn up  if he has not found and
destroyed it.'

The old scoundrel ! Come, Tor, we'll
change the subject, or I shall lose my temper.
Shall we go to the Merediths' now ?'

If you like.'

I I do like. I want to get things settled
with Roma. Tor, old man, you'll settle the
father for me, won't you ?'

All right ; but you must come too, or
he'll not believe me when I try to explain.'
i He won't have a fit or anything, I hope?'
Oh no ! He'll not care a bit, so long as
Philip Debenham is willing to marry his
daughter

He's an old ass !'

Don't tell Roma so, anyhow ; and don't be
so free of your opinions respecting your future
father-in-law.'

Phil felt slightly rebuked, more by the tone
than the words.

It's only to you, Tor. I rather like the
old boy, really.'

He's not bad, if he can once be made to
forget himself.'

Roma is an angel ! I never knew so elevated
a daughter.'

I don't think her life has been a happy
one heretofore; mind you make it more so,
Phil. She has very warm feelings, as I daresay
you know better than I, and the ]passionate
nature of the South, little as one would
think it. Her father's blindness was caused
by her, in a fit of fury. She will tell you the
story herself, no doubt ; she was more sinned
against than sinning, I shall always say. I
don't think she has ever got over the shock
and the grief, and it seems to have crushed
out all the passion of her nature, and almost
all else but the devotion to her father. Remember
that, Phil; and be very gentle and

patient if she does not all at once yield to you
the first place, which naturally seems your
rio;ht.'

1 1 will, my Mentor ; I will ! Give me all
the good advice you can, for I'm a muff, and
I know it; but I do love Roma!'

Then love will teach you better than I,'
said Tor ; and they walked on in silence.

Ah, Philip Debenham V said Michael Meredith,
as the two entered the room together.
Philip Debenham and my friend the Signor.
I am happy to welcome you both.'

You will welcome one of us still more
warmly, when I have introduced him afresh,'
answered Tor, as he took the old man's hand
in his.

'You are pleased to speak in riddles, Philip,'
said Meredith, smiling.

Not at all, sir, I assure you.'

'Do you mean to say that I require a
new introduction to my friend Signor Palliating
?'

I do indeed !'

Meredith was smiling blandly, as if he rather
enjoyed the little mystery.

Under a new name ?'

1 Yes ; a new name that is yet not altogether
new to you.'

Then let me hear this new, familiar name.'

The name of my friend here,' said Tor
quietly, ' is Philip Debenham!'

Very much at your service, sir,' said Phil,
in his own voice and tongue ; ' who has to
return you many thanks for your hospitality,
and begs to apologize for the deception practised
upon you.'

Michael Meredith had started, and changed
colour somewhat, as Phil's voice had fallen
upon his ear.

Philip Debenham ! Philip Debenham !' he
repeated slowly. ' It is, indeed, as if one had
returned from the dead ! It is the voice of
my well-beloved friend himself !'

Of his son, at least, Mr. Meredith, who
hopes soon to become well beloved on his own
account,' said Phil.

But you, Philip  I mean, you whom I
have learned to call Philip, in spite of early
misgivings  who and what are you ?'

1 Philip no longer, now that my work of
deputy is done. I assure you, Mr. Meredith,
I have acted in all things merely as a deputy.'

And who are you, then ?'

He's the best fellow in all the world!' cried
Phil impulsively ; ' my friend Torwood !'

c You are Philip Debenham  there can be
no doubt of that !' said Meredith slowly ; 'but
why was this mystery made ? Why were you
represented by your friend ? Why did you
appear here in disguise ? And how did you
obtain an introduction from my esteemed relative
Signor Mattel?'

Tor explained the matter briefly and clearly,
as much, at least, as there was any need to
explain. Mr. Meredith listened with interest
and attention. He seemed amused and entertained
by what he heard, which had about ita
flavour of romance that just suited him.
He was quite ready to become an accomplice,
and promised never to reveal the fact that
Phil and the Signor were one and the same.
He was not likely to publish anything which
should show that his perceptions had ever been
at fault.

Suddenly, however, a cloud seemed to settle
upon his brow. Tor saw it, and understood
its meaning, and signed to Phil to
depart.

Phil obeyed gladly, being all on fire to find
and claim Roma as bis own.

1 Now, Mr. Meredith,' said Tor, when he
and the old man were alone together, 'you
and I have a little matter to discuss between
us.'

i Yes, Mr. Torwood ; and I am a man of
honour. If I must keep my word, I must ;
but this has been a shock to me.'

In what way, sir ?'

Can you not guess ?'

Perhaps you are thinking of your
daughter ?'

I am. I have liked you, as you know,
for your own sake. I would gladly welcome
you as a son-in-law  and yet  I have set my
heart upon marrying Roma to Philip Deben-
ham's son.'

And you may do so still ! Have I not
said that in all things I have acted merely as
my friend's deputy ?'

Meredith's face expressed a sort of surprised
satisfaction.

Engaged yourself to Roma by deputy, do
you mean, Mr. Torwood ?'

1 I think, sir,' said Tor, smiling, ' that it

vol. in. 53

was you who engaged us. We had little
voice in the matter, if you remember.'

Ah, well, I may have said the most ; but I
quite understood that you accepted.'

I did not decline, because it would have
hurt you if I had done so at such a moment;
and besides, I had no right.'

How so ?

It was not to me, but to my friend Philip
that the proposition was made. I could not
decline a bride, so likely to be beloved by
him.'

You thought that ?'

I did  I have every reason to think it
still.'

Meredith smiled gently, and then his face
grew grave.

4 Roma ' he began, and said no more.

Make your mind easy ; she never cared one
atom for me.'

Why  why ? She always seemed '

I She merely liked me as an ordinary friend
nothing more.'

6 And you ?'

I I cared only for Maud, who is now my
promised wife. Roma and I understood one

another all along. I could not explain everything
; but she knew from the first that the
engagement was purely nominal

Michael Meredith held out his hand.

Sir, you are a man of honour, and a true
gentleman. I thank you with all my heart.
I could almost wish still that I might call you
son. 7

Phil will be a son much more to your mind
than I could ever be, Mr. Meredith// answered
Tor. ' He and Roma were made for one
another. At least, I can answer for it that
Roma is just the sort of wife he wants, to
steady him down and give him an object in
life. A little ballast is all he needs. He is
the best-hearted, sunniest-tempered fellow in
the world.'

I can believe it  as his father was before
him. I wonder '

He paused ; but Tor took up the word and
added :

Wonder if the second Philip Debenham
will be as amenable as the first? I should
not have much anxiety on that point.'

You think ?'

I think Roma and Signor Pagliadini spent

532

a great deal of time wandering about in the
moonlight together.'

'Did they?'

Old Meredith looked disturbed for a moment,
as though he had been guilty of some
indiscretion, as indeed he had

4 Really, I did not notice  I  I  You
see, Roma was engaged.'

Only she knew she was free. She was certainly
allowed to run into danger ; but on the
whole, I fancy, it will not turn out amiss.'

Go and find her,' said Meredith. ' I must
see her myself ; go and fetch her to me.
Where has Philip Debenham gone ?'

I should not be surprised to find them
together,' said Tor, rising. 4 If so, shall I
bring both the culprits ?'

4 Yes, do so. It is strange, indeed, how my
will always fulfils itself.'

Indeed, yes,' answered Tor, with a slight
smile.

And you know, Mr. Torwood, I did misdoubt
you somewhat from the first.'

You certainly did, sir, in the first moment
of our acquaintance. Your sagacity, you see,
was not at fault.'

And then he went off on his errand.

He did not find those he sought very readily;
but they were alone and together, sure enough,
in a remote part of the garden. It was not
difficult to see that Philip Debenham had
easily usurped Signor Pagliadini's place ; but
even yet Roma was not quite content.

4 Well said Tor, when his presence was first
observed, ' is it all well ?'

Roma is afraid of what her father will sav
said Phil.

He was so fond ol you,' said Roma, looking
up at him without any fear or shame.

You can't have him now, Roma said Phil.
He's engaged to Maud. He lost no time, I
can assure you. He leaped from the brother
to the lover in about ten seconds. Have
you explained everything to Mr. Meredith,
Tor?'

Yes, and he is desirous of bestowing his
blessing upon you. It is all right, Roma. I
told you it would be all right, if you would
only wait my time. He is more pleased than
ever. Go to him, and see for yourself if it is
not so.'

Phil and Roma returned slowly to the house

to receive the paternal benediction, and Tor
strolled across the park to Lady well.

1 Well, Mr. Torwood,' said a voice behind
him ; ' how does it feel to be no longer monarch
of all you survey ?'

'Is that you, Miss Marjory? This is well
met. I have hardly seen you all day

No, you found metal more attractive elsewhere.
I am not jealous, I assure you. Well,
how has the Classis introduction passed
off ?'

Oh, very well. Phil was quite as bold as I,
and more cheeky than I was at my first interview.
I don't think the worthy uncle will
make much out of him.'

Thanks to you, perhaps not ; but he is a
mere boy  not fit to have the management of
a place like this.'

1 He is only three months my junior.'

He is a mere boy, for all that, and you area
man. I like men, for my part. When I
was young, it wasn't the fashion to admire
long-haired, knock-kneed youths with narrow
chests and aesthetic tastes. I'm behind the
times, I know; but I stick to my old-fashioned
views. I like a man who can take a horse

across country without bringing him home
lame, and who knows more of nature than of
art. I suppose I should be called an old Philistine
nowadays

I don't know, I'm sure. I don't suppose
the Philistines were half bad fellows, after
all. However, I think Phil will do very well
at LadywelL'

You'd do better said Miss Marjory.

You think so ?'

1 1 know it.'

4 Well, Miss Marjory, I'm very glad to be
quit of it and its responsibilities, that I can
tell you,' said Tor, stretching his long limbs
as if to assure himself that the load was gone.
It has been a horrid nuisance at times  all
this ; and if it had not been for two things
accomplished, I should feel inclined to think I
had taken more trouble than the matter was
worth.'

What two things are those ?'

Keeping Maud out of the hands of the
Classis party, and making your acquaintance,
Miss Marjory.'

Miss Marjory bowed.

1 Gaining a wife and a friend, is that it ?'

said she. ' You might have known me long
ago if you had not been so lazy as to do all
your business through an agent. Middlemen
are a mistake.'

'My middle-man shall henceforward be
dismissed. We will do business in future
always at first hand  you and I, Miss Marjory
'

1 And I shall get my own way in everything!
7 cried Miss Marjory, with animation.
You don't know what you are letting yourself
in for !'

'I thought I was such a competent
manager ? 7

You can manage property pretty well, I
admit, 7 answered Miss Marjory; 'but I am not
aware that I ever said you could manage me! 7

'Perish the thought! 7 cried Tor, with
fervour. ' Miss Marjory, did anybody ever
manage you since the days of your babyhood ? 7

Of a certainty nobody did so during my
babyhood, 7 laughed Miss Marjory. ' I ruled
the household before I could speak. 7

1 And I'm sure you did so afterwards, 7 said
Tor, with gravity.

Well, 7 said Miss Marjory, glancing up at

him with quaint humour, ' I'm not sure but
what I did.'

c You were born great,' he said, ' whilst I
only had greatness thrust upon me, of which
I am very glad to be relieved.'

1 Really ?'

1 Really and truly. Do you doubt it ?'

No ; but I know I shouldn't like to give
up the reins of government when once I'd
held them. I always do want my finger in
everybody's pie, especially when the pie takes
the form of gardens. I never go round a
place but what I want to lay it out anew
myself, and suggest improvements.'

Then I shall expect you to come and layout
mine for me, Miss Marjory, whenever I
settle down. Now mind, I shall consider ita
bargain from this time forth.'

You are going to settle down, then ? A
good thing, too. * A rolling stone," you
know.'

'Well, Miss Marjory, to tell the truth, I
don't think you've gathered much moss yourself,
in spite of your devotion to Whitbury.'

Miss Marjory laughed, but rather liked the
compliment implied.

4 Yes,' said Tor, ' I am going to settle down
as a steady married man, somewhere in this
neighbourhood, if I can get a house, so as to
be near Phil, who will of course expect me to
look after him to a certain extent. Maud
likes Devonshire, and so do I. But I shall
require one visit a year at least from you, Miss
Marjory, just to see that my garden is going
on right, and that I am not gathering moss or
rust or anything else that I ought not. I
shall visit Whitbury, too, from time to time
to see after my property there, and renew a
very pleasant acquaintance with the place.
And if, Miss Marjory, I should be blessed
with a family, my first daughter will be called
Marjory; and I have in my mind's eye one
sponsor, whom I shall humbly request to stand
for her. And if she should by any chance
grow up unmanageable, I shall just send her
off on a visit to her godmother in Whitbury,
to be reduced to order and obedience by the
universal manager.'

A MAN AND A BROTHER.

Lewis Classis did not cease
his visits to Lady well because

Maud had rejected him. On the

contrary, he came as often as ever, and' was
made decidedly more welcome than he had

been before.

He was in no way put out by the arrival of
the new Philip Debenham, and even heard
with equanimity the news of Maud's engagement
to Tor.

Phil liked this cousin of his, Classis though
he was, and Lewis liked Phil and admired
him. He felt that he had more in common
with him than with Tor, and so he came a
good deal to Ladywell.

What he did with himself during the busy
days which followed Phil's sudden arrival,

nobody seemed quite to know. He was often
about the place, that was certain, and frequently
dropped in to lunch; but neither
Phil nor Tor, Maud, Miss Marjory nor Mrs.
Lorraine, saw much of him at other times,
although they all declared with one voice that
they thought the young man had very much
improved of late. Nobody was specially interested
in Lewis, so far as they knew.

Miss Marjory had not left Lady well yet,
though she had made an attempt to do so,
saying that her work was done, and that she
ought now to be at home. Phil and Tor,
however, had combined to entreat her to stay
at least another week, and she had consented,
without any great amount of persuasion.

One day, as she happened to be looking out
of her window over the gardens, she saw a
sight which at once arrested her attention.

It was not any very uncommon sight
certainly, and one which was frequently to be
seen at Lady well at that time  a young man
and a young girl walking together, absorbed
in earnest conversation ; and yet it set Miss
Marjory thinking, and as she thought, a little
frown knitted her brow.

Half an hour later she heard a footfall outside
her door, and called out :
'Ethel!'

Yes, Cousin Marjory.'
1 Come in  I want you.'

a/

So Ethel came in, her blooming face somewhat
more blooming than usual, and a little
smile of happiness sparkling in her blue
eyes.

Miss Marjory's face lost its look of gravity,
and she smiled too. Sometimes Miss Marjory
had been known to say of herself, that she did
not feel as though she should ever be really
old. In heart, she was still young.

i Where have you been, Ethel ?'

4 In the garden.'

Were you alone there ?'

'N  no!'  here the colour deepened somewhat,
but Ethel looked up fearlessly and
frankly, and added : * Mr. Lewis Classis was
with me.'

He has often been with you lately, has he
not ?'

Ye  yes, Cousin Marjory, rather often.
You see, everybody is so taken up just now !
There is nobody else for him to talk to !'

Miss Marjory smiled, and then her face grew
grave.

Has he been making love to you, Ethel ?'

Her face grew rosy red.

I  I hardly know  not exactly : but I
think  I can't help fancying '

That will do, child ; you needn't tell meany
more.'

Miss Marjory sat so still for a few minutes
so still, and so thoughtful  that Ethel, after
looking at her once or twice, began to grow
nervous.

You are not angry, Cousin Marjory ?'

No, child, not angry ; but I wish, all the
same, that it hadn't happened  not just yet,
at any rate,' she added, catching the look on
Ethel's face.

Cousin Marjory, we couldn't help it 
indeed we couldn't ! Please don't say we
mustn't !'

Miss Marjory smiled, and shook her head.

My dear child, I have no authority over
you. You are of age, and your father is
alive; and now that he has married again,
and has made new ties, I do not imagine he
will seriously oppose your choice, provided it

seems at all suitable. You have your own independent
fortune, even if it is not a very
large one. I have no right to lay a veto on
your marriage.'

But I hope you will like it, Cousin Marjory
!'

Miss Marjory laughed a little.

To speak the truth, Ethel, I have never
looked forward to having very much in common
with your husband, or with Horace's wife ;
so you need not be disappointed on that
score.'

Ethel opened her blue eyes wide. She was
not quite equal to taking in the full meaning
of Miss Marjory's remark.

I thought you liked Lewis !'

I think, considering his parentage and
bringing up, he is a marvel ; but I don't
know anything specially remarkable about him
otherwise.'

'He is very nice!' said Ethel meekly, feeling
that she was making but a poor champion
for the man whom she really loved fondly.

Miss Marjory sat with knitted brow,
wrapped in thought of no very pleasant
kind.

Don't set your heart too much upon this
man, Ethel.'

1 Oh, Cousin Marjory ! Why not ?'

It may be impossible for him to marry
you.'

Oh, Cousin Marjory ! I thought you said
you would not forbid it V

It will be no doing of mine, child. But,
as I said before, it may be an impossibility
for all that. Now don't begin to cry. I have
not said that it cannot go on, only that it
may not be able to do so. Lewis would bethe
first to tell you so himself, if he knew
what I know.'

1 What is that ?'

Never mind ; it does not concern you. Bea
brave woman, Ethel, and not a child! So
you are quite sure that this Lewis wants to
marry you ?'

I am almost sure.'

1 Has he asked you ?'

Not quite.'

But almost ?'

< Yes.'

1 And you have almost answered him ?'

1 Yes.'

c That sort of thing wouldn't suit me said
Miss Marjory. ' When I was young, we didn't
do things by halves as you do now. When
I was your age, men asked the plain question,
and got a straight answer  very straight
it generally was, if I remember right ! However,
times change, and so do people and their
ways. Well, well ! if you don't mind shilly-shallying,
I don't see why I need. Has he
got anything to marry on  this Lewis of
yours ?'

'Not very much without Maud's money,
and he isn't going to touch that. He is very
high-principled, Cousin Marjory. He is going
to give that all back, as soon as it is made
over to him.'

8 Well, that is honourable enough. I like
him for that. He has not a ghost of a right
to that money, though it is legally his. Welland
when he makes over that, what has he
left ?'

Only about a hundred a year  something
an uncle left him once. I have three hundred
a year, you know, Cousin Marjory; and I have
not spent nearly that whilst I have been living
with you. Lewis doesn't think his father will

vol. in. 54

do anything for him, after he lias given over
Maud's money, he will be so angry; but
he means to try and get something to do.
I thought  we thought  you know you
said '

Said I would help him to something ?
Well, I'll do what I can, if he shows himself
worthy. I'll do that in any case, whether
you marry him or not, for he'll need a helping
hand. I can't say I like the idea of your
marrying a Classis; but, as I said before,
that's not my business, and no good ever
comes of trying to shade out other people's
lives for them. But mind what I say, don't
be led on past recall, and don't pledge yourself,
or set your heart on it yet. It maybe
impossible.'

4 Oh, I hope not!'
< ' I hope not too.'

4 Can't you tell me more, Cousin Marjory ?'

1 No, not now, child ; but I hope to be able
to do so shortly.'

Lewis Classis was wandering aimlessly
along a field-path, not very far from Ladywell,
and indulging in a dream of a brighter future
than had ever before seemed to await him,

when he was accosted by a respectable-looking
man, who had the air and appearance of a
well-to-do tradesman.

If you please, sir, can you direct me to
Lady well. Manor ?' said the man.

Lewis eyed him curiously, for there was an
odd resemblance to his father in the man's
voice and appearance, which suggested to hie
mind the fanciful idea that he might be a poor
relation, who had been studiously kept in the
background all this while, and whose very
existence was unknown to him.

It would be just like his father to' be
ashamed of a poor kinsman, Lewis thought ;
but the resemblance was not strong enough
to afford any real reason for the fancy thus
conjured up.

Lady well Manor  yes, certainly, you can
get to it this way ; but the field-paths are
rather intricate, and you would most likely
stray. If you'll walk to the end of the field
with me, I can put you into a much more
direct way of finding it.'

Thank you, sir,' said the man, and turned
back readily.

I've just come from Ladywell,' remarked

542

Lewis, inwardly wondering what could be the
man's business there. ' It's a fine old place.'

i Yes, sir ? I'm a stranger in these parts. I
come from Whitbury; it is Miss Marjory Descartes
that I've come to see. She's our great
lady at Whitbury.'

Ah,' said Lewis, his first faint impression
dying away; ' she's a great lady, I fancy,,
wherever she goes.'

Like enough, sir,' answered the other; and
they walked on in silence.

As they reached the road, two friends of
Lewis's rode by.

How do, Classis ?' said one.

Morning, Classis,' said the other.

Then the strange man turned and looked
at him.

Is your name Classis, sir ?'

c Yes, certainly.'

Lewis's first suspicion woke again into new
life.

So is mine,' said the man  ' Alfred Be-lasses.'


- Why, I thought there was something of a
Classis look about you,' said Lewis heartily,
for he was not a cad, and was above cold-shouldering

a poor relation.  Shake hands;
I fancy we are some sort of cousins. I'll walk
your way, and we'll find out.'

1 Well, sir said the man slowly, ' if you're
the son of Mr. Alfred Classis of these parts,
maybe I'd best walk your way, and see him.'

You are a relation of ours, then?'

Yes, sir; and I'm afraid, perhaps, a nearer
one than you'll quite relish. '

Lewis laughed good-naturedly.

Never mind my father  he always was a
growler, as I dare say you know ; but so far
as I am concerned, you will be very welcome.'

1 Thank you, sir ; you mean kindly, I see,
only you don't know yet who I am.'

No, I don't ; but I wish you'd tell me.'

Well, sir, I'm your half-brother  if you
want to know.'

4 My  half  brother !'

Yes, sir. I'm afraid you won't like it; but
I've not come here to force myself upon you,
or make myself unpleasant. I've got a word
to say to my father, whom I never knew; and
when I've said it, I'll go. He'll be glad of my
message, even if he isn't glad to see his own
son.'

My half-brother!' repeated Lewis once
more, with even greater astonishment.

Yes, sir; Mr. Alfred Classis married my
mother before he married yours.'

1 1 never knew he had a first wife ! I don't
believe anyone knew.'

Like enough, sir. He behaved real bad,
he did  deserted my mother less than three
months after he married her, and never sent
her word or line, or took the least bit of notice
of her. She thought he had died, and sort of
believed in him all along, I've heard tell. But
Miss Marjory had me brought up  my poor
mother was always weakly; and she told me
the whole story when I grew up. We've got
a bad father, you and I have, sir.'

My name is Lewis. If we are brothers,
you should not call me "sir," ' said Lewis, feeling,
as he had often felt of late, that his father
was a despicable character.

I know my place, sir,' answered the man,
not without dignity. * I like you for not
flying out, because we've got the same father;
but we've been brought up different. You're
a gentleman, whilst I keep a shop. I've
made a tidy lot of money in business ; but I

know ni T place, and I know I'm not like
you

c You may thank your stars you're not,
said poor Lewis. 'It seems to me I've
nothing to call my own, but the name my
father has disgraced.'

We needn't disgrace it, sir,' said the man
respectfully. c I never was ashamed of it 
downright ashamed  till I got a letter from
Miss Marjory a week ago.'

1 And what did that tell you ?'

1 Why, that your father, sir  and mine 
didn't ever trouble to find out that my poor
mother was dead, before he married yours.
He does not even know now that she is his
lawful wife.'

Lewis flushed hotly.

But she is ?'

Yes, sir, she is : I'd not have liked to come
here and face you all, if things had turned out
different ; but it is all right in that sense,
though he don't really know it. Miss Marjory,
she wrote and told me about things here, and
bid me try to find out the exact date of my
mother's death, from the people who brought
me up. She thought they'd be most likely to

know. They didn't know exactly, but I got
to know the place where she died, and I went
down to see the registers and find out. She
died on the 2nd of May, 1850, and Mr. Classis
married again about a fortnight later. But
he didn't know anything about this death.'

Lewis walked on in silence. He felt very
much inclined not to go home at all, after
what he had just heard, so profoundly disgusted
was he with his father; but on the
whole he decided that he would do so, and
take this elder brother with him.

It was luncheon-time when he arrived, and
they were a little late, so that the servant had
withdrawn.

Lewis entered boldly, with the young tradesman
close behind him.

Allow me said he to his father, ' to introduce
to you your first-born son, Alfred
Classis.'

Matilda and Bertha screamed, Mrs. Classis
turned pale, her husband purple.

'D your impudence!' he cried, starting

up. ' What do you mean by coming here with
such a story ? I'll kick you out of my house
if you dare ever enter it again !'

It seemed uncertain to which of the two
sons the threat was made. The elder one
took it as addressed to him.

I've no particular wish ever to come again,
sir. I am not proud of the relationship, and
I don't care to claim it. I only came now to
bring you something which I think you may
like to possess ;' and he took from his pocketbook
and handed to Mr. Classis a certified copy
of the register of the death of his first wife.

He took it, looked at it, and handed it
across to his wife. An immense load seemed
lifted at once from his shoulders ; but instead
of feeling any gratitude towards the man who
had brought the good news, or any spark of
affection for the son of whose very existence
he had not been aware till now, he was only
filled with a burning rage against anyone
who had dared to bring home to him, and ina
manner to make public, the most disgraceful
episode of his early life.

He was too angry even to consider his own
interests, or to try and conciliate the man who
possessed knowledge so much to his discredit.
He turned furiously upon Alfred Classis, and
swore at him more loudly than before.

Get out of my house, you blackguard !
coming forcing your way in under false pretences,
and making up scandalous stories to
extort money ! I know the ways of gentlemen
like you ; and if you don't make the best of
your way out double-quick, I'll have you kicked
out by the servants !'

But Lewis laid his hand upon his half-brother's
arm to detain him.

This man is your son as much as I am !'
said he boldly.  He is my brother, and I
won't stand by and hear him insulted ! If
you turn him out of your house, I shall go
too!'

Mrs. Classis smiled contemptuously. She
thought her son was only making himself
ridiculous, and she considered the presence
of that other man in the room a positive
insult to herself.

1 You can go to the devil, both of you !'
growled Classis fiercely. ' What do I care?'

Lewis took Alfred's arm, and led him from
the room and from the house.
Mrs. Classis smiled even more contemptuously.


He will come back tomorrow like a

whipped puppy, with his tail between his
legs

What does it all mean ?' asked Bertha.
1 Why do you and papa always quarrel with
everybody ? Who is that man ?

1 A distant relative of your father's, who is
very troublesome and pushing. We have
helped him till we are tired, and now, I
think, he will come no more answered Mrs.
Classis grandly.

4 Why did Lewis say '

Lewis is a fool !' snapped Mr. Classis ;
and then he added, a little uneasily : ' but I
don't want to quarrel with him, for all that

He looked at his wife, who merely smiled,
and said :

You need not be afraid of Lewis. I can
turn him round my little finger !'

The relief given by this certificate was
intense, to the proud, hard woman who had
ruled at Thornton House with a rod of iron.
Her contempt for the husband she had married
was unbounded ; but, at least, she was his
lawful wife, and therefore policy bound her
over to his cause. She knew quite well why
Lewis must be kept in a good humour; for

his father's good name was at his mercy, or
would be very shortly, when the handing-over
of Maud's trust-money could no longer
be delayed.

Mrs. Classis, however, had small opinion of
Lewis's force of character, and attached no
importance to this foolish quarrel.

As the newly-acquainted brothers walked
across the park towards Lady well, Alfred
said :

1 You shouldn't have quarrelled with them
for my sake, sir.'

I wasn't going to stand seeing you treated
like that ! You're as much his son as I am !'

1 Yes, sir, true enough ; but, of course,
things have changed ; and he doesn't like to
be made to think of the past

1 He needn't have insulted you.'

1 No, sir, he needn't ; but when a man's
temper is up, he doesn't pick his words. We'd
better have had it out more quiet-like, without
the missis and the young ladies sitting by.'

i Well, one can't think of everything, and
truth's truth. I know I should have quarrelled
with him sooner or later; it doesn't much
matter how it happened.'

But you'll make it up again, surely, sir ?'

I wish you wouldn't call me " sir." I don't
know if I shall make it up. We've got a
quarrel brewing on our own account. There's
a lot of money come to me by law, which isn't
mine by right  only by a piece of trickery.
I'm not going to keep it. I'm going to give
it back to the rightful owner, and my father
will be furious  I know he will.'

 And when you've given up the money,
and quarrelled with your father, how are you
going to live, if I may be so bold as to ask ?'

I must earn my living somehow  sweep a
crossing if need be. Well, no, I've got just
enough to keep me above that ; and I hope to
get a decent berth of some kind, if such a
thing's to be had. I did want to get married '
here Lewis sighed  'but, of course, that
must wait till I've something to marry upon
eh, Alfred ?'

He found 'it easier to talk to this friendly
tradesman-relative of his affairs, than he would
have done had he been of equal social standing.
There was a straightforward honesty
about the man which pleased him.

Alfred seemed to ponder for a while.

You see, sir, it wants capital in these days
to get a good berthunless one's a lad, and
can work up from the bottom. Eight must
be done, but you'd have found the money very
useful.'

1 1 know that well enough,' sighed Lewis ;
but I can't rob my own cousin of what would
have been hers, but for my father's scheming.
They all say it was that, and I believe it.'

No, sir ; I see you couldn't. I don't believe
riches got like that ever prosper. Well, we'll
see what can be done. You've stood by me
like a brother, and it would be a poor return
if I couldn't do the same by you.'

Thanks, Alfred,' said Lewis ; but he smiled
inwardly, wondering how this shopkeeper
brother's support could be of any assistance to
him.

LEWIS S FATE.

I HE arrival of Lewis with Alfred
Classis at Ladywell that day,
caused a considerable amount of
speculation and astonishment.

When, in addition, Lewis announced the
fact that he had quarrelled with his father, and
meant to return no more to Thornton House,
quite a sensation was produced ; and Miss
Marjory did not hesitate to tell him that she
considered he had judged wisely and well.

You shall stay here, old fellow said Phil
warmly, ' till we can find you a berth of some
kind ; and don't you be in any hurry. Give
yourself plenty of time to look round ; something
good will be sure to turn up if you do.
You've behaved like a brick about that money,

and the least we can do is to make you some
return.'

The money wasn't mine, as you all know,'
said Lewis. * I hope I know better than to
profit by a low trick like that, even though
my father was the one who practised it.'

6 I think we ought to divide it said Maud,
'just in case papa did mean some of it for
you

Miss Marjory had beckoned Alfred Classis
to her side. Mrs. Lorraine was standing near,
looking anxious. She knew on what errand
he had come.

c Have you found out about your mother's
death ?' she asked in a low voice.

Yes ; it was on the 2nd of May, 1850/

Mrs. Lorraine drew a long breath of relief.

'Well,' said Miss Marjory, 'I'm glad to
hear it, for the sake of the innocent, who
would suffer more than the guilty; but he
drove it close enough. What a miserable
coward he is !'

Alfred Classis stood silent, looking and
feeling rather awkward, in the midst of such a
company.

1 1 should like to speak a word to you in

private, ma'am,' lie said, ' if it isn't troubling
you too much. I ought to be getting back to
Whitbury as fast as I can, now that I've done
what you asked.'

4 Come into this room, then,' said Miss
Marjory, opening a door which stood near.
Let me hear what it is you have to say.'

Classis followed her in, and sat down at
her bidding. He was a thick set, clever-looking
man, with more honesty than beauty
to recommend him.

Well, Classis,' said Miss Marjory, ' what
is it ?'

4 If you please, ma'am, I want to know if I
couldn't be of some use to that young gentleman
there, who is a sort of brother to me,
after all.'

Lewis, you mean ? Well, I don't know
exactly how you could serve him. I'm afraid
he would be little good to you as a partner.'

Alfred Classis looked almost shocked.

Oh no, ma'am ; of course I couldn't think
of such a thing. A young gentleman like
him could never take to trade ; it wouldn't be
right nor proper. I know better than that ;
but he's had education, you know, and ad-vol.

in. 55

vantages of other kinds, and I'm thinking
something might be found for him more suitable.'


Miss Marjory reflected. She, too, could not
be indifferent now to the future of Lewis
Classis.

They tell me he has good abilities. He
might perhaps get on in some line, if he had a
fair start. I don't mind doing my best for
him ; but in what way did you mean to help,
Classis ?'

With money, ma'am. A deal more can be
done for a man who's got a few thousands at
his back, than one who has only got his brains
to look to. I should like to see to the money
part of it  because, you know, he's my brother
after a fashion.'

This is very generous of you, Classis ;
but are you a man of means ?'

i Thanks to you, ma'am, I've done very
well. You got me the place of assistant
to Mr. Manly when I was but eighteen, and I
succeeded to the business when I was five and -
twenty. You stood my friend, and I never
wanted for work ; and things have been growing
and growing, until I've almost more to do

than I know how to get through sometimes.
I'm a plain man myself, and I've never
married ; and the money has all gone into the
bank, and been invested from time to time.
There's three thousand as I can lay my hands
upon any day, and not leave myself pinched.
I'd as soon Mr. Lewis had it to help him to a
start, as spend it any other way. So if any
good thing turns up as wants a little capital
launched, you know where the money's to
come from. I think that's all, ma'am. I
won't detain } t ou longer. I could best speak
out to you, because I don't feel so strange like
with you, as I do with the other folks in
there.'

'Stop  stop, Classis! not quite so fast!'
cried Miss Marjory. ' This is very generous
of you, but really I'm not sure if you should
do it. Suppose he is very long in repaying
you.'

I was not thinking about repayment,' said
Classis. ' I'd risk the chance of that.'

t But really, Classis, you must be practical,
and consider what you are doing. Three
thousand is a large sum, and Lewis has no
claim upon you.'

552

Well, ma'am, he wasn't ashamed to own
me as his brother, nor to stand by me like a
brother when the old man swore at us. It
isn't every young gentleman as would have
cared to accept a man like me as a relation, on
my bare word ; and it ain't many as would
have stood up for me as he did.'

He behaved well towards you, I admit ;
but still '

1 1 ought to do well by him, then. I never
knew before as I'd got a brother, and it'll bea
real pleasure if I can help him. I'm a plain
man, and I don't love money for its own sake.
I'd much rather it was helping Mr. Lewis,
than lying by idle at the bank. "Will you
let him know about it, if ever he wants it to
make his start ?'

4 Well, if you're bent on it, Classis, I'll
say no more. But won't you tell Lewis
yourself?'

I'd sooner you did it, ma'am. It's rather
early days for me to speak, and we don't
know yet what he'll want, or even if he wants
anything. He may make it up with his
father, and not want any help. I'd sooner
leave it in your hands, if you please. Mind

you let him know that it doesn't matter at all
about paying it back. I don't want him
hampered by debt. I'd sooner give it outright.'


Oh, Classis, Classis ! And you call yourself
a man of business !'

1 Yes, ma'am, and so I am ; but this isn't
business at all, and I don't want it to be.
The poor young gentleman is worse off, to my
thinking, than if. he'd got no father ; and I'm
his elder brother, and he's accepted me as one,
only thinking me a poor shopkeeper. I should
like to play an elder brother's part, and it
isn't a matter of business at all.'

He got up as he said the last words, and
Miss Marjory followed his example.

Well, you talk like an honest and kindhearted
man, Classis, and your brother ought
to be proud of the relationship.'

Good-day, then, ma'am. I must be getting
back to Whitbury now. You'll kindly see
after things for me here, I know.'

So Alfred Classis escaped from Lady well,
Lewis walking with him part of the way to
the station.

I should like to come and see you, Alfred,

one of these days said Lewis. ' You're the
only relation I am likely to see much of for
some time to come. Have you any objection
to a visit ?'

I shall be honoured by your presence, sir.'

I'm afraid it won't confer much honour ;
but I should like to see Whitbury, and call
upon Miss Marjory, and  and  I mean, see
her in her own house.'

Yes, sir.'

And so they parted, the elder man taking
his way towards the inn and the coach-road,
and Lewis standing at the corner, looking
doubtful and irresolute.

Perhaps I'd better go back and have it out
at once. It must be said sooner or later, and
I have my traps to collect. I don't see any
use in putting off the evil day; it must come
sometime. I'll go straight up and have done
with it.'

And he turned his steps towards Thornton
House.

He did not seek his father at once upon
his arrival, but went straight up to his own
room. All his possessions there were his own
property, for his uncle's legacy had supplied

him with funds for his personal wants ever
since he was of age, and therefore he had the
entire right to claim as his own all that was
there.

He packed up in his portmanteaux everything
that he valued or that could be of any
use in the future, and then he rang and ordered
the man to carry down the boxes by the
back staircase, and get them conveyed to
Lady well.

This packing-up had occupied more than
two hours, and Mr. and Mrs. Classis, who
had seen from the window their son's arrival,
smiled a little to themselves at his speedy
return, and at the quiet way in which it had
been effected.

'I told you he would come back like a
whipped puppy,' said Mrs. Classis. ' I do
not think we shall have any further trouble
with Lewis.'

I'm sure I hope not,' sighed the husband.
I've had enough trouble these past months
to carry a man into his grave. But I
do think when we've searched Ladywell
and found that will, we really shall have no
more to fear. You're sure Betsy Long is

to be trusted to let us in and to hold her
tongue ?'

Oh yes ! I make it well worth her while.
She loves money far too well to betray us.
We can spend as many nights as we like in
the library, and nobody be any the wiser.'

4 Ah!' and Classis drew a long breath, 'it
really seems as if things were coming right at
last !'

And then the door opened, and Lewis came
in.

1 Well, sir!' said the father orrandlv.

Mrs. Classis folded her hands with a smile,
and added, interrogatively :

Well, Lewis ?'

Well, sir, I've come to say a rather less
hasty good-bye ; and to tell you of a resolution
I have taken.'

Both countenances changed slightly.

Say good-bye !' echoed Classis, with the
ghost of a laugh. 4 What do you mean ?'

4 Don't be a fool, Lewis,' advised his mother
concisely.

1 I'm going to stay at Ladywell until I can
find something to do, for I'm sick of the life
here, and don't mean to stay to be ordered out

of the house a second time. People there are
very kind, and I shall be sure to find some
sort of a berth before very long. Now I want
to know when that ten thousand pounds, with
interest and compound interest for eighteen
years, will be paid in to me ?'

Mr. Classis sat silent ; his jaw had fallen
somewhat, his eyes were full of anxiety. His
wife spoke in his place :

Why do you ask ?'

I should have thought it was a very
natural question. As Maud is to be married
co some one else very shortly, I should think
the money might be paid up at once.'

It will be paid when your father thinks
right.'

'That won't quite do for me,' said Lewis
boldly ; ' the money is mine, and I want it.
I want to get the transfer made out, and the
thing off my mind, before I make my own
start. Now, sir, will you kindly tell me what
you mean to do?'

The transfer!' gasped Classis; 'what the
devil do you mean ?'

'I thought I had made myself plain the
other night,' said Lewis. ' The money is

Maud's, not mine, and I shall simply transfer
it to her.'

You will do no such thing, Lewis,' said
Mrs. Classis, with significance.

I shall do it!' said Lewis firmly. 'Everybody
knows it, and I shall stand by my
word.'

You will have no power to do so
answered the mother. ' You had better have
held your tongue about it, as I advised you.'

What do you mean ?'

4 1 mean that there is no money to receive.
Your clever and honest father has speculated
with it  and lost it. That is all.'

Lewis stood still in astonishment and dismay.


But I can claim it  he is bound to repay
it!'

1 If you choose you can, of course ; but you
will not. Maud's five thousand must be paid,
and will be, though it is a serious loss to us ;
but you will never see a penny of yours.'

It is not mine, it is Maud's. I shall
claim it for her. She shall not be fleeced
like this!'

Claim it, 'then, and bring rain and disgrace

upon your father! It will be a noble
part from a son !'

Has not my father brought disgrace upon
himself without anyone's help? Has he not
nearly brought upon you, and upon me, the
Avorst disgrace which the world holds? It is
no doing of his that I am not at present a
nameless outcast  it is merely a chance for
which we have to thank fortune, and not him.
And he appeals to me to save him from
disgrace! I will not listen! I will have
justice! It is he who has disgraced himself,
not I !'

4 Lewis, consider !' began Mrs. Classis, who,
though she cared little for her husband, and
heartily despised him, had no wish to see him
disgraced and impoverished in order to swell
the wealth of Maud and Torwood.

I will consider nothing but justice ! I
will have what is legally mine, in order to
give it to her whose right it is. My father
deserves no mercy at my hands, and he shall
not get it!'

This, then, is my reward for scheming and
sinning for your future happiness V burst out
Classis, in an agony of rage and fear.

More shame for you to have so schemed
and sinned.' answered Lewis : but his donation
had cooled somewhat, and it was easy to
see that he took no pleasure in the thought
of bringing ruin and disgrace upon his own
house.

 Lewis said Mrs.Belassis coldly and calmly.
you have spoken the truth  your father deserves
no mercy at your hands. He had, for
aught he knew at the time, committed the vilest
action a man could perpetrate. He is disgraced,
as you say, already, and the story of
crime will be all over the place tomorrow.
Rain and disgrace he heartily merits ; but
what about me ?'

 Vou, mother ?'

I Yes : I am your mother. I shall be involved
in whatever ruin and disgrace overtakes your
father  I and your sisters both. You most
think of that, before you take any irrevocable
step.'

Lewis stood silent.

I I have had a good deal to bear already as
the fruit of your father's misconduct ; but we
have contrived to weather matters pretty well
up till now. If you strike this threatened

blow, however, all is lost, and you will be the
ruin of your whole family.'

Still Lewis-aid nothing.

Well,' she asked, after a pause, ' what have
you to say now ?

Nothing.'

Nothing T

1 No ; I must think.'

Yes, you had better think,' said Mrs. Bel
sis, knowing well that reflection was likely to
be favourable to her own cause.

Good-bye,' he said suddenly. ' I shall beat
Lady well for some time to come, I expect

And then he turned and quitted the room,
without another word.

He is safe,' said Mrs. Classis ; ' he will
not do it now. AVe are safe, so far as he i-
concerned.'

Lewis went back to Lady well, and told history
in confidence to Miss Marjory. People
had a way of going to Miss Marjory when they
were in doubt or perplexity, because such feelings
seemed unknown to her.

She listened intently. and then abused Be-lasses
with all the force of her emphatic vocabulary.


What must I do ?' asked Lewis. ' Must I
denounce and ruin him?'

He deserves it,' answered Miss Marjory
hotly. ' He deserves it richly; but a man's
mother, Lewis, is his mother, and his first
duty is to protect her.'

And to the son Miss Marjory breathed none
of the suspicions she had formed as to the
mother's integrity. As she afterwards told
Tor, she was old-fashioned enough to think
that loyalty to a mother stood before every
other claim.

Well, yes, I suppose it does,' said Lewis
gravely. ' I can't help feeling it myself.
I've not been so fond of her as I ought,
perhaps ; but she's my mother still, and it
doesn't seem fair that she should suffer so
much for what my father has done. But I
should have liked Maud to have her own.'

4 So should I. It would be a nice little
fortune for her ; but I don't see your way
quite clear, though your father deserves no
mercy. However, I'm glad to know that
you did really mean to make restitution of
what you felt did not rightly belong to you.
It is much to your credit.  And so you have

been making love to my young cousin, I
understand, under my very nose ?'

Poor Lewis flushed scarlet at this sudden
and totally unexpected thrust.

1 1  I  Was it very wrong ? I couldn't
help feeling '

1 Oh, keep your feelings for Ethel. I'm not
at all interested in them. What I want to know
is, what your future prospects are?'

Bad, I'm afraid,' said Lewis candidly ;
i much worse than when I began to speak to
your cousin ; for I've quarrelled with my father,
and he has been playing fast and loose with
his money, I suspect. But I might get something
in time, if Ethel could wait. She said
she would '

Oh yes, I dare say she will. She's a faithful
little puss, and very steady and affectionate.
But you must look about you seriously. Have
you any plans?'

Lewis shook his head; and then Miss Marjory,
after putting him through an examination
on his acquirements, which he got through
fairly well, informed him that she would
write to an old friend of hers in London,
who had a publishing business of a lucrative

kind, and had been meditating taking in a
young partner. He was childless, and a
widower to boot, and such a berth was likely
to be a good one. Miss Marjory and he were
old friends, and he had known Ethel's father
and mother.

Lewis was delighted. Such an opening was
just what he wanted, and from what he could
learn from Miss Marjory, the duties were of a
kind which he would be able to master without
great difficulty, and would be congenial to him.
His spirits rose greatly, and he overwhelmed
Miss Marjory with thanks; and by her permission
went in search of Ethel.

The answer to Miss Marjory's letter was
eagerly awaited. It came promptly, and was
favourable to Miss Marjory's young friend,
who was invited to go to London for a personal
interview. Of course it was expected that he
would have a few thousands to put into the
business, in return for a junior partnership and
its prospects.

Lewis's face fell when he read this final
clause.

With a great &gh he handed back the

letter.

Thank you very much, Miss Marjory: but
of course that puts it out of the question.'

Not at all. You have three thousand to
back you. I dare say that will be enough

You are joking. Miss Marjory. What little
I have of my own is only mine in true*. I
cannot sink the principal : and then it would
not come to three thousand.'

I was not thinking of your own monk

I What then ?

>f what your brother  half-brother. I
should say  wishes to advance for y to
crime you a start in life. He left it for me to

tell you, if it should be nee 3& Alfred

/ 

Classis is anxious to save or lend you that

c

amount of money. You must settle betwe
yourselves which it is to be.'

Alfred 1 suis r cried Lewis, astonished.
Why, he is only a shopkeeper!'

Some shopkeepers make large fortune
Trade is more lucrative than tht tlenianly
professions.'

I I had no idea he had money."

I know, and so did he : and he thought all
the better of you because you did not know.
After all, Lf\vis. there is some good in yon.

vol. in. a 6

and it seems to me that you are on the highroad
to success

1 But ought I to take it ?'

Oh, settle all that with Alfred. You had
better go and see him, before going to London.
I would start to-day if I were you. Time is
valuable, you know.'

Lewis received very warm congratulations
from all at Lady well, on his sudden good
fortune; and Maud was particularly delighted,
only second to Ethel in her satisfaction.

It is all Miss Marjory's doing,' she cried.
It seems to me everything is Miss Marjory's
doing. Tor always did say you could do anything
you had a mind to, and I believe you
can. I know you told me my fortune wonderfully
well.'

So great satisfaction reigned at Lady welland
Lewis, in high spirits, set out on his
journey.

The result was satisfactory, and a good
position in the publishing firm was given to
him, and his engagement to Ethel Hardcastle
formally announced.

Lewis, for the first time in his life, found
himself a busy and a happy man.

THE LOST WILL.

Phil and Tor had sat up late one
night, as was often the case, and it
was not until nearly one o'clock
that they retired to their respective rooms.

When Tor reached his, he found that a fall
of soot had taken place, which had blackened
things so much, and left so unpleasant an
odour in the room, that to remain there was
impossible.

Jt was too late to disturb the servants, or
to have another room made ready for him ;
but Tor was too much the traveller to care
where or how ive slept. He merely made his
way to an empty bedroom, kicked off his
boots, and lay down upon the bed in the
smoking-coat he had previously donned.
In five minutes he was sound asleep, with

562

the facility of one used to ' roughing it ;' but
with the instinct of a man not unused to
danger, he suddenly woke up, with all his
faculties about him, and presently became
aware of curious sounds in the room beneath
him.

A moment's thought convinced him that
these sounds, whatever they were, came from
the library, which was directly underneath the
room he accidentally occupied, and which lay
in a wing of the building not much used.

There were certainly sounds proceeding
from the room below ; the longer Tor listened
the more was he convinced of this  stealthy
sounds, which he could not exactly understand,
yet which were, from time to time,
distinctly audible.

After a few minutes spent in listening, Tor
rose, and without resuming his boots, passed
quietly from the room. A dying moon gave
a feeble light to corridor and staircase ; and
after a visit to his own room to fetch his
revolver, the young man walked silently down
to the library.

The door stood slightly ajar, as if the
occupants, whoever they might be, were

anxious to hear if any sound should arise in
the house. Tor, however, took care to make
no noise, and he did not hesitate to push open
the door and slip silently into the room, for
the feeble light the midnight guests had
brought with them was far away at the upper
end, and the door and all in its neighbourhood
lay wrapped in the deepest gloom.

Once inside, Tor looked well at the intruders,
and recognised, with an odd mixture
of feeling, Mr. and Mrs. Classis.

What in the name of all the powers brings
them here ?' he thought, but he stood motionless,
half through surprise, half from an
instinct of caution, which warned him that it
would be wise to find out, if possible, the
reason for this strange nocturnal visit.

Both husband and wife were closely
examining a heavy volume they had lifted
from the shelf. They shook it, examined its
cover, and otherwise pulled it about; after
which it was restored to its place, and the
next volume lifted down, to be submitted to a
similar process.

Tor watched them with a deepening interest.
They seemed so absorbed by their task, that

many minutes passed before either of them
spoke. As, however, Classis replaced upon a
shelf the last of the volumes it contained, he
sighed heavily, and remarked :

I don't believe we shall ever find it.'

Well, if we don't, nobody else will, and
that's all I care about; but until Ave have
examined every book the library contains, we
can never feel safe.'

Classis sighed again.

It will be an endless task !'

No, only a long one; and we can come here
as often, in reason, as we please; and Betsy
Long can look at the books as she dusts them,
if w T e can't get here safely ourselves.'

Tor's gaze deepened in intensity. Metaphorically
speaking, he pricked up his ears at this.

I believe we shall come to grief, somehow.
That girl will betray us.'

Not she ; she knows better than to forfeit
double wages, and lose both her places.'

But Classis was not to be comforted.

6 1 don't believe we shall ever do any goodby
this ; and I'm getting quite done up with
these disturbed nights.'

Mrs. Classis looked him all over with a

cold contempt, which seemed to wither him up.
When she spoke, it was with a crushing
disdain.

'Really, Mr. Classis, I have half a mind
to take you at your .word, and give up this
attempt  and leave others to find Philip
Debenham's last will. It seems to me that
you would rather live, with total ruin hanging
over your head, than give up a few nights'
rest and take a little trouble. Anyone more
hopelessly pusillanimous, it has never been
my lot to come across !'

It seems such a hopeless search, my dear, 7
began Classis feebly. ' If we really knew the
will was here, it would be different.'

'We do know it!' snapped Mrs. Classis.
Philip Debenham told old Tom Maynard that
he had hidden it here. We have that in his own
handwriting. What more do you want ?'

i Old Maynard could never find the will,
though.'

1 Old Maynard had not the same motive that
we have. He would soon grow tired of the
search.'

He thought Debenham must have destroyed
it.'

1 He did not know what we do.'

What do you mean ?'

He did not know how Philip Debenham
feared, and hated, and distrusted us, during
the last years of his life.'

There was a pause, which Mrs. Classis
broke.

Come, Alfred, do have a little commonsense.
You know, as well as I do, that Philip
Debenham simply made that will at your dictation,
because he was weak and foolish, and
believed you had much more power to do him
mischief than you really had, if he had only
played the man and taken his affairs into his
own hands. We both knew he would not
allow that will to stand, if he could possibly
make another, and we always expected that a
later one would turn up amongst his papers,
and were prepared to act accordingly; but it
did not. Nobody brought one forward, and
we never found any evidence of the existence
of a second will. You know, however, that
we have never felt absolutely at ease on the
subject, although, as years passed by, it
seemed most improbable that anything could
or would turn up. Then, when I found that

letter of old Maynard's to young Philip, and
discovered the pencil memorandum inside,
which he had never read, it became evident
that our suspicions had all along been correct.
He had made a new will, and had hidden it,
with more cunning than I should have given
Mm credit for, at Lady well, out of our reach.
Knowing all this, how can you pretend that it
is not worth searching for ?'

He might have removed it himself,' suggested
Classis humbly.

You know better than that. If he had
once found a safe place of hiding, out of your
reach, he would never have been tempted to
remove it. Hating you more and more as he
did at the close of his life, is it likely he w r ould
ever have changed his mind about the will ?'

And then the search continued in silence fora
long while, whilst Tor stood concealed in
his recess, watching them with lynx-like
eyes.

He did not choose to leave the room, even
for a moment, lest in that moment the missing
paper should be found. He did not feel inclined,
now that he was no longer master of
the house, to step out and confront them, and

demand the reason of this strange nocturnal
visit.

So he waited and watched in silence, for what
seemed a long time, until a faint blue film
stealing into the room, announced the approach
of dawn.

We must be going now,' said Mrs. Classis.
1 We have done a good two hours' work, and
have made a considerable way with the task.
Four or five more nights ought to see the
end of it. We have done nearly half in the
four nights we have spent here already. I
wish the light did not come so soon. It is
hardly safe-to be abroad after dawn. Come,
Alfred, we must be going.'

Tor slipped away from the room as they
replaced the last volume on the shelf, and
mounted a few steps of the staircase. Two
minutes later Mr. and Mrs. Classis came out,
and locked the door carefully behind them.
Then they took their way towards the offices,
and Tor followed quietly, at a discreet distance.

Betsy Long emerged from one of the rooms
at the sound of their footsteps, yawning portentously.


Mrs. Classis slipped something into her

hand as she passed, and the girl curtseyed and
said :

4 Thank you, ma'am.'

Then the worthy couple made their exit bv
the back-door, which Betsy carefully locked
behind them. Turning round, she uttered a
loud scream, for her ex-master stood before
her.

Nice goings on, these, Betsy,' remarked
Tor quietly. ' What have you got to say for
yourself, eh ?'

Betsy trembled and whimpered, and did not
seem to have anything at all to say.

Now, stop all that noise,' said Tor, with
that quiet authority in his tone which always
ensured instant obedience, ' and answer me
truthfully, if you can. Are you and Mrs.
Classis in league together?'

1 Yes, sir, if you please, sir,' answered Betsy
faintly.

And you have been her tool and spy ever
since you came here?'

4 i es, sir.

What have you done for her so far, since
you came, besides letting her in these four
times to search the library?'

Betsy trembled still more, but felt compelled
to answer.

Please, sir, not much. I read a few letters,
and listened, when I could, to what went on.
My missis  I mean Mrs. Classis  said as she
thought all wasn't right, and bid me watch
and find out all I could ; but it didn't seem tome
there was much to do except to look for the
paper  what's hidden away in the library.'

Well, you're a nice honest young woman,
anyhow!' remarked Tor, seeing that the girl
had not anything of much importance either
to tell or to conceal. c Now, you go straight
up to your room, and stay there till you have
leave to quit it. And pack up your things
ready to go back to your old mistress when
the right time comes ; but if you dare to
disobey and leave before you have permission,
it will be the worse for you.'

And with that Tor strode back to his room,
and finished his night in peace.

In the morning, at the breakfast-table, he
told his story, which was listened to with
great excitement and interest.

You never let them go scot-free !' cried
Miss Marjory. f Oh, Mr. Tor wood, I thought

better things of you! Why did you not confront
them at their task?'

'Because I thought that, on the whole, it
would be better to confront them later on with
the will in my hand, and the information on
my lips, that it was to their nocturnal visits I
owed the clue which had enabled us to find it.
I thought that, on the whole, that would be the
most crushing way of doing it.'

Perhaps !' said Miss Marjory, still half-reluctantly
; ' but I never could have resisted
the temptation, if I had been there

4 And now the will will be found !' cried
Phil, ' and Maud will have her rights again.
Oh, if this isn't just first-rate! Tor, you
rascal, why didn't you summon me to confront
my virtuous aunt and uncle ?'

I felt it was not safe to let them out of
my sight ; and I'm not sure, in any case, if I
could have trusted your discretion.'

You see, he's boss still, for all his protestations,'
said Phil to Miss Marjory. * I
always have to play second fiddle to him, in
reality.'

And a good thing too,' answered Miss
Marjory, with emphasis.

Mrs. Lorraine had listened with intense
interest to Tor's account of what he had
overheard the Classis' say to one another.
"When she really understood that the will 
whose existence had always been suspected
was supposed to be hidden away in the
library at Lady well, a little pink flush rose
in her cheeks, and she hastily left the room,
returning, however, in a few minutes with an
old-fashioned manuscript-book.

6 My dear,' she began, half timidly, half-eagerly,
l I think I have something here which
may prove a clue. I have not thought of it
for many years; but perhaps there was a meaning
in it which I did not understand. I will
read you a little bit out of my diary, about the
death of your dear father, Philip. I think I
can understand better now what it was he
meant.'

Everyone listened with interest to the extract,
which Mrs. Lorraine proceeded to read :

"My dear brother-in-law died this morning,
at nine o'clock. I was with him alone during
his last hours, for it was no place for young
children, and he could not endure Alfred

Classis near him, and became so painfully
excited if he even appeared, that we had to
forbid him the house.

1 "His mind, which had seemed much clouded
since the stroke, cleared somewhat, I fancied,
during the last hours of his life. He could
not speak, although he made great efforts todo
so: and he could not write, for his hand
was paralyzed. I hope I did not do wrong in
deceiving him; but he was so greatly distressed,
almost whilst he was dying, that I had
to pretend I had understood him.

1 " He struggled time after time to tell me
something:, but he could only stutter and
stammer and make inarticulate sounds. I
could only make one word out of these stuttering
attempts, and that word was 'Aristotle
Of course he must have been half-wandering,
or else I had quite misunderstood him. Just
at the last, he looked more despairing than
ever, and kept looking into my face so imploringly,
saying ' Aristotle  Aristotle ;' and
not knowing what else to do, I said, ' Yes,
yes, I quite understand  Aristotle  it will be
all right, dear Philip.' And then he looked
so wonderfully relieved, and shut his eyes and

dropped into a kind of sleep, from which he
never woke." '

Mrs. Lorraine ceased reading, and looked
round.

1 never could understand how it was that
my saying those words could have comforted
him so, but it did. I have always kept his
Aristotle in remembrance of what he said ; but
I never could make any sense of his words,
and thought I must quite have misunderstood
them. I fancied afterwards that what he
really wished to say was something about a
will he might have made, doing more justice
to Maud; but I never could see what Aristotle
could have to do with it.'

1 Come along!' cried Phil eagerly, springing
up. ' Let us all go and search for this
valuable document. Aristotle is our clue,
and before an hour is over, Maud shall have
her own again! Hurrah! A has Classis!
Won't the old villain just curse and swear
when he finds that he has betrayed the hiding-place
himself!'

Maud's eyes sparkled, more with excitement
at the idea of the Classis overthrow

than at any special desire for an increase of
fortune. She seized Ethel by the hand, and
rushed after Phil ; Mrs. Lorraine followed, and
Miss Marjory and Tor brought up the rear.

4 This will ruin Classis if it is found,' remarked
she, as they crossed the hall.

How so ?'

4 Because he's speculated with the trust-money,
and lost it. He told Lewis so  told
him he should be ruined if he insisted on
claiming it and handing it over to Maud, ashe
wished to do.'

He's a nice kind of guardian and executor !'
said Tor grimly. ' Well, if this will is found,
he will have to abide by the consequences of
his own act.'

And serve him right, too !' said Miss Marjory
briskly. ' It is time punishment did
overtake him at last.'

Already the room had been reached, and
an eager search begun. Mr. Maynard's
library was extensive, and not over-well
arranged ; but all the authors were together,
and in a moment Aristotle was pounced upon,
and every volume of every edition was pulled
down from the shelves for inspection.

vol. in. 57

But after about five minutes of eager, rapid
search, a silence and slight consternation fell
upon the searchers, for it became evident that
there was no will hidden away in these
volumes.

1 It's gone !' cried Phil dismally, ' or else it's
in some of the other books. What a sell ! I
thought we were safe to find it. Can anybody
else have been beforehand with us ?'

Not likely,' said Tor, ' as the Classis' have
failed in their attempt. Bar accident, it ought
still to be here. Does anybody know if the
books have been left just as they were when
Mr. Maynard was alive ?'

Yes; they have not been disturbed at all,'
said Mrs. Lorraine. ' They are all in their
old places, as he kept them.'

That is well,' said Tor, and strode across
to where the vacant space yawned, from which
the books had just been removed.

The rest crowded round him as he began a
careful examination of the woodwork behind
the shelves, tapping with his knuckles on
every inch of exposed wood.

'There!' cried Miss Marjory suddenly;
i there's a hollow there. Try again !'

Tor did so, and the doubt became a
certainty.

There's a crack in the woodwork here, too,'
he said, scanning it eagerly. ' A chisel and a
hammer, and we'll see what we shall see!'

Maud darted off and quickly returned,
bringing the required implements.

A little dexterous manoeuvring and a square
of wood fell forwards, disclosing to view a
cavity into which was inserted a paper, folded
square, so as just to fit the place made for its
reception.

1 Maud,' said Tor, turning round, i you had
better take it out. I am convinced that it is
your father's last will.'

Maud's hand trembled a little as she did his
bidding. In perfect silence she drew the
paper out of its long-hidden place of concealment,
and looked at the superscription : ' To
my daughter ', Maud Debenham!

1 You open it,' she said, giving it to Tor.
6 1 don't feel as if I could.'

Tor obeyed. The envelope addressed to
Maud contained two documents ; one was a
letter, the other a paper, which bore the important
words, ' Last will and testament of

572

  ,  . . 

Philip Debenham,' dated four months later
than the will which had been produced by
Classis.

Read it, Tor,' said Maud.

He obeyed. It was not a long will. It
merely, as before, left all the father's property
to Philip and the mother's to Maud  without
any condition whatever. Mr. Twyne,
the lawyer, and Mr. Maynard were appointed
executors, and Mr. Maynard was made guardian
to the children. Mr. Debenham seemed to
have a presentiment that his hale and hearty
old uncle would outlive him, as indeed had
been the case. He had had an idea that he
would die young, which also had verified itself.
No mention whatever was made in the will of
Classis or of his son.

The letter to Maud was next read ; it was
a very different production from the one Mr.
Classis had brought forward.

My dear Daughter,

Four months ago I was induced by
your uncle to make a will most unjust towards
you, and towards your dear dead mother, my
beloved wife. Why I consented to do this and to

write the letter he dictated to me, need not now
be explained ; suffice it to say that I yielded
to pressure (the nature of which you cannot
understand), because I knew that it was in my
power to reverse the condition which my pen
had imposed upon you and upon your future.

I have now reversed it. I have done you
justice ; and it is possible that you may never
know the terms of the will which this one
will supersede.

My child, beware of your uncle, Alfred
Classis. Do not trust him, do not give him
one particle of power over you ; and above all,
try not to fear him. Blind trust, followed
by blind fear, has been the curse of my life.
I pray that you and Philip may be delivered
from a like curse.

This fear is still master of me, bitterly
though I scorn myself for it. This letter I
am now writing, and the will I have just
framed, must be hidden away from his sight,
or I may be induced to give way to him, and
do you irreparable harm. When I feel my
end approaching, then and only then shall I
reveal to some trusty friend the hiding-place
I have selected for these precious papers.

Then and only then will you learn how much
your father loved you, and how bitterly he
suffered for even seeming to consent to do you
so deep an injustice.

Farewell, my dear and only daughter ;
think kindly and not scornfully of your weak
but unhappy father.

'Philip Debenham.'

CHAPTER XV.

THE FALL OF BEL AS SIS.

Somebody must see Classis about
this, Phil,' said Tor, when the
matter of the will had been discussed
many times over, in all its bearings.
1 Either you as Maud's brother, or I as her
prospective husband. Which of us shall it be ?'

Oh, you,' answered Phil quickly. ' I
shouldn't know what to sav.'

All right,' returned Tor. l I'll go  and
the sooner he knows his fate, the better.'

It may be vindictive on my part,' remarked
Miss Marjory, ' but I must say that I feel a
savage satisfaction in picturing the overthrow
of Classis.'

Maud laughed at her look and tone.

I'm afraid he won't be so very much overthrown,
Miss Marjory. You see, he has

quarrelled with Lewis, so he will not care so
very much which of us has the money. '

Perhaps he wouldn't, if there was any
money to have ; but as he has lost it all, he
will care considerably. Lewis would hardly
have sued his own father and ruined him ; but
your natural guardians, Maud, have no choice;
and your worthy uncle will be brought to his
bearings, as he richly deserves to be.'

Maud began to look grave ; but Mrs. Lorraine's
voice now took up the word.

4 Not quite ruined  for Celia has four hundred
a year settled upon her, which cannot be
touched. It will keep them from actual
poverty when the rest goes. I thought it a
little hard once,' continued Aunt Olive, with
a smile ; ' for it was half what was to have
been my portion  only father cut me off, and
divided it between Maud and Celia, and settled
it upon them. I am glad now; for I should
not like Celia to be robbed of all by her bad
husband, and I am so well looked after now,
that I want for nothing myself.'

'Well, I'm glad that it's not absolute
ruin for them,' said Tor, pulling at his
moustache, ' Because the innocent always

have to suffer with the guilty, and it would
fall hardly on his family, richly as he deserves
it all himself. Justice must be done, of course.
A trustee cannot be allowed to get off, after
simply robbing the legatee of her entire fortune
; but it would make it harder to execute
justice, if it meant absolute penury for the
whole family.'

4 Don't be soft, Torrington Torwood,' said
Miss Marjory warningly ; * remember that
Classis made Maud's father's life a burden
to him, and robbed Phil of every vestige of his
inheritance. He is not worthy of your compassion.
If justice never overtook the wicked,
the world would come to an end faster than it
is doing already.'

So after luncheon Tor started for Thornton
House, with everybody's consent that he
should make his own terms with Classis.

Maud, of course, trusted him in everything,
and would be satisfied with whatever
arrangement he chose to make. Phil knew
his friend would manage matters much better
than he could do himself ; and Mrs. Lorraine
always felt sure that the ' first Phil,' as she
often called him, could be trusted to be firm

and just, and yet considerate and temperate,
with all with whom he came in contact.

Perhaps Tor did not altogether relish his
errand, although there was a certain satisfaction
in confronting the foe, with the winning
card in his hand. Nevertheless, he thought
the matter would be better managed by himself
than by Phil, who was likely to be too
yielding one moment, and too hard the next,
according as each side of the question came
uppermost.

Again he found Mr. and Mrs. Classis alone
together in the study, and he fancied they
looked surprised and uneasy at his appearance.


He shook hands easily and pleasantly, for
in spite of their many attempts, he had never
allowed himself to be drawn into a quarrel,
and had always treated them with a cheerful
politeness, which even the hard words given
and received had never entirely overset.

I hope your late hours have not been too
much for you he remarked with a smile, ashe
took a chair opposite Mrs. Classis. ' It is
not all of us who can sit up till dawn, and not
feel the effects of it afterwards.'

Dead silence followed this speech. Mr. Be-lasses
began to grow purple. Mrs. Classis
closed her lips tightly, and looked Tor full in
the face, with eyes which seemed as if they
would fain read his very soul.

Had Betsy Long betrayed her ?

1 1 do not know what you are talking about,
Mr. Torwood,' she said at last.

No ? I was alluding to your visit to
Ladywell last night ; and hoping that your
late, or rather early hours, and a two miles
walk at the end of it, had not disagreed with
you.'

Ladywell !' gasped Classis, with his usual
insane attempt to escape from the inevitable.
' I haven't even been to Ladywell for
weeks !'

1 Then it must have been your double I
saw,' answered Tor. 4 A double is a nasty
thing, Mr. Classis, especially when it performs
such questionable actions as yours does
stealing into people's houses at the dead of
night, in order to find and destroy legal papers
of great value. I should try to rid myself of
such a Doppelganger, if I were you, or you
may find it lead you into trouble some day.'

The colour had all faded from Mrs. Classis'
face. She looked grey and ghastly.

Speak out !' she said hoarsely. i Say at
once what it is you have come for.'

1 1 have come to thank you for a very valuable
discovery which you have enabled us to
make.'

i Discovery!'

Yes ; the discovery of certain papers which,
but for you, would without doubt have smouldered
away, unknown and unsuspected, behind
the woodwork of the Lady well library. Your
nocturnal attempts to discover these same
papers, and your certainty of their whereabouts,
enabled others with better opportunities
to make the discovery you failed to do ;
but it is to you, and you only, that we owe the
clue. Without the information you gave us,
the papers would without doubt have remained
for generations in their hiding-place, which
has so well concealed them for eighteen years

Papers !' gasped Classis ; ' what papers ?'

1 Betsy Long has betrayed us !' exclaimed
his wife, in the same breath.

Not at all,' answered Tor quietly. ' Your
spy, whom you so cleverly and honourably

manoeuvred for me to take into my service,
has been loyal to you  more loyal than such
creatures generally are. I am surprised that
a clever woman like you, Mrs. Classis, should
stoop to use so clumsy a tool. However, such
good service has been done us by all this, that
it is not for me to complain. Your spy, who
has been really your servant, not ours, is
coming back to you this afternoon. I wish
you joy of her, after the training you have
thought fit to bestow upon her. No, she has
not betrayed you ; make yourself quite easy
on that score. You betrayed yourselves by
the sounds you made, and I had the pleasure
and profit of seeing and hearing a good deal
that passed in the library last night. It maybe
a satisfaction to you to hear that the papers
you were so anxious about have now been
found ; and you are welcome to see them for
yourselves any day you wish, by coming over
to Lady well.'

Mrs. Classis was pale with rage and dismay,
her husband with abject fear.

What papers ?' he gasped again.

Philip Debenham's last will and testament
the one you were so certain he would frame,

if he could, to cancel the one you wrung from
him by the extraordinary influence you had
obtained over him. It is all exactly as you
thought. He did make another will, and hid
it away at Ladywell, out of your reach. You
have betrayed your own secret, and thanks to
you, that will is now in our possession.'

Classis could not speak. After a few
minutes' pause his wife asked :

And what are its terms ?'

i Not any which ought to affect you  simply
that Maud inherits her mother's fortune,
principal and interest, without any condition
whatever. You best know how this transfer
will affect you  as I said before, apart from
your paternal feeling for your son, the matter
should not make the smallest difference to
you.'

Classis' face was white and rigid.

'' It will only ruin me, that's all.'

6 You mean to say that you have lost the
money ?' asked Tor coolly.

Yes.'

Then of course you will have to make
good the loss.'

I cannot  I have been very unlucky.

I don't know how to lay my hands upon five
thousand, let alone twenty, and it will come
to that and more, with compound interest for
all these years.'

4 Well, Mr. Classis, you understand your
own affairs best, but you know the money
will have to be paid.'

I cannot pay it, I tell you !'

You should have considered all that before
you thought fit to speculate with it. Now
you have no alternative in the matter. You
chose to spend another person's money, end
you must repay it. The whole thing is as
plain as a pikestaff.'

I can't  I tell you I can't !'

You will soon find that you are obliged.'

'I say I can't!' cried Classis, waxing
desperate. ' You can't get blood out of a
stone. '

No, but you can get money out of an
estate. You must sell your property, or
transfer it, in part payment. The thing is
perfectly simple.'

What !' groaned Classis, driven to bay ;
do you mean to tell me that my own niece
would dare to turn me out of my house, to die

like a dog upon the high-road, because I have
been so unfortunate as to lose some money,
which I was endeavouring to turn to good
account for her benefit ? Do you mean to tell
me that ?'

4 I mean to tell you answered Tor, repressing
a strong inclination to punch the old
rascal's head, ' that the law will oblige you to
restore stolen property. You have squandered
away Maud's inheritance in order to enrich
yourself, and now you will have to take the
consequences, and lose your own. You
cannot play fast and loose with other people's
money and not suffer for it. You cannot have
your cake and eat your cake too. You chose
your own course of action, and now you must
abide by the results.'

My own niece would ruin me,' moaned
Classis, i whom I have reared like my own,
and treated as a daughter. I never thought
to see a day like this ! I could not have
believed it possible. I will not believe dear
Maud means to be so cruel.'

Now, Mr. Classis, I think we have had
enough of that,' said Tor firmly, and the lookin
his eye made Classis quail and cease his

lamentations. i You have been the worst
enemy the Debenhams have ever had or are
likely to have, and you know it as well as I.
You made the first Philip Debenham's life
wretched by the mysterious power you obtained
over him ; and you deprived his son of
all his inheritance ; for you know as well as I,
that it was thanks to you that nothing remained
of the father's property. You nearly
performed the same kind office for Maud ; and
it is by a mere accident that this second great
wrong has not been successfully consummated.
And yet you think it well to bring forward
your claim of relationship, and hope to escape
your well-merited chastisement by throwing
yourself upon the mercy of the Debenhams!
What mercy do you think you deserve from
their hands ?'

Classis shrank into himself, and made no
attempt at a reply. It was his wife who spoke
first.

What do you mean to do ?'

I have come here to ask what you mean
to do.'

1 can't do anything,' groaned Classis.

vol. in. 58

His wife gave him a look of withering
contempt, and Tor said quietly :

You will pretty soon find you have to do
something, Mr. Classis. What is the value
of the property you own ? You have about a
couple of hundred acres, and the farm, have
you not, and this house ?'

1 1 will never give up my property !' cried
Classis fiercely. ' I will fight for it to the
death !'

1 Stow look here, Mr. Classis,' said Tor, in
the voice which never failed to arrest attention,
I've not got an unlimited store of patience,
and if you exhaust it, you will find it all the
worse for yourself. You know you will have to
refund to Maud the money you chose to throw
away ; you understand the law better than
I do, and I know that you are responsible
for its restoration. And if you force us to
appeal to the law, you will find yourself in a
much worse position than if you come to terms
quietly with us. There will be all the costs
to pay, and your name will be known throughout
the country as that of a dishonest trustee.
I am empowered to act for Maud, and if you
will arrange matters with me, you will find

yourself fairly treated, and a due allowance
made for the value of your property ; but if
you go too far, I shall simply decline to
negotiate with you, and you will be forced to
sell the property at what it will fetch, in order
to make good the lost money. In these days,
when land is a drug in the market, 1 leave you
to judge which course is most in accordance
with your own interests. It is a matter of no
importance to me.'

Classis was silenced ; he began to see once
again that the man before him was more than
his match.

c What do you want me to do ?' he asked
sullenly enough.

The only thing left for you to do  handover
the property to Maud, as payment or parliament
of what you owe.'

c It is worth far more than the sum I owe.'

That remains to be proved. We must
have a valuation. We will each appoint an
agent, and abide by their united decision. No
doubt all that can be easily arranged later.
You will be fairly dealt by, Mr. Classis. We
shall not do as we have been done bv.'

i Do you mean to insult me ?'

582

Certainly not, unless the truth is an
insult. If so, whose fault is it ?'

Classis grew a dusky red. He dared not
answer Tor ; but it was not pleasant to sit
under his eye and hear such remarks made.

6 And I suppose I shall have to go on the
parish,' he remarked presently. ' My virtuous
relatives will combine to drive me there.'

Well, you can settle that point with Mrs.
Belassis/ answered Tor.  As, by a lucky
chance, you really did marry her, perhaps she
may consent to allow you to subsist upon her
private income, which will keep her in comfort.
If she does, you will get more than you deserve
at her hands ; but that is a question with
which I have nothing to do. Mrs. Classis,
no doubt, will tell you her views on it later.'

Mrs. Classis looked as if she meant to tell
her husband her views on a variety of subjects
as soon they were left in private, but all she
said was :

1 Have you finished the business upon which
you came, Mr. Torwood ?'

He rose, not at all unwilling to take his
departure.

Yes, I think you understand all that is

needful now. You can make your arrangements,
and communicate either with me director
through Mr. Twyne, as you like best. If
you wish to see the late Philip Debenham's
will you can do so. We will not hurry you
needlessly, but remember that we wish to
avoid unnecessary delays, which can only be a
vexation to both parties.'

And then Tor bowed himself out, feeling
that Mrs. Classis would soon bring her husband
to sense and reason, and that he could
now, metaphorically speaking, wash his hands
of all further dealings with them.

He had not got very far from the house
before he met Maud, who had come out with
the intention of waylaying him.

Well, Tor,' she said, ' what has happened?
How did they take it ?'

Pretty much as one might have expected
he like a coward and a sneak, she like a
proud woman. She's no favourite of mine,
Mrs. Classis, but she has good pluck

1 And  and  is what Miss Marjory said
true ? Will they be '

1 Ruined ? Well, not absolutely, because
Mrs. Classis has property ; but they will

have to sell their place ; and I should think
they would prefer to retire from this part of
the country altogether.'

Oh, what a good thing!' cried Maud, with
enthusiasm. i I never could bear to think of
living near Uncle and Aunt Classis ; and yet
I do so like Lady well, and should not care to
go far away. You are going to live somewhere
near here when  when we're married,
aren't you, Tor ?'

1 Yes, certainly ; if you wish it, little sweetheart!
What should you say to Thornton
House ?'

1 hate Thornton House !' cried Maud, with
energy and decision.

You mustn't hate it, Maud ; for it will
soon be your own property.'

< Mine 1'

Yes ; it is the only way Classis can pay
what he owes, by making over the property
to you. I knew you wanted a house near
Lady well, and I have means to keep it up ;
so, as it seemed the only way of getting the
money, it stands just as I have said.'

Maud's face brightened, and she began to
smile.

It's delightful to think of having a house
of our own, Tor ; and it seems to bring things
so home to one, when it is really almost
settled; only  only  I did so hate Thornton
House when I lived there  I have always
hated it V

4 It will not be Thornton House under us,
Maud ; we will call it Lady well Lodge. And
I'll undertake that when the present occupants
have cleared out with all their belongings, and
my work-people have been all through the
house, decorating and furnishing, and when
Miss Marjory has laid out the gardens anew,
I'll undertake then that you shall not know
the place again. Will that satisfy you?'

Maud looked up at him with dancing
eyes.

Of course it will ! I should be satisfied
with anything in the world, if you had the
arranging of it !'

It could be made a very pretty place, I
have often thought, differently arranged both
inside and out. Mr. and Mrs. Classis were
hardly people of taste ; and their house and
garden show it. You and I, Maud, will
make it look very different. '

Oh yes !' cried Maud eagerly. c I'm sure
we can. And when it is once our house, and
Ladywell Lodge, it will never remind me
one bit of that horrid old Thornton House.
Oh, we shall be very, very happy ! I can't
understand sometimes how it is that I am so
happy, and that everything has come round so
delightfully ! Suppose Phil had not had that
sunstroke, and you had not come over ! Oh
dear ! oh dear ! I believe I should have been
Mrs. Lewis Classis by this time !'

c Horrid thought !' laughed Tor, pressing
closer to him the little hand which lay upon
his arm. ' You never seem to have borne
me any malice for the trick I played upon
you, Maud ; and the unwarrantable liberties I
took.'

She looked up, smiling archly.

I hardly had time to get thoroughly angry
with you, before you came and surprised mein
the garden. I never had any chance of
showing how dignified I can be when I am
offended.'

4 You certainly never did show it. I think
I came off with flying colours all round. I
had always looked forward with some dread

to facing you all, after the revelation was
made ; but even that did not prove a very
trying ordeal !'

You bad boy !' said Maud ; ' you took
care to get your own way with me, as you
do with everybody else. Why did you never
confide in me, Tor; and tell me the truth, when
you began to get uneasy about how things
would turn out? I think you might have
trusted me.'

So I did ; but I felt it would make your
position a very trying one. Indeed, I think
it would have been worse for both of us.
And how could I tell how you would like to
hear of your brother's helplessness, and see
another acting in his place? It might have
turned you against me !'

4 Oh, Tor!' said Maud; 'you know you
don't think that !'

1 What ?'

That I should ever have turned against
you ?'

Why should you not ?'

She looked up at him and shook her head
gravely.

You can't guess, of course ?'

1 1 was never much of a hand at guessing.'

'No? Well, then you had better remain
in ignorance

I don't want to remain in ignorance. I
want you to tell me.'

As if you did not know !'

Tell me, I say.'

Pin not sure if I will.'

But I am  quite sure. Come, Maud ; how
long am I to be kept waiting ?'

You deserve to be kept all night, you
tyrant ! but you always do manage to get
your own way. You know it is because  I
love you with my whole heart !'

And with that answer Tor seemed content.

THE LAST.

ND so wrong was made right, and
justice overtook the evil-doer ; and
in a very short time the Classis
family had removed from Thornton HoUse,
taking all their goods with them, and leaving
behind no pleasant regrets in the minds of
others, nor even the feeling that they would be
missed from the neighbourhood where they had
lived so long.

No, never popular with anyone, the name of
Classis became opprobrious when the news of
his conduct was noised abroad. When once
the belief in his honesty had exploded, everybody
had some tale to tell of his hardness or
trickery or deceitfulness, and very heartily was
he abused in all quarters.

Serve him right ! I hope he will feel it !'

said Miss Marjory, when she heard of it. ' For
I always did say you let him off far too easily,
Mr. Torwood.'

1 1 can't hit a man when he's down answered
Tor. ' I had too completely the whip-hand of
him to use it with much force.'

If I'd been in your place, I'd not have
spared him !' cried the eager little gentlewoman.
' I'd have scared him out of his
senses. He's an old villain, and doesn't deserve
anybody's compassion.'

c No, he doesn't deserve any consideration at
all, I quite admit,' returned Tor ; ' but the fact
is, he was such a pitiable and contemptible
object, that one didn't care to waste words of
any kind over him. You'd have felt the same
if you'd been in my place, Miss Marjory. I
am quite sure you would.'

Well, well, perhaps so ; but I shall always
say and think that Classis got off much more
easily than he deserved  much more easily
than he would have done if I'd had the
handling of him.'

Well, Miss Marjory, console yourself with
the thought that his wife has had the handling
of him,' answered Tor, with a smile. ' I think,

if you had seen the look in her eye, you would
have been content. I felt that I couldn't
leave him in better hands.'

Miss Marjory laughed.

Ah yes, there's something in that ; but
then I ought to have the handling of her ; for
she's almost as bad as her husband, and it's
more disgraceful in her than in him, for she
has good blood in her veins.'

1 1 should think she will be punished enough
by the loss of position and wealth. She is a
proud woman, and it will be a bitter pill for
her to swallow, this sudden descent in the
social scale. Miss Marjory, I do really think
that you may make your mind easy about the
Classis family. I think their sins will be
well punished.'

Well, I hope so, I'm sure ; but I shall
always say you let them off too easily.'

Tor certainly behaved generously towards a
fallen foe, he and Maud together ; but there
was no doubt as to which was the active agent
in all such matters.

The valuation of the estate fell considerably
short of the sum owed by Classis to Maud ;
but he was not hardly dealt with when it was

found that he was unable to make up the full
amount. A compromise was effected ; and he
was even allowed to carry away into retirement
the furniture, plate, glass, and china
which belonged to Thornton House, and which
might fairly have been claimed as compensation.


Perhaps there was less generosity in this
than some people supposed, but Maud Deben-
ham's magnanimity was greatly praised by
all in the neighbourhood.

Poor Matilda and Bertha Classis were inconsolable,
and were certainly to be pitied.
They came up to Ladywell several times
during the ' turn-outs and shed oceans of
salt tears, and quite distorted their rather
plain faces by the utter abandonment of their
grief.

e Pity us, Maud ! do pity us !' they would
say. c Fancy, shut up in a horrid little poky
house  quite poor people we shall be  and
always with mamma /' this seemed the climax
of horror, and Maud understood it only too
well.

It was a gleam of consolation when they
learnt that London was to be their destination,

and that their father intended going into
business of some kind, to re-establish his fallen
fortunes.

Maud made the best of this in her attempt
to comfort them.

c You will like London ever so much : there
will be such lots to see, and such heaps of
people to make friends with ; and when Tor
and I are in town, you shall come and see us,
and we will go shopping together, and to the
opera and the park and everywhere. I believe
you'll get to like it so much, when once you're
settled, that you would never care to come
back any more ; and you'll wonder how it
ever was that you were happy at Lady well.'

Phil and Tor, in a good-natured way, tried
with Maud to comfort the distressed damsels :
and at the last they did go away somewhat
cheered. Lewis was living in London, and he
would probably be a well-to-do man in time ;
and, altogether, the rising generation of the
Classis family felt that there might be
brighter clays in store for them yet.

Well, I'm glad they've gone away in better
spirits, poor things !' said Maud, after the final
adieu, made the very day of the journey to

London. ' I am sorry for those two, because
it isn't their fault ; but somehow one can
never feel interested in Matilda and Bertha.'

Perhaps they will find some one to be interested
in them in the great metropolis suggested
Tor, smiling. ' I hope, for their sakes,
that they will.'

Tor's humane wish was presently realized ;
and, before two years were over, Matilda and
Bertha had both found husbands, infinitely to
their own satisfaction.

* *?v *? w w

Thornton House was at once re-named, and
Lady well Lodge became a centre for the united
energy of architect, mason, and decorator.
Tor's prediction, that the place would soon be
changed past recognition, was amply fulfilled ;
and Ladywell Lodge became the envy and
admiration of the neighbourhood.

Not within, alone, did the transformation
scene take place. As soon as the season of
the year permitted it, down came Miss Marjory
from her northern home, and planting, transplanting,
turfing, and changes of all descriptions
went on as if by magic.

I can't think how you know how to do it

all, Miss Marjory cried the delighted Maud,
when she came round to see what was going
on. 'It's not like the same place. It will be
perfectly lovely when the spring comes, and
the summer. I can't think how you do it all
it's like magic !'

4 If I didn't know how to lay out a garden
by this time, I should be a bright specimen,'
returned Miss Marjory, amused and pleased.
I mean Mr. Torwood to have the best laid-out
place in the county, because, my dear, I
am very fond of him ; I always feel something
like a mother to him.'

Everyone agreed that Miss Marjory had
achieved her object before she left ; and when
she did so, she carried off Maud to spend a
month with her at Whitbury.

Tor had a general invitation to come whenever
he pleased ; and, to do justice to the
Torwood impudence,' he was not shy in
availing himself of the privilege accorded to
him.

I believe he comes more to see you than
to see me, Miss Marjory,' said Maud, one day.
I always tell him I am awfully jealous of
you.'

vol. in. 59

With the twinkle in her eye, which all
who knew her liked to see, Miss Marjory
answered :

Well, my dear, of course when he begins
comparing you and me, it is impossible not to
be aware beforehand at what conclusion he
will be bound to arrive

m* J&> 4b B* Ak

3? ij?  J? W

Phil was married at the beginning of the
new year. He and Koma made, as Miss
Marjory said, a very handsome, but not a very
interesting couple. They were absolutely
absorbed in one another, which was very right
and proper ; but such people are not exciting
company, and it was considered an advantage
when they were safely started off for Italy, to
spend their honeymoon.

Ten days later, when the bridal couple were,
no one knew where, Michael Meredith was
found dead in his bed one morning ; and the
funeral had to take place before it was possible
for Phil and Eoma to get back.

Tor wrote to his friend, strongly advising
him to keep Eoma abroad for many months,
until the shock and her first grief had worn

themselves out.

This he did with very successful results,
and Miss Marjory was bold enough to put
into words what everybody else really
thought.

Poor old man, it is well he is taken. He
was a dreadful burden upon that poor girl,
although she did not know it ; and his sublime
selfishness would have been a great trial to
her and to Philip in their married life, and
would have raised continual complications and
difficulties. It is really a great mercy things
have turned out as they have ; and Koma will
be a different being as Philip's wife, from what
she has been as Meredith's daughter.'

The letters which reached Maud from Roma
at frequent intervals, as well as those from Phil
to Tor, all seemed to point to the fact that Miss
Marjory's conclusion had been a correct one.

# * # # . *

In June, Maud and Tor were married. They
had seen each other so constantly that the
rather long waiting had passed quickly. Tor
was anxious that Ladywell Lodge should
be in perfect order before he brought his

592

young bride home to it ; and it takes a longtime
to get a place to the state of perfection
desired by an exacting man.

But at last all was ready. Mr. and Mrs.
Debenham had returned, and a grand wedding
from Ladywell took place, which made the
excitement and talk of the place for weeks.

Miss Marjory was there, of course, in all
her glory, and her present, the wedding veil,
was a marvel of antique workmanship, and
almost overawed Maud by its beauty and
costliness:

She tried hard to persuade her ' fairy godmother
' to be first bridesmaid, but this wish
was laughed to scorn.

It's all very well for you to laugh ; but I
tell you there is more truth in old-fashioned
sayings than you young people believe.
Three times a bridesmaid, never a bride."
I've been bridesmaid twice in my life before,
and do you think I'm going to throw away
my chance of a husband on a slip of a girl
like you V

The wedding, however, was a brilliant success,
owing, as everybody said, a great deal of

its brightness to Miss Marjory's unceasing
energy and unfailing flow of spirits.

The bride and bridegroom only spent a
short three weeks in Switzerland, and then returned
to England, and settled down in blissful
tranquillity at Lady well Lodge.

Mrs. Lorraine remained an inmate of the
Manor House, where her gentle yet practical
presence was of great value to the young
Squire and his artist-wife, and where she
was greatly beloved by all. She visited her
favourite, Maud, almost daily, and would sometimes
say, with tears of feeling in her eyes,
that it was quite a picture and a poem to see
how happy were both the children of Philip
Debenham.

Certainly life seemed to flow very smoothly
at Ladywell now ; and the days fled by, they
hardly knew how. Upon most fine evenings
four people might be seen pacing the terrace
or the gardens of the Manor House ; Eoma
and Maud deep in talk, Phil and Tor arm-in-arm,
sometimes talking, always smoking, ever
seeming sublimely contented with themselves
and their surroundings.

1 This is a fine realization of all our wildest
dreams  eh, Phil V Tor would sometimes say.
We've seen some odd passages in life, you
and I ; but this is a famous wind-up to it
all

Yes ; and a much better one than it ever
could have been, if you had not spent three
months of your life as Philip Debenham.'

Then Tor would grin with that sense of the
ridiculous which recollections of this episode
always brought.

Ah ! what a time I had of it, what with
one thing, and what with another ! I'm glad
enough I did it now ; but you'll never catch
me playing that game a second time, not for
anyone. My recollections of some of the
situations are far too vivid !'

And what an ass I was f Phil would say,
with a fervour that showed how genuine was
the sentiment. ' Just to think I could ever
have been such a fool as to believe you wished
to supplant me ! Just to think the bother
and worry and pain I gave myself believing
you to be an arch-traitor and deceiver  you,
mine own familiar friend P

*****

Four years have come and gone since then,
and Ladywell Lodge is still as happy a home
as ever. There is a tiny baby Phil there now,
reigning supreme over all, save only the big
'papa' he adores and tries to tyrannize over
with all his small might. There is, too, a
prattling, laughing little Marjory, as self-willed
and imperious as the ' godmother ' she is continually
chattering about, and who seems to
hold a very high place in her infant estimation.


Miss Marjory's visits to Ladywell are a
source of increasing delight and satisfaction to
everybody in the place, only to be rivalled infelicity
by the annual excursion of the Torwood
family to the Minster House, Whitbury, where
a delightful fortnight is spent year by year,
in the height of the summer.

Miss Marjory is as strong and bright and
imperious as ever, and quite as fully convinced
that the world is rapidly coming to an
end, which theory is much strengthened by
the precocious utterances of her god-daughter.
People say that she grows younger instead of
older, and they also say that the new orchid-the

Last.

house which her landlord has built for
her, is one of the finest in the kingdom, and
has a great deal to do with her never-failing
health and happiness.

CASE came under the author's
notice some few years ago, in which
a man, having sustained injury to
the head, by the combined effects of
a sunstroke and a fall, remained in a helpless
and torpid state for above three months, and
then suddenly made a steady recovery. Except
for the length of time the state of torpor
lasted, there is nothing, to members of the
medical profession, specially remarkable in
the case.

G., C. 4 Co.

O

:Oi

;

6

'.o:

K
