CONTENTS.

CHAPTER THE FIRST.

PAGE

The Trevlyns of Castle Trevlyn . . . 1

 CHAPTER THE SECOND.

Monica's Ride 23

- CHAPTER THE THIRD.

Lord Trevlyn's Heir 43

CHAPTER THE FOURTH.
Conrad Fitzgerald 63

CHAPTER THE FIFTH.

S Sunday at Trevlyn 84

a

 CHAPTER THE SIXTH.

t In Peril 103

o CHAPTER THE SEVENTH.

j "Wilt thou Have this Woman?" . . .125

CHAPTER THE EIGHTH.
 Woo'd, and Married, and A' '' . . . 145

CHAPTER THE NINTH.

PAGE

Married . . . . . . . . 167

CHAPTER THE TENTH.

Mischief-makers . . . . . . 181

CHAPTER THE ELEVENTH.
The Little Rift 206

CHAPTER THE First.

THE THEVLYNS OF CASTLE Trevelyan.

Good-bye, Monica. I will look in again
tomorrow : but I assure you there is no
cause for anxiety. He is not worse than
usual, and will be better soon."

The doctor was buttoning up his heavy
driving coat as he spoke, and at the conclusion
of the sentence he opened the
heavy oak door, letting in a blast of cold
air and a sheet of fine, penetrating rain.

Oh, Eaymond, what weather ! I ought
not to have sent for you."

VOL. I. 1

Nonsense ! Yoa know I am weatherproof.
01(1 Jack will find his way home,
if I cannot. Good-bye again."

The door closed upon the stalwart figure,
and Lady Monica Trevlyn was left standing
alone upon the wide staircase, amid the
gathering shadows of the great hall.

Castle Trevlyn was, in truth, a sufficiently
grim and desolate place, both within and
without. Tangled park, dense pine woods,
and a rocky iron-bound coast surrounded
it, cutting it off, at it were, from communication
with the outside world. Within its
walls lay a succession of vast, stately
chambers, few of them now inhabited 
regions where carved black oak, faded
tapestry, rusty armour, and antique relics
of bygone days seemed to reign in a sort
of mournful grandeur, telling their own

tale of past magnificence and of present
poverty and decay.

Yes, the Trevlyns were a fallen race ; for
the past three generations the reigning earl
had been poor, and the present Lord
Trevlyn had failed to do anything towards
restoring the decaying fortunes of his
house. He too was very poor, hence the
air of neglect that reigned around and
within the castle.

Monica, however, his only child, was
far too well used to the gloom and grimness
of the old castle to be in the least
oppressed by it. She loved her lonely,
desolate home with a curious, passionate
intensity, and could not picture anything
more perfect than the utter
silence and isolation that hemmed in
her life. The idea of desiring a change

had never so much as occurred to
her.

Monica was very beautiful, with a beauty
of a rare kind, that haunted the memory
of those who saw her, as a strain of music
sometimes haunts the ear. Her face was
always pale and grave, and at first sight
cold even to hardness, yet endued with an
underlying depth and sweetness that often
eluded observation, though it never failed
to make itself felt. It was a lovely face  
like that of a pictured saint for purity of
outline, of a Greek statue for perfection
of feature  almost as calm and colourless
as marble itself. Yet, behind the statuesque
severity lay that strange, sad,
wistful sweetness which could not quite be
hidden away, and gave to the beholder
the idea that some great trouble had overshadowed

the girl's life. Let us go wiili
her, and see what that trouble was.

"When the door closed upon Eaymond
Pendrill, she stood for a moment or two
silent and motionless, then turned and
mounted the shallow stairs once more, and,
passing down a long corridor, opened the
door of a fire-lit room, and entered
softly.

The room had two tenants : one, a great
mastiff dog, who acknowledged Monica's
entrance by gently flopping his tail against
the floor ; the other, a lad of seventeen,
dio lay upon an invalid couch, his face
very white and his brows drawn with
pain.

As Monica looked at him her face
quivered, and a look of unspeakable
tenderness swept over it, transfiguring

it for the moment, and showing wonderful
possibilities in every line and curve. She
bent over him, laying one cool, strong hand
upon his hot head.

Better, Arthur ? ''

Yes, getting better. That stuff Raymond
gave me is taking the pain away.
Stir up the fire, and sit where I can see
you. I like that best."

Arthur Pendrill, cousin to Eaymond
Pendrill, the young doctor who had just
left the castle, was the only child by a
first marriage of Lord Trevlyn's second
wife. Hoping for an heir, the earl
had married again when Monica was
seven years old, but his hopes had not
been realised, and the second Lady Trevlyn
had died only a few years after her union
with him.

Arthur, wlio had been only a mite of
to years old when he first came to Castle
Trevlyn, knew nothing, of course, of any
other home ; and he and Monica had o-rown
up like brother and sister, and were
tenderly attached, perhaps all the more
so from radical differences of character
and temperament. Their childhood had
been unclouded happy ; they had enjoyed
a glorious liberty in their wild Cornish
home that could hardly have been accorded
to them anywhere else. Monica's
had always been the leading spirit ; physically
as well as mentally, she had always
been the stronger ; but he adored her, and
emulated her with the zeal and enthusiasm
of youth. He followed her wherever she
led like a veritable shadow, until that
fatal day, five years ago, which had laid

him upon a bed of sickness, and had
turned Monica in a few hours' time from a
child to a woman.

Upon that day there had been a terrible
end to the mad-cap exploits in clifF-climbing
in which the girl had always
delighted, and Arthur had been carried
back to the castle, as all believed, to die.

He did not die, however, but recovered
to a suffering, helpless, invalid life ; and
Monica, who held herself sternly responsible
for all, and who had nursed him with
a devotion that no mother could have
surpassed, now vowed deep down in her
heart that her own life should henceforth
be devoted to him, that for him she would
in future live, and that whatever she could
do to lighten his load of pain and make
his future happier should be done, at

whatever cost to herself, as the one atonement
possible for the rashness which had
cost him so dear.

Five years ago that vow had been
recorded, and Monica, from a gay, high-spirited
girl, had grown into a pale, silent,
thoughtful woman ; but she had never
wearied of her self-imposed charge  never
faltered in her resolution. Arthur washer
special, sacred charge. Anything that
would conduce to his welfare and happiness
was to be accomplished at whatever cost.
So far, to tend and care for him had
been her aim and object of life, and
her deep love had made the office
sweet. It had never occurred to her that
any contingency could possibly arise by
which separation from him should prove
the truest test of her devotion.

Whilst Arthur and Monica were dreaming
their own dreams upstairs, by the light
of his dancing fire, no thought of coming
changes clouding the horizon of their
imagination, downstairs, in the earl's study,
a consultation was being held between him
and his sister which would have startled
Monica not a little had she heard it.

Lord Trevlyn was a tall, stately, grey-headed
man of sixtus, with a finely-chiselled
face and the true Trevlyn cast of countenance
that his daughter had inherited. His
countenance wore, however, a look of pallor
and ill-health that, to a practised eye, denoted
weakness of the heart, and his figure
had lost its old strength and elasticity, and
had grown thin and a little bowed. His
expression had much of gentleness mingling
with its pride and austerity, as if, with

the advance of years, this nature lead
softened and sweetened, as indeed had
been the case.

Lady Diana, on the other hand, had
grown more sharp and dictatorial with
advancing a'e. She was a "modish"
old lady, who, although quite innocent of
such adornments, always suggested the
idea of powder and patches, high-heeled
shoes and hoops. She generally carried a
fan in her hand, dressed richly and
quaintly, and looked something like a
human parrot, with her hooked nose, keen
black eyes, and quick, sharp voice and
movements. She had an independent and
sufficient income of her owen, and divided
her time between her London house and
her brother's Cornish castle. She had
always expressed it as her intention to

provide for Monica, as her father could
do little for his daughter, everything
going with the entail in the male line ; but
there was a sort of instinctive hostility between
aunt and niece, of which both were
well aware, and Lady Diana was always
deeply offended and annoyed by Monica's
quiet independence, and her devotion to
Arthur.

It was of Monica they were talking this
boisterous autumn evenings.

She has a sadly independent spirit,"
remarked Lady Diana, sighing, and fanning
herself slowly, although the big panelled
room was by no means warm. " I often
think of her future, and wonder what will
become of her."

Lord Trevlyn made no immediate response,
but by-and"by said slowly :

I have been thinking of late very
seriously of the future."

Why of late ? " was the rather sharp
question.

I have not been feeling so well since
my illness in the spring. Eaymond Pen-drill
and his brother have both spoken
seriously to me about the necessity for
care. I know what that means  they
think my state critical. If I am taken,
what will become of Monica ? "

I shall, cf course, provide for her."

I know you will do all that is kind
and generous ; but money is not everything.
Monica is peculiar : she wants
controlling, yet "

Yet no one can control her : I know
that well ; or only Arthur and his whims.
She has no companions but her dogs and

horses. My blood runs cold every time I
see her on that wild black thing she
rides, with those great dogs bounding
round her. There will be another shocking
accident one of these days. She ought to
be controlled  taken away from her extraordinary
life. Yet she will not hear of
coming to London with me even on a short
visit ; she will not even let me speak of it,"
and Lady Diana's face showed that she was
much affronted,

That is just it," said Lord Trevlyn,
slowly ; " her life and Arthur's both seem
bound up in Trevlyn."

Lady Diana made a significant gesture,
which the earl understood. 

Just so ; and yet  unless under most
exceptional circumstances  unless what I
hardly dare to hope should happen  she

must, they must both leave it, at some not
very distant date."

The hesitation of Lord Trevlyn's manner
did not escape his sister.

What do you mean ? " she asked
abruptly.

I mean that I have been in correspondence
lately with my heir, and that I
expect him shortly at Trevlyn."

Your heir ? "

Yes, Randolph Trevlyn, one of the
Warwickshire branch. The extinction of
the Trevlyns at Drayton last year, you
know, made him the next in succession. I
made inquiries about him, and then entered
into personal communication."

Lady Diana looked keenly interested.

What have you made out ? "

That he is very well spoken of everywhere

as a young man of high character
and excellent parts. He is wealthy  very
wealthy, I believe, an only son, and enriched
by a long minority. He is six or
seven and twenty, and he is not married."

Lady Diana's eyes began to sparkle.

And he is coming here ? "

Yes, next week. Of course I need not
tell you what is in my thoughts. I object
to match-making, as a rule. I shall put no
pressure upon Monica cf any kind, but if
those two should by chance learn to love
one another, I could say my ' Nunc
dimittis ' at any time."

Lady Diana looked very thoughtful.

Monica is undoubtedly beautiful," she
said, " and she is interesting, which perhaps
is better." Her brother, however, made
no reply, and as he did not appear inclined

to discuss the matter farther  they
were seldom in entire accord in talking of
Monica  she presently rose and quitted the
room, saying softly to herself as she did so,
I should love to see that proud girl with
a husband's strong hand over her."

That evening, when alone with his
daughter. Lord Trevlyn introduced the
topic most in his thoughts at that time.

Monica, do you never want a little
variety ? What should you say to a visitor
at Trevlyn ? "

I would try to make one comfortable.
Are you expecting anyone, father ? "

Yes, a kinsman of ours : Mr. Trevlyn,
whose acquaintance I wish to make."

Who is he ? I never heard of him
before."
U" " Xo ; I have not known much about

VOL. I. 2

him myself till lately, when circumstances
made him my heir. Monica, have you
ever thought what will happen at Trevlyn
in the event of my death ? "

A very troubled look crept into Monica's
dark, unfathomable eyes. Her face looked
pained and strained.

I think you ought to know, Monica,"
said the earl, gently. " Perhaps you have
thought that the estates would pass to you
in due course of time."

Monica pressed her hands closely together,
but her voice was steady, her words
were quietly spoken.

I do not know if I have ever thought
about it ; but I suppose I have fancied you
would leave all to Arthur or to me."

Exactly, you would naturally inherit
all I have to leave ; but Trevlyn is entailed

in the male line, and goes with the title.
At my death Mr. Randolph Trevlyn will bethe
next earl, and all will be his."

Monica sat very still, feeling as if she
had received some sudden stunning blow ;
but she could not take in all in a moment
the fist of such intelligence. A woman in
some matters, she was a child in others.

But, father," she said quietly, and
without apparent emotion, " Arthur is
surely much nearer to you than this Mr.
Trevlyn, whom you have never seen ? "

The earl smiled half-sadly, and shook his
head.

My dear, you do not understand these
things ; I feel towards Arthur as if he were
my son, but he is not of my kindred. He
is my wife's son, not mine ; he is not a
Trevlyn at all."

Monica's troubled gaze rested on her
father's face.

He cannot live anywhere but at
Trevlyn," she said, slowly. " It would kill
him to take him anywhere else ; " and in
her heart she added  a little jealous
hostility rising up in her heart against the
stranger and usurper who was coming 
He ought to have it. He is a son and a
brother here. By every law of right
Trevlyn should be his."

Foolish, irrational Monica! Where
Arthur was concerned her eyes were
blinded, her reason was warped by her
love. And the ways of the great outside
world were so difficult to understand.

Presently she spoke in very low,
measured tones, though not without a
it tie falter in her voice now and then.

You mean that if  if you were to die
Arthur and I should be turned out of
Trevlyn."

You would neither of you have any
right to remain," answered Lord Trevlyn,
choosing his words with care. " You
would find a home with your aunt ; and
as for Arthur, I suppose he would go to
his cousins  unless, indeed, if he seemed
unable to live away from the place, some
arrangement with my successor could be
made. Everything would depend on him,
but of course it would be a difficult
arrangement."

She drew a long breath, and passed her
hand across her eyes.

Mr. Trevlyn is coming here, you
say?"

Yes, next week. I think it is right

that we should become acquainted with
our kinsman, especially as so much may-depend
upon him in the future'

I think so too," answered Monica ; and
then she quietly left him, without uttering
another word.

ga: 

Monica's ride.

The next morning dawned fair and clear,
as is often the case after a storm. Monica
rose early, her first thought, as usual, for
Arthur. She crept on tip-toe to his room,
to find him as she had left him, sleeping
calmly  as he was likely now to do for
hours, after the attack of the previous day ;
and finding herself no longer required by
him, the girl was not long in making up
her mind how these early hours of
glimmering daylight were to be spent.

Seven o'clock found her in the saddle,
mounted on her glossy black thorough-bred,
who, gentle under her hand, would brook

no other rider, and showed his mettle in
every graceful eager movement, and in
the restless quivering of his shapely limbs.
His coat shone like satin in the pale early
sunlight ; he pranced and curvetted as he
felt his rider upon his back. Monica and
her horse together made a picture that for
beauty and grace could hardly meet its
match in the length and breadth of the
land.

The girl was perfectly at home in the
saddle. She heeded no whit the pawing of
her steed, or the delighted baying of the
great hounds who formed her escort, and
whose noise caused Guy's delicate nerves
many a restive start. She gathered up her
reins with practised hand, soothed him by
a gentle caress, and rode quietly and
absently out of the great grass-grown

court-yard and through a stretch of
tangled park beyond. Once outside the
gates, she turned to the right, and quickly
gained a narrow grass-grown track, which
led for miles alone the edge of the erect
frowning cliffs that almost overhung at a
giddy height the tossing ocean far below.
It was a perilous-looking path enough 
one false step would be enough to hurl
both horse and rider to certain destruction,
but Monica rode fearlessly onward ; she
and her horse were familiar with every step
of the way, both knew the wild cliff path,
and both loved it ; and Guy stretched his
delicate supple limbs in one of those silent
gallops over the elastic turf in which his
heart delighted.

Monica seldom passed more than a day
without traversing that well-known track.

She loved to feel the fresh salt wind as it
blew off the sea and met her face. Sometimes
it was warm and tender as a caress,
sometimes fierce and boisterous, a wet,
blinding blast, laden with spray from the
tempest-tossed waves below ; but to-day it
was a keen, fresh wind, salt, and strong,
and life-giving  a wind that brought the
warm colour to her cheek, the light to her
eye and gave a peculiar and indescribable
radiance to her usually cold and statuesque
beauty.

To-day she felt strangely restless and
uneasy. A sort of haunting fear was upon
her, a presentiment of coming trouble,
that was perhaps all the harder to bear
from its very vagueness. She had never
before realised that the future would bring
any change to the course of her life, save

that of gradually increasing age. Not for
an instant had it ever occurred to her that
a possibility such as that hinted at last
night by her father could by any chance
arise. That she and Arthur might ever
have to leave Trevlyn seemed the wildest
of all wild dreams, and yet that is what in
all probability must happen in the event of
her father's death. Monica shuddered at
the bare idea. Her beautiful dark eyes
glowed strangely. It must not, it should
not be. It would be too cruel, too hard,
too unjust !

In deep abstraction, Monica rode along
the cliff for some three miles, then turning
her horse's head inland, she crossed an
open space of wind-swept down, leaped a
low stone wall, and found herself in a road,
which she followed for some considerable

distance. It led at length to the quaint
little town of St. Maws, a pretty little
place, nestling down in a wooded hollow,
and intersected by a narrow inlet from the
sea, which was spanned by a many-arched
bridge. All the trees in the neighbourhood
seemed to have collected round St. Maws,
and its inhabitants were justly proud of
their stately oaks and graceful beeches.

Monica rode quietly through the empty
streets, returning now and again a salutation
from some tradesman or rustic. It was
still early  only eight o'clock  and the
sleepy little place was slowly awaking
from its night's repose. At the far end of
the town stood a good-sized house, well
hidden from view behind a high brick
wall. Guy turned in at the gate of his
own accord, and, following a short, winding

carriage drive, halted before the front door.
The house was of warm red brick, mellowed
by age ; there was an indescribable air of
comfort and hospitality hanging over it.
It was mantled by glossy ivy, and its gables,
steep pitched roof, and twisted chimneys
were charmingly picturesque. The door
stood wide open as if to invite entrance.
Monica's hounds had already announced
her approach, and a tall, wiry-looking
man of some thirty summers was standing
upon the threshold. He was not much
like his brother, the blue-eyed, brown-bearded
Eaymond, having a thin, sharp,
closely-shaved face, very keen penetrating
eyes, and a cynical mouth. Tom Pendrill
was himself a doctor, like his brother ; but
he did not practise on his own account,
being a man of scientific predilections, with

a taste for authorship. His college
fellowship rendered him independent of
lucrative employment, and, save for assisting
his brother with critical cases, his time
was spent in study and research.

Well, Monica, you are abroad early
to-day," was his greeting. Arthur's

cousins had been like cousins to Monica

almost ever since she could remember.

*' You have come to breakfast, of

course ? "

I came to tell Eaymond not to trouble

to call at Trevlyn to-days, if he is busy.

Arthur is much better. I want to see

Aunt Elizabeth ; but I should like some

breakfast very much."

"I will take your horse," said Tom, as

the girl slipped from the saddle. " You will

find Aunt Elizabeth in the breakfast-room."

The "Aunt Elizabeth " thus alluded to
was the widow of the Tendrils' uncle,
and she had lived with them for many
years, keeping their house, and bringing
into it that element of womanly refinement
and comfort which can never
be found in a purely bachelor establishment.
The young men were both warmly
attached to her, as was her other nephew,
Arthur, at the Castle. As for Monica,
Aunt Elizabeth " had been to her almost
like a mother, supplying that great want
in the girl's life of which she was only
vaguely conscious  the want of tender
womanly comprehension and sympathy in
the trials and troubles of childhood and
youth.

It had been her habit for many years to
brinf] all her troubles to Mrs. Pendrill.

She did not discuss them with Arthur.
Her mission was to soothe and cheer him,
not to infect him with any fears or sorrows.
He was her boy, her charge, her dearly-loved
brother, but Aunt Elizabeth was her
confidant and friend.

She was a very sweet-looking old lady,
with snow-white hair, and a gentle, placid,
earnest face. She greeted Monica with a
peculiarly tender smile, and asked after
Arthur with the air of one who loved
him.

He is better," said Monica, " much
better, or I could not have come. He is
asleep ; he will most likely sleep till noon.
I want to talk to you. Aunt Elizabeth. I
felt I must come to you. When breakfast
is over, please let us go somewhere
together. There is so much I want to say."

When they found themselves at length
secure from interruption in Mrs. Penclrill's
pretty little parlour, Monica stood very
quiet for a minute or two, and then turning
abruptly to her aunt, she asked :

Is my father very much out of
health?"

Mrs. Pendrill was a little startled.

What makes you ask that, my love ? "

"I can hardly say  I think it is the way
he looked, the way Fie spoke. Please tell
me the truth, dear Aunt Elizabeth. I have
nobody but you to turn to," and there was
a pathetic quiver in the voice as well as in
the pale, sweet face.

Mrs. Pendrill did not try to deceive her.
She knew from both her nephews that Lord
Trevlyn's health was in a very precarious
state, and she loved Monica too well not to

VOL. I. o

wish to see her somewhat prepared for a
change that must inevitably fall upon her
sooner or later. She had always shrunk
from thinking of this trouble, she shrank
from bringing it home to Monica now ; buta
plain question had been asked, and her
answer must not be too ambiguous.

Monica listened very quietly, as was her
wont, not betraying any emotion save in
the strained look of pain in her great dark
eyes. Then very quietly, too, she told Mrs.
Pendrill what her father had said the previous
evening about his heir, and about
the prospective visit.

Aunt Elizabeth," said Monica suddenly
after a long pause, betraying for the first
time the emotion she felt, " Aunt Elizabeth,
I do not wish to be wicked or ungenerous,
but I hate that man ! He has no right to

be at Trevlyn, yet lie will some day come

and turn out Arthur and me. I cannot

help hating him for it ; but oh, if only he

would be good to Arthur, if only he would

let him stay, I could bear anvthinof else I

think. Do you think he would be

generous, and would let him keep his own

little corner of the Castle ? It does not

seem much to ask, yet father thought it

might be difficult. Arthur is so patient, so

good, he might learn to love him  he

might even adopt him, so to speak. Am 1

very foolish to hope such things, Aunt

Elizabeth ?  they do not seem impossible

to me."

Mrs. Pendrill mused a little while.

Has this Mr. Trevlyn any family ? "

'' I do not know. Father did not speak

of a wife. I fancy he is an old bachelor."

3*

''He is old, then?"

'' I fancy lie is elderly, or at any rate
middle-aged, or father would hardly care
to have him on a visit. He must be
younger than father, of course, but I do
not know anything more about him. Oh,
it will be very hard ; but if he will only be
good to Arthur, I will try to bear the rest."

I am sure you will, my Monica," said
Mrs. Pendrill tenderly. " I am sure you
will never be ungenerous or act unworthily.
A dark cloud seems hanging over your life,
but there is light behind, though we
cannot always see it. And, remember, my
darling, that gold shines all the brighter
for having been tried in the furnace''

I know the fellow," said Tom Pendrill,
an hour later, when Monica had gone, an

he had heard from his aunt part of what
had passed between them. " Monica is out
about his age ; he can't be more than six
or seven and twenty, and a right good
fellow he is too, and would make my lady
a capital husband, if he is not married
already. Randolph Trevlyn was at Oxford;
I knew him there pretty well, though he was
only an undergraduate when I had taken
my degree. The name sounded homelike,
and I made friends with him. He
wasn't anywhere near the title then, but I
suppose there have been deaths in the
family since. Well, well, the earl is quite
right to have him down, and if he could
manage to fall in love with Monica and
marry her, it would simplify matters
wonderfully ; but that wild bird will need
a good deal of training before she will

come at a husband's call, and there is such
a thing as spreading the snare too much
in the sight of the quarry."

No thought of this kind, however,
entered into Monica's head. She was far
too unversed in the ways of the world to
entertain the smallest suspicion of the
hopes entertained on her account. She
thought a good deal of the coming guest
as the days went by  thought of him with
bitterness, with aversion, with mistrust, butin
the light of a possible husband  never
for a single instant.

It was the day before the stranger was
expected, and Monica, as the sun was
sinking in the sk}, was riding alone in the
pine wood that surrounded the Castle.
She was grave and pre-occupied, as she
had been for the week past, haunted

by the presage of coming sorrow and
change. Her face was pale and sad, yet
there was a wonderful depth of sweetness
in its expression of wistful melancholy.
The setting sun, slanting through the ruddy
trunks of the tall pines, shone full upon
her, lighting her golden hair, and making
an aureole of glory round her head,
showing off with peculiar clear distinctness
the graceful outline of her supple figure
and the beauty of the horse she rode.

She was in a very thoughtful mood, so
absent and pre-occupied as to be quite lost
to outside impressions, when Guy suddenly
swerved and reared, with a violence that
would have unseated a less practised rider.
Monica was not in the least alarmed, but
the movement aroused her from her
reverie, and she was quickly made

aware of what had frightened the
horse.

A tall, broad-shouldered young man
stepped forward, and laid a hand upon
Guy's bridle, lifting his hat at the same
time, and disclosing a broad brow, with a
.sweeping wave of dark hair lying across it.

' I beg a thousand pardons ; I believe I
frightened your horse. He is evidently
unused to the sight of trespassers. I trust
you have not been alarmed."

Monica smiled at the notion ; her face
had been somewhat set and cold till the
apology had been made. The stranger
had no right to be there, certainly, but his
frank admission of the fact went far to
palliate the crime. She allowed herself to
smile, and the smile was in itself a revelation.


It does not matter," she said quietly.
I know the wood is perplexing ; but if
you keep bearing to the west you will
find the road before long. Ko, I was
not frightened, thank you. Good afternoon."


She bent her head slightly, and the
stranger uncovered again. He was smiling
now, and she could not deny that he was
very good-looking, and every inch the
gentleman.

She had not an idea who he was
nor what he could be doing there ; but
it was no business of hers. He was
probably some tourist who had lost his
way exploring the beauties of the coast.
She was just a little puzzled by the look
his face had worn as he turned away :
there was a sort of subdued amusement in

the dark blue eyes, and his long brown
moustache had quivered as if with the
effort to subdue a smile. Yet there had
been nothing in the least impertinent in his
manner ; on the contrary, he had been
particularly courtly and polished in his
bearing. Monica dismissed the subject
from her mind, and rode home as the sun
dipped beneath the far horizon.

>?A;

Lord Trevelyan's HEIR

Lord Trevlyn sat in his study in the
slowly waning daylight, waiting the
arrival of his expected guest. Now that
the moment had come, he shrank from
the meeting a good deal more than he
had once believed he should do. It
was so loncf since he had seen a
strange face, and his relations with
this unknown heir would perhaps be
difficult : undoubtedly the situation was
somewhat strained. Would the young
man think a trap was being set for him in
the person of the beautiful Monica ? Was
he acting a wise or fatherly part in scheming

to give her to this stranger, if it should
be possible to do so ?

He had liked the tone of Randolph
Trevlyn's courteously-worded acceptance
of his invitation. He had liked all that
he heard of the man himself. He
had a sort of presentiment that his wish
would in time be realised, that this visit
would not be fruitless ; but his child's
happiness : would that be secured in
securing to her the possession of a well-loved
home ?

Randolph Trevlyn would hardly be
likely to spend any great part of his
life at this lonely sea-bound castle. He
might pass a few months there, perhaps ;
but where would the bulk of his time be
spent ?

Lord Trevlyn tried to picture his beautiful,

wayward, freedom-loving daughter
mixing in the giddy whirl of London life,
learning its ways and following its fashions,
and he utterly failed to do so. She
seemed indissolubly connected with the
wild sea-coast, with the gloomy pine-woods,
with the rugged independence of her sea-girt
home. Monica a fashionable young
countess, leading a gay life of social distraction
! The thing seemed impossible.

But he had no time to indulge his
imaginings farther. The door opened, and
his guest was ushered in. The old earl
rose and bade him welcome with his customary
simple, stately courtesy. It was
growing somewhat dark in that oak-panelled
room, and for a minute or two
he hardly distinguished the features of
the stranger, but the voice and the words

in which the young man answered this
greeting pleased his fastidious taste, and a
haunting dread of which he had scarcely
been fully aware faded from his mind at
once and for ever in the first moment of
introduction.

Lord Trevlyn heaved an unconscious
sigh of relief when he resumed his seat,
and was able to give a closer scrutiny to
his guest. One glance at his face, figure,
and dress, together with the pleasant sound
of his voice, convinced Lord Trevlyn that
this young man was a gentleman in the
rather restricted sense in which he employed
that elastic term.

He was a handsome, broad-shouldered,
powerful man, with a line figure, dark
hair and moustache, dark blue eyes, frank
and well-opened, a quiet, commanding air

and carriage, and that cast of countenance
which plainly showed that the blood of the
Trevlyns ran in his veins.

Lord Trevlyn eyed him with quiet
satisfaction, and from the conversation
that ensued he had no reason to rescind
his favourable impression. Randolph
Trevlyn was evidently a man of culture
and refinement, with a mental capacity
distinctly above the average. He was,
moreover, emphatically a man of the world
in its truest and widest sense  a man who
has lived in the world, and studied it
closely, learning thereby from its silent
teaching the good and the evil thereof.

The two men talked for a time of the
family to which they belonged, and the
deaths that had lately taken place, bringing
young man so near to the title.

"The Trevlyns seem to be a dying
race," said the old ear], half sadly. " Our
family is slowly dying out. I suppose it
has done its work in the world, and is not
needed any longer in these stirring times.
You and my daughter are now the sole
representatives of the Trevlyns in your
generation, as my sister and I are in ours."

Randolph Trevlyn looked into his kinsman's
face with a great deal of reverence
and admiration. He liked to meet a man
who was a genuine specimen of the " old
school." He felt a natural reverence for
the head of his house, and his liking
showed itself in voice and manner. Lord
Trevlyn saw this, and was gratified, whilst
the younger man was pleased to feel himself
in accord with his host. The interview
ended with mutual satisfaction on both

sides, and Eandolpli was taken up the
great oak staircase, down one or two dim,
ghostly corridors, and landed finally in a
couple of large panelled rooms, most
antiquely and quaintly furnished, in both
of which, however, great fires of pine logs
were blazing cheerily.

We dine at eight," Lord Trevlyn had
said, in parting with his guest. " I shall
hope then to have the pleasure of
introducing you to my sister and my
daughter."

Left alone in his comfortable but rather
grim-looking quarters, Randolph broke
into a low lauofh.

And so this sombre old place, full of

ghosts and phantoms of departed days 

this enchanted castle between sea and forest

is the home of the lovely girl I saw
VOL. T. 4

yesterday ! Incongruous, and yet so entirely
appropriate ! She wants a setting
of her own, different from anything else.
It must have been Lady Monica I encountered,
the lady of the pine-wood. What
a sad, proud, lovely face it was, with its
frame of golden hair, and soft eyes like a
deer's ; and her voice was as sweet as her
face, low, and rich, and full of music.
What has been the secret of her life ?
Some sorrow, I am certain, has overshadowed
it. Who will be the happy man
to bring the sunshine back to that lovely
troubled face ? Randolph Trevlyn, do not
run on so fast. You are no longer a boy.
You must not judge by first impressions ;
you will know more of her soon."

Randolph's encounter with Monica the
previous day had been purely accidental.

The young man had reached St. Maws one
day earlier than he had expected, one day
earlier than he had been invited to arrive
at the Castle. Some business in Plymouth
which he had expected would detain him
some days had been despatched with greater
speed than he had anticipated, and he had
gone on to St. Maws to renew acquaintance
with his old friend Pendrill, who lived, ashe
remembered, in that place.

When he descended to the drawing room
it was to find the earl and Lady Diana
there before him, and he made as favourable
an impression upon the vivacious old
lady as he had done before upon her
brother. Yet he found his attention straying
sometimes from the animated talk of
his companion, and his eyes would wander

to the door by which Monica must enter.

4*
m

mmijy Of iLLims

She came at last, stately, beautiful, statuesque,
her dress an antique cream-coloured
brocade, that had, without doubt, belonged
to some remote ancestress ; her golden hair
coiled like a crown upon her graceful head.
She had that same indescribable air of isolation
and remoteness that had struck him
so much when he had seen her riding in
the wood. She did not lift her eyes when
her father presented the stranger to her,
but only bent her head very slightly, and
sat down by herself, somewhat apart.

But when dinner was announced, and
Randolph gave her his arm to lead her in,
she raised her eyes, and their glances met.
He saw that she recognised him, and yet
she fjave not the slightest siffn of havens
done so, and her face settled into lines of
even more severe gravity than before. He

felt that she was annoyed at his having met
and addressed her previously, and that she
would brook no allusion to the encounter.

His talk with the Tendrils had prepared
him somewhat for Monica's coldness
towards himself. It was natural enough,
he thought, and perhaps a little interesting,
especially as he meant to set himself to win
her good-will at last.

He did not make much way during
dinner. Monica was very silent, and Lady
Diana engrossed almost all his attention ;
but he was content to bide his time,
conscious of the charm of her presence,
and of the haunting, pathetic character of
her beauty, and deeply touched by the
Story of her devotion to the crippled,
suffering Arthur, which was told him by
the earl when they were alone together,

with more of detail than he had heard it
before.

When he returned to the drawing-room,
he went straight up to Monica, and said :

I am going to ask a favour of you,
Lady Monica. I want to know if you will
be good enough to introduce me to your
brother ? "

Her face softened slightly as she raised
her eyes to his. It was a happy instinct
that had led Randolph to call Arthur by
the name she most loved to hear, " your
brother."

You would like to see him to-night ? "

" If it is not too late to intrude upon an
invalid, I should very much."

"I think he would be pleased," said
Monica. " It is so seldom he has any one
to talk to."

The visit to Arthur was a great success.
The lad took to Randolph at once, delighted
to find him so young, so pleasant,
and so companionable. Of course he
identified him at once as the hero of
]monica's adventure yesterday, and was
amused to hear his account of the meeting.
Monica did not stay long in the room ; but
her absence enabled Arthur to sing her
praises as he loved to do, and Randolph
listened with a satisfaction that surprised
himself. He was very kind to the boy,
sincerely sorry for his helpless state, and
more than ready to stand his friend if ever
there should be occasion. Bdfjre he left
the invalid that night, he felt that in him,
at least, he had secured a staunch and
trusty friend.

But during the days that followed he

could not hide from himself the fact that
Monica avoided him. Indeed, he sometimes
hardly saw her from morning till night, and
when they did meet at the luncheon or
dinner-table, she sat still and silent, scarcely
vouchsafing him a word or a look.

The first time Randolph found himself
alone with Monica was in this wise : he
had been riding about the immediate precincts
of the Castle with the earl one
morning, and his host was just expressing a
wish to extend their ride farther, in order
to see some of the best views of the neighbourhood
 hesitating somewhat on his own
account, as he had been forbidden to exert
himself by much exercise  when Monica
suddenly appeared, mounted on Guy, and
attended by her convoy of dogs, ready for
her daily gallop.

Lord Trevlyn's face softened at her
approach ; he loved his fair daughter with
a deep and tender love.

Monica, my dear, you have come in
good time. I want Mr. Trevlyn to see the
view of the Castle from the Black Cliff, and
the wonderful archway in the rocks farther
along the coast. These fine days must not
be wasted ; and I feel too tired to undertake
the ride myself. Will you act as my
substitute, and do the honours of
Trevlyn ? "

Monica glanced with a sort of mute
wistfulness into her father's pale face, and
assented quietly. The next moment she
and Randolph were riding side by side
over the close soft turf of the sweeping
downs.

The girl's face was set and grave, she

seemed lost in thought, and was only
roused by the eccentricities of Guy's
behaviour. The spirited little barb resented
company even more than his
mistress did, and showed his distaste by
every means in his power. He was so
troublesome that Randolph was half afraid
for Monica's safety, but she smiled at the
idea of danger.

I know Guy too well," she answered ;
it is nothing. He only hates company. He
is not used to it."

Had you not better have another horse
to-day ? "

Let myself be conquered ? No, thank
you. I always say that if that once were
to happen, it would never be safe ever forme
to ride Guy again."

The battle with the horse brought the

colour to lier face and the light to her
eyes. She looked more approachable
now as she cantered along beside him
(victorious at last, with her dogs bounding
about her) than she had ever done before.
He drew her out a little about her forfeited
favourites, and being a lover of
animals himself, and knowing their ways,
they found a good deal to say without
trenching in any way upon dangerous or
personal topics.

They visited the places indicated by
Lord Trevlyn, and Randolph admired the
beauties of the wild coast with a genuine
appreciation that satisfied Monica. Had
her companion been anybody but himself
an alien usurper come to spy out the
land that would some time be his own 
had his praises been less sounded in her

ears by Lady Diana, whose praise was in
Monica's eyes worse than any open condemnation
 she could almost have found it in
her heart to like him ; but as it was,
jealous distrust drove all kindlier feelings
away and even his handsome person and
pleasant address added to her sense of hostility
and disfavour.

Why was he to win all hearts  he dio
would so ruthlessly act the part of tyrant
and foe, as soon as his chance came ? Did
not even his friend. Lady Diana, continually
repeat that his succession to the
Trevlyn estate must inevitably mean an immediate
break-up of all existing forms and
usages? Was it not an understood thing
that he would exercise his power without
considering anything but his strict legal
right ? Lady Diana knew the world  that

world to which Randolph evidently belonged.
If this was her opinion, was it not
presumably the right one ? She sneered
openly at the suggestion her niece had once
thrown out of the possibility of his granting
to Arthur liberty to remain at Trevlyn.

You foolish child ! " she said sharply.
What is Arthur to him ? Men do not
make sentimental attachments to each
other. Arthur has no right here, and Mr.
Trevljn will show him so very plainly
when the time comes."

Was it any wonder that Monica's heart
rose in revolt against this handsome,
powerful stranger, who seemed in a
manner to hold her whole future in his
strong hands ? Was it strange she avoided
him ? Was it difficult to understand that
she distrusted him, and that only his

present kindness to Arthur and the lad's
affection for him enabled her to tolerate
with any kind of submission his presence
in the house ?

He tried now to make her talk of herself,
of Arthur, of her home and her life there,
but she became at once impenetrably silent.
Her face assumed its old look of statuesque
hauteur. The ride back to the Castle was
a very silent one. Randolph had enjoyed the
hour he had spent in the company of Lady
Monica, but he could not flatter himself
that much ground had been gained.

Conrad FITZGERALD.

WnETnER Monica would ever have thawed
towards him of her own free will Eandolpli
Trevlyn could not tell ; but during a sharp
attack of illness that prostrated Arthur at
this juncture, he was so much in the sick
boy's room, and so kind and patient and
helpful there, that the girl's coldness began
insensibly to melt ; and before the attack
had passed, he felt that if she did not share
her brother's liking for him, at least the old
antipathy, hostility, had somewhat abated.

They rode out together sometimes now,
exploring the country round the Castle, or
galloping over the wind-swept moors.

Monica was generally silent, always
reserved and unapproachable, and yet lie
felt that a certain vantage-ground bad been
gained, and he did not intend to allow it to
slip away. Unconsciously almost to himself,
the wish had grown to win the heart
of this wild, beautiful, lonely young
creature. Yet the charm of her solitary
carelessness was so great that he hardly
wished the spell to be too suddenly broken.
He could not picture Monica other than
she was  and yet he was growing to love
her with every fibre of his being. 

But fortune was not kind to Randolph,
as an incident that quickly followed showed
him.

He and Monica had ridden one day
across a wild sweep of trackless moorland,
when they came in sight of a picturesque

Elizabethan house, in a decidedly dilapidated
condition, whose red brick walls and
mullions windows took Randolph's fancy.
He asked who lived there.

No one now," answered Monica, with
a touch as of regret in her voice ; " no one
has lived there for years and years. Once
it was such a bright, happy home  we used
to play there so often, Arthur and I, when
we were children ; but the master died, the
children were taken away, and the house
was shut up. That was ten sears ago. I
have never been there since."

Who is the owner ? Does he never
reside here now ? "

He has never been back I believe he

is not rich, and could not keep up the

place. He must be about five-and-twenty

by this time. He is Sir Conrad Fitzgerald
VOL. I. 5

lie was such a nice boy when I used to
play with him."

Randolph started suddenly ; he controlled
himself in a moment, but Monica's
eyes were very quick, and she had seen the
instinctive recoil at the sound of the
name.

Do you know Conrad Fitzgerald ? " she
asked.

We have met," he answered, somewhat
grimly. " I do not claim the honour of his
acquaintance."

Monica glanced at him. She saw something
in the stern lines of Randolph's face
that told a tale of its own. She was not
afraid to state the conclusion she reached
by looking at him.

That means that 3'ou have quarrelled,"
she said.

I am not at liberty to explain what it
means," was the answer, spoken with a
certain stern gravity, not lost upon Monica.
She had never seen her companion look
like this before. The strength and resolution
of his face compelled a sort of involuntary
respect, yet she revolted against
hearing the friend and playmate of her
childhood tacitly condemned by this
stranger.

I do not like innuendoes, Mr. Trevlyn,"
she said. " If you have anything to say
against a man I think it is better spoken
out."

I have nothing at all to say upon the
subject of Sir Conrad Fitzgerald," he
answered, quietly.

Ungenerous ! unmanly ! " was Monica's

mental comment. " I cannot bear hearing

5*

a character hinted away. I loved Conrad
once, and he loved me. I do not believe
he has done anything for which he should
be condemned."

Randolph thought little of the few
chance words respecting Sir Conrad Fitzgerald
at the time when they were spoken ;
but he was destined to think a good deal
about that individual before many days
had passed.

Finding his way to Arthur's room
towards dusk one day, as he often did, he
was surprised to find quite a little group
around the glowing fire. Monica and the
dogs were objects sufficiently familiar to
him by this time, but who was that
graceful, fair-haired youth who sat beside
the girl, his face turned towards her and
away from Randolph, whilst he made

some gay, laughing rejoinder to her in a
very sweet, musical voice ?

Randolph recognised that laugh and that
voice with another start of dismay. His
face set itself in very stern lines, and he
would have withdrawn in silence had he
been able to do so unobserved ; but Arthur
saw him as he moved to go, and cried
gladly :

Oh, here is Randolph  that is right.
Our old friend and our new one must be
introduced. Sir Conrad Fitzgerald  Mr.
Randolph Trevlyn."

Randolph's eyes were fixed full upon the
face of the younger man as he made the
slightest possible inclination of the head.
His hand had unconsciously clenched itself
in a gesture that was a little significant.
Monica's eyes where fixed upon Conrad.

Was it possible that he quailed and flinched
a little beneath the steady gaze bent upon
him ? She did not think so, she was sure
it could not be ; no, he was only drawing
himself up to return that cold salutation
with one expressive of sovereign contempt.

Not a word was exchanged between the
two men. Randolph sat down beside
Arthur, and began to talk to him. Conrad
drew nearer to Monica, and entered into a
low-toned conversation with her. His
voice sounded tender and caressing, and
ever and anon such words as these reached
young Trevlyn's ears :

Do you remember, Monica ? "  " Ah,
those sweet days of childhood ! "  " You
have not forgotten ? "  " How often have I
thought of it all."

Evidently they were discussing the happy

past  the bright days that had been shared
by them before the cloud had fallen upon
Monica's life. Randolph could not keep
his eyes away from her face. It was lit
up with a new expression, half sad, and yet
strangely  infinitely sweet. Conrad's face
was very beautiful too, with its delicate,
almost effeminate colouring and serious,
melancholy blue eyes. He had been a lovely
child, and his beauty had not faded with
time. It had stood him in good stead in
many crises of his life, and was doing so
still. There is an irrational association inmost
minds between beauty and goodness.

But Randolph's face grew more and
more dark as he watched the pair opposite.
Old memories were stirring within him,
and at last he rose and quitted the room,
feeling that he could no longer stand the

presence of that man within it, could no
longer endure to see him bending over
Monica, and talking to her in that soft,
caressing way.

Conrad looked after him, a vindictive
light in his soft blue eyes. As the door
closed he uttered a low laugh.

What is it ? " asked Arthur.

Oh, nothing. I was only wondering
how long he would be able to brazen it
out ? "

"Brazen what out ? "

Why, sitting there with my eye upon
him. Couldn't you see how restless he
got?"

Restless ! " repeated Arthur, quickly.
Why should he be restless ? "

Conrad laughed again.

"Never mind, my boy. I bear him

no malice. The least said the soonest
mended,"

Monica was silent and a little troubled.
She liked to understand things plainly.
It seemed to her an unnatural thing for
two men to be at almost open feud, yet
unwilling to say a word as to the cause of
their mutual antagonism. She thought
that if they met beneath her father's
roof they should be willing to do so as
friends.

Her gravity did not escape Conrad's
notice.

Has he been maligning me already ? "
he asked, suddenly, with a subdued flash in
his eyes.

No," answered Monica, with a sort of
involuntary coldness. " He has no', said
a word. I do not think," she added

presently, with a gentle dignity of manner,
that I should listen very readily from
the lips of a stranger to stories detrimental
to an old companion and playmate, told
behind his back."

Conrad gave her a look of humble
gratitude. lie would have taken her hand
and kissed it had she been anybody else,
but somehow, demonstrations of such a
kind always seemed impossible where
Monica was concerned. Even to him she
was decidedly unapproachable.

It is good indeed of you to say so," he
said ; " but, Monica  I may call you
Monica still, may I not ? as I have always
thought of you all these long years  you
might hear stories to my detriment that
would not be untrue. There have been
faults and follies and sins in my past life

that I would gladly blot out if I could. I
have been wild and reckless often. I lost
my parents very young, as you know, and
it is hard for a boy without home and
home influences to grow up as he should
do'' Conrad paused, and then added,
with a good deal of feeling : " Monica,
can a man do more than repent the past ?
Can nothing ever wipe away the stain, and
give him back his innocence again ?
Must he always bear about the shadow of
sorrow and shame ? "

Monica's face was grave and thoughtful.
She shook her head as she
replied :

It is no use coming to me with hard
questions, Conrad ; I know so little, so very
little of the world you live in. Yet it
seems to me that it would be hard indeed

if repentance did not bring forgiveness in
its wake."

' Who with repentance is not satisfied,
Is not of heaven nor of earth.' "

quoted Arthur, lazily. " What is it you
have done ? Can't you tell us all the
story, and let us judge for ourselves  old
friends and playmates as we are ? "

I should like to," answered Conrad,
gently. " Some day I will ; but do not
let us spoil this first meeting with bitter
memories. Let it be enough for me to
have come home, and have found my
friends unchanged towards me. May I
venture still to call you my friends ? "

To be sure," cried Arthur, readily ;
but Conrad's eyes were fixed on Monica's
face ; and she saw it, and looked back

at liii with her steady, inscrutable
gaze.

I do not think I change easily," she
said, with her gentle dignity of manner.
You were my friend and playmate in our
happy childhood. I should like to think
of you always as a friend."

Of course," put in Arthur, gaily ; " of
course we are all friends, and you must
make friends with Randolph, too. He is
such a good fellow."

*' I have no objection at all," answered
Conrad, with a short laugh. " The
difficulty, I imagine, will be on his side.
Some men never forget or forgive any one
who succeeds in finding them out."

Oh, we will manage Randolph, never
fear. You are ready, then, to make it up
if he is ? "

Most certainly'* was the ready answer.

He is the nobler man of the two," said
Monica to herself  at least her reason and
judgment said so ; her instinct, oddly
enough, spoke in exactly opposite words ;
but surely it was right to listen first to the
voice of reason.

I say, Randolph," said Arthur, half an
hour later, when the young baronet had
taken his departure and the other guest
had returned to the invalid's room.
'' Conrad is quite willing to make it up
with you."

Randolph's smile was a little peculiar.

Sir Conrad Fitzgerald is very kind."

Well, you know, it's always best to
make friends, isn't it ? Deadly feuds
are a nuisance in these days, don't you
think so ? "

Eandolpli smiled again ; but his manner
was certainly a little badlin.

Come now, Eandolpli," persisted Arthur,
with boyish insistence, " you won't hang
back now that he is ready for the reconciliation.
He is the injured party, is he
not?"

There was rather a strange light in Randolph's
dark blue eyes. His manner was
exceedingly quiet, yet he looked as if he
could be a little dangerous.

Possibly," was the rather inconclusive
answer.

You know he has come to stay some
little time in the neighbourhood, and he
will often be here. It will be so awkward
if you are at daggers drawn all the
time."

My dear boy, you need not put yourself

about. I will take care that there
shall be no annoyance to anybody."

You will make friends, then ? "

I will meet Sir Conrad Fitzgerald,
whenever he is your father's guest, with
the courtesy due from one man to another,
when circumstances brings them together
beneath the roof of the same hospitable
host. But to take his hand in reconciliation
or friendship is a thing that I cannot
and Avill not do. Do you understand
now ?"

Arthur looked at him intently, as for
once Monica was doing also.

"Randolph," he said, a little inconsequently,
" do you know I think I could
almost be afraid of you sometimes. I
never saw you look before as you looked
just then."

The stern lines on Randolph's face
relaxed a little but he still looked grave
and pre-occupied, sitting with his elbow on
his knee, leaning forward, and pulling his
moustache with an abstracted air.

You are rather unforgiving too, I
think," pursued the boy. conrad admitted
he had done wrong, but he is very sorry
for the past ; and I think it is hard when
old offences, repented of, are not consigned
to oblivion."

Randolph was silent.

Don' t you agree ? "

Still only impenetrable silence.

Come, Randolph, don't be so mysterious
and so revengeful. Let us have the
whole story, and judge for ourselves."

Excuse me, Arthur ; but the life of Sir

Conrad Fitzgerald is not one that I choose
VOL. I. 6

to discuss His affairs are no concern of
mine, nor, if you will pardon my saying
so, any concern of yours, either. You
are at liberty to renew past friendship with
him if it pleases you to do so ; but it is
useless to ask me to do the same."

And with that Randolph rose, and
quitted the room without another word.

There is something odd about it all,"
said Arthur, who was inclined to indulge
a good deal of curiosity about other
people's affairs : " but I think Conrad
behaves the better of the two."

Monica quietly assented ; but perhaps
she might have changed her opinion had
she heard the muttered threats breathed by
Conrad as he rode across the darkening
moor :

So, Randolph Trevlyn, our paths have

crossed once more ! I have vowed vengeance
upon you to your very face, and
perhaps my day has come at last. I see
through you. I see the game you are
playing. I will baulk you, if I can : butin
any case I will have my revenge

6*

SUNDAY AT Trevelyan.

It was Sunday, and Monica, with Randolph
beside her, was making her way by the path
along the cUfF towards the little old church
perched high upon the crags, between
Trevlyn and St. Maws, but nearer to the
town than the Castle. Randolph had found
out the ways of the house by this time.
He knew now that Monica played the
organ in the little church, that she started
early and walked across the downs, instead
of going in the carriage with her father
and aunt. He knew that she generally
lunched with the Tendrils between services,

and that one of lier cousins walked back
with her to the Castle, and spent an hour
with Arthur afterwards.

He had found out all this during his first
two Sundays, and upon the third he had
ventured to ask permission to be her
escort.

Randolph was quite aware that he had
lost ground with Monica of late ; that the
barrier, partially broken down during the
week of anxiety about Arthur, had risen up
again as impenetrably as ever. How far
Sir Conrad Fitzgerald's appearance upon
the scene was to blame for this he could
not tell, nor could Monica herself have
explained ; but there was no mistaking the
added coldness on her part, and the
sense of restraint experienced in his
presence.

And yet he was conscious that his love
for her increased every day, and that no
coldness on her part checked or dwarfed
its growth. He sometimes wondered at
himself for the depth and intensity of his
passion, for he was a man who had passed
almost unscathed heretofore from the
shafts of the blind god, nor was he by
nature impulsive or susceptible. But then
Monica was like no woman he had ever
met before, and from the very first she had
exercised a curious fascination over him.
Also their relative positions were peculiar ;
she the daughter and he the heir of the old
earl, whose life was evidently so very frail,
randolph had a shrewd idea that his
kinsman had little to leave apart from the
entail, and in the event of his death what
would become of the fair girl his daughter ?

Would it be her fate to be placed in the
keeping of that worldly spinster, the Lady
Diana? Randolph's whole soul revolted
from such an idea.

So, altogether, his interest in Monica
was hardly more than natural, and his sense
of protecting championship not entirely
uncalled for. One thing he had resolutely
determined upon  that she should never
suffer directly or indirectly on his account.
He had made no definite plans as regarded
the future, but on that point his mind was
made up.

To-day, for the first time, he ventured to
allude to a subject hitherto never touched
upon between them.

You have a very beautiful home. Lady
Monica," he said. " It is no wonder that
you love it."

Her glance met his for a moment, and
then her eyes dropped again.

"Is it true that you have never left
Trevlyn all your life ? "

Except for a few days with Arthur,

never."

You have never seen London ? "

No, never," very emphatically.

Nor wish to do so ? "

No."

He mused a little. Somehow it was more
difficult than he had believed to convey
to her the information he had desired
to hint at. He entered upon another
topic.

"Have you ever been advised, Lady
Monica, to try what the German baths
could do for Arthur? Very wonderful
cures sometimes are accomplished there."

She raised lier head suddenly, with
something of a flash in her eyes.

"Tom Pendrill has been talking to
you ! "

Indeed, no."

That is what he wants  what he is
always driving at. He does not care how
my poor boy suffers, if only he has the
pleasure of experimenting upon him for the
benefit of science. I will not have it. It
would kill him, it would kill me. You do
not know how he suffers in beings moved :
a journey like that would be murder.
He can live nowhere but at Trevlyn 
Trevlyn or the neighbourhood, at least.
Promise me never to suggest such a thing,
never to take sides against me in it. Mr.
Trevlyn, I appeal to your honour and your
humanity. Promise me never to league

with Tom Pendrill to send Arthur away to
die ! "

He lead never seen lier so vehement or
excited. He was astonished at the storm
he had aroused.

"Indeed, Lady Monica, you may trust
me," he said. " I have not the least wish
to distress you, or . to urge anything in
opposition to your wishes. The idea
merely occurred to me, because I happen to
have heard of many wonderful cures. But
I will never allude to the subject again if
it distresses you. It is certainly not forme
to dictate to you as to the welfare of
your brother."

The flush of excitement had faded from
Monica's face. She turned it towards him
with something of apology and appeal

Forgive me if I spoke too hastily," she

said, with a little quiver in her voice
which he thought infinitely pathetic, " but
I have so few to love, and the thought of
losing them is so very sad. And then
Tom has so often frightened me about
Arthur and taking him away ; and I know
that I understand him better than anybody
else, though I am not a doctor, nor a man
of science."

lie looked at her with grave sympathy.

"I think that is highly possible, Lady
Monica. You may trust me to say or do
nothing that could give you anxiety or
pain."

Thank you," answered Monica with
unusual gentleness. " I do trust you."

His heart thrilled with gladness at those
simple words. They had almost reached
the church now, and Monica paused at

the edge of the cliff, turning her gaze
seawards, a strange, sad wistfulness upon
her face.

Her companion watched her in silence.

There will be a storm before long," she
said at last.

The air was curiously clear and still, and
the sea the same ; yet there was a sullen
booming sound far below that sounded
threatening and rather awful.

You are weather-wise, Lady Monica ? '*
he asked with a smile.

I ought to be," she answered, turning
away at length with a long drawn breath.
'' I know our sea so well, so very well."

And then she walked on and entered the
church by her own little door, leaving
Randolph musing alone without.

He, too, lunched with the Tendrils that

day. He had been over several times to
see them since his arrival at Trevlyn, and
had made his way in that house as
successfully as he had done at the Castle.

Tom walked with him to church for the
afternoon service. He spoke of Monica
with great frankness.

I have always likened her to a sort
of Undine," he remarked, " though not in
the generally accepted sense. There are
latent capacities within her that might
make her a very remarkable woman ; but
half her nature is sleeping still. According
to the tradition, love must awake the
slumbering soul. I often think it is that
which wanted to transform and humanise
my Lady Monica."

Randolph was silent. The smallest
suspicion of criticism of Monica jarred

upon him. Tom saw this, and smiled to
himself.

They reached the little cliff church long
before the rustic congregation had begun
to assemble. The sound of the organ was
audible from within.

Tom laid his lingers on his lip-i and
made a sign to his companion to follow
him. They softly mounted a little quaint
stairway towards the organ loft, and
reached a spot where, hidden themselves
by the dark shadows, they could watch
the player as she sat before the instrument.

Monica had taken off her heavily-plumed
hat, and the golden sunshine glowed about
her fair head in a sort of mist of liquid
brightness. Her face wore a dreamy,
softened look, pathetically sad and sweet.
Her lustrous dark eyes were fill of feelings.

It seemed as if she were breathing out her
soul in the sweet, low strains of music that
sounded in the air.

Randolph gazed for one long minute,
and then silently withdrew ; it seemed a
a kind of sacrilege to take her unawares
like that, when she was unconscious of
their presence.

Saint Cecilia ! " he murmured sofas
he descended the stairs once again.
Monica, my Monica ! will you ever be
mine in reality ? Will you ever learn to
love me ? ''

Monica's face still wore its softened
dreamy look as she joined Randolph at the
close of the service. Music exercised a
strange power over her, raising her fora
time above the level of the region
in which she moved at other times. She

looked pale and a little tired, as if the
strain of the week of anxiety about Arthur
had not yet quite passed off. As they
reached the top of the down and turned
the angle of the cliff, the wind, which had
been gradually rising all day and now blew
half a gale, struck them with all its force,
and Monica staggered a little beneath its
sudden fury.

Take my arm. Lady Monica," said
Randolph. " This is too much for you."

Thank you," she answered, gently ;
and a sudden thrill ran through Randolph's
frame as he felt the clinging
pressure of her hand upon his arm, and
was conscious that she was grateful for the
strong support against the fury of the
elements.

"It will be a dreadful night at sea,"

said the girl presently when a lull in the

wind made speech more easy. " Look at the

waves now ? Are they not magnificent ? "

The sea was looking very wild and

grand ; Randolph halted a moment beneath

the shelter of a projecting crag, and gazed

at the tempest-tossed ocean beneath.

You like a storm at sea, Lady

Monica ? "

She looked at him with a sort of horror

in her eyes.

Like a storm ! "

You were admiring? the (grandeur of the

sea just now."

*' Ah, you do not understand I " she said,

and gazed out before her, a far-away lookin

her eyes. Presently she spoke again,

looking at him for a moment with a world

of sadness in her eyes, and then away
V3L. I. 7

over the tossing sea. ' It is all very grand,
very beautiful, very wonderful ; but oli, so
cruel, so pitiless in its strength and beauty !
Think of the sailors, the fishermen out on
the sea on a night like this, and the wives
and mothers and little children, waiting at
home for those who, perhaps, will never
come back assail. You do not understand.
You belong to another world. You are
not one of us. I have been down amongst
them on wild, stormy nights. I have
paced the beach with weeping women,
watching, waiting for the boats that never
came back, or came only to be dashed in
pieces against the cruel rocks before our
very eyes " She paused a moment, and he
felt her shudder in every limb ; but her
voice was still low and quiet, just vibrating
with the depth of her feelings, but very

calm and even. "I have seen boats go
down within sight of home, within sound
of our voices, almost within reach of our
outstretched hands  almost, but not quite ;
and I have seen brave men, men I have
known from childhood, swept away to
their death, whilst we  their wives, their
mothers, and I  have stood at the water's
edge, powerless to succour them. Ah, you
do not, you cannot understand ! T have
seen all that, and more  and you ask me
if I like a storm at sea ! "

She stood very still for a few seconds,
and then took his arm again.

Let us go home," she said, drooping a
little as the wind met them once more.
I am so tired."

He sheltered her all he could against

the fury of the gale, and presently they

7*

were able to seek the shelter of the pine
wood as they neared the Castle. Monica's
face was very pale, and he looked at her
with a gentle concern that somehow in nowise
offended her.

You are very tired," he said, compassionately.
"The walk has been too
much for you "

"Not the walk exactly," answered
Monica, with a little falter in her voice ; " it
was the music and the storm together, I
think. I am glad we sung the hymn for
those at sea to-night."

He looked down at her earnestly.

And yet the sea is your best friend.
Lady Monica. You have told me so yourself."
She looked at him with strange,
wistful intensity.

Yes, it is, it is," she answered ; " my

best and earliest friend ; and yet  and
yet "

She paused, falling into a deep reverie ;
he roused her by a question :

Yet what, Lady Monica ? "

Again that quick, strange glance.

*' Do you believe in presentiments ? "

I am not sure that I do."

Ah ! then you cannot be a true Trevlyn.
We Trevlyns have a strange forecasting
power. Coming events cast their shadow
over us, and we feel it  we feel it ! "

He had never seen her in this mood
before. He was intensely interested.

"And you have a presentiment, Lady
Monica ? "

She bent her head, but did not speak.

And having said so much, will you
not say more, and tell me what it is ? "

She stopped still, looked earnestly at
him for a moment, and then passed her
hand wearily across her face.

Sometimes I think," she said, " that it
will be the great sea, my childhood's friend,
that will bring to me the greatest sorrow
of my life ; for is it not the emblem of
separation ? Please take me in now. I
think a storm is very sad and terrible."

He looked into her pale, sweet face, and
perhaps there was something in his glance
that touched her, for as they stood in the
hall at last she looked up with a shadowy
smile, and said :

Thank you very much. You have been
very kind to me."

That smile and those few simple words
were like a ray of sunlight in his path.

IN PERIL.

Perhaps there was some truth in what
Monica had said about her ability to
presage coming trouble. At least she
was haunted just now by a strange shadow
of approaching change that future events
justified only too well.

She often caught her father's glance
resting upon her with a strange, searching
wistfulness, with something almost of
pleading and appeal in his face. She had
a suspicion that Arthur sometimes looked
at her almost in the same way, as if
he too would ask some favour of her,
could he but brins: his mind to do so.

She felt that she was watched by all the
household, that something was expected
of her, and was awaited with a sort
of subdued expectancy ; but the nature
of this service she had not fathomed, and
greatly shrank from attempting to do so.
She told herself many times that she would
do anything for those she loved, that no
sacrifice would be too great which should
add to or secure their happiness ; but she
did not fully understand what was expected
of her ; only some instinct told her that it
was in some way connected with Randolph
Trevlyn.

Sir Conrad Fitzgerald came from time
to time to the Castle. He was cordially
received by the Earl and Lady Diana,
who had respected and liked his parents,
and remembered him well as a fair-haired

boy, the childish playfellow and friend of
Monica and Arthur. Old feelings of intimacy
sprang up anew after the lapse of
time. It seemed as if he had hardly been
more than a year or two away. It was
difficult to realise that the young man was
practically an entire stranger, of whose
history they were absolutely ignorant.

Monica felt the change most by a certain
instinctive and involuntary shrinking from
Conrad that she could not in the least
explain or justify. She wished to like
him ; she told herself that she did like
him, and yet she was aware that she never
felt at ease in his presence, and that he
inspired her with a certain indescribable
sense of repulsion, which, oddly enough,
was shared by her four-footed friends, the
dogs.

Monica had a theory of her own that
dogs brought up much in human society
became excellent judges of character, but if
so, she ought certainly to modify some of
her own opinions, for the dogs all adored
Randolph, and welcomed him effusively
whenever he appeared ; but they shrank
back sullenly when Conrad attempted to
make advances, and no effort on his part
conquered their instinctive aversion.

Conrad himself observed this, and it
annoyed him. He greatly resented Randolph's
protracted stay at the Castle, as he
detested above all things the necessity of
encountering him.

How long is that fellow going to palm
himself upon your father's hospitality ? " he
asked Monica one day, with some appearance
of anger. He had encountered

Eandolpli and the Earl in the park as he
came up, and he was aware that the cold
formality of the greeting which passed
between them had not been lost upon the
keen observation of the latter. " I call it
detestable taste hanging on here as he does.
When is he leaving ? "

I do not know. Father enjoys his
company, and so does Arthur. I have
not heard anything about his going yet."

"Perhaps you enjoy his company too? "
suggested Conrad, with a touch of insolence
in his manner.

A faint flush rose in Monica's pale face.
Her look expressed a good deal of cool scorn.

Perhaps I do," she answered.

Conrad saw at once that he had made
a blunder. Pace and voice alike changed,
and he said in his gentle, deprecating way :

Forgive me, Monica. I had no right
to speak as I did. It was rude and
unjustifiable. Only if ou knew as much
as I do about that fellow, you would not
wonder that I hate to see him hanging
round you as he is doing now, waiting, as
it were, to step into the place that is his
by legal, but by no moral right. It would
be hard to see anyone acting such a part.
It is ten times harder when you know
your man."

Monica looked straight at Conrad.

"What do you know against Mr.
Trevlyn ? My father is acquainted withall
his past history, and can learn nothing
to his discredit. What story have you
got hold of? I would rather hear facts
than hints."
Conrad laughed uneasily.

I know that he is a cad, and a sneak,
and a spy ; but I have no wish to upset
your father's confidence in him. We were
at Oxford tooetlier, and of course it was
not pleasant to me to hear his boasting of
his future lordship at Trevlyn. That was
the first thing that made me dislike him.
Later on I had fresh cause."

Had Monica been more conversant with
the family history, she would have known
that this boasting could never have taken
place, as Randolph had been far enough
from the peerage at that time. As it was,
she looked grave and a little severe as
she asked :

Did he do that ? " and listened with
instinctive repugnance to the details
fabricated by the inventive genius of
Conrad.

He next cleverly alluded again to his past
follies, and appealed to Monica's generosity
not to change towards him because he had
sinned.

"It is so hard to feel cast off by old
friends," he said, with a very expressive
look at the girl. " I know what it is to see
myself cold shouldered by those to whom
I have learned to look up with reverence
and affection. I have suffered very much
from misrepresentation and hardness 
suffered beyond what I deserve. I did
fall once  I was sorely tempted, and I did
commit one act of ingratitude and deceit
that I have most bitterly repented of, I
was very young and sorely tempted, and I
did something which might have placed
me in the felon's dock, and would have
done so had somebody not far away had his

will. But I was forgiven by the man I
had injured, and I have tried my utmost
since to make atonement for the past.
The hardest part of all has been to see
myself scorned and contemned by those
whose good-will I have most wished to
win. Sometimes I have known sorrow that
has been akin to despair. I have been
met with coldness and disdain when most I
needed help and sympathy. Monica, you
will not help to push me back into the
abyss ? You will not help to make me
think that repentance is in vain ? "

She looked at him very seriously, her
eyes full of a sort of thoughtful surprise.

I, Conrad. What have I to do with it
or with you?"

This much," he answered, taking her
hand and looking straight into her eyes :

"this much, Monica  that nothing so
helps a man who has fallen once as the
friendship of a noble woman like yourself ;
nothing hurts him more than her ill-will or
distrust. Give me your friendship, and I
will make myself worthy of it ; turn your
back coldly upon me, and I shall feel
doomed to despair."

We have been friends all our lives,
Conrad," said Monica, with gentle seriousness.
" You know that if I could help
you in the way you mean I should like todo
so."

You will not change  you will not turn
your back upon me, whatever he may say
of me ? "

She looked at him steadily, and answered,
*'No."

'* You promise, Monica ? "

There is no need for that, Conrad.
When I say a thing I mean it. We are
friends, and I do not change without
sufficient reason."

He saw that he had said enough ; he
raised her hand to his lips and kissed it
once with a humility and reverence that
could not offend her, Monica wandered
down by the lonely cliff path to the shore,
revolving many thoughts in her mind,,
feeling strangely absorbed and abstracted.

The wind blew fresh and strong off the
sea. The tide rolled in fast, salt, and
strong. Monica felt that she wanted to be
alone to-day  alone with the great wild
ocean that she loved so well, even
whilst she feared it too in its fiercer
moods. She therefore made her way with
the agility and sure-footed steadiness of

VOL. I. 8

long practice over a number of great
boulders, and along a jutting ledge of rock
that stretched a considerable distance out
to sea  a sunken reef that had brought to
destruction many a hapless fisherman's
craft, and more than one stately vessel.

At hiofh tide it was covered, but it would
not be high water for some hours yet, and
Monica, in her restless state of mental
tension, had forgotten that the high spring
tides were lashing the sea to fury just now
upon this iron-bound coast, rendered more
swift and strong and high by the steady
way in which the wind set towards the
land.

Standing on the great flat rock at the
end of the sunken reef, a rock that was
never covered even at the highest tides,
Monica was soon lost in so profound a

reverie that time flew by unheeded ; and
only when the giant waves began to throw
their spray about her feet as they dashed
up against the rock, did she suddenly rouse
up to the consciousness that for once in her
life she had forgotten herself, and forgotten
the uncertain temper of her tyrant playfellow,
and had allowed her retreat to be
cut off.

She looked round her quietly and
steadily, not frightened, but fully conscious
of her danger. The reef was already
covered ; it would be impossible to retrace
her footsteps with the waves dashing wildly
over the sunken rocks. Monica was a
bold and practised swimmer, but to sworn
ashore in a heavy sea such as was now
running was obviously out of the question.
To stand upon that lonely rock until the

tide fell again was a feat of strength and
endurance almost equally impossible. Her
best chance lay in being seen from the
shore and rescued. Someone might pass
that way, or even come in search of her.
Only the daylight was already failing, and
would soon be gone.

Monica looked round her, awed, yet
calm, understanding, without realising, the
deadly peril in which she stood. There
was always a boat  her little boat  lying
at anchor in the bay, ready for her use at
au) moment. Her eyes turned towards it
instinctively, and as they did so she became
aware of something bobbing up and down
in the water the head of a swimmer, as
she saw the next moment, swimming out
towards her boat.

Someone must have seen her, then, and

as all the fishing smacks were out, and
there was no way of reaching the anchored
boat, save by swimming, had elected to
run some personal risk rather than waste
precious time in seeking aid farther afield.

A glow of gratitude towards her
courageous rescuer filled Monica's heart,
and this did not diminish as she saw the
difficulty he had first in reaching the boat,
then in casting it loose, and last, but not
least, in guiding and pushing it towards an
uncovered rock and in getting in. But
this difficult and perilous office was accomplished
in safety at last, and the boat was
quickly rowed over the heaving, angry
waves to the spot where Monica stood
alone, amid the tossing waste of
water.

Nearer and nearer came the tiny craft,

and Monica experienced an odd sensation
of mingled surprise and dismay as she
recognised in her preserver none other than
Randolph Trevln.

But it was not a time in which speeches
could be made or thanks spoken. To bring
the boat up to the rock in the midst of the
rolling breakers was a task of no little
difficulty and danger, and had not Randolph
been-experienced from boyhood in matters
pertaining to the sea, he could not possibly
have accomplished the feat unaided and
alone. There was no bungling on Monica's
part, either. With steady nerve and quiet
courage she awaited the moment for the
downward spring. It was made at exactly
the right second ; the boat swayed, but
righted itself immediately. Randolph had
the head round in a moment away from the

dangerous rock. In ten minutes they had
reached the shore and had landed upon the
beach.

Not a word had been spoken all that
time. Monica had given Randolph one
expressive glance as she took her seat in
the boat, and that is all that had so far
passed between them.

When, however, he gave her his hand
to help her to disembark, and they. stood
together on the shingle, she said, very
seriously and gently :

It was very kind of you to come out
to me, Mr. Trevlyn. I think I should have
been drowned but for you," and she turned
her eyes seaward with a gaze that was
utterly inscrutable.

He looked at her a moment intently, and
then stooped and picked up his overcoat.

which lay beside his pilot jacket and boots,
upon the stones.

Will you oblige me by putting this on
in place of your own wet jacket ? You
are drenched with spray."

She woke up from her reverie then, and
looked up quickly, doing as he asked
without a word ; but when she had donned
the warm protecting garment, she said :

"You are drenched to the skin yourself."


' Yes, so a garment more or less is of no
consequence. Now walk on, please ; do
not wait for me ; I will be after you in
two minutes."

Again she did his bidding in the same
dreamy way, and walked on towards the
ascent by the steep cliff path. He was not
long in following her, and they walked in

almost unbroken silence to the Castle.
When they reached the portal, Monica
paused, and raised her eyes once more to
his face.

You have saved my life to-day," she
said. " I am  I think I am  very grateful
to you."

Arthur's excitement and delight when he
heard of the adventure were very great.

So he saved you, Monica  at the risk
of his life ? Ah, that just proves it ! "

'' Proves what ? "

Why, that he is in love with you, of
course, just as he ought to be, and will
marry you some day, make us all happy ;
and keep us all at Trevlyn. What could
be more delightful and appropriate ? "

A wave of colour swept over Monica's
face.

You are a foolish boys, Arthur."
I am not a foolish boy ! " he answered,
exultingly ; " I know what I am saying.
Randolph does love you ; I can see it more
plainly every day. He loves you with all
his heart, and some day soon he will ask
you to be his wife. Of course you will say
yes  you must like him, I am sure, as much
as every one else does ; and then everything
will come right, and we shall all be
perfectly happy. Things always do come
right in the end, if wee only will but
believe it."

Monica sat very still, a strange, dreamlike
feeling stealing over her. Arthur's
playful words shed a sudden flood of light
upon much that had been dark before,
and for a moment she was blinded and
dazzled.

Eandolpli Trevlyn loved her ! Yes, she
could well believe it, little as she knew of
love, thinking of the glance bent upon her
not loner asfo, which had thrilled her then,
she knew not why.

Monica trembled, yet she was dimly
conscious of a strange under-current of
startled joy beneath the troubled waters of
doubt, despondency, and perplexity. She
could not understand herself, nor read her
heart aright, yet it seemed as if through
the lifting of the clouds, she obtained a
rapid passing glimpse of a land of golden
sunshine beyond, whither her face and
footsteps alike were turned  as a traveller
amid the mountain mists sees before him
now and again the bright sunny smiling
valley beneath which he will shortly reach.

The land of promise was spreading itself

out already before Monica's eyes, and a
dim perception in her heart was telling
her that this was so. Yet the sandy
desert path still lay before her for awhile,
for like many others, her eyes were
partially blinded, and she turned from the
direct way, and wandered still for awhile
in the arid waste. She lacked the faith to
grasp the promise ; but it was shining
before her all the while, and in her heart
of hearts she felt it, though she could not
yet grasp the truth.

'<*!2iCfXC' >-

Lord Trevlyn was not unobservant of the
feelings with which randolph regarded
Monica. Quiet and self-contained as the
young man was, his admiration and the
pleasure he took in her society was still
sufficiently obvious, and his own opinions
were triumphantly endorsed by those of
Lady Diana.

He is over head and ears in love with
her ! " exclaimed that sharp-eyed dame to
her brother, about a couple of days after
Monica's rescue by Randolph, of which,
however, she luckily knew nothing.
Indeed, the story of that adventure had

only been told by the girl to Arthur and
her father, and both had had the tact and
discrimination not to broach the subject to
Lady Diana.

He is over head and ears in love with
her, but she gives him not the smallest
encouragement, the haughty minx ! and he
is modest, and keeps his feelings to himself.
It seems to me that the time has come
when you ought to speak out yourself,
Trevlyn ; we cannot expect to keep a gay
young man like Randolph for ever in these
solitudes. Speak to him yourself, and see
if you cannot manage to bring about some
proper understanding."

Lord Trevlyn had, in fact, some such idea
in his own mind. He and his vounsr
kinsman were by this time upon easy and
intimate terms. They felt a mutual liking

and respect, and had at times very nearly
approached the subject so near to the
hearts of both. That very night as they sat
together in the earl's study, after the rest
of the household had retired, Lord Trevlyn
spoke to his guest with frankness and unreserve
of the thoughts that had for long
been stirring in his mind.

o

He spoke to his kinsman and heir of
his anxieties as to the future of his dearly-loved
and only child, who would at his
death be only very inadequately provided
for. He did not attempt to conceal the
hope he had cherished in asking Randolph
to be his finest, that some arrangement
micht be made which should conduce
to her future happiness ; and just as the
3'oung man's heart began to beat high
with the tumult of conflicting feelings

within him, the old earl looked him steadily
in the face, and concluded with a certain
stately dignity that was exceedingly impressive.


Randolph Trevlyn, I had heard much
in your favour before I saw you, so much,
indeed, that I ventured to entertain hopes
that may sound scheming and cold-blooded
when put into words, yet which do not, I
trust, proceed from motives altogether unworthy.
My daughter is very dear to me.
To see her happily settled in life, under
the protecting care of one who will truly
love and cherish her, has been the deepest
wish of my life. In our secluded existence
here there has been small chance of
realising this wish. I will not deny that in
asking you to be our guest it was with
hopes I need not farther specify. Some of

these hopes have been amply realised. I

will not seem to flatter, yet let me say that

in you I have found every quality I most

hoped to see in the man who is to be my

successor here. You are a true Trevlyn,

and I am deeply thankful it is so ; and

besides this, I have lately entertained hopes

that another wish of mine is slowly fulfilling

itself. I have sometimes thought  let me

say it plainly  that you have learned to

love my daughter."

Lord Trevlyn," said Randolph, with a

calmness of manner that betokened deep

feeling held resolutely under control, " I

do love your daughter. I think I have done

so ever since our first meeting. Every day

that passes only serves to deepen my love.

If I have your consent to try and win her

hand, I shall count myself a happy man
VOL. I. 9

indeed, although I fear her heart is not one
to be easily moved or won."

Lord Trevlyn's face expressed a keen
satisfaction and gladness. He held out
his hand to his young kinsman, and said
quietly :

"You have made a happy man of me,
Randolph Trevlyn. In your hands I can
place the future of my child with perfect
confidence. You love her, and you will
care for her, and make her life happy."

Randolph wrung the proffered hand.

Indeed you may trust me to do all in
my power. I love her with my whole heart.
I would lay down my life to serve her."

As you have demonstrated already,"
said the old earl, with a grave smile. " I
have not thanked you for saving my child's
life. I hope in the future she will repay

the debt by making sour life happy, as you,
I am convinced, will make hers."

Randolph's bronzed cheek flushed a little
at these words.

Lord Trevlyn," he said, " to gain your
goodwill and assent in this matter is a
source of great satisfaction to me ; but I
cannot blind my eyes to the fear that Lady
Monica herself, with whom the decision
must rest, has not so far given me any
encouragement to hope that she regards meas
anything beyond a mere acquaintance
and chance guest. I love her too well, I
think, not to be well aware of her feelings
towards me, and I cannot flatter myself fora
moment by the belief that these are
anything warmer than a sort of gentle
liking, little removed from indifference."

The earl's face was full of thought.

Monica's nature is peculiar," he said ;
hier feelings lie very deep, and are difficult
to read ; no one can really know what they
may be."

I admit that ; yet I confess I have
little hope  at least in the present."

Whilst I," said Lord Trevlyn, quietly,
have little fear."

An eager look crossed Randolph's face.

You think "

I cannot easily explain what I think,
but I believe there will be less difficulty
with Monica than you anticipate. She
does not yet know her own heart  that I
admit. She may be startled at first, but
that is not necessarily against us. Will
you let me break this matter to her ?
Will you let me act as your ambassador?
I understand Monica as you can hardly do.

Will 3'ou let me see if I cannot plead your
cause as eloquently as you can do it for
yourself ? Trustee it will be better so.
My daughter andI understand one another
well."

Randolph ]was silent a moment, then he
said, very gravely and seriously :

If you think that it will be best so, I
gladly place myself in your hands. I
confess I should find it difficult to approach
the subject myself  at* any rate at present.
But "  he paused a moment, and looked
the other full in the face  " pardon me for
saying as much  you do not propose
putting any pressure upon your daughter ?
Believe me, I would rather never see her
face again than feel that she accepted meas
a husband under any kind of compulsion
or restraint."

Lord Trevlyn smiled a smile of approval.

"You need not fear," he answered,
quietly. "Monica's nature is not one to
submit tamely to any kind of coercion, nor
am I the man to attempt to constrain her
feelings upon a matter so important as this."

And if," pursued Randolph, with quiet
resolution, "Lady Monica declines the
proposal made to her on my behalf, I shall
request you to join with me in breaking
the entail ; for I can never consent to bethe
means of taking from her that which
by every moral right is hers. I could not
for a moment tolerate the idea of wresting
from her the right to style herself, as she
has always been styled, the Lady of
Trevlyn. This is her rightful home, and I
shall appeal to you, if my suit fails, to
assist me in instilling her there for life."

The old earl looked much moved.

This is very noble of }'ou  most noble
and generous : but we will not talk of it
yet. I am not sure that I could bring
myself to help in separating the old title
from the old estate. You are very
generous to think of making the sacrifice ;
whether I ought to permit you to do so is
another thing. At least let us wait and see
what our first negotiation brings forth.

Monica ought to know " he paused,

smiled, and held out his hand. " Goodnight.
I will speak to my daughter upon
the first opportunity. You shall have your

answer tomorrow."

The next day Randolph spent at St.
Maws with Tom Pendrill. He felt that
whilst his fate hung in the balance it
would be impossible to remain at Trevlyn.

He rode across to his friend's house quite
early in the day, and twilight had fallen
before he turned to the sombre precincts
of the Castle.

He made his way straight to the earl's
study ; the old man rose quickly upon his
entrance, and held out his hand. His face
beamed with an inward happiness and
satisfaction.

I wish you joy, Randolph," he said,
wringing the young man's hand. " We
may congratulate each other, I think.
Monica is yours  take her, with her
father's blessing. It seems to me as if I
had nothing left to wish for now, save to
see you made my son, for such indeed you
are to me now."

Randolph stood very still. He could
hardly believe his own ears. He had not

fcr a moment expected any definite answer,
save a definite refusal.

Lady Monica consents to be my wife ? "
he questioned. " Are you sure that this is
so?"

I am quite sure. I had it from her
own lips."

Randolph's breath came rather fast.

Does she love me ? "

Presumably she does. Monica would
never give her hand for the sake of rank
or wealth."

No, no," he answered quickly, and
took one or two turns about the darkening
room. He was in a strange tumult of
conflicting feeling?, and did not hear or
heed the low-spoken words addressed to
the servant, who had just entered with
fresh logs for the fire. His heart was

beating wildly ; he knew not what to think
or hope. He asked no more questions, not
knowing what to ask.

And then all at once he saw Monica
standing before him, standing with one
hand closely locked in that of her father,
looking gravely at him in the shadowy
twilight, with an inscrutable wistful sweetness
in her fathomless eyes.

Randolph," said Lord Trevlyn, " here
is your promised wife. I give her to you
with my blessing. May you both be as
happy as you have made me to-day by this
mutual act. Be very good to her, guard
her and shield her, and love her tenderly.
She is used to love and care from her
father ; let me feel that in her husband's
keeping she will gain and not lose by the
change in her future life. Monica, my

child, love your husband truly and faithfully.
He is worthy of you, and you are
worthy of him."

Lord Trevlyn placed the hand he held
within Randolph's grasp, and silently withdrew.


For a moment neither moved nor spoke.
The young man held the hand of his
promised wife between both of his, and
stood quite still, looking down with strange
intensity of feeling into the* half-averted
face.

Monica," he said at last, " can this be
true ? "

She lifted her eyes to his for a moment,
and then dropped them before his burning
glance.

Monica," he said again, " can it be
true that you love me ? "

"I will be your wife if you will have
me," she said, in a very clear, low tone.
I will love you  if I can. I will try,
indeed. I think I can  some day."

He was too passionately in love himself
at that moment to be chilled by this
response. It was more than he had ever
looked for, that sweet surrender of herself.
Protestations of love would sound strangely
from Monica's lips. He hardly even wished
to hear them. She must feel some tenderness
towards him. She had given herself
to him to love and cherish ; surely his
great love could accomplish the rest.

He drew her gently towards him. She
did not resist ; she let herself be encircled
by his protecting arm.

"I will try to make you very happy,"
he said, with a sort of manly simplicity

that meant more than the most ardent
protestations could have done. " May I
kiss you, Monica ? "

She lifted her down-bent face a little, and
he pressed a kiss upon her brow. She
made no attempt to return the caress, but
he did not expect it. It was enough that
she permitted him to worship her.

You have made me very happy,
Monica," he said presently, whilst the
shadows deepened round them. " Will
you not let me hear you say that you are
happy too ? "

She looked at him at last. He could
not read the meaning of that gaze.

I want to make you happy, my
darling," said Randolph, very softly.

Again that strange, earnest gaze.

Make my father and Arthur happy,"

she said, sweetly and steadily, " and I shall
be happy too."

He did not understand the full drift of
those words, as he might perhaps have
done had he been calmer  did not realise
as at another moment he might have done
their deep significance. He was desperately,
passionately in love, carried away inwardly,
if not outwardly, by the tumult of his
feelings. He did not realise  it was hardly
likely that he should  that to secure her
father's happiness and the future well-being
and happiness of her brother Monica had
promised to be his wife. She respected
him, she. liked him, she was resolved to
make him a true and faithful wife ; and
she knew so little of the true nature of
wedded love that it never occurred to her
to think of the injury she might be doing

to him in giving the hand without the
heart.

She had been moved and disquieted by
Arthur's words of a few days back. Her
father's appeal to her that day had touched
her to the quick. What better could she
do with her life than secure with it the
happiness of those she loved ? How better
could she keep her vow towards Arthur
than by making the promise asked of her ?
Monica thought first of others in this
matter, it is true, and yet there was a
strange throb akin to joy deep down in her
heart, when she thought of the love
tendered to her by one she had learned to
esteem and to trust. Those sweet, sudden
glimpses of the golden land of sunshine
beyond kept flashing before her eyes, and
thrilled her with feelings that made her

almost afraid. She did not know what it
all meant. She did not know that it was
but the foreshadowing of the deep love that
was rooting itself, all unknown, in the
tenderest fibres of her nature. She never
thought she loved Randolph Trevljn, but
she was conscious of a strange exultation
and stress of feeling, which she attributed
to the enthusiasm of the sacrifice she had
made for those she loved. She did not yet
know the secret of her own heart.

"woo'd, and married, and a'."

So Monica had engaged herself to her
kinsman, Randolph Trevlyn, and the
neighbourhood, though decidedly astonished
at this sudden surrender of liberty
on the part of the fair, unapproachable
girl, could not but see how desirable was
the match from every point of view, and
rejoice in the thought that Trevlyn would
never lose its well-loved lady.

As for Monica herself, the days passed
by as in a dream  a strong dream of misty
sunshine and sweet, faint fragrance,

through which she wandered with un-vol.
I. 10

certain steps, led onward by a sense of
brighter light beyond.

She was not unhappy ; indeed, a strange
new sense of calm and rest had fallen upon
her since she had laid her hand in
Randolph's and promised to love him if she
could. A few short weeks ago how she
would have chafed against the fetters she
wore ! Now she hardly felt them as
fetters ; they neither galled nor hurt her.
Indeed, after the feeling of uncertainty, of
impending change that had hung over her
of late, this peaceful calm was doubly
grateful. It seemed at last as if she had
reached the shelter of a safe haven, and
pausing there, with a sense of grateful wellbeing,
she felt as if no storm or tempest
could ever reach her again.

Monica's nature was not introspective ;

lie did not easily analyse her feelings.
Had she done so now, she might have laid
bare a secret deep down within her that
would have surprised her not a little ; but
she never attempted to look into her heart,
she rather avoided definite thought ; she
lived in a sort of vaguely sweet dream, glad
and thankful for the undercurrent of happiness
which had so unexpectedly crept into
her life. She did not seek to know its source
it was enough that it was there.

Randolph was very good to her, she did
not attempt to deny that. Nothing could
have been more tender and chivalrous
than his manner towards her. He arrogated
none of the rights which an affianced
husband might fairly have claimed ; he was
content with what she gave him ; he never

tried to force her confidence or to win

10*

words or promises that did not come
spontaneously to her lips.

She was shy with him for some time
after the enofasement had been ratified,
more silent and reserved than she had been
before ; yet there was a charm in her very
silence that went home to his heart, and
he felt that she was nearer to him day by
day.

I will win her yet  heart and soul,"
he would say sometimes, with a thrill of
proud joy as he looked into the sweet eyes
raised to his, and read a something in their
depths that made his heart throb gladly.
Give me time, only time, and she shall be
altogether mine."

She never shunned him. She let him be
her companion when and where he would,
and she began to look for him, and to feel

more satisfied when he was at her side. He
was too wise to overdo her with his society,
or seem to infringe the liberty in which she
had grown up ; but he frequently accompanied
her on her walks or rides, and he
had the satisfaction of feeling that his
presence was not distasteful to her ; indeed,
as days went by, and she grew used to the
idea that had been at first so strange, he
fancied that there was something of
welcome in the smile that greeted his
approach.

She never spoke of the future when they
should be man and wife, and only by a hint
here and there did he broach the subject
or tell of his private affairs. Both were
content for the time being to live in the
present  that present that seemed so calm
and bright and full of promise.

As days and weeks fled by, a colour

dawned upon Monica's cheeks and a light

in her eyes ; she grew more beautiful everyday

or so, thought those who loved her, and

watched her with loving scrutiny ; and Mrs.

Pendrill, who was, so to speak, the girl's

good angel in this crisis of her life, would

caress the golden head sometimes, and ask

with gentle, motherly solicitude :

My Monica is happy, is she not ? "

I think so. Aunt Elizabeth," Monica

answered once, speaking out more freely

than she had done before. " Other people

are happy  the dread and uncertainty

about the future seems all gone. Trevlyn

is not sad any longer  it is my own home

again, my very own. I cannot quite

express it, but something seems to have

come into my life and changed everything.

I am happy often now  nearly always, I
think."

Mrs. Pendrill smiled a little.

Does your happiness result from the
knowledge that you  3'ou and Arthur : I
suppose I must include him  need never
leave Trevlyn, and that you have pleased
your father? Tell me, Monica, is that
all ? "

A faint colour mantled the iirl's face.

I know it sounds selfish ; but I hardly
think anyone knows what Trevlyn is to us,
and what Arthur's welfare is to me." Then
reading the meaning of the earnest glance
bent upon her, she added quickly, '*Ah,
yes, Aunt Elizabeth, I know there is that
too. He is very, very good to me, and I
will do everything to make him happy, and
to be a food wife when the time comes.

Indeed, I do think of him. I know what
he is, and what he deserves  only  only I
cannot talk about that even to you."

'' 1 do not want you to talk, my love, I
only want you to feel."

And very low the answer was spoken.
I think I do feel."

Certainly things were going well, very
well. It seemed as if the course of
Randolph's true love might run smoothly
enough to the very end now. Tom Pendrill
chaffed him somewhat mercilessly on the
easy victory he had obtained over the
somewhat difficult subject, and he felt an
exultant sense of joyful triumph when he
compared his position of to-day with the
one he had occupied a week or two back.
Monica's gentleness and growing dependence
upon him were inexpressibly sweet.

the (lawn of a quiet happiness in her
face filled his heart with delight. The
victory was not quite won yet, but he
becran to feel a confidence that it was not

o

far distant.

And this hope would in all probability
have been realised in due course, had it
not been for untoward circumstances, and
from the presence of enemies in the camp,
one his sworn foe, the other his champion
and ally : but despite this, a born mischief-maker
and mar-plot.

So long as Randolph was on the spot
all went well. His strong will dominated
all others, and his influence upon Monica
produced its own effect. Love like his
could not but win its way to the heart of
the woman he loved.

But Randolph could not remain always

at Trevlyn. Hard as it was to tear himself
away, the conventionalities of life demanded
his absence from time to time, and
other duties called him elsewhere. And it
was when his back was fairly turned that
the mischief-makers began their task of
undoing, as far as was possible, all the
good that had been done.

Randolph had been exceedingly careful
to say nothing to Monica about hastening
their marriage. He saw that she took for
granted a long engagement, that she had
hardly contemplated as yet the inevitable
end whither that engagement tended ; and
until he had assured himself that her
heart was wholly his, nothing would have
induced him to ask her to give herself
irrevocably to him. When the right
moment came she would surrender herself

willingly, for Monica was not one who
would do anything by halves. Till that
day came, however, he was resolved to
wait, and breathe no word of the future
that awaited them.

Lady Diana was of a different way of
thinking. She had been amazed at
Monica's pliability in the matter of her
engagement, so surprised and so well
pleased that, for some considerable time,
she had acted with unusual discretion,
and had avoided saying anything to irritate
or alarm the sensitive feelings of her niece.
Possibly she stood in a little unconscious
awe of Randolph, for certainly so long ashe
remained she was quiet and discreet
enough. But when his presence was once
removed, then began a system of petty persecution
and annoyance that was the very

thing to rouse in Monica a spirit of opposition
and hostility.

Lady Diana had set her heart upon a
speedy marriage, half afraid that her niece
might change her mind ; she took a half
spiteful pleasure in the knowledge that the
girl's independence was at last to be
curbed, and that she was about to take
upon herself the common lot of womanhood.
She lost no opportunities of reading
homilies on wifely submission and
subjection. She bestirred herself over the
matter of the trousseau as if the day were
actually fixed, and Monica's indignant
protests were laughed at and ignored as if
too childish for serious argument.

The girl began to observe, too, that her
father spoke of her marriage as of something
speedily approaching, and that he.

Lady Diana, and even Arthur, seemed to
understand that she would spend much of
her time away from Trevlyn, when once
that ceremony had taken place. Her
father and brother spoke cheerfully of her
leaving them, taking it for granted that her
affianced husband was first in her thoughts,
and that they must make her way easy to
go away with him, without one regret for
those left behind. Lady Diana, with more
of feminine insight, had less of kindliness
in her method of approaching the subject ;
but when she found them all agreed upon
the point, the girl felt almost as if she had
been betrayed. There was no Randolph to
shield and protect her. She could not put
into written words the tumult of her conflicting
feelings ; she could only struggle and
suffer, and feel like a wild thing trapped in

the hunter's toils. Ah, if only Randolph
had not left her! But when the poison
had done its work, she ceased even to wish
for him back.

Another enemy to her peace of mind
was Conrad Fitzgerald. Monica was growing
to feel a great repugnance lo this
fair-haired, smooth-tongued man, despite
the nominal friendship that existed between
him and those of her name. She
knew that her feelings were changing
towards him ; but, like other young things,
she was ashamed of any such change,
regarding it as treacherous and ungenerous,
especially after the pledge she had given
him.

Conrad thus found opportunities ot
seeing her from time to time, and set to
work with malicious pleasure to poison

her mind against her affianced husband.
She would not listen to a single direct word
against him : that he discovered almost at
once, somewhat to his astonishment and
chagrin; but "there are more ways of
killing a cat than by hanging it," as he
said to himself ; and a well-directed shaft
steeped in poison, and launched with a
practised hand, struck home and did its
work only too Velle

insinuated that after her marriage
Trevlyn would never be her home during
her father's life-time, at least, possibly never
any more. Randolph had property of his
own ; was it likely he would bury himself
and his beautiful young wife in a desolate
place like that ? Of course her care of
Arthur would be a thing entirely put on
one side. It was out of the question that

she should ever be allowed to devote
herself to him as of old, when once she
had placed her neck beneath the matrimonial
yoke. Most likely some excuse
would be forthcoming to rid Trevlyn of
the undesirable presence of the invalid.
Randolph was not a man to be deterred by
any nice scruples from going his own
way. Words spoken before marriage were
never regarded seriously when once the
inevitable step had been taken.

Monica heard, and partly believed 
believed enough to make her restless and
miserable. Never a word crossed her lips
that could show her trust in Randolph
shaken. She was loyal to him outwardly,
but she suffered keenly, nevertheless. He
was not there to give her confidence, ashe
could well have done, by his unwavering

love and devotion, and in his absence,
the influence he had won slowly waned,
and the old fear and distrust crept back.

It might have vanished had he returned
to charm it away : but, alas ! he only
came to make Monica his wife in sudden,
unexpected fashion, before her heart was
really won.

Lord Trevlyn had been taken dangerously
ill. It was an attack similar to those he
had suffered from once or twice before, butin
a more severe form. His life was in
imminent danger ; nothing could save him,
the doctors agreed, but the most perfect
rest of body and mind ; and it seemed as if
only the satisfaction of calling Randolph
son, of seeing him Monica's husband, could
secure to him that repose of spirit so
absolutely essential to his recovery.

VOL. I. 11

Monica did not waver when her father
looked pleadingly into her face, and asked
if she were ready. Her assent was calmly
and firmly spoken, and after that she left
all in other hands, and did not quit her
father's presence night or day.

He was better for the knowledge that
the wish of his heart was about to be
consummated, and she was so utterly
absorbed in him as to be all but unconscious
of the flight of time. She knew that
days sped by as on wings. She even
heard them speak of " tomorrow " without
any stirring of heart. She was absorbed
in care for her almost dying father ; she
had no thought to spare for aught else.

On the evening of that day Randolph
stood before her, holding her hands in his
warm clasp.

Is this your wish, my Monica ? "

She thrilled a little beneath his ardent
gaze, a momentary sense of comfort and
protection came over her in his presence
; but physical languor blunted her
feelings ; she was too weary even to feel
acutely.

*' It is my wish," she answered gently.

He bent his head and kissed her tenderly
and lingeringly, looking earnestly into the
pale, sweet face that seemed not quite so
responsive as it had done when he saw
it last ; but he could not read the look
it wore. He kissed her and went away,
breathing half sadly, half triumphantly, the
word " To-morrow."

Lady Diana, ever indefatigable and contriving,
had managed as if by magic to

have all things in readiness ; rich white

Jl*

satin and brocade, orange blossom and
lace veil  all was in readiness  as if she
had had weeks for her preparations.

Monica started and half recoiled as she
saw the bridal dress laid out for her adornment,
but she was quiet and passive in the
hands of her attendants as they arrayed
her in her snowy robes, and well she repaid
their efforts. Only Lady Diana felt any dissatisfaction.


Why, child," she said, impatiently,
you look like a snow maiden. You might
be a nun about to take the veil instead of
a bride going to her wedding. I have no
patience with such pale looks. Randolph
will think we have brought him a corpse
for his bride."

Randolph was waiting in the little
church on the cliff. His heart beat thick

and fast : lie himself besfan to feel as if he
were living? in a dream. He could not
realise that the time had come when he
was to call Monica his own.

Lady Diana and Mrs. Pendrill were there,
and a friend of his own, young Lord
Haddon, who had accompanied him from
town the previous day, to play the part of
best man at the ceremony. There was a
little rustle and little stir outside, and then
Monica entered, leaning on Tom Pendrill's
arm, and, without once lifting her eyes,
walked steadily up the church, till she stood
beside Randolph.

Never, perhaps, had she looked more
lovely, yet never, perhaps, more remote
and unapproachable, than when she stood
before the altar in her bridal robes, to
pledge herself for better for worse to the

man who loved her, till death should them

part.

He looked at her with a strange pang
and aching at heart ; but the moment was
not one when hesitation or drawing back
was possible.

In a few more minutes Monica and
Randolph Trevlyn were made man and
wife.

MARRIED.

Married ! Married ! Married ! "

The monstrous vibrating throb of the
express train seemed ceaselessly repeating
that one word. The sound of it was"
beaten in upon Monica's brain as with hot
hammers, and yet she did not feel as if
she understood what it meant, or realised
what happened to her. One thing only
was clear to her ; that she had been torn
away from Trevlyn, from her father, who,
though pronounced convalescent, was still
in a very precarious state ; from Arthur,
who after the anxiety and excitement of

the past days, was prostrated by a sharp
attack of illness ; from everything and
everybody she held most dear ; and cast
as it were upon the mercy of a comparative
stranger, who did not seem the less strange
to her, because he had the right to call
himself her husband.

What had happened during the three
days that had passed since Monica had
stood beside Randolph in the little cliff
church, and had pledged herself to him
for better or worse?

She herself could not have said, but the
facts can be summed up in a few words.

When once Lord Trevlyn had seen
Monica led by Randolph to his bedside in
her bridal white, and knew that they were
man and wife, a change for the better had
taken place in his condition, very slight at

first, but increasing every hour. Little by
little the danger passed away, and for the
time at least his life was safe.

But Monica's mind, no sooner relieved
on his account, was thrown into fresh
misery and suspense by a bad attack of
illness on Arthur's part, and the strain
upon her was so great, that, coming as it
did after all the mental conflict she had
lately endured, her own health threatened
to break down, and this caused no small
anxiety in the minds of all about her.

There is only one thing to be done,
and that is to take her right away out of
it all," said Tom Pendrill, with authority,
She will break down as sure as fate if she
stays here. The associations of the place
are quite too much for her. She will have
a brain or nervous fever if she is not taken

away. You have a house in London,
Trevlyn ? Take her there and keep her
quiet, but let her have change of scene ;
let her see fresh faces, and get into new
habits, and see the world from a fresh
stand-point. It will do her all the good
in the world. She may rebel at first, and
think herself miserable ; but look at her
now. What can be worse than the way in
which she is going on ? Trevlyn is killing
her, whether she knows it or not. Let us
see what London can do for her."

No dissentient voice was raised against
this suggestion. The earl, Lady Diana,
Randolph, and even Arthur, were all in
accord, and Monica heard her sentence
with that unnatural quietude that had
disturbed them all so much.

bhe did not protest or rebel, but accepted

her fate very quietly, as she had accepted
the marriage that had been the preliminary
step.

How white she looked as she lay back
in her corner of the carriage ! how lonely,
how frail, how desolate ! Randolph's
heart ached for her, for he knew her
thoughts were with her sick father and
suffering brother ; knew that it, not
unnaturally, seemed very, very hard to betaken
away at a crisis such as the present.
She could not estimate the causes that
made a change so imperative for her. She
could not see why she was hurried away so
relentlessly. It had all been very hard
upon her, and upon him also, had he had
thought to spare for himself ; but he was
too much absorbed in sorrow for her to
consider his own position over-much.

He was indirectly the cause of her grief,
and his whole being was absorbed in the
longing to comfort her.

She looked so white and wan as the
hours passed by, that he grew alarmed
about her. He had done before all he
could to make her warm and comfortable,
and had then withdrawn a little, fancying
his close proximity distasteful to her, but
she looked so ill at last that he could keep
away no longer, and came over to her,
taking her hand in his.

Monica," he said gently.

The long lashes stirred a little and
slowly lifted themselves. The dark eyes
were dim and full of trouble. She looked
at him wonderingly for a moment, almost
as if she did not know him, and then she
closed her eyes with a little shuddering sigh.

He was alarmed, and not without cause,
for the strain of the past days was showing
itself now, and want of rest and sleep had
worn down her strength to the lowest ebb.
She was so faint and weary that all power
of resistance had left her. She let her
husband do what he would, submitted
passively to be tended like a child, and
heaved a siirh that sounded almost like one
of relief as he drew her towards him, so
that her weary head could rest upon his
broad shoulder. There was something
restful and supporting, of which she was
dumbly conscious in the deep love and
protecting gentleness of this strong man.

She only spoke once to him, and that
was as they neared their destination, and
the lights of the great city began to flash
upon her bewildered gaze. Then she sat

up, though with an effort, and looking at
her husband, said gently :

You have been very good to me,
Randolph."

His heart bounded at the words, but he
only asked. "Are you better, Monica?"

She pressed her hand to her brow.

My head aches so," she said, and the
white strained look came back to her face.
She was almost frightened by the flashing
lights and the myriads of people she saw
as the train steamed into the terminus ; and
she could only cling to Randolph's arm in
hopeless bewilderment, as he piloted her
through the crowd to the carriage that was
awaiting them.

Randolph owned a house near to the
Park, in a pleasant open situation. It
had been left to him by an uncle, a great

traveller, and was quite a museum of
costly and interesting treasures, and fitted
up in the luxurious fashion that appeals to
men who have grown used to Oriental ease
and splendour.

The young man had often pictured
Monica in such surroundings, had wondered
what she would say to it all, how she
would feel in a place so strange and
unlike anything she had ever known. He
had fancied that the open situation of the
house would please her, that she might be
pleased too by the quaint beauty and
harmony of all she saw. He had often
pictured the moment when he should lead
her into her new home and bid her
welcome there, and now, when the time
had come, she was so worn out and ill
that her heavy eyes could hardly look

around her, and all he could do was to
support her to her room, to be tended by
his old nurse, Wilberforce, whose services
he had bespoken for his wife in preference
to those of a more youthful and accomplished
/m;?2 de chambre.

For some days Monica was really ill,
not with any specific complaint, but
prostrated by nervous exhaustion  too
weary and exhausted to have a clear idea
of what went on around her, only conscious
that everything was very strange, that she
was far away from Trevlyn, and that
strangers were watching over and tending
her.

Her husband's care was unremitting.
He was ever by her side. She seemed to
turn to him instinctively amid the other
strange faces, and to be more quiet and

tranquil when he was near. Yet lie

seldom spoke to him ; he was not always

certain that she knew him ; but that half

unconscious dependence was inexpressibly

sweet, and Randolph felt hope growing

stronger day by day. Surely she was

slowly learning to love him ; and indeed

she was, only she knew it not as

yet.

Then a day came when the feverish

fancies and distressful exhaustion gave

way to more cheering symptoms. Monica

could leave her room, and leaning on her

husband's arm, wander slowly about the

new home that looked so strange to her.

The smiles began to come back to her eyes,

a faint flush of colour to her cheeks, and

when at length she was laid down upon a

luxurious ottoman beside the drawing-room
VOL. I. 12

fire, she held her husband's hand between
both of hers, and looked up at him with a
glance that went to his very heart.

You have been so very, very good tome,
Randolph, though I have only been a
trouble to you all this time. I never
thought I could feel like this away from
Trevlyn. Indeed I will try to make you
happy too."

He bent down and kissed her, a thrill of
intense joy running through him.

"Does that mean that you can be happy
here, my Monica ? " he asked.

She was always perfectly truthful, and
paused a little before answering ; yet there
was a light in her eyes and a little smile
upon her lips.

It feels very strange," she said, " and
very like a dream. Of course I miss

Trevlyn  of course I would rather be

there ; but " and here she lifted her

ees with the sweetest glance of trusting
confidence. ''I know that you know best,
Randolph, I know that you judge more
wisely than I can do ; and that you
always think of my happiness first. You
have been very, very good to me all this
time, far better than I deserve. I am
going to be happy here, and when I may
go home, I know you will be the first to
take me there."

He laid his hand upon her head in a
tender caress.

I will, indeed, my Monica," he

answered ; " but, believe me, for the

present you are better here. You will

grow strong faster away from Trevlyn than

near it."

12*

She smiled a little, very sweetly.

I will try to think so, too, Randolph,
for I am very sure that you are wiser than
I ; and I have learned how good you are tome
always."

That evening passed very quietly, yet
very happily.

Was this the beginning of better things
to come ?

"-''-

MISCHIEF-JVIAKERS.

Now that you have been a fortnight in
town, and have begun to feel settled in
your new life," wrote Lady Diana, " I think
it is time you should be made aware of a
few facts relative to your engagement and
marriage, which you are not likely to hear
from the lips of your too indulgent
husband, but with which, nevertheless, you
ought to be made conversant, in my
opinion, in order that you may the better
appreciate the generous sacrifices made on
behalf of you and your family, and return

him the measure of gratitude he deserves
for the benefits he has bestowed."

Monica was alone when she received this
letter, breakfasting in her little boudoir at
a late hour, for although almost recovered
now, she had not yet resumed her old habit
of early rising.

She had risen this morning feeling more
light at heart than usual. She had chatted
with unusual freedom to her husband, had
kissed him before he went out to keep an
appointment with his lawyer, and had
promised to ride with him at twelve
o'clock, if he would come back for her.
She had only once been out since her
arrival in town, and that was in the
carriage. She was quite excited at the
prospect of being in the saddle again.
She had almost told herself that she

should yet be happy in her married life 
and now came this cruel, cruel letter to dash
to the ground all her faint dawning hopes.

Lady Diana had felt very well-disposed,
even if a little spiteful, as she had penned
this unlucky letter ; but she certainly was
not nice in her choice of words or of
epithets. Not being sensitive herself, she had
little comprehension of the susceptibilities
of others, and the impression its perusal
conveyed to the mind of Monica was that
Randolph had married her simply out of
generosity to herself and regard for her
father : that the proposal was none of his
own making, and that his unvarying kindness
arose from his knowledge of her very
difficult temper, and a wish to secure for
himself by bribes and caresses a peaceful
home and an amiable wife. In conclusion

it was added that Monica, in return for all
that had been done for her, must do her
utmost to please and gratify him. Of
course he would wish to show his beautiful
wife in the world of fashion to which
he belonged. He would wish her to join
in the life of social gaiety to which he
was about to introduce her, and any
hanging back on her part would be most
unbecoming and ungrateful. It behoved
her to keep in mind all these facts, to
remember the sacrifices he had made for
her, and to act accordingly. He had not
chosen a wife from his own world, as it
was presumable he would have preferred
to do. He had consented to the family
match proposed to him, and sloe must do
her utmost to make up to him for the
sacrifice he had made.

A few weeks back such a letter, though
it might have hurt Monica's pride, would
not have cut her to the quick, as it did
now. In the first place, she would then
have simply disbelieved it, whereas recent
circumstances had given her a very much
greater respect for the opinions of those
who knew the world so much better than
she did, and who had forecast so
accurately events that had afterwards
fulfilled themselves almost as a matter of
course. She had beijun to distrust her
own convictions, to believe more in those
of others, who had had experience of life,
and could estimate its chances better than
she could. She believed her aunt when
she told her these things, and the poisoned
shaft struck home to her heart. A few
days ago she could have borne it better.

Her pride would have been hurt, but the
sling would have been less keen. She did not
know why the doubt of her husband's love
hurt her so cruelly ; but hurt her it did,
and for a moment she felt stricken to the
earth. She had said to herself many times
that she did not want such a wealth of love,
when she had none on her side to bestow ;
but yet, when she had learned that it was
not hers after all, but was only the
counterfeit coin of a hollow world  the
bribe by which her submission and gratitude
were to be obtained  the knowledge
was unspeakably bitter. She felt she
would rather have died than have been
forced to doubt.

As she dressed for her ride, pride came
to the assistance of her crushed spirit.
Wilberforce, the faithful servant who had

tended and loved Eandolpli from his
infancy, and was ready to love his wife for
his sake and her own, was aware of a
subtle change in her young mistress that
she did not understand, and which she
could not well have described. Monica
had been very quiet and gentle since her
arrival, and very silent too. She was quiet
enough to-day ; but the gentleness had
been replaced by a certain inexplicable
hauteur. The pale face wore a glow of
warm colour ; the dark eyes that had been
languid and heavy were wide open
and full of fire. Monica looked superbly
handsome in the brilliant radiance of her
beauty, and yet the faithful attendant was
not certain that she liked the change
in her.

Randolph detected it the moment

he entered the room, and found his wife
equipped for the proposed ride.

Why, Monica," he said, smiling, " you
have got quite a colour. It looks natural
to see you dressed for the saddle."

"Yes," she answered, coolly: " we must
turn over a new leaf now, must we not ?
You will be dying of ennui cooped up at
home so long. Let us go out and enjoy
ourselves. We must learn to do in Some
as Some does."

Randolph felt one keen pang of disappointment
that the first return to health
and strength should have brought a return of
the former coldness and aloofness ; but he
had gained ground before, and why not now?
Could he expect to win his way without a
single repulse ? So he took courage, and
tried to ignore the change he saw in his wife.

He led her down the staircase to the hall
door where the horses were waiting, and
he saw the sadden flash of joyful recognition
that crossed her face.

Guy ! " she exclaimed, " my own little
Guy!"

Yes, there could be no mistake about it ;
it washer own little delicate thorough-bred,
standing with ill-repressed excitement at the
door, his glossy neck arched in a sort of
proud impatience, his supple limbs trembling
with eagerness, as he stepped daintily to
and fro upon the pavement. He turned
his shapely head at the sound of Monica's
voice, pricked his ears, and uttered a low
whitney of joyful recognition.

' It was good of you to think of it,
Randolph*' she said, a softer light in her
eyes as she turned them towards her

husband. " It is like a little bit of home
having him."

"I thought you would like him better
than a stranger, though I have his counterpart
in the stable waiting for you to try.
He has been regularly exercised in Piccadilly
every morning, and I coaxed him to let me
ride him once myself in the Park, though
he did not much like it. I don't think he
will be very troublesome now, and I know
you are not afraid of his restive moods ;
though this is very different from Trevlyn."

Monica's eyes grew wistful, and her
husband saw it. He guessed whither her
thoughts had led, and he let her dream
on undisturbed. He exchanged bows with
many acquaintances as they passed onwards
and entered the Eow, and many admiring
glances were levelled at his beautiful

young wife, whose unusual loveliness and
perfect horsemanship alike attracted attention;
but he attempted no introductions;
and Monica, dreamy and absorbed, noticed
nothing?, till the sight of Conrad in the
Eo\Y awoke her to consciousness of her
surroundings.

Conrad in London ! How long had he
been there ? Did he bring news from
Trevlyn ? She looked almost wistfully at
Randolph as she returned the young
baronet's bow, but his face wore its rather
stern expression, and she dared not attempt
to speak with her former friend.

Conrad, however, saw the look, and
smiled to himself.

My day will come yet," he said.

Shall we push on, Monica ? " asked Randolph.
" Guy is aching to stretch his limbs.'

Monica was only too willing, and they
had soon reached the farther end of the
Eow, which was much less full than the
other had been.

A pretty, dark, vivacious looking girl,
accompanied by a fair-haired young man,
rather like her, were approaching with
glances of recognition.

' Randolph, I am angry with you  yes,
very angry. You have been a whole fortnight
in town  I heard so yesterday  and
we have never seen you once, and you
have never let me have the pleasure of
an introduction to your wife. I call it
very much too bad ! "

"Well, it is never too late to mend,"
answered Randolph, smiling. "Monica,
may I present to you Lady Beatrice Wentworth,
whom I have had the honour of

knowing intimately since the diis of our
early acquaintance, when she wore pinafores
and pigtails. Lord gladden, I think I
need not introduce again. You have met
before."

The little flush deepened in Monica's face.
She had fancied the face of the brother
was not totally unfamiliar to her ; but
she did not remember until this moment
where or when she could possibly have
seen him.

Oh, Haddon has been raving about
Lady Monica ever slice the auspicious day
when he saw her," cried Beatrice, gaily.
I hope your father is quite recovered
now ? " she added, with a touch of quick
sympathy, " since you were able to leave
him so soon."

I think he is much better, thank you,"

VOL. I. 13

answered Monica, quietly ; " but lie was
still very ill wlien I left him."

And, Randolph, you have not explained
away your guilt yet. Why have you been
all this time without letting us see you or
your wife ? I call it shameful ! "

' My wife has been very unwell herself
ever since we came up," answered Randolph.
' She has not been fit to see anybody."


You should have made an exception in
my favour," persisted Beatrice, bringing
her horse alongside of Monica's, and walking
on with her. " You see, I have known
Randolph so long, he seems almost like a
brother. I feel defrauded when he does
not behave himself as such. We must be
great friends, Lady Monica, for his sake.
He has told us all about you and your

delightful Cornish home. I suppose you
know all about us, too, and what near neighbours
we are  near for London, at least."

But Monica had never heard the name of
the girl beside her. She knew nothing of
her husband's friends, never having taken
the least interest in subjects foreign to
all her past associations. She hinted something
of the kind in a gently indifferent
way, that was sincere, without being in the
least discourteous. She was wondering
why it was that her husband, who could
value his own friends and appreciate their
good-will, was so strenuously set against
receiving the only acquaintance she
possessed in this vast city.

Nevertheless, when, upon a forenoon
two days later, at an hour she knew her

husband was away, Conrad presented *



self ill her boudoir, following the man who
had brought his card without waiting to be
invited, Monica was conscious of a feeling
of distinct displeasure and distrust. She
knew very little of the ways of the world,
but she felt that he had no right to be
there, forcing himself upon her in her
private room, when her husband would
hardly speak to him or receive him, and
that he merited instant dismissal

But then came a revulsion of feeling.
Was he not her childhood's friend ? Had
she not promised not to turn her back
upon him, and help to drive him to despair
by her coldness ? Had he not come with
news of Trevlyn and of home ? And
in that last eager thought all else was
lost, and she met him gladly, almost
eagerly.

He told lier all she longed to know. He
came primed with the latest news from
Trevlyn. His manner was quiet and
gentle. He was very cautious not to alarm
or disturb her.

I shall not be able to see much of you
in the future, Monica," he said, " but
you will let me call myself still your
friend?"

She bent her head in a sort of assent.

"And will you let me take a friend's
privilege, and ask one question. Are you
happy in your new life ? "

Monica's face took a strange expression.

"It is very gay, very lively. I shall like
it better as I get more used to it."

I see," he answered, very gently, " I
understand. And when are you going
home again ? "

"I am at home now," she answered,
steadily.

He looked searchingly at lier.

"I thought Trevlyn was to be always
home. Has he thrown off the mask so
soon ? "

"I think," said Monica, with a little
gleam in her eye, " that you forget you are
speaking of my husband."

Conrad's eyes gleamed too ; but she did
not see it.

Forgive me, Monica ; I did forget. It
is all so strange and sudden. Then he
makes you happy ? Tell me that ! Let me
have the assurance that at least he makes
his captive happy."

She started a little ; but Conrad's face
expressed nothing but the quietest, sincerest
good will and sympathy.

He is very, very good to me," she said,
quietly, " He studies me as I have never
been studied before. All my wishes are
forestalled : he thinks of everything, he
does everything. I cannot tell you how
good he is. I have never known anything
like it before. Did you ever see anyone
more surrounded by beauty and luxury
than I am ? "

He looked at her steadily. She knew
that she had evaded his question  a question
he had no right to put, as she could
not but feel  and that he knew she had
done so.

Ah ! " he murmured, " the gilded cage,
the gilded cage ; but* only a cage, after all.
Monica, forgive me for expressing a doubt ;
but I know the man so well, and my whole
soul revolts at seeing you dragged as it

were at this chariot wheels for all the world
to look at and admire. To take you from
your wild free home, and bribe you into
submission  I hate to think of it ! "

Monica's cheek had flushed suddenly ;
but before she could frame a rejoinder the
door opened to admit Randolph. He
carried in his hand some hot-house flowers,
which he had brought for his wife. He
stopped short when he saw who was
Monica's guest, and her cheek flamed anew,
for she knew he would not understand how
she came to receive him in her private
room, and she felt that by a want of firmness
and savoir faire she had allowed herself
to be placed in a false position.

Conrad's exit was effected with more
despatch than dignity, yet he contrived in
his farewell words to insinuate that he had

passed a very happy morning with this
hostess, instead of a brief ten minutes.

Randolph did not speak a word, but
stood leaning against the chimney-piece
with a stern look on his handsome face.
Monica was angry with herself and with
Conrad, yet she felt half indignant at the
way her husband ignored her truest.

Monica," said Randolph, speaking first,
I am sorry to have to say it ; but I cannot
receive Sir Conrad Fitzgerald as a guest
beneath my roof."

You had better give your orders, then,
accordingly."

He stepped forward and took her hand.

Surely, Monica, you cannot have any
real likings for this man? "

o

"I do not know what you call real
liking. We have been friends from childhood

; and I do not easily change. He was
always welcomed to my father's house."

Your father did not know his history."

"Perhaps not; but I do. At least I
know this much : that he has sinned and
has repented. Is not repentance enough ? "

Has he repented ? "

Yes, indeed he has."

Randolph's face expressed a fine
incredulity and scorn. There was no
relenting in its lines. Monica was not
going to sue longer.

Am I also to be debarred from seeing
Cecilia, his sister, who is married, and not
living so very far away? Am I to give
her up, too  my old playmate ? "

I have nothing against Mrs. Bellamy,
except that she is his sister. I suppose you
need not be very intimate ? "

Monica's overwrought feelings vented
themselves in a burst of indignation.

I see what you want to do  to separate
me from all my friends  to break all old
ties  to make me forget all but your
world, your life. I am to like your friends,
to receive them, and be intimate with them;
but I am to turn my back with scorn on
all whom I have known and loved. You
are very hard, Randolph, very hard. It is
not that I care for Conrad  I know he has
done wrong, though I do believe in his
repentance. I liked him once, and Cecilia
too ; I should like to know them still. They
are not much to me, but they belong to
the old life  which you do not which
nothing does here. Can you not see how
hard it is, and how unjust, to try and cut
me off from everything ? "

He looked at lier with a great pity in
his e3'es, and then gently put ithe flowers
into her hand.

"I brought them for you to wear tonight,
Monica. Will you have them ?
Believe me, my child, I would do much to
spare you pain, yet in some things I must
be the judge. Some days, perhaps, I shall
be able to make my meaning plain ; meantime
I must ask my wife to trust me." Ue
stooped and kissed her pale brow, and went
away without another word.

Monica stood still and silent, the fragrant,
spotless blossoms, his gift, clasped close in
her hands.

Randolph, Randolph ! " she murmured,
'' if you only loved me I could bear anything
; but they all see it  only I am blind
it is the golden cage with its captive, and

the J know the ways of their world so well,
so well ! He bribes me with gifts, with
kind words, but it is only the peaceful home
and the handsome wife that he wants  not
me myself, not my heart, my love. Well,
he shall have what he craves. I will not
disappoint him. I will do his bidding in
all things. He has got his prize  let that
content him  but for the wifely love, the
wifely trust I have striven so to offer  he
does not care for them  let them go, like
these." She pressed the flowers for a
moment to her lips, and then flung them
from the open casement.

Randolph, lost in silent thought, standing
at a window below, saw the white blossoms
as they fell to the earth, and knew what
they were and whence they had come.

THE LITTLE RIFT.

A LITTLE misunderstanding easily arises
between two people not yet in perfect
accord  so very soon arises, and is so
difficult to lay to rest.

Eandolpli saw plainly now, that Monica's
late gentleness had been caused simply by
exhaustion and ill-health. She had submitted
to his caressing care merely because
she had been too weak to resist, but the first
indication of restored health had been the
effort to repel him. He was grieved and
saddened by this conviction, but he accepted
his fate with quiet patience. He would
draw back a little, stand aside, as it were,

and let her feel lier way in the new life ; and
win her confidence, if he could, by slow
and imperceptible degrees. He did not
despair of winning her yet. He had had
more than one of those rapturous moments
when he had felt that she was almost his.
He would not give up, but he would be
more self restrained and reserved. He
would not attempt too much at once.

Monica was keenly conscious of the
change in her husband's manner, though
she could not understand why it was that
it cut her so deeply. She was conscious of
the great blank in her life, and though her
face was always calm and quiet, her manner
gently cold and tinged with sadness, yet
she tried in all things to study her husband's
wishes, and to follow out any hints
he mio'ht let fall as to his tastes and feelings.

She hide no effort to see anything of
Cecilia Bellani}, her former child-friend,
and even when that vivacious little woman
sought her out, and tried to strike up
a great friendship, she did not respond
with any ardour. Mrs. Bellamy, indeed,
was not at all a woman that Monica would
be inclined to cultivate at this ci isis of her
life ; they had almost nothing in common,
but the past was a sort of link that could
not entirely be broken. Cecilia appeared
to love to talk of Trevlyn ; she was always
eager to hear the latest news from thence,
to recall the by-gone days of childhood,
and bring back the light and colour to
Monica's face by reminiscences of the past.
But the young wife tried to be loyal
to her husband's wishes, and was laughed
at by her friend for her ' old fashioned "

ways. Once, when in course of conversation,
Conrad's name was mentioned between
them, Monica asked, in her straightforward
way, what it was that he had done to draw
upon him censure and distrust.

Why, do you not even know that
much? Poor boy! I will tell you all
about it. He was very young, and you
know we are miserably poor. lie got
into bad company, and that led him into
frightful embarrassments. He o't so
miserable and desperate at last that I
believe his mind was almost unhinged fora
time, and in the end," lowering her voice
to a whisper, " he forged a cheque in the
name of a rich friend. Of course it was a
mad thing to do. He paid his debts, but
the fraud was discovered within a few weeks,

and you know what might have happened.
VOL. I. 14

Colonel Hamilton, however, who had been
a kind friend to Conrad before, forgave
him, and took no steps against him ; and
the poor boy was so shocked and humiliated
that he quite turned over a new leaf, and
has been perfectly steady ever since. He
was working hard to pay off the debt, but
Colonel Hamilton died before he could do
so. Randolph Trevlyn, your husband, my
dear, was intimate with the Colonel, and
knew all about this. He had always
disliked Conrad  I suspect they were
rivals once in the affections of some lady,
and that he did not get the best of the
rivalry  and I always believe it was
through him that the story leaked out. At
any rate, people did hear something, and
poor Conrad got dreadfully cold-shouldered.
He had always been wild and reckless, and

people are so fond of hitting a man when
he is down. But I call it very unkind and
unjust, and I did think that an old friend
like you would be above it. It hurts Conrad
dreadfully to find you so cold to him. I
should have thought you would have liked to
help him to recover the ground he had lost."

That can hardly be my office now,"
said Monica, gravely.

But at least you need not be unkind.
I do assure you the poor boy has gone
through quite enough, as it is."

You have told me the whole truth
about his past, Cecilia ? " asked Monica,
after a brief silence. " There is nothing
U'orse you are keeping back ? "

Mrs. Bellamy clasped her hands together

with a little gesture of astonished dismay.

"Is not forgery bad enough for you,

14*

Monica ? What has your husband been
telling sou? Did you think he had committed
a murder ? "

Monica left Mrs. Bellamy's presence
somewhat relieved in mind. She was glad
to know the secret of Conrad's past, the
cause of her husband's disdain and distrust
of the man. It was natural, she thought,
that Randolph, as a friend of Colonel
Hamilton's, should feel deep indignation at
the ingratitude and treachery of the fraud,
and yet she felt a sort of relief that it was
nothing blacker and baser. She had begun
to have an undefined feeling, since she had
entered somewhat into the tumultuous life
of the great world, that there were depths
of folly and sin and crime beneath its
smooth, polished surface, of whose very
existence she had never dreamed before.

When she returned home that clays, and
said from whose house she had just come,
she fancied a shade gathered on her husband's
brow. "Do you not go there rather
often, Monica ? "

"We were friends as children," she
said. " Am I to give up everything that
seems connected with the past  with my
home ? "

I lay no embargo upon you, Monica,"
he said ; " or at least only one : I cannot
permit Sir Conrad Fitzgerald to visit my
wife, nor enter my house. If his sister is
your friend, and you wish to continue the
friendship, I say nothing against it. You
shall be the judge whether or not you visit
at a house your husband cannot enter, and
run the risk of meeting man whose hand
he can never touch. You shall do exactly

as you wish in the matter. 1 1 leave you
entire liberty."

A flush rose slowly in Monica's face.

I want to do what is right to everyone,"
she said. "You put things very
hardly, Randolph. You only see one side,
and even that you view very harshly. 1
have heard Conrad's story ; it is very painful
and shameful ; but he has repented 
he has indeed, and done all he could to
make amends. I have been taught that
repentance makes atonement, even in
God's sight. I cannot sit in judgment
then, and condemn him utterly."

Randolph looked at her keenly.

Do you know all ? "

Yes," she answered steadily, " I know
all. It is very bad ; but he has repented."

I have seen no signs of repentance."

Have you ever given yourself the
chance to do so ? "

He was still gazing earnestly at her.

Monica," he said, very gravely, " be
advised by me. Do not make yourself
Fitzgerald's champion."

I do not intend," she answered, coldly,
but neither will I be his judge."

There was silence for a moment, then
Randolph spoke.

We will discuss this question no
further. It is a painful one for me. I
can never meet that man in friendship ; I
could wish that you could be content to
forget him too ; but he is an old friend.
You are not connected with the dark
passages in his life, and if his repentance is
sincere I will not forbid your meeting him
or speaking to him, if you find yourself in

his company. It goes against me, I confess,
Monica. But I do not feel I have the right
to say more. If you are acquainted with
the story of his life, you are able to form
your own estimate of his deserts."

The subject ended there, but it left a sort
of sore constraint in the minds of both. It
was almost with a feeling of relief a few
mornings later that Randolph opened a letter
from the bailiff of his Scotch estate, requesting
the presence of the master for a few
days. The young man had been getting
his shooting-box renovated and beautified
for the reception of his young wife, hoping
to prevail upon her in the autumn to come
north with him, and his own presence on
the spot had become a matter of necessity.

Monica heard of his proposed absence
with perfect quietness, which, however, hid

a good deal of sinking at heart. She did
not venture to ask to accompany him, nor
did she suggest, as he had half feared,
returning to Trevlyn. She assented quietly
to the proposition, and gave no outward
sign of dismay.

Randolph sighed as he noted her indifference.
Once she would have dreaded being
left alone in the strange world of London,
have begged him not to leave her, but now
she was quite happy to see him depart. He
was gradually growing sorrowfully convinced
that his marriage had been a great
mistake, and that Monica's love would
never be his. There had been sweet
moments both before and after marriage,
but they were few and far between, and
the hope he had once so ardently cherished
was growing fainter every day.

However, life must go on in its accustomed
groove, and the night before his
departure was spent with Beatrice and her
brother, who were giving a select dinner
party. Randolph and Monica seldom spent
an evening at home alone now.

Beatrice Wentworth's little parties were
very popular. She was an excellent
hostess, her endless sparkle and flow of
spirit kept her guests well amused, and
she treated her numerous admirers with a
provoking friendliness and equality that
was diverting to witness. Lord Haddon
was a favourite, too, from his good-natured
simplicity and frankness ; and there was an
easy unconstrained atmosphere about their
house that made it a pleasant place of
resort to its habitues.

Monica had grown fond of Beatrice, in

lier quiet, undemonstrative fashion, and
felt more at home in her house than in any
other. Sometimes when those two were
alone together Beatrice would lay aside
that brilliant sparkle and flow of spirit, and
lapse into a sudden gravity and seriousness
that would have astonished many of her
friends and acquaintances had they chanced
to witness it. Sometimes Monica fancied at
such moments that some kind of cloud
rested upon the handsome, dashing girl,
that her past held some tear-stained page,
some sad or painful memory ; and it was
this conviction that had won Monica's confidence
and friendship more than anything
else. She could not make a true friend of
any one who had never known sorrow.

To-night Monica was unusually distraite,
sad and heavy at heart, she hardly knew

why ; finding it unusually difficult to talk
or smile, or to hide from the eyes of others
the melancholy that oppressed her. She
felt a strange craving for her husband's
presence. She wanted him near her. She
longed to return to those first days of
married life, when his compassion for her
made him so tender, when he was always
with her, and she believed that he loved
her. Sometimes she had been almost happy
then, despite the wrench from the old
associations and the strangeness of all
around. Now she was always sad and
heavy-hearted ; and to-night she was
curiously oppressed.

It was only at this house that she could
ever be persuaded to sing, and to-night it
was not till the end of the evening that
Lord Haddon's entreaties prevailed with

her. She rose at last and crossed to the
piano, and sitting down without any music
before her, sang a simple melodious setting
to some words of Christina Rossetti's : 

Ashen I am dead, my dearest,

Sing no sad songs for me ;
Plant thoii no roses at my head,

Xor shady cypress-tree.
Be the green grass above me,

With showers and dew-drops wet ;
And if thou wilt, remember 

And if thou wilt, forget.

I shall not see the shadows,
I shall not feel the rain ;
I shall not hear the nightingale,

Sing on as if in pain.
But dreaming through the twilight,

Which doth not rise nor set,
I haply may remember 
And haply may forget."

As she sang, the room, the company, all
faded from her view and from her mind 
all but Randolph. One s! range longing
filled her soul  the loncrinof that she might

indeed lie sleeping and at rest in some
quiet, winds-wept spot, her spirit hovering
free  to see if her husband ever came to
stand beside that grave, to see if he would
in such a case remember  or forget.

For herself Monica, knew well that
remembrance would be her portion. She
never could forget.

There was a wonderful sweetness and
pathos in her voice as she sang. The
listeners held their breath, and sudden
tears started to Beatrice's eyes. When the
last note had died away, Randolph crossed
the room and laid his hand upon his wife's
shoulder. There was a subdued murmur
all through the room, but she only heard
her husband's voice.

That was very sweet, Monica," he said
gently. " I have never heard it before ;

but 3'ou make it sound so unutterably
sad."

She looked up at liii wistfully.

[ think sad songs are always sweetest 
the'' are more like life, at least."

His eyes were very full of tenderness ;
she saw it, and it almost unmanned her.

I am so tired, Randolph ; will you take
me home ? The carriage will not be here,
but it is such a little way. I should like
best to walk."

A very few moments later they were out
in the warm, spring air, under the twinkling
stars. She held his arm closely. Her hand
trembled a little, he fancied. He drew her
light lace wrap more closely round her,
thinking she felt chilled. At this little
mark of thoughtfulness she looked up at
him with a tremulous smile.

I shall miss you when you are gone,
Randolph," she said, softly. " You will
not be long away ? "

His heart beat high, but his words were
very quietly spoken.

"No Monica, only four or five days."

And sou will take care of yourself ?
You will come back safe  you will not get
into any danger ! "

"Why no," he answered with a smile.
"Danger! What are you thinking about,
Monica?"

I don't know. Sometimes my heart is
very heavy. It is heavy to-night. Promise you
will take care of yourself  for my sake."

Randolph did not, after all, go away
quite comfortless.

END or VOL. I.

'-. I ' : '. - '( 

T.;-.'-s:. ->

H 1Rov>eL

BY

EVELYN EVEEETT-GEEEN.

Author of

TORWOOB's Trust," " THE LAST OF THE DACRE?
RUTHYEN OP RUTHVEN," ETC.

7.V Tube VOLUMES.

YOL. ir.

LONDON :

Want) AND DOWNEY,

12, YORK STREET, Covent GARDEN, W.C

1889.

KELLY AND CO., GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS,

AN U KINGSTON-ON-THAMES,

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER THE TWELFTH.

PA Oil

!Mers. Bellamy . I

CHAPTER THE THIRTEENTH.
Randolph's Story 3

CHAPTER THE Fourteenth.
Stor3i and Calm 4

Chapter THE Fifteenth.
A SincMONs TO Trevlyn . 61

CHART EE THE SIXTEENTH.
Changes . .    . i 

CHAPTER THE Seventeenth.
United 101

CHAPTER THE EIGHTEENTH.

A Shadow . .    .1-5

CHAPTER. THE NINETEENTH.
In Scotland . l-

Chapter THE TWENTIETH.

I'AfiK

A Visit to Aetpiur 160

Chapter THE TWENTY-first.
Back at Trevltn 180

CHAPTER THE Twenty-second.
An Enigma 199

CHAPTER THE TWELFTH.

MRS. BELLAMY.

Randolph was gone ; and Monica, left
alone in her luxurious London house, felt
strangely lost and desolate. Her husband
had expressed a wish that she should go
out as much as possible, and not shut herself
up in solitude during his brief absence,
and to do his will was now her great desire.
She would have preferred to remain quietly
at home. She liked best to sit by her fire
upstairs, and make Wilberforce tell her of
Randolph's childhood and boyish days ; his

\) VOL. II. 15

devotion to this widowed mother, his kindness
to herself, all the deeds of youthful
prowess, which an old nurse treasures up
respecting her youthful charges and delights
to repeat in after years. Wilberforce would
talk of Randolph by the hour together if
she were not checked, and Monica felt
singularly little disposition to check her.

However she obeyed her husband in
everything, and took her morning's ride as
usual next day, and was met by Cecilia
Bellamy, who rode beside her, with her
train of cavaliers in attendance, and pitied
the poor darling child who had been
deserted by her husband.

"I am just in the same sad predicament
myself, Monica," she said, plaintively.
My husband has had to go to Paris, all
of a sudden, and I am left alone too. We

must console ourselves together. You must
drive with me to-day ani come to tea, and
I will come to you tomorrow."

Monica tried in vain to beg off; Cecilia only
laughed at her. Monica had not savoirfaire
enough to parry skilful thrusts, nor insincerity
enough to plead engagements that did
not exist. So she was monopolised by Mrs.
Bellamy in her morning's ride, was driven
out in her carriage that same afternoon,
and taken to several houses where her
friend had "just a few words" to say to
the hostess. She was taken back to tea,
and had to meet Conrad, who received
her with great warmth, and had the bad
taste to address her by her Christian name
before a whole roomful of company, and
who ended by insisting on walking home

with her. Yet his manner was so quiet

15*

and courteous, and lie seemed so utterly
unconscious of her disfavour, that she was
half ashamed of it, despite her very real
annoyance.

And the worst of it was that there
seemed no end to the attentions pressed
upon her by the indefatigable Cecilia.
Monica did not know how to escape from
the manifold invitations and visits that
were showered upon her. She seemed
fated to be for ever in the society of Mrs.
Bellamy and her friends. Beatrice Wentworth
and her brother were themselves
out of town ; Randolph was detained longer
than he had at first anticipated, and Monica
found herself drawn in an imperceptible
way  against which she rebelled in vain 
into quite a new set of people and places.

Monica was a mere baby in Cecilia's

hands. She had not the faintest idea of any
malice on the part of her friend. She felt
her attentions oppressive ; she disliked the
constant encounters with Conrad ; but she
tried ia vain to free herself from the
hospitable tyranny of the gay little woman.
She was caught in some inexplicable way,
and without downright rudeness she could
not escape.

As a rule, Conrad was very guarded and
discreet, especially when alone with her.
He often annoyed her by his assumption of
familiarity in presence of others, but he
was humble enough for the most part, and
took no umbrage at her rather pointed
avoidance of him. Lie did not know what
he was trying to do : how he was planning
a subtle revenge upon his enemy her
husband  the husband she was beginning

unconsciously yet very truly to love. She
shrank from him without knowing why,
but the day was rapidly approaching when
her eyes were to be opened.

Her instincts were so true that it was
not easy to deceive her for long. Ignorance
of the world and reluctance to suspect evil
blinded her for a time; but she was to
learn the true nature of her so-called
friends before long.

There had been a small picnic party at
Richmond one day. Monica had tried hard
to excuse herself from attending, but had
been laughed and coaxed into consent. It
mattered the less what she did now, for
her husband was to be at home the following
day, and in the gladness of that thought
she could almost enjoy the sunshine, the
fresh air, the sight of green grass and

waving trees, the country sights and sounds
to which she had so lons been a stranger.

The party, too, was small, and though
Conrad was of the number, he held aloof
from Monica, for which she was glad, for
she had felt an increasing distrust of him
of late. It was an equestrian party, and
the long ride was a pleasure to Monica,
who could have spent a whole day in the
saddle without fatigue.

And then her husband was coming. He
would set all right. She would tell him
everything she had not felt able to do soin
the little brief notes she had written to
him and she would take his advice for
the future, and decline friendship with all
who could not be his friends too. Everything
would be right when Randolph came
back.

Then Monica was glad of an opportunity
of a little quiet talk with Cecilia
Bellamy. The wish for a private interview
with her had been one of the reasons
which had led her to consent to be one
of to-day's party. She had something
on her mind she wished to say to her in
private, and as yet she had found no
opportunity of doing so.

Yet it was not until quite late in the
afternoon that Monica's opportunity came ;
when it did, she availed herself of it at
once. She and her friend were alone in a
quiet part of the park ; nobody was very
near to them.

Cecilia," said Monica, " there is something
I wish to say to you now that we are
alone together. I am very much obliged
to you for being so friendly during my

husband's absence  but  but  it is difficult
to say what I mean  but I think you ought
not to have had your brother so much with
you when you were asking me ; or rather I
think, as he is your brother, whilst I am
only a friend, the best plan would be for
us to agree not to attempt to be very
intimate. We have drifted apart with the
lapse of years, and there are reasons, as
you know, why it is not advisable for me
to see much of your brother. I am sure
you understand me without any more
words."

Oh, perfectly ! " said Mrs. Bellamy with
a light laugh. " Poor child, what an ogre
he is ! Well, at least, we have made the
best of the little time he allowed us."

Monica drew herself up very straight.

*' I do not understand you, Cecilia.

Please to remember that you are speaking
of m}' husband."

Mrs. Bellamy laughed again.

I am in no danger of forgetting, my
dear. Please do not trouble yourself to
put on such old-fashioned airs with me ; as
if every one did not know your secret by
this time."

Monica turned upon her with flashing
eyes.

What secret ? "

The secret of your unhappy marriage,
my love. It was obviously a manage de
convenance from the first, and you take no
pains to disguise the fact that it will never
be anything else. As Randolph Trevlyn is
rather a fascinating man, there is only one
rational interpretation to be put upon your
persistent indifference."

Monica stood as if turned to stone.

What ? "

Why, that your heart was given away
before he appeared on the scene. People
like little pathetic romances, and there is
something in the style of your beauty, my
dear, that makes you an object of interest
wherever you go. You are universally
credited with a ' history ' and a slowly
breaking heart  san equally heart-broken
lover in the background. You can't think
how interested we all are in you 
and "

But the sentence was not finished. Mrs.
Bellamy's perceptions were not fine, but
something in Monica's face deterred her
from permitting her brother's name to pass
her lips. It was easy to see that no
suspicion of his connection with the

romance " concocted for her by gossiping
tongues had ever crossed her mind. But
she was sternly indignant, and wounded to
the quick by what she had heard.

She spoke not a word, but turned
haughtily away and sought for solitude in
the loneliest part of the park. She was
terribly humiliated. She knew nothing of
the inevitable chatter and gossip, half
good-humoured, half mischievous, with
which idle people indulge themselves about
their neighbours, especially if that neighbour
happens to be a beautiful woman, with
an unknown past and an apparent trouble
upon her. She did not know that spite on
Conrad's part, and flighty foolishness on
that of his sister, had started rumours concerning
her. She only felt that she had by
her ingratitude and coolness towards the

husband who had sacrificed so much for
her, and whom she sincerely respected, and
abnost loved, had been the means of bringing
his name and hers within the reach of
malicious tongues, had given rise to cruel
false rumours she hated ever to think of.
If only her husband were with her!  at
least he would soon be with her, and if for
very shame she could not repeat the cruel
words she had heard, at least she could
show to all the world how false and base
they were.

Monica woke up at last to the fact that
it was getting late, and that she was in a
totally strange place, far away from
the rest of the party. She turned
quickly and retraced her steps. She
seldom lost her bearings, and was able to
(hid her way back without difficulty, but

she had strayed farther than she knew ; it
took her some time to reach the glade
in which they had lunched, and when she
arrived there she found it quite deserted.
There was nothing for it but to go back to
the hotel, whither she supposed the others
had preceded her, but when she reached
the courtyard no one was to be seen but
Conrad, who held her horse and his own.

Ah, Monica ! here you are. We
missed you just at starting. Did you lose
yourself in the park ? Nobody seemed to
know what had become of you."

I suppose I walked rather too far.
Where are the rest ? "

Just started five minutes ago. We
only missed you then. I said I'd wait. We
shall catch them up in two minutes."

As this was Mrs. Bellamy's party, and

Conrad was her brother, this mark of
courtesy could not be called excessive, yet
somehow it displeased Monica a good deaL

Where is my groom ? "

Conrad looked round innocently enough.

"I suppose he joined the cavalcade,
stupid fellow ! Stablemen are so very
gregarious. Never mind ; we shall be up
with them directly."

And Monica was forced to mount and
ride after the party with Conrad.

But they did not come up with the
others, despite his assurances, and the fact
that they rode very fast for a considerable
time. He professed himself very much
astonished, and declared that they must
have made a stupid blunder, and have gone
by some other road.

In that case. Sir Conrad," said Monica,

I will dispense with your escort. I am
perfectly well able to take care of myself
alone."

He read her displeasure in her face and
voice. She had an instinct that she had
been tricked, but it was not a suspicion
she could put into words.

Sir Conrad ! " he repeated, with
gentle reproach. "Have I offended you,
Monica ? "

Sir Conrad, it is time we should understand
one another," said Monica, turning
her head towards him. " I made you a
sort of promise once  a promise of friendship
I believe it was. I am not certain
that I ever ought to have given it ; but
after my marriage with a man you hold as
an enemy, it is impossible that I can look
upon you as a true friend. I do not judcre

or condemn you, but I do say that we had
better meet as infrequently as possible, and
then as mere acquaintances. You have
strained your right of friendship, as it is,
by the unwarrantable and persistent use of
my Christian name, which you must have
known was not for you to employ now.
We were playfellows in childhood, I know,
but circumstances alter cases, and our
circumstances have greatly changed. It
must be Sir Conrad and Lady Monica
now between you and me, if ever we
meet in future."

His eyes gleamed with that wild beast
ferocity that lay latent in his nature, but
his voice was well under command.

Your will is law, Lady Monica. It is

hard on me, but you know best. I will

accept any place that you assign me."
VOL. II. 16

She was not disarmed by his humility.
I assign you no place ; and you know
that what I say is not hard. We are not
at Trevlyn now. You know your own
world well; I am only just beginning to
know it. You had no right ever to take
liberties that could give occasion for criticism
or remark."

He looked keenly at her, but she was
evidently quite unconscious of the game he
had tried to play for the amusement of his
little circle. She only spoke in general terms.
"There was a time, Monica,"- he said
gently, " when you cared less what the
world would say."

There was a time, Sir Conrad," she
answered, with quiet dignity, "when I
knew less what the world might say."
Had Monica had the least suspicion of

what her companion had tried to make it
say, she would not now have been riding
with him along the darkening streets,
just as carriages were rolling by carrying
people to dinner or to the theatres.

Twice she had imperatively dismissed
him, but he had absolutely declined to
leave her.

I will not address another word to you
if my presence is distasteful to you," he
said ; " but you are my sister's guest, and
in the absence of her husband I stand in
the place of your host. I will not leave
you to ride home at this late hour alone.
At the risk of incurring your displeasure I
attend you to your own door."

Monica did not protest after that, but

she hardly addressed a single word to her

silent companion.

16*

As she rode up to her own house she
saw that the door stood open. The groom
was there, with his horse. He was in
earnest converse with a tall, broad-shouldered
man, who held a hunting-whip
in his hand, and appeared about to spring
into the saddle.

Monica's heart gave a sudden leap.
Who was that other man standing with
his back to her on the pavement ? He
turned quickly at the sound of her approach
 it was her husband.

He looked at her and her companion in
perfect silence. Conrad took off his hat,
murmured a few incoherent words, and
rode quickly away. Randolph's hand
closed like a vice upon his whip, but he
only gave one glance at the retreating
figure, and then turned quietly to his wife

and helped her to dismount. The groom
took the horse, and without a word from
anyone, husband and wife passed together
into the house. And this was the meeting
to which Monica had looked forward with
so much trembling joy.

-4.kSM

mi:if&

Randolph's Story.

Randolph led his wife upstairs to the
drawing-room, and closed the door behind
them. It was nine o'clock, and the room
was brightly illuminated. Randolph was
in dinner dress, as though he had been
some time at home. His face was pale,
and wore an expression of stern repression
more intense than anything Monica had
ever seen there before. She was
profoundly agitated  agitated most of all
by the feeling that he was near her again ;
the husband that she had pined for without
knowing that she pined. Her agitation

was due to a kind of tumultuous joy more
than to any other feeling, but she hardly
knew this herself, and no one else would
have credited it, from the whiteness of her
face, and the strained look it wore. As a
matter of fact, she was physically and
mentally exhausted. She had gone through
a great deal that day ; she had eaten little,
and that many hours ago ; she was a good
deal prostrated, though hardly aware of ita
state in which nervous tension made
her unusually susceptible of impression ;
and she trembled and shrank before the
displeasure in her husband's proud face.
Would he look like that if he really loved
her ? Ah, no ! no ! She shrank a little
more into herself.

Randolph did not hurry her. He took
off his overcoat leisurely, and laid his

whip down upon the table. He looked
once or twice at her as she sat pale and
wan in the arm-chair whither he had led
her. Then he came and stood before her.

Monica, what have you to say tome
? "

She looked up at him with an expression
in her dark eyes that moved and touched
him. Something of the severity passed
from his face ; he sat down, too, and laid
his hand upon hers.

You poor innocent child," he said
quietly, " I do not even believe you know
that you have done wrong**

I do, Randolph," she answered. " I do
know, but not as you think  I could not
help that. I hated it  I hate him ; but tonight
I could not help myself. Where I
was wrong was in not doing as you asked 

persisting in judging for myself. But how
could I know that people could be so cruel,
so unworthily, so false ? Eandolpli, I should
like to-night to know that I should never
see one of them aijain ! "

She spoke with a passionate energy that
startled him. He had never seen her
excited like this before.

What have they been saying to you ? "
he asked in surprise.

Ah ! don't ask me. It is too hateful !
It was Cecilia. She seemed to think it was
amusing  a capital joke. Ah ! how can
people be so unwomanly, so debased ! "

She put her hands before her eyes, as if
to shut out some hideous image. "Yes,
I will tell you, Randolph  I will. I owe it
to you, because  because  oh, because
there is just enough truth to make it so

terribly bitter. She said that people knew
it was not an ordinary marriage, ours  she
called it a manage de convenance. She
said everybody knew we had not fallen in
love with one another." Monica's hand
was still pressed over her eyes ; she could
not look at her husband. ' * She said I
showed it plainly, that I let every one see.
I never meant to, Randolph, but perhaps I
did. I don't know how to pretend. But
oh, she said people thought it was because
I cared  for some one else  that I had
married you whilst I loved some one else 
and that is all a wicked, wicked lie !
You believe that, Randolph, do you not ? "

She rose up suddenly and he rose too,
and they stood looking into each other's
eyes.

You believe that at least, Randolph ? "

she asked, and wondered at the stern
sorrow visible in every line of his face.

"Yes, Monica, I believe that," he
answered, very quietly ; yet, in spite of all
his yearning tenderness there was still some
sternness in his manner, for he was deeply
moved, and knew that the time had come
when at all costs he must speak out. " I,
too, have heard that false rumour, and have
heard  which I hope you have not  the
name of the man to whom your heart is
supposed to be given. Shall I tell it you ?
His name is Conrad Fitzgerald."

Monica recoiled as if he had struck her,
and put both her hands before her face.
Randolph continued speaking in the same
concise way.

Let me tell you my tale now, Monica.
I left Scotland early this morning, finishing

business twelve hours earlier than I
expected. I wired from Durham to you ;
but you had left the house before my
telegram reached. In the train, during
the last hour of the journey, some young
fellows got in, who were amusing themselves
by idle repetition of current gossip.
I heard my wife's name mentioned more
than once, coupled with that of Sir Conrad
Fitzgerald, in whose company she had
evidently been frequently seen of late. I
reached home  Lady Monica was out for
the day with Mrs. Bellamy  presumably
with Sir Conrad also. I dined at my club,
to hear from more than one source that the
world was gossiping about my handsome
wife and Sir Conrad Fitzgerald. I came
home at dusk to find the groom just
returned, with the news that Sir Conrad

was bringing my lady home, that he was
dismissed from attendance ; and in effect
the man whose acquaintance I repudiate,
whose presence in my house is an insult,
rides up to my door in attendance upon
my wife. Before I say any more, tell me
your story. Monica, let me hear what
you have been doing whilst I have been
away."

Monica, roused to a passionate indignation
by what she heard  an indignation
that for the moment seemed to include the
husband, who had uttered such cruel,
wounding words, told her story with
graphic energy. She was grateful to
Randolph for listening so calmly and so
patiently. She was vaguely aware that not
all men would show such forbearance and
self-control She knew she had wounded

him to the quick by her indiscretion and
self-will, but he gave her every chance to
exculpate herself. When she had told her
story, she stood up very straight before
him. Let him pronounce sentence upon
her; she would bear it patiently if she
could.

I see, Monica," he answered, very
quietly, " I understand. It is not all your
fault. You have only been unguarded.
You have been an innocent victim. It is
Fitzgerald's own false tongue that has seton
foot these idle, baseless rumours. It is
just like him'*

Monica recoiled again.

Just like him ! but, Randolph, he is
my friend ! "

A stern look settled upon Randolph's
face.

Oblige me, Monica, bj withdrawing
that word. He is not your friend ; and he
is my enemy."

Your enemy ? "

Yes ; and this is how he tries to obtain
his revenge."

Monica was trembling in every limb.

I do not understand," she said.

Sit down, then, and I will tell you."

She obeyed, but he did not sit down.
He stood with his back against the
chimney-piece, the light from the chandelier
falling full upon his stern resolute face,
with its handsome features and luminous
dark eyes.

You say you know the story of
Fitzgerald's past ? "

Yes ; he forged a cheque. His sister
told me."

Randolph looked at her intently.

Was that all she told you ? ''

Yes ; she said it was all. He deceived
a friend and benefactor, and committed a
crime. Was not that enough ? "

Not enough for Fitzgerald, it seemed,"
answered Randolph, significantly. " Monica,
I am glad you did not know more, since you
have met that man as a friend. Forgiveness
is beautiful and noble  but there are
limits. I will tell you the whole story, butin
brief. The Colonel Hamilton of whom
you heard in connection with the forgery
was Fitzgerald's best and kindest friend.
He was a friend of my mother's and of
mine. I knew him intimately, and saw a
good deal of his protege at his house and at
Oxford. I did not trust him at any time.
It was no very great surprise when, after a

carefully concealed coarse of vulgar
dissipation, he ended by disgracing himself
in the way you have heard described. It
cut Hamilton to the quick. ' Why did not
the lad come to me if he was in trouble ?
I would have helped him,' he said. He
let me into the secret, for I happened to be
staying with him at the time ; but it was
all hushed up. Fitzgerald was forgiven,
and vowed an eternal gratitude, as well
as a complete reformation in his life."

Did he keep his promise ? " asked
Monica in a whisper.

"You shall hear how," answered Randolph,

with a gathering sternness in

his tone not lost upon Monica. " From

that moment it seemed as if a demon

possessed him. I believe  it is the only

excuse or explanation to be offered  that
VOL. n. 17

there is a taint of insanity in his blood,
and that with him it takes, or took, the
form of an inexplicable hatred towards the
man to whom he owed so much. About
this time, Colonel Hamilton, till then a
bachelor, married a friendless, beautiful
young wife, to whom in his very quiet and
undemonstrative way he was deeply and
passionately attached, as she was to him.
But she was very young and very inexperienced,
and when that man, with his
smooth false tongue, set himself to poison
her life by filling her mind with doubts of
her husband's love, he succeeded but too
well. She spoke no word of what she
suffered, but withdrew herself in her morbid
jealous distress. She broke the faithful
heart that loved her, and she broke her own
too. It sounds a wild and foolish tale, perhaps,

to one who does not understand the
mysteries of a passionate love such as that ;
but it is all too true. I had been absent
from England for some time, but came
home, all unconscious of what had happened,
to find my friend Hamilton in terrible grief.
His young wife lay dying  dying of a rapid
decline, brought on, it was said, by mental
distress ; and worse than all,she could not endure
lier husband's presence in the room, but
shrank from him with inconceivable terror
and excitement. He was utterly broken
down by distress. He begged me to see
her, and to learn if I could, the cause of
this miserable alteration. I did see her.
1 did get her to tell her story. I heard
what Conrad Fitzgerald had done ; and
I was able, I am thankful to say, to

relieve her mind of its terrible fear, and

17*

to bring her husband to her before the
end had come. She died in his arms,
happy at the last ; but she died ; and
he, in this broken-hearted misery for her
loss, and for the treachery of one he
had loved almost as a son, did not survive
her for long. Within six months,
my true, brave friend followed her to the
grave.

I was with him to the end. I need
hardly say that Fitzgerald did not attempt
to come near him. He was plunged in a
round of riotous dissipation. Upon the day
following the funeral, I chanced to come
upon him, surrounded by a select following
of his boon companions. Can I bring
myself to tell you what he was saying
before he knew that I was within earshot ?
I need not repeat his words, Monica : they

are not fit for your ears. Suffice it to say-that
he was passing brutal jests upon the
man who had just been laid in his grave,
and upon the young wife whose heart had
been broken by his own base and cruel
slanders. Coupled with these jests were
disgraceful boastings, as unmanly and false
as the lips that uttered them.

I had in my hand a heavy riding-whip.
I took him by the collar, and I made him
recant each one of those cruel slanders he
had uttered, and confess himself a liar and
a villain. I administered, then and there,
such a chastisement as I hope never to
have to administer to any man again. No
one interposed between us. I think even
his chosen companions felt that he was receiving
no more than his due. I thrashed
him like the miserable hound he was. If it

had been possible, I would Lave called liii
out and shot him like a dog''

Randolph's voice had not risen whilst he
was speaking. He was very calm and composed
as he told his story ; there was no
excitement in his manner, and yet his quiet,
quivering wrath thrilled Monica more than
the fiercest invective could have done.

"My whip broke at last. I flung him
from me, and he lay writhing on the floor.
But he was not past speech, and he had
energy left still to curse me to my face, and
to vow upon me a terrible vengeance, which
should follow rae all my life. He is trying
now to keep this vow. History repeats
itself you know. He ruined the happiness
of one life, and brought about this tragedy
by poisoning the mind of a wife, and setting
her against her husband ; and I presume

he thinks that experiment was successful
enough to be worth repeating. There,
Monica, I have said my say. You have
now before you a circumstantial history of
the past life of Sir Conrad Fitzgerald 
your friend."

(S S)

4l

Storm AND CALM.

Monica sat with her face buried in her
hands, her whole frame quivering with
emotion. Those last words of her husband's
smote her almost like a blow. She
deserved them, no doubt ; set they were
cruel, coming like that. He could not
have spoken so if he loved her. He would
not stand coldly aloof whilst she suffered, if
he held her really dear. And jet, once he
had almost seemed to love her, till she had
alienated him by her pride and self-\ilL It
was just, she admitted, yet, oh ! it was
very hard !

She sat, crushed and confounded, for a
time, and it was only by a great effort that
she spoke at all.

I did not know, Randolph ; I did not
know. You should have told me before."

I believed you did know. You told me
that you did."

Not that. Did you think I could know
that and treat him as a friend ? Oh, Randolph
! how could you ? You ought to
have told me before."

"Perhaps I ought," he said. "But
remember, Monica, I spoke out very
plainly, and still you insisted that he was,
and should continue to be, your friend 
.sour repentant friend."

Monica raised her eyes to her husband's
face, full of a sort of mute reproach. She
felt that she merited the rebuke that he

might have said much more without being
really harsh  and yet it was very hard, in
this hour of their re-union, to have to hear,
from lips that had never uttered till then
anything but words of gentleness and love,
these reproofs and strictures on her conduct.
She saw that he was moved : that
there was a repressed agitation and excitement
in his whole manner ; but she
could not guess how deeply he had been
roused and stirred by the careless jests
he had heard passed that day, nor how
burning an indignation he felt towards
the man who had plotted to ruin his
happiness.

You should not have left me, Randolph,"
said Monica, "if you could not
trust me."

He went up to her quietly, and took her

hands. She stood up, looking straight into
his eyes.

I did trust you  I do trust you," he
answered, with subdued impetuosity. " Can
I look into your face and harbour one
doubt of your goodness and truth ? I trust
you implicitly ; it is your judgment, not
your heart, that has been at fault."

She looked up gratefully, and drew one
step nearer.

And now that you have come back, all
will be right again," she said. " Randolph,
I wall never speak to that man again."

His face was stern ; it wore a look she
did not understand.

I am not sure of that," he answered,
speaking with peculiar incisiveness. "It
may be best that you should speak to him
again."

She looked up, bewildered.

Randolph, why do you say that ?
Do you think that, after all, he has repented
? "

Randolph's face expressed an unutterable
scorn. She read the meaning of that
glance, and answered it as if it had been
expressed in words.

Randolph, do you believe for a moment
that I would permit any one to speak ill
of you to me ? Am I not your wife ? "

His face softened as he looked at her,
but there was a good deal of sadness there,
too.

I do not believe you would deliberately
listen to such words from him ; but are
not poisoned shafts launched sometimes
that strike home and rankle ? Has no
one ever come between you and me, since

the day 3011 gave yourself to me in

marriage

He saw her hesitation, and a great sadness
came into his eyes. How near she
was and yet how far ! His heart ached
for her in her loneliness and isolation, and
it ached for himself too.

Monica broke the silence first.

Randolph," she said timidly ; " no
harm has been done to you, really ? He
cannot hurt you ; can he ? "

His face was stern as he answered her.

He will hurt me if he can  through
my wife. His threat is still unfulfilled ;
but he knows where to plant a blow, how
to strike in the dark. Yes, Monica, he has
hurt me."

She drew back a pace."

How ? "

It hurts me to know that idle gossip
connects my wife's name with his  that he
has the credit of being a lover, discarded
only from motives of policy. I know that
there is not a syllable of truth in these
reports  that they have been set afloat by
his malicious tongue. Nevertheless, they
hurt me. They hurt me the more because
my wife has given some countenance to
such rumours, by permitting a certain
amount of intimacy with a man whom
her husband, will not receive."

Monica was white to the lips. She
understood now, as she had never done
before, what Cecilia Bellamy had meant by
her flighty speeches a few hours before.
They had disgusted and offended her then,
now they appeared like absolute insults.
Randolph saw the stricken look upon her

face, and knew that she was cut to the
quick.

Monica," he said, more gently, ' what
has been done can be undone by a little
patience and self-control. We need not
be afraid of a man like Sir Conrad. I have
known him and his ways long. He has
tried before to injure me without success.
He has tried in a more subtle way this time ;
yet again I say, most emphatically', that he
has failed."

But Monica hardly heard. She was torn
by the tumult of her shame and distress.

'' Randolph ! " she exclaimed, stretching
out her hands towards him : " Randolph,
take me home ! oh ! take me home, out of
this cruel, cruel, wicked world ! I cannot
live here. It kills me ; it stifles the very
life out of me ! I am so miserable, so

48 . MONICA.

desolate here ! It is all so hard, and so
terrible ! Take me home ! Ah ! I was
happy once ! "

"I will take you to Trevlyn, Monica,
believe me, as soon as ever I can ; but
it cannot be just yet. Shall I tell you
why ? "

She recoiled from him once more, putting
up her hand with that instinctive gesture of
distress.

You are very cruel to me Randolph,"
she said, with the sharpness of keen misery
in her voice.

He stood quite still, looking at her,
and then continued in the same quiet
way:

Shall I tell you why ? I cannot take
you away until we have been seen together
as before. T shall go with you to some of

those houses you have visited without me.

We must be seen riding and driving,

and going about as if nothing whatever

had occurred during my absence. If we

meet Fitzgerald, there must be nothing in

your manner or in mine to indicate that

he is otherwise than absolutely indifferent

to us. I dare say he will put himself in

your way. He would like to force upon

me the part of the jealous, distrustful

husband, but it is a role I decline to play

at his bidding. I am not jealous, nor am

I distrustful, and he and all the world

shall see that this is so. If I take you

away now, Monica, I shall give occasion

for people to say that I am afraid to trust

my wife in any place where she may meet

Fitzgerald. Let us stay where we are, and

io-more the foolish rumours he has circus
ir. IS

lated, and we shall soon see them drop into
deserved oblivion."

"Randolph, I cannot ! I cannot ! " cried
Monica, who was now overwrought and
agitated to the verge of exhaustion ; "I
cannot stay here. I cannot go amongst
those who have dared to say such things,
to believe such things of me. What does
it matter what they think, when wee are
far away ? Take me back to Trevlyn, and
let us forget it all. Let me go, if only
for a week. I have never asked you
anything before. Oh! Randolph, do not
be so hard! Say that you will take me
home ! "

' If I loved you less, Monica," he
answered, in a very low, gentle tone, " I
should say yes. As it is, I say no. I
cannot take you to Trevlyn yet."

She turned away then, and left him
without a word, passing slowly through
the brilliantly-lighted room, and up the
wide staircase. Randolph sat down and
rested his head upon his hand, and a long-drawn
sigh rose up from the very depths
of his heart. This interview had tried him
quite as much as it had done Monica 
possibly even more.

Perhaps, after all, Fitzgerald has
revenged himself," he muttered, '' though
not in a way he anticipated. Ah, Monica !
my fair young wife, why cannot you trust
me a little more ? "

Monica trusted him far more than he

knew. It was not in anger that she had left

him. In the depth of her heart she believed

that he had judged wisely and well ; it was

only the wave of home-sickness sweeping

]8*

WMiVtRSITY OF f{LfN0!9

over her that had urged her to such

passionate pleading. And then his strong,

inflexible firmness gave her a curious sense

of rest and confidence. She herself was so

torn and rent by conflicting emotions, by

bewilderment and uncertainty, that his

resolute determination and singleness of

purpose were as a rock and tower of

defence. She had called him cruel in the

keen disappointment of the moment, but

she knew he was not really so. Home-sick,

aching for Trevlyn as she was  irrepressibly

as she shrank from the idea of facing those

to whom she had given cause to say that

she did not love her husband, she felt that

his decision was right. It might be hard,

but it was necessary, and she would go

through her part unflinchingly for his sake.

It was the least that she could do to make

amends for the unconscious wrong lie had
done him.

She felt humbled to the very dust,
utterly distrustful of herself, and quite
unworthy of the gentleness and forbearance
her husband showed towards her.
How much he must be disappointed in her !
How hard he must feel it to have married
her out of kindness, and to be treated
thus !

She was very quiet and submissive
during the days that followed, doing everything
he suggested, studying in all things
to please him, and to make up for the past.
In society she was more bright and less
silent than she had been heretofore. She
was determined not to appear unhappy.
No one should in future have cause to
say that her present life was not congenial

to her. Certainly, if anyone took the
trouble to watch her now, it would easily
be seen that she was no longer indifferent
to her husband. Her eyes often followed
him about when he was absent from her
side. She always seemed to know where
he was, and to turn to him with a sort of
instinctive welcome when he came back
to her. This clinging to him was quite
unconscious, the natural result of her confidence
in his strength and protecting care ;
but it was visible to one pair of keenly
jealous eyes, and Conrad Fitzgerald, when
he occasionally found himself in company
with Randolph and his wife, watched with
a sense of based malevolence the failure of
his carefully-planned scheme.

People began to talk now of the devotion
of Mr. Trevlyn and Lady Monica with as

much readiness and carelessness as they
had done about their visible estrangement.
It takes very little to set idle tongues
wagging, and every one admired the bride
and liked the bridegroom, so that the good
opinion of the world was not difficult to
remain.

But Monica's peace of mind was less
easily recovered. At home she was grave
and sad, and he thought her cold ; and the
full and entire reconciliation  of which, indeed,
at that time she would have felt quite
unworthy  was not to be yet. Each was
conscious of deep love on his or her own
side, but could not read the heart of the
other, and feared to break the existing
calm by any attempt to ruffle the surface of
the waters.

They were not very much alone, for

Lord Had don and his sister spent many-evenings
with them when they were not
otherwise engaged, and the intimacy between
the two houses increased rapidly.

Monica had never again alluded to the
prospective return to Trevlyn  the half-promise
made by Randolph to take her
back soon. She did not know what
soon " might mean, and she did not ask.
She had grown content now to leave that
question in his hands.

Once, when in the after-dinner twilight,
she had been talking to Beatrice of her old
home, the latter said, with eager vehemence
:

"How you must long to see it again!
How you must ache to be out of this
tumult, and back with sour beloved sea
and cliffs and pine-woods ! Don't you

hate our noisy, busy London ? Don't you
pine to go back ? "

Monica was silent, pondering, as it
seemed. She was thinking deeply. When
she answered out of the fulness of her
heart, her words startled even herself.

'' I don't think I do. I missed the quiet
and rest at first, but, you see, my husband
is here ; I do not pine when I have him."

Beatrice's eyes grew suddenly wistful.
Ah, no ! " she answered. " I can understand
that."

But after a long silence she ralHed herself
and asked :

But is he not going to take you back ?
Do you not want to see your father and
brother again ? "

Yes, if Randolph is willing to take me ;
but it must be as he likes."

He will like what will please you
best."

Monica smiled a little.

*' No ; he will like what is best, and I
shall like it too."

Beatrice studied her face intently.

Do you know, Monica, that you have
changed since I saw you first ? "

Monica passed her hand across her brow.
"What a long time it seemed since that first
meeting in the park I

Have I ? "
" Yes. Do you know I used to have a
silly fancy that you did not much care for
Randolph ? It was absurd and impertinent,
I know ; but Haddon had brought
such a strange account of your sudden
wedding, called jou the ' snow bride,' and
had somehow got an idea that it had all

been rather cold and sad  forgetting, of
course, that the sadness was on account of
your father's health. I suppose I got a
preconceived idea ; and do you know,
when first I knew you I used to think of
you as the ' snow bride,' and fancy you
very cold to everyone especially to Randolph
; and now that I see more of you
and know you better, it is just as plain
that you love him with all your heart and
soul,"

Monica sat quite still in the darkness,
turning about the ring upon her finger 
the pledge of his wedded love. She was
startled at hearing put into plain words the
secret thought treasured deep down in her
heart, but seldom looked into or analysed.
Had it come to that ? Did lie indeed
love him thus ? Was that the reason

she yielded up herself and her future
so trustfully and willingly to him? the
reason that she no longer yearned after
Trevlyn as home, so long as he was
at her side ? Yes, that was surely it.
Beatrice had spoken no more than the
truth in what she said. She did love her
husband heart and soul ; but did he love
her too ? There lay the sting  she had
proved unworthy of him : he must know
it and feel it. She had been near to winning
his heart ; but alas ! she had not won
it  and now, now perhaps it was too late.
And yet the full truth was like a ray of
sunshine in her heart. Might she not yet
win his love by the depth and tenderness
of her own ? Something deep down within
her said that the land of promise lay, after
all, not so very far away.

A SUMMONS TO Trevelyan.

Eandolpli ! Eandolpli ! Why did you
not take me home when I bef-o-ed so hard
to go ? It was cruel ! cruel ! And now it
is too late ! "

This irrepressiblecry of anguish burst
from Monica in the first moments of a
terrible, overmastering grief. An open
telegram in Randolph's hand announced
the sudden death of Lord Trevlyn. He
had just broken to his wife, with as much
gentleness as he could, the news of this
crushing sorrow. It was hardly unnatural
that she should remember, in such a

moment, how eloquently lie had pleaded a
few weeks back to be taken home to
Trevlyn, yet she repented the words before
they had passed her lips, for she saw they
had hurt her husband.

He was deeply grieved for her, his heart
yearned over her, but his words were
few.

Can you be ready to start, Monica, by
the noon express ? "

She bent her head in a silent assent,
and moved away as one who walks in a
dream.

Poor child ! " he said softly, " poor
child ! If only my love could make up to
you for what you have lost ; but alas ! that
is not what you want."

It was a strange, sad, silent journey,
almost as sad as the one in which Randolph

ha 1 brought his bride to London. He was
taking her back at last to her childhood's
home. Was he any nearer to her innermost
self than he had been that day, now
nearly three months ago ?

He was hopeful that he had made an
advance, and yet this sudden recall to
Trevlyn disconcerted him. Apart from the
question of the earl's death, there was
another trouble, he believed, hanofincr over
Monica's future. Tom Pendrill had been
profiting b}" her absence to " experiment,"
as she would have called it, upon Arthur,
with results that had surprised even him,
though he had always believed the case
curable if properly treated. Randolph had
had nothing to do directly with the
matter, but Tom had written lately, asking
him to find out the best authorities on

spinal injuries, and get some one or two
specialists to come and have a look at
the boy. This Randolph had done at his
own expense, and with the result, as he
had heard a few days back, that Arthur
was to be sent abroad for a year, to be
under a German doctor, whose cures of
similar cases had been bringing him into
marked repute.

Monica had been, by Arthur's special
wish, kept in ignorance of everything. He
was eagerly anxious, even at the cost of

considerable suffering, to submit to the
prescribed treatment, feeling how much
good he had already received from Tom's
more severe remedies ; but he knew how
Monica shrank from the idea of anything
that could give him pain, how terrible she
would consider the idea of parting, how

vehemently she would struggle to thwart
the proposed plan. So he had begged that
she might be kept in ignorance till all was
finally settled. Indeed, he had some idea,
not entirely discouraged by Tom, of
getting himself quietly removed to Germ

in her absence, so that she might be

spared all the anxiety, misery, and

suspense.

Randolph could hardly have been

acquitted of participation in the scheme,

the whole cost of which was to fall upon

him, and he wondered what Monica might

think of his share in it. It had been no

doinfj of his that she had not been told

from the first. He had urged upon the

others the unfairness of keeping her in the

dark ; but Arthur's vehement wish for

secrecy had won the day, and he had held
voi. IT. 1

this peace until lie should be permitted to
speak.

And now, what would happen ? What
was likely to be the result upon Monica of
the inevitable disclosure ? Would it not
seem to her as if the first act of her
husband, on succeeding to the family estate,
was to banish from it the one being for
whom she had so often bespoken his
protection and brotherly care ? Might she
not fancy that he was in some way the
originator of the scheme ? Miofht she not
be acute enough to see that but for Lin it
never could have been carried out, owing
to lack of necessary funds? Her father
might have approved it, but he could
not have forwarded it as Randolph was
able to do. Might it not seem to her that
he was trying to rid himself of an

unwelcome burden, and to isolate this wife

from all whom she loved best ? He could

not forget some of the words she had

spoken not very long after their marriage.

Practically those words had been rescinded

by what had followed, but that could

hardly be so in this case. Monica's heart

clung round Arthur with a passionate,

yearning tenderness, that was one of the

main-springs of her existence. What would

she say to those who had banded together

to take the boy from her ?

Randolph's pre-occupation and gravity

were not lost upon Monica, but she had no

clue to their real cause. She felt that

there was something in it of which she was

ignorant, and there was a sort of sadness

and constraint even in the suspicion of

such a thing. She was unnerved and

19*

miserable, and, although she well knew
she had not merited her husband's full
confidence, it hurt her keenly to feel that it
was withheld from her.

Evening came on, a wild, melancholy-stormy
evening  is there anything more
sad and dreary than a midsummer storm?
It does not come with the wild, resistless
might of a winter tempest, sweeping
triumphantly along, carrying all before it
in the exuberance of its power. It is a
sad, subdued, moaning creature, full of
eerie sounds of wailing and regret, not
wrapped in darkness, but cloaked in misty
twilight, grey and ghostlike  a pale,
sorrowful, mysterious thing, that seems to
know itself altogether out of place, and
is haunted by its own melancholy and
dreariness.

It was in the fast waning light of such a
summer's evening that the portals of
Trevlyn opened to welcome Monica again.

She was in the old familiar hall that once
had been so dear to her  the place whose
stern, grim desolation had held such charms
for her. Why did she now gaze round her
with dilated eyes, a sort of horror growing
upon her ? Why did she cling to her
husband's arm so closely, as the frowning
suits of mail and black carved faces stared
at her out of the dusky darkness ? Why
was her first exclamation one of terror and
dismay ?

Randolph ! Randolph ! This is not
Trevlyn ! It cannot be Trevlyn ! Take me
home ! ah, take me home ! "

There was a catch in her breath ; she
was shaken with nervous agitation and

exhaustion. It seemed to her that this
ghostly place was altogether strange and
terrible. She did not know that the change
was in herself ; she thought it was in her
surroundings.

"What have they done to it? What
have they done to Trevlyn ? This is not
my old home ! "

Randolph took her in his arms, alarmed
by her pale looks and manifest disquietude.


"Not know your own old home, Monica? "
he said, half gravely, half playfully. " This
is the only Trevlyn I have ever known.
It is you that have half forgotten, you
have grown used to something so very
different."

Monica looked timidly about her, half
convinced, yet not relieved of all her

haunting fears. What a strange, vast,
silent place it was ! Voices echoed
strangely in it, resounding as it were from
remote corners. Footsteps sounded hollow
and strange as they came and went along
the deserted passages. The staircase
stretched upwards into blank darkness,
suggesting lurking horrors. All was
intensely desolate. Was this truly the
home she had loved so well ?

But Lady Diana appeared from one
direction, and Tom Pendrill from another.
Monica dropped her husband's arm and
stood up, her calm, quiet self again.

Food was awaiting the travellers, and
as they partook, or tried to partake of it,
they heard all such particulars of the earl's
sudden death as there were to hear. He
had been as well as usual ; indeed, during

the past week he had really appeared to
gain in strength and activity. He had
been out of doors on all line days, and only
yesterday had sat out for quite a long time
upon the terrace. lie had gone to bed
apparently in his usual health ; but when
his man had gone to him in the morning
he found him dead and cold. Tom
Pendrill had come over at once, and had
remained for the days relieving Lady Diana
from all trouble in looking after things,
and thinking what was to be done. It was
his opinion that the earl had died in his
sleep, without a moment's premonition.
It was syncope of the heart, and was most
likely almost instantaneous. There had
been no struggle and no pain, as was
evident from his restful attitude and
expression.

The next days passed sadly and lieavih%
and the earl was laid to rest amongst his
forefathers in the family vault. Lady-diana
took her departure, glad, after the
strain and sorrow of the past days, to
escape from surroundings so gloomy, and
to solace herself for her long stay at
Trevlyn, by a retreat to an atmosphere
more congenial to her.

Monica was glad to see her go. She
shrank from her sharp words and sharper
looks. She longed to be alone with her
husband, that she might try to win back
his heart by her own deep love that she
hid away so well.

But it was not easy even then to say
what was in her heart. Randolph was
busy from morning till night over the
necessary business that must ensue upon

the death of a landed proprietor. Tom
Pendrill, who had been much with the
earl of late, remained to assist his successor;
and both the men seemed to take it for
granted that Monica would gladly be
spared all business discussions, and devote
herself to Arthur, from whom she had so
long been separated.

Monica, very gentle and submissive,
accepted the office bestowed upon her, and
quietly bided her time. Despite the loss
she had just sustained, she was not
unhappy. How could she be unhappy
when she had her husband ? when she felt
that every day they were drawing nearer
and nearer together ? She looked wistfully
into his face sometimes, and saw the old
proud, tender look shining upon her,
thrilling her with wonderful gladness.

Some little shadow still hung over them,
but it was rolling slowly away  the dawn
was breaking in its golden glory  the time
was drawing very near when each was to
know the heart of the other wholly and
entirely won.

She never shrank from hearing the new
Lord Trevlyn called by his title ; but looked
at him proudly and tenderly, feeling how
well he bore the dignity, how nobly he
would fulfil the duties now devolving upon
him. She watched him day by day with
quiet, loving solicitude. She saw his care
for her in each act or plan, knew that he
thought for her still, made her his
first object, although she had disappointed
him so grievously once. Her heart
throbbed with joy to feel that this was so ;
the sunshine deepened round her path day

by day. Just a little patience  just a
little time to show him that the old distrust
and insubordination were over, and
he would give to her  she felt sure of it
now  the love she prized above all else
on earth.

Monica's face might be pale and grave
in these days, yet it wore an added sweetness
as each passed by, for her heart was
full of strange new joy. She loved her
husband  he loved her  their hearts were
all but united.

-'s'Yfo"

CHANGES.

Arthur ! "

Aha ! my lady ! you did not expect
that, did you ? Now look here ! "

Arthur, who was sitting up in an armchair
 a thing Monica had never seen him
do since that terrible fall from the chfTs
years ago  now pulled himself slowly into
a standing position, and by the help of a
stout stick, shuffled a few paces to his
couch, upon which he sank breathless,
yet triumphant, though his drawn brow
betrayed that the achievement was made
at the cost of some physical pain.

"Arthur, don't! You will kill yourself
! "

'' On the contrary, I am going to cure
myself  or rather, Tom and his scientific
friends are going to cure me," answered
Arthur, panting a little with the exertion,
but very gay and confident. " Do you
know, Monica, that for the last three
months I have been at Tom's tender
mercies, and you see what I can do at the
end of that time ? Randolph paid no end
of money, I believe, to send down two big
swells from London to overhaul me ; and
now  now what do you think is joiner to
happen?"

"What?"

The day after tomorrow I am going to
start for Germany  for a place where there
are mineral springs and things ; and I am

going to stay there for a year, with a doctor
who has cured people worse than me.
Randolph is going to pay  isn't he just
awfully good? And in a year, Monica,
I shall come back to you well  cured !
What do you think of that ? Haven't we
kept our secret well ? Why, Monica,
don't look like that ! Aren't you pleased
to think that I shall not be always a
cripple ? "

But Monica was too utterly astounded
to be able to realise all at once what this
meant.

'' Arthur, I don't understand," she said
at length. "You seeing doctors  you
going to Germany! Whose doing is it
all ? "

*' Whose? Randolph's practically, I suppose,
since he finds the money for it."

Why was not I told ? "

"That was my doing. I felt that if
you knew you would dissuade me. But
you can't now, for in two days I shall begone
! "

Was Randolph willing to keep a secret
from me  about you ? " asked Monica,
slowly.

No, he didn't like it. He wanted you
to be told ; but I wouldn't have it, and he
gave in. I wanted to tell you myself when
everything was fixed. Can ou believe I
am really going ? "

No, I can't. Do you want to go, Arthur
to leave Trevlyn ? "

I want to get well'* he answered,
eagerly. " If you had been lying on your
back for years, Monica, you would understand."


I do understand," answered Monica,
clasping her hands. " Only  only "

Oh ! yes, I know all that. It won't
be pleasant. But I'd do more for a good
chance of getting well. So now it's all
settled, and I'm off the day after tomorrow
! "

You've not given me much time for
my preparations."

Arthur laughed outright.

Oh, you're not going  did you think

you were ? Why, you're Lady Trevlyn

now a full-blown countess. It would be

too absurd, your tying yourself to me.

Besides "  with a touch of manly gravity

and purpose  " I wouldn't have you,

Monica, not at any price. I can stand

things myself, but I can't stand the lookin

your eyes. Besides, you know, it would
VOL. II. 20

be absurd nowquite absurd. You're
married, you know, and that changes
everything."

Monica's face was hard to read.

"I should have thought that, even
married, I might have been allowed to see
you placed safely in the hands of this new
doctor, after having been almost your only
nurse all these years."

He stretched out his hand and drew her
towards him, making her kneel down
beside him, so that he could gaze right
into her face.

You must not look like that, you
sweet, sensitive, silly sister," said Arthur,
caressingly. " You must not think I have
changed, because I wish to go away, and
because I will not have you with me. I
love 3 ou the same as ever. I know that

you love me, and if you want a proof of
this you shall have it, for I am going to
ask a favour of you  a very great
favour."

Monica smoothed his hair with her
hand.

' A favour, Arthur ?  Something that I
can grant ? You know you have only to
ask."

"I want you to lend me Randolph," hs

said, with a little laugh, as if amused at

the form of words he had chosen. " I

want to know if you can spare him for the

journey. Tom is going to take me, but
somehow, Tom  well, he is very clever and

kind, but he does hurt me, there's no denying,

and I don't feel quite resigned to be

entirely at his mercy. But Randolph is

different. He is so very strong, he moves

20*

me twice as easily, and he is so awfully
kind and gentle : he stops in a moment if
he thinks it hurts. He has been here a
good bit with Tom since he got back, and
you can't think how different his handling
is. I don't like to take him away from
you. You must miss him so awfully : he
is such a splendid fellow ! "

Have you said anything to Randolph
about it ? "

Oh, no. I couldn't till I'd asked you.
I do feel horrid to sucriest such a thin 
but you've made me selfish, you know, by
spoiling me. It will take us three days
to go ; but he could come back much
quicker. Tom is going to stop on for a
bit, to study cures with this old fogey ; so
I shall have somebody with me. I'll not
keep Randolph a day after I get landed

there, but I should like him for the
journey uncommonly."

Monica stooped and kissed him. " I
will arrange that for you," she said,
quietly, and went away without another
word.

She went slowly downstairs to the study,
where her husband was generally to be
found. She was dazed and confused by
the astounding piece of news she had
heard : hurt, pleased, hopeful, grieved,
anxious, and half indignant all in one.
Her indignation was all for Tom Pendrill,
whom she had always regarded, where
Arthur was concerned, something in the
light of a natural foe. For her husband's
quiet generosity and goodness she had
nothing bat the warmest gratitude. He
would not be led away by professional

enthusiasm, or wish to inflict suffering upon
Arthur just for the sake of scientific
inquiry. He would not wish to send him
from Trevlyn unless he believed that some
great benefit would result from that
banishment.

She smiled proudly as she thought of
Conrad's old prediction fulfilling itself so
exactly now. Once she would have felt
this deed of his as a crushing blow, aimed
at the very foundation of her love and
happiness ; now she only saw in it a new
proof of her husband's single-minded love
and strength. He would do even that
which he knew would cause present pain,
if he felt assured it were best to do so. He
had proved his strength like this before,
and she knew that he had been in the right.
Should she distrust him now ? Never

again ! never again ! She had done with
distrust now. She loved him too truly to
feel a shadow of doubt. Whatever he did
must be true and right. She would find
him now, and thank him for his goodness
towards her boy.

She went straight to the study, full of
this idea. Her eyes were shining
strangely ; her face showed that her feelings
had been deeply stirred. But when she
opened the door, she paused with a start
expressive of slight discomfiture, for her
husband was not alone  Tom Pendrill was
with him. They had guide-books and a
Continental Bradshaw open before them,
and were deep in discussions and plans.

They looked up quickly as Monica
appeared, and Randolph, seeing by her
face that she knew all, nerved himself to

meet displeasure and misunderstanding.
Monica could not say now what she had
rehearsed on the way. Tom was there,
and she was not sure that she quite forgave
him, although she believed he acted
from motives of kindness ; but certainly
she could not speak out before him. The
words she had come prepared to utter died
away on her lips, and her silence and whole
attitude looked significant of deep-lying
distress and displeasure.

"You have heard the news, Monica?"
said Tom, easily.

"Yes, I have heard the news," she
answered, very quietly. " Is it true that you
take him away the day after tomorrow ? "

Quite true," answered Tom, looking
very steadily at her. " Do you forgive us,
Monica ? "

She was silent for a moment ; sort of
quiver passed over her face.

I am not quite sure if I forgive soit,'
she answered in a low even tone.

She had not looked at her husband all
this time, nor attempted to speak to him.
She was labouring visibly under the stress
of subdued emotion. Randolph believed he
knew only too well the struggle that was
going on within her.

Monica," he said  and his voice
sounded almost cold in his effort to keep
it thoroughly under control  " I am afraid
this has been a shock to you. I am sure
you will feel it very much. Will you try
to believe that we are acting as we believe
for the best as regards Arthur's future,
and pardon the mystery that has surrounded
our proceedings ? "

Monica gave him one quick look  so
quick and transient that he could not
catch the secret it revealed. She spoke
very quietly.

"Everything has been settled, and I
must accept the judgment of others.
Results alone can quite reconcile me to
the idea ; but at least I have learned to
know that I do not always judge best
in difficult questions. Arthur wishes to
go, and I will not stand in his way.
There is only one thing that I want to
ask," and she looked straight at her
husband.

What is that, Monica ? "

I want you to go with him,
Randolph."

You want me to go with him ? "

Yes, to settle him in his new quarters,

and to come and tell me all about it, and
how he has borne the journey. Tom will
not be back for weeks and I don't know
if I quite trust Tom's truthfulness. Will
you go too, Randolph ? I shall be happier
if I know he is in your keeping as well."

He looked at her earnestly. Did she
wish to get rid of him for a time ? Was
his presence distasteful to her after this last
act of his ? He could not tell, but his
heart was heavy as he gave the required
assent.

I will do as you wish, Monica. If you
do not mind being a few days alone at
Trevlyn, I will go with Arthur. It is the
least I can do, I suppose, after taking him
away from you."

"Thank you, Randolph," she said, with
one more of those inexplicable glances.

I need not be alone at Trevlyn. Aunt
Elizabeth will come, I am sure, and stay
with me ; " and she went quietly away
without another word.

I say, Trevlyn, you have tamed my
lady pretty considerably," remarked Tom,
when the men were alone together. " I
expected no end of a shine when she found
out, and she yields the point like a lamb.
Seems to me you've cast a pretty good spell
over her during the short time you've had
her in hand."

Randolph pulled thoughtfully at his
moustache as he turned again to the papers
on the table. He did not reply directly to
Tom's remark, but presently observed,
rather as if it were the outcome of his own
thoughts :

All the same, I would give a good

deal if one of my first acts after compile'
into the property were not to banish
Arthur from Trevlyn for a considerable
and indeterminate time."

Oh, bosh ! " ejaculated Tom, taking
up Bradshaw again. " Why, even Monica
would never put a construction like that
upon this business."

This day and the next Hew by as if on
winces. There was so much to think of,
so much to do, and Monica had Arthur so
much upon her mind, that she found
no opportunity to say to Randolph what
she had purposed doing in the heat
of the moment. Speech was still an
effort to her : her reserve was too deep
to be easily overcome. She was busy
and he was pre-occupied. When he returned
she would tell him all, and thank

him for his generous goodness towards her
boy.

Monica," said Arthur, as she came to
bid him good-night upon the eve of his
journey  he had had a soothing draught
administered, and was no longer excited,
but quiet and drowsy  "Monica, you will
be quite happy, will you not, with only
Randolph now ? You love him very much,
don't you ? "

She bent her head ana Wssed him.

Yes, Arthur," she answered, softly.
I love him with all my heart."

Just as he loves you," murmured
Arthur. " I can see it in his face, in
every tone of his voice, especially when he
talks of you  which is pretty nearly always
we both like it so much. I am so glad
you feel just ths same. I thought you

did. I shall like to think about you so 
how happy you will be ! "

The next day after Arthur had-been
placed in the carriage that was to take
him away from Trevlyn, and Monica had
said her last adieu to him, and had turned
away with pale face and quivering lips,
she felt her hands taken in her husband's
strong warm clasp.

Monica," he said tenderly, *' good-bye.
I will take every care of him. You shall
hear everything, and shall not regret, if I
can help it, trusting him to me." *

Monica looked up suddenly into his face,
and put her arms about his neck. She
did not care at that moment for the
presence of Tom or of the servants. Her
husband was leaving her  she had only
thoughts for him.

Take care of yourself, Eandolpli," she
said, her voice quivering, and almost
breaking. " Take care of yourself, and
come back to me as quickly as you can.
I shall miss you, oh ! so much, till I have
you safe home again. Good-bye, dear
husband, good-bye ! "

He held her for a moment in his arms.
His heart beat tumultuously ; for an
instant everything seemed to recede, and
leave him and his wife alone in the world
together ; but it was no time now to
indulge in raptures. He kissed her
brow and lips, and gently unloosed her
clasp.

Good-bye, my wife," he said gently.
God bless and keep you always."

The next moment the carriage was
rolling rapidly away along the road,

Monica gazing after it, her soul in her
eyes.

Ah ; my darling," said Mrs. Pendrill,
coming and taking her by the hand, " it
is very hard to part with him ; but it was
kind to Arthur to spare him, and it is only
for a few days."

1 know, I know," answered Monica
passing her hand across her eyes. " I
would not have kept him here. Arthur
wanted him so much  I can understand so
well what he felt  it would have been
selfish to hold him back. But it feels so
lonely and desolate without him ; as if
everything were changed and different. I
can't express it ; but oh ! I do feel it all so
keenly."

Mrs. Pendrill pressed the hand she
held.

VOL. II.



You love him, then, so very much ? "
Ah, yes," she answered ; " how could
I help it ? "

It makes me very happy to hear you
say that. For I was sometimes rather
afraid that you were hurried into marriage
before you had learned to know your own
heart, I thought."

Monica passed her hand across her
brow.

Was I hurried ? " she asked dreamily.
It is so hard to remember all that now.
It seems as if I had always loved Randolph
as if he had always been the centre of
my life."

And Mrs. Pendrill was content. She
said no more, asked no more questions.

' You know, Randolph," said Arthur to
his kindest of nurses and attendants, as he

lay in bed at night, after rather a hard
day's travelling, " I don't wonder now that
you've so completely cut me out. I
shouldn't have believed it possible once,
but it seems not only possible, but natural
enough, now that I know what kind of a
fellow you are."

What do you mean, m boy ? " asked
Randolph.

Mean? Why, what I say to be sure.
I understand now why you've so completely
cut me out with Monica. 1 only
hold quite a subordinate place in her
affections now. It is quite right, and I
shall never be jealous of you, old fellow ;
only mind you always let me be her
brother. I can't give up that. You may
have all the rest, though. You deserve it,

and you've got it too, by her own showing."

21*

Randolph started a little involuntarily.

What do you mean ? "

Mean ? why, that she loves you heart
and soul, of course. You must know it as
well as I, and I had it from her own
lips."

*****

My wife, my wife ! " said Randolph, ashe
paced beneath the starry heavens that
night. " Then I was not deceived or mistaken
 my wife  my Monica  my very
own  God bless you, my darling, and
bring me safe home to you and to your
love!"

UNITED.

i) LURING the days that followed Monica
lived as in one long, happy dream. The
clouds all seemed to have rolled away,
letting in the sunshine to the innermost
recesses of her heart.

Why was she so calmly and serenely
happy, despite the real sorrow hanging
over her in the recent death of a tenderly-loved
father ? Why did even the loss of
the brother, to whom she had vowed such
changeless devotion, give her no special
pang ? She had felt his going much, yet it
did not weigh her down with any load of

sorrow. She well knew why these changes
were. The old love had not changed nor
waned, but it had been eclipsed in the light
of the deep wonderful happiness that had
grown up in her heart, since she had come to
know how well and faithfully she loved
Randolph, and to believe at last in his love
for her.

Yes, she no longer doubted that now.
Something in the very perfectness of her
own love drove away the haunting doubts
and fears that had troubled her for so
long. He had her heart, and she had
his, and when once she had him
home again the last shadow would have
vanished away. How her heart beat
as she pictured that meeting ! How
she counted the hours till she had him
back!

Only once was she disturbed in her quiet,
dreamy time of waiting.

Once, as she was riding through the loneliest
part of the lonely pine wood, Conrad
Fitzgerald suddenly stood in her path,
gazing earnestly at her with a look she
could not fathom.

Her face flushed and paled. She regarded
him with a glance of haughty
displeasure.

Let me pass. Sir Conrad."
He did not move ; he was still fixedly
regarding her.

I told you how it would be, Monica,"
he said. "I told you Arthur would be
sent away."

She smiled a smile he did not understand.


Let me pass*' she said again.

His eyes began to glow dangerously.
Her beauty and lier scorn drove him to a
sort of fury.

Is this the way you keep your
promise ? Is this how you treat a man
you have promised to call your friend ? '

My friend ! *' Monica repeated the words
very slowly, with an inflection the meaning
of which could not be misunderstood ; nor
did he affect to misunderstand her.

"Lady Monica," he said, "you have
heard some lying story, I perceive, trumped
up by that scoundrel you call your
husband."

He was forced to spring on one side
then, for Monica had urged her horse
forward, regardless of his presence, and
the flash in her eye made him recoil
for a moment ; but he was wild with

rage, and sprang at her horse, catching him
by the bridle.

You shall hear me ! " he cried. " You
shall, I say! You have heard his story,
now hear mine. He has brought false
reports. I know him of old. He is my
enemy. He has poisoned others against
me before now. Lady Monica, upon my
word of honour "

Your honour ! "

That was all. Indeed, there was no
more to be said. Even Conrad felt that,
and his grasp upon the reins relaxed.
Monica was not in the least afraid of him.
She looked him steadily over as she moved
quietly onward, without the least haste or
flurry. Her quiet courage, her lofty scorn
of him, stung him to madness.

Very good. Lady Monica  I beg your

pardon  Lady Trevlyn, I should say now.
Very good. We understand each other
excellently well. You have made a
promise, only to break it  I will show you
how a vow can be kept. I, too, have
made a vow in my time. I make another
now. I have vowed to ruin the happiness
and prosperity of Randolph Trevlyn's life ;
now I will do more. I will destroy your
peace and happiness also I "

He was following Monica as he spoke,
and there was a deep, steady malevolence
in every tone of his voice, and in each
word that he uttered, which gave something
of sinister significance to threats that
might well have been mere idle bravado.
Monica paid not the slightest heed. She
rode on as if she did not even hear ; but
she wished she had her husband beside her.

She was not afraid for herself, only for
him ; and in his absence it was easy to be
haunted by vague, yet terrible, fears.

But days sped by ; news from Germany was
good. Randolph's task was accomplished,
and he was on his way home ; nay, he
would be there almost as soon as the letter
which announced him. He did not specify
exactly how he would come, but he bid
her look for him about dusk that very
day.

How her heart throbbed with joy ! She
could not strenuously combat Mrs. Pen-drill's
determination to return home at
once, so that husband and wife should be
alone on his return. She wanted Eaii-
adolph all to herself. She hungered for
him ; she hardly knew how to wait for the
slowly crawling hours to pass.

She drove Mrs. Pendrill to St. Maws,
and on her return wandered aimlessly
about the great lonely house, saying to
herself, in a sort of ceaseless cadence :

lie is coming. He is comines. He is

comme.

Dusk was falling in the dim house. The
shadows were growing black in the gloomy
hall, where Monica was restlessly pacing.
The last pale gleam of sunlight flickered
and faded as she watched and waited with
intense expectancy.

A man's firm step upon the terrace
without  a man's tall shadow across the
threshold. Monica sprang forward with a
low cry.

Randolph ! **

Not exactly that. Lady Trevlyn ! "

She stopped short, and threw up her

head like some beautiful wild creature at
bay.

Sir Conrad, how dare you ! Leave my
husband's house this instant ! Do you wish
him to find you here ? Do you wish a
second chastisement at his hands ? "

Conrad's face flushed crimson, darkening
with the intensity of his rage, as he heard
those last words.

He had been drinking deeply ; his usual
caution and cowardice were merged in a
passionate desire for revenge at all costs.
And what better revenge could he enjoy at
that moment than to be surprised by the
master of the house upon his return in
company with his wife ? Monica had
asked him if he wished Randolph to find
him there  it was just that Lavish which had
brought him.

Monica ! " he cried passionately, " you
shall hear me. I will be heard ! You
shall not judge me till I can plead my own
cause. The veriest criminal is heard in his
defence."

He advanced a step nearer, but she
recoiled before him, and pointed to the
door.

Go, Sir Conrad, unless you wish to
be expelled by my servants. I will listen
to nothing."

She moved as if to summon assistance,
but he sprang forward and seized her
hand, holding her wrist in so fierce a
grasp that she could neither free herself
nor reach the bell. She was a prisoner at
his mercy.

But Monica was a true Trevlyn, and a
stranger to mere physical fear. The madness

in this gleaming eyes, the ferocity of
his whole aspect, were sufficiently alarming.
She knew in this vast place that it
would be in vain to call for help, no one
would hear her voice ; but she faced her
enemy with cool, inflexible courage, trusting
to her own strong will, and the
inherent cowardice of a man who could thus
insult a woman alone in her husband's
house.

Loose me, Sir Conrad ! " she said.

Not until you have heard me."

I will not hear you. I know as much
of your story as there is any need I should.
Loose me, I say 1 Do you know that my
husband will be here immediately? Do
you wish him to expel you from his
house ? "

Conrad laughed wildly, a sort of

demoniac laugh, that made her shudder
in spite of herself. Was he mad? Yes,
mad with drink and with fury  not
irresponsible, yet so blind, so crazed, so
possessed with thoughts of vengeance, that
he was almost more dangerous than a
raving maniac would have been. His eyes
glowed with sullen fire. His voice was
hoarse and strained.

Do I wish him to find me here ? Yes,
I do  I do ! " he laughed wildly. " Kiss
me, Monica  call me your friend again !
There is yet time  show him you are not
his slave  show him how you assert yourself
in his absence."

Monica recoiled with a cry of horror ;
but the strength of madness was upon
him. He held her fast by the wrist. It
was unspeakably hideous to be alone

in that dim place with this terrible
madman.

"Monica, I love you  you shall  you
must be mine ! "

Was that another step without ? It was

it was I Thank Heaven he had come !

Randolph ! Randolph ! Randolph ! "

Monica's voice rang out with that

sudden piercing clearness that bespeaks

terror and distress.

The next moment Conrad was hurled
backwards, with a force that sent him
staggering against the wall, breathless and
powerless. Before he could recover himself
he was lifted bodily off his feet, shaken
like a rat, and literally thrown down the
terrace steps, rolling over and over in the
descent, till he lay at the foot stunned,

bruised and shaken. He picked himself
VOL. II. 22

slowly up, muttering curses as he limped
away. Little were this curses heeded by
the two he had left behind.

Monica, white, trembling, unnerved by
all she had gone through during the past
minutes, held out her arms to her husband.
Randolph ! Oh, Randolph ! "
He clasped her close to his heart, and
held her there as if he never meant to let
her go. He bent his head over her,
and she felt his kisses on her cheek. He
did not doubt  he did not distrust her !
His strong arms pressed her even closer
and closer. She lay against his breast,
feeling no wish ever to leave that shelter.
Oh, he was so true and noble  her own
loving, faithful husband ! How she loved
him she had never known until that
supreme moment.

At last she stirred in his arms and lifted
her face to his.

"Randolph, you must never leave me
again," she said. " I cannot bear it  I
cannot."

I will not, my dear wife," he answered.
Never again shall aught but death part
thee and me."

She clung to him, half shuddering.

Ah ! do not talk of death, Randolph.
I cannot bear it  I cannot listen."

He pressed a kiss upon her trembling
lips.

Does my wife love me now ? " he
asked, very gravely and tenderly. "Let
me hear it from your own sweet lips, my
Monica."

Ah, Randolph, I love, I love you ; " she

lifted her eyes to his as she spoke. There

22

was something almost solemn in their deep,
earnest gaze. " Randolph, I do not think
any one but your wife could know such a
love as mine."

Not your husband ? " he asked, returning
her look with one equally full of
meaning. " Monica, you may love as well,
but I think you cannot love more than I
do."

She laid her head down again. It was
unspeakably sweet to hear him say so, to
feel his arms about her, to know that they
were united at last, and that nothing could
part them now."

"Not even death," said Monica to
herself; " for love like ours is stronger
than death."

How came that scoundrel here ? "
asked Randolph, somewhat later as they

stood together on the terrace, watching
the moonlight on the sea.

I think he came to frighten me  perhaps
to try and hurt us once more by his
wicked words and deeds. Randolph, is
he mad? He looked so dreadful to-day.
He was not the old Conrad I once knew.
It was terrible  till you came."

I believe at times he is mad," answered
Randolph, " with a sort of madness that
is not actual insanity, though somewhat
akin to it. It is the madness of ungovernable
passion and hatred that rises up in
him from time to time against certain
individuals, and becomes, as it seems, a
sort of monomania with him. It was so
with his friend and benefactor Colonel
Hamilton, when once he felt himself found
out. Ever since the horsewhipping I

administered to him, I believe he has
felt vindictively towards me. Our paths
led us wide apart for several years, but as
soon as we met again the old enmity rose
up once more. He tried to hurt me
through my wife." Randolph looked down
at her with a proud smile upon his handsome
face. " I need not say how utterly
and miserably he has failed."

Monica glanced up at him, a world of
loving confidence in her eyes ; yet the
clinging clasp of her hands tightened upon
his arm. He fancied she trembled a little.

What is it, my Monica ? "

She pressed a little more closely towards
him.

"Randolph, do you think he will try
to hurt you now  try to do you some
injury?"

The husband smiled re-assuringly at her.

Hurt me ? How, Monica ? "

Oh, I don't know ; but he has spoken
such cruel, wicked words. He said he
had vowed to ruin our happiness he
looked as if he meant it so vindictive, so
terrible ! " she shivered a little.

He took her hands, and held them in his
warm, strong clasp.

"Are you afraid of what that bad man
sa3s, Monica  a man who is a coward
and a scoundrel of the deepest dye?
Are you afraid of idle threats from his
lips ? How could he ruhi our happiness
now ? "

She looked up at him, still with a sort
of undefined trouble in her eyes.

"He might hurt, you, Randolph," she
half whispered. " What hurts you, hurts

me. If  if  lie were to take you away
from me "

Randolph laid his hand smilingly upon
her lips.

*' My darling, you are unnerved by the
fright he gave you. When was Monica
troubled by idle fears before ? "

I don't know what I fear, Randolph ;
but I have feelings sometimes  premonitions,
presentiments, and I cannot shake
them off. Ever since Conrad came, I felt
a kind of horror of him, even though I
tried to call him friend. Sometimes I think
it must mean something."

No doubt it does," answered Randolph.
It is the natural shrinking of your pure
soul from his evil, vicious nature. I can
well understand it. It could hardly be
otherwise. He could not deceive you long."

She looked gravely out before her.

No, I do not think he really deceived
me long  not my innermost self of all.
But I was very self-willed. I wanted to
judge for myself, and I could not judge
him rightly. I believed him. I did not
want to be unjust  and he deceived me."

Randolph smiled and laid his hand
caressingly upon her shoulder. She looked
up with a smile.

That is right, Monica. You must put
away these sad, wistful looks. We must
not let this evening's happiness be marred
by any doubts and fears. You have your
husband again. Is not that enough ? "
She turned and laid her head against his
shoulder. His arm was fast about her in a
moment. She drew a long breath, almost
like a sisfh.

"Eandolpli, I think that moments like
this must be a foretaste of heaven."

He kissed her, and she added, low and
dreamily :

Only there, there will be no fear of
parting. Death could not part us there."

Death could not sunder our hearts
even here, my Monica," said Randolph.
Some love is for eternity."

Yes," she answered, looking out over
the wide sea with a deep smile, that
seemed as if it were reading the future in
the vast, heaving expanse of moon-lit water.
Our love is like that  not for time alone,
but for eternity."

He caught the gravity of her mood.
Some subtle sympathy drew them ever
closer and more close together.

And so," he added gravely and ten-clearly,

'' we need fear nothing ; for nothing
can alter that one great thing. Nothing
can change our love. We belong to one
another always  always."

She stood very still and quiet.

Yes," she said, " for ever and ever.
Randolph, if we could both die to-night
I think it would be a happy thing for us."

"Why?"

Because then there would be no parting
to fear."

And now ? "

Now I do fear it. I fear it without
knowing why. He will part us if he
can."

Randolph strained his wife close to his
heart.

'- If he can ! Monica, look up ; put
away these idle fears, my love. Can I not

take care of 3'ou and of myself? Let us
put him for ever out of our lives."

All ! if only we could ! " breathed
Monica.

A SHADOW.

The days that followed were very full of
happiness and peace for Monica and her
husband. They were alone together in
the dim old castle, far away from the busy
whirl of life they had so gladly left behind,
free to be with each other every moment
of the flying hours, learning to know and
to love one another with a more perfect
comprehending love with each succeeding
day.

Not one tiny cloud of reserve or distrust
clouded the sunshine of their horizon.
Monica had laid before Randolph that

unlucky letter of Lady Diana's, had
listened with a sort of mingling of
delight and indignation to his comments
on the composition  delight to hear that
he had always loved her from the first,
that in gratifying her father's desire he
had but been gratifying the dearest desire
of his own heart  indignation towards the
mischief-making relative, who had tried to
deceive and humiliate her, who had told
her one half of the story and concealed the
other.

But indignation was only a momentary
feeling. Monica was too happy to cherish
resentment. Her anger was but a passing
spark.

"I should like to speak my mind to
Lady Diana," remarked Randolph, as lie
tore the paper into small fragments and

tossed them over the cliff. "I always
distrusted lier wisdom, but I did not look
for deliberate malice like that. Why-did
you not show me that letter when it
came, Monica, and let me see what I had
to say to it P "

yhe looked up with a smile.

"Because I was so foolish and distrustful
in those days. I did long to once
but then came the thought  Suppose it
should be true ? "

And then they both smiled. There was
a charm and sweetness in thus discussing
the past, with the light of the happy present
shining upon it.

"But she meant to be your friend,
Randolph. We must not forget that. I
suppose she thought that you would tell
me of your love, but that she ought to

inform me of your generosity. Poor Aunt
Diana ! we should get on better now. In
those days, Randolph, I think I was very
difficile  very wilful and unapproachable.
I used to think it would kill me ever to
leave Trevlyn. I think now that it would
have been the ruin of me to stay. It is
not good to grow up in one narrow groove,
and to gain no knowledge of anything
beyond."

"That is quite true, Monica. Does
that mean that you will be willing to leave
Trevlyn, by and-bye ? "

I shall be willing to do anything that
you wish, Randolph. You know I would
go anywhere with you. Do you want to
take me away again ? "

Presently I think I do. I should like
to take you to Scotland in August, to stay

a month or two at my little shooting-box
there. You would like the free, roving?
life you could lead there, amongst that
world of heather. And then there are
things to be done at Trevlyn. Monica,
will you be able to reconcile yourself to
changes here ? '*

Changes ? "

Yes. I should like to see Trevlyn
restored to what it must have been a
century ago. The glory has departed of
late years, but you have only to look round
to see what the place must have been once.
I want to restore that faded glory  not to
introduce glaring changes, but to make it
something like what it must have been when
our ancestors lived there long years ago.
Would you like that, Monica ? It would
not go against you, would it, to see

VOL. IL 2,0

Trevlyn look so ? I want it to be
worthy of the mistress who will preside
there. It is a wish that has haunted me
ever since I entered its precincts and met
you there."

Monica was glad to enter into any plan
proposed by her husband. She was willing
he should restore Trevlyn in any way that
he wished; but she preferred that he
should make his own arrangements about
it, and let her only judge by the result.
She could not yet enter with any sense of
realisation into projects for making Trevlyn
other than she had known it all her life ;
but she trusted Randolph's taste and
judgment, and let him plan and settle
everything as he would.

She was ready to leave home whenever
he wished it, the more so that Conrad

Fitzgerald still occupied a suite of rooms
in his half dismantled house, and hung
about the neighbourhood in an odd, aimless
sort of fashion.

How he spent his time no one seemed
to know, but he must have developed
roving tendencies, for Monica was constantly
seeing him in unexpected places,
down by the rocky shore, wandering over
the trackless downs, or crouching in the
heather or behind a tree, as she and her
husband passed along in their daily walks
or rides.

He never met them face to face. He

appeared to endeavour always to keep out

of sight. Randolph, as a matter of fact,

seldom saw him, and paid no heed, when

he did, to the vindictive scowl upon the

yet beautiful face! But Monica seemed

23*

haunted by this persistent watching and
waiting. She was ever on the look-out for
the crouching figure in some place of
concealment, for the glitter of the fierce
blue eyes, and the cruel sneer of the pale
lips. She felt intensely nervous and
timid beneath that sense of espionage ; and
she was glad when August came, and
she was to leave Trevlyn and its spectre
behind.

Accounts from Germany were very
good. Arthur wrote little pencil notes
every week, informing Monica that he
was getting on " like a house on fire," and
singing the praises of Tom, who had stayed
so long with him, " like the good fellow
he was," and would have remained longer
only it really wasn't worth while.

"I'm afraid I've been very unjust to

Tom," said Monica. " I want to tell him
so when he comes back. May we wait till
he does ? 1 want to hear all about Arthur
at first hand, as I may not go to see him

yet."

So they waited for the return of the
traveller.

Monica did sincerely wish to hear about
Arthur, but she had something else to report
to Tom as well. She had the greatest
confidence in his acuteness and penetration,
and could sometimes say to him what she
would have despaired of communicating
intelligibly to any one else.

There was no difficulty in securing a
private interview when once he had come
back. Every one knew how anxious
Monica would be to hear everj detail of
Arthur's present life, and Tom resigned

himself, and told his tale with all possible
fulness and accuracy.

Monica listened with an absorbed look
upon her face. When he had told all, she
said simply :

Thank you, Tom, for all your goodness
to him. I am very sorry I ever misunderstood
you, and said such hard things of
and to you. You have got the best of it
in the end, by heaping coals of fire upon
me."

He smiled slightly.

My dear Monica, you don't suppose I
troubled my head over your ladyship's
righteous wrath. I found it very amusing,
I assure you."

"I believe you did," assented Monica,
smiling in turn ; " which made things a
little trying for me. Tom, I believe you

have always been mj friend, even when
we have seemed most bitterly opposed."

The sudden earnestness of her manner
made him look at her keenly, and he
spoke without his usual half-mocking intonation.


I hope so, Monica. I wish to have the
right to call myself your friend."

He looked steadily at her, knowing there
was more to follow. She was silent for a
time, and then came a sudden and most
unexpected question, and one apparently
most irrelevant.

Do you know Sir Conrad Fitzgerald ? "

I used to know him when he was a
child. I knew him slightly at Oxford.
He has made no attempt to renew the
acquaintance since he has been down here ;
and, judging by what I have heard, I

should not be inclined to encourage him if
he did."

But there would be nothing extraordinary
in your visiting him ? "

Possibly not ; but I cannot say I have
any wish to try the experiment."

You know his history, perhaps ?  the
dark stain."

I heard of it at the time it happened 
not from Trevlyn, though. It's a sort of
story that doesn't make one yearn to renew
acquaintance with the hero."

For a few moments Monica sat very
still and silent. Then she asked quietly :

Do you think he is the kind of man to
be dangerous ? "
Dangerous ? "

Yes  if he had taken a vow of vengeance.
Do you think ? "

"Well, what?"

Think he would try very hard to
accomplish such a vow ? Do people never
in these days try to do an injury to a
man they hate ? "

Tom began to understand her now.

Well, one cannot lay down hard and
fast lines ; but it is not now customary fora
man to attempt the sort of vengeance
that he would have done a century or so
back. He tries in these days to hurt an
enemy morally by injuring his reputation ;
and I think no one need stand in much
awe of Fitzgerald, least of all a man like
your husband. It is necessary to possess a
reputation of one's own to undermine that
of another with much success. Fitzgerald
certainly has a reputation, but not the kind
that makes him dangerous as an enemy."

Monica heard this dictum in silence.
She did not appear much relieved, and he
saw it.

"Now you anticipate," he continued,
quite quietly and intentionally, " that
he will make a regular attack upon Trevlyn
one of these days ? "

I am afraid so sometimes," answered
Monica. " It may be very foolish ; but I
am afraid. He always seems watching us.
Hardly a day goes by but I see him, with
such an evil look in his eye. Tom, I
sometimes think that he is going mad."

The young man's face changed slightly.

"That, of course, would put a new
colour on the matter. Have you any reasons
upon which to base your suspicions ? "

Nothing that you would perhaps call
reasons, but they make me suspicious.

Randolph spoke of a touch of insanity that
he had fancied lurked in his brain. At
least, when he hates he seems to hate with
a ferocity that suggests the idea of madness.
Tom, if you were to see him, should you
know ? "
Tom mused a little.

"I might be able to hazard a shrewd
guess, perhaps. Why do you want so much
to know ? "

Without answering, Monica propounded
another question. "If he were mad, he
would be much more dangerous, would he
not?"

Yes ; and if really dangerous, could be
placed under proper control."

A look of relief crossed Monica's face.

Could that be done ? "

Certainly, if absolute madness could be

proved. But you know in many cases
this is most difficult to demonstrate ; and
in Fitzgerald's independent position it
might be exceedingly hard to get the
needful evidence."

Her face clouded again.

But you will see him, Tom ? You will
try to find out ? "

He hesitated a little. To tell the truth
he did not care about the job. He had a
hearty contempt for the man himself, did
not attach much weight to Monica's
suspicions, and thought her fears farfetched.
But her pleading face prevailed.

Well, Monica, if you particularly wish
it, I will endeavour to meet him, and
enter into a sort of speaking acquaintance.
I don't promise to force myself
upon him if he avoids me pointedly, but I

will do what I can in a casual sort of way
to find out something? about him. But it
is not at all likely he will prove mad
enough to be placed under restraint."

I believe he drinks," said Monica, softly.
He used not to, but I believe he does

now."

"Well, if he has a screw loose and
drinks as well, he may make an end of
himself in time. At any rate, if it will
relieve your mind, I will find out what
I can about him."

Thank you, Tom ; I am very much
obliged to you ; and if you cannot do
much, at least you can keep your eye
upon him, and let me know how long
he stays here. I  I it may be very
foolish ; but I don't want Randolph to
come back till he has gone."

Tom's eyebrows went up.

*' Then you really are afraid ? "

She smiled faintly.

I believe I am."

Well, it sounds very absurd ; but I
have a sort of a faith in your premonitions.
Anyway, I will keep your words in
mind, and do what I can ; and
we will try and get him off the field
before you are ready to return to it. I
should not think the attractions of the
place will hold him long."

So Monica went off to Scotland with a
lightened heart; and yet the shadow of
the haunting fear did not vanish entirely
even in the sunshine of her great happiness.


IN SCOTLAND.

An empty sky and a world of heather."

Such was the scene that met Monica's
eye as she stepped out into the clear
morning sunshine, and gazed out over
the wide expanse of moorland that lay
in a kind of purple glory all around
her.

Randolph's shooting-box was situated
in a very lonely, yet wonderfully picturesque
spot. It seemed as if it had
just been dropped down upon its little
craggy eminence] amid this rolling sea of
billowy heather, and had anchored itself

there without more ado. There was no
attempt at park or garden, or enclosed
ground of any kind. The moor itself was
park and garden in one, and the heather
and gorse grew right up to the wide
terrace walk upon which the south
windows of the little house opened. A
plantation of pine and fir behind gave
protection from the winter winds, and
shade from the summer sun ; but save for
this little wood  an oasis in a blooming
desert  the moor stretched away in its
wild freedom on every hand, the white
road alone, glimpses of which could be
seen here and there, seeming to connect
it with the great world beyond.

Trevlyn was lonely and isolated enough,
but it almost seemed to Monica, as she
gazed over the sunny moorland that

glorious summer morning, as if she lead
never been so utterly remote from the
abode of man as she was to-day.

There was a step behind her, and a hand
was laid upon her shoulder.

Well, Monica ? "

She turned to him with lips that
quivered as they smiled.

"It is all so exquisite, Randolph so
perfect. You did not tell me half."

You like it, my Monica ? "

Like it ! It seems as if you and I were
just alone in the world together." He
bent his head and touched her brow with
his hips.

And that contents you, Monica ? "

She looked up with eloquent eyes.

Need you ask that question now ? "

His smile expressed an unspeakable
VOL. ir. 24

happiness ; he put his arm about her
saying softly :

"There are some questions one never
tires of hearing answered, sweet wife.
Ah, Monica ! when I think of the past, I
feel as if it were almost necessary to have
lived through that, to know vhat such
happiness as ours can be. It is the former
doubt that makes the present certainty so
unutterably sweet. Do you ever feel that
yourself, my darling ? "

He spoke gravely and gently, as they
stood together in the golden sunshine. She
looked up into his face with deep love
and reverence, yet he felt her slight form
quiver in his clasp. He looked at her
smilingly.

What is it, Monica ? "

Nothing  only a strange feeling I have

sometimes. I know what you mean,
Randolph. You are quite, quite right 
only do not let us to-day think of the
sorrow that went before. Let us be happy
with one another."

We will, my Monica. You are quite
right. This is our bridal holiday, of which
circumstances cheated us at the outset,
and as such we will enjoy it. Come in to
breakfast now ; and then we will have the
horses out, and you and I will explore our
new world together, and forget there is any
other before or behind us."

The shadow fled from Monica's brow, the

happy light came back to her eyes, came

back and took up its abode there as if

never to depart again. What happy,

happy days were those that followed ! No

one invaded the solitude which was such

24

bliss to the two who had sought it ; no
foot crossed the threshold of the peaceful
home that Randolph had made ready with
such care for the reception of his bride.

And yet, as everything must end at last,
pleasure as well as pain, joy as well as
sorrow, a day came at last when it was
needful to leave this happy seclusion, and
mingle once again with the busier stream
of life that flowed onwards, ever onwards,
outside the walls of their retreat.

Engagements had been made before,
pledges given to various friends that visits
should be paid during that period so dear
to the heart of man, " the shooting season."
Little enough did Randolph care for sport in
his present mood ; far rather would he have
spent longer time alone with his wife in
happy isolation; but his friends became

urgent, letters persecuted them with increased
vehemence, and Monica, casting
away her first reluctance, roused herself
to say at last that she thought they ought
to go.

We shall be together still, Randolph,"
she said, with a little laugh. " It is not
as if we should not have one another.
No one can separate us now, and we
ought to be able to be happy anywhere
together."

And yet, when the time came, it was
very hard to go. Randolph came upon
Monica the last evening at sunset, watching
the glorious pageantry of the sky, with
something of the old wistfulness upon her
face.

"You are sorry to be leaving then,
Monica r "

She started, and turned to him, almost as
if for protection.

Yes, I am sorry. We have been so
very, very happy here. Randolph, is it
very foolish ? Sometimes I feel as if such
happiness were too great for this world 
as if it could not go on always so. It
seems almost too beautiful, too perfect.
Do you ever feel the same ? "

I know what you mean, sweet wife.
Yet I am not afraid of our happiness or of
the future. It is love that brings the
brightness with it, and I think nothing now
can change our love."

Ah, no, no ! " she cried impetuously ;
nothing can change that. You always
understand. Randolph, you are so strong,
so good, so patient. Ah! what should I
do without you now ? "

You have not got to do without me,
Monica. A husband cannot be set aside
by anyone or anything. You must not let
nervous fears get the better of you. Tell
me, is anything troubling you to-night ? *'

No, no ; only that the old feeling will
sometimes come back. It is foolish, I
know ; but I cannot quite rid myself of
it."

The old feeling ? "

Yes, that some trouble is coming upon
me  upon us. I cannot explain ; but I
feel it sometimes  I feel as if it were

coming nearer."

He did not laugh at her fears. He only
said very gently and tenderly :

I pray God, my sweet wife, that
trouble may be very far away from you ;
yet if it comes, I know it will be bravely,

nobly borne, and that the furnace of
sorrow will only brinfTf out the f]jold more
bright and pure than ever."

She glanced at him, and then over the
purple moorlands and into the glorious
western sky. A look of deep, settled purpose
shone out of her eyes, and her face grew
calm and resolute. She thought of that
moment often in days to come, and of her
husband's words. It was a recollection
always fraught with much of strengthening
comfort.

The round of inevitable visits to he
paid proved less irksome than Monica had
anticipated.

Randolph's friends were pleasant, well-bred
people, with whom it was easy to get
on, and to make things more easy for
Monica, Beatrice Wentworth and her

brother were not unfrequently numbered
among the house party they were invited
to meet.

Both the ounce earl and his sister were devoted
to Monica, and their presence added
much to her enjoyment of the different visits
that they paid together. Lord Haddon washer
constant attendant whenever her husband
could not be with her, and his frank,
boyish homage was accepted m the spirit
in which it was offered. Monica, though
much admired and liked, was not " popular
" in the ordinary sense of the term.
She did not attract round her a crowd of
amused admirers, as Beatrice did, and most
young men, however much they might
admire her stately beauty, found her
somewhat difficult to get on with. With
elderly people she was more at ease, and a

great favourite from her gentleness and
peculiar refinement of thought and
manner ; but for the most part, during
the gay doings of the day, she was left to
the attendance of Randolph or Macdonald
no arrangement could have been more
to her own liking.

Yet one trifling incident occurred to
disturb her peace of mind, although she
thought she possibly dwelt upon it more
than the circumstance warranted.

She was at a large luncheon party, to
which her hostess and guests had alike
been invited to meet many other parties
from surrounding houses.

A grand battue in the park had drawn
away most of the sportsmen, and the
ladies were lunching almost by themselves.
Monica's surprise was somewhat great to

find in her right-hand neighbour none other
than Cecilia Bellamy, with whom her last
interview had been anything but agreeable.

Mrs. Bellamy, however, seemed to have
forgotten all about that.

It is really you, Monica. I hoped I
should meet you somewhere ; I heard you
were staying about ; I know I've behaved
badly. I ought to have written to you
when your father died. I was awfully
sorry, I was indeed. We were always
fond of the earl, Conrad and I. He was
so good to us when we were children. It
was horrid of me not to write, but I never
do know how to write a letter of condolence.
I hope you're not very angry
with me."

Indeed, no," answered Monica. " Indeed,
I never thought about it."

*' I knew you wouldn't care to hear from
me," pursued the lively little woman. " 1
didn't behave nicely to you, Monica, and
I'm sorry now I listened to Conrad's persuasions
; but I'm so easy-going, and
thought it all fun. I'm sorry now. I
really am, for I've got shaken in my confidence
in Master Conrad. I believe he'll
go to the dogs still, for all his professions.
By-the-bye, did you ever see him after you
got back to Trevlyn ? "

'' Once or twice. I believe he was living:
in his house down there."

That dreadful old barn ! I can't think
how he can exist there. He will take
to drink, and go mad, I do believe, if
he stays six months in such a place.
Monica, I don't want to frighten you 
I may be silly to think such a thing,

but I can't believe he's after any good
there."

Monica shivered a little instinctively,

What do you mean ? "

I don't quite know what I do mean.
If you weren't such an old friend, of course
I couldn't say a word ; but you know
perhaps that there's something rather odd
sometimes about Conrad."

Odd ? "

Yes  I know he's bad enough ; but it's
when he has his odd fits on that he's worse.
I don't believe he is always altogether
responsible. He's given way, and now he
can't always help himself, I do think. He
isn't mad, of course, but he can be very
\ild at times," and she glanced at her companion
with something of significance.

Why do you say all this to me ? "

asked Monica, with a sort of apprehension.


Mrs. Bellamy laughed a little.

Why, can't you see ? Don't you know
how he hates your husband ? "

Monica's face blanched a little.

But you don't mean "

"No, no, of course not," with a short
laugh that had little of mirth in it. " I
don't mean anything  only I think, if ever
Conrad is lurking about in his wild moods,
that Lord Trevlyn had better keep a sharp
look out. Your woods and cliffs are nasty
lonely places, and it's always well to be on
the safe side."

Monica sat pale and silent ; Mrs.
Bellamy laughed again in that half uneasy
way.

Now, don't look like that, and keep

your own counsel. I'm a silly woman,
as you know, and nobody minds what I
say, but I can't be quite comfortable
without just warning you. For mischief is
sometimes done in a moment between two
angry men that never can be undone so
long as the world lasts. Now don't go and
get frightened, Monica  it may be all a
ridiculous fancy ; but just keep your eyes
open."

Thank you, Cecilia," said Monica
quietly. " I will."

A VISIT TO ARTHUR.

*' Are you getting tired of this sort of
thing, Monica ? " asked Randolph, about
three das later.

He had fancied he detected traces of
weariness at times  weariness or anxiety :
he could hardly have told which  in the
lines of her face ; and he thought that
possibly some trouble was resting upon
her. He was very quick to note the least
change in one he loved so well.

Her smile, however, was very reassuring.


I think I should never be really tired

of any life you shared, Randolph ; but I
like being alone together best."

I, too," he responded, with great
sincerity. "Monica, as we have done our
duty by society now, shall we indulge ourselves
once more, and leave the world to
wag on its own way, and forget it again
for a few more happy weeks ? "

Her face was bright and eaoer.

Go back to the moorland shooting-box,
Randolph ? " she questioned.

No ; not that quite. The season is
getting a little late for remaining up in the
north. I have a better plan in my head
for you."

Are we going back to Trevlyn,
then ? "

Trevlyn is not ready for us ; it will

be some time before it is. Can you think
VOL II. 25

of nothing else you would like to do ? 
of nobody you want to see ? '

A flush rose suddenly into Monica's face :
her eyes shone with happiness.

Oh, Randolph ! are you going to take
me to see Arthur ? "

You would like to go ? "

' Above everything."

Then the thing is done. We will start
next week. I talked about it to the doctor
when I saw him, and he advised three
months of entire quiet and seclusion whilst
he settled down to the new life. After
that, he believed there would be no reason
at all against his seeing friends from home.
I wrote again last week to put the question
definitely, and the answer is entirely satisfactory.
If you want to go, Monica, the
whole question is settled."

She came close up to him, clasping her
hands upon his shoulder, and looking up
with loving gratitude and delight.

You think of everything, Randolph.
You are so good to me. It is just the one
thing to make my happiness complete : to
see my boy again, and make sure with
my own eyes that he is well cared for and
content with his life. I want to be able to
picture him where he is. I want to hear
him say that he is happy : that he does
not pine after Trevlyn."

I think you will have your wish, then,

Monica, for, from what I can gather, he

is very well pleased with his quarters, and

improved health makes life pleasant and

full of zest. He has the natural love o

change that you never knew, and your

inherited love for your old home is not

25*

really shared by him to any great extent
now that he has tried another life. Trevelyan
is not woven into the very fibres of
his heart as into yours. I think the homesickness
passed off quickly with him."

Yes, I daresay. I believe I was foolish
myself about Trevlyn, and taught him to
be foolish too. Why is it that the younger
we are, and the less we know, the more weare
convinced we are always right ? I
have made so many, many mistakes.
Once I thought you did not love me,
Randolph."

It was sweet to him still to hear her
speak thus, with the intonation that
always thrilled him through  with the
look upon her face so much more eloquent
than any words. It was sweet to feel her
loving confidence and dependence. Again

and again he vowed deep down in his
heart that she should never know a trouble
from which he could save her.

The journeys was approved by both. It
would take them away once again from
the round of social duties and pleasures 
of which for the time being they had had
enough  and leave them practically alone
together, to be all in all to one another, as
was now their greatest happiness.

It is too bad of you to run away,
Monica," Beatrice grumbled, when she
heard the news. "Your brother can't
want you more than we do here. And if
you go, you'll vanish no one knows for
how long, as you did before, and then you
will go and bury yourselves in your enchanted
castle right away by the sea, and
nobody will hear of you any more. I call

it too bad: just as we were getting to befriends
and learning to know you."

Monica smiled at the imputation of vanishing
so entirely.

"You shall hear of us sometimes, I
promise you," she answered. " If you and
your brother will not find the ' enchanted
castle ' too dull, I hope you will come
and see us there when we go back in the
autumn. There are not a great many
attractions, I am afraid, but there is some
shooting and hunting. I should like to
show you Trevlyn some day, Beatrice,
though I believe it will be a good deal
changed from the place I have sometimes
described to you."

"It is sure to be perfect, whatever it is
like," was the quick response. " I should
think we would come  Haddon and I 

if ever we get an invitation. I always
did long to see Trevlyn, and I am sure lie
does the same, though he is no hand at
pretty speeches, poor old boy ! "

Haddon smiled, and coloured a little ;
but answered frankly enough.

Lady Trevlyn does not want pretty
speeches, as you call it, made to her,
Beatrice. She knows quite well what a
pleasure it would be to visit her and Randolph
at Trevlyn."

I should like my husband's oldest
friends to see the place," she answered,
smiling. " So we will call that matter
settled when we really do get home ;
though I do not quite know when that
will be."

Next day Randolph and Monica said
good-bye to Scotland, and began their

journey southward. They were in no
great haste, and travelled by easy stages.
Arthur was to be told nothing of the
prospective visit, which was to be kept asa
surprise till the last moment. Monica
was never a very good correspondent, even
where Arthur was concerned, and if she
posted a letter to him, last thing before
leaving England, he would not be surprised
at a silence of a fortnight or more, by
which time at latest she would be with him.
So they took their time over their
journey, and the strangeness of all she saw
possessed a curious charm for Monica, when
viewed beneath her husband's protecting
carpi, and in his constant company. He
took her to a few quaint Norman towns,
with their fine old churches and picturesque
streets and market-places ; then to

Paris, where a few days were passed in
seeing the sights, and watching the vivid,
hurrying, glittering life of that gay
capital.

Steering an erratic course, turning this
way and that to visit any place of interest,
or any romantic spot that Randolph
thought would please his wife, they approached
their destination, and presently
reached the pretty, picturesque little town,
hardly more than a village, which was only
just rising to importance, on account of
the value of its mineral sprigs lately
discovered.

One good-sized hotel and the doctor's
establishment, both of which stood at the
same end of the village, and a little distance
from it, testified to the rising importance
of the place. Randolph had secured comfortable

rooms in the former, where they
arrived late one evening.

Monica liked the place ; it was not in
the least like what she had pictured, far
more pretty, more primitive, and more
country-like. Wooded hills, surrounded
the valley in which it lay. A broad
rapid stream ran through it, spanned
by more than one grey stone bridge,
and the irregularly - built village was
quite a picture in its way, with its
quaint old houses, with their carved
gables and little wooden balconies, and
the spire of its church rising above the
surrounding trees. Viewed by moonlight,
as she saw it first, it was a charming little
place ; and the charm did not vanish with
the more prosaic light of day.

The interview with the doctor was most

satisfactory. He was a kindly, simpleminded
man, much interested in his patient
from a professional standpoint, and fond
of the lad for his own sake. Monica's
beauty and sweetness were evidently not
lost upon him. He had heard much of
her from the young Herr, he explained,
and could understand well the feelings he
had so often heard expressed.

'No, the invalid had not been told of the
expected arrival. He did not know but
that Lord and Lady Trevlyn were in
England. Did the noble lady wish to goto
him ? He would honour himself by
leading the way.

Monica followed him with a beating
heart. They went up a wide careless
staircase, and on the first landing her guide
paused, and indicated a certain door.

He is up ; madame can go straight in.
A joyful surprise will but do him good."

Monica turned the handle, and entered,
as quietly and calmly as if this had been
the daily visit to the old room at Trevlyn.
Arthur was lying with his back to the
door. He was readiness, and did not turn
his head, fancying it \as the servant entering,
as he heard the rustle of a dress.

Monica came and stood behind him,
laying her hand upon his head.

Arthur ! " she said softly.

Then he started as if he had been shot.

He sat up with an energy that showed a
decided increase of strength, holding out
his hands in eager welcome.

"Monica! Monica!" he cried, in a sort
of rapturous excitement. " It is Monica
herself ! "

She bent over him and kissed him again
and again, and would have made him lie
down again ; but he was too excited to
obey.

Monica ! My own Monica ! When did
you come ? What does it all mean ? Oh,
this is too splendid ! Where's Randolph ? "

"Here," answered that familiar voice,
just within the door. " Well, my boy, how
are you getting on ? Like a house on fire,
eh? Monica and I are on our wedding
trip, you know. We thought we would
finish it o/r by coming to have a look at
you. Well, you look pretty comfortable
up here, and have made fine progress, I
hear, since I saw you last. Like everything
as much as you make out in your
letters, eh ? "

Oh ! I'm all right enough. Never

mind me. Tell me about yourselves.

Whose idea was this? I call it just

splendid ! "

Randolph's idea," answered Monica.
'all the good ideas are his now, Arthur.
We have come to stay a whole fortnight
with you ; and when I have seen everything
with my own eyes, and am quite
convinced that everybody is treating you
well, I shall go home content to Trevlyn,
to wait till you can join us there."

I mustn't think of that just yet,"
answered Arthur, cheerfully. " My old
doctor says it will be a year  perhaps two
before I shall really be on my legs again ;
but he is quite sure he is going to cure me,
which is all that matters. I am awfully
comfortable here, and there are some jolly
little children of his, who come and amuse

me by the hour together. Oh, yes ! I have
capital times. I couldn't be more comfortable
anywhere ; and if you and
Randolph come sometimes to see me, I
shall have nothing: left to wish for."

Certainly Arthur was surrounded by
every luxury that wealth could bestow.
There was none of the foreign bareness
about his rooms that characterised its
other apartments. Randolph had ordered
everything that could possibly add to his
comfort, and make things home-like for
him, even to the open fire-place, with its
cheerful fire of logs, although the stove still
retained its place, and in cold weather did
valuable service in keeping an even
temperature in the room.

Arthur's visitors had made him gradually
understand how much more sumptuously

lie was lodged than other patients, and he
well knew to whom he owed the luxuries
he enjoyed. He explained all this to
Monica, and in her own sweet way she
thanked her husband for his tenderness
towards her boy.

T always feel as if Arthur were a sort
of link between us, Monica," he said. " I
am sure he was in those old days, when we
were strangers to each other. I owe him a
great deal that he knows nothing about.
Were it only for that, I must always love
him, and feel towards him as towards a
brother."

Quickly and happily the days slipped by
and the pleasant visit drew to its close. It
lengthened out into nearly three weeks ;
but at last the news came that Trevlyn was
ready for its master and mistress, and

Arthur bid a brave farewell to those who
had done so much for him, and settled himself
with cheerful readiness to his winter
with his new friends. A visit next spring
and summer was confidently promised, and
he saw his guest go with an unselfish
brightness that was in no way assumed.

Monica was quite happy about him
now, and, though the parting was a little
hard, she was as brave as he. She turned
her face homeward with a light heart.
Only one little cloud of anxiety lay upon
her heart. " What was Conrad Fitzgerald
doing ? Was he still lurking about
Trevlyn?"

Even that question was destined to be

answered in a satisfactory manner before

many days had passed.

They travelled rapidly homewards, as
VOL. II. 26

the season was advancing, and they were
anxious to be once more at Trevlyn.

They were in a train, which had stopped
at some station, when another train from
an opposite direction steamed up and also
stopped. Monica, leaning back in her
corner seat, noticed nothing for a time, but
was roused to the consciousness that she
was being intently regarded by a passenger
in the opposite train, whose face was
pressed close against the glass.

For some seconds she resisted the impulse
to look ; but as she felt the glance withdrawn,
she presently turned her eyes in the
direction of the half-seen face, and then
she started violently.

Conrad Fitzgerald, his face pale and
sharp, wearing a frightfully malevolent
expression, was gazing, or rather glaring,

at her husband, with eyes like those of a
wild beast, in their fiery, hungry hate.

Randolph, seated opposite her, reading
the paper, was perfectly unconscious of
the proximity of his foe ; but Monica
recoiled with a feeling of horror she could
hardly have explained.

The next moment the train had moved
on. At least, it was some comfort to know
that they were being rapidly carried in
opposite directions. Yet it was long before
she could forget the vindictive hatred of
the gaze she had seen directed towards her
husband.

Would Conrad Fitzgerald ever do him
the deadly injury he had vowed?

2

BACK AT TKEVLYN.

"Randolph ! Can this really be
Trevlyn?"

The young countess stood in all her
radiant loveliness upon the threshold of her
old home, and turned her happy face
towards the husband who stood beside her,
watching with a smile in his eyes for the
effect to be produced by his labour of
love

Can this really be Trevlyn ? "
You seemed destined never to know
your old home again when you have been
banished from it, Monica," he answered,

smiling. " Well, is it as much changed as
you expected? "

It is perfect," said Monica simply ;
adding, after another long look round her :
If only my father could have seen this 
could have lived to witness the realisation
of his dream ! "

But he would not let her indulge one sad
thought that should cloud the brightness
of this happy home-coming. He kissed her
gently in token of his sympathy, and then
drew her towards the blazing fire, whose
dancing flames where illuminating the great
hall.

Does it realise your dream, too, my
Monica ? " he asked softly.

She looked up in his face, deep feeling
welling up in the glance of her soft dark
eyes.

"To be with you is my dream,
Randolph. That is enough for me."

He saw that she was moved, and knew
that the associations of Trevlyn, the old
home, were crowding upon her. Without
speaking, he led her towards a door, which
in old days led to a room vast and empty,
save for the odds and ends of lumber that
gradually accumulated there. Monica
glanced up in a sort of surprise as he
turned the handle. Why was he taking
her there ?

She paused on the threshold, and looked
about her in mute amaze.

The floor was of polished marquette
work ; the panelled walls, quaintly and
curiously carved, shone with the care that
had been bestowed upon them ; the
vaulted roof had been carefully restored

and was a fine specimen of mediaeval skill
and beauty. The mullions window to the
west had been filled with rich stained glass,
that gave back a dusky glimmer through
its tinted panes, though the daylight was
failing fast. Near to the window stood the
one great feature of the room, an organ,
which Monica's eyes saw at once was a
particularly fine and perfect instrument.
An organ of her very own ! It was just
like Randolph to think of it ! She gave
him one sweet glance of gratitude, and
went up to it in the dim, dusky twilight.

How good you are to me ! " she said
softly.

He heard the little quiver in her voice,
and bent his head to kiss her ; but he
spoke in a lighter tone.,

Do you like it ? I am so glad ! I

thought your home ought not to be
without its music-room. See, Monica,
your organ will be a sort of friend to whom
you can confide all your secrets ; for you
want nobody to blow it for you. You can
set the bellows at work by just turning
this handle, and nobody need disturb
your solitude when you want to be alone."

She looked up gratefully. He never
forgot anything  not even her old love for
solitude.

"I never want to be alone now,
Randolph," she said. "I always want

you."

"And you generally have me, sweet
wife. I think we have hardly been
separated for more than a few hours at a
time since that happy, happy day that made
you really mine "

"I want it always to be like that," said
Monica, dreamily ; " always like that."

He looked at her, and carried the hand
that he held to his lips.

Will you play, Monica ? "

She sat down and struck a few dreamy
chords, gradually leading up to the theme
that was in her mind. Randolph leaned
against the mullions window-frame and
watched her. He could see, even in the
darkness, the pure, pale outline of her
perfect profile, and the crown of her
golden hair that framed her face like an
aureole.

Another dream realised, Monica," he
said softly, as she turned to him at length.

What dream, Randolph ? "

A dream that came to me once, in the
little cliff church where we were married,

as I watched you  little as you knew it 
sitting at the organ, and playing to yourself,
one sunny afternoon. But this is
better than any dream of pictured saint
or spirit  my Monica, my own true wife."

She looked up at him, and came and put
her arms about his neck  an unusual
demonstration, even now, for her, and they
stood very close together in the gathering
darkness that was not dark to them.

Monica paid an early visit to St. Maws
to see her friends, and to confide to Mrs.
Pendrill a little of the wonderful happiness
that had flooded her life with sunshine.
Then, too, she wanted to see Tom, and to
ask him the result of the mission he had
half promised to undertake. So far she
had learned nothing save that Fitzgerald

had not been seen near Trevlyn for many
weeks, and was supposed to have gone
abroad.

Did you see him, Tom ? " she asked,
when she had found the opportunity she
desired.

Yes, once or twice. I had a good
look at him. I should not call him exactly
mad, though in a decidedly peculiar mental
state. We merely met, as it were, by
chance, and talked on indifferent subjects
for the most part. Once he asked me, in a
sort of veiled way, for professional advice,
describing certain unpleasant symptoms
and sensations. I advised him to give up
the use of spirits, and to try what travelling
would do for him. He seemed to think
he would take my advice, and shortly
afterwards he disappeared from the neighbourhood

; but where he has gone I do not
know."

Monica knew that this advice had been
followed. " He may go anywhere he likes,
if he will only keep away from here," she
said. " I am very much obliged to you,
Tom, for doing as I asked."

Pray don't mention it."

I must mention it, because it was very
good of you. Tom, will you come and
stay at Trevlyn next week? We have one
or two people coming for the pheasants,
and we want you to make one of the party,
if you will."

Oh, very well; anything to please. I have
had no shooting worth speaking of so far.
I should like a week's holiday very well."

So that matter was speedily and easily
arranged.

Tom did not ask who were the guests he
was to meet, and Monica did not think of
naming such entire strangers, Lord Had don
and Lady Beatrice Wentworth. She forgot
that Tom and the young earl had met once
before on a different occasion.

Those two were to be the first guests.
Perhaps later on they would ask more, but
Monica was too entirely happy in her
present life to wish it in any way disturbed,
and Randolph by no means cared to be
obliged to give up to guests those happy
hours that heretofore he had always spent
with Monica. But Beatrice and her
brother had already been invited. They
were his oldest friends, and were Monica's
friends too. She was glad to welcome them
to her old home, and the rapturous
admiration that its beauties elicited would

hare satisfied a more exacting nature than
hers.

Beatrice was, as usual, radiant, bewitching,
delightful. Monica wished that Tom
had come in time to see her arrival, and
listen to her sparkling flow of talk. Tom
professed to be a woman-hater, or next
door to it, but she thought that even he
would have to make an exception in
favour of Lady Beatrice Wentworth.

She went upstairs with her guest to her
room at length, when Beatrice suddenly-turned
towards her, with quite a new expression
upon her face.

'' Monica," she said, looking straight
into her eyes, " you are changed  you are
different from what you were in London
different even from what you were in
Scotland, though I saw a change then. I

don't know how to express it, but you are
beautified  glorified. What is it? What
has changed you since 1 first knew you ? "

Monica knew right well ; but some
feelings could not be translated into
words.

I am very happy," she said, quietly.
If there is any change, that must be the

cause."

Happier than you have ever been
before ? "

Yes ; I think every week makes me
happier. I learn to know my husband
better and better, you see."

A sudden wistful sadness flashed into
the eyes so steadily regarding her.
Monica saw it before it had been blotted
out by the arch drollery of the look that
immediately succeeded.

And it does not wear off, Monica ?
Sometimes it does, you know  after a
time. Will it ever, in your case, do you
think ? '

 I think not," she answered.

"And I think not, too*' answered
Beatrice. " Ah me ! How happy some
people are ! "

She laughed, but there was something of
bitterness in the tone. Monica looked at
her seriously.

Are you not happy, Beatrice ? "

The girl's audacious smile beamed out
over her face.

"Don't I look so?"

Sometimes  not always."

One must have variety before all
things, you know," was the gay answer.
It would never do to be always in the

same style  it lacks piquancy after a time.
Now let me have time to beautify myself in
harmony with this most charming of old
places, and come back for me when you
are dressed ; I feel as if I should lose my
way, or see bogies in these delightful corridors
and staircases."

And Monica left her guest as desired,
coming back, half an hour later, to find
her transformed into the semblance of some
pictured dame of a century or two gone
by, in stiff amber brocade, quaintly cut
about the neck and sleeves, and relieved
here and there by dazzling scarlet
blossoms. Beatrice never at any time
looked like anybody else, but to-night she
was particularly, strikingly original.

Ah, you black-robed queen, you will

just do as a foil for me ! " was the greeting
VOL. II. 27

Monica received. " Whenever I see you
in any garb, no matter what it is, I always
think it is just one that suits you best of
everything. Are you having a dinner-party
to-night ? "

Not exactly. A few men are coming,
who have asked Randolph to shoot since
we came back. You and I are the only
ladies."

And then they went down to the empty
drawing-room a good half-hour before anyone
else was likely to appear.

Beatrice chatted away very brightly. She
seemed in gay spirits, and had a great deal
to tell of what had passed since their farewell
in Scotland a month or two acjo.

She moved about the drawing-room,
examining the various treasures it contained,
and admiring the beauty of the

pictures. She was standing half concealed
by the curtains draping a recessed window,
when the door opened, admitting Tom
Pendrill. He was in dinner dress, having
arrived about an hour previously.

You have come then, Tom," said
Monica. " I am glad. I was afraid you
meant to desert us after all."

The wish being father to the thought,
I presume," answered Tom, shaking hands.
By-the-bye, here is a letter from Arthur's
doctor I've brought to show you. He
gives a capital account of his patient.
Can you read German writing, or shall I
construe P He writes about as crabbedly
as "

And here Tom stopped short, seeing that

Monica was not alone.

"I beg your pardon," he added, drawing

27*

himself up with a ceremoniousness quite
unusual with him.

Not at all," answered Monica, quietly.
Let me introduce you to Lady Beatrice
Wentworth Mr. Tom Tendril"

They exchanged bows very distantly.
Monica became suddenly aware, in some
subtle, inexplicable fashion, that these two
were not strangers to one another  that
this was not their first meeting. Moreover,
it appeared as if their former acquaintance,
such as it was, could have
been by no means agreeable to either, for
it was easy to see that a sort of covert
antagonism existed between them which
neither of them took over much pains to
conceal.

Tom's face assumed its most sharply
cynical expression, as he drew at once into

his hardest shell of distant reserve and
sarcastic politeness.

Beatrice opened her feather fan, and
wielded it with a sort of aggressive negligence.
She dropped into a seat beside
Monica, and began to talk to her with an
air of studied affectation utterly at variance
with her ordinary manner, ignoring Tom
as entirely as if no introduction had passed
between them, and that with an assumption
of hauteur that could only be explained by a
deeply-seated antipathy.

Monica tried to include Tom in the conversation
; but he declined to be included,
returned an indifferent answer, and withdrew
to a distant corner of the room,
where he remained deeply engrossed, as it
seemed, in the study of a photographic
album.

Monica was perplexed. She could not
imagine what it all meant. She had never
heard the Tendrils speak of Lady Beatrice
Wentworth, and she was sufficiently acquainted
with Tom's history to render this
perplexity the greater. She was certain
Mrs. Pendrill had heard the name of her
expected guest, and it had aroused no
emotion in her. Yet she would presumably
know the name of a lady towards
whom her nephew cherished so great an
antipathy. Monica could not make it out.
But one thing was plain enough : those
two were sworn foes, and intended to
remain so  and they were guests beneath
the same roof !

AN ENIGMA.

It was a relief when the other men came
in, and when dinner was announced.
Randolph evidently knew nothing of any
disturbing element in the party as he
handed Beatrice in to dinner, and again
made a sort of attempt to introduce her to
Tom, who was seated opposite, not knowing
that Monica had already had an opportunity
of performing that little ceremony.

You are two of my oldest friends, you
know," said their host, in his pleasant,
easy fashion, " and you are both my guests
now, so you will have a capital opportunity

of expatiating together upon my many
perfections."

No need for that, Randolph," answered
Beatrice, gaily. " They speak too loud for
themselves, and your wife's eyes tell too
many tales of them. You know I never
could bear paragons. If you turn into one,
I shall have no more to say to you."

You are very cutting, Beatrice ; almost
as much so as Tom here. It is really rather
a trying position to be hedged in between
a clever woman and a clever man."

''If you call me a clever woman again,
Randolph, I'll never forgive you. I
abominate the whole race ! " cried Beatrice,
hotly ; " and as for clever men  I detest
them ! "

This was said so heartily as to elicit a
guffaw of laughter from a ruddy-faced

young gentleman of sporting tastes who
was her neighbour on the other side. She
turned to him with one of her most sparkling
glances.

' Now you, I am quite certain, agree
with me. Your face tells me you do.
Don't you think that it is the clever people
who make the world an intolerable place ? "

They're the greatest nuisance out'*
assented that young gentleman, cordially.
I always did say so. I was never clever.
I was plucked three times, I think, for my
little-go."

Then you and I are sure to be great
friends," said Beatrice, laughing. " I am
quite, quite sure I should never have passed
any examination if I had been a man. I
was at Oxford once, long ago ; and oh !
you know, the only men that were

any good at all were those who had
been 'plucked as they call it, or fully
expected to be. The clever, good, precocious
boys were  oh ! well, let us not think
of them. It takes away one's appetite ! "

The sporting gentleman laughed, and
enjoyed this summary verdict ; but Randolph
just glanced across at his wife. He,
too, was aware that there was something
odd in Beatrice's manner. He detected the
covert vein of bitterness in her tone ; and
he was as much at a loss to understand it
as any one else could be. Tom's face and
impenetrable silence puzzled him likewise.

Dinner, however, passed smoothly enough.
Beatrice was very lively, and her witticisms
kept all the table alive. Her young neighbour
lost his heart to her at once, and she
flirted with him in the most frank and open

fashion possible. She could be very fascinating
when she chose, and to-night, after
the first edge had been taken off her
sallies, she was, undoubtedly, exceedingly
attractive.

If there was something a little forced in
her mirth, at least nobody detected it, save
those who knew her very well, and not
even all of those, for Haddon was obviously
unconscious that anything was wrong, and
talked to Monica in the most unconcerned
fashion possible. What Tom thought of it
all nobody could hazard an opinion.

At length Monica gave the signal to her
animated guest, and they two withdrew
together. Beatrice laughed gaily, as she
half walked half waltzed across the hall,
humming a dance tune the while.

What a lovely place this would be fora

dance ! " she exclaimed, " a masked, or,
better still, a fancy dress ball. Shouldn't we
look charming in these panelled rooms,
flitting about this great baronial hall, and
up and down that delightful staircase?
Monica, you and Randolph mustn't get
lazy ; you must live up to your house. It
is too beautiful to be wasted. If you don't
know how to manage matters, I must
come and teach you ? "

And so she rattled on, first on one theme,
and then on another, in restless, aimless
fashion, as people do who are talking
against time, or talking with a purpose,
determined not to let silence fall between
them and their companions. It was easy
to see that Beatrice wished to avoid any
confidential conversation  wished to escape
from any kind of questioning, or from quiet

talk, of whatever description it might be.
When at length she did let Monica go
back to the drawing-room, it was not with
any idea of silence. She went straight to
the piano, and began playing stormily.

Presently, after dashing off fragments
vocal and instrumental in a sort of
confused medley, Monica, growing dreamy
as she listened to the succession of changing
harmonies, she began once again with
more of purpose and of passion in her voice
indeed, there was so much of pain and
passion, that Monica was aroused to listen.

My heart, my heart is like a singing bird

Whose nest is in a watered shoot ;
My heart, my heart is like an apple-tree,

Whose boughs are hung with thick-set fruit.
My heart, my heart is like a rainbow-shell

That paddles in a halcyon sea ;
My heart, my heart is gladder than all these,

Because my love, my love has come to me.
My heart "

And then the singer's voice failed utterly ;
a dismal discordant chord broke the eager
harmonies that had followed one another
so rapidly. Beatrice broke into a sudden
storm of tears, and hurried from the room
without a word.

Monica sat aghast and bewildered.
What could it all mean ? Was she by
chance to come upon the secret sorrow of
Beatrice's life ?  the sorrow she had half
suspected sometimes, but had never heard
in any way explained. Was it to be
explained to her now ? Was Tom Pendrill
connected with that sorrow ? If so, what
part had he taken ? Could they ever have
been lovers ? Did she not remember, long
ago, hearing something of a suspicion on
Mrs. Pendrill's part that Tom had been
"jilted" by the woman he loved? Was

there not a time, long ago, when he was
not the reserved, cynical man he affected
now to be ; but was genial, brilliant, the
pleasantness of companions? Yes, Monica
was sure of it  was certain that he had
changed, and changed somewhat suddenly,
many years since ; but she had paid but
little heed to the matter then, as it was
about that time when every faculty was
absorbed in watching over Arthur, who
long lay hovering between life and death.
Changes after that passed almost unheeded.
Had not her whole life been changed
too?

She did not follow Beatrice, however, to
try and comfort her, or attempt to force
her confidence. She treated her as she
would wish herself to be treated in similar
case ; and shortly after the gentlemen had

joined them, had the satisfaction of seeing
Beatrice come back as brilliant and full of
vivacity as ever, and there was no need
after her appearance, to wonder how the
evening should be passed, it seemed quite
sufficient entertainment for the company to
sit in a circle round her, and hear Beatrice
talk. Tom Pendrill was the one exception.
He did not attempt to join the magic ring.
He took Monica a little apart, and talked
over with her the latest news from
Germany.

When the guests had departed, and
Beatrice, as well as her brother and
Monica, had gone upstairs, Tom turned
his face towards Randolph with its hardest
and most cynical look.

Tell you what, Trevlyn, don't you ask
that poor young fellow Eadlet here again,

SO long as that arrant flirt is a guest under
your roof."

Randolph simply smiled.

Time ' arrant flirt,' as you are polite
enough to call my guest, is one of my
oldest friends. Kindly keep that fact in
mind in talking of her to me."

I am not talking of her. I am talking
of poor young Eadlet."

It seems to me that poor young Eadlet,
as you call him, is very well able to take
care of himself."

Oh, you think that, do you ? Shows
how much yon know ! Can't you see she
was doing her very best to enslave his
fancy, and that he was falling under the
spell as fast as ever he could ? "

Pooh ! Nonsense ! " answered Randolph
; " they were just exchanging a
VOL. II. 28

little of the current coin that is constantly
passing in gay society. Young Eadlet is
not a green-horn. They understand their
game perfectly."

She does, of course  no one better ;
but it's a question if he does."

Well, he's a greater fool than he looks,
if he does not ! " answered Randolph.
"Does he expect -a girl like Beatrice
Wentworth to be enslaved by his charms in
the course of a few hours ? The thing's a
manifest absurdity ! "

Possibly ; but that woman can make a
man think anything."

Randolph looked at his friend with some
attention.

"You seem to have formed very
exhaustive conclusions about Lady Beatrice
Wentworth."

It almost seemed as if Tom coloured a
little as he turned impatiently away.

Next day Beatrice seemed to have regained
her usual even flow of spirits. She
met Tom at breakfast as she would meet
any guest under the same roof, and neither
courted nor avoided him in any way. He
seemed to take his cue from her ; but his
face still wore the thin-lipped cynical
expression that betrayed a certain amount
of subdued irritation. However, sport was
the all-prevailing topic of the hour, and as
soon as breakfast was concluded, the men
departed, with the dogs and keepers in
their wake.

What would you like to do, Beatrice ? "

asked Monica when the sportsmen had

disappeared. " AYe have the whole day

before us."

28*

Like to do ? Why, everything must
be delightful in this lovely 
place. Monica, no wonder you are
just yourself  not one bit like anyone
else  brought up here with only
the sea, and the clouds, and the sunshine
for companions and playmates. I
used to look at you in a sort of wonder,
but I understand it all now. You ought
always to live at Trevlyn  never anywhere
else. What should I like to do? Why,
anything. Suppose we ride. I should
love to gallop along the cliffs with you. I
want to see the queer little church Haddon
described to me, where you were married,
and the picturesque little town where 
where Randolph and he put up on the
eve of that day. I want to see everything
that belongs to your past life.

Monica. It interests me more than I can
express."

Monica smiled in her tranquil fashion.

Very well ; you shall gratify your wish.
I will order the horses at once. If we goto
St. Maws, I ought to go and see Aunt
Elizabeth  Mrs. Pendrill that is, aunt to
Arthur, and to Tom Pendrill and his
brother. She is sure to want us to stay to
luncheon with her if we do. She weill be
all alone ; Tom here, and Eaymond on his
rounds. Would you dislike that, Beatrice ?
She is a sweet old lady, and seems more a
part of my past life than anything else I
can show you, though I could not perhaps
explain why."

A curious light shone in Beatrice's eyes.

Dislike it ! I should like it above
everything. I love old ladies. They are

SO much more interesting than young ones,
I often wish I were old myself  not middle-aged,
you know, but really old, very old,
with lovely white hair, and a waxen face allover
tiny wrinkles, like my own grandmother
 the most beautiful woman without
exception that I ever saw. Yes, Monica,
let us do that. It will be delightful. Why
did you never mention the Tendrils to me
before ? "

She put the question with studied carelessness.
Yet Monica was certain it was
asked with effort.

Did I not ? I thought I used to tell
you so much about my past life."

So you did ; but I never heard that
name."

You knew Arthur was a Pendrill."

"Indeed I did not. He was always

Arthur to sou. I wonder I never asked
this surname ; but somehow I never did.
I had a vague idea that some such people
as these Tendrils existed ; but I never
heard you name them."

Perhaps you heard, and forgot it ? "
suggested Monica tentatively.

That I am sure I never did," was the
very emphatic answer.

Beatrice was delighted with her
mornings's ride. It was a beautiful autumn
day, and everything was looking its best.
The sea flashed and sparkled in the sunlight
; the sky was clear and soft above
them, the horses, delighted to feel the soft
turf beneath their feet, pranced and
curvetted and galloped, with that easy
elastic motion that is so peculiarly
exhilarating.

The girl herself looked peculiarly and
vividly beautiful, and Monica was not
surprised at the affectionate interest Mrs.
Pendrill evinced in her from the first
moment of introduction.

But she was a little surprised at the
peculiar sweetness of Beatrice's demeanour
towards the old lady. Whilst retaining all
her arch brightness and vivacity, the girl
managed to infuse into her manner, her
voice, and her words something gentle
and deferential and winning that was
inexplicably fascinating ; all the more so
from its evident unconscious sin verity .

Mrs Pendrill was charmed with the
beauty and sweetness of the girl, and it
seemed as if Beatrice on her side was equally
fascinated. When the time came to say
good-bye, and the old lady held both her

hands, and gazed into her bright face, as
she asked for another visit very soon, she
stooped suddenly, and kissed her with
pretty, spontaneous warmth.

Come again ! Of course I will, as often
as Monica will bring me. Good-bye, Mrs.
Pendrill  Aunt Elizabeth I should like to
say "  with a little rippling laugh. " I think
you are just fit to be Monica's 'Saint
Elizabeth.' Is it the air of this place that
makes you all so perfectly delightful ? I
shall have to come and live here too, I
think."

And as she and Monica rode home
together over the sweeping downs, Beatrice
turned to her after a long pause of 'silence
and said :

Monica, it was a dangerous experiment
asking me to Trevlyn."

"Why?"

Because I don't feel as if I should ever
want to leave it again. And I'm a dreadful
sort of creature when I'm bent on my own
way."

Monica smiled.

You will have to turn me out neck and
crop in the end, I firmly believe. I feel I
should just take root here, and never wish
to go."

Monica shook her head with a look of
subdued amusement.

I am very glad it pleases you so much ;
but do you know, Beatrice, I think you
will have a different tale to tell in a week
or two ? You cannot realise, till you have
tried it, how solitary and isolated we are,
especially as the winter draws on. Very
soon you will think it is a dreadfully lonely

place  a sort of enchanted castle, as
Eandolpli used to call it ; and you will be
pining to get back to the gay, busy whirl
of life, that you have left behind."

Monica stopped short there struck by
the strange look turned upon her by her
companion. Beatrice's face had grown
grave and almost pale. A curious wistful
sadness shone in her eyes ; it almost seemed
as if tears glistened on the long lashes.

Her words were almost as enigmatical
as her looks.

She gazed at Monica for a moment
speechlessly, and then softly murmured :

"Ettu Brute!"

CHAPTER THE Twenty-third.

PAGE

Beatrice 1

CHAPTER THE Twenty-fourth.
Storm 17

CHAPTER THE Twenty-fifth.
Widowed 39

CHAPTER THE Twenty-sixth.
Monica . . . 61

CHAPTER THE Twenty-SEVENTH.
Haunted 79

CHAPTER THE Twenty-eighth.
Lovers 97

Chapter THE Twenty-ninth.

"As We Forgive . . . . . .124

CHAPTER THE THIRTIETH.

PAG E

Lord Haddon . . . . . . . 155

CHAPTER THE THIRTY-first.
Christmas 177

CHAPTER THE Thirty-second.
The Last 194

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-tried.

BEATRICE.

Beatrice, I believe my words are coming
true, after all. I begin to think you are
getting tired of Trevlyn already."

It was Monica who spoke thus. She
had surprised Beatrice alone in the boudoir
at dusk one afternoon, sitting in. an
attitude of listless dejection, with the
undoubted brightness of unshed tears in
her eyes.

But the girl looked up quickly, trying
to regain all her usual animation, though
the attempt was not a marked success, and

VOL. III. 29

Monica sat down beside her, and laid one
hand upon hers in a sort of mute caress.

You are not happy with us, Beatrice,
I see it more and more plainly every day.
You have grown pale since you came here,
and your spirits vary every hour, but they
do not improve, and you are often sad. I
think Trevlyn cannot suit you. I think I
shall have to prescribe change of air and
scene, and a meeting later on in some other
place."

Monica spoke with a sort of grave
gentleness, that indicated a tenderness she
could not well express more clearly. For
answer, Beatrice suddenly flung herself
on her knees before her hostess, burying
her face in her hands.

Oh, don't send me away, Monica !
Don't send me away ! I could not bear it 

indeed I could not! I am miserable  I am
wretched company. I don't wonder you
are tired of me ; but all ! don't send me
away from you, and from Trevlyn. I
think I shall die if you do. Oh, why is the
world such a hard, cruel place ? "

Monica was startled at this sudden outburst,
for since the day following her
arrival Beatrice had showed herself unusually
reserved. She had been distraite
absorbed, fitful in her moods, but never
once expansive ; therefore, this unexpected
impulse towards confidence was the more
surprising.

Beatrice," she said gently, " I did not
mean to distress you. You know how
very, very welcome you are to stay with
us. But you are unhappy ; you are far
more unhappy than when you came."

Beatrice shook her head vehemently at
this point, but Monica continued in the
same quiet way. " You are unhappy, you
are restless and miserable. Beatrice,
answer me frankly, would you be happy if
Tom Pendrill were not here ? He has
already outstayed his original time, and we
could quite easily get rid of him if his
presence is a trouble to you. We never
stand on ceremony with Tom, and
Randolph could manage it in a moment."

Beatrice lifted a pale, startled face.

Tom Pendrill ? " she repeated, almost
sharply. " What has he got to do with it ?
What makes you bring in his name ? What

do you know about  about ?" She

stopped suddenly.

I know nothing except what I see for
myself  nothing but what your face and

this tell me. It is easy to see that you
have known each other before, and under
rather exceptional circumstances, perhaps.
Do you think it escapes me, that feverish
gaiety of yours whenever he is near 
gaiety that is expended in laughing, chatting,
flirting, perhaps, with the other guests,
but is never by any chance directed to
him ? Do you think I do not notice how
quickly that affectation of high spirits
evaporates when he is gone ; how many
fits of sad musing follow in its wake ?
How is it you two never talk to one
another? never exchange anything beyond
the most frigid commonplaces ? It is not
your way to be so distant and so cool,
Beatrice. There must be a reason. Tell
me truly, would you not be happier if Tom
Pendrill were to go back to St. Maws ? "

But Beatrice shook her head again, and
heaved a long, shuddering sigh.

Oh, no, no ! *' she said. " Don't send
him away. Nothing really matters now ;
nothing can do either good or harm. Let
him stay. I think his heart is made of ice.
He does not care ; why should I ? It is
nothing but my folly and weakness, only it
brings it all back so bitterly  all my pride,
and self-will, and stubbornness. Well, I
have suffered for it now."

It was plain that a confession was
hovering on Beatrice's hips ; that she was
anxious at last to unburden herself of her
secret. Monica helped her by asking a
direct question.

Were you engaged to him once ? "

"No no! not quite. I had not got
quite so far as that. I might have

been. He asked me to be his wife, and I 

I " She paused, and then went on

more coherently.

I will tell you all about it. It was
years ago, when I was barely eighteen  a
gay, giddy girl, just ' out,' full of fun, very
wild and saucy, and thoroughly spoiled by
persistent petting and indulgence. I was
the only daughter of the house, and
believed that Lady Beatrice Wentworth
was a being of vast importance. Well, I
suppose people spoiled us because we were
orphans. We were all more or less spoiled,
and I think it was the ruin of my eldest
brother. He was at Oxford at the time I
am speaking of ; and I was taken to Commemoration
by some gay friends of
ours, who had brothers and sons at
Oxford.

It was there I met Tom Pendrill. He
was the ' chum ' of one of the undergraduate
sons of my chaperon, and he was
a great man just then. He had distinguished
himself tremendously in the
schools, I know  had taken a double-first,
or something, and other things beside. He
was quite a lion in his own set, and I heard
an immense deal in his praise, and was
tremendously impressed, quite convinced
that there was not such another man in the
world. He was almost always in our
party', and he took a great deal of notice of
me. He gave us breakfast in his rooms,
and I sat next him, and helped to do the
honours of the table. You can't think how
proud I was at being singled out by him,
how delighted I was to walk by his side,
listening to his words of wisdom, how

elevated I often felt, low taken out of
myself into quite a new world of thought
and feelings."

Beatrice paused. A smile  half sad,
half bitter  played for a moment over her
face ; then she took up the thread of her
narrative.

I need not go into the subject of my
feelings. I was very young, and all the
glamour of youth and inexperience was
upon me. I had never, in all my life,
come across a man in the least like him  so
clever, so witty, so cultured, and withal with
so strong a personality. He was not silent
and cynical, as he is now, but full of life
and sparkle, of brilliance and humour. I
was dazzled and captivated. 1 believed
there had never been such a man in
the world before. He was my ideal, my

hero ; and he seemed to court me, which
was the most wonderful thing of all.

You know what young girls are like ?
No, perhaps you don't, and I will avoid
generalities, and speak only of myself.
Just because he captivated me so much 
my fancy, my intellect, my heart  just
because I began to feel his power growing
so strongly upon me, I grew shy,
frightened, restive. I was very wilful and
capricious. I wanted him to admire me,
and I was proud that he seemed to do so ;
but I did not in the least want to acknowledge
his power over me. I was
frightened at it. I tried to ignore it  to
keep it off.

So, in a kind of foolish defiance and
mistrust of myself, I began flirting
tremendously with a silly young marquis.

whom I heartily despised and disliked. I
only favoured him when Tom Pendrill was
present, for I wanted to make him jealous,
and to feel my power over him. Coquetry
is born in some women, I believe ; I am
sure it was born in me. I did not mean
any harm. I never cared a bit for the
creature. I cared for no one but the man
I affected now to be tired of. But rumours
got about. I suppose it would have been
a very good match for me. People said I
was going to marry the cub, and I only
laughed when I heard the report. I was
young, vain, and foolish enough to feel
rather flattered than otherwise."

She paused a moment, with another of
those bitter-sweet smiles, and went on very
quietly :

Why are girls so badly brought up ?

I was not bad at heart ; but I was vain and
frivolous. I loved to inflict pain of a kind
upon others, till I played once too often
with edge-tools, and have suffered for it
ever since. Of course, Tom Pendrill heard
these reports, and, of course, they angered
him deeply ; for I had given him every
encouragement. He did not know the
complex workings of a woman's heart, her
wild struggles for supremacy before she can
be content to yield herself up for ever 
willing sacrifice. He did not understand ;
how should he ? 1 did not either till it was
too late.

I saw him once more alone. We were
walking by the river one moonlight night.
He was unlike himself  silent, moody,
imperious. All of a sudden it burst out.
He asked me almost fiercely if I would be

his wife  lie almost claimed my promise as
his right  said that I owed him that
reparation for destroying his peace of
mind. How my heart leapt as I heard
those words. A torrent of love seemed to
surge over me. I was terrified at the
depth of feeling he had stirred up.
I struggled with a sort of fury against
being carried away by it, against betraying
myself too unreservedly. I don't remember
what I said ; I was terribly agitated. I
believe in my confusion and bewilderment
I said something disgusting about my rank
and his  the difference between us. Then
he cast that odious marquis in my teeth,
supposed that the report he had heard was
true, that I was going to sell myself for the
reversion of a ducal coronet, since I
thought so much of rank, I was furious ;

all the more furious because I had brought
it on myself, though, had he but known it,
it was ungenerous to take me at a disadvantage,
and cast my words back at me
like that  words spoken without the least
consideration or intention. But, right or
wrong, he did it, and I answered back with
more vehemence than before. I don't
know what I said, but it was enough for
him, at any rate. He turned upon me  I
think he almost cursed me  not in words,
but in the cruel scorn expressed in his face
and in his voice. Ah ! it hurts me even
now. Then he left me without another
word, without a sign or sound of farewell
left me standing alone by that river. I
never saw him again till we met in your
drawing-room that night."

Beatrice paused ; IVIonica had taken her

hand in token of sympathy, but she did
not speak.

Of course, at first I thought he would
come back. I never dreamed he would
believe I had really led him on, only
to reject him with contempt, when once he
dared to speak his heart to me. We had
quarrelled; and I was very miserable,
knowing how foolish I had been ; but I
never, never believed for a moment that he
would take that quarrel as final.

Two wretched days of suspense followed.
Then I heard that he had left Oxford
the morning after our interview by the
river, and I knew that all was over between
us. That is the story of my life, Monica ;
it does not sound much to tell, but it means
a good deal to me. I have never loved
anyone else  I do not think I ever shall."

Monica was silent.

Neither has he."

Beatrice's eyes were full of a sort of
wistful sadness and tender regret ; but she
only kissed Monica very quietly, and stole
silently from the room.

<iMj

STORM.

Ah, Randolph ! I am glad you are in. It
is D-oino' to be such a roucli nifht! "

Monica was sitting by the fire in her own
room, waiting for her husband to join her
there, as he always did immediately upon
coming in from his day's sport. They had
one or two more guests at Trevlyn now 
men, fr lends of Randolph's in days past ; but
nothing ever hindered him from devoting
this one hour before dinner to his wife. It
was to Monica the happiest hour of the day.

I am so glad to have you safe back.

Are you not very wet ? "

VOL. in. 30

'No ; I was well protected from tlifi
rain ; but it has been a disagreeable sort
of day. The other fellows were carried off
to dine at Portland's. We came across
their party just outside the park, and he
begged us all to accept his hospitality for
the night, as the weather was getting so
bad. Haddon and I came home to tell
you, but the rest accepted the invitation.
We shall be quite a small party to-night."
Monica looked up with a smile.
I think I am glad of that, Randolph."
He sat down and put his arm about her.
Tired of our guests already, Monica ? "
I don't know  T like to have your
friends, and to help to make thei enjoy
themselves ; but I don't think there is any
such happiness as having you all to
myself."

He held her closer to him, and looked
with a proud fond smile into her face.

'' You feel that too, ]monica ? "

Ah, yes ! How could I help it? "

He fancied she spoke sadly, and would
know why.

I think I have been sad all day," she
answered ; " I am often sad before a storm,
when I hear the wind moaning round the
house. It makes me think of the brave
men at sea, and their wives waiting for
them at home."

There was a little quiver in her voice as
she spoke the last words. Randolph heard
it, and held her very close to him.

It is not such a very bad night,
Monica."

No ; but it makes me think. When

you are away, I cannot help feeling sad,

30*

often. Ah, my husband ! how can I tell
3'ou all that you have been to me these
happy, happy months ? "

'' My sweet wife ! " he murmured, softly.

And other wives love their husbands,"
she went on in the same dreamy way, " and
they see them go away over the dark sea,
never to come back any more," and she
shivered.

Let us go to the music-room, Monica,"
said Randolph. ' You shall play the hymn
for those at sea."

He knew the power of music to soothe
her, when these strange moods of sadness
and fear came upon her. They went to
the organ together, and before half-an-hour
had passed Monica was her own calm,
serene self again.

Monica," said Randolph, '' can you sing

sometliiiii? to me now  now that we are
quite alone together? Do you remember
that little sad, sweet song you sang the
night before I went away to Scotland ?
Will you sing it to me now ? I have so
often wanted to hear it again''

Monica gave him one quick glance, and
struck the preliminary chords softly and
dreamily.

Wonderfully rich and sweet her voice
sounded ; but low-toned and deep, with a
subtle searching sweetness that spoke
straight to the heart :

' And if thou wilt, remember 
And if thou wilt, forget.' "

There was the least little quiver in her
voice as it died into silence. Randolph
bent over her and kissed her on the lips.

Thank you," he said. " It is a haunting

little song in its sad sweetness. Somehow,
it seems like you, Monica."

But she made no answer, for at that
moment a sound reached their ears that
made them both start, listening intently.
Monica's face grew white to the lips.

The sound was repeated with greater
distinctness.

A gun ! " said Randolph.

A ship in distress ! " whispered Monica.

A ship in distress upon that cruel, ironbound
coast  a pitch-dark night and a
rising gale !

Randolph looked grave and resolute.

We must see what can be done," he
said.

Monica's face was very pale, but as
resolute as her husband's.

I will go with you ! " she said.

He glanced at Ler, but he did not say
lier nay.

In the hall servants were gathering invisible
excitement. Lord Haddon was
there, and Beatrice. The distressing
signals from the doomed vessel were
urging their imperative message upon every
heart. Faces were flushed with excitement.
Every eye was turned upon the
master of the house.

Haddon," he said, " there is not a man
on the place that can ride like you, and
you know every inch of the country by
this time. Will you do this ?  take the
fastest, surest horse in the stable, and
gallop to the nearest life-boat station.
You know where it is ?  Good ! Give the
alarm there, and get all in readiness. If
the ship is past our help, and drifts with

the "wind, they may be able to save her
crew still."

Haddon stayed to ask no more. He
was off for the stables almost before the
words had left Randolph's lips.

Monica was wrapping herself up in her
warm ulster ; Beatrice followed her example
; the one was flushed, the other
pale, but both were bent on the same
object  they must go down to the shore
to see what was done. They could not
rest with the sound of those terrible guns
ringing in their ears.

The night was pitchy black, the sky was
obscured by a thick bank of cloud. The
wind blew fierce and strong, what sailors
would call " half a gale." It was a wild,
dirty " night, but not nearly so bad a
one as they often knew upon that coast.

The lanterns lighted them down the steep
cliff-path, every foot of which, however,
was well known to Monica. She kept
close beside her husband. He cave her his
hand over every difficult piece of the road,
Beatrice followed a little more slowly.
At last they all stood together upon the
rocky floor of the bay.

Monica looked out to sea. She was
the first to realise what had happened.

She has struck on the reef ! " she said.
She does not drift. She has struck ! "

And in such a sea she will be dashed
to pieces in a very short time," said Randolph,
as another signal flashed out from
the doomed vessel.

Other lights were moving about the
shore. It was plain that the whole population
of the little hamlet had gathered at

the water's edfe. Through the gusts of
rain they could see indistinctly moving
figures ; they could catch as a faint
murmur the loud, eager tones of their
voices.

Stay here, Monica," said Randolph,
under the shelter of this rock. I must
go and see what is being done. Wait
here for me."

She had held fast by his arm till now !
but she loosed his clasp as she heard these
words.

You will come back ? " she said, striving
to speak calmly and steadily.

Yes, as soon as I can. I must see
what can be done. There seems to be a
boat. I must go and see if it cannot be
launched. The sea in the bay is not so
very wild."

Eandolpli was gone already. Beatrice
and Monica were left standing in the lee of
a projection of the cliff. They thought
they were quite alone. They did not see
a crouching figure not many paces away,
squeezed into a dark fissure of the rock.
The night was too obscure to see anything,
save where the flashing lights illumined the
gloom. Even the wild beast glitter of a
pair of fierce eyes watching intently passed
unseen and unheeded.

Monica looked out to sea with a strange
fixed yearning in her dark eyes. She was
looking towards the vessel, struck fast
upon the very rock where she had once
stood face to face with death. How well
she remembered that moment and the
strange calmness that possessed her ! She
never realised the peril she was in  it had

seemed a small thing to her then whether
she lived or died. She recalled her feelings
so well  was she really the same
Monica who had stood so calmly there
whilst the waves leaped up as if to devour
her ? Where was her old, calm indifference
now ?  that strange courage prompted
by the want of natural love for life ?

A sense of revelation swept over Monica
at that moment. She had never really
feared, because she had never truly loved.
It was not death even now that she
dreaded for herself, or for her husband,
but separation. Danger, even to death,
shared with him, would be almost welcome :
but to think of his facings damper alone 
that was too terrible. She pressed her
hands closely together. It seemed as if
her very soul cried to Heaven to keep

away this dire necessity. Why she suspected
its existence she could not have
explained, but the shadow that had hung
upon her all day seemed wrapping itself
about her like a cloud.

Monica, how you tremble ! " said
Beatrice. "Are you cold? Are you
afraid ? "

She was trembling herself, but it was
with excitement and impatience.

Monica did not answer, and Beatrice
moved a little away. She was too restless
to stand still.

Monica did not miss her. A storm was
sweeping over her soul  one of those
storms that only perhaps come once in a
lifetime, and that leave indelible traces
behind them. It seemed to her as if all
her life long she had been waiting for this

hour  as if everything in her past life had
been but leading up to it.

Had she not known from her earliest
childhood that some day this beautiful,
terrible, pitiless sea was to do her some
deadly injury  to wreck her life and leave
her desolate ? Ay she had known it
always  and now  had the hour come ?

Not in articulate words did Monica ask
this question. It came as a sort of voiceless
cry from the depths of her heart. She
did not think, she did not reason  she only
stood quite still, her hands closely clasped,
her white face turned towards the sea, with
a mute, stricken look of pain that yet expressed
but a tithe of the bitter pain at her
heart.

But during those few minutes, that
seemed a ife-time to her, the battle had

been fought out and the victory won.
The old calmness had come back to her.
She had not faced this hour all her life to
be a coward now.

She was a Trevlyn  and when had a
Trevlyn ever been known to shrink or falter
before a call of duty ?

Beatrice rushed back with the greatest
excitement of manner.

They have a boat, but nearly all the
men are away  the strong men who could
man it easily There are a few strong
lads, who are willing and eager to go, and
two fishermen ; but there are only six in
all, and they don't know if it is enough.
Oh, dear! oh, dear! And those poor
people in the ship! Must they all be
drowned?"

I think not," answered Monica, quietly

think some means will be found to
save them. Where is Randolph ? "

Randolph was beside her next moment.

Ah, if only I were a man," Beatrice
was saying, excitedly. " Ah ! why are
women so useless, so helpless ? To think
of them drowning within sight of land 
and they say the sea does not run so very
high. Oh, what will they do? They
cannot let them drown ! Randolph, can
nothings be done ? "

Yes, something can be done," he answered
steadily and cheerfully. " The boat
is being run down. It will not be difficult
or dangerous to launch her in shelter of the
cliff. There are six men to man it  all
they want is a coxswain. Monica," he
added, turning to her, and taking both her
hands in his strong clasp, "you have

taught me to navigate the Bay of Trevlyii
so well, that I am equal to take that task
upon myself. There are lives to be saved
the danger to the rescuing party is small,
they say so, and I believe they speak the
truth. Will you let me go ? "

She looked up to him with a mute entreaty
in her eyes.

There are lives to be saved, my
Monica," he said, with grave gentleness.
Are our brothers to go down within
sight of land, without one effort on our
part to save them ? Have you not wept
for such scenes before now ? Have you no
pity to-night ? Monica, in that vessel on
the rocks there are men, perhaps, whose
wives are waiting at home for them, and
praying for their safety. Will you let me
go ? "

VOL. III. 31

She spoke at length with manifest eflbrt,
though her manner was quite calm.

"Is there no one else?"

There is no one else."

For perhaps ten seconds there was perfect
silence between them.

Then Randolph, I will let you go."

He bent his head and kissed her.

I knew my wife would bid me do my
duty," he said proudly ; " and believe me,
my life, the danger is not great, and
already the wind seems abating. It is
but a small vessel. In all probability one
journey will suffice. We shall not be out
of sight, save for the darkness ; we shall
be under the lee of the clijS' for the best
part of the way. The boat is sound,
the men know their work. We shall
soon be back in safety, please God,

and then you will be glad that you let
me go."

She lifted her head and looked at hit.

Take me with you, Randolph.

My darling, I cannot. It would not
be right. We must not load the boat needlessly,
even were there no other reason.
Your presence there would take away
half my courage, and perhaps it might
necessitate leaving behind some poor fellow
who otherwise might be saved."

Monica said no more. She knew that he
spoke the truth.

Her white, still face with its stricken

look, went to his heart. He knew how

strangely nervous she was on wild, windy

nights. He knew it would be hard for her

to let him go, but she had shown herself

his brave, true Monica, as he knew she

31

would do, and now the kindest thing he
could do was to shorten the parting, and
return to her as quickly as his errand
would allow him.

He held her a moment in his strong
arms.

Good-bye, my Monica, my own sweet
wife. Keep up a brave heart. Kiss me
once and let me go. Whatever happens,
we are in God's hands. Remember that
always."

She lifted her pale face, there was
something strangely pathetic in its haunting
beauty.

" Let me see you smile before I go. Tell
me again that you bid me do my duty."

Suddenly the old serenity and peace
came back to the upturned face. The
smile he asked for shone in her sweet eyes.

*' Good-bye, my Randolph  my husband
good-bye. Yes, I do bid you do your
duty. May God bless and keep you
always."

For a moment they stood together, heart
pressed to heart, their lips meeting in one
long, lingering kiss ; for one moment a
strange shadow as of farewell seemed to
hang upon them, and they clung together
as if no power on earth could separate
them.

The next moment he was gone, and
Monica, left alone, stretched out her hands
in the darkness.

Oh, my love ! my love ! "

It was the one irrepressible cry from
the depths of her heart ; the next moment
she repealed dreamily to herself the words
that had lately passed her husband's lips :

' Whatever happens, we are in God's
hands. Remember that always.' Randolph,
I will ! I will ! "

A ringing cheer told her that the boat
was off. Nobody had seen the slim figure
that had slunk after Randolph down to the
beach. No one, in the darkness and
general excitement, had seen that same slim
figure leap lightly and noiselessly into the
boat, and crouch down in the extreme end
of the bow.

Conrad Fitzgerald had witnessed the
parting between husband and wife ; he had
heard every word that had passed between
them ; and now, as he crouched with a
tiger-like ferocity in the bottom of the boat,
he muttered :

This time he shall not escape me ! "

WIDOWED.

The boat launched by the rescuing party
vanished in the darkness. Monica stood
where her husband had left her in the
shelter of the cliff, her pale face turned
seawards, her eyes fixed upon the glimmering
crests of the great waves, as they came
rolling calmly in, in their resistless might
and majesty.

Beatrice had twice come back to her, to
assure her with eager vehemence that the
danger was very slight, that it was lessening
every moment as the wind shifted and
abated in force  dangerous, indeed, for the

poor fellows in the doomed vessel that had
struck upon the fatal reef, but not very
perilous for the willing and eager and
experienced crew that had started off to
rescue them. Beatrice urged this many
times upon Monica ; but the latter stood
quite still and spoke not a word ; only gazed
out to sea with the same strange yearning
gaze that was like a mute farewell.

Was it only an hour ago that she had
been with her husband at home, telling him
of the dim foreboding of coming woe that
had haunted her all that day ? It seemed
to her as if she had all her life been standing
beside the dark margin of this tempest-tossed
sea, waiting the return of him who
made all the happiness of her life  and
waiting in vain.

Beatrice looked at her once or twice, but

did not speak again. Presently she moved
down towards the water's edge. Surely the
boat would be coming back now !

Suddenly there was a glad shout of
triumph and joy from the fisher-folk, down
by the brink of the sea.

Here she is ! " " Here she comes ! "
Steady, there ! " " Ease her a bit ! "
This way now ! " " Be ready, lads ! "
Here she comes ! " " Now, then, all
together ! " " After this wave  now ! "

Cries, shouts, an eager confusion of
tongues  the grating of a boat's keel upon
the beach, and then a ringing hearty cheer,

"All safe?"

All saved  five of them and a lad."
Just in time only." " She wouldn't have
floated five minutes longer." '' She was
going down like lead."

What noise and confusion there was 
people crowding round, flitting figures
passing to and fro in the obscurity, everyone
talking, all speaking together  such a
hubbub as Beatrice had never witnessed
before. She stood in glad, impatient
expectancy on the outskirts of the little
crowd. Why did notEandolph come away
from them to Monica ? Why did she not
hear his voice with the rest ? Her heart
gave a sudden throb as of terror.

Where is Lord Trevlyn ? "

Her voice, sharpened by the sudden fear
that had seized her, was heard through all
the eager clamour of those who stood round.
A gleam of moonlight, struggling through
the clouds, lighted up the group for a
moment. The words went round like wildfire
: " Where is Lord Trevlyn ? " and men

looked each other in the face, growing pale
with conscious bewilderment. Where, indeed,
was Lord Trevljn ? He was certainly
not amongst them ; yet he had
undoubtedly steered the boat to shore.
Where was he now ? Men talked in loud,
rapid tones. Women ran hither and
thither, wrinoincr their hands in distressful
excitement, hunting for the missing man
with futile eagerness. What had happened
? Where could he be ?

Suddenly a deep silence fell upon all ;
for in the brightening moonlight they saw
that Monica stood amongst them  pale, calm
and still, as a spirit from another world.

Tell me," she said.

The story was told by one and another.
Monica was used to the people and their
ways. She gathered without difficulty the

substance of the stores The boat had reached,
without over-much difficulty or danger, the
sinking vessel. She was a small coaling ship,
with a crew of seven men and a boy. Two
of the former had already been washed
away, and the vessel was sinking rapidly.
The five survivors were easily rescued ; but
the lad was entan cried in the riooinof, and
was too much exhausted to free himself
and follow. Lord Trevlyn was the first to
realise this, and he sprang out of the boat at
some peril to himself to the lad's assistance.
Nobody had been able to see in the darkness
what had passed, but all agreed that
the lad had been handed to those in the
boat by a pair of strong arms, and that
after an interval of about three minutes 
for the boat had swung round, and had to
be brought back again, which took a little

time  a man had sprung back into the
boat, had shouted " All riflit ! '' had seized
the tiller, and sung out to the crew to
Give way, and put off ! " which they had
done immediately, glad enough to be clear
of the masts of the sinking vessel, which
were in dangerous proximity.

No one had been able in the darkness to
see the face of the steersman ; but all agreed
that the voice was " a gentleman's" ; and
most mysterious of all was the fact that the
boat had been steered to shore with a skill
that showed a thorough knowledge of the
coast, and that not a man of those who now
stood round had ever laid a hand upon the
tiller.

A thrill of superstitious awe ran round
as this fact became known, together with
the terrible certainty that Lord Trevlyn

had not returned with them. Was it indeed
a phantom hand that had guided the frail
bark through the wild, tossing waves?
The bravest man there felt a shiver of
awe  the women sobbed, and trembled
unrestrainedly.

The boat was put to sea once more
without a moment's delay. The wind was
dropping, the tide had turned, and the
danger was well nigh over. But heads
were shaken in mute despair, and old
men shook their heads at the bare idea
of the survival of any swimmer, who had
been left to battle with the waves round
the sunken reef on a stormy winter's
night.

Monica stood like a statue ; she heeded
neither the wailing of the women, the
murmurs of sympathy from the men, nor

the clasp of Beatrice's hand round her
cold fingers. She saw nothings, heard
nothing, save the tossing, the moaning of
the pitiless sea.

The boat came back at last  came back
in dead, mournful silence. That silence
said all that was needed.

Monica stepped towards the weary,
dejected men, who had just left the boat
for the second time.

"You have done all that you could,"
she said gently. " I thank you from my
heart."

And then she turned quietly away to
go home  alone.

No one dared follow her too closely ;
even Beatrice kept some distance behind,
sick with misery and sympathetic despair.
Monica's step did not falter. She went

back to the spot where her husband had
left her, and stood still, looking out over
the sea.

"Good-bye, my love  my own dear
love," she said, very softly and calmly.
' It has come at last, as I knew it would,
when he held me in his arms for the last
time on earth. Did he know it, too ? I
think he did just at the last. I saw it in
his brave, tender face as he gave me that
last kiss. But he died doing his duty. I
will bear it for his sake." Yet with an
irrepressible gesture of anguish she held
out her arms in the darkness, crying out,
not loud, indeed, but from the very depth
of her broken heart, " Ah, Randolph ! 
husband  my love ! my love ! "

That was all ; that one passionate cry of
sorrow. After it calmness returned to her

once more. She stepped towards Beatrice,
who stood a little way off, and held out her
hand.

Come, dear," she said. " We must go
home."

Beatrice was more agitated than Monica.
She was convulsed with tearless sobs. She
could only just command herself to
stumble uncertainly up the steep cliff path
that Monica trod with ease and freedom.

The moon was shining clearly now. She
could see the gaze that her companion
turned for one moment over the tossing
waste of waters. She caught the softly-whispered
words, " Good-bye, dear love !
good bye ! " and a sudden burst of tears
came to her relief; but Monica's eyes
were dry.

As they entered the castle hall, they saw
VOL. III. 32

that the ill news had preceded them. Pale-faced
servants, both men and women,
stood awed and trembling, waiting, as
it seemed, for their mistress. A sound
as of hushed weeping greeted them as they
entered.

No one ever forgot the look upon
Monica's face as she entered her desolated
home. It was far more sad in its unutterable
calm than the wildest expression of
grief could have been. Nobody dared to
speak a word, save the old nurse who had
tended Randolph from childhood. She
stepped forward, the tears streaming down
her wrinkled cheeks. ,

Oh, my lady ! my lady ! " she sobbed.

Monica paused, looked for one moment
at the faithful servant ; then bent her head,
and kissed her.

Dear nurse," she said gently, " jou
always loved him ; " and then she passed
quietly on to the music-room  the room
that she and her husband had quitted
together less than three hours before, and
shut herself up there  alone.

Beatrice dared not follow. She let

Wilberforce take her upstairs, and tend

her like a child, whilst they mingled their

tears together over the brave young life

cut short in its manhood's strength and

prime. Randolph's nurse was no stranger

to Beatrice, and it was easy for the good

woman to speak with authority to one

whom she had known as a child, force her

to take some nourishment, and exchange

wet garments for dry. She could not be

induced to go to bed, exhausted though she

was, but the wine and soup did her good,

32

and the hearty burst of weeping had
relieved her overcharged heart. She felt
more like herself when, after an hour's
time, she went downstairs again ; but, oh !
what a different house it was from what it
had been a few hours back !

It was by that time eleven o'clock.
Monica was still shut up in the music-room.
Nothing had been heard of Haddon ; she
had hardly even given him a thought. She
went down slowly to the hall, and found
herself face to face with Tom Pendrill. He
wore his hat and great coat. He had evidently
just arrived in haste. As he removed
the former she was startled at the
look upon his face. She had not believed
it capable of expressing so much feeling.

Beatrice," he said hoarsely, " is it
true ? "

He did not know he lead called lier by
Ler Christian name, and she hardly noticed
it at the moment. She only bent her head
and answered :

Yes, it is true."

Together they passed into the lighted
drawing-room, and stood on either side the
glowing hearth, looking at each other
fixedly.

Where is Monica ? "

In the music-room, alone. They were
there together when the guns began. It
will kill her, 1 am certain it will ! "

Xo," answered Tom quietly ; " she will
not die. It would be happier for her if
she could."

Beatrice looked at him with quivering lips.

Oh ! " she said at last. " You understand
her ? ''

"Yes," lie answered absently, looking
away into the fire. "I understand her.
she will not die."

Both were very silent for a time. Then
he spoke.

You were there ? "

Yes."

Tell me about it."

You have not heard ? "

Only the barest outline. Sit down and
tell me all."

She did not resent his air of authority.
She sat down, and did his bidding. Tom
listened in deep silence, weighing every

word.

I

He made no comment on the strange
story ; but a very dark shadow rested upon
his sharp featured face.

He was a man of keen observation and

acuteness of perception, and his mind often
leaped to a conclusion that no present
premises seemed to justify. Not for a
moment would he have given utterance
to the question that had suggested itself to
his mind ; but there it was, repeating
itself again and again with persistent
iteration.

Can there have been foul play ? "
He spoke not a word, his face told no
tales ; but he was musing intently. Where
was that half mad fellow, Fitzgerald ; who
some months ago had seemed on the highroad
to drink himself to madness or death?
He had not been heard of for some time
past ; but Tom could not get the question
out of his mind.

In the deep silence that reigned in the
room every sound could be heard distinctly.

Beatrice suddenly started, for they were
aware that the door of the music-room had
been opened, and that Monica was coming
towards them. The girl turned pale, and
looked almost frightened. Tom stood upas
his hostess appeared, setting his face like
a flint.

The long hour that had seemed like a
life-time to the wife  the widow  how
could they bring themselves to think of her
as such ?  had left no outward traces upon
Monica. Her face was calm and still, and
very pale, but it was not convulsed by
grief, and her eyes did not look as though
they had shed tears, although there was no
hardness in their depths. They shone with
something of star-like brightness, at once
soft and brilliant. The sweet serenity that
had long been the habitual expression of

her face seemed intensified rather than
changed.

"Beatrice," she said quietly, " where is
your brother ? "

I don't know."

Has he not come in ? "

Not that I know of."

We must inquire. He has been so
many hours gone. I am uneasy about
him."

Oh, never mind about him," said
Beatrice, quickly. " He will be all right."

We must think of him," she answered.
"Tom, it was good of you to come back.
What brought you ? Did you hear ? "

I heard a rumour. Of course I came
back. Is there anything I can do ? " He
spoke abruptly, like a man labouring under
some weight of oppression.

I wish you would go and inquire lor
Lord Haddon. Randolph sent him to the
life-boat station, because he believed
he would ride over faster than anybody-else.
I think he should be followed
now, if he has not come back. I cannot
think what can have detained him so
long."

I will go and make inquiries," said
Tom.

Thank you. I should be much obliged
if you would."

But as it turned out, there was no need
for him to do this. Even as Monica spoke
they became aware of a slight stir in the
hall. Uncertain, rapid steps crossed the
intervening space, and the next moment
Haddon stood before them in the doorway,
white, drenched, dishevelled, exhausted

leaning as if for support against the
framework, whilst his eyes sought those of
his sister with a strange look of dazed
horror.

"Beatrice!" he cried, in a strained,
unnatural tone. " Say it is not true ! ''

Monica had stepped forward, anxious
and startled at his appearance. The look
upon her face must have brought conviction
home to Haddon's heart, and this
terrible conviction completed the work
begun by previous over-fatigue and
exhaustion. He made two uncertain steps
forward, looked round him in a dazed
bewildered way ; then putting his hand to
his head with a sudden gesture as of pain,
called out :

I say, what is it ?  Look out ! " and
Tom had only just time to spring forward

and guide his fall as he dropped in a dead
faint upon the couch hard by.

Poor boy ! " said Monica gently ; " the
shock has been too much for him."

MONICA.

Lord Haddon was carried upstairs by
Tom's direction, and put to bed at once,
but it was a very long time before he
recovered consciousness, and the doctor's
face was grave when he rejoined Monica
and Beatrice an hour later.

Afterwards they learned that he had
reached the life-boat station, only to find
the boat out in another direction, that he
had lost his way in the darkness, and had
been riding for hours over trackless moors,
wet through by driving storms of rain,
obliged often to halt, despite the cold and

wets to wait for passing gleams of moonlight
to show him his way ; and this after
a long day's shooting and a long fast. He
had reached the castle at last, utterly worn
out and exhausted, only to hear the terrible
news of the death of his best friend. The
strain had been too much, and he had
given way.

He awoke to consciousness only in a
high state of fever, with pain in every
joint ; and Beatrice, in answer to Tom's
question, admitted that her brother had
had a sharp attack of rheumatic fever some
three years before, and had always been
rather susceptible to cold and damp ever
since.

Tom looked gravely at Monica.

I was afraid he was in for something of
that kind."

Poor boy ! " she said again, very
gently. " I am so sorry. You will stay
with us, Tom ? It will be a comfort to
have you."

Of course I will stay," he answered, in
his abruptness fashion. " I shall sit up with
Haddon to night. You two must go to bed
at once  I insist upon it."

Come, Beatrice," said Monica, holding
out her hand. " We must obey orders you
see."

As they went together up the broad
staircase, Beatrice said, with a little sob :

"I cannot bear to think of our giving
you all this trouble  just now."

But Monica stopped her by a kiss.

Have you not learned by this time
Beatrice, that the greatest help in bearing
our own sorrows is to help others with

their burdens? I am grieved for you, dear,
that this other trouble should have come ;
but Tom is very clever, and we will all
nurse him back to health again. Goodnight,
dearest. You must try to sleep, that
you may be strong tomorrow."

The next day Lord Haddon was very ill
dangerously ill  the fever ran very high,
other unfavourable symptoms had showed
themselves. Tom's face was grave and
absorbed, and Eaymond, who came over
at his brother's request, looked even more
anxious. Yet possibly this alarming illness
of a guest beneath her roof was the very
best thing that could have happened, as
far at Monica herself was concerned. But
for his illness, Beatrice and her brother
must have left Trevlyn at once ; it was
probable that Monica would have elected

to remain there entirely alone during the
early days of her widowhood, alone in her
own desolation, more heart-breaking to witness
than any wild abandonment of grief,
alone without even those last melancholy
offices to perform, without even the solemn
pageantry of a funeral to give some little
occupation to the mind, or to bring home in
its own incontrovertible way the fact that
a loved being has passed away from the
world for ever.

Randolph had, as it were, vanished from
this life almost as if spirited away. There
was nothing to be done, no obsequies to be
performed. For just a few days a faint
glimmer of hope existed in some minds
that a passing vessel might have picked
him up, that a telegram announcing his

safety might yet arrive ; but at the end of
VOL. III. 33

a week every spark of such hope had died
out, and Monica, who had never from the
first allowed herself to be so buoyed up, put
on her heavy widow's weeds with the steady
unflinching calmness that had characterised
her throughout.

She devoted herself to the task of nursing
Lord Haddon, in which task she showed
untiring care and skill. All agreed that it
was best for her to have her thoughts and
attention occupied in some quiet labour
of love like this, and certainly her skill at
this time was such as to render her
services almost invaluable to the patient.

Haddon lay for weeks in a very critical
state, racked with pain and burning with
fever. Without being always delirious, he
was not in any way master of himself, and
no one could soothe, or quiet, or compose

him, during these long, weary days, except

Monica. She seemed to possess a power

that acted upon him like a charm. He

might not always know her  very often he

did not appear to recognise her, but he

always felt her influence. At her bidding

he would cease the restless tossing and

muttering that exhausted his strength

and gave him much needless pain. He

would take from her hand food that no one

else could persuade him to touch. She

could often soothe him to sleep, simply by

the sound of her voice, or the touch of

her hand upon his burning brow.

If he pulls through it will be your

doing," Tom sometimes said to her. And

Monica felt she could not do enough for the

youth, who had suffered all this in carrying

out her husband's last command, and who

33*

had succumbed when his task was done, in
hearing of the fate that had befallen his friend

A curious bond seemed established between
those two, the power of which he felt
with a throb of keen joy almost akin to pain,
when at last the fever was subdued, and he
began to know in a feeble, uncertain sort
of fashion, what it was that had happened,
and how life had been going with him
during the past weeks.

It was of Monica he asked the
account of that terrible night, and from
her lips he learned the story to which none
else had dared to allude in her presence.
It was he who talked to her of ,Randolph,
recalled incidents of the past, talked of
their boyish days and the escapades they
had indulged together, passing on to the
increase of mutual understanding and

affection that had bound them together aso



manhood advanced.

Nobody else talked to her like this.
Haddon never could have done so, had
not weakness and illness brought them
into such close communion one with
another. His feelings towards Monica

o

were those of simple adoration  he
worshipped the very ground she trod on.
He often felt that to die with her hand
upon his head, her eyes looking gently and
kindly into his, was all and more than he
could wish. His intense loving devotion
gave him a sort of insight into her true
nature, and he knew by instinct that
he did not hurt her when he talked to
her of him who was gone. Perhaps from
no other lips could Monica have borne that
r.ame to be spoken just then ; but Haddon

in his hours of wandering had talked so
much of Randolph, that she had grown
used to hear him speak of the husband she
had loved and lost, and she knew by the
way in which he had betrayed himself then
how deeply and truly he loved him.

When the fever had gone, and the patient
lay white and weak, hardly able to move
or speak, yet with a mind cleared from the
haunting shadows of delirium, eager to
know the history of all that had passed, it
had not seemed very hard then, in answer
to the wistful look in the big grey eyes,
and the whispered words from the pale lips
to tell him all the truth ; and the ice once
broken thus, it had been no effort to talk of
Randolph afterwards, and to let Haddon
talk of him too.

This outlet did her good. She was

not a woman to whom talking was a
necessity, yet it was better for her to speak
sometimes of the sorrow that was weighing
upon her crushed spirit ; and it was far, far
easier to do this to a listener like Haddon,
who from his weakness and prostration
could rise to no great heights of sympathy,
could offer no attempt at consolation, could
only look at her with wistful earnestness,
and murmur a broken word from time to
time, than it would have been to those who
would have met her with a burst of tears,
or with those quiet caresses and marks of
sympathy that must surely have broken
down her hardly-won composure and calm.
So this illness of Haddon's had really
been a boon to her, and perhaps to others
as well ; but for a few weeks Monica's life
seemed passed in a sort of dream, and she

was able to notice but little that passed
around her. She was wrapped in a strange
trance  she lived in the past with her
husband, who sometimes hardly seemed to
have left her. Only when ministering to
the needs of the young earl, did she arouse
herself from her waking dream, and even
then it sometimes seemed as if the dream
were the reality, and the reality a dream.

Tom was a great deal at Trevlyn just
now. For a lone: time Haddon's condition
was so exceedingly critical that his presence
was almost a necessity, and when the patient
gradually became convalescent, Monica
needed his help in getting through the
business formalities that began to crowd
upon her when all hopes of Randolph's
rescue became a thing of the past.

Monica was happy at least in this  there

was no need for her to leave her old home
no new earl to claim Trevlyn, and banish
her from the place she loved best in the
world. The Trevlyns were a dying race,
as it seemed. Randolph and Monica were
the last of their name, and the entail
expired with him. Trevlyn was hers, as
well as all her husband's property. She
was a rich woman, but in the first instance
it was difficult to understand the position,
and she naturally turned in her perplexity
to Tom Pendrill, who was a thorough man
of business, shrewd and hard-headed, and
who, from his long acquaintance and connection
with Trevlyn, understood more
about the estate than anybody else she
could have selected. He was very good to
her, as she always said. He put himself
entirely at her disposal, and played the

part of a kind and wise brother. His dr}
matter-of-fact manner of dealing with
transfer of property, and such like matters,
was in itself a comfort. She was never
afraid of talking things over with him.
He kept sentiment studiously and entirely
in the back-ground. Although she knew
perfectly that his sympathy for her was
very great, he never obtruded it upon her
in the least ; it was offered and accepted in
perfect silence on both sides.

Mrs. Pendrill, too, was a good deal at
Trevlyn. She yearned over Monica in the
days of her early widowhood, and she had

grown very fond of Beatrice and her brother.

I

Haddon wanted so very much care and
nursing that Mrs. Pendrill's presence in the
house was often a help to alL Whilst
Monica was in the sick room, she and

Beatrice spent many long lioiirs together,
and strange intimacy of thought sprang
up between those two who yere so far
fromeach other in age and position.
Haddon, too, was fond of the gentle-faced
old lady, and he loved sometimes to get her
all to herself, and make her talk to him of
Monica.

His illness had left its traces upon
the earl. He had, despite his five-and-twenty
years, seemed but a lad all this
while ; but when he left his bed, it was
curious to see how much of boyishness had
passed out of his face, how much quiet,
thoughtful manliness had taken its place.

Nobody quite knew how or why this
change had been so marked. Perhaps the
shock of his friend's death had had something
to do with it : perhaps the danger he

had himself been in. Very near indeed to
the gates of death had the young man
stood. He had almost trodden the shadowy
valley, even though his steps had been
retraced to the land of the living. Perhaps
it was this knowledge that made him passas
it were in one bound from boyhood to
manhood  or was there some other cause
at work ?

His face wore a look of curious purpose
and resolution, oddly combined with a sort
of mute, determined patience : his pale,
sharpened face, that had changed so much
during the past weeks, was changed in expression
even more than in contour. His
grey eyes, once always full of boyish
merriment and laughter, were grave and
earnest now : the eyes of a man full of
thought, expressive of a hidden yet resolute

purpose. These hollow eyes followed Monica
about with unconscious persistency, and
rested upon her with a sense of perfect
content. When he grew a little stronger,
and could just rise from the sofa and trail
himself across the room, it was strange to
mark how eager he was to render her
those little instinctive attentions that come
naturally from a man to a woman.

Sometimes Monica would accept them
with a smile, oftener she would restrain
him with a gentle commanding gesture, and
bid him keep quiet till he was stronger ;
but she accepted his chivalrous admiration
in the spirit in which it was offered, and
let him look upon himself as her especial
knight, as well he might, since to her skill
and care Tom plainly told him he owed his
life.

She let him talk to her of Randolph,
though none of the others dared to breathe
that name. Sometimes she played to him
in the dimness of the music-room  and
even he hardly knew how privileged he
was to be admitted there. She regarded
him in the light of a loved brother, and
felt tenderly towards him, as one who had
done and suffered much in the same cause
that had cost her gallant husband his life.
What he felt towards her would be more
difficult to analyse. At present he simply
worshipped her, with a humble, devout
singleness of purpose that elevated his
whole nature. The vague, fleeting, distant
hope that some day it might be given to
him to comfort her had hardly yet entered
into the region of conscious thought.

HAUNTED.

Christmas had come and gone whilst Lord
Haddon lay hovering between life and
death. As the year turned, he began to
regain health and strength ; but his
progress was exceedingly slow, and all
idea of leaving Trevlyn was for the
present entirely out of the question. A
journey in mid-winter was not to be
thought of. It would be enough to brings

O Do

the whole illness back again ; and Monica
would not listen when he sometimes said,
with diffidence and appeal, that he feared
they were encroaching too much upon her

hospitality and goodness. In truth, neither
brother nor sister were in haste to leave
Trevlyn, or to leave Monica alone in her
desolate widowhood ; and as Haddon's state
of health rendered a move out of the
question, the situation was accepted with
the more readiness.

Monica was able now to resume something
of the even tenor of her way, to take
up her daily round of duties, and shape out
her life in accordance with her strangely
altered circumstances.

All the old sense of dread connected with
the sea had now vanished entirely. It never
frowned upon her now. It was her friend
always  the haunting presentiment of
dread had passed away with the actual
certainty. Henceforward nothing could
hold for her any great measure of terror.

She had passed through the very worst
already.

Sometimes Monica had a strangle feeling
that she was not alone durini] her favourite
twilight pacing by the sea. She had a
sense of being watched  followed 
and the uneasiness of the dogs added to
this impression. It troubled her but
little, however. She had no fears for
herself  she knew, too, that she was a
little fanciful, and that it was hardly
likely in reality that her footsteps were
doicred.

But one dim January evening, as she

pursued her way along the margin of the

sea, she was startled by seeing some large

object lying dark upon the pebbly beach.

Her heart beat more fast than was its wont,

for she saw as she approached that it was
VOL. III. 34

the figure of a man, lying face downwards
upon the damp stones.

He did not look like a fisherman, he was
too well dressed, and there seemed something
not altogether unfamiliar in the
aspect of the slight, well-proportioned
figure. For a moment she could not recall
the association, but as the dogs ran up
snuffing and growling, the man started and
sat up, revealing the pale, haggard face of
Conrad Fitzgerald.

Monica recoiled with an instinctive
gesture of aversion. She had not seen
him since those summer d?ijs when she had
been haunted by the vision of his, vindictive
face and sinister eyes. But how he had
changed since then ! She could not help
looking at him, he was so pale, so thin ;
his face was lined as if by pain, and his

fiery eyes were set in deep hollows. There
was something rather awful in his appearance,
yet he did not look so wicked, so
repulsive, as he had done many times
before.

A strange look of terror gleamed in his
eyes as they met those of Monica.

"Go away!" he cried wildly. "What
do you come here for ? Why do you look
at me like that ? Go  in mercy, go ! "

Monica was startled at his wild words
and looks. Surely he was mad. But if
so, she must show no fear of him ; she
knew enough to be aware of that.

What are you dim? out here in the

dark ? " she said. " You ouoht not to belying

there this cold night. You had

better go home, or you will lose otway

in the dark."

34*

lie laughed wildly.

Lose my way in the dark ! It is always
dark now  always, since that dark night
ha ! ha !  that night ! " His laugh was
terrible in its wild despair. " Why do you
look at me ? Why do you speak to me ?
You should not ! You should not ! You

would not if oh, God ! are you a ghost

too ? "

Such an awful look of horror shone out
of his ejes that Monica's blood ran cold.
His gaze was fixed on vacancy. He looked
straight at her, yet as if he did not see
her, but something beyond. The anguish
and despair painted upon that wild, yet
still beautiful, face smote Monica's heart
with a sense of deep sorrow and pity.

I am no ghost, Conrad," she answered
geiitl}', trying if the sound of the old name

would drive that vild madness out of his
eyes. " Why are you afraid ? What are
YOU looking' at? There is nothing; there."

For his eyes were still glaring wildly
into the darkness beyond, and as Monica
spoke he lifted his arm, and pointed to
something out at sea.

Don't look at me ! " he whispered
hoarsely, yet not as if he addressed Monica.
* Don't speak to me I If you speak, I
shall go mad ! I shall go mad, I say !
Why do you haunt me so ? Why do you
look always like that ? I had a right  allis
fair in love and war  and hate ! Why
did you give me the chance ? I had a vow
a vow in heaven  or hell ! Ah ! ha !
Revenge is sweet, after all ! " and he burst
into a wild, discordant laugh, dreadful to
hear.

Monica shuddered, a sense of horror
creeping over her. She did not catch the
whole of his words, lost as that hoarse
whisper was sometimes in the sullen plash
of the advancing waves. The words were
not addressed to her, but to some imaginary
object visible only to the eye of madness.
She attached no meaning to what she
heard. She had no clue by which to
unravel the workings of his disordered
mind. Yet it was terrible to see his terror-stricken
face, and listen to the exclamations
addressed to a ]Phantom foe. She tried to
recall him to himself.

Conrad, there is no one here but ourselves.
You have been dreaming."

Conrad turned his wild eyes towards her,
but continued to point wildly over the
sea.

Can you not see him ? There  out
there ! His head  his eyes  ah, those
eyes !  as he looked then  then ! Ah,
don't look so at me, I say ! You vill
kill me ! "

He buried his face in his hands and
shuddered from head to foot. Monica,
despite the shiver of horror that crept over
her, felt more strongly than anything else
a deep pity for one whose mind was so
visibly shattered. Much of the past could
be condoned to one whose mental faculties
were so terribly unstrung. She came one
step nearer, and laid her hand upon his
arm.

You should not be out here alone," she
said. ' You had better go home. It is
growing dark already. If you will come
with me to the lodge, I will see that you

have a lantern ; or, if you like, I will send
a servant with a lantern with you." She
felt, indeed, that he was hardly in a condition
to be out alone. She wished Tom
Pendrill could see him now. But at the
touch of her hand Conrad sprang back as
if she had struck him. His eyes were
full of shrinking horror.

Go away ! " he said fiercely, " your
hand burns me  it burns me, I say ! How
can you look at me or touch me ? What
have I done that you come here day by
day to torment me ? Is it not enough that
he leaves me no peace night or day ?  that

he brings me down to this cursed place,



whether I will or no, but you must haunt
me too? Ah, it is too much  it is too
much, I say! "

She could not catch all these rapidly-uttered

words, but she read the hopeless
misery of his face.

I do not wish to distress you, Conrad.
Will you go home quietly now ? You are
not well ; you should not be out here alone.
Have you anybody there to take care of
you ? "

He laughed again, and flung his arms
above his head with a wild gesture of
despair.

You say this to me  you ! you ! It only
wanted this. My God, this is too much ! "

He turned from her and sprang away in
the darkness. She heard his steps as he
dashed recklessly up the cliff path  so
recklessly that she half expected to hear
the sound of a slip and a fall  and then ashe
reached the summit and turned inland,
they died away into silence.

Monica drew a long breath of relief
when she found herself alone. There was
something expressly awful in talking
alone to a madman in the dimness of the
dying day, in hearing his wild words
addressed to some phantom shadow seen
only by his disordered vision. She shivered
a little as she turned towards him. She
could stay no longer in that lonely place.

She met Tom looking out for her on her
return. He said something about her
staying out too long in the darkness. She
laid her hand upon his arm, and pacing up
and down the dark avenue, she told him of
her adventure with the madman.

Tom, I am certain he ought to see a
doctor. Will you not see if you can do
something for him ? "

She could not see the expression of Tom's

face. Had she been able to do so, she
would have been startled. His voice was
very cold as he answered :

I am not a lunacy commissioner,
Monica."

She was surprised, and a little hurt.

You are very hard, Tom. You
saw him once before, why not again ? "

'' If he, or his friends for him, require
medical advice, I suppose they are capable
of sending for it," he said, adding with
sudden fierceness, as it seemed to her,
Monica, Conrad Fitzgerald, ill or well, is
nothing to you. It is not fit you should
waste a single thought upon that scoundrel
again ! "

She was surprised at his vehemence ; it
was so unlike Tom to speak with heat.
What had there been in her account of

the meeting to discompose him so greatly ?
Before lie could attempt to frame the
question, he had asked one of her  asked
it abruptly, as it seemed irrelevantly.

How long has Fitzgerald been in these
parts ? "

I don't know ? I have never seen him
till to-night, nor heard of him at all ? "

Nor I. Go in, Monica. It is too late
for you to be out."

And you ? "

I will come presently."

And you will think about what I asked
you?"

I will think about it  yes."

The tone was enigmatic. She could not
make Tom out at all, but she went in at
his bidding. She knew that he wished to
be alone, that he had something disturbing

upon this miiicl, though what it was she
could not divine.

Tom, as it turned out, had no choice in
the matter ; for his brother sent to him
next day a message to the effect that Fitzgerald's
servant had been to him with a
very sad account of his master, who
seemed to be suffering under an acute attack
of delirium tremens. Raymond thought
his brother, who had seen him once before,
had better go the next day in a casual
sort of way, and see if he could do anything:.
Fitzgerald was furious at the idea
of having a doctor near him ; but possibly
he would not regard Tom in that light, and
the servants would do all they could
to obtain for him access to their master.
They were terrified at his ravings, and
half afraid he would do himself or them

an injury if not placed under proper
control.

So Tom, upon the following afternoon,
started for the old dilapidated house,
without saying a word to anyone as to his
destination, and was eagerly admitted by a
haggard-looking servant, who said that his
master was " terrible bad to-day  it was
awful like to hear him go on," and expressed
it as his opinion that he was almost past
knowing who was near him, he was so wild
and delirious. He had kept his bed for the
past two days, having been very ill since
coming in, wet and exhausted, on the night
Monica had seen him. Between the attacks
of delirium he was as weak as a child ; and
with this much of warning and explanation,
Tom was ushered upstairs.

An hour later he left that desolate

house with a quick, firm tread, that broke,
as he turned a corner and was concealed
from view, almost to a run. His face was
very pale ; it looked thinner and sharper
than it had done an hour before, and his
eyes were full of an unspeakable horror.
Now and again a sort of shudder ran
through his frame ; but no word passed
his tightly-compressed lips. He hurried
through the tangled park as if some
deadly malaria lurked there. He hardly
drew his breath until he had left the
trees and brake behind, and had
plunged into the wild trackless moor ;
even then, goaded by his thoughts, he
plunged blindly along for a mile or more,
until at last, breathless and exhausted, he
sank face downwards upon the heather,
trembling in every limb.

How long he lay there lie never knew.
He was roused at last by a touch upon his
shoulder, and raising himself with a start,
he looked straight into the startled eyes of
Beatrice Went worth.

-Hr

4-''-f2E=

Loves.

Tom sprang to his feet, and the two stood
gazing at one another for a moment in
mute surprise.

You are ill," said Beatrice ; " you
are as white as a sheet. What is the
matter ? "

She spoke anxiously. She looked half

frightened at his strange looks ; he saw

it, and recovered himself instantly. It

was perhaps the first time he had ever

been taken unawares, and he was not

altogether pleased that it had happened

now.

VOL. III. -55

What are you doing out here all
alone ? " he asked peremptorily.

What are you doing lying on the
ground on a cold January evening ? " she
retorted. " Do you want to get rheumatic
fever, too ? "

"Answer my question first. What
are you doing out here, miles away from
home, with the darkness coming on,
too ? "

I lost my way," she answered carelessly.
" I never can keep my bearings in
these strange, wild places, where everything
looks alike''

Then I must take you home," said Tom
shortly.

You said you were going to dine at St.
Maws to-night," she objected.

I shall take you home first," he said. '

It will be ever so much out of your
road. Just show me the way. I shall find
it fast enouQ'li."

I dare say  After having lost it in
broad daylight. You must come with me.
I cannot trust you."

Beatrice flushed hotly as she turned and
walked beside him. Was more meant than
met the ear ?

There is not the least need you
should," she said haughtily, and seemed
disposed to say no more.

Tom spoke first, spoke in his abrupt
peremptory fashion. He was absorbed and
distrait. She tried not to feel disappointed
at his words.

Lady Beatrice, is it true that you knew
Randolph Trevlyn intimately for many

years ?

35'

Ever since I can remember. He was
almost like a brother to us."

Do you know if he ever had an
enemy ? "

Beatrice looked up quickly into his pale
face.

Why do you ask ? "

That is my affair. I do not ask
without a reason. Think before you
answer  if you can."

Randolph was always such a favourite,"
she befjan, but was interrupted by a quick
impatient gesture from Tom.

Don't chatter," he said, almost rudely,
think ! " I

Oddly enough this brusque reminder did
not offend her. She saw that Tom's nerves
were all on edge, that these were strung to
a painful pitch of tension. She began to

catch some of Lis earnestness and determination.


Beatrice was taken out of herself, and
from that moment her manner changed for
the better. She thought the matter over
in silence.

"I have heard that Sir Conrad Fitzgerald
had an old oTudge aj]ainst him.

Ah ! " breathed Tom softly.

But I fancied, perhaps, that Monica's
influence had made them friends. Randolph
knew some disreputable story
connected with Sir Conrad's past life 
Haddon knows more about it than I do 
and he always hated him for it."

Ah ! " said Tom again.

Why do you ask ? " questioned Beatrice
again ; but he gave her no answer.
He was wrapped in deep thought. She

looked at him once or twice, but said no
more. He was the first to speak, and the
question was a little significant.

You were down on the shore with
Monica and Trevlyn that night, were you
not?"

Yes."

Was Fitzgerald there, too ? "

She looked at him with startled eyes.

"No ; certainly not."

Can you be sure of that ? Was there
moon enough, to show plainly everything
that went on ? "

Beatrice put up her hand to her head.

No," she answered. " I ought not to
have spoken so positively. It was too
dark to see anything. There might have
been dozens of people there whom I might
never have seen. I was much too anxious

and excited to keep a sharp look-out 
why should I ?  and there was not a gleam
of moonlight till many minutes after the
boat got back, and the confusion was very
great all the time. Why do you talk so ?
Why do you ask such a question ? "

She spoke with subdued excitement and
insistance.

Somebody was in that boat unknown
to the crew," he answered significantly.

Was there ? "

Somebody steered the boat to shore.
You do not share, I presume, in the
popular belief of the phantom coxswain ? "

Beatrice stopped short, trembling and
scared.

You think ? " but she could only

ire out those two words ; she knew not how
to frame the question.

He bent his head. " I do."

But she put out her hand with a quick,
passionate gesture, as if fighting with some
hideous phantom.

Ah ! no 1 no ! It could not be. It
would be too unspeakably awful  too
horrible ! How do you know ? How can
you say such things ? What has put such
a hideous thought into your mind ? "

I came from standing by Fitzgerald's
bed, listening to his words of wandering,
his delirious outbursts. It is plain
enough what phantoms are haunting
him now  what pictures he is seeing,
as he lies in the stupor of drink and
opium. He is trying to drown thought
and remorse, but he has not succeeded

yet."

Beatrice shuddered strongly, and faltered

a little in her walk. Tom took her hand
and placed it within his arm.

You are tired, Beatrice? "

*' No ; but it is so awful. Tom " 
calling him so as unconsciously as he had
called her Beatrice  " must Monica know
this ? Oh ! it was cruel enough before 
but this "

She shall never know," said Tom
quickly. " To what end should we add this
burden to what she carries now ? No one
could prove it  it may be nothing more
than some sick fancy, engendered by the
thought of what might have been. Mind
you, I have no moral doubts myself ; but
the man is practically mad, and no confession
or evidence given by him would be
accepted. He has fulfilled his vow  he
has murdered  practically murdered his

foe ; but Monica must be spared the knowledge
: she must never know."

No, never ! never ! " cried Beatrice ;
and her voice expressed so much feeling,
that Tom turned and looked at her in the
fading light.

Have you a heart after all, Beatrice ? "
he asked.

She made no answer ; her heart beat
wildly, answering in its own fashion the
question asked, but not in a way that he
could hear.

Beatrice,' rather fiercely, " why did
you not marry the marquis ? "

Because I loathed him."

You did not always loathe him ? "

"I did, I did, always."

You flirted with him disgracefully,
then."

Lie looked up with something of pleading
in her dark eyes.

I was but eighteen."

"Do YOU never flirt now ? "

She looked up again, her eyes flashing
strangely.

What right have you to ask such a
question ? "

The right of the man who loves you,"
he answered, in the same half fierce, half-bitter
way  " who loves you with every
fibre of his beings ; and although he has
proved you vain and frivolous and heartless
once and again, cannot tear your
image from his heart. Do not think I am
complaining. I suppose you have a right
to please yourself; but sometimes I feel
as if no man had ever been treated so
abominably as I have been by you."

You by me ! " she answered, panting in
her excitement, " when it was you who
left me in a fury, without one word of
farewell'*

"I thought I had had my cone pretty
distinctly."

You had had nothing of the kind 
nothing but a few wild confused words
from a mere child, frightened and bewildered
by happiness and nervousness
into the silliest of speeches a silly girl
would make at such a moment. But you
cannot understand  you never will  you
are made of stone, I think."

He turned upon her quickly. 

*' I wish I were, sometimes," he said ;
*' I wish it when I am near you. You make
me love you  I am powerless in your
hands, and you  you "

I love you with all my heart. I have
never loved anybody else, and you
have behaved cruelly, disgracefully to me
always." The words came all at once in
one vehement burst of passion.

He stopped short, wheeled round, and
stood facing her. He could only just see
her face as they stood thus in the gathering
dusk.

Beatrice," he said, slowly, " what did
you say just now ? Say it again."

Defiance shone out of her eyes.

I will not ! " she said, her cheeks
flaming.

He took both her hands in his and held
them hard.

Yes you will," he answered. " Say it
again."

She was panting with a strange mixture

of feeling ; the earth and sky seemed
to spin round together.

Say it again, Beatrice."

"I said  I loved you; but I don't  I
will never, never say it again "

She got no farther, for he held her so
closely in his arms that all speech was impossible
for the moment.

"That will do," he answered. "I
don t want you to say it again. Once is
enough."

*****

Monica," said Beatrice in the softest
of whispers as she came into the quiet
room where her brother lay asleep upon
the sofa, and Monica sat dreaming beside
the fire. "Ah, Monica, Monica!" and
then she stopped short, kneeling down,
and turning her quivering face and swimming

eyes towards the face bent tenderly
over her.

Somehow it was never needful to say
much to Monica. She always understood
without many words. She bent her head
now, and kissed Beatrice.

Is it so, then, dear ? " she asked.

"Did you know? "

"' 1 knew what you told me yourself,
and I could see for myself that he had not
forgotten any more than you."

I did not see it."

Possibly not  neither did he ; but
sometimes love is very blind  and very
wilful too."

Was there a touch of tender reproach
in the tone ? Beatrice looked at her
earnestly.

I know what you mean," she said

We both want to be master ; but I
think  I am afraid  he will have the
upper hand now."

But the smile that quivered over the
upturned face was full of such sweetness
and brightness that Monica kissed her
again.

You will not find him such a tyrant ashe
professes to be. Tom is very generous
and unselfish, despite his affectation of
cynicism. I am so glad you have made
him happy at last. I am so glad that our
paths in life will not lie very widely
apart."

Beatrice took Monica's hand and kissed

i

it.

I am so happy," she said simply. " And
I owe it all to you."

Monica caressed the dark head laid

against lier knee, as Beatrice subsided into
her favourite lowly position at Monica's
feet. Presently she became aware that the
girl's tears were falling fast.

Crying, dearest ? " she questioned
gently.

A stifled sob was the answer.

"What is the matter, my child?"

Randolph ! " was all that Beatrice
could o-et out. Somehow the desolation
of Monica's life had never come home to
her with quite the same sense of realisation
as now, in the hour of her deepest
happiness.

He would be glad," answered Monica,

steadily and sweetly. " He loved you

dearly, Beatrice ; and he and Tom were

always such friends. It was his hope that

all would come right. If he can see us
VOL. in. 36

now, as I often think lie can, lie will ])e
rejoicing in your happiness now. You
must shed no tears to-night, dearest, unless
they are tears of happiness.

Beatrice suddenly half rose, and flung
her arms round Monica.

How can sou bear it ? How can sou
bear it ? Monica, I think you are an
angel. No one in this wide world was

ever like you. And to think " she

shuddered strongly and stopped short.

"You are excited and over-wrought."
said Monica gently. " You must not let '
yourself be knocked up, or Tom will scold
me when he comes back. See, Haddon is
waking up. He had such a bad headache,
poor boy ; I hope he has slept it off. You
must tell him the news  it will please him
I am sure."

You tell him," whispered Beatrice,
and slipped away to relieve her overburdened
heart by a burst of tears ; for
one strange revelation following upon
another had tried her more than she had
known at the time.

Haddon was quietly pleased at the news.
He liked Tom ; he had fancied that he and
Beatrice were not altogether indifferent to
each other, so this conclusion did not
take him altogether by surprise. He was
sorry to think of losing Beatrice, but not
as perplexed as he would have been some
months before. Life looked different to
him now  more serious and earnest. He
began to have aspirations of his own. He
no longer regarded existence as a sort of
pleasant easy game of play.

Certainly it seemed as if the course of

true love as regarded Beatrice and Tom,
after passing its early shoals and quicksands,
were to run quietly and smoothly
enough now. He came back from St.
Maws in time for dinner, and when dessert
was put on the table, he announced his
plans with the hardihood characteristic of
the man.

"Aunt Elizabeth is delighted, Beatrice,
and so is Eaymond," he said. " I have
told them that we will be married almost
at once, within two months, at least  oh,
you needn't look like that. I think I've
waited long enough  pretty well as long as
Jacob "

Did for Leah  and didn't like her in
the end  don't make that your precedent."

Well, don't interrupt," proceeded Tom
imperturbably. " We've got it all beautifully

arranged. I'm going to take part of
the regular practice, as Eaymond lias
always been bothering me to do ever since
it increased so much, and we're to have
half the house for our establishment, and
he and Aunt Elizabeth the other. It was
originally two houses, and lends itself excellently
to that arrangement, though I daresay
practically we shall be all one household,
as you and our aunt have managed to
hit it off so well. Monica, can't Beatrice
be married from Trevlyn when Haddon is
well enough to give her away ? It would
save a lot of bother. I hate flummery, and
I'm sure she does too. Come now, Beatrice,
don't laugh. Don't you think that would
be an excellent arrangement ? Here weare
; what is the good of getting all split
up again ? You'll be losing your heart to

another marquis if I let you out of my
sight."

Her eyes were dancing with mischievous
merriment. She was more than ready to
enter the lists.

"Just Hasten to the tyrant  trying to
keep me a prisoner already ! trying to take
everything into his own hands  and not
content without adding insult to injury ! "

His eyes too were alight ; but his mouth
was grim.

I have not forgotten how you served
me last time, my lady."

"At Oxford?"

At Oxford." f

Monica, listen. I will tell you how I
served him. I had eyes for no one but
him, silly girl that I was ; I was with him
morning, noon and night. Child as I was

at the time, careless and inexperienced,
even I \Yas absolutely ashamed at the open
preference I showed him ; I blush even
now to think of the undisguised way in
which I flung myself at a particularly hardhead.
And yet he pretends he did not
understand ! If that is so, then for real,
downright, hopeless stupidity and obtuseness,
commend me to an Oxford 
! "

Beatrice mioht Qi the best of it in an
encounter of tongues, but Tom had his owen
way in the settlement of their affairs,
possibly because her resistance VT'as but a
pretence. What, indeed, had tJiey to wait
for, when they had been waiting so many
long years for one another ? "

Nothing clouded the horizon of their
happiness. Even the hideous shadow which

had been in a sense the means of bringing
them together seemed to have vanished
with the sudden disappearance of Conrad
Fitzgerald from the neighbourhood. Upon
the very day following Tom's visit to him,
he left his house, ill and weak as he was,
to join his sister at Mentioned. His servant
accompanied him. The desolate house
was shut up once more, and Tom Pendrill
sincerely hoped that the haunting baleful
influence of that wild and wicked nature
had passed from their lives for ever.

And Beatrice after all was married at
Trevlyn, in the little cliff church that had
seen the hands of Randolph and Monica
joined in wedlock. She resisted a good
while, feeling afraid that it would be
painful to Monica  a second wedding, and
that within a few months of her own

widowhood. But Monica took part with
Tom, and the bride elect gave way,
only too delighted at heart to be with
Monica to the very last.

It was a very quiet wedding  as quiet
as Monica's own  even the people gathered
together in the little church had hardly
changed. Only one short year had passed
since Monica in her snowy robes had stood
before that little altar, with the marriage
vow upon her lips  only a year ago, and
now ?

Yet Monica's face was very calm and
sweet. She shed no tears, she seemed to
have no sad thoughts for herself, however
others might feel. One pair of grey eyes
seldom wandered from her face as the simple
ceremonies of the day proceeded. One
heart was far more occupied with thoughts

of the pale-faced widow than of the blooming
bride.

Haddon quitted Trevlyn almost immediately
after his sister. The words of
thanks he tried to speak faltered on his
tongue, and would not come.

Monica understood, and answered by
one of her sweetest smiles.

You where Randolph's friend ; you are
my friend now. You must not try to
thank me. I am so very glad to think of
the link that binds us together. I shall
not lose sight of you whilst Beatrice is
so near. You weill come again some
day?"

Yes, Lady Trevlyn," he answered
quietly, " I will come again ; " and he
raised the hand he held for one moment
very reverently to his lips.

As he drove away he looked back,
and saw Monica still standing upon the
terrace.

Yes," he said quietly to himself, " I
will come back  some day."

-<0'2i!:!>s 

AS WE FORGIVE."

A YEAR had passed away since that fatal
eight when Randolph had left his wife
standing on the shore  had gone away in
the darkness and had returned no more :
a year had passed, with its chequered lights
and shades, but the anniversary of her
husband's death found Monica, as he had
left her, at Trevlyn  alone.

Many things had happened during that
year. Beatrice had married and settled
happily in the picturesque red house at
St. Maws as Tom Pendrill's loving, brilliant
wife. Monica had been to Germany once

again, to assure herself with her own eyes

of the truth of the favourable reports sent to

her. She had had the satisfaction of seeing

how great an improvement had taken

place in Arthur's condition ; that although

the cure was slow  would most likely need

a second, possibly even a third year before

it would be absolutely complete, yet it was

practically certain, if he and those who

held his fate in their hands would but

have patience and perseverance. The boy

was quite happy in the establishment of

which he was a member. He had gone

through the most trying part of the

treatment, and was enthusiastic about the

kindness and skill of his doctor. He had

made many friends, and had quite lost

the home-sickness that had occasionally

troubled him at first. He was delighted

to see Monica again. He was insistant that

she should come to see him often ; but he

did not even wish to return to Trevlyn till

he could do so whole and sound, as a man

in good health and strength, instead of a

helpless invalid.

Monica was summoned from Germany

by the news of the dangerous illness of

Lady Diana, who died only a few days

after the arrival of her niece. She had

been talking of making a permanent home

at Trevlyn now that Monica was so utterly

alone, but her death stopped all such

schemes ; and so it came about that in

absolute solitude the young widowed


countess took up her abode for the winter

in the great silent castle beside the sea.

The sea still exercised its old fascination

over Monica. Her happiest hours were

spent wandering by its brink or riding-along
the breezy cliff. It was a friend indeed
to lier in those days, it frowned upon
her no more. It had done its worst already
it had taken away the light of her life.
Might it not be possible  was there not
something of promise in its eternal music ?
Could it be that in some unexpected,
mysterious way it would bring back some
of the light that had been taken away 
would be the means of uniting once again
the hearts that had been so cruelly
sundered? Strange thoughts and fancies
flitted often through her brain, formless
and indistinct, but comforting withal.

Eeturnim]f to the castle at dusk one
day, after one of these solitary rambles,
she found an unusual bustle and excitement
stirring there. Wilberforce hurried

forward to explain the cause of the unwonted
tumult.

I hope I have not done wrong, my
lady. You were not here to give orders,
and I could only act as I felt you would
wish. A lad came running in with a
scared face not half an hour back, saying
there was a man lying at the foot of the
cliffs, as if he had fallen over. I scarce
think he can be alive if that be so ; but I
told the men that if he was  as there is no
other decent house near  I thought you
would wish "

That he should be brought here.
Quite right, Wilberforce. Is there a room
ready ? Has Mr. Tendrils been sent for ? "

The groom has gone this twenty
minutes. Living or dead, he must have a
doctor to him. The maids are getting the .

east room ready, yet I doubt if lie can be
living after such a fall."

He may not have fallen over the cliff.
He may have been scaling it, and have
dropped from but a small height. See that
everything likely to be needed is ready.
He may be here almost immediately now."

She went up to the bed-room herself, to
see if it were ready should there be need.
It was probably only some poor tramp or
fisherman who had met with the accident
no matter, he should be tended at
Trevlyn, he should lie in its most comfortable
guest-chamber, he should have every
care that wealth, could supply. Monica
knew too well the dire results that might
follow a slip down those hard, treacherous
cliffs not to feel peculiarly tender and

solicitous over another victim.

VOL. III. 37

The steady tramp of feet ascending the
stairs and approaching the room where she
stood, roused Monica to the knowledge that
the injured man was not dead, and that
they were bringing him up to be tended
and nursed as she had directed. The door
was pushed open ; six men carried in their
burden upon an improvised stretcher, and
laid it just as it was upon the bed. Monica
stepped forward, and then started, growing
a little pale ; for she recognised in the
death-like rigid face before her the well-known
countenance of Conrad Fitzgerald.

She could not look without a shudder at
that shattered frame, and "Wilberforce
shook her head gravely, marvelling that
he yet breathed. None save professional
hands dared touch him, so distorted and
dislocated was every limb ; and yet by one

of those strange coincidences, not altogether

uncommon in cases of accident, the beautiful

face was entirely untouched, not marred

by a scratch or contusion. Death-like

unconsciousness had set its seal upon those

chiselled, marble features, and had wiped

from them every trace of passion or of vice.

Tom Pendrill was amongst them long

before they looked for him. He had met

the messenger not far from Trevlyn, and

had come at once. He turned Monica out

of the room with a stern precipitancy that

perplexed her somewhat, as did also the

expression of his face, which she did not

understand. He shut himself up with his

patient, retaining the services of Wilberforce

and one of the men.

It was two hours before she saw him

again.

37'

Monica wandered up and down the dark
hall, revolving many things in her mind.
What had brought Conrad so suddenly
back at this melancholy time of the year ?
She had believed him abroad with his
sister, with whom he seemed to have spent
his time since his disappearance early in
the spring. What had brought him back
now? And why did he so haunt the
frowning, treacherous cliffs of Trevlyn ?
Was he mad ? But why did his madness
always drive him to this spot ? She asked
many such questions of herself, but she
could answer none of them.

At last Tom came down. his face
looked as if carved in flint. She could not
read the meaning of his glance.

Is he dead ? " she asked softly.

He cannot last long. If he has any

relations near, they should be telegraphed
for."

His sister is in Italy, I believe. There
is no one else that I know of."

Then there is nothing to be done. He
is sinking fast. He cannot live many hours.
I doubt if he will last the night."

Monica's face was pale and grave.

Poor Conrad ! " she said, beneath her
breath.

Tom started, and made a quick movement
as of repulsion.

No one could wish him to live," he
began, almost roughly ; " he has hardly a
whole bone in his body."

Is he conscious ? "

No, nor likely to be. It is not at all
probable he will ever open his eyes again.
He will most likely sink quietly, without a

sound or a sign. I have done all I can for
him. Somebody must be with him to watch
him, I suppose. It can only be a question
of hours now." A dark cloud hung upon
the doctor's brow. His thoughts were preoccupied.
Presently he spoke again a
sort of mutter between his teeth.

He ought not to be allowed to die hereunder
this roof. It is monstrous  hateful
to think of! Nothing can save him.
Yet I suppose it would be murder to move
him now."

Monica looked up quickly.

Move him ! Tom, what are you thinking
of ? " I

"I know it cannot be done," was the
answer, spoken in a stern, dogged tone.
Yet I repeat what I said before : he ought
not to be under this roof."

There was a gentle reproach in the look
that Monica bent upon him.

My husband's roof and mine will
always be a refuge for any whose need
is as sore as his. Sometimes I think, Tom,
that you are the very hardest man I ever
met. His life, I know, is terribly stained ;
yet it is not for us to judge him."

It seemed as if Tom were agitated. He
gave no outward sign, but his face was
pale, his manner curiously harsh and peremptory.


You do not know," he said. " Your
husband "

She stopped him by a gesture.

My husband would be the first to bid
me return good for evil. You know Randolph
very little if you do not know that.
Conrad is dying, and death wipes out much.

He is about to answer for his life to a higher
tribunal than ours. Ah ! let us not condemn
him harshly. Have we not all oursins
upon our heads ? When my turn
comes to answer for mine, let me not have
this one added  that I hardened my heart
against the dying, and denied the help and
succour mutely asked at the last hour."

Monica," said Tom, with one of those
swift changes that marked his manner when
he was deeply moved, " were I worthy, I
would kiss the hem of your garment. As
it is, I can only say farewell. God be with
you ! "

He was gone before she could open her
lips again. She stood in a sort of dream,
feeling as if some strange thing were about
to happen to her.

Night fell upon the castle and its inhabitants,

but Monica could not sleep. If ever
she closed her eyes in momentary slumber,
the same vivid dream recurred again and
again, till she vas oppressed and exhausted
by the effort to escape from it. It was
Conrad, always Conrad, begging, praying,
beseeching her to come. Sometimes it
seemed as if his shadowy form stood beside
her, wildly praying the same thing  to come
to him  to come before it was too late.

At last she could stand it no longer.
She rose and dressed. The clock in the
tower struck four. She knew she could
sleep no more that night. Why should
she not take the watch beside the unconscious
dying man, and let the faithful
Wilberforce get some rest ?

She stole noiselessly to the sick room.
There had been no change in the patient's

State. He lived, but could hardly live much
longer. Wilberforce would fain have
stayed, but Monica dismissed her quietly
and firmly, preferring to keep her watch
alone.

Profound silence reigned in the great
house  silence only broken from time to
time by the reverberating strokes of the
clock in the tower, or by the sudden sinking
of the coal in the grate and the quiet
fall of the cinders. There was something
inexpressibly solemn in the time, the place,
and the office thus undertaken by Monica.

Conrad lay dying  Conrad, once her
friend and playmate, then her bitterest,
cruellest foe, now ?  ah yes, what now ? 
she asked that question many times of
herself. What strange, mysterious power
is that of death ! How it blots out all

hatred, anger, bitterness, and distrust, and
leaves in its place a sort of tender, mournful
compassion. Who can look upon the
face of the dead, and cherish hard thoughts
of him that is gone ?

Not Monica, at least. Conrad had been
to her as the evil genius of one crisis of her
life  of more had she but known it. She
had said in her heart that she could never
forgive him, that she would never voluntarily
look upon his face again, and yet
here he lay dying beneath her roof, and she
was with him. She could not, when it
came to the point, leave him to die alone,
with only a stranger beside him. He might
never know, his eyes would probably never
open to the light of this world again ; but she
should know, and in years to come, when
time should, even more than now, have

softened all things to her, she knew that
she should be glad to think she had shown
mercy and compassion towards one in death,
who had shown himself in life her bitterest
foe.

Very solemn thoughts filled her mind as
she sat in that quiet room, in which a strong
young life was quickly ebbing away. Would
the sin-stained soul pass into the shadowy
land of the hereafter in silence and darkness,
without one moment for preparation  perhaps
for repentance ? Would some slight
gleam of consciousness be granted ? would
it be vouchsafed to him to wake once more
in this world, to give some sign to the
earnest, silent watcher whether he had tried
to make his peace with God before he was
called to his last account ?

The lamp burned low  flickered in its

socket. That strange blue jilni the first
forerunner of the comuig day, stole
solemnly into that quiet room. Suddenly
Monica became aware that Conrad's eyes
were open, and fixed intently upon her
face. She rose and stood beside him.

You are here ? " he said, in a strange
low voice. " I felt that you would hear
me call  and would come. I knew I
could not  die  till I had told you all."

She did not know how far he was
conscious. His words were strange, but
his eye was calm and quiet. He took the
stimulant she held to his lips. It gave him
an access of strength.

Where am I ? " he asked.

At Trevlyn."

A strange look flitted over his face.

*' Ah ! I remember now  I fell. And I

have been brought to Trevlyn  to die 
and you, Monica, are with me. It is
well."

She hardly knew what to say, or how to
answer the awed look in those dying
eyes. He bent a keen glance upon her.

Will it be soon ? " he asked ; and she
knew that the " it " meant death. She
could not deceive him. She bent her head
in assent, as she said :

Very soon, I think."

His eyes never left her face. His own
face moved not a muscle, but its expression
changed moment by moment in a way she
could not understand. ,

There is not much time left, Monica.
Sit down by me where I can see you. I
must make a confession to you before I
die."

"Not to me, Conrad," said Monica
gently. " Confess your sins to our Father
in Heaven. He alone can grant forgiveness
; and His mercies are very great."

Forgiveness ! " the word was spoken
with an intensity of bitterness that startled
Monica. The horror was deepening each
moment in his eyes. She began to feel
that it was reflected in her own. What did
it all mean ?

God is very merciful," she said gently,
commanding herself so that he should not
see her agitation.

You do not know," he interrupted
almost fiercely. " Wait till I have told
you all."

Why should you tell me, Conrad ? I
know much of your past life. I know that
you have sinned. Ask God's forgiveness

before it is too late. It is against Him,
not me, that you have sinned."

"Against Him and you," he answered
with a grave intensity of manner that
plainly showed him master of his faculties.
*' Listen to me, Monica  you shall listen !
I cannot carry the guilty secret to the
grave. Death looks me in the face  he
holds me by the hand, but he will not let
me leave this world till I have told you all."

A sort of horror fell upon Monica. She
neither spoke nor moved.

Monica, turn your face this way. I
want to see it. I must see it. You
remember the night, a year ago, when 
your husband  went away ? "

She bent her head in silence.

Did you know that I was there  in the
boat with him ? "

She raised her head, and looked at him
speechlessly.

I was there," he said, " but nobody

knew, nobody suspected. I was on the

shore before you. I saw you cling to him.

I heard every word that passed. I think

a demon entered into my soul as you kissed

each other that night. ' Kiss her ! ' I said,

kiss her  you shall never kiss her again ! '

Monica, I think sometimes I am mad  I

was mad, possessed, that night. I had no

will, no power to resist the evil spirit

within me. He went down to the boat. I

followed. In the black darkness nobody

saw me swing myself in. You know the

story the men told when they came back 

it was all true enough. The crew of the

sinking vessel had been rescued. Your

husband left the boat to help the little lad.
VOL. III. 38

I followed him, unknown to all. He had
already handed the boy into the boat when
I came stealthily up to him ; the boat had
swung round, and for a moment was lost in
darkness before it could be brought up
again. This was my chance. It was
pitchy dark, and he did not see me, though
I was close beside him. I had the great
boat-hook in my hand ; we were both
sinking with the sinking vessel. I steadied
myself, and brought the metal end of the
weapon with all my strength upon his head.
He sank without a cry. I saw his head,
covered with blood, and his glassy eyes
above the water for a moment  the sight
has haunted me ever since  then I sprang
into the boat. ' All right 1 ' I shouted, and
the men pulled off with a will, without a
suspicion or a doubt. Almost before the

boat reached the shore I sprang out, and
vanished in the 'darkness before any one
had seen me. My vow of vengeance was
fulfilled. I murdered your husband Monica
do you understand ?  I murdered him
in cold blood ! What have you to say tome?"


She sat still-as marble statue, her hands
closely locked together. She spoke no
word.

I thought revenge would be sweet ;

but it has-been bitter  bitter  bitter ! I

have known no peace night or day. I

have been ceaselessly haunted by the sight

of that ghastly, face  ah, I see it now !

Every time I lie["'down to sleep I am

doomed to do that hideous deed again.

1 have fled time after time from the scene

of my crime, only to be dragged back by

38*

a power I cannot resist. I knew that a
terrible retribution would come ; yet I
could not keep away. And now  yes, it
has come  more terrible than ever I
pictured. I am dying  in his house  and
you  his wife  are watching over me.
Ah, it is frightful ! Is there forgiveness
with God for sin like mine ? You say His
mercies are great. Can they cover this
hideous deed ? Monica, can you forgive ? "

He spoke with the wild, passionate
appeal of despair. The anguish and
remorse in his face were terrible to see ;
but Monica did not speak. She sat rigid
and still, as pale as death, her eyes glowing
like living fire in the wild conflict of her
feelings. This was terrible  too terrible
to be borne.

"Monica, I am dying  dying! The

shadows are closing round me. All, do
not turn away ! It is all so dark ; if you
desert me I am lost indeed ! If you were
dying you would understand. Monica,
3'ou say God is good  merciful. I have
asked His pardon again and again for this
black sin, and even as I pray it seems as if
you  your pale, still face  rises ever
between me and the forgiveness I crave.
I read by this token that to you I must
confess this blackest sin ; of you I must
ask pardon too. I have repented. I do
repent. I would give my life to call him
back. Monica, forgive  forgive! Have
mercy upon a dying man. As you will
one day ask pardon at God's hands even for
your blameless life, give me your pardon
ere I die ! "

Who shall estimate the struggle that

raged in Monica's soul during the brief
moments that followed this appeal 
moments that to her were like hours, years,
for the concentrated passion of feeling that
surged through them ? She felt as if she
had grown sensibly older, ere, white and
shaken by the conflict, she won the victory
over herself.

She rose and stood beside him.

"Conrad, I forgive you. May God
forgive you as I do."

A sudden light flashed into his dim eyes.
The awful, unspeakable horror passed slowly
away. The deep darkness lifted a little  a
very little  and Monica saw that it was so.

I think  you have  saved me," he
whispered, whilst the death damp gathered
on his brow. " Monica, you will have your
reward for this  I know it  I feel it. Ah !

is this death? Monica  it is coining 
teach me to pray  I cannot  I have
forgotten  help me ! "

I will help you, Conrad. Say it after
me. ' Our Father which art in Heaven,
Hallowed be Thy name ; Thy kingdom
come. Thy will be done on earth as it is in
Heaven ; Give us this day our daily bread ;
And forgive us our trespasses ; As we
forgive ' "

' As we forgive ' " Conrad broke

off suddenly ; a strange look of gladness,
of relief, of comprehension, flashing over
the face that had been so full of terror and
anguish. " ' As we forgive '  and you have
forgiven  then it may be that He will forgive
too. I could not believe it before  now
I can  God be merciful to me, a sinner ! "

Those were his last words. Already his

eyes were glazing. The hush as of the
shadow of death was filling that dim room.
Monica knelt beside the bed, a sense of
deep awe upon her, praying with all the
strength of her pure soul for the guilty,
erring man  her husband's murderer 
dying beneath his roof.

And as she thus knelt and prayed, a
sudden sense of her husband's presence
filled all her soul with an inexpressible,
indescribable thrill of mingled rapture and
awe. She trembled, and her heart beat
thick and fast ; whether she where in the
spirit cr out of the spirit she did not know.
And then  in deep immeasurable distance,
far, far away, and yet distinctly, sweetly
clear  unmistakable  the sound of a voice
Randolph's voice  thrilling through infinity
of space :

'' Monica ! Monica ! My wife ! "

She started to her feet, quivering in
every limb. Conrad's eyes were fixed upon
lier with an inexplicable look of joy. Had
he heard it too ? What did it mean  that
strange cry from the spirit world in this
hour of death and dawn ?

She leant over the dying man.

Conrad," she said, in a voice that was
full of an emotion too deep for any but the
simplest of words, " 1 forgive you  so does
Randolph; and I think God has forgiven
you too."

The clear radiance of another day was
shining upon the earth as the troubled,
erring spirit was set free, and passed away
into the o-reat hereafter, whose secrets shall
be read in God's good time, when all but
His Word shall have passed away.

Let US not judge him  for is there not
joy with the angels in heaven over one
sinner that repented ?

Yes, all was over now : all the weary
warfare of sin and strife ; and with a calm
majesty in death, that the beautiful face
had never worn in life, Conrad Fitzgerald
lay dead in Castle Trevlyn.

y%

LORD Maddox.

' And 3'ou forgave him, Monica, you
forgave him ? The man who had killed
your husband ? "

It was Beatrice who spoke, and she spoke
with a sort of horror in her tone. Tom
stood a little apart in the recess of the
window, a heavy cloud upon his brow.
Lord Haddon was leaning with averted face
upon the high carved mantel-shelf.

They had all come over early to Trevlyn
to hear the fate of the hapless man who
had died in the night. Beatrice felt an
unquenchable longing to know if he had

spoken before lie died  if by chance the
terrible secret had escaped in delirium from
his lips ; and she had insisted on coming
with her husband. Her brother, who had
arrived unexpectedly the previous evening,
had made one of the party. He was
hungering for another sight of Monica, and
Trevlyn seemed to draw him like a magnet.

Monica's face had told a tale of its own
when she had first appeared ; and the
whispered question on Beatrice's lips :

Did he speak, Monica ? Did he say
anything ? " elicited a reply that led to
explanations on both sides, rendering
further reserve needless ; and Monica told
her tale with the quiet calmness of one
who has too lately passed through some
great mental conflict to be easily disturbed

adam.

But Beatrice, fiery, impetuous Beatrice,
could not understand this calm. She was
liken by a tempest of excitement and
wrath.

You forgave him, Monica ? Ah ! how
could you ? Randolph's murderer ! "

Yes, I forgave him."

You should not ! You should not ! It
was not  it could not be right ! Monica, I
cannot understand you. I think you are
made of stone ! ''

She said nothing ; she smiled. That
smile was only seen by Haddon. It
thrilled him to his heart's core.

How came you to be with him at all ? '*
said Tom, almost sternly. "It was not
your duty to be there. It was no fit place
for you."

"I think my place is where there is

sorrow and need and loneliness," answered
Monica, very gently. "He needed me 
and I came to him."

He sent for you ? "

I think he did."

"But you said "

Monica lifted her hand ; she rose to her
feet, passing her hand across her brow.

"You would not understand, dear.
There are some things, Beatrice, that you
are very slow to learn. You know something
of the mysteries of life, but you do
not understand anything of those deeper
mysteries of death. I have forgiven a
dying man, who prayed forgiveness with
his latest breath  and you look at me with
horror."

Beatrice gazed at Monica, but yet would
not yield her point.

Mercy can be carried too far " but

she could not say more, for the look upon
Monica's face brought a sudden sense of
choking that would have made her voice
falter had she attempted to proceed. Her
brother's murmured words, therefore, were
now distinctly heard.

"Not in God's sight, perhaps."

Monica turned to him with a swift gesture
inexpressibly sweet.

Ah ! you understand," she said simply.
"I am glad you have come just now,
Haddon. I shall want help. Will you
give it me ? "

"I will do anything for you, and esteem
it an honour."

She looked at him steadily.

Even if it is for one who  for the one
who lies upstairs now  dead ? "

Had don bent this head.

Even for him  at your bidding."

Thank you," she said.

I will take you home now, Beatrice'*
said Tom, curtly. " We are not wanted
here."

Monica looked questioningly at him, as
she gave him her hand, to see what this
abruptness might signify. He returned
her gaze with equal intensity.

I believe you are an angel, Monica,"
he said, lifting her hand for a moment to
his lips ; " but there are moments when
fallen mortals like ourselves feel the angelic
presence a little overpowering."

Monica, as she had said, wanted the help
of some man of business, as there was a
good deal to be done in connection with

Conrad's sudden death : a good many
trying formalities to be gone through, as
well as much correspondence, and in Lord
Haddon she found an able and willing
assistant.

He saw much of Monica in those days.
He was often at Trevlyn  hardly a day
passed without his riding or driving across
on some errand  and she was often at St.
Maws herself, for Beatrice's momentary
flash of anger had been rapidly quenched
in deep contrition and humility ; and both
she and her husband treated Monica with
the sort of reverential tenderness that
seemed to meet her now on all hands.

Lord Haddon watched her day by day,

wondering if ever he should dare to

breathe a word of the hopes that filled

his heart, reading in her calm face and
VOL. m. 39

in the sisterly gentleness and fondness
with which she treated him, how little
conscious she was of the purpose that
possessed his soul. Sometimes he paused
and shrank from troubling the still waters
of their sweet, calm friendship, but then
again the thought of leaving her in her
loneliness and isolation seemed too sad and
mournful, if by any devotion and love he
could lighten the burden of her sorrow,
and bring back something of the lost
happiness into her life. Haddon was very
humble, very self-distrustful ; he did not
expect to accomplish much, but he felt that

he would gladly lay down his life, if by

I

that act he could do anything to comfort

her. To die for her would, however, be

purposeless : the next thing was to try
and live for her.

And SO one day, as they paced the lonely
shore together, on a chill cloudy winter's
afternoon, he put his fate to the touch.

She had noticed his silence  his abstraction
: he had not been quite himself all
day. Presently they reached a sheltered
nook amongst some rocks not far from the
water's edge, and she sat down, motioning
him to do the same. She looked at him
with gentle, friendly concern.

Is anything the matter ? " she asked.
Have you something on your mind ? "

He turned his head, looked into her eyes,
and answered :

"Yes."

Can I help you ? " she continued, in

the same sweet way. "You help me so

often, that it is my turn to help you now if

I can."

39*

He looked with a glance she could not
altogether understand.

Monica," he said, " may I speak to
you ?  may I tell you something ? I have
tried to do so before, and have failed ; but
I ought not to go on longer without speaking.
Have I your permission to tell you
what is on my mind ? "

He did not often call her by her
Christian name : only in moments of excitement,
when his soul was stirred within
him. The unconscious way in which it
dropped now from his lips told that he was
deeply moved. A sort of vague uneasiness
arose within her, but she looked into his
troubled, resolute face, and answered :

"Tell me if you wish it, Haddon " 
although she shrank, without knowing
why, from the confession she was to hear.

Monica," he said, not looking at her,
but out over the sea, and speaking "vvith a
manly resolution and. fluency unusual with
him, the outcome of a very earnest purpose,
I am going to speak to you at last, and
I must ask you beforehand to pardon my
presumption, of which I am as well aware
as you can ever be. Monica, I think that
no woman in the wide world is like you.
I have thought so ever since I saw you
first, in your bridal robes, standing beside
Randolph in that little church over yonder.
When I saw you then  nay, pardon me if
I pain you ; I should not have recalled
the memory, and yet I cannot help it 
I said within myself that you were one to
be worshipped with the truest devotion of
a man's heart ; and the more I saw of
you in later life, the deeper did that

feeling sink into my soul. He, your husband,
had been as a brother to me, and to
feel that I was thus brought near to you,
admitted to friendship and to confidence,
was a source of keen pleasure such as I
can ill describe. You did not know your
power over me, Monica. I hardly knew it
myself ; but I think I would at any time
have laid down my life either for him or
for you. I know I would that fatal night
but I must not pain you more. When
I awoke, Monica, from that long fever, to
find you watching beside me, to hear that
he, my friend, was dead, and you left all
alone in your desolation  Monica, Monica,
how can I hope to express to you what I
felt ? It is not treachery to his memory 
believe me, it is not. If I could call him
back, ah ! how gladly would I do it !  at

the cost of my life if need be  but that
can never, never be ! I know I can never
fill his place. I know I am utterly unworthy
of the boon I ask ; but if a life-long
devotion, if a love that will never change
nor falter, if the ceaseless care of one, who
is yours wholly and entirely, can ever help
to fill the blank, can in ever so small a
degree make up to you for that one irretrievable
loss, believe me, it will be the
greatest happiness I can ever know.
Monica, need I say more? Have I said
too much ? I only ask leave to watch over
you, to comfort you, to love you ; I ask
nothing for myself  only the right to do
this. Can you not give it to me? God
helping me, you shall never repent it if
you do."

Along pause followed this confession 

this appeal. Monica's face had expressed
many fluctuating feelings as he had proceeded
with his speech. Stow it was full
of a sort of divine compassion and tenderness
: a look sometimes seen in a pictured
saint or Madonna drawn by a master
hand.

You are so good," she said, very low ;
so very, very good ; and it grieves me so
sadly to give sou pain."

He turned his head and looked at her.
His eyes darkened with sudden sorrow.

'' I have spoken too soon," he said, in
the same gentle, self-contained way. " I
have tried to be patient, but seeing you
lonely and sad makes it so hard. I
should have waited longer  it is only a
year now since. Monica, do not think me
hard or callous to say it, but time is a

great softener  a great healer. I do not
mean that you will ever forget ; but years
will go by, and you are still quite young,
very young to live your life always alone.
Think of the years that lie before you.
Must they all be spent alone ? Monica, do
not answer me yet ; but if in time to come
if you want a friend, a helper  let me
can YOU think of me ? Ah ! how can I
say it ? Can I ever be more to you than
I am now ? You understand : you have
only to call me, to command me  I will

come."

He spoke with some agitation now, but
it was quickly subdued. It seemed as if
he would have left her, but she laid her
hand upon his arm and detained him.

HaddoD," she said, softly, " I am lonely
and I do want a friend. You have been a

friend to me always ; I trust and love you
as a brother. May I not do so always ?
Can you not be content with that ? Must
it end with us, that love and trust? I
should miss it sorely if it where withdrawn."


Her sweet, pleading face was turned
towards him. There was a sort of struggle
in the young man's mind : then he answered
quietly :

It shall be so, if you wish it," he said.
** My chiefs wish is for your happiness.
But "

She checked him by a look.

Haddon, I am Randolph's wife ! "

His eyes gave the reply his tongue would
never have uttered. She answered as if he
had spoken.

"Yes, he is dead. Did you think that

made any difference ? Ah, you do not
understand. When I gave myself to Randolph,
I gave myself for ever  not for a
time only but for always. He is my
husband. I am his wife. Nothing can.
change that."

Not even death ? "

The words were a mere whisper ; yet
she heard them. It seemed as if a sudden
ray of light shone upon the face she turned
towards him. He was awed ; he watched
her in mute silence.

Ah ! no," she said, very softly, " not
death  death least of all. Death can only
divide us, it cannot touch our love. Ah !
you do not know, you do not understand.
How can I make it clear to you ? Love is
like nothing else in the world  it is us, our
very selves. Somewhere " Monica

clasped her hands together, and stretched
them out before her towards the eternal
ocean, with a gesture more eloquent than
any words, whilst the light upon her face
deepened in intensity every moment as her
eyes fixed themselves upon the far horizon.
Somewhere he is waiting for me to come
to him  he, my husband, my love ; and
though he may not come back to me, I
shall go to him in God's good time, and
when I join him in the great, eternal home,
I must go to him as he left me  with
nothing between us and our love ; and
there will be no parting there, no more
death, and no more sea." ,

Her words died away in silence ; but her
parted lips, her shining eyes, the light upon
her face, spoke an eloquent language of
their own. Her companion sat and looked

at her in mute, breathless silence, not unmixed
with awe.

He knew his cause was lost. He knew
she could never, never be his ; yet, strange
to say, he was not saddened or cast down,
for by this revelation of her innermost
heart he felt himself uplifted and ennobled.
His idol was not shattered. Monica was,
as ever, enshrined in his heart  the one
ideal woman to be worshipped, reverenced,
adored. Even in this supreme hour of his
life, when the airy fabric of his dreams was
crumbling into dust about him, he had a
perception that perhaps even thus it was
best. He never could be worthy of
her, and now he might still call himself
her friend ; had she not said so herself ?

There was a long, long silence between
them. Then he moved, kneeling on one

knee before her, and taking her hand in
his.

Monica," he said, " I understand now.
I shall never trouble you again. You have
judged well, very well ; it is like you, and
that is enough. But before I go may I
crave one boon ? "

"And that is ?" .

That you forget all that I have said,
all the wild, foolish words that I have
spoken ; and let me keep my old place  as
your brother and friend."

She looked at him with her own gentle
smile.

I wish for nothing better," she answered.
" I cannot afford to lose my
friend."

He pressed her hand for one moment to
his lips, and was gone without another word.

Tears slowly welled up in Monica's eyes
as she rose at last, and stood looking out over
the vast waste of heaving grey sea  sad,
colourless, troubled.

Like my life," she said softly to herself.
And yet she had just put away a
love that might at least have cast a glow
upon it, and gilded its dim edges.

She stretched out her hand with a sort
of mute gesture of entreaty.

Ah ! Randolph, husband, come back
to me ! I am so lonely, so desolate ! "

Even as she spoke, the setting sun, as it
touched the horizon, broke through the
bank of cloud which had veiled it all
the day, and flooded the sea as with
liquid gold  that cold grey sea that she
had just been likening to her own future
life.

She could not help an involuntary start.

Is it an omen ? " she asked ; and
despite the heavy load at her heart, she
went home somewhat comforted.

CHRISTMAS.

It was Christmas Eve ; the light was just
beginning to wane, and Monica's work was
done at last. She was free now until the
arrival of her guests  the Tendrils and
Lord Haddon  should give her new occupation
in hospitable care for them.

Monica had been too busy for thoughts
of self to intrude often upon her during
these past days. She wished to be busy ;
she tried to occupy herself from morning
to night, for she found that the aching
hunger of her heart was more eased by

loving deeds of mercy and kindness than
VOL. III. 40

in any other way  self more fully lost in
ceaseless care for others. But when all
was done, every single thing disposed of,
nothing more left to think of or to accomplish
; then the inevitable reaction set in,
and with a heart aching to pain, almost to
despair, Monica entered the music-room,
and sat down to her organ.

She played with a sort of passionate
appeal that was infinitely pathetic, had anyone
been there to hear ; she threw all the
yearning sadness of her soul into her
organ, and it seemed to answer her back
with a promise of strong sympathy and
consolation. Insensibly she was soothed
by the sweet sounds she evoked. She fell
into a dreamy mood, playing softly in a
minor key, so softly that through the door
that stood 'ajar, she became aware of a

slight subdued tumult in the hall without,

to which she gave but a dreamy attention

at first.

The bell had pealed sharply, steps had

crossed the hall, the door had been opened,

and then had followed the tumultuous

sounds expressive of astonishment that

roused Monica from her dreamy reverie.

She supposed the party from St. Maws had
arrived somewhat before the expected

time, and rose, and had made a few steps

forward when she suddenly stopped short

and stood motionless  spell-bound  what

was it she had heard ?  only the sound of

a voice  a man's voice.

Where is your mistress ? "

The words were uttered in a clear,

deep, ringing tone, that seemed to her to

waken every echo in the castle into wild

40*

surging life. The very air throbbed and
palpitated around her  her temples seemed
as if they would burst. What was the
meaning of that sound  that wild tumult
of voices ? Why did she stand as if carved
in stone, growing white to the very lips,
whilst thrill upon thrill ran through her
frame, and her heart beat to suffocation?
What did it all portend ? Whose was the
voice she had just heard  that voice from
the dead ? Who was it that stood in the
hall without ?

The door was flung open. A tall, dark
figure stood in the dim light.
Monica ! " i

Monica neither spoke nor moved. The
cry of awe and of rapture that rose from her
heart could not find voice in which to utter
itself  but what matter? She was in her

husband's arms. Her head lay upon his
breast. His Hps were pressed to her cold
face in the kisses she had never thought
to feel again. Randolph had come back.
She could not speak. She had no will to
try and frame a single word. He held her
in his arms ; he strained her ever closer and
closer. She felt the tumultuous beating of
his heart as she lay in his arms, powerless
to move or think. She heard his murmured
words, broken and hoarse with the
passionate feeling of that supreme moment.
My wife ! Monica! My wife ! "
And then for a time she knew no more.
Sight and hearing alike failed her ; it
seemed as if a slumber from heaven itself
sealed her eyes and stole away her senses.

When she came to herself she was on a
sofa in her own room, and Randolph was

kneeling beside her. She did not start to
see him there. For a moment it seemed as
if he had never left her. She smiled her
own sweet smile.

"Randolph! Have I been asleep 
dreaming ? "

He took her hands in his, and bent to
kiss her lips.

It has been a long dream, my Monica,
and a dark one ; but it is over at last.
My darling, my darling ! God grant I
may not be dreaming now ! "

She smiled like a tired child. She had a
perception that something overpoweringly
strange and sudden had happened, but she
did not want to rouse herself just yet to
think what it must all mean.

Two hours later, in the great drawing-room

ablaze with light, Monica and
Eandolpli stood together to welcome their
guests. She had laid aside her mournful
widow's garb, and was arrayed in her
shimmering bridal robes. Ah, how lovely
she was in her husband's eyes as she stood
beside him now ! Perhaps never in all her
life bad she looked more exquisitely fair.
Happiness had lighted her beautiful eyes,
and had brought the rose back to her pale
cheeks : she was glorified  transfigured 
a vision of radiant beauty.

He had changed but slightly during his
mysterious year of absence. There were a
few lines upon his face that had not been
there of old : he looked like a man who
had been through some ordeal, whether
mental or physical it would be less easy to
tell ; but the same joy and rapture that

emanated, as it were, from Monica was
reflected in his face likewise, and only a
keen eye could read to-night the traces of
pain or of sorrow in that strong, proud,
manly countenance.

Monica looked at him suddenly, the flush
deepening in her cheeks.

Hush ! They are coming ! " she said,
and waited breathlessly.

The door opened, admitting Mrs. Pendrill,
Beatrice, and Tom. There was a pause  a
brief, intense silence, during which the fall
of a pin might have been heard, and then,
with one long, low cry, half-sobbing, half-laughing,
Beatrice rushed across the room,
and flung herself upon Randolph.

Monica went straight up to Mrs. Pendrill,
and put her arms about her neck.

Aunt Elizabeth, he has come home,"

she said, in a voice that shook a little with
the tumult of her happiness. " He has just
come home  this very day  Randolph 
my husband. Help me to believe it. You
must help me to bear this  as you helped
me to bear the other."

Tom had by this time grasped Randolph
by the hand ; but neither trusted his own
voice. They were glad that Beatrice
covered their silence by her incoherent
exclamations of rapture, and by the flow of
questions no one attempted to answer.

It was all too like a dream for anyone to
recollect very clearly what happened.
Eaymond and Haddon came in almost
at once, new greetings had to be gone
through. How the dinner passed off that
night no one afterwards remembered.
There was a deep sense of thankfulness and

joy in every heart ; yet of words there
were few. But when gathered round the
fire later on in the evening, when they had
grown used to the presence amongst them of
one whom they had mourned as dead for
more than a year, Randolph was called
upon to tell his tale, which was listened to
in breathless silence.

I will tell you all I can about it ; but
there are points yet where my memory
fails me, where I have but little idea what
happened. I have a dim recollection of
the night of the wreck, and of leaving
the boat ; but I must have received a
heavy blow on the head, the doctors tell
me, and I suppose I sank, and the men
could not find me. But I was entangled, it
seems, in the rigging of a floating spar,
and must have been carried thus many

miles ; for I was picked up by an ocean
steamer bound for Australia, which had
been driven somewhat out of its course by
the gale. It was not supposed that I could
live after so many hours' exposure. I was
quite unconscious, and remained so for a
very long time. There was nothing upon
me by which I could be identified, and of
course I could give no account of myself.
On board the boat were a kind-hearted
wealthy Australian couple, who had lately
lost an only son, to whom they fancied I
bore some slight resemblance. Perhaps for
this cause, perhaps from true kindness of
heart, they at once took me under their
special care and protection. There was
plenty of space on board the vessel, and
they looked after me as if I had indeed
been their son. They would not hear of

my being left behind in hospital on the
way out. They took me under their protection
until I should be able to give an
account of myself.

Of course I knew nothing about all
this. I was lying dangerously ill of brain
fever all the while, not knowing where I
was, or what was happening. When we
reached Melbourne at last, and I was conveyed
to their luxurious house on the outskirts
of the town, I was still in the same
state, relapse following relapse, every time
till I gained a little ground, till for months
my life was despaired of. I was either

raving in delirium, or lying in a sort of unconscious



stupor, and without all the skill
and care lavished upon me, I suppose I
must have died. But I did not die. Gradually,
very gradually, the fever abated,

and I began to come to myself : that is to
say, I began to know the faces around me
and to recognise my surroundings ; but for
myself, I knew no more who I was, nor
whence I had come, than the infant just
born into the world. My memory had
gone, had been wiped clean away ; I
had no idea of my own identity, no
recollection of the past. The very effort
to remember brought on such pain and
distress that I was imperatively commanded
to relinquish the attempt. Gradually
some things came back to my mind :
I could read, write, understand the foreign
tonues I had mastered, and the sciences I
had studied in past days. As my health
slowly improved this kind of knowledge
came back spontaneously and without
effort ; but my personal history was as a

blank wall, against which I flung myself in
vain. It would yield to no efforts of mine.
Distressed and confused, I was obliged to
give up, and wait with what patience I
might for the realisation of the hope held
out cheerfully by the clever doctor who
attended me. He maintained that if I
would but have patience, some strong
association of ideas would some day bring
all back in a flash, and meantime all I had
to do was to get strong and well, so as to
be ready for action when that day should
come. I was restless sometimes, but less
so than one would fancy, for the blank was
too complete to be distressing. My good
friends and protectors were unspeakably
kind and good, and did everything in
their power to ensure my mental and
physical well-being ; I recovered my

health rapidly, soon my memory was to
come back too."

Randolph passed his hand across his
eyes. No one spoke, every eye was fixed
upon his face.

It did so very strangely : it was one
hot afternoon in November  our summer,
you know "  he named the date and the
hour, and Monica heard it with a sudden
thrill. Allowing for the discrepancy of
time, it was during the moments that she
watched by Conrad Fitzgerald's dying bed
that her husband's memory was given back
to him.

I was lookiiif] over some old English
newspapers, idh, purposelessly, when I
came upon a detailed account of the wreck,
and of my own supposed death. As I read
I cannot describe what it was like  my

memory came back to me in a great
flood, like overwhelming waves. It seemed,
Monica, as if my spirit were carried on
wings to Trevlyn, as if I were hovering over
you in some mysterious way impossible to
describe. I called your name aloud. I knew
that I was close to you, at Trevlyn  it is
useless to attempt to define what I felt.
When I came to myself they told me I had
fainted ; but that was not so. I had been
on a journey, that is all, and had returned.
My memory was restored from that hour,
clearly and distinctly ; the doctor thought
there might be lapses, that I might never
be the same man again as I had been once ;
but I have felt no ill effects since. Little
more remains to be told. My first instinct
was to telegraph ; but not knowing what
had happened in my absence, knowing I

must long have been given up for lost, I
was afraid to do so, lest hopeless confusion
should result. Instead, I took the first
home-bound steamer, and reached London
late last night. I found out at the house
there where Monica was, and came on hereby
the first train. I have come back home
to spend my Christmas with you."

domi

VOL 111 41

THE LAST.

Monica, I could not tell you last night 
it was all so sudden, so wonderful  but I
think you know, without any words of
mine, how glad, how thankful, I am."

It was Haddon who spoke, spoke with a
glad, frank, joyous sincerity, that beamed
in his eye and sounded in every tone of his
voice. Monica gave him both her hands,
looking up into his face with her sweetest
smile.

I know, Haddon ; I know. I am sure of
it. Is he not almost a brother to you ?  and
are you not the best of brothers to me ? "

At least I will try to be," he answered
gladly. " I cannot tell you how happy this
has made me."

She was glad, too : glad to see him so
happy, so heart-whole. He had loved her
with the loyal love of a devoted chivalrous
knight, had loved her for her sorrow and
her loneliness ; but she was comforted
now, and he was able to rejoice with her.
It was all very good  just as she would
have it.

Ah ! what a day of joy and thanksgiving
it was ! How Monica's heart beat as she knelt
by her husband's side that glad Christmas
morning in the little cliff church, when, in
the pause just before the General Thanksgiving,
the grey-headed clergyman, with a
little quiver in his voice, announced that
Randolph Trevlyn desired to return thanks

to Almighty God for preservation from great
perils, and for restoration to his home.

Her voice faltered in the familiar words,
and many suppressed sobs were heard in
the little building, but they were sobs of
joy and gratitude, and tears of healing and
of happiness stole down Monica's cheeks.
It was like some beautiful dream, and yet
too sweet not to be true.

In the afternoon Monica and Randolph
went out alone together ; first into the
whispering pine woods, and then out upon
the breezy cliff, hard beneath their feet with
the winter's frost.

He let her lead him whither she would.
He had no thought to spare for aught beside
herself. They were together once again.
What more could they need ?

But Monica had an object in view ; and

as they walked, engrossed in each other, in
sweet communion of soul and interchange
of thought, or the almost sweeter silence of
perfect peace and tranquillity, she led him
once more towards the little clifF church ;
though only when she was unlatching the
gate to enter the quiet grave-yard did he
arouse to the sense of their surroundings.

Why, Monica," he said, " why have
you brought me here ? We are too late
for service."

I know," she answered ; " but come. I
want to show you something."

Her face wore an expression he did not
understand. He followed her in silence to
a secluded corner, where, beneath a dark
yew tree, stood a green mound, at the head
of which a wooden cross had been temporarily
erected.

Eandolpli read the letters it bore :
C. F.," followed by a date, and beneath,
the simple, familiar words 

Requiescat in pace''

Strange, perhaps, that Monica should
have cared for this lonely grave, in which
was laid to rest one who had, as she
believed, robbed her life of all its brightness
and joy. Strange that she, in the
absence of friend or kinsman, should
have charged herself with keeping it, and
of erecting there some monument to mark
who lay there low. Strange  yet so it was.

Her husband looked at her questioningly.

Conrad's grave  yes," she answered
quietly. " Randolph, look at the date."

He did so, and started a little.

He died at dawn that day, Randolph.

You know what was happening then at the
other side of the world ? "

There was a strange look of awe upon
her face as she spoke, which was reflected
in his also. She came and stood close
beside him.

Randolph, do you know that he was
there  that night ?  that he tried to kill
you?"

He had taken of his hat as he stood
beside the grave, with the instinctive reverence
for the dead  even though it be a
dead foe  characteristic of a noble mind.
Now he passed his hand across his brow
and through his thick dark hair.

I thought that was a delusion of fever
a sort of hideous vision founded on no
reality. Monica, was it so ? "

'' It was."

How do you know ? "

I had it from his own lips."

He gazed at her without speaking ;
something in her face awed and silenced him.

Randolph, listen," she said. " I must
tell you all. Six weeks ago, the evening
before that day, he was brought, shattered
and dying, to Trevlyn ; he had fallen from
the cliffs, no skill could serve to prolong
his life. I knew nothing then  he was
profoundly unconscious, yet as the night
wore away some strange intuition came
upon me that he wanted me, that he was
beseeching me to come to him. I went 
he was still unconscious. I sent Wilberforce
away and watched by him myself.
Randolph, at dawn he awoke to consciousness
 he told me all his awful tale  he

said lie had murdered you  I believed it
was true. lie was dying  dying in darkness
and in dread, and he prayed for my
forgiveness as if his salvation hung upon
it. Randolph, Randolph, how can I tell
you?  I cannot, no I cannot  no one could
understand," for a moment she pressed her
hand upon her eyes, looking up again in a
few seconds with a calm glance that was
like a smile. " He was dying, Randolph,
and I forgave him  I forgave him freely
and fully  and he died in peace. Stop,
that is not all. Randolph, as I knelt beside
his bed, praying for the sin-stained spirit
then taking its flight, I felt that you were
with me ; I had never before felt the strange
overshadowing presence that I did then 
you were there, your own self. I heard

your voice far away, yet absolutely clear,
VOL. III. 42

like a call from some distant, snow-clad
mountain-top, infinitely far  ' Monica !
Monica ! My wife ! ' I think Conrad
heard it too, for he died with a smile on
his lips. Randolph, I am sure that you
were with me in that strange, awful hour.
I knew it then  I know it better now.
Randolph, I think that love is stronger
than all else  time, space, death itself.
Nothing touched our love. I think it is
like eternity".

A deep look of awe had stamped itself
upon Randolph's face. He put his arm
round Monica, and for a very long while
they stood thus, neither attempting to
speak or to move.

At last he woke from his reverie, and
looked down at her with a strange light
shining in his eyes.

And you forgave him, Monica ? "
She looked up and met his gaze unfalteringly.


I forgave him, Randolph ; was I

wrong :

He stooped and kissed her.

My wife, I thank God that you did
forgive him. His life was full of sin and
sorrow  but at least its end was peace.
May God pardon him as you did  as I do."

There was a strange sweet smile in her
eyes as she lifted them to his.

Ah, Randolph ! '" she said softly, " I
knew you would understand. Oh, my
husband, my husband ! "

He held her in his arms, and she looked
up at him with a sweet, tender smile.
Then her eyes wandered dreamily out over
the wide sea beneath them.

There is nothing sad there now,
Randolph. It will never separate us

again."

He looked down at her with a world of
love in his eyes ; yet as they turned away
his glance rested for one moment upon the
lonely grave he had been brought to see,
and lifting his hat once more, he murmured
beneath his breath  " Requiescat in
pace."

Then drawing his wife's hand within his
arm, he led her homewards to Trevlyn,
whilst the sun set in a blaze of golden

glory over the boundless shining sea.

I

