Chapter I.

I WAS little more than six years old when
I was unexpectedly summoned to what
proved to be my mother's death-bed. She
had been indisposed for a few days only,
remaining in her room for the greater part
of the morning ; but I do not think there
could have been any suspicion in the house
that her end was approaching. I have since
heard that my father, Sir Harry Covenant,
a sporting country gentleman of the old

VOL. I. B

school, had started off early in the morning
for the chase, having made arrangements
for a reinforcement of hunters, so that he
had evidently intended to be absent during
the greater part of the day. Also, Mr.
Colin good, a neighbour and friend, had
been invited to dine and sleep. Sir Harry
was said to be devotedly attached to his wife,
and he would certainly not have absented
himself from her side if he had been aware
that she was in any danger, nor would he
have desired to receive even an intimate
friend at dinner at so sad a time.

I had been playing alone in my nursery,
after a somewhat pensive and desultory
fashion, with none of those noisy romping
and scampering which shake the floors
and wear out the carpets of more populous
nurseries. I was merely sitting quietly
upon the hearth-rug, building up little
temples and pyramids with wooden bricks,

and then knocking them down again, without
feeling much interest in my occupation.
Then Celestine Vigon, my mother's new
Prench maid  who, I remember, was young,
dark, and foreign-looking, and wore long
gold earrings  appeared at the nursery door,
and, after saying a few words, in broken
English, to Mrs. Mason, my nurse, led me
by the hand ti my mother's bed-room,
which was situated quite at the other end
of the house.

I have heard, since, that my mother was
one of the most beautiful women of her
day, and I well remember how lovely she
appeared, to my childish gaze, on this last
occasion on which I beheld her.

She was sitting, propped up by pillows,
in the large four-post bed, dressed only in
some sort of white wrapper, with her dark
hair drawn back from her face, and hanging
in long tresses over her shoulders. She

B 2

seemed to me to look wonderfully younj
and girlish for a mother, but she had grown
much paler and thinner, I thought, since
the morning, and her eyes had an anxious
and unhappy expression.

'look here, little Nelly," she said, as
soon as Celestine had left us. " You have
always been a dear, obedient little girl. . . .
Pay attention to what I'm saying now, for
I feel very faint, and can't talk much.
Open the side door of that wardrobe there,
and do exactly as I tell you''

I went to the wardrobe. It was unlocked,
and the door opened quite easily. At first,
I could see nothing, inside it, but beautiful
evening dresses of many colours, some of
which I had seen my mother wearing before
she was so much confined to her room.

Lift up the skirts of those dresses," she
said, " and, behind them, you will see a large
box."

I did as I was bid, and perceived a square
black box, quite at the back of the cupboard.
I drew it forward and attempted
to lift it.

Oh, don't do that ! " cried my mother
from the bed ; *' it's much too heavy for
you ! . . . Come here and take this key''

I observed that, as she spoke, she was
drawing off a long chain from her neck.
A gold key was attached to it, and she
handed me both key and chain together.

This act seemed to cost her a supreme
effort. She sank back amongst her pillows
as though exhausted,

Push the key into the lock quite
straight," she said, by-and-bye. " Press it
inwards as far as you can, and then turn
it."

What with the darkness of the cupboard,
however, which was obscured by a large
picture-screen standing to the left of the

bed, and the long chain, which kept on
catching in the laces and fringes of the
dresses, I found it no very easy matter todo
as I was bid.

*make haste, dear!" exclaimed my
mother anxiously, " before Celestine comes
back with my soup ! She might not like
to see you meddling with my things ! "

Child as I was, I perceived that she was
intensely agitated, and became aware that
my mission, whatever it was, must be one
of importance.

At last I succeeded in unlocking the box,
and lifting up the lid.

The box has come open," I said, turning
to my mother from where I sat on the
floor.

She was looking dreadfully pale, and her
voice sounded quite feeble as she answered :

'' There are two packets just at the top 
letters. One of them is tied round with

black ribbon  from your poor uncle Everard,
directed to me before I was married ; and
the other  ah, you can't read ! "

She said this in a tone of disappointment
almost of despair.

It was too true ! I hung my head in
bitter humiliation.

Reading, at this period of my life, seemed
to be fraught with insurmountable difficulties,
and the mystery of written characters
appeared to me to be even more inscrutable
than that of printed type. 

You must throw one of those two
packets into the fire," continued my mother
earnestly, " before Celestine comes back,
and see that it is quite burnt up, and then
lock up the box and don't say anything
about it to anybody. Bring me the letters
that have got red seals on them here."

I found the two packets, compared them
carefully, and observed that the letters in

the thickest packet  that which was not
tied round with hack ribbon  were all of
them sealed with red wax.

'' There is a little horse with wings upon
the seals' I said, when I had finished
examining them.

Quick ! quick ! " gasped my mother,
or it will be too late ! Bring me them
here, and let me look at them."

But the split-ring, upon the long gold
chain, had become entangled in the black
ribbon binding the smaller packet, and my
hurry seemed only to make my childish
fingers the more helpless and awkward. I
daresay, however, that not more than two
or three minutes elapsed, in reality, before
I had achieved my purpose, and stood, with
the packet of sealed letters in my hand,
at the side of my mother's bed.

I remember that I was so small, at this
time, that the bed seemed to rise up before

me like a great snow mountain. My e3es
could only just have come above the level
of the counterpane.

I was an impressionable child, and my
hands trembled with excitement. I felt
that, for the first time in my short life, I had
been entrusted with something important
and mysterious, and I was swelling with
consequential pride at the notion of having
been unmistakeably useful to the being I
loved and respected most upon earth.

But, just as I was expecting words of
commendation and approval, I was disappointed
to find that my mother had, apparently,
either fainted, or fallen into a deep
sleep.

Peeling somewhat uncertain with regard
to her directions, and fearing lest Celestina
might return before I had fulfilled them to
the letter, I called softly to her. She did
not reply.

I raised my voice, but still she remained
silent.

I now fancied that I heard the peculiar
squeaking sound made by the swing-door at
the end of the passage. Celestine must be returning,
I thought, with the soup ; so, finding
that it was impossible to awaken my mother,
I hastily decided upon a plan of action.

Until now I had not felt sure which of
the two packets was to be consigned to the
flames. But, after summoning all my wits
to my aid, I arrived at what I thought must
be the right conclusion. My mother had
requested that the letters with the pretty red
seals should be brought to her in her bed.
These then, without doubt, were those she
desired to preserve, whilst the letters of my
poor uncle Everard  her only brother, who
had been killed in the Crimean War  were,
for some mysterious reason, to be immediately
destroyed.

There was not a moment to be lost, for I
could hear what I conceived to be Celestina's
footsteps approaching rapidly.

A bright fire was burning in the wide,
old-fashioned grate. I dived into the cupboard
for the second time, brought forth
my uncle Everard's letters, and running to
the fire-place cast them, bound together as
they were, into '* the burning fiery furnace."


After ail, the approaching footsteps were
not those of Celestine. They passed hj
the door and went on to the end of the
passage. One of the other servants, probably.
This gave me a little more time
for reflection.

I had left the other packet of letters upon
the outside of the bed. It now occurred tome
that, by placing them inside the coverlet,
dose to one of my mother's hands, she would
find what she had asked for immediately upon

awakening. I acted upon this impulse at
once, and I had scarcely re-locked the black
box, when I was again aware of the squeaking
of the swing-door.

This time it was really Celestine with the
soup, for I could hear the cup rattling
against the saucer as she approached the
door.

When she re-entered the room, the cupboard
presented its usual appearance, and I
had just had time to slip the gold chain,
with the key, inside the bed-clothes, within
easy reach of my mother's hand.

As Celestine opened the door I saw
Mason, my nurse, standing just outside it,
wearing her bonnet and shawl. She
beckoned to me, and, knowing that it was
past the hour for my accustomed afternoon
walk, I went to lier at once.

As soon as I had been warmly wrapped
up in my new winter pelisse, we proceeded

by way of the avenue towards one of the
lodge gates.

Mason seemed, I thought, to be unusually
preoccupied, and beyond a few conventional
phrases, such as nurses are in the
habit of addressing to their youthful charges,
she spoke but little.

J, too, after a childish fashion, was preoccupied.
I was thinking of the mysterious
service I had just been called upon to render
my mother, and wondering why she should
have been so anxious to destroy my uncle*
Everard's letters before the return of Celestine.


Since that time, many musings and conjectures
have possessed me when thinking
over the events of this day, and I have
found myself wondering whether there
would have been any very marked di (Terence
in the ordering of my destiny if, instead of
burning the letters that were bound round

with black ribbon, I had been mercifully
inspired to do away with those that were
sealed with the red seals. Upon such
problems, however, it is vain to speculate.

My mother's death occurred towards the
middle of the month of December. Thei
day was fine and somewhat frosty. There
had been sunshine in the morning, but by
the time that Mason and I set out for our
afternoon walk, the best of the day was
over. Upon arriving at the lodge, therefore,
my nurse decided that we should go
no further.

As we turned to retrace our steps I saw
Tom Pearse, one of Sir Harry's grooms,
riding towards us at full speed. The home
of my childhood was situated amongst the
backwoods of a line of down, extending for
some miles along the sea-coast, and the
roadway of the avenue, as well as the
garden walks, was strewn with sifted sea-shingle

instead of the ordinary inland gravel.
A horse passing over this quickly, produced
a kind of crisp, metallic, crunching sound,
which I can always summon at will to my
mind's ear. More especially can I recall
the impression caused by the sound of it
upon this particular day  together with the
sudden manner in which Tom reined in his
horse with a heightening of the shoulders,
and one or two uncomfortable bumping
upon the saddle, when he came to the lodge
and shouted out " Gate !" 

This Tom Pearse was rather a favourite
of mine. He had charge of my new pony,
and it was his custom to conduct me to its
loose-box whenever I went to the stables to
pat and feed my little pet.

I ran back to the gate now, perceiving
that he seemed in so great a hurry, and
pushed it open for him, assisted by my
nurse. Before proceeding upon his way, he

called her to him, and leaning down, muttered
something in a low voice. I could
only catch the word 'doctor" from where
I was standing. He put spurs to his horse
as soon as he got outside upon the highroad,
and was quickly out of sight.

Mason appeared to be a good deal perturbed
by what he had told her. She said
nothing about it to me, however, and we
continued our homeward way in silence.

Upon entering the house, my nurse proceeded
at once upstairs, instead of lingering
with me, as she usually did, before a large
cage of goldfinches and canaries which
stood in the hall close to the entrance of
my mother's sitting-room.

I was an only child and a spoilt one, and
was allowed at this time to do very much
as I liked ; so, having provided myself
with plantain and chick weed during my
.walk, I remained in the hall feeding

the birds instead of following my nurse
upstairs.

Matthews, the old butler, looking glum
and pompous as usual, came twice into the
hall whilst I was standing by the birdcage.
He went to the front door, looked out, and
appeared to listen. Probably this was
about the hour at which he expected my
father to return.

Whilst I was feeding the birds, I thought
a great deal about my mother, ]put I did not
feel the slightest anxiety as to her condition.
I imagined, in those early days, that
all deaths were of necessity violent. The
stories Mason used to read to me  '' Who
Killed Cock Robin ?" '' Toodle-cum-too and
the Hungry Tom-cats'' '' Jack the Giant-killer,"
" Blue-Beard," and others of the
same sort, served to confirm me in this
opinion. I fancied that people died because
they were shot with arrows, devoured by

VOL. I. c

wild beasts, or had their heads cut off. Of
the tranquil and unexpected passing away
of the spirit, the falling into the eternal
slumber whilst lying comfortably in a soft
white bed, I had had, as yet, no experience
whatsoever, and I regarded an illness as
merely one of the necessary preliminaries
to getting well.

Before I had left my place at the birdcage,
I again detected the peculiar sound
caused by the approach of horses' hoofs
upon the shingle. I ran to the door, and
perceived my father returning by precisely
the opposite direction to that which Tom
Pearse had taken about half-an-hour ago.
He was accompanied by a friend, called
George CoUingwood  the eldest surviving
son of our neighbour. Lord Silchester  the
friend who had been invited to dine and
sleep.

They both wore red coats, and as they

emerged together from under the dark
evergreens, which formed an archway over
the road, I was struck, young as I was,
by the picturesqueness of their appearance.
I was under the impression, at this period,
that Mr. Collingwood was my parents'
dearest and truest friend, because, ever
since I could remember anything at all,
he had visited us from time to time, and
had always been welcomed with cordiality.

Besides this, he was my godfather  and I
had been christened " Helen Collingwood."
I regarded him, in fact, like a member of
our own family, and his visits  laden as he
invariably was, with the most delightful
presents for me  were always occasions for
rejoicing. He was engaged in diplomacy,
and attached, at this time, to one of our
Embassies abroad. This did not prevent
him, however, from frequently visiting his

c 2

native land. His fatlicr was an old man,
and lie was a dutiful and attentive son.
Several times during the year, and almost
invariably at Christmas, lie used to return
to the home of his boyhood ; and upon
these occasions I think that we saw almost
as much of him as Lord Silchester himself.
He came frequently to luncheon and dinner.
Sometimes he would remain all night, and
he always passed some part of the time
playing with me in the nursery.

I went to the front door now  opened it,
and ran out to welcome the returning
hunters. Sir Harry, when he came back
from riding, used sometimes to set me up
in front of him on his horse, and take me a
few turns up and down, before dismounting.
It was for this treat that I Alas hoping now.
My father was talking and laughing with
Mr. Collingwood, and gesticulating with
his hunting-crop.

Well, little woman ! " he called out tome,
in cheery tones, " how's ' mama ' ? *'

But, before I had time to reply, I saw
Matthews, of whom I stood in great awe,
coming towards us from the house.

He went up to my father, and said something.
My father uttered an exclamation,
and let the reins drop upon his horse's
neck. Matthews then made what was
evidently the same communication to Mr.
Collingwood, with very much the same
result. The horses seemed to pull up of
their own accord at the front door, and
Matthews assisted my father to dismount.
Mr. Collingwood dismounted likewise, and
gave the reins to the coachman, who was in
waiting.

My father held out his hand towards
him with a gesture like that of a despairing
man who craves for a friend's sympathy.
Mr. Collingwood wrung it in silence. Both

he and Sir larry were looking as pale as
death, and they went up the steps together,
hand in hand, staggering like drunken
men.

I know now  for I have mingled with
my own childish reminiscences much that
is the result of after-knowledge  that
although my mother had, by this time,
breathed her last, Matthews had not ventured
to tell my father that she was really
dead, dreading the effect which might have
been produced upon him by the suddenness
of the news, and preferring to leave this
responsibility to the doctor, who was momentarily
expected. He had, however,
informed Sir Harry and Mr. Collingwood
that she had become rapidly worse during
the afternoon  that she appeared to be
gradually sinking, and was now unconscious.
Notwithstanding this caution on
the butler's part, the effect produced upon

my father by the intelligence he had just
received was distressing in the extreme.
Matthews and Mr. CoUingwood  who
seemed also terribly affected  had to almost
carry him upstairs. He walked as if his
limbs had suddenly been turned into lead.

I followed close behind them, frightened
and wondering, and saw them all three go
down the passage to the door of my
mother's bed-room.

Matthews opened the door a little way
and seemed to be gently thrusting my
father into the apartment. He appeared
to shrink, however, from going into the
room alone. Twice I saw him reel backwards
from the door. Then, as if summoning
all his courage, he clutched Mr. Colling
wood by the shoulder, as though for
support, and the two went together into
the chamber of death.

Matthews came down the passage soon

afterwards. I looked at him appealingly,
hoping that he would tell me what had
happened. He took no notice of me, however,
hut marched solemnly on. His face
looked vacant and inscrutable, and I felt
too awed and frightened to question
him.

As soon as he was out of sight I went
down the passage, and hovered outside my
mother's room, longing, and yet not daring,
to enter.

In a few minutes the door opened.

Leave me alone with her, George," I
could hear my father saying, in a broken
voice  " I feel that I can bear it now" and
Mr. Collingwood came out into the passage.


He seemed to be breathing very hard,
but it was nearly dark now, so that I could
not see the expression of his face.

He perceived me when he came to where

I was standing  caught me up in his arms,
and kissed me passionately. When he set
me down again, I felt that my cheeks were
quite wet, as if with tears.

My mother, I have heard, had been united
to Sir Harry Davenant when she was barely
twenty, he being her senior by precisely this
number of years. She apparently married
him chiefly on account of his importunity.
He had proposed to her several times and
had been refused; but it seems that his
ardour would brook no denial. The marriage,
however, was said to have been a
happy one. At the time of my mother's
death they had been married about ten
years, my birth having taken place some
three years after their union.

In common with most of the owners of
entailed property. Sir Harry had hoped fora
son to inherit his name and estates. Upto
this time, however, there seemed to be
no reason why this hope should not be
gratified, and, in the meanwhile, I do not
think he could have petted and indulged

me more than he did, even if I had been a



boy.

Sailing a son, the house and estate of
Northover Park were settled upon my first
cousin, Courtenay Davenant, at this time a
schoolboy in his teens. I had a dim recollection
of a boy who came to us once, a
long time ago, to spend his holidays, but
could remember no more about him than
that he had arrived upon a wet day, wearing
a short jacket, no overcoat, a high hat and
black kid gloves, and that having had, I
suppose, reason to rub his nose, the damp
gloves had made a black mark upon it, of

which he was totally unaware, and so bore
himself with great dignity notwithstanding.
lie must have been in mourning for this
father at this time, and hence, probably,
the black kid gloves. I have no doubt that
he may have visited Northover both before
and after this, but I could only recall this
one occasion amongst the very earliest of
my recollections.

It was only natural that so sudden a
calamity as that which had befallen my
father, should have affected him painfully.
But its consequences were totally different
from what might have been expected. Prom
the day of his young wife's death. Sir Harry
Davenant become altogether a changed
man. Grief, which, with most sensitive
natures, is prone to soften the heart and
enlarge the sympathies, seemed, in his case,
to have produced a directly contrary effect.
It was as though his whole being had suddenly

become hardened and demoralized,
and the transition was made to appear the
more surprising and, unaccountable, from the
fact of his having quitted England immediately
after my mother's funeral, whither
he did not return for the space of nearly
two years, transformed, as I have just
remarked, into an utterly new creature.

When upon the day of my mother's
death, Sir Harry had ridden home from
hunting with Mr. Collingwood, a more
genial, pleasant-looking country gentleman
it Avould have been scarcely possible to
behold. He must have been hard upon fifty
at this time, but he appeared to be a
good deal younger. He was tall and
somewhat heavily built ; his features were,
perhaps, rather too masiivc and undefined
to be positively handsome, but he had a
frank, rosy, clean - shaved, English face,
merry grey eyes, and a set of magnificent

teeth. In a word, his whole aspect was
jovial, hearty, and prepossessing.

How am I to describe the changed being
who returned, two years afterwards, from
abroad, without seeming to exaggerate ?

This new man was tall and large-framed
it is true, but yet not seeming nearly so tall
as my father, several inches of his height
being sacrificed to a decided stoop, and he
was so thin that his clothes appeared to
have all become too big for him. He had
grown a coarse straggling beard, which
entirely altered the character and proportion
of his face, and his curly dark hair
was now thin and grizzled. His eyes were
hollow and bloodshot, and had a restless,
suspicious expression, entirely at variance
with their frank, fearless, gaze, in the past.
One might have imagined that he was either
suffering from the remorse consequent upon
some hidden crime, or that he was conscious

of being undermined by some fatal
disease;

So much for the change which had taken
place in his appearance. Alas, in disposition
he had altered even more than in face !

He had become surly, morose, and uncommunicative
; went out usually at twilight,
or else so early in the morning as to run no
chance of falling in with any of his former
neighbours and friends, for he seemed to
have grown suspicious and mistrustful of
everybody. He would ride sometimes 
after a reckless, purposeless fashion  tiring
out several horses in the course of the same
day ; at others, he would not stir out of
doors once during the week. He went to
bed at odd times ; sitting up, generally, for
more than half the night in a subterranean
portion of the house where he had now
established himself, and which was as
far as possible from the cheerful apartments

he had inhabited with my poor
mother. In fact, it was as though everything
that could remind him of his dead
wife, instead of inspiring him with sentiments
of tender regret, had grown positively
hateful to him.

Towards myself, for instance, he no longer
manifested the slightest affection. When,
thinking to rouse him from his fits of
solitary musing, the faithful Mason would
take me to pay him a visit in his gloomy
retreat, he used, generally, to order me up
again to my nursery, in tones that filled me
with terror, or else, upon occasions when he
suffered me to stay with him, he would take
no notice of me whatsoever, but remain
moodily writing at his table, or sitting with
his head buried in his hands. It soon
became painfully evident to his household
that there existed another cause for Sir
Harry's altered manner and appearance

besides the grief wliicli was presumably
gnawing at his heart. In order, no doubt,
to escape from the melancholy regrets
which crowded upon him in his desolation
my father had taken to drinking. In the
past, it seems, he had had some tendency
this way, which my mother's refining influence
had been enabled to restrain within
the limits of convivial joviality. Eat habits,
however, like ill-weeds, " grow apace," and
now that this restraint was removed, he
seemed to have entirely lost all power of
self-control. In the evening, in fact, he
was scarcely ever sober, and his temper,
when he was under this baneful and
degrading influence, became violent and
irritable in the extreme.

This painful state of things increased as I
grew in stature, until, by the time that I
was ten years old, my father was generally
spoken of in the neighbourhood as " poor

VOL. I. D

Sir Harry," whilst his former friends would
tap their foreheads significantly whenever
they had occasion to mention his
name.

I WILL pass over the uneventful days of my
childhood and resume my narrative at the
period when I was between sixteen and
seventeen years of age.

Ever since I was about thirteen I had
had a governess Miss Warden by name ;
my existence, consequently, from this time,
had been much less desolate.

I do not know who could first have suggested
to Sir Harry that a governess would
be essential to my welfare  my welfare
appeared now to concern him so very little.
He held no kind of communication with

d2

any of our neighbours, at the same time he
seemed to be hardly rational enough to have
evolved the notion from his own brain.
Perhaps he may have received an application
or recommendation upon the subject
from some one who pitied my forlorn condition,
and as he was now frequently absent
from home, it may have occurred to him, ina
lucid interval, that if he secured the
services of some lady who could serve as my
chaperon and instructress, he would save
himself both trouble and responsibility in
the future.

Miss Warden, at this time, was a lady of
what is termed "an uncertain age," between
thirty-five and forty-five, that is to say,
as far as I could judge by her appearance.
She was plain, both in figure and feature,
but with a plainness which was not in the
least displeasing. She had large, kind,
brown eyes, an irregular nose, a swarthy

complexion, and a wide mouth, wliicli, "however,
seemed to be always smiling.

What a gushing, enthusiastic, tenderhearted
creature she was ! Many people, I
daresay, might have called her a foolish
woman. Her very womanliness, however,
stood her in good stead sometimes, enabling
her, through a sort of intuitive feminine
instinct (given us, as she was wont to
inform me, in order to protect us from
man  though I hardly think that she
could have had much need of any such
protection), to arrive at tolerably correct
conclusions without the aid of reason.

Her worst failing was, perhaps  seeing
that I possessed the same weakness myself,
and that she was in the position of my
mentor  that she was so incorrigibly
romantic, and expectant for ever of some
dramatic and sensational occurrence. As
yet, indeed, there had been little in her life

at JSTorthover to justify these expectations,
but, failing the combinations and complications
which are usually favourable to the
development of romantic situations, she
would fasten eagerly upon the very scantiest
food in order to minister to this insatiable
craving. We could not fall in with the
village apothecary during our walks, or
receive a visit from the new curate, without
a declaration upon her part that " the
plot " was " decidedly thickening," whilst
an excusable personal vanity, mingling
with the sincere affection she bore me,
caused her to regard as imminent the advent
of handsome and desirable suitors for us
both.

Our days, at about this time, were ordered
somewhat after the following fashion : 

Supposing that the weather was fine, we
generally repaired out of doors soon after
breakfast, where I went through as many

of my studies as could be conveniently
pursued there, in an old-fashioned summerhouse
(a favourite resort, as I was told, of
my poor mother's), at one end of the
terraced flower-garden. Then we returned
to the house, where I used to practice music
and drawing, in which accomplishments I
soon out-distanced my instructress, having
some natural taste for the arts to which
she had only been driven by the requirements
of her calling. She had not much
love, I fancy, either, for serious study,
and our holidays and half-holidays proved
greater treats to her than they did to me.
She was cheerful and sociable by nature,
delighting in conversation and gossip,
whereas, at this time, I was somewhat
inclined towards solitude. But for the
voluminous letters which she was in the
habit of writing home to an aged mother,
however, I doubt whether I should have

been often able to indulge myself in this
respect. I was very fond of day-dreaming
and castle-building. My mind seemed, at
this time, to be teeming with all sorts of
fantastic and picturesque visions, and I
liked to have leisure to dwell upon these,
and to set them in some kind of order.

I was enabled to arrive at this end in two
ways, supposing that the weather favoured
my designs.

I was enthusiastically fond of riding,
whilst, next to my poor father (of whom
she had always stood in the greatest terror),
and after dogs, cows, oxen, and all horned
creatures. Miss Warden's keenest apprehensions
seemed to be associated with the horse.
She had never ridden in her life, and felt
nervous, she said, in every kind of vehicle
excepting an omnibus. By ordering my
horse, therefore, I could always escape from
my governess's amiable prattle. At other

times, when I experienced this inordinate
craving for solitude and self-examination,
I used to sally forth, whilst] Miss Warden
was writing home, laden with my drawing
materials; and, once out of doors, I would
plunge into the most inaccessible thicker
make my way towards that part of the
park which was furthest from the house,
thus effectually eluding my governess when
she came out to seek for me.

During these solitary rides and rambles 
for my old friend Tom Pearse, promoted
now to the place of coachman, only accompanied
me riding when I went outside the
park, or in a direction where there were
gates to open  I used to muse upon a
variety of different subjects.

Prom the moment when I had at length
mastered the mystery of reading, I devoured,
with the greatest avidity, most of
the romances which I found in the well-stocked

library at Nortliovcr House. Some
of these I did not wholly comprehend at
the time, some, perhaps, it would have
been better had I never comprehended
at all.

Having begun by poring eagerly over
such works as treated of brigands, ghosts,
knight-errants, and perilous adventures, I
had come, as I advanced towards woman's
estate, to prefer those of a more natural
kind, descriptive of events which did not
seem to be too improbable of occurrence.
I delighted in passionate love-scenes, and
usually became desperately enamoured of
the hero of my book very soon after making
his acquaintance. In this respect, indeed,
I was dangerously susceptible, and terribly
unfaithful as well, to my book-loves, my
heart often warming towards more than one
character in the same novel. I remember
that I was in love with " Ivanhoe," for

instance, and the Knight Templar, in spite
of his lawless ferocity, at the same time.
' The Master of Ravenswood," I confess,
reigned, whilst he reigned at all, supreme
in my affections ; hut I succumbed, very
soon afterwards, to the brutal fascinations
of " Mr. Rochester " (so rarely alluded to as
Edward " hy the humble little heroine !),
upon his black horse *' Mesrour/' and was
never in the least surprised that *jane
Eyre" should have preferred him  mad
wife and all  to the saintly and ascetics.
John, so egotistically intent upon the
salvation of his own soul ! " Eugene
Aram," however, supplanted him before
long in my affections. I remember how
miserable I felt when he was found dead
in his prison cell, and that my melancholy
was greatly intensified by the knowledge
that his tragical story was founded upon
fact.

So I used to read on and on, identifying
myself, to an almost painful degree, with
the joys and sorrows of these and of many
other creatures of the imagination. I liked
my books, at this time, to be long, in order
that I might become thoroughly acquainted
with the personages described, and would
toil through romances which I have found it
impossible even to skim at a later period 
books which would rejoice the heart, no
doubt, of some shipwrecked Crusoe, with
unlimited time upon his hands, if they could
be cast on shore with the tinned meats, but
for the reading of which the crowded and
hurried days of an ordinary existence seem
to be hardly long enough.

I had a decided preference for heroes
about whom, there clung any shadow of
mystery  of weirdness  or the suspicion of
undiscovered crime. I liked to read of how
they shrank from giving their guilty right

hands in greeting, or went about, chiefly at
midnight, shrouded in long black cloaks,
and to feel that they were living under some
sort of terrible ban.

The romantic and impressionable Miss
Warden was the last person in the world to
check this somewhat dangerous leaning,
which was, I hope, rather the result of an
active and vivid imagination than of any
morbid craving for sensational horrors. She
shared, in truth, the same weakness herself,
and was, moreover, a sincere believer in*
ghosts, omens, and all those incomprehensible
marvels which are spoken of, incongruously,
as " the supernatural."

She used frequently to tell my fortune
a; well as her own, with cards, in order to
penetrate the veil in which our future was
shrouded. To do her justice, she seemed to
be quite as anxious for my happiness and
prosperity as for her own. I never completely

mastered her manner of proceeding,
although I have listened hundreds of times
to her predictions, for, unless anything sho
said came like a response to what was
already in my mind, I did not pay much
attention to her prophetic utterances or to
the method employed.

As far as I can remember, however, after
shuffling the cards, she would give them
into my hands and ask me to wish. After
wishing, I used to cut them and hand them
back to her, and she would then spread
them out upon the table, sometimes massed
together in a compact square, sometimes in
the form of a fan ; after which she would
begin to count, a performance which had to
be repeated several times.

I, meanwhile, sat pencil in hand, ready to
set down upon paper what fell from the lips
of the sybil. I came upon one of these
scraps of paper quite recently, as I was

looking over some old letters. The predictions
recorded upon it must have been
written down soon after this time, and by
referring to it I am enabled to give the
reader some notion of Miss Warden's
system.

One, two, three, four, five " (she would
say, tapping each successive card with the
tip of a paper-knife, which she used as a
diviner's rod). * Ah ! here is yourself,
surrounded by company, chiefly composed
of women ; not all of them are well-disposed'
towards you. Some of them seem to be
jealous,  but here is a fair man (king of
hearts) with most excellent intentions !
One, two, three, four, five. Yes ! He is
very well off a bachelor  did not make
his money, but inherited it  spends it
freely  chiefly upon himself  a man with
a title  occupies a distinguished position
abroad" (counting). *' Ah ! I thought so !

He loves you tenderly ! A powerful and
devoted friend  would do anything to
obtain your affection. More devoted, at
present, to you than you are to him. But
now who is this other man just at his
elbow?" (counting). "Ah! the influence
of this man will not be beneficial to you !
He is a man of double character, and
utterly unscrupulous ! He will exercise a
sinister effect upon your destiny if you
permit him to become involved with it "
(counting). " Yes ! He appears to be
mixed up, or connected, in some way, with
the heart king, through a diamond woman
ol a very evil disposition.

'these two men seem to be staying in
the same house, and you appear to be there
too, but the house is not your own home.
Possibly you may go somewhere on a visitor
be invited to some kind of entertainment,
for I find you in the midst of company

again. Now for your wish'* (counting).
*' It lias something to do with these two fair
kings. The diamond man seems, somehow,
to act as an impediment. Much delay and
vexation in store for you before you can
obtain it. Several long journeys. A shorter
journey first, with marriage at the end of it
(there, you see, is the ring). Journeying
again, from place to place  not altogether
pleasant journeys. Great surprise !" (counting)
'' of a very unpleasant and tragical
nature  (Do look at all those horrid black
cards !)  having to do with fair man, who
is surrounded by the worst cards. I must
see what all this means" (counting). 'eyes,
extremely unpleasant disclosures ! Vexations
and humiliations, followed by death
of a spade man in good position, who is in
some way related to you, but has become
estranged  possibly your poor papa. More
journeys. Illness. Another death. Brilliant

VOL. I. E

assemblages. Tragic death of a fair man,
which will prove the greatest relief to you.
Same diamond woman with evil heart, who
is related to fair man, to be particularly
mistrusted. She will do yon au injury if
she can. Her machinations are abominable.
Wish is connected with club king, who will
have recently changed his title and his
house. Obstacles. Scandals and backbiting.
Another great surprise. More
journeyings. Final triumph, with realisation
of wish," &c. &c. &c.

With so many varied incidents to select
from, it was not to be wondered at, perhaps,
if some of these random sentences may have
seemed, later on, to have had about them
the ring of true prophecy.

And George CoUingwood my god-father,
my parents' dear friend, the man who, upon
the occasion of my poor mother's death, had
wetted my infant cheek with his tears had'
he never crossed our threshold since that
ever-to-he-rememhered day ? Not to my
knowledge. It is probable that Sir Harry,
who could not fail, when in his presence, to
be reminded of one of the most miserable
days of his life, may have purposely avoided
bringing about a meeting with him. Then,
too, Mr. CoUingwood, after acting as secretary
of Embassy at several European

E 2

Braw

UNIVERSITY OF Hunt

courts, had been appointed minister somewhere
in South America  a post which he
had accepted with reluctance, and merely
as a stepping-stone to something nearer
home, for his father was now a very old
man, and he was anxious not to continue
so far away from him. In a few years he
was fortunate enough to get transferred to
a more eligible post, but he was too far off,
even now, to make it easy for him to visit
our neighbourhood very often ; it was not
wonderful, therefore, if I had never seen
him at North over since the sad occasion to
which 1 have referred.

Twice, however, during one of his flying
visits to England, I had fallen in with him
during my afternoon ride.

Upon the first occasion I was returning
home, after having been to our nearest town,
when he overtook me, riding, likewise, upon
the turnpike road. I had a good memory,

and lie seemed to me to be but little
altered. All the same, I am not sure
whether I should have recognised him as
I passed, had he not followed and greeted
me first. I was about fifteen or sixteen at
this time, I should think, so that about ten
years had elapsed since our last meeting.
Tom Pearse, however, in the Davenant
livery, was riding behind me, so that it
could not have required much effort on his
part to guess who I might be.

The affection I had felt for Mr. Collins
when I was quite a little girl, seemed
to rush back into my heart when I looked
into his face, and saw his eyes seeking mine
with an unmistakeable expression of tender
emotion. He talked about old times, reminded
me of the famous romps that we
used to have in the old nursery, inquired
whether my father was now at Northover,
made no allusion whatever to my mother,

and then started with me at the lodge-gate,
after informing me that I was not in the
least changed, that ho would have known
me '' amongst a thousand," and that he
would make a point of riding the same way
upon the following afternoon, in the hope
of falling in with me again.

I met him next day, according to his
implied desire, and after riding for a short
way along the highroad we turned in at a
gate which led to a secluded part of his
father's park.

Perhaps I ought here to describe the
man whose name will have to appear so
frequently in this narrative.

At the time of which I am writing,
George Collingwood must have been about
five-and-forty. He looked however a great
deal younger, and, as he rode by my side
ripon his showy chestnut, I thought him
exceedingly handsome. My maturer judgment

obliges me to confess, however, that
lie did not possess what could correctly be
termed a handsome feature in his whole
face, which owed its great charm to its
intelligence and mobility of expression. It
seemed, indeed, to be able to say anything
he W' wished to express without the assistance
of words, and had the power of looking
happier, merrier, or more miserable, than
any other face I have since beheld. He
was tall and well-built, fair-complexioned,
with expressive eyes, hair a little darker
than his moustaches,  but for which he was
clean shaved,  and was possessed of a particularly
insinuating voice, manner, and
address. He had the reputation, as I have
since heard, of being '' utterly irresistible "
to women, and was supposed to have
broken hearts in almost every capital in
Europe. Small wonder, therefore, if J, an inexperienced
girl of sixteen, found his society

agreeable and fascinating in the highest
degree !

He made me feel, before I had been more
than ten minutes in his company, that he
was really and truly devoted to me, and
genuinely delighted to have me riding with
him thus, and he possessed the rare charm
of appearing at any rate, to be far more interested
in my pursuits and aspirations than
in anything connected with himself. He
asked me a great many questions as to my
every-day life ; whether I had a governess ;
whether she was Prench or English; what
studies I preferred ; what books I was in
the habit of reading ; and whether we saw
much company at Xorthover House ?

I told him everything he desired to know
.about my uneventful existence, and informed
him that, owing to the unsatisfactory
state of my father's health, no
visitors ever crossed the threshold of my
home. He appeared to be deeply, unaccountably,

interested in all I said, considering
 as I thought to myself  how
many more important matters he must
have had to occupy him. It was a lovely
autumnal afternoon, and I enjoyed my ride
immensely. We separated, as upon the previous
day, at the entrance to Northover Park.

Now that I've discovered all about your
manners and customs," he said, as he bade
me farewell, '' I've no doubt I shall be able
to fall in with you, somehow, whenever I
run over to England. Don't quite forgets
me, dear Helen, in the meantime, for you
know that we are very, very old friends ! "

He looked at me, as he spoke, with an
expression of regretful yearning, which I
might, perhaps, have mistrusted had I
known, at this time, that he was such a
redoubtable '' lady-killer " ; and then, after
wringing my hand very hard, he rode off
suddenly, as though he dared not trust
himself to say more.

The next time that we met was upon wliat
proved to be a memorable occasion, as far
as I was concerned.

About four or five miles from Northover
there lived an old-fashioned couple of the
name of Insrlebv, at a beautiful old elizabethan
manor-house, known as Ingle
Grange.

Mr. Inglebyby was one of our county Members
; he was also a master of fox-hounds,
and was high sheriff for the year of which I
am writing. Besides this, he was a man of
large property and considerable wealth;

over and over again lie lead refused both a
baronetcy and a peerage ; preferring to be
known as plain John Inglebyby, like his
father and grandfather before him. Nevertheless,
he possessed immense influence in
the county ; and at the time when " poor
Sir Harry " had conducted himself like a
rational being "Jack Inglebyby" had been
one of his most intimate friends.

Mr. and Mrs. Inglebyby where childless, and
well-advanced in years, but they delighted
in keeping open house at Inglebyby Grange',
and were never better pleased than when it
was enlivened by the presence of youths and
maidens.

When it became known in the neighbourhood
that I had arrived at woman's years, 
for I am writing now of the summer which
followed upon my nineteenth birthday, 
Mrs. Inglebyby had, more than once, driven
over to see me ; and, upon the last of these

occasions, wliicli was Avlicn my father was
again absent from home, she had been loud
in her expressions of motherly sympathy for
my forlorn condition.

I assured her, speaking with perfect sincerity,
that I was not at all discontented
with my lot ; and that I did not think that
I should care for a life of i?aietv and excitement.
She replied, that it was impossible
for me to know, as yet, whether I should
like it or not ; that I ought to be presented
at court, and permitted to see something of
the world, for that it was unnatural for a
young creature like me to be mewed up in
almost total solitude, and then departed, 
filled, as I could not fail to perceive, withall
kinds of benevolent projects for my
future good,  after depositing two of Mr.
Inglebyby's cards upon the hall-table with due
formality. Only a little while afterwards 
just at the conclusion of the London season.

as I was informed  but of such times and
seasons I ]new as vet next to nothing:  a
Royal Duke, having occasion to visit our
neighbourhood for some important function,
accepted an invitation to remain for the
night at Inglebyby Grange. A select company
was invited to meet him at dinner ;
afterwards there was to be a dance, and to
this dance Mrs. Inglebyby kindly invited both
Miss Warden and myself; nor would she
listen to any of the objections which I put
forward, in my nervousness at the notion of
being thus unexpectedly hurried into the
world. My father, she said, could surely
not disapprove of my going to the house
of such very old friends ; but my father's
objections were not what I feared. lie was
away from home, as he was almost invariably
now, having taken bachelor apartments
in London ; and he displayed too little
interest in me, and my doings, for me to

think of troubling him with a letter upon
a subject which he would have considered
so trivial and unimportant. What was
exercising my mind, in reality, was, whether
I could be quite sure of my dancing steps,
wherewithal I should be clothed, and how
I should find it possible to converse easily
with a number of total strangers. Miss
Warden, however, who was enchanted at
the thought of accompanying me upon the
occasion of my first appearance in public,
and who prided herself upon her experience
in all matters relating to female attire, promised
to take all trouble off my hands. A
white ball-dress was made for me in London
from measurements which she furnished.
Mason, my former nurse, who was now my
personal attendant, and a most excellent
gentlewoman, rectified such trifling errors
as required attention, and the cards having
distinctly foretold, for the second or third

time, that we should meet not only a most
brilliant assembly, but also the bachelor
heart king and the diamond man of double
character, we set off for Inglebyby Grange
upon the evening of the ball in the highest
state of excitement and anticipation.

I. fancy that, at this time, I must have
been what most people would call pretty ;
not because I admired my own face at all,
but because of the effect which I perceived
at once that it seemed capable of producing
upon others  an effect which led me to infer 
that it must have possessed some sort of
charm. I was rather tall for a woman; my
complexion was fair, but my eyes and hair
were dark ; and I think I had that kind of
unusual appearance which is apt to attract
notice in a crowd. Sometimes, I surprised
myself, looking very like a portrait of my
mother which had been hidden away by Sir
Harry in a lumber-room, and upon which I

had chanced one day, when seeking for the
large bird-cage that used to stand hy her
sitting-room door. But her face, as I could
remember it in life, seemed to me to have
possessed none of the defects which I could
perceive in my own.

"You look quite lovely, Ilelcn," Miss
Warden whispered to me (to give me confidence,
no doubt) as we entered the ballroom;
but then I could hardly regard her
as an impartial judge !

Our hostess received me with effusive
kindness. The Eoyal Duke was standing by
her side, and I was presented to him at
once. His E.oyal Highness perceiving, no
doubt, by reason of my obvious perturbation,
that this was my first public appearance,
endeavoured to put me at my ease by
the affability of this conversation. New
guests, however, kept on arriving, entailing
fresh presentations, so that it was not long

before I was able to rejoin Miss Warden,
who bad been coverings near me by the
doorway, and who took occasion to remark,
that if all Princes possessed the delightful
manner of His Royal Highness, '* we should
never hear anything more of those horrible
radicals and republicans. . . . But there
are too Princes here to-night ! " she added
triumphantly, as she glanced towards the
further end of the long room ; " that
tall, very handsome young man there,
talking to that other man, I have just*
been told is a prince also ; not an English
one,  a Russian, or a Wallachia, or a
Bulgarian, with a totally unpronounceable
name." I looked in the direction indicated,
and perceived a tall, distinguished-looking
man, wearing several orders upon
his breast. He was leaning against a pillar,
in conversation with some one whose face

I could not see. His appearance struck me
VOL. I. p

at once, as interesting and imposing. '' If
you are introduced to him, and if lie asks
you to dance," whispered my amiable but
injudicious chaperon, ' I shall feel perfectly
certain that he is the 'heart king!" I
danced my first valse with a youth of the
neighbourhood, and, in the course of it,
found myself at the further end of the
room. My partner paused to make a little
conversation, and I perceived that we were
close to the distinguished foreigner, and
that the person with whom he was conversing
was none other than my old friend
Mr. CoUingwood.

My godfather must have been watching
my movements, for he came up to me at
once.

"I'm sorry to interrupt you," he said,
addressing my partner, who was evidently
an acquaintance, " but I want to ask Miss
Davenant for the pleasure of the next

dance; that is, if she can forgive me my
grey hairs ? "

I perceived no grey hairs. He looked
young and charming as ever, and the sight
of him had the effect of immediately restoring
my confidence.

"When my dance with him was over, the
foreign Prince crossed the room, and coming
towards us, begged Mr. CoUingwood, with
whom it appeared he was staying, to introduce
him to me, and after this introduction
he invited me to dance the next valse.

His name, as Miss Warden had remarked,
seemed to be "utterly unpronounceable,"
nor did I, indeed, make any attempt to
pronounce it.

Now that I was nearer to him, I did not

think that he looked particularly young.

Five-and-thirty, or forty, at least, I should

have said, if he had been an Englishman,

but then Englishmen have a way of looking

F 2

younger for their age than the natives of
any other country upon the face of the
globe ! His hair was so exceedingly light,
and colourless, that, at first, I fancied that
it must have turned prematurely grey, but
his complexion was not of that fresh ruddy
kind which is generally the accompaniment
of extreme fairness. He had the somewhat
lined, and bloodless, look, which, I have since
perceived in many of the inhabitants of
northern latitudes, where it is customary to
pass from the intensity of outward cold to
the extremes of artificial heat, and to be
alternately nipped by the breath of frosts
and parched by the warmth of stoves. His
face was short, broad-browed, of rather a
Kalmuck type, with high cheek-bones, a
straight small nose, heavy fair moustaches,
and eyes set somewhat obliquely. They
were very handsome eyes, however, utterly
different from any other eyes that I had

ever Beheld, of a light transparent colour,
like green sea water, singularly luminous
and brilliant, with dark lashes and brows,
which contrasted oddly, but picturesquely,
with his fair hair. I have since thought
that his eyes were a little like those of a
lynx  bright, fascinating  dominating, by
their size, the rest of the countenance, and
having in them, now and then, just a gleam
of something wild and untamable.

He spoke English perfectly, too well,
indeed, for an Englishman, but beyond this
extreme correctness of expression, there was
nothing in his accent to show that he was
a foreigner. He informed me that, as
children, he and his only sister had always
had French and English governesses, and
that he fancied that he knew these two
languages, in consequence, almost better
than his own, as it had always been his
habit, as a boy, to speak in French, and

think ill English. He danced beautifully,
and seemed, I thought, to be of a very
quiet, simple, unpretending nature, speaking
seriously, and a little wearily, with the
manner of one who has come to the end of
the emotional and enthusiastic epoch of
existence, and whose interest is concentrated
less upon the present than upon the
past.

After our dance, he asked me to come
with him through the reception-rooms. He
was only remaining in England, he said, a
few weeks longer, and was anxious to see
something of its country-houses, of which
he had heard so much.

When we had made the round of the
apartments, we came to a tea-room, where
he asked for a cup of coffee for himself and
for me. We sat down together upon a sofa
not far from the doorway, whence we could
look down the entire length of the brill

rooms. A strange sensation,
as of passive subjection to the power of a
superior will, seemed to come over me as I
listened to the Prince's calm and somewhat
monotonous voice.

' In my country, in Poland," he was
saying (so he was neither a Russian, a
Wallachia, nor a Bulgarian, after all !)
existence is very much more simple than
it is here. We live rather after a primitive
patriarchal fashion, which is not wanting ina

certain picturesqueness There is

what would seem to you, no doubt, a
strange mixture of barbarism and magnificence,
but we have nothing whatever of
your unostentatious comfort  nothing of
that kind ! "

He waved his hand  which, I noticed,
was beautifully shaped as he spoke, in the
direction of the long suite of reception-rooms,
and then, looking fixedly in my face,

he said, before I had had time to make any
rejoinder :

Have you ever been told, mademoiselle,
that you were very strongly magnetic, or
mediumistic ? that you were possessed of
remarkable mesmeric power ? "

Never ! " I answered, surprised at his
words. "What can have made you fancy
this ? ''

*' Because I am myself very strongly
mesmeric, and I am impressionable, also, in
this respect, to an extraordinary degree. I
perceived, from the first moment of speaking
to you, that I was in the presence of an
opposing force. I should be powerless, I
imagine, ever to dominate you? "

"But you were trying to dominate me?"
I asked, feeling alarmed. " You were trying
some sort of experiment or incantation
upon me ? I could feel that you were! "

"Ah! you could feel it!" he said, with

quiet satisfaction ; '' then your climate has
not deprived me of my most valuable family
inheritance ! "

He smiled dreamily, and then went on
stirring and sipping his coffee in silence.

I shall never quite know how much may
have been purely imaginary, the mere result
of his words, or how much there was of
reality in what I now seemed to experience.
Certain it was that I again felt a sense of
helplessness, an impossibility, almost, of
independent physical action. My mind,
however, seemed to be fighting against this
unusual restraint.

'' My body is in your power somehow," I
felt compelled to avow, " but my mind is
determined to resist you. You cannot get
any power over my mind ! "

I wonder if it is so ? " he murmured,
looking at me curiously. " But novo, even
your physical action is restored to you

again ? You can rise up and go whichever
you wish, can you not ? "

'Yps, I am free now!" I answered,
smiling, and giving myself a little shake.
How did you learn such an extraordinary
power ?"

' It came to me by right of inheritance,"
he answered. '' We were all possessed of it
in a greater or lesser degree. It is partly a
fiction in our family, mingled with all sorts
of fantastic legends, and partly, as you have
experienced, a fact. As the members of
our race become fewer, so, according to the
tradition, does this faculty become the more
potent and concentrated with those individuals
that remain. Only two of us are
living at the present moment, my sister and
myself, so that we ought, between us, to
possess it in a marked degree."

And what is it, exactly ? " I inquired ;
the power of being able to mesmerise

people ? You spoke of it just now as a
mesmeric power."

* I called it so because I know not how
else to describe it. But I rather regard it,
myself, as an inherited primitive instinct.
We possess still, as a people, many of the
characteristics of the uncivilized man, characteristics
which were implanted in us,
originally, for our own protection, and
which have not yet been stifled and overgrown
with artificial productions. Just as
you find that one dog will carry your stick,
that another will dive for a stone, and a
third run after a hare ; so, also, the primitive
races were distinguished by certain
physical and mental peculiarities. These,
again, became subject to variations indifferent
families. The inheritance of our
race has hitherto taken the form of an
extraordinary susceptibility to all spiritual
and magnetic influences. We are *' seth'

sit Ives, '' and we recognise at once our
relative positions when in the presence
of otlicr personalities. Given certain
favourable conditions, we are able to
dominate and control these others in their
volitional power. When the conditions, on
the contrary, tell against us, it is all the
other way."

Now that he admitted thus, quite openly
and honestly, that he could scarcely claim
to be considered a really civilised being, I
felt that I could forgive him the wild beast
look which I fancied I had observed in his
eyes. Probably I was only confronting, fora
moment, the primitive man !

Before he had time to say more, I saw
Mr. Collingwood coming towards us from
the ball-room. A curious look, as of
vexation, or jealousy, I knew not which,
came into his expressive face when he
perceived us.

"Well, my dear Hugo," he exclaimed,
addressing his Polish friend, " are you
aware that you are monopolising the star
of the evening, and that half-a-dozen of
our ' gilded youth ' are pacing up and down
in the other room, tearing out their hair
in handfuls ? I will venture to bet, Miss
Helen, that he has been trying to convert
you to his views upon mesmerism, spiritualism,
and electro - biology, and trying to
weave about you all sorts of occult spells.
Let me release you from the power of the
enchanter ! "

He offered me his arm as he finished
speaking, and we returned together to the
ball-room.

The Prince rose also, and followed behind
us, seeming grave and abstracted. I danced
again, several times, before the end of the
evening, and was conscious that his lynx
eyes were fixed upon me all the while.

Mr. Collingwood, I found, had made the
acquaintance of Miss Warden, and had
taken her into supper, with the view of
ascertaining everything about me  as he
said. He had thought her a very good
natured and pleasant person, with excellent
manners.

But what I like in her best," he added,
"is her evident devotion to you."

When it was time for us to depart ho
escorted us to the carriage. Whilst we
were waiting for it in the hall, I asked him
to tell me the Prince's correct name.

He repeated it slowly, pronouncing each
syllable distinctly : " ' Prince Crecszoleski,'
Christian name,  Hugo.' "

I shall never be able to remember it,"
I said ; "I wish you could have written it
for me."

He drew a letter from his pocket, tore off a
scrap of it, and wrote down the name in pencil.

"Think of the crackling of a bag of
biscuits if you happen to lose this," he said,
as he handed me the slip of paper.

The Prince is a most distinguished
looking individual," Miss Warden remarked
in the course of our homeward drive, '' but
I must say there is, to my mind, something
a little ' Eugene Army ' about him. Probably,
however, this is only because he is a
conspirator. All the Poles, I believe, are
conspirators, and belong to secret societies
for assassinating the Russians. The plot is
decidedly thickening ! "

Whilst I was dressing, next morning, my
mind was filled with impressions connected
with my first ball, amongst which the Polish
Prince had naturally an important place.
My feelings with regard to him were of a
curiously mixed kind. Prom having lived
so much alone  in mental rather than physical,
loneliness  I had acquired a habit of
more minute self-examination than is usual
with young people, and the question I found
myself asking, now, was, Why, considering
this very heart-loneliness, I had not been
more affected by the interest which an attractive

and distinguished man had certainly
evinced in me? Why, in a word with all
my yearning for the romantic, and my belief
iu a theory of predestination, and the intense
besoin d aimer which lay at my heart
had I not immediately succumbed to the
charms of this handsome foreign Prince, and
fallen '* head over ears " in love with him
upon the spot ? I recognised, now that I was
no longer fettered by the mysterious power
which was the birthright of the Crecszo-
leskis, that I had felt for the Prince an
interest which was entirely devoid of any
tender sympathy. He had dominated mein
a measure, it is true, for the short time
during which it had pleased him to exert
his hereditary gift; but I had been fascinated
without being touched. Nevertheless,
as I thought about him now, I realised that
he had at least ministered to my girlish
vanity, and that I should certainly like to

VOL. I. G

see Lin just once more  by daylight  if
only to ascertain whether I had formed a
correct estimate of his personal appearance.
The scrap of paper upon which Mr. Col-logwood
had written his name, was lying
crumpled up on the dressing-table, by the
side of my fan and lace pocket-handkerchief.
I smoothed it out, and spelt over to myself
the '' totally unpronounceable name," which,
however, I flattered myself I had completely
mastered now.

As I examined the paper by the morning
light, I perceived that there was something
written upon the other side of it, which Mr.
Collingwood had probably not remarked, for
the characters were extremely small, and
written in faint bluish ink. A woman's
handwriting, evidently; and evidently, too,
the writing of a woman who was not English.
The words spoke for themselves : 
*' And now, once more, adieu, Excelle7ice!

(they ran) " a tout jamais, peut-etre ! In
remembrance of that which appears to
have departed beyond all hope of recall,
I must again entreat your good offices
autres de mon cher free Hugo, who will
probably not remain in England longer
than a few weeks."

The Prince's sister, I gathered from these
lines the only other surviving member of
this remarkable family  had been acquainted
with Mr. Collingwood in the past, and her
brother's visit to our neighbourhood had
probably been due to this connecting link.

Breakfast was announced before I had
proceeded much further with my reflections ;
and, on going downstairs, I found Miss
Warden already in the dining-room.

As I had anticipated, she, too, was overflowing
with impressions of the previous
night. She was convinced, of course, that

the foreign Prince had fallen in love with

G 2

mc at first sight. Such things happened
constantly ; one read of them in books ;
besides which, it had all been foretold by
the cards ! She had been informed that he
belonged to one of the oldest families in
Poland ; that, unlike some foreign Princes,
he owned vast possessions ; that he had
occupied several distinguished appointments,
and was unmarried. All this, too, had been
distinctly foretold. Then Mr. Collingwood
what a delightful person! so clever, so
well-informed, so fascinating ! He, too, she
felt convinced, was hopelessly smitten by my
charms.

'' Mr. Collingwood," I protested, amused
at her fatuity, " a man old enough to be my
father ! "

*' People constantly marry husbands who
are a good deal older than themselves,"
returned Miss Warden, cheerfully. ' Look
at the case of your poor Mama. Mr. Col-logwood

seems to be quite devoted to you ;
and to me he seems like a young man."

Well, at any rate it won't be possible
for me to marry them both ! " I said,
laughing.

There could be no reason  under ordinary
circumstances  why anybody should be
anxious for you to marry at all," replied my
governess, assuming a more serious air.
People are often very happy in a single
state ; but your position, my dear, I can't
help confessing, is, in some respects, unfortunate.
It is exceptional, at any rate ;
and it would be of the greatest importance
to your future happiness if you could make
an advantageous marriage whilst you are
young. Sometimes  as in my own case 
we are apt to defer this step until it is
rather late ! " and she looked down at her
plate and sighed.

I can assure you I am in no hurry to

marry' I exclaimed. " I am quite contented
living on here as I am."

It would be different if you could go on
living here always," returned Miss Warden,
gravely ; '' but supposing anything were to
happen to your poor papa, who is now over
sixty, and far from being in a satisfactory
state of health ? This place could be no
longer your home. Mrs. Inglebyby was going
about last night speaking of you as ' the
beautiful heiress,' and it is evident, my
dear, that you will be exceedingly well off,
for there are certain possessions  according
to Mr. Collingwood, who seems to know all
about you  which are bound to come to you
immediately upon the death of Sir Harry ;
whilst Croft's Farm  that delightful little
place where your poor mother used to live
before she married  reverts to you as soon
as you are twenty-one. Northover House,
however, where you have lived all your life,

and the property which lies round about it,
will pass away to your cousin. Colonel
Courtenay Covenants''

"Yes, I know that," I answered; *though
I didn't know that cousin Courtenay had
become a Colonel."

"He is only a Colonel in the Guards,
which, it seems, is equivalent to a Captain in
any other regiment. He has got on capitally
in his profession (I learnt all this from Mr.
Collingwood), and has now been appointed
military attache somewhere  a very eligible
post. He's very clever and good-looking,
just ten years older than you are, and, if
only you two could have married, there
would have been a way out of the difficulty
at once."

Ah ! So I am to be married to him,
now ! What shall I do with my other two
admirers ? "

"This marriage with your cousin, however,"

Miss Warden continued, without
heeding me, *' seems, now, very unlikely
to take place' *

She said no more, but sighed, and went
on with her breakfast. Her remark excited
my curiosity. She seemed, I thought, to
have imbibed an immense amount of information
in the course of a single night !

'' Is my cousin going to be married to
anybody else?" I inquired of her by-and-by.

"Not that I know of; Mr. Collingwood,
at least, did not say so. But he saw your
cousin not long ago, in London, before he
had received this new appointment, and he
said then, it seems, that he had quite given
up all idea of what he alluded to as ' the
family marriage project.' "

"By which he meant his possible marriage
with me?"

Yes ; Mr. Collingwood may not have
intended me to repeat all this, but I'm doing

SO entirely for your own good. It appears
that your cousin knows Mr. Collingwoocl
well, and is, besides, a great friend of a
young Collingwood, a nephew of your godfather's,
who is in the same regiment with
him, and who sometimes visits down here.
Colonel Davenant, therefore, knew a good
deal about your poor papa's odd ways, and
of the dull life you lead at Northover. He
asked a good many questions about you, but

I fancy that Mr. Collingwood was the first



to allude to the marriage project, from what
he said, and then it was that Colonel
Davenant told him he had entirely given
up all notion of it, although, at one time,
he had thought that it would have been
advantageous both to himself and the property."


I felt piqued in spite of myself.

He might have taken the trouble, first,
to find out whether I should have agreed

to it ! " I said with some warmth ; '' a person
can hardly ' give up ' a thing that has never
been within their reach''

Well, my dear, if he had thought fit to
propose to you, I should hope that you
would not have been so foolish as to throw
away so good a chance, for it would certainly
have been one of the most satisfactory
arrangements possible ! Colonel Davenant,
however, thinks differently. He has always
objected, upon principle, to the union of
first cousins, and was only led to contemplate
this marriage because it had been a
favourite scheme of his father's. Lately,
however, he has become confirmed in his
first opinion. He looks, now, upon the
relationship as an insurmountable barrier."


Why novo, more than at first?"
Because of things which have since
occurred  unfortunate circumstances."



Nothing that I can have done ? " I
inquired eagerly.

No, no, dear ; far from it ! And it
seems indeed hard that you should suffer
for what isn't in the least your fault. Mr.
Collingwood seemed very much concerned
about it. He said it was utter nonsense to
object to the cousinship. But the subject is
such a painful one that I hardly like to
allude to it."

Ah, but you must tell me everything,
now that you have said so much ! " I exclaimed.
" Mr. Collingwood shall never
know that you repeated his words."

Well, then, dearest Helen, disapproving
as Colonel Davenant did, of such marriages
in the abstract, he had gradually come to
the conclusion that, in this particular case,
one might have been possible, until it came

to his knowledge that

}>

She hesitated, and began cutting her
toast into an infinity of little pieces

I felt impatient and apprehensive to an
intense degree.

Until what came to Lis knowledge ? " I
eagerly inquired.

*' Until he discovered that there was a
tendency to madness in the family. Yoii
have made me tell you everything now ! "

*' He considers that poor papa is mad ?"

He considers that he displays a tendency
that way ; and you know, dear, that
he is not the only person who thinks this.
You see now what I meant when I said
that your position was rather unfortunate 
not quite so brilliant as it seemed. Your
cousin has been prevented, on this account,
from making you an offer of marriage, even
when it would be greatly to the advantage
of the estate. Other people may, very
likely, be prevented too. Poor Sir Harry
is no kind of companion to you. He will
never be able to introduce you into London
society, or receive visitors here. His death,

it is true, would probably silence all these
distressing rumours ; but then you will have
to turn out of your old home. Your cousin
was very determined in his opinion, it
seems ; nothing Mr. Collingwood said could
shake him."

I remained silent for some time. It did
not surprise me much to hear that Sir
Harry should be considered mad. Exaggerated
accounts of his strange behaviour had
probably reached my cousin Courtenay's
ears, and I could not blame him for being
influenced by them. It was not as though
he had abandoned the idea of our marriage
on account of anything he might have
heard to my own disadvantage. I felt how
utterly absurd it was of me to be affected
in the least by what I had just learnt of
Colonel Davenant's objections, considering
that, as far as I could recollect, I had only
seen him once in my life, and that was

when I was little more than a baby. I
was not quite ignorant of the fact that
there had been some talk chiefly amongst
the servants and gossiping neighbours  of
our eventual marriage ; but I regarded this
as merely a result of its becoming known,
amongst meddlesome people, that I possessed
a male cousin of a suitable age, 
a marriage with whom might be to the
advantage of the Northover estates.

I am bound to confess, however (desiring
as I do to give in this narrative a description
of my real feelings however wrong or
unreasonable they may have been), that the
impression conveyed to me by Miss Warden's
well-meant words was, that I had
received some manner of unmerited slight
at the hands of my absent and unknown
kinsman. He seemed to have given up the
idea of this marriage (I thought) without a
single feeling of regret or compunction !

It had never occurred to him, evidently,
that I might be in any way loveable or
attractive as a woman ! I had been looked
upon merely as a necessary element in '' the
family marriage project," which was to be
pursued, or abandoned, just as it might
seem good to him !

Without falling in with Miss Warden's
ridiculous notions as to the effect which she
imagined that I had produced  not only
upon Mr. Colling wood (my own godfather !)
but also upon the Polish Prince who had
beheld me last night for the first time 
I certainly felt, at this moment, an intense
desire to convince my cousin Courtenay,
after some very decided fashion, that I
could bear, with perfect equanimity, the
idea of an existence without him ; and
that this voluntary abandonment of me,
upon his part, would not necessarily condemn
me to a life of celibacy !

All night long I could not sleep for thinking
of what Miss Warden had told me.

With regard to my father, I could not
bring myself to believe that he was really
mad. My mother's sudden death had given
his nervous system a violent shock. He
had withdrawn himself entirely from all
genial companionship, neglected his appearance,
and slit himself up like a
hermit. Then, with the laudable desire,
probably, of returning once more to the
duties and responsibilities of bis former life
or else from a wish to drown his absorbing

melancholy  he had had recourse to
stimulants, the curse of so many unhappy
low-spirited people, which, far from producing
the desired effect, had reduced him
to a condition which was even more deplorable
than his previous state of despondency.
Poor Sir Harry " was a misanthrope  a
drunkard  an irritable, miserable, unreasonable
being  but surely not one that
anybody could truthfully describe as actually
insane ?

After I had turned this subject well ove?
in my mind, I began living, in imagination,
the melancholy, monotonous, kind of existence
which would probably be reserved forme
if, as might be expected in the course of
nature, I should survive my unfortunate
father. I saw myself  no longer, possibly,
in the first flush of youth  packing up all
the little belongings that I could legitimately
lay claim to as my own, and turning

VOL. I. H

my back for ever upon my old home  the
house which my clear mother had graced
with her beauty and enlivened by her
smiles  wherein she had closed her eyes in
death, and wherein my own had first opened
to the light ! I saw myself bidding a
sad farewell to the garden, the old summerhouse,
all my favourite nooks and
corners, and then driving off, with my
baggage, to Croft's Earm  the little place
which, in right of my mother, who had
inherited it at the death of my uncle
Everard, would accrue to me in spite
of my sex. Everything, of course, would
seem very new, and strange, and cramped,
just at first, after having lived in such a
much bigger house. In time, however, I
should probably get used to the change. I
could go on with my music and drawling 
this would cheer me in my loneliness  and
do some good amongst the poor. I should

be able, I supposed, to afford a few horses,
so that I could go for my usual rides.
How odd it would seem, just at first, to
pass by the Northover lodge-gates, without
turning in at any of them ! Miss Warden,
if she had not been carried off by the
wealthy and handsome husband who was
so continually shadowed forth by the cards,
might come and stay with me from time to
time ; or I might even be able to make
some arrangement by which she should
live with me altogether. If not, I could
get a nice fluffy Persian cat, that I could
grow fond of, or a dear, great, black, curly-backed
retriever dog, with faithful brown
eyes, and a tail that would begin wagging
whenever he saw me coming ! It would be
better to have only a dog or a cat to care
for than nothing at all !

So I mused on, "piling up the agony,"
until the tears begotten of a " sweet

h2

self-pity " fell fast and thick upon my
pillow.

Never, until this moment, had I so
thoroughly realised what my future was
likely to be ! What a desolate, contracted,
loveless kind of existence  scarcely, indeed,
to be dignified by the name of an existence
at all ! An involuntary state of compulsory
vegetation, which would go on until my
time came to be cut down by the scythe
of the grim reaper ! What congenial
.Spirit would ever take the trouble to seek
xne, once I was thus hidden and buried
away from the civilised world ? What fairy
Prince would be likely to draw in his bridle-rein
at the door of my humble and obscure
abode? And all this while, up at North-over
House  my dear, dear, lost home! 
my cousin Courtenay would be lording it to
his heart's content  married, of course, by
that time, to the peerless lady of his choice.

the perfect pearl, selected, after all due
consideration, as worthy of so great an
honour, whose family escutcheon and " bill
of health " must be alike free from speck or
blemish ; and who would sometimes pay me
patronising visits, perhaps, and invite me to
go over to afternoon tea 1

When I arose, next morning, I looked
pale and dispirited. I felt as though, in a
single night, I had acquired the wisdom of
years, by the light of which I seemed to
perceive that my cousin Courtenay was a
kind of enemy, to be both feared and mistrusted.


At the breakfast-table these morbid feelings
underwent a good deal of modification.
Here I found Miss Warden, in a most pleasurable
state of excitement. She had just
received a letter of the greatest importance,
in her opinion, to me. It was from Mr.
Collingwood, and ran as follows : 

Dear Miss Warden,

My guest, Prince Crecszoleski, seems
to have a mania for looking at country-houses,
as he says he is thinking of settling
amongst us some day, and so, if quite convenient
to yourself and the fair Helen, he
proposes to walk over and pay you his
respects tomorrow, at about two o'clock,
when it will interest him much to be shown
the house and the pictures.

'' I shall not, I fear, be able to do myself
the pleasure of accompanying him, as I
think I shall be obliged to go up to London
upon important business at the F. O., but
I will see that he is started off on the risrlit
road.

" Don't prepare luncheon for him, as he
eats next to nothing. A cup of coffee, or
green tea, is all that he will require. Of
course, should you happen to be from home,
or particularly engaged, he can go back by

the way he came, as it is not customary, as
you are aware, for young ladies to receive
such visitors en tete-astute. With kindest
remembrances to Miss Helen,

I am, dear Miss Warden,
Yours very truly,

George Collingwood.

'' Pes.  Give Crecszoleski lemon with his
tea instead of cream ; and, if you want to
make him feel quite happy, let him smoke
as many cigarettes as he pleases."

The "tomorrow" of Mr. Collingwood's
letter was now " to-dav," and Miss Warden
was already in a flutter of anticipation.

You see, Helen," she said, as I returned
the letter to her after reading it, ' the plot
is thickening fast ! This mania for looking
at country-houses is merely a pretext ! The
Prince wishes to see you again, to obtain a
footing in your home. I wish that Mr.

Colliiigwood could liavc come too. We
should have been four, then  a nicer
number than three for private conversation
in public, for I feel sure that the Prince
has something particular to say to you.
Don't you detect a ring of jealousy in Mr.
Collingwood's letter  in his great anxiety,
for instance, that you should not receive his
friend en tete-a-tete?

*' I fancy he only wishes us to do what is
considered the proper thing," I answered.
Princes are very likely more particular
than other people, and Mr. Collingwood
mayn't think we see enough of the world to
know much of its ways. He tells you this
just as he tells you to give the Prince lemon
with his tea."

I think quite differently, dear," returned
Miss Warden looking extremely
wise. " I think they are both very much
Smitten with you. Mr. CoUiniwood has

had to go up to London to-day upon important
business at the Foreign Office.
The Prince, aware of this, has fixed upon
to-day for his visit. Mr. Collingwood, feeling
that the Prince is his guest, and that
he will he obliged to leave him alone for
the whole day (for I hear that Lord Silvester
seldom now quits his own apartment),
cannot naturally object, however
much he might have wished to accompany
the Prince. As he is unable to do so, he
fires off this letter to me, in order to make
sure that his guest shall not see you alone I
That is how J read between the lines !''

I asked her why, if Mr. Colling wood
entertained for me any such sentiments as-she
had imputed to him, he should have
endeavoured to persuade my cousin Courtenay

to adhere to the project of our mars



You told me yesterday," I said, " that

rage r

Mr. Colling wood declared that it was utter
nonsense to object to the cousinship, and
that he had tried to shake Courtenay's
scruples but could not succeed."

' Ah, well ! that certainly does seem a
little inconsistent," she answered thoughtfully
; " but then we must remember, dear,
that Mr. Collingwood is a diplomatist !
Diplomatists are never open or above-board
in anything ! Their trade is to conceal
their real intentions. He may have wished
to convince me, before he put forward his
own views, that all possibility of your marriage
with Colonel Davenant was at an end,
in order that he might not appear to interfere
with it. All the same, the Prince is
evidently coming to see you, so that I
certainly do not feel disposed to watch you
both like a detective !"

As we now knew that Prince Crecszoleski
never partook of luncheon. Miss Warden

tlioiiglit that it might be as well, perhaps,
that we, too, should not seem to be too carnivorous,
and that he should not find us, as
she expressed it, " sitting like two ogres all
surrounded by bones."

We had the remains of our luncheon,
therefore, cleared away a little earlier than
usual, and betook ourselves to the old
summerhouse in the garden, the day being
beautifully fine, where we ordered that both
tea and coffee should be brought out to us
as soon as our visitor arrived.

Afterwards, should he prefer it, we could
adjourn to the house, but Miss "Warden,
who persisted in believing that the Prince
would desire to talk with me confidentially,
and who yet did not intend altogether to
disregard the hint conveyed in Mr. Collins
letter, thought that he would be able
to speak to me more freely in the garden
than within doors. She could remain at

work in the summer-housCj she said, whilst
we two wandered about at our will  onljjy
I was to imagine that her eyes were upon
me all the time ! In this way everybody
would have reason to be satisfied.

I have alluded to this old summerhouse
before as one of my favourite resorts. My
poor mother, too, as I had been told, was
very fond of sitting in it, and this lent it an
additional charm in my eyes.

The flower-garden, at Northover, was disposed
in front of the principal windows
after rather a formal fashion, upon a broad
terrace, divided from the deer-park by a
balustrade surmounted by urns and statues,,
beyond which the land dropped considerably.
Level with this terrace, upon the
higher ground, shady paths branched forth
from each end of the garden, bordered upon
the one side by high yew hedges, neatly
clipped, and upon the other by the low

stone balustrade overlooking the outer
park.

Only a short distance down the path
i\hieh led from the right, and parallel with
the yew hedge, was situated the old summerhouse,
so-called because another, a
newer one, had been built at a more recent
date, in the corresponding pathway to the
left.

I much preferred the " old " summerhouse
of the two. It was deeper, more
sequestered, and the view which lay extended
in front of it, as one looked out
through its rustic columns over the grey
terrace-wall, was calm and beautiful in the
extreme.

A broad extent of undulating park-land,
well wooded with noble forest trees, and
feathery with bracken, amongst which the
fallow-deer would lie herded together in the
hot summer days out of the way of the flies,

with nothing of them visible save their
branching antlers. To the left the ground
became more broken and hilly, and a murmuring
stream, shining out here and therefrom
between bulrush and willow-weed,
went wandering down the valley like a'
silver serpent. Beyond all this, upon very
clear days, the blue line of the sea could be
plainly discerned, kissing the sky, as it
were, at the uttermost edge of the visible
horizon.

Miss Warden and I had not been Ions:
established in this delightful retreat before
a footman brought us out Prince Crecszo-
Icski's card, and, looking across the lawn,
we saw him coming towards us from the
drawing-room, the windows of which opened
upon the terrace.

After partaking of coffee, which, in spite
of all our forethought with regard to the
lemon. Prince Crecszoleski preferred to
green tea,  admiring the view, and conversing
upon general topics,  Miss Warden
asked me whether I should not like to show
the Prince over the rest of the garden before
we repaired to the house. She appeared to
be intent upon some complication in her
knitting, and displayed no sign of following
us when we rose to act upon her suggestion.
"That good lady  your duenna  understands

me exactly ! " remarked the Prince,
as soon as we were out of ear-eliot. ' She
perceives that my visit was not to her but
to you / "

I made no reply, not knowing, quite,
what I ought to say, and we sauntered on
past the house, and so down into the shady
pathway to the left.

So this is Adhere you live ! '' he exclaimed,
seeking my eyes, as though with
melancholy interest. ' This is the peaceful,
beautiful, English home, where you have
passed sixteen ?  seventeen ? How many
years shall I say ? ''

I am past nineteen," I answered, thinking
that he wished, for some reason, to
discover my age, and being too young, as
yet, to wish to conceal it.

"Ah, but you look much younger," he
remarked. '' In no country do people look
so young as here in England. What age

would you give me, now, if you were obliged
to guess ? *'

I looked up at his face, determined to
say just what I thought.

He appeared no older by daylight than
he did in the evening. I remarked the same
lines in his face, the absence of all ruddy
flesh tint, the dark shadows under his
strange eyes, the serious, rather weary
expression, with a curious gleam, now and
again, as of the awakening of some more
ardent instinct. His figure  tall, lithe, and
distinguished-looking seemed to be younger
than his face.

Thirty six ? " I hazarded, still contemplating
his singular countenance with attention.


** Not yet thirty - four," he answered.
You see, you have aged me by more than
two years ! But then I have not lived
always, like you, this peaceful home-life.

VOL. I. I

Tell me" he added, suddenly  '* does this
existence of perpetual repose entirely satisfy
the cravings of your nature ? You are
intelligent  observant  sympathetic. I
can imagine that to those who have already
battled, and suffered, in the outer world, this
place must seem, as it seems to me at this
moment, like a terrestrial paradise ; but,
previous to having had any such experiences
? Do you feel no desire, sometimes,
to do like this  to plunge out into
what may be beyond ? "

He placed his right hand lightly upon
the flat coping-stone at the top of the
balustrade as he spoke, and vaulted over
it into the outer park. On account of the
fall in the ground I was now some distance
above him.

Ah ! you won't find it so easy to vault
back again, Prince ! " I said, looking down
at him as I rested my elbows upon the stone

parapet. * Perhaps I might fiat it the same
if I quitted my quiet home."

With your help' he answered, holding
out his hand to me.

I took it, instinctively, fancying that he
was about to vault back again and required
my assistance. He walked on, however,
still holding my hand, until we reached the
spot where the stone balustrade was replaced
by an iron railing. This he leapt
over easily, and we strolled on together
walking side by side as before.

Whilst the Prince was holding my hand,
I had again experienced the curious sensation,
as of subjection to a superior will,
which lead oppressed me in the tea-room at
Inglebyby Grange. I felt it, however, in a less
marked degree, and upon his relinquishing
his hold it left me altogether.

We were quite close now to the summerhouse
corresponding to the one in which we

1 2

had left Miss Warden. The prince proposed
that we should sit down and talk a
little before rejoining my " duenna," as he
called her.

"You are looking pale to-day, Miss
Davenant," he said, looking at me earnestly;
'probably you are still suffering from the
fatigues of the ball r "

'soh, no! the ball didn't tire me in the
least ! But last night I could not sleep.
My thoughts were too disagreeable."

** You sleep well, generally?" he inquired.

Yes," I answered. "How could we live
without sleep ? "

I am endeavouring to live without it
now," he answered. " I am purposely
trying, for the moment, to conquer my
material impulses, in order to pursue some
psychical experiments in which I am interested.
Tell me," he added, and he gazed
still more intently at my face, " my friend

George  my amiable host  is he in anyway
related to you ? "

No' I answered, ' he is no relation 
only a very old family friend. Why do you
ask ? "

You may not feel complimented, perhaps
 in spite of his being so great a
favourite with your sex  but the fact is,
to a foreigner, as I am, English faces that
are of the same type and complexion seem
often to bear a kitid of family likeness tow
one another, even when there is no cause
for it. My friend George, in spite of his
cosmopolitan experiences, will always be
recognized wherever he goes as an Englishman
; and you, too. Miss Helen, with your
tall figure, your air de Diane Chasseresse,
you could be nothing else but a daughter
of " la perfide Albion ; " and thus, just when
you held up your head, so, and looked at
me, I fancied that I perceived some kind of

resemblance between you, which, joined to
the great interest he seems to evince in you,
made me think he might be a relation."

No," I answered, '' I have very few
male relations living. Only my father and
one cousin. It was a thousand pities that I
was not a boy myself ! "

I sighed, thinking of my possible future
at Croft's Parm, the Persian cat, the curly-backed
retriever, and all the other consolations
of desolate spinsterhood.

If you had been a boy," returned the
Prince, smiling  but rather sadly, I thought
" I should not be sitting here with you
to-day ! "

I was perfectly at my ease with him now,
and felt, somehow, as if I had known him
for a long time. His society, however,
depressed me unaccountably. I felt that he
was unhappy, restless, disappointed with his
experience of life. I might have desired.

perhaps,  being young and romantic,  to
bring back his happiness, his peace of mind,
his shattered illusions, but I was penetrated
as with a sense of my inability to serve him
adequately.

He attracted and repelled me in so strange
a manner that I longed to discover some
clue to the mystery.

By-and-by, seeing that I was about to
return to the garden terrace, he said
earnestly 

Miss Helen, just one question before
we separate. I have asked you so mjuiy
already, that I fear I must seem impertinent
; but time presses, and obliges me to
dispense with ceremony. Have you decided
yet, in any definite manner, upon the course
of your future life ? Have your affections
become engaged ? Are you betrothed to
anybody ? '*

No," I answered. '* I have no future

planned out ; I do not care about anybody ;
and I am not engaged to be married."

Quite, quite, free ? " he asked, looking
at me very earnestly. " Not even a wandering
dream in your mind, or in your heart ? "

** Nothing ! " I replied, speaking sadly.
I have, of course, my hopes and my fears,
and I build my castles in the air ; but that
is all ! And you ? "

Nothing, nothing ! " he answered-marriage,
affection, have not hitherto
entered into the programme of my existence.
Till now, all women have seemed tome
like dolls ! "

I did not answer him. Somehow I had
expected this speech. I seemed to know
that it must come before long.

And when you hope, and fear, and
build your castles, you sit here, where weare
now sitting, looking like this, out over
the woods and fields ? '

"Yes; but always in the other summerhouse,
where we left my governess. I like
it better than this one''

** Ah ! And is not that the way I came
this afternoon ? "

He pointed to the road, which wound
down through the park, towards that part
of the estate which joined Lord Silchester's
property.

Yes, that's the way you must have
come. It will be your shortest way back,
too. You could walk it in less than half-an-hour."


And may I not walk it again before I
leave this place, very probably for ever ?
Some warm evening, perhaps, when my friend
George is sitting, after dinner, with his old
father ? If I were then to wander out
and find myself here, and then to leap over
that wall, as I did just now, would you be
sitting in your arbour, building your castles.

and should I see you alone, where we could
converse without interruption ? "

I felt no thrill of emotion as the Prince
uttered these words. I perceived what was
unusual, romantic, sensational, in the situation,
but I was mistress of myself in every
fibre as I answered 

** Why should you come to me then, when
you could come by daylight ? What would
anybody think who saw you coming as if by
stealth?"

*' They would not see me  nobody but
you ; or, if they did, they would think
merely that I had dined here, and was
sitting with you, after dinner, in your
garden. To-day is Wednesday. I came
but for one week, and am leaving for
London on Monday morning. Tell me
that on Friday evening, at a little before
ten o'clock, you will be there  where we
left your duenna ? "

No, no, no ! " I exclaimed, rising.
What can have made you think that I
would do this ? Do not come, I implore
you ! I shall not be there ! "

You will be there," he said quietly,
meeting my eyes, for one moment, with a
look which seemed half a supplication and
half a command. '* You will know that
with me you will be as safe as with your
father or your cousin, and you will come ! '*

When I returned to Miss Warden I felt
weary and exhausted, as though with some
kind of moral conflict. I had been victorious
for the moment, but I had lost strength
in the encounter. I was agitated and disturbed,
too, at the thought that the Prince
might persist in his intention.

As we entered the old summerhouse, I
saw that he seemed to be taking particular
note of the locality.

Close to where Miss Warden was sitting

at work, a word was picked out, upon the
ground, in white pebbles.

It was " Ventured'' the name of a favourite
dog belonging once to my mother  a water-spaniel,
I had been told  which had been
given to her by Mr. Collingwood, and so
called because of its daring and intrepid
disposition.

It had died but a short time before its
mistress, and had been buried here. I explained
this to Prince Crecszoleski before
we repaired to the house.

*' Venture .' " he repeated, looking into
my eyes again, with the same expression of
commanding supplication that I had observed
in them before.

Miss Warden fancied, no doubt, that he
merely wanted to arrive at the correct pronunciation
of the dead spaniel's name, but I
felt sure that he was alluding to his project
for Friday night.

I NEED hardly say that Prince Crecszoleski's
distinguished manners and appearance had
made a most favourable impression upon
Miss Warden.

We were all madeof the same clay, of
course (she remarked), and Princes were
mortal, like everybody else, and we were
told in Scripture that we were not to put
our trust in them; but still, she had
observed, over and over again, whenever
she had found herself in the society of
really great personages, that there was
something different about them, and, certainly,

altogether superior. It was easy to
sec that our visitor, for instance, was
utterly unlike anybody else.

I suggested that perhaps tl\is may have
proceeded from the fact that he was a Pole.
She maintained, on the contrary, that it
was solely because he was a Prince. Only
one circumstance seemed to have disturbed
and perplexed her a little. Whilst she was
showing the Prince over the picture-gallery,
previous to his departure (when, wishing
my reply to his suggestion to be taken as
final, I had not accompanied her), it had
transpired, in the course of conversation,
that Mr. Collingwood had not, after all,
gone up to his appointment at the Foreign
Office. His guest, indeed, was not aware
that he had had any such intention. He
had walked with him the greater part of
the way to Northover, in order that he
might not go wrong, and then,  he had

simply turned back, and gone home
again !

Here, according to Miss Warden, was a
great mystery, and a total upsetting of all
her previous theories. Why had Mr.
CoUingwood pretended that he was going
up to London when he had had no intention
of the kind ? Why had he not accompanied
the Prince upon his visit, particularly
when he had seemed to be so anxious
that I should not receive him alone ? All
this was most incomprehensible ! *

Perhaps'' I said, amused at her readiness
to attach importance to trifles, " Mr.
CoUingwood may be the man of double
character ! "

Considering the manner in which I had
been educated  my hankering after excitement
and romance  my craving for sympathy
 my longing to make the entire
happiness of some one other human being.

and, by so doing, to ensure my own  my
frame of mind, at this critical time, was
almost a surprise to myself. I was beset
by none of those rash impulses which are so
often the dangerous accompaniments of
youth. My most disturbing thoughts, just
at first, were occasioned by the idea that
the Prince should be at the trouble of
walking all this way, immediately after his
dinner, for nothing. I felt that he would
probably adhere to his intention at all
hazards, and I realised that, in spite of
myself, I should be certain to feel very
restless, and responsible, once I knew that
he was waiting for me, close by, in the old
summerhouse. I should be sitting comfortably
in the drawing-room, meanwhile
(I thought), seeming to be placidly reading
my book, or demurely working at my
embroidery, whilst the clock went ticking
on and on, past the appointed hour. The

centre window, as was usual upon summer
evenings, woulcl have been left wide open,
and to step out into the garden, and walk
as far as the terrace, would be but the
affair of a few moments. Often and often,
upon warm nights, I had done this before !
Miss Warden, who rarely went out of doors
after dinner, would see nothing odd in this
proceeding. It might seem rather cruel to
the Prince, no doubt, not to come out, and
say a few kind words to him, when I could
manage it so easily, but I had said decidedly*
that I would not be there, and I would
adhere to my word ! . . .

If he had only said to me, ' 1 love you ;
come to me, because I cannot bear to leave
you without a tender word of farewell ! "
I might, perhaps, have decided differently,
seeing that it would have seemed so good
to be loved ! But, although from his
manner, I had certainly been led to suppose

VOL. I. K

that I had aroused in him sentiments of
interest or curiosity, he had said nothing tome
of this kind. It was too soon, perhaps,
for him to make me a declaration of affection;
but then, surely, it was too soon,
also, for me to agree to an assignation with
him in the garden !

No ! He had asked me to meet him (I
said to myself) merely to test the strength
of his mesmeric powers  to try some sort of
cold-blooded experiment upon me ! " You
will know that with me you will be as safe
as with your father or with your cousin,"
he had said. This was to show me that
there would be no question of anything
tender or sentimental. " I will prove to
her that I possess a power over her " (he
had probably said to himself). " She shall
see that I can compel her to come to me, at
any hour, and at any place I may appoint."
His heart had had nothing whatever todo

with his proposal. It was merely a
question of loll, and I was certainly not
going to commit an indiscreet act merely
for the privilege of being mesmerised, or
apologised, or subjected to some manner of
mental vivisection !

This is as correct a description as I am
able to give, now, of the state of my feelings
during the greater part of the night which
followed upon the Prince's visit.

Towards morning, however, I fell into a
troubled sleep, and dreamed a vague, incoherent,
miserable kind of dream. I
fancied that the Prince was, for some
reason, in terrible agitation and distress
of mind. At first we seemed to be in a
large, empty, rambling sort of house, larger
than any house I had ever beheld  cold,
damp, and deserted-looking, with carpet-less
floors, and walls which, between the
folds of some faded tapestry, displayed the

k2

rough-hewn divisions in the masonry. I
felt the cold and dreariness of the place
chill me to the very marrow of my hones.
The Prince was wandering from room to
room, seeking for me, and calling me hy
my name ; hut, although I could see him
perfectly from the place where I stood,
I felt paralysed, and found-it impossible
to respond to his call. Then the whole
scene changed, hut the Prince was still
there  this time nearly up to his neck in
black turbid water, which, as it dripped
from his hands, seemed to take the colour
of blood. On his face was a look of horror
and supplication. I was standing upon
some stone steps, a little way above him,
and he kept on holding out his hands to meas
if entreating me to come to his rescue ;
but again I seemed to be utterly incapable
of moving hand or foot in his service.

When I awoke I felt prostrated, both in

mind and body. I was conscious, for the
first time, that I possessed a nervous system,

and that it seemed to be shattered. Mv



feelings towards Prince Crecszoleski had
undergone a decided change. I felt no
longer so anxious to oppose his will. My
dream appeared to have made me much
more intimate with him, and I seemed to
understand that, from some inexplicable
cause, he was in bitter need of my help.
A feeling of intense compassion invaded
my whole being. It did not make me fancy
that I was in love with him exactly, but
it drove from my heart the notion that he
was an alien and a stranger  to be mistrusted,
perhaps, and feared a little as well.
I felt more, now, as if I stood in some kind
of responsible position with regard to a
persecuted and defenceless being, whose
sufferings I alone should be enabled to
soothe.

I think that, at this period of my life,
in spite of an unquestioning faith which
rendered me perfectly at rest upon the subject
of Orthodox Belief, I was, perhaps,
superstitious rather than religious, attaching
a great deal of secret importance to signs
and omens, and never doubting but that,
in any special emergency, there would be
some sort of providential interposition upon
my behalf, if only I could be inspired to
read the message aright.

Seeing, therefore, that I had become so
weakened in my endeavour to oppose what
seemed, now, more like the working out of
a predestined plan than the mere caprice
of an individual ;  seeing, also, that it was
Thursday morning, and that, if I meant to
acquaint the Prince with any change in my
decision, I ought to get my letter ready by
half-past seven that very evening, in order
that he might receive it by the first post

on Friday ;  I made up my mind that I
would be guided entirely by what the day
brought forth in the way of inclining or
opposing influences. That I would carefully
observe and analyse  that is to say,
every circumstance, however trivial  which
might occur between the early morning
and the evening post, and be guided, in my
subsequent conduct, by the direction in
which these circumstances should seem to
tend, independently of all personal inclination
or objection. 

I had scarcely arrived at this resolution
when a letter was put into my hand.

'' Ah ! thank heaven ! " I said to myself,
after I had read its contents. ' All has
been decided for me. I need struggle and
do battle no more ! "

The letter consisted of a few lines from
old Matthews, the butler, who had gone
with my father to London some weeks ago.

Sir Harry bad not been very well ; ibis
doctor advised a change, and be was returning
to Nortbover that very afternoon
by the three-twenty express from town.
"Would I send the brougham to the station
to meet bim ?

This intelligence, to my mind, entirely
disposed of the Prince's romantic visit, and
I must confess that I experienced a sense of
intense relief in consequence.

My father's habit of wandering about at
odd hours, bis dislike and mistrust of
strangers, would make it impossible for me
to accede, now, to the Prince's request even
if I bad felt inclined to do so. With Sir
Harry, too, would arrive by this same trees
express, one '' Nero "  to wit, a 
dun mastiff, ferocious as
bis imperial namesake of old time  whose
particular vocation was to prowl about the
garden in the evening, with the object of

alarming trespassers. The Prince could not
think mo heartless, or insensible, for not
wishing him. to be mauled by this terrible
animal ! My spirits rose with the consciousness
that my responsibility in the
matter had ended.

Miss Warden, to whom master and dog
were alike alarming, seemed not a little
surprised at the satisfaction I displayed at
the news of their return. Notwithstanding
her tried affection, however, I dared not
confide to her my reasons, fearing lest
she should endeavour, perhaps, to influence
me, when I desired that Late, and Late
alone, should be my guide.

As I was sitting towards mid-day in the
old summerhouse, which in spite of myself
I could not help regarding now with sentiments
of romantic interest, a servant came
out to me with a telegram from my father's
London physician. It ran thus : 

Sir Harry seriously unwell. Unable to

travel. At his request have telegraphed to
Colonel Davenant. Will write."

Revulsion of feeling ! Over setting of
previous determination ! Doubt, uncertainty,
vacillation, to be my portion once
more ! . . .

Miss Warden, who had followed the footman
in order to ascertain what the telegram
was about, was evidently relieved at learning
its purport.

I silently realised that, if I intended still
to be guided by circumstances, the Prince
had certainly scored a point.

But no ! " Stay, James !" I called out to
the retreating footman. " Ask the messenger
to wait ; 1 shall have an answer to
send back ! ' Seriously unwell ! ' " I repeated,
turning to Miss Warden, " ' Telegraphed
to Colonel Davenant ' ? " How
much that was ominous might lurk in these
few words ? My poor unhappy father !  (I
thought, the tears coming into my eyes) 

irritable, unreasonable, utterly wanting in
all dignity and self-control ; but still much
more bis own enemy than be was anybody
else's; and, over and above everything, in
spite of all his shortcomings, still my only
remaining parent ! "What if I should never
behold him again ? Had I been dutiful
and affectionate enough to him ? I asked
myself, reproachfully. As his daughter 
the only child of the woman he had once
so tenderly loved  ought I not to have
penetrated, by force, the reserve which I
had allowed to grow up between us, and
conquered, by the sheer strength of my
devotion, a way to his suffering heart ?

I would go to him now, at any rate ; on
this I was determined ! I would telegraph
to this effect immediately, await a reply,
and then start off to London by an afternoon
train !

I informed Miss Warden of my decision.

and that I should take Mason with me, who
would be able to make herself useful as a
nurse, after which I wrote and despatched
my message.

The voice of Prince Crecszolcski, calling
out to me through the echoing rooms of
the deserted mansion of my dream, seemed
to grow fainter and fainter, the dark bloodstained
waters to rise, higher and higher,
round his struggling form ! For one momenta
sense as of his bitter need of me, oppressed
me to such an extent that I was upon the
point of recalling my message. Then I experienced
a feeling of relief, of thankfulness,
and of soothed and satisfied conscience.

I went upstairs to my room and informed
Mason of my determination to go to London.
She heartily approved of it, and
commenced getting together the wearing
apparel that I should require during my stay.

At about half-past two came my father's

reply to my telegram. I tore open the
brown envelope with trembling fingers and
read these words : 

'' Do not require you. Unnecessary to
come. You will only be in the way."

The luminous sea-green eyes seemed to
smile now ; the finely-cut lips to curl scornfully,
whilst the soft low voice murmured :

You thought to escape me ! But no !
I said that you would do as I desired, and
you will be there !"

I was deeply wounded at my father's
message. All the dormant yearnings of
affection which, awakened by apprehensions
a& to his possible danger, had fluttered
forth from my heart upon eager wings,
seemed to have been driven back crushed
and humiliated.

He "did not require" me; it was "unnecessary
" for me to go, for I should " only
be in the way !"

The advantage, if such it could be called,
was now upon the side of the Prince ; hut
I was averse to letting matters rest thus.
I would go and seek for some fuller revelation.
My father had failed me in the hour
of my need. I would go and ask counsel
of my mother, kneeling by her quiet grave
in the green churchyard, and accept as final
the impressions which came to me at that
hallowed spot.

I WENT, forthwith, into the garden, and
gathered a bunch of the sweetest flowers I
could find ; and then, passing through a
gate which led across the deer-park, I came
to the little Norman church, near to which
my mother was sleeping.

She had not been laid in the family vault
of the Covenants, amongst my father's
departed kinsfolk, and I did not regret this
now, since I should not have been able to
go and commune with her in that gloomy
place. Her grave was green and daisy-starred,
as I should wish my own to be, if

I could have the choosing of it, in a remote
corner of the old church-yard, some way
from all the more important monuments.
Probably she may have expressed a desire
to be buried in this quiet spot. List o stone,
or record, of any kind, had been set above
her, and I should never have recognised her
grave if I had not had it pointed out to me,
long ago, by some of the old servants. Two
stakes of hazel rose at the head and foot
of the grassy mound, to mark out the space
which was not to be encroached upon by
the newer dead ; but, beyond this, there
was neither name nor sign to tell who was
the dreamer that now slept." Some day,
no doubt, Sir Harry intended to erect a
fitting monument to the memory of the
wife he had loved so well ; but he was not,
now, in a mood favourable to the carrying
out of projects, and probably nobody liked
to remind him of so painful a subject.

There were no more graves beyond my
mother's, her narrow bed being upon the
extreme edge of one portion of the burying-ground,
only shut off from a sweet consecrated
hatfield  which a little while
before had been waving with meadow
flowers and fluttering with butterflies  by
a low hawthorn hedge and a grey wooden
paling.

It was to this side of her grave that 1
betook me now. I placed my tribute of
flowers upon the grassy mound, and then
covering my eyes with my hands, I knelt
down and strove to commune with, and
appeal to, the gentle spirit that had departed
for ever from the earth. I possess the
power of summoning up before me the faces
of those who are dead, or absent, till I can
see them as plainly as I can see my own
face in a mirror. My mother's image had
not faded in the least from my memory,

VOL. I. L

and I could recall it quite distinctly, as I
had seen her for the last time, in her white
night-dress, with her dark hanging hair
and her sweet girlish face looking anxious
and startled.

As I knelt thus by the side of her grave,
transported, in imagination, to the days of
my childhood, and utterly oblivious, for
the moment, to my actual surroundings, a
sudden impression, uninvited by either previous
suspicion or conjecture, took possession
of my mind. An inward voice
seemed to inquire of me, now, for the first
time, whether I could make sure, after all,
that my father had been so devotedly
attached to my mother ? Whether, on the
contrary, his behaviour since her death
was not more like what might have been
occasioned by the pricking of a tardily
awakened remorse, or by some inexplicable
feeling of vindictive resentment, than by

the grief which must follow upon the loss
of an earthly treasure ?

Why had my father treated me with such
coldness and neglect ever since he had been
left a widower ? Why did everything connected
in any way with my mother's
memory, her friends, her room, her portraits,
become suddenly so unendurable to him?
And why was she resting, now, in this
obscure and nameless grave, with nothing
to distinguish it from those of the peasant-folk
 elbowing her hard by  save those two
hazel-stakes, set there as though in anticipation
that a vampire might rise from that
cold and inanimate breast ? The most
generous manner of criticising the actions
of another is, surely, by endeavouring 
with all due allowance for exceptional circumstance
or individual impulse  to put
one's self in that other one's place; and I

began to speculate, now, as to how I should

L 2

have behaved had I found myself in the
position of a widower with one child, who
had been devotedly attached to his departed
wife.

It occurred to me that, had I been Sir
Harry Davenant, a rich man, with all the
resources of Art at my disposal, and had I
found myself thus bereaved, in the afternoon
of life, when I had no inclination to
form new ties, I should, probably, as soon
as the first agony of my grief had subsided,
have set about raising some beautiful tomb
or mausoleum, wherein all that remained of
my beloved might be worthily enshrined.
I felt convinced that no project would be of
greater interest to me than the planning
and devising of this memorial, and that one
of the most satisfying of my remaining consolations
would be derived from watching its
gradual progress towards completion. Then,
before this, or after it, according to my taste

and temperament, 1 should have the health
and education of my child to superintend 
the child that was her child as well as my
own  reproducing (most likely) in form,
feature, or voice, something of the beloved
being who had gone from me for ever ; and
then, too, I might strive to aid and comfort
any poor desolate people who came in my
way, and who were afflicted as I was.

Looked at from this point of view, my
father's conduct appeared to me to have
been both unfeeling and inconsistent  as
regarded his wife's memory, his wife's child,
his wife's final resting-place. As I glanced
towards the humble graves that lay around
me, I saw that there was scarcely one of
them, of recent date, upon which some care
in the form of growing flowers, or gathered
nosegay, had not been lavished. A tufted
cypress intervened between my mothers
grave and that of the nearest of her rustic

neighbours, a village carpenter, as I learnt
from the inscription upon the wooden headpiece
;  a crockery mug, full of double
daisies and wall-flowers, bedecked his grassy
bed, and told of the ministration of tender
hands ; but upon her grave no sign or
symbol of affection from the husband who
had been supposed to love her so well in
life ! When I and my flowers had faded
and passed away, who would ever turn aside
to drop a tear upon this nameless and forsaken
spot ?

As I meditated thus, I was startled at hearing
the sound of a long-drawn sigh, proceeding
from close to where I was kneeling;
and, peeping between the branches of the
tufted cypress, I perceived the figure of a
woman, crouched down at the further side of
the poor carpenter's grave. She had covered
her face with her hands, and seemed to be
silently weeping. When she removed them

I saw that she was a hard-featured daughter
of toil  looking like a harvester, or farm-servant
 neither young nor comely, but
with a faithful, earnest face, idealised now
by the refining influence of sorrow.

I rose from my knees, so that she might
know that she was not alone. It was
evident that she had arrived after me at
the churchyard, and had not perceived me
till now. She seemed to be confused at
my presence.

Good afternoon," I said, thinking to put
her more at her ease.

Good afternoon, miss'* she repeated,
wiping her eyes with her coarse linen
apron. " You've got somebody lying here,
too ?" she inquired of me by-and-by.

"Yes, my mother;" and I pointed to the
nameless grave. *' She is next to  your husband,
perhaps?" . . .

"No, miss," she answered sadly, "we

didn't never go to church tojethcr  me and
him,  but was just as fond and true as if
we had. But one day he asked me to do
something that I said I would see him lying
here dead before I'd agree to, and we didn't
part friendly. And, next day, I heard that
he'd fallen off a ladder and was taken to
his account; and so I couldn't never make
it up with him again. And now, miss, that
he's dead and gone, there isn't any mortal
thing that I wouldn't be ready to do for
him if he was to ask me ; and so, whenever
I can find time to run over from my situation,
I come here and tell him this, and it
seems to make me feel much easier; and
though he can't ever ask me for anything
no more, it makes me fancy that he knows
just how it all happened ! It's a long while
ago now, miss ; but it seems all quite fresh
in my mind !"

We passed out of the churchyard together.

and along the short bit of highway road
which lay between us and the park. Her
simple un grammatical words, uttered with
the rough ' burr '' peculiar to my native
shire, had impressed me deeply.

'* Good day, miss," she said, as I turned
in at the wicket-gate which led into North-over
Park,  " It do seem sad to leave them
lying there all by themselves!" and so we
separated.

The years that have intervened since this
day and the time at which I am writing,
have not been so many but that I can recall
distinctly every one of the impressions it
left with me, and trace their influence
upon my future actions. Foremost amongst
these, I remember, as I walked home
through the feathery bracken, was the
notion that, on account of my father's
unfortunate condition, I might be looked
upon for the rest of my days as a creature

upon whom some sort of hereditary curse
had descended. I wondered, now, whether
this state of mental degeneracy might not
have set in, in some form, previous to my
mother's death, when I had been too young
to observe it ; and whether, in consequence,
she might not have been less happy with
him, perhaps, than had been generally
supposed? I realised to-day, more clearly
than I had ever done before, that my father
regarded me with feelings of absolute indifference
 if not of positive dislike  and that,
but for Mason and Miss Warden, the world
would have been singularly empty forme
of all sympathy and love. I was within
sight, now, of the grey garden terrace, with
its statues and urns standing out in bold
relief against the dark yew hedge at the
back ; and I could see, in fancy, the lithe
active figure of Prince Crecszoleski vaulting
lightly over the low balustrade. Was I so

rich (I asked myself) in earthly friendship,
or affection, that I could afford to despise
and cast from me either the one or
the other ? Ought I not, on the contrary,
to feel touched at, and grateful for, the
faintest show of kindly interest ? And
supposing (only  supposing ) any such
interest on the part of the Prince should
ever ripen into anything deeper and more
permanent, would it not be some sort of
gratification to my offended vanity to be
able to prove to my cousin Courtenay 
(Courtenay, who was admitted now, as
though he had been a son, to the bedside
of my father, whilst I, his own daughter,
would " only be in the way ! '')  that, without
troubling my mind in the least about
him or his matrimonial projects, I had
actually succeeded, before I was twenty
years old, in making the conquest of this
handsome and distinguished stranger ?

But then the Prince had said nothings
whatever about either love or marriage in
connection with myself.

"Marriage, affection, have not hitherto
entered into the programme of my existence,"
(he had said to me in the garden) ;
** till now, all women have seemed to me
like dolls."

Ah ! but the '' hitherto'' and the " till
now " ? Were not these words intended to
have a special significance, and might it not
be in order to enlarge upon them more
fully that he had begged me to grant him
an interview in the old summerhouse ?
Were I to keep to my original intention,
and follow the impulses evoked by the
impressions of the day, the last point had
certainly been gained by the Prince. The
words of the poor woman at the grave of
the carpenter, seemed to warn me that one
might be too obdurate, as well as too impressionable,

and that it was possible, when
it was too late, to suffer for the one as
severely as for the other; and then, over
and above everything, I was imbued with
the strange conviction, that my help was
necessary to rescue and comfort a troubled
and afflicted spirit.

I found Miss Warden with the tea-things
before her, awaiting me in the drawing-room.
She wondered where I could have been all
this long time; the tea must have become
quite cold ! I told her that I was neither
hungry nor thirsty. As I was going upstairs
to my room, she exclaimed, suddenly


"What a blessing it is, Helen, to think
that your friend is a real Prince, for good
and all ; that he won't turn out, as foreign
Princes so constantly do, to be a waiter, or a
courier, or an escaped forger ! I have quite
lost the feeling that there is anything about

him in the least like Eugene Aram. He
shook hands  of this I took particular
notice  with his right hand ; and Mr. Col-logwood
said that he belonged to one of the
most illustrious families in Poland, which is
now very nearly extinct'

He told me," I said, " that he had one
only sister."

'' Yes ; and he possesses an enormous
estate, too ; with a house which is quite a
palace, surrounded by forests crawling alive
with wolves and wild boars. This, he informed
me, he is very anxious to sell, if he
possibly can  (his sister and he have agreed
upon this between them, and there is a
gentleman in treaty for it now) ;  after
which his dream of happiness is to settle in
England, with an English wife, and devote
himself to philosophical (I think he said
philosophical') studies."

'' He said all this to you yesterday ? "

** Yes ; and he said it in such a very significant
way, whilst we were looking over
the pictures. He seems very gentle and
serious, and not at all proud. There's
only one thing I don't quite like about
him."

** And that is ? "  I began, wishing to
annex every random impression.

**I fear," Miss Warden answered, ominously,
" that his constitution is anything but
robust ! There is a very curious light in his
eyes, which goes, I have always noticed, with
great delicacy, and he has such dark lines
underneath them. I must find out, through
the cards, whether he is destined to be very
short-lived, because this is a most important
consideration. Poor dear young man I I'm
afraid he smokes too many of those nasty
cigarettes, and drinks too much of that
dreadful green tea."

My kind friend could scarcely have uttered

these words at a more critical moment.
Compassion, as I have already said (wherefore
implanted in me for this total stranger
I knew not), was, at this time, one of the
feelings uppermost in my mind. Apart
from this sentiment, and a sudden realizing
of my own desolate position, I was aware of
no compelling impulse. Had I been conscious
that I was a prey to any kind of
alluring temptation, I might, perhaps, have
summoned to my aid stronger powers of
resistance.

As it was, I merely said to myself, with a
recklessness begotten of heart-hunger and
humiliation, mingling with compassion, and
a little, perhaps, with a thirst after some
sort of dramatic adventure 

I am despised and rejected by the one
whose duty it should be to love and cherish
me. I have nobody to care for but my
governess and my old nurse. My father is

'* seriously unwell," but ho refuses to seeme.
He tells me that I shall be " only in
the way." If he dies, I shall be at once
turned out of house and home by my cousin
Courtenay, whom I cannot bear. A rich
and good-looking foreign Prince appears as
if he could care for me. He has asked me
to meet him to-night in the garden, and
meet him I will, whatever may come of it
in the future ; and I will marry him, too,
should he desire it, and elope with him by a
ladder of ropes ! He is unhappy and lonely,
and disappointed with his life. Like me, he
is longing for sympathy and affection. And
then, how romantic and unexpected is all
this ! A Prince, and a garden, and a moon !
It is just like something one reads about ina
book I "

By half-past seven I had written a letter
to the Prince, with a brand-new quill pen,
in my boldest and most flourishing hand. I

VOL. I. M

felt that it would be unnecessary to say more
than these few words : 

"To-morrow evening (Friday), at ten
o'clock, I will be in the old summerhouse,
as you wished;" and I then added, lest he
should fancy that I had been impelled by
the power of his will, " I am coming of my
own accord ; this has nothing to do with
mesmerism'*

It was fortunate (I thought, as I directed
the envelope) that  thanks to Mr. Collins
 I knew the correct way of spelling
the Prince's name !

I do not suppose that a man is often able
to realise the various combining circumstances,
utterly independent of all personal
influence or persuasion, which may sometimes
induce an inexperienced and impressionable
woman to submit herself to the
dictates of his will. Men and women appear
to be guided, usually, by totally different

instincts, and, to one another, their several
aims and aspirations must nearly always
seem like sealed hooks.

I wonder whether it is the same with the
males and females of birds, hearts, and
fishes, who appear  to us, at least  to
understand each other so well ?

M 2

No event occurred to make any change in
my plans before Friday evening. I realised,
however, as the day wore on, that a change
had taken place in myself. I was no longer
nervous, excited, impelled  as it had seemed
by the voices of duty and compassion
alike, to respond to Prince Crecszoleski's
appeal. In this respect I had become totally
indifferent. I would keep to the appointment
because I had written to say that I
would do so, that is, supposing it did not
rain ; but I had ceased to imagine that a

suffering fellow-creature would derive any
comfort from my resolve.

At about half-past nine o'clock I threw a
light shawl over my shoulders  as I was
wearing only a thin evening dress  and went
out through the drawing-room window upon
the moon-lit terrace, saying to Miss Warden
that I meant to stroll about the garden till
bed-time.

I know now  though I did not know it
then  that I did not feel in the least as if
I was about to keep an assignation with
a lover. No faltering feet; no changing
colour ; no impetuous heart-beating ! But
I remember thinking, in a foolish, school-girlish,
kind of way, that the " situation "
at least, was romantic, and out of the common
order, and that it could be scarcely
possible  even in a novel  for the accessories
of a love-scene to be more effectively
grouped and disposed. I experienced, too, a

certain satisfying sense as of a purpose  or
rather of a penance  achieved ; independent
altogether of any personal emotion to be
derived from it ; just as the prisoner who
has been helping to build the wall which
shuts him away from the world; or the monk
who has been engaged in the digging of his
own grave, may feel some sort of conscientious
satisfaction at the completion of his
labour.

The night was lovely, and as I stood upon
the garden-terrace, and gazed over the park,
my whole being seemed to become inspired
and spiritualised by the intense beauty of
the scene. The moon, I thought to myself,
was exactly what a moon ought to be. Full
enough to bathe the far landscape in a vague,
mysterious, radiance ; and yet, not one of
those staring, bare-faced moons, whose rays
are almost as indiscreet as those of the sun.

The great forest trees lay massed together

amongst their shadows, and the wandering
streamlet was glistening like burnished silver.
The deer seemed all to have retired to their
ferny couches, but a couple of hares were
feeding together,  out in the open, by which
I knew that  as yet, at least  no human
footstep could be approaching.

It is difficult upon such occasions  even
where faltering and heart-beatings are wanting
 to compute with anything like accuracy
the passing of minutes. I know not, therefore,
how long I may have lingered in the
full moonlight a quarter of an hour, perhaps
; or, it may be, not nearly so much 
then I turned down the shady walk to the
right, went into the old summerhouse, and
seated myself in one of the rustic chairs.

Over the low stone balustrade upon the
opposite side of the narrow pathway, I could
see the further woodlands shrouded in soft
vapoury mist, and the patch of moonlit

forest glade in the midst of which the two
hares were still feeding. I should know,
by watching the behaviour of these hares,
when the Prince was on his way towards me
through the deer-park.

It seemed a long time before I saw them
hurrying away, helter-skelter, into the adjacent
covert, and longer still  considering
the shortness of the distance  before I
became aware of a muffled footfall upon the
grass, and the quick breathing of a human
being upon the other side of the terrace-walk.
Then a male figure leapt over the balustrade
and crossed the pathway.

I rose from my chair and went to the
rustic porch.

It was not the Prince !

*'Mr. Collingwood ! '' I exclaimed, starting
back in amazement, as I recognised my godfather.


"Ah, Ilelen,'' he said, apologetically.

rather than reproachfully, as he took both
my hands in his, " I know, too well, that
I'm not the person you expected ! Don't
think, however, that I came here to scold
you. Sit down, my child, and let us talk it
all over."

He drew me to the rustic chair from which
I had just risen, and sat down upon another
by my side.

I felt too bewildered, and too ashamed, to
utter a word.

I despaired of being able to make him
understand the subtle and mysterious influences
which had combined together to drive
me to this imprudent act, and felt that I
would rather he should look upon me as
indiscreet, and absurdly romantic, than that
he should fancy that I sought to excuse
myself by what would seem to him like a
distortion of facts.

'' You hear me, Helen ? " he asked, leaning

towards mc, after wc had remained for
some seconds in silence. " You see, dear,
that I am not anpi-ry with you ? I came to
advise you as a true friend."

He spoke very earnestly, and I perceived
that he seemed to be much agitated.

"I am ashamed and surprised," I faltered,
hanging my head. '* Tell me, where is the
Prince ? "

In London, at this moment. I expect
him back again tomorrow. Perhaps you
would like to know, before we speak of other
things, how I come to be here in his place ?

I nodded assent, and he continued 

'* I don't know whether he may have told
you or not, but Hugo Crecszoleski has a
sister, older than he is by at least ten years.
Long ago, when I was at the Embassy in
Paris, she was living in Paris too. I got to
know her pretty well, and since then she
occasionally writes to me. She is a clever.

eccentric, fascinating woman, and was, at
that time, very beautiful. She has obtained
a good deal of influence over those with
whom she has become intimate, and prides
herself upon this faculty. To her brother
her will seems to be law. She can make
him, apparently, do just what she pleases.
Well, this lady arrived suddenly in London
on Wednesday night, and wrote to inform
me that as it was absolutely necessary she
should consult with her brother at once
upon very important business, she proposed
running down here on Thursday morning
and staying for a few days."

*' And she is here now ?" I interrupted,
wondering what connection this lady could
possibly have with my affairs.

'' Indeed, no ! I wrote to tell her that I
could not possibly receive her. My father
is very old and nervous, new arrivals disturb
and upset him. She is a restless, excitable

person, different, in this respect, from her
brother. Upon receiving my letter, this
morning, she telegraphed to Hugo to come
up to London immediately, upon this same
very important business."

'' And he went up at once?"

No ; I saw, and was surprised to see,
that, for once, he hesitated to obey her.
He seemed much put out at her message
and sent one back to know whether tomorrow
wouldn't suit her as well. Her
answer was, that she must see him to-day,
whereupon he started off by the next
train."

The Prince's absence was thus satisfactorily
explained, but I had yet to learn how
Mr. Colling wood had become aware of his
intended meeting with me.

By-and-by he went on, in a tone which
still betrayed some emotion,

' I saw him off in the hall, and he drove

away. When I turned to go back to my
room a letter was lying upon the floor. It
had no envelope, and I picked it up,
thinking I must have dropped it myself.
Northover Park " was upon the writing-paper.
Ah ! Helen ! You will never know
what came into my heart as I read your
words ! What regrets, what hopes and
fears, what dreams and memories, were
awakened as I looked at your peculiar but
beautiful handwriting ! Por one moment
my heart grew warm again with the delicious
emotions of youth, and T half imagined
that your letter must have been intended
for myself! "

<Por yourself?" I exclaimed in bewilderment.
I was utterly at a loss to comprehend
his words. By-and-by, however, a light
seemed to break in on me.

You were reminded, you mean, of something
that once happened to yourself? Of
somebody you once cared for ? "

*' Yes, the first, the last, real love of my
life, will ever be associated in my mind
with just such a moonlight meeting as this,
to which I was summoned by just such a
letter as yours. But enough of myself and
my departed dreams ! I am here to speak
to you about yourself! Do you really
imagine, Helen, that you are in love with
this man ? ''

I knew not how to answer this question.
I realised that, in his eyes, my conduct
could only seem explicable by reason of
some sudden and uncontrollable infatuation
for his guest, which had had the effect of
scattering my prudence to the four winds.

I don't know," I faltered at length.
I cannot say as yet. It has all been so
strange and so sudden '

Well, dear, whether you care for him
or not, you must let me say my say. I am
not going to abuse him. I see, as well as
you can, all that must make him attractive

to a young creature in your lonely position.
I believe him to be an amiable and chivalrous
man, who can be trusted implicitly
with a woman's honour. But to trust a
man for an hour is a different thing to
trusting him for a lifetime, and I must
implore of you, my child, if this is nothing
more than a mere girlish flirtation, to let it
pass quietly out of your mind when the
object of it departs, on Monday, from this
place. Hugo Crecszoleski is a strange, incomprehensible
being. He is not governed
by any of the ordinary laws which control
civilized man. He is a mystic, an impressionist.
He listens to, and obeys, voices
that nobody else can hear. He will seem,
perhaps, to be absorbed in some project. A
mysterious message comes to him, the whole
plan is abandoned, all interest in it ceases at
once ! He may care for you now, perhaps,
or he may merely imagine that, for some

occult reason, it is necessary to him to
secure your love. Were he to marry you,
he might be, for a time, the tenderest and
most devoted of husbands ; then, one of
these extraordinary impressions might come
to him, and he would reorganise the whole
plan of his existence. You would be powerless
to reason with him  tears, entreaties,
would have no sort of effect  and were you
to place yourself in open opposition to these
hidden forces, I tremble to think of what
the consequences might be. Consider, my
child, whether it would be wise for a
woman to confide her happiness to such
a man ? "

You know nothing more against him
than this?" I asked, my inveterate love for
everything that was strange, and unconventional,
causing me to be rather attracted
than repelled by this aspect of the Prince's
character.

Nothing whatever ; I don't even know
that he's a member of a secret society, or
plotting  like so many of his countrymen 
to free his nation from the tyranny of Russia
! His title is a genuine title ; he belongs
to one of the most ancient and illustrious
families in Poland, where he possesses an
extensive tract of country, and he seems to
have an unlimited supply of cash. He must
need it, too, for, to judge by the letters
which are forwarded to him here, he pursues
his unprofitable researches in every
corner of the globe. Most of his countrymen,
and countrywomen, that I have known,
have had an insatiable craving for gambling.
His sister possesses this failing, and Cress
may have played a little, too, when
the thing has come in his way ; but he
appears to be the slave of no passion. Believe
me, Helen, he will never be the slave
of any woman, either  in the sense in which

VOL. I. N

the term is generally understood ; nor will
the woman who marries him have gained
even a reliable master. She who hopes fora
friend, a lover, a protector, will find
out, too late, that she has linked her existence
with a shadow. Turn all this over in
your mind, and pause, for God's sake, before
you allow yourself to become involved with
this strange being ! Honestly, I believe that
both he and his sister are a little mad,  not
mad enough to be shut up ; but too mad to
rely upon for one's happiness : toques as they
say over in France."

"Everybody seems to be mad!" I exclaimed,
petulantly. " I have no doubt that,
to you, I seem mad myself ! "

"No, dear,'-' he answered, assuming a
more comfortable tone ; " I see exactly how
all this came about. It all comes of the unnatural,
solitary life you are leading down
here. You ought to be taken out in London

; to go to balls and parties ; and mingle
with young people of your own age. You
ought to be married to some good, honest,
sensible man, not to a poor, half-cracked
dreamer of dreams ; and then you would be
as happy as possible ! ''

I felt somewhat aggrieved at this purely
practical view of the case.

Indeed," I said, '' I shouldn't care for
balls and parties, or to live amongst the
London fogs ! And, I assure you, it isn't
that I am so very anxious to be married. . . '*
I broke off. The utter hopelessness of
endeavouring to explain to another what I
could not altogether explain to myself, overcame
me with despair, and blinding tears-rushed
to my eyes.

' I see, I see, my child," answered mer
godfather, cheerfully, " you don't care to be
married, but you want somebody to love 

Somebody to whose happiness you are necesse

2

said. Your heart is unoccupied, and so you
fancy that you are in love with the first
man who crosses your path, and who happens
to possess an attractive appearance.
Eut there is no need to be in a hurry.
Things will all come right, believe me, if
you only give yourself time. All your
friends about here are anxious to help you.
We all see the dangers and difficulties of
your present position. I was speaking of
this to your governess the other night. I,
for one, however, have not yet given up all
hope of another marriage for you  a marriage
which your poor mother always spoke
of, and which Sir Harry, when he conducted
himself more like other people, used
to look upon as very desirable. I believe
that it might easily be brought about, if
only you could be thrown together, I
allude to your marriage with Courtenay
Davenant."

** I hate the very name of Courtenay Davenant
! " I exclaimed passionately,  glad of
a scapegoat upon whom I could let loose
some of my nervous irritation.

The little Nelly that I used to play with
in the old days seems to have grown into a
very desperate and determined character,"
said Mr. Collingwood, smiling sadly. "I
hardly think that you would hate him were
you to meet him now, for he's one of the
nicest fellows imaginable. He and I are
capital friends, and if he were only in England,
I would ask him down here, later on
for the shooting, and do everything in my
power to bring you together."

It would be no use," I answered, hardening
my heart ; ' he objects to the marriage
of first cousins, and so do I."

Oh, that's all nonsense ! " rejoined my
godfather lightly. *'If you and he could
only get to know one another we should

soon hear no more of such silly notions !
But it is getting late, and I shall have to
leave you. Promise me two things, Helen,
before I go. First, that you will reflect
well upon all I have said to you before you
do anything decisive ; and, secondly, that
should you ever require the protection or
advice of a friend, you will apply to me
wherever I may happen to be." He again
took my hands in this, drew me towards him,
and looked at me earnestly and appealingly.
' I promise," I answered, impressed by the
earnestness of his manner.

He covered my hands with kisses  despairing
kisses as I should have fancied, if
only he had been a younger man  and rose
to go. I perceived that he was deeply
affected ; but could not explain the nature
of his emotion.

As he went out of the summerhouse he
pulled some blossoms from the sprays of

honeysuckle that clustered about the entrance,
and pressed them to his lips.

I shall keep these as a remembrance of
your promise," he said  " of our meeting
this evening, and of this lovely and hallowed
spot ! . . . Good night I "

I HOPED, afterwards, that Mr. Collingwood
wholly understood that, by the words " I
promise'' I meant that I would indeed
reflect upon his warning, and regard him
ever as my true friend for having uttered
it, reserving for myself, however, full liberty
of action after fulfilling his wishes in these
two respects.

Be this how it may, in less than a month
from the time of this friendly warning, after
much painful uncertainty and wavering of
purpose, I yielded to what seemed to me
like an irresistible pressure, proceeding, as

it were, from every point of the compass, and
was married privately to Hugo Crecszoleski
in a London church.

It all came to pass after the following
fashion :  The Prince called upon me at
Northover upon his return from London.
With Mr. Collingwood's words still ringing
in my ears, I listened in a somewhat critical
spirit to his explanations, eagerly on the
look out for any inaccuracies which might
occur in his narrative. It corresponded,
however, exactly with what I had already
heard, and I was favourably impressed at
perceiving how conscientiously precise this
man of mysteries had been in his account
of all that had occurred.

He was vexed beyond measure, he said,
at his sister's unexpected summons. He
had endeavoured, at first, to procure a delay
of twelve hours, and had telegraphed to her
to this effect. Her reply was that she must

sec liii immediately, and lie responded at
once to what he now regarded as the voice
of Destiny.

'' When an obstacle to any cherished
project arises in your path," he said, "it
is wise to commence by battling with it,
Alien, however, it re-appears, in spite of
opposition, you become aware that a force
is in motion which it is beyond your power
to resist, that a voice is speaking which
must utter the last word. To the dictates
of what other mentor are we to listen ? "

He spoke with so much apparent fervour
of conviction that I was afraid he would
have thought me old-fashioned, and commonplace,
if I had ventured to say anything
about prayer or the dictates of conscience !

His interview with his sister, he next
informed me, had been productive of very
satisfactory results.

She had desired to consult him with

regard to the sale of this Polish estates 
a project they had both contemplated for
years. The Prince was the last male representative
of his family. His sister was a
widow and childless. She had hitherto
preferred wandering from place to place
to remaining in a fixed home; and if she
ever made up her mind to settle permanently
it would probably be in Paris,
Petersburg, Vienna,  some large city, for
she held the country in utter abomination.
They had decided between them, therefore,
that if only a purchaser could be found it
would be to their mutual advantage to dispose
of the property.

'' I am deeply interested'' the Prince had
proceeded to explain, ' in researches which
it is very difficult for me to pursue in such
an out-of-the-way place. I should never
reside there, in consequence. I have gone
there, perhaps, once or twice, for the sake

of the hunting, in the last five or six years,
but this is all. Were I to marry, I could
never condemn my wife to bury herself in
such a desolate place  she would object toit
as much as did my sister. I have
memories about it, it is true, but they are
not all pleasant ones, and memories maybe
made wherever we like ! The money
that should come to me by this sale would
enable me greatly to extend the field of my
philosophical and psychical investigations,
and I should be able, also, to purchase an
English estate, and thus make my principal
home in the centre of an enlightened
civilisation."

But a rambling, medieval castle  partly
ruinous, and wholly out of repair, although
some portions of the surrounding estate
were extremely profitable, and might, with
attention, be made to produce far more
than they did at present  did not appear.

to many people, evidently, to be a very
desirable possession, and for years, now, the
Prince and his sister had almost despaired
of finding a purchaser.

Mais tout vient a qui sait attended
the Prince had gone on to say. " My sister,
when in Paris the other day, falls in, in the
most curious manner in the world, with an
English gentleman, engaged in commerce 
a Mr. Marks, or Mark  who, quite by
accident, meeting my sister in the public
reading-room of an hotel, addresses her
in a few polite phrases. My sister
replies; they talk upon various subjects.
The conversation, by one of those remarkable
coincidences which we are, as
yet, powerless to explain, turns upon the
purchase of landed estates, and it then
transpires that Mr. Marks  an enthusiastic
lover of the chase, especially of that of
wolves and wild boar  has long desired to

purchase a property in Poland precisely of
the description of that which we have for
long been so anxious to sell ! He is English
cultivated obliging person  speaking
fluently both Polish and German. Money
is no object to him whatever; the preliminaries
of the bargain are then and there,
arranged by my sister, subject, of course,
to my approval. I could scarcely have
hoped for such a remarkable stroke of good
fortune ! "

Mr. Marks, it appeared, had made only
one stipulation  a very reasonable one, as
Prince Crecszoleski readily admitted. He
desired to rent the castle for the period
of one year, before finally concluding
the purchase, which was to depend upon
whether the climate suited him, and
whether the hunting answered his expectations.


The Prince's sister, * Delphine," as he

called her, came over to London as soon as
the negotiations had proceeded thus far,
but she was only able to remain in England
for a few days, and hence her anxiety to
consult with her brother at once.

Their interview passed ose very satisfactorily.
Mr. Marks was to take up his
abode at the castle as soon as possible. He
demanded no repairs, desiring that the
place should be left just as it was, and
agreed to pay an excellent rent. So impatient
was he to conclude the arrangement,
indeed, and so sanguine did he seem
about it, that he scarcely glanced at the
photograph of the castle which Delphine
had procured for his inspection. It was as
though the whole transaction had been to
him like the realisation of a dream. His
enthusiasm knew no bounds. If only he
continued in this same mind the Prince
had no doubt but that the purchase would

be concluded as soon as the year had
expired. And then, after lie had informed
me of all these details, Hugo Crecszoleski
asked me if I would become his wife.

** You need not now be exiled," he said,
' to these barbaric regions ! We can choose
our new home. It shall spring up wheresoever
you may command. With you at my
side, I feel that it may be possible for me to
achieve great things. A wife like you,
with a strong, magnificent individuality,
is what I have hitherto needed to complete
my nature."

I was imbued vritli the consciousness
that, sooner or later, for some mysterious
reason, this marriage must take place, and
that nothing in heaven or earth, or in the
waters under the earth, would, be able to
prevent it; but I felt no awakening of a
warmer sympathy towards the man who
was destined to become my husband.

I remarked, too, that, whilst addressing
me kindly and respectfully, the Prince
made no protestations of violent affection,
in the sincerity of which, considering the
shortness of our acquaintance, I might have
found it dijOScult to believe ; nor did he
appear to require any such assurances upon
my part.

This forbearance seemed to make my
own course a thousand times easier, and I
thanked him sincerely, in my heart, for
having made no attempt to work upon my
feelings.

I discussed the subject of our marriage
with him reasonably, calmly, dispassionately
 the unaccountable sense, as of predestination,
which I have already described,
causing my words to seem, all the
whQe, like a mockery to myself.

I told him that I did not consider that

we had known each other long enough to
VOL. I. o

marry; that my father was an irritable
invalid, who had lately become worse, so
that, just at present, I should not dare to
speak to him upon the subject of any
engagement that I might form. Then,
thinking of what Mr. Collingwood had said
about linking myself to a shadow, I asked
him whether he was not of too roving and
visionary a disposition to care for the calm
delights of homo life, and whether a wife
could ever hope to have any real part in the
existence of one who was so absorbed in
mystic lore, and who acted in obedience to
laws which she would probably never be
able to understand ?

To these questions he only answered,
smiling quietly, and not at all ill-naturedly


Ah ! so my good friend George has
been traducing me to you during my
absence, and this is all he can tell you to

my disadvantage ! George, as you must
have perceived, is pre-eminently a materialist
 '' a sensualist," I may almost add.
He lias no sympathy, whatever, with the
spiritual aspects of life. These things are
purely constitutional, and we are not
responsible for them. ' Let us eat, drink,
and be merry everything else is nothing ! '
expresses his creed to the letter. You will
have observed this, as you know him welland
also, that the best of everything must
always be for himself; nobody else must
approach it until it has ceased to please
him  then it may go anybody may take
it who likes ! He thrusts from him, persistently,
everything that, by awakening the
nobler emotions, might interfere with his
personal complacency. His highest aim in
life is to be perpetually comfortable ! "

I had remarked, certainly, in Mr. Col-logwood's

conversation, a decided vein of

o2

practical materialism. I looked upon it as
his only fault, and excused it on the ground
of his having lived so much abroad, in flippant,
frivolous society, where pleasure was
sought after rather than happiness, and
where people, and things, were valued less
for their intrinsic worth than for the
amusement which could be derived from
them at the moment. His genial, sanguine,
disposition, led him, no doubt, to
shrink from, and ignore, much that was
gloomy, disagreeable, and irremediable ;
but this characteristic rendered him, probably,
all the more anxious to protect
others from what he dreaded himself; and
I could not doubt, after my interview with
him in the summerhouse, that he was
possessed, at any rate, of a kind and affectionate
heart. I realised, however, that he
might possibly feel but little sympathy for
the tenets of an ascetic mysticism.

With the view of overcoming my other
objections, the Prince suggested that I
shoukl arrange to stay with my father in
London. Had Mr. Marks desired any
repairs, or alterations, at the ancestral
chateau he would have felt bound to superintend
them himself, which would have
obliged him to leave England at once. As
it was, however, the accommodating behaviour
of his tenant had relieved him of all
further trouble, and as his sister had consented
to arrange the terms of the lease
with Mr. Marks, in Paris, he was now
entirely at my disposal. My father, being
an invalid, would be unlikely, he said, to
interfere with my movements. That
'' amiable lady'' my '' duenna," might betaken
into our confidence. If permitted todo
so, he should esteem it a privilege to
escort us over the sights of London. We
might visit the picture - galleries, the

theatres, and attend, with him, some of the
lectures and seances which treated of those
spiritual matters in which he was so profoundly
interested. In this way, he said,
we should soon become better acquainted,
and if, after this fuller acquaintance, I
found that he was not personally disagreeable
to me, we might arrange to be married
at once. Supposing that my father's critical
condition made me still unwilling to
speak to him upon the subject, or supposing
that, because the Prince was a
foreigner, objections and difficulties were
raised which might turn to my eventual
disadvantage, it would be as well, perhaps,
to take the law into our own hands, and to
be married privately. In London this
could very easily be managed, and we could
afterwards wait, either until Sir Harry was
in a less precarious state of health, or until
I attained my majority, before we publicly

announced our marriage to the world. All
this would be for me to consider.

I promised that I would turn the matter
over in my mind, though I could hold out
but little hope of being able to go up to
London  my father having just refused my
request to be allowed to attend upon him
during his illness.

Prince Crecszoleski then asked me, for
the second time, whether I had had any
previous attachment, and again I replied in
the negative.

*' Then we shall be married," he said,
quietly ; and after he had given me his
London address, and raised my hand respectfully
to his lips, he forthwith took his
departure.

As soon as the Prince had quitted our
neighbourhood, " the plot," (to use Miss
Warden's absurd expression,) began to
thicken " rapidly. The first sign of this
took the form of a letter from Colonel
Davenant to myself, which arrived in the
course of a few days, and which ran as
follows : 

Dear Miss Davenant,

'' It is so long since we met, that I dare
hardly hope you will still remember my
existence. I venture to recall myself to

your memory, however, thinking that you
may like to hear the last news of Sir Harry.
I have just returned from sitting with him
now, and am glad to be able to give you
a favourable report.

I interviewed the doctor, who says that,
with perfect quiet and good nursing, he
may very soon be himself again, and that
the unfavourable symptoms may disappear.
My uncle was kind enough to ask me to go
down to Northover, next month, for some
partridge-shooting, or later on, in October.
I have just been invited to stay at Lord
Silchester's on the 5th September, and
would propose to come on from there to
Northover about the 8th or 9th, if it would
be convenient to you to receive me at that
time. I go down to Cowes this afternoon,
and, as I propose yachting with a friend
after tomorrow, and may not be sure of
receiving my letters, it would be very kind

of you if you would let me have an answer
by telegram to the Royal Yacht Squadron,
Cowes, Isle of Wight.

'' Looking forward to the pleasure of
seeing you again soon,

Believe me to be,

Yours very sincerely,

COURTENAY DaVENANT."

To anybody but to me, this would surely
have seemed to be a very natural and
inoffensive letter for a young man to have
written to his female cousin, erring, if it
erred at all, rather on the side of unnecessary
formality, considering the relationship,
than on that of officiousness or impertinence.
But, just at this time, Courtenay
Davenant could do nothing right in my
eyes. I remember, now, that, as I read, I
was inclined to take almost every word
amiss.

*' How soon lie rushed over from abroad
when he heard that Sir Harry had been
taken ill ! " I thought to myself. " He is
like a cormorant, coming after the loaves
and fishes ! Does he suppose that, because
I am not in London, I hold no communication
whatever with my father's household
and that he is doing me a great favour in
writing to me about his health ? ' I interviewed
the doctor !' . . . To find out, of course,
if his uncle was in any real danger, and how
long it was likely to be before he might
expect to succeed him, in order that he
might make his plans accordingly ! And
then, as he chanced to be now in England,
it had occurred to him, probably, that there
would be no harm, after all, in just running
down to Northover and taking a glance at
the cousin whose existence he had seemed
to ignore for so long ; and hence this
plausible, hypocritical, letter. ' Looking

forward to the pleasure' of seeing me
soon and so on ! . . . If, after I, too, had
been ' interview,' my manner and appearance
happened to please his critical eye,
then, who could say what great honour
might not be reserved for me ! If not,
there would be no harm done  to himself,
at any rate !

He would be able to look over the house
and property that might so soon become his
own, and he would have done his country
cousin a kindness by condescending to visit
her at all ! But it is too late ! it is too
late ! " I thought, as with a sense of
triumph. *' I do not care, now, whether
you come and see me or not ! I have
done for ever with the family marriage-project
! "

Nevertheless, I suppose I should have
replied to his letter by begging him to do
as he proposed about coming to Northover,

were it not that, immediately after my
receipt of it, events began shaping themselves
hurriedly according to the wishes of
Prince Crecszoleski.

My father became rapidly worse ; he was
attacked with paralysis, and remained for
some days in an unconscious state. His
doctor telegraphed for me at once, and in
little more than a week from the time of
the Prince's departure, Miss Warden, Mason,
and I, found ourselves established in London,
at an hotel in the vicinity of Berkeley
Square.

In the hurry of my departure from home,
I entirely forgot all about my cousin and
his letter. Miss Warden reminded me of it,
however, when we were on our way to the
station, and that it had required an immediate
answer. We were late for our train,
so I had only time to leave orders with the
footman that he was to telegraph to Colonel

"Davenant in my name, and inform him
that, as I had hen suddenly summoned to
London, I should not he at Northover at
the time of his proposed visit. Then the
train went off, and I altogether dismissed
loth him and his letter from my mind.

Sir Harry's bachelor rooms, from which
it had not been thought advisable to move
him, were close to our hotel, whilst Prince
Crecszoleski was staying in St. James's
Place.

Wishing to leave my meeting with him
entirely to chance, I had not written to
inform him of our arrival. The first time,
however, that Miss Warden and I went out
walking together, we fell in with him in
Pall Mall, on his way to the National
Gallery, after which he arranged that we
should meet, upon one pretence or another,
almost every day.

My father had now a professional nurse

in close attendance upon him ; the most
perfect quiet had been enjoined ; so that,
beyond visiting his rooms every day, and
sitting with him whilst the nurse was resting,
or at her meals, our time was entirely
at our own disposal.

Escorted by the Prince and accompanied
by Miss Warden, I visited picture-galleries
and museums, and attended lectures and
seances. In a very little while I felt much
more at my ease with him. Occasionally,
but not often, I experienced a recurrence of
the strange sensation which had oppressed
me in the tea-room at Inglebyby Grange, but
the feeling seemed to become every timeless
acute and embarrassing. It was as if
some sort of controlling power hitherto
possessed by the Prince, was gradually
becoming exhausted.

I tried very hard at this time to persuade
myself that I was in love. In this I could

not altogether succeed; but I developed,
during this frequent intercourse, the
greatest possible respect for the Prince's
character and intelligence, and I had read
in books that love generally followed very
quickly upon esteem.

Miss Warden, though enthusiastic in her
admiration of the Prince's amiable traits,
was much embarrassed as to whether she
ought to check, or to encourage, our growing
intimacy. The cards-to which she turned
in her uncertainty  foretold anxieties,
travels, surprises, (very much as they
always did), a death, and then a fortunate
marriage, with one of the most devoted
husbands in the world, and beautiful
children. The death (she could not help
thinking) must be that of '' poor Sir
Harry." The reign of my cousin Courtenay
was evidently drawing nearer and nearer
every day !

Was this a time, my kind friend asked
herself, to discourage the attentions of a
rich and eligible suitor ? And yet  seeing
that the Prince was a foreigner  a Roman
Catholic (as we had lately discovered), and
that the whole thing had come about so
suddenly  she desired much to find some
human monitor to whom she could turn
for counsel.

Einally, she had almost decided to write
to my god-father, asking him to grant her
an interview in order that she might consult
with him upon my future prospects,
when we saw recorded in the fashionable
columns of "The Morning Post" that
'* The Honourable George Collingwood, Her

Majesty's Minister at " had " passed

through Paris on his way to resume his
diplomatic duties;" whereupon her benevolent
project necessarily evaporated in
smoke.

VOL. I. p

So the days of a London September went
by, (of a London not in the least like the
gay city which I have since known, and
looked at with altogether different eyes),
and " chill October " was at hand once
more. By this time I had finally decided
to become Prince Crecszoleski's wife, and,
after he had made the necessary arrangements,
I walked out one morning, unknown
to my " duenna," and was married to him
according to the rites of the Protestant
Church.

The Protestant religion is quite good
enough for me," he had made answer, when
I asked him about his theological opinions.
'* ' Heaven is a palace with many doors,' as
the Hindoo tell us, 'and each one has a
right to enter it his own way.' So let those
who find happiness in their purgatories
keep to them by all means  the whole four
of them ! Let the monks of Kiev build

themselves living tombs in the catacombs of
the Petcherskoi monastery. It is not our
place to sneer at the exaggerations of
religious feeling; but for me, Helen, the
simple sacraments of your Reformed English
Church will suffice."

Our marriage, for the present, at least,
was to be kept a profound secret. Not
even the Prince's sister, nor my god-father,
were to be informed of it as yet. Miss
Warden, for the convenience of our future
meetings, was taken into our confidence
after the events for I feared that if I
had told her of our intention beforehand
she might be blamed afterwards for her
connivance, supposing that my father,
upon hearing of the step I had taken,
should think fit to visit me with his displeasure.


One other person the Prince asked my

permission to trust with our secret  his

p 2

valet, ZoubirofF, a keen-eyed, running
Russian, who had not, somehow,
inspired me with unlimited confidence
when, upon the occasions of his calling with
his master's notes, I had sometimes addressed
a few words to him. The Prince
assured me, however, that Zoubiroff was
under important obligations to him  that
he had been in his service for more than
fifteen years, and had given repeated proofs
of his fidelity, and discretion I did not,
therefore, like to refuse my husband his
very first request.

Immediately after our marriage fc
hailed a hansom cab at the church door,
and drove to a jeweller's in Bond Street,
the Prince desiring that I should select a
present as a souvenir of the day.

I chose a ring  a ''cat's-eye,'* surrounded
by diamonds, as he seemed determined to
give me something expensive. He paid for

it on the spot, and we then re-entered our
hansom.

It will always remind me of your eyes,"
I said, as I looked at the ring upon my
finger ; '* the stone is exactly like them in
colour ! ''

I felt in wonderfully good spirits, and
fired as with a sense of perilous adventure.

The day, however, which had begun by
being fine, had clouded over whilst we were
in church, and when I set the Prince dowry
a few doors from my destination, it was
raining hard. He had made elaborate
arrangements with me for a longer meeting
upon the morrow, so that we did not
expect to be parted for more than a few
hours.

*' Au revoir, belle Friticesse ! '' he said,
as he held my hand and leant towards me
from the street, regardless of the falling
rain. For the first time, I perceived an

expression of tenderness in his strange
eyes. " benton, newest-ce pas ? he added;
and then the cabman let down the window
and drove on.

Upon arriving at the hotel I was informed
by the porter that a gentleman had
called to see me during my absence, and
that, hearing I was expected to return
soon, he had waited for me for some time
in the reading-room.

I looked at the card which he left for me
when he departed, and read, as I lialf-
expected, seeing that I was acquainted
with so few " gentlemen " 

Lt.-Colonel Davenant."

and, beneath the name, these few words,
written in pencil, 

Very sorry indeed to have missed seeing

you. Am leaving England to-night for
Vienna''

It was quite evident, I thought, that
Courtenay and I were not intended to meet
again as yet !

Hugo's ' hientot as it happened, turned out
to be a period of very nearly three months.

On the day following upon our marriage,
and before I had had time to see him again,
my husband was sent for by his sister to
Paris. He left a letter for me to say that
he would be back again with all speed. Ina
few days, however, there came another,
informing me that, upon his arrival in the
Prench capital, he was made acquainted
with circumstances which would oblige him,
after all, to revisit Poland, in order that he
might make certain arrangements at his

country-house previous to the occupation of
Mr. Marks.

By the time that this business was completed,
and the Prince had returned to
Paris, my father was considerably better,
and we were in daily expectation of his
beings ordered abroad. I begged, therefore,
that the Prince would postpone his return
to England for the present, lest, by one of
those provoking combinations which sometimes
occur, we might be obliged to leave the
country immediately upon his arrival in it.

He asked me, in reply, to endeavour to
induce the doctors to send Sir Harry to the
South of Prance  to Cannes, Nice, Mentioned
anywhere upon the Riviera, as he could
then arrange, without exciting suspicion, to
come to the same place  to the same hotel
even, so that we might ' at last pass
together our honeymoon so unexpectedly
deferred''

The doctors yielded to my suggestion
without any difficulty. The Riviera was
the very place to which they had intended
sendinf] Sir Ilarrv as soon as he could travel.
His health continued to improve steadily
after this, and, at the beginning of the New
Year, we took our departure from England,
and travelled south by easy stages.

We were accompanied by a courier, who
had been engaged to valet and look after
my father in addition to his other duties, by
Mason, and by a professional nurse, who
was to attend exclusively to the invalid.

Since my father's paralytic attack his
nature seemed to have undergone an entire
change for the second time. He was now
much more docile and tractable. His
mental powers were evidently a good deal
impaired ; he forgot easily, sometimes even
seeming scarcely to recognize us, repeated
himself constantly, and laughed and wept

at odd, unaccountable, moments, but he was
much more capable than he had been previously
of mere animal enjoyment. He
slept well, ate heartily, and enjoyed the
sunshine, and there were days when he
would appear to be even interested in reading
the newspapers, and in listening for
awhile to our conversation. His mood, in
fact, was more like that of a young child,
who is cheerful and free from care, in spite
of its helpless dependence upon others. He
had completely lost the use of his left arm,
but could move the right one almost as jell
as ever, and as the days went by he began
to walk a little with the assistance of his
attendant.

We had quite decided, now, upon the place
at which we intended to sojourn. Our
courier, who had been accustomed to travel
with persons in delicate health, knew of a
quiet and comfortable hotel in the environs of

Nice. It was situated two miles at least
from the town (of which, with its life and
movement, one might see just as much  or
as little  as one desired), upon a southern
hill-slope, amongst grey olive-grounds, with a
view of snow-capped mountains at the hack.
The families that frequented it were chiefly
English, our courier informed us, and " very
select "  elderly personages of rank, or
clergymen of the Established Church ;"
for it was too far from the town to be a
popular resort with more frivolous pleasure-seekers.
Hence it was the place of all others
for an invalid. Having made up my mind
to endeavour to '' love, honour, and obey "
the man who could scarcely, as yet, be
called my husband, and to consult him upon
every subject which could affect our happiness,
I wrote to him for instructions immediately
upon our arrival at Nice.

He begged me, in reply, to wait for a

day or two until I had ascertained whether
the hotel suited us, and then to engagea
suite of apartments which should include
an additional room communicating with it,
as if for an expected friend. When I
had done this, I was to make a little plan
of the apartment, and send it to him at
Monte Carlo, which he intended to make
his headquarters for the present, and he
would then write to the proprietors of the
hotel, or send an emissary, if need be,
requesting that a room might be retained
for him answering precisely to the description
I had furnished of the extra one adjoining
our own. The people of the hotel would
then be almost certain to ask us to give it
up to the Prince, which we should agree todo,
after a little show of hesitation, our friend
being supposed to have postponed his intended
visit.

These somewhat complicated tactics an-severed

perfectly, and I could not repress a
feeling of inward triumph when the landlady,
after showing us, with pride, the letter
which she had just received from the Polish
Prince, demanded of us, as a great favour,
the sacrifice of our additional bedroom,
Son Altcsse extant un de nos plus anciens
clients y

At about four o'clock on the following
day we were informed that *' Son Alt esse "
had arrived. My windows looked out upon
the garden, so that I did not see him drive
up to the door.

He had considered that it would be wiser,
in order to disarm suspicion, not to appear
as though he had known us before, but to
seem to make our acquaintance by accident,
whenever a favourable occasion should present
itself. Upon the evening of his arrival,
however, as soon as the household had
retired to rest, he had arranged to come

through to our sitting-room, and to have an
interview with me there.

The hotel at which we were staying, once
an Italian palace  and which I shall here
call the Villa St. Hippolyte  was large and
rambling. Our sitting-room was a spacious
apartment, with a vaulted ceiling, appropriately
adorned with frescoes representing
hovering cupids, and an appearance of faded
magnificence. Opening out from it upon
the left hand was my bedchamber, looking
out, like the sitting-room, into a lovely old
terraced garden. Beyond this, again, ws
Miss Warden's, then Mason's, both having
a different aspect, and then came my father's
apartments, consisting of several rooms,
which he never quitted during the day
except when he went out to take the air,
and which opened upon a corridor upon the
opposite side of the house. To the left of
our sitting-room, and likewise opening into

it, was a small anteroom, scarcely more thana
cupboard, in which we had deposited our
travelling-boxes, and next to this was the
apartment now occupied by my husband,
which possessed another entrance, leading
into a passage so far away from our own
that no casual observer would have supposed
that any communication existed between
the rooms.

It was through this box-room that Hugo
was to come to me as soon as everything
was quiet. I had obtained possession of the
key, which was upon our side of the door,
and had only to turn it as soon as the hour
appointed for our meeting drew near.

As daylight gradually darkened to dusk
I became terribly restless and uneasy; I
wondered how the Prince would be able tolet
me know supposing he had been obliged
to make any change in his original plan 
whether he had impressed upon ZoubirofT

the importance of discretion, and whether
it would be possible, in spite of all our precautions,
to keep our secret effectually from
the people of the hotel ?

As I reflected thus, feeling very nervous
and apprehensive, it occurred to me that I
might ask to speak, upon some pretext, with
the Prince's valet, that I could then make
him a present, enjoin discretion, and inquire
after the health of his master.

I consulted with Miss Warden as to what
reason we could give for wishing to see
him, and she suggested that, as the Prince's
room had been engaged by us, in the first
instance, for a friend, we might appear
desirous of knowing how long he would be
likely to require it. The waiter came in at
this moment, bringing our lamp. We asked
him whether, if Prince Crecszoleski's servant
was anywhere within call, we could
speak to him upon the subject of his

VOL. I. Q

master's room ? The waiter, a careless
Italian youth, darted off at once to do our
behest, and in another moment there came
a quick rap at the door. We gave permission
to enter, and a man stepped into the
room from behind the folds of the portiere.
He was a total stranger !

I was so overcome with surprise that I
could not summon words to address him.

Miss Warden came to the rescue, and
inquired, in Prench,wh ether she was speaking
to the Prince's valet ?

The stranger replied in the affirmative,
and we gathered from his speech that he
must be a Frenchman. By this time we
had recovered ourselves, and explained, for
the sake of something to say, that, expecting
an English friend, we had engaged the
room which was now occupied by the
Prince. Our friend, however, having postponed
his visit for awhile, we had given up

the room at the request of the landlady.
Could we be informed how long Prince
Crecszoleski would be likely to remain at
the hotel ?

The man replied, very politely, that he
did not know. It was possible that his
master would only remain till the end of
he week, or he might stay on for an
indefinite time. It was too soon, as yet,
for him to decide. Also, His Highness had
not confided to him his intentions. . . .

He bowed respectfully and retired. We
experienced a sense of profound relief where
the door had closed upon him.

I was much perturbed at discovering that

Hugo, who had spoken so highly of 's

devotion, should have had reason to

dismiss him just after having confided to

him our secret, and should find himself

compelled to come, attended thus by a total

stranger, upon an occasion when the services

Q2

of a confidential person would have been of
so much value.

As I pondered thus the evening wore on.

We dined as usual at half-past seven, in
our own apartments, and at nine o'clock I
went to bid my father good-night. Miss
Warden remained with me in the sitting-room
until ten o'clock, and then retired,
after kissini] me affectionately.

The evenings were very chilly in spite of
the heat of the noon-day sun, and the room
with its black marble floor, felt to me cold
and tomb-like. I heaped up the fire with
logs and fir-cones, pulled down the blower,
and succeeded at last in making a cheerful
blaze. In the middle of the centre table
was a basket of flowers which I had purchased
that morning in the town  violets,
anemones, and branches of feathery mimosa,
winch gave forth a delicious perfume. As
I looked at these lovely southern blossoms

my thoughts wandered, I know not wherefore,
over sea to Northover churchyard.
I beheld, in fancy, the nameless grave at
which I had knelt and prayed for guidance ;
tears came into my eyes, which I could
not control, and I wondered whether my
mother's pure spirit might not be hovering
near me at this supreme moment of my
existence.

Peeling that it was impossible to remain
still, I set about arranging upon the table
the few books and photographs that I had
brought with me from England, in order
to lend a home-like and familiar air to the
apartment. At about eleven o'clock I
opened the door and peeped into the
passage. The lights were all out, and I
could only distinguish a few faint sounds
in the far distance. It was evident that
all the other occupants of our particular
floor, at least, had retired for the night.

With faltering footsteps, I went through
the box-room and up to the door of the
Prince's room. My hands trembled so that
I could scarcely turn the key in the lock.
It was a long, awkward, ill-made key  I
remember  fitting badly, and it flew back
suddenly with quite an alarming noise. I
feared that my husband's new valet, if he
happened to be in attendance upon him,
must certainly have heard it. The room
seemed to be perfectly quiet, however. The
faint odour of a cigarette was all that came
to me through the chinks of the closed
door.

I stole back again into the drawing-room
and waited. Peeling that I was becoming
dreadfully nervous and hysterical, I took up
the newspaper and endeavoured to read, but
found it utterly impossible to concentrate
my thoughts. I saw the printed type, it is
true, but its meaning entirely escaped me.

I then endeavoured to lift up my heart in
prayer  to pray that my union with Hugo
might bring happiness to us both  but
alas, with no better result than when I had
attempted to read ! Einally, I drew the
sofa to the hearth and fell to wondering,
as I gazed into the midst of the glowing
embers, how the Prince would look ; what
he would be likely to say ; whether he
would seem to me to be the same personas
the one with whom I had parted in
London ; or, as happens sometimes, even
after a shorter separation, an altogether
different being ? "Whether his face would
look tender, or weary, or a little cruel and
untamed, as I had fancied that I had seen
it look now and then ? . . .

As I was musing thus, an old legend
recurred to me, about a maiden who had promised
herself to a lover who turned out to bea
spectre, having only the outward similitude

of man, with none of his passions or affections.
A pale, ghostly bridegroom, whose
steely eye-balls glittered in the wintry
moonlight, whose heart lay frost-bound in
his hollow breast, and the kiss of whose
ghastly lips meant death ! Then I thought
of how terrible it would be if, through some
error or misunderstanding, the room  the
door of which I had just unlocked so noisily
had not been given to the Prince at all,
but to some other man, who, bent upon
looking into the cause of this sudden turning
of his key, might walk in through the
box-room, and confront me, at any moment.
I said to myself that, if this were to
happen, and supposing that a stranger
were to appear before me at this hour, the
state of my nerves was such that I should
probably scarcely survive the shock !

I have said before how utterly impossible
I have always found it, in moments of

Q

emotion and suspense, to compute, with
anything like correctness, the passing of
time. I know not, therefore, how long it
may have been before I heard the door
upon the further side of the box-room
opened cautiously, and the Prince's footsteps
stealthily approaching.

I looked up at him as he came in at
the door, hut felt that it would have been
utterly impossible for me to have risen from
my place. I saw that he was wearing a
long wrapper, or dressing-suit of dark silk
trimmed with sables, and that he hele]. a
candle in his hand which cast sharp lights
and shadows upon his picturesque face.

Before speaking to me he went straight to
the other door and secured ic. As I heard
the key turn in the lock my heart seemed to
stand still with emotion. Eor the first time
since my marriage, I realized that I had
promised to give myself, body and soul.

into the power of this man, and my heart
failed me.

He came towards me ; I could only stare
blankly in his face.

I saw that he looked neither tender, nor
weary, nor cruel. He looked triumphant ;
the look of all others which, in some circumstances,
must seem least congenial to a
woman's feelings.

I shrank back instinctively. He came tome,
took my hand, drew me to the sofa,
and looked in my face inquiringly. Then
he asked me to tell him, once, of my own
free will, whether I thought I now cared
for him a little ?

I knew not what to answer at that
moment which should not wound or disappoint
him; so, to gain time, I stroked
the sable upon the breast of his coat with
the hand he had left me free ; smoothing it
down the right way of the fur, and feeling

the while as if I must soon break down and
begin weeping:

Now that my hand was so close to his
heart I could feel that it was beating
violently. It came into my mind that
although wild and uncontrollable passions
might be lying, as it were in ambush,
beneath that smooth brown fur, yet, because
of this, I was assuredly not in the presence
of any spectre bridegroom, but of a being
of flesh and blood, and this reflection
had the effect of somewhat restoring my

courage.

I suppose that you have ' willed ' all
this ? " I found voice to say at last.

*'Ah, Helen!" he answered, as though
half reproachfully, ' cannot you see that
all my will has departed ? When we, in
our family, realize that our power of will
has gone from us, we know well what it
signifies ! "

'* Why have you lost it? '' I asked, wondering.
" You look the same  better than
you did before. Why do you say your willis
gone ? "

"I have lost it," he answered, opening
his arms to me; "because the moment has
come when, for the first time, I can truly
love ! A new life opens before me, of which
you are the absolute controller ; I give into
your keeping both my will and my heart ! "

Then, looking up, I beheld, just over my
head, the merry group of rosy Loves, sporting,
like circling butterflies, amongst the
blue and amber clouds upon the ceiling,
and I remembered that this was the meeting
to accomplish which I had been planning
and plotting for weeks.

How often have I beheld them since infancy
 those circling cupids ! Somebody
told me, the other day, that the beautiful
old villa St. Hippolyta was now all deserted

and dismantled ; that bills of sale were setup
in its broken windows, and that the
lovely terraced-garden was all parcelled out
into building lots. It was said that it was
about to be pulled down, and that smaller
villas were to be erected upon its site. And
so, I suppose, that the dancing cupids are
gone too, by this time,  fallen for ever from
their high estate in the blue empyrean, and
will never be able to look down from it at
any honeymooning couples again !

It was a great relief to me when the Prince,
having made acquaintance, one morning
with my father in the garden, was enabled
to visit us openly, and accompany us upon
our walks and drives.

Seeing that he was a personage of distinction,
speaking English, too, with a
fluency suggestive of English sympathies
and associations, and seeing, too, that we
were the only English family of any consideration
at that time sojourning at the
hotel, it must have appeared quite natural
to the proprietors that he should prefer our

society to that of the other visitors, and the
rapid growth of our friendship seemed to
be regarded with benevolent approbation
by both landlord and landlady, who perceived
that, by reason of it, the Prince would
be likely to prolong his stay at their establishment.


I had inquired of my husband, upon the
first opportunity, the reason of Zoubiroff's
sudden dismissal. He replied that he had
never dismissed him at all, but that the
valet had, as it were, been spirited away in
the most mysterious manner imaginable.

Whilst Hugo was in Paris, it appeared,
Zoubiroff had gone out as usual to do a few
commissions for his master. Prom this
expedition, however, he had never returned,
nor had he been seen or heard of since that
day, Hugo knew that Zoubiroff owned a
lodging-house in Paris where he had established
his wife, a woman who had once

lived with the Prince's sister as lady's-maid.
To this place he sent at once to make
inquiries, hut all that Madame ZouhirofF
could tell him, was, that upon the previous
day her husband had never made his appearance,
and that soon after the time at
which he usually visited her, some strange
men, belonging, she believed, to the secret
police, had presented themselves at the apartments
and had searched carefully amongst
his effects, taking with them, when they
departed, not only all the private papers
they could find, hut also several articles of
wearing. apparel, which he had left in her
charge when he had passed through Paris
at different times.

The Prince could only explain this
strange circumstance hy supposing that his
valet, like so many of his countrymen, had
associated himself with some secret society
dangerous to the Prench or Russian Government,

or else that the case was one of mistaken
identity.

Had Hugo been remaining on in Paris
he said that he should certainly have instituted
further inquiries. As it was, however,
he was so impatient to keep his appointment
with me, at Nice, that he could
not bring himself to delay his departure,
and he had thought it wiser, for the strict
maintenance of our secret, not to furnish
Madame Zoubiroff with his present address.
He had accepted, therefore, the services of
an intelligent young man, one of the employed
of the hotel at which he was staying,
who had begged him to take him as his
valet upon trial. Later on, he hoped to be
able to obtain tidings of his missing servant.
I inquired of my husband, also,
whether his negociations with Mr. Marks
had ended satisfactorily ? He replied that
Mr. Marks had just established himself at

VOL. I. R

the home of the Crccszoleskis ; that he
appeared to be pleased with everything ;
and had been most obliging and considerate
upon every subject.

At Delphine's suggestion, Hugo had paid
a hurried visit to the chateau, having heard
that Mrs. Marks was in a delicate state of
health, and being anxious to put in hand a
few improvements which would be conducive
to her comfort. Mr. Marks had since
decided, however, not to take his wife to
Poland at this inclement season. Curiously-enough,
the Prince said, she was now staying
at Nice; but as she was to join her
husband in the spring, he did not regret
that he had been enabled to set the place in
better order.

All this he had heard through his sister.
He, himself, had never had any personal
interview with either Mr. Marks or his
wife; so that, although this lady was now

SO near a neighbour, there would be no fear
of her knowing him by sight, or commenting
upon any circumstance which might
lead to the discovery of our secret. Besides
which, the Villa St. Hippolyte was, fortunately,
quite out of the way of the town. . .

I know not in what words I can convey
to the reader any notion of the extreme
beauty of this same St. Hippolyte and its
surroundings without seeming to be over-enthusiastic.
The climate of Nice, close
to the shores of ' the changeful Mediterranean,"
is frequently treacherous jtnd
harsh, and in spite of a burning sun
the east wind, bringing with it clouds of
blinding dust, seems to be lying in ambush
at the corner of almost every street and
by-way, ready to fly in the face of its
victim.

But away from the sea-shore, up in the

lovely country which is but little known to

R 2

the tourist, the air is as soft and balmy as
that of the Isles of Greece. Beneath the
shade of the grey olive-trees, which, gnarled
and twisted, hear often the burden of several
centuries, the fertile soil is teeming with
luxuriant vegetation. One by one, as the
early spring days wear on, new and varied
blossoms open their eyes to the sunlight.
The purple anemone first, as harbinger of
the brighter scarlet variety, which, rare at
the beginning, and eagerly seized upon as a
prize, warms the terraced hill-slope with
ruddy patches as the days go by. The narcissus
is the next to awaken from the sleep
of an indulgent winter; then the great
purple and yellow flags, or fleurs de lis,
amongst their fluted blades of pointed
foliage, and then the violets make their
appearance in countless numbers, filling the
soft air with their fragrance.

As the weather grew warmer, Hugo and

I would often wander in these pleasant
flowery places. Little pathways led through
the olive-grounds at the back of the old
palace, and up into the mountains beyond.
The ascent was so gradual  so masked by
twisted stems and branches, that it was
quite a surprise to us, at first, upon reaching
an open space, to look down the valley
and see how far we were above the smiling
town, the white houses of which we beheld
in what seemed quite the far distance, by
the shore of the bluest of blue seas.

Sometimes we came upon the primitive
dwelling-places of the peasant proprietors,
perched picturesquely in a sheltered spur of
the mountain, with wine-press and olive-mill
all complete, seeming  to my English
eyes, more like rough stables than human
habitations, and recalling to my mind the
little houses and towers that I remembered
to have seen depicted in some of the backgrounds

of the early Italian masters, whose
"works I had admired in the London galleries.
As we wandered thus, there came into
my mind, for the first time, a consciousness
and appreciation of the old Pagan spirit,
associating man and his pigmy heart-beats
with the sublimer pulsations of Nature 
which died so hard, if, indeed, it has ever
really died  before the teachings of more
modern creeds : 

And old Silenus, shaking a green stick
Of lilies, and the wood-gods in a crew

Came, blithe, as in the olive copses thick
Cicada are, drunk with the noonday dew ;

And Driope and Faunus followed quick,
Teasing the god to sing them something new."

These were the classic shapes I was prepared
to see lurking amongst the shadows,
and I half-expected to espy the brown
goat-foot gods, crouched down amongst the
purple irises, and pouring forth the trickling
streamlets from their earthen jars.

And all this time, the reader may inquire
did I experience any tenderer feeling for
my husband ? I know, now, that I was in
love with the place  inspired by the passionate
and exultant vitality which seemed
to be throbbing and expanding around me,
and that I was conscious of the romance
and mystery of the situation in which I
found myself. I was grateful for, and
gladdened by, Hugo's admiring devotion 
his craving for my society ; for to some
women, even if they can mete out no very
generous measure in return, it is much Insomuch
!) to minister to the happiness of
another, even supposing that this other
fails in satisfying entirely their own unconscious
yearnings !

To Hugo himself, however, apart from all
the charm of his accessories, I could never
make that absolute surrender which I have
learnt since to identify with the intense

and more passionate forms of human affection.
Perhaps, had life ended for me at
about this time, I might never have known
how different is Love's reckless and unreasoning
madness from the calm, complacent,
mood, in which I passed these early
married days, and there must be many
women who leave the world, hourly, in a
like blissful ignorance : 

These questioned not ; silent enduring souls,
Who neither knew the best or worst of life ! "

During our walks, my husband spoke tome
often upon the subject of his religious
opinions. He was relieved to find, he said,
that I was not wedded to any particular
form of bigotry, as was so often the case
with Englishwomen, but that I seemed to
be open to conviction upon almost every
subject;  that Science had performed a
mighty work in liberating us from enervating
superstitions, but that it did not, of

necessity, follow that those who were the
most sceptical with regard to the established
creeds, were in consequence, less spiritually
minded. With respect to what had hitherto
been accepted as truth by the greater
part of the civilised world, there had lately
arisen, he said, a good deal of discussion ;
but few had, as yet, been able to elaborate
any convenient substitute for "the gods we
had out-grown'' He was of opinion that,
amongst intellectual people, the prevailing
spirit was one of scepticism, mingled with a
desire to temporise and shirk all personal
responsibility ; so that they behaved, with
regard to all obsolete faiths and f etishisms,
very much as he remembered to have heard
that a certain economical personage behaved
in respect to some of his clothes,
which, after his death, were found hoarded
up in dark cupboards, and labelled, "Too
old to wear, but too good to throw away."

For himself, Ilugo said, there were hut
two questions which possessed any vital
importance : Was there a personal Deity  a
benevolent Father, who supervised and
arranged all our human affairs, who could
be moved by our prayers and interested in
Civ actions ? and, Was there an after-life,
wherein our sensations would sufficiently
correspond to those we had previously
experienced, in the flesh, to entitle us to be
considered in any respect as the same
individual who had once walked upon
earth? Whilst such questions as these
remained unanswered, he said that he
could only smile at the absurd " enfant
" of certain learned priests and
doctors of divinity, who could condescend
to waste both breath and ink in lengthy
discussions as to whether the forbidden
fruit of Scripture was an ap2)lo or a jcar;
whether the officiating clergyman should

crawl towards the altar like a lizard, or
approach it after a more convenient fashion;
or whether he should lift or lower the
extreme tip of his elbow during the celebration
of the Holy Communion !

My husband next spoke to me upon
the subject of mesmerism, hypnotism, and
clairvoyance, &c. He mentioned, besides,
several other " hard names " which I did
not remember ever to have heard before.
He almost feared, he said, to converse with
me upon these matters until my mind had
been enlightened by a little preparatory
reading, lest I should look upon him as
the victim of a monomania. With the
view of educating me, however, he had
brought with him several books, treating
upon these, and other, analogous subjects,
which he would give me upon the very
earliest opportunity ; and, on the evening
following upon this conversation, as he was

about to leave me for the night, he asked
me to come with him in order that he might
give me the books in question. I followed
him to his room, and looked, with mingled
feelings of shyness and curiosity, at all the
"unfamiliar manly things that I beheld for
the first time. He searched in a portmanteau
for the books, and, having found them,
handed them to me, and begged that I
would read them with attention. I saw
that two of the books were in German 
a language of which I possessed, at this
time, only a rudimentary knowledge. I
told Hugo this, but he said that I might
be able to understand them with the help
of a dictionary ; if not, he would endeavour
to obtain for me an English translation as
soon as possible.

The titles of the books were certainly
somewhat alarming ; they ran thus : 

'* A Journal of Cerebral Physiology and

Mesmerism," by T. Moist (in thirteen vols),
Yol. I.

Subversion of Materialism," by Prebendary
J. Dennis.

' On Force and its Mental Correlates,"
by Charles Bray.

'physiology, Medicine, et Mtaphysique
du Magnetism," par J. Champion.

'' La Clef des Grands Mysteries," par
Elias Levi.

'die Sympathetic Magnetised Heil-
unde." J. Schedule.

"Yon der alt en und neuen Magie IXrs-
sprung, Idee, Umfang, und Geschichte."
Geors: Conrad Horst.

'' You must read each day a portion of one
of these books, my Helen," he said, " and
you will then learn to understand better the
dreams and ambitions of your husband."

Then he kissed me, and bade me goodnight,
and I stole back, through the deserted
rooms, with my armful of occult literature.

My mesmeric and spiritualistic reading, supplemented
by Hugo's explanations, enabled
me, ere long, to form some idea of what he
had spoken of as his dreams and ambitions.
Without allowing myself to be influenced
by what Mr. Collingwood had told me, to
the effect that both my husband and his-sister
were " a little mad," I certainly
found it difficult to follow the Prince in
some of his serial flights. His dreams
struck me as being altogether dreams 
fantastic and impracticable ; his ambitions
impossible of attainment, and therefore

profitless. I perceived that lie was a mystic
that he listened to voices (as my godfather
had said) which nobody else could
hear ; but his character seemed to be so
generous and tractable, his mind so just
and unprejudiced, and his heart so entirely
my own, that I had no wish to quarrel
with him for holding opinions which, as
yet, I was unable either to share or to
comprehend.

Those that I could grasp with less difficulty,
had reference to the social intercourse
of daily life, and to the salutary or baneful
effects which may be produced, upon highly
sensitive organisations, by their human surroundings.


Some of these ideas, I believe, are shared
by a religious community styling themselves
" the Brotherhood of the New Life,"
although I never heard that my husband
had had any connection with them. I possessed

myself, the result of certain physical
experiences, some notions of the same kind,
but it had never occurred to me to formulate
them, as I should scarcely have known
how to distinguish my real impressions from
those that were purely imaginary.

Hugo, however, being, as he informed
me, constitutionally sensitive to mesmeric
influences, had had the consideration of this
subject forced upon him, having been, he
said, actually paralysed, at times, in what he
termed his '' volitional power " by a nature
stronger, in several respects, than his own,
with which it had been his fate to be
perpetually brought in contact. He had
endeavoured, as soon as he fully realised
the extent of this domination, to escape from
it by various means. Eut, in spite of the
power which he could obtain over some
gentler natures, he was, in this case, utterly
helpless, and had finally come to regard this

particular person as his absolute controller.


It bad occurred to bim, however, that,
could be only fortify and vitalise himself by
a threefold union of mind, body, and soul,
with a being strong enough to renew the
forces capable of being thus absorbed and
withdrawn, he might be enabled, perhaps,
successfully to counteract this previous
subjection of spirit, and return to his
normal condition. He alluded to this
second influence as a sort of " cross-reservation,"
productive sometimes, he
informed me, of ** a state of absolute mental
chaos," and dangerous, for this reason, in
cases where the limits of the rapport about
to be established had not been carefully
defined and considered.

There were, however, he said, so many

difficulties in his path, that, at the time of

our meeting, he had almost abandoned the
VOL. I. s

idea as impossible of realisation. Women
who would surrender to another all that
it was in their power to give, nobody
would have despaired of finding. But
when a weak and irresponsible being
pours forth her whole soul, or delivers
her feeble individuality into the keeping
of the man she professes to love, it is
merely as if one were to deluge a wine
cask with white rain-water. She gives
him, not of her strength but of her
weakness. He becomes merely the recipient
of what she has found worthless and
ineffectual in herself. But then,  Hugo
continued,  he had already experienced the
disadvantages attendant upon an association
with an imperious and uncompromising
will ! Where would it be possible
for him to discover the being who should
possess, in a proper proportion, the qualities
to be desired, and who would exercise her

dominion discreetly, wisely  above all,
mercifully ?

' Nowhere I " was the sad answer that
seemed always to come to him whenever
he asked himself this question ; and so, ashe
informed me upon the occasion of his
first visit to Northover, neither marriage
nor affection had entered into the programme
of his existence, and all women
had seemed to him to be *' like dolls," until
he had found himself seated by my side in
the tea-room at Inglebyby Grange. He perceived
in me then, he said  or he had
imagined that he had perceived  a certain
mixture of wisdom and ignorance, of helplessness
and self-reliance, which had impressed
him as he had never been impressed
by anything of the kind before. He saw
that I was possessed of ' one of those
exceptional feminine natures" that are

capable of standing alone intellectually 

s2

that I could form an independent judgment,
trust to the penetration of my own
mind, and that I should have no need to
fasten upon other intellects and derive my
sustenance from them like a vampire. I
should take from another only what I
required to complete my own nature, and
affection was all that I unconsciously put
forth my will to obtain.

There was a legend in his family, he said,
to the effect that the dominion over the
minds of others, which was peculiar to his
race, would cease to exist in the individual
who should experience the passion of love
in its utmost intensity. " When thou shalt
give over thy heart, thy mind, and thy soul,
into the keeping of one that thou lowest
utterly with thy threefold nature, then shall
thine enemies obtain the dominion over
thee." So ran the legend.

He assured me, however, that he had

never felt any such love as this for the
doll '' women he had previously fallen in
with, and he had fancied that it would be
impossible for him ever to experience it in
the future, until he had met with the one
being whom he believed to be capable of
'' completing and regenerating" his whole
nature.

He told me that, previous to our marriage,
he had endeavoured to test the power
of my intellect and my " volition," and that
he had found himself capable, in most
instances, of maintaining that ascendancy
which ought always to be the portion of
the husband. It was with this object that
he had exerted his magnetic influence at
the ball, and had '* willed," afterwards, that
I should meet him in the old summerhouse
at a particular hour. I told him that
I had decided to go there of my own accord,
urged by a combination of circumstances

with wliicli his '' volition " could have had
no connection whatever : and that, even the
inclination, thus awakened, had abandoned
me long before the hour of the proposed
meeting. He replied that this might possibly
be explained by the fact that, as soon
as he became certain of proceeding to
London, he had felt that it would be useless
to put forward any further effort of will.

But his object, he said, was not, now, to
prove that he was the stronger of us two.
He desired, on the contrary, to make me an
admission which he would hesitate to make
to any other woman living. He then confessed
to me  speaking with some emotion
that he found himself completely at my
mercy. All his boasted philosophy, lie
said, had failed him for the first time. He
loved me utterly and entirely, with all the
love of which his being was capable. His
will, his '* magnetism," had all departed

from him ; he had surrendered his existence
into my hands !

Seeing that he appeared to be really
alarmed as to the consequences which might
ensue upon this departure from his original
plan, I said all that I could to reassure him.
He told me that the family tradition, about
falling into the power of his enemies, was
not what disturbed him. He regarded this
merely as a salutary warning, directed, in
the abstract, against the allurements of the
Delia's of life  syrens with whom the
warrior might dally whilst his sword was
rusting in its scabbard, his charger stamping
in its stall, and whilst the foemen were
even at the city gate. His apprehensions
arose from a sense of his present inability
to counteract, and withstand, the power to
which he had previously alluded, should he
find himself, as might happen at any
moment, once more within reach of its

influence. I asked him if this power was
wielded by a person who was his enemy ?
He replied, No ; that the influence was not
intentionally malignant, and that it had,
on some occasions, been exerted for his
benefit, but that it had always had the
effect of paralysing his will, and of rendering
him helpless as an infant. All he had
desired was, to be enabled to encounter
the person who exercised it upon a footing
of equality ; to be no longer a puppet in
the hands of another. But now, his
strength was gone ; he had no weapon
wherewith to defend himself ! . . .

I told him, in spite of my being unable,
wholly, to comprehend his fears, that if,
indeed, his will had been surrendered into
my hands, it should be my mission to meet,
and combat, the paralysing influence to
which he had referred. He said that, if I
could only do this, all would be well ; he

should then cast from him, for ever, the
mortifying memories of the past, and resign
himself to his present happiness, which was
greater than anything he could have before
imagined.

I was rejoiced to think that it was in my
power to minister thus to my husband's
happiness. Ever since I had arrived at
woman's years, I had been possessed of an
intense craving to protect, to soothe, to
comfort, some being whose life could be
made brighter by my sympathy and friendship.
That Hugo should cling to me thus
seemed to count, in my eyes, as one of the
greatest of his merits.

He asked me, frequently, whether I was
certain that I cared for him, and told me
that, if so, I could not remind him too often
of my affection, since, in this respect, he
' was like a woman,"  deriving strength and
encouragement from spoken assurances, and

never wholly free from apprehension that
the discovery of some of his numerous
defects might make a difference in my
heart.

I told him, what was then no more than
the truth, that T perceived in him none of
the defects to which he alluded; that I
cared for him more than I had ever cared
for anybody else ; that I was proud of, and
grateful for, his affection, and that I looked
forward to the day when we should be able
to avow our marriage.

He seemed, however, to be always a little
mistrustful, even after my repeated assurances,
telling me that, "for a woman who
was really in love," I " kept my head "
as he had never known a woman keep it
before in like case. I have since thought
that, perhaps, he could read my heart better
than I then knew how to read it myself !

Once the Prince inquired of me, very

earnestly, what discovery would be the most
likely to estrange a woman's affection from
the man she had previously loved ? what
defects in his character would be certain to
render him for ever hateful in her eyes ?

I considered for some time before replying,
and then said that I thought the
discovery of meanness, cowardice, or untruthfulness
 the defects, in fact, of a bad
woman  was what would render a man
contemptible in my eyes, and that I fancied
it would be impossible to love a man one
utterly despised, although one might forgive
those faults which resulted from misdirected
impulse, however serious their
consequences.

We were driving together, when the
Prince asked me this question, along the
lovely road which lies between Nice and
Villafranca. We had started upon our way
accompanied by Miss Warden, to save appearances,

but had deposited her on the
Promenade des Anglais intending to pick
her up on our homeward way, three not
being, as she had herself remarked, a very
convenient number for private conversation.


I noticed that Hugo seemed strangely
anxious that I should explain more fully
the significance of my words.

He took my hand in his, looked earnestly
in my face, and asked me whether, by
meanness* I intended to refer to a want
of generosity with regard to money, and
whether, by '' cowardice," and '' untruthfulness,"
I meant that kind of moral
timidity which might spring from an excusable
desire to spare another person the
pain of some unpleasant avowal, or a want
of physical courage to face and combat
assailing dangers ?

I replied that I was not thinking of

meanness merely in connection with money,
since a person might have some generous
motive for the practice of economy ; but
that by ' meanness, cowardice, and untruthfulness,"
I meant rather the traducing
of a friend behind his back, the striking of
a man when he was down, and the conscious
misrepresentation of facts from interested
and selfish motives.

The Prince became somewhat pensive and
silent after this, but I did not think that
my answer could have either pained or
annoyed him, for he continued to hold my
hand in his until the end of our tdte-a-tMe,
saying that he derived " courage, consolation,
and hope " from the contact.

I drew off my glove, being proud of my
beautiful cat's-eye ring, and, thinking to
make him smile, clenched my fist with
mock ferocity, and told him that whilst I
was by his side to defend him, and to

combat the sinister influence to wliicli he
had just alluded, he need be in no fear of
falling into the power of this enemies. But
he only looked graver than before, and I
perceived that he regarded this subject as
one that was much too serious to jest
about.

On the evening following upon this drive,
as I was sitting with my husband in the
drawing-room, the door leading into the
passage quietly opened and Mason emerged
unexpectedly from behind the folds of the
portiere.

It happened that Hugo had come to me,
upon this occasion, by way of the balcony,
which extended from his room to ours, and
so in at the window, in order to avoid all
noise, and 1 suppose it was the making of
this slight change in his programme which
had caused him to forget to secure the
door.

Upon beholding Prince Crecszoleski
seated familiarly by my side upon the sofa,
arrayed in his sable-trimmed tosja  obviously
the costume of the bed-chamber 
the poor woman was naturally transfixed
with horror and amazement. She stood
for some seconds contemplating us in
silence, and then, after murmuring '' Oh,
Miss ndcn ! " in a voice full of reproach
and consternation, she burst into a flood of
tears.

We both rose simultaneously to our feet.
To my intense relief, Hugo at once told her
the truth. ' We have been married since
the month of October, Mrs. Mason," he
said, " so there is no occasion for uneasiness.
But for your master's precarious
condition, and the doctor's recommendation
to avoid all that might agitate him, we
should have made our confession before
now. I must hope that you will feel disposed

to be as good a friend to me, in the
future, as you have proved to my wife in the
past."

The news seemed to surprise her greatly.
She had been generally in such close attendance
upon Sir Harry that she had had no
opportunity of observing our growing intimacy,
and her ignorance of Prencli had
prevented her from understanding any of
the gossiping remarks which it might have
occasioned in the hotel. Her unexpected
appearance, therefore, had not been due to
any suspicion upon her part. She had
merely come to borrow some wood, and fir-cones,
for Sir Harry's fire, as he was feeling
a little chilly. Hugo begged her, for the
present, to treat his communication as confidential.


As soon as we were once more alone, I
asked my husband whether he really meant
soon to declare our marriage ? He replied

VOL. I. T

that in this, as in all things, he would be
guided entirely by me. I was pleased and
flattered at this patient subservience to my
will, which I had observed, of late, often
followed upon some desire of mine to which
I had not even given audible expression.

Perhaps, I have since thought, having
learnt low rare it is for a man to assume,
after marriage, the submissive manner of a
lover, I may not have seemed sufficiently
grateful for this voluntary departure from
the generally approved male tactics. As
yet, however, I was not experienced enough
to know that his behaviour was at all exceptional.
Woman in the arrogance of her
youth and beauty, and man in the consciousness
of his strength, are apt to be
somewhat exacting, and to accept, as a
matter of course, those good gifts which
appear to them, in after years, in the light
of generous concessions. In these days, however,

I was neither in a position to analyse
nor to make comparisons. I have made them
since, with the result of summoning tears
to my eyes, and vain regrets to my heart ;
and in order that I may absolve my conscience
from this suspicion of seeming ingratitude,
I have tried to believe that
Hugo's tender and obedient demeanour
may have been partly involuntary. That
he might, perhaps, have endeavoured to
dominate and dictate, like any other husband,
but that being, as he termed it, ' a
sensitive " and influenced by me in his
volitional power," he recognised his own
inability to combat and oppose my wishes.
In a word, that his docility may have been
as much a result of mesmerism as of affection.
But I am as ignorant, now, upon this
subject, as I was then.

Before parting for the night, Ave had

agreed that, upon the morrow. Sir Larry

t2

should be informed of our marriage. It
had been previously arranged that on this
day we were to make an expedition to
Monaco, or Monte Carlo, as it is more
generally called. We now settled that, after
driving there in the morning, breakfasting
at the Hotel de Paris, and looking on fora
little while at the gambling. Miss Warden
and I should stroll about in the grounds,
leaving my father and Hugo seated together
upon the terrace, and that there the Prince
should gradually break the news of the important
step we had taken.

As I desired, in spite of the displeasure
which I felt certain that I should incur, to
inform my godfather of it also, and as the
Prince had, as yet, confided in no member
of his own household except in Zoubiroff,
the cause of whose sudden disappearance
remained still a mystery, I asked him
whether he would not like, before communi-eating

our secret to Sir Harry, to confide in
his sister Delphine, in order that she might
not feel wounded at his reticence towards her
once our marriage became publicly known ?

A cloud passed over his brow at the mention
of this name. I had noticed before
that, in spite of his professed affection for
her, allusions to his sister seemed to awaken
memories which were not altogether agreeable,
and, for this reason, I had generally
changed the conversation before I had
obtained much definite information respecting
a person to whom I had become so
nearly related.

I now inquired of Hugo who his sister
had married; whether she had any children;
and whether he thought that she would
approve of our union, and that we should
all be good friends? He replied  his face
still wearing an unaccountable expression
of pain that his sister had married when

very young, a man old enough to have been
her father, one General Dobrowolski, with
whom, however, he believed that she had
lived happily until his death, which occurred
only a few years after the marriage. She
had then remained a widow for a while,
residing chiefly in Paris and Vienna, and
occasionally at her old home. Eventually,
however, she had re-married. This time
her marriage was not so happy. Her husband,
although both wealthy and learned,
was beneath her in position. The marriage
had not been pleasing to her family. Neither
by this union, nor by the former one, had
she had any children, and she was now, for
the second time, a widow.

I remarked to my husband that, as his
sister's second marriage had been displeasing
to him, she would hardly be in a position to
criticise, or complain of, his own, and that I
thought no time ought to be lost before

writing to inform her of it. To this he
replied that some women were strange, unreasonable,
over-sensitive beings, and that it
was impossible for him to predict how even
his own sister misrht behave in a case like
the present. He did not imagine for a
moment that she would see any cause for
objection, but she was deeply attached to
him, and had always shown herself to be, to
a certain extent, jealous of his affection.
Also, she was in the position of his heir,
and had been accustomed to take an active
part in the management of his estates. .On
the whole, therefore, Hugo said that he
would prefer to wait until he could make
sure of a personal interview with her. She
visited Paris almost every year at Easter.
On our way back to England he would
make an appointment with her there, and
would then tell her of [the change he had
made in his existence, instead of writing.

But this is no reason, why you should
not confide in our good friend, George," he
added, in response, as it seemed, to my
earnest inward desire ; *' for as my good
friend I shall continue to count him,
although he believes me to be little better
than a harmless maniac! But for his hospitality
I should never, perhaps, have met
with my beloved Helen. George Collins
has earned my eternal gratitude ! "

Hugo then spoke to me, almost for the
first time, of his parents. His mother, he
said, was a wife after the pattern of St.
Elizabeth of Hungary, '* imbued with all
the Manichean asceticism of the saints of
the Middle Ages," and who had come under
the influence of a priest as arbitrary and
bigoted as Conrad of Marpurg. In her
desire to attain to the ideal of apostolic
holiness, she separated herself from her
husband, in spite of her deep affection for

him, having persuaded herself that those
family ties to which we all of us owe our
existence, were merely degrading snares of
the Evil One, which it was our duty to resist
and forego. She sought, therefore, the
sanctuary of a convent shortly after the
birth of her daughter, where, in spite of
the repeated entreaties of her husband, she
lived for over eight years in pious retreat.
At the end of this time, how, and wherefore,
it was impossible to explain after all the
years that had elapsed, she was induced
once more to resume her married life, and
the Prince her husband was rejoiced, some
two years afterwards, by the birth of a
son, for which event he had most ardently
longed. His satisfaction, however, was but
of short duration. This son cost his mother
her life, and his father soon afterwards
followed her to the grave.

I am the child, therefore," said Hugo,

in conclusion J *' of my fatlicr's passionate
desire  of my mother's reluctant surrender.
The poor woman would have wished me to
have been born entirely of the Spirits and
there have been moments in my life when
I have felt that there was in my nature an
intense sympathy with the inhabitants of an
unseen world. Then, my father's practical,
material, nature, is triumphant. I descend
from the cold regions of the clouds and
resign myself with enthusiastic eagerness
to the allurements of earth. My sister,
the first child of this incongruous union,
is possessed of a more masculine nature.
Like her father, she is resolute, self-reliant,
fearless, and strongly imbued with the
materialistic spirit; and yet she, too, has
lier inspired moments  her admonitions
from the invisible world ! It is curious
to observe how we are all made up of
contradictions ; surely we can scarcely designate

a person as ' an individual ' when
so many opposing individuality are making
war in his blood ! As Eugene Sue has said,
To comprehend everything is to forgive
all ! ' "

I now thought that I had probably
penetrated the mystery which had seemed
to me, hitherto, to envelope the existence
of Hugo's sister, and that I could account
satisfactorily for the cloud which was wont
to appear upon his brow at the mention of
lier name. She was an eccentric, self-willed
woman, at whose hands he had probably
suffered many things, "strongly imbued
with the materialistic spirit," and she had
made an undesirable second marriage which
had displeased her family.

Was she the person who had dominated
him ? I wondered ; who represented the
influence " stronger in several respects "
than his own with which he had told me

that it had been his fate to '' be perpetually
brought in contact " ; which had had the
effect of paralysing his *' volitional power,"
and which it was my appointed mission to
mitigate and counteract ? Some day, no
doubt, all would be made plain to me, and,
in the meant hue, I did not think that it
would be generous on my part to cross-question
my husband upon what was evidently
an unpleasant subject.

I wrote to my godfather by the early post
upon the following day, and experienced a
sense of relief when I knew that my letter
had actually started upon its way. I felt,
however, that I must not indulge in unalloyed
satisfaction until I knew in what
spirit Sir Harry would receive the intelligence
which was to be communicated to
him later on in the day, and I could not
help looking forward to our expedition to
Monte Carlo with a good deal of anxiety.

I HAVE often wondered whether there is
really anything in what is called " a presentiment
of evil " or not ? Many others
have, doubtless, wondered likewise ; or have
endeavoured to connect the gloomy forebodings
which have, at times, oppressed
them, with some definite calamity which
may afterwards have come to pass.

Por my own part, I am inclined to think
that misfortunes are apt to come upon us
unexpectedly, " shod with silence," and
numbing us with the shock of a surprise;
and I even hold a kind of superstitious

belief that, to anticipate an evil, goes someway
towards preventing it.

Be this as it may, beyond a natural anxiety
as to the result of Hugo's communication to
my father, I do not remember experiencing
any marked sense of dread or uneasiness
upon the morning of this particular day. I
had risen betimes, and, after writing my
letter to Mr. Collingwood, I wandered forth
into the old Italian garden, before Miss
"Warden had made her appearance.

This garden  which I have never beheld
since these days of my early married life,
and which it is unlikely that I shall ever
behold again  if it be true that it is now
portioned out into building lots was a delicious
dream of luxuriant southern beauty.
It was disposed in shady terraces, ornamented
with roughly sculptured mediaeval
seats and figures, whence the town of Nice,
with the blue Mediterranean beyond, could

1)6 seen outspread in glittering panorama.
At the back of the old palace, the higher
peaks of the snow mountains were sparkling
in the morning sun ; whilst to right and left,
rose the grey, olive-clad hills, amongst which
Hugo and I had so often wandered.

The intense beauty of this scene, combined,
as it was, with a perfect climate,
inspired me with a physical joy in living
which was altogether new to me. My soul
became flooded with tender emotion, and,
turning towards the house, I gazed up at
Hugo's windows, wishing that he would
come out and join me in the garden. As I
was looking thus, with this wish for him in
my heart, he threw back the green shutters
and stepped out upon the balcony.

I suppose that I possess one of those
natures that can love best what I know to
be really my own ; what I can take without
let or hindrance, or self-reproach, to my

heart ; the reverse, in fact, of what I have
"heard tell" of the male disposition. In
spite of my liking for the romantic and exceptional
aspects of existence, I was heartily
tired, now, of prevarications and concealments.
I had gone through all the excitement
which usually accompanies an intrigue,
and was familiar with most of the subterfuges
consequent upon a clandestine marriage
; hut I realised, at this moment, that I
should probably feel a warmer and deeper
affection for my lover once I could openly
acknowledge him as my husband, and that I
did not take any additional pleasure in his
society because he had occasionally come tome
through the window instead of the door.
Was it the crisp inspiring air of the morning,
the perfume of violets and orange-blossom,
the glimpses of far mountain and
blue ocean ? I know not. Although such
combinations may tend, at times, to lend an

unsuspected bias to our mood. I know,
however, as I look back to this day, that I
had never come so near to loving Hugo
Crecszoleski as upon this particular morning.
He perceived me immediately, made a
sign that he did so, and in a few minutes he
was standing beside me upon the terrace.
It was a moment that I shall remember as
long as I live, however much. I may desire
to forget it.

He took my hand, and I felt, at once,
that he both understood and shared my
emotion. Who can tell, had events been
ordered differently, of what new and undisturbed
contentment this sense of mutual
sympathy might not have made the beginning?
Something,  a shadow a suspicion,
an unaccountable feeling of painful
anticipation and restraint, had seemed, until
now, to stand between my husband and

myself. I hoped that this was about to
VOL. I, tl

lift and disperse, like the mists of the
morning. It had been occasioned, I fancied,
by the exceptional position in which
I had found myself placed, and by ail the
mystery and insincerity resulting therefrom.
A calmer, brighter existence was
about to unfold before me, and I was experiencing,
to-day, the first manifestations
of this new state. I know not, wholly,
whether I ought to rejoice, or to lament,
because my impression turned out to be a
wrong one. Life is so strange, with its
surprises, its contrasts, its vague and unprofitable
regrets. Mine must have been
altogether different, of course, had I become
the sport of different circumstances.
My affections, my ambitions, my failings,
would have been all other than they are,
and my story, it may be, even less worthy
than now of note or record.

"We judge others," George Eliot says.

' according to results. How else ? Not
knowing the process by which results are
arrived at."

Could we but comprehend this " process'
and thus direct the course of these "results,"
man would be lord of creation, indeed, and
stand in need of no higher guidance !

As had been previously arranged, we
started upon our expedition at about ten
o'clock, and upon our arrival at Monte
Carlo, breakfasted at the Hotel de Paris.
The beauty of the place charmed and
fascinated me. I said to myself that when
our marriage had been declared and acknowledged,
I should ask Hugo to bring
me here again, from time to time, in order
that we might drink in warmth and sunshine
whilst it was winter in our English
home. For that we should have a home
in England, some day, Hugo had seemed

quite confident,  ever since his negociations

V 2

with Mr. Marks had taken such a satisfactory
turn.

My father's voice recalled me to the
present as I was musing thus.

This is a first-rate place," he remarked,
addressing himself to Hugo, " for a fine
young bachelor like you, but an old fellow
like me feels rather like a fish out of water
amongst all these gay folks !"

I hope not to remain a bachelor,
always," returned the Prince with a glance
towards the place where I was sitting ;
** and I hope, too, when I am married, not
to be cut off, for that reason, from all
pleasant places, which should, in such
happy circumstances, seem to become only
the more enjoyable."

He spoke, as he usually did, in a somewhat
stilted and elaborate manner. I felt,
however, that he meant what he said, and,
as I agreed cordially with the sentiments

expressed, I sent liii a kindly glance across
the little marble table at which we were
taking coffee after our luncheon.

*' Don't ever marry, Prince," Sir Harry
went on, with the manner of one who had
given the subject his most serious consideration,
'' women are all sly cats ; they've
no shame, no honour, no compassion ! The
gentler, the kinder, the more grateful and
humble they seem, the more ready are they
to betray you or stab you in the back ! If
I had been as good a hand with my pen as
I was, once, with my gun, I think I should
have set down all their badness in a book,
and then printed it, and shot myself afterwards,
perhaps ! But it's too late, now, to
talk of what one would have done once.
Only, you. Prince, take the advice of an old
man. Use them for your own pleasure as
long as they can amuse you, and then fling
them upon one side ; for, believe me,

they're none of them worth keeping! And
above all, don't be fool enough to marry
one of them, and let her creep into your
heart ! Women are sly cats!"

My father's tones had grown in bitterness
as he went on. I was at a loss to imagine
what could so suddenly have aroused him
from his usual torpor to this pitch of angry
denunciation. At the same time, I was not
altogether sorry that Hugo should become
aware of the strange alternations of mood
to which Sir Harry was occasionally subject.
It was far better that, as my husband, he
should know precisely how I had been situated
at home ; and it would make him careful,
too, in the future, to avoid saying or
doing anything which might call forth these
ebullitions of ill-humour.

Miss Warden, in a discreet " aside'* whispered
to me that she attributed this unexpected
outburst to the cup of black coffee

and the petit verve of  fine cJiampagne
of which Sir Harry had rashly partaken.
We had been repeatedly warned that stimulants
were bad for him ; but he had seemed
so much better of late, that, in a public place,
we had not liked to subject him to any
restrictions.

In order to turn the subject, Hugo now
proposed, with great tact, that we should go
and look on at the gambling. We asked
him if he intended to play himself? He
replied; Yes, for a wonder, just to see
whether he was in luck or not. I, toothed
come prepared to risk at least a Napoleon
at the tables, with the same object. Miss
Warden, who confessed, now, that she had
always been conscious that a wild passion
for gambling had lain dormant in her
secret soul for years, was determined to
yield to it,  just this once, and to hazard a
five franc piece. The proceeds of this first

crime  for such she said she felt it to be 
(supposing there were any,) were to go towards
swelling the funds for the new
English church, which was just then in
course of erection within sight of where we
were sitting.

After settling our account with the waiter,
we were about to rise from our places, when
Hugo suddenly changed colour, and, turning
to me, said, in an agitated undertone 

'' No ! Helen ; I shall not tempt fortune
to-day  neither at the tables nor in any
other manner ! I should have no chance
this morning ; I am not in luck ; the Seven
Sleepers have turned !"

I had come to know the meaning of this
figurative speech. It had reference to the
Seven Sleepers of Ephesus, who, according
to ancient tradition, turned over upon
their sides whenever any calamity threatened
Christendom. Hugo who, as I was

now aware, held many curious opinions  did
not consider the legend altogether in the
light of a myth. He had told me that he
regarded their sleep as a mesmeric trance,
and believed that they might have turned
occasionally in the course of it. When,
therefore, he said " the Seven Sleepers
have turned'* he meant to convey that
he fancied he was menaced by some stroke
of bad luck.

Whilst my father  who remained sitting
at the little round table from which the rest
of our party had risen  stared vacantly at
the gaily-dressed figures that went flitting
to and fro in the sunshine, the Prince whispered
in my ear that he thought it would
be imprudent to broach the subject of our
marriage whilst Sir Harry was in such an
irritable mood. He would go into the SaVe
de Jeu, he said, and see if there were any
places at the tables, returning to fetch us if

he found that the company was ' not too
objectionable." He left us hereupon, and
went off in the direction of the Casino.

I gazed after him as he went ; and, as I
watched his tall, graceful, figure, passing out
into the full sunlight and crossing the broad
gravel walk, experienced something like
pride as I contrasted this distinguished-looking
man  my husband  with some of
the other visitors assembled upon the terrace.
His appearance seemed to excite the
notice, and  as I fondly imagined the
admiration of most of these. Several of the
prettily-dressed ladies looked back at him
from under their lace parasols, after he had
passed; and two men in particular, who
were loitering about the entrance to the
Casino, nudged one another as he went in
at the door, and exchanged a few remarks,
as I fancied, to the Prince's advantage.
All this pleased and gratified me. As I

have already admitted, I was, upon this
particular day, inTan unusually susceptible
and emotional state ; but, whatsoever her
mood, it must always be gratifying, I should
think, to a woman dien she recognizes the
physical attractions of the husband she has
chosen, and when she is conscious that other
people are aware of them also. Esteem and
respect, we are told, should rest upon a
more solid foundation; but, be this how it
may, I was glad to know upon this sunny
February morning that Hugo was, outwardly,
so good to look upon ; and I think
if I was ever really fond of him that I was
fond of him then.

Good-looking fellow ! " remarked Sir
Harry, rousing himself from his reverie,
and seeming also to be impressed with my
husband's comeliness; 'but if he's making
love to you, Nelly, we shall have to give
him the cold shoulder ! Your husband was

chosen for you very soon after you were
born''

You mean Courtenay Davenant," I said ;
but indeed, indeed papa, that can never
be ! Besides, Courtenay was against it himself.
He objected to the marriage of first
cousins."

'' Young people are fools, miss ! " returned
Sir Harry, sharply. ' I heard all he had to
say against it in London, and, after giving
him a few pages of family history, I brought
him. round to my way of thinking. It's
uncommonly lucky that he ended by taking
my view, as it's the only way of making
everything straight and comfortable for you
both!"

He did not pause for a reply, but turned
his back upon us abruptly; and, adjusting
some field-glasses which he had brought
With him, seemed to become absorbed in a
contemplation of the far sea-view.

I thought low differently these words,
which he had just uttered, would have
affected me only a few months ago  before
T had taken the law into my own hands, and
arranged the plan of my existence according
to my own notions. How wounded I
should have felt at the idea that Courtenay
should have been talked over by my father
and " brought round " (much against his
will, no doubt, and entirely from motives of
self-interest) to his 'away of thinking."
This veering round again, upon my cousin's
part, to the original family scheme, accounted
(I thought) for his proposal to visit North-over,
and for the card which had been left
upon me on the very morning of my wedding.


I had no wish to annoy my father by saying
anything more upon the subject. When
it would be safe for us to declare our marriage,
I did not know. I should be of age.

however, in the following December, and
before that time, something might turn upto
make our path easier. Eor the moment,
I only experienced a sense of unalloyed
triumph, and I smiled towards the place
where Miss VT arden was standing, with the
smile of one who has confounded, by her
own prowess, the selfish machinations of her
persecutors.

As I was musing thus, I saw Hugo
emerge from the doorway of the Casino. He
had scarcely passed out into the sunshine,
however, before one of the two men I had
already observed, stepped forward, and laid
hold of his coat collar. Almost simultaneously,
the second man seized him by
the right arm. The Prince started, and
ejaculated something, but we were too far
off to catch his words.

It all happened in a moment. Miss
Warden and I looked on in the greatest

amazement, scarcely believing the testimony
of our own eyes

My father was still looking through his
glasses in the direction of the Mediterranean,
and so saw nothing of what was
happening.

The two men who had hold of Hugo now
led him quickly in the direction of the hotel
at which we had breakfasted. As they came
near to where we stood,  petrified with
astonishment, he made a sign to them to
stop.

'' I am arrested," he whispered, in a
hurried and agitated voice, holding out tome
the only hand that was free, as though
to grasp mine for comfort.

I made up my mind, at once, that it must
be, of course, a case of mistaken identity,
and that as soon as the detectives,  for
detectives they evidently were,  had interrogated
their prisoner, all would be satisfactorily

cxj)laincd. I did not attaint, therefore,
to sympathise or condole with my
husband. It had all happened so suddenly,
so unexpectedly, in the course of a few
seconds only, that there had not been time
for me to collect my ideas. I noticed, when
I looked into Hugo's face that it was deadly
pale, and thought it strange that he should
be so visibly affected by what could only
prove to be a provoking error ; but, owing
to the confusion and bewilderment of my
mind, I did not even press his outstretched
hand, or murmur one kindly word of farewell.


'' Affaire politique n esUce-pas ? ' the
Prince asked, turning to one of the two
men who had hold of him. I do not know
whether he said this really believing it at
the time, or whether he desired merely that
I should believe it, and be more reassured
in consequence. He had often told me that

the agents of the Russian Government were
perpetually taking up innocent persons, on
suspicion of being concerned in imaginary
conspiracies, and subjecting them to all
kinds of temporary annoyance. We had
talked upon this subject quite recently,
when commenting upon the mysterious disappearance
of Zoubiroff.

But the detective's answer fell upon me
like a thunderbolt.

Far don, mon Princes he said, speaking
sternly, but in a tone that was perfectly
respectful, 'cest pom' un assassinate ;
and then the two detectives escorted their
prisoner into the hotel.

CHAPTER I.

The day that followed upon this eventful
mornings was, I think, one of the most
anxious and restless that I ever remember
to have passed. I cannot say that it was
also the most miserable, because I found
it impossible, as yet, to take a serious view
of my husband's situation. The words of
the detectives had certainly stunned me for
the moment, but upon recovering from the
first effects of the shock, I began to derive
consolation from the very enormity of the

VOL. II. B

charjc, which I felt assured must be altogether
without foundation. I could not
help longing, however, to be convinced of
this from Hugo's own lips, or, at least, by a
letter from him, and when the posts were
all in, and there was still no news, I felt
terribly feverish and anxious.

We had lingered on at Monte Carlo, upon
the previous day, with our eyes fixed upon
the door of the hotel, through which we
expected that Hugo would eventually pass
out and rejoin us. He did not come, however,
and by-and-by we felt the chill which
always precedes the sunset upon the Riviera,
and knew that it was time for us to take
our homeward way. We went into the
hotel to collect our cloaks and wraps before
departing, but could see no sign of Hugo
or of the men who had arrested him, and
feeling convinced that the whole thing was
merely a provoking blunder, we thought it

would be wiser not to call attention to it by-asking
questions, which might have the
effect of associating my husband's name,
after everything had been satisfactorily
explained, with some unpleasant affair.
Fortunately, Sir Harry seemed to have
observed nothing. He fancied that the
Prince had fallen in with some acquaintances
in the gambling-rooms, and urged us
to return before twilight, leaving him to
follow us at his own convenience.

And, indeed, daring the whole of that
evening I was on the alert, listening for his
well-known footstep, but the evening had
darkened into night without word or sign
of him, and now the day that followed had
gone by too, and still no news !

Miss Warden, who had always been one

of Hugo's warmest admirers, whilst agreeing

with me that some sort of foolish comedy of

errors was being enacted by the police,

B 2

which would be cleared up quite satisfactorily
in the course of a few days, was much
concerned for Hugo's comfort and wellbeing
in the meantime. lie had none of
his things with him, she said. If we had
only known where he was we might, at
least, have sent him off his dressing-bag and
a few changes of raiment by his servant.
It was even possible, she thought, that he
might be dragged all the way to Russia in
order to be confronted with his accusers.
There was no telling, in fact, to what inconveniences
he might not be subjected ! In
our most desponding moments I think that
this was really the gloomiest form assumed
by our fears  that the Prince might have to
take a long and cold journey unprovided
with railway-rugs, clean shirts, or ivory hairbrushes.


During the watches of an utterly sleepless
night, I had arrived at the conclusion that

my husband's arrest must he connected, in
some way, with Zouhiroif, and before daybreak
I had succeeded in establishing a
whole chain of circumstantial evidence in
support of my theory.

Zouhiroff, I said to myself, had probably
committed some crime, or had associated
himself with dynamite and assassins. I
had never liked the man's expression of
countenance, and it would not have surprised
me in the least to learn that he had
turned out to he a thorough scoundrel. lie
had evidently been arrested in Paris at the
time of his mysterious disappearance, and
conveyed to Russia, where it would have
been quickly discovered in whose service he
had been living. Either Hugo's presence
was required at the trial of his servant, or
else, through the access which Zouhiroff
must have had to many of the papers of his
master, something might have been found

in bis possession which, for the moment,
had seemed to implicate the Prince in his
valet's conspiracy. The officials who had
arrested Hugo at Monte Carlo might have
obeyed their instructions without having
been made acquainted with all the particulars
of the case, and hence they had
stupidly associated the master with the
crime which had been committed by the
servant. Something of this kind had evidently
occurred, and knowing nothing whatever
of the laws relating to the extradition
of political offenders, I made up my mind
that the crime, whatever it was, was, of
course, an  affaire politique 

Thus, woman-like, I proceeded with my
ignorant conjectures, until I had almost persuaded
myself of their truth. I told Miss
Warden in the morning what conclusion I
had arrived at. The same idea, she said, had
occurred to her own mind  that the arrest

of the Prince was due to his former connection
with Zoubiroff. The Prince's papers,
she felt sure, would be confiscated by the
police. My letters to him, it now occurred
to us, would, in all probability, be taken
away with the rest of his correspondence.
The secret of our marriage, which he might
now be desirous of concealing for the present,
would be liable to become bruited
abroad. I knew that he had preserved
several of my letters, if not all that I had
ever written to him ; and I knew, too, that
it was his habit to keep them in a small,
locked silver casket, in one of the pockets of
his travelling-bag, which used to stand upon
the floor, under the dressing-table, in his
bedroom. It would be the simplest thing
possible, I thought, to go through the box-room,
open the travelling-bag, and abstract
this casket. Hugo was not accustomed to
lock his bag with a key. It opened with a

spring, the secret of which was known to
mc ; and, once I had obtained the letters, I
would keep them until my husband's return.
All this would be simple enough. It occurred
to Miss Warden, however, that once we
were in Hugo's bedroom, it might be to his
advantage, perhaps, if we removed, likewise,
all the loose papers we could lay our hands
on ; to be returned to him, of course, as soon
as this annoying investigation was over,
when he could but be grateful to us (we
thought) for our promptness of action in
preventing his private correspondence from
being overhauled by strangers. We decided
upon this course at about eleven o'clock in
the morning, and went at once into the box-room
with the intention of acting upon it.
Before trying the handle of the door, however,
we thought it prudent to listen, and
hearing distinctly footsteps in the inner
chamber, we cautiously retraced our own.

Hugo's French valet, wc concluded  who
probably knew nothing of what had occurred
was, no doubt, setting his room in order,
in anticipation of his return. It would be
wiser for us to wait for another hour, when
the servants would all be engaged downstairs
with their mid-day meal.

Soon after twelve o'clock we made our
second attempt. It was unsuccessful as the
first. The door of Hugo's room was locked
upon the inside, and when, going round to
that which opened upon the now deserted
corridor, we mustered courage to try the
handle, we found that this door also
had been secured. We were baffled ; but,
upon reflection, could only attribute our
disappointment to the praiseworthy caution
of Hugo's servant. Whether our marriage
was declared just now or not, this man
would have, probably, to be taken into our
confidence some day. Miss Warden proposed,

therefore, that we should send for
him, upon some pretext, as soon as he had
finished his dinner, and beg him, in the
interests of his master, to assist us now.
Acting upon this suggestion, I rang the
bell, but was informed by the waiter who
answered it that the Prince's valet had left
the hotel early in the morning in consequence
of a telegram which he had received.
We were completely at a loss as to what todo
after hearing this ; and thinking that it
might not be discreet as yet to institute
any further inquiries, we could only await
with impatience the course of events, hoping
and praying for the best.

Next morning, as I was wandering about
the public reading-room, like an unquiet
spirit, making a pretence of dipping, now
and then, into the books and newspapers
which were littered about upon the tables, the
waiter who was accustomed to serve us in

our sitting-room, and who had informed mc
on the previous day of the departure of the
Prince's valet, came towards me, and, bowing
respectfully, placed a folded newspaper in
my hand. It was a small local weekly
journal, still damp from the press, and not
thinking at the moment that it could
contain anything of particular interest, I
unfolded it listlessly, and ran my eyes carelessly
over its two coarsely-printed sheets.
By-and-by the following paragraph met my
bewildered gaze : 

Tin incident des his series vient de
Jeter la consternation dans notre ville " (I
will proceed with the paragraph in English,
because, being an Englishwoman, I had to
translate it, as it were, mentally, into my
native tongue before I could grasp its
entire significance), " which might incline
us to believe that the well-known axiom, to
the effect that the most atrocious murders

end by being unveiled and punished, is in a
fair way of being verified, in a startling and
unexpected fashion, even after the bones
of the unhappy victim, undiscovered for
years, have become reduced to dust by the

hand of Time. Monsieur leFrlncede C ,

belonging to one of the most ancient and
highly-considered families in Poland, aisles
to Isis Imperial Majesty the Emperor
of Russia, a ci-devant captain in the
Chevalier Gardes, &c. &c. &c., and well-known
and esteemed in Paris, and in most
of the capitals of Europe finding himself,
quite recently, at Monte Carlo, was breakfasting
there in company with some ladies,
when he was suddenly arrested under their
eyes, and accused of a crime of which the
details are at once tragical and revolting.
We will restrict ourselves, for the present, to
these facts, whilst awaiting the further particulars
which we expect to receive very

shortly from St. Petersburg, whither, it is
said, the Prince was immediately conveyed,
under the escort of two of the most intelligent
agents of the E/Ussian police. Let us
hope that the result of the forthcoming
investigation may be to reinstate His Highness
in the estimation of the public. We
will only add, for the benefit of our lady
readers, that the accused is young, handsome,
accomplished, and a bachelor."

Before I had finished reading, the words
had begun to swim before my eyes. What
new horror was this  this tale of ' unhappy
victims," '' mouldering bones," " tragical
and revolting crime " ?

I remained standing with the newspaper
in my hand, without any consciousness of
the flight of time, till, feeling sick and faint
at heart, I staggered to the door with an
effort, and made my way, more dead than
alive, to our own apartment.

A WEARY period of suspense followed upon
this dreadful day, during wliicli I heard nothing
whatever of my husband. I accused
Miss Warden of abstracting and hiding
away the newspapers, as I was never able
to find any further allusion to the paragraph
I had already seen. She assured me,
however, that she had searched every day
for some elucidation of the terrible mystery,
but always in vain. If the newspapers
referring to the Prince's arrest had been
withdrawn from the reading-room, it must
have been, she said, by the orders of the

landlady ; vvlio might not be desirous of calling
public attention to the fact that she had
so recently harboured a person resting under
such a dreadful accusation beneath her roof.
Miss Warden begged me not to cross-question
any of the inmates of the hotel,
assuring me that if the worst came to the
worst  although this she was very far from
foreseeing  my chief aim and object in
future should be to conceal the fact that
I had ever been in any way associated with
one who was guilty of such a revolting
crime. Only four persons, as yet, had been
informed of my marriage : Mr. Collingwood,
Miss Warden herself, Mason, and Zoubiroff.
Upon three of these, at least, I felt that
I could confidently rely ; and who knew
whether ZoubirofP, the only one of the four
whose devotion to me was as yet unproved,
was even now in the land of the living ?
Hugo, then, might pass out of my life as

entirely as if I had never met with him ; and
I must endeavour to drive from my mind
the remembrance of my brief and unfortunate
marriage !

But, dearest Ilelen," she would generally
conclude by exclaiming cheerfully,
when we had been discussing these gloomy
subjects, " surely something must tell you
thafc this is nothing more than a provoking
mistake ! How could that kind, amiable
creature  who wouldn't hurt a fly  have
committed a murder ? Some day, when
you and I are seated here, I feel convinced
that the door will suddenly open, and the
poor dear Prince will walk in, just as if
nothing had happened."

My kind friend intended only to cheer
and console ; but her words produced upon
me, in my nervous and shattered state, a
totally opposite effect, and I found myself
watching the green velvet portiere, which

shrouded the doorway in painful and agitated
expectation.

Did I really desire the return of Hugo at
this time ? I can scarcely say, even now,
when the fleeting years have done so much
towards softening the sinister impressions of
the past. Of course I most earnestly desired
that he should be proved innocent
of the charges preferred against him. It
was hardly possible, indeed, in my least

sanguine moments, whilst remembering his


gentle temper  his kind, sad smile  the

spiritual and intellectual cast of his mind

to believe that he could have placed

himself, by his acts, upon a level with

the lowest and most ferocious of criminals.

And yet I had, at times, felt as though

he was irrevocably separated from me by

something mysterious and inexplicable.

Why, with all his rare and attractive

qualities of mind and person, had I one of

VOL. II. C

the most impressionable of women  who
had longed unconsciously since my earliest
childhood for human sympathy and affection,
never been (for I recognised this now)
wholly and unquestioningly in love with
him ? What sinister influence was that
which had seemed to arise  whenever I had
felt tempted to surrender myself to the tenderer
and warmer emotions  and forbid meat
my peril to pour out my whole soul in
oblation ? Did not this warning voice  or
whatever it was  partake, perhaps, of the
nature of a presentiment ? and might not
some terrible crime  staining indelibly the
soul of one of two persons  tend to prevent
that perfect sympathy which ought always
to exist between a wife and her husband,
even supposing that the crime in question
was alike unsuspected and undiscovered 
before *' the bones of the unhappy victim ''
had been brought to light ?

These thoughts, crowding upon me against
my will, filled the days with misery and
mistrust.

Disloyal as it may appear  after all the
proofs which I had received of Hugo's
kindness of heart one terrible conviction
haunted me perpetually ; the conviction
that, through some mysterious combination
of circumstances, of which I was altogether
ignorant, he was, in truth, guilty of the

crime imputed to him. Do what I would,



this idea clung tenaciously to my mind;
and so, at this miserable period, I think
the only real consolation I derived from
Miss Warden's hopeful words was inspired
by the thought that one day, perhaps,
my marriage might be even as though
it had never been ; and that Hugo himself
might become like one of the vague and
shadowy creations of a passing nightmare.

It was fortunate for me that my father,

c 2

being such an invalid, did not observe the
change which had taken place in my spirits
and appearance. I was not inclined, just
now, to pay much attention to such trifles
myself, but was made aware that I looked
ill and wretched by the anxious attentions
of Mason, and by the frequent inquiries
respecting my health with which Miss
Warden was overwhelmed by the proprietors
and visitors of the hotel.

I felt, indeed, an utter prostration of
mind and body such as I had never experienced
before. The circumstances in
which I found myself were, certainly, new
to me also, but I had fancied, until all this
came to pass, that Providence meted out
to us, with our misfortunes, the courage
necessary to endure them with fortitude
and resignation, and I despised myself for
falling so far short of the heroines of
history.

We were beginning now to think of our
return journey to England. '' The voice of
Spring was echoing through the land ; "
through the beautiful land  that is to say,
in which we were sojourning. The violets
were over, but hundreds of later blossoms
were flowering forth in their stead upon
every side. The pink almond-trees were
all in bloom, and the tenderer green of
young leaves newly unfurled contrasted
harmoniously with the sombre foliage of
the olives, whilst the ruined grottoes in the
old garden were almost smothered with
white and yellow Banksia roses. The
double row of cypress spires which formed
our noble avenue, towered heavenward to
meet the very bluest of blue skies. A long
spotted snake glided one morning across
my path, to my infinite terror  a certain
harbinger, I was informed of summer 
and, gradually, the hotel omnibus conveyed

away every British subject, until we
were almost the only visitors left in the
place.

*' The last of the Erencli chefs has taken
his departure this morning," Miss Warden
remarked, shortly after my meeting with
the snake ; '' there were three here when we
first came, and no end of marmitons, I
don't think that your father, in his delicate
state, will be satisfied with the talents of a
very dirty old Gizzard woman, who has j must
arrived here, as cook. The head waiter is
going away tomorrow, and the concierge
the day after. If we don't start next week
we shall be driven away whether we like
it or not."

This was no more than the truth. In
spite of the delightful weather and the
solace afforded to my troubled spirit by
the deserted condition of the hotel, the
sense that we could no longer abide where

wc were in peace had become almost atmospheric.
The few remaining attendants
regarded us with wonder not unmingled with
reproach. The '* season " was over, and
they were impatient to depart elsewhere.
We decided, therefore, to start for England
early in the ensuing week.

One afternoon, a few days before our intended
departure, as I was waiting in our
sitting-room until the day should become
cool enough to go out, I was startled by a
sharp knock at the door ; the portiere was
flung aside, and a waiter came towards me
with a visiting card upon a tray. Some one
from the town of Nice, he said, who wished
particularly to see me upon business.

My heart began beating violently, and my
eyes seemed suddenly to cloud over, so that
I found it impossible to read the name upon
the card. I connected it instinctively with

Hugo. The waiter was a stranger, who did
not know him by sight. Perhaps he had
returned, as Miss Warden had always foreseen
that lie would, and, fearing to startle
me by his too sudden appearance, had sent
up his card to prepare me for his coming.

My emotion, however, was soon dispelled
by the waiter. The lady was in her victoria,
he said ; could I receive her now, or
would I have the goodness to appoint some
other hour?

So it was only a '' lady " after all ! Yes ;
certainly. I would receive her now. I
begged the waiter to show her up at once.

My heart ceased its tumultuous beating,
and my eyes recovered from their blindness.
I looked at the name on the card, and read
not without some return of my former
emotion 

'* Mus. Marks,

Hotel des Anglais''

I had not got over my astonishment when
the door opened, and the waiter ushered in this
unexpected visitor. I saw before me a tall,
well-dressed woman, With an unmistakeably
Hebrew cast of countenance, but of a refined
and intellectual character, altogether unlike
the vulgar, sensual types which are sometimes
seen amongst the lower orders of this
remarkable people. Her face was thin and
haggard, and her large clear-cut black eyes
were surrounded by dark circles. She was
breathing hard from the exertion of coming
np stairs. Hugo had told me that Mrs.
Marks was in very delicate health, and she
certainly looked like an invalid.

I motioned her to a chair, and as soon
as I could recover my voice, begged to be
allowed to help her off with her cloak, which
was very heavy considering the heat of the
weather. She unfastened it at the throat,
and flung it carelessly on to the sofa. I

observed  being in that dazed and bewildered
state when, oddly enough, trifling details
seem to rivet one that she was what would
be termed " very handsomely dressed," too
handsomely, I thought, for an ordinary afternoon
visit. I was conscious of a good deal
of ruby velvet, richly trimmed with black
lace and jet, and of a diamond brooch which
twinkled in the sunlight. On her arm she
carried a small bag with a silver clasp.

I hope I'm not intruding," she began,
as soon as she had recovered her breath.
I am come upon very particular business
indeed, and as I am not at all in good health
my chest is delicate  I had to wait for
one of my favourable days, and was unable,
therefore, to make an appointment beforehand.
Besides which, I was not going to
trust anything to paper, as what I have to
say is quite private and confidential. Have
I the pleasure of speaking to the Princess? "

Ilcr words, uttered in a liijli and somewhat
metallic voice, were altogether a surprise
to me. I had realised  in spite of my
bewilderment  as soon as I read the name
of my visitor, that this must be the wife of
that Mr. Marks who had taken Hugo's place
in Poland upon a lease, and who was said to
be desirous of eventually purchasing it " out
and out." My husband had told me that
she was passing the winter at Nice, and it
was even strange, perhaps as she was a
person of somewhat showy appearance  that
I had never seen her before. But what
could this woman, whether she was the wife
of Mr. Marks or not, know of my private
history, and of the marriage that I was each
day more anxious to keep a profound secret P

Before I could reply to her question she
continued 

I haven't alluded to your husband byname,
because I wish to be extra discreet,

but you will know whom I mean if you are
the lady I take you for. You may have
heard that Mr. Marks  my husband  has
lately rented the house and property of a
certain Prince in Poland, and that he has
been residing there recently ? "

I murmured something to the effect that
I had already heard this.

*'Tlien/' said my visitor "you're the lady
that I wanted to see. Now, I daresay you
wonder how I came to hear of your mar-
rage ? "

''Yes/' I answered faintly, 'ewe did not
want any one to hear of it yet ; I am
surprised at your knowing."

You look so delicate'* said Mrs. Marks,
that I'm afraid of upsetting you if I tell
you too much ; but it must all come out
sooner or later. In the meantime, I have
a letter for you."

"Prom my husband?" I gasped, over-wild

mod by emotions too complex for me
to attempt to describe.

'' No," replied my visitor, who was now
searching in the depths of her hand-bag,
the letter is not from the Prince  I don't
expect he will have permission to write for
some time  but it's a letter I have been
asked to deliver into your hands. Mr.
Marks promised the writer that it should
reach you as soon as possible. I hope it
won't give you a shock."

I assured her that suspense was agony tome,
and that I would rather hear the worst
than remain a moment longer in my
present state of miserable ignorance.

Mrs. Marks hereupon handed me a letter
sealed untidily with red wax. I looked
anxiously at the direction : " To the Respected
and Honourable Miss Davenant."
The handwriting was evidently that of a
foreigner. It was small, cramped, and

entirely unfamiliar to me. With trembling
fingers I broke the sea], and read as
follows :

*' IIONOUIIABLE AND Respected LaDY,

Being, in the first instance, accused
of complicity in the affair which has now
become transferred entirely to the Prince,
my former master  in consequence of some
body-clothing which he had given me, long
since, having been discovered in my apartments
in Paris ; and which had upon them,
unhappily, some evidences of the unfortunate
catastrophe  I was arrested some
months ago, and interrogated by the police.
My private correspondence, all my papers,
&c. &c., fell also into their hands, and
through this circumstance they were
enabled, in the course of their interrogations,
to lead me to suppose that they knew
already all the details connected with the

murder; and also that Monsieur le Prince
was married. I should have divulged none
of the particulars connected with these two
occurrences if I had not supposed that
3Ionsieiir le Prince's accusers were already
in possession of the chief facts; and so I
am sending you, madame, this letter with
my profoundest respect, to assure you that
you can retain the confidence you so graciously
reposed in me, and which it has
always been my endeavour to merit ; and
that, kissing your hands, I beg leave to
remain, with humble and respectful duty,
your highness's faithful and obedient
servant,

ZOUBIROFF.

"formerly valet-de-chamhre to Ifonsleur
le Prince de Cay

After reading this letter I was even more
painfully bewildered than before.

'I'm afraid I've upset you dreadfully*
I heard Mrs. Marks saying  when I could
hear at all  "but, you see, my husband
promised this man that his letter should
reach you. It was difficult enough to get
him permission to write, as he is still under
arrest. With Russian officials, however,
money works wonders."

' I can understand nothing," I said, at
last; '* I have been told nothing. Why am
I left in this miserable state of suspense ?
What has happened ? Of what is my
husband accused ? Where have they taken
him to ? I implore you to tell me everything
you know; however dreadful it maybe,
I have a right to hear it! ''

I suppose that, without meaning it  for
no woman could have felt more humbled
and abased than I did  I had assumed a
tone of authority, having become emboldened
by despair. Mrs. Marks seemed

VOL. II. D

as if slice was about to comply with my
entreaty. She coughed nervously, and
shifted the position of her hand-bag. My
perceptions appeared to have become
quickened by misery. I fancied that I perceived
the reason of her hesitation.

You think," I said, '' judging very
likely by your own feelings towards Mr.
Marks, that I care so much for my husband
that it would kill me to hear anything
against him. But, no ! I can assure you
it is this suspense, this terrible mystery,
that is slowly killing me ! If I look ill,
this is the reason ; I was always very
strong before. Indeed, indeed, I would far
rather that you told me everything !"

But Mrs. Marks still hesitated.

I have received no authorisation from
Mr. Marks to do more than give you this
letter with my own hands," she said, "and
this I have done. I can't say whether my

husband is aware that you know so little.
Perhaps he may think it better that you
should remain in ignorance until after the
trial. You look scarcely strong enough at
present to stand a shock. However, if
you wish it, I will communicate with Mr.
Marks, and ask his permission to tell you
all I know."

' But Mr. Marks is in Poland, or in
Russia," I exclaimed, in despair, * a letter
will take such a long time reaching him,
and his answer is sure to arrive after we
have started for England ! "

'' Then I can telegraph," said Mrs. Marks,
an expression of pity coming into her
somewhat hard eyes, "and if he answers
yes,' I can call again and tell you the
whole story. It's a regular case of * murder
will out.' "

Oh, thank you ! thank you ! " I cried,

overcome with gratitude. It seemed to me,

D 2

at the moment, as if this woman had
granted me some long-sought favour.

Mrs. Marks readjusted the clasp of her
hag, and rose to depart. I helped her on
with her cloak like one in a dream. As she
hade me good-hye, it occurred to me that,
hut for my having become aware that
Zouhiroff had been concerned in Hugo's
accusation, I knew no more than I did
before.

'' Tell me one thing before you go," I
said, therefore ; " do not he afraid that you
will do me harm. Of what is my husband
accused, and who are his accusers ? I was
near him when he was arrested, and I heard
him say to the man who had hold of him
that he supposed he was taken up for a
political crime. The man answered ; No, 
that it was for ' un assassinat '  a murder.
But there are many different kinds of murder.
I think now that he must have become

mixed up in a plot to get rid of some public
person  some tyrant, perhaps  from a wish,
to benefit mankind, even at the risk of his
own life. This would be a murder, of course,
if he had really planned any one's death.
But, however mistaken, however guilty he
may be, this would not seem to me quite
like a common murder. Men have done
such things, sometimes, from the highest
motives."

Whilst I was speaking I had worked
myself up to believe that my present conjecture
was the true one. Our feelings are
greatly influenced by comparison ; and when
contrasted with my previous emotions of
horror and repulsion, I regarded Hugo now
as almost an innocent and injured man.

But I was destined to have my illusion
rudely dispelled.

*' I would much rather have waited until
I had heard from St. Petersburg," Mrs.

Marks said ; 'but, as you seem so anxious
to know the worst, it may be cruel to keep
you any longer in suspense, for you midst
hear all about it later on. I can assure you,
my clear madam, that it wasn't a murder
with anything fine about it ! My husband
is your husband's accuser. The Prince murdered
Mr. Marks' only brother very nearly
fourteen years ago, who had, unfortunately
for himself, married your husband's sister 
Madame Dobrowolska  one of the worst
women in the world ; and, if there was
any motive for the crime, beyond cruelty
and family pride, it must have been done
for money, as the poor victim had just taken
a large sum out of the bank with the view,
it was said, of purchasing an Italian title,
and none of this money has ever been heard
of since. I can quite believe that you can't
care much about such a fellow ; still, it's all
very distressing for you. Mr. Marks only

took the place in Poland in order to try and
discover his brother's body, which he had
beheld in a dream, all covered over with
rubbish in a cellar."

I WILL not attempt to describe my feelings
after the departure of my unexpected visitor.
I could not have done so at the
moment, and now that Time, the great
physician, has partly healed

'the wounds that others strove to bind in vain,"

I would rather not dwell, more than will
be necessary for my story, upon my past
sufferings.

The reply to the telegram sent by Mrs.
Marks came sooner than I expected. She
received her husband's permission to tell me

everything. He advised me, however, for
my own sake, to behave as if I knew
nothing until after the conclusion of the
Prince's trial. He promised also, at my
request, which reached him through his wife,
not to call attention to the subject of my
marriage, which could in no way influence
the ends of justice, and that if, in the course
of the proceedings, it should be brought to
light, to furnish no clue which might lead
to my identification as the wife of the
accused. These assurances were not all *
conveyed to me within the narrow compass
of a telegram.

A letter to Mrs. Marks followed upon her
husband's message. She read me passages
from it upon the occasion of her next visit,
and I was favourably impressed by the
writer's apparent consideration for my
feelings.

It was during this visit that she revealed

to me the circumstances which had led to
the Prince's arrest.

I did not learn, however, until later,
many of the minuter, though not less important,
details, hut it is difficult for me to
remember, now, the precise order in which
they were brought to my knowledge.

To avoid confusion, therefore, I will
simply set down a history of the facts,
and to this end it will he necessary for me
to revert to a period when Hugo Cress
existence was utterly unknown
to me ; when he was, in fact, a young
man of hardly nineteen, living in a far-off
land, and when I was a little girl of only
four or five, beloved, at that time, of tender
parents, inhabiting the dear old nursery at
Northover Park.

How strange, how fascinating, would
have been the notion, to a romantic and
imaginative child, such as I soon came to

be, that some being, with whom I had
never yet been brought into personal contact,
was waiting, waiting  in his ancestral
castle,  for the irresistible influence which
was first to launch him on his way towards
me, in obedience to the irrevocable decree
which went forth at the very beginning !
How I should have thought about this
beautiful foreign Prince whilst I was playing
with my bricks upon the nursery floor,
and dreamed of him as I lay at night
sleeping in my little cane-sided cot, and
with what curiosity and impatience should
I not have looked forward to the moment
when the days of probation should be over-passed,
and when he would stand before mein
the flesh and claim me for his bride !

Alas ! with all the materials, as it
seemed, which usually go to the making
of a happily-ending romance, to what had
my existence now turned ? To one of

shame, disappointment, and humiliation !
The man I had sworn at the altar to love,
honour, and obey, was now a prisoner,
accused of a horrible crime ; and were his
innocence to be proclaimed, now, from the
house-tops of every city in Europe, I could
not be quite certain that, after the terrible
shock I had received, he would ever
occupy his former place in my esteem.
Our affections, like our beliefs, are not
entirely under our own control; and suspicion
and mistrust, once they have thrust
their way, uninvited, into the human heart,
are not very easily exorcised. When a
person we have esteemed and respected
suddenly presents himself before us in an
utterly unfamiliar aspect, the very constancy
of our nature seems to compel us
to repudiate him, in order that we may
remain faithful to our previous impression.
To care at all for this unexpected newcomer

would seem like an infidelity to the
man who is now no more. But to proceed
with my story.

Some years previous to the time to which
I have just alluded  the time when Hugo
was only a youth, and I little more than a
baby  there lived in the Jewish quarter of
a foreign city two brothers, named Bernhardt,
the sons of a wealthy and respectable
merchant of the Hebrew persuasion. The
brothers were twins, and from their earliest
years the deepest attachment had existed
between them. During their boyhood they
had scarcely ever been separated, having
been educated by a learned rabbi under the
paternal roof; but, as they advanced in
wisdom and in years, their father exhorted
them to make a choice of a profession.
Mark  the elder of the two, as far as it is
possible for a twin to claim primogeniture
elected to follow his father's example and

embark in commerce; whilst Maurice, the
younger one, who was of a more scientific
and inquiring turn of mind, devoted himself
to the study of medicine and philosophy.
Upon the death of their father, his large
fortune was equally divided between them,
and as at about this time the Hebrew
population of their native town began to be
subjected to all kinds of annoyances and
oppressions, they resolved to separate for
the first time and to pursue their different
callings elsewhere  in some place where
their property and their liberties would be
likely to be more secure.

When, however, the time for their separation
drew near, both the young men fella
prey to an unaccountable melancholy.
As is sometimes the case with twins, so
intense was the sympathy existing between
them that they often experienced sensations
which were identical. There had come to

them, likewise, from their fathers something
which was nearly allied to the gift of prophecy,
a vague consciousness of what, to
most people, lay still shrouded in the obscurity
of the future, and which had asserted itself
more than once upon important or critical
occasions. Hence both Mark and Maurice
were alarmed at their own sadness, each
feeling apprehensive for the safety of the
other. Einally, however, the voices of reason
and of worldly wisdom triumphed over
these vague fears. Some cousins of their
father had long been established in London
as merchants and financiers. Mark,
who had been named after the head of this
family, had been invited to enter into partnership
with them, and had devoted himself
in consequence to the study of English.
The opening was altogether too advantageous
for the young man to refuse. Like
another Abraham, therefore, he departed

from Lis native land. He went straight
to London, where he eventually married
one of his English cousins  the lady from
whom I learnt nearly all these details 
became a naturalized British subject, and
in a comparatively short time acquired a
vast fortune.

Almost every year he made projects for
revisiting his native country, and the
brother to whom lie remained tenderly
attached. But, somehow, these projects
seemed doomed to be invariably thwarted.
Sometimes it was his business that stood in
the way of his plans ; or else his health, or
that of his wife, rendered the undertaking
of a long journey out of the question.
Then, again, Maurice had written, upon one
occasion, that it was his intention to come
to England to visit Mark. This visit, also,
was destined never to take place. Maurice
decided, instead of it, to make a tour in

India ; and this tour, planned in the first
instance, to last for only a few months, was
prolonged, as it happened, for very nearly
two years. In a word, strange as this may
appear to those who have not realised the
mutability of all human intentions, twenty-five
years elapsed since these devoted
brothers had unwillingly torn themselves
apart, during which time they never once
beheld each other. Days, weeks, and
months seemed to fly past so quickly. Life
in London, particularly a business life, is so
full of care and responsibility ! When Mark
looked back upon the years that had gone
by since he first came to England, they
seemed to him to have been scarcely longer
than the same number of weeks !

The career of Maurice, in the meanwhile,
had not been less successful. Unlike his
brother, he had decided not to quit the land
of his birth. lie had migrated, however,

VOL. II. E

to another town, where his religious
opinions were not known, and where,
whilst remaining faithfully attached to the
traditions of his race, he refrained, from
political and prudential motives, from
identifying himself with the Jewish community.
The name of Doctor Maurice
Bernard  for now he had discarded the
original manner of spelling his name, as
calculated to recall his Hebrew descent 
soon became famous in medicine. But he
devoted himself, also, to more recondite
mysteries. He had studied mesmerism as a
curative agent, and had thoroughly familiarised
himself with the physical and
mental phenomena which it is capable of
producing.

His own peculiar faculty of pre-vision,"
as Mrs. Marks called the prophetic power
of which he was still conscious from time to
time, attracted him to the study of clairvoyance

in all its strange developments,

whence he was led to the investigation of

spiritualism in its various forms. He had

even made experiments in black and white

magic, and had constructed a laboratory in

order to discover whether the alchemists'

dream of transmuting the imperfect metals

to gold possessed aught of truth in it or no.

In the Middle Ages it is quite possible that

Dr. Bernard's taste for the occult might

have br aught him to the stake ; but in

these more enlightened days his reputation

for mystic learning, combined with his

irreproachable moral character, earned

for him the respect and admiration of his

friends, whilst distinguished strangers, from

all parts of the world, who were interested

in the same subjects as he was, were in the

habit of thronging to consult him u23on the

strange matters with which he had rendered

himself familiar.

e2

LIBRARY

When Mrs. Marks had arrived at this
point in her narrative she paused, as
though uncertain as to whether she ought
to go on with it.

' I now come to the time," she said,
' when Dr. Bernard first met with the
Prince, your husband. Can you bear to
hear my story to the end ? "

I assured her that, in my present state of
hopelessness and despair, nothing could
well add to my misery, and that I would far
rather know the whole truth, in order that
I might consider what I had better do.

Thus encouraged, my visitor proceeded
with her story, which I will endeavour to
set down, as far as I can remember, in her
own words.

* Prince Crecszoleski," she said, " was
living quite alone at this time, his sister
having been lately married to a Polish
General. I believe he had just entered the

army, but being a young man of very
studious habits, who had inherited a large
estate and a fine fortune, he was enabled
to obtain a good deal of leave from time
to time, which he spent in prosecuting all
sorts of odd spiritualistic inquiries. He
was interested in the same subjects as Dr.
Maurice Bernard, and soon became one of
his most enthusiastic pupils. The town at
which the doctor now resided was not more
than a few hours' journey from Prince
Crecszoleski's country-house, so that he was
enabled to pay frequent visits to the laboratory.
The two enthusiasts became, apparently,
the closest friends, and the doctor
used to stay for weeks together at the
Prince's place  a large, rambling, ill-kept
barrack, from all I have heard, but just the
very spot, from the loneliness and seclusion
of its situation, for the investigation of
secret mysteries. After a while, the two

friends decided to visit India, the Prince
obtaining from the Emperor permission to
travel, in order to complete his scientific
and philosophical studies, on condition that
he should return at once to his military
duties should hostilities break out between
Russia and any other Power. During this
time my husband heard very seldom from
his brother. Prom what has since come to
his knowledge, however, through Zoubiroff,
the Prince's servant, who accompanied
them, they seem to have gone through all
sorts of hardships and privations, fasting
and abstaining from drinking even water, at
times, in order that they might share the
ecstacies and marvellous experiences of the
wonderful Indian mystics and ascetics.
They remained in India for nearly two
years, and after their return the doctor's
letters to his brother were all dated from
the Prince's chateau. The two seemed, in

fact, to have become almost inseparable.
But it turned out that there was another
attraction for the doctor besides the society
of his pupil. The Prince's only sister,
having been recently left a widow, came to
spend the first year of her mourning in the
seclusion of her old home. She was a good
deal older than her brother, who was not
more than twenty at this time, and had
always possessed great influence over him.
If there are ever, now, such creatures as
witches, I verily believe this woman must
have been one of them ! She seems to have
been able to cast her spells over a man in a
minute !

'* Dr. Bernard, who had never looked at a
woman before, as far as we knew, fell
almost immediately in love with her. My
husband soon discovered from his letters
that some new and disturbing influence
was at work, but little thought, at this

time, how matters would end. T suppose
that she must have hen wonderfully handsome.
She could not, then, have been more
than thirty, and Mr. Marks, who saw her
quite lately in Paris, says that she is
wonderfully handsome still.

'' How and when Dr. Bernard's marriage
with this wicked woman took place we
never knew for certain. As far as we can
make out, it must have been about a year
from this time. Some may wonder, perhaps,
why this lady  young, beautiful, and
accustomed to the society of persons altogether
different from this steady and serious
professor  should have consented so soon to
re-marry. We cannot say what may have
been her private reasons, but we have heard
since that, during the life time of her
former husband, who was quite an old man,
and allowed her her way like a spoilt child,
she had led an existence of great extravagance

and dissipation in Paris, where she
was surrounded by flatterers and admirers.
The character she bore there was none of
the best, and we were informed (for my
husband left no stone unturned in order to
discover all about her) that the man she
had set her heart on  a person in a very
good position  did not come forward to
marry her, as she had expected, as soon as
she became a widow. Disappointed, perhaps,
at this, she may have married the
doctor out of pique. Or, had he discovered,
during his travels in India, some way of
making people fall in with his wishes
through the aid of magical spells ?

' Perhaps the simplest explanation maybe
that Dr. Bernard had become extremely
wealthy, and that rumour made him out
even richer than he really was ; for, with
the shrewd business habits peculiar to his
race, he had not neglected his worldly

interests whilst occupying himself with
spiritual affairs. Mr. Marks has heard, too,
that the lady was a confirmed gambler, and
very deeply in debt, and he thinks that she
may not have liked to make any further
calls upon her brother, who had already
paid away large sums for her. We have
found out that, previous to the marriage,
she had borrowed money from the doctor.
Be this as it may, in an evil hour they were
married . . .

' Why did not Dr. Bernard's prophetic
instinct warn him against so rash an act ?
He was in love  I suppose this accounts for
his infatuation ; and in love, too, I verily
believe, with a sorceress, who must have
been in league with the Prince of devils.
The doctor did not avow his marriage for
some time; telling us afterwards, for excuse,
first, that the lady had married him
unknown to her brother, and that, hence,

he had not deemed it right to inform his
own relatives until he had confided in those
of his wife ; and then, when Mr. Marks at
length knew all, the doctor desired that he
would not reveal his kinship until he had
broken to his wife the secret of his true
origin. This he had not yet ventured to do,
as the Jews were despised and execrated
throughout the dominions of the Czar. Ina
little while, he said, he should inform her
from what race he sprung, as it was not his
intention to separate himself from his own
people.

'* So about two years went by, and then,
quite indirectly, it came to our ears that
the learned Dr. Maurice Bernard was no
more. My husband, deeply afflicted at the
news, immediately set about collecting all
the information he could relating to the
manner of his brother's death, and to the
disposal of his body, which he feared might

not have been interred in accordance with
the Jewish ceremonial. lie was ignorant
as to whether Dr. Bernard had, previous to
this death, revealed his race and religion
to his wife, and he felt it necessary, therefore,
to proceed with the greatest caution.
He thought that he might possibly learn
more, under the circumstances, if he abstained
from making his inquiries in person,
and finally decided to send off to
Poland a trusty and confidential agent, a
member of the legal profession, of the same
persuasion, and originally, of the same
nationality, as himself, and who was conversant,
therefore, with the language of the
country, and with the law, as it was applied
to the property of deceased Hebrews. This
gentleman was to find out, in the first
instance, if Dr. Bernard had been buried
according to Jewish or Christian rites,
whence we should be able to discover

whether he had avowed the faith of his
fathers or passed away as a renegade. As
it turned out, however, there seemed to
have been no body to bury ! My husband's
emissary returned with the following strange
story : 

"Dr. Bernard, so he had been informed,
went out one day upon a wolf-hunt, accompanied
by the prince, his brother-in-law,
with whom he appeared to be upon the best
of terms. In the course of the afternoon
the two hunters became separated. The
weather was intensely cold, and the prince,
failing to obtain any answer to his shouts,
was supposed to have come to the conclusion
that the doctor had returned to the chateau.
He was not there, however, and the search
that was made for him as soon as day
dawned, upon the following morning, had
proved unsuccessful. A week passed, and,
as he did not appear, his wife and her
brother began to apprehend the worst. The

spacious forests surrounding the castle were
infested by wolves, and it was more than
probable that the doctor had been attacked
and overpowered by these ferocious animals,
rendered desperate by hunger. His gun,
battered and blood-stained, as though it had
been used in self-defence, was said to have
been eventually discovered in one of the
most secluded recesses of the forest, together
with a few tattered shreds of his hunting-coat
and some bones. The snow, however,
lead fallen in large quantities since the day
of his disappearance. When it melted
further discoveries might be made, but there
could be no doubt whatever but that the
doctor was dead, for, had he been still alive,
he would most certainly have returned to
his wife, to whom he was represented as
having been devotedly attached, and to
whom he had bequeathed all his property,

' With this strange story my husband's
emissary had to content himself. There

seemed, indeed, nothing more to be said.
Mr. Marks, however, was not so well satisfied.
Do what he would, he could not
banish from his mind the notion that his
brother had been the victim of foul play.
And yet, what could he do ? Por a member
of our community to level accusations, in
the absence of direct proof, at a powerful
scion of the aristocracy, could be productive
of nothing but disappointment in a country
where the greatest hostility prevailed towards
the Hebrew race. After thinking? the
matter over, therefore, my husband decided
that he could do nothing but wait in patience
for any fuller revelation which might be
vouchsafed to him, whilst keeping himself
informed, through a faithful old servant of
his family, who still lived in the city of his
birth, of the movements of Prince Crecszo-
leski and his sister."

'' And now' said Mrs. Marks, '' before I
go on, I must inform you of a circumstance
which happened many years before; something
that will make you fancy, I'm afraid,
that we're a people plunged in all sorts of
ignorant superstitions ! I fee! bound to
allude to it, however, on account of the
strange events which followed upon what
seemed, at first, to be a thing of no consequence.
The destruction of Bithar, however,
as we Jews are taught to believe, all
came from merely pulling up a young cedar
tree !

When the twin brothers parted for the
first time, each one presented the other
with a gift a talisman, supposed to be
endowed with all kinds of extraordinary-virtues,
and W'liich was always to be worn
U23on the person as a protection from harm.
I don't suppose you know anything about
the teaching of our rabbins or of the old
legends which are to be found in the
Talmud ? One of these tells of the adventures
of King Solomon the Wise witl
Aschmedai, the Prince of devils. The king
is said to have been much tormented by
this evil spirit, who, assuming his own likeness,
even penetrated to the apartments of
his wives, keeping on his slippers, however,
in order that they might not see that his feet,
in common with those of all devils, were
like the feet of cocks. Solomon, however,
was himself a magician, and was finally-enabled
to overcome and defy the demon.

VOL. II. F

This victory he achieved partly by the aid
of charms and incantations, and partly by
the wearing of amulets upon which some of
the great magical names were engraved, and
which were said to preserve their possessors
as well from the malice of evil-minded men.
Two of these very amulets, worn once upon
the person of Solomon the King  or so, at
least, my husband and his brother believed 
had descended as heirlooms in their family,
and lead been worn and treasured by their
forefathers from generation to generation.
Each of the young men became possessed
of one of these charms at the death of their
father, and these, at parting, they exchanged
one with the other, vowing that they should
never leave their persons as long as they
lived. The talisman that passed thus to
Mr. Marks consisted of a three-cornered
piece of bloodstone, engraved upon one side
with mystic characters, the meaning of which

we have never been able to ascertain, and
having, upon the other side, numbers which
are supposed to correspond to one of the
texts of the Babylonian Talmud before it
was arranged under the six ' classes ' or
orders ' by the Rabbi Nuda. This talisman,
being too large for a ring, had been
put into a case, and mounted with thick
gold chains, in order that it might be worn
as a bracelet. It has never left my husband's
arm since I have known him. When
he dies I am to take it off, if I survive him,
which is not very likely, and give it to our
eldest son. Before all this was explained
to me I fancied that it must have been a
keepsake from some woman ! . . .

"Dr. Bernard's talisman, it seems, was
almost exactly like that worn by his brother,
except that it was larger, and had upon ita
somewhat longer inscription. It consisted,

likewise, of an engraved piece of blood



stone, enclosed in an outer case, and
mounted on chains which were long enough
to go round the neck, and it was as a necklace
that the doctor used always to wear
it, hidden away under his clothes, so that
it might not he observed.

Stow, when my husband sent to Poland
to discover all that he could respecting his
brother's death, he gave instructions to his
agent to make particular inquiries about
this talisman. He begged him to inform
Prince Crecszoleski and his sister that it
was a family heirloom, and requested that if
found it might be delivered to his messenger,
so that one relic, at least, of his departed
brother might pass into his possession. In
reply to these inquiries, Madame Bernard
stated that she had seen the ornament in
question, and knew that the doctor was in the
habit of wearing it. It must have been upon
him when he was attacked by the wolves.

and might possibly be recovered when the
weather enabled the keepers to make a
more effectual search in the forest. If soit
should be forwarded at once to my husband's
agent in London.

'' The loss of this family relic was quite
a blow to Mr. Marks. (I call him by
this name because  about two years after
the doctor's disappearance  my father died,
and, upon succeeding to his business, my
husband dropped his former name, and
traded forthwith under the name of Marks.)
He seemed unable to recover his spirits, and
as, just at this time (for misfortunes never
come singly) we lost our eldest son, he
began to fancy that some sort of ill-luck
had fallen upon us. All the same, he went
on making money, and nothing could have
prospered more than did his worldly affairs.
So several years went by, I doing my very
best to cheer him and to divert his thoughts.

We had another boy born to us, and I hoped
that my husband was getting over his distress
about his brother's death and the loss
of the amulet, when the whole thing cropped
up again in the most extraordinary manner
possible.

My husband, you must know, is a collector
of bric--brac. Our private house at
Bayswater is full of the most lovely things ;
worth a whole mint of money they say, and
he seldom passes a curiosity shop, however
small and duty, without stopping and looking
in at the window. One evening, a little
more than a year ago, as he was on his way
home from the City, he happened to pause
in front of a pawnbroker's shop at which
he had occasionally made purchases. It
was winter time, the lamps were alight
inside, and almost the first object he beheld,
lying in a tray amongst other odds and

ends of jewelry, was the amulet which had
belonged to his departed brother !

At first he could hardly believe his eyes.
To make quite sure he put on his glasses,
and peered so anxiously in at the window
that the proprietor, recognising him, came
out and invited him in to take a look round.
It was his brother's amulet sure enough,
and save that the chains which formed the
necklace had apparently been wrenched
away from the rings to which they had been
attached, it was in perfect order, not looking
at all like anything which might have been
torn and worried by wolves !

Mr. Marks left the shop with his
treasure, but not before he had obtained
all the information he could respecting it.
It had been pledged by a woman, he was
informed by the [pawnbroker, who had
visited the shop upon several occasions;

but it was now what Alas termed ' out of
date and lie had not seen the woman for
several years. She had pledged the necklace
in the name of ' Schmidt which had
been duly set down in the book. As this
book was examined every day by the police,
however, it was very unlikely that she had
given her real name. It was much more
usual, the man said, to give a false one,
even in cases where the goods belonged
lawfully to the persons who pledged them.
The woman was a foreigner  Prench, the
pawnbroker fancied  tall, dark, and showy-looking
; he would be able to swear to her
again anywhere.

My husband was deeply affected by this
unexpected recovery of the relic. As he
held it in his hand, and looked at it
earnestly, he felt as though he were brought
en rapport in some mysterious manner,
with his brother's spirit, and again he

became imbued with the conviction that he
had been brought to his death by foul play.

** That same night, before retiring to rest,
he repaired the broken chains, and placed
the amulet round his neck, so that the casein
which the agate was enclosed came just
over his heart. He prayed fervently that
some definite revelation might come to him,
and then fell asleep, with the consciousness
that he was not alone.

In the course of the night he had a
most wonderful dream, absolutely unlike
any other he had. ever dreamed. It was
more like a vision than a dream, for he
assured me that, during the whole of the
manifestation, he could see many of the
objects in his room quite distinctly, whilst
in the midst of it a scene presented itself
like a picture, rising, as it were, out of
smoke, and that, hence, he was quite certain
that he was wide awake.

' He beheld before him what looked like
a recess in a subterranean vault, or cellar, of
some ancient building. Wine-casks were
stowed away here and there, and through a
low Gothic arch, he could see what looked
like the red glare from a furnace. The
floor was of dark earth, firmly trodden, and
did not seem to be paved.

' Close to the foot of a protruding
buttress two men appeared to be engaged
in a death-struggle. One of them was
being pinioned to the ground by the other,
and in the prostrate figure Mr. Marks
instantly recognised his brother, in spite of
a long dark beard which was new to him.
The eyes and eye-brows, however, were too
characteristic for him to be mistaken in
them, and these eyes seemed to be turned
towards him in mute and agonised appeal.
Overwhelmed with the horror of the scene,
my husband gazed on in helpless misery.

clutching at the bed-clothes with his hands.
By-and-by an inspiration came to him, to
observe with attention the dress, figure,
and face of his brother's assailant, in order
that he might be able to identify him in
the future. He was a tall, handsome,
actively-built young man, with a very
remarkable countenance. The features
were regular, the teeth even and white,
and the eyes, which were large and brilliant,
with dark brows and lashes, had a
very peculiar expression, as of mingled
sadness and tenacity of purpose, not at all
the eyes one would naturally have associated
with the mind of a murderer. Mr.
Marks next turned his attention to the
young man's dress. This consisted of a
rough, loose coat, or blouse, of the shape
of what is called in England a Norfolk
jacket. It seemed to be made of some sort
of frieze, or solid woollen material, of a

lightish colour, but having upon it stripes
or checks of a darker shade. It was
double-breasted, and fastened with large
metal buttons, having upon them initials,
or some kind of interlaced design, and was
confined round the waist by a belt. lie
wore also boots of brown untanned leather,
reaching high up on the thighs, and a close-fitting
skull-cap of dark fur, which was
pushed far back so as to expose the whole
of his broad, low forehead. A hunting-knife
was hanging from his belt, but he had
no weapon of any sort in his hands. He
held Dr. Bernard's throat in what seemed
like a grip of iron, who, upon his side, was
clutching with one hand at the breast of
his assailant's coat, whilst with the other
he strove to disengage the murderous hands
that were about his neck.

"As is always the case in dreams and
visions, Avhat takes long to describe was

made manifest in only a few seconds. To
my husband, however, the struggle seemed
to continue for hours. Then gradually the
light from the furnace became obscured,
and a female figure appeared suddenly,
looking black and featureless against the
glowing background. She sprang forward
and stood over the combatants. Her back
was towards my husband, so that ho could
not see her face. She drew some kind of
weapon, a long bodkin, or stiletto, from her
hair, a tress of which, becoming unbound, fell
over her shoulder and reached down below
her waist. She bent forward towards the
prostrate figure ; then, turning to the
younger man, spoke to him hurriedly.
Acting, apparently, upon her suggestion,
he thrust one of his hands violently into
the breast of his victim's coat, and drew
out something that glittered and clung
round his fingers. It was the amulet of

Solomon the King, the talisman which was
said to protect its wearer from the malice
of man and devil alike ! The young man,
kneeling now upon the doctor's prostrate
form, thrust the talisman hastily into one
of the j)0<'kets of his hunting-coat. The
woman crouched down still nearer to the
doctor, and lifted her weapon as though
about to strike. Then, suddenly, against
the pink glow of the furnace, another figure
became visible, a woman also, and she, too,
came forward. There arose, the, from the
old vaults a sound as of the mocking laughter
of fiends, and the vision grew gradually
fainter and more confused. My husband
stared at it with all his eyes, but something
like a sea of blood seemed to rise and
engulph the figures he had so lately beheld.
By-and-by this was obscured by a bluish
vapour, and when this cleared away he saw
that the vision had entirely vanished !

Eut his terrible experiences were not yet
over. Before lie had recovered from the
effects of this first vision he again fell into
a clairvoyant state and a second presented
itself. He beheld again the same cellar
or vault, which looked even darker and
gloomier than before as no red glow appeared
through the Gothic archway, and a
sepulchral odour of mould and decay seemed
to pervade the atmosphere. A feeble light
shone dimly upon the damp walls. This
proceeded from a lantern which a man was
holding.

My husband at once recognised the same
man whom he had seen bending over his
brother's prostrate figure in the former
vision, although his dress was altogether
different, and his face older, thinner, and
more careworn. He was deadly pale and
his limbs trembled. A woman was at his
side whispering words of encouragement,

but, as in the previous manifestation, Mr.
Marks could not discern her face. Sometimes
she placed her hand soothingly upon
her companion's shoulder. The hand was
white, beautifully formed, and glittering
with rings. Also my husband perceived
that, although plainly attired in other
respects, she wore emerald ear-rings, pear-shaped,
and of remarkable size, whilst an
ornament of the same description fastened
the black lace mantilla which she wore over
her fair hair. The two bent down and commenced
clearing away a mass of confused
rubbish, planks, shavings, broken bottles,
casks and cinders. They both worked together
at this task. My husband, who declares
that he was "wide awake, stared on into
the half-darkness. Presently a sound as of
a stifled groan reached his ears, and the
man, dropping his shovel, reeled back like
one drunk. The woman opened her arms

to support him, moving somewhat to the
right, so that Mr. Marks coukl perceive
what her form had previously concealed.
By the light of the lantern which was set
down hard by, a ghastly human face was
revealed in the centre of the rubbish-heap ;
the face of one long dead, but which by
some strange chance had not yet become
distorted beyond recognition, for a white
film-like mildew which had grown over the
sunken features appeared, whilst concealing
the more shocking evidences of decay, to
have preserved their original outline intact.
The hollow cavities opening upwards withall
the eloquence of eyes, were overshadowed
by the black-beetle brows so
painfully familiar to my husband, and
the dark beard still clung to the deadman's
chin. In a word, there was no mistaking
the face of Doctor Bernard, in spite
of the ravages which had been wrought by

VOL. II. G

death and time. Mr. Marks perceived
that the living man of his vision appeared
to share his own agony at sight of the
dead man's face. Again the woman seemed
to be urging him to take courage. She
waved her white hand towards a spot some
few feet from where they stood. My husband
looked in this direction, and saw an
open grave, dug in the black earth of the
cellar. No doubt, he thought, they were
about to bury his brother's body where it
would be less likely to be discovered. To
hide the spot where the earth had been disturbed
they would pile over this secret grave
the ashes and rubbish beneath which the
corpse had previously lain concealed. fearful
lest this manifestation, like the previous
one, should suddenly vanish, my husband, in
spite of his horror, concentrated his powers
of observation upon this open grave, in
order that he might be enabled to discover

it should fate ever direct his footsteps to
any such gloomy vault. It was fortunate
for his purpose that he did this, for, in
another second, the blue vapour again rose
before his eyes, revealing, when it rolled
gradually away, the familiar furniture of his
room at Bayswater.

* He fell back upon his pillow, exhausted
by his terrible experiences. As he did not
appear at breakfast, I went upstairs in
search of him. I found him sitting up in
his bed in a terrible state of agitation, and
seeming, to my eyes, to have aged by at
least ten years in that one night.

* Bring me pens, ink and paper, Rebecca,'
he said, ' lest I die before I can set
down what God has just seen good to reveal
to me.'

'' Greatly alarmed, I did as he desired me,
and brought the writing materials to his

g2

bedside. lie was muttering to himself, as
though unconscious of my presence.

*' 'They have buried him,' he was saying,
as one might bury a swine, or some unclean
animal ! Where was the Taketh  the Kobe
of Atonement? But it will be for me to
enshroud him as beseems ; to bind the
phylacteries round his head and his wrists ;
to perform over his murdered body the
sacred Jewish rites ! It was for this that
the vision was made manifest to me, and in
order that he might be avenged ! ' Then he
added, almost in despair, 'But they will
drag him from his secret hiding-place, for
this last horror has not yet come to pass.
The prophetic spirit, which came to me from
my fathers, was upon me, and I was permitted
to behold what is still in the future.
They will clear away the charcoal and ashes
which may hitherto have preserved his frame
from corruption, and they will bury him in

that newly-made grave, maybe with quicklime
! Oh, God ! direct me to the place of
his murder before his enemies have had
time to do away with the traces of their
crime ! "

'sat first I thought that he must have
gone suddenly raving mad.

' You are ill,' I said, feeling greatly
alarmed. ' I shall send off for a doctor at
once.'

'' ' Yes, I am ill,' he answered ; ' but uo
doctor can heal with his drugs a wounded
and sorrowing spirit ! When the blood of
my brother's murderer shall be as water at
my feet, then, and then only, shall my body
know health, and my mind repose ! ' "

As soon as he had recovered from the
effects of his terrible dream, Mr. Marks
seems to have become an altogether
changed man. He was possessed of one
fixed determination of purpose. He would
discover the place where his brother's body
was concealed, bury it with the sacred
Jewish ceremonies, and then track out his
supposed murderer, and bring him to justice.
It was to this end that he devoted
all the energies of his mind and all the
resources of his purse.

Every time that he looked at his brother's
talisman he felt confirmed and

strengthened in his resolve. The small red
specks upon the agate appeared, as he gazed
at them, to turn into drops of blood, which
cried out to him for vengeance.

In a shorter space of time than he could
have expected his labours brought forth
results. By a mere accident, the pawnbroker
at whose shop he had purchased the
amulet discovered the name and address of
the woman by whom it had been pledged.
She was a Madame Zoubiroff, the man
said, the wife of a Russian, who was accustomed
to visit her from time to time,
but who did not live in the same house with
her. To Mr. Marks this name seemed to
be painfully familiar, but he could not
remember, at first, when or where he had
heard it before. She was said to let furnished
apartments in Paris, in a street
which did not bear a very respectable reputation.


Undeterred by this, however, Mr. Marks
lost no time in securing a bed-room at this
palace, representing himself as a commercial
traveller, and carefully concealing his own
name.

Madame Zoubiroff was a handsome
woman, a Frenchwoman by birth, and her
lodger soon succeeded in insinuating himself
into her good graces. As far as he
could judge, she seemed to be an easygoing,
good-natured creature, of obscure
origin and inferior education, but not at all
wanting in sharpness and intelligence.

During the absence of her husband she
did not pass her time in idle lamentations.
She was surrounded by admirers, in whose
company she Alas in the habit of dining at
restaurants and visiting the theatres, so
that, in the evening, she was nearly always
absent from home. Mr. Marks discovered,
before he had known this woman many

days, that her husband was in the service of
Prince Crecszoleski. At first, she did not
say precisely what his vocations Averse, inferring
that he was rather in the position of
an agent, or secretary, than of an actual
dependant. By-and-by, however, it transpired
that he was the prince's valet, or, as she
preferred to describe him, his maitre d' hotel.

Mr. Marks knew, now, why the name of
Zoubiroff had sounded familiar to him. It
had occurred in the letters which his deceased
brother had written to him from
India, where Zoubiroff had attended to the
requirements of the doctor as well as to
those of his own master. Encouraged by
this discovery, Mr. Marks prayed that he
might be still further enlightened.

One day, when Madame Zoubiroff had
been setting her bed-room in order, her
lodger met her in the passage, just outside
his own door.

Tcnez, monsieur'' she said, '* void le
'portrait dc Monsieur le Prince avec qui mon
mari voyage en ce moment " and she
handed him a photograph from the pocket
of her white apron.

The passage was dark, and Mr. Marks
took it to a window to examine it. Upon
beholding it he was, for the moment, completely
overcome by his feelings. Madame
Zonbiroff, however, on account of the darkness,
did not observe his emotion.

The photograph, which was somewhat
faded through age and exposure, represented
a handsome man in the prime of
youth. He was seated upon some roughly-hewn
stone steps, leading to the entrance of
what looked like a feudal castle. The steps
were bordered by balustrades surmounted
by sculptured eagles, holding shields
wrought over with armorial bearings.
Several men, looking like foresters, or

gamekeepers, were standing upon each side
of the central figure, dressed alike in some
kind of distinctive livery; whilst, at the
base of the steps, there crouched a group
of savage-looking dogs, having the appearance
of wolf or boar-hounds.

Monsieur le Prince is just going out
hunting," Madame ZoubirofP explained,
* He is very handsome, is he not ? That is
my husband standing a little on one side."

But Mr. Marks had his gaze riveted
upon the central figure. He adjusted his
2nnce-nez in order to examine the portrait
more minutely. Yes ; there was the short,
handsome, Kalmuck face, the lynx eyes,
marked brows, the fair hair and moustaches
! The prince was holding a rifle in
his right hand, a couteau-de-chasse was
hanging from his belt. He was wearing a
close-fitting fur cap, and a loose striped
blouse, fastened with large buttons. Mr.

Marks recognised him at once as the man
he lead behekl in his dream. He observed,
however, that the countenance was different
in one respect. It wore a much happier
expression. lie turned to the back of the
photograph, and found a date under the
Prince's signature. The photograph had
been given to Zoubiroff a year before the
doctor's mysterious disappearance.

'' The Cain mark was not yet upon his
brow," Mr. Marks thought, as he returned
the portrait to his landlady.

After this discovery, nothing fresh transpired
for several days, during which Mr.
Marks went through much mental perturbation.
Sometimes Madame Zoubiroff herself
became associated with his suspicions, and
he found himself wondering whether she
might not be the original of the female
figure of his vision  the woman who had
seemed to be urging on the murderer to the

fatal deed, but whose features lie had not
been permitted to behold. Then, again, he
dismissed the notion as preposterous. Madame
Zoubiroff was, apparently, a very
kind-hearted woman, and her ignorance and
simplicity seemed to forbid the thought
that she could even have been trusted as
an accomplice. One day, seeing that he
appeared to take so much interest in photographs,
she came to him with one which
represented a shrivelled old woman in a
high white cap, sitting over a oliaufreUo . caLoujI.
She explained that this was a portrait of
her mother, reduced by age to a state of
imbecility, and who was being cared for at
her sole expense in a private maison de
santa, not far from Arras.

 Mon Dieu, monsieur' T she said, "one
must care about somebody ! You men are
all alike; it is impossible to find devotion
that lasts ! One would be wrong not to

i'n 4-*-c Tyr -o

distract oncsclfj but the heart cannot be
quite unoccupied ! That poor old woman
gave me birth,  she looked after me when
I was a little child, and now that she is veii
pleln radotage, it is for her that I make my
economies, so that she shall want for nothing
at the house of the doctor with whom I
have placed her en pension, close to Arras
in the Pas che Calais, ''

These filial sentiments confirmed Mr.
Marks in the good opinion he had formed
of her. Nevertheless, as time pressed, he
decided one day, merely as an experiment,
to show her his brother's amulet. He took
occasion, therefore, when she was passing
the afternoon at home, to join her upon
some pretence in her little salon, where he
found her engaged in needlework. He had
placed the amulet in a hand-bag into which
lie had also slipped some photographs of his
children, and these he took out and showed

to her. She admired them, regretted she
had no chikU'en herself, and then began to
talk again of her devotion to her mother.
In returning the photographs to the bag,
Mr. Marks purposely arranged that one of
them should become entangled in the chains
of the amulet, and that the two should fall
together on the floor. Without having seen
what it was that had dropped, Madame
Zoubiroff reached down her hand to pick it
up. Her whole countenance changed when
she beheld the amulet.

'' Mon Dieu, monsieur T* she exclaimed,
looking as pale and scared as if she had seen
a serpent. " Where can you have been
searching to find that ? "

Her emotion did not escape Mr. Marks,
who was observing her narrowly.

'you have seen it before?" he inquired,
carelessly. "It has belonged to some one
you knew ? ''

She soon recovered from lier embarrassment,
and again Mr. Marks became impressed
with her candour and sincerity.

'* Jlonsietir must have bought this in
London," she said, after she had carefully
examined the talisman. 'when first I said
it I was astonished, because I never expected
to behold it again ; because, too, it is connected
with those very persons about whom
I have often talked with you. Here is its
history : Ilonsieiir le Prince Crecszoleski
gave Zoubiroff, years and years ago, an old
hunting-coat, the coat in which you saw the
Prince in the photograph. Zoubiroff sentit
to me with some other things, when,
slipped in beneath the lining of one of the
pockets, I found this. I wrote to Zoubiroff
and begged him to inform His Highness of
my discovery, when the Prince sent back
word that I had better keep it, as it was a
 poi'te-honlieiir, w\\\q\i he hoped might bring

mc good fortune. I retained it, therefore,
until, wishing that my old mother might
have a cup of good bouillon the last tiling
at night, which was counted as an extra, I
raised money upon that and some other
objects ' in London when last I was there,
fully meaning afterwards to redeem them.
The time went by, however, before I was
aware of it, and so the porte-bonheur has
passed into the possession of monsieur I "

After a few cleverly-directed questions,
Mr. Marks discovered that Madame 
had not pawned the hunting-coat with
the talisman. It was old and torn, she said ;
she had intended to repair it first, but she
had never had time. It was in the house
at that very moflaent, hanging up in one of
her cupboards.

Mr. Marks was greatly excited at hearing
this. To make a long story short, one evening
when Madame Zoubiroffwas from home,

VOL. II. H

and the bonne gone out on an errand, he
made an examination of the cupboards in
his landlady's bedroom. In one of these he
discovered the coat. It corresponded in
every respect to the coat of his dream. Ashe
examined it by the light of his candle a
cold shudder ran through his frame. The
lining was stained with dark marks in one
or two places. Was this blood? he asked
himself; and, if so, was it human blood, or
only that of animals slain in the chase ?
After all these years who would be able to
distinguish between the two ? He next
turned to the breast of the coat, to the
place at which he had seen the doctor
clutching in his vision. One of the large
metal buttons was missing just at this spot,
having been apparently torn away by main
force, with a portion of the material of the
coat. A terrible impression was produced
upon Mr. Marks by what he regarded as a

fresh proof of his brother's murder. He
cut off another of the buttons with his penknife,
and put it in his pocket before he
replaced the coat in the cupboard. It was
a flat metal button with some kind of monogram
upon it surmounted by a coronet.

Next day, Mr. Marks had a long interview
with one of the chiefs of police with
whom he had recently been in constant
communication, and soon afterwards he
paid a visit to Prince Crecszoleski's chateau
in Poland, having discovered, through his
landlady, that the Prince was absent in England.
Here he made important discoveries.
A peasant, who was a mere lad at the time
of the doctor's disappearance, remembered
him perfectly. He had been employed to
help him and the Prince with their experiments
in a laboratory which had been fitted
up in one of the vaults of the old castle.

He recollected the day of the wolf-hunt,

h2

having been told off with other lads to assist
as a '' beater." He had never believed that
the doctor had been devoured by wolves.
Nobody believed it; only this was a subject
upon which they seldom spoke, fearing lest
their words misrht reach the ears of His
Highness, who was the doctor's friend.

'what did they believe, then?" Mr.
Marks asked, vainly striving to suppress his
impatience. He had not neglected to provide
himself with both money and drink,
under the influence of which his informant
became more and more communicative.
He explained to the man that he himself
had been acquainted with Dr. Bernard, and
that he was anxious to learn every particular
connected with his death, having
never felt that the theory of the devouring
wolves was altogether a satisfactory one.
Por some time the man seemed to be afraid
to say what he really thought. (Could he

suspect the truth ? Mr. Marks asked himself.)
Then, after a while, he imparted his
views, which were shared, he said, at the
time by nearly all the peasants upon the
Crecszoleski estates ; Dr. Bernard, as was
well known long before his disappearance,
was a necromancer or wizard. He studied
the black arts, wrought spells of enchantment,
and held communication with evil
spirits. In the lonely vaults under the oldcastle
he practised all kinds of strange,
unholy rites, and he had persuaded the
Prince to' do likewise and to think of
nothing but the study of magic and the
raising of demons. Some even said that
he was "an accursed Jew," who sacrificed
human flesh at Christmas and the Pentecost,
and that he was endeavouring to pervert
the Prince to his false doctrines . . .

Things could not be permitted to go on
long like this. Upon the evening after the

wolf-hunt, be could answer for it, the Prince
and the doctor returned to the castle together.
They left their horses at the outskirts
of the forest, and came back on foot.
It was then dusk, but he knew the Prince
by his height, and Doctor Bernard, who
was quite a short man, by his beard.
Screened by one of the yew-hedges, he had
seen them go together into the vaults by a
little private door which communicated
with the garden, and of which they alone
possessed the key. When he had spoken
of this afterwards, Zoubiroff, the Prince's
valet, had insisted that he was mistaken as
to the day ; but then Zoubiroff was always
fancying that nobody could ever know the
rights of anything except himself! It was
only natural, too, that for his master's sake,
seeing that Dr. Bernard was his friend, and
that they were both engaged in the same
unhallowed machinations, Zoubiroff should

wish to conceal the magician's terrible fate ;
for there could be no doubt as to what had
been his end. Things of the same kind
had happened, over and over again, to both
wizards and witches alike ! In a word, the
ignorant peasant believed that Dr. Bernardin
the midst of what he called his " impious
incantations," had been carried off bodily by
the spirit of evil ! . . .

The Prince, who must have witnessed the
awful scene, was naturally anxious to huih
matters up and account for his friend's disappearance
in some other way. It had
acted as a salutary warning to His Highness,
so the catastrophe had had its uses.
Everybody noticed that since the doctor's
disappearance the Prince had been an
utterly changed man. He seemed to have
totally abandoned the study of magic, and
the vaults, where he and the doctor used to
carry on their unhallowed researches, had

been permanently closed for many years.
One would have said, indeed, that the home
of his fathers had become hateful to him.
He seldom visited it now, save for two or
three days at a time, and then he had
never been known to go down once into
the laboratory, although he had left there
all the instruments and phials which he had
made use of for his magical and chemical
experiments. These were on no account to
be disturbed, he said, lest, in the hands of
the inexperienced, they might produce
deadly exhalations or dangerous explosions.
And so His Highness had locked
up the door which led into the vaults
from the garden, and had caused it to be
further secured by an iron bar. There
was another door leading to a secret staircase
which communicated with the Prince's
apartments, but this, too, had been protected
by bolt and bar. There was little

need, however, for all these precautions !
It was not likely, after what had been
whispered abroad, that anybody would wish
to venture down into such an accursed den !
Lonely and deserted though it was, strange
and awful sounds were said to proceed from
it sometimes, and one of the old gardeners,
who had been at work not far from a
grating that served as a ventilator, swore
that he had heard some one poking the fire
in the laboratory, and that upon peeping
through the bars he could see plainly the
red glare of the furnace.

There was no doubt but that the place
was haunted, either by the ghost of the
doctor or by the evil spirits who had
carried him ofP. lEis Highness, aware of
this, looked upon the place now as unhallowed
ground. He was thinking of
letting it, or of selling it even (so it was
said), and his servants would scarcely miss

one of whom tlicy now saw so little. Better,
far better, for them that it should pass into
the possession of strangers ! Perhaps, then,
the curse which hung over it might depart
for ever !

Mrs. Marks told me that her husband,
after listening to these ignorant surmises,
arrived at three definite conclusions, namely :
that his brother had certainly come to his
death by foul means upon the evening following
upon the wolf-hunt ; that his corpse
was still lying concealed in the vaults
underneath the castle ; and that Zoubiroff,
the Prince's valet, was either an accomplice
in the crime, or that he had, at any rate,
been aware of it, and had done everything
in his power to screen his master from
suspicion.

Before leaving the neighbourhood, Mr.
Marks made every effort to obtain an
entrance to the vaults, giving as a reason

the interest he had always taken in matters
connected with psychical research, which
mad 3 him desire above all things, he declared,
to behold the ghost of the doctor
poking the laboratory fire. His endeavours,
however, were fruitless. Prince Cresczo-
leski's retainers were too conscientious to
disobey their master's orders, and their
scruples seemed to be mingled with a
superstitious dread of approaching even as
near as the entrance to the vaults. But a
firm determination of purpose will work
wonders. Within a few weeks from this
time, Mr. Marks had almost concluded his
negotiations for a lease of the chateau, preparatory,
as he pretended, to purchasing it
outright. On his way to confer with Hugo,
who was then in England, he stayed at his
former lodgings in Paris, and there learnt
from his unsuspecting landlady that the
Prince's sister, '* Comtesse Dobrowolska," as

she styled her, avoiding all allusion to
her second marriage, was likewise passing
through Paris, on her way to England, and
staying for a few days at the Hotel Mirabeau.
Here it was that Mr. Marks succeeded
in scraping acquaintance with her.
Besides being to all intents and purposes an
Englishman, he bore little or no resemblance
to his Polish brother, and, under the
recently assumed name of '' Marks," his
relationship to Dr. Bernard was not suspected.
Madame Dobrowolska merely saw
in him an English gentleman, with whom
she had providentially become acquainted
at the very moment when he was anxious
to purchase just such an estate as her
brother was anxious to sell. She talked
over all the preliminaries with Mr. Marks
before she had even communicated with the
prince, and then started off for England,
where, disappointed in her plan of joining

her brother at Lord Silchester's, she had
despatched the telegram which had peremptorily
summoned him to London, and prevented
him from keeping his tryst with
me in the old summerhouse at Northover
Park.

What took place at this interview between
the brother and sister it is impossible
to say. One of its results, however, had
been, that Mr. Marks was to occupy the
castles for the period of one year, with the,
view of ultimately purchasing it. Then,
not many weeks afterwards, Delphine
had sent her brother that other imperative
message, which had separated me from my
husband upon the very day that followed
upon our marriage.

What had been the real object of that
flying visit to the Polish castle, whence
Ilugo had returned seeming a humbler, a
sadder, and yet a happier man, accessible

to those tender emotions which had
hitherto found no place in his heart,
craving eagerly for sympathy and love, and
with a look upon his face as though he had
for ever buried and hidden away some
haunting presence which had come between
him and his rest, and prevented him from
experiencing the brighter and purer pleasures
of existence ?

But meanwhile the Prench police authorities,
obedient to the instructions of Mr. Marks,
had kept an eye upon Zoubiroff. To watch
him was almost equivalent to watching his
master, since the two invariably travelled
together ; and perhaps Mr. Marks, with his
golden key, may have opened the minds of
the detectives so as to enable them to understand
his real wishes upon the subject.
Zoubiroif had furnished the police with an
excellent pretext for their vigilance by associating
with, and receiving, at his house in
Paris, revolutionary characters, who were

known to be engaged in plotting against
the Government, with which fact Mr. Marks
had become acquainted by reason of his
friendly relations with the valet's wife.

When, therefore, my unhappy husband
and his sister paid their mysterious visit to
Poland just after our marriage, they did not
travel alone. Two simple and inoffensive
strangers, to judge by their manners and
appearance, entered the railway carriage
which Zoubiroff was trying to reserve for
the Prince and his sister, just before the
train started. They professed to understand
no word of any language except German, and
apparently passed most of the journey in
sleep ; nevertheless they managed to acquire
a good deal of information in the course of
it. These two strangers, arrayed in various
different disguises, dogged Hugo's footsteps
even after he had reached the seclusion of
his own park. They succeeded, by some

means unattainable to Mr. Marks, in entering
the vaults of the castle, and there, from
a place of concealment, were witnesses of
a ghastly scene, the same as that which
Mr. Marks, with his inherited prevision,"
had beheld, some months before, in a
dream.

Two men, working together in silence at
midnight, dug a grave in the hard earthen
flooring of the cellar. It was deep and
wide, but they worked on without ever
pausing in their dreadful task. When it
was finished, the taller man leant back as
though exhausted against an advancing
buttress, and wiped the drops from his
brow. Then a woman, mufl9.ed in a lone:
cloak, came forward. She wore a black
lace veil over her head, fastened at the
throat by an emerald pendant, and emerald
earrings to match it in her ears. She said
a few words of encouragement to the man,

VOL. II. I

who needed them, and then, flinging aside
her cloak and veil, proceeded with her bare
white hands to help him at his task. Not
far from where they stood was a heap of
rubbish,  mouldering beams and barrels,
crumbled masonry, breakages of glass and
crockery,  smothered with cinders. Slowly
and cautiously, by the dim light of a lantern
which had been set down hard by, the two
began clearing away these debris.

But why should I repeat the sickening
details which are already known to the
reader through the strange revelation which
was made manifest to the dead man's
brother ?

As in that terrible vision, the pale, eyeless
face was ere long disclosed, and seemed
to look up to heaven in mute appeal from
the dust and ashes that surrounded it.
Hugo, my husband, reeled back, overcome
by the horrible sight. His sister again

whispered words of encouragement in his
ear ; Zoubirofif came forward to assist him.
Finally the mouldering remains of Dr.
Maurice Bernard, marred by

*' Decay's effacing fingers,"

and yet not so marred as to be past all

recognition, were lowered hurriedly into the

newly-made grave.

Zoubiroff collected the mould which was

displaced by the interment in two employ

wine-barrels. These he concealed until the

following evening, when, favoured by the

darkness, he rolled them down to the river

which flowed through the Prince's domain,

and emptied their contents therein. Before

doing this, however, he assisted his master

in strewing the rubbish beneath which the

body had lain so long concealed, over the

spot where it had just been newly buried.

Oh, God ! the horror of knowing that

i2

hugo should have come to me straight
from this ghastly work as a lover as a
husband! That he  a murderer  should
have clasped my hands, kissed my lips, and
held me to the heart that was so black with
crime !

Zoubiroff was arrested soon after this in
Paris, having had time to travel thus far
with his master before the particulars of the
suspected crime had been laid before the
authorities at St. Petersburg. His topers
were seized, together with the old hunting-coat.
Mr. Marks began by accusing him of
the murder ; one of the buttons of this coat
having been found tightly clenched in the
right hand of the dead man when, for the
second time, his mouldering remains were
brought to light.

'' Thereby*' said Mrs. Marks, " proving
cither that a miracle must have been performed,
or else that our rabbis did not

know the laws of Nature when they tac-lit
that, though man is born with his hands
clenched, he dies with them wide open,
since entering life he desires to grasp everything,
and leaving it, all he possesses passes
away."

Then the fact came out that the coat had
belonged to the Prince, who had worn it
upon the day of the wolf-hunt, after which
he had given it to his servant as it was old
and shabby. Zoubiroff had sent it, with
some other things, to the woman who
passed for his wife, but to whom, it turned
out, he had never been legally married.
She had been, for many years, Madame
Dobrowolska's confidential attendant; and,
upon leaving her service, had been established
by Zoubiroff in the lodging-house in
Paris at which Mr. Marks had taken up
his temporary abode.

Although the valet possessed a cautious

and astute disposition, lie was completely
thrown ofT this guard in the course of the
preliminary examination to which lie was
subjected upon his arrival at St. Petersburg,
for he had been under the impression that
his arrest was due to his intimacy with the
Nihilists and Polish patriots who frequented
the Paris lodging-house, and so was totally
unprepared when he was questioned as to
the mysterious disappearance of Dr. Bernard.
With every desire, as I verily believe to
serve and screen his master, the tissue of
falsehood and prevarication in which he involved
himself proved fatal to the Prince's
interests. Finally, cross - questioned and
browbeaten, the valet lost patience, and
made a full confession. The Prince, he said,
had certainly taken the life of Dr. Bernard;
but from what motive it was impossible to
divine, as the two had always seemed to be
upon the most friendly terms. The doctor

musc have seriously provoked His Highness
to turn all his friendship to aversion. Perhaps
they had disputed about something.
The doctor and the Countess had frequent
disagreements. It was possible that, upon
this occasion, the Prince may have taken
his sister's part, and been moved to anger
against her husband. Of all this, 
knew nothing. The Countess's maid
witnessed the tragedy by accident, and,
through her, he had become aware of it.
It was quite true that, years afterwards,
he had assisted his master and the countess
to conceal the body more effectually, believing
that the catastrophe occurred in hotblood,
and without premeditation. It would
have been far better to have destroyed it
in the furnace of the laboratory, as he
(Zoubiroff) had at first suggested. All had
been prepared for this, and the furnace
heated to a great heat ; when, at the last

moment, the Prince's nerves lead failed
him; he having beheld, he declared, the
face of a man looking down at them
through the grating which communicated
with the garden. The doctor's body was
allowed to remain, therefore, in its temporary
place of concealment, until quite
recently, when it had been properly buried.
The whole affair had always been a complete
mystery to Zoubiroff, His Highness
having been till that time of a most gentle
and humane disposition. He thought it
his duty to mention, however, that the
Princess, his mother had been confined for
several years in a private lunatic asylum,
and that the Prince himself had had a
somewhat severe attack of sunstroke whilst
he was travelling in India. The fatal act
may, therefore, have been committed during
a fit of temporary frenzy for which he was
not responsible.

Almost immediately after Zoubiroff 's confession
my husband was arrested at Monte
Carlo and charged with the murder. There
was one other circumstance connected with
that ghastly midnight undertaking which it
will be necessary for me to mention. When
the woman who had assisted Hugo and his
servant in their secret labours turned to the
place where she had deposited her cloak and
veil, the ornament with which the latter
had been secured was nowhere to be found,.
She searched for it as well as she could in
the dim light, for, besides being of great
value, it seems that it was a family jewel.
Hugo, however, who was in a state of
extreme agitation, was, naturally, impatient
to depart from the dreadful spot. He told
her that it had probably become entangled
in the trimming of her dress, that she would
assuredly find it when they emerged into a
clearer light, and that now they must

be gone. They departed, therefore, by the
little staircase wliicli communicated with
the Prince's private apartments.

As soon as they were gone the two detectives,
who, from their place of concealment,
had seen and heard everything, sought for,
and discovered, the ornament. Madame
Zoubiroff, as 1 will continue to call her,
who was arrested soon after her lover and
associate, was suddenly confronted with it
at the preliminary examination of the
accused. She recognized it at once, not
knowing then what might be the effect of
her words, as the property of the Countess
Dobrowolska. It had belonged once to her
mother, and she nearly always wore it.
Hugo's sit-er became, through this circumstance,
involved in the proceedings, but,
when sought for, she was not to be found.
She had quitted Paris immediately after the
arrest of Zoubiroff, of which she had probably

been informed through her former
maid. It was her custom, it seems, to
disappear from time to time without leaving
any address, and she had either done this
now, unconscious altogether of her brother's
terrible position, or else, deeming discretion
the better part of valour, she had taken
refuge in flight.

Madame Zoubiroff, when confronted with
the Prince's accuser, stoutly denied that she
had been a witness of the crime, or that she
had ever spoken upon the subject to Zoubi-
roff. It was utterly impossible to reconcile
the evidence of these two individuals, which
disagreed upon every important point. The
woman was placed under police supervision,
whilst awaiting the decisive trial. She
managed, however  some said with the connivance
of the authorities to escape from
St. Petersburg, since which time, like her
former mistress, she had never been heard of.

I inquired of Mrs. Marks, as soon as I
could find the voice wherewith to question
her, how the Prince had conducted himself
since his arrest ? She replied, that her
husband, who had gone to see him with his
heart full of anger and abhorrence, had
been altogether disarmed and softened by
his demeanour. He had, as yet, neither
avowed nor denied the crime with which he
was charged ; but having placed his case in
the hands of an eminent lawyer he preserved
the calm indifference of a fatalist.
Mr. Marks said that he had no doubt

ivliatever of his guilt, but he had begun to
wonder, after all he had heard respecting his
occult studies, experiments in mesmerism,
and the like, whether the crime  for which
there seemed to be no motive whatsoever 
might not have been committed when he
was in some abnormal condition of mind or
body.

Upon hearing this I was at once reminded
of what my husband had told me
of his sensitiveness to all spiritual impressions
; his enforced and reluctant obedience
to a will which was stronger than his own ;
and of the mysterious person who had so
paralysed what he used to term his *' volitional
power " that he had come to consider
him (or her) as his "absolute controller,"
and whose influence it was to have been my
mission to combat and counteract. I had
always suspected that this person was his
sister Delphine. I felt convinced of it now.

The face of Hugo, as I had seen it in my
dream at Northover, pale, beseeching, appealing
to me as though for mercy, recurred
to me now with painful vividness. Tears
rushed to my eyes before I could check
them, and I pleaded earnestly with Mrs.
Marks that she would use her influence to
soften her husband's heart towards the man
who was now so completely in his power.

 There is some terrible mystery about all
this," I said ; " something we cannot understand
! I implore you to beg of your
husband to be merciful !"

She replied that a great change seemed
to have come over Mr. Marks, to judge by
his letters, from the last of which she read
me an extract, which ran somewhat as
follows : 

My brother Maurice is lying at rest
now in the Jewish cemetery upon the outskirts
of our native town, by the side of the

grave wliicli contains the mortal remains of
our beloved parents. His body, by what
appears almost a miracle, brought about,
possibly, by the action of the chemicals
which mingled with the refuse beneath
which it had been concealed, was mercifully
preserved for my recognition. It has been
enshrouded in the Robe of Atonement, and
with my own hands did I bind the leather
phylacteries round both brow and wrists.
Was it not in order that I might perform
these sacred rites that God sent me the
visions, and is not my work accomplished ?
Or, was it intended that I should pursue
the slayer with my vengeance ? I am
asking myself these questions now, and
awaiting, prayerfully, the answer that may
come to me. When I look into the face of
my brother's murderer my heart grows
tender towards him. There is no remorse,
no indignation, as at a false accusation  no

slime, or malice, in. his countenance. lie is
calm and self-possessed, like one who is
prepared for the worst, hut who is supported
hy a consciousness of innocence. How reconcile
this attitude with the certainty I
have of his guilt ? I can explain it only hy
coming to the conclusion that he is mad,
or hy the sunstroke that he suffered from in
India. I turn for counsel to the amulet
which I now believe to he possessed of the
most potent virtues. The red drops upon
the agate which seemed once to incite me to
feelings of revenge, appear now to have
shrunk into insignificance. ' Vengeance is
mine ; I will repay, saith the Lord ! ' this
is the message that comes to me from its
contemplation. Still, madmen like Crecszo-
leski must be restrained". . .

I remembered well what my godfather
had said when warning me in the old
summerhouse at home. ' Ilugo Crecszo-

leski " (he had said) '' is a strange incomprehensible
being. He is not governed by
any of the ordinary laws which control
civilised man. lie is a mystic, an impressionist.
He listens to, and obeys, voices that
nobody else can hear." Might not one of
these '' voices " have spoken when he had
so unaccountably taken the life of the
Jewish professor, seemingly one of his
closest friends ? and might not the voice,
as well as the will to insist upon this Evil
deed, have proceeded from his sister Hel-thine
? But here again I was at a loss to
conceive what could have been the motive
which had inspired her.

It was as though Mrs. Marks had guessed
my thoughts. '' The sister is somehow
mixed up in the matter," she said ; ''of
this we are quite sure. Why, otherwise,
should she have taken herself oflP? In he7
case, too, my husband says he perceives

VOL. II. K

a motive for the crime. When he was in
Paris he tried to learn all he could about
her antecedents. Several facts came out
through his landlady, and he fell in, also,
with a Trench diplomat, with whom he was
already acquainted, and who had once been
an admirer of the Countess's, during the
lifetime of her first husband, the old General.
Erom this person, having introduced her
name into the conversation by mentioning
that he was lodging with her former maid,
he learnt that, although she had been surrounded
by adorers, she was supposed to
have cared for only one of them, an Englishman,
occupying a very good position. She
seems to have expected that this gentleman
would marry her as soon as she became a
widow, but when she was free he showed
no intention of doing so, knowing, perhaps,
a little too much about her already. She
continued to importune him with her attentions

for some time, but at last heard that
he was deeply attached to a lady ia England,
and that, whilst this lady lived, he had made
up his mind never to marry anybody else.
As soon as she had assured herself that all
her fascinations were thrown away upon
him, she seems to have retired in disgust
and disappointment to her brother's country
house. Here she became acquainted with
Dr. Bernard, who fell in love with her at
once. My husband discovered that at about
this time she had contracted heavy gambling
debts. Her brother was said to have behaved
with great generosity towards her,
but perhaps, for this very reason, she may
not have liked to apply to him too often.
Disappointed in love, disreputable in character,
and deeply in debt, you can understand
now why she consented to marry the
wealthy Hebrew professor, although she

may not have cared about him in the least""

k2

I told Mrs. Marks that I could quite
believe this of a woman such as she described,
but that I could not understand
Why she should afterwards desire to do
away with her benefactor. " Listen," rejoined
Mrs. Marks, '* and I will endeavour
to explain, although you will say, perhaps,
that all this is mere conjecture. My husband,
however, who has thought of nothing
else for months, fully believes in this theory.
You understood that when the Countess
consented to marry the doctor she thought
that the man she really cared for was quite
out of her roach ?"

'* The man that was in love with the lady
in England ?'* I asked.

Yes ; and who had told the Countess
that, whilst this lady lived, he would never
marry any other woman. Well, Mr. Marks
learnt, through this same French gentleman,
that very soon after her union with

Dr. Ecrnarcl, this lady in England died quite
unexpectedly. ' If I had only waited a
miserable six months ! ' the Countess wrote,
regretfully, to this Prench gentleman in
Paris. So we know that in six months she
had already repented of her marriage. To
this second marriage, as I have before told
you, Madame Zoubiroff never made any
allusion, referring to the Prince's sister
always as the ' Comtesse Dobrowolska.'
Amongst the papers, however, that were
seized at her lodging-house, was a letter
from the Countess to her former maid, which
proved not only that the woman was entirely
in her mistress's confidence, but also that
she must have been employed by her to act
the part of a spy in the house of her English
rival. This letter proved, too, that Dr.
Bernard and his wife lived upon anything
but happy terms. I have brought a copy of
this letter with me to show you."

Mrs. Marks hereupon unclasped her Lag,
and handed me the copy in question. It
was written in French, of which the following
is a literal translation :   You have
then really seen her dead  this woman
whose existence prevented the realisation of
my dearest hopes ? You are quite sure that
the earth covers her  that her face is hidden
for ever from his eyes ? Your mission is
now finished, and your recompense awaits
you here, where I expect you as soon as
you quit your present ' situation.' Visit the
good old mother at Arras on your way  I
can assure you she need want for nothing ;
but do not remain there too long, as I am
expecting you with impatience; You will
find me much changed and aged since last
you saw me, for instead of the repose which
I hooked to obtain through this marriage, and
the devoted slave that I was assured I should
find in my husband, I am saddled with the

most exacting of tyrants, who accuses me
of being always in the wrong, who asks
me all sorts of indiscreet questions upon
the subject of my past, and who, in all
matters connected with money, proves himself
to be, ten thousand times over, a Jew 1 "
Then, in conclusion, came the following
significant sentence : ** The idea you had
was a good one, and I shall always count
it as a service rendered; but if only the
inspiration had come to you a little sooner !
All the same, the news cannot fail to rejoice
me. One was very foolish to re-marry so
quickly, but after the three letters you sent
me, what was there to hope ? ''

*My husband considers," said Mrs.
Marks, that this letter throws a good deal
of light upon the relations of Dr. Bernard
and his wife, and also upon those of the
Countess and her maid. He fancies that
after the death of the English lady  in
which he does not feel at all sure that these

two wicked women may not have lead a
hand  "Dr. Bernard must have become hateful
to his wife, who, hoping to regain her
influence over the man she had really cared
for, prevailed by some means upon her
unfortunate brother (a mere puppet in her
hands from all we hear) to do away with
the one whom she regarded now merely in
the light of an obstacle. The servants about
the place in Poland admitted that the doctor
got on very badly with his wife, and a man
who had been one of the Countess's footmen
remembered to have heard her exclaim in a
fit of passion, ' Alas ! that I, a Crecszoleska,
should have allowed myself to be contaminated
by marriage with an accursed Jew'"
"And this woman is still at liberty!" I
cried, " whilst her brother is bearing all the
burden of her crimes ! ''

I don't think she can remain in hiding
for long," Mrs. Marks returned. " She is
too conspicuous a person, and too fond of

adventure to keep very quiet. Somewhere
she is sure to be heard of. My husband
has placed an advertisement in several of
the principal English and Prench newspapers,
to the effect that a very valuable
emerald and diamond ornament has been
found, and will be delivered up to the
owner, if it is correctly described, upon
application. Possibly this may produce some
response. Then she is, as I have no doubt
you are aware, her brother's heir. Should
he be imprisoned for life, or sent to Siberia,
I think you will see that she will come
forward and advance her claims, for, failing
heirs J Mr. Marks says that the estates will
probably be confiscated to the Crown. How
thankful you ought to be, my dear young
lady, to think that you have no children !
If you had, you might lose some of them, as
I did my eldest little boy, or they might
grow up to be madmen and murderers like
their father before them ! "

I THINK I may say with truth that I come,
now, to the most miserable period of my life.
Only those who may have been placed in
some sort of analogous position will be able
to realise my sufferings.

I have taken so long in relating the particulars
of my interview with Mrs. Marks
that my readers will imagine, perhaps, that
it was an unusually long one. She remained
with me, indeed, for very nearly the whole
afternoon ; but what has taken so much
time to write took far less in the telling.
Several of the facts I have mentioned, too,

only came to my knowledge some years
afterwards. I have set them down here,
however, in order that my story may he as
clear and comprehensible as possible. It
was close upon our dinner-hour when Mrs.
Marks took her departure, but I felt too
prostrate in mind and body to attempt to
eat. I retired to my bedroom, where I gave
way to tears which I was wholly unable to
control, but which did not afford me the
slightest relief. 

My mind was in such a state of confusion
that it was with the greatest difficulty that
I was able to tell Miss Warden of all that
I had just heard. Both she and Mason
appeared to be seriously alarmed at my
condition. An English resident doctor used
to look in nearly every morning to see my
father, and they arranged  without telling
me of it  that he should pay me a visit on
the following day.

I was looking particularly ill, as it happened,
and feeling faint and miserable. As
I contemplated my pale face in the glass, I
could not help wondering  in spite of my
pre-occupation  that mere moral suffering,
uncombined with bodily disease, should have
left such traces upon my appearance. "Whenever
I had felt at all unhappy before, I had
sways looked too well for anybody to suspect
it. But then, this was not a case of
ordinary unhappiness !

The doctor  a benevolent-looking old man
came to see me next day. He appeared
rather puzzled at my symptoms, not being
aware of all the disturbing influences
which had of late encompassed me. lie
enjoined quiet, cheerful society, and fresh
air, with exercise short of fatigue  the usual
prescriptions. To Miss Warden he said
that my illness was chiefly nervous, that I
was a little hysterical ; and he inquired

whether I had lately gone through any sort
of mental trouble ? To this Miss Warden
could only make answer  seeing that he
was not yet in our confidence  that I
had been rendered anxious by the state
of my father's health. The doctor left
me, saying that he would see me again in
the course of a few days. Since hearing
Mrs. Marks's story, I had become possessed,
of an intense desire to conceal all traces of
my marriage. Of course, if Hugo could
have returned to me, having satisfactorily
refuted all these terrible charges, I might at
once have felt differently. I feared, however,
that now there could be but little hope
of this. His flying visit to Poland  immediately
after our union  had obviously been
made, at the instigation of his sister, for the
sole purpose of more effectually concealing
his victim's body before the new tenant
came into occupation. The proof that the

vaults were secretly visited, at the dead of
night, by Hugo, Madame Dobrowolska, and
Zoubiroff, did not, unfortunately, rest solely
upon the shadowy evidence of a dream ! I
seemed to know now, as if by instinct, what
motives had actuated the two guilty persons.
They had desired so eagerly to rid themselves
of the place which was associated
with their crime, that they had closed with
the proposals of Mr. Marks before they had
fully realised the risks which might attend
the occupation of the castle by strangers.
When they had achieved their object, 
is often the case  the drawbacks
connected with it had presented themselves ;
to Delphine, as was evident, in the first
instance. She had telegraphed to her brother
upon the morning following on our marriage.
He had obeyed her, as he invariably
did obey her  in everything, and the two
had started off together to Poland, in order

as they fondly believed  to make all things
secure.

Ill spite of the pity I could not help feeling
for Hugo, and a rooted conviction that
he had been made  through some strange
combination of occult forces  the tool of
one who was more guilty than himself; the
dreadful circumstances of the case had
shocked and revolted me beyond description.
How could I possibly become free,
I asked myself, from all connection with
this terrible family ? It seemed to me, at
this time, that this was the consummation
most devoutly to be wished.

The fact that Prince Crecszoleski was
privately married was known, as yet, to only
a few persons. His accuser had become
aware of it through my own letters to him,
and through other letters and papers which
had been seized at Zoubiroif 's lodging-house
Zoubiroff had been thrown off his cuard bv

the questions pat to him by those who were
ah'cady in the possession of many important
facts, and had thus been the means of furnishing
Mr. Marks with fuller particulars.
But Mr. Marks in spite of the hardening
influence which I had heard was frequently
the accompaniment of great wealth, did not
seem to be either unfeeling or vindictive.
Might he not be induced, perhaps, by his
wife  if she would consent thus far to act as
my friend  to employ some of this Avery
wealth for the future preservation of our
secret ? He had promised her that the
Prince's marriage  having nothing whatever
to do with the murder  should not be
dwelt upon at the trial ; but this was scarcely
enough. I said to myself, too, that though
he might have spent large sums with the
view of furthering his own projects, he
might not be so willing to fling away his
money upon mine. In this case, how gladly

would I repay him afterwards for any
expenses he might incur ! I could put
aside the income I was allowed for my
dress ; go about, if need be, in rags, and
so pay off my debt to Mr. Marks by instalments.
I could sell my jewelry ; first and
foremost of all, the cat's-eye ring, which
had become now positively hateful in my
sight ; or I could borrow the necessary sum
from my godfather, who had made me promise
that I would apply to him if ever I
stood in need of a friend. Why, indeed,
should my marriage now be ever made
public at all? Who would benefit by the
disgrace and misery which such an exposure
would entail ? Not Hugo, certainly ; nor
Madame Dobrowolska, who was her brother's
heir. Mrs. Marks had told me that the
Prince would probably be banished to
Siberia, or shut up in a lunatic asylum
There was no fear, she assured me, of his

VOL. II. L

suffering what we term in England " the
extreme penalty of the law ; " since  in the
then-existing state of public feeling throughout
the whole length and breadth of the
dominions of the Czar  it would be deemed
unwise by the authorities to publish abroad
anything calculated to cast discredit upon a
member of the aristocracy. The Jews, too,
she said, had already suffered enough. If
the circumstances of Dr. Bernard's murder
could possibly be suppressed there was not
the least doubt but that every effort would
be made in this direction. Supposing the
guilt of the Prince was established at the
forthcoming trial, he would simply disappear,
as it were, from the face of the earth, but
there would be no public scandal. The
worst that could happen would be, perhaps,
that a paragraph might appear in some
"officially-inspired'' newspaper, to the effect
that Prince Crecszoleski had, unhappily.

gone out of his mind, and had had to be
placed under restraint, and then nobody
would ever hear anything of him again.

I asked if it was likely that I should ever
be allowed to go to him in his exile, or visit
him in his prison ? Mrs. Marks replied that
it was impossible, until after the trial, to
express an opinion upon this point. She
thought, however, that my husband would
be as entirely separated from me as from
the rest of the world. ' How could we be
certain, otherwise," she asked,  after what
had already happened, that his wife might
not become his second victim ?"

Why, therefore, need anybody desire to

declare our marriage ? Why should it not

be kept a secret to the end of time ? I had

no marriage settlements  no children. I

could never marry any one else, of course,

whilst poor Hugo lived ; but it was not very

likely, after this first experience, that I

l2

should ever "wish to risk happiness and
peace of mind for the second time.

I called upon Mrs. Marks a few days after
her visit, at the Hotel des Anglais, and
implored her to impress upon her husband
how earnestly I desired that, if possible, no
mention should he made of my marriage at
the Prince's trial. She received me very
kindly, and promised to do all in her
power to further my wishes.

' But I can't think that you are acting
very wisely," she said, " in wanting to hush
up your marriage. I should think it must
he always pleasant to hear one's self called
Princess,' whatever one's husband had
done ; and Mr. Marks says, too, that if the
Emperor knew that the Prince had an innocent
young wife, who had had nothing whatever
to do with his crimes, he would very
likely grant her a handsome pension. I
hear that the Emperor of Austria has just

made a very generous allowance to a poor
lady whose husband turned out, quite unexpectedly,
to be a brigand."

I want no pension," I answered. " I
am quite contented with the little money I
have. If I had a pension, people would
want to know the reason, and then all this
dreadful story would be sure to come out."

' It is a pity," Mrs. Marks rejoined,
that you Christians have made divorce so
difficult and expensive, particularly amongst
the Homan Catholics. Now, in our Mishna
we read that the Pharisees allowed bills of
divorce to be drawn up against women who
had only allowed their husband's soup to
boil over into the fire ! I wish you could
get rid of your husband as easily, but I'm
afraid you would have to obtain a special
dispensation from the Pope."

I explained to her that, although my
husband belonged to a Woman Catholic

family, and had been brought uji in that
faith, we had been married according to the
rites of the Protestant Church. She told
me that, this being the case, she thought
there would not be much difficulty, supposing
I wished to get the marriage annulled,
only I must then make up my mind not to
shrink from the publicity which such a
course would entail. I replied that I did
not, indeed, feel as if I had the courage,
now, to face the shame of such an exposure.


Then you must try and think of some
other plan," she said, kindly.  I suppose
that he never ill-treated you in any way, or
made love to any other woman?"

*' Never, never ! " I answered. " I should
feel much happier now, for several reasons,
if he had not been so kind! "

"Perhaps," said Mrs. Marks, "he thought
it rather too soon to begin ill-treating you.

for I can't believe that such a man could
have made a good husband, even if all this
had never come out. How long ago is it
since you married him?"

'ewe were married in October," I answered,
'' very nearly six months ago, but
my husband left me the day after our
wedding, and I never saw him again until
he came here, at the end of January."

'' Indeed ! " returned Mrs. Marks, reflectively,
'*I thought it was much longer
ago. Poor young lady! It does indeed seem
hard that you should have your existence
spoilt for ever for the sake of a man who
can be, in reality, little more than a stranger
to you."

I rejoined Miss Warden in the town after
paying this visit, and we drove back together
to our hotel, conversing as we went upon
the painful subject which was for ever present
to my mind.

Wc had the place, now, entirely to ourselves,
having delayed our departure for
England from day to day, first, on account
of the anxiety I felt to learn all I could
through the letters of Mr. Marks to his
wife; and, secondly, in order that my father,
who had been somewhat more than usually
indisposed of late, might recover sufficiently
to be enabled to bear the fatigues of the
journey.

We were now in the middle of April,
when Italy (for though the spot at which
we were staying is now politically france,"
it must remain '' Italy'* geographically
and sentimentally, to the end of time) becomes
lovelier and lovelier every day. The
sun, however, was extremely hot at times,
and though we felt but little inconvenience
from this in our shady suburban retreat,
'we foresaw that railway travelling would
become more unpleasant as the warmth increased.

We were anxious, therefore, to
depart for the north as soon as possible.

We met the doctor coming out of the
hotel as we drove up to the door, and he
returned with us to our apartment in order
to give us his opinion respecting Sir Harry,
about whom, he said, he could not held feeling
a little uneasy.

Miss Warden asked' him whether he observed
any improvement in my appearance,
she having taken care that I should adhere
to his instructions ? He left the room with
her, as I thought, to consult about my
father. In reality, however, it was in order
to confide to her his impressions with regard
to myself. When she rejoined me the
doctor had taken his departure. I saw that
she looked as if she had been crying. She
kissed me, still seeming to be greatly distressed
and unnerved. I imagined that she
must have been told that Sir Harry could

not recover; and that, because of the altered
circumstances that must ensue for us Loth,
she had been thus painfully affected.

But I was wrong in my conjecture. How
can I here set down the dreadful truth that
dawned upon me by slow degrees  my
kind friend being careful to soften, by every
means in her power, what she knew could
not fail to crush me to the earth with
sorrow and humiliation ?

Some of the doctor's remarks, she said,
had obliged her, very much against her
will, to confide to him the secret of my
marriage ; and then it was that he had
almost confirmed her in a fear with which,
she admitted, both she and Mason had of
late been haunted. Before this most miserable
year came to its close, there was every
reason to apprehend that I (surely one of
the most miserable of wives) might be destined
to become one of the most miserable

of mothers. I buried my face in my hands
and wept bitterly when I heard this. How
differently I might have felt (I said to
myself) in different circumstances ! Had I
been even the ividoio (for instance) of some
man I had loved and respected, how I
should have rejoiced at the prospect of possessing
a living reminder of the one who
was no more ! How eagerly I should have
awaited the coming of the cherished being
who would be likely to reproduce  in mind,
in speech, or in feature  some attribute
of the husband of my heart. But now / . . .
"Alas" (I thought), "what have I done to
deserve this new calamity?" and I recalled
with horror, the words which Mrs. Marks had
said when she was congratulating me upon
having no children.

How hard was the destiny that could
compel me thus to nourish at my breast the
offspring of one who was cither a murderer

or a madman ! What possible consolation
could I ever hope to derive in the future
from bringing into this world of sorrow and
temptation any such unfortunate child ?

I WILL not attempt to describe my misery
when I came to realise more fully my unfortunate
position. Miss "Warden drove
into Nice, and informed Mrs. Marks of the
cause of my new unhappiness. They both
agreed that it would be impossible for me,
now, to continue to conceal my marriage.
Nevertheless, I pleaded for a little longer
delay, for I dreaded to tell my father of
what I had done whilst his health was in
such a critical condition. Even the doctor
advised me to wait for a few days at least.
Sir Harry appeared, certainly, to take

very little interest in me or my doings ;
but, like all invalids who suffer from
nervous illness, lie was subject to strange
alternations of temper, and his fits of
violence and irritability were so injurious
to him that we feared to run the risk of
provoking one of them.

All anxiety upon this subject, however,
was brought to an abrupt termination
before I had made up my mind how and
when I should communicate my dreadful
news. A few days after the doctor's visit
to me my father had another paralytic
stroke. He was unconscious for nearly a
week after this seizure. Then he rallied a
little, and seemed to have something upon
his mind which he tried hard to put into
words. It was almost impossible, however,
for us to understand what he said, his voice
was so changed and weakened. At last
Mason made out by the movement of his

lips that he was asking for " Nelly,"  a
name by which he had very seldom addressed
me of late years. Generally, now,
he alluded to me as 'Hie child," or 'Hie
girl." When I came to his bed-side he
nodded his head and appeared more satisfied.
Then he talked for some time very
indistinctly and incoherently  turning, from
time to time, to some one whom he seemed
to fancy was standing upon the other side
of his bed. By listening with the greatest
attention we thought we caught the words
' not a bad sort of girl'* and then he
said, much more distinctly, " I will have
no scandal ; bear in mind, Courtenay ! no
cackling!"

He fancies that he's speaking to the
Colonel," whispered Mason, when he again
turned to where he appeared to see an
imaginary figure ; * he is making up a
marriage between Colonel Davenant and

Miss Ilclen," and the poor woman sithcd,
feeling, no doubt, low useless it was to
talk abo\it this now. The doctor came in
just then. He was surprised at his patient's
animation.

*' He is exciting himself about something,"
he said ; ' is there anything upon
his mind ? "

He is wanting to make up a marriage,"
replied Mason, in a low voice, *' between
Miss Helen''  by which name she had
been told always to address me*' and her
cousin Colonel Covenant. It was always
intended in the family."

"You wish your daughter to marry her
cousin Colonel Davenant ? " asked the
doctor, bending down over the sick man.
Sir Harry nodded his head several times.

Say that you are quite ready to do so,"
whispered the doctor, in my ear, " and then
he will become easier in his mind."

I shrank away, instinctively, from the
bed-side. " How can I possibly make the
promise, note ? " I murmured, bursting into
tears.

"Promise him this," entreated the doctor;
should he recover, he will forget all about
it."

I looked towards the bed, not knowing
what to do. Sir Harry's eyes were fixed
upon me with an expression, as I fancied,
of almost fierce command. I quailed
beneath their glance.

* Yes, yes," I faltered. " I promise ! I
promise that I will marry Courtenay Davenant,
some day."

My father sank back upon his pillow as
though intensely relieved. Three days afterwards
he passed peacefully away, without
having ever spoken intelligibly again.

Miss Warden and the doctor used every
persuasion to prevent me from looking upon

VOL. II. M

him after death, dreading the effect which
might he produced upon me by so solemn a
sight. I persisted, however, in my entreaties
to be allowed to see him once more, and felt
glad afterwards that I had done so. I
observed upon the calm and peaceful face,
whence all strife and bitterness seemed to
have departed for ever, an expression which
recalled the genial, kind-hearted. Sir Harry
Davenant of the old time. I could believe,
as I looked at him, that the man who lay
there in the sleep of death was the same
tender and indulgent father who used to
play with me, and take me upon his knee,
in the days of my departed childhood,
before the cloud which had grown out of
his sorrow had obscured all that was bright
and affectionate in his nature, and I felt
that my recollection of him would be far
less painful to me, in the future, from having
looked upon him thus for the last time.

Before evening Miss Warden telegraphed
to the family solicitor  Mr. Corbyn, by name
apprising him of Sir Harry's decease, asking
for instructions, and begging him to
communicate the news, at once, to Colonel
Davenant, about whose present address we
were uncertain.

The lawyer's reply arrived upon the following
day. Sir Harry's body was to be
conveyed to England for interment in the
family vault. Colonel Davenant  who appended
just now to be in London would
attend the funeral. My father's will was in
the possession of his solicitors. I was to
search, however, amongst the papers which
he had taken with him abroad to see
whether he had left any additional wishes
in writing.

Acting upon these instructions I took

the black leather dispatch-box  the only

receptacle for private papers which Sir

M 2

Ilarry bad brought with bim  into my bccl-
roorn, and began my search. I hoped to
find here some memorial of my dead mother
a carefully treasured letter, perhaps ; a
ring ; a flower ; or a ribband which she
might once have worn ; something which
would give me a truer insight regarding my
father's heart than had been afforded by his
strange behaviour ever since her decease.
I possessed only two letters  quite short
ones  in my mother's handwriting, which
had been given me by Mason, and which I
looked upon as my most precious treasures.
They had been written by my mother when
I was only two years old, and when she
must have been absent from Northover fora
few days upon a visit. Every line in these
two letters breathed the tenderest maternal
solicitude, and I was never tired of reading
them over. The handwriting was beautiful,
though somewhat peculiar. I had taken it

as a model for my own, and had succeeded,
by dint of patient efforts at imitation,
helped, it may be, by some inherited tendency,
in writing almost exactly like her.
It was upon some scrap of this characteristic
handwriting that I was hoping to light
now. Another letter, perhaps, which I
might cherish with my other two treasures.


Alas, I found nothing that could comfort
me in my desolation ! I came, however,
upon a very mysterious letter, written, apparently,
shortly after my mother's death;
after reading which I became a prey to the
most agitating conjectures. It was written
in Prench, a language in which my father
had never been very proficient, and in order,
I suppose, to make quite sure of its meaning,
he had scribbled a rough translate
with the aid of a dictionary
upon the blank side of the paper upon

which the letter was written. I give this in
Sir Harry's own words : 

Sir,

' In searching amongst the effects of
miladi which you were good enough to give
me, I found in the pocket of one of her
morning dresses a letter to the address of a
certain individual, which she must, probably,
have forgotten to put to the post,
having had, no doubt, the intention of doing
so herself. Afterwards I fell upon two
others. Thus I am possessed at this moment
of three letters in all ; and, as they are not
letters to leave lying about {a laisser
trainer being somewhat compromising to
miladi, I venture to apprise you, sir, of my
discovery ; and I wish to say that if you
will have the obligingness to send me quite
a small present  say fifty pounds sterling 
I will lose no time in forwarding the letters

to your address, so that there should be no
fear of the slightest scandal. I hope, sir,
you will not accuse me of extortion chants
 because I have dared to put a price
upon this little service. Believe me, it is
not for myself that I desire to amass money :
but I have a poor old mother who looked
well after me when I was a little child, and
now that she is ' en plein radotage it is
for her that I make my economies, so that
she may want for nothing at the house of
the doctor with whom I have placed her  en
'pension close to Arras in the Fas-des Calais,
I hope, therefore, monsieur  that you will have
the goodness to honour me with an answer,
and I beg you to accept my most respectful

salutations.

'* Celestine Yigon.''

CelestineVigon was the name of the French
maid who had been with my mother at the
time of her death. As I stood staring at her

letter in utter bewilderment, I could recall
her perfectly, although I had never beheld
her since that time. A tall, dark young
woman, with fine eyes, and regular, though
somewhat massive, features. I remembered
her long gold earrings ; her straight, upright
figure ; her good-natured smile, and
even white teeth. This woman, then (I
said to myself), was none other than Madame
Zoubiroff, the person who had been the
Countess Dobrowolska's maid and confidante
; who had pawned Dr. Bernard's
amulet, and at whose lodging-house in
Paris Mr Marks had taken up his abode
with the view of tracking out and bringing
to justice his brother's murderer ! How did
this woman come to be in my poor mother's
service ? At whose recommendation had
she been engaged ? What were these three
compromising " letters which she asserted
that she had discovered amongst her late

mistress's things, and for wliicli she demanded
the exorbitant sum of fifty pounds ?

By-and-by a terrible light broke in upon
me. Did not Mrs. Marks say that Madame
Dobrowolska had placed her Prench maid
as a spy in the house of her " English
rival " ? and did not Mr. Marks suspect that
Madame Dobrowolska and her creature had
had a hand in this English rival's death ?
Was my poor mother this " English rival " ?
In whose affections could she ever hare
sought to rival the Countess? Eor sometime
my mind was too stunned and confused
to admit of my thinking reasonably.
Then I set myself to work out, as calmly
and collectedly as I could, the mystery that
confronted me.

Miss Warden's absurd phrase, 'the plot is
thickening," recurred to me in spite of
myself, as such trivialities will recur, sometimes
at inappropriate moments. IIow

fond she was of saying this in the days
when nothing whatever used to happen !
The " plot " was certainly " thickening "
now, however, with a vengeance !

This is how I endeavoured, in my ignorance,
to explain the strange and dramatic
incidents of the case :  -

My father. Sir Harry Davenant, of North -
over Park, I said to myself (the '' Englishman
in a good position "), had somehow and
somewhere (in Paris or in London, perhaps)
fallen in with Madame Dobrowolska after
his marriage to my mother. A flirtation of
some kind had ensued, which upon his side
was not serious. Madame Dobrowolska,
however, had fallen in love seriously with
my father .

To any one who had known him when he
was a younger and a happier man this
would not have seemed impossible. Only
that very morning Mason had remarked,
upon looking on him in death how handsome
and good-tempered he used to be
when she had first entered his service ;
how different in every respect from the
changed being we had known in later
years. It seemed unlikely, certainly, that
after his marriage to my mother, to whom
he had appeared to be so thoroughly devoted,
he should have paid attentions to
any other woman, or concealed for a single
day the fact that he was no longer a
bachelor. But Madame Dobrowolska, perhaps,
might have made the first advances.
She did not seem to be a person who would
have behaved in an over-delicate manner.

At that time, too, she was said to have
been exceedingly beautiful ; and in the presence

of an exceedingly beautiful woman
who is displaying all her powers of fascination,
men are said to be often exceedingly
weak ! Then again, she possessed the gift
of dominating people mesmerically . . .

Sir Harry might have been tempted,
therefore, into going further than he had
intended by the wiles of this wicked and
deceitful syren. But then, his better nature
had triumphed, and he had fled from her
and returned to my mother. He had left
her mad with anger and jealousy and
wounded pride, and she had set to work to
think upon some plan of revenge.

Somehow  it would be hopeless at this
distance of time to conjecture as to who
could have been her accomplices, she had
managed to introduce her unscrupulous
emissary into my mother's household as
lady's-maid. Celestine Vigon (alias " Madame
Zoubiroff ") seemed to be one of those

terrible women who, whilst preserving a
smiling and unruffled exterior, and a conscience
ever ready to absolve, by reason of
the pretended benevolence of their ulterior
motives, are capable of committing the
most horrible crimes. I had read, only quite
lately, that just such another woman had
poisoned a whole family in a quiet little
French village  the cradle, as one might
have imagined, of Arcadian innocence and
simplicity  for the sake of a sum which
scarcely exceeded five francs. Who could
say to what fatal lengths Celestine's insatiable
greed of gain  or as she would prefer,
of course, to designate it, her exemplary
devotion to her aged mother at Arras 
might not have tempted her to proceed ?
I grew cold and faint at heart as I pondered
on the horrible possibilities that lay
shrouded in the obscurity of the past !

After awhile, however, I went on with

my meditations. My mother then, my
beautiful, tender mother, was dead and
gone. If she had been hurried by foul
means to her nameless grave I prayed
that T might never be made aware of it.
The suspicion of any such tragedy was terrible
enough, the certainty of it I felt would
almost kill me ! At this moment when my
mental and physical powers of endurance
were being taxed to the utmost, I would
endeavour to drive from me any such
agonising suspicion.

My father, then, was now a widower ;
his young wife was dead and buried. Her
face, as Madame Dobrowolska (that fiend
in human shape !) had written to her servant
and spy, was hidden away from his
eyes for ever! But then (fortunately for
my father at least) Madame Dobrowolska
was married to another ! He had gone
abroad immediately after his wife's funeral.

Did lie fall in again, during this roving, with
the terrible Polish Countess, and crave for
her sympathy and friendship in his desolate
and forlorn condition ? and had this approach'
ment re-inspired her with hope and lured
her on to the commission of a diabolical
crime ?

Perhaps all this would account for the
strange interest which Hugo had manifested
in me upon the first occasion of our meeting.
His curiosity had probably been excited
at learning, as he might have learnt
from Mr. Collingwood, that I was the
daughter of the man who had been beloved
by this sister. This no doubt, apart from
any newly-awakened sentiment for me, was
what had made him wish to visit Northover,
the old English country-house of which his
sister had once hoped to become the mistress.
Then, too, when we were married, he
had dreaded apprising his sister of the step

he had taken. I seemed to perceive now,
that this was because he feared some outburst
of violence upon the part of the
woman who had always dominated him,
and because, too, he knew that, do what I
would to conciliate her, she would certainly
detest me as the daughter of the man who
had seemed to despise her love, and of the
woman who had been so evidently preferred
to herself. There were two or three circumstances
which appeared, indeed, to * be
somewhat opposed to these ingenious surmises.


My father had always cherished quite an
insular prejudice against foreigners, and I
had never heard that, previous to the death
of my mother, he had ever remained away
from home for any length of time by himself.
I could be sure of nothing, however,
which might have happened so long ago,
and although Madame Dobrowolska was

VOL. II. N

certainly a foreigner, hugo had often told
me that she spoke English perfectly, and
that she was tall and fair  like an Englishwoman.
My second doubt, as to the correctness
of my own theories, was occasioned
by the remembrance that, when my father
had learnt the Prince's name for the first
time, he had betrayed no sign of its having
been previously familiar to him; whereas
Madame Dobrowolska, in the course of their
intimacy, would certainly have mentioned
this favourite brother, whose name, '' like
the crackling of a bag of biscuits " (as Mr.
Collingwood had remarked), was not one
that could be easily forgotten. I surmounted
this difficulty, however, by recollecting
that people did not generally allude
to near relations by their formal titles.
The Prince's sister would have spoken of
him familiarly as '' Hugo," or " my
brother," and, as she was then Madame

Dobrowolska, my father might never have
heard mention of the family name, and if
he had, it was not unnatural, considering
the state of his mind, that he should have
forgotten it. He had seemed, indeed, to
have forgotten so many more important
things !

It was almost impossible for me, after the
flight of years, and in my present state of
misery and distress, to arrive at any satisfactory
conclusion respecting the three
letters referred to by Celestine Vigon.
These were the same letters, I assumed,
which were mentioned by Madame Dobrow-
olska, as having been sent to her by her
emissary  letters which had evidently been
abstracted by Celestine in order that they
might be submitted  for some evil purpose,
no doubt  to her unscrupulous employer,
and which, that evil purpose having been

served, she was desirous of selling to my

N 2

father. I endeavoured to recall the precise
words which had been made use of by the
Countess in her letter to her confidante.
She had been very foolish  she wrote  to
re-marry so soon : ' But after the three
letters you sent me, what was there to
hope ? '' The letters, then, must have
been calculated to destroy the Countess's
hopes, letters which, for some reason, had
induced her to re-marry ? One would have
fancied, with any ordinary woman, that
once a man was married to anybody else all
hope would have perished as a matter of
course. But Madame Dobrowolska was
anything but an ordinary woman. She
believed in the power of her will, as well as
in that of her beauty, and, in spite of my
father s wife, she may have hoped to obtain
an empire over his heart. These letters 
possibly from my mother to some friend 
may have expatiated upon her husband's

tenderness and devotion to her, and upon
the happiness of her married life. After
reading them, at any rate, Madame Dobro-
wolska's hopes were completely shattered,
and, in a fit of pique, she had consented to
marry the Jewish professor.

Had the letters been of any real importance
my father would assuredly have
endeavoured to buy them back, in spite of
the price which Celestine had demanded;
whereas he had merely made upon the outside
of the envelope the following memorandum,
in pencil: 

' Attempt at extortion  ' Change,'
Advised her to apply elsewhere.  11. D."

As there was nothing more of any interest
in my father's dispatch-box, I locked
it up again, keeping possession, however, of
Celestine's letter, which I subsequently
showed to Miss Warden.

Whilst admitting that it was, certainly,
a very strange coincidence that Madame
Zoubiroff and my mother's maid, Celestina
Vigon, should have turned out to be one
and the same person, she endeavoured to
make light of my terrible suspicions. My
husband's arrest, she declared, had given
such a shock to mv nerves that I was
inclined to suspect foul play where nothing
of the kind had existed. Celestine, she
said, had evidently been, at one time,
in Madame Dobrowolska's service, and was
probably recommended to my mother hj
some one who knew that she was a clever
maid. I had no positive proof that she had
been placed with my mother as a spy. She
had written and received gossiping letters,
no doubt, as servants frequently did, and,
after my mother's death, being a grasping,
calculating woman, she had endeavoured
to extort money from Sir Harry upon some

ridiculous pretence, which he had very
properly treated with the contempt it
deserved.

I felt that my kind friend said all this
merely to reassure me, as she was now in
great anxiety respecting my health. I
promised her, however, that I would try not
to dwell, more than I could help, upon so
distressing a subject, but, do what I would,
I could not succeed in banishing it entirely
from my mind. 

I was somewhat cheered, in the afternoon
of this same day, at receiving a telegram
from my godfather. It expressed as much
sympathy as the cramped space would
admit of. He had been travelling night
and day, having been summoned to the
death-bed of his own father, and, upon his
return home, had been informed of Sir
Harry's decease.

Miss Warden also received a separate

telegram from him at the same time. It
ran as follows :

' Please inform me if report of Prince
C.'s arrest is true."

Before the day was an hour older Miss
Warden and I had decided upon a plan of
action. It seemed impossible any longer
to stand alone, encompassed as we were by
all these webs of mystery. Mr. Collins
now Lord Silchester, had begged me
to apply to him if I should ever stand in
need of a friend, and I had promised him
that I would do so. I stood in bitter need
of a friend now. Miss Warden consented
to go to England in charge of Sir Harry's
body, and when there she would seek an
interview with my godfather, and inform
him of all the misery I had endured  of all
that I was likely to endure in the future.
7, in the meanwhile, was to remain on
where I was, under the care of Mason,

until she returned, and we were then
to go together to whatever place my godfather
should advise, where my unhappy
situation would not be likely to excite ill-natured
comment.

When Miss Warden arrived at Nortbover
she found that my cousin Courtenay was
expected upon the following day. We had
previously settled that it would be better for
her to avoid an interview with him if possible,
in order that no inquiries might be
made respecting myself  inquiries which it
would be difficult, in the existing circumstances,
to answer. She begged the servants,
therefore, not to inform him of her
arrival, pleading the fatigue consequent
upon her hurried journey as her reason for
not wishing to see him.

She wrote to me, however, that she had
seen '* Sir Courtenay " in church, upon the
occasion of my poor father's funeral, and
described him as *' tall, rather dark, but
with blue eyes and a most charming expression."
*' Ah, Helen ! " she added in
her letter, " if only the  family marriage
project' could have taken place before all
these terrible misfortunes had come to pass !
Eut, alas ! it is no good thinking about this
now ! " 

My cousin had walked back through the
park with Mr. Corbyn, the family lawyer,
whilst Miss Warden had driven by the
road, and by this means a meeting had
been avoided, as he had left for London
upon the evening of the same day. Mr.
Corbyn, having business to transact with
the land-agent upon the morrow, remained
for the night, and had dined with Miss
"Warden en Ute-astute. He told her that

my cousin bad been extremely sorry to bear
of my indisposition, for I bad given out that
I was not well enough to bear the return
journey, that be bad spoken of me with the
greatest kindness, and was anxious to conform
to my wishes upon every subject. Mr.
Corbyn said that he was uncertain, as yet,
Avb ether my cousin would be able to keep
up the gardens and establishment at North -
over Blouse in the same style as heretofore.
He fancied that, for the first few years at
least. Sir Courtenay would probably shut
the place up, as he did not mean to abandon
his profession, and the appointment he held
would oblige him to live a good deal abroad.
The lawyer had then alluded to "the family
marriage project." He said that, from the
manner in which Sir Courtenay had inquired
after 'miss Helen," he hoped that
it might one day be brought about, as it
would be greatly to the advantage of all

parties, not to mention the estate, which
would also benefit materially by the
arrangement.

Miss Warden, knowing bow utterly I bad
placed myself beyond the reach of any such
advantage," endeavoured to impress upon
Mr. Corbyn that it was entirely out of the
question, and stated that she had heard that
my cousin himself had been the first to
abandon the notion. In spite of all she
could say, however, Mr. Corbyn persisted
in alluding to the marriage as an event
which might come to pass '' later on."
"Sir Courtenay," he said, "had particularly
begged that Miss Helen would not hurry
her departure, but that, on her return from
the Continent, she would take up her abode
at her old home, and remain on there as
long as was convenient to her."

Perhaps  Mr. Corbyn said  Sir Courtenay
might have to " run down " noah and then,

before "Miss Helen" had settled upon a
new home, and perhaps " these frequent
meetings between the two young people
might end in preventing Miss Ilelen from
ever having to Jook out for a new home
at all."

Poor Miss Warden, acting ever as my
true friend, wrote me word that she felt
perfectly miserable when she heard all this,
because she so thoroughly agreed with Mr.
Corbyn in the matter, and felt equally convinced
that if ever my cousin and I were
brought together in such romantic circumstances,
we could not possibly avoid 'falling
in love with one another then and
there ! " Por this very reason, however,
and on account of what she termed my
*' unhappy complications," it was highly
important that no meeting of the kind
should take place. She told Mr. Corbyn,
therefore, that the doctors had ordered me

to remain for some time longer abroad, as
my nerves were much shattered by the loss
I had just sustained; that my plans were
very unsettled as yet, but that on my
return to England she fancied that I should
probably decide to live in London. She
had spoken thus vaguely as to my future,
not knowing at what moment it might
not become absolutely necessary for me to
declare my marriage, and being anxious
to avoid making more false statements than
the exigencies of the case required.

"And so," she concluded in her letter,
'* Mr. Corby n will be sure to tell Sir Courtenay,
when he sees him in London, that you
don't want to have anything to do with
him  that you won't consult him, or trust
him, or treat him even like a relation, and
that you refuse to avail yourself of his kind
offer that you should remain on at your old
home ! But for all the terrible obstacles

that have arisen to prevent it, this would
be the very way to further Mr. Corbyn's
wish ! "

I felt sincerely grateful to Miss Warden
for the line she had taken. I could get on
quite well, even in my present desolate
position, without the sympathy and assistance
of my cousin Courtenay, and I was
not sorry that he should be made to realise
this. When I was living my solitary, secluded
life at Northovcr, and when, had he
so willed it, he and I might, perhaps, have
become friends, he had never condescended
to come near me; and now that he was
master of the place it was not likely that
I should accept his patronage ! I was
proud, even in the midst of my bitter
humiliation; and by some process of prejudiced
feminine reasoning, I had associated
Courtenay Davenant with all my misfortunes.
If he had not spoken so lightly and

contemptuously (I said to myself) about the
possibility of our marriage; if he had not
discarded the notion of it without any kind
of apical to my inclinations, without even
wishing to know what I was like in the
face, I might not have been so willing to
listen to Prince Crecszoleski's proposals*
Thus eagerly do we often seek to fasten
upon others the responsibility of our own
rashness !

As soon as Mr. Corbyn had departed from
Northover, Miss Warden wrote to my godfather,
and begged that he would have the
kindness to call upon her, in order that she
might consult him with regard to my future
plans. He came to Northover accordingly,
and remained with her for nearly
the whole of one afternoon. It was with
the greatest difficulty, she said, that she
had summoned courage to tell him everything.
She thought, however, that it would

VOL. II. o

be wrong to make any concealments from
so old a friend, and that it would be impossible
for him to advise us unless he knew
the whole truth. She confessed now that,
although she had begun by fancying that
my godfather must have been in love with
me, she did not think this now. He seemed
to be so genuinely distressed at the story of
my misfortunes that there could be no
doubt whatever of his affection ; but with
this distress there had mingled so much
regret at the knowledge that no marriage
could now take place between my cousin
and myself, that she had come to the conclusion
that his love for me was more like
that of a parent  the very kind of love, as
she truly remarked, of which I stood the
most in need at this miserable time !

But for the press of business consequent
upon his accession to his father's title and
estates, Miss Warden thought that this

devoted friend would have proposed returning
with her to Nice. He said to her very
earnestly at parting, *' Some people make
these promises " (the promises made by-godfathers
and godmothers) ' quite lightly ;
and fancy, when they've given the child a
silver mug, or a fork and spoon, that they've
done all that is required of them. But I
look upon my responsibilities in a much
more serious light. Dearest Helen is an
orphan. Both her parents are now no more.
It is for me to replace them to the very
best of my power. Erom the point of view
in which I look at the matter, she has now
become, as it were, my own child, and it is
my bounden duty to care for her, and look
after her, and to comfort and support her,
as far as I can, during all the trouble and
suffering which may be to come."

Miss Warden said that, as he spoke thus,

there were tears in his eyes ; and, being one

o 2

of the most tender-hearted of women, she
admitted that she had wept likewise.

My godfather listened with horror to the
particulars connected with Hugo's arrest.
All he already knew was, that the Prince
had been conveyed to St. Petersburg; upon
suspicion of his being concerned in some
crime, which he had concluded must be an
affaire politlque. The paragraph which
announced this fact consisted merely of a few
lines in a Prench newspaper. He had read
it whilst travelling post-haste upon his way
to England, whither he had been summoned
on account of his father's illness, and he had
had no confirmation of the news until he
had received Miss Warden's reply to his
telegram of inquiry.

At mention of Madame Dobrowolska, and
of her suspected connection with her husband's
murder. Lord Silchester had appeared
to be overwhelmed with horror and amaze-merit.

It was evident, however, Miss
"Warden said, that he could never have
entertained a very high opinion of her, for,
upon being informed that she had disappeared
and could nowhere be found, he
exclaimed "Thank God! " with the greatest
fervour, after which he added :

My chief fear connected with this marriage,
for I had never heard a word against
the character of the Prince, arose from the
thought that Helen might some day become
intimately acquainted with this dangerous
woman, who seemed to have obtained such
an ascendancy over the mind of her brother.
NoiOi however, I sincerely hope that they
may never be brought together. They must
not meet if we can possibly prevent it !''

By the middle of the month of May eye
found ourselves established at a spot which,
had I been under happier conditions of mind
and body, would have appeared to me like
an earthly paradise-ewe," consisted of
Miss Warden, Mason, and myself, accompanied
by a courier who had been engaged
for tis by my godfather in London.

Lord Silchester, as I must now call him,
had received permission to extend the period
of his leave upon succeeding to the family
title and estates. He had some thought, he
said, of retiring altogether from the diplomatic

service, but had, as yet, made no
definite plans upon this subject. He came
out to us at the end of June, to the place
which he had selected as our summer retreat,
in order, as he had said to Miss Warden,
that he might comfort and support me
during all the trouble and suffering that
was to come.

Mrs. Marks had called upon me again to
bid me farewell before she left Nice. As
she was departing, she took from the handbag
which she seemed always to carry, a
small packet sealed up in paper.

*'I told Mr. Marks," she said, ' of your
unhappy position, and of how distressed
you were about it. He has written to me
begging me to remind you, for comfort, that
King Solomon maintained that a wicked
father might sometimes beget a righteous
son, as it is written, ' Instead of the thorn
shall come up the fir-tree,' and he also commissioned

mc to give you this jewel. Prince
Crecszoleski, on hearing that it had not been
claimed by his sister, desired that it might
be delivered to his 'beloved wife to be
handed down to his posterity, as it was a
family heir-loom, of which his sister had
taken possession, and which had belonged
to his mother, and Mr. Marks has obtained
permission from the Russian officials to
comply with this request'*

I took the packet, broke open the seals,
and gazed with mingled horror and admiration
at Madame Dobrowolska's jewel. It
was a brooch and pendant combined, the
upper part being formed of a square emerald
of magnificent colour and size surrounded by
beautiful diamonds, whilst the drop which
was attached to it consisted of a large pear-shaped
emerald polished ' en cdbochony It
was a princely ornament indeed ; but I could
not repress a shudder as I looked at it and

thought of all the horrors with which it had
been associated. Nevertheless, as it was a
family jewel which had belonged once to
Hugo's mother, it was but right and just
that it should one day become the property
of Hugo's child.

I thanked Mrs. Marks with tears in my
eyes, tears begotten of a variety of conflicting
emotions, and, as soon as she had
departed, I locked up the ornament in my
jewel-case, registering a silent vow that
nothing should ever induce me to wear it.

As I had pleaded that my marriage to
the Prince might be kept a secret, at any
rate until after the birth of my child, we
were constrained, upon our way to the
place which I have alluded to as an earthly
paradise, to lose all traces of our former
identity. I became, therefore, for the time
being, "Mrs. Warden," a young lady who
had recently been left a widow, and who

was shortly expecting to be joined by her
father ; Miss Warden being supposed to bea
near relative of my late husband. Lord
Silchester, upon joining us, was described
merely as "Mr. Collingwood/' without any
distinguishing prefix, and by means of all
these precautions, and by avoiding the
resorts which are usually patronised by
British tourists, we hoped, as the summer
was now so far advanced, altogether to
escape observation.

I know not whether the retreat in which
we established ourselves is still in existence
or not. The position of the smiling valley,
the three torrents which met and mingled
their waters together in a broader and
bolder stream; the near mountains, pink
with rhododendron, and waving with flowery
grasses ; the far-off peaks, clad in their
eternal snows;  might enable me, no doubt,
to discover this cradle of lingering memories

; but I cannot say bow far the ravages
of an encroaching civilization, more baneful
often in its effects than even desolation or
decay, may bave changed or distorted its
aspect. Some day (I often say to myself)
I must go and seek for what was once so
lovely and so secluded a spot, for there is a
peaceful little '' acre of earth. " bard by, that
I should like to look upon once again
before I pass away and am no more seen !
As yet, however, I bave not been able to
carry out this intention.

At the time of wbicb I am writing the
ancient monastery of St. Dalmas de Tende
(or " di Tenda' as it should more properly
be called) stood in the centre of a broad
and smiling valley, through wbicb wound
the picturesque highway, leading on the one
band to Nice (some two days' journey by the
easy stages at wbicb we bad proceeded),
and on the otlicr, to the zig-zag wbicb

convoys the traveller over the ' Col de
Tcnde," and thence down into the fertile
plains of Piedmont.

The monks who had at one time occupied
the convent (a wealthy white-robed order,
altogether unlike the poor brown-garmented
Franciscans who bejGred of us sometimes
during our walks abroad) were now dispersed,
and their religious house, having
been taken by an enterprising German
physician, had been transformed into a combination
of private hotel and kurhaus, for
the accommodation of patients requiring
mountain air and complete mental repose.
It was too " far from the madding crowd,"
however  in other words, what most people
might have considered too dull  to be a
financial success, iu spite of its delicious air
and its lovely scenery ; and at the time of
our arrival the only other visitor at the
establishment Alas an old snuff-taking Pied-montes

professor, who departed for Turin
upon the following day.

Notwithstanding the precautions we had
taken to preserve our incognito we discovered
that we were generally described
by the servants of the hotel as a " minor
Anglais et sa families Those to whom we
were thus described, however, were merely
birds of passage, Italian tourists, who halted
for breakfast or early dinner, on their way
to gayer scenes, and even these, as th
weather grew warmer, became fewer and
fewer, until by the month of June we had
the place entirely to ourselves.

The scenery by which we were now surrounded
was different, in its wild beauty,
from that to which we had been lately
accustomed. Instead of the grey olives,
rising one above another from the ricci red
earth of the hill side, built up into artificial
terraces, and teeming with many coloured

flowers, huge chestnut - trees, liolloTv with
age, upraised their gnarled and twisted
limbs from sward as smooth and soft as
that of an English lawn. The lean little
parti-coloured sheep and goats, which, with
their attendant shepherds, were often the
only living creatures we encountered in our
rambles, had cropped it down to the consistency
of velvet, whilst the mountain
torrents kept it fresh and green even during
the period of the summer heat.

The perpetual noise made by these rushing
and foaming torrents, which was somewhat
disturbing at first, ended, just because
of its being perpetual, by soothing my
shattered nerves. Nothing, I think, could
ever so vividly recall the impressions and
experiences of this time as the surging and
seething sound of a mountain stream, as it
goes hurrying and blustering upon its seaward
way. I hardly know, in fact, whether

I should ever dare to trust myself to listen
to one again !

All the grass, however, had not been
browsed into green velvet. Down by the
broader river, which towards the middle of
the valley received these brawling tributaries,
there grew a wealth of waving
meadow-grass, reaching, when I used to
stand amongst it, so far above my waist
that the tall ox-daisies and pink fox-gloves
and the star eyes of yellow ranunculus and
white narcissus would seem to look up at
me in kindly greeting ; whilst all the many-coloured
butterflies that hovered above them
would flutter about my head, and brush my
cheeks with their joyous wings.

Amongst the rifts and crannies of the
great rocks that had been washed down
from the neighbouring mountains, grew
rare ferns and mosses and beautiful Alpine
flowers, the names of which were quite unknown

to me. Lilies of the valley, too, and
wild strawberries were plentiful. Little
sun-browned peasant children, with bare
feet, would bring us baskets of these strawberries
from the hill-sides which were rosy
with dwarf rhododendron, growing too high
up for me to venture now. Beyond this,
again, were the black fir-trees, beneath the
shade' of which one could imagine that
hungry wolves might prowl from time to
time; and then, far away, with a pink
glow upon them' at sun-set, rose the snowy
Alpine peaks, looking like the tents of some
phantom host, pitched in the realms of
faery. I used often to gaze at the shining
white peaks of this mysterious region, and
wonder whether they had ever been explored
by the foot of man. Chamois-hunters,
perhaps, ventured up there sometimes
; and then a verse of an old song,
which I had read in one of mv mother's

music-books at Nortliover, "would recur to
my mind ; 

O'er mountains bright with snow and light,
We crystal-hunters speed along,
Whilst rocks and caves and icy waves,
Each instant echo to our song ; "

So perhaps the crystal-hunters, as well, may
have climbed up thus far, singing blithely as
they sought after Alpine amethyst and topaz.
Did it make men nobler and better  I wondered
 to soar so far above the heads of their
fellows, and to look down at life from beyond
the reach of the tainted breath of cities ?
I should have felt nobler and better, and
happier too, I used to think, even from
gazing up at these pure white peaks from
below, but for the wretched memories that
oppressed me continually ! As it was, even,
I was grateful to have been permitted to
dwell every day upon scenes which were so
fair and so tranquil. I should have been

VOL. II. P

far more miserable, I fancy, in any less
beautiful spot.

My godfather was certainly one of the
most agreeable companions in the world.
He possessed that kind of nature  a source
of happiness to himself and others which
enabled him to feel an interest in almost
everything. His mind appeared always to
derive its sustenance from what was nearest
at hand; unlike some people I have met
with since, who have been inclined to
grumble idly whenever they have imagined
that nothing within reach was worthy of
their notice. I should not have expected
that one who had been accustomed to the
amusements of courts, and great cities, would
have seemed to be so perfectly contented
with the peaceful distractions of our mountain
retreat; nor had I been aware before
that he was such an enthusiastic admirer
of the beauties of nature. In the morning

it was his habit to rise early and to start
off upon long expeditions amongst the
surrounding mountains. He climbed very
nearly as high as the chamois-hunters and
crystal-hunters of my imagination, but by the
time that we were ready to go out he was
nearly always at hand to accompany us.
"We used to pass nearly the whole day in
the open air, sitting or loitering about
under the shade of the spreading chestnut-trees
when the sun was at its hottest, aid
only taking our longer walks in the early
morning or the cool of the evening.

I used to sketch a good deal at this time
and my godfather, hoping, no doubt, to
distract my mind from sadder subjects, was
always wont to encourage me in my artistic
efforts. I was looking, only the other day
at a sketch I did at about this time, of
the picturesque little village of Briga, which

nestled hard by against the blue mountain

p2

amongst a grove of mulbciTy-trccs. Crown,
low, little houses, built of rough stones,
piled one on the top of the other, apparently
without mortar or cement, unglazed windows,
and floors of the hare brown earth. A
narrow, brown, little street, brown men in
brown coats, driving and riding brown
mules. Brown women, washing white
clothes at a blue stream. A white church,
with a belfry of brown tiles, full of hammering,
clamouring bells. A little jce
outside the church, planted at regular intervals
with mulberry and ilex-trees, and set
round with heavy stone benches. Some
brown beggars, brown Franciscans, and a
stout, round-faced, village ;6;?r, in well-worn
soutane, are grouped about in this
open space. Then, to the left, upon a gentle
hill-slope, lies a little graveyard with brown
crosses, white crosses  all hung over with
garlands and little pictures of saints. I

remember that I painted my picture entirely
in different shades of brown and blue  sepia
and cobalt  laying on the darker shadows,
and my padre's soutane, with a mixture
of the two, and dashing in a touch of
Chinese white here and there, to indicate
the high lights and the snow upon the far
mountains, and that these few colours were
sufficient to produce the effects I desired to
obtain.

I daresay that this sketch would only
convey a very hazy impression of the place
it attempts to portray to those who have
never visited it, but, to me, every touch of
the brush is replete with memories. I can
recall with the utmost vividness not only
the spot itself but all the thoughts, the
fears, the unacknowledged hopes, that came
crowding upon me whilst I sat on nay campstool
by the roadside and washed in my
colours ! I had taken up my position, I

remember, just within the shadow of a. kind
of natural grotto, so as to be protected from
the glare of the sun. Above me, an overhanging
layer of rock jutted out from the
mountain, which, I remember thinking,
might at any moment have fallen and
crushed me where I sat, but I remember
thinking, also, that I should not have cared
very much whether it had crushed me or
not !

God bless you, peaceful little Alpine
hamlet ! I say to myself whenever I look
back thus into the past. God bless your
brown herdsmen, their wives, their little
ones, their innocent browsing flocks, the
chamois-hunters, and the crystal-hunters,
that explore the far-off region of the eternal
snows ; God bless the kind old padre of
Briga, the brown Franciscan friars, and the
poor mendicants that crouch beside the
open door of the village church ! And

then, the little graveyard on the sunny-slope
of the blue hill-side . . . But, whenever
I think of this, and look at the sketch I
made of its poor little company of wooden
crosses, some of them, because of the undulating
ground, leaning all upon one side,
their arms, as it were, stretched forth in
pathetic appeal, as though entreating that
they may not be altogether forgotten, the
tears come into my eyes so fast that they
overflow and drop down upon the paper
before I can prevent it, so that they have
very nearly spoilt my sketch.

My little boy, "George," as we christened
him in our hurry, lies now in that peaceful
Alpine burying-ground.

It may appear strange, perhaps, that I
should have lamented the loss of what I
had so little desired ; but the maternal instinct
is often responsible for many seeming
inconsistencies. To those to whom the great
mystery of maternity has been revealed, all
women who are strangers to its emotions
must seem to be wanting in some sort of
sixth sense. Such women, no doubt, may
wonder why I did not experience a feeling

of unmixed relief at the death of my baby ;
but all true mothers will understand that
it is possible to lament alike at the cradle
and at the grave of a first-born son.

I will try to record the events of this
never-to-be-forgotten time in the order in
which they took place. It was the 27th of
August, and my godfather had set off early
in the morning, accompanied by a guide, in
order to see the sun rise upon Monte Rosa,
and the higher Alps, from the summit of the
Col de Tende. When we went out, at nine
o'clock, he had not yet returned. Knowing
by which road he would come, however, we
strolled leisurely towards the town of Tenda,
keeping under the shade of the trees but
within sight of the highway. At a turn of
the road, not far from that which led to the
village of Briga, we sat down to rest upon
a stone bench by the wayside ; and, as the
view in front of us was lovely in the extreme,

I thought I would wile away the
time by making a sketch. Whilst I was
thus occupied, Miss Warden whispered tome
that two strangers were approaching,
who looked like Englishmen ; and she advised
me to let down my white gauze veil,
so that they might not recognise me, supposing
that I ever fell in with them again
in the future. I did as she suggested, and
looked down fixedly at my drawing-hook
whilst they went by. After they had passed
us, we scrutinized their backs with attention.
One  the shorter of the two  was
certainly an Englishman. His clothes, his
manner of walking, were alike characteristic
of the Briton. About his companion 
a tall, dark man, wearing blue spectacles 
we could not feel quite so sure. He looked,
we thought, more like a Spaniard or an
Italian.

As I was gazing after these two retreating

figures, I was conscious of a slight movement
at my feet ; and, looking down, beheld
to my intense horror, an enormous black
snake, gliding slowly over a trailing fold of
my dress ; having apparently crept, unperceived,
from a crevice in the rock at our
backs. It was a much larger snake than
I had ever seen before in a wild state.
The frequent presence of the snake was, in
my opinion, a serious drawback to this
Alpine paradise ; but those that we had
hitherto encountered were not larger than
the English hunting - snake of my native
woods ; whereas this one was of a length
and breadth such as I should not have expected
to behold out of the tropics. Both
Miss Warden and I started up from the seat
simultaneously, uttering involuntary cries
of terror. The two pedestrians, hearing our
screams, turned back and hurried to our
assistance. They were just in time to seethe

cause of our alarm gliding across the
dusty white road. The Englishman rushed
after it; and, just as it was about to take
refuge in the crannies of a loose stone wall,
succeeded in despatching it with his .
Both the strangers, addressing ns
in Prench, then expressed their hopes that
we had not been seriously alarmed. Probably
they took us for Prench women, because
we had bought our summer dresses at Nice,
which may have lent us a somewhat Parisian
air ; and we endeavoured, in replying to
them, not to do away with this illusion.
The snake, they assured us, from its large
size, was perfectly harmless ; it was only
vipers,  quite small snakes,  that were
venomous. I was so frightened, however,
that I could do little more than
murmur my thanks, incoherently, for their
prompt assistance. My white veil was still
over my face, whilst Miss Warden, like the

taller stranger, wore blue spectacles as a
protection from the glare. We fervently
hoped, therefore, that our defenders might
not recognize us if we were ever destined to
fall in with them again.

They had scarcely bowed and resumed
their onward way, when we saw Lord Winchester
coming towards us from the opposite
direction. He seemed fatigued with his
mountaineering ; and, upon joining us,
flung himself upon the grass at the side 6f
the bench. To hide my agitation I began
collecting my sketching - materials, which
had been scattered upon the ground when
I had started up in my fright. But my
godfather soon perceived that there was
something amiss; and we then informed
him of our adventure, and of the chivalrous
behaviour of the two strangers. He appeared
to be much annoyed when he heard
that they had spoken to us.

I know one of them quite well," he
said, " little Montagu-Morrison, the greatest
gossip and mischief-maker in the whole diplomatic
service ! I fell in with him early this
morning, and could see that he was burning
with curiosity to discover my whereabouts.
He was the very last man I expected to
meet, having heard that he had just been
appointed to St. Petersburg. It turns out,
however, that he's staying on at Turin,
his old post, for a little while longer ; and,
during the hot weather, is making an
Alpine tour with an Italian friend. I wish
Pate had guided his footsteps in some other
direction ! However, I don't suppose we
shall come upon him again, and it's very
fortunate that he did not meet us when we
were all together. He will not have any
reason to connect you with me."

We walked back slowly to the hospice,
I was still faint and trembling from the

fright I had experienced, which seemed to
have affected me to an extraordinary
degree.

Attached to the convent, and standing
just outside its principal gateway, was a
kind of restaurant  a modern addition in
the form of a Swiss chalet  for the refreshment
of passing travellers. As we came
within sight of this chalet we perceived, to
our annoyance, the Englishman and his
Italian friend seated at a small table
beneath the verandah  having evidently
just ordered their breakfast. Had we
entered the hotel by the way we intended
we must have passed quite close to them.
We continued our way, therefore, along
the dusty high road, holding our white
umbrellas carefully over our heads, and
hoping that we were not being scrutinised
by the reposing wayfarers ; and then
turning into the long grass by the broader

river, walked up through the garden to the
entrance of our own rooms.

This extra walk in the hot sun fatigued
me dreadfully. Lord Silchester was still
worried about the close proximity of his
English acquaintance. Mason was commissioned
to find out from the hotel
servants whether the tourists were expected
to remain for the night. The answer she
brought back was unsatisfactory. She
knew no language but her own, of which
the servants understood very little. They
seemed to know no thin q; about the newcomers,
she said  and she had not liked to
question them too much.

Feeling very tired, Mason advised me to
lie down in my bed-room. Here I fell into
a troubled sleep, haunted by terrible dreams
from which the great black snake was never
entirely absent. I seemed to be for ever
treading upon it, unawares, or finding it

coiled up where I least expected it; and
then I fancied that the child I was hoping,
yet dreading, ere long, to bring into the
world, had assumed this horrible shape.

When I awoke, I could not divest myself
of this dreadful notion. I rang the bell for
Mason, who had assisted at my own birth,
and to whom I looked as an authority in such
matters, and asked her whether anything so
terrible had ever been known to occur.

She made light of my fears, forced me
to partake of some nourishment, and did
her utmost to soothe and reassure me.
Without my knowledge, however, she sent
to beg the doctor to hold himself in readiness
to minister to me during '* the great
pain and peril of childbirth''

Although the birth of my son, as I have
been since told, very nearly cost me my
life, I can say almost to a moment when
he was born into the world ; because, in

VOL. II. Q

the midst of my misery, above the continuous
rushing of the mountain torrents,
I heard the great convent clock, set up
over the entrance to the old refectory,
beginning to boom forth ; when, just at
about the third or fourth deliberate stroke,
I became aware, suddenly, of another sound
which surely no mother has ever heard for
the first time without a thrill of grateful
wonderment, as though at the accomplishment
of a miracle  the '' bairn's first
greet," of which I had so often read in
the old Border ballads, before I knew in
the least what the phrase really meant 
the plaintive expostulation of a helpless
and irresponsible creature, cast forth, thus,
without warning or preparation, into a
chilly and unfamiliar world. And all the
while the great clock of the convent went
booming on so many times that I knew it
could not be any other hour but midnight,

although I was in no mood to count the
number of the strokes.

'* It is a little boy' I heard somebody-saying,
" with a face as beautiful as an
angers."

Then it seemed to me that all anguish,
and fear, and bitterness, died out of my
heart ; and that I was possessed, instead,
by a feeling of peace and holy contentment.
With those infant cries still ringing
in my ears, and before the pulsations of the
great clock had entirely subsided  lulled
by the rushing of many waters  I passed
into a state of waking slumber, or semi-unconsciousness,
during the whole of which
I could not fairly lose myself in sleep '' for
joy that a man was born into the world."

The doctor had given me a soothing

draught, and I suppose this was what made

my slumber so unlike any other I had

ever experienced.

Q2

My room had once formed part of an
ancient chapel. I had been told this when
it had been apportioned to me, as being
larger and more commodious than the other
bedrooms of the establishment, which were
simply the cells of its former occupants,
whitewashed, and furnished in the most
primitive fashion. It seemed, now, as I lay
thus between sleeping and waking, to turn
into a chapel again, and sounds, as of sacred
music, came wafted to me from afar. The
kind old priest, too, of the village of Briga,
with whom we had conversed upon the day
when I had made the sketch, seemed to be
moving to and fro between me and the
shaded candles. All the while I was
murmuring to myself, half aloud, that my
child had been born with the face of an
angel, and that the great black snake had
been frightened away for ever. Then, as I
was repeating this over and over again, I

fancied that I saw angels floating down
through the fretted ceiling of the room,
with soft dove-like wings and golden tresses,
and that one of them took up my baby,
whose head leant, quite limp and listless,
against her bosom ; and I thought that I
was glad to see my little one in such safekeeping.


When I woke up it was broad daylight,
only the green blinds had been pulled down.
I asked to see my baby. Miss Warden and
Mason both looked as if they had been
crying. The old priest of Briga came out
of the adjoining sitting - room when he
heard my voice. I wondered to see him
there, and asked myself whether what I
had beheld had been, indeed, altogether a
dream.

The old padre then told me, in bad
Italian, that my baby had gone back to
dwell with the angels of God. Somehow,

this did not come to mc cither as a shock ora
surprise.

I asked if I might see it, all the same,
and the old priest brought me, in his arms,
a little child, lying asleep in a cradle, with
a face, as they all said, like the face of an
angel. I asked them to draw up the
blinds so that I might see it better, and
then I realized my loss, and kissed it, and
wept over it, and clasped its cold little
hands.

They took it away from me very quickly,
saying that I should agitate myseK too
much.

Later on in the same day, they asked me
whether I should object to my baby being
buried in the Roman Catholic cemetery at
Briga, reminding me that Hugo, although
he had been married at a Protestant church,
had been baptised in the Roman Catholic
faith. I replied that it was a peaceful and

beautiful spot, and that I should like my
child to be buried there.

Afterwards, when all this had come to
seem like a dream, they told me that I had
been very ill indeed, nigh, in fact, unto death,
and that, just as I appeared to be sinking
from exhaustion, a servant-girl, to whom I
had done a few kindnesses, ran off in the
grey of the early morning, and fetched the
good old padre from Briga, thinking that it
would be doubly unfortunate were I to die
without the last consolations of religion.

By the time the padre arrived, however,
I had fallen into a deep sleep, and it was
about the baby that everyone was anxious.
Miss Warden, knowing that I had feared
above all things that some taint of hereditary
sin or madness might be transmitted to
Hugo's child, said to Lord Silchester, who
had seemed to attach but little importance
to religious forms, that this was the last

baby in tbc world who should be allowed to
pass away unbaptised, and that, as there
was no Protestant clergyman within reach,
the good old padre had better at once perform
the sacred rite.

My godfather had been so greatly overcome
by the peril I had been in that he
allowed Miss Warden to do as lie desired.
She remembered to have heard the Prince
say, when we were at Nice, that if ever he
had a son he should wish him to be named
after one of the Polish monarchs  the first,
or the last, but she could not recollect
which; and that if he had a daughter he
should call her ** Maria Helena," '' Maria "
having been the name of his mother.
Finally, however, as Lord Silchester remembered
that Hugo always alluded to the last
King of Poland as ' a puppet of Russia,"
and as, in the state of trepidation in which
they were, they could not call to mind the

name of the first, my child was christened
simply " George'  my godfather, in his
affectionate anxiety to associate himself with
me and mine, having stood as his sponsor.
Miss Warden was the other, two sponsors
only, being required in the Catholic Church,
and then, just at the moment (as I like to
believe) when I was dreaming about the
hovering angels, my poor little boy went
quietly to sleep for ever.

One evening, when I was quite recovered,
and could go about as usual. Lord Winchester
walked with me to the burying-ground at
Briga, and showed me the little mound
beneath which my baby was lying, and the
pretty wooden cross which he had had setup
at the head of it, with the ends all carved
in transparent fretwork. He asked me
what I should like to have written upon the
foot-piece, and we decided after a while
upon this short inscription :

To the memory of George, the only
child of Hugo and Ilolen," and then followed
the date of loth birth and death.

A good many years have passed away
since then, and yet, because of the distance
and the long journey, and because, too, of
finding something so sad at the end of it, I
have never beheld this peaceful spot since
that evening, when I hung a garland of
white Alpine flowers upon the little wooden
cross. But some day (I say to myself) I will
certainly go and revisit it once more.

The sadness which comes upon me at
times, when I remember that this child of
mine is lying so far away, in a foreign landis
quite unmingled with any regret that he
should be reposing in a Catholic churchyard.


*' Heaven is a palace with many doors*'
poor Hugo had said to me when there had
been a question as to where we should be

married, " and each one may enter it in his
own way," arid I have no fears but that
through one of these many doors my little
George has managed to creep up to the foot
of the Eternal Throne.

We had arranged  before hiding ourselves
thus from the world  a system by which we
were enabled to receive our letters and newspapers.
Lord Silchester had left his address
with his valet, in England  a trusty and
discreet servant  to whom, however, he had
merely stated that he was travelling in Italy,
and that, as he was in deep mourning, and
in need of rest, he did not wish his name to
be prominently advertised in all the hotel
lists. Hence his letters were to be forwarded
to him simply as Mr. Collingwood.
As for myself, I never expected now to

receive letters. I had confided in Mrs.
Marks, however  who knew so much about
me already  what were to be my plans, and
she had promised to keep me informed of the
progress of the Prince's trial ; for, although
she was now re-established in Bayswater,
she was in constant communication with
her husband. We settled that all letters
to me which came to Northover were to be
forwarded under cover to Miss Warden ;
the same reason that had been given by
Lord Silchester to his valet being put forward
in explanation  that I was in need of
quiet, anxious for privacy, and did not wish
to have my name and address published in
the newspapers. If, by all these precautions?
any suspicions were aroused, we flattered
ourselves that they must continue to be
suspicions only, and that the real reason for
our thus secluding ourselves would not be
divined. The neighbours round about North-over

 some of whom had been said to share
my cousin Courtenay's opinion with regard
to " poor Sir Harry *'  supposing that any
rumours reached them of my indisposition,
might possibly imagine that I had suddenly
gone out of my mind; but, situated as I
was, I did not care very much for what they
thought.

Miss Warden had heard, through one of
the old servants, that Sir Courtenay would
not be able to afford to live at Northover
for some years. He appeared, however, not
to wish to let the place. Perhaps during
these years he was going to look out for an
heiress, and that, after he was married to
her, he would come back and settle at the
old house. Till then, however, he had left
orders that " Miss Nelly '* was to come and
go just as she liked, and he had said that he
hoped she would continue to look upon the
place as her home. He might possibly visit

it from time to time with a few friends in
the shooting-season, but to settle in England,
just at present, would be fatal to his
career, which it was not his intention to
abandon yet. I should be rendering him a
real service, therefore, he said, by continuing
to live at Northover, keeping the house
aired, and looking after the servants.

All this was very kind and condescending
of him, of course, but I always experienced
a peculiar sense of bitterness and impatience
at any allusion to my cousin or his plans.
Perhaps I was still inclined to blame him
for the results of my own folly, or else I
may have been animated by a feeling of
jealousy at the notion that he was now the
master of the house which had once been
my home. Anyhow, as this is meant to bea
truthful record, I am bound to confess
that I had conceived a violent prejudice
against ray prosperous and self-complacent

kinsman  as I had pictured him in my own
mind. He seemed, now, to be patronising
me, and dictating terms. Even when I
thought of Hugo  the cause of all my
present misery and humiliation  my heart
was animated by a far more friendly feeling.
Ever since the birth and death of my
child, indeed, my sentiments respecting the
murder of Dr. Bernard had undergone a
decided change. The deed itself I regarded
with no less horror; but looking back to
the time of my union with Hugo  to his
kindness to myself, as well as to everything
that was weak and defenceless  to the self-control
and the amiability which hewaswont
on all occasions to display  I came to the
conclusion that if he had ever committed
the hideous crime with which he was
charged, his act must have been purely
mechanical  the result of some irresistible
impelling force, for which he was not

morally responsible but that it was impossible
to believe that he could be possessed
of either the heart or the mind of a
murderer.

I had imagined, certainly, that I had surprised
a wild look sometimes in his eyes,
but I said to myself, now, that this was the
wildness not of a natural ferocity but of
acquired mental affliction  the result of his
too far-reaching researches. It was not
intended that man should be anything buta
finite creature. There were closed doors
at which it was not prudent for him even to
knock. But Hugo, in his insatiable craving
after occult knowledge, had striven to force
open some of these, and madness was the
penalty he had had to pay for his temerity !

The Russian authorities, it seems, eventually
took this view of the Prince's case.
As soon as I was supposed to be strong

enough to bear the news, Lord Silchester
VOL. II. a

informed mc of the result of the preliminary
inquiry, which had been conducted almost
privately. It had been decided that there
could be no doubt as to his having committed
the fatal deed ; but the trial was
deferred in order that information might be
collected with regard to the state of the
Prince's mind, his counsel having started
the plea of insanity when he found that the
evidence was so damaging to his client.

The result of this inquiry had been that
Prince Crecszoleski was pronounced of unsound
mind  unfit to manage his own affairs,
and irresponsible for his actions. The Princess,
his mother, had been confined in a
lunatic asylum for some years previous to
her son's birth, having displayed signs of
suicidal mania whilst her first child was
quite an infant. Her two children, who
were placed under the care of governesses
and tutors, had never been informed

of this circumstance, which was, no doubt,
the means of saving Hugo now from the
bitter humiliation of a criminal sentence.
He was simply to disappear, as Mrs. Marks
had foreseen, being declared mad, and
ordered to be placed in proper restraint.
When this intelligence reached us he was
about to be removed to a private lunatic
asylum, which was kept by a celebrated
German physician, Dr. Schumann by name,
a few miles distant from St. Petersburg.
The administration of his estates was to be
vested in the hands of trustees. Erom these
estates a princely revenue had at one time
been derived, for, besides the timber they
produced, and which was easily and cheaply
conveyed, by means of the river Vistula, to
the ports of the Baltic, there were mines of
salt and copper, and quarries of marble upon
parts of the property. Of late years, however
 the Prince being such a determined

b2

absentee  the management of the extensive
forests, as well as the working of the
different mines, had been much neglected.
It transpired, also, that the debts of the
Prince amounted to a considerable sum. It
had been proposed, therefore, to subdivide
the yearly income that should accrue to him
once the property had been placed under
proper management  into three parts. One
for the Prince's own maintenance whilst in
the asylum, in a style becoming to his rank
and position ; another to accumulate for the
advantage of his heirs ; and a third portion
to be set aside annually for the improvement
of the estate.

In the course of the inquiry the fact that
the Prince had been privately married was
brought to the knowledge of his legal
advisers. No further allusion had been
made to it, however, neither had my maiden
name been publicly mentioned. Had my

poor little boy have lived, it would not have
been possible, Lord Winchester assured me,
for the matter to have rested here. I must
have come forward, then, as the Prince's
lawful wife, and asserted the rights of his
son. Even now, my godfather thought that
it would be expedient for me to have legal
advice as to whether I ought not to put
forward a claim for some portion of the
revenue of the estate ; for he said that however
much my situation might be deserving
of pity in the eyes of the world, there could
be neither shame nor disgrace in the fact
that I had unfortunately married a man
who had since been placed under medical
surveillance.

I reflected upon this matter for a whole day,
and came to the conclusion that I could gain
nothing by making the public acquainted
with my misfortunes, except, perhaps, an
additional income, to which certain conditions

and restrictions misrlit bo attached 
an enforced residence in Russia, for instance,
for some part of each year  which
would seriously interfere with my liberty of
action. I decided therefore, that, at any
rate for the present, I would prefer not to
divulge my secret. My child, for whose
sake I must have come forward from my
obscurity, was dead and buried; and I
would far rather (I declared) be looked
upon, for the rest of my days, simply as
"Helen Davenant," a commonplace old
maid, than parade as a Polish Princess with
so tragic a past.

Now that Sir Harry's affairs had been disposed
of, I found myself exceedingly well
off. My father, indeed, had left me nothing
beyond what had been secured to me by his
marriage settlement ; not even the diamonds
which my mother had worn, and which
were left to my cousin Courtenay, for the

use of his future wife. Sixty thousand
pounds, however, had been set aside at the
time of my father's marriage with my
mother, for the benefit of their younger
children ; and, as I happened to be the sole
offspring of the union, this sum of money
had accrued to me now, together with the
small estate of Croft's Earm, which adjoined
Northover Park, and upon which, in a
pretty old manor-house, my mother had
resided  previous to her marriage  with
her father, a retired Major General. At
this time she had no prospect of being the
small heiress she eventually became; for
my uncle Everard, a gallant young artilleryman,
was then alive. He was killed,
however, only a few years afterwards, in
the Crimea ; and, upon the death of the old
General, the fortune which would have been
his passed to my mother, who thus became
entitled to about two thousand a year.

This income descended to me as soon as I
attained my majority ; so that, with the
sixty thousand previously settled, I felt that
I possessed enough and to spare without
coveting any portion of the revenues of the
Crecszoleski estates. I asked my godfather
whether he thought that Madame 
would ever put forward her claim
as her brother's heir ; when, by so doing,
she might run the risk of being tried for
murder or confined in a madhouse ; for, of
course, the plea of insanity would be available,
also, in her case ? He replied, that he
hoped, for her own sake, that she would
keep out of the way ; but that she was a
very peculiar person, capable of doing the
most rash and unexpected tidings, and seeming
even to take pleasure in everything that
was associated with danger. Had she been
a younger woman  likely to marry again
and have children  some of these might
bring forward their claims in the future.

There was not much chance, however, he
thought, of any such contingency now. I
felt, I knew not wherefore, that the name
of this terrible woman possessed a kind of
unaccountable fascination for me. I should
have shrunk from any sort of contact with
her as I should have shrunk from contact
with a poisonous serpent. And yet, now
that she was powerless, as I thought, to harm
me, I felt a desire to talk about her  to

learn what she was like in the face  and to



know more of her personal history ; just as
I might have been tempted to examine one
of those same poisonous serpents through the
panes of its glass prison at the Zoological
Gardens.

*' What is she like ? " I asked, curious to
learn every peculiarity of feature and expression.


But, to Lord Silchester, the subject did
not appear to be equally fascinating.

She was a beautiful woman, once," he

answered, an expression of pain  akin to
that wliicli poor Hugo had so often displayed
at mention of this name  clouding
his brow for a moment ; " tall, with a fine
figure, and extraordinary hair. But she has
led a strange, wandering, somewhat disreputable
existence. She is probably much
changed since I saw her last'*

I asked him whether she at all resembled
Hugo in face or manner ?

He replied, that he could never perceive
mali resemblance between them himself,
but that he was not a good hand at seeing
likenesses. There was a similarity about
their colouring, and they were both tall.
Madame Dobrowolska, however, had the
handsomer features.

She was fair, then ? *' I asked, thinking
of the fair-haired woman of Mr. Marks's
vision.

"Yes; she had very fair hair' he answered,
"like her brother  with very dark
eye dashes and eye-brows, and no colour in
her face a fairness altogether unlike the
fairness of an Englishwoman "

But why should we talk upon such
painful subjects?" he exclaimed suddenly,
as though resenting the effect of some unpleasant
memory; "if you are to gain no
advantages of any kind by your unfortunate
marriage, it would be surely better .to
endeavour to forget that you were ever
allied to this unhappy family at all. There
is something else that I want to talk over
with you  a plan for the future."

I, too, had a plan in my mind, but I
knew not how to bring it about, how to
allude to it, even, without appearing to be
inconsistent.

Let me tell you of something first," I

said, *' before you speak of any plan which
is sure to seem pleasant than mine. If I
don't declare my marriage it isn't because I
want to shirk any of its duties, any of the
pain that I have brought upon myself.
Hugo is still my husband. I ought to go
where I could see him from time to time,
to be within reach of the place where he is,
in case he might be ill or in want of me.
There is some strange mystery about this
story of the murder, something mesmeric,
which we are unable to understand, and it
must be so dreadful for him to be cut ois
from all the world ! But how can I go all
the way to St. Petersburg by myself, and
who could I find who would go with me sofar?"


I noticed that my godfather's face
brightened as I was speaking.

"My dearest Helen," he exclaimed, "that
your kind heart should have prompted you

to wish this is fortunate indeed for me !
Eor some years I have had an ambition,
as all men of my age ought to have, an
ambition, in my case, connected with my
diplomatic career. Two days ago I heard
that this might be about to be realised, but,
like so many hoped-for things it seemed to
have come too late, although, during my
father's lifetime, I could hardly have
accepted a post which would have taken me
so far away from home, even had it been
offered to me. Having been with you, however,
in your danger and suffering, you
know not, my child, how dear you have
become to me. I have tasted the delightful
intimacy and repose of home life, which, in
spite of my years, was entirely new to me.
I felt, dear Helen, that I could not have
abandoned you now, in your helpless and
unprotected state. In a word, with some
regret, as I cannot help admitting, I had

just made up my mind to refuse tvliat I had
been looking to as the culmination of my
professional hopes, and to vegetate quietly
at home, where you could have been near
me, at Croft's Earm, and I could have seen
you often. But now, all this is changed.
I will take you to St. Petersburg to see your
husband, and to consult with the lawyers
upon your case. I hear that I am to be
offered the post of Ambassador there, and
you and Miss Warden must come and keep
house for me at the Embassy."

It will be easy enough for the reader to
discover that no such person as Lord Winchester
was ever accredited Her Majesty's
Ambassador at St. Petersburg. It has been
the privilege of romance writers, however,
from the earliest times, to exalt and degrade
their personages, as it has seemed good unto
them. History, itself, indeed, plays pranks
of the same kind. Was Guy, the vanquisher
of the Danish giant, really Earl
of Warwick ? They tell us, now, that the
story is a corruption of one of the old
Scandinavian legends, having to do with

the adventures of the god Thor. What
right had Robin Hood to the earldom of
Huntingdon ? Not much, I am afraid !
And yet one does not read with less interest
of his daring exploits, of Maid Marian, and
his * merry men," clad in their Lincoln
green, and of the jovial, lawless life beneath
the greenwood tree, for all that ; or even
because some wiseacres have discovered that
the bold outlaw, as he has descended to us,
never existed at all, being, like William
Tell, of glorious memory, merely an incarnation
of the archer of the zodiac, who
marked one of the halting-places of the
solar divinity upon his journey along the
ecliptic !

This story, then, is simply a romance, the
characters mythical, the events untrue ?

I would like my readers to believe that
it is false, as is all true history  true, as is
all fabled mother That it is a blending

together, that is, of fact and fiction, and
that, to serve the purposes of the latter,
Lord Silchester is now established upon the
banks of the Neva as English Ambassador,

We were at the Embassy too. Miss Warden
and myself. We had a sitting-room to
ourselves, and, during the first few weeks
after our arrival, saw very little of the
personnel of the Embassy, leading a life
which was almost entirely secluded.

I had changed, or rather curtailed, my
name. I think I have already mentioned
that, Lord Silchester having been my godfather,
I had been christened '' Helen Col-logwood."
As the name of " Davenant "
was no longer mine, and as I still shrank
from assuming that of ' Crecszolesl/' we
came to the conclusion that it would be
better, pending a more satisfactory arrangement
of my affairs, to drop my surname
altogether, and to call myself simply " Miss

VOL. II. S

Ilelen Collingwood," which, without being
in any sense a false name, would serve the
double purpose of shrouding my identity,
and of seeming to associate me with the
family of the Ambassador.

My godfather, in spite of his important
diplomatic duties, was continually busying
Himself in my behalf. His first step was
-to collect information with respect both to
the law of divorce in Russia, as applied to
mixed marriages, and also as to how far our
union in a Protestant church (Hugo being
nt the time a Woman Catholic) might have
affected the legality of the marriage.

I had not seen my unfortunate husband
as yet. I think Lord Silchester dreaded
for both of us, the pain of this interview.
He begged me to defer it, at any rate, until
he had obtained all the information he
sought, lest I might be influenced, upon
beholding his melancholy situation, to act in.

opposition to my own interests. He had
seen the doctor who had charge of the
Prince, and had confided to him the true
state of affairs. I could have news of
Hugo, therefore, whenever I liked, and, in
the course of little more than half-an-hour,
if need he, I could drive to the doctor's
villa. The Ambassador proposed visiting
the Prince, first himself, as the hearer of a
letter from me, in which I should express
my intention of coming to St. Petersburg,
and I was to be guided in my future conduct
by the manner in which this information
was received. At the time of which I
am. writing, towards the middle of the
month of January, the Ambassador had not
yet paid Hugo this proposed visit, nor had
I been able to find words in which to write
the letter in question.

It was evident that my godfather hardly

knew what to advise for the best. He

s2

dreaded, under the present painful circumstances,
any kind of ra])]rocliement between
Hugo and myself, which could only have
the effect of making cur second parting the
more harrowing ; and yet I could see that
he was not altogether in favour of a
divorce. Miss Warden was of opinion that
he was so attached to me himself, although
as she now admitted  only after a platonic
or parental fashion, that he preferred
my remaining in my present equivocal
position, when he could constitute himself
my chief protector, to running the risk
of losing mc through any change in my
circumstances.

One other person in St. Petersburg,
besides the doctor of the private lunatic
asylum was in our confidence  the Emperor
Alexander himself.

'* Everything must be brought to the
knowledge of the Czar," Lord Silchester

Lace said to me soon after our arrival in
Petersburg ; " once we have obtained this
Imperial Majesty's approval of our conduct,
nobody else will have a right to find fault
with it. One of the advantages of living
under a despotism is, that we are permitted
to fly to the autocrat in any social difficulty,
and appeal to him as the arbiter of our
fate ! "

My sad case had been brought, almost
immediately afterwards, to His Imperial
Majesty's notice, to whom my reasons for
wishing to maintain a strict incognito had
also been explained. The Ambassador represented
me as his god-child, the daughter
of very old and intimate friends in England,
who were both of them dead. He stated
that I was in mourning, now, for my father,
and that this, and the melancholy condition
of the Prince, mv husband, would debar me
from going much into society during the

time of my stay in the E/Ussian capital.
These communications, it seems, had been
very graciously received, and, for a time,
everything appeared to go on satisfactorily.
I must mention here, however, that we
had been somewhat embarrassed, upon our
arrival, at finding that Mr. Montagu-morrison,
of whom Lord Silchester had spoken
as one of the greatest gossips in the diplomatic
service, had arrived before us at the
British Embassy. My godfather, knowing
of his appointment, was j)i'6pared for this,
and could only hope that he would not
recognise us as the heroines of the adventure
with the snake, or that, if he did so,
he would not, at any rate, know anything
about the painful reason of our sojourn at
St. Dalmas de Tende.

As we made no allusion to any previous
meeting, but behaved, when presented to
him, as though we had never beheld him

before, and as he made no reference to it
himself, it was impossible to divine how
much he might have known or suspected.
We became filled with mistrust of him,
however, in consequence of this uncertainty,
fancying sometimes, from his manner,
that he wished to show us that we
were in some sense at his mercy; and ashe
was a man towards whom we should not
have been attracted in any circumstances,
we had ended by taking quite a dislike to
him.

Lord Silchester, as I have already said
spoke of me as his goddaughter, but somehow
it came to be assumed, by the members
of the corps diplomatique, that I was his
niece. I was also described, by way of
variation, as his 'award." To these erroneous
assumptions I could not object, as
the more intimately I was associated with
the Ambassador in the minds of the people

by whom wo were surrounded, the more
natural and proper would they consider it
that I should reside beneath his roof.

Mr. Morrison alone, or so we fancied,
appeared to be doubtful as to my relationship
to His Excellency, the statements as
to which, without denying, we had never in
any way confirmed.

Prom the first day of our arrival, he
appeared determined to thrust his company
upon us, whether we desired it or not, and
he was perpetually questioning us and
making allusions which, in our ignorance
of the extent of his knowledge, we felt to
be exceedingly embarrassing. Lord Winchester
thought that it was merely an insatiable
curiosity which led him to pry into
the affairs of his neighbours, whilst vanity
induced him to pretend to know more than
he really did, and, whilst assuring us that
he did not believe there was really much

Imam ia him, he advised us, on account of
these annoying characteristics, to keep) him
somewhat at a distance. We acted upon
this advice accordingly. The gossiping
little attache strove to conceal his resentment
at our behaviour, but we could not
help fearing that we had turned him into a
secret foe.

At about the time of which I am writing,
that is, after we had been for some three
weeks in Petersburg, Lord Silchester came
to the conclusion, in consequence of some
unpleasant whispers which had reached his
ears relating to my position at the Embassy,
that these were due a good deal to the
retirement and mystery in which I was
shrouded, and that it would be better forme
to come forward openly, as his goddaughter,
and to be presented as such to
some of his new acquaintances.

He persuaded me to appear, therefore, at

two formal dinner-parties which were given
at the Embassy, at each of which I occupied a
seat at the head of the table, to which I was
escorted by the guest of the highest rank.

After this, I was generally included in
the invitations received by the Ambassador.
I made it a rule, however, to decline all such
civilities, pleading as an excuse my deep
mourning and delicate health.

But now a grand entertainment, a fancy
ball, was to be given, in the course of the
ensuing month, at the British Embassy, and
I was anxiously debating as to whether I
should have to appear at it or not Lord
Silchester was greatly in favour of my doing
so, whilst J, on the contrary, was as much
opposed to the idea. If I had had only my
own inclinations to follow, I should have
desired to pay my proposed visit to Hugo,
to help my godfather with his decorations
and invitations for the ball, and then, with

my faithful companion. Miss Warden, to
have departed for England before the entertainment
in question took place. But then
I had other people's feelings to consider
besides my own.

To the Ambassador, for instance, my departure
at such a moment would be, as I
could not fail to perceive, a real disappointment.
Miss Warden, too, who had never
witnessed an entertainment upon so magnificent
a scale, was most anxious that .1
should remain for it. Lord Silchester's visit
to my husband was, from one cause or
another, deferred from day to day. The
letter preparing him for my coming had
never been written, for I found it almost
impossible to decide how I ought to express
myself, and last, but not least, with every
desire to quit St. Petersburg immediately
after this proposed visit, I dreaded the idea
of returning to England with only Miss

Warden and Mason for escort. Could I
not find some one who might be going home
in the course of the next fortnight, and who
would consent to look after three 'unprotected
females " upon the journey ? These
were the questions that were occupying my
mind at this time, when I resume the
thread of my narrative upon the hanks of
the Neva.

One afternoon, when Miss Warden and I
where in our sitting-room, discussing these
matters, we were interrupted by a knock at
the door, and a visitor was announced  Mr.
Montagu - Morrison ; could he speak to us
for a few minutes ?

Having no excuse ready, he was admitted
forthwith.

After taking off his fur coat in the anteroom,
he shook hands with us, and then
drew up a chair to the stove.

'' I hope I'm not trespassing upon your

time," lie said apologetically, " but the
Turkish Ambassador is with His Excellency,
and I did not like to disturb him,
and there's a little Italian attache worrying
my life out about this forthcoming festivity,
wishing to know exactly when it's going
to be. I thought you might be able to
give me some idea, as these things arc
generally known to ladies a good while
beforehand ? "

'' You mean the fancy ball ? " 1 asked.
Oh, I don't suppose it will take place for
some time ! It depends on so many other
things. Nothing is settled as yet."

That's just what I said. I said that
nothing was settled, and that I would let
him know when it was. It seems that a
lady, a friend of his, or the friend of a lady
friend  a " Confess " something  is very
anxious to time her arrival in Petersburg
so as to come in for this event, and wants

to have plenty of warning beforehand, so
that she may think about her costume, I
suppose, and invent something that will
take us northern barbarians by storm ! "

We promised Mr. Morrison that we would
let him know as soon as the date of the ball
was decided upon.

'I know that Miss Collincwood is entirely
in His Excellency's confidence," he said,
turning to Miss Warden ; " she will be sure
to know the moment that the day is settled."

His remark, in any other circumstances,
would probably have seemed perfectly natural.
Eut now I fancied that I detected a ring of
sarcasm in his words, and I felt that I was
blushing painfully.

I'll be bound that you two ladies,
although you pretend to know so little,
have made up your minds long ago as to
what you are going to wear?" Mr. Morrison
went on by-and-by.

I mean to go as a diienna replied Miss
Warden, 'f I go at all ! I shall wear a
dear little thing on my head like a black
velvet muffin, with a kind of shaving brush
at the top of it, and a long veil. It will be
very becoming, I think, and need not be at
all expensive."

And you, Miss Collingwood," asked our
visitor, ' shall you be very magnificent ?
Are you going as Cleopatra, or Mary Queen
of Scots, or Madame de Pompadour ? "

' Why 'Madame de Pompadour ' ? " I inquired
quickly; but, as soon as the words had
escaped me, I wished that I had not spoken,
and I felt myself changing colour again.

*' Oh, only because the dress is so pretty! "
he answered, carelessly; 'rouge and powder,
and patches, and all that ! Not that you've
any need of such artificial aids to beauty ! "

I'm not sure," I said, " that I shall be
able to go to the ball at all. I may be

obliged to leave Petersburg before it takes
place. I haven't thought yet about my dress.
As you see, I'm in mourning."

'' Oh, but you must go to the ball ! " he
exclaimed, as we fancied, with assumed
concern. " One sets aside one's private
feelings upon such official occasions! Why,
His Excellency himself is in mourning."

'eyes," I answered, absently; ''he is in
mourning for his father."

'The old Lord Silchester. I remember
seeing him years ago in Paris, when his son
used to be there. A fine-looking old man.
Your grandfather, I presume ? "

My grandfather . " I repeated, bewildered.
Then, recovering myself, I added
quickly, " He was not related to me in anyway
; nor is this Lord Silchester ; he is
merely a friend."

Oh, I fancied that he was your uncle ! "
remarked Mr. Morrison, with rather a

curious look. '' All Petersburg gives you
the credit of being very intimately connected
with him ! "

All Petersburg is wrong then," I
answered, speaking as quietly as I could,
but with cheeks that I felt were becoming
crimson; "but he is my godfather, and a
very dear friend."

Miss Warden came to my rescue, observing
my confusion, and inquired of Mr.
Montagu Morrison what he intended to
wear himself at the fancy ball ?

I haven't quite made up my mind as
yet," he answered; "but I think that at a
fancy ball in a foreign land the Briton
ought always to assume some essentially
English rdle with the view of striking
terror into the heart of the foreigner. Perhaps
I may go as St. George ; but it might
be difficult to provide oneself with a dragon
and there ought to be a dragon you know,

VOL. II. T

the part would be nothing without one!
Perhaps, however, a big snake would do as
well. Something for one to destroy, you
know, and trample in the dust with one's
heel. I'm rather a good hand at killing
snakes ! "

*' I wish that we could discover how much
"he really knows! " Miss Warden exclaimed,
as soon as our tormentor had departed. "I
wonder whether he recognises us as the
people he met when he killed that horrid
snake, and whether he and his friend stayed
on at St. Dalmas during that terrible night ? "

*'I don't know," I answered; perhaps
we do him an injustice; but I certainly
fancy that he wishes to sneer at us and
taunt us, and that ail the people here at
the Embassy seem to look upon us in an
evil light. It is time that we should think
about returning to England."

A CIRCUMSTANCE which tended to strenojthcm
me in this impression was my recollection
of the strange behaviour just before this of
Captain Dangerfield, the English military
attache.

Without describing individually the personnel
of the Embassy it sill be necessary
for me to say a few words about this distinguished
officer. He was, I should think,
about three or four and thirty, a married

man, in the horse artillery, who was looked

T 2

upon it seems as one of the handsomest menin
the British army. When the ladies of
St. Petersburg had at first heard this, and
that he was so shortly to be introduced into
their midst, they all began (to use Mr. Morrison's
expression) " to sit up and smooth
their tuckers."

But a great disappointment was in store
for them. The Captain had arrived accompanied
by his wife, a little, dowdy insignificant
looking woman (to quote again the
words of our gossiping informant), who
ruled him nevertheless with a rod of iron,
and to add to their discomfiture (according
to the same authority) " Providence when
turning out such a highly decorative
object " had endowed him with certain
neutralising characteristics, with the view
of setting him upon the same level as ordinary
mortals.

He had been '* cursed " (Mr. Morrison

toll us) ' with middle-class prudery, deadly
dulness, and an exaggerated notion of the
sanctity of the marriage tie ;" so that when
Mrs. Dangerfield (whose dress and appearance
Mr. Morrison was never tired of turning
into ridicule) was obliged to leave St.
Petersburg, being unable to endure the
climate, the Russian syrens found that their
chances had not improved, although they
had endeavoured by every means to lay
siege to the Captain's heart. They were
stimulated in their evil designs partly by a
feeling of revenge ; for Mrs. Dangerfield,
having succeeded in retaining the affections
of this large, loyal-hearted man, had
held her head naturally somewhat high,
and so had rendered herself extremely unpopular.


It was not possible, however, to lure the
Captain from the path of duty. He wrote
to his wife regularly every day, and was

continually sending her home little tokens
of his affection in the shape of furs, old
silver ornaments, and caviare, by the messenger.



When he found himself alone with any
of his female admirers, he talked to them
persistently about his wife, or repeated for
their benefit the witty sallies of his youngest
child. This loyalty upon the Captain's part
had exasperated them terribly. They christened
him " V Anglais inipossible, " le
Bayard bourgeois " le Danger echappe,
(a kind of play upon his name), and had
now given him up as utterly hopeless and
ridiculous.

All this, which had been told me, no doubt,
with the object of rendering Captain Dan-garfield
contemptible in my eyes, had had
the effect of prepossessing me in his favour.
I perceived that he was what might be
called rather a dull man, and that his

dulness was even increased by his being
well-informed, for occasions appropriate to
solid and improving conversation did not
often occur in the society in which he now
moved, and as he was possessed of neither
humour nor imagination he did not shine
in small talk or repartee. It was impossible
to look at his magnificent physique
without admiration, but in spite of his
height, his strength, his well-shaped head
and classic features, he was neither sympathetic
nor attractive. The fact of his
being such a pre-eminently ' good creature,"
too, seemed somehow to render him,
to my mind, at least, a little commonplace.


Still, because he happened to be a man
with whom I should have found it quite
impossible to fall in love, there was no
reason why I shoukl not secure him as a
friend. He was the very man, indeed, whose

friendship I was anxious to cultivate and
for this reason : 

Mrs. Dangcrficld   the little woman," as
hier husband always called her  had written
to say that he must return to England as
soon as possible, as she could not exist
without him ; and, obedient to her commands,
he had resigned his post, and was
only remaining on at St. Petersburg for the
convenience of the Ambassador. As soon
as he could be spared, he would depart at
once.

Now that my position at the Embassy
appeared to me to have become somewhat
embarrassing and difficult of explanation,
it occurred to me that if I could only
become upon sufficiently friendly terms with
Captain Dangerfield, this gallant officer 
a married man, devoted to his wife, chivalrous
and honourable  would be the very
person to escort us back to England, and

that my godfather could raise no objection
to our travelling: under the charge of so
exemplary a man. I had said nothing, as
yet to Lord Silchester upon this subject,
not wishing to worry him with my plans
until I had arranged them in some definite
form. I hoped, however, that events would
shape themselves in accordance with my
desires, and that I should be enabled thus
to leave St. Petersburg before the proposed
fancy ball.

I scarcely knew why I looked forwards to
this entertainment with so much apprehension.
It was not alone because I might
have to assist in doing the honours of it to
so many distinguished guests. This idea
did not alarm me as much as might have
been expected, considering my inexperience
in such matters. I disliked the notion of
appearing at a ball at all, of course, after
all the misery I had gone through; and as

I had met Hugo for the first time at a ball,
I felt certain that I should be painfully
reminded, by the music and dancing, of
the beginning of all my misfortunes. But
I was quite prepared for the fact that,
unless I made a public avowal of my painful
situation, I should have now occasionally
to mingle in society, however distasteful
this might be to me. There must be some
other reason, therefore (I said to myself),
which caused me thus to shudder involuntarily
at the thought of this approaching
entertainment at the British Embassy.

As I have already said, it had been agreed
that Lord Silchester should visit Hugo, in
the first instance, without me. It seemed
a long time before the opportunity for doing
this presented itself;  so long that I fancied
the Ambassador must be purposely delaying
from day to day what he knew could not
fail to be painful, for I had become aware.

by this time, low much he shrank from all
that was disagreeable and disturbing.

At last, however, when we had been
nearly a month in Petersburg, the visit
took place. Upon Lord Silchester's return
from it he sent for me to his private apartments.
I could see at once that he had
been deeply moved.

'rare you still resolved to go and see
your unhappy husband ? " he inquired, after
pressing my hand affectionately. I replied
that I had come to Russia only with this
object, as he well knew, and that after I had
seen Hugo, and made him understand that,
as long as I lived, I could never believe him
to be morally guilty of the crime imputed to
him, my mission would be ended, and I
should desire to return to England as soon as
possible. His brow clouded at this allusion
to my return.

'* We shall have time to talk about that,"

he remarked, "after you have seen Hugo,
and after this hall, at which I shall greatly
require your assistance. The Emperor, and
other members of the Imperial family, are
to he my guests. I am only waiting to fix
the day until they have selected the evening
upon which they can be present. If, as you
seem to imagine, there are any malicious
stories afloat respecting you, it is of the
highest importance that the ill-natured
people who have invented them should be
put to confusion, and this end will he
attained if you appear at this ball, and help
me to receive my guests. As to poor Ilugo,
will next Thursday suit you to go with me
to see him ? " It was now Tuesday. I told
him that Thursday would suit me perfectly,
and accordingly, upon the afternoon of that
day, I set out with the Ambassador, bound
for Dr. Schumann's villa.

I felt very nervous and agitated upon my

arrival, being quite unable to foresee what
effect this interview would produce upon me.
Lord Silvester had told me that Hugo
seemed but little changed mentally  that he,
himself, had always looked upon him as mad,
but that he regarded him as no more mad
now than he had been when I had seen him
for the first time. I should observe a great
difference in his appearance, because he now
wore a beard, it having been thought imprudent
to trust him with a razor, and he had
also adopted a peculiar costume, the dress
of the followers of some sect who professed
to have done for ever with the world. But
for this, my godfather said, I should find
him the same as before. Nevertheless,
I could not help trembling violently when
the door of the room opened quietly It was
only the doctor, a courteous intelligent-looking
man, who had been duly informed
beforehand of our coming. He was the

means of affording me what I could not but
regard as a reprieve from some kind of
impending torture. The Prince, he said,
lead appeared much depressed since the visit
of His Excellency. He had abandoned the
reading and writing from which he had
hitherto seemed to derive a melancholy
pleasure, and had sat moodily silent with
his hands pressed to his forehead. Dr.
Schumann said that he could not answer
for the effect which this interview might
produce upon him. Had I been a mere
casual acquaintance, it would have been a
different matter. In a word, we were compelled
by the doctor's advice to abandon our
intention, and postpone our visit to some
future day.

During our homeward drive, I remained
silent, wrapped in my own thoughts. By
the time that we arrived at the Embassy
I had come to the conclusion that I must

now remain on in the E/Ussian capital, at
any rate until Hugo was allowed to see me,
having travelled so far with this object.
I hoped with all my heart that I might still
depart before the fancy ball, which would
have the effect, supposing that I assisted at
it, of bringing me so prominently forward.
I would inquire of Captain Dangerfield, at
once, when he proposed returning home, and
beg him to allow us to travel back in his
company, and then make the departure of
the Captain an excuse for hurrying on bur
own.

We fell in with Captain Dangerfield upon
the following Sunday as we came out of the
English church, at which he was a very
regular attendant, and I quickened my pace
in order that I might walk with him along
the English quay, a little in advance of the
rest of our party.

I began by asking him what he meant to

WQdY at the forthcoming ball, saying that I
thought  as I really did  that he would
look well as a Crusader. He replied, twirls
ing this long fair moustaches rather conceitedly,
that a great many people had
made the same remark, but that, even
supposing that he remained on for the ball,
he should not dream of going to the expense
of a fancy dress  the * Queen's uniform "
being quite good enough for him. As it was,
however, he hoped to get off before it took
place. I informed him that J, too, proposed
returning to England very shortly, that I
dreaded making the journey with only Miss
Warden and my maid, and I then asked
him whether he would be kind enough,
supposing the time happened to fit in conveniently,
to allow us to place ourselves
under his care ?

He seemed to be much surprised to hear
of my intended departure, but said that he

should be proud and pleased to escort us
home, that he was a capital hand at looking
after ladies, having " gone through his
training," and that he felt certain 'mrs. D."
would give him an excellent character in
this respect. He would let me know, at
once, as soon as the day of his departure was
fixed ; all he knew, at present, was that he
'' meant to be off before the ball." I begged
that he would say nothing, as yet, to the
Ambassador upon the subject of my request,
as I wished to be the first to speak to him
about it. He promised that he would do
as I wished, and our conversation ended, as
I thought, very satisfactorily.

Some days afterwards, as I was returning
from a drive, I met Captain Dangerfield
coming out of the room where Lord Winchester
habitually transacted his official
business. He bowed, in rather a distant
manner, as I fancied, and passed me hurt

II. u

richly. I was a little surprised that he
should not have stopped and made some
allusion to his journey home. After that
I had neither seen nor heard from him
again, but, upon the evening preceding the
day of which I am writing, I learnt, quite
accidentally, that he was starting immediately
for England. It would have been
quite impossible for us to get ready now
in time to accompany him. I was quite
at a loss to imagine what could have prevented
him from informing us of the day
of his departure ! *

But now, upon this particular day, immediately
after Mr. Montagu-Morrison had
left us, I fancied that I perceived Captain
Dangerfield's motive. He had been prejudiced
against me, probably, by the mischief-making
little man who had just paid us a
visit, and who, wishing to be supposed to
know everything about everybody, had, no

doubt, confided to the military attache his
suspicions regarding me. Captain Danger-field,
a respectable married man, did not
wish to travel back to England in company
with an adventuress. He was afraid of
what 'the little woman" might say, who
*' ruled him with a rod of iron," and so
he had formed the project of escaping by
flight from my importunities 1 I felt indignant,
outraged, humiliated ; 1 was upon
the point of rushing at once into the presence
of the Ambassador in order to entreat
him to publish abroad the particulars of my
marriage without any further delay.

Whilst I was in this uncomfortable frame
of mind, Mr. Montagu-Morrison sent in his
card for the second time. He had scribbled
the following words upon it in pencil :
*' My persecutor wishes to know whether
ball is to be masque et costume ? Forgot to

ask about the masque 

u 2

Mr. Morrison was waiting in the vestibule
which opened from our sitting-room, his
messenger said. In spite of my growing
mistrust I went out to speak to him
there, so as to save the trouble of writing.


Ten thousand pardons, my dear Miss
CoUingwood ! " he said ; *' but it seems that
I stupidly left out the most important part
of my message."

I told him that, as far as I knew at present,
dominos would be permissible, but
that I had heard His Excellency say that
he hoped they would be the exception
rather than the rule, as otherwise the effect
of the ball would be spoilt ; besides which,
' masks " were apt sometimes to assume
a freedom of speech and manner which
might not be altogether becoming in the
presence of the Royal and Imperial guests
who were expected.

Quite so ! " he answered, somewhat
sarcastically, as I fancied. " Above all
things, let us observe les convinces ! I
must ask you to pardon me for troubling
you again, but His Excellency has gone to
his room, and has left orders that he does
not wish to be disturbed."

But just then, as ill-luck would have it,
one of the Ambassador's English footmen
presented himself at the door which communicated
with the outer passage.

'' If you please, miss," he said, " His
Excellency would be much obliged to you
if you would be kind enough to go to him
at once in his sitting-room."

Because of what I imagined that my
visitor might think, I was conscious that I
blushed provokingly. After bowing to him,
however, with what I intended for a look
of defiance, I followed the servant at
once.

I found Lord Silchcstcr in a small room
which he had fitted up as a study.

Look here, Helen," he began, as soon as
the servant had closed the door upon us.
What in the world am I to do ? Advise
me with sour woman's wit, for Leaven's
sake! Dangerfield, as you may have heard,
started ofP for England this morning ."

'* Started for England this morning!" I
repeated, wounded at the Captain's faithlessness.
" Has Captain Dangerfield really
started already ?"

'' Yes, dear, he is gone," answered Lord
Silchester, looking a little surprised at my
vehemence ; " but why his departure should
affect you I am at a loss to imagine !
Dangerfield was a most excellent, worthy,
creature, and clever too, after a fashion,
but he didn't get on with foreigners. He's
much more suited to the drudgery of the
War Office, and I hope he may succeed in

getting something there equal to his deserts.
It's not of him, however, that I have to
speak; but this letter has just come from
Tom Collingwood, my Guardsman nephew,
to say that his great friend, Courtenay
Davenant, has applied to the E. O. for
Dangerfield's place, and begging me to back
his application ! What am I to do. in this
dilemma ? I think very highly of him ;
he is the very man, of all others, for the
place, and I've always promised, whenever
it was in my power, to give him a helping
hand. Under ordinary circumstances I
should telegraph to him to come out hereat
once !"

'' And 0M7," I asked, my heart, I knew
not wherefore, giving a little bound, " what
do you propose to do ?"

"I fancied that his coming here would
annoy you  that you might feel compelled
to announce your marriage before you would

otherwise have done so ; you have generally
spoken of him with so much dislike."

How could his coming here now possibly
influence my plans ? " I asked, experiencing
a sudden sensation of interest
and excitement. I felt a desire to behold,
from the vantage-ground afforded me by my
incognito, the man I had for so long persisted
in regarding as an adversary.

'' Pray do not prevent him from coming !"
I exclaimed ; " and pray go on calling me
Miss CoUingwood ' whilst he is here. If
he knew who I was, I should feel shy and
miserable in his presence, because, as you
know, there was once some question of our
marriage ; but as  Miss CoUingwood,' your
ward,' it would interest me to see him and
talk to him, and find out what he was like.
He might sometimes speak to me about his
cousin Nelly ! "

Might not this be a little dangerous.

dear ? " said the Ambassador, looking

grave.

'' In what way ' dangerous ' r " I asked,
fired now with something akin to my old
spirit of adventure. " Courtenay has never
seen me since I was quite a little girl ina
white frock and coral necklace ! He was
only an Eton hoy at the time; he would
never recognise me again ! "

I remembered my white frock and coral
necklace quite well, and could recall the
black kid gloves which my cousin had worn,
and the mark they had made upon his
nose.

Oh, I wasn't thinking about that ! '*
His Excellency answered. '' There could be
no danger in a recognition, as matters could
soon be satisfactorily explained. I was
thinking of another kind of danger altogether
! You are a beautiful woman, tied
to an unfortunate semi-lunatic. Courtenay

VOL. II. X

Davenant is a very attractive man. I was
thinking that, thrown together as you probably
will be, once he is established here,
there would be some danger of this contact
ending as it usually does end, in such cases,
and that you might get to care for one
another."

'* To * care for one another M " I repeated,
scornfully. " Courtenay Davenant and I !
How little you know what I feel about that
man ! Married or single, he is the very
last person in the world that I should ever
be likely to fall in love with ! "

The Ambassador heard my vehement
words with an expression such as the experienced
are wont to assume whilst rash
young people are making their headlong
intemperate asseverations. And then, for
very scorn at the bare absurdity of the
notion which had been suggested, I laughed
aloud I

I wonder what manner of high power it
is  whether benevolent or malignant  that,
listening to such rash laughter, seems so
often to arrange that it shall, some day,
be turned to weeping and gnashing of
teeth ?

END OF VOL. II.

I

fntNTEt) BY NICHOLS A>.t) SONS,
26, PARLIAMENT BTHBET.

6C.

OF Thou

N 1 VLR5 City

Of Ill Noise

cop. 2

HELEN Covenant

BY

VIOLET FANE,

AUTHOR OP " DENZIL PLACE," " SOPHY, OR THE ADVENTURES OP A SAVAGE,'
 THROUGH LOVE AND WAR," ETC., ETC.

IN" THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. HI.

LONDON: CHAPMAN and HALL

Limited


[eau Mights reserved']

PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS.

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

THE Story OF

HELEN Covenant.

Chapter I.

My cousin Courtenay arrived at St. Petersburg
a little more than a week before the
fancy ball, in response to a telegram which
had been sent to him by the Ambassador.
There was a dinner-party at the British
Embassy on the same night, and he was
introduced to me by Lord Silchester whilst
the guests were assembling.

I must present you to Miss Coming
my god-daughter and ward," he said

VOL. III. B

wearing an expression rather as though he
were playing a practical joke upon the new
military attache, *' a young lady who has
been good enough to come out here and
keep house for a forlorn old bachelor."

I looked at Courtenay with the greatest
interest, pleased to think that he could not
know who I was ; and endeavoured to
analyse my first impressions of him apart
from any pre-conceived notions.

His face, as Miss Warden had said, was
"charming," rather than regularly handsome.
Its expression was variable, and the
eyes wore full of fire and intelligence. He
had the effect of being dark, but his hair
was not quite black, and his eyes were blue.
His figure was tall and soldier-like, and his
voice earnest and sympathetic. He was
greeted by the Prench Ambassador, and two
or three other guests, as an old friend.
They addressed him as " mori clier, and expressed

great pleasure at meeting him
again. He appeared to respond to their
welcome in a very hearty and cordial
manner. It was evident that, unlike his
predecessor, he got on well with foreigners.
I know not how it happened that, as soon
as I had looked in Courtenay Davenant's
face, I felt for certain that he would one
day care for me. It was not vanity that
prompted this thought, for, with this consciousness
of what must now, inevitably,
come to pass, I possessed also the conviction
that, had circumstances been other than
they were, it would have been utterly impossible,
probably, to bring about any such
result. In a word, Courtenay would come
to love me now simply because all such
love must be, of necessity, hopeless, and
barren of fruition. I said to myself that I
would in no way strive either for, or

against, what I felt to be so certainly

B 2

impending ; that I would be perfectly
passive, and drift, like a straw, upon the
stream of destiny. Nevertheless, I experienced
a momentary sense of triumph,
for the notion that my cousin had despised
and rejected me once, had recurred to me
whenever his name had been mentioned.

When the Ambassador presented him tome,
he looked at me full in the eyes, with
an expression, as I fancied, of mingled
surprise and interest. I returned his gaze
a little too defiantly, perhaps, considering
the circumstances, but I was hugging my
old grudge against him, in order that I
might not be too favourably impressed.

** This is the beginning," I was thinking,
not without a feeling of pleasurable excitement.


During dinner, whenever I became conscious
that Courtenay's eyes were upon me,
I turned to the Prench Ambassador, who

had conducted me to the table, and appeared
to be deeply absorbed in his conversation.
Afterwards, whenever the new
military attache made a movement as
though to approach me, I pretended to be
unaware of his intention, and feigned to be
entirely engrossed with somebody else.

Alas, it was not long before I discovered
that I had been playing with fire !

When we were all about to separate for
the night, I fancied that, as Courtenay held
out his hand to me, there was a look as of
mute appeal in his eyes. I dared not meet
them for more than an instant, my courage
having somewhat cooled down, so that it
may have been merely imagination upon my
part. How, indeed, was it possible that
he should come to care so soon whether I
appeared to be avoiding him or not ?

Sir Courtenay Davcnant, who lodged in a
boarding-house upon the English quay,

was now continually at the Embassy, so
that we saw each other almost every day.
lie interested me deeply, and I surprised
myself thinking of him perpetually. I
deceived myself into fancying that he
occupied my thoughts because of his relationship,
because he was the possessor now
of my dear old home, and because of the
strange circumstances which had brought
us together, thus, after long years, in a
foreign land. There seemed to be something
quite pathetic, too, in the fact that
he himself knew nothing whatever of all
this; that I was at liberty, if I liked, to
probe his mind upon the subject of his
country cousin, ' Nelly," and lead him onto
commit himself in a thousand ways.

About ten days after the arrival of the new
attache Miss "Warden and I were invited,
with the English Ambassador, to join in a
large sledging-party. According to E/Ussian

custom, we started at midnight, and drove
through the snow, in sledges, to a gipsy
encampment, at some distance from the
city, where, notice of our coming having
been given beforehand, we were entertained
by the gipsies with music and singing.

The music was altogether different from
any that I had ever before heard ; wild,
pathetic, and for the most part in a minor
key. I knew little of the scientific part
of music, but certain combinations had
always affected me intensely. As I listened,
now, to the plaintive notes that
thrilled from the violins, and looked at
the weird figures of the musicians, I could
not have expressed, in words, the emotions,
the memories, the wild regrets, which seemed
to crowd in upon me and flood my entire
being. I had separated myself a little from
the rest of the company, in order that I
might enjoy what I now found was not

wholly enjoyable, out of hearing of the
trivial and common - place conversation
which seemed to jar, just then, upon my
mood. As I stood leaning against the
straight stem of a pine, shrouded in my
long fur cloak, I became altogether
oblivious, for a while, of my actual surroundings.
I cannot recall, however, the
place to which I was transported in spirit,
nor do I remember whether the longing
which came into my heart \as connected
with any one individual in particular. I
think not. I suppose that I was merely
what is called "in the clouds," and that
it must have been only the music which
sent the tears into my eyes.

By-and-by I became aware that somebody
was standing quite close to me.
Without looking, I knew instinctively that
it was Courtenay. Perhaps he had been
near me for some time. He spoke, when

he saw that I had perceived him, of the
gipsies and their playing. Not one of
them knew a note of music, he said, in
the ordinary sense of the term. They
played by ear, or rather by inspiration,
composing as they went on. He told me
that the children, as soon as they could
crawl out of the tents and get hold of a
violin, would begin playing upon it as
though by instinct. That they were born
musicians, that their wild strains had something
Oriental about them, and hence their
strangeness to ears that, like mine, were
only accustomed to the more conventional
melodies of the West.

I listened to what he said  conscious, the
while, that his words were words only, that
beneath these formal phrases ran a current
of deeper feeling, as impossible to translate
into speech as all that was just then in my
own heart.

The snow had been swept away from
where we were standing; but, beyond the
since thus cleared, the forest lay shrouded
in fleecy whiteness, looking strangely
beautiful and picturesque in the bright
moonlight. Now and then, from the
burdened branches of the fir-trees, little
avalanches fell to earth with a mysterious
whispering sound. The voices of the rest
of our party, which reached us from time
to time, did not prevent me from feeling
that Courtenay and I were alone together,
far removed, in spirit, at that moment, from
all the rest of the world.

I could not tell, of course, what was passing
in my companion's mind, but I had
imagined at first, from the tone in which
he had spoken, that his thoughts might
have been somewhat akin to my own. Then,
suddenly, I recollected that, to him, I must
seem almost like a stranger; that the kinship

which, in spite of myself, had rendered
him interesting to me from the first moment
of our meeting, was unknown to him ; and
that he could have no part, therefore, in my
wonder at the strange fate which had
decreed that we should stand thus together
at midnight in a snow-clad Russian forest,
listening to this wild music ; we, who were
of the same blood, and who would have
borne the same name if only I had not
married !

The remembrance of my marriage which
seemed to have escaped me for the moment
came upon me now like a shock. I realized,
with a sigh, that for me the romance
of life was over and done with. I might
look on, as it were, from afar, at the struggles
and triumphs of others ; but I could have
no part myself in the drama of existence.
I was a wife, without the protection or
companionship of a husband. I had been

a mother, but had not been permitted to
derive either happiness or consolation from
my child ; and now my life was over, as far
as hope or the fostering of tender illusions
was concerned ; and it seemed to have been
all such a mistake !

Although no word of this had escaped
me, Courtenay appeared to be conscious that
I was oppressed by some sad memory. He
inquired whether I was not cold, making me
aware, somehow, that this question had no
connection with what was passing in his
mind. I suppose that, according to the
barometer, the temperature must have been
many degrees below freezing-point ; but,
wrapped up as I was, I felt impervious to
cold. I told Courtenay this, saying, nevertheless,
that I would go back to the camp-fires
and the sledges.

I must have seemed to him at this time a
strange, capricious being indeed ! Seeking

him at one moment, fleeing from him the
next; wayward, headstrong, and subject to
all kinds of odd, incomprehensible moods !

*' Don't go hack yet, I beg of you, Miss
Collingwood ! " he said, almost beseechingly.
"What are all those people to you?
Surely this is better  better than anything."

I knew well what he meant : that he was
not alluding only to the fairy beauty of the
wintry forest. To me, likewise, it seemed
better than anything " to commune with
him thus. We had scarcely spoken, it. is
true; but there are moments when silence
is more eloquent than words. I endeavoured
to confirm and strengthen myself in
the idea that the sympathy with which he
inspired me was due merely to our relationship,
and that the prejudice I had previously
nourished against him may even
have had something to do with this revulsion
of feeling in his favour. It was simply my

sense of justice, I thought, prompting me
to reinstate my cousin in my esteem. nevertheless,
"a still, small voice" (the voice of
conscience, perhaps) whispered to me that
this end having now been more than
achieved, it would be Adviser to rejoin the
rest of our party.

I must go," I said, hurriedly.

He looked down at me with eyes full of
a mute appeal, hut I resisted the unspoken
prayer, and we went back to the gipsy camp
in silence.

I shall never know quite how it happened
that, when the time came for returning
home, the old Russian Count, the chief
organiser of the entertainment, under whose
escort I had started upon the expedition,
seemed to have entirely disappeared from
the scene. Lord Silchester had driven oft
first, in company with the Count's wife.
Courtenay, who seemed to be always at my

elbow, assured me that my former companion
must have taken charge of some
other lady. " Half the enjoyment of these
troika ' parties," he declared, " consisted in
the knowledge that ' everybody would be
almost sure to get paired off wrong ; ' " and
then, with the subdued manner of one wiio
submits to the inevitable, he led me to an
empty sledge, and, after carefully wrapping
me up in warm furs, took his place by my
side, and called out to the " isvostchik " to
drive on.

My heart was beating wildly, but I
scarcely knew whether with pleasure or
vexation.

He is bringing it upon himself," I
was thinking, desperately. " I have been
striving against it with all my strength.
His blood be upon his own head ! "

How far removed is love, love the absorbing
passion, from all its baser counterfeits !
Looking back upon life from the calm
haven, as it were, of its afternoon, we can
perceive that this kind of love was nearly
always spontaneous, unpremeditated, unreasonable,
leaping into being in spite of
obstacles. It refused to be called forth in
order to serve a set purpose, or make even
the pleasant part of a bargain. Mutual
respect and esteem may have fostered it,
perhaps, once it had come into existence,
but never did it owe its birth to these

alone, since it was in so great a measure
physical, spiritual, or the result of some
strange accident, or chance resemblance.
Love the passion  in a word insisted upon
being love, and love alone. It scorned to
be beholden to any other emotion, and
waxed flickering and enfeebled from the
moment when honour, gratitude, or expediency,
pressed forward and mixed themselves
up in the matter, as they were too
often apt to do It was upon mystery,
upon illusion, upon the consciousness of
its own madness, that it flourished and
luxuriated, and bore delicious fruit. Of
all this I knew something, even at one-and-twenty,
but during this moonlight drive,
with Courtenay at my side, I banished all
the wisdom I might have acquired from my
mind, and abandoned myself recklessly to
the charms of the situation. I forgot everything
during these enchanted moments,

VOL. III. c

except that I was near the man whose presence
seemed to possess such power to
charm and fascinate me. " We are first
cousins," I said to myself, striving to salve
my conscience, " the next thing to brother
and sister  it is but natural that I should recognize
him at once as a congenial spirit !''

We glided along through the crisp frosty
air for some distance without speaking. The
driver dashed on at what seemed to me a
terrific pace, cracking his whip, and occasionally
shouting wildly. The bells upon
the harness of the three horses jingled
merrily, whilst the dry snow was scattered
by their hoofs upon either side of the way
like white ocean-spray. Then, after a few
constrained phrases upon indifferent subjects,
I said something about the pleasures of
sledging, the novelty, to me, of life in
E-ussia.

It is a pity that Petersburg is so far

from home," I said. " Once one goes
away from it, one will probably never see
it again."

/ have no home* returned Courtenay,
rather sadly. " My regiment seemed once to
represent the nearest approach to one of
which I had ever had any experience,
though there is less of this feeling in the
Guards than in other branches of the service.
Now, however, I have been so much away
from it, that scarcely any of the youngsters
know me by sight. I look upon myself asa
nomad  a citizen of the world  and I am
just as much, or as little, at home in one
place as another'*

I had used the word " home " merely in

the abstract, but I saw an opportunity now

of speaking to him of Northover. I would

question him about it, and lead him on to

talk of his relations. Later on, when he

came to know who I was, he would perceive

c2 

my motive, and forgive me for my seeming
boldness.

I beard that you bad a borne, an old
country-bouse in England," I said, therefore,
" a place to be quite proud of, and
relations  amongst others, an uncle and a
cousin."

He looked as tbougli a little surprised at
my knowing so much about bim.

Yes," be answered, *' a nice old place
in England belongs to me now, but some-bow,
I can't look upon it as home. I bave
never lived there, and I bad always avoided
contemn plating the possibility of its ever becoming
mine  1 knew that I was my uncle's
bear, but I said to myself that he might
either re-marry or survive me. Latterly,
however, be became a confirmed invalid''

"The uncle who was the father of your
cousin ?"

Yes, my father's elder brother. After
his wife's death he took a dislike to society,

and shut himself up like a hermit. My
cousin, poor girl, must have led anything
but a cheerful life with him !"

I daresay that you used to enliven her
sometimes by paying her visits from
London ? " I remarked, astonished at my
own boldness, 'That is, if she was young and
pretty ! "

*' Indeed, no ! I never went near the
place at all ! I used to see her during her
mother's life-time, when she was quite a
baby, but since then I have never set eyes '
on her !"

'' Ah, that was very unkind of you, when
you knew that she was leading such a sad
existence ! I should not have imagined that
you would have been so hard-hearted !"

'' I was not kept away by indifference,"
he answered. '* I was upon the point of
running down to my uncle's place more than
once, and I found myself constantly thinking
about my poor little cousin, wondering

what she was like, and what kind of life
she led."

He had thought about me, constantly !
How little I had suspected it from this,
at any rate, I might derive some gratification
! And yet, in spite of this flattering
admission, seeing that he made it, as he
must have supposed, to an altogether different
woman, I experienced the strange
sensation of being, as it were, a little
jealous of myself, or rather, of former self
that could no longer be said to possess any
independent existence, the Helen Davenant
of those departed years !

You thought about her constantly," I
remarked, with some bitterness, '* and yet
you never took the trouble to go near
her'

*' I lead a reason a good one, I think**
he answered, '* for it concerned my cousin s
happiness as well as my own. So you must
not be so very hard upon me."

"I suppose you were afraid that she might
fall in love with you ! " I said, assuming a
flippant and thoroughly indifferent tone.

"Not afc all ! What can I have done to make
you think me so vain ? It was precisely the
other way. Being at that time  heart-whole
and fancy free ' it was much more likely that
I should have fallen in love with he' ! "

A case of love at first sight ! You're,
then, very susceptible ? "

"Not that I am aware of; hut in this
respect a man may not be able to form -a
disinterested opinion of himself. As my
cousin was young and pretty, and, I believe,
amiable, it would not have been extraordinary
if I had become attached to her. There
had been some question in the family of our
marrying for the benefit of the estate,
which would then have been kept together,
and I cared about nobody else in those dmjsy

He accentuated these last words, and

looked at mc with an expression I could
not mistake.

I took no notice of it, however, hut continued
in the same careless tone : 

There seems, indeed, to have hen every
combination essential to falling in love ! I
wonder the family marriage  for the benefit
of the estate  did not at once take place."

'' There was a strong reason against it, at
that time," he answered, '' which, all the
same  seeing how perversely things work
together sometimes  might have acted as
an inducement to falling in love. I had
made up my mind that I would never marry
my cousin on account of the relationship,
which, in our particular case, I looked upon
as an insurmountable obstacle ; and so I
thought it best to see as little of her as
possible."

You think, then," I said, '' that a man
is more likely to fall in love with a woman
when he knows it to be impossible that he

can marry her; that, with a man, an obstacle
always acts as an inducement ? "

I suppose that, unconsciously, I was
speaking more earnestly than I had spoken
before. He looked into my eyes inquiringly.

*' Why do you seem so anxious to know
this ? " he asked. '' Is there some obstacle
to a marriage in the life of any one you are
interested in  of any one you care for ? "

Oh, no ! " T answered, carelessly. " I
was speaking merely in the abstract, and

thinking of no one in particular."



'' You spoke very earnestly," he said ;

"and the words like all your words 

seemed to me to have a particular meaning.

But then, ever since I first met you, you

have appeared to me to be fraught with all

sorts of subtle meanings and mysteries !

Your words, your actions, seem like the

words and actions of no other woman. Will

you think me impertinent if I ask you a
question about yourself ? "

No," I answered. '' You may ask me
what you like."

'* Well, then  only please do not think
that I inquire from mere idle curiosity 
you seem to me to be possessed of such a
strange mixture of innocence and experience,
of insensibility and emotion. There
is a freshness, an ingenuousness, about you,
which is as rare as it is delightful. You are
at the very opening of life, when you ought
to be in the full enjoyment of your youth
and beauty ; and yet you assume, generally,
the manner of one who can have no part in
hope, or pleasure, or amusement ; of one to
whom life can convey no new impressions,
no fresh enthusiasms ! In a word, young
and beautiful as you are, you often speak as
though you where older and sadder than your
years  as though some unhappy memory
connected with the past, prevented you from
enjoying any of the pleasures of the present,
and I find myself wondering whether this

state of mind in a woman is likely to bethe
result of ignorance or of experience ;
whether it is due to loneliness of heart and
hunger for human sympathy, or to having
once known the only kind of sympathy and
companionship which it must be a misfortune
to lose ? Whether  to speak plainly 
you care for no one ; or whether you have
cared in the past for some one who is either
absent or dead ? Will you tell me if I am
right in either of these two conjectures ? "

He took my hand as he spoke  under the
fur rug, and held it fast clasped in his own.
I endeavoured to draw it away, for his
words had gone so home to my heart that
my eyes were filling with tears.

I was reminded of Hugo in his solitary
retreat ; of my lost youth, gone from me forever,
as it seemed, whilst I was yet so young
in years ; of my life, achieved and finished,
whilst the warm blood was still coursing in
my veins ; and of all that might have been

save for that wliicli could never, now, be
undone as long as I lived.

Courtenay perceived my tears. lie looked
dreadfully distressed.

 Forgive me ! forgive me ! " he murmured,
still retaining possession of my hand.
'' To think that I, who would willingly die
to save you a moment's pain, should have
tortured you with my impertinent questions !
You know, you must know, what made me
venture to speak so plainly. I love you.
Miss Collingwood, you must know this ; hut
how madly, how devotedly, you may not
know yet ! Tell me here, now, when for the
first time I have been able to unburden my
heart  Can you ever care for me ? When
we have seen more of each other, and when
I may hope to seem less like a stranger toto
you ? Answer me. for pity's sake, Helen !
Is there any reason why we should not love
one another and be happy ? "

He drew ofP my glove as he finished

speaking, and, holding my hand to his lips,
covered it with kisses. I experienced a
curious sensation as of having known beforehand
that all this must happen. My heart
was beating fast. It was filled with a joy
and a triumph which were altogether new
and enchanting. Then I remembered, and
drew my hand away from him by main force.

'' Hush ; you must not speak to me of
such things ! " I said, faintly. "It is impossible
! Impossible ! I am not free ! "We
must not love one another ! As you said
just now, I can have no part in hope ! "

"Have you lost some one you cared for?"
he asked, looking at me earnestly, " or
are you engaged  promised to some other
man ? "

No ! Yes ! " I answered, confusedly.
I am bound  promised  engaged. I must
never care for you as long as I live ! *'

How are you ' bound ' ? " he asked,
breathlessly. " By love or by honour ? "

and he looked at me as though his hope of
everlasting salvation hung upon my reply.

' By honour," I answered, falteringly ;
by duty ; by compassion ."

'* But not by affection ? " he inquired,
eagerly. "You are not in love with another
man .

'' Not by the strongest affection," I answered,
feeling like one in a dream. " I amin
love with no other man."

'* Thank God ! " he exclaimed, fervently.
Then I should be a fool were I to let my
only chance of happiness escape from my
hold ! I shall pray and strive, now, only
for one end  that some day you may belong
to me, and be my own wife."

And he would have taken me in his arms
had I not thrust him away from me.

I am not free ! " I protested once more.
I am bound, and tied, and engaged ! Your
marriage to me is as impossible as your
marriage to your cousin in England."

On the morning which preceded the fancy
ball at the British Embassy I felt unusually
nervous and excited. Until quite lately, I
had taken no thought as to wherewithal
I should be clothed, having resolved so
firmly that I would leave St. Petersburg
before the entertainment took place. At
the eleventh hour, therefore, I had had to
consider the important question of dress  a
question which had not occupied me much
of late, as I had invariably worn black.

Upon this occasion, however, I wished to
look my very best. Had I reflected for a

moment I might, perhaps, have asked myself
wherefore, and whether any good could
possibly result from my being even proclaimed
the belle of the ball (if such a thing
could be), but, then, I did not pause to
reflect.

Upon one matter I was determined. I
would not represent any of the historical
personages suggested by Mr. Montagu-morrison.
All the same, I must appear in some
costume which would be serious, dignified,
and becoming. What a pity that I had not
begun to think about it a little sooner !
Now every dressmaker in the place had been
overwhelmed with orders. There seemed to
be no hope that anything at all pretty or
original could be completed by the appointed
day.

Finally, however, after long and wearisome
consultations with Miss Warden,
Mason, and a sympathetic Erencli modiste

who was patronised by the Imperial family,
it was arranged that I should appear as
'' Night." Rather a hackneyed impersonation
! Since the first fancy ball upon record
there must have been such an enormous number
of ** Nights " . But the part was nota
difficult one to represent either as regarded
dress or demeanour. I possessed several
black evening gowns, and it would be only
necessary to dispose upon one of these some
of the conventional nocturnal emblems  a
star or two, and perhaps a crescent moon,
and then all would be well. I should be
dressed, too, very much as usual, which
would prevent me from feeling shy or self-conscious;
and I should be in mourning, as
became an orphan, a widow (for was I not
now a widow in all but the name), a childless
mother. When once I had decided upon
my costume, its arrangement did not take
me long. Over a well-fitting ball-dress I

VOL. III. D

was to wear a long black tulle veil, embroidered
with silver stars, which was to be
fastened to my hair at the back with
diamond pins. I wished that I had possessed
Bone diamond stars which I might have
worn as a coronet, but I owned very little
jewelry of any kind. My father, as the
reader is aware, had left his personal property
to my cousin, whilst Hugo's sister seemed to
have appropriated most of the family jewels
of the Crecszoleskis. The few things my
husband had given me since my marriage
were connected, in my mind, with so many
painful memories that I shrank from the
notion of wearing any of them at a ball.

Madame M61anie, the dressmaker who
had been consulted, saw a way out of the
difficulty however. She suggested a bat
with wings outspread, and actually sent me
the creature, stuffed past all hopes of
recovery, and mounted upon a long comb,

in the same box with my starred veil, before
I had had time to remonstrate. I disliked
the idea of wearing this weird-looking object,
neither bird nor beast  with its monkey-face
and wicked little artificial eyes  upon my
head. I remembered to have been told that
bats were creatures of evil omen, and I
fancied that this one, holding me responsible,
perhaps, for its premature demise, might
revenge itself after some sinister fashion, or
cause a curse to descend upon me like that
which followed, in ' The Ancient Mariner,"
upon the killing of the albatross. Nevertheless,
when I stabbed the long comb into
my hair, I found that this strange headgear
was much less unbecoming than I had
expected. The black wings disposed themselves
like the wings that I had seen upon
representations of Mercury, the messenger
of the gods, and the effect was certainly

picturesque.

D 2

Upon the very day of the hall, however,
the Ambassador sent for me to his sanctum,
where, after a few kind words, he handed
me a smooth red morocco case. '* Take
these, my dear Helen, " he said, " and wear
them this evening in your hair. If they
become you as well as I think they will, I
must ask you to keep them as a present
from your godfather. They belonged to
my poor mother. I heard that you wanted
diamond stars to complete your costume,
and so sent to my banker for these, and
they have just arrived by the messenger. I
was dreadfully afraid that they might not
have got here in time."

I opened the case and beheld seven
beautiful diamond stars, set so that they
could be worn separately or mounted in the
form of a crown. It was impossible to
repress an exclamation of pleasure at sight
of them. I was deeply touched at my godfather's

kindness and forethought, and
delighted to have done for ever with the
stuffed bat.

I thanked the Ambassador warmly for all
the trouble he had taken upon my account.

I was wishing so much for some stars,"
I said, '' but never imagined such beautiful
ones as these ! I shall be delighted to wear
them to-night, but I could not allow you to
make me such a magnificent present. You
say that they were your mother's, they
should remain in your family, therefore,'
and ought not to belong to one who is no
relation."

What relation could be more dear to me
than you have become ? " he asked, looking:
at me with regretful tenderness. " I had
always meant to give you these stars when
you married. But you married under
exceptional circumstances, and during all
the wretchedness and anxiety that ensued I

quite forgot, that I still owed you a wedding
present. However, if you won't keep them
now, I must leave them to you in my will !
You will not be injuring anybody by accepting
them, for my nephew, Tom Collingwood,
is still a bachelor, and, should he marry, he
will be quite well enough off to buy jewels
for his wife. At any rate you must please
me by wearing them to-night."

Miss Warden was loud in her admiration
when I showed her the jewels.

They will look lovely to-night, in your
hair," she said ; *' His Excellency naturally
wished you to appear to advantage before
the Emperor and the Grand Dukes."

To speak truly, the idea of shining in the
eyes of the emperor and the grand dukes
had never once occurred to me. My mind,
I fear, was entirely pre occupied by other
thoughts. I soon perceived that Miss
Warden, whilst dilating upon Lord Silvester's

kindness, and upon the beauty of
the diamonds, had something of a less
agreeable nature upon her mind. I questioned
her, and, after some hesitation, she
told me what troubled her.

You will be annoyed, too," she said,
"but I ought not to keep anything from
you. You will know better what manner
to assume this evening to certain
people, once you have heard what I have
to tell, and you will perceive how very
important it was that you should ado a r
at this ball and be publicly presented to
the Emperor. What has happened is not
very important in itself, for it is impossible
to prevent some people from chattering, and
the words of such mischief-makers cannot
have much weight in the world. You
shall judge of it for yourself, however.
His Excellency asked me this morning to
make out a fair list of the most distinguished

of the quests he is expecting tonight,
so as to arrange the order of precedence
at supper, and I went, therefore, into
that little room at the end of the passage
where we wrote out the invitations, because
I knew that I should find there some of
those nice large sheets of official paper. I
wrote on for some time without hearing a
sound, then by-and-by I became aware of
voices, English voices, proceeding from the
next room, which, as you know, is only
shut oflp by folding doors. Naturally, I
had no intention of listening, nor had I
any idea that the speakers would allude to
subjects of a private nature  I continued
writing, therefore, without heeding them.
By-and-by, however, one of them mentioned
your name, " la belle Kelene, those
were the precise words. After that, I confess,
I could not resist trying to make out
what they were saying about you."

And what did you hear?" I asked, interested
in spite of myself.

Por some time I heard nothing but confused
sounds. Then one of the speakers
said, with a sneering laugh, ' She made up
so violently to poor Dangerfield, your predecessor,
that being, as you know, a virtuous
man, who has suffered much from the persecutions
of the fair sex, he took fright, and
actually made a bolt of it to England, without
telling her the day, as she had proposed,
it seems, that he should escort her home.' .
I felt terribly indignant, as you may suppose,
at hearing this gross misrepresentation
of facts."

"Who could have invented anything so
malicious?" I exclaimed, angry and wounded.
'* What can I do to contradict it ? "

' Wait until you have heard more, and
then we must think of some way of refuting
these calumnies. The voices became too

confused immediately afterwards for me to
distinguish anything. Both persons seemed
to be speaking at once. Then the first
speaker, proceeding with his good-natured
remarks, went on to say, ' Didn't it strike
you at once that the old " duenna," or
*' sheep-dog," was one of those estimable
females who offer their services through the
medium of an advertisement, and whose
respectable appearance give an aspect of
decorum to the most equivocal arrangements?'
How true it is, Helen, that listeners
never hear any good of themselves !"

I can guess the name of one of the
speakers, at least ! " I exclaimed, indignantly
; " surely you were able to recognise
their voices ? "

'' I could not fail to do so, of course ; but
we will talk of that presently. By-and-by,
I heard the door open, and then the person
who had spoken of me as an ' old sheep-dog,'

called out to the other, who was evidently
leaving the room, ' Well, being now " first
favourite," you're bound, of course, to stick
up for her. Only, mark my words, they
won't venture to present her to the Emperor
to-night : she was awfully anxious to shirk
the ball altogether.' And then the door
banged violently, and I heard no more."

Since then, however. Miss Warden has
told me that she did hear just one sentence
more, only, fearing to awaken painful recollections,
she refrained from repeating it tome
at the time. As several things which
happened afterwards were probably due to
the suspicions which it aroused, I may as
well mention at once what it was. After an
allusion had been made to " St. Dalmas do
Tende'' the person who had spoken first
remarked, scoffingly, to his companion)
Well, you may believe me or not  just as
you like  but all 1 can swear is, there was

a baby ! " Of this last shaft, however, as I
have ahead said, I fortunately knew nothing
at the time.

The first speaker," Miss Warden remarked,
in conclusion, " was, of course, that
horrid little Mr. Morrison. We have somehow
offended his vanity, and this is his
revenge. The other was your cousin. Sir
Courtenay Davenant "

I had been certain of this from the first.
The spiteful insinuations respecting Captain
Dangerfield, Courtenay 's predecessor in the
post of military attache, together with the
taunt about being now 'first favourite"
(the only foundation for which must have
originated in the fact that my cousin had
returned with me from the troika party),
convinced me that I could not be mistaken
in my conjecture.

'* How shall I be able to meet Courtenay
to-night ! " I exclaimed, my cheeks burning

with indignation, " knowing that he probably
believes all these dreadful insinuations
against me ? And how can I look that
wicked, mischief making little wretch in the
face, who has been trying to prejudice him
against us ? "

You will meet them both with the
utmost composure, I hope," replied Miss
Warden, cheerfully, '* and put all your
enemies to confusion. You will be standing
with that lovely bouquet which has
been ordered for you, receiving the Emperor
and the Grand Dukes at the entrance to the
ball-room. This will at once give the lie to
Mr. Morrison's aspersions."

I felt so agitated and restless after these
revelations, and I tormented myself so persistently
by trying to imagine what effect
they had produced upon Courtenay, that I
found it impossible to settle down to any kind
of occupation. When the servant came to

US for orders for the afternoon, I asked Miss
"Warden if she would accompany me for a
drive. I was in need of some powerful
counter-excitement, and I had suddenly
decided upon a plan of action. I would
depart from St. Petersburg as soon after the
ball as I could conveniently pack up my
belongings. I would not remain a moment
longer than I could help in this gossiping,
scandal-mongering atmosphere. But I must
see Hugo before I went away, if only to
remind myself that I was " bound and tied
and engaged," as I had said to Courtenay
during that delightful moonlight drive ; and
I would go and see him that very afternoon
at the private madhouse.

I DID not tell Miss Warden of my determination
until we bad started upon our
way. Towards the middle of the Newly
Prospect I pulled the check-string of the-brougham,
and directed the coachman to
drive to Dr. Schumann's residence. Miss
Warden strove in vain to turn me from my
purpose by telling me that I should have
waited until His Excellency could have
accompanied me.

I replied that His Excellency was so much
occupied now with other matters that it
was unlikely that he would ever be able to

accompany mc when, as now, the spirit
moved mo to visit my husband, and that I
preferred, therefore, to go at my own time,
although my seeing the Prince must depend,
of course, upon the doctor's permission.

We drove on down the long ugly street,
which seemed to me upon this occasion to
be almost interminable, past the colonnade
of the Kazan cathedral and the high walls
of the monastery of St. Alexander Newsky,
a melancholy - looking pile of white stone
in the midst of secluded gardens and surrounded
by a moat; and then leaving behind
us the gilded cupolas and minarets of the
town, we found ourselves in the suburbs. In
another ten minutes we had arrived at the
doctor's villa. I was ushered at once into
a kind of study, where I had waited with
the Ambassador upon the occasion of my
former visit. Miss Warden, who had accompanied
me thus far, expressed surprise at

oar having so easily obtained access to the
place. It was, she said, just as if our coming
had been expected. The doctor's secretary,
a German, presented himself in a few
minutes. He had seen me before, and knew
that I had obtained permission to visit the
Prince, supposing that he was able to receive
me. He seemed a little surprised at recognising
me.

Ah, madam, it is you ! " he said in
English. *' You can surely see His Highness
to-day  he is composed and in good spirits.*
There is another lady expected presently.
I thought she had now arrived."

A lady to see the Prince ! " I exclaimed,
in astonishment, scarcely thinking that this
could be.

''Yes,'* answered the secretary; ''a lady
a former acquaintance  wishes to visit
His Highness ; but she has sent us no name,
and I was to see her before she could have

VOL. III. E

permission. The doctor is away for some
hours attending a scientific meeting, and
those were his orders. He was saying only
the other day that if a few former acquaintances,
persons who were comparatively indifferent
to His Highness, but whose conversation
might cheer and enliven him without
awakening painful associations, would occasionally
visit him it would be beneficial to
his health and spirits. This lady was to
arrive between three and five o'clock. It is
at present nearly four."

I looked at Miss "Warden inquiringly.
Who, save myself, would be likely to
demand an interview with my unfortunate
husband ? What former female acquaintance
would know even of the place of his
retreat ? No one, I said to myself, except
and here a terrible suspicion flashed across
my mind as I thought of Hugo's only remaining
kinswoman.

But I dismissed it again almost immediately.
No ; she would never venture to
come here  I thought ; her sudden disappearance
shows how much she dreaded
running the risk of an arrest. This must
be some old friend of whom I have never
heard ! . . .

Nevertheless, the mention of this mysterious
visitor had added considerably to
the nervousness from which I was already
suffering.

The secretary, who, as well as the doctor,
had been made acquainted" with my secret,
apparently attributed my emotion to jealousy.

"Be sure, madame," he said, "that if

this person is no lady  if she should be in

any way objectionable  I shall bring her His

Highness' s excuses. In any case she will

not be permitted to see him alone."

I thanked him, scarcely knowing what I

E 2

Library

said, and lie then left us in order to apprise
the Prince of my arrival.

He returned in a few minutes, which had
been fraught for me with all kinds of conflicting
emotions.

'this Highness will see you with pleasure,"
he said. '' I shall leave you with him apparently
alone, retiring to an adjoining room.
But I shall merely let fall the portiere without
closing the door ; thus, without hearing
your conversation, or interrupting it, I shall
be close at hand should you require me."

I was too overcome by my feelings to
make any reply, and I followed him with a
beating heart to the Prince's apartments.

Upon being ushered into a large comfortably
furnished room, I saw, awaiting me, a
strange unfamiliar figure, wearing a greybeard,
a long clinging white robe, and gold-rammed
spectacles. I started back alarmed

at this weird apparition. The secretary had
disappeared behind the portiere, Hugo and
I were apparently alone together. Por a
few seconds we confronted one another in
silence. My heart was full; I could not
have spoken a word had my life depended
upon it.

Then, with a kind of low moan like that
of some animal in pain, this utter stranger,
for so he seemed to me, bearing no resemblance
that I could then discover to the
man who had been my husband, stretched
out his long arms, as I have seen people do
in fun when they have wished to frighten
children by pretending to be ghosts. They
closed tightly round me and I was pressed
to his heart. I felt his breast-bone hard
and sharp against my bosom. He had
grown terribly thin and angular. I thought
of the embrace of the spectre-lover and
shuddered.

'eat last' he exclaimed, with a long-drawn
sigh, and then, leading me to a chair,
he sat down hy my side.

I was in one of those hysterical, oversensitive
moods to which we women are
occasionally subject, and which seem to
most men to be so incomprehensible and
ridiculous. I was in want of consolation,
and had been vaguely expectant of finding
it here in its most sufficing form  that of
consoling another. I desired, too, to be
protected and shielded against the new and
engrossing interest which was springing up
in my heart. I had been thinking, during
my wintry drive, of that morning at St.
Hippolyte, a morning all softness and sunshine,
scented with southern blossoms, when
I had stood in the old Italian garden and
looked up at Hugo's windows, upon the
day when I had come so very near to being
in love with him; and of how, responsive

to my unuttered longing, he had flung back
the green shutters and stepped out upon
the balcony, in his well-fitting grey suit,
made by an English tailor; and of how,
when he was at my side, he had taken my
hand, and had seemed to understand all
that was in my heart. I had not recalled
what the Ambassador had told me about
the change in the Prince's appearance  his
long beard, and the strange unearthly dress
he had adopted, and had been expecting to
see the same man (outwardly, at least)
from whom I had been parted so suddenly
at Monte Carlo  the man at whom all the
prettily-dressed ladies upon the terrace had
gazed with eyes of admiration, because he
was so handsome and so distinguished-looking.


Now, certainly, the woman whose regard
or affection could be shaken on account of
any change which might have been wrought

by sorrow or suffering in the appearance of
husband, lover, or friend, would seem, at
first, to be a creature utterly to be despised.
And yet, this same change may so have
transformed the man she knew before that
he may appear to her altogether in the
light of a stranger, to whom she cannot at
once transfer the feelings he had previously
inspired.

Such was the sad position in which I
now found myself. Hugo, as I had known
him once, had departed as utterly as if I
had seen him lying dead before me, and in
his stead had arisen this weird, Druid-like
apparition, seeming more like a denizen of
another world than a living, breathing
creature of flesh and blood ! Then, too, I
had always nourished quite an unreasonable
prejudice against a beard. I did not object
to it in its place, but this place seemed tome
to be only upon the chins of blind

beggars, early Christians, and Plantagenet
kings. My father's beard had changed
him so much. Perhaps my prejudice may
have originated in my horror of change.

I looked at Hugo, wondering and disheartened.
His beautiful eyes were as
large and luminous as ever ; the dark
circles under them had increased, and his
features looked even more finely cut than
heretofore because of his extreme thinness.
There was a peculiar look, however, about
his face, as of a death's head, due to the.
hollowness of the eyes, the breadth of the
low brow, and to the accentuation of the
upper jaw with its even white teeth, from
each side of which the flesh had fallen
away; that produced a most painful impression
upon me as I gazed at him. When I
could speak, I asked him how he came to
assume so strange a garb ?

He replied (as far as I could afterwards

remember) that, for certain purposes, certain
garments had been deemed the most
appropriate ; the seeker after occult mysteries
wearing, in the old days, an ephod
of white linen, " because of its abstracted
quality for magic," for which purpose his
present dress, with some few additions,
would be suitable also. He had adopted
it however, having in his mind the shrouds
of the Sabean star-worshippers, who had
done for ever with the world.

I, too," he went on, speaking slowly in
the old familiar voice which seemed to
belong now to another man, " have done
altogether with the material world. It was
once my most ardent desire to have done
with it, years ago, before I saw your beloved
face, and now that I have lost you
what is left to me but the pursuit of those
studies in which I was always interested,
and which are invested now with a terrible

importance in my mind ? How much have
I yet to learn  how much to investigate !
Had I known more, in the past, of the secret
and potent forces which are at times opposed
to us, I might not now have been here  a
man who is even as one departed, wearing,
appropriately, the garments which are reserved
for the dead. And yet, may not
that which appears at first like a misfortune
be converted into a blessing ? This is what
I ask myself continually. The answer that
comes to me is different according to my.
different moods."

* And to-day, Hugo," I asked, '' in what
mood are you? Has it made you any
happier to see me ?"

"Happier and unhappier* he answered
sadly, 'Mf I may say this without appearing
ungrateful. Events have so revolutionised
my existence that what would have
been a pleasure in former days, becomes, now.

nothing more than a misery and a regret.
I can have no part now in the life that you
are living ; our pathways are distinct and
apart, and so they will be to the end. The
life which I am endeavouring to live (the
higher life as I have come to consider it) is
disturbed and embarrassed by all that recalls
any previous existence ; for I am trying
to persuade myself that this visitation
is only a blessing in disguise, and that had
I remained much longer in the world  surrounded
by men and women intent upon
earthly matters  all of them voluntarily
deafening and blinding themselves to the
manifestations of the spirit  I must have
become altogether materialised and unfitted
for anything better. Yoii too, my beloved
Helen, my ' good angel,' as I used once to
call you, you would have assumed for mein
time the character of a temptress  with
your beauty, your charm, your power of

idealising the prosaic home-life ! Had we
remained together any longer in that
southern paradise I should have become
nothing better than a confirmed voluptuary,
sunk in mere sloth and selfish indulgence,
from which there would have been
no reclaiming me !"

And so you would prefer that I did not
come to see you ?"

That you did not come, Helen, or that
you could remain with me always," he
answered, ' and for this reason. Originally
as even you must be aware, we possess two
distinct natures  the spiritual and the carnal
(the human and the divine,' should
you prefer these terms)  which are for ever
warring with one another in our veins.
Hence arise discord, confusion, and the
dangerous agents we speak of as ' passion '
and * impulse.' I am endeavouring now
to separate these two incongruous companions

 these restless combatants  and to
cast one of them utterly away from me so
that one alone, the purer and calmer influence,
may remain in possession of the
citadel, where all would then be harmony
and contentment. The sight of you, together
with all the memories that come tome
in your presence, must prevent or retard
the accomplishment of this dream. You
understand me, my Helen ? As a man, I
long for, and desire, your presence, but I
have done now with the life of a man, and
everything that recalls it is dangerous to
the development of the spirit."

No doubt the calmer and purer life,
if one could only attain to it, would be
happier than this perpetual struggle ! " I
said, my thoughts wandering away to the
struggles and temptations that lay in my
own path.

'' To me it would of necessity be happier''

he answered, still speaking very seriously.
It is true that my physical action is controlled,
but my spiritual existence is free
and circumscribed. No vampires can sap
the vitality of this better life which I might
enjoy to the fullest, looking down upon the
material life as though from a mountain.
Below me I should see the little struggling
world that I used to inhabit  the small
square green fields, all cut up and apportioned,
with the flocks and herds scattered
upon them looking like white dots. The
cities, too, and the little men and women,
seeming no bigger than tiny black flies,
now holding themselves aloof one from the
other, now swarming and buzzing together
for some futile purpose, whilst I should be
far, far above them all, in an atmosphere
favourable to the development of a perfect
mental and moral hygiene, and to the

nearer contemplation of the most important
mysteries."

He continued talking for some time in
this strain, making use of many names and
expressions which I could not after yards
remember. He was in want, he said, of
books bearing upon the subjects in which
he was interested.

'' Por see'' continued he, " to what I am
reduced ! " and he pointed to several books
which were lying scattered about upon the
tables  "to Jacob Behmen, Claude de Saint
Martin, and Kirchberger ; to Johann Valentin
Andrews, and the  god-illuminated fraternity
of the Eosicrucians ! ' But of the
records of modern research, of the outcome
of modern intelligence, nothing, absolutely
nothing ! "

He alluded then to several works upon
mesmerism, spiritualism, and what he

termed " the secret hermetic science," and
"wrote down a list of books which he wished
me to obtain for him in London, from a
bookseller in Covent Garden. He took up
a volume which lay open upon a writing-table,
and from which he said he had been
reading when my arrival had been announced
to him. It was called '' Le Comte
de Gabalis, ou entretiens sur les Sciences
Secretes

An obsolete work," he explained,
which I had just opened, merely for
mental relaxation, but which contains,
nevertheless, the rudiments of much sound
teaching. Confess, Helen, that it was
strange that, just as I finished reading
this passage, I should have been informed
of your arrival! "

He re-assumed the gold spectacles which
he had been wearing when I entered the
room, and read aloud a few paragraphs

VOL. III. F

from the pages before him. I gathered
from these that the author of the Avork
disapproved altogether of woman's influence,
to which he seemed to attribute all
the ills which have accrued to the human
race ever since the fall of Adam. " Man,"
according to the Comte de Gabalis, '' should
endeavour to ally himself only with nymphs,
.sylphides, and the elemental spirits."

In these opinions," remarked the Prince,
smiling sadly, " I am endeavouring to become
a disciple of the old E/Osicrucian ! "

I perceived now that, as the Ambassador
had said, the Prince was not changed in
anything but appearance. To use Lord
Silchester's words, he was "no more mad
now" than he had been when I had met
him for the first time. As then, he was
quiet, gentle, serious, and somewhat stilted
in his mode of expression ; but yet, because
of this mere external difference, which I

suppose ought to have counted for very
little with any reasonable woman, it was
as though the Hugo of the Villa St. Hippolyte
was dead and buried to me for ever.
This new man, albeit speaking with the
dead Hugo's voice and sharing in all his
extraordinary opinions, could never do me
the service I had come, unconsciously, to
crave of him. He could never become,
however much I might strive to delude
myself upon the subject, the rival, the vanquisher
of that other encroaching influence.
It asserted itself as strongly, nay, more
strongly than ever, even now as I was
sitting by his side. And he, too  he had
just confessed it  was striving hard to drive
me out of his heart. My visits could make
him no happier ; they had, indeed, rather
a tendency the other way; whilst to me
they could bring only a fresh consciousness

of my misery.

F 2

Why (lid I ever come to Petersburg at
all?

We conversed for some time longer upon
different subjects  the climate of St. petersburg,
the establishment maintained for the
Prince by Dr. Schumann  and then I was
again reminded not to forget to obtain the
books upon my return to England.

Hugo made no direct allusion to the subject
of his crime, nor did he do more than
refer vaguely to the birth and death of our
child. I was conscious that all this was in
his mind, however. Perhaps he could not
trust himself to speak about it.

You understand ? " was all he said,
looking at me very earnestly. ' You understand
and forgive, since your mind can
realise that there are mysteries of impulse
and inspiration that cannot now be fathomed
or explained. And I, too, my Helen, I understand,
and am grateful to you for everything

 for all that you have endured and
suffered  for more than I am able to speak
about now ! ''

When I bade him farewell tears, as of
tenderness and regret, came into his large
luminous eyes. I, too, was profoundly
affected. He took my hand, and seemed to
be about to raise it to his lips. He dropped
it, however, almost immediately, as though
it had been a scorpion. I could only think
that this sudden movement hadjsomething
to do with the Count de Gabalis and the
E;Osicrucians. But it appeared that I was
wrong.

You are not desiring to turn me from
any good purpose ? " he asked, anxiously
and in an altered voice. " You did not
come here with an unfriendly disposition
towards me in your heart ? "

No, Hugo," I answered in surprise,
** you must know that I have no unfriendly

feeling ! You have just said that I could
understand and forgive. Why did I come
to Petersburg at all if not to comfort and
cheer you ? "

*' That is well," he replied, still speaking
as with nervous anxiety ; " but at that
moment, just as I came nearer to you, I
was conscious of an influence that was
formidable and sinister  of a will that
would strive cruelly and mercilessly against
mine, obtaining in the end the dominion ;
of a spiritual danger, in fact, which seems
still to be menacing and advancing. I
must be upon my guard ! *'

He shuddered, and then paced restlessly
up and down the apartment. As he came
towards me I perceived that the expression
of calm resignation which I had previously
observed upon his face had entirely
vanished. He had grown pale and 
in a moment !

I made every endeavour to reassure him.
He did not appear to hear me, however,
but continued pacing up and down as
though in the greatest alarm and agitation.
I watched him for some time in silence,
not knowing what further to say, and then,
fearing that this strange conduct might be,
perhaps, the forerunner of some sort of
nervous crisis, I took advantage of the
moment when his back was towards me to
push aside the portiere, and before he had
turned to confront me again we were joined
by the doctor's secretary, in whose presence
I again bade him farewell.

Miss Warden, when I rejoined her, was
all impatience to hear an account of my
interview. But I could hardly speak from
emotion, and so entreated her to leave me in
peace for awhile. She regretted that I had
come at all, and implored me to control
myself lest it should be remarked at the

ball that I had been weeping. I felt hopeless,
rudderless, desolate. It seemed to me
that I now stood entirely alone in the world,
subject to all the buffets of fate, to all the
assaults of temptation. The sight of poor
Hugo had in no way aggravated my position,
of course, but it had brought vividly
before me certain stern facts that I had
lately been foolish enough at times to
ignore. I was " bound and tied " indeed,
and to a being to whom I could be of no
comfort or service whatsoever. It was not
possible for me, even if I had ever really
loved him (and about this I was becoming
more and more doubtful every day), to
feel for him now anv sentiment warmer
than a melancholy compassion. Nay, had
tenderer emotions arisen in my breast at
sight of him, Hugo himself would probably
have been the first to repel them, since he
had decided to cast from him all human

affections. And vet. whilst he and I continued
to exist upon this miserable earth, I
could love no other man without committing
a deadly sin !

As soon as the door of the brougham was
closed upon us I buried my face in my
hands, and gave free vent to my tears. I
was aroused, before we had reached the
lodge of the concierge, by a sound of
approaching wheels, and soon afterwards, a
close carriage passed us, driven with great
speed up the approach.

I looked out eagerly, thinking that this
must be the mysterious lady who had wished
for an interview with the Prince, and whose
existence I had, for the moment, entirely
forgotten. But the carriage window, upon
the side nearest to us, was closed, and all
that I could distinguish, in a momentary
glance, was a woman's neatly gloved hand
holding a large bunch of yellow mimosa.

Upon reaching the Embassy I went at once
to my bed-room. Mason was there, setting
out my things for the evening. My black
dress and starred veil were lying upon the
bed, but I took no heed of them. Mason,
a sensible, discreet woman of nearly sixty,
as far as one could judge by her appearance,
was, as I have already said, entirely in my
confidence. She had been like a second
mother to me ever since the days of my
earliest childhood, and it was my intention,
upon the morrow, to tell her all about my
visit to my husband. JSoiv, however, I felt

in no mood for conversation. Mason, herself,
was of a reserved and quiet disposition,
and well accustomed to my frequent
fits of depression. She assisted me to take
off my hat and cloak in silence, after which
I threw myself into an arm-chair, and a
prey to my own melancholy reflections, soon
forgot that I was not alone in the room. I
started, therefore, in a few minutes, at
hearing my maid's voice 

'' A curious thing has happened this
afternoon. Miss Helen," she said ; it was by
this name that she had been told to continue
to address me  " and as there may be more
in it than I can see, I should wish you to
know of it. I'm afraid you may think,
perhaps, that I said too much, but I was
completely thrown off my guard. I have
thought to myself since, however, that even
if anybody did find out who you are, there
would be no such very great harm, after all,

particularly as we lioc to be going away
from here so soon."

I turned to where she was standing, and
saw that she held in her hand the bouquet
I was to carry at the ball. This was a real
triumph of the florist's skill. Towers
arranged more naturally would have looked
much prettier, I thought; but then this
bouquet was intended to be symbolical.
The crescent moon, so indispensable as an
accessory of '' Night," embracing a single
star, was ingeniously picked out in white
violets upon a ground composed of the
purple variety. The whole was surrounded
by delicate hothouse ferns, and was so large
and heavy that I wondered how I should
be able to bear the burden of it for the
whole evening.

This hadn't been sent home by the
afternoon," Mason continued; 'rit was
promised at three o'clock, to make sure, as

the tradespeople here seem to be very
unpunctual, and so, as Miss Warden wanted
one or two little things, I went out with
one of the girls, and looked in at the flower-shop,
to hurry them, on my way back, as
they told me the people there spoke
English. There were two ladies in the
shop when we went in, beautifully dressed
both of them, speaking French, and looking
over the flowers, I saw your nosegay in
the window, with several others, set out for
the whole town to stare at, and I pointed if
out to the flower-woman. Not understanding
me, and thinking that I wanted to buy
it, she said that it was for the young lady
at the British Embassy, who was going to
the ball as " Night." I tried to make her
understand that I wanted to take it away
with me, so as to have it in good time, as
there was to be a dinner-party first, and you
would be sure to dress early. Then, one of

the ladies, who must have heard everything
I said, came forward, and explained to the
woman in Prench, and she then allowed me
to have the bouquet after I had written
down my name in a book. All this time
the ladies seemed to be watching me, and I
was wishing that I could have a good look
at them, in a better light, because the face
of the one who had spoken to me seemed to
be so very familiar, and her voice, too ; and
yet, at first, I could not remember who she
was so like. Then it all came back to my
mind, but I thought to myself that it was
quite impossible  that she was so beautifully
dressed, and looked quite like a lady,
and that I must be mistaken, as all French
people were a good deal alike. Before I
went out of the shop she turned and said
something to the other lady, after having
read my name, as I suppose, in the book 
for I had written down my own name instead

of  Miss Collingwood/ which I
thought best not to put upon paper if I
could avoid it, under the circumstances,
and then, to my surprise, she came running
after me, and said, in quite a pleasant,
friendly kind of way,  Good day to you,
Mrs. Mason ! evidently you have not a good
memory for your old friends ! ' and she
laughed, and showed her white teeth, and
then I saw that she was no other than the
person I had fancied she was at first, your
poor mama's Prench maid, ' Ma'mselle, awe
used to call her, that was with her ladyship
at the time of her death. You were
too young to be able to remember her''

I have just said that Mason was entirely
in my confidence ; perhaps I used the word
** entirely " unadvisedly. She knew this
much, at least, that I had been privately
married to Prince Crecszoleski  that I
had become a mother  that my husband had

been arrested and accused of a crime that
he had been since declared to be irresponsible
for his actions, and that, on this
account, I was anxious, during my sojourn
at St. Petersburg, to drop the name and
title which were mine by right, but which
were now fraught with so many painful
associations. Of the occult mysteries, the
complicated ramifications, the " wheels
within wheels'* [which were connected with
my strange story, she knew nothing whatsoever.
How could her simple mind have
grasped the full significance of the twin
brothers' prophetic dream, or of poor Hugo's
dominated "volitional power"? Of my
terrible suspicions with regard to Celestine
Vigon she, likewise, knew nothing, for, as
yet, they were suspicions only, which, at
this distance of time, I saw no possibility
of proving. Mason, therefore, could have
known of no reason why the name of the

Frenchwoman should sound hateful for all

time in my ears. She was merely vexed to

think that, taken unawares, she had led

Celestine to understand that I was residing

at the British Embassy, and that she might

have betrayed to her the fact that I was not

really * Miss Colling wood."

"Eor I knew " (she went on) " that you

so particularly wished everything to be kept

secret now that Sir Courtenay has come out

here, but not expecting to see llamselley,

and dressed just like a lady, too !  I was

completely taken by surprise. ' I suppose,

Ila'mselle (I said), 'that you must have -

got married ? ' and she looked first at the

other lady and laughed, and then she said,

Yes, yes, of course I am married ! I have

got now quite another name ! And your

little young lady, Miss Nelly' (she said),

has she not found a husband by this time ?

And I was so put off my guard by this ques-vol.
III. G

tion that Ism afraid I must have looked
quite foolish. First I said ' Yes,' and
then ' No,' and then I very stupidly said,
These flowers are for Miss Nelly,  she will
carry them to-night at the ball,' and then
the other lady stepped forward and said in
English,  They are for the young lady who
is staying with the English Ambassador ? '
and she was such a fine, proud-looking lady
(a 7eal lady, I feel sure this one was), and
she looked at me so hard, that I felt I must
answer ' Yes,' whether I wished it or no.
I was quite provoked with myself afterwards,
but it seemed all to have happened before
I had had time to take thought ! Since then
I have been saying to myself, however, that
perhaps it didn't so very much signify after
all, as you expect to be going back to England
so soon, and I daresay I shall never
hear of her again. She isn't likely, now
that she's married, and fancies herself quite

a lady, to come here and pay a visit to one
of the servants, and she knows quite well
that you would never remember her ! '*

*' I remember her perfectly," I said, and
the face of the Frenchwoman, with her
regular, somewhat massive features, her
white teeth, and long gold earrings, rose up
before me as vividly as when I had last
beheld it in the flesh. "But the other lady,"
I inquired anxiously, " the lady who asked
you whether I was not staying with the
Ambassador, what was she like ? I have a
reason for wishing you to describe her to me
exactly."

That, I m afraid, miss, I shall never be

able to do," replied Mason, who seemed,

nevertheless, to be recalling her impressions,

* for she wore a thick black veil over the

top part of her face, with a border which was

ever so much thicker still, so that I could

only see her eyes, looking through at me

g2

very hard, but what coloured eyes they were
I can't say, I'm sure. Her nose wasn't a
hooked nose, of that I coukl make certain,
because her veil hung straight down over it,
and when she smiled I could see that she
had very even white teeth. Her figure was
tall and fine, and she wore a long brown
velvet cloak trimmed with beautiful fur,
and a cap of the same fur upon her head.
I saw her hair at the back of it  very dark
hair indeed  done up in thick black coils 
but most of the time she was smelling at a
large bunch of that sweet drooping yellow
stuff that used to grow in the garden at
Nice  I suppose here it must be raised ina
hothouse  and what with that and the
veil I couldn't manage to see much of her
face."

She had seen quite enough, however, to
fill me with all kinds of sinister forebodings.
I cross-examined her as to the hour at which

she bad visited the flower-shop. As far as she
could judge, she said, it must have been very
nearly four o'clock. She had gone straight
back afterwards to the Embassy, where tea
was always served in English fashion punctually
at five, and she was not told that it
was ready until some time after her return.
This served but to confirm my apprehensions.
No wonder that poor Hugo had
been conscious of the approach of some
formidable and sinister influence ! At that
moment I must have been just entering
Dr. Schumann's waiting-room. My interview
with Hugo, although it had seemed
to me to be almost interminable, could not
have lasted much more than half-an-hour ;
the drive from the flower-shop to the doctor's
villa would have occupied about the same
space of time, and it was not five o'clock
by Miss Warden's watch when the brougham
with the high-stepping horses had clashed

past us, at the closed window of wliicli I had
descried a woman's gloved hand holding a
large bouquet of mimosa; the "sweet drooping,
yellow stuff," which, as Mason said,
used to grow in the garden  that well-remembered
garden !  at Nice. And yet
I was perfectly certain that both Hugo and
Lord Silchester had described Countess
Dobrowolska as a fair woman with very light
hair. In the " thick black coils " to which
Mason had alluded, there lurked the materials
for still further mystification !

Ey half-past eleven o'clock nearly all the
most distinguished of the Ambassador's
guests had arrived. I stood at the entrance
of the ball-room, behind my enormous
houqtiet, where I was presented by His
Excellency to the Emperor and two of the
Grand Dukes who accompanied him. The
emperor conversed with me for a few
minutes, and then invited me to dance the
opening quadrille.

I did not remember at the moment that
this act on the part of His Imperial Majesty

was what Miss Warden had looked to as an
effectual means of silencing the voices of
my detractors, until the face of Mr. Morrison,
wearing an expression of impertinent
wonder, recalled the fact to my memory.

There is no need for me to describe the
ill-fated Alexander II. To most of my
readers his countenance will be familiar
through his portraits. To me, the face was
an interesting one. I have fancied since
that I could perceive upon it a look as of
predestination to a tragic doom, which was
afterwards so cruelly fulfilled, but one is
apt, sometimes, to imagine these things
afterwards. I knew through Lord Winchester
that the Czar was acquainted with
my story. He made no allusion to it, however,
during the dance, but whilst conducting
me back to my place near the doorway,
he remarked very gravely, speaking in
French :

I am charmed to have made your
acquaintance, madame. The family of your
husband has always been loyal to us. I
hope Prince Crecszoleski resigns himself
with courage to his misfortunes ? "

I suppose that I made some sort of
becoming answer, but just at that moment
I had discovered that Courtenay Davenant,
in his Guards' uniform, was standing quite
close at hand, looking at me sadly and
earnestly with his dark eyes. My heart
seemed suddenly to stand still and ache in
my breast. I do not know how I could
have found words to reply to the Emperor

at all.

We women are too apt to suppose that a
man, upon certain occasions, will behave
precisely as we should behave ourselves, and
when, as generally happens, he acts upon an
entirely different system, our disappointment
and mortification often reach a pitch

which lie is utterly unable to comprehend or
account for.

Judging by myself, I fancied that I
knew, now, exactly what Court nay would
do. He would not approach me, of course,
whilst I was upon the arm of the Czar, but
he would hover close at hand, watching his
opportunity, and when it came he would
engage me for a dance. This, however,
would be merely a pretext. Probably, we
should not dance at all. He would lead me
away upon his arm, through the whole suite
of brilliantly lighted rooms, to one of the
most retired of the smaller apartments
beyond, and here, perhaps, though how I
knew not, I might be able  in the course of
our conversation  to refute some of the
malicious insinuations which had reached
his ears. I might say, at any rate, that one
ought not to believe all the idle stories one
heard, and that there were people in the

world who seemed to make it their business
to " fetch and carry " and invent untruths.
Woman-like, I next set about composing
some sort of answer upon his part  words
such as I hoped he would say something
kind and chivalrous, of course, with a touch
of gentle reproach at the notion that I could
ever have imagined him capable of believing
anything to my disadvantage. It is always
dangerous to go on thus, making so certain
that the breasts of others are aglow with our
own peculiar emotions, and that expression
will be given to them in words, after our
own hearts !

The Emperor left me with a stiff bow,
whilst I was in the midst of these reflections.
He turned to address a Russian
lady in gorgeous national costume. I was
now free, and Courtenay would be able
to come forward and speak to me if he
liked.

I cast a hurried glance at one of the long
looking-glasses "with which the ball-room
was almost entirely surrounded, and was
pleased, on the whole, with what I beheld,
and glad to think that I had resisted all
persuasions to appear in any more garish
costume. Severe and subdued as my dress
was, it stood relieved against those of the
brilliant company, and thus had the advantage
of being unostentatiously remarkable.
Lord Silchester's family diamonds, too,
looked beautiful. Even in the midst of the
splendid jewels which shone upon every side
they held their own. What with my black
dress, and these glittering stars, Courtenay
would have no difficulty in singling me out
from the crowd whenever he wanted to find
me. Probably he was making his way tome
now.

I glanced anxiously towards the place
where I had seen him standing, but could

not perceive him. I did not allow myself
to feel disappointed, so certain did I feel
that he would come and seek for me soon.
I was only fearful lest, in the meantime,
some one would invite me to dance whom I
might not be able to refuse, and that,
thus, the moment of our meeting might be
delayed. This was just what happened. I
perceived the Ambassador making his way
towards me accompanied by a male figure
in some manner of grotesque costume, which
I should have found it difficult to explain
had not His Excellency presented to me,
forthwith, a Polish Count, personating for
the evening, as he at once informed me,
*' Charles trois, Hoi dAngleterre,' more
commonly described as ' the Young Pretender,"
whence I assumed that his strange
garb was intended to represent a kilt.

'' He is one of the greatest bores in
Prussia," the Ambassador whispered in my

ear, M)ut try and endure him for a little
while ! *'

I am afraid that just then the most
brilliant of human beings must have seemed
to me to be a '' bore," so entirely was my
mind preoccupied !

We walked off together, down to the
further end of the ball-room ; for, embarrassed
as the Count was with kilt,
philibeg, and claymore, and J, with my
long floating veil, we agreed that it would
be unwise to attempt to dance in such a
crowd. Some remarks which I made upon
my companion's costume  quite absently
and abstractedly, my eyes roving about
from right to left in search of a scarlet
uniform  led him to speak of the unfortunate
Prince he was personating. He
could boast, he said, of some of the blood
of the Sobieskis. He possessed several
interesting Jacobite relics, which he would

be very pleased to show me at some future
day. The dress he was wearing upon the
present occasion was accurately copied from
an authentic Scotch medal, on the reverse
of which was a figure of Victory blowing a
trumpet, and flying over London with a
crown in her left hand. . . I listened to all
this like one in a dream. At any other
time I should have been much interested
in the Count's conversation, for, like most
young and romantic persons, I was an
enthusiastic admirer of the Stuart, perhaps
because I had not been destined to
live beneath their sway, and, even as it
was, my acquaintance with their history
enabled me to say a word, here and thereto
the purpose, notwithstanding my wandering
thoughts.

After walking about for a while, we
established ourselves upon a sofa, whence
we could look down the entire length of

the room, which had now hccomc very much
crowded. Two thousand people had been
invited, very few of whom had excused
themselves, and the supper-room had not
yet been opened. The scene was dazzling
in its brilliancy, though somewhat bewildering,
also, by reason of its incongruity.
This cannot fail to be the case
at a fancy ball where hardly any restrictions
have been imposed with regard to
the character or epoch of the dresses ; and,
in this instance. Lord Silchester had only
begged his guests to adhere to two conditions.
He knew an Englishman who had
once given great offence, abroad, by appearing
at a fancy ball dressed as the
Devil ; and an English lady who, going into
the other extreme, had outraged continental
susceptibilities by assuming the becoming
garb of a nun. So monks, nuns, priests,
and devils, had been tabooed ; but personages

in modern uniforms  naval, military,
and diplomatic  brigands, picturesque
peasants, pierrot, and Erencli chefs, were
mingling heterogeneously with Roman
Emperors, Egyptian Queens, Crusaders,
Watteau shepherdesses, and allegorical impersonations.
In truth, a motley crew !

As I was seeking vainly for Courtenay
amongst all these, a figure, wearing a black
domino, came up to where we were sitting,
and endeavoured to mystify us by the
making of strange signs and gestures.
Esther a short man  I could see this at
once, as only his feet were visible below
the sombre folds of his disguise. My heart
did not beat any faster, therefore ; I knew
that this could not be the one I was so
longing to see. All the same, I felt a
little frightened. A domino  whatever its
colour  is, I think, a very hideous dress.
This one, with its ghastly black mask,

VOL. III. H

reminded me of the discarded stuffed
bat.

'' C'est un Anglais'' whispered the
*' Young Pretender," glancing down at the
stranger's hoots, and perceiving, I suppose,
something insular about them.

Ah, the chaste Diana with her crescent
moon ! " exclaimed the '' mask," in a
squeaky voice, which was evidently
assumed.

'' Who are you ? " I asked, shrinking
away from him with an involuntary feeling
of horror.

'' A friend," answered the squeaky voice,
** one who knows more about you than you
would think. I can tell you who gave you
those beautiful diamonds."

Something in the tone in which these
words were pronounced made me recognise
the voice of Mr. Morrison. I felt indignant
that this man, after having maligned me

behind my back, should venture thus to
banter me familiarly in public. The warm
blood came into my cheeks as I replied 

' You are no friend ; you are an enemy ;
an enemy of the most treacherous and
dangerous kind ! You slander those who
have never injured you, when they are
powerless to defend themselves. I pity
those who have many friends like you ! "

The words seemed to strike home. He
withdrew precipitately, and was soon lost
in the crowd.

'' You ought not to be so angry,
mademoiselle ! " said my kilted companion,
in French, looking at me in reproachful
wonder,  ce nest que du persiflage ! "

He understood English, although unable
to speak it, and appeared astonished at my
warmth.

I returned to where I had received the

company, as soon as I was free from " one

of the greatest bores in russia."

u2

Poor man ! the Ambassador informed me
afterwards, that he had found me *' 
lie must have been very indulgent, 1
thought, and very easily pleased !

So the miserable evening dragged on. I
had been conducted to supper by the
Emperor, where I had made a pretence of
eating and drinking. Afterwards, I had
made a pretence of dancing, and of talking
with various people who appeared to me
like so many hollow phantoms. Everything
seemed to have grown shadowy
and unreal, and far off, except the eager
yearning at my heart. I kept on wondering
whether I might not be merely
dreaming one of those provoking, uncomfortable
dreams where nothing will ever
come right; where the doors persistently
refuse to shut, and the windows to open ;
where letters arrive which are impossible to
decipher; dresses which, somehow, cannot
be made to fit, and where all the people

we love best in the world seem to turn
suddenly into our bitterest foes. And, all
the while, the music  the passionate,
maddening, disconsolate, music ; sounding
joyful, no doubt, to other ears ; but, to
mine melancholy as the wailing of disembodied
spirits at midnight, and '' wild withall
regret,"  went on rising, and swelling,
and dying, in pathetic, lingering minor
cadences, and thrilling me to the very
depths of my being, until it was with
difficulty that I could restrain myself from
breaking down and sobbing aloud.

As I passed out of the supper-room, in
the royal procession, I had come face to
face with the man for whom I was seeking.
A pretty girl, wearing patches and powder,
was upon his arm. He was smiling at
something she was saying, so he, at least,
was not unhappy ! They drew to one side,
and both bowed low to the Czar. I looked

eagerly and miserably into Court nay's face
when he lifted his eyes. Eor an instant
they met my own. He must have read in
them something of the desolation that was
in my heart. But then, the Imperial personages
had passed on  and I along with
them  and he and his powdered shepherdess
had gone on their way to supper.
Since then he had never approached me ;
and now the Emperor and his suite had
departed and I heard people saying that the
real amusement of the evening was only
now about to begin.

Amusement I " I thought, bitterly.
"Yes, I suppose, after a fashion, all these
people are amusing themselves ! Their
hearts are filled with bright and pleasant
impressions. To-morrow there will be long
accounts in the newspapers, descriptive of
the splendours of the entertainment, and
everybody we meet will congratulate us

upon its success ! And yet, to me, what an
evening of gloom and disappointment ! How
shall 1 ever be able to endure it to the end,
if, as I have heard, it is likely to go on until
the small hours of the morning ? How shall
I think of it ever afterwards without the
keenest misery and humiliation ? " And then,
the worst of it was, I had felt so certain
that Courtenay would have behaved altogether
differently. The man who, only such
a short while ago, had professed for me so
much love and admiration, surely his heart
could not have become estranged so soon !
Why had he slighted me thus to-night, and
behaved to me almost as though I had
been an enemy, and given me all this unnecessary
pain ?

I daresay that almost every woman will
be able to understand whv I felt so forlorn
and miserable ; whilst to a man it may
appear strange that I should have made so

much of so little ; and that this different
way of looking at things springs merely
from the difference in our natures. It pervades
everything, I suppose, and accounts
for many things that we women weep over
and lament for, and often even break our
hearts about !

The ball-room had thinned considerably
now; many of the guests were doubtless
regaling themselves at the supper-table.
Others had retired to slip on dominos, for
purposes of mystification.

I stood aloof, near to the door by which
the company had arrived  a part of the
room which was now well-nigh deserted 
feeling in no mood for conversation. Hera
I again caught sight of myself in one of the
long mirrors, and was quite startled at the
change which some two hours of anxiety
and disappointment had wrought in my
appearance. I looked now haggard and

miserable. My black and silver dress, too,
presented quite a funereal aspect ; the
flowers and ferns in my bouquet were drooping
and faded ; and my diamond stars were
twinkling, as though in mockery, over my
pale cheeks and hopeless eyes. Nothing
that I had passed through " 'twixt matins
and evensong " had ever affected me like
this !

I know not wherefore, as I stood thus,
contemplating this melancholy image, I
should have travelled back, in fancy, to the
evening of my first ball at Inglebyby Grange ;
but so it was ; and then I set to work,
and began to make foolish, unprofitable
comparisons, such as we women cannot
resist making sometimes. I thought of
the handsome, distinguished-looking Polish
Prince, as I had seem him then  faultlessly
attired  with his expression of sadness and
intellectual weariness who had paid me the

compliment of falling in love with me on
the spot, when I was only nineteen years
old  an inexperienced country girl, in a
plain white dress, with only a natural flower
in my hair. '' Marriage, affection " (he had
said) Lad not entered into the programme
of his existence ; till then all women had
seemed to him 'like dolls." He was the
votary of mysticism  a student of occult
science. How strong, therefore, must have
been the affection, the admiration, the regard,
which could cause such a man to
change the whole plan of bis life for me !
How little of that love ( I was fully aware of
this now) had I ever given him back  even
in the days which preceded all knowledge of
what had now estranged me from him forever
! I had always kept, as it were, a
watch over my heart, lest it should make
the supreme surrender. Was I keeping it
(I now asked myself, bitterly) for this cruel,

ungrateful man, who was making me suffer?
He had spoken words of love to me  looking
upon me, no doubt, as an easy victim 
during a midnight drive in a sledge, just to
make the time pass agreeably and to play at
sentiment; and now here was I  arrayed
with so much trouble to seem pleasing in
his eyes  slighted and humiliated by him in
public ; for surely, being almost in the position
of his hostess for the evening, it was his
duty, even supposing that he had hated me,
to address to me a few words out of common
politeness.

' Poor Hugo ! " I murmured, half aloud,
tears coming to my eyes, '' it was ungrateful
of me not to care for you more, before I
knew  before everything ! You are gone
now, you are changed, I can never make you
any reparation, but you are avenged, you are
avenged ! I am as lonely, as forsaken, as
unloved as you are !"

Por an instant my heart seemed to go
forti to my husband in tenderness, compassion,
and remorse. Then a wind, cold
as a Last from an iceberg, passed over my
bare shoulders, and Hugo's image appeared
before me in the glass  the Hugo of to-day,
not the good-looking, carefully attired
Prince, of Inglebyby Grange, standing spectral
and Druid-like at my elbow, wrapped in the
long white shroud of the Sabean star worshippers,
who have done for ever with the
world and the flesh. He seemed to gaze
at me earnestly with his hollow luminous
eyes,  I saw stains of blood upon his
grizzled beard,  the beard that had changed
him into another man,  then the form faded
away from the looking-glass, and I saw in
its place a white domino, capering across it,
with a little flower-girl, all decked out with
roses and crimson ribands. These figures
no doubt, flitting thus, before eyes that were

swimming with tears, had suggested that
ghastly apparition. But it was as well, I
said to myself, bitterly, that I should be
reminded of its existence ! My disordered
imagination had not evoked it one second
too soon, for to what wickedness and vanity
was I not falling a prey! Tricked out in
jewels and finery, I was assisting at a gorgeous
pageant, and making comparisons, in
my folly, between the sentiments of two
different men, as though they were both my
aspiring suitors ; to one of these I had been
married once, from both of them I was
divided, now, by insurmountable obstacles.
How could it signify to me what their feelings
for me might be ? One of them was as
dead to me, now, as though he had never
existed at all, and yet, because of him, the
other must be rooted out of my heart and
become dead to me too and I, miserable,
deluded woman that I was, what business

had I to breathe the same air, and clothe
myself in the same sort of raiment as happy,
careless people? Ought I not, rather, to cover
myself with sackcloth and ashes; to assume,
like my unfortunate husband, the dress of
one who has abjured for ever the joys and
sorrows of mortality ?

After giving way to these gloomy reflections,
I went towards where most of the
dancers were congregated, feeling somewhat
calmed and chastened in spirit, reproved, as
it were, from On High, for my presumptuous
folly.

But alas, how fleeting, how futile, are the
wisest resolutions of woman ! And what a
strange, perverse, incomprehensible creature
man is, also, even at his best ! . . .

Now, when I stood listlessly looking on at
the dancers, feeling like

A phantom among men  companion's
As the last cloud of an expiring storm ; "

when I had made np my mind that I ought
to go about  like the Sabean fanatics 
wrapped up in a winding-sheet ; when my
heart had beaten and battered itself into a
state of numb resignation; and when the

gaiety, and enjoyment, and interest, seemed
to have been entirely banished from the
evening's entertainment, I turned to find
that Courtenay Davenant  the man who
had been the cause of all my misery  was
standing at my side, wearing an expression
Avliich told me that he was utterly unconscious
of having offended.

You have been enjoying yourself, Miss
Collingwood, I hope ? " he said, looking
down at me kindly, but only kindly, as I
thought. '' You must be very pleased with
the way in which everything has gone off.
It has been a great success."

I could scarcely trust myself to reply to
such trivial words, but managed at last to
murmur something equally common-place.
Then he asked me if he might '* have the
honour of a dance,  this valse, perhaps ? "

It would be useless for me to attempt to
describe here the revulsion of feeling which

followed upon this simple request ; the effect
produced upon me by the intoxicating strains
of the music  transformed now into what
seemed like the music of the spheres ; or to
dwell upon the many mingling emotions
which combined to make up a total of absolute
enchantment, when I found myself once
more in the presence of the being I so unwisely
loved. Since this time, of which I
am writing, I have thought much and read
much. I fancy that I must certainly have
grown a good deal wiser ; that I ought
to have become more cultured and philosophical.
And yet, the result of all my thinking,
my reading, my worldly experience,
has been to lead me to conclusions which
many will regard as lawless and reprehensible.
I have fallen in with so many hapless
human beings  though often ignorant
altogether of their misfortune, and fenced
round with shields of self-complacency 

VOL. III. I

who have never experienced, who never
could be brought to experience, the divine
mystery of love in its highest, or even in its
livest, sense  that I have come to esteem
what is so rare, so inexpressibly difficult to
realise in all its intensity, as something
supreme and excellent indeed  come whensoever
it may  be it wisely or unwisely
enjoyed  and those few to whom the revelation
has been vouchsafed as beings in the
highest degree favoured and privileged.

I could not tell, of course, whether
Courtenay perceived how changed everything
had suddenly become for me. He spoke
little, and merely in formal and conventional
phrases. But I was thinking of what
he had said to me on our wav home from
the gipsy-camp, and striving to detect in his
voice some echo of those passionate words.
He led the way from the ball-room towards
one of the less frequented apartments as

soon as our valse was over. I made up my
mind that lie was about to allude to the ill-natured
stories he had heard concerning me,
and that this would give me an opportunity
of contradicting them. My heart began
beating very fast as I wondered how I should
be able to do this. Perhaps, I thought, it
might be better to put an end to all these
concealments and mystifications at once, by
revealing myself to him then and there, and
saying simply 

I am your cousin Nelly, the poor girl
you ignored and neglected in the old days.
The English Ambassador  our host, my godfather,
my dead parents' old friend  has
taken compassion upon my orphaned state,
and treats me like a daughter. This is how
it happens that I am here, and that, by a
series of strange coincidences, we meet at
last! But I am the wife, now, of another

man. My husband is shut uj), and supposed

ito

be road ; but this madness cannot give me
my freedom. It is too late, therefore, now,
to think of carrying out our family marriage
project!"

Something of this kind I would endeavour
to say, if only I could muster the necessary
courage. But before this imaginary explanation
could take place, we came upon Lord
Silchester in the corridor. He was walking
with some Russian officers in imposing
uniforms, their breasts glittering with
decorations.

I was struck, the moment I saw him,
with the expression of his countenance. He
looked pale, agitated, fatigued ; older by
several years, as I fancied, than when I
had seen him only a little while ago.

By a familiar gesture he signified that
he had something to say to me. I left
Courtenay's arm, and went to him at once.
*' I have been looking for you, Helen," he

said, in a hurried undertone, '' to warn you
that some ill-advised and' foolish people are
going about, disguised in masks and dominos,
saying all sorts of unpleasant and
impertinent things to whoever will listen to
them. It is difficult to prevent these follies
at masked halls, hui I trust they won't
venture to endeavour to annoy you. If they
should, pass on, and take no notice of them.
Above all, don't he tempted to handy words
with them ! "

I was relieved to think that this was all
that he had to say to me. Prom his face, I
had almost expected to hear of the discovery
of some new plot to assassinate the Emperor.
There is nothing worse than this ? " I
inquired ; '' no had news ? You are not
feeling ill ? "

*' No, no," he answered, with what I
fancied was rather a forced smile, " the
supper-room was rather hot and crowded.

I felt it a little oppressive, but I am all
right now," and he went on towards the
entrance to the ball-room.

I rejoined my partner, and we turned
to2:cthcr into an ante-room which had been
fitted up as a tea-room. It was beautifully
decollated with flowers, and lit with shaded
candles. A door at the further end of it
communicated with the ball-room, through
which we could perceive in the distance the
gorgeous and grotesque figures of the
dancers. There were but few people in this
apartment when we entered it, mere birds
of passage, making their way, tricked out in
their gay plumage, to the ball-room. "We
sat down together upon a low divan which
was almost screened by the door at which
we had entered.

'lord Silchester is looking dreadfully
pale and tired," I remarked, merely for the
sake of saying something.

' I didn't notice that lie looked paler than
usual," answered my companion. *' No
doubt, however, I did not observe him as
attentively as you did. He is your uncle, I
believe ? " he added suddenly, looking into
my face with what I thought was quite an
inquisitorial expression.

"No, he is not my uncle," I replied,
hesitatingly, for I was thinking of the
revelation of kinship which I was about to
make to him, and was anxious not to forestall
it.

' I fancied," returned Courtenay, '* that
I had heard that he was either your uncle
or some very near relation ? "

Se spoke, I thought, very coldly and
carelessly  but then I was still dwelling, in
imagination, upon the tender words he had
spoken in the sledge.

'* Lord Silchester is the dearest and
kindest friend that remains to me in the

world' I replied. ' lie lias known me for
years, but we are not related to each
other."

I thought not," said Courtenay, still
preserving the same hard and indifferent
manner. ** It is evident, however, that he
takes the greatest possible interest in you."

I looked into my companion's dark eyes
inquiringly, feeling an irrepressible chill at
my heart. What new form of torture was
this ? Was this the man with whom I had
driven through the snow-bound moonlit
forests only a few nights ago, and who had
seemed, then, to be so overflowing with
sympathy, and tenderness, and respectful
consideration ?

But before I had time to proceed further
with these reflections, my attention was
suddenly arrested by the sight of two
female figures, who, without apparently
perceiving us in our sequestered nook, had

glided past us to the tea-table. They were
standing there now, with their backs
towards us, two tall, graceful - looking
women, dressed, both exactly alike, in long,
flowing, yellow dominos and black satin
masks, and each one carrying a large bunch
of drooping mimosa. The taller of the two
asked for a cup either of tea or coffee. As
she lifted the lace which fell over the lower
part of her mask in order to partake of it,
she turned towards the place where we were
seated. I obtained, thus, a glimpse of her
mouth. Not a small mouth by any means,
looked at thus, apart from the rest of her
face, but a well cut one, with red lips and
small regular teeth. This mouth was the
only feature I could perceive. Hardly a
sufficient proof as to the identity of one
who, in other respects, was so completely
disguised, still less as to that of a person
whom I had never beheld in my life ! But,
as she lifted up the trimming of her black

mask, I had seen something more than her
mouth. I had seen her earrings  two large
pear-shaped drops of polished emerald,
hanging from tops formed of the same
stone, cut into squares, and surrounded by
diamonds ; earrings that looked as though
they might have been the twin offspring
of that larger emerald ornament, identical
as regarded form and setting, which,
through a strange combination of tragic
circumstances, had passed, some time ago,
into my own possession,' the magnificent
but detested Crecszoleski family jewel,
with its terrible associations, which was
lying, hidden away from human sight, in
the secret drawer of my dressing-case in
this very house.

Who is that lady ? '* I gasped, turning
to Courtenay Davenant. Something in my
manner, I suppose, made him look at meas
in anxious astonishment.

But before he could answer me, the yellow

domino had glided up to my side. Instinctively
I shrank closer to Courtenay as she
approached, conscious to my very finger-tips
of the vicinity of something evil and unfriendly.
Her companion, in the meantime,
had walked to the door of the ball-room,
where she stood as though in wrapt contemplation
of the dancers. "You would
wish to know who I am ? " inquired the
weird yellow figure before me, speaking in
English with a hardly perceptible foreign
accent. ''Do you suppose that I have come
here, wearing this dress, to answer you that
question ? But I will tell you, instead, who
and what you are yourself, for I am
acquainted with your family history ! You,
seated there, coffee a la Madonna, but
crowned with the diamonds that are the
last gift of your lover, you also, are wearing
a mask ! "

She then called me by a shameful and

infamous name ; coming quite close to me,
and hissing the word in my ear, as though
she had been a venomous serpent.

Courtenay Davenant started to his feet,
and made as though he were about to lay
hands on her ; but she glided away from
him towards where her companion was
standing, exclaiming as she went, with a
gesture of denunciation, 

*' Yes ! I unmask you ; you who are
posing here as an innocent * ingenue' I
denounce you, and proclaim what in reality
you are the mistress of the English Ambassador
; a position which, let me inform
you, was honourably filled by your respectable
mother before you ! "

I rose from my seat terrified and bewildered.
Courtenay's face was as white as
that of a corpse.

*' Who is that woman ?" he asked  'that
creature who has dared to insult you in my

presence ? Let me go and tear the mask
from lier face''

No, no ! " I implored, " I know her ! I
will go to her alone, and ask her to explain
her word. Do not go near her."

'' You know her ? " he asked in astonishment.
'Does she then, really, know anything
of your history ? "

Nothing whatever. All she said came
from jealousy and malice. She is a very
bad woman  cruel and malignant ; what
can have induced her to come here ? "

*' Surely you have kept a list of the
people who were invited ? "

Yes ; and her name was not amongst
them. Probably she has taken some other
name ; I can account, now, for Lord Winchester's
unhappy look. He must have
known that she was here."

*sand you would like to speak to him
about her, no doubt ? " suggested Courtenay,

kindly but coldly ; " let me take you
to him before this voman has had time to
make her escape'*

I told him that this could do no good ;
that I would rather, first of all, speak to
her alone. He looked at me with an expression
of anxiety and bewilderment.

I can make nothing of all this," he
exclaimed, at length, in a hopeless tone.
Why not let me go and order the creature
out of the house, as she was not invited ?
Why do you seem afraid that I should
speak to her ? What can she say worse 
more terrible  than what she has said
already ? I pray Heaven that there is no
truth in it ! "

He looked at me earnestly, beseechingly,
but I felt too much agitated to reply. I
was striving to understand what some of
those terrible words could possibly mean.
The first part of the malignant speech

hurled at me by Delphian Dobrowolska from
under her black mask (for I could not doubt
but that the yellow apparition was she), in
all ignorance of my relationship to her
unfortunate brother, had merely confirmed
me in a suspicion which had lain dormant
for some months in my mind. I was convinced,
now, that Lord Silchester (" George
Colling wood," as he was at that time) was
the ** Englishman in a good position " with
whom the Countess had fallen in love  after
some strange, tigress fashion  years ago, in
Paris. I recalled the scrap of paper 
evidently a part of one of her letters  upon
which my godfather had written down
Hugo's name at Inglebyby Grange ; the name
that, as he had expressed it, ' sounded like
the crackling of a bag of biscuits." In this
letter she had entreated the good offices of
her former admirer for her '' crier frcre
Sligo ;" and hence it had arisen, no doubt.

that George Collingvvood had invited the
Polish Prince to his father's country-house.
Later on she had proposed visiting it herself;
hut he had declined (as I had good
cause to remember) to fall in with her
views, pleading, hy way of excuse, the precarious
state of the old lord's health. It
was apparent to me from this, as well as
from several words which my godfather had
let fall in my presence, that, whatever might
have been his relations with Madame 
in the past, he had had no desire
whatever to renew them in the present. I
could conceive nothing more wounding and
humiliating to a woman, such as I imagined
her to be, than this evident indifference
upon the part of the man she had striven so
hard to enthral. One would have fancied
that  all things considered  Petersburg
would have been the very last place in which
she would have ventured to present herself ;

but, to a person so reckless and unscrupulous
there may have lurked an additional
charm in the notion that her sojourn
would not be unattended by danger. She
had come, I doubted not, as I had come
myself, with the intention of visiting Hugo.
She had found the man who had seemed to
scorn her repeated advances established
here as English Ambassador. What more
likely than that  taking advantage of the
facilities for disguise afforded by this " bal
masque et costumes' she should seek his
presence once more  if only to give vent
to the bitterness and malice which animated
her heart ? She had discovered that I, a
young woman not related to the Ambassador
by any tie of kinship (this she would have
had every opportunity of learning through
Celestine Vigon, her creature and accomplice) ,
was living here as a member of his household.
Mason's involuntary indiscretion, together

VOL. III. K

with my costume as '* Night," and my emblematical
bouquet  the very one she had seen
displayed in the florist's window, would
have enabled her to identify me at once,
even supposing that I had not been occupying
the prominent position of hostess.
Celestine Yigon was at her elbow, too, to
trace any resemblance that I might still bear
to the little child she had once known ; for
I felt sure that the other yellow figure could
be no one else but the frenchwoman,
dressed exactly like her mistress, with the
view of increasing our mystification. It was
not wonderful, then (I said to myself), that
Delphine Dobrowolska  poor Hugo's evil
genius, who had once imagined herself to
be in love with the Ambassador  should
desire now to insult and wound me. Perhaps,
as there were so many mischief-makers
about, she might even have believed that I
deserved the guilty and shameful name

which she had just hissed at me in her impotent
rage. But what had my poor mother
that blameless and beautiful angel, invoked
by me whenever I had felt most the
need of pure and spiritual consolation  todo
with all this complication of envy, hatred,
and malice ? These thoughts, which have
taken some time to set down in writing,
passed through my mind very quickly,
before, indeed, I had reached the ball-room,
where the two yellow-clad women were now-standing.
By-and-by Courtenay Davenant's
voice broke in upon my musings.

'' Miss Collingwood," he said, gently,
may I, without seeming impertinent, ask
you one question ? "

I answered that he might ask me as
many as he liked.

Were those diamonds the beautiful

stars you are wearing in your hair, and

which, I hear, only arrived from England

K 2

this morning, by the messenger  really
given to you by Lord Silchester ? "

 lie wished to give them to me," I
answered, 'but though he is such a dear
old friend, I did not like to accept a present
of so much value from him. They are family
diamonds, besides ; so T told him I would
rather only wear them for this evening."

They are only lent to you, then, to wear
with your fancy dress ? "

They are only lent to me," I repeated.

"Then let us go together, and tell that
black-masked, black-hearted woman, that
she lied in her teeth ! "

No, no ! " I implored  not knowing
what slanderous words he might not hear,
aimed at the one whose memory had always
been so sacred to me.

He looked at me sadly and reproachfully,
and then exclaimed vehemently :

*'I wish to Heaven that I could see a

way out of all these mysteries and disguises !
I implore you to be, at least, open with
me ; to tell me the truth about yourself and
your position. Forgive me if I speak as
one having authority. I care for you,
Helen ; this is my excuse. I have looked
up to you as something pure, and good,
and beautiful, so far above me in every
way ; the perfect woman I have dreamed
of for years ; but if I thought that the
horrid thing I have just heard was true I*
would endeavour never to look upon your
face again as long as I lived. It would
remind me too painfully of an illusion
destroyed, of an awakening from a delightful
dream to a most miserable reality ! "

I will tell you everything," I answered,
all my unhappy history, much that will
shock and surprise you. I will make no
concealments, but it must be tomorrow,
not now. I must speak again with that

woman before she leaves the house, and I
must see her alone."

'' What time may I come tomorrow ? "
he asked.

He looked pale, haggard, and miserable,
almost like one who could have no more
joy in life. But for those last mysterious
words hissed at me by the tongue of the yellow
serpent, I might, perhaps, have derived some
manner of consolation from this proof that
Courtenay was not, really, the callous,
insensible creature I had deemed him. As
it was, however, I was absorbed by one
idea, a growing dread, a ghastly suspicion,
which I hated myself for nourishing, even
for a moment. I dreaded that there might
lurk, in the Countess's terrible words, some
particle of truth, and I was in terror lest
she should escape me before I could confront
her again. Then my mind became
confused with all sorts of desperate projects

by which I hoped to compel her to retract
her malignant accusations.

Tell me what time I may come to you P"
Courtenay asked once more, in a voice from
which all hope seemed to have departed.

I told him that if he would come to our
sitting-room at about three o'clock upon the
following afternoon, I would endeavour, if
possible, to see him alone, and that I would
then tell him my story, without making any
concealments.

Upon the stroke of three'* he answered,
I will be there."

A MOMENT afterwards I was standing opposite
to the woman whom I have called the
yellow serpent, and she was smiling at me
and mocking me underneath the lace frill
of her black satin mask. The second serpent
was at her side, but I could distinguish
between the two in spite of their being
dressed alike, and I went straight up to
the woman wearing the emerald earrings.

I do not want you, Celestina Vigon ! "
I said, thrusting lier aside; "I wish to speak
to Madame Dobrowolska alone ! '*

Because of their masks I could not see
upon their faces the effect of my words,
but they both started simultaneously, and
the one I had addressed as " Celestine
Yigon " slunk back into the crowd.

I felt reckless, defiant, and utterly without
fear. I was inspired, as it seemed tome,
with a high and sacred mission. My
dead mother's honour was at stake, and I
was prepared to dare everything in order to
vindicate it. I exerted all my *' volitional
power'' to use Hugo's favourite term, to
combat and counteract this other will, formidable
though I knew it to be, which was
at work now within only a fcAV inches of
me, shrouded in the long folds of the ghastly
yellow domino. I half feared that when I
began to speak my emotion  my intense
exaltation  might prevent my words from
being audible. I strove, however, by a
desperate effort, to school my voice so that

it should not tremble, and said as calmly as
I could,

*' Madame Dobrowolska, I desire to speak
to you with reference to the language which
you used just now about my mother. I
pass over your insults to myself, the result,
no doubt, of your ignorance of true facts.
What you said of her, however, was a
malicious lie ! "

As I paused, overcome by emotion, I
heard her laughing softly underneath her
mask.

' Ah ! this is real melodrama ! " she
sneered. '' You can make a fortune upon
the stage, mademoiselle, u hen all ' other
speculations fail ! What fire ! What energy !
What virtuous English indignation ! And
by what new name do you address me, too,
for some dramatic purpose! 'Dobrowolska?'
Who is Madame Dobrowolska ? Well ! I
am sorry to be obliged by you to repeat my

unpleasant home-truths ! George Collins
our noble host of to-night, was your
mother's favoured lover once, as I am
assured that he is your's at the present
time ! "

"It is a lie!" I gasped. 'A wicked,
malicious lie!"

The room seemed to he reeling and swaying
before my eyes; but I was striving hard
to he calm. I knew that any show of
emotion upon my part, unmasked as I was,
must attract attention.

If you will not believe my words I can
produce for you other proofs'' the yellow
demon said softly. ' I have them here in
this room for your inspection. Would you
like to look at them ? "

Yes," I answered, sternly, my tongue
cleaving to the roof of my mouth, and my
heart beating so fast that I could scarcely
breathe. I tried to say more but found that

I had completely lost my voice. By-and-by,
I managed to get out the words,

Show me your proofs then."

She flitted across the room to where her
accomplice was standing, and I saw the two
women whispering together.

Miss Warden who, arrayed as a duenna,
had been watching me in astonishment,
now came to me for an explanation of my
strange conduct. I had only time to tell
her that I had discovered that the Prince's
sister was here  that she had insulted me 
but that I could hold my own, and desired
now to settle a private matter with her. I
begged Miss Warden not to interrupt me,
therefore, but to remain where I could see
her, and beckon to her, in case I required
her. I told her that I intended going with
Madame Dobrowolska into one of the small
rooms opening upon the corridor in order
that we might not be remarked.

But you arc as wliitc as a sheet, Ilclen,"
she said. "Any one would sec that something
is agitating you. I shall go and fetch
one of those spare dominos from the cloak-room
and you can then put it on and be
hidden from observation."

She went off to act upon this excellent
suggestion, and in another instant the
Countess was again at my side. She was
holding a small packet in her hand.

"Are you acquainted with the writing of
your mother, Lady Davenant ? " she inquired
in a voice of mock courtesy. " I have here
three letters written by her to our noble
and respectable host in the days when he
was neither so noble nor so respectable.
Would you like to look at them ? "

By this time I had become a good deal
calmer.

"Yes, I will look at them," I answered;
"but not here. Be good enough to come

with mo into one of the empty rooms in
the passage. Your letters are probably
forgeries."

I spoke defiantly, but my heart was filled
with misgivings. I felt that I might be
about to experience some form of bitter disillusion.


' Come then," said the Countess, imperiously,
and we quitted the ball-room
together.

In the passage I met Miss Warden with
the domino. I slipped it on in the first
empty room we came to, and tied the black,
bat-like mask over my face.

Now we are upon equal terms ! " I said,
as I motioned my companion to a chair, and
sat down opposite to her.

Upon equal terms ! " she repeated,
laughing scornfully. '' Ah, girl, you know
little of the one you are braving if you
venture to speak thus ! Were I to exert

my will at this moment, wliicli this evening
is stronger than it has ever been before,
I could compel you to kneel down now
upon the parquet and grovel at my feet !
But to what purpose ? It would be only
waste of time ! "

She thrust out one of her feet as she
spoke, a very small foot for so tall a woman,
shod with a pointed yellow slipper, to match
the colour of her domino.

You are right!" I exclaimed, forcing
a scornful laugh too. " It would be only
waste of time ! I know all about your
will your ' volitional power,' your magnetic
influence over weak and helpless
natures, but I do not fear you ! Z, too,
am possessed of will, of magnetism. If I
cannot dominate you, at least I can resist
and defy you ! "

Now that my face was covered I was
enabled thus to assume a tone of bravado.

As I have already said, I felt no fear of this
woman or of her pretended powers, and I
knew that, in the presence of hard and
merciless natures, no sign of nervousness
or apprehension has ever stood anybody in
good stead. It is only those who are sensitive
and emotional themselves that can
make allowance for the faltering and misgivings
of others.

I was unable, of course, to perceive the
effect of my words. She did not reply to
them, but only said quietly :

'swell, here are the letters. You can
look at them one at a time. It will be best
to read them according to the dates. You
will observe that, although the addresses
are perfectly distinct, and also in Lady
Davenant's writing, the letters have never
passed through the post. This is the only
mysterious part of it; she must have forgotten

to send them. The rest is all quite
plain."

With this she handed me the first letter,
which I took mechanically, my heart
swelling with conflicting emotions.

It was enclosed in a small, slender envelope,
such as were generally used some
years ago, with one of the old-fashioned
red postage-stamps in the corner. It was
sealed with a little red seal, which, however,
had been broken in the opening. 

I examined the envelope and its direction
with the greatest attention, holding it close
up to the little oblique eyes of my black
mask : 

' To the Honourable George Collingwood,'
and then followed the name of his father's
place, and of our nearest post-town.

Alas, there could be no doubt whatever
as to the handwriting 1 It was the writing

VOL. III. L

upon which I had taken such pains to form,
my own, resembling, too, in every respect,
that of the letter which had been numbered
for so long amongst my dearest treasures, 
the letter which my mother had written to
Mason, then my nurse, when I was quite a
baby !

Now that I was indeed sure that the
writing was my mother's, I felt that it
would be little short of sacrilege were I to
read the words which had never been intended
for prying eyes. The woman at my
side had read them, it was true ; through
some combination of treachery and cunning
the letters had fallen into her cruel hands ;
but my poor dead mother, could she have
l)een consulted, would surely have preferred
that any rash words which she might once
have written should be read by her bitterest
enemy rather than by the child she had so
dearly loved.

As I held the letter thus in my hand an
inspiration came to me. It was almost as
though a voice, the voice of that one who
had been lost to me for so long, was
whispering imploringly in my ear :

The letters are for George Collingwood.
He has never yet received them. They
should be read by no other eyes ! "

Then the woman at my side spoke too ;
she was becoming impatient.

 Remember," she said, " the letter' is
not yours. You are to return it to me. I
hold the others till you give me back this
one, and it is the last of the three that is
the worst ! "

' I shall not read them ! " was all that

I could find the voice to answer. I was

thinking profoundly. I had decided that

I must obtain possession of these letters at

all hazards. How was I to attain this

end ?

L 2

By-aud-by an idea occurred to me. Outside
in the passage I caught sight of two
figures  the *' duenna " and the other yellow
domino. Our respective accomplices (if I
may apply this equivocal term to so old
and estimable a friend as Miss Warden)
were hovering about close to the doorway,
like two  seconds," anxiously watching lest
their 'principals " should transgress any of
the established rules of single combat.

I beckoned to the duenna, and she came
at once to my side. I whispered my instructions,
and she left me to carry them cut.
I had desired her to fetch me something
from my bed-room, which, fortunate was
upon this same floor, shut-oflP, with our
sitting-room, from the passage, by a small
vestibule, the door of which we had locked,
seeing that there were so many strangers
about. She knew, however, where to find
the key.

' Yon arc wishing to revenge yourself
union me in some way ? " asked the yellow
domino scoffing. "You are sending for
George Collingwood, for your lover, to warn
him who is amongst his guests ? I can assure
you that you are merely losing your time !
You do not know me, though you pretend todo
so ! lee on the contrary, has zeeland
recognised me. We have had some agreeable
conversation together about past times ! ''

I took no heed of what she was saying.
I was developing my plan of action, praying
and hoping for the firmness and courage
necessary to carry it out, and for victory, in
the end, over my merciless adversary.

I had no doubt, now, but that these were
the three letters abstracted by Celestine
Vigon during my mother's lifetime, and
about which she had afterwards written to
Sir Ilarry, demanding fifty pounds as the
price of their restitution. Sir Ilarry had

evidently dismissed this attempt at extortion
with contempt, and I could but feel thankful
now to think that the letters had never
fallen into his hands. Still, they should
remain no longer in the possession of these
two unscrupulous women. Somehow, I
must obtain them at once, and I had just
thought of a method by which I hoped to
succeed in doing this.

Had you not better begin to read ? "
said the Countess impatiently. ' Soon T
shall have to go. It is later than I
had meant to stay. Read the last one, in
which she calls him her ' own George."
I will share you ' (she goes on) ' with
no one ! I must be the first in your
existence, and all joy in life would end forme
should I lose you. With 7/oti, I fear it
is different. I often picture you to myself
smiling and happy, even dancing at a ball,
perhaps, when I am dead and gone from

you for ever ! ' You see that Lady Davenant
(that respectable British matron !) wa
at times quite prophetic ! After reading
you will not say that the letters are forgeries
! "

I was almost glad that she had mentioned

the word 'forgeries." The envelopes were
certainly addressed by my mother's hand, but
how could I tell, without looking, whether
their contents were genuine? I took the
letter I held out of its cover, and, without
unfolding it, examined the writing of the
few words thus presented to my view. The
writing was the same as that upon the outside
of the envelope. I returned it to the
Countess, since she would not give them all
to me at once, and examined the two others
in the same way. There was no doubt as
to the authenticity of the writing, though,
from the little I saw of it, I could not have
known whether the letters were compromising

ones or not. In the last, I ganglia
sight of the printed address 'Northovcr
Park '' upon the writing-paper.

Madame Dohrowolska seemed mortified
because I had not read more. She had repossessed
herself of them, and was shuffling
them up and down in her hands as though
they had been playing-cards.

Miss Warden came up to me at this
moment, and slipped a small packet into my
hand. I hoped that I now held in my grasp
something that my adversary would wish for
as eagerly as I wished for the letters, and
that, if I could only retain my coolness and
presence of mind, I might effect an exchange.
Miss Warden retired to the passage. We
were alone together once more. I assumed,
beneath my mask, a manner of complete
indifference.

I do not see whv we should be made
responsible for the failings of our relations,"

I said quietly. " Somebody has said, somewhere,
that we cannot reform our forefathers.
Besides which, it is not always the guiltiest
person who is discovered and unmasked !
You must know this, Madame Dohrowolska,
you, who are free to come here to-night,
whilst your unfortunate brother is deprived
of his liberty for life ! Whose are the hands
that are really stained with blood ? "

I had commenced speaking in a careless
voice, bnt I had increased in vehemence as
I proceeded. I felt that I uttered these
last words in quite a denunciatory tone.
My cheeks were burning as though with
fever, and my heart was beating violently.
I felt valiant, indignant, inspired  every
nerve and fibre of my being was concentrated
for the achievement of my object.
The yellow figure in front of me seemed to
have turned suddenly into stone. She
neither spoke nor moved, but sat perfectly

quiet, looking at me, I suppose, through
the little eyes of her mask

Now that I was fairly roused, words came
to me easily enough. My difficulty was,
indeed, to prevent them from coming too fast.

Pitiless, merciless woman ! " I exclaimed;
'you came here to-night only to
taunt and humiliate me  to give pain and
suffering to one who has never injured you !
You have endeavoured to cast a slur upon
the name of my mother, who, if you ever
regarded her as a rival, is dead now, and
removed for ever from your path. A
generous woman would have left her
memory in peace. But you have neither
generosity nor mercy. You have never
possessed a ray of human pity. Had you
any for your second husband  the rich
Jew, whom you married out of pique and
self-interest  when you stood over him in
that gloomy subterranean vault where he

was done to death ? Who was it who tore
from his neck the talisman which you
fancied might have protected him from his
murderers ? When your brother's hand
faltered, who was it who encouraged him
to achieve the horrid deed ? Helpless
under your malign influence, like a puppet
in your cruel hands  poor Hugo, your
victim also, the man upon whose superstition
and susceptibility you have ever
wrought with such fatal effect, struck as
one might strike in a dream, incited by
you  by your imaginary grievances against
your husband ! Where is he now  this
brother whom you pretended to love ; whose
affection, whose fortune, you have used for
your own selfish purposes ? Have you had
mercy upon him  upon anybody ? Why,
then, should I spare your feelings now, I
who know all the particulars of your many
crimes ? Here ! look at what I hold in my

hand ! Of what ghastly horrors would this
not tell if it could find voice to speak !
Examine it well, Delphine Crecszoleska 
Countess Dobrowolska  Madame Bernard !
I hardly knows by which of your many
aliases ' I ought to address you ! Does
not this ornament bring back to your
memory the face of the dead man whose
body you helped to bury in those secret
vaults, in order, as you thought, the better
to conceal all traces of your crime ? Look !
it matches the earrings you are wearing at
this very moment ! '' and I held towards
her the large emerald and diamond pendant
the Crecszoleski family jewel, of which I
had become possessed through so strange
and sinister a combination of events.

She snatched at it convulsively, but I
retained my hold. I noticed that her
fingers trembled.

Give it to me ! You must have stolen

it ! It was the gift of my mother ! I will
have possession of my own property!" she
gasped, all in a breath.

' No, no ! " I rejoined quietly, tightening
my hold upon the hated thing ; " there is
no question of stealing ! This is mine now,
bat it shall be yours upon certain conditions.
I will give it up to you for those
three letters."

As far as I could judge by the voice in
which she replied, my words had come as. a
relief to her.

''Do not think that I am in fear of you,
girl," she said, apologetically, '' because
my hands are trembling with emotion !
But my mother's favourite ornament, the
marriage-gift of my father  the object I
valued more than any other I possessed !
It is the unexpected sight of this that has
overcome me ! "

Another moment, and I had achieved my

purpose. The three letters were safe in my
possession, and I had handed over the
emerald pendant to its former owner. She
laughed softly as her fingers closed upon it.

"Ah! now I am once more myself!"
she exclaimed. '' You were not aware,
probably  you who have been speaking just
now of talismans, that this jewel is one.
That is why I would not have lost it for
the world 1 It was only because you were
holding it, that you were able for a moment
to exert your will against mine ! Poor little
fool ! You imagined that you were intimidating
me I "

' I am myself again, also," I answered,
with assumed calmness. ' I care nothing;
at all about your will  your powers of
dominion ; all I must advise you is, to go
and exercise them elsewhere 1 Leave this
house now, which decency, discretion, good
taste, should have forbidden you to enter,

and take with you that other wicked
woman  Celestine Vigon,! your servant and
accomplice, the woman you employed to
act as a spy in my mother's house, and
who, I have good reason to suspect, at your
cruel instigation, had some hand in her
death!"

I rose from my chair as I finished speaking,
and went out into the passage where Miss
Warden and Celestine Yigon were standing.

You had better leave this house, at once,
Celestine," I said, going straight up to the
masked figure. ' Neither you nor Madame
Dobrowolska ought ever to have entered it.
Persuade her, now, to go quietly away
before she is recognised. It is known to
more than one person that she is here, and
she may be arrested at any moment."

Without replying, she glided past me,
and rejoined her mistress in the room I had
just quitted.

I now begged Miss Warden to make my
excuses to the Ambassador if he should
inquire after me, and to say that fatigue
had obliged me to retire before the end of
the ball ; and with the three letters tightly
grasped in my hand, I sought the solitude
of my own chamber, feeling, now that my
excitement had somewhat subsided, utterly
broken down and exhausted both in mind
and in body.

I have often wondered since, how it happened
that I was enabled to say and do
what I did, by what unseen force I was
supported and inspired to act a part which
was so foreign to my nature. I cannot
bring myself to believe, of course, that the
emerald pendant was really a talisman.
Upon suddenly beholding it in my hand
Madame Dobrowolska had, for an instant,
lost her presence of mind. By this I had
profited, and anxious that I should not attribute

her emotion to fear, it had occurred
to her, no doubt, to invest the family jewel
with supernatural powers.

Without attaching any importance to
her words, however, I must admit that,
whilst holding the pendant in my hand, I
was confirmed and strengthened in my previous
abhorrence of this woman and her
crimes. The sight of it brought back tome
with painful force the impressions of
misery and horror with which I had
listened at Nice to the terrible revelations of
Mrs. Marks ; and the ghastly scenes which
had been enacted in the vaults of the Polish
chateau presented themselves so vividly to
my imagination that I felt impelled to
refer to them and to assume a tone of
vehement denunciation.

It was nearly three o'clock by my watch
when I entered my bedroom. I took off
my dress, my veil, my crown of glittering

VOL. III. M

stars. The morning was here ; I had done
with night and her emblems I My bouquet
was drooping and faded. I put it in water
for conscience' sake, although I knew that
as the violets were mounted upon wire they
would never revive. I felt as limp, as lifeless,
as hopeless of revival, as those withering
flowers, hut in spite of my fatigue I
decided that it would be a mockery to go to
bed. I knew that after the disturbing
events of the evening it would not be
possible to sleep, and I resolved, whilst
awaiting the daylight, to think over all that
had occurred, and consider my plans for
the future.

As I sat musing in my solitude I dared not

read the letters which were lying under

my hand, fearing lest they might go

towards proving the truth of Madame

Dohrowolska's malignant assertions. I set

myself, however, to recall the events which

had followed upon my mother's death. Alas,

every circumstance appeared calculated to

confirm my newly aroused suspicions I

I remembered, as though it had been but

yesterday, the afternoon of her death, and

how,  ignorant of the news that awaited

them,  my father, the hale and hearty Sir

M 2

carry Davcnant of those days, and George
Collingwood, his friend and neighbour, had
ridden back from the hunting-field together
like two brothers, so close and cordial had
seemed their good fellowship.

I remembered, too, the sense of mystery
and misfortune which had oppressed my
infant mind, the awed consciousness that
something altogether unusual and important
was taking place, whilst I had waited
frightened and wondering, in the passage
within sight of my mother's bedroom door.
Then I had heard my father's voice, sounding
hoarse and unfamiliar, as though half-choked
with emotion ;

** Leave me alone with her, George "
(how well I remembered his words !) "I
feel that I can bear it now!" and George
Collingwood, the highly-placed diplomatist
of to-day, had staggered out into the passage,
looking dazed and miserable. Why

had he caught mc up in his arms as he
came upon me standing there, and kissed
me so tenderly and despairingly, and why
were my cheeks afterwards all wet with his
tears ? Because,  everything seemed quite
plain to me now,  he had loved the woman
who had just passed away, the wife of the
friend who trusted and believed in him, and
because I was her child, the only part of
her that now remained to him upon earth !

My father and George Collingwood had
ridden home together from hunting on that
fatal day, as I have already said, and, to
judge by appearances, they were then
upon terra of the most cordial friendship.
Together they had walked up the steps
leading to the front door, and they had
gone together, as though from a desire for
mutual sympathy and support, into the very
chamber of death. But had they ever met
again after that day ? My father had

quitted Northovcr almost immediately, it
is true, and George Collingwood's diplomatic
career had necessitated his living a
great deal abroad. Still, there must have
been occasions when these two men, seeming
once such close friends and comrades,
must have found themselves again within
only a few miles of one another ; what
more natural than that they should have
foregathered and talked together over old
times ?

And yet I could not remember that
George Collingwood had ever set foot in
Northover House since my poor mother's
death. Nay, as I went on reviving my
earliest recollections thus, it even seemed
to me that he must have been bound by
some vow or promise to abstain from doing
so. Two or three circumstances, mere
trifles in themselves, occurred suddenly
to my remembrance.

When, after my childish days were over
and done with, and Miss Warden and I
were leading a monotonous, though by no
means an unhappy existence, at my old
home, why had not my parents' former
friend ever paid me a visit upon some of
the many occasions when he was staying
with his father in our immediate neighbourhood
? This omission was, evidently,
neither the result of forge fulness nor indifference,
for when I had fallen in with
him that day, when riding upon the highroad,
his eyes had brightened with pleasure
at sight of me, and he had at once made
arrangements with me for a second meeting.
Why, however, did he not call openly
for me at the house and take me for a ride ?
and why, upon both of these two occasions,
had he separated from me, as though with
regret, at the lodge-gate of Northover Park,
when, by accompanying me ail the way to

my home, ho might have prolonged our ride
and returned to his own hy a much shorter
and prettier way ?

Then I remembered how, upon the occasion
of Hugo Crecszolcski's first visit to us,
whilst anxious apparently that the Prince
should not see me en tete-astute, my godfather
had not accompanied his guest, explaining,
in his letter to Miss Warden, that
he had an appointment at the Foreign Office
which would oblige him to go to London.
As it turned out, however, this must have
been merely an excuse. He had walked
with the Prince, in order to show him the
way, as far as the entrance to Northover
Park. Why had he not accompanied him
to the house ?

We had fancied at the time that, having
from some cause put off his journey to
town, he had felt bound, all the same, to
adhere to what he had written, but in the

light of all the later knowledge that had
come to me, I perceived that he would
never have treated us with so much formality,
and I was enabled to put quite a
different construction upon his conduct.
Then I recalled my father's strange behaviour
; the extraordinary change which
had taken place in him; his apparent
horror of everything that could remind
him of his dead wife, and his coldness
and want of affection towards her child.
All this, I fancied, could be very easily
explained now. Deceived by the woman
he had so tenderly loved, dishonoured by
the friend he had so thoroughly trusted,
his nature had become soured and embittered.
Habits of intemperance, resorted
to at first with the view of deadening his
misery, had gradually grown upon him.

A drunkard is, no doubt, very like a
madman at times, but madness  a dire and

unsought calamity descending upon us by
the visitation of God  was far more calculated
to inspire sympathy and compassion
than its degraded prototype ; and so it had
been whispered abroad, chiefly by loyal
friends and attached servants, that Sir
Harry Davenant had become insane.

After his paralytic stroke, my father's
mind had, doubtless, become somewhat
affected, but, previous to this, there had
been, at any rate, a good deal of method
in his madness.

His erring wife had not been permitted
to repose within the gloomy precincts of
the family vault, but lay sleeping in her
nameless grave amongst the humble grass-grown
mounds of the simple villagers.
How much I should have preferred to rest
there,

Beneath flowers' roots and birds' light feet,"

Still, I realised now, that my poor
mother's banishment from our grim ancestral
charnel-house must have been intended
by Sir Harry as a punishment.

Then, too, he had either destroyed everyone
of his wife's portraits, or hidden them
away in lumber-rooms, and he had evidently
taken a dislike to me for the very reason
which had made George Collingwood love
me  because I was her child. No doubt
he would have hidden me away, too, ux, a
lumber-room, if he had dared. As it was,
he had managed to see as little of me as
possible !

All this had seemed to me to be very
hard to bear at the time. Now, however,
I understood, or fancied that I understood,
how it was all brought about, and my sympathies
were at first entirely upon t}\e side
of "poor Sir Harry," as the neighbours
round about Northover used pityingly to

call him. I found myself taking, indeed,
quite the severe moralists' view of my
dead mother's weakness. Then suddenly I
veered round again, remembering the gentle
and beautiful face of the one who was now
for ever silent and unable to defend herself.
Looking into my own erring heart, I recognised
that I, of all women, ought to view
with charity the weaknesses of others, and I
fell to wondering whether, supposing that I
had found myself settled down for life at a
dull country-place, with some sort of husband,
no matter how worthy and excellent
so long as he was not the one man in the
world for me, and supposing that Courtenay
Davenant had been from time to time my
near neighbour, my frequent companion,
and always, always  whenever we were
thrown together  eager and persistent in
his endeavours to win my love, I might
not, one day, have been taken at a disadvantage

and vanquished, as I feared now
that my poor mother must have been
overcome and vanquished by George Col-logwood
?

Did she care for him, I wondered, as
much as I could care for Court nay, but for
the anxious watch that I was trying to keep
over my heart ? Her letters to him were
upon the dressing-table beside me, within
reach of my hand. How easily I could
become enlightened upon this subject !
But no ! I would not commit so cowardly,
so base an act ; one, too, which could only
be productive of further misery to myself !
The letters should be given to George Col-logwood,
the man for whom they were
intended, and he should destroy them, after
he had read them, so that there would be
no danger of their falling, a second time,
into evil hands !

For a child to set to work thus to excuse

an erring parent seems, somehow, like a
distortion of the proper order in nature;
nevertheless, I felt somewhat more composed
when I fancied that I had fairly
taken into consideration all the temptations
with which my mother might have found
herself environed.

For George Collingwood, my " noble
host," as Delphine Dobrowolska had sneeringly
called him, I could make none of the
excuses that I had been making for my
mother. He may have tenderly loved hers
but where was the merit in this ? It could
not have been so very difficult to love her !
Why, however, if this was the case, had he
not married her ? She had lived close by,
with her father, at Croft's Farm. Surely
he must have been acquainted with her
before she was married to Sir Harry ?
Whether or no, once she was united to
another man, his own neighbour and friend,

why did he not leave her to enjoy what,
but for him, might have proved a happy
and peaceful existence ? Alas, why do not
people always behave as they should, in this
strange world of change and temptation !
In spite of my affection for Lord Winchester,
I had never regarded him in an ideal light.
He was agreeable, clever, possessed of wit,
amiability, and a capability for enjoyment,
which was at times infectious, but he was
no hero. Hugo's words concerning hia
recurred to my memory, and I was conscious
that there was probably a good deal
of truth in them.

*' George is pre-eminently a materialist,"
the Prince had said; " a sensualist," I had
almost added. He has no sympathy whatever
with the spiritual aspects of life.
 Let us eat, drink, and be merry ; everything
else is nothing ! ' expresses his creed
to the letter. The best of everything must

always be for himself,  nobody else must be
allowed to approach it until it has ceased to
please him ; then it may go, and anybody else
may take it who likes !'' . . . Certain it was
that Lord Silchester was essentially a man
of pleasure, a Sybarite, seeking and courting
the pleasant impressions in life, and
somewhat intolerant of all emotion, however
nobly inspired, which tended to disturb
his equanimity. He was thoroughly practical,
too, either by nature or habit ; " the
spiritual aspects of life " had no attractions
for him. He would have been the last man
in the world to sacrifice the enjoyment of
the moment, or to mourn over the inevitable.
Yes; Hugo had probably been correct in
his estimate of my godfather's shallow
nature ! And yet, and yet,  might there
not be another side to it which had escaped
the Prince's observation, and might not this
very lightness and flippancy of mood, like

the froth upon changeful seas, be merely
the surface-matter churned from profounder
depths ?

I recalled that never-to-be-forgotten evening
when, impelled by so many combining
forces, I had waited for Hugo in the old
summerhouse at home, and when, to my
surprise and confusion, my godfather had
suddenly appeared before me in his stead.
The whole scene came back to me so vividly
as I sat here, hundreds of miles away, that
1 could see in imagination the two hares
that had been browsing out in the moonlight,
scurrying away at the sound of an
approaching footstep into the security of
the shadowy bracken, and I could smell all
the delicious odours of the garden-flowers
which had floated upon the air on that
English night in August.

There had not been much of the callous
Sybarite about George Colling wood then,

 VOL. Til. N

and now I felt that I could cuess the reason
of his emotion ! I could perceive the meaning
now of so many things that had seemed
to me to be utterly unaccountable then !
Why, for instance, my godfather had been
so startled at beholding my letter, when it
had fallen upon the floor from the Prince's
coat-pocket, and why, at first sight, because
of what he had been good enough to term
my 'peculiar but beautiful handwriting"
(so like the handwriting upon the envelopes
now before me!) he had '' half imagined "
that the letter must have been intended for
himself. It had reminded him, of course
(I thought), of other letters which he had
received in the past,  letters written in that
'* peculiar but beautiful handwriting " which
I had taken such pains to imitate, probably
upon the very same sort of note-paper,
with '' Northover Park " embossed upon it in
dark blue letters ! And to the old summerhouse,

too, my mother's favourite resort,

tender and romantic memories were still

clinging, no doubt, for him ! I recollected

how, as he passed out under its rustic porch,

he had gathered some of the blossoms from

the twining honeysuckle and pressed them to

his lips, and how he had said that he would

keep them as a remembrance of that 'lovely

and sacred spot." Yes! I fancied that I

could understand all this now ! There

remained one thing, however, which w5s

still plunged in mystery. Up to the very

day of my mother's death. Sir Harry Davenant

and George Collingwood had been upon

the most friendly terms. My father could

have known nothing then of his neighbour's

treachery. They were friends still, dear

friends, to all appearance, when George

Collingwood had caught me up in his arms

in the passage. When had the discovery

and consequent estrangement taken place ?

N 2

These three letters could have had nothing
to do with it, for I had had positive proof
that Sir Harry could never have seen them.
Was it not more than probable, however, that
there may have been others,  letters which
my mother lead received from the man she
loved, and which she may have, unfortunately,
omitted to burn ? It is so difficult
to a woman to harden her heart sufficiently
to burn such letters ! '* What the hand
which has become so dear has written shall
be surely sacred to me to all time ! Some
day, should he leave me for another, or be
spirited away to the land of shadows, I might
not be able to believe, but for these treasured
proofs, that I have ever been so blessed and
honoured amongst women ! " In some such
way as this do we reason, and yet, can one
well imagine a more bitter agony than that
which must surely follow upon the reading
of love-letters from one who is either unfaithful

or dead ? Pew women would have
the courage, once the evil day had actually
dawned, to attempt anything so sad and
unprofitable !

But how did my father become possessed
of any such letters, supposing that they had
existed ? I could not believe that any man,
\;\diatever his suspicions may have been (and
in this case it was evident that there were
none), would have desired, after the death of
the woman he had loved, to search about
for proofs of her infidelity. What had
occurred, too, to open my father's eyes, must
have occurred so very quickly, and it was
unlikely that, whilst the body of his wife
was lying stark upon the bed, he would have
sought amongst her private correspondence
there, in the very chamber of death ! And
yet, before the day appointed for the funeral,
he must have discovered something which

rendered hiu unworthy, in his opinion, of a
place in the family vault ?

Suddenly, as I sat musing thus, a terrible
suspicion flashed upon my troubled mind.
I bethought me of the part I had played
upon the memorable day of my mother's
death,  of the mysterious directions which
she had given me about unlocking the tin-box
in her wardrobe, her pale and anxious
face whilst I got out the two packets of
letters ; her seeming fear lest I should not
accomplish her behest before the return of
Celestine Vigon with the soup. And then
my own sense of consequential importance,
as I carefully deposited my uncle Everard's
letters, the packet that was bound round
with the black silk riband, in the middle
of the blazing wood fire ! But was this
the packet,  I now asked myself in an agony
of sudden apprehension,  which my poor

mother had intended that I should destroy ?
What could have been the use of burning
these letters from her only brother ? Why
should ho have written anything to his
sister which it would compromise her to
have published, even upon the housetops,
after her death ? And then what was that
other packet, the letters which I could not
bring myself to burn because of the pretty
red seal which adorned them  the seal bearing
uion it the impression of the little horse
with wings, '' Pegasus," as I knew now,
'' the poet's winged steed " ? What had
my idiotic folly inspired me to do with
these letters when my unhappy mother had
fainted ? I had slipped them just inside
the coverlet of her bed, within easy reach
of her hand, together with the gold chain
from which hung the key of the tin box.
Here, no doubt, my father had found them,
just after George Colling wood, his trusted

friend, had quitted the room, after my poor
mother had breathed lier last. And yet,
even supposing that lie had made this
discovery, would he have had the courage,
or rather the callousness, to look into the
letters at so solemn a moment ? Alas ! if
the letters were indeed compromising ones,
it would not have been necessary to read
much ! The first words probably, of the first
letter, would have told him enough ! I
imagined now that I could perceive precisely
how it all happened. lie was feeling,
perhaps, for her hand  the hand that must
have been still warm, hoping maybe to
detect some faint pulsation, when his own
must have encountered the packet of letters.
The circumstance must have struck him as
peculiar ; he might have fancied that some
shock following upon news contained in
one of tliesc letters had caused her unexpected
death, and so, in an evil moment,

he may have examined them. He would,
at once, have recognized the handwriting
of his trusted friend. This, coupled with
the position in which he had found the
letters, may have aroused his suspicions ;
he may have unfolded one of them and
read . . .

'' Alas, alas ! "  I thought  '' miserable,
unhappy chill ! IIow terribly you were mistaken
in supposing that you had rendered
your mother a service ! Is it not far more
probable that your own hand was the means
of covering her memory with reproach ?
Accept then, without repining, the share of
suffering and disgrace which has descended,
deservedly, upon your head, and console
yourself as best you may with the reflection
that she, at least, has been spared the pain
and humiliation with which your folly might
have overwhelmed her had she lived ! No
punishment can be too severe for you, since

nothing can now remedy the consequences
of yoiir fatal blunder ! "

So I went on tormenting myself till the
light, stealing through my closed shutters,
told me that the day must be already far
advanced, and upon unfastening them and
looking forth, I saw that all the gilded domes
and steeples were glittering in the bright
wintry sunshine.

Le secret (Tenmiijer, says Voltaire,
est cehii che tout dire ;" and I fear that I
have already more than wearied my readers
by this recapitulation of my miserable reflections.


At ten o'clock Mason came to call me,
having been told by Miss Warden that I
was not to be disturbed until then. Seeing
me sitting there in my dressing-gown she
fancied at first 'that I had been up sometime;
then, observing that my hair was
still dressed and my bed slept in, she

guessed the truth and began reproaching
me.

You'll be feeling dreadfully tired, miss,
later on," she said. "It would have been
better to have waited and seen off the
company than to have sat up here all by
yourself! "

Then she added, after a pause 
We had a fine disturbance after you
were gone ! One of the ladies, an Italian
Countess  so they said  went off into sort .of
hysterics, or convulsions, and then fainted.
They sent after me in the cloak-room, and
we untied her mask to give her air, and
threw back the kind of hood she wore over
her head, and then I saw what I had been
nearly sure of at the first moment of setting
eyes upon her, that she was the same
fine-looking lady I had seen in the afternoon
at the flower shop, and by her side
was another person dressed just like her,

who I could have taken my oath was
met* moselle ,'' only she was masked and
covered up from top to toe, and I couldn't
get to hear her speak. Fancy her impudence,
coming to the ball here just as if
she was a lady ! We passed a damp handkerchief
over the face of the lady that
fainted. She was certainly a handsome-looking
lady enough, but not nearly so
young as I thought she was. Her face
was a good deal powdered and painted, as
we found out by the handkerchief, and her
hair looked very nearly white in some
places. By-and-by she came to, and hurried
on her mask as if she was quite afraid of
being seen with her paint off, and they
both went away together and got into their
carriage before his lordship knew anything
about it. And this morning, when the housemaids
were looking round, they came upon
this in the room she fainted in. It must

have come off when we pulled back her
hood."

Lie opened her apron as she spoke, and
I beheld, not without an inward shudder, a
thick coil of false hair, black as jet, arranged
so as to form a kind of artificial chignon,

I know for certain," Mason went on,
*' that this is the same hair that the lady
was wearing who I met in the flovver-shop,
only then I fancied that it all grew on her
head. I suppose I had better take it down
to the porters although I don't suppose it's
very likely that anybody will send to claim
such a thing as this ! ''

To which I replied that I did not suppose
so either.

Before half-past two o'clock I had established
myself in our sitting-room, and was
awaiting, with mingled feelings of impatience
and apprehension, the hour of Courtenay's
coming.

I had pre-arranged my opening sentence,
or rather, my reply to his opening sentence,
so often, that it had grown quite complicated
and difficult to remember. It is foolish, at
such moments, to attempt any kind of set
task which has to be learnt by rote, for
there is a natural eloquence, the outcome of

genuine emotion, which generally ends by
putting all our fine phrases to confusion.

I had made up my mind, when I had
parted with Courtenay in the ball-room,
that to-day I would tell him, in as few
words as possible, the history of my life as
far as it had gone. I would tell him what,
of course, could not fail to surprise him,
that I was his cousin Nelly ; a wife, and yet
not a wife, a widow in almost every sense of
the word, and yet unable to make for myself
a newer and brighter existence. That I
had concealed my identity at first, because
of the tragic circumstances which were connected
with my husband's name ; and that,
afterwards, upon hearing of his coming, I
had preferred that he should know me as
' Miss Colling wood," a stranger  with regard
to whom he could have formed neither predispositions
nor prejudices  from a foolish
feeling of shyness, occasioned by what I

had been told about our ** family marriage
project' and the objection he had had to
the scheme. Then, supposing that he had
reproached me with all this, I had intended,
woman-like, and in spite of what was in my
heart, to have turned the tables upon him
at once ; to declare that it would have been
obvious to anybody possessed of a particle
of perception, who I was : that I had said
things to him in the sledge which must
surely have revealed my identity to any one
else; and that, if he had ever taken the
trouble to interest himself in his cousin, he
would have remembered that, as one of her
names was ' Collingwood," it was not unlikely
that Lord Silchester might be her
godfather, and that from the very first I
had been introduced as the Ambassador's
goddaughter.

Since my stormy scene with Madame
Dobrowolska, however, my intentions had

undergone a good deal of modification, and
I shrank now from revealing myself until I
knew more. I dreaded lest any word of
this scandalous story concerning my mother
might have reached Courtenay's ears in the
past. An idol had crumbled, a star had
fallen from my heaven. I was ashamed,
now, of the being whose memory I had so
venerated and adored. Above all, I was
ashamed of having lived, thus, in friendly
intercourse, with the man who had brought
such dishonour upon our house. Only one
hope remained to me, a very faint one. The
Ambassador, upon seeing the letters, might
be able to throw some new light upon their
motive and destination. I would give the
letters, one by one, into his hand, and ask
him to tell me whether or no they had been
written by my mother, and I would watch
his face attentively whilst he read, and draw
my conclusions from its expression. As

VOL. III. o

soon as I was dressed, therefore, which was
not until nearly' twelve o'clock, I wrote him
a few formal lines, hogging him to see me,
if possible, at once, for I did not wish this
interview to clash with Courtenay's. Mason,
however, by whom I had sent my note,
returned in a few minutes to say that His
Excellency, contrary to his usual custom,
had gone out more than an hour ago, inconsequence
of a telegram which he had
received upon some urgent political matter
(his valet thought). He had not yet
returned. So now my interview with
Courtenay would have to take place before
I had seen him, the contrary of what I had
hoped to arrange. The three letters were
in my pocket, all ready for his inspection,
but I knew nothing more with respect to
their authenticity, and I felt nervous, confused,
vacillating, and utterly undecided as
to what I should say to my cousin. I was

looking pale and haggard. It seemed tome
as though years must have passed over
my head in those last few hours. Sorrow
and sleeplessness combined had made me
feel bitterly cold. I was sitting cowering
by the stove, vainly trying to warm my
hands, when the little English travelling
clock upon the writing-table struck three.
My heart began beating violently.

Upon the stroke of three," Courtenay
had said to me in the ball-room, ' I will be
there."

And, true to his word, before the clock

had finished striking, I heard the bell at

the entrance to our apartment give a sharp

tinkle. An instant afterwards a servant

announced " Sir Courtenay Davenant." I

rose to my feet mechanically and awaited

his coming. Not for all the wealth of Peru,

supposing that would have benefited me,

could I have uttered a word. When I

o 2

beheld him my whole being became thrilled
with a new misery. It flashed upon me
that, until now, I had overlooked the
bitterest aspect of my situation. What did
it signify, in reality, by what name I chose
to call myself, whether I was or was not
his near kinswoman, and whether my poor
mother, in the irrevocable past, had loved,
like myself, a man who was not her husband
? The misery I was enduring now
had nothinfic to do with all this. It was
caused by the consciousness that, apart from
anything that might have occurred in the
past, I and this man whom I loved must
needs go upon our separate ways in the
future. Never, whether I called myself
'Davenant," or '' Collingwood," or '' Cress
could he and I meet again upon
the same footing as heretofore, once I had
told him my story. This meeting, therefore,
was but the prelude to an eternal farewell.

I stood facing him for a few seconds, withall
this in my heart. Tears came into my
eyes, which I could not control. I observed
that he, too, looked pale and unhappy. He
took my hand, and then  feeling it so cold
and listless, I suppose, or else seeing me
looking so wretched  it seemed as if he broke
down in some resolve which he might have
made to treat me with formality, and folding
me in his arms he covered my face with
kisses. They were altogether despairing
kisses, as though of renunciation. No doubt
that he, too, had fully realized that this was
to be our last meeting. By-and-by he led
me gently to a sofa, which was placed at
right angles with the stove, and sat down
upon it by my side.

It will be necessary for me to say here a
few words as to the arrangement of our
sitting-room. As is generally the case
abroad, once a suite of apartments is

entered, several rooms communicated one
with another in succession. Of these our
sitting-room was the first, shut off from the
corridor upon the one hand by a kind of
lobby, and separated from the apartments
beyond by folding-doors, in front of which,
partly to keep off the draught, and partly to
dissimulate the fact that the room possessed
anything in common with a passage  stood
a large black-and-gold screen of Oriental
design ; and it was in front of this that the
sofa upon which we were seated had been
placed.

After a few moments of constrained
silence, Courtenay spoke.

'' I wish to speak to you to-day," he said,
with the manner of one who is making a
supreme effort, ' quite candidly, and without
reserve. Heaven knows that I had no
thought of doubting you when we first met.
You seemed to me a being too pure for the

voice of calumny to assail. You must have
known  you must have seen  what my
feelings were ! Women are so quick at
finding out such things ! By-and-by, however,
suspicions  unworthy suspicions, perhaps
 were thrust upon me against my will.
Circumstances came to my knowledge by
degrees which tortured me and made me
wretched. You must let me tell you, Helen,
what some of these things were. Loving
you as I did, I should not have been human
had I not suffered. Let me hear now, from
your own lips, that these rumours were
false, and I shall be relieved of a miserable
burden. You will see that, to me, this is a
matter of life or death ; and you will forgive
me, I trust, if I unwillingly allude to
anything that may cause you pain?"

He looked at me earnestly and regretfully,
awaiting my answer. But I could find no

words, and so merely nodded my head in
assent.

I understood when I arrived here," he
went on by-and-by  speaking slowly and
hesitatingly, as though he too, had been
learning his lesson by heart, and was
anxious to repeat it in the proper order 
' that the Ambassador was your uncle.
Several people told me this. I said to
myself that you must be a sister of my old
friend Tom Collingwood ; and such is the
effect of the imagination that I even fancied
that I observed a likeness  something in
your voice and in the way you expressed
yourself. Then I remembered that Tom
Collingwood had never had a sister, and so
I made up my mind that you were probably
a cousin ; and, having occasion to write to
him at about this time, I mentioned you in
my letter  you may guess in what terms 
assuming that you were his relation."

"But did I ever tell you that I was his
relation?" I put in, eagerly. "You asked
me no questions upon this subject until
quite lately. Absolve me, at any rate, from
having wished to deceive you in this ! Last
night, when you questioned me, I told you
that Lord Silchester was not my uncle 
that he was my godfather, and a very dear
and kind old friend, but no relation. Why
did you not question me sooner ? "

Because, Helen, you seemed to be always
so anxious to avoid me. As you know, we
had but few opportunities of talking together
privately. Whenever I sought to take
advantage of any of these you appeared to
resent it. If I ever ventured to ask you a
question I fancied that you seemed to be
embarrassed. God knows how I plotted and
planned to drive back with you that night in
the sledge!"

You admit, then, that I tried to prevent

all this misery ! " I cried, passionately,
and that it was you who strove to bring it
about ? Did I not tell you, as we drove
home that night, that I was bound and
tied ? "

"You did," he answered, turning very
pale ; '' must we, then, go on being miserable
still?"

Do you mean  has nothing changed
since that evening ? "

Yes."

"Are you still 'bound and tied,' as you
were then ?"

Nothing has changed since that evening,"
I answered sadly.

But then, Helen, you told me that you
were bound by duty, not by affection. This
made me hope on. I loved you so much
that I was prepared to endure almost anything
for your sake. Then came these
horrible stories, chapter and verse given,

statements which I was utterly powerless
to disprove ; and which, sometimes, everything
seemed to confirm. Tom Collins
too, wrote to say that he had never
had a female cousin of his own name ; and
he asked me  meaning, of course, no harm
to find out whether some of the family
diamonds, which his uncle had sent for
from his banker's, were for the young lady
who was being passed off as Miss Collins
? I got this letter last Saturday
evening ; on Sunday morning the diamonds
arrived by the messenger ; and, last night,
I saw you wearing them at the ball.
Beautiful as they looked in your beautiful
hair  the sight of them, after what I had
heard, nearly drove me mad. I should
have liked to have torn them off your head,
and stamped them under foot. Then I
thought it would be wiser to tear your
image out of my heart instead."

'* You seem to have very readily believed
evil of me* I said, as proudly and reproachfully
as I could ; " a few gossiping stories,
invented by jealous, mischief-making people,
come to your ears, and at once you condemn
me unheard the woman you profess
to love!"

'' Indeed, no ! " he exclaimed, earnestly,
as he took one of my hands in both his
own ; *' indeed, indeed, I came here hoping
that you would tell me with your own lips
that these stories were calumnies and inventions
! Make me believe in you, again,
Helen; ease my heart of all these miserable
suspicions and I shall bless you as long as
I live ! If I venture to question you now,
if I wound you by my seeming doubts,
forgive me, I implore you ! I have but
one object : to refute these infamous
rumours, and to set at rest for ever the
suspicions they have given rise to. Answer

me, then, Helen ; and, for God's sake, tell
me the truth : Were you ever at a place in
Piedmont, an old monastery, called St.
Dalmas de Tende ? "

Yes," I answered, faintly ; determined
that I would make no more concealments ;
'' I was there in the autumn of last year."

And whilst you were there  forgive me
for asking you this ; afterwards, I will
explain why T am compelled to do so 
did you call yourself ' Miss Collingwoo,'
as now, or by another name, which was not
your own, the name of a married woman ? "

Yes ; I called myself by the name of a
married woman."

His countenance fell as I finished speaking.
The haggard look returned to it, and
the expression of hope died out of his eyes.
He let go of my hand and, after a pause,
resumed, in a changed voice :

' And you had a reason  a sad, an unfortunate

reason  for thus passing as a
married woman ; and Lord Silvester was
with you at this time ? "

Yes ; I had a reason, and Lord Silvester
was with me. He consoled and supported
me through that miserable time."

'but the people of the place  the proprietor
and the servants  were not aware
that Lord Silchester was staying there ?
He had reasons, as well as yourself, for
wishing to conceal his name ? "

Yes ; he had reasons," was all that I
could summon voice to reply.

Courtenay was speaking now  I fancied
quite sternly and bitterly, as a man
devoid of either love or compassion might
speak to some poor erring wretch, for whose
sorrow and humiliation he could spare no
grain of sympathy. His manner seemed to
freeze the life-blood in my veins.

He is a fair-weather friend," I thought,

bitterly; " whilst he saw me flattered and
admired, he imagined that he was in love
with me. Now, when he thinks that I am
only some unfortunate girl who has been
betrayed and disgraced in the past, he can
cast me at once from his heart, without a
pang. He suspects, now, that I am utterly
unworthy of his love; and, with this, his
love changes immediately into contempt.
"What an easy transition ! How many
might well envy him his philosophy ! "

Then to these bitter reflections succeeded
sadder, tenderer memories. Prom this frost-bound
northern city, I was transported, infancy,
to that peaceful Italian valley at the
foot of the Col de Tende, There, in the
cleft of the blue hills, rose the white belfry
of the old convent. I saw the tall, waving
meadow-grass by the river, bright with
butterflies and fragrant with flowers. Then
the scene changed, and I seemed to be lying

nigh unto death in my bedroom  the room
which had once been a chapel, with its
high, vaulted roof, the room in which little
George had been born ; and I saw the old
jKidre of Briga passing to and fro between
the bed and the three tall lancet windows
in his rusty soutane. I thought, as the
tears came into my eyes, that if only my
child had lived I shoidd never have found
myself in this humiliating position : seeming
altogether at the mercy of this man, who
had come to cross-question me, as though
I had been an arraigned criminal. I should
have had an interest, an object in life 
something to satisfy the hunger and longing
of my heart  which would effectually have
protected me from all the more dangerous
and disturbing forms of affection. I saw,
in imagination, the cold, placid little face 
the lids fast closed over the eyes that had
never opened upon the new world that he

had left so soon. And then, all in the
space of a second, I had wandered away to
the peaceful graveyard upon the green hillside,
and stood once more by the little
mound with its cross of wooden fretwork.
My garland was hanging there still, the
lowers as fresh as upon the day when I
had gathered them. To the left nestled
the little brown village of Briga  the home
of honest, simple-hearted peasant-folk, who
knew nothing of the passions and ambitious
which agitate stormier lives. Now and again
the bells of the wandering flocks tinkled
upon my ear ; whilst, far away, rose those
elfin tents  the peaks of the high snow
mountains  one above another ; dimpled
upon one side by soft shadows, and flushed
upon the other with the pink glow of the
sunset.

What a calm, tranquil, beautiful scene !
A haven of rest of oblivion  for a troubled

VOL. III. p

storm-tossed spirit ! I covered my face with
my hands, and burst into tears at the
remembrance of it.

Oh ! that I could be at peace'' I cried,
amongst those quiet mountains, by the side
of my poor little George ! "

The words escaped me involuntarily;
almost as though my thoughts had taken
voice.

'' George was the name of your child ?"
Courtenay asked by-and-by ; *' called, I presume,
after Lord Silchester?"

"Yes; called after Lord Silchester," I
answered wearily, drying my eyes and
striving to stifle my emotion.

I Icnow now what I did not know then, 
that all this time, whilst I fancied that
Courtenay was experiencing for me nothing
warmer than contempt, his heart was going
out to me in reality, in compassion, in tenderness,
and in love. If he had known meat

first only as some poor, repentant Magdalen,
and grown to care for me in spite of
my unfortunate past, he might, perhaps,
have shown me more of what was passing
in his heart. But he had chosen to set me
upon so exalted a pinnacle. Compared to
all other women, I seemed  as he has told
me since, even what those far snow-mountains
were to the lower hills ; and an illusion
of this kind, thus suddenly destroyed,
coming to him with the sharp pang of a
severed nerve, paralysed him for the moment
through the sheer force of its agony.

Then, when he could think at all, he
fell to wondering (it seems) why he could
not hate me after all he had heard ; why,
on the contrary, his love seemed only to
have grown stronger and more desperate.
He knew,  seeing that he had always admired
most that which is most admirable

in woman,  that this could not be because,

p 2

as lie then imagined, I was altogether fallen
and unworthy; but because, through a combination
of shame, of bitterness, of jealous
misery, he was enabled to realize how great
a part I had previously had in his life, and
how precious even this shattered idol must
ever be to his heart. And so, in pity, in
love, in desperation, with no kind of set
purpose or hope for the future, but only for
the momentary solace, he would have clasped
me again in his arms, only that I, knowing
nothing of all this, and thinking that
he meant merely to treat a light woman
lightly, thrust him resolutely from me, as
one might thrust something that was personally
repellent, and, rising to my feet, I
went towards the door, in order to make my
escape to my bed-room.

But, before I could reach it, a servant
presented himself, and informed me that
His Excellency had only just received my

letter. He had been absent all the morning,
but could see me now if it was convenient
to me to receive him. " I will receive
him at once' I said, desperately, feeling
that some change, were it only in the nature
of my sufferings, would be a kind of relief.

The footman [departed to deliver this
message, and I went back to the sofa, near
to which Courtenay was standing, looking
pale, miserable, and angry. A mistaken
sense of jealousy, I suppose, caused him to
mutter a few mad words of reproach and
renunciation. Then he said, almost fiercely,

'' Let me get out of this room before he
comes to you ! You cannot wish me to
make a third at such an interview ! I cannot
meet him after what I have just heard.
Good-bye ! " He was pushing past me towards
the door, but I stopped him.

No, no ! " I exclaimed, with the
determination begotten of despair; "you

must not go yet ! You shall make a
third party at this interview  I desire
it  and you owe me this reparation after
all the unworthy suspicions you have
nourished against me ! I have told you
nothing that could have prejudiced you
against one of the kindest of my friends
had not your mind been filled with foregone
conclusions which have made you
misinterpret and distort everything you have
heard. Now, however, you can hear the
truth ; you will learn, a any rate, how you
have misjudged the unhappy woman whom
you professed to love."

I folded back a flap of the large black
screen as I spoke, and disclosed a dark nook,
bounded by the double doors, which seemed
made on purpose for eaves-droppers.

No, no !" he whispered breathlessly,
but I was determined.

Come, I implore you, I beg of you ! "

I pleaded, meeting this eyes boldly for
the first time. " Do me this favour, the
only one I shall ask of you,  for the sake
of the love you say you have borne me.
Hear now, with your own ears, what may
console you, perhaps, if you really care forme!
quick! hide yourself ! the Ambassador
is coming!" and I thrust him, very much
against his will, behind the great black
screen. I had scarcely done so when Lord
Silchester entered the apartment.

Seeing me in such a terrible state of agitation,
my whole frame trembling, and my
eyes still wet with weeping. Lord Silchester
was naturally alarmed.

Dearest Helen, what can have happened
? " he asked, anxiously, taking my
two hands in his own. '' You have not
heard any bad news ? " And he drew meas
Courtenay had done, to the sofa.

Don't shrink away from me, dear, as if
I were an enemy ! " he went on, by-and-by,
although I was quite unconscious of any
such shrinking, " but tell me what made

you write me such a cold, stiff, little letter
this morning? How have I managed to get
myself into such sudden disgrace ? " I felt
embarrassed as to how to reply. I had
written, it is true, much more formally than
usual, for I was smarting at the moment
under the painful emotions evoked by what
I regarded as the discovery of his treachery.
I had sent for him with a particular object.
The letters with which I intended to confront
him were all ready for him to examine,
and yet, now that I came to think of it,
how could I possibly question him upon
this subject whilst Courtenay Davenant was
listening from behind the screen ?

I had insisted upon his making an unwilling
third at this interview, because I
saw that he was determined to put a wrong
construction upon it, and because I wished
him to hear with his own cars what would
surely absolve me in his eyes from all suspicion.

But might not the words wliicli he
was ahoiit to hear, whilst exonerating meshed
shame and dishonour upon another ?
I remained staring absently at the Ambassador,
not knowing what to do or to say.
As I gazed into his face I perceived that it
looked worn and anxious, as it had looked
upon the previous night when I had come
upon him in the corridor in company with
the Russian officers.

Before I could inquire as to what might
be the cause of his anxiety he said affectionately


' Since we have been together, Helen, my
one wish has been to please you. Tell me
how I have failed ? "

'you have not failed," I answered, "to me
you have always been kindness, generosity,
goodness itself. But it is not about myself
that I wish to speak*'

Then, thinking of the interpretation which
Courtenay would be almost certain to put

upon these words, I cast down my eyes
in the greatest embarrassment. At that
moment, as it chanced, they encountered
what I must have seen very often before,
without, however, paying any attention to ita
little gold seal, with nothing remarkable
about it whatsoever, which, together with a
small heart-shaped locket, hung down from
the Ambassador's watch-chain.

'' May I look at that seal'' I asked; but
before he could answer me I had turned the
stone to the light and was examining it
attentively.

As I had anticipated, the little "Pegasus,"
which had so captivated my childish fancy, 
was scampering across it at full speed.
"What crowding memories were evoked at
sight of him ! . . .

"Has this always belonged to you? Have
you often sealed your letters with it?" I
inquired, eagerly.

How strange, my child, that yoii of all

people, should ask me this ! " he answered
looking surprised. " No ; this seal did not
belong to me always ! It belonged to someone
I was once very fond of, and who is
dead now. To you, I daresay, it appears
absurd that an old fogey like me should ever
have cared about anybody, and still more
so that my affection should have been
returned ! Well, well ! We've most of us
had some kind of romance in om' lives, and
mine has been over and done with a very
long time ago ! There hangs her poor little
seal, however, where I can look at it everyday
! I've never sealed any letters with it
but the letters I used to write to her, and I
never shall." He glanced down at the little
seal tenderly and regretfully, and then let it
drop with a quick sigh.

To me  jealous after some strange unaccountable
fashion, on my mother's behalf 
this sigh seemed to breathe too cheerful a

spirit of resignation to the inevitable. Since
he had wrought all this mischief I could
have wished, just then, to believe that he
had really suffered for it  mourning and
lamenting secretly to the end of his days ;
whereas this sigh seemed only to mean :
*' It is useless to recall what can only give
me pain. My romance is over and done
with ; the woman who gave me this seal is
dead and buried. It is best not to think
about her any more ! " I scarcely know,
however, what he could have said or done
at this particular moment, which would have
appeared to me to be altogether decorous
and appropriate. I was hardening my heart
against him, and just then he could not do
right.

I felt in my pocket for the letters. They
were there, under my hand.

'* Lord Silchester," I said, summoning all
my courage, * as you say you wish so much

to please me. do me now this favour. I
wish to speak to you about that person who
is dead  the person who gave you that seal.
To me her name must ever be sacred. Do
not mention it, therefore; walls are said,
sometimes, to have ears. I will not speak
of her by her name, then, but speak of her
T must, and I will tell you why. Last
night, at the ball, a woman about whose
name we need not be so particular  Madame
Dobrowolska  came up to me without any
provocation and insulted me. You will
know that she was there, for she told me
that she had seen and spoken to you. What
she said about me affected me but little  at
any moment I can refute it but she made
cruel and malicious accusations also against
that other person; and to prove them, she
produced three letters. I would not read
them; you will see why; they were not
intended for me. I cannot say, therefore.

whether they are really written by that
person. You, however, will be able to tell.
Look at them now ; I have them here for
your inspection."

A change came over his face as I finished
speaking. My words seemed to pain and
surprise him too much for him to reply to
them at once. He took up the letters with
hands that trembled visibly, and gazed
earnestly at the directions upon the envelopes.


' I don't understand," he murmured, after
a while, in a voice that sounded quite feeble
and broken. " What is the meaning of this ?
I am altogether bewildered ! When were
these letters written, and why did I never
see them till now ? "

I do not know," I answered ; " when
you have read perhaps you will understand.
Some wicked person  from an evil motive 
must have kept back the letters instead of

sending tbcm to the post. Head them, and
then tell me truly whether they were written
by her. This is all I wish to know."

I have heard it remarked that young
people are often cruel, harsh, and intemperate
in their judgments,  intolerant with
regard to such failings in their elders, as
are consequent upon conditions in which
they have never been placed themselves.
In the present instance, however, I could
plead, in extenuation of any such seeming
sternness, no such excuse of ignorance. I
had known what it was to suffer and to
love. I fancied that I had a tolerably
correct notion, too, of what it must be like
to be tempted ; and towards any other man,
placed in a similar situation, I hoDC that I
could have felt some manner of Christian
charity.

It was, no doubt, the intrusion of the
narrowing personal element which caused

me to lash myself into such a mood of virtuous
indignation against the man at my
side  the man I had come to regard as the
seducer of my mother's honourable destroyer
of my father's happiness. His very
kindness and devotion to myself seemed
now to take the form of an additional outrage.
What business had he, of all men,
to thrust himself upon my friendship to
treat me as a jorotege'e, and embarrass me
with favours and obligations ?

To think of this now, and of the affection
with which I had always regarded him, was
little short of agony to me. I looked at
him, endeavouring, Arith all my might, to
hate him, and then hated myself because,
on account of so many crowding memories,
I fell short of my intention, nis face,
meanwhile, had assumed a ghastly pallor.
He looked, as he had said of himself, " utterly
bewildered." My judicial manner, no doubt,
pained and surprised him. I could quite

VOL. III. Q

imagine that a circumstance which, to me,
seemed fraught with such tragic importance,
might have appeared merely in the light of
a romantic adventure to the man of
pleasure the '' materialist," whose creed
was 'Let us eat, drink, and be merry 
everything else is nothing."

But as I watched him unfold, and read,
the first of the three letters, I could no
longer associate him with this fancy portrait
of Hugo's.

To me there is always something alarming
and embarrassing in the distress of a
being of the sterner sex, and I almost
wished, as I witnessed the Ambassador's
emotion, that I had kept the letters to myself.
For some moments he could not trust
himself to speak. I saw that he was weeping
like a woman. Alas, I could no longer
hope that the letters might turn out to be
forgeries.

"Oh, God!" he exclaimed, presently,

with a gesture of despair, '' what fiend,
what devil, intercepted these letters ? But
she must have known, she must have
guessed, that I never received them. She
must have guessed it ! . .'."

I drew away towards the further end of
the sofa so that I might not intrude upon
his agony, whilst with many half-stifled
exclamations of emotion he continued reading.
I was profoundly affected at the sight
of his unhappiness. He was being punished;
I thought, and severely punished, for some
of the evil he had wrought in the past, and
my heart went out to him now in sympathy
and compassion.

By-and-by, recovering himself with an
effort, he said, taking my hand :

Helen, in spite of all that happened so

long ago  nay, rather, because of it, and

because, too, of more than I am able to tell

you you and I must always remain good

q2

friends. When you know more of the

world you will find that such things have

happened very often before, ever since the

days of David the Psalmist, and before that

again,  you may be sure ! I do not say this

in extenuation ; to me is due all the blame.

You may reproach me as much as you like,

but you must not turn against me. You

have become a part of my life, and without

you all interest in existence would go.

Think, my child, of all my devotion to you.

Before you can remember, when you were

only a tiny baby. Look ! " and he opened

the little heart-shaped locket which hung

from his chain by the side of the gold seal,

look at this little curl of yellow hair, cutoff

only a few days after you where born;

you wouldn't recognize it, now, as yours,

would you ? " He slipped the locket off its

split ring and gave it into my hand. My

fingers trembled so that I could scarcely

hold it, and my eyes filled with tears,
making it difficult for me, at first, to see
what was inside it. Then, when my tears
had fallen and I could see more plainly, I
held it up to the light and perceived two
locks of hair set together. A dark brown
lock, and, in the centre of it, in sharp contrast,
a tiny golden ringlet ; and at sight of
this, and of the look of hungry yearning in
the eyes of the man at my side, a revelation
came to me, the import of which I could
not mistake. The voice of nature had
spoken.

He saw that I had guessed the truth
which he dared not tell me in words. We
did not speak, but he held out his arms tome,
and we wept together in silence.

I know not how long it was before, hearing
a footstep, I looked up. Courtenay
Davenant was standing close beside us.

The Ambassador, thinking that he had

entered the room unheard, during these
moments of supreme emotion, thrust me
from him in hasty embarrassment. But I
felt almost too weary, too shattered, to care
now what anybody, even Courtenay, might
think of me.

'' Tell him who I am," I said, at last,
addressing Lord Silchester. '* He has a
right to know everything. Tell him that I
am, that I was, Helen Davenant."

"Helen Davenant! *' exclaimed Courtenay,
staggering back in astonishment.

He gazed with a bewildered expression
from one to the other of us, and then, turning
to the Ambassador, he said slowly, with
the manner of one from whose eyes scales
have suddenly fallen,

 *' 1 see it all now! I understand! If I
had not been blinded by jealousy I should
have seen it all sooner,  by the likeness,
by everything ! This young lady is your

daughter. I heard from Sir Harry's own
lips that Helen Davenant was not really my
cousin."

I could not answer him. I could summon
neither words nor ideas. The Ambassador,
too, remained silent. By-and-hy, Courtenay
went on :

*' It seems like a dream to me," he said,
in a broken voice, ** that we two, after all
these years, should come together like this.
Lord Silchester, I love Helen Davenant.
She knows it. I have told her so. Por
God's sake let there he now no secrets
between us three ! Tell me everything."

' Tell him everything," I repeated, my
voice sounding in my own ears quite faint
and far ofP. " Tell him that I am married,
that we can never he anything to one
another, that we meet now only to part
accin for ever''

I felt that the cup of my misery was
filled to overflowing. A numb sense of
resignation was stealing over my spirit. I
think the dead must feel very much as
I felt at that moment.

' I will tell him," Lord Silchester answered,
speaking as with a supreme effort.
** But, Helen, I have more to tell than you
know of. I came here this morning to
break to you some news  sudden, unexpected
news  that to your kind and compassionate
heart cannot fail to be painful
and distressing. Seeing you so agitated I
dared not tell you at once. How will you
be able to bear it now ?"

' I can bear anything," I said, wearily ;
**a little more or less pain, what can it
matter? I am hardened to pain now."

Then, my dearest Helen, you are no
longer a wife. Hugo Crecszoleski died last
night by his own hand. They sent for mo

early this morning to tell me about it. I
pray, my child, that any future you may
make for yourself will be brighter and
happier than your past."

What more remains to "be told of the story
of Helen Davenant, the waves of whose
stormy existence seem, at length, to have
lashed themselves into a grateful calm ?

Of the particulars of Hugo Crecszoleski's
death  tragic as were several of the circumstances
of his life  I must first inform
my readers ; because, with that strange,
morbid personality, my own lot seemed
once to he so irrevocably bound up and
blended; and because, even now, when he
has gone from me, I cannot, yet, be quite
the same as if I had never fallen in with

him. Memories, comparisons, obscure
phrases, having to do with him and his
mysterious philosophy, are constantly recurring
to my mind; and so, in spite of
myself, an influence  pathetic, now, rather
than sinister  is often with me still ;
as though some poor wandering ghost,
not knowing where to go for comfort,
hovered, at times, near at hand, craving
for pardon and an occasional tender
remembrance.

Hugo, then, after the visit of his sister
which had followed immediately upon my
own, appeared, to those who had charge
of him, to be much as usual. He read and
wrote, as was his habit, some way into the
night, and then retired to rest. Between
one and two o'clock the attendant, who
slept in the next room, was aroused by
hearing a groan. He went at once to the
Prince's bed-side, where a ghastly spectacle

presented itself. Hugo had cut his throat
from ear to ear, and he expired before the
doctor had been awakened from his
slumbers. They would not allow me to
look upon him when he was dead, but
told me that his face wore a calm and
peaceful expression, strangely at variance
with the manner in which such peace and
calm had been attained.

There can be no doubt but that his
suicide was premeditated, and carefully
planned in all its details. He had been
terribly clever, as people having such intentions
usually are, about obtaining and
secreting a razor ; saying, quite cheerfully,
that, as he had begun to receive visits from
ladies, he must not appear before them like
a savage, and so that he washed to be
shaved. Then he had put off the attendant
who came to carry out his wishes, to the
morrow, after he had managed to abstract

what he required for the perpetration of
the fatal deed. I can hut lay the hame of
it at the door of the woman who had
already brought so much misfortune upon
us all. That she, too, was in some sense
distraught, and morally irresponsible for
her acts, I am willing, nay anxious, to
believe ; for I should not like to think that
any human creature would have elected to
be so evil-natured by choice.

Certain it was, that, after the interview
which she had contrived by a series of
cunning machinations, upon a day when
she had ascertained that Dr. Schumann
would be absent from home, her unfortunate
brother must have made up his mind
that he would rather die than go through
another. In this extraordinary woman,
poor Ilugo had always recognised his evil
genius, rendered all the more formidable
and insidious by reason of the tie of

kinship by wLicli ho was united to her.
Her presence must have reminded him of
everything that he was most anxious to
forget. Peace, freedom, and tranquilly of
spirit, the hope of even being able to continue,
uninterruptedly, his favourite studies,
must have vanished at sight of her. Knowing
that she was actually staying in Petersburg,
although shrouding her identity under a
false name, he anticipated, without doubt,
a return to the degrading thraldom which
had oppressed and crushed him in the past,
and with this, too, since some manner of
affection was so strangely commingled with
his aversion, may have combined some fears
for his sister's personal safety. And so, all
this anxiety and dread must have decided
him, suddenly, to free his spirit from the
remnants of humanity that still clung toit,
and which impeded its flight to those
unknown regions in which he had dwelt

for so long in imagination. A letter
directed to me, and which confirmed mein
the above theory, was found upon the
table after the Prince had breathed his last.
It was written with a steady hand, and ran
as follows :

My beloved Helen ; ' beloved ' in spite
of the arbitrary conditions which have
combined, for awhile, to separate us ; your
visit of to-day, I beg you to believe and
to remember, afforded me as much satisfaction
and comfort as it is possible for me
now to derive from any such circumstance.
Your brave, unfettered spirit  your noble
intelligence  fortified and revived me ; your
beauty, which in the first instance attracted
me to your side, was to-day the only influence
which alarmed and repelled me when
in your presence. "Whilst contemplating
you thus, in your adorable freshness of
youth, I became conscious that my spiritual

regeneration was, as yet, but imperfectly
accomplished. The vanities, the emotions
of the flesh, were still powerful to tempt
and ensnare. If my manner seemed in any
degree distant or constrained, attribute it to
this cause alone, which with the influence
of time must needs have been overcome.
But events have been otherwise ordered.
With you  my good and invigorating influence,
 a malignant and depressing one has,
unfortun lately, reasserted itself. I feel powerless,
without your aid, to check and counteract
it. Better, far better, that all should
end, as I have determined, when this letter
shall be concluded; and that the immortal
spirit should regain its eternal freedom !
Por freedom, at least from one in sup j)or table
thraldom, I shall find, although I dare not
hope to attain at once to the highest happiness,
and acquire a celestial vehicle immediately
after quitting this earthly one. As

the Platonist have unanimously determined,
'the souls of men that are not heroically
virtuous will find themselves restrained
within the compass of this religious air;'
til], by degrees, becoming purified, they will
assume an ethereal splendour, undimmed by
any misty obscurity, and which casts no
shadow. Then, my beloved wife, I shall
rejoin the soul of our son, who, by reason of
the purity and simpleness of his terrene
body, assumed immediately upon departing
from you an aerial form; and so must
needs be still separated for a while from his
earthly father. You will doubtless find in
the world, after I have quitted it, many
sincere and devoted friends, who will be
anxious to protect you. There should not
be any difficulty, either, with respect to a
suitable provision for you, once you become
my widow. My advice is, that our good
friend George should apply directly to the

VOL. III. R

Emperor. ]3ut I am unequal to the consideration
of such matters at j)csent.
Qiiorsum haec alio properantibus ''?  that
is to say, such things must be as nothing
to men hastening to another purpose. Pare-well,
then, my beloved Helen ; my thoughts
are with you at this supreme moment  my
spirit seeks you to bid you adieu ! Lasses
error quelques instants autres de tot, et
importer ce souvenir dans VHernlte I Be
happy ; but think sometimes of your unfortunate


"Hugo."

I was dreadfully shocked and distressed
at this terrible news. The heart of woman
is complex, and capable of experiencing at
the same moment the most conflicting
emotions. There were memories connected
with the man who was once my husband
which were tender and compassionate, and
these reasserted their influence as soon ashe

was no more. I cannot agree with
Shakespeare, that it is '' the evil which men
do " that generally survives them. In my
own case, at least, this was what seemed to
have been *wintered" with poor Hugo's bones.
Often and often, of late, had I sighed to
regain my liberty ; I had desired, with all
my heart, that the bonds that bound me
should be loosened. But I had never asked
myself how this end was to be achieved ;
for I knew that even the hoped-for things
which are occasionally vouchsafed to us here
scarcely ever come quite in the manner we
have planned or foreseen. '' II faut emperor
le mollis ce citron desire le plus, says
Christina of Sweden, whose sentiments were
so much nobler than many of her actions.
And so, because above all things I desired
my freedom, I had never hoped or castle-built
 or imagined for myself any possible

new life ; and now, at last, when liberty had

R 2

been vouchsafed to me, I seemed for a while
to be like some poor suddenly released
prisoner, who, after the obscurity and closeness
of a dungeon, can scarcely bear to look
at the blessed sunlight or to breathe the
fresh breezes of heaven.

I often wonder, as I look back to this
time, what caused me to sec, or to imagine
that I saw, that ghastly figure reflected in
the long mirror at the Embassy ball ; at the
very moment, too, when, if I may believe
poor Hugo's last words, his spirit was seeking
me to bid me farewell ? The truth of all
the many authentic stories regarding such
strange appearances seems never, as yet, to
have been altogether proved or disproved.
Eor the brain of even a conscientious seer
may be heated or over wrought, and the image
it conjures up merely a consequence of delirium.
Eor myself, I have only set down
here what I cannot but think that I saw 

for a moment only  for in another the figure
had vanished, or rather, it had merged, as it
were, into a couple of fantastically-dressed
dancers. I cannot he certain, however,
whether at that moment the testimony of
my own eyes was worthy of credit or not, and
it seems to me that this uncertainty must
always exist. Hamlet's remark to Horatio
might he appropriately quoted in explanation,
only it has been appropriately quoted
so very often before !

Almost immediately after Hugo's tragical
death I was stricken down by illness, before
I had time to arrange my departure from
Petersburg. The doctor said that I was
suffering from nervous prostration. I was
nursed with tenderness and devotion, and,
in the course of a few weeks, I gradually
regained my strength.

As I was lying down one day, reading,
upon the sofa in our sitting-room  the scene

of some of the most harrowing moments of
my life I was informed that a "person,
looking like a dressmaker," desired to speak
to me ; and so, being just then in the midst
of ordering new mourning, I asked the footman
to show " the person " in.

What was my astonishment when Celestine
Vigon, brisk, smiling, and seeming to be
totally unabashed, presented herself before
me! She appeared to me to be but little
altered by the passing of these years, which
had wrought, in some, so many changes.
Her hair was as black as ever, her teeth as
white  her manner as easy, cheerful, and
self-confident  as in the old days Ashen I was
only a little child. One would have said,
to look at her, that a thoroughly good conscience
had made her at peace with herself
and all the world. Before I had recovered
from my astonishment, she had begun a long
rambling statement in French. At first I

could not understand the drift of it. By-and-by
I realised that it was a denunciation of
her employer, Madame Dobrowolska, couched
in plausible and polite phraseology ; her eloquence
being apparently inspired and sustained
by that same consciousness of right
which seemed to shed a radiance upon her
countenance.

Madame la Comtesse, she said, " had
just quarrelled with her, they had now
parted company for ever. The Countess
had turned upon her, and vituperated her*
simply because she had threatened  failing
the promise of a certain sum, which she
could easily have afforded  to denounce her
to the Russian authorities. One threatened
things, sometimes, in moments of warmth,
which one did not always mean to put
into execution. Madame, however, had
become furious ; she had called her a
traitoress, a serpent, and had accused her

of Idchete, of ingratitude, and of endeavouring
to extort money " by chantage,'''' All this,
she said, was very unjust. What, after
all, had she to be so very grateful for ?
Madame had, without a doubt, paid her
well once upon a time; but she had always
received in return the full value of her
money. Lately, however, she had led with
her the life of a dog, of a galley-slave ; and
the money had been doled out with great
parsimony, madame pleading in excuse
for this, her poverty and reduced circumstances
; whereas, if she would only abstain
from gambling, and from associating with
sharpers and adventurers who preyed upon
her, there would be amply sufficient money
for them both ! This passion for play had
led the Countess to form the most undesirable
acquaintances  most of them persons
entirely devoid of principle. With one of
these  an individual calling himself the

Count de Aquila, and whose name she
had assumed in order to obtain an invitation
for the fancy ball  she had departed, now,
for Monte Carlo. They had invented a
system (so many people imagined they had
done this !) and meant to faire sauter la
langue, failing which the Countess had
spoken of suicide by means of a pan of
charcoal  but this was probably only said
to deceive her creditors ! With regard to
the catastrophe which took place so maiy
years ago, she (Celestine) had been present
when it occurred. Quite by accident, when
seeking for Zoubiroff  who occasionally
assisted the Prince with his experiments 
she had penetrated to the scene of the
murder, and had witnessed the final act.
This accident had proved a fortunate one,
procuring for her many solid advantages.

'Moiisieu?' le Prince'' had always behaved
to her with the greatest generosity. Madame,

too, for some time, treated her with consideration.
Those were lucky days! Since
then, however, everything had changed.
Madame had become difficile and exigeante ;
she gave way to all kinds of toquades and
caprices, and no longer lived in the same
luxe. Sometimes, indeed, there had been
actual discomfort to encounter ; it was high
time, therefore, that persons who respected
themselves should separate from her. It
was a case of positive degringolade of morals,
and she had never felt any real attachment
for the Countess.

There was one other subject (she went on)
which she desired to speak about. Madame
la Comtesse was aware that she (Celestine)
was possessed of three important letters ; she
had, in fact, obtained them at madame's
instigation, in order that she misrht assure
herself of certain facts. These letters she
had been bidden to brijig with her to the

fancy ball, at which, but for madame's
insistance, she would never have ventured
to present herself. Whilst she was there
madame had taken these letters from her,
to serve a particular purpose (so she said) ;
after which they were lo be restored to her
again. Since then, however, she had never
beheld them; and, upon asking that they
might be returned to her, madame had
referred her to the young lady  Miladi
Davenant's daughter  at the Amhassade
(Angleterre. Madame was furiously angry
when she had demanded the value of the
letters, even declaring that she had been
instrumental in hastening Lady Davenant's
death by exceeding her instructions ; and
that of this she would accuse her if she
continued to annoy her. This, however 
 parole dlionneur'  was false ! She had
certainly administered to miladi a soothing
preparation, such as might, with safety, be

given to an infant. Madame was herself
the cause of this, having desired her to
obtain immediately a packet of important
letters. How could she carry out these
instructions when Lady Davenant was so
much in her bedroom, unless by some such
means as she bad employed ? As it was,
she had failed in her search  no letters
were found ; but madame was too rejoiced
at milacU's death to be annoyed at this.
Certainly she would not have cared at that
time who might have hastened it; and it
was possible  only she could not now remember
clearly that, to encourage madame
to display a generous impulse, she might
even have insinuated that she had had
some hand in it; but the truth was, a
harmless opiate was all she had administered.
She had since heard that it could
only be injurious to persons possessed of
weak hearts ; but this she did not know at

the time. She was sure (she continued)
that, after this satisfactory explanation, I
should no longer porter rancune but that
I would give her the price she had originally
demanded for the letters from Sir Harry
Davenant, that is to say, one thousand two
hundred and fifty francs, or fifty pounds
sterling, English money. Lie would not
make two prices, nor would she have made
even this moderate demand but for the position
in which she now found herself, a position
of absolute gene. Would I have the obligingness
to make her a little present of fifty
pounds ? Then, without waiting for my
reply, she began to expatiate upon her
affection for her mother, and of how she
had determined that she should want for
nothing in the maison de scmto in which she
had placed her mette Arras, olooo t s Fas-des
Calais.

As Celestine Vigon was speaking  I

fancied that I could sec, in imagination,
the figure of the old Ercnch peasant-woman
: bent, toothless, palsied, wearing
her high white cap and long earrings, a
gold cross, perhaps, upon the coloured
kerchief covering her shrivelled neck ;
crouching over her chaiifferette, or knitting
away, in spite of being en pleiu radotage
at a blue worsted stocking. And then, I
seemed to see the money from this dutiful
daughter  that was over and alcove what
she required to keep her in luxuries and
fine clothes  coming in regularly to the
doctor for the necessities of the poor,
simple, grateful old woman ; the blood-money,
the hush-money, the money that
was the price of her daughter's infamy and
dishonour !

I remained gazing at this woman, in
astonishment, for some seconds after she
had finished speaking. She must have

tliouplit me stupid, or deaf, or very ill
indeed. Perhaps she fancied that I did
not understand Trench. But I did not
care what she thought of me. Of liei\ I
was thinking : '' Why were you made thus
utterly wanting in moral sense ? The omission
is not marked half plainly enough upon
your sprightly, handsome, and ingenuous-looking
face. What indication could any
stranger oh tain, hy studying it, of the

baseness and wickedness of which you are



capable ? And yet, not altogether deliberate
wickedness, either, nor yet quite
deliberate baseness ; seeing that you have
always felt convinced of the nobility of
your motives, and that a consciousness of
right has supported you through all your
abominable wrong - doing ! It would be
useless for me to reproach you, to denounce
you, to give expression to the abhorrence
I feel for your acts ; you would never

understand. So I had better not trust
myself to enter on a discussion with you,
hut get rid of you as soon as possible."

Acting upon this determination, therefore,
I told her as briefly as possible that
I had Innded over the letters to Lord
Silvester, to whom they were addressed,
and that if she desired to make a traffic
out of what had never honestly belonged
to her, she had better communicate with
him upon the subject. I added that I
knew nothing about continental law ; but
that, in England, to steal a letter was
accounted a felony, which was punishable
by a severe penalty.

She lifted her dark eyebrows in astonishment
upon hearing this ; but said, nevertheless,
as she tripped out of the room, with
a polite bow, that she would seek an interview
with His Excellency at once.-

Those unfortunate letters are now no
longer in existence. They had been destroyed,
indeed, before Celestine Vigon
reached the presence of the Ambassador.
Of her interview with him I know no more
than that, representing herself as penniless,
he agreed, upon certain conditions, to pay
her expenses to Paris, where she said that
she was certain of being able to obtain a
livelihood.

I have reason to believe, although I haec
gained what information I possess upon the
subject in vague, indirect ways, and at
irregular intervals of time, that Celestine's
advent at Northover Park was due in some
sense to Lord Silchester's own influence.
He was living at this time in Paris ; my
poor mother had asked him to find her a
clever Prench maid. Madame Dobrowolska,
a great authority then upon matters connected
with dress and fashion, had been

VOL. III. s

applied to by him ; and thus this serpent
came to be introduced into the quiet
English country-home, where lurked unsuspected
so many of the recognised elements
of melodrama.

But even before my mother's marriage,
Delphine Dobrowolska's sinister influence
had exerted itself. It was owing to her
that my mother had not been united to the
one man she loved, to whom she was
privately engaged, and who cared for her
more than he did for any other woman, in
spite of the thoughtless folly which was the
cause of her marriage to another man. Port
seems that my mother had been induced
to marry Sir Harry Davenant in a fit of
pique. It was the old old story. A secret
understanding between a romantic young
couple who had had stolen meetings in
woods and orchards. The young man afraid
of confiding, yet awhile, in his father, since,

at that time, his elder brother was alive,
and he himself only a poor attache. The
girl beautiful, sentimental, the spoilt child
of an old general who could have given her
but little fortune, for, at that time, she also
had a brother. There was the usual heartrending
parting when the young man went
to his foreign post, with mutual vows of
eternal constancy. Then, letters, which,
by-and-by, upon his part; became rarer and
more hurriedly written ; and then came the
inevitable mischief-maker, with tales of the
Polish syren in Paris, in whose toils '' poor
George Collingwood," who was ' always so
weak with regard to women ! " was said to
be so irretrievably trapped and taken. And
just then, to complicate matters and plant
the germs of future misery, Sir Harry
Davenant, a rich, highly-considered, country
gentleman, with a fine house and deer park,
proposes to my mother for the second time,

he having icon desperately in love with her
for more than a year, and she scorning him.
Her brother, Everard, had run into debt.
Iter father was an old man in delicate
health. I suppose he must have pressed
her not to refuse so advantageous an offer,
and so, in an evil hour, the marriage took
place.

Perhaps, even then, it might have turned
out happily if George Collingwood had
never returned from abroad. He seems to
have returned just at the wrong moment,
too. My mother had been married about
three or four years, and must have found
herself in some sense " mated with a clown,"
albeit to one who was altogether devoted to
her. Sir Harry Davenant was a most
enthusiastic sportsman, and, even at this
time, somewhat of a hard drinker. His talk
was chiefly about horses and dogs, good or
had " runs," and the defenceless birds,

beasts, and fishes that he had destroyed for
his own amusement. A woman is apt to
tire of such conversation in time, in spite of
the sportsman's intrinsic worth and goodness.
Then, too, she was at this time childless.
The large old house must have seemed
very lonely, I should think, without a
nursery, upon dark winter days when Sir
Harry was out shooting or hunting, and
when my mother was left at home to nurse
the dreams and regrets of a wife w]io
realizes, when it is too late, that she is
married to the wrong husband. Prom what
I can remember of her thoughtful and
beautiful face, and from stray books which
I have since chanced upon, underlined and
annotated by her hand, I fancy that she
must have possessed a sensitive and romantic
disposition, the very last disposition in the
world to combat and withstand the temptation
which was destined to beset her when

tins lover and attractive man, her early
love, polished by a residence in foreign
cities, popular with men, sought after by
women, returned once more to his old haunts,
to discover, too late, that she was the one
woman in the world for him.

And then, afterwards, what a hell upon
earth must have been hers, bound and tied
to the rough, honest, country gentleman
her husband, who so loved and believed in
her.

** Next him at night and near him all the clay,"

(Upon those days, at least, when his favourite
pastime did not take him from
home,)

'< And longing all those nights and all those days
For but one glimpse of one sad absent face,"

which, perhaps, may not have been so very
sad " after all !

What torture it must have been to endure

his trust, bis unquestioning devotion, and to
mark his increasing fondness, as the days
went on, for the child of which she knew
that he was not the father !

And, during a great part of this miserable
time, her '' own George,"  who was never
altogether her own,  separated from her hy
*' leagues of land and sea," was passing ibis
days in the pursuit of pleasure and amusement,
in the company of frivolous, lighthearted
people, whose creed, like his own,
was, *Let us eat, drink, and be merry 
everything else is nothing !" And to think,
too, that, after all, if she bad only waited,
she might have married this man  to love
whom was now accounted a sin  and won
him from his thoughtless butterfly existence,
for bis elder brother was now dead, and he
was heir to bis father's title and estates . . .
1 hope I do not seem to be excusing these
two guilty and unhappy lovers!   Tout

comprcndre chest tout pardonner I merely
endeavour to understand in order that I
may forgive,  for I feel that /, of all people,
should strive to excuse and pardon. Nay,
since the existence I owe them has turned
from storm to sunshine, I feel disposed to
excuse and pardon the sins of the whole
world !

4t: # # * *

I have been married to Courtenay Davenant,
now, for nearly ten whole years.
They have been years of happiness, of
thankfulness, of blessed and unexpected
compensation for the years that went before
them.

Of what I feel for my husband, of his
goodness and devotion, I scarcely dare to
write, lest  seeming to count too certainly
upon the possession of so great a treasure as
his love  it should be lost to me through
some sudden stroke of evil fortune. I pray,

I hope, that all may be as it is now to the
end of our short lives  short, in such circumstances
 however long they may be
when reckoned by the years.

Whilst Courtenay remained in the army
we had no fixed home, but wandered together
from place to place, garnering pleasant
memories. Wherever he was, however, a
home seemed to spring up at once. Then,
after he quitted the service, we did not take
up our abode at Northover for two years,
but lived hard by, at Croft's Parm, a pretty
white house, all covered in summer time
with roses and purple clematis.

My old friend. Miss Warden, lives there
now. She takes care of some little orphan
children, for whom we have founded a home,
but still dreams, I believe, in spite of the
advancing years, when she has time to
dream at all, of the rich and handsome
husband who has never yet made his appear-vol.

III. T

ance, although he was so plainly foretold hy
the cards.

We are established at Nor t hover now,
and it is astonishing how soon the old, sad,
memories have been replaced and elbowed
out, as it were, by newer and brighter ones.
We have two fine noisy boys, who make the
old house merry with their laughter, and a
little Helen, hardly able to stand yet, upstairs
in the well-known nursery, where the
progressive heights of that other Helen, who
came before her,  beginning at a yard or so
from the carpet,  may be still seen scored
up on the door.

All these children have their father's
eyes. They bear no likeness whatever to
their little brother who is sleeping, so faraway,
in that remote Alpine valley. For
this I cannot help feeling grateful. I
would that all the painful recollections of
the past could lie buried away as peacefully

as that little child, but with the comines of
new years they too will perhaps, slumber !

Lord Silvester still lives principally
abroad. Tom Collingwood, his nephew and
heir, once a brother officer of Courtenay's,
and who is married now to a charming wife,
keeps house for his uncle whenever he pays
a flying visit to the family-place.

Blood is stronger than water,"  I correspond
with my godfather from time to time
as he wished that there should be no break
for him in the thread of my life's story.

He tells me that he arranged this marriage
with Courtenay for me, in his own
mind, very soon after I was born. If he
should fall ill, or desire for any reason to
see me at once, my husband has promised
to take me out to him wherever he may be.

There is a pretty white marble tomb now
where there was once but a nameless grave

in Nortliover churchyard, round which the
blossoms of all the changing seasons shed
their fragrance. It is erected *'hy Courtenay
and Helen Davenant," and after the inscription
upon it there is a text about the goodness
and mercy of God, and the hope we
have of Eternal Life. I should have wished
that something else might have been engraved
upon it also :

"Judge not, that ye be not judged,"

or the text which says that only those who
are without sin themselves should throw the
first stone at an erring sister only that this
would seem like taking the whole neighbourhood
into our confidence.

