CHAPTER I.

It lias been said, somewhere, that the happiest
V. women  Eke the happiest nations  have no 
tory. And so, if the existence of Miss Lucy
 Barlow, of 'Barlow Lodge,' Clapham Common,
,, had been altogether prosperous and chequered,
it would have been scarcely worth my while to
 write about her at all.

At this allusion to Clapham Common I seem

j to see upon the faces of my readers  those, at
 any rate, who are of the haughty and supercilious
sort  an expression as if of disappointed
ment.

 'clapham Common'" (I fancy I can hear

 them exclaim). ' Miss Lucy Barlow, then, belongs

 to that vast prolific, cockney middle class, that

VOL. I. / B .

And, indeed, in order to become really interesting,
apart from the interest which is attached to a
charming exterior, Lucy Barlow, in common with
every other heroine of romance, should pass through
and become purified in the furnace of affliction.
This grand crucial test of character, however, is
as independent of caste, as it is of locality, and it
is possible to be quite as miserable upon Clapham
Common as anywhere else.

My story opens upon a wet afternoon in early
summer  one of the first wet days following upon
a long season of drought, and seeming, therefore,
except to such persons as were anxious about their
crops, all the more gloomy and unbearable from
the contrast to its predecessors.

Miss Lucy Barlow had been engaged for sometime
in what is called * flattening ' her nose
against one of the two windows in the diningroom

at Barlow Lodge which looked out upon
the Common. Happily, the term is merely figurative,
for her nose was much too pretty to flatten,
being exceedingly well formed, as, indeed, were
all her other features.

I wonder. Aunty, if it means to go on pouring
all day?' she said at last, addressing herself
to her paternal great-aunt, Miss Elizabeth Barlow,
the present occupant of Barlow Lodge, a handsome
old lady in spectacles, who was seated at a
writing-table hard-by. * The postman has been
past three times,' she went on, *and has never
once stopped here. How I wish that some one
would come and call, or that something would
happen ! '

I wish so, too, dear,' returned the venerable
lady, ' if it would give you any satisfaction ; I
fear, however, that we mustn't expect visitors
to-day. Being Monday the Marquis is engaged in
the afternoon with the child of that person next
door, and Mr. Podmore is still staying with his
friends in the Isle of Wight.'

Lucy made a slight gesture of impatience.

Really, Aunty I can do very well without
Mr. Podmore ! He is not in the least essential to
my happiness ! What I was wishing was more

for something unexpected. On wet days I often
do ; I know it's very silly ! '

And pray, my dear, what form do you wish,
this unexpected event to take ? *

Oh, that's what I don't quite know  a sudden
piece of news ; a great battle ; an invasion ; something
blown up, or set fire to, or run off the line ;
or a present by the post, all tied up in a jeweller's
case and registered, and worth thousands and
thousands of pounds; or the arrival of some
unexpected relation that one has never heard
of, coming in all booted and spurred and
covered with mud, from a tremendously long
journey.'

Mr. Podmore will return in a few days from
the Isle of Wight,' remarked the elder lady, in a
consolatory tone. ' leo doubt he will have plenty
of news to tell us, and he is sure to bring us all
the last illustrated papers.'

A quick sigh escaped the younger lady, and
she withdrew from the window.

The fact is. Aunty,' she said, as she began
absently poking the fire, for a fire there was as
the day was so chilly in spite of its being the last
week in the merry month, * I'm in a thoroughly
idle mood to-day ! I shall go and clean out my

tiresome aquarium, and then try and illuminate
another page in that hideous new photograph
book, just to kill time ! '

My dear, pray spare the best poker ! ' exclaimed
Miss Elizabeth anxiously. * How like a
Barlow to poke the fire in that violent way ! Mr.
Podmore would not like to hear you talking about
killing time," I'm sure,' she added, somewhat
reproach ulla' ; * he would say that it went far too
quickly already, and that we may employ it in so
many useful ways.'

Yes, I know that he would ; but then I'm
sure I'm quite different from him ! I mean, of
course, that I'm less perfect. I feci, to-day, as if
I could kill all sorts of things besides time  even
Mr. Podmore, himself! I've got quite a homicidal
fit upon me ! But I'll be off, now, and clean out
my aquarium ! '

As she spoke she tied on a large brown holland
lawn tennis apron, worked over with yellow marigolds,
in order to protect her neat morning dress,
and she then went into the adjoining room to
begin her ' time-killing.'

As soon as the door Alas closed upon her, Miss
Elizabeth Barlow took up her pen, and resumed
the letter upon which she had been engaged.

And now, dear Mr. Podmore/ she wrote, ' a few
words upon the subject nearest to both our hearts!
I am sure that, could you but become invisible
for a day, and listen to some of our private conversations,
even you would be amazed at my
diplomatic talents, for I am even a wonder to
myself. Ah, it is not in vain that I am descended,
lineally, from the worthy Griffinhoof e de Barlow,
Abbot of St. Opportune, who, as I think I may
have told you, pleaded so eloquently with the
envoys of King Henry the Eighth against the
dispersion of the Monastic Institutions ! . . . '
Arrived at this point, she set down her pen, in
order to consider whether anybody could properly
be said to descend ' lineally ' from an Abbot 
Abbots being vowed, as she had always heard, to
perpetual celibacy. jN'ot for worlds would she
have offended Mr. Podmore' s susceptibilities, and
she was jealous, too, of the fair fame of the

Abbot of St. Opportune But, perhaps,

there may have been such personages as ' Lay '
Abbots ; there had been * Lay ' Cardinals, of this
she felt certain : Mr. Podmore, with all his
wisdom, might not know whether there had been
or not! . . . * He was a "Lay" Abbot,' she added,
therefore, in a little foot-note, and after affixing

what looked like an enormous spider to the place
in order to call attention to it, she proceeded thus
with her letter : 

*1 have acted just as you kindly and wisely
suirsrested. " Let mv name'* (I remember your
saying to me when last we talked upon this subject,)
'become associated in her mind only with
good, and great, and wise, and noble images ;
with sights that are beautiful, and with sounds
that are harmonious, until it is impossible for her
to contemplate anything which either interests or
improves without murmuring to herself, ' It is
Sydney Podmorc who has led me to this ! ' in this
way, she will grow to care for me unconsciously,
before even I have informed her of my intentions;"
and it is upon this excellent advice that I
shall continue to act, my dear Mr. Podmore, and
not, I sincerely hope,*Wthout happy results. Dear
Lucy and I have passed a very pleasant, quiet afternoon
together to-day, notwithstanding that it has
been so wet, and that all we Barlows are positively
just like barometers, affected by the slightest
atmospheric change. Lucy is looking forward to
colouring: some more of the illuminations in the
beautiful photograph book you so kindly gave
her last week ; and I can hear her now, in the

next room, engaged as busily as a bee with your
other valuable present, the aquarium, in which
she appears to take the greatest delight and
interest ! '

But at this moment the door separating the two
rooms was thrown suddenly open, and Lucy flew
towards her aunt with an expression of mingled
terror and disgust upon her face.

Oh ! Aunty ! ' she exclaimed, wiping her
fingers with her apron, as though to remove the
traces of some sort of contamination. ' I've had
such a dreadful fright ! That nasty, big, pink,
sea-anemone had become unstuck, and had fallen
down, and I thought it was dead, and picked it
up, and it put its long fingers out all over mine,
and it was so soft, and cold, and damp, and fat,
and flabby, it really made me feel quite faint !
It felt just like touching one of Mr. Podmore's
hands ! ' and she flung herself into a chair with a
shudder.

Lucy knew that she must seem to her kind
great-aunt to be ungrateful for ' looking ' (as
it were) 'a gift-mollusc in the mouth,' but then
she had always felt an aversion for these pulpy
and passionless organisms, wondering to herself
for the fulfilment of what mission they could

possible have been created, and she had never
desired that Mr. Podmore should present her
with an ' aquarium ' at all. If, indeed, molluscs
had only been possessed of * mouths' into the
which one might 'look'! But they had no
attempt at features of any kind, and between
them and her there seemed to be * a great gulf
fixed ' in consequence. A nice, cosy, comfortable
creature, with some sort of a face, clothed in soft
fur or wool, she could have loved with a foolish
love. Little chirping, empty-headed, feathered
things, too, with happy hopping feet, and twittering
voices, were always interesting ; but these
horrid, clammy, unsympathetic deformities ! . . .
Miss Elizabeth Barlow looked somewhat disconcerted
at her niece's words. When, however,
Lucy had recovered herself sufficiently to repair
again to the * aquarium,' she resumed her still unfinished
letter.

In fact, dear Mr. Podmore,' she wrote, after
placing a full stop at the end of her last sentence,
should your flattering designs respecting dear
Lucy's future be doomed, importunately, to disappointment,
I shall feel that the blame cannot
justly be said to rest with myself, for I have
followed your admirable suggestions to the very

letter. I do not think, either, that you will reproach
me, now, with what may have appeared toyon
at the time like undue anxiety with regard
to the disposal of my property. I feel that I
may write quite openly to one who has treated
me with so much confidence. The money in
question, then, I could not regard as actually my
own. I have been enabled to set it aside during
a life which has not required the display of any
sort of extravagant expenditure, in order that
dear Lucy might be at least independent at my
death, which, at my advanced age, may not be
very far distant, in spite of the good health with
which Providence has deigned to bless me. I
agree with you, dear Mr. Podmore, that I am receiving
for this money an absurdly small rate
of interest, and that, as you so kindly represented
to me, I could more than double my
present income by investing the capital in
some of the magnificent schemes which you
and your powerful associates have at present
in hand. I feel deeply the privilege you have
afforded me in making known to me these enterprises
; but, I feel, also, that I am not exactly
what can be called a very experienced woman
of business. My dear brother, it is true, embarked,

greatly to the surprise of my grandfather,
in commerce, but he was the first Barlow who
had ever done so. Our traditions, therefore, are
chivalrous rather than fncoicial, and it has been a
comfort to me to remember that dear Lucy's little
fortune, even if it was not increasing very rapidly,
was, at any rate, perfectly safe. I hesitated,
therefore, foolishly, as you may have fancied, to
profit by your very kind and friendly representations
upon this subject, for I knew not at that
time the prime reason of your solicitude for our
welfare. But the whole matter has assumed forme
quite a different complexion since the confidential
communication you made me the other
day. I can promise nothing definite, of course,
for I have as yet scarcely had time for proper
reflection ; but I can promise you, at least, that I
will turn the matter over in my mind with attention,
for, under the present altered circumstances,
many of my previous objections must necessarily
be removed. With regard, however, to my
niece's personal feelings, I should be greatly to
blame were I to write with any certainty. She is
scarcely yet nineteen ; an age at which girls were
quite competent, in my yoimg days, to know their
own minds, and look after a family; but Lucy

lias, hitherto, led so secluded a life, she has seen,
as yet, so little of the world, that she is full
young for her years. A-Ve see but few visitors 
as you are aware  my solicitor, Mr. Fletcher, Mr.
Bury (for alas ! who can be independent of their
doctor ?) and the local clergyman and his family.
Is she then (I ask myself anxiously) quite fitted
at present to decide upon a question so important
? I should have wished her, I confess, to
have seen more of the outside world, but, as yet,
she has never, as I think you are aware, quitted
the narrow precincts of my own home ; except,
when she has been with me, for a short time,
upon a visit to the sea-side. It would have been
an advantage to her, no doubt, to have been sent,
for awhile, to a first-rate finishing school at
Brighton which had been highly recommended tome,
and at which her cousin. Miss Adeliza Sinks,
(the daughter of Lady Mabella Binks, of whom
you may have heard me speak,) had received a
very brilliant education. But, so careful have I
ever been to superintend, personally, dear Lucy's
mental and moral development, that I preferred,
as I have already told you, that she should receive
her lessons in music, and other modern accomplishments,
beneath my own roof. You have met

Miss Tompkins, the young lady-n-lio used to
attend her as daily governess, and must adniit
that she -as a person of refined and prepossessing
manners: I had been particular, also, to ascertain
that she bore an unexceptionable moral character.
What then, my dear Mr. Podmore, can be the
"counteracting foreign influences" of which
you begged me to "beware" in your last kid

letter ? ' . . .

But it seemed fated that the good lady should
not conclude her letter without further interruption,
for just at this moment, a light tap was
heard at the door.

'If you please, Mum,' said the voice of Sarah
the parlour maid, 'Are you at home to the

Marquee ? '

'Yes, Sarah, of course! Beg him to go into
the drawing-room; Miss Lucy is there, and I
will come to him as soon as I have fished a
letter for the country post.'

It was rather strange. Miss Elizabeth could
not help thinking, that this particular visitor
should have been announced just as she happened
to be alluding to 'counteracting foreign
influences' in her letter to Mr. Podmore !

CHAPTEE II.

AcHiLLE, Marquis de la Yieilleroclie (the Marques
as he lias just been styled) was to all
appearance a man of about sixty years of age,
tall, spare, and upright, with rather a Quixotic
cast of countenance. Notwithstanding his high-sounding
title, he was nothing more, at least in
the country of his adoption, than a teacher of
languages. French, seeing that he was a Frenchman,
was, as a matter of course, his strong
point,' but he gave lessons also in the Italian and
Spanish tongues, to those who were not very particular
as to their accent. He had been established
for more than fifteen years in the vicinity
of Clapham Common ; and here it was that Miss
Elizabeth Barlow had made his acquaintance,
when her great-niece was almost a baby. The
old lady was at once impressed by his distinguished
bearing and agreeable manners, and

lie had been engaged to instruct Luc} in French,
as soon as she was of an age to learn. As the
years went on, however, he was enabled to be of
use to the two ladies in a variety of other was's.
Miss Elizabeth's former friends, many of them
her seniors as to age, were gradually dropping off,
and she had felt, upon several occasions, the want
of an intelligent male adviser. Such a one
Monsieur de la Yieilleroche had come in time to
be considered, and, once he had been received by
Miss Elizabeth upon this friendly footing, he had
refused to accept any remuneration for his professional
visits, with which act of disinterestedness
the old lady was profoundly touched, seeing that
his means were exceedingly slender. Previously
to settling himself at Clapham, the Marquis had
resided in Paris and in London, where, according
to his own account, he had mixed in the very
highest society, and become intimate with many
noble, and even royal personages. It is true that
Miss Barlow had heard a report to the effect that
this pretended intimacy had been acquired whilst
following the profession of a maitre cV amies, buta
photograph, which Monsieur de la Yieilleroche
soon afterwards displayed, representing his ancestral
chateau upon the Loire (a magnificent edifice

of the cruet-stand order of architecture), had
served to dispel every feeling of uneasiness with
regard to his antecedents, and she and her niece
Lucy remained convinced that, whatever might
have been the vicissitudes through which he had
passed. Monsieur de la Yieilleroche was a person of
the very highest respectability, and a real nobleman
besides, from head to foot ;  that everybody
must see at a glance !

As the elder Miss Barlow was imbued with
rather exalted notions as to her own, and her
niece's, social standing and importance, she
prided herself upon being extremely exclusive,
particularly as regarded her immediate neighbours
; and it is probable that, but for an accidental
circumstance, the Marquis, whose rank and
nationality seemed to separate him entirely from
all other Claphamites, would have continued to be,
with the exception of the clergyman, the lawyer,
and the doctor, her solitary suburban friend.

As it happened, however, some five or six
years before the date at which this story opens,
important political changes had obliged him to
revisit his native shores. For nearly a whole
month, there had been a vacant place in the
chimney-corner at Earlow Lodge, and Miss

Barlow and her great-niece had played their
evening rubber with a double-dummy.

It was during this interval, that Sydney Pod-more,
a wealthy and influential stockbroker (or so
rumour had it), took possession of the large white
via upon the left-hand side of Miss Elizabeth's
modest residence, and immediately set about re-decorating
it in a very florid and expensive style.

If it had been Mr. Podmore's intention upon
his arrival to ingratiate himself with Miss Elizabeth
Barlow, he could have had no cause to complain
of the malevolence of Destiny. From the
very first, it was as though the Fates were bent
upon bringing about this neighbourly fusion; and,
some subterranean complications, arising out of
the contiguity of the two houses, having obliged
him to seek a personal interview with the venerable
occupant of Barlow Lodge, he contrived,
within a week, to place her under such a series
of important obligations, that it was impossible
for her to exclude him afterwards from her
limited home circle.

For instance, upon the occasion of the bursting
of Miss Elizabeth Barlow's kitchen-boiler, he
had generously supplied herself and her establishment
with cooked meat for the space of three

VOL. I. C

whole days, during wliicli time it was impossible
for her to light a fire in her kitchen ; and when,
only a short while afterwards, the chimney of that
same kitchen accidentally caught fire, he had
displayed so much zeal and activity whilst assisting
at its extinction, that kind Miss Barlow,
seeing that he was of an exceedingly full habit of
body, had quite trembled for his personal safety.
Then, again, he had been aided in his friendly advances
by important territorial advantages, for,
not only was he the proud possessor of *the
spacious and commodious mansion' known as
Palmyra House, that imposing Corinthian edifice
which lorded it over its less pretentious neighbours,
but Barlow Lodge itself, which was a portion
of the same estate, had passed also into his
hands ; and Miss Elizabeth, whose lease had still a
good many years to run, found herself basking in
one of the most accommodating of landlords'
smiles. The other Silly-residence,' standing in
its own grounds, immediately to the right of Miss
Barlow's, and separated from it by an old grey
wall against which the fruit trees, planted en
espalier, outstretched their lean branches like appealing
arms, was the property of an infant,'
who, it was whispered, would be almost certain to

dispose of it upon attaining his majority ; and
Mr. Podmore had already instructed his agents to
apply for the * first refusal

At the time of which I write,  not many
years, by the wa", prior to the time at which I am
writing  this villa, ' The Aspens,*  as it had been
fancifully styled, for not the shadow of an aspen-tree
was to be seen anywhere near it,  was rented
by a lady occupying, evidently, a somewhat equivocal
position. She has been already alluded toby
the elder Miss Barlow as ' that person next
door' ; but she was designated in harder and less
charitable terms by some of her other neighbours.
Her name,  at least so Sarah the parlourmaid
informed Lucy,  was ' Van Bruin,' ' Van Buren,*
something, at any rate, with a * Van 'in it ; and
Sarah had heard that she was said to be * no lady,'
but was thought to have been some kind of a
play-actress ' or ' music-singer,' or something
even * a great deal worse.'

Sarah the parlour maid was Lucy's only informant
upon this mysterious subject. From Monsieur
de la Vicilleroche no enlightening details
were to be learned, although, in consequence of
the fact that ho was instructing little Miss * Van '
Something in the French language, he had obtained

an entree to the house. Lucy's questions
were always dismissed with a few ambiguous
phrases which left her not one whit the wiser.

The * person next door ' appeared but very
seldom in her garden,  in that portion of it at any
rate that was visible from Barlow Lodge. Two
or three times, when Lucy had been gazing from
an upper window, she had espied a large, showy-looking
woman, with high heels and a tightened
waist, walking up and down upon the other side
of the grey pear-tree wall, under an elaborately
laced parasol ; but it was impossible to distinguish
her features very clearly, and beyond a general
notion of a large, pale face, with regular features,
marked eyebrows, and a mop of yellowish hair,
Lucy could form but little idea of her personal
appearance. Sometimes she had been accompanied
in her walk by a pretty little over-dressed child,
and followed by a black *Ayah,' swathed in a
native dress of white muslin and raw silk. This
seemed to point to Indian antecedents : perhaps
the lady with a * Van ' in her name was what was
popularly called an * Indian grass-widow ? '

That she was, at any rate, a most inveterate
and determined * music-singer ' was evident to
Lucy Barlow in common with the whole neighbourhood.

Such a shrill, penetrating, unsympathetic
sojv'cino voice ! The sound of it would
force its way through the windows at all hours and
seasons ; and one could almost see, in the mind's
eye, the terrible facial contortions which must
have been necessary in order to produce such
terrible shrieking, quivering, and gasping.

'That woman is a positive nuisance to the
neighbourhood,' Mr. Podmore would remark,
when he had been disturbed by these sounds.
Were she to remain here much longer, the value
of the adjoining property would be very seriously
depreciated : I confess I am surprised that our
friend the Marquis should consent to give lessons
to the child of such a creature. The French,
however, are known to be excessively lax upon
some subjects.'

Mr. Podmore, in fact, appeared to be panting
to annex ' The Aspens,'  to improve, to
demolish, to decorate. He had settled already
upon the changes which would probably ensue
upon the coming of age of the 'infant.'

I must have glass,' he would say, waving his
plump, white hand in the direction of the grey
pear-tree wall,  ' plenty of glass ! . . . I shall
construct orchard-houses. From these very windows,

my dear Miss Barlow, you will be able to
see, some day, I hope, almost a quarter of a mile
of glass ! . , . There,' with another flourish of
the band, ' I intend to build my new stables,
they shall be handsome,  extremely handsome, 
no " eye sores " for me ! . . . Leading up to them,
there will be gateways,  very fine gateways indeed,
with a good deal of ornamental gilding.'
And so on, and so on : the place, in fact, seemed to
bave become to bim a veritable Nabob's vineyard !

Tbe old French professor would not bave been
human could be bave seen, upon bis return
from the Continent, bis place at Barlow Lodge
usurped, as it were, by a stranger, without some
sort of annoyance, wbicb it was with difficulty
that be managed at first to conceal. By-and-by,
however, be determined to swallow bis vexation,
and to take the matter good-naturedly. That
Frenchman bas yet to be born wbo is possessed of
neither personal nor intellectual vanity, and the
Marquis was not long in discovering that be could
obtain food for both when in the society of Mr.
Podmore, whose appearance and address made
him act as an excellent *foil.'

From a foil be speedily became a butt,  a
grindstone upon wbicb the lively Frenchman

could sharpen the edge of his Voltaire wit ; and
the moment eventually arrived when the ostentatious
possessor of Palmyra House seemed to have
become as essential to his well-being as to that of
Miss Elizabeth herself. In a word, the two family
friends had apparently settled down at Barlow
Lodge as contentedly as did ever any cat and dog
that have come to be comrades through necessity.
Whether these creatures are rcalbj fond of each
other, is a question which can only be answered
when beasts find human tongues.

Upon the chilly summer afternoon when this
story opens, Monsieur de la Yieilleroche had come
to Barlow Lodge direct from ' The Aspens,' and
so had scarcely need to do more than open and shut
his time-honoured umbrella upon the way, seeing
that the distance between the two houses was so
short. Lucy, delighted to escape from the society
of her undemonstrative molluscs, engaged him in
friendly converse until her great-aunt had completed
her letter, when she, too, joined her visitor
in the drawing-room ; and, seeing that the evening
was so wet and tempestuous for his homeward
walk, begged forthwith that he would do her the
pleasure of remaining on to dinner  a repast which
did not take place at quite so late an hour at

Earlow Lodge as it did at the homes of many more
fashionable persons. The Marquis accepted,  ashe
always did accept invitations of a like kind, 
with the sincerest pleasure in the world ; ' and
Lucy was just thinking that she could read upon
his expressive countenance a look of satisfaction,
as though at the absence of their obliging landlord,
when Sarah, the parlour maid, once more
appeared in the doorway.

If you please. Mum,' she said, * Mr. Pod-more'
s best compliments, and I was to say he has
just returned from the Isle of Wight,  a little
sooner than he was prepared for,  and, being Monday,
the fishermen wasn't not out a-Sunday, and no
fresh prawns was caught, but he's just sent round
a live hen-lobster which is to be boiled for a little
over half-an-hour, with his kindest regards, and
he would be pleased to know whether he might
look in after his dinner if you and Miss Lucy
happened to be disengaged?'

We shall be very pleased, indeed, to see Mr.
Podmore,' said Miss Elizabeth, cheerfully; *so
pray say, Sarah, with our compliments, that weare
quite disengaged this evening, and that we
hope he will look in at about nine o'clock. . . .
But stay ! I was writing to Mr. Podmore in the

Isle of "Wight. The letter is there, Sarah ; deliver
it to Mr. Podmore's servant instead of taking it
to the post

Miss Elizabeth withdrew in order to see that
there was no mistake about the letter.

Ah ! that magnificent Podmore ! ' exclaimed
the Professor, as soon as she was out of hearing.
Dire qiCil a do la chance! He introduces himself
by means of the drains,  he pleases through
the bursting of a kitchen-boiler,  his means of
seduction is a live lobster which is to be boiled
for more than half-an-hour ! '

"With his kindest regards,' added Lucy, smiling.


*With his kindest regards,' repeated de la
Vieillerochc, contemptuously; sand so he has returned
from his Isle of Wight "sooner than he
was prepared for," and has spoilt our pleasant

CHAPTEE III.

After hearing Miss Elizabetli Barlow talk, one
might really come to imagine that the Barlow
family,  in the way of distinction,  had been
something positively abnormal. It is true that
all the great, illustrious Barlows seemed to have
lived a very long while ago, and they appear to
have had a sad habit of shedding their glories and
honours as they advanced towards modern times,
so that the most recent Barlow was always less
affluent and influential than his predecessor.

Miss Elizabeth had collected manuscripts,
genealogical trees, and volumes by obscure authors,
wherein many of her ancestors' dignities,  ' deeds
of herring-do,' &c., &c., were actually set dowTi
and printed in black and white, for, upon this
subject, she was like Captain Toby Shandy as to
his fortifications, positively ' hobbyhorsical/

Of the first Barlow no mention was made in
these writings, for the simple reason that, being

prehistoric, nobody knew how to take a note of
his doings. But that he must have selected and
over-come a pre-historic female of some sort, got
together, and acknowledged, his offspring, and
recognised the sanctity of the domestic circle, is
evident from the fact that, towards the close of
the third century (a.d.) we read of ' Carrot,'  a
mighty chieftain settled in North Cambria, and
who was only not a king because kings had yet to
be evolved. He married Gwladys-ap-Brogyntyn,
related to an ancestor of one of the Princes of
north Wales  a union which was evidently
blessed with children, since, in 1096, we have
Geoffry ' (their descendant) who held forty-seven
hides of land from Montacutc, lord of Germans
and who was created Baron de Barlow,
(temp. William Rufus,) ' with remainder to the
heirs male of his body lawfully begotten.' By
about the time of Richard Occur de Lion, however,
the Barlows had succeeded in completely
sloughing away their hides, together with the
Barony, although we find that they were still
available for the dignity of knighthood. Sir
Percival, Sir Borlase, and Sir Humphrey de
Barlow here follow one another in somewhat
quick succession ; and the antiquarian,  could

lie only discover their tombstones,  would, no
doubt, be led to infer,  from the crossed legs
of the effigies thereon, that they had been one
and all of them Crusaders.

With Griffinhoofe, Abbot of St. Opportune
temp. Henry YIII.), one might have fancied that
any ordinary family would have come to an end.
But then, we must remember, first, that he was a
 Zriry *- Abbot, and, secondly, that there was
nothing ordinary about the family of Barlow.

At an} rate, it was from this point that Miss
Elizabeth,  sitting, as it were, well back in the
saddle and hugging the third pummel with her
left knee,  had taken one of those grand genealogical
leaps which are apt by their audacity to
astonish the modern student of pedigrees. She
landed somewhere in the beginning of the nineteenth
century, and lo ! we find that, like degenerate
game-cocks, the Barlows have shed their
spurs ! . . . In a word, the family has merged
and centred in the person of one  John Barlow,
Esquire, of Lesser Pucklington, Bucks ;  engaged
in commerce,' who, having selected, and subdued
his female, became in due course of time, the
father of Captain William Barlow, of the Royal
Navy, who pre-deceased his father, in the year

1860, at the comparatively early age of forts, soon
after he had 'lawfully begotten through the
medium of a somewhat imprudent marriage, the
Miss Lucy Barlow of this story. Now, Captain
William Barlow of the Royal Navy,  being one
of those provokingly practical persons who set up
facts before faith, and seem to require to test
every kind of revelation, as it were, with a foot-rule,
 had utterly and entirely repudiated all the
great, illustrious, mediaeval Barlows, declaring that
they had nothing whatever to do with him, and
that the notion that they were in any way connected
with the family was simply an immaculate
conception of his aunt. Miss Elizabeth,  (only
sister of 'John Barlow, Esquire, engaged in commerce),
 who, having discovered in an old curia
a large signet-ring, engraved with a lion
rampant, flourishing a battle-axe (the cognizance,
as everybody knows, of the genuine mediaeval Barlows),
had constructed therefrom a sort of phenomenal
Megatherium, fearfully and wonderfully made,
to be regarded altogether with ridicule and mistrust,
and deserving of no place in the classified
order of things. By reason of this deeply-rooted
incredulity the Captain had refrained from christening
his little daughter by any of the grand, old.

Mgh-sounding, North Cambrian, Norman, or Plantagenet
names. She was neither a Bronywyn, an
Eleanor, nor a Rosamond ; but simply * Lucy,'
from ' Lux,' signifying a light. The Captain's
own light, however, was extinguished before he
could ascertain whether she was,  or was not, 
destined to live up to her name; and, as her
mother had died upon giving her birth, the task
of solving this question has devolved upon the
present writer.

The connecting link between the late and
early Barlows did, indeed, seem to be rather
vague and unsubstantial, but even the possessors
of Lesser Pucklington were said to have been, in
many ways, remarkable and distinguished. According
to Miss Elizabeth, they had been endowed
with numerous characteristic idiosyncracies, upon
which she was never tired of expatiating, and
poor Lucy was scarcely able to perform the simplest
movement, without being informed that she
had inherited the barlow stride,' or the 'Barlow
twitch,' or the * Barlow shuffle,' and she seemed
to be for ever unconsciously reproducing fresh
traits. It had been a custom with these comparatively
recent Barlows to poke the fire in a
somewhat violent manner, to bang the door both

upon entering and leaving an apartment, to take
neither anchovy-sauce with their fish, nor cayenne-pepper
with their wild duck, and to utterly abhor
such puddings as were made either of sago or
tapioca ; and all these peculiarities Lucy was supposed
to have inherited with her name.

In her outward demeanour, however, there
was nothing to recall the flour ushers of the heraldic
battle-axe, the impetuous fire pokers and door-dangers,
who had combined together to produce
her. That she was extremely well favoured by
Nature, it was impossible to deny, although she
possessed that sort of beauty which is directly
opposed to either the classical or the heroic. A
face with brown hair, browTi eyes, and a general
effect of having had its shadows, and marked
points, painted in in sepia ; not unlike, in its expression
of tenderness and resignation, the face
of Beatrice Cenci in the well-known picture, 
barring, of course, the table-napkin which Guido
has thought fit to wrap round the head of that
most interesting of parricides. Her manners and
movements were, usually, extremely graceful and
quiet, for the hereditary striding, twitching, and
shuffling, were perceptible to Miss Elizabeth
Barlow alone. She conversed, unless when confronted

with any untoward event, with meekness
and deliberation, as became an orphan in modest
circumstances, ignorant as yet of the existence of
conditions capable of confusing speech or fluttering
the pulses.

Lesser Pucklington having gone, somehow,
the way of all the other family appanages, Lucy
Barlow and her great-aunt inhabited, at the present
time, a peaceful-looking Queen Anne house,
upon the borders of Clapham Common, which the
elder lady had rented ever since the death of her
brother John, when Lucy was not more than
three or four years old. Now Monsieur de la
Vieilleroche, knowing Miss Elizabeth's ruling
passion, and anxious in every way to please and
gratify her, and being himself a fervent believer
in the influence of chivalrous traditions and associations,
had introduced to her a clever and imperious
Italian artist,  one Benvenuto Rossi byname,
an old friend of his own,  who, for a trifling
consideration, had set down and illuminated the
whole Barlow genealogy, from beginning to end,
upon the very finest parchment. The great illustrious
early Barlows, with their knightly cognizance,
were all faithfully portrayed, the names
of sire and dame being written beneath their

respective shields and lozenges, wiiieli were connected
together by a hyphen, from the centre of
which branched forth their offspring  male and
female. From the original parchment this family
record had, afterwards, been considerably enlarged,
and transferred to some sort of holland fabric,
suitable for blinds, and it now hung suspended from
the lower staircase window at Barlow Lodge, where
the sunlight, streaming through the * gules,'
azure,'  vert,' and ' sable,' of the painted
scutcheons, had quite an imposing effect upon
fine afternoons, and could not fail to attract the
attention of any visitor who happened to linger
in the entrance-hall. Upon such days, however,
as were grey and cheerless,  of which there are
but too many in our chilly clime,  the blind, thus
richly emblazoned with heraldic devices, was
almost entirely drawn up, so as to admit as
much light as possible to the staircase. The
names and cognizance of the illustrious mediaeval
Barlows would then be coiled up and concealed
upon the roller of the bend, and only
about half a foot of the holland fabric was revealed
to the eyes of the beholder. But, hereupon,
level with the hem, and immediately' above
the knot belonging to the tassel, was set down

VOL. I. D

quite the most interesting portion of the record.
It was the space reserved for the Barlows of
Lesser Pucklington, of which Lucy was now the
sole remaining modern offshoot. Her name and
arms were,  of course,  duly recorded, springing
from the hyphen which united * Captain William
Barlow, of the Royal Navy,' with  Lucinda, his
wife, only daughter of the Eev. Orlando Binks ' ;
but the cunning artist,  seeking, no doubt, to
ingratiate himself with his patrons,  had refused
obstinately to believe, or so he had pretended, that
so fascinating a young lady as Lucy could possibly
remain much longer in her present un-happened
condition. He had, therefore, united her to the
shadowy semblance of a scutcheon, sketched in
in pencil only, without as yet, either cognizance
or written name, but which could be easily filled
up and completed when occasion required. And
passing up and down stairs, as Lucy was accustomed
to pass, at least eight, or nine, or ten, or
even a dozen times, in the course of one day, it
was quite impossible for her  although she was
neither vain, nor self-centred, nor discontented,
nor too femininely over-fanciful,  to look, thus
often, at this empty scutcheon, to which she had
been, as it were, affianced,  by the artist's courtesy,

without wondering, and wondering, and wondering,
chose name might be destined, one daj, to be
inscribed beneath its outlines ; or, whether, indeed,
there woidd ever be any name inscribed there at
all ! . . . Of course the Marquis's poor Italian
friend meant no harm whatever by his flattering
conceit ; but I think that had I been Miss Lucy
Barlow's venerable great-aunt, and had I desired
that my great-niece's mind should be kept free
from all such wandering fancies, I would have
set his foolish ears a-tingling before I would have
permitted him to sketch in that phantom shield I

CHAPTER TV,

Sydney Adolphus Podmore, of Palmyra
House, was one of those favoured individuals
who give the lie to a popular adage. He was * a
hero to his valet-de-chambre.' Mr. Hitchens, a
grave, grey, elderly man, who, it was surmised,
might once have known better days, apparently
looked upon his master as a living concentration
of power, urbanity, magnificence. A benevolent
sun god, perpetually lavishing his favours upon
those who were in need of them ; and even when
one of these took the rather prosaic form of a live
lobster,  firmly manacled, and wrapped up in the
latest edition of the Daily Telegraphy  the admiration
of the loyal valet underwent no sort of
diminution.

My Guv'nors sent this round for the two
ladies ' (he had said when he delivered over the
creature into Sarah's hands). * She's to be boiled

a little better than half-an-liour with this kindest
regards ; and I repose, my dear, as lie may drop in
upon 'em in the evening, when he's finished his
dinner? He'd have sent 'em prawns, as
well, if the fishing-boats had been out a-Sunday,

which they was not Ah ! my girl, i

everybody upon this earth were given their correct
dues, that master of mine ought to have been
a born Prince ! ' and herewith he had handed her
the hen-lobster and departed with a sigh.

And indeed, Mr. Podmore was possessed of
many of the attributes which go towards the
making of a popular idol, his magnificence being
of that surface kind which appeals directly to the
vulgar. In the first place, he was large, easily
observed, profuse in his cellar and stable expenditure,
ver' particular as to his liveries, and
scrupulous careful with regard to his own
personal attire. He was as highly jewelled as
any Englishman can be who has any sort of
regard for public opinion ; and yet, over all there
reigned a simplicity, a chastity, a perfection of
refined taste ! That single pearl  for instance,
which shimmered nightly upon his manly bosom,
and what a pearl it was !  might, alone, have
furnished an imaginative mind with the materials

Thro LOVE AND WAR.

for a stirring romance. Pearls may not speak,
but this one, at least, was eloquent in its proud
silence. The same distinguished simplicity was
observable in his equipage.  Chaste ' is again
the term which will best describe it, if chastity
is a virtue which may belong to a single-brougham.
JSTot even armorial bearings upon
the panel, nor a cockade upon the coachman's
hat ; what an evidence of power in reserve !

Miss Barlow the elder,  with her craving after
heraldic-blazon,  had been somewhat disturbed
with regard to this first omission.

'But surely, dear Mr. Podmore,' she had protested,
' the Podmores of Middlesex,  they must
be entitled to bear arms ? '

'They are, indeed,' Mr. Podmore had
answered, ' and we have quite a fine motto, I can
assure you ; something war-like and defiant :
 Let Podmore hold what Podmore held,  something
of that kind ! All these things are very
well for you ladies,  but I prefer, myself, to have
my belongings marked simply with my initials,
">S. A. P. "sydney Adolphus Podmore."
It spells " sr(;;," too,  a word with a grand
significance.'

He had said this with such a ' 

-bush ' kind of a manner, that Miss Elizabeth
was at once reassured.

Set}:),' (Mr. Podmore had continued,)  is the
essence, the grand vital principle of all animate
nature ;  without " sap " the flower droops, the
tree withers, man himself perishes,  England, 
the greatest commercial power upon the face of
the globe,  could not exist for one single moment
if it were not for " sap " ! '

And so Sydney Adolphus Podmore would
have no crest upon his carriages or spoons,
although the poor gnomes of the Ural were still
delving and toiling, in order to discover a fellow
to his one enormous turquoise, which, when
appropriate paired, was to furnish him with
sleeve-buttons ; and whilst the bare-legged neapolitan
fisher was still diving and dredging in the
hope of finding the very palest, priceless, piece
of pink coral, as a handle for his new umbrella !

Upon the day of his return from the Isle of
Wight, Mr. Podmore presented himself at Barlow
Lodge punctually at nine o'clock. He entered
the house with a good deal of effusive bustle,
banging the doors almost as noisily as the
legendary Barlows, and greeting Sarah with a
few hearty condescending words in the entrance-hall.

He advanced towards Miss Elizabeth with
the greatest cordiality, flourishing his cambric
pocket-handkerchief, which immediately filled the
apartment with delicious perfume. Sarah, who
lingered admiringly in the doorway, quite agreed
with Mr. Hitchens, as to the proud position
which his master would have occupied supposing
that everybody had obtained their * correct dues.'

A few words about Mr. Podmore's personal
appearance may not be out of place here.

He was in the habit of alluding to himself,
in conversation, as a person who, without being
actually handsome, was possessed of that manly,
British-Lion' kind of exterior, which is calculated
to inspire confidence at a glance ; whilst, at
the same time, he was wont to insinuate that
every other type of masculine good-looks went
for less than nothing, and was, indeed, often an
indication and accompaniment of the most
dangerous forms of immorality

'I can assure you, my dear Miss Barlow,' he
would remark, as he surveyed his portly form in
the chimney glass, ' I would far rather be what
I am,  plain-headed, and I trust you will allow
me to add, " true-hearted " Sydney Podmore, with
his bluff, outspoken manner, and punctual, matter-of-fact

business habits, tliaii the smartest and
handsomest young fellow that ever ogled a ballet-girl
in the green-room of a London Theatre, or
dissipated his patrimony upon a race-course,
amongst blackness and sharpers I . . . . There's
no accounting for tastes, is there ? '

Upon which. Miss Elizabeth Barlow, shrinking
appalled from this picture of the habits of
smart and handsome young fellows,' would invariably
make answer that sic, too, would far
rather that ' Sydney Podmore ' remained as he
was.

Mr. Podmore, then, was large, pale, and inclining
towards fatness. As compared to most
other men he presented to Lucy the appearance of
having been cast in a mould, rather than hewn or
chiselled ; but then, as yet, she had seen very few
other men with whom to compare him. In spite,
however, of a pair of floating red whiskers 
certainly rather a leonine attribute  she had
never taken the ' British-Lion ' view of his individuality,
lie did not look athletic enough, she
thought, although he was so big and so important,
and took up so much room when he sat down.
He was not brown enough, nor weather-beaten
enough, nor addicted enough to out-of-door pursuits.

' British Lions ' did not sit all day long in.
office-armchairs, and drive home in * chaste '
brougham to well cooked dinners in suburban
villas ! They prowled about all over the world,
seeking whom they might devour, and came home
with their skins tanned by sun and scarred by
battle. As it was, however, only the preciseness
of Mr. Podmore's attire saved him, at times, from
looking positively vulgar. One felt that it would
have been impossible to contemplate him, without
disgust, if he had been either over-heated, dishevelled,
or unshaved, and that all classical
adaptations of drapery would have been unbecoming
to him. Lucy had seen persons with
faces like his, hurrying along with large parcels,
lounging about the doors of public-houses, and
perched upon the knife-boards of omnibuses. Ina
word, he seemed to her to be essentially common-looking
:  a face so often seen that one hardly took
the trouble to observe it, and never allowed oneself
to think about it at all.

Upon this particular evening, however, the
Podmorian brow was unusually radiant. Miss
Elizabeth, who would not have admitted that he
was ever plain, might well have considered that
to-night he was positively handsome. He was

fatigued however, lie said, with a long day of
steamers, trains, and cabs. He had left the Isle
of Wight at an earl' hour, and had travelled
direct to London, for he was due soon after 12.30
at one of his City ' boards.' He had passed
Clapham Junction on his way, where Mr. Hitchens
and the hen-lobster had alighted, and whither he
had returned later on in the day, for, as he was a
little uncertain as to his plans, he had not ordered
his brougham to meet him as usual. lie had
hurried from the station to Palmyra House as fast
as a * hansom' would carry him, dressed, dined,
dispatched half-a-dozen business letters, and here
he was, at 9 p.m., beaming, shining, magnificent.
What must he have been in the morning ! . .

And the children ? ' he inquired suddenly,
after he had given this detailed account of his
peregrinations. It was fortunate, perhaps, that
Lucy was not present to hear this remark. The
words ' children,' * bairns,' * birdie,' ' bonnie even,
half Burns's vocabulary, in fact, when employed
by persons who were not Scotch, had always inspired
her with an uncontrollable sensation of
nausea, so that 'cJiilcUe mio:ht have weighed
seriously against Mr. Podmore in the balance.
What squeamish, unreasonable creatures we women

arc ! . . . and tlieii to pretend that we could ever
legislate and help to govern the country I . .

*The Marquis lias been dining here Miss
Barlow explained. * He has gone into the garden
to smoke a cigar, as I have never permitted
smoking in the house, and Lucy is walking with
him. Tell me, dear Mr. Podmore, whilst we are
alone, have you received and read my last letter?'

I have,' replied Mr. Podmore, drawing himself
up, and patting himself complacently about
the region of the priceless pearl. ' I have considered
it most attentively, and I look upon our
little financial speculation as entirely at an end.'

Why at an end ? ' asked the old lady, looking
a little taken aback.

Because,' returned Mr. Podmore, ' I gather
from your letter  courteous and considerate although
it be  that you have misinterpreted my
motives. You imagined that I desired you to
embark with me in this advantageous speculation
in order, principally, to benefit myself. When
I suggested that you should contribute towards
the purchase-money of the valuable estate about
which I spoke to you, you were inter the
impression that I was actually in want of this
augmentation of funds ; that I should be unable

to obtain the property without your assistance ;
and this very naturally made you a little niis-
tmstfiil . . .'

*0h, indeed, you are quite wrong!' protested
Miss Elizabeth eagerly. * It is you who misinterpret
! Xot the slightest shadow of mistrust
has ever entered my mind I But I have, I must
confess, rather a horror of speculations ; my poor
dear brother John, as I think I have told you,
having everything in the world to make him
perfectly happy, embarked in speculations 
speculations that did not turn out as he had
expected. "Wealthy as he had been originally, he
died in quite reduced circumstances, the greater
portion of my own fortune went in endeavouring
to satisfy' his creditors ; and dear Lucy, who being
now the last of her race, ought to have been quite
an heiress, will have to depend entirely upon my
reduced fortune and the savings I have been providential'
enabled to set aside during a long lifetime.
You see, therefore, my dear Mr. Podmore,
why I was a little averse to altering the arrangement
I had made with regard to this money ?'

I see everything ! Your scruples are perfectly
natural. My own wish, too, to see these savings
of yours roll up, and double and treble themselves,

Alas only the very natural wish of a sincere friend
who has hopes of becoming one clay connected
with your family by nearer and dearer ties. Pray
believe me when I say that my motives Avere perfectly
disinterested, and now we will say no more
upon the subject !'

 If I might only consult with somebody about
the matter said Miss Elizabeth timidly. * I am
so exceedingly ignorant about investments, and
my poor brother's misfortunes have naturally
made me a little nervous. You did not like the
notion of my speaking to Mr. Fletcher, my
solicitor ?'

 For this reason,' interrupted Mr. Podmore
quickly. ' Fletcher himself has been speculating
in land in this neighbourhood. He would give
his eyes, as I happen to know, for the property in
question, and would be certain, therefore, to do
all that he could to interfere with my purchase of
it. It would be impossible for you to consult him
without entering into full particulars, and the
more advantageous the investment the more sore
he would be about the matter. It might produce
endless troubles and complications in the future.
My objection upon this head was, therefore, perfectly
natural.'

You sec said Miss Elizabeth sadly,  I have
now so very few gentlcniGn friends ; I am an old
woman, those who could have advised me are dead
and gone I' She paused, sighing, and then added
suddenly, * I wonder, dear mr. Podmore, as I feel
so utterly helpless and ignorant with regard to
this matter, although I shoidd embark in it at once
merely' upon your kind recommendation, if I considered
that the moneys was really my own,
whether I might consult my old friend Monsieur
de la Yieilleroche ? He is devoted to dear Lucy's
interests, and, besides being a gentleman in every
sense, he is such a thorough man of the world ?'

I can have no objection,' replied Mr. Podmoro
with dignity, * that you should speak to him with
regard to my views respecting the dear children,
but I shall consider that our little joint speculation
scheme is utterly at an end, and I should wish no
allusion made to it, therefore, to a person who
is probably totally unacquainted with English
systems of investment. Had the Marquis been a
younger man, I might have hesitated with respect
to this private matter also, for there is something
a little " Frenchy " and cynical about him, which
might have made me mistrust his advice. As it
is, however, he is an old friend of yours, he seems

to have the dear girl's interest thoroughly at
heart, and there can be no reason, therefore, why
he should not be made a party to our arrangement.
It will account to him for the frequency
of my visits, and for the interest I take in all
matters relating to you both. I have fancied,
sometimes, that he was a little jealous of my
influence and friendship.'

Before anything more could be said upon
this matter the 'dear children' herself appeared,
looking very pretty and innocent in a white
frock and mittens. Monsieur de la Vieilleroche
entered the room soon afterwards from the
garden, arrayed  as he always was arrayed 
beneath the folds of a melodramatic-looking fur-collared
cloak, in a well-worn dress suit and
embroidered evening shirt, convenient for the
accepting of unexpected invitations to dinner
which might happen to be made during an afternoon
call. And the four friends settled down at
once to their evening rubber, which was enlivened
between whiles by the old Frenchman's vivacious
prattle, and by Mr. Podmore's improving talk,
diversified by some interesting anecdotes of London
high life ' which he had picked up that very
morning at his City board.

CHAPTER Y.

To the lover of romance there will seem, as I
have already hinted, to be nothing very seductive,
at the first, in the notion of Clapham Common.
A common far removed from the busy haunts
of men,  pink with heather, and feathery with
bracken,  where one can hear the blithe morning-song
of the lark and the shrill ' pee-wit ! ' of the
plover, and where the rabbits, with their little
tufted tails, go scurrying away headlong in every
direction,  is calculated, I allow, to awaken
dreams as varied as its own sunsets. It conveys
an idea of Freedom, of Immensity, of Expectation
; and possesses thus some points of resemblance
with the very Ocean itself. One may seethe
pink heather trampled down by the feet of
merry birds-jesters and blackberry-pickers ; by
the swart gipsy, with his shock-headed brood, his
Tans, his laden asses, his cheap and trumpery

VOL. I. B

wares ; whilst lark, plover, and rabbit, alike, maybe
well-nigh scared out of their senses, at times,
by the sudden clattering past of a troop of horse,
or by the fierce crackling flames of an incendiary
fire.

But Clapham Common ! . .

Clapham Common, I am bound to admit, is
chiefly suggestive of ideas connected with the
retired butchers, bakers, and candlestick-makers,
who are supposed to inhabit most of the houses
upon its confines ;  with the junction,' its shrieking
steam-engines, pert yomig bar-maids, and hard
ham-sandwiches ;  with the * desirable villa residences
' upon the way leading to it, situated
between an enormous gasometer and a space
devoted to the airing of infected blankets, and
bounded by the railway on the off-side ; and with
that accursed tramway which,  like Swastika' the
Great Serpent,  ' drags its slow length along,' and
threatens to overrun every available roadway in
our suburbs.

Clapham Common, however, like many other
places, persons, and things, only reveals its
delights and its mysteries to the seeker. It
possesses its bards, its chroniclers, its ardent and
enthusiastic lovers. The demure-looking Queen-anne

houses which encircle it may seem to their
varied inmates even as very terrestrial Eden,
Havens of Cain, Sloughs of Despond, or Towers
of Silence. Love, Death, Imagination, and the
Penny Post, have access to them all, and the
dramas which have been enacted in them might,
very likely, fill many volumes, if written down.

Barlow Lodge, with its modest eighteenth-century
decorations, partook most of the character
of a Haven of Calm. Storm-tossed mementos of
foreign travel had found their way thither, it is
true. Coral-sprays, from the depths of tropic
seas, which had been brought home by Lucy's
father, Captain "William Barlow of the Royal
Navy, stood under crystal globes upon several of
the spidery-legged Chippendale tables. It nest
have been the Captain, too, who had contributed
those weird-looking Austrian boomerangs which
were hung up in the entrance-hall, and the
ostrich-egg in its silken net, against which Miss
Elizabeth was always afraid that Mr. Podmore
would bump his head ; and the carved ivory chessmen
that were set out upon the red Chinese tea-tray,
and the mother-of-pearl counters which
were wont to be made use of during the evening
rubber of whist.



UNiVERSmr OF IWHnts

Then, what a goodly wealth of shells,
Gleaned from the secret ocean-cells
Of half the seas that wash the world ! . . .
Horn'd, and pyramidal, and curl'd,
Like worm or dragon of olden time, 
AVide-mouthed, and missed with the ocean-rime ;
And oblong,  polished smooth and hard,
Huge cowries,  spotted " like the pard,"
"Wherein,  when held against mine ear
Attentively,  I seem to hear
The wild Atlantic's distant roar
Whilst sitting here in mine easy chair ! '

These great sea-shells had also probably been
brought home by Lucy's father, but there were
besides the contributions of * John Barlow,
Esquire, engaged in commerce,' which had been
transferred, after his decease, from the mansion
of Lesser Pucklington. The profiles of himself
and lady, neatly cut out in black jDaper, set in
black frames, wherefrom it would not have been
easy to form any idea of their personal appearance
; and other portraits of the same individuals
when younger, modelled in light wax, upon a
dark ground, after the manner of a cameo. Also,
the portrait, likewise in black paper, of a
mysterious Naval Officer, wearing his cocked hat,
athwart ships,' which was treated by Miss Elizabeth
with an especial reverence, although she had

never informed Lucy who it was intended to
represent. Then, quaint, fluted, Wedgwood and
Swansea tea-sets, arranged upon brackets and
corner shelves, and some fine old Oriental ginger-pots
and pickle jars, filled up now with pot-pourra
and dried lavender buds. Last, but not least,
there was the Grand Hereditary Barlow Great
Seal, about which Miss Elizabeth had quite a
feeling of ' fetish.' It was very large and bloated-looking,
 as things much pampered and pandered
to have a tendency to become,  set in a fine old
ring of red gold, and the heraldic lion rampant,
with his upraised battle-axe, were beautifully
engraved upon dark cornelian. It was disposed
in the centre of a quilted satin mat upon the
show writing-table, encircled and hemmed in by
several smaller and less-considered objects, in the
form of pencil-cases, vinaigrettes, and snuff-boxes,
which all appeared to be backing and salaaming
before it, as though to some sort of sacred Llama.
It had occupied its present proud position ever
since Lucy could remember, and, on no account,
would either she or Sarah have ventured to
displace it by so much as what Sterne calls *the
breadth of an hair.' From time to time Miss
Barlow the elder would take it up and dust it

with reverential fingers, looking at it the while
with an expression of regretful melancholy, as
much as to say, * Thou art the last link, oh seal,
that binds us to our grand old historical recollections
! Never, therefore, shalt thou be
mocked at or shamefully entreated ! ' and she
woidd heave a sigh as she set it up again in
the midst of the seeming idolaters. With the
exception of this great family heir-loom, the
origin of which was apparently lost in the mists
of antiquity,  for, of course. Captain William
Barlow's theory about its having been purchased
by his aunt at a pawnbroker's shop could only
have sprung from his possessing too practical a
mind,  the decorations and associations of Barlow
Lodge were old-fashioned rather than mediaeval.
There was nothing in the house which had been
much longer in the family than the profiles
fashioned out of wax and black paper ; for,
although the large blue Oriental pickle jars may
have dated back to the very first brick of the
great wall of China, they had been purchased, as
was well known, by the father of ' John Barlow,
Esquire, engaged in commerce,' not more than a
hundred years ago.

All these seemingly incongruous objects appeared

now to have settled themselves for good.
They had become a part and parcel of Barlow
Lodsre, which would not have been like Barlow
Lodge without them ; and perhaps it was this
mute obedience to the decrees of fate, upon the
part of these inanimate chattels, which made Miss
Elizabeth's modest suburban dwelling so essentially
a 'Haven of Calm' to its living and breathing
inmates.

Wiihoiit, too, upon the side, at least, which did
not overlook the Common, it inspired the same
sensations of resignation and repose. About midway
down the narrow strip of garden, a medlar-tree,
seeming all knees and elbows by reason of
the sharp) angles in its branches, some bay and
box-trees, and a few tufted bushes of rhododendron,
made quite a patch of sylvan shade upon the
greensward. Sitting here, in her garden chair,
upon still summer afternoons, with her back
turned to the wall above which towered the
stuccoed mansion of her influential neighbour',
Lucy could almost imagine herself in the depths
of the ' forest primeval ;' for a vagabond clematis,
wandering about at will, had so loaded one of the
dark bay-trees with its white blossoms and invading
horned tendrils, that the prospect on the

left-hand side of the garden was almost entirely
masked. Starlings, thrushes, robins, real country
birds, came here, as well as the pert chimney-pot
sparrows, to peck at the moss growing under the
gnarled limbs of the medlar-tree, which must
have taken a century, at least, to become so velvety
and soft. Butterflies, too, would come and settle
upon the blossoms of the clematis, not only our
old friend the ' cabbage white,' but many of the
brighter and scarcer varieties, and, at eventide,
the darting ' gamma moth ' and whirring * yellow
underwing.' In a word, whilst the weather was
warm and fine, and whilst the branches of the
medlar-tree were well shrouded in leaves, this
nook seemed to Lucy to be quite like the real
country,' sitting, of course, in one particular
position, without allowing the eyes to wander too
much to the right or the left.

It was strange that so small a garden should
have been able to satisfy such a roving imagination,
or that there should have seemed to be room
in it for all the many aerial castles that Lucy was
accustomed to build ! Perhaps, however, it is
only the really imaginative that can set to work
thus between two narrow walls, and follow out
their wonderful day-dreams, as though unconscious

altogether of their commonplace surroundings.
Things, and places, and people, influence us
much more through what we make of them than
through what they really are ; and so Luc' 
guided entirely by her own powers of idealization
 had misnamed this poor little handful of
suburban evergreens *the Jingle.' It was a
Jungle, to be sure, safe from the inroads of savage
wild beasts ; but yet, at times, a soit would reach
it which was not altogether unlike the distant
roaring of lions, and which filled Lucy with some
such sense of awe and apprehension as is said to
be inspired by the voice of the monarch of the
desert. This awe striking sound was no other
than the distant murmur of London. London 
the mighty, murky, unknown power, that lay
crouched between her and the sunset, and about
which she had heard such wonderful stories, both
of good and of evil.

It was chiefly from her great-aunt, and from,
Mr. Podmore, that Lucy had heard these stories
about London ; for, notwithstanding that she lived
so close upon its confines, she had been there but
seldom, and the longest time she ever remembered
to have remained in its brutus atmosphere was
when she had paid a visit to the dentist who

lead extracted lier two first-permancnt-bicusped-
molars  (I have reason to think that I have got
the name and style of this tooth quite correctly) 
in order to allow the requisite space for her
canine teeth ;  and this was, of course, a good
many years ago now.

Miss Elizabeth Barlow, in fact, possessed the
same sort of acquaintance with the great world
of London, as the old apple woman at the corner
of a street has been said to possess of its varied
inhabitants. There have been controversies as to
whether this old woman, who so seldom moves from
her position upon the kerb-stone, or the hurrying
errand-boy, who is admitted, at times, into the
very houses themselves, knows most about what
is really going on, and I believe that the verdict
has been given in favour of the apple woman.

For the knowledge acquired by the hurrying
errand-boy is purely superficial, and he is, besides,
both young and unobservant. It is true
that he may dash down the area-steps of someone
particular house upon some one very particular
day  the day of an auspicious event. A brougham
and pair is at the door,  the coachman is asleep, 
he does not wear a cockade,  and there is no footman;
but for all this the errand-boy knows not

that it is the equipage of one of the most celebrated
of Her Majesty's physicians, in one particular
department. He may run up against,
perhaps, and well-nigh overset, a middle-aged
female bearing a tray with caudle in a pipkin ;
but the ignorant boy is not aware that this is the
wily nurse,' and that the birth of the son, who
has just come into the world, will elate one
branch of a noble family with triumph, and set
some other members of it wailing and o:nashino:

DO O

their teeth.

Or again, he may come to deliver his message
upon the day of a wedding. The voice of the
family butler is husky, and his face unusually
flushed; strange men loiter upon the staircase,
and innumerable clusters of empty wine-glasses
encumber the dresser ; but the errand-boy knows
not that the bride has just driven off with her
husband, for he was in too great a hurry to
observe that old white satin shoe in the gutter,
or the grains of rice which were strewn upon the
area steps as he ran clattering down them.

Or, he may call, perchance, at the door of
yet another mansion. The coffin of its wealthy
master has just been borne down into the lobby,
and the assembled servants are craning over one

another's shoulders to read the inscription upon
the coffin-plate, whilst waiting for the dismal
carriage which is to take him for his last drive ;
a fluttering, as of a bird, in the letter-box, disturbs
the awed silence ; the errand-boy has just
delivered himself of an enormous card, whereupon
the dead man is invited to assist at an important
political banquet in the course of the ensuing
week  (' an answer particularly requested '),  and
dashes off again, whistling, upon his mad career.

But now how different it is with the old apple-woman
!

From her vantage ground at the street corner,
she has'perceived, by many little indications  not
to be mistaken by an intelligent observers  that
the childless lady was expecting an heir. She
has noticed the attentions of the husband, the
brougham of the celebrated physician, and has
watched the arrival of the * wily nurse ' With
her hair-trunk. Whilst the constantly-recurring
visits of an over-dressed youth at another house
in the same street, together with the bales of
millinery which have been delivered at the door,
prepared her for the marriage of the maiden long
before the arrival of the bride-cake, or of the
myrmidons in charge of the hired wine-glasses.

Then, again, she has observed signs of ' the
beginning of the end ' in the owner of the other
mansion,  his flabby, dyspeptic appearance, his
irritability to his cabman, the languor of his
step as he strolled forth for his morning walk in
the park. He gave her half-a-crown, too, the
last time she pestered him for coppers, which no
one in the full enjoyment of his faculties had ever
done before ; the end was clearly foreshadowed.

After some such fashion. Miss Elizabeth
Barlow, with the help of a superannuated ' 
had followed conscientiously the movements
of the British aristocracy for years. In this
honoured volume, whose ruddy hue had become
a good deal paled by time, she would carefully
notch doni the birth of the little heir, the marriage
of the maiden, and the death of the wealthy
householder ; for I am supposing them all to have
been scions of noble houses.

Ordinary knights she looked upon as somewhat
beneath her notice, but she kept a keen eye
upon the baronets, so long as they were neither
doctors nor lord-mayors, and did not utterly
despise a military K.C.B., supposing, of course,
that he had gained several victories, and had
come of a good old family at starting.

Mr. Podmore was at times perfectly astounded
at the extent of her information, which seemed to
him to partake almost of the supernatural.

His own experience of great people had been
much more of the errand-boy kind. He had a
nodding acquaintance with one or two ' big-wigs '
who sat with him upon the Board of an insurance
company. His name had appeared, too, as the
promoter of an enterprise in which the third son
of a Duke was also concerned, and this young
aristocrat had even addressed him familiarly as
Podmore,' and slapped him cordially upon the
back. A ' Viscount,' too, of insinuating manners
and address, whom he had fallen in with, quite
by accident, in the waiting-room of a Jewish
usurer, had condescended to allow him to ' stand '
him luncheon at his City club, and had afterwards
done him the favour to accept one of his
most expensive cigars, but he had never been
admitted by these, or other great personages, to
any sort of intimacy, and he was too much
occupied with his own business matters to take
note of their births, deaths, and marriages, or to
read about them when they were taken note of in
the newspapers. Still, between Miss Elizabeth
and Mr. Podmore, some wonderful stories of

high life ' lead readied Lucy's innocent ears 
wonderful, as compared to the total absence of all
wonders at Barlow Lodge.

Only upon this very evening, for instance,
]mr. Podmore had related an anecdote connected
with the fashionable world, which possessed all
the materials suitable for a three-volumed novel.
A noble Earl, who was to have presided at Mr.
Podmore' s Board, was absent from his appointed
place, and this was the * reason wherefore ' : 

Lady Valentine de Bohun, only daughter,
only child, in fact,  of the venerable Earl of
Rottingdean, had long been attached to her
father's favourite physician. The doctor returned
her affection, but, dreading the anger of
the lady's venerable though haughty father,
neither of them avowed their love. The doctor
had attended the Lady Yalentina for measles,
whooping-cough, scarlatina,  every juvenile complaint,
 from which not even blue blood is exempt.
To the ailments of youth succeeded the
disorders of maturity, and still the noble-hearted
doctor was content to be silent, although his flame
was thus being perpetually fanned.

But at last Lady Yalentina, whose susceptible
nature somewhat pre disposed her to infection,

was stricken down with the smallpox. The
doctor attended her, of course, and only succeeded
in pulling her through by a miracle. One thing,
however, even his skill and devotion was powerless
to preserve, her beauty,  (never of a very high
order, by-the-by). She was disfigured for life !
. . Then, and not till then,  when all prospect
of making a more brilliant alliance seemed to begone
from her for ever,  did the disinterested
physician apply to the Earl of Eottingdean for
the hand of his daughter. He was peremptorily
refused; and this after having saved the life of
the lady, and enjoyed for years the family confidence
! It was more than flesh and blood could
stand. The Leech and the Lady, therefore, determined
to take the law into their own hands.

They walked out one morning before breakfast,
and were married ; and this fact had only
just been made known to the outraged parent.
What form his indignation would eventually
take, remained still a mystery. It had prevented
him, at any rate, from being able to attend at Mr.
Podmore's Board.

'It is a shocking disgrace for her family,'
Miss Elizabeth had remarked when she heard the
story.

Which do you look upon as the disgrace, my
dear lady ? ' asked Mr. Podmore. * Her attachment
to the doctor, or lier running away with
Mm?'

'Her attachment and her running away,'
answered the old lady promptly; *to be sure,
had she been in a more humble walk of life,
the marriage in itself might have been suitable
enough ; but, as it is, there is a great difference
in position, and Dr. Winnington would have been
happier, I should have thought, with some one
belonging to his own sphere. A daughter, however,
who can take such a step without the
sanction of her father, or of the persons who
represent him, would be disgracing herself even
were she to elope with a duke. It is not
likely that there will be a blessing upon such a
marriage.'

I confess,' returned Mr. Podmore, * that,
whilst strongly disapproving of elopements, I
can't help thinking that it is the doctor who has
the worst of the bargain. The lady, I hear, is
not particularly young ; she was never beautiful,
and is now deeply pitted with the smallpox. I
presume, however, that she will be very well
off?'

VOL. I. F

Lady Yalentina de Boliim/ replied Miss
Elizabetli, who was now in her element, 'was
born on the 14th of February, 1841. I remember
it, because it happens to be St. Valentine's Day,
and hence, you will perceive, her somewhat
peculiar Christian name ; so she is now very
nearly forty years of age. Her mother. Lord
Rottingdean's first wife, died when she was quite
a child, so she has been deprived for a long time
of a mother's solicitude, which should be taken
into consideration now ; and though the Earl, her
father, afterwards re-married, his son by his
second wife died before he was ten years old,
which sad event was followed soon afterwards by
the death of the second Countess. Lady Valentine,
therefore, at her father's decease, comes into
the Castle in Sussex, and a large portion of the
London property, though the title and some of
the other landed estates are entailed upon her
first-cousin, once removed, to whom it was hoped
she would one day unite herself, and thus join
together the title and the estates. Her recent
imprudent act, however, has put this arrangement
quite out of the question. Poor Lord
Eottingdean has, indeed, had more than his own
share of the troubles of this life ! The event will

greatly distress your relative, Lucy, Lady Mabella
Binks, who is a most intimate friend of tie
family, but, alas ! ' (added the old lady, sighing,
and pointing her moral,) ' we do not find that
persons in an exalted sphere are less chastened
from on High than the most humble.'

Xo wonder that !Mr. Podmore, who knew
nothing about the existence of the pallid ' Peerage,'
seemed sometimes to be almost thunderstruck
at the extent of Miss Elizabeth's information with
regard to great people and their doings !

CHAPTER YL

As Lucy sat day-dreaming in ' the Jungle ' upon
the following afternoon, lie found herself thinking
a good deal about this romance of the lady
and the doctor, considering that she had never
known either of them. Woman-like, she fell to
wondering what sort of * outward man ' the doctor
possessed. Before she had learnt that Lady
Yalentina was quite so old as she was, she had
pictured to herself an extremely handsome and
intellectual-looking young man, pale, clean-shaved,
with a broad, benevolent forehead,
classical features, and a rare smile, full of indescribable
charm. A face and form, in fact, not
unlike those of Howard the philanthropist, as he
was represented in an entirely fancy-portrait
which was hung up in Miss Elizabeth Barlow's
bed-room. This phantom had vanished, however,
when she had heard of the lady's mature years ;

but another had started up in its place. It was
the same person, perhaps, only grown a good deal
older, for the face was still handsome, more
intellectual, if possible, and there were still the
same classical features and the rare smile. But
the tall form was just a little bent now, the hair
had become nearly white, and he leant upon a
cane with a jewelled handle, and tested pulses
by the aid of a large gold repeater watch, to
which was attached a broad black watered ribbon,
and a bunch of family-seals. This last conception
was exceedingly like, down to the very cut
of its clothes, an idealised portrait of Mr. Pitt,
in mezzotint, which adorned one side of the
dining-room at Barlow Lodge ; for Miss Elizabeth,
as might have been expected from one possessed
of her aristocratic leanings, was a most uncompromising
Tory. It must be very nice, Lucy
thought, to pass one's whole existence in the
society of a great, good, noble, bland, benevolent
being, who would cherish one, and shield one, and
always give one the very best possible advice upon
every occasion ! And she felt relieved to think
that she would not be debarred, at any rate, by
exalted rank, from dreaming about any such
future possibility ! She supposed that doctors

were not always attending small-pox cases, cutting
up dead bodies, or looking at people's tongues?
Tim part of their profession must be
terrible enough, in all conscience, but then, it
was for the good of Science, and she had always
heard that, in time, people might become used
to anything !

To be sure, Mr. Bury, the local general practitioner,
who had attended Miss Elizabeth during
her last attack of lumbago, was not at all like the
Dr. Howard-Pitt of her great-niece's imagination,
but the world was wide, such noble-looking
physicians were no doubt to be found in it.
After all, Clapham Common was not the Universe
! There were probably plenty of personages
answering to this description in London ! . . .

In London !' Was it possible that
London, that vast, mysterious, unknown city,
would ever exercise any sort of influence upon
her humble existence? Was it not much more
probable that she would remain on here, at
Clapham, looking on at it from the outside,
without any change in her mode of living, until
she became old, and wrinkled, and withered, like
her good great-aunt Elizabeth ? . . . .

As she asked herself these questions, she rose

from her chair, and sauntered down to the lower
end of the garden, where, amongst what would
become, later on, a maze of hollyhocks and sunflowers,
a little cross-barred wicket, communicating
with a meadow belonging to The Aspens,
enabled her to obtain a better view of the distant
mystery.

Yes, there crouched the dusky monster, with
its smoky breath rising like a mist, and its crest
of many spires ! . . . . By-and-by, after the
lamplighters had been on their rounds, it would
seem to be watching her with hundreds and
thousands of twinkling, malevolent eyes. As
she pushed aside the intervening branches, and
continued her gaze, she realised distinctly that
this contemplation of London, as representing
the unknown outer world, was producing upon
her an impression which was far from encouraging.
An impression of mistrust, of
anxiety, mingling with a sense of individual
helplessness and subjection of will.

A sound as of gentle wailing and sobbing
attracted Lucy's attention at this moment, and
served rather to confirm, than to dispel, her train
of melancholy thoughts.

A child of apparently about seven or eight

years old, was leaning against the outside of the
fence, close to where she was standing, and
weeping bitterly. Lucy at once recognised the
little daughter of the mysterious lady next door,
and now that she could see her quite near, thought
that she had never beheld so lovely a child. She
very soon elicited the cause of her weeping. She
had thrown her favourite picture-book at a white
butterfly, hoping thereby to catch it, but the
butterfly had flown away unscathed, and the
book had fallen over the fence into Lucy's
garden, and * hence these tears.'

Sure enough, there lay the book at Lucy's
feet, a book of nursery-rhymes, full of bright-coloured
pictures, sprawled face downwards upon
the border, a good deal crumpled and soiled ; and
here was a cause for renewed lamentation. Lucy
dusted the book and restored it to its little owner,
towards whom she had at once experienced a
peculiar sense of attraction. The feeling was
evidently mutual, for the child remained still
clinging to the paling as though loath to tear herself
from her new friend. Lucy, though always
drawn towards children, did not know very much
about them in general, and she felt half afraid,
at first of questioning the little stranger, lest she

should appear to lier to be inquisitive. ,
however, seeing that the child still lingered,
she ventured to inquire her name.

My name is little Lily,' she answered, drying
her tears. * It's written down in my book. I
was called '' Lily " because I was born amongst
black people and came white.'

You were born in India, I suppose ? '

Yes ; but it's so long ago, and India's so far
off, that I forget all about being born. My ayah,
E-ujama, is one of the black people from India.
She says India's much bigger than Clapham.'

I daresay she would like to go back to her own
coimbra', where it's so much warmer and brighter ? '

No ; m}' ayah won't ever leave me, she says,
not even when I'm quite old. Mamma very often
tells her to go back now. "Get away, I tell
you ! " Mamma says to her, " Get along home,
now, do ; because you're no good I " But my
ayah says she won't ever go.'

Lucy could not help forming an unfavourable
impression of her mysterious neighbour upon
hearing of this unamiable speech.

I suppose your black nurse is very fond of
you?' she said, feeling that this was not much
to be wondered at.

Yes ; Mamma says fondness is making lier
quite silly, and that she's no business to be fond
of me, because she's only a servant.'

Lucy's unfavourable impression with regard
to ' Mamma was still further confirmed.

*]N'o wonder she thought, That her voice
sounds so shrill and unsympathetic when she
sings ! How can this little angel be really her
child ? '

Little Lily certainly resembled the typical
angel of the idealistic painters, as opposed to
the fat cherub of the more florid schools. She
was as fair and delicate-looking as her namesake
flower, whilst her eyes, although blue and innocent,
had an expression of eager and unsatisfied
longing, not usually to be observed in the eyes of
one so young.

The black ayah, in her waving white garments,
came shuffling down the garden-path, which led
to the meadow, before Lucy could further improve
the acquaintance with her little neighbour, and
the child ran ofi" at once in answer to her call.

After watching her out of sight, Lucy turned
back towards the twisted medlar-tree, and, on her
way, came upon a stray leaf of the picture-book,
which had fluttered off into the midst of] a

rhododendron-bush. It was the title-page, whereupon,
in bold, masculine characters, the child's
name was written : * To my little Lily, from one
who loves her.'

*From her father, I suppose,' Lucy said to
herself, as she picked up the page, ' and I should
think, from his handwriting, that he must be a
much nicer person than her mamma I ' And she
slipped it into her apron pocket, meaning, upon
the morrow, to return it to her little neighbour.

CHAPTER Iii.

But the morrow, as ill-luck would have it, proved
wet and unpropitious, and when Lucj, after
having assisted her aunt in her household duties,
was about to saunter forth into the garden, 'the
pointed arrows of the rain ' were falling straight
down into the hungry earth. It would do good to
the country, no doubt, for the clerg3rinan had
prayed for rain, rather unkindly, Lucy could not
help thinking, last Sunday in church, and the old
man who looked in twice a- week to set the garden
in order, a figure

Like Time himself, with scythe and beard,
Who mowed the lawn, and kept it cleared
Of twinkling daisy and blossom of grass,  '

had said that the ground was ' downright parched
up,' and that to rake, delve, or mow, in such a
drought would be a perfect mockery.

Lucy, however, never felt that she was in want

of rain. A rainy day seemed so to transform and
sadden everything, down to the ver' colour of
one's thoughts. Least of all did she want it to rain
to-day. The charming little girl who came white'
amongst the blacks, would certainly not be allowed
to walk out upon the damp grass even after the
rain had ceased, and, absurd as it might appear,
to any one differently situated, this seemed quite
like a disappointment in a life so thoroughly uneventful,
so barren even of disappointments ! Intime,
Lucy had said to herself, she and this little
girl might have gro-Ti to love one another, even
with a wooden paling between them, and it must
surely be very pleasant to have anything so pretty
to love I

As she stood looking out of the window, with
her garden-hat slung upon her arm, she saw the
old French Professor emerge from the gate of
The Aspens.' Evidently, he had just been giving
a lesson to the object of her thoughts, and was
now about to pay a visit to the inmates of Barlow
Lodge. Before he had time to ring the bell she
would run down the garden pathway and let him
in. She found the old man wrestling with a time-honoured
umbrella which had suddenly played
him false. He had only taken refuge from the

rain, in the doorway, whilst lie endeavoured to
set it in order. He had not time, unfortunately,
to look in at Barlow Lodge before the evening.

*And then, alas, my child, I cannot see you
alone ! ' he exclaimed regretfully, * and I must
bury in my heart the thoughts that are agitating
me!'

He had, then, thoughts of an agitating nature ?
Lucy begged that her old friend would explain
himself ? * I am a traitor in the camp ! ' he began
impulsively. * I am committing, probably, an indiscretion,
and disturbing projects which have
taken years to mature ! But you know. Miss Lucy,
I am nothing but a fooKsh old man,  call me, if
you like, an infatuated old simpleton,  this fact
still remains : I must place you, and what is for
your happiness, before the displeasure of your
good aunt, and the discomfiture of Podmore !
Yes, my child ! ' (he went on more excitedly, ashe
gesticulated with the dilapidated umbrella).
It is to this being that your aunt would sacrifice
your inexperience, your beauty, your tender
adolescence ! Your aunt means well, her intentions
are admirable, but she is ignorant of the
dominating passions of existence, she has the
ignorance of the old maid, and it is to this ignorance

that you, my child, arc to be sacrificed ! '
For one moment Lucy was struck dumb with
amazement. Then, it was as though the passionate
blood of the medical Barlows had rushed
tumultuously to her cheeks.

'Mr. Pod more!' she exclaimed, aghast, 'marry
Mr. Podmore ? My aunt must laye gone raying
mad ! ' and she leant for support against the lintel
of the door. How every romantic dream seemed
to vanish, every air-castle to crumble, at such a
prosaic notion ! Mr. Podmore and Palmyra
House ! Could she laye been created mere' for
this end ?

The Marquis ceased battling with his umbrella,
for he was well sheltered now, and took her hand
affectionately. ' Calm yourself, my child,' he said
soothingly. ' Above all, believe with me that the
intentions of your good aunt are irreproachable !
But, she has been unduly influenced. Podmore
has represented himself as the possessor of a large
fortune, she is under obligations to him, I even
think, sometimes, that she is in his debt ; she is
dazzled by what she considers his magnificence,
the comforts of his surroundings, and she isafraid
when she dies that you may not be so comfortably
situated unless you are married and laye a home.

But for not liking to lose this one chance, site would
rather have waited, and seen you united to some
member of the aristocracy, she has as much as confessed
it to me. Podmore's moral character shall
remain sacred, I will not asperse it ; on one point,
however, I can speak without reserve ; he is not
rich : his resources are uncertain. *'He is possessed
of at least eight thousand pounds a-year," said your
good aunt the other evening as she stood bidding
me adieu. I was paralysed at the extravagance of
her assertion. " Eight thousand a-year," indeed !
I will not say that he may not have had, during
his career, accidental successes, he may have run
blockades, invested money at high interest, played
for awhile with funds that were only temporarily
at his disposal. For one year, perhaps, it is just
possible that his income may have arrived at this
figure, but, believe me, it is not permanent ! " He
will make the most generous marriage settlements,"
of this too, I am assured by your ait. " Generous
marriage settlements ! " Now, by this alone are
not my suspicions aroused ? According to the
laws of your excellent country, a creditor cannot
seize , upon the private possessions of the wife.
He would settle, therefore, upon you, my dear
Miss Lucy, as much as was possible for the

protection of himself; and when the day of a
catastrophe occurs, you will have to support this
pretended Crassus upon what was set aside for
your O'Ti fortune

I will never support him I ' cried Lucy', looking
determined. ' He shall never support me !
The whole thing is nonsense ! But why she
added suddenly, * should he want to marry me ?
If he is ambitious, there are plenty of other girls
better able to please his vanity. "What can his
object be ? He must have some hidden motive

In a few years, my dear Miss Luc', that is a
question you wil have gained too much experience
to ask,' returned the Marquis ; ' for you
mil have become aware of your beauty, of your
peculiar and irresistible charm. Podmore, I am
willing to believe, is, after his own manner, in
love. But he is middle-class,  above all,  he is
EnrjUsh. He believes in the suppression, before
marriage, of the emotions. Afterwards, it is
possible that we may see him transfigured. His
ambition has been to mould some beautiful young
lady after the model he approves the most. He
dreams of the domestic hearth of which he will bethe
absolute master,  of the wife,  who is to befor
him alone. It is a dream in which we have

VOL. I. G

all of us indulged sighed the old Professor; 'but,
alas ! to wliicli of us lias come the realization ? '

Oh, it's all dreadful! ' cried Lucy passionately ;
how can I ever even look at him again ? '

Calm yourself, my dear child,' repeated the
Professor. ' This unnatural ilion shall never
take place whilst Achille de la Vieilleroche is hereto
prevent it ! I am, as I have said before,
nothing but an infatuated old simpleton,  an old
imbecile, utterly incapable of reform ; my life has
been both stormy and disappointing; I am
despoiled of fortune, and cannot be said even to
possess a permanent home. I have already been
married to two wives,  one French wife,  one
English one ; whilst the souvenirs connected with
the affections that arise in my mind, are at times
absolutely overpowering ; yet so great, my child,
is my devotion to you, that rather than I would
allow this sacrifice to take place, Sajmsti ! I
would marry you myself ! '

Lucy returned no answer to this outburst of
chivalrous loyalty.

Good-bye,' she said abstractedly, and they
shook hands. She walked up the pathway to the
house, swinging her straw hat, as the Marquis
fancied, in rather an ominous manner, and vanished
through the front door.

Had Miss Elizabeth Barlow been merely an
ordinary aunt,  own sister to either father or
mother, or had Lucy herself been all other than
she was,  she might, perhaps, have given vent to
her feelings in some sort of extravagant fashion.
She might have tried at first tears and protestations
; and then, if these had failed to move, she
might have threatened all sorts of terrible
things,  to advertise for the situation of companion,
to study for the dramatic profession, to
go out and nurse the wounded in some war (for
we seem always now-a-days to have a war going
on somewhere), or to write to her relation, Lady
Mabella Binks. The impetuosity of her feelings,
however, was a good deal tempered and subdued
by consideration for her aunt's declining years,
and by the tranquil and unemotional character of
her surroundings. It seemed to her that it would
be a cowardly act upon her part to break in,  in
all her young strength,  upon this defenceless
old lady, with any show of early Barlow violence,
under the very noses of the neatly executed portraits
in wax and black paper, and with the great
blue pickle-jars and ginger-pots towering above
her in their Oriental calm

Then, again, as the Marquis had insinuated,
there were certain subjects about which Miss

Elizabetli Barlow must be of necessity profoundly
io-ignorant. ' She has the ignorance of the old maid
he had declared. It would be impossible to make
her understand.

No ; Lucy would go upstairs to her bed-room
and reflect. She would endeavour to make out
some plan of immediate action, but she would do
nothing impetuous.

As she passed the half-open sitting-room door,
she caught sight of her great-aunt, seated, pen
in hand, at her writing-table. A prim, shrunken
figure, in a plain black silk dress, made after no
particular fashion, and with grey curls, arranged
at the ears with side-combs. What, as the old
Frenchman had said, could such a person know of
the dominating passions of existence ? ' Of the
loving and hastings, of the irresistible physical
attractions and repulsions ?

For about a repulsion, at any rate, Lucy had
already come to know that there was something
physical,  something apart from all moral considerations
and traditions. Mr. Podmore might
be (and possibly was) one of the noblest and most
disinterested of mankind. She knew him (or
fancied that she knew him) to be in the highest
degree respectable. * Podmore's moral character

tHe Marquis lead said, ' shall remain sacred.'
She fully shared in his sentiments with regard to
the domestic hearth,'  about the wife who was to
be ' for him alone ; ' such ideas, however much a
Frenchman might sneer at them, were surely
virtuous and honourable ; and yet,  and yet she
could never so much as touch Mr. Podmore's
hand without experiencing that strange sensation
of shuddering disgust which had possessed her
when she had picked uj) the large pink sea-anemone
in her new  Aquarium.' She was quite willing
to lay the blame entirely at her own door; it
might have something to do with the hereditary
Barlow loathing for sago and tapioca, which
were also soft, glutinous, oleaginous substances ;
perhaps it was something mesmeric, and altogether
unaccountable ; but surely it must be a
very strong reason against marrying the person
who inspired it.

Ten thousand pounds at seven-and-a-half percent.
How much would that be, Lucy, my dear ?
You are the latest from school.'

The voice of Miss Elizabeth Barlow recalled
her great-niece's wandering spirit. The handsome
countenance of the old lady was turned now
towards the doorway, as, stroking her chin gently

with the feather of her quill-pen, she seemed to
reflect. Lucy could perceive in her face nothing
but what was expressive of nobility, serenity, and
high-mindedness.

Why, really, Aunts, I can't tell you till I've
made it out upon reaper,' she constrained herself
to answer as quietly as possible. 'What very
high interest ! I'll just go up to my room and
make out the calculation.'

As she went slowly up the narrow staircase,
her eye lighted, as it invariably did light, upon
the heraldic window-blind.

The day being dark and stormy for the
summer season, the greater portion of the blind
was gathered up upon the roller, but there, close
to the knot of the crimson blind string, was her
own particular cognizance, descending from the
centre of the hyphen which united Captain
William Barlow of the Royal Navy to Miss
Lucinda Binks. And there, oh, there, united by
just such another hyphen to her own particular
lozenge, was the phantom shield, empty, as
yet, of emblem, initial, or heraldic blazon,  the
shadowy indication of some sort of eventual
future  vague, shrouded, inscrutable. For, surely,
surely,  it had not, just now, been revealed to her?

Surely, sure', all these kings, barons, knights,
squires, and captains in the Royal Navy, could not
have happened themselves to their respective ladies
merely for this ignoble end ;  that the last scutcheon
upon the great Barlow window-blind should
bear only the letters ' S.A.P.'  those detested
initials! There was something positively maddening
in the idea that any such ridiculous union
could ever have been contemplated by anyone
having her happiness at heart, Lucy said to
herself as she entered her own little room and
closed the door.

'Bless me! ' exclaimed Miss Elizabeth, starting
at the sound of the reverberation ; ' the dear
girl is a thorough Barlow from head to foot !
But if she goes on banging the doors like that,
she will certainly shake down some of the old
family china ! ' and she looked up at the blue
pickle jars and ginger-pots, to make sure that
they had withstood the shock unscathed. And,
indeed, Lucy herself was just realising with
regret that, owing to the irritation of her nervous
system, she might perhaps have closed her bedroom
door rather too much after the old ancestral
fashion.

CHAPTER Viii.

Mention lias been made so often in these pages
of Lady Mabclla Binks, that it may be as well,
perhaps, to state what was the nature of ber
relationship to the ladies of my story, before I
proceed with it any further.

By turning to the earlier portion of this work
it will be seen that Lucy's mother is described as
baying been the ' only daughter of the Reverend
Orlando Binks/ but this gentleman bad also an
only son, wbo was christened ' Orlando,' after ibis
father, and, like bim, took Holy Orders.

JS'ow, I take it that the Binkses,  from all
that I am able to gather concerning them,  were
a much less combative and impetuous family than
the Barlows,  at any rate, in the days of their beginning,
 possessing fewer distinguishing traits,
being less self-opinionated, and baying their individuality
much less sharply defined and accentuated.

They closed their doors in a quiet,
considerate manner, both upon entering and leaving
an apartment, took anchovy sauce with their
fish, cayenne pepper with their wild-duck, had no
exaggerated loathing for cither sago or tapioca,
and avoided poking the fire violently with the
best poker. You might very easily have persuaded
a Binks, as it were, to drink, when no
power could have dragged a Barlow to the water.
In a word, they seem to have been much more
conventional and adaptive in all their ways, and
to have possessed an infinitely keener eye to the
main chance.

By reason of these inherited qualities, the
Reverend Orlando Binks (Lucy's maternal uncle)
had no sooner obtained the appointment of Domestic
Chaplain to the late Earl of Belmorris,
than he set to work to win the affections of the
oldest and plainest of his lordship's two daughters,
the Lady Mabella, of whom mention has been
already made. In this he very soon succeeded,
and the marriage ensued in due time, after which
event, however, his health had gradually declined,
and, notwithstanding the excellent clerical appointments
which had been bestowed upon him in
England, he had been compelled for the last few

years of his life to winter abroad, and there it
was that he had eventually ended his days, when
he had barely arrived at middle age. He had
been an exceedingly handsome man, after rather
an effeminate style of beauty, with an oily and insinuating
address, which, no doubt, had he lived,
might have assisted him to a place upon the
Bench of Bishops. By his union with the
Lady Mabella he had two children,  Miss Adeline,
or ' Addie ' Binks, and Master Algerian
Orlando, familiarly known as ' Algy ; ' the first
being some three or four years older than her
cousin Lucy, and the latter of almost exactly
Lucy's own age.

Upon the day on Which Lucy had been taken
up to London for the extraction of her two .
Miss Elizabeth Barlow
had paid a formal visit to her noble connexion
(for, of course, between Lady Mabella and herself
there existed no actual blood-relationship), notwithstanding
that the late Mr. Binks had been
Lucy's own maternal uncle). It had long been
Miss Elizabeth's wish, in consequence of this near
kinship, to introduce her great-niece to this other
aunt by marriage, feeling that she herself was by
this time well stricken in years, and that the

more friends Lucy could make, the better it
would be for her in the future. Sbe bad written
therefore to Lady Mabella, with whom, from
time to time, she had been in the habit of corresponding,
apprising her of her intended visit to
London, and hoping that she might be permitted
sto pay a short visit to Wilton Place, where the
Binks family were at this period located. In
reply, she had received a very friendly invitation
to luncheon at two o'clock ; and Lady Mabella had
expressed her pleasure at the idea that Lucy, of
whom she had always heard such a charming
account, should make the acquaintance of Al-vernon
and Adeliza, who happened then to bo
both of them at home. The appointment with
the dentist, however, which was the prime reason
of the visit to town, had ended by somewhat
interfering with Miss Elizabeth's benevolent
plans.

A quarter of an hour after the extraction
of one's two first-permanent-bicusj)ed-molars is
hardly the moment one would select for making
a favourable impression at luncheon, and poor
Lucy had consequently remained inside the hired
Clapham fl}'-, the driver of which was told to
draw up under the shadow of St. Paul's Church,

upon the opposite side of the ways, during her
great-aunt's visit to this other younger aunt.

The whole thing was, of course, a terrible
disappointment to Miss Elizabeth, and it was so
long since she had had any teeth of her own to
extract, that she had not anticipated the contre
She was extremely gratified, however, at
the kind manner in which she had been received
at luncheon.

Lady Arabella was, as usual, all sweetness and
humility (for she belonged rather to the ' bruised-reed
' order of women), and Miss Elizabeth was also
nnich pleased with the beauty and vivacity of
Adeliza. Master Algernon Binks had pleased
her as well, although in a totally different way.
Isis manners, she thought, were perhaps a little
noisy and self-asserting, but then boys were so
rer?/ differently" brought up now to what they
were in the far-off days of her own youth. He
possessed a most amiable disposition, however ; of
this she felt quite sure, for he had escorted her
most attentively to the front door, where, after
she had searched for some time in the depths of
her ' reticule ' or hand-bag, in order to make
sure that she had not mislaid her list of shopping,
she had bidden him farewell.

It lead flashed upon Miss Elizabeth, from a
peculiar expression which came into his face as
she grasped his hand, that she remembered to
have heard that Eton boys sometimes expected a
small gratuity from their relations during the
vacation. But, then, in this case there was no
actual ' tie of blood,' besides which, it would have
been difficult, just as she was in the flurry of departure,
to make out what would have been a right
and proper amount. Give, or even tof, shillings,
might have been too little, perhaps, considering
Master Binks's exalted social standing, whilst a
sovereign seemed to her to be too much, miles
she had wished to have conveyed to him quite a
disquieting sense of * bribery and corruption.'

Fifteen shillings, which might have met the
requirements of the case, was such an awkward
sum to have to get out of one's purse without
spectacles, and with the Binks boy-in-buttons
staring at one all the time, to say nothing of the
young gentleman himself.

Miss Elizabeth, in a word, had rejoined Lucy
and her toothache without having parted with
anything in the way of cash, but the reader must
not for this reason set her down as having been
guilty of meanness.

Neither lier late brother, Join Barlow, Esquire,
nor Captain "William EarloAV, her nej)liew, had
ever been at Eton. They had both received
their education at Charterhouse, and there are
some questions that even a pallid ' Peerage ' is
powerless to answer.

Ever since the time of this visit. Lady Mabella
had had her head-quarters in Wilton Place,
but she visited a good deal amongst the country
houses of her fashionable friends and relations
during the shooting season, whilst after remaining
in London from the first week in January until
Easter, she had usually exchanged domiciles, of
late years, with the widow of an Admiral, to
whom apartments had been allotted in Hampton
Court Palace, so that Miss Addie's existence must
have presented a marked contrast to Lucy's in the
way of variety.

The Binkses, however, notwithstanding their
assured position in society, were anything but
well-off ; and Adeliza, in spite of her good looks,
her vivacious manners, and the numerous opportunities
she must have had of selecting and
overcoming her appointed male, was still unmarried.
Young Algernon Binks was confidently
studying for the Army, having already failed

in the two first preliminary examinations ; and
although, his mother may have believed that the
hat on of a Field-marshal was hu-king in some
corner of his portmanteau, those who had had the
best opportunities of judging, were inclined to
think that he would not probably be much more
successful at his next trial.

Altogether, Miss Elizabeth Barlow was wont,
at times, to congratulate herself upon her own
peaceful existence when she thought of that of her
more fashionable connexions, thanking Heaven,
somewhat pharisaically, that she was not as
the Binkses were ; that her income, although
modest, was sufficient for her modest wants.
That she had no efforts to make ;  no state to
keep up ;  that Lucy, Who had never been into
the great world of fashion,  seemed so tractable
and so contented, and required so very few new
dresses ; and that they might be waited upon by
Sarah the parlour-maid, instead of by some mutton-fitted
man-of-all-work, who, besides smashing up
all the old f amilj china, would probably be so very
much more difficult for an infirm old single lady
to regulate and keep in order.

Now, all these particulars with regard to the
Binkses would be utterly and entirely superfluous,

find I should be believing, by thus dwelling upon
them, like the fox-bound when be rushes off
bunting bares, were it not that, upon this particular
day, as the 'pointed arrows of the rain'
were being absorbed into the thirsty earth of the
little garden at Barlow Lodge, Lady Mabella, as
well as Miss Elizabeth, was seated at ber writing-table,
pen in band, and that from this one simple
circumstance, nearly tbrce whole volumes of complications
and misunderstandings were pre-destined
to ensue.

The letter wliieli Lady Mabella Biiiks was composing
at lier writing-table in Hampton Court
Palace, within full view of the river, the bridge,
and the cavalry barracks,  for the drawing-room
windows of the apartment wbicb had been allotted
to the Admiral's widow happened to look out this
way,  was addressed to ' Miss Elizabeth Barlow,
Barlow Lodge, Clapham Common,' and was-couched
in the following terms : 

My Dear Miss Barlow, 

It is a long, long, time  a perfect age  in
fact, since I last had the pleasure of receiving
news of you and yours ! J/y oioi excuse for not
having written, I feel, however, that you will
understand and forgive,  since thou, too, have the
responsibility of a young charge. My two young
people,  I can no longer call them my " children '

VOL. I. H

for alas I Time flies apace !  encroach more and
more every day upon my leisure hours :  my
duty to Adeliza obliging me to stay up later at
night than was my usual wont,  entails to one
in my wretched state of health, several hours in a
recumbent position during the afternoon,  thus
rendering letter-writing almost, if not entirely,
out of the question ; whilst the necessary correspondence
connected with Algernon's future
profession (the Army), occupies nearly all the
time that I formerly devoted to my old friends.
It would be ungrateful of me, however,  blessed
as I am in my widowhood, with these two bright
and delightful companions,  were I to complain of
their interference with my own selfish pleasures,
for you will know, dear Miss Barlow, that to
correspond with you, and to enjoy the privilege
of your friendship, must ever be, to me, one of
the keenest of pleasures. But, in thinking, thus,
of the requirements of my own children, I feel
that I must not forget your dear,  our dear,
Luc}  my poor lost Orlando's own niece  his
favourite sister Lucinda's only child ! I know,
by the difference in age between her and my own
Adeliza, that she must now be quite grown-up,
and I feel perfectly sure that  under your wise

and .tender guidance  she has fulfilled her early
promise, and realized all your affectionate anticipations.
But let me no longer conceal from
you my second object in writing ;  for I must
admit that my first was to assure myself of your
own health and well-being. Cannot dear Lucy
come and stay with us, here, next week,  when we
shall be a little gayer than usual on account
of Hampton Races ? Ladies do not ever attend
them,  it is not considered desirable,  so that
Lucy will require nothing at all elaborate in the
way of dress,  but my brother Belmorris,  who is,
as you may have heard, a most ardent patron of
The Turf, (he is the owner, amongst other racehorses,
of  Miss Parchment," the celebrated mare,
who, but for a lamentable accident, would certainly
have won " the Oaks " this year)  will be
staying with us for a few days, and some of his
friends will be likely to be having luncheon with
us during the races,  which will ensure for dear
Lucy a little lively society. I shoidd wish her,
however, to remain on with us afterwards, for at
least a week, or more, if you are able to spare her.
These gardens are now in great beauty  there is
much in the Palace to interest and instruct, and I
think I may say, without vanity, that she will

find my two young people both agreeable and
intelligent companions.

'With Adeliza's and Algernon's kindest regards,
believe me to be, my dear Miss Barlow,

very sincerely yours,

'Mabella Binks.

Pes. Should it not be convenient to you to
spare a maid to accompany dear Lucy,  my
children Avill meet ber at the railway station,
here, and GufPy  my own maid  will be delighted
to attend upon ber during ber stay.'

!Now, it is not always possible, when recounting
a story, to look into the hearts of the
personages, and detect their secret musings.
By their works ye shall know them,' ought,
generally, to be the novelist's rule ; and although
I may, sometimes, bave been tempted to fall in
with those authors wbo pretend to perceive the
motive, as well as the act, and wbo know, therefore,
to a certainty, just bow all their characters
are going to debase ; I bave, the more often,
found, that, no sooner have I set down the names,
ages, and sexes, of my personages ripon paper,
than they break away, altogether, from my
maternal control, and no one can be more shocked

or astonished than I am myself, at some of the
strange and reprehensible vagaries that they
conceit, without so much as paying me the
compliment of asking my leave !

This has reference, however, simply to the
miserable puppets of fiction. !My story, in the
present instance  being true  for the most part,
shoidd be dealt with rather after the trite manner
of a record, and I only feel justified, consequently",
in setting doTi what actually took place, except
where a direct sympathy with any particular
character has predisposed me to some manner
of thought-reading. I am merely able to guess,
therefore, at the secret motives which animated
the bosom of Lady Mabella Binks when she invited
Luc} Barlow to stay with her at Hampton
Court Palace. It is possible,  assuming her
motives to have been purely selfish,  that she
may have simph' wished for an agreeable and
pretty young lady, who would come to her without
the incumbrance of either chaperon or handmaid,
in order that her ' brother Belmorris ' and
his sporting friends might be the better entertained
during their stay for the races. Or, again,
she was ignorant, perhaps, altogether, of what the
old Professor had termed Lucy's ' peculiar and

irresistible charms and may have fancied that a
shy, awkward, red-landed, young person  in
plain Quakerish garments  would act as a satisfactory
' foil ' to her own handsome and fashionably
dressed daughter, and would show off her
sparkle and Vivacity to a still greater advantage.
Lastly  although this is what, to a cynical mind,
may appear to be the most unlikely  she may
really have desired to act kindly towards her dead
husband's orphan niece, his ' favourite sister
Lucinda's only child ;' whilst the politeness and
cordiality of her letter to Miss Elizabeth  who
could scarcely have been expected to do anything
for the advancement of her interests  may have
proceeded, solely, from the fact that Lady Mabella
was, perhaps, one of those considerate people who
make it their pleasure to be polite and cordial to
everybody 'all round.' What a pity it is that
there are not more of such people in the world !

Miss Elizabeth Barlow, at any rate, was much
pleased and flattered by this letter. She felt,
however, a little nervous about the actual preparations
for the visit. At her advanced age, all
changes  or the having to do with the arrangement
and organization of changes  was a mental
distress to her. She was one of those persons

This was just the kind of emergency where
Sydney Podmore was wont to throw himself into
the breach, and be leant upon, proving  by reason
of his exact information  the superior quality of
his * sap ;' for Monsieur de la Yieilleroche was
rather too much a man of abstract theories to be
generally usefid. As things stood, however. Miss
Elizabeth felt almost afraid of consisting Mr.
Podmore, and, if Lucy coidd have started off,
then and there,  in a balloon, or upon a bicycle, 
for Hampton Court Palace, she would have fell.
intensely relieved.

It was a little provoking that this invitation
had not arrived whilst Mr. Podmore was in the
Isle of Wight,  for, how could she tell that he
might not object altogether to this visit, and 

once lie lead objected  how could she be sure that
she might not desire it niucli more anxiously herself,
and discover, perhaps, that it would be the
making of Lucy's future ? . . And yet, how could
it have any influence upon her future if she was
already promised to Mr. Podmore ? . . That she
should have been so promised  or rather lialf-
promised  before she had had any real experience
of 'men and manners,' did certainly seem  now
that this amiable invitation had been received 
to be rather a pity,  for, during her sojourn at
Hampton Court Palace, who could say what other
possibilities might not arise ? . . In such circumstances,
however, would not Mr. Podmore, as a
man of honour, let her off the engagement at once,
particularly when he was reminded that Lucy
herself had never been a party to it at all? . .
But then again,  in the midst of the old lady's
perplexity, there flashed upon her memory  so
retentive always of heraldic devices  the motto
of * the Podmores of Middlesex ' in all its dogged
significance, 'Let Forbore hold ivhat Todmore
liekV It had been kept a good deal out of sight,
certainly, rarely appearing upon any object at
Palmyra House ; but it might have gathered fresh
force by reason of its suppression, and she had

observed, at times, a peculiar tightening about
the Podmoriaii upper-lip, which, seemed to betoken
firm determination of purpose. . . ' I have
never adopted a moustache,' Mr. Podmore had
once explained, ' for I consider that it conceals the
expression of the mouth, and I am not ashamed
that the world should see that plain Sydney
Podmore has, at least, an honest smile !' and it
Twas this fact which had enabled Miss Elizabeth
Barlow to perceive the tightening. Xo ; it was
extremely unlikely, she felt, that Mr. Podmore
would abandon his claims without a determined
.struggle, and then, again, she was under so many
serious obligations to him I . . 'All I thourjlit
so I' she sighed, by-and-by, somewhat regretfully.
She had taken down the faded ' Peerage ' from its
shelf, and turned to ' BeJmorns pearl of) Al-vernon
Aufjiistus, bth Earl, h. Srd Non: 1834.' . . .

'Only forty-three next November, and a
bachelor ! . . . . Nearly ten years younger
than his eldest sister I . . . . Dear me I . .
Supposing .? . . . . '

But, of course, it would be abject folly and
presumption to ' suppose !' Only, sometimes,
particularly when people were promised
and affianced to other people, such vers extraordinary

tidings were wont to liajpen ! . . . .
This particular possibility, however, was, certainly,
very remote ! Lucy would only be for
such a very short time in the society of the
sporting nobleman ; for would he not, probably,
be at the races all day ? And, alas ! ladies did
not go to Hampton Races, and it was not ' considered
desirable M . . . . He would have to
be a very susceptible and impulsive person, indeed,
to fall in love so soon ; and, had he possessed this
sort of disposition, it was hardly likely that he
would have remained unmarried until he was
forty three I . . . . It was much more likely,
on the contrary, that he was a determined woman-hater
! . . . . Even if he was not, however, and
even supposing  only supposing !  that he did
actually fall desperately in love with Lucy, would
not such a union be highly distasteful to Lady
Mabella ; for, of course, young Algernon Binks
must have certain expectations from the fact of
his uncle's celibacy ? . . . But then, after all, it
Alas quite impossible to consider cTcryhodijs feelings
! . . . . There would be a very grand
AA'cdding, of course. . . . Perhaps she could
manage to re-arrange that plum-coloured ' moire-antiques
which she had never worn, as it was

thought unlucky to go to a wedding in black. . . .
Trimmed up with her ermine ' set ' (for the marriage
coidd hardly take place before the winter),
which had been laid by for more than twenty
years, in a tin box, with six of Captain "William
Barlow's best Savannah cigars, to keep off the
moth ; it would produce quite a regal effect, and
show the fashionable world assembled in church,
that, even in these * latter days,' the Barlows
were able to hold their own I . . . . Lucy would,
of course, act with fairness and generosity to
young Algernon Binks, and use her influence
with the Earl in order that he might make him
some sort of allowance by way of compensation ;
Lord Belmorris might ally himself with many
young ladies who woidd be far less kind and
considerate to young Algernon Binks than
Lucy ! . . . .

The prosaic accents of Sarah recalled the old
lady's wandering fancy.

If you please, min, don't you think, if Miss
Lucy goes visiting, I'd better ask the laundress
to call for her new pink cotton, so as it may be
properly got up by Saturday? They does the
washing earls in the week.'

True, too true I There was the momentous

question of dress ! . . . . Was it reasonable to
expect that any one could possibly subjugate a
belted Earl ' in a plain pink cotton, even if it
was ' properly got up ' ? . . . . Fortunately,
However, Lucy possessed other dresses.

Feeling almost as though she were about to
commit some sort of nefarious act. Miss Elizabeth
Barlow, accompanied by Sarah, whom she
had taken into her confidence, made her way
upstairs to Lucj's bedroom, and commenced a
systematic overhauling of her wardrobe.

She lighted, in the first place, upon a very
hopeless and pathetic-looking garment indeed:
Lucy's Confirmation-frock, made out of white
alpaca ; too short in the skirt, too narrow across
the chest, too loose in the waist ; the dress of an
unformed girl. Jew white alpaca, let in to
supply deficiencies, would present a blue and
shiny 'appearance, and would be instantly detected.
It might be thus renovated, perhaps, in
the winter months, when the afternoons were
short, and when there was no risk of beginning
dinner by daylight. Before then, however, who
could say what important changes might not have
taken place ? . . . . Miss Elizabeth came, next,
ripon the wispy white muslin which Lucy wore

habitually in the evening. She looked very
pretty in it, of course, because she had a way of
looking pretty in almost anything, and, with her
coral necklace, and a white rose in her hair, it
did very well, no doubt, for the friendly little
whist-parties at Barlow Lodge ; but it had been
mended and let out in several places, and was
quite, quite unfit for the visit to Hampton Court.

TL'0 dresses out of Lucy's by no means
extensive stock, utterly useless and Jiors de
combat! Miss Elizabeth's hopes revived,
however, when, by-and-by, she chanced upon a
dress which, till then, she had entirely forgotten.
A Chinese washing silk, brought home in the
piece, ever so many years ago, by Captain William
Barlow, when such stuffs were very much more uncommon
than they are now, of the colour of brown
holland, but softer, and more reliable, worked
all over with little white silk stars like spiders.
This was a dress to which no sort of exception
could be taken. It might be worn without a
blush, in any society in Europe, and it possessed,
also, a certain spice of originality. It was a dress
upon which one might pin one's faith ! . . . .

Looking, at this moment, out of the window,
for she had advanced towards the light the better

to examine the washing-silk, Miss Elizabetli perceived
lier great-niece seated under the medlar-tree
at lier work. She was cutting up an okl
table-cloth into dusters and fish-napkins, and, in
order to protect her neat black cashmere dress
from the sayings and travelling of the linen,
she had tied on one of her lawn-tennis aprons, 
the one that was embroidered all over with yellow
marigolds. The sight of this lawn-tennis apron
was quite an inspiration to Miss Elizabeth, for
Lucy possessed five other aprons, similar as to
shape, to this one, but worked over with different
flowers and designs ; and these six aprons, worn,
at judicious intervals, over Lucy's three addresses
(the pink cotton, the Chinese silk, and
the black merino), woidd produce upon the beholder
quite an agreeable impression of variety,
and prevent the monotony of her costume from
palling upon Lord Belmorris and the Binkses.
Still, Lucy would certainly require one new
evening dress, and this must be put in hand at
once, if the visit to Hampton Court was actually
to take place. Sarah's eldest sister, formerly
lady's maid in a family of wealth and respectability,
had ' set up * as a dressmaker in the
immediate vicinity ; and Sarah knew for certain,

that, to oblige Miss Elizabeth Barlow, she would
cheerfully work her fingers to the bone. The
body ' of Miss Lucj's black merino, which
fitted her so well, could be sent off surreptitiously
that very evening, when Miss Lucy 'changed'
for dinner, and the pattern could be cut out all
ready to tr} on, before Miss Lucy knew anything
about it at all. . . .

Stay, Sarah, not quite so fast ! ' exclaimed
Miss Elizabeth, in almost a tragical voice. ' It is
useless to make plans before we have consulted
either Miss Lucy or Mr. Podmore ! Mr. Podmore
may not consider that the visit is desirable ; and,
now that I come to think of it, I feel almost
certain that when the plan is proposed to Miss
Lucy herself, she will prefer to remain at home ! '

CHAPTER X.

"Who would have suspected from these last words
that, ill less than a week from this verj time,
Lucy would be actually in the inside of a four-wheeled
cab,  u23on the top of which were her
trunk and band-box,  accompanied by Sarah, the
parlour-maid, who had been deputed to see her
off at Clapham Junction, bound for Hampton
Court ?

It had all come about in this wise.

We left Lucy, in the last chapter, seated
under her favourite medlar-tree, in the spot she
had christened ' the jungle,' engaged in useful
needlework. By four o'clock she had hemmed a
'crumb-cloth,' a ' thumb-cloth' (both of them quite
small objects), a fish-napkin, and an ordinary
duster ; but she had hemmed them automatically,
without consciousness of their several uses. She
was thinking of her repulsion for Mr. Podmore,

which had. been steadily increasing ever since the
old marquis's disclosures.

How shall I ever meet him again ? ' she was
thinking. * Oh, to fly to the uttermost corner of
the earth out of his reach I '

She would have gone, in fact, at this momenta
good deal further from home than to Hampton
Court Palace !

For the first time in her life she felt anxious
and unsettled. She had no wish to thwart her
aunt, or to overthrow her projects, but this was
a sacrifice which, unless it was absolutely necessary,
in order to avert some terrible catastrophe,
she felt that it would be quite impossible for her
to make. Why might she not be permitted to
live on, unmolested, just as she was?

She sat musing thus until the grey pear-tree
wall of the opposite garden,  for she was looking
towards the confines of the Aspens,'  had become
wrapped in shadow, and the evening sky grew
rosy with the sunset.

Unlike a woman,  a red-brick wall which, at
its beginning, is one of the ugliest objects created
by man,  becomes handsomer as it grows old. All
kinds of beautiful gold and silver lichens creep
over it as the years go by, in stars and spangles,

VOL. I. I

and weird devices ; there is a velvet moss, too,
growing in tufts and bosses, and greener than
any other, which clings to the ridges and angles
of the brickwork, whilst from its cracks and
crevices delicate lines and cresses, which seem
only to flourish in this barren soil, uplift tiny
heads of pink, yellow, and lavender, which
tremble upon their fragile stems with the faintest
of summer breezes.

The wall dividing Barlow Lodge from the
garden of * The Aspens ' was just such a wall as
this,  tempered and matured by age,  and Lucy,
without knowing exactly why, derived always a
fresh pleasure in looking at it. To-day, perhaps,
the contemplation of anything so calm and impassive
might even have served to soothe the
troubled current of her thoughts, but as she raised
her eyes to this defining boundary, the mysterious
syren of * The Aspens ' commenced with her soul-piercing
'roulades' and 'crescendos;' and although
Lucy delighted in music of another kind, she felt
too disagreeably impressed by these present sounds
to reflect peacefully upon anything. So she folded
up her household needlework, and wandered down
to the lower end of the garden, in order to get as
far away as possible from the singing.

Here, lie fell in again Ayith her little neighbour.
Perhaps she disturbed her Mama with her
prattle, and may have been sent out of the way
whilst she was practising.

Miss Barlow ! Miss Barley ! Miss Lucy ! ' the
child began calling out, having been apparently
informed, perhaps by the Marquis, of her pretty
neighbour's name.

'Your Mama is singing, isn't she?' asked
Lucy, after they had greeted one another through
the wooden paling.

Yes ; Mama nearly always sings,' answered
the little girl, as though rather wearily. 'She
scolds me a good deal because I can't learn to
play properly'. My Mama sings the loudest of
anybody in Church.'

So she went to Church, then, this woman
who, for some mysterious reason, seemed to be so
unfavourably looked upon ! No doubt she only
went there to sing loud, and to show off her fine
dresses and bonnets, for such a person could
hardly have any real sense of true religion ; or
was she not, perhaps, quite so black as she was
painted? . . . Lucy had never observed her at
the Church she frequented herself; perhaps she
went to some other one,  to London it may be, 

where there avouch be more people to see and
hear her?

Mama sings the same songs over and over
again,' the child went on, * because she wants to
get them quite right. She'll go on singing them
a great deal more now, because my god-papa is
coming here next Saturday. He's going to stay
here all day and all night. My god-papa has
been away for a long time.'

Ah, a ' god-papa ! '  a brother of Mr. Van-something's,
or some sort of relation, probably,
but yet not necessarily, who had been away ' fora
long time.' "Would he find out what a disagreeable
reputation his hostess had managed to
acquire in the meanwhile?

After talking for some time longer with this
child of a mysterious mother, Lucy leant down
over the wooden fence and kissed her upturned
face, because she had such sad and such wonderful
eyes, and because she felt drawn towards herby
she knew not what subtle attraction.

Then she retraced her footsteps to the house,
and here Miss Elizabeth formally apprised her
of her aunt's invitation, and inquired of her what
answer she would desire her to send to Lady
Mabella by the evening post.

The old lady' was not a little surprised at
Lucy's reply. The idea of this invitation seemed
to afford her unqualified satisfaction. Was she,
then, not quite so happy and contented as may
have been supposed ? . . . "Vias she hankering
after fresh scenes and more exciting enjoyments ?
. . Did not her great-aunt's society, with that
of her two accustomed guests, combined with the
occasional hearing of dusters, suffice for her
after all? . . .

Miss Elizabeth felt, certainly, a good deal
perplexed, but the fact remained that Mr. Pod-more
was, now, the only person to be consulted.
Just as she was about to sit down and indite a
note to him, however,  brimful of complicated
feminine explanations, subterfuges, and sophistries,
calculated to smooth down his presumably
ruffled feelings,  the melancholy Hitchens,  Mr.
Podmore's faithful 'body servant,' presented himself
at the garden door. He was the bearer of a
letter from his master-sN'hich seemed greatly to
simplify Miss Elizabeth's course of action ;  Mr.
Podmore had been suddenly obliged to start for
Liverpool upon important business, where it was
probable that he woidd have to remain for at
least a fortnight. He would be absent, in fact.

during the greater part of Lucy's stay at Hampton
Court Palace, and once lie had actually arrived
there, it would be much less difficult to convince
him of all the advantages which were likely to
accrue from the visit. Miss Elizabeth was now,
therefore, as eager as Lucy had been to avail herself
of Lady Mabella's kind invitation. But, upon
hearing the contents of Mr. Podmore's letter,
Lucy suddenly veered round like a weathercock.
Why should she leave her peaceful home now
that the being who seemed lately to have rendered
it unbearable had taken it into his head to depart?
. . So, she would much prefer,  upon second
thoughts, to remain quietly with her great-aunt,
and not to go upon this visit at all.

But it was now the moment for Miss Elizabeth
to exert her authority.

N'o, no, my dear child ! ' she protested. ' I
perceive your good-natured motive,  you fancy
that I shall be lonely during your absence, but I
shall be happy in thinking that you are amused,
and I dare say you will often write to me. I
should be very wrong to allow you to make this
sacrifice, for it would be unwise, as well as ungracious,
to throw away this chance of becoming
acquainted with your poor mother's relations. I

shall write and accept Lady Mabella's kind invitation
at once ! '

And so it came to pass that quite early in the
afternoon of the following Monday, Lucy found
herself in a four-wheeled cab on her way to the
Railway Station. The cab, notwithstanding the
lightness of Lucy's luggage,  for her box was by
no means heavily Weighted,  progressed but
slowly,  and I fear that / too, have got on no
faster with my narrative. But * matter grows
under our hands,' says Sterne.  Let no man say
" Come,  I'll write a duodecimo." '

CHAPTER XI.

TJpox arriving at Clapliam Junction, all was bustle
and confusion, and two young persons of Lucy's
and Sarah's inexperience might well have been
excused if they had felt a little bewildered by it.
Sarah, however, was endowed with a considerable
amount of shrewdness, besides which, she had
walked to the station upon the previous day, and
had obtained all the particulars relating to the
journey from a sympathetic porter, to Avhom she
had afterwards presented a sixpenny piece, acting
upon Miss Elizabeth's instructions. This modest
sum had rendered her mistress of the situation,
and the ' particulars,'  noted down upon paper, 
were now in her hand.

Now, Miss Elizabeth Barlow had earnestly
impressed upon Sarah that it would be in the
highest degree desirable to establish her young-mistress
in a compartment in which there were
already ladies ; but, as the persons answering to

this description seemed to be penned up together
with but scanty breathing space, besides, being,
for the most part, of a somewhat sinister and forbidding
aspect, glaring most unpleasantly at poor
Lucy whenever she approached their carriage-door,
and as they were accompanied, in other
instances, by babies, and older children, sucking
pears and grenades; our young traveller (being
as yet but a novice), and untroubled, consequently,
by apprehensions relative to the murderers, robbers,
and other bold, bad men, who might possibly
invade her carriage at intermediate stations, to
say nothing of lunatics, who seem also to be most
generous patrons of the railroad ; petitioned Sarah
to be allowed to make the journey by herself,
with which request the unsophisticated Sarah at
once complied, not having received any instructions
to the contrary.

But for all this, it was not pre-destined that
Lucy should travel alone.

Just as the train was moving away from the
platform, a tall man, dressed in the light garments
which are generally worn by Englishmen who are
bound for the comitrj-, dashed into the compartment,
and established himself in the further corner
of it, facing where Lucy was sitting.

Serpent-like, the train glided out of the
covered railway station, and Lucy found herself
alone with the stranger.

His selection of this particular railway-carriage,
which might at first have appeared like a
compliment to its sole occupant, had evidently
been purely accidental, seeing that Lucy was
seated in the corner which was furthest from the
platform, and that he could not, therefore, have
been even aware of her presence. She fancied
that he gave a quick look of surprise when he
perceived her. Perhaps he had wanted to smoke,
or, at any rate, to be in a carriage by himself ?
Perhaps he had merely wished to avoid the cross-looking
old ladies with the pear sucking children ?
She hoped that he was not really annoyed at finding
her there ; but she fancied,  just for the first
half-minute,  that he seemed to look so. Soon,
however, he settled himself behind his newspaper.

At any rate, she was not old, she did not feel
cross, and she was not sucking pears or green-ages
!

It seemed in the highest degree absurd to set
about wondering,  so very, very soon,  what a
total stranger might feel regarding her presence.
Whether she was, or was not, in his way for so

short a journey, and what was his private motive
for entering one particular railway-carriage,
which, like the rest, was open to all the world,
rather than another ? But, then, this stranger
was totally different (to look at, at least), from another
man that Lucy had ever seen.

She dared not raise her eyes to consider him
minutely",  being seized with a strange sensation
of timidity,  but, without doing so, she became
at once conscious of his every movement to an
almost painful degree.

"Were he to speak to her, she felt as if she
knew, by intuition, exactly what his voice would
be like.

This state of nervous tension lasted some time,
then it increased ten-fold, for she knew, still
without seeing, that he had raised his eyes from
his newspaper, and was looking at her. She felt
his gaze passing over her face almost like the
touch of a hand caressing it. She shifted her
position, drew aside the blind which had been
lowered as a protection from the sun, and looked
out of the window. '\Vliat would she not have
given for a book !

By-and-by, however, she experienced a feeling
of relief,  of escape, as it were,  from some unaccountable

thraldom. She ventured to glance
towards the further corner of the carriage. The
stranger had closed his eyes. He was apparently
asleep.

Then, like ' the lily maid of Stoat,' in the
presence of

 The great knight, the darling of the Court ; '
she

Lifted her eyes and read his lineaments ; '

and even as Lancelot appeared to Elaine,

lie seemed the goodliest man
That ever amongst ladies ate in Hall,
And noblest. . . .'

Nobility, indeed, in the truest sense of the
word, seemed to Lucy to be the chief characteristic
of his face. Asleep he looked (she
thought), almost too like the figure of a sculptured
knight upon a tombstone to seem quite
human, for in repose, this air of supreme dignity
lent an expression of sternness to his regular
features. But his eyes, when he opened them,
would turn him at once into a being of flesh
and blood.

Lucy had never before seen any eyes that
seemed to say so many different things at once.
To smile, to plead, to regret, to hunger, and all

Tvitliout a single word from the lips ! They were
not very dark eyes,  either blue or grey, or a
mixture of both,  but their lashes and brows
were dark. All the same, he was what would be
called a fair man, with a fairness a good deal
tanned by the sin, for his heavy" moustaches
were streaked with gold, and his hair, although
several shades darker, was brown where the light
caught it. It would have curled, if it had had
its own way, Luc} perceived, only it had been
cut too short. Very probably he was a soldier,
but he had none of the typical soldier's rigidity

Of course Lucy did not know much about
men or their professions. She felt sure, however,
that he Alas neither a City stockbroker nor a
teacher of languages.

The loyal Ilitchcns, as the reader may remember,
had asserted that his master ' ought to
have been a Prince.' Mr. Podmore, notwithstanding
Lucy's reasoning aversion, may possibly
have had a prince's soul ;  he possessed, however,
rather the body of a licensed victualler, and by
no straining of the imagination coidd Lucy have
invested his outward man with any princely
attribute. But if strength, dignity, and manly
beauty, were always the accompaniments of the

most exalted rank, this sleeping stranger of the
railway-carriage ought to have been an Emperor
at least ! His dress, too, although easj and extremely
simple, had about it some sort of mysterious
stamp of distinction which made it harmonise
with its wearer. Gaining confidence as she proceeded,
Lucy allowed her ej'es to take in every
detail connected With his appearance. Hanging
from his watch-cham, which was of a very quiet
and unobtrusive pattern, she espied a wedding-ring
(possibly his mother's), a gold key, and a
threepenny piece with a hole through it. His
hands were sun-burnt, but beautifully shaped, and
he wore no rings. It was difficult to discover why
it was that he appeared to be so A'cry well dressed,
but the fact remained that he certainly looked
like a Prince, or like every Prince ought to look
if he could. Perhaps, when he spoke, the illusion
would be destroyed, but yet Lucy did not think
this likely', having made up her mind that his
voice, too, would be princely. But he would not
speak now, for he was fast asleep.

Just at this moment, however,  as she was
intent upon their closed lashes, he opened his eyes.

She blushed, in miserable confusion, and
averted her gaze.

As Mr. Podmore had. said,  a moustache
certainly concealed the expression of the mouth,
but before sbe had bad time to look away, she
saw that the stranger's eyes smiled.

Perhaps he was about to speak to her ! . . . .
This would be almost too much ! . . . . It was
all so new,  so strange,  so unaccountable! . . .
But, just then,  with a shrieking,  grating,
excruciating sound,  the train stopped at one of
the intermediate stations, and an elderly lad', 
carrying a basket and a swathed bundle,  advanced
to the window.

All the other carriages were apparently full,
and a porter opened the door for her.

The stranger assisted her courteously to deposit
her parcels, but not before he had glanced
quickly at Lucy with an expression she dared
hardly interpret,  and yet, it seemed to say, 
as plainly as words,  how much he was annoyed
at this unexpected intrusion. His eyes assumed
the look of regret which she had already
observed. All the laughter had gone out of them.
It is curious to note how,  when two people
have commenced a railway journey together, 
even supposing that they have never spoken a
word,  and experience, one for the other, no

particular feeling of sympathy,  the arrival of a
third person, upon the scene, appears, nevertheless,
always to partake of the nature of an
intrusion. It speaks well for human nature that
it is so, inasmuch as it goes to prove that all men
are not consumed by an insatiable craving after
new faces,  and, upon the entrance of the almost
invariably unwelcome third person,  the two
established fellow-travellers nearly always exchange
glances which seem plainly to mean, 

Ton were my first travelling-companion,
although we have never spoken a word, and I
know nothing whatever about you :  still,  I infinitely
prefer you to this troublesome new-comer,
and shall continue to do so to the end of the
journey ! '

Perhaps this was the true interpretation of the
regretful look in the eyes of the princely
stranger, or, perhaps, he may have been thinking,
 not without some self-reproach : 

'Here was a pretty and seemingly amiable
young lady, with whom I might have struck up
quite a friendship, if only I had been able to
keep myself awake. Avow, however, the moment
has passed by. A murrain upon this tiresome
old woman and her bundles ! '

But blessings come to us sometimes in the
disguise of curses. The swathed-hip bundle, as it
turned out, contained a very curious and rare-looking
foreign dog. It bad a fine foxy coat, a
black nose, and a black tongue, and seemed to be,
altogether, a remarkably intelligent animal, rejoicing
in the name of ' Changie,' or ' Chang,'
although, as its mistress presently explained to
Lucy, ' he was a female dog.'

!sow that this elderly lady was seated between
them, Lucy no longer experienced so great a
sense of embarrassment. Possibly * Changie's '
mistress may have acted as a buffer, and may
have arrested, or absorbed, some sort of mysterious
magnetic current ; and as she possessed that kind
of exterior which effectually protects a woman
from the impertinent advances of man, she
appeared to be perfectly at her ease with the
stranger, of whose subtle fascination she was
probably utterly unconscious.

Changie,' who seemed to be one of the most
sociable of ' female dogs,' commenced, at once,
making friendly overtures to the stranger, opposite
to whom the elderly lady had seated herder.

The stranger inquired as to ' Changie's ' exact
species, and was informed that he (or she) was a

VOL. I. K

Chinese edible-dog,' and that when young, such
animals were looked upon as great delicacies
amongst the Celestial. Some very interesting
conversation followed upon the subject of dogs
in the abstract.

Lucy had been quite right about the stranger's
voice. He spoke as she had expected and hoped
that he would speak ; but (at least so it seemed
to her) as she had never heard mortal man speak
before.

He appealed to her several times upon the
question of canine friendships, and she soon found
herself thoroughly involved in the conversation.

By-and-by, however, a most foolish and
ridiculous mistake, upon the part of the elderly
lady, recalled all Lucy's blushes.

Notwithstanding that she and the stranger
were seated so far apart ; or, perhaps, indeed,
because of it; or else, because Lucy's parasol
happened to be leaning up against one corner of
the centre compartment of the carriage, and the
stranger's umbrella against the other,  this
absurd old woman, with the ,
proceeded to show, by her conversation,
that she actually took the princely stranger
for Lucy's husband ! . . . .

The laughter came again into his eyes at this
mistake, and, after seeming to ask permission with
those same wonderful grey ejes that could ask,
or say, almost anything, he made a few jesting
remarks which were calculated rather to confirm
their fellow-traveller in her error.

Lucy felt too terribly embarrassed to remonstrate
with him. She could only murmur something
incoherent by way of protest. But the
elderly lady was a little deaf, and persisted in her
absurd blunder until the train arrived at Hampton
Court.

Here, the stranger, after helping out
Changie's ' mistress with her small baggage,
turned to assist Lucy, who, owing to the position
of her seat, was constrained to descend the last.
In order the better to do so, he took her hand.

Good-bye I ' he whispered, rather than said
as she alighted upon the platform.

A short, stumpy-looking man, in uniform,
with enormous moustaches, who was standing
close b}', awaiting, apparently, the arrival of a
friend, looked round, as the stranger stepped upon
the platform, and gave him a sort of military
salute, and at the same moment a pretty young
lady, in rather a sensational hat, bowed somewhat

formally as lie passed quickly towards the further
end of the train.

I hope I am right said the stumpy man,
advancing, and addressing himself to the stranger,
in supposing that you must have had a very
pleasant Sunday at Cowes? The weather has
been splendid here.' To which remark Lucy did
not catch her fellow-traveller's reply.

So he had been to Cowes, then ;  Cowes, in
the Isle of Wight,  where Mr. Podmore had
lately passed his too brief holiday, but the two
must have journeyed, (she thought,) by totally
different ways.

The people assembled upon the platform were
beginning now to disperse. But the pretty young
lady wearing the smart hat was still questioning
porters excitedly, and peering into empty carriages.

A minute afterwards she rushed up to Lucy,
who was in the act of claiming her box.

It was Miss Adeliza Binks. Mrs. Girffy, 
Lady Mabella's maid,  had escorted her to the
station, but young Algernon Binks had, seemingly,
not condescended to come.

The tall stranger had, by this time, obtained
his portmanteau, and was sauntering off, with
the stumpy man, in the direction of the bridge.

*We are going over in a boat said Adeliza
Binks ; ' it will land us close to the door of our
apartments, which are quite separate from the
rest of the Palace. How odd that I shouldn't
have seen you at first ! '

A lady carrying a dog was standing between
me and the window Lucy explained.

The truth was, that, at that moment, she had
been so entirely preoccupied, that she had almost
forgotten the existence of the Binkses altogether.

They were making their way now, towards
the river-strand,' where the boat was awaiting
them. Lucy could see the tall form of the
princely stranger crossing the bridge with his
companion. It occurred to her that she could,
perhaps, discover who he was.

You passed by the window of the carriage,'
she said to her cousin; 'but I couldn't be sure
that it was you. You bowed to a gentleman who
was standing close by.'

That was our champion-tennis-player,' returned
Miss Binks, whilst Lucy's heart began
beating in quite an unusual manner. 'And
we're very proud of him, I can assure you!
He's the Veterinary-Surgeon of the 18th Lancers.'

CHAPTER XII.

I DARESAY you will often write to me Miss
Elizabeth lead said to her great-niece previously
to her departure from Barlow Lodge, and, accordingly,
upon the morning following upon her
arrival at Hampton Court Palace, Lucy seated
herself soon after breakfast at the writing-table
in the bay-window which commanded a view of
the river, the bridge, and the cavalry barracks,
and wrote as follows : 

Hampton Court Palace

Tuesday morning.

My dearest Aunty, 

You will, I know, be glad to hear that I
arrived here quite safely yesterday afternoon.
The train was very full indeed, and some of the
people seemed to be of rather a disagreeable kind,
but I was very fortunate in having only a lady

and gentleman in the same carriage with me.
The lady, who was rather deaf, had a very clever
and unconunon kind of dog, which she said was
of the kind that is eaten in China when young.
His name was " Chang," although she said it was
a female, and it had black gums, and a black
tongue, and a tail that curled up just like a fox's
sic). At Hampton Court I was met by cousin
Addie, and Mrs. Gussy Aunt Mabel's maid who
is rather cross and sour-looking and has bad
health, but I shall try, of course, to give her as
little trouble as I possibly can. I think cousin
Addie is handsome, rather than pretty,  as she is
so tall and stately-looking. I admire her eyebrows
very much, and her complexion,  which is
quite wonderful; but I have no doubt you remember
what she is like. She seems to think a
good deal about looks,  as one woidd one's self, I
daresay, if one was at all like her. She is
certainly a great contrast to her mother, for there
is not the slightest resemblance between them. I
am afraid poor Ait Mabel can't be very strong.
She has a very sad and complaining manner, and,
Addie tells me, takes great quantities of medicine ;
but I suppose she was very fond of poor uncle
Orlando, and feels his loss. You asked me to say

how she was looking, and whether she had taken,
yet, to wearing caps. She does wear one, and
dresses very plainly indeed,  in black,  with a
little black shawl crossed OAer in front which
quite hides the way in which her gowns are
made,  but she is, all the same, very kind indeed.
Cousin Algernon did not come to the station to
meet me, but Addie took me to the door of his
room soon after we arrived, where he was
smoking and preparing for the Army. He did
not know that I was there, and asked if I had
come,  speaking of me as " the pattern Clapham
girl'' I determined, however, that I would not
be offended with a boy of that age,  particularly
as he was my own relation,  so I only answered
that I did not feel ' pattern " at all, and feared
that I was anything but that. He looked very
much ashamed, though he tried hard to carry it
off, and blushed right up to the roots of his hair,
which is quite light. He has since put on quite a
different manner, and though I don't suppose I
shall like him as much as his sister, I daresay we
shall end by becoming very good friends. I had
just time to go round the gardens before dressing
for dinner, and admired them immensely. Although
they are rather formal, there is a great

charm about tlicm; and I thought so much about
Henry YIII., and Anne Boleyn, and Cardinal
Wolsey', and poor Jane Seymour, whilst I was
trying to talk about other things, for Adeliza and
Alsernon do not seem to care very much about
history. We went into the private garden,
where there is an orangery, and a very nice mysterious
shady walk, wp some stone steps. Addie
said she went there to get away from the tourists,
as she calls the people who do not live in the
Palace, but only come down from London to see it
These people generally come,  it seems,  in large
crowds by cheap excursion trains, and eat oranges,
and red-herrings, in the gardens, and then leave
their skins and tails done up in newspaper upon
the seats in the gardens,  after which they go
into Bushes-Park and play a vulgar game called
*' kiss-in-the-ring." The ladies of the Palace
seem to laye a great feeling of horror and contempt
for these tourists, and of course it is very
horrid and disgusting of them to behave in this
dreadful way I I was astonished to find that the
13eoj)le who live in the Palace should be so discontented,
 thinking that they would laye been
more grateful to the Queen for haying given
them these rooms, and so saved them the expense

of others. But Algy says life would not be
worth, having if one could not grumble, and it
seems that the apartments differ very much with
regard to goodness,  some being the most delightful
places possible, and the others very little
better than perfect cellars,  looking out into
dreadfully dull court-yards paved with stones
which are generally in a state of damp. The ladies
who have got these bad rooms look with envy and
hatred at all those who have been given better ones,
and Addie says, (only this I cannot quite believe
I)  positively long for them to die, and rejoice
whenever they see them looking ill in Chapel ! . .
Aunt Mabel's rooms, or, rather, the ones that
have been lent her,  are more like a separate
house, and there do not seem to be any of these
dreadful cellar places. Algernon says that the
three Miss Bolderos,  (the daughters of the late
General Sir Hector Boldero,  of whom I daresay
you have heard,  and who are going tomorrow
evening to give a dance,)  actually keep' a whole
family of tame rabbits in a room which was
intended for a servant's bedroom, but in which no
servant can be found to sleep ;  and this has made
some other ladies, (whose names I forget) so dreadfully
jealous, that they have made up their minds

to keep a pig ! All this is clone merely to outwit
the Authorities,  by whom, it seems, such things
are not allowed. It is not allowed, either, by the
Queen,  for the ladies who like to have their
washing done at home from economy,  to spread
it out all over the roof of the Palace to dry, and I
can quite fancy that it is a thing one would
dislike one's self in her place. But it seems some
of the ladies manage to evade this law all the
same, as most of the apartments have a sort of
parapet along b} the top-windows,  where the
washing can be concealed, so that it can only be
seen from the train. Addie asked me if I had
noticed theirs as I was coming along,  but I certainly
did not do so, perhaps because I was not
looking out for it. She says, however, that Mrs.
Gussy, who will not '' get up " even a necktie at
home,  to save anyone's life, has " entered nobly
into the spirit of the thing," and washes out
nearly all Aunt Mabel's and Addie' s things as
well as her own,  only just because she knows it
is forbidden ! And Addie sap's she goes in daily
fear of "a raid upon them by the Board of Works "
(I am nearly" sure this was the Board,)  which
happened, it seems  only a few years ago  when
the eldest of the three Miss Bolderos had nearly

all her clothes confiscated, and had to sleep for
more than a fortnight in a borrowed nightgown !
I think, however, that, as I am a new arrival,
they A'cry likely tell me things that are not quite
true, and exaggerate others in which there maybe,
perhaps, just a germ of truth ! . . Tell Sarah
to tell her sister that I wore my new white dress
at dinner, and that I really think it looked very
nice. It is a very good fit,  although just a
little too tight across the middle part of the chest.
This, however, can be easily altered when I
return, and, for the present, I can leave the top-hook
unfastened, and pin a bunch oi geraniums,
or some rose-buds,  over the place. Lord
Belmorris arrived just before dinner, and insisted
upon taking me down, as he said he was in the
position of master of the house, and that if he
took down his own sister, he should feel " just
like the King of Burma." (I have no idea
what he meant by this,  and, indeed, I did not
understand several other things he said, and made
the most stupid mistakes about them,  as he
makes use of a good many expressions connected
ivith the Turf.) I must say, however, that he is
very amusing,  although he does not talk much.
He says things, however, in such an odd way, and

does not seem to be a bit proud,  having a horror
of anything like show-ofF, which he calls by some
sort of racing name. He is not at all like Ait
Mabel in the face, nor in his manner, and he
looks a great deal yoimgcr. He is not very tall,
in fact, I should call him short. He told me
however, that if he had been what is called 'a
fine man" he thinks he should have cut his
throat,  as, then, he would not have been able to
ride Steeplechases,  which he says is '' the second-best
thing in life." (He did not tell me what he
considered the rs thing !)  I suppose he is not
really good-looking, but he has a face that one
likes, or believes in, directly one sees it, so that it
is impossible to think him plain, and he has, also,
very fine dark eyes, with a great deal of expression.
I think he must have got what is called
dry wit," as, when he says anything funny, he
never laughs at it himself, but always looks particularly
grave. He is quite clean-shaved, with
very good teeth, and he seems to be nearly always
smoking a tooth-pick. He dresses very much like
a groom, and speaks a little like one, I think, as
well ; but he is very neat and clean-looking, and I
think a good deal of this stable-helpcr-manner
must be put on. He asked me if I was fond of

riding, and seemed amused when I said that I
had only ridden a donkey upon Clapham Common
when I was quite young. He says he must run
down there and get up some donkeys-races, and
that 5'ou and he must talk the matter over together
! After dinner, he asked me to go outwith
him into the passages,  which are just like
cloisters, and most ghostly and mysterious hy
moonlight,  to look for a curious kind of spider
which is called a " TFo/s't/"- spider,  because some
people believe that it has something to do with
the spirit of Cardinal Wolsey,  and which is of
enormous size ; but Aunt Mabel thought that I
had better not go, as she was afraid that I might
get a chill, as she says the evenings are sometimes
rather damp from being so near the river,  and
so, we ended by not going at all . . /

Just as Lucy had got on-thus far with her
letter, young Algernon Binks dashed tumultuously
into the room.

I say, girls !' he called out,  addressing himself,
however, chiefly to his sister  'ain't you
going to look alive and come out for a run before
I go to the Faces ? . . You'll find me in the
tennis-court,  looking on at the tennis. The
*' Yet's" going to play a match with the Colonel !'

CHAPTER Xlii.

"Would you like to come out, Lucy ? ' Adeliza
asked. 'Mama won't be ready for a long time,
so we might start off before the sun gets too bot.
Sbe never goes any further than the first bench,
and there are a good many interesting things to
be seen

Lucy hastily concluded her letter, and rejoined
her cousin after sbe bad dressed herself for the
gardens with becoming neatness.

As they crossed the open space in front of the
house, on their way through the quadrangles into
the Palace gardens, Lucy could not resist casting
a shy glance in the direction of the cavalry
barracks, which she had been told were occupied
by a detachment of the 18th Lancers. Some of
the soldiers, in shirt-sleeves, were grooming their
chargers, which were clattering upon the paving-stones,
but, here and there, other figures, in

picturesque uniform, were clotted about, sow
and then a trumpet sounded. It was a most
animated scene. At that distance it was not easy
to distinguish the privates from the officers, 
nor would Lucy's limited acquaintance with military
matters have enabled her to do this even if
the barracks had been nearer.

One form, however, she felt that she must
have recognised at once, if only it had been insight

But had she not learnt just now

that he was playing a match at tennis with the
Colonel . . . ?

I daresay,' said Adeliza, when they had proceeded
a little further, 'that you would like to
come first and look at the Chapel. We can get it
over at once,  if you like,  for it will be best
not to '' do '' the pictures till the heat of the day.
Or shall we go and look on at the tennis ? '

I think it would be nice to go and look on at
the tennis,' Lucy answered, feeling terribly guilty
and embarrassed. (Her heart had begun to beat
just in the same ridiculous manner as it did when
she was on her way to the boat.) ' We shall be
able to study the Chapel on Sunday.'

Yes; it's much better to go first to the tennis,'
said Miss Binks, ' because now we shall find Algy

there. Mama won't let me go and look on at it
alone. She doesn't think it's the correct thing,
because the men play at it in jerseys,  but then
Mama is so dreadfully particular ! The three
Miss Bolderos are there nearly all day : I'm sure
/ can't see the harm of a jersey, can you?'

I've never seen a game of real tennis,'
returned Lucy, ' so I don't know in the least
how the players are dressed. It will be quite
a new experience.'

Yes ; it's much better fun than seeing the
regular sights : but, somehow, I fancied 3'ou
wouldn't care for it. I got it into my head that
you were very religious, and fancied you would
want to go at once and look at the Chapel I '

And I hope, now,' said Lucy, smiling,  that
you don't look upon me as quite a heathen ? '

*I shouldn't mind much if you iccrc! returned
Adeliza ; ' there's been a great deal too much
religion, as it is, floating about in the family f
I'm sure I shouldn't like to marry a very religious
husband I '

Still, one might be unhappy if one thought
that he had no religion at all.'

I don't think I should care much ! Perhaps
I've had too much of religion,  or perhaps,
VOL. 1. L

it's not been of the right sort. AVhcncver I say
this to Mama she turns up her eyes and sighs,
and says that I don't know yet what marriage
really is, and I always answer that I only wish
that I did'

Is Aunt Mabel so very religious ? '

In an odd kind of way, yes :  but Mama's a
very peculiar creature. She's got "Faith," and
she likes sermons, and approves of family-prayers,
and hates Free-thinkers. But she hasn't
Works' and she doesn't seem to have much
'hope;' and as for 'charity !" . . . You'll find
all this out for yourself, however, in time, and I
hope you don't think badly of me for giving you
a hint. I'm simply stating facts ! '

Lucy,  who in common with most orphans,
was possessed of quite an exaggerated feeling with
respect to filial affection,  might certainly have
been rather shocked, at any other time, at so
crude an analysis, by a daughter, of the maternal
peculiarities. At present, however, she was intensely
preoccupied. ' And yet your mother
seems so kind and so gentle ! ' was all that she
answered. Her heart had anticipated her footsteps,
and was already in the tennis-court.

Yes,' continued Adeliza, with unfilial candour,

' lie lias always got that crushed, subdued,
expiatory kind of look ! People tell me
that she's just like a Saint upon a church-window,
 but she's very worldly with it all, 
and oh, what an iron will ! . . . I should like
you, just for fun, to try to reason Mama out of
anything she's set her heart on ! You might as
well endeavour to turn the sun out of his appointed
course ! And then, her '' comforts" ! . . .
You watch Mama when anybody else wants to get
hold of her air-cushion, her foot-warmer, or her
lamp-shade ! . . . She's like a tigress watching
over her cubs ! '

I liked Lord Belmorris very much,' remarked
Lucy,  merely for something to say,
* he seems to be very amusing and good-natured
! '

A better creature never lived,' returned her
cousin ; ' he's the very reverse of Mama in most
things, and he's about the only person she's really
afraid of. But sic too, though you wouldn't
believe it, has a touch of the family cant. He's
awfully orthodox ! Somebody asked him once,
before me, if he didn't think it silly to believe in
Hell ? . . . You should have seen his face ! . . .
Heaven and Hell, and the Church, and the State,

and the Bishops, and the Turf, and Steeple-chasing,
are all connected together in his mind. He looks
upon them all as purity English, and fancies that
if you upset one of them, all the rest will go.
He gets it from his father I '

And  as he very Avery religious ? ' Lucy
spoke merely to conceal her nervousness, for
they were emerging into the gardens, and must
be, she thought, rapidly approaching the tennis-court.
In reality, she would not have cared
much, at that moment, had she been told that
the late Lord Belmorris had been a worshipper
of Juggernaut,

He was anything but good when young,'
replied Miss Binks ; ' but he turned religious when
he became old. He used to walk about all night
in Hessian boots, and pray, and disturb the people
sleeping underneath him. That couldn't have
been real religion I '

No ; a really religious person would have
considered the feelings of others ! '

Yes ; I'm sure you wouldn't like to have a
husband who prayed in Hessian boots !'

No ; I shouldn't indeed ! ' replied Lucy, with
a forced smile. They were quite near, now, to
the turn leading to the tennis-court, and she could

hear the [strokes, and the echoing voices of the
players. . . . Oh, if her heart would only not
go on heating quite so fast ! . . .

But just as they came to the entrance to the
tennis-court, they fell in with xllgy.

They're only knocking the halls about, and
humbugging,' he said ;  it's no fun, as it isn't a
regular match. You'd hotter come with me and
look on at the drags. I'll just run home and get
my glasses, and then I can go straight on to the
races, if I happen to see a " pal." '

fidelia turned, and retraced her steps in the
direction of the facade of the Palace.

We'll wait here for you,' she said, as Algy
went in through the centre archway. ' Don't belong
! If I had only known that we were going
to look on]at the drags, I shouldn't have put
on such a brute of a hat ! '

Then we're not going to look on at the
tennis ? ' asked Luc', with a sinking heart.

Mama would make such a terrible fuss, if I
went there without Algy ! It's very ridiculous !
Perhaps I can' call him back, and make him take
us ;  ah,  he's gone out of sight ! ' . . .

There are some disappointments which, 
without deserving to be classed as calamities, 

seem for the moment, to partake of their nature,
and to fill the heart with a sense of absolute
despair. To Lucy Barlow such experiences were
entirely new, and upon realizing, in the present
instance, how much her cousin's change of plan
had affected her, she felt both surprised and
humiliated. But the feeling of disappointment
was there, casting quite a shadow over the sunshine
!

She dared not remonstrate with Adeliza. -
For the * pattern Clapham girl' to endeavour, 
upon the very first day after her arrival, to
tempt her cousin into disobeying the maternal
edict, would be, indeed, a miserable return for
all Lady Mabella's kindness !  With what rapid
strides must she not be advancing towards some
sort of moral degeneracy for the bare notion of
any such ingratitude to have occurred to her
mind!

So, in a state of unutterable despondency, she
followed her cousin along the central facade of
the Palace, towards the gateway of the private
garden.

The sound of the tennis-playing grew fainter
and fainter. Foolish tears had arisen in Lucy's
eyes.

By-and-by, Adeliza Binks exclaimed suddenly,


Do you really think that this list is so Avery
unbecoming? I put it on for a shade,  and
quite forgot what a monster I look in it.'

I like it much better than the one you wore
yesterday,' replied Lucy. ' I should have said, too,
that it was more becoming, but I know nothing
about dress, so my opinion isn't worth having.'

She spoke mournfully, and without much
sympathy. She had accepted the inevitable, and
felt more resigned, now, about the tennis, but to
have pretended any interest in the becomingness
of Adeliza's hats would have displayed downright
hypocrisy.

Well, then, I'll tell you what, Lucy,' said
Miss Binks ; ' we'll just go back and look in at
the tennis for a moment,  after all, you see,  it
isn't as if I went alone,  I've got i/ou with me, 
besides which, we needn't say anything about it
to Mama!'

Oh, that will be delightful I ' exclaimed Lucy,
the sunshine coming over everything again.

You are very fond of games, I suppose ? *
Adeliza said, as though a little surprised at her
enthusiasm.

I've never had much to do with games
answered Lucy, who was now looking radiant ;
'but it will be very nice to go and see them
playing at tennis ! '

They entered the tennis-court unperceived by
the players.

The short one has just beaten the tall one
in the grey jersey,' Adeliza explained, after she
had questioned the marker. ' Perhaps they're
not going to play any more.'

. Yes, he wore a grey jersey;  woven
out of some sort of silvery, silken texture, which
looked like chain-armour ! His arms were partly
bare, and now that his throat was unconfined
by the stiff modern shirt-collar, he had more
than ever the air of a knight of ancient days.
Lucy could imagine that Ivanhoe might have
appeared in some such guise before the enraptured
gaze of Rowena, or the less fortunate Rebecca, 
only, of course, Ivanhoe was not quite such a tall
man. Could it be possible that he was really
only a veterinary surgeon after all ? . . . Had
veterinary surgeons often the features and bearings
of Crusaders ? . . .

But here Lucy's conjectures were brought to
an abrupt termination.

Ignorant, and unai)prelicnsive of danger, unlearned
by Adeliza, and absorbed in her contemplation,
sbe was incautiously standing in that
portion of the gallery' or passage wliicli was unprotected
by network, Avhen he of the Crusader's
face, raising his strong bare arm, sent a ball
flying at random which struck her with such
force on the forehead that she fell back stunned
and insensible.

Ashen she recovered consciousness, Adeliza
Binks,  the short stumpy man of the railway-station,
 the boy whose business it was to pickup
the balls,  for the regular marker onl}'-
attended when there was a regular match,  and
the dealer of the blow himself, were all surrounding
her anxiously. In the eyes that could
say so much there was a look of genuine contrition.
Miss links was loud in her lamentations.


Good gracious ! what an unfortunate thing
to have happened! How frUjhtfuUy annoyed
Mama will be I . . . She'll be quite horrified to
think that we came here at all ! She told us we
were never to come lucre by ourselves ; . .  you
play in jerseys . . . ' Then,  seeing that Lucy
had recovered her senses,  she added, 

She intended this for an introduction, but
the stumpy man had already started off upon
his errand.

Oh, thank you ! ' said Iucy feebly. * I
seem to be giving everybody a great deal of
trouble I '

'I know what I'll do!' exclaimed Miss
Binks, as if suddenly inspired. ' I'll just go

round to the Miss Boldcros' and ask them to let
you go in there and rest till you're recovered !
They're sure to ask us to luncheon,  they're so
good-natured I . . . Please take care of her till
I come back,' she added, turning to the grey
jersey', 'and don't let her go outside, for goodness
sake ! . . . She might just tumble up against
Mama I ' So saying Adeliza Binks caught up
her sunshade and departed.

It was quite natural, Lucy thought, hazily, 
that her cousin should leave her under the protection
of a veterinary surgeon. A veterinary
surgeon,  after all, was the next thing to a
doctor.  A stunned horse had, probably, very
much the same sensations as a stunned woman !
Nevertheless, the lad whose business it was to
2:)ick up the balls, remained staring at them
open-eyed.

look here, my fine fellow,' said the author
of all this commotion ; ' don't you think you could
run off and fetch a glass of water for this young
lady ? Take care that it's quite fresh ! . . .I
hope to heaven that I haven't hurt you ! ' ho
exclaimed earnestly as soon as they were alone
together.

They were seated at the further end of the

narrow passage beliiiid the protecting net. The
daylight from above scarcely penetrated into this
secluded corner. He leant forward towards her
and took both her hands in his own.

You forgive me ? ' he asked after a while,
looking into her eyes remorsefully.

Yes, of course I forgive you I I know you
didn't mean to do it I '

She felt no pain now, only a strange sense
of contentment. This man, who seemed at once
to have established over her some sort of mysterious
ascendancy, was near her now, and it was
as though she needed nothing more. Surely
there could be no other man in the whole world
who looked so kind, so strong, so beautiful, so
noble I . . .

He had pushed back the forage-cap he was
wearing beyond the clearly defined sun-mark,
and she could see the hair which was cut almost
too close to curl, crooking itself into little twists
and tendrils, and trying to fulfil its mission.

A tenderness she had never known before
flooded her whole being. She had neither the
power nor the will to withdraw her hands.

So that she might not meet his eyes, she
looked do\l at their four clasped hands. Thence

her glance wandered to this bare arms, wliicli
resembled, sbe tboug-bt, the arms of a statue.
By-and-by, a deep scar upon bis right arm
attracted ber attention. AboA'e this scar, an
initial of some sort was tattooed inside a device
representing a coiled serpent, the emblem of
eternity.

Without examining too closely for good manners,
Lucy could not discover at once what initial
this serpent encircled. Her eyes, however, seemed
to be riveted to the spot, and sbe was soon able
to make out that it was the letter ' i/  looking
as tbougb written in bluish ink.

Tbis letter, with the scar beneath it, must,
of course, possess a history A romantic one, 
very likely,  baying to do, perhaps, with some
manner of ' hairsbreadth 'scape ' in a foreign
land. Sbe felt thankful,  sbe scarce knew wb}',
that be bad not succumbed to whatever danger
bad assailed bim, but that be bad lived to deal
ber this accidental blow in an English tennis-court,
 whither he bad come,  (and, surely, in
this there must lurk something of mysterious
presage !)  already marked and stamped with
the letter ' Z,'  her own initial ! . . .

So the burrowing moments went by. It

seemed to lier that this must be the realization
of some dream which she had dreamed,  half
unconsciously  in the shadowy past years, and
that all her previous existence must have been
tending towards it. In this dim corner of the
tennis-court at this old Palace, a revelation had
come to her, which,  it Alas surely intended, 
should, sooner or later,  come to us all. Adverse
circumstances, however ;  misfortunes, and
the fashionable perversions of nature,  combine
together,  in many instances,  to render this
knowledge unattainable ;  and so it happens that
there are still thousands of living and breathing
beings who walk the earth unconscious altogether
of its sublimest mystery.

CHAPTER XIV.

The widow of the late Licut.-Gencral Sir Hector
Elder, K.C.B., was motlicr of the three tallest
and plainest young ladies in the whole of
the Palace of Hampton Court. I have described
them as ' young ladies ' merely on account of their
sj)insterhood,  for it was not possible that they
could now be any longer really young.

The three Miss B older os had been known by
sight for many years to the frequenters of
Hampton Court, Thames-ditto, and Bushes,
and the failures and disappointments of these
many years might well have filled any less valiant
spirits with despair. But, from the late Lieut
Sir Hector Boldero, K.C.B. (who, as we
all know, having once distinguished himself by
leading a forlorn hope, succeeded afterwards in
gaining a succession of brilliant victories)  they
had inherited characters of the most intrepid
courage and determination, and, as yet, they
showed no sio-ns whatever of a surrender.

Out of compliment to their gallant father's
first achievement,  they were known to the inhabitants
of the Palace as ' the forlorn Horses ; '
but there was nothing to justify this name
in their outward appearance,  and not being
qualified, in this instance, to become a heart-searcher,
 I cannot say whether they were, or
were not, secretly ' forlorn.'

There were some people, it is true, who pretended
to have remarked that the eldest of the
three Miss Bolderos was becoming * just a little
bit soured,' but, during the course of so many
barren and profitless years it is only natural that
the disposition should undergo contrasting phases.
We have most of us heard the story of

that fisherman

Who loosed a genius from the copper flask
Wherein he had been sealed by Solomon,
And who, in consternation, saw him rise
And tow'r above him.'

And yet, this very genius had spent three
whole centuries in devising benevolent projects
for the reward of the person who should eventually
unseal him I He remained, however,
cramped up in his copper flask, and became
soured; and, perhaps, it may have been the

same, to some extent, vrith the eldest of the three
Miss Bolderos.

This was the lad' whose under-linen,  according
to young Algernon Sinks,  had been confiscated
by the Board of Works, and who had
slept, in consequence, 'for more than a fortnight
in a borrowed night-gown,'  so that,  aimless the
story was merely a gross exaggeration,  she had
been brought in contact, also, with the workings
of human tyranny, and "the insolence of Office."

All the three Miss Bolderos were extremely
tall and athletic-looking, and bore a marked
likeness to their gallant father, for neither he
nor his lady were at all the kind of people
whose offspring would have been likely to resemble
anybody else. They were called, respectively
' Di,' ' Tizzy,' and ' Beauty' the
youngest sister having the same right to be considered
handsome, as a one-eyed man has of
reigning amongst the blind.

They had witnessed the advent and exodus of
many different detachments of Cavalry during all
the swift-footed years that had combined to rob
them of their youthful bloom I As a rule, they
had been extremely popular with the military,
particularly in the old days. They had boated

VOL. I. M

with them, punted, fished, flirted, and danced
with them ;  lost themselves with them in the
Maze,'  (where, by-the-by, it would have been
difficult, upon the occasion of my last visit to it, 
to ' lose ' so much as a red-herring !)  wandered
with them over the picture-galleries,  searched
with them in dark corridors, upon moonlight
nights, for ' Whey-spiders, and admired them
as they played at tennis or prayed in Chapel.

It was even whispered that Miss Beauty
Boldero,  seeing that her sisters' circumspection
had been so poorly rewarded,  had chalked out
for herself a rather more emancipated line of
conduct than is generally approved,  and more
than one old lady in the Palace could vouch for
having surprised her and her military admirers
in situations which proved that she was, to say the
very least of it, in the habit of dancing, occasionally,
upon the very brink of indecorum.

Be this how it may, Lancer, Dragoon, and
bold Hussar,'  if they had ever been smitten
at all with the charms of Miss Beauty, or her
two elder sisters, had loved and ridden away ; 
and now a detachment of Lancers Alas here
again :  him Lancers this time,  the last lot
had been red ones

At the moment of Lucy's misadventure, the
three Miss Bolderos were arraying themselves in
order to go out to look at the drags,  and hence
it was that they had not been that morning to
the tennis-court, where, as Adeliza had stated,
they generally passed a good deal of their time.

Upon reaching their apartments, which were
close by. Miss Binks went to them in their bedrooms,
in order to explain the situation, and she
then returned to the tennis-court to fetch her
cousin. Lucy felt like a person in the midst of a
delightful dream, who partly suspects its unreality,
and dreads the awakening. Perhaps she was
still half-stunned,  but, if so, to be half-stunned
was anything but an unpleasant sensation ! . . .
She hoped that the tender look in those grey
eyes,  the sympathy which seemed to have become
established, for all time, between herself and
a man who had been, until now, totally unknown,
existed not only in her imagination I She hoped that
she was not the victim of some sort of enchanting:
delusion consequent upon concussion of the brain !

Then Adeliza returned to her friends' apartment,
she was received by the three Miss Bolderos,
 all ready equipped for their walk,  to
whom Lucy was duly presented.

They had settled upon a complete plan of
action.

Lucy was to remain quietly in their apartments
until two o'clock, during wliicli time they
would pro out with Adeliza to the Lion Gates
opposite to Bushes Park, and look on at the people
bound for the races,  taking this way because
they would thus be sure of not falling in with
Lady Mabella. Lucy, in the meantime, could go
into Miss Beauty's bedroom,  which was very
quiet and retired,  and lie down. Perhaps, 
after she had had a little rest, she would feel
quite recovered. If she was well enough by two
o'clock, she could return with Adeliza to luncheon
at Jjadj Mabella' s ; if not, she could partake of
luncheon with them. Their mother, Lady
Boldero, would not, they declared, interfere with
her repose in the least,  as she was bed-ridden,
and never by any chance went out of her oti
room.

They keep her somewhere hidden away with
the tame rabbits ! ' whispered Adeliza, whilst the
Miss Bolderos went outside to give some final
directions to their maid servant.

You find us in the most terrible state of confusion,'
remarked Miss Di, when these directions

were given. Ve're in the niidclle of our preparations
for our little dance tomorrow, and
they've very nearly driven us mad I "We hope
so much she added, turning to Lucy, ' that
you'll be well enough to come to it ? '

Lucy will be quite delighted, I'm sure,'
said Adeliza, answering for her cousin; 'she's
certain to be all right by tomorrow.'

"We're going out now,' explained Miss Tizzy,
as regular " fishers of men,"  for, as it is, we've
only one man to every three women. "We shall
have to dance with each other, in Spurgeonesque
style ! '

Perhaps we may see some men we know upon
the coaches,' suggested Miss Beaut' ; * if so, we
could send them notes by your brother,  Mr
Algy,  and tell him to drag them here tomorrow
by the hairs of their heads I '

Our military men,' said Di, ' who would have
been the saving of us, have played us false in the
most abominable way ! '

Owing: to the numerous casualties,' said
Tizzy, ' we are positively reduced to that miserable
little Pycroft "pour tout jwfage ! " '

'I'm sure poor Charlie Sparshott couldn't
help breaking his arm steeplechasing,' protested

Adeliza. ' He wouldn't have done it for worlds if
lie could have avoided it, as tie was looking forward
so immensely to the race week

You know, I suppose,' said Miss Beauty,
archly, addressing Lucy, * how very " hard hit "
your cousin is in that direction ? '

*She doesn't know anything about me yet,
do you, Lucy ? ' cut in Adeliza, blushing ; ' for
we've never seen much of each other since we
were infants in arms. Well, if I said that I
didn't miss Captain Sparshott, I should be telling
an untruth ! I do miss him awfully, and I think
him the greatest darling in the world ! '

There's nothing like telling one's love, is
there ? ' said Beauty, smiling. * Addie isn't the
sort of girl to let concealment "feed on her
damask cheek ! " '

I'm sure you oughtn't to talk. Beauty ! '
cried her eldest sister, sarcastically. * You've
heard of Beauty's last flame, haven't you, Addie ?
Would you believe it, she's got up quite a furious
flirtation with the " Yet," and she's insisted upon
our asking him here tomorrow evening ! '

It was now Miss Beauty's turn to blush and
look sheepish.

The Yet is a perfect gentleman,' she said at

last ; ' and a very gallant soldier besides, who's been
in battle. He's quite fit to be invited anywhere ! '

It's simply a case of precedent,' explained
Tizzy,  as though to cover her sister's blushes.
Mama recollects a Veterinary Surgeon's going
once before to a dance in the Palace. We've
been guided entirely by this ! '

 This one is an enormous improvement upon
any of the "Yet" that have been quartered herein
my time ! ' said Miss Beauty with true courage.
Besides which,  although he may not be very
rich,  he's of exceedingly old family ! '

Oh, yes ;  of very old family indeed ! '
scoffed Miss Di, laughing. ' I'm constantly falling
in with his illustrious relatives,  particularly
when I'm sitting under the lime-trees by the
water ! . . . . However, as we can't make sure
of that erratic Colonel, who seems to be " here,
there, and everywhere " at once, and is supposed
now to be quartered at Hounslow,  only he
happens to be here to-day,  and as Captain Spar-short's
met with this unlucky accident, and
little Pycroft is no better than a baby, 
we've given the silly child her head, and the
*' Yet " is invited ! Probably he'll represent the
squadron ! '

But I suppose,' said Adeliza, ' that you went
through the form of asking Colonel Hepburn ?
Although he's not a marrying man, and is no
good to any one, that wouldn't matter for one
evening. At any rate he's a man ! '

Yes ; we laye invited him, of course,' replied
Miss Tizzy ; ' we thought he woidd produce
a certain effect in the ball-room, even if he
didn't dance, I don't think there's a chance of
his coming, however. But, anyhow, I think we
may count upon the " Yet." Miss Barlow must
promise to dance with him ! '

This kind of flippant and irreverent banter
was in the highest degree distasteful to Lucy.
She had never been accustomed to anything of
the sort, and did not quite nohow to distinguish
between what was intended seriously, and what
was meant merely for jest. It was painful, too
to hear the man that she had raised, half unconsciously,
ripon a pinnacle, spoken of in a tone
of ridicule and disparagement. It did not
change her own opinion of him, of course,  on
the contrary,  it turned her, as it were, into
his secret, though devoted champion. Taken,
however, as an indication of the esteem and
admiration with which he was regarded by others,

it was, certainly, in some sense, humiliation . . .
"Was she then, mistaken in her high though hasty
estimate? Could it be possible that,  to these
other Avoient,  with the exception, perhaps, of
Miss Beauty,  he seemed all other than he had
seemed to her ? . . . . Perhaps,  in her present
abnormal state, some of these conflicting emotions
may laye displayed themselves outwardly.

Dear me, Miss Barlow ! ' exclaimed Tizzy,
with sudden concern. 'How dreadfully pale
you look ! I think we'd better give you a glass
of our fine old Marsala,  at twenty-four shillings
the dozen ! '

She left the room, and returned presently
with the wine.

Lucy drank some of it, and experienced an
agreeable glow.

Unless we start off at once,' said Adeliza,
we shall miss seeing anything at all, and Algy
will be gone to the races.'

The three Miss Bolderos assented, and after
they had explained to Lucy the situation of
Beauty's bed-room, and begged her to make herself
thoroughly at home, they started off with
Adeliza upon their ' man-hunts' chattering and
laughing as they went.

I think I might have promised you a very
nice little contribution for tomorrow night,'
Lucy could hear her cousin saying, as they
passed down the echoing passages, * in the shape
of a highly-eligible bachelor-uncle,  only forty-three
next November ;  but I'm sorry to say we
can never get him to go to a ball ! . . . . Perhaps
Beauty wouldn't admire him quite so much
as she does the " Vet," but he looks capital in
the evening,  when he's dressed up with his
white tie and an expensive flower in his buttonhole
I ' . . . . Then, the voices died away in
the distance.

CHAPTEE XY.

Lady Boldero's rooms at Hampton Court Palace
seemed to be nearly all of them upon the ground-floor.
Miss Beauty's shrine, at any rate, to which.
Lucy repaired as soon as she found herself alone,
was upon a level with the drawing-room.

It was a small, cosily-furnished nook, adorned
with quaint, old-fashioned prints, and the accumulated
treasures of j-ears. Close to the bed 
which was very small for so tall a person  was a
bookcase, filled with well-thumbed books, treating
ujDon a variety of subjects.

The little hurrying clock upon the mantelpiece
warned Lucy that if she desired to rest for
an hour before luncheon, she had not much time
to lose, so, throwing herself upon the narrow bed,
she took up a book at random, with the view of
reading herself to sleep.

But it is not everybody who can go to sleep

at midday, once they have arisen for good ; besides
wliicli, Lucy had chanced upon a thoroughly
absorbing book !

It was the 'Bomau (Vunjcune homme 2Jnuvre'oi
Octave Feuillet, which, describing as it does, tho
love of a haughty damsel  unsuspected, at first,
even by herself  for a man in a subordinate
position, riveted Lucy's attention at once. The
young lady, it seemed, was surrounded, also, b}
people who sneered and scoffed at the one who
had unconsciously become her ideal. The coincidence
was certainty very remarkable I . . . .

Miss Beauty, too, must evidently have been
struck by it, for the book was scored and annotated
in several places. She must have been
reading it that very morning,  as Luc found it
lying upon the dressing-table, with a long hairpin
between the leaves as a book-mark.

Guided by this hair-pin, Lucy devoured
eagerly the passionate love-scene in the  Tour
cVElven,'  applying feverishly every word that
could have any possible connexion with her own
situation. Those who have read the story will
remember, perhaps, that Maxime and Marguerite,
finding themselves alone together, one evening,
in a deserted tower, have the key of it turned

upon them by the shepherd who acts as caretaker,
and who fancies that they have departed,
whereas they are, in reality, admiring the moonlit
view from a ruined window overlooking an abyss.
Finding that they are prisoners, marguerite accuses
Maxime of having bribed the shepherd
from a desire to compromise her ; and indignant
at being suspected of such baseness,  he first of
all makes an avowal of his love, and then, in
spite of her tears and entreaties, flings himself
from the ruined window into the abyss
beneath.

Notwithstanding Monsieur de la Yieilleroche's
admirable lessons in the French language, Lucy
was at a loss to know why Marguerite should
have been so terribly severe; and her blood
seemed positively to run cold, when, placing herself
in the heroine's situation, she beheld, in
fancj-, her beautiful Crusader taking this fearful
leap. She knew, she felt,  that she could never
have resisted Maxime's passionate appeal when
he turned and addressed Marguerite on his way
to the window : 

Marguerite scouted lien ! . . . . je vous
dime, c'est vrai, et Jamais amour 2)I(is ardent, jlus
disinterested, jlus saint, n'est entre dans le coeur d'un

Iwmme ! . . . Mais vous aiissi, rous m\iimez
vous maimed malhcurcuse ! . . . et vous me tue !
rois me arises le scour / . . . mais ce coeur, il est a
owns ! Vous poui'cz nef aire ce qu'il rous plait , . .
Quail a mon honneur, il est a moi, et je le garde !
Et sur cet honneur, je vous fais serment que si Je
meurs, vous me pleurerez . . .'

Lucy knew,  she felt certain,  that, upon
hearing such words from the lips of one that she
loved,  she would have flown towards him in an
agony of apprehension ;  by no manner of means
could she have kept herself back;  she would
have seized hold of him by his coat-tails, by his
grey jersey,  by anything that he might happen
to have had on at the time,  and endeavoured
with all her might and main to deter him from
his rash purpose,  failing which,  she must
have precipitated herself from the window after
him! French girls, however,  she supposed,
 were altogether different. . . .

Miss Beauty, at any rate, had, to some extent,
shared in Lucy's sentiments. Maxime's speech
was deeply underlined, in pencil, and the margin
was crowded with annotations, such as, 

Stuff!' . . . 'Nonsense!' . . . 'Utterly untrue
to nature I ' . . . ' /s it likely that any girl

who was lucky enough to be locked up with the
man she liked, would behave in. such an idiotic
manner?' &c., &c., &q.

Lucy rose from the bed and found the pencil
which had probably written these words, and,
upon the inside of an envelope which she happened
to have about her, copied out several of the
more emotional passages. Then, she threw herself
upon the bed again, and, whether in consequence
of the blow received in the tennis-court,
or the glass of Lady Boldero's old Marsala, 'at
twenty-four shillings the dozen,'  fell into a profound
slumber.

It is possible that she may not have actually
slept for more than ten minutes,  but, as often
happens when that portion of the brain upon
which our visions depend, is imdidy stimulated,
her dream during that short period may take a
whole page or more to describe,  whilst the
number of personages who took part in it, coidd
by no manner of means have crammed themselves
into Miss Beauty's bedroom, and would, indeed,
have caused quite an inconvenient crush, if they
had been turned loose in Lady Boldero's "vhole
suite of apartments.

It was evident fi-om Lucy's dream, that lialf

unconsciously, perhaps), her mind was occupied
hy one absorbing question, sub-divided, again,
into others of lesser moment,  whether there was
any just cause or impediment why she,  Lucy
Earlow, of Barlow Lodge, in the county of
Surrey,  should not unite herself in marriage
with quite the most beautiful and noble-looking
"Veterinary Surgeon in the world  (for of this
fact she could not but feel assured)  supposing
she was destined to be so supremely blessed as
that he shoidd ever care for her? What
effect the idea of such a possible union would be
likely to produce upon her great-aunt Elizabeth,
whose soul seemed to be filled with such an exasperated
sense of the importance of her own
family? . . . Whether the Barlows were, really
and truly, such a very illustrious family after all ?
And whether a noble Veterinary Surgeon
was not every whit as eligible as a vulgar, 
City Stockbroker, (for in this light
she had come to regard that magnificent Pod-more
' when tried in the balance of comparison !)
Had not Lady Valentine de Bohun,  herself
the daughter of a really illustrious house, 
actually eloped with her father's physician? 
And, taking everything into consideration,  if

she was destined to make what the narrow-minded
might choose to look upon as an unequal
marriage,  she would very much prefer,  for her
own part,  a doctor of horses to a doctor of men.
Of course, Lucy said to herself,  If one
made up one's mind to marry a doctor, one would
wish him to succeed in his profession. He could
not neglect his patients, however disagreeable
they might be to him, personally,  or, (and this
was a terrible aspect of the case !)  however
attractive / . . . Would it not make one very
jealous and wretched to think,  whilst one was
sitting, waiting, all alone, at home,  with the
dinner gradually getting colder and colder, 
that one's husband was lolling, perhaps, on a
luxurious sofa in some Belgravian drawing-room,
by the side of a lovely and fashionable being, 
feeling her pulse, and listening to all her distressing
symptoms ? But no wife, however
foolishly fond she might be, could reasonably be
jealous of a Jwrse ! . . .

Musing and meditating thus, Lucy Barlow
fell asleep, and then it was, that whilst the hands
of the pert little timepiece,  which seemed so
bent upon asserting its own importance,  went
fidgeting round from a quarter past one to the
VOL, L N

half-hour,  she dreamed the following utterly
preposterous and ridiculous dream : 

She fancied that she was sitting alone, in the
little parlour at Barlow Lodge, and that these
very same questions were agitating and perplexing
her mind. At one moment it seemed to
her as if the existence she would have chosen
for herself was absolutely unattainable ;  then,
again, she felt almost tempted, like Lady
Yalentina de Bohun, to take the law into her
own hands. . . . But as she was debating thus,
the front-door bell began ringing furiously, and
she became aware,  soon afterwards,  of an
alarming clatter in the entrance-hall. Anon, the
sitting-room door was thrown open tumultuously,
and in rushed a whole host of warlike figures,
which she knew instinctively to be those of the
grand old mediaeval Barrows,  coming upon her
in a body,  Sir Percival, Sir Borlase, and Sir
Humphrey de Barlow,  they were all of them
there ; only, because these had had the honour
and glory of being Crusaders, they were obliged
to enter the room in a curious crab-like fashion, 
with legs crossed and knees bended,  just as she
had often pictured them to herself lying in effigy.
They came into the room hewing and slashing

their yaJ, and flourishing aloft their battle-axes ;
hut although their chain-armour seemed to clank
and rattle as they went,  lo and behold ! when
she came to examine into it more closely, she
perceived that it was not chain-armour at all, but
that they were all clothed in soft grey silk
jerseys, which only had the effect of steel at a
distance ! . . . . Last of all came Griffinhoofe,
the Lay Abbot of St. Opportune,  bearing the
hereditary Barlow Great Seal upon its quilted
satin mat,  which seemed to have swelled
itself out to almost the dimensions of a sofa-cushion
!

With the most violent gestures of displeasure,
they came waddling towards her, scowling at her
from under their limited helms surmounted by
the great red Lion-rampant of their race, and
slashing, as they went, at all Miss Elizabeth's
best Chippendale furniture, until the chairs and
tables were so hacked and hewn about the legs,
that several of them were constrained,  like
Widderington,' in the old ballad,  to fall upon
their knees !  The warriors also smashed up, and
destroyed, all the Crown-Derby plates and dishes,
all the ribbed Worcester and Swansea tea-sets,
and nearly all the blue pickle jars, ginger-pots.

and other evidences of Commerce which came
within their reach.

Finally, they arrived at Lucy herself (taking
much longer about it than might have been expected,
as very often happens in dreams), and
began hacking at her furiously with their battle-axes.


But their blows were powerless to harm her.

Instantaneously, as it seemed, their glittering
battle-axes had become transformed into tennis-racket,
and she was merely being softly patted
and pummelled, that was all ! . . . Foiled, as it
appeared, in their endeavour to extirpate their
degenerate descendant before she disgraced them
by introducing into the family a strain of ignoble
and contaminating blood, the three Crusaders
next beckoned to the Lay Abbot of St. Opportune,
who, advancing towards her with the hereditary
Barlow Great Seal, sealed her down so
securely in her chair with red-hot sealing-wax,
that she was powerless to move either hand or
foot ; after which, they one and all of them disappeared
in the direction of Clapham Junction,
uttering 'sloane.' . . .

Then, whilst Lucy was in this miserably constrained
and helpless position, there emerged out

of the biggest and bluest of the Oriental pickle-jars
wbicli bad escaped intact, the figure of ' John
Barlow, Esquire, of Lesser Pucklington, Bucks,
engaged in commerce,' seemingly modelled out
of pale wax, upon a dark background. What a
nice, bale, beaming, ?>imedi3GYal face it was ! He
seemed to come floating, floating, towards ber,
wearing a benevolent smile, and exclaimed with
the convivial, but somewhat husky utterance of
one who might, possibly, have assisted, quite recently,
at some sort of civic entertainment : 

Marry a veterinary surgeon, my good girl ?
. . Why ! of course you can marry a veterinary
surgeon ! . . . " Illustrious early Barlows ! " . . .
Fudge ! " Lay Abbot of St. Opportune ! " Bosh !
." Lion-Rampant, flourishing battle-axe ! " . . .
Fiddlestick's end ! . . . Marry the man of your
heart, my good girl ! ' . . . (and Lucy was not
quite, quite sure, in her dream, whether he properly
accentuated the aspirate) . . , ' only don't
make such a terrible " to do " about it ! After
all, 3'ou must remember, I was only an insolvent
Alderman ! ' And then he commenced hammering,
and hammering, in the most good-natured manner
in the world, at the masses of red sealing-wax
with which she had been sealed down in her

chair, in order to free her from the trammels imposed
ii]30ii her by her cruel ancestors ; rapping,
rapping, rapping ; with an instrument very much
resembling the best fiddle-pattern silver soup-ladle,
and then, suddenly, with a start, Lucy
Earlow awoke.

The rapping, she found, had not been purely
imaginary, although at first she did not know
whence it proceeded. By-and-by, however, she
discovered that it came from a door opposite to
the one by which she had entered the room. She
rose, and went to it. It was not locked, and she
turned the handle. 'Perhaps,' she thought, 'I
shall come upon the room in which they keep
their tame rabbits ! '

But the room, or rather cupboard, for it could
scarcely be designated a 'room' seemed only to
be inhabited by band-boxes, which were piled up
one on the top of the other, leaving scarcely any
standing space besides. At the further corner of
it was a small open window, giving into one of
the public corridors, and it was from the sill of
this window that the rapping evidently came.
A close grating, which protected it, so close,
that it would have been next to impossible for the
person who was without to see the one who was

within, except through miicli straining of eyesight,
prevented Lucy from perceiving at once
wIlo it was that was rapping. By-and-by, however,
she was able to descry the boy from the
tennis-court, and she saw that he was thrusting
the corner of a note through the iron ffratinar.
Her heart began beating furiously.

'Hist! . . . "Miss B. Bolder'" inquired
the lad, cautiously.

Ah ! . of course the letter was not for her l
. . He could not possibly have guessed that she
would be anywhere near this particular cupboard I
It was for Miss Beauty, of course, but it
would be better to take it in for her. In a few
minutes she would probably have returned. As-lucy
put out her hand for the letter, the boy
went on, confidentially: 

I don't know, miss, if so be as it's particular,
but I thought I'd best bring it round to this shop,
same as brothers ! . . . The gentleman at the tennis-court
said I was to be sure and hand it to you
directly you comet round, but you didn't not
come round this morning at all, some other young
ladies comet round instead of you, so I thought it
best to brings it down here as usual.'

Surely, too surely, a clandestine correspondence

was being carried on between Miss Beauty
Boldero and the fascinating ' Yet I ' . . . Lucy
dropped the note as though it had been a scorpion.

Then, seeing it lying there upon the' cold
stone floor, her heart relented, and she picked it
up again.

AYhat a noble, distinguished, independent,
masculine handwriting ! . . . The bold characters
scored into the thick blue paper as if with a
sword turned into a ploughshare ! . A letter
such as might have been dashed off upon a drumhead
upon the field of battle ! . . . A real warrior's
hand-writing ! . . .

For used to iron brave and bold,
His hands, I ween, could scarcely bold
Or pen, or silken skein. . . .'

Somewhere, in an old border ballad, Lucy remembered
to have read these lines, and they recurred
to her now. The warrior in the ballad
had been trying to wind some silk for a damsel,
but his fingers were too strong for such soft pastime,
and he snapt the skein ! . . . Perhaps, after
all, this letter, which aroused such conflicting
emotions in Lucy's breast, was nothing more than
an answer to the invitation, which had been sent

to the writer, to the Bolderos' dance, for lead lie
not already heard that he had been asked to it? . . .
But, yet, the tennis-court boy had alluded to ot//er
letters, delivered after the same mysterious fashion!
. . There could be no doubt, at any rate, who the
letter was from ; for not only was the number and
the motto of the regiment emblazoned upon the
outside of the envelope, but beneath it was a seal,
upon which was set forth the heraldic device of
the writer himself. Lucy had acquired a habit of
remarking these things. Alas it because of the
importance which her great-ait always attached
to them, or because she could see in fancy that
vacant shield upon the Great Barlow blind?
Anyhow, the crest upon the seal of this letter
seemed, all at once, to invest with significance a
stray sentence of Miss Di's, which had sounded
strangely enigmatical to Lucy when it was
uttered.

Oh, yes, of very' old family indeed ! ' she had
exclaimed sneeringly. * I'm constantly falling in
with his illustrious relatives, particularly when
I'm sitting under the lime-trees by the water!'
And his crest (so Lucy perceived now) was some
kind of wriggling serpent ! . . . His name, most
probably, had some connexion with ass or serpents,

and what creatures under the sun could
possibly be said to be of older family ? For not
to count the Buddhistical Triratna with its twisted
snakes (about which Lucy knew nothing whatsoever),
Alas there not the Wicked tempter of Scripture,
the Brazen Serpent, Cleopatra's asp, a whole
hotbed, in fact, of celebrated historical snakes?
. . Everything was as plain to her as possible
now, and there cere serpents nndcr the lime-trees his
the water ! . . .

She had scarcely evolved all this to her satisfaction,
and propped up the letter upon the white
lace pin-cushion upon the dressing-table, when
the four ladies returned from their morning manhunt.


They were in high good humour, for they lead
secured (almost /or certain) a good-looking young
man employed in a third-rate Government office,
and a well-preserved landed proprietor who had
recently divorced his second wife, and was said to
be anxious to re-marry. As both these gentlemen
were staying in the immediate neighbourhood it
was unlikely that they would disappoint them.

And I'm quite sorry now,' remarked Miss Dias
they came trooping in to tell Lucy the good
news, and to inquire after her well-being ; ' that

we were in siicli a tremendous hurry to invite the
"Vet"'

By some lucky chance, he mayn't be able to
come returned Miss Tizzy, as she sauntered upto
the looking-glass to arrange her hair. 'Ah ! . . .
here's his answer ! . . . Look here. Beauty ! ' she
called out to her youngest sister, who was still
lingering in the drawing-room ; ' make haste and
open this letter, and put an end to our anxiety !
It's the answer from Mr. Grubbe ! '

CHAPTER XVI.

When one looked, first, at Lady Mabella Binks,
and then at lier two children, it was impossible
not to be reminded of the barn-door fowl, about
which I have read somewhere, who sat, b}" accident,
upon some cockatrice's eggs, and hatched
them by mistake. Could this mild, mean, 
little woman be really the mother of
the brilliant, high-coloured Adeliza and the loquacious
Algernon. ; both of them so overflowing
with energy and animal spirits ? . . . Surely there
must have been an error somewhere / . . .

Lady Mabella, as I have said already, was
small and insignificant in appearance, and she
looked even shorter than she really was, by reason
of the humble and cringing attitude which she
habitually assumed.

Ever since the demise of the late Mr. Binks,
and very possibly before that, for the sake of

economy, lie had dressed entirely in black,
wearing over lier dress, both, morning and
evening, and in all weathers, a light China-crape
fringed shawl, too skimpy for even her slight
figure, and which, when dragged tightly over the
arms and shoulders, entirely suppressed and concealed
anything in the shape of a bust, and lent
her very much the appearance of a distressed
gentlewoman out of employment. The crushed,
expiatory expression, to which Adeliza had made
allusion, was almost always upon her face, whilst
a little furrow, as of imperfectly subdued anguish,
which became accentuated whenever she
was required for anything like active service,
contracted her somewhat narrow and bulbous
brow. She rose late,  breakfasting alone in her
own apartment, and retired early,  assuming Hie
recumbent position ' so frequently in the meanwhile,
that one could almost fancy that she got up
merely for the pleasure of lying down again. She
ate but little in public, complaining bitterly, both
at luncheon and dinner, of her unaccountable loss
of appetite, but got through a good deal of
nourishment in its more concentrated and sustaining
forms during the course of the day, to
judge by the trays of beef-tea, arrowroot, ,

&c., &c., wliicli "were continually being
taken up to her bedroom.

Mrs. Guff}, her maid, who Alas also an invalid,
had grown so like her from long association,
that, but for the fact that she was much
more handsomely dressed, as became one occupying
a position requiring some manner of self-assertion,
she might easily have done duty as her
mistress's 'double.' The two were continually
grumbling, condoling, comparing symptoms, applying
remedies, and ministering to each other's
discomforts, until one could not help feeling astonished
that they were still alive. By pandering
to one another's fancies, however, they obtained
mutual concessions, and so were enabled to live on
in some sort of harmony, although not without
frequent differences of opinion.

The only person who seemed capable of
bracing up Lady Mabella to any kind of
physical activity, was her brother Lord Bel-morris,
 whose slightest wish was always regarded
by her as law,  perhaps because she
bore him a genuine sisterly affection,  perhaps
merely because she was thinking of Algernon's
future interests.

Upon the morning of the day appointed for

the Miss Bolderos' little dance,  the furrow upon
Lady Mabella's brow had considerably deepened.
Mrs. Gussy, too, appeared to be more than usually
suffering. It was with difficulty that she could
get through the lightest of her duties,  during
the which she was groaning audibly.

Olaina and Gnffy are just like two bears
with sore heads,' Adeliza remarked, as she took
her place at the breakfast-table,  'they always
are like this whenever there's anything pleasant
in the evening. It's their way ! '

Lord Belmorris and Algy started off early to
the races,  having given up all idea,  in consequence
of Lady MabcUa's indisposition,  of
returning to luncheon vdi\i any of their sporting
friends;  and Adeliza spent the morning in
waiting upon her mother and Mrs. Gussy with
the view of conciliating them.

As the day wore on, however, they seemed
only to grow worse and worse, and the two girls
began seriously to fear that they might have
to give up the evening's entertainment after
aU, as it was not likely that, at Algy's tender
age he would be considered a sufficient protector
for them both, and Lord Belmorris never, by any
chance, went to a ball I . . .

Lucy stole into lie bed-room several times
during the afternoon and looked regretfully at
her new white dress,  for Mrs. Guify lead just
mustered strength to lift it from its cupboard
to the bed. Had she been told, only one short
week ago,  that the idea of not going to a dance
would laye proved a bitter disappointment to
her,  how she would have repudiated the notion
of any such possible folly ! . . .

If only' they were enabled to go,  this
evening after all,  she was determined to be
very cold and distant in manner to the person
who,  at least e.rter)U(I/f/, looked so like a
hero of romance!  She would see him,  however,
 at any rate,  for she had heard that
he had accepted the Miss Bolderos' invitation.
"\Tien he was not looking at her,  and, perhaps,
 in a crowd,  he might not be even conscious
of her presence,  she could gaze, furtively,
at the face which was, to her, as no other face
that she had ever beheld ! . . . But alas I  it
was now very unlikely that they would be permitted
to go to the dance at all I  And she
found herself sighing as she turned away from
the contemplation of her white dress.

All these anxious fears,  however,  were set

at rest when Lord Belmorris returned from the
races.

After his own laconic fashion, he was in hio-h
good humour,  having,  as Adeliza suspected,
accomplished some sort of pecuniary triumph, 
which,  in spite of his large fortune,  always,
(she said,) afforded him intense pleasure,  and,
greatly to her surprise and satisfaction, he at
once expressed his readiness to escort the two
young ladies to the ball,  or rather, he proposed
that Algy should look after his sister, whilst he,
himself, took entire charge of miss Lucy,' 
being,  as he explained to her,  'more than
double her own age, and her Welsh uncle, to
boot ! ' a fact of which she had certainly been
quite unaware till now !

Lady Mabella cheered up a little when she
found that no further exertions were required
of her,  and was even induced to leave her
bedroom and partake of dinner with her family.
Lord Belmorris, repeating his remark relative to
the King of Burma, again escorted Lucy to
her place. It was quite true, (she thought,) 
as she glanced at him timidly, that he looked
capital in the evening,  dressed up, with his
white tie,'  he was spruceness and distinction
VOL. T. o

personified, and his * button-thole ' was so magnificent
that,  as Adeliza remarked,  ' it looked
just as if it was artificial.'

'Put you on something, to-day, at the races.
Miss Lucy,' he said, as soon as they had settled
themselves in their places. *You brought me
good luck, and I've won you a " pony ! " '

 A2)ony ! cried Lucy, astonished; 'how very
kind of you ! ' but it flashed across her that,
perhaps, at Barlow Lodge, the creature might
prove something of a white elephant. Who in
the world would look after it ? She would have
to groom it and saddle it herself ! . . .

Yes ; no more donkey-rides upon Clapham
Common now ! ' said his lordship, smiling at her
ingenuousness.

The 'pony' did transport-duty for Lord Bel-morris's
'dry wit' until after the removal of the
fish, when Algy discovered to Lucy her misapprehension,
for which she blushingly apologised, 
wondering, (as she said,) how she ' could possibly
have imagined anything so very absurd ! '

Notwithstanding this, and other agreeable
banter, however, it seemed to Lucy that the
dinner was of an extraordinary length. Perhaps,
 had she visited the Binkses when they

were not entertaining company,  the luxury of
their fare would have been much less apparent
to her. But whenever Lord Belmorris honoured
his sister with a visit, the whole establishment
was stimulated to almost supernatural effort.
Extra ' hands ' were had in, the wine was of a
superior brand, and the commissariat arrangements,
generally, were upon a much more generous
scale ; for besides her anxiety that her brother
should be well pleased with his reception. Lady
Mabella could never forget that he kept a
French ' chef at home whose yearly wages came
to just double the amount which had been received,
per annum, by her husband,  the late
Mr. Binks when he first began life as a curate.

However,  after ' Potage'' 'Soissons sentries,'
 Hot  Entremct-au-sucre (in the shape of an
idealised tapioca-pudding, which Lucy of course
refused), and a ' Chou-fleur-au-gratin,'  a dish
which his lordship had once been rash enough
to praise, and with which the Binks' cook had
plied him steadily ever since,  whenever he
happened to dine with his sister,  the repast
came at length to a conclusion.

The three Miss Bolderos had particularly requested
that, as their dance was to be quite a

small and early ' affair,  Aclcliza and her party
would arrive in good time, in order to form a
kind of nucleus. So, while Lord Belmorris and
this nephew were partaking of coffee, the two
young ladies went up to their rooms to fetch
their cloaks, and to give those few last finishing
touches without which all female costume must
seem incomplete.

Lucy was certainly experiencing an unusual
sense of tremor and excitement, and, upon looking
at herself in the glass, she scarcely recognised
her own face. She Alas unable to decide whether
she looked better or worse than usual, but she
realised that she looked altogether different. Her
cheeks were almost as pink as Adeliza's, and she
surprised an expression of tenderness and anticipation
in her brown eyes, which she never remembered
to have seen there before. As she
had always been accustomed to gather up her
hair in very simple fashion, she had not been
half so much incommoded as her cousin by Mrs.
GufEy's indisposition, for of course they had neither
of them ventured to ask for any assistance.
She had found a bunch of blush-roses growing
just outside her window, which, with permission,
she had gathered. Two of these she had disposed

amongst her auburn tresses, whilst lie
had arranged the rest so as to form a breast-knot,
in order to conceal the top hook of the new
white dress, which, as we already know, ' was justa
little too tight across the middle part of the
chest

Adeliza had obtained a key belonging to the
Admiral's widow, which unlocked a private door
leading into one of the main corridors, so that
they could thus proceed directly to Lady Bolderoo's
apartments without going outside through
the draughty quadrangles.

"When they were both quite ready they rejoined
their male chaperons in the dining-room,
having first bade good-night to Lady Mabella, 
who had by this time retired to her own chamber.

Adeliza, v/ho was in a great hurry to be gone,
dashed off with her brother as soon as she had
slipped into her opera-cloak,  whilst lucy lingered
politely for Lord Belmorris to knock the
ash off his cigarette,  which he did,  she
thought,  in a provokingly leisurely manner, 
and to put on a light grey overcoat.

As he was helping her on with her own
wraps, a real catastrophe,  though upon quite
a small scale,  added to her impatience.

The bunch of roses which she had pinned so
carefully on to the front of her dress,  to conceal
the unfastened hook,  fell down upon the carpet
in a hopeless state of dilapidation !  The
stalks had been tied together too tightly, and
every single rosebud, except one, was decapitated !

"What was she to do F  For, of course, their
severed heads would not serve her purpose, and
to gather and re-arrange a new bouquet would
cause another tiresome delay. But Lord Bel-morris,
who was evident' a person of generous
inspirations, had already removed the flowers
from his own button-hole ;  the magnificent
arrangement of exotics and maiden-hair fern,
which * looked just as if it Alas artificial ! '

Oh, really, you mustn't I ' cried Lucy, embarrassed
by his unselfishness. ' I ought not to
deprive you of it ! It looked so very nice in
your coat. What will you do without it?'

Not being, apparently, a man of many words,
and being perhaps a good deal confirmed in his
natural taciturnity from the fact that he 'seemed
to be nearly always smoking a toothpick,'  his
lordship, for all answer, commenced pinning it
on to the place whence the rosebuds had been
scattered, with the manner of a conscientious

chaperon, who lias determined not to evade one
jot or tittle of this night's work.

But men are generally awkward about such
things, and the operation took time.

Lucy's heart was throbbing so violently with
her impatience, that she was quite afraid that
Lord Belmorris must perceive it.

The bouquet, however, was mounted upon
wire, and the half of a letter which his lordship
had just received,  was obliged to be folded
round the stalks to prevent it from scratching.

At last it was adjusted securely.

Oh, thank you, thank you ! ' cried Lucy,
breathlessly. ' How clever you are ! . . . But
now you've got none for yourself ! '

Again, he did not make any reply, but, stooping
down, picked up from the floor the only
rosebud which had retained its head, and adjusted
it in his own button-hole.

They were now quite ready to start, and
Lucy was soon tripping along the echoing corridors
upon the arm of the nobleman, who, even
in the midst of an iconoclastic age, persisted in
believing in hell.

CHAPTER Xiii.

Adeliza and Algernon had become quite tired of
waiting for their relations at the door which
communicated with the outer passages, and so they
had gone on, leaving the key' in the massive
lock. This key had, of course, to be taken out
again, and here was another cause for delay.
From the very first, however, Lord Belmorris
had seemed inclined to lag behind, as though in
order to prolong the walk.

Upon all sorts of absurd pretexts, he endeavoured
to arrest his young companion's attention,
calling upon her to remark something quite
trivial and unimportant, whilst she was thrilling
With impatience to proceed.

Expect to see anybody you like better than
yourself ? ' he inquired by-and-by, as he again
stopped her with a jerk of his arm. It was
almost the first time he had really spoken to her

since dinner, and lie was obliged to weigh Lis
words a little before she replied.

iN"  o ; oh, yes, of course I do ! ' she said,
grasping his meaning at last.  A great many
people I I don't think so much of myself as all
that ! '

 I do, though returned her chaperon,  ashe
clenched his white, teeth, decidedly, upon his
faithful toothpick ;  ' for I'll tell you what ; 
you're regular "Derby-form I '

Lucy had not the faintest conception of his
meaning. She Alas sure, however, from his
manner, that a compliment was intended, and
she did not like to appear ignorant.

I wonder you should think that,' she replied,
therefore, ' when you have a niece as pretty as
Addie ;  she seems to me to make most other
people look quite plain.'

Wretched ! Miserable ! ' exclaimed his lordship,
again stopping. Miserable, ordinary,
Plating-form I . . . That's what they all of
them look by the side of i/ou ! '

Derby' ? . . . ' Plating ' ? . . .Ah, yes ! . . .
She felt she had grasped his meaning now ! . . .
Derby-china ;  Crown-Derby ;  the china which
was,  very possibly,  more esteemed than most

other cliimi, for plates. The difference, in fact,
between something ordinary in the TiVhv of
crockery,  or hiinian-chi}',  and something which
was rare, expensive, and highly-considered. . . .
Her great-aunt Elizabeth, at Barlow Lodge,
had some beautiful plates and dishes of Crown-derby,
which had always been very much admired.
. . .

Upon this particular evening, Lucy could not
help feeling grateful for these somewhat enigmatical
compliments. Never before had she boon so
anxious and so diffident upon the subject of her
personal appearance. If, however, it could at
once strike a casual, and seemingly sincere, observer,
that she was, as compared to other
people,  what Miss Elizabeth's Crown-Derby
plates were to the more ordinary china,  it was
evident, at least, that she could not be looking
her worst f

'I say, Addie,' whispered young Algernon
Binks in his sister's ear,  as Lucy and her chaperon
entered the dancing-room ; ' do look at
Lucy Barlow and my uncle Belmorris ; they've
actually exchanged ''button-holes"!'

It was Algernon's habit,  when conversing, 
to monopolise,  as it were,  his noble relative.

He is tiny uncle, as well I ' Adeliza used
sometimes to remind him. Noic however, she
was intent on other matters.

Yes, I see she answered abstracted', for
she was craning to catch her reflection in a
mirror which had, apparently, been hung to suit
only the height and convenience of the daughters
of Anak,  supposing these to have been as tall
as the sons. ' It's a very good thing that she
seems to be able to amuse him. Mama's
nearly sure that he'll "stand" that dry champagne
we had in on purpose for him, as he's
alway's generous when he's been amused. I hear
that he gave GufPy a sovereign just before dinner;
I'm sure she didn't deserve it I '

As soon as Miss Binks had satisfied herself as
to her own appearance,  she dragged off her
'highly-eligible bachelor-uncle' in search of the
eldest Miss Boldero, to whom he was duly presented
;  for, although the name of Lady Boldero
had appeared upon the invitation-card, she was
much too old and infirm to take any part in the
evening's entertainment.

How the sounds of the revelry must have interfered
with her senile slumbers I  The tame
rabbits, too, must have felt utterly scared and

confounded,  for the Iolderos' apartment was
by no means spacious, and the music invaded
every nook and cranny of it.

Lucy was left standing by the side of Algy.
They were close to the musicians, who were in
the middle of playing a valse, and she felt too
much bewildered by her own emotions and by
the strains of the music, to pay much attention
to her cousin's boyish prattle.

By-and-by, Miss Tizzy came smilingly towards
her, and introduced her to a partner. It
was the short, stumpy man with the enormous
moustaches, who had been playing tennis upon
the previous day, and who she had understood
was the Colonel of the 18th Lancers. The strains
of the music, however, prevented her from catching
his name.

If I had not had the honour of being
formally presented to you, Miss,' he said, as
they paused together in a doorway after their
first turn, ' I should, most likely, have ventured
to break through the conventional trammels of
society, in order to inquire after your health. I
trust your sad accident, yesterday, did not make
sou feel very poorly ? '

He spoke with the stilted and somewhat constrained

manner which, Lucy doubted not, anus
peculiar to all colonels of regiments. Then, 
after she had thanked him for his inquiries, 
declaring that she now felt perfectly well : 

I consider,' he went on, ' that I am partly
the cause of the misfortune myself. You see,
I'm both right and left-handed at tennis,  and
I owe a good deal of my success to this, I fancy.
Well ; my adversary was all for having a lefthanded
game,  just for practice,  and that ball
he sent flying at your head was just a trial-stroke,
 a " left-hander," which he would never
have thought of bat for me.'

*But, generally,  on other days, when he
plays with his right hand, he plays very well,
I suppose ? '

She asked this with almost breathless interest.
It seemed so good to hear about him,  even
when all the information she could hope to gain
concerned only his prowess in the tennis-court !
He is a player I am proud of for more reasons
than one,' replied Lucy's partner ; ' being so
long in the reach, too, gives him a decided advantage.
In the present state of the detachment,
however, neither the Colonel nor the Veterinary
can afford much time for amusement.

for we are in a very jooor Away for officers. You
heard of the unfortunate accident to the Captain
who was in command? And now I hear Mr. Pycroft
is retained in town by the illness of a rehition.'

Captain Sparshott broke his arm at a steeples
I believe ? ' . . . She remembered to have
learnt this of the Miss Bolderos.

He did so : and that reminds me, that I
think I observed you in conversation with the
Earl of Belmorris,  one of the finest riders we
have in England. May I inquire if he is a
relative of yours ? '

He's the brother of my aunt, Lady Mabella
Binks,'  Lucy explained,  grateful for the interest
evinced in her affairs by this gallant and
respectful commanding-officer; 'but Lady Mabella
is onlj my aunt by marriage. He is kindly
taknocare of my cousin and myself for this
evening.'

He is a real ornament to the Turf,' her companion
rejoined, with admiration in his tones.
I have been acquainted with him for some years,
and have visited him at his country residence in
the North. He began life as a soldier, and we
were once in the same regiment. I hold his
lordship in the very highest esteem. He did not

mention, by chance, having received a communication
from me this afternoon ? '

Xo ; his lordship had said nothing about it ; 
but then he said so very little about anything,
and seemed very seldom to refer to what related
to himself.

Lucy and her partner took another short turn,
but the room had become almost too crowded for
dancing, and the musicians were just approaching
the finale. Lucy's partner led her quickly towards
a door in order to avoid the crush. He
had perceived Lord Belmorris, and was about to
pilot her to his side.

She looked up at this moment, and then, with
a fluttering heart, turned from the gaze she dared
not encounter. Lord Belmorris was ovlj separated
from her by a couple who were making, as
she was, for the doorway, and, in the doorway
itself,  his tall figure towering above the rest
of the company,  stood the man she had been
longing, dreading, praying, that she might meet,
ever since she had first heard that he would
be there ! He was leaning against the inside of
the doorway  this face wearing the look of somewhat
haughty indifference which was its characteristic
when in repose. Lord Belmorris,  

charged (so Lucy thought) to miserable insignificance,
seemed quite like a cock-sparrow confronting
some bird of nobler plumage,  and the
two were conversing together. All the men in
the room,  except this one,  seemed to become
immediately transformed, in Lucy's opinion, into
creatures of an utterly different race,  gibbering
and capering apes,  rather than the so-called
lords of creation. All her soul looked forth from
her eyes as they dwelt upon his face.  Then, 
as if he had become conscious of it, he looked
at her, and meeting her earnest, appealing gaze,
the expression of his whole countenance was
transfigured.

I have been waiting for you,' (his eyes
seemed to say to her,) 'and you are here at
last!'

She became pale and cold with emotion ; it
was as though his look was the expression of an
appeal which she seemed utterly powerless to
resist. She felt that, in another instant, she
would have to go to him as he desired.

But just then, she heard the voice of the
youngest Miss Boldero calling to her.

Look here, Miss Barlow,  we must make
an exchange. You are engaged to Mr. Algy

for this dance ! ' and Algy, to-svlioni Lucy had
promised the following dance, came forward to
claim her.  Lucy's partner, at the same time,
offered his arm to Miss Beauty, and led her
away towards the tea-room.

At sight of Beauty in her coquettish gala
costume, Lucy underwent a sudden revulsion of
feeling. She hardened her heart, and hurling
a look of timid defiance at the tall figure in
the doorway,  turned aside upon the arm of
Algernon Sinks. She had declined going into
the tea-room, fearing to pass b} the door with
its sentinel,  so, as the dancing had not yet
recommenced, Algy led her out into one of the
adjacent corridors.

'I hope you've forgiven me,' he said, when
they got outside, 'for calling you the ' pattern
Clapham girl," just after you came? You see,
we've had you held up over our heads, as perfection,
for ever so long,  Whenever we've done
anything wrong, we've always been told that
you wouldn't have done it, and you know, that
ends by becoming a little trying ! It's a way
the mother has,  whether she knows anything
about people or not.  But I see now that you're
not ' pattern" a bit ! '

VOL. I. P

Indeed, no /' returned Lucy fervently.
She was already repenting bitterly of her
hard-heartiness. Supposing, when she returned
to the ball-room she should find that a certain
tall figure had disappeared ? . . .

But I never said Algernon Binks went on,
'that you weren't ''perfection!' Perfection
and " pattern " are two very different pairs of
shoes ! You're looking most awfully pretty tonight,
and you seem to have thoroughly "fetched"
my uncle Belmorris,  I've been expecting to see
him plunge into the mazes of the dance for the
first time ! '

Lord Behnorris, then, doesn't generally
dance?'

'No; but then he never goes to a dance,
either. Once a fellow begins breaking down his
own rules, you never know where he'll pull up ! '

Lucy allowed Algy to go chattering on, 
answering him just often enough to let him
suppose that she was listening,  but she would
have given worlds to have been alone. A
thousand emotions,  the very existence of which
had been hidden from her until now, were waging
war in her breast. Foremost amongst them all, 
seeing that she was quite unaccustomed to the infliction

of pain,  however slight and evanescent
was the thought that she had, perhaps, been
guilty of an act of unkindness.

Might not a man, she asked herself,  particularly
one occupying what was foolishly looked
upon as an inferior social position,  feel himself
slighted,  to say the least of it  by her seeming
indifference ? He had gazed at her so earnestly,
so appealingly,  and his eyes,  which could
say so much,  had changed so suddenly, upon
beholding her,  from grave to gay, and had said
to her so distinctly, 'Come!' . . Whereupon, 
despising, as it were, the summons,  and eager, 
as it must seem to him,  to show him that it was
so despised,  she had turned straightway uon
her heel, and left him where he was standing I
In what more decided and brutal manner could
she have shown him, in public,  that she scorned
and rejected him,  that she repelled, with
haughty indignation, any possible advances which
he may have desired to make, and that,  to
escape out of his presence,  she would even
tolerate the society of a chattering boy like
young Algernon Binks ? . . .

But then,  just as her heart seemed to be
overflowing with tenderness and contrition, 

young Algernon Binks,  leading lier back by a
shorter way to the tea-room,  directed her towards
a secluded side-passage, wherein,  as ill
luck would have it,  she perceived the little
grated window which opened into Miss Beauty's
cupboard. The letter upon the thick regimental
writing-paper,  the secret method of its delivers
the allusion made by the boy of the tennis-court
to other letters delivered after a like
manner,  combined with the gibes and sneers
of the two elder of the ' Forlorn-Hopes,'  all went
to prove, indisputably,  that the man whose face
seemed to betray a mind above all human baseness,
 was engaged in an unworthy flirtation
with a vain and faded old maid,  in his choice
of whom,  Lucy could not help suspecting.  he
must have been guided solely by motives of
self-interest ! She did not suppose, of course,
that the Miss Bolderos could be very well off.
Their residence in the Palace,  on the contrary, 
seemed to point to a narrowness of resources, 
but perhaps (for a Veterinary-Surgeon) there
might be some sort of triumph in winning the
affections of a lady of such respectable social
standing,  for, of course, the daughter of the late
Lieut-General Sir Hector Boldero, K.C.B., would

lee received in the circles in which lie was accustomed
to move with open arms ! . .

And now, again, in Lucy's mind, all was
bitterness, mistrust, and humiliation! Had she
not,  led on by she knew not what fatal spirit
of infatuation,  encouraged this man to some
sort of extent, herself ? . But then, how Fate
seemed to have plotted and manoeuvred to throw
them together, and to establish between them all
sorts of little secret understandings about which
other people knew nothing whatever ! . . Why,
for instance, when there were plenty of others,
had he selected that one particular railway-carriage
? . . . Why had that foolish old woman,
with the edible Chinese dog, jumped immediately
to the conclusion that they must be husband and
wife ? . . Why had she gone, upon the following
morning, straight to the tennis-court, to be felled,
at once, by his missile ? . . and wh}, oh why,
when he had held her hands in his,  during those
too fleeting,  too delightful moments,  in that dim
and for-overshadowed corner,  shad she allowed
him to go on clasping them thus,  and to look
so earnestly into her soul with his appealing grey
eyes that he must certainly have discovered her
secret, and made himself for ever her master ? . .

Whilst these conflicting? emotions were agitations:
her mind, Algy had led her into the tea-room,
for it was much too crowded to think o dancing.
The tea-room door was opposite to that other
door,  against which she perceived, as she passed
by,  with a feeling of intense relief,  it must be
confessed,  that a certain tall figure was still
leaning. His back was towards her, however,
and he Alas apparently engaged in watching the
dancers. Lord Belmorris, also, still occupied the
same position by his side.

*Your imcle seems to be . . . great friends
with,  the " Vet'' ' said Lucy hesitatingly,  as
she and her cousin seated themselves within sight
of the two figures. She could not bring herself,
quite yet,  to speak of him as 'Mr. Grubbe,' 
for,  Shakespeare notwithstanding,  there is
something in a name, after all ! . A woman's
mind, however, is, happily, so constituted, that,
when she is in love, it can adapt itself to anything.
Lucy Barlow had begun to realize this
fact already, and knew, now, that, some day, the
name of * Grubbe ' might sound, in her ears, even
as the ' music of the spheres ;' but this day had
not quite dawned as yet ! . . .

'The ''Yet?'" repeated Algernon, following

the direction of lier glance. ' Yes ; he and the
'yet" have always been great "pals." They
meet upon the common subject of horse-flesh.
But where do you see them together now?'

In the doorway, there ;  Lord Behnorris is
talking to him. They've been talking together
for some time. You can't see your uncle because
the " Yet " hides him,  being so tall.'

 Being "so tall?" . . . the Yet " //?" . . .
Why who on earth do you take for the " Yet ?" '
he rose, coffee-cup in hand, in order to see better.
Then he laughed.

It'll amuse Eddies he said ; ' I suppose then,
it was the " Yet " who gave you that cut over the
head ? ' and he laughed again.

*I thoiigJit it was the "Yet"' replied Lucy.
I heard he was playing a match with the
Colonel, and he hit me because he was trying a
stroke with his left hand.'

Then you may as well go on thinking it,'
said Algy sudden'. 'It was the "Yet," of
course, and he was playing tennis with the
Colonel, and he's talking there, in the doorway
with my uncle Belmorris ! '

Lucy perceived that her cousin was intent
upon some manner of mystification, and had

glimmerings of the mistake she had possibly
made. The short, stumps man, with the
ferocious moustaches, was, perhaps, the ' Vet,'
whilst the man who had in his keeping the keys
of her secret soul, was, perhaps, the Colonel ? . .
At first, she did not quite know whether to feel
glad or sorry. Something, it may be, of the
regret experienced b} Tennyson's village-maiden
upon discovering that her 'landscape-painter'
was, in reality, no other than ' the Lord of Burleigh,'
overshadowed her heart for a moment.
(We women are so fond of anything partaking
of the nature of a sacrifice  an utter abasement
and immolation of self !) Tien, all was gratitude
and secret rejoicing ! He had not corresponded
clandestinely with another woman ! He was }wt
looked upon as a subject for the jeers and
scoffing of that other woman's sisters ! Of all
such ignoble trifling and flirting he was utterly
and entirely innocent,  and  his name was not
'Grubbe!' . . .

With a youth like Algernon Binks, however,
who seemed never to be cither thoroughly in jest
nor thoroughly in earnest, and who veiled his
meaning in such ambiguous language, it would
not do to make sure too soon.

Just look ! ' he whispered now, ' at the way
Beauty's "carrying on" with the Colonel! . I
declare they're both drinking out of the same
cup!' . . .

He indicated, as he spoke, a far corner of
the room, where Miss Beauty was seated upon a
low arm-chair, apparently deep in sentimental converse
with Lucy's first partner in the valse. Algy
had decidedly pronounced the word '' Colonel " as
though it ought to have been written with inverted
commas. This was surely a confirmation
of the ' Lord-of-Burleigh ' theory" ! . . .

The music had ceased whilst they had been
talking ; now it had recommenced.

I'm afraid,' said Alg}', rising, and going
towards the door, ' that I'm engaged for this
dance ; but I'll go off and find you a partner.
There's a friend of mine,  awfully rich and all
that,  who's been bothering me to introduce him
to you all the evening. He says you're the
prettiest girl he's ever seen I '

He alluded to the well-preserved landed-proprietor,
 discovered, and ' secured ' upon the
previous day by the three Miss Bolderos in the
Frog Walk,  who had recently divorced his
second wife, and who may, perhaps, have looked

to Lucy to console him for the disappointments of
the past. But Lucy neither knew nor cared who
Ava.s intended.

'Hadn't I better leave you with my uncle
Eelmorris ? ' said Algy when they got out into
the passage.

Oh, no, no ! ' cried Lucy, shrinking back
again towards the tea-room, ' Let me stay where
I am ; I can quite take care of myself ! '

Algernon took her at her word, and penetrated
into the midst of the dancers.

Seeing him entering the room alone,  or
hearing, perhaps, Lucy's earnest accents in the
passage,  the tall figure in the doorway turned
and confronted her.

She drew back towards the tea-room, whilst
her heart seemed to stand still in her bosom.
But he came straight towards her, and, without
more ado, slipped her arm through his own.

'Let us get away from all this heat and
noise,' he said, as he led her towards the moonlit
colonnade. ' You mustn't thrust me aside in this
dreadfully hard-hearted way,' he went on,  lialf-
playfully,  half-reproachfully,  when they were
once outside.  ' You should remember that,  in
the train,  you were my little wife ! '

CHAPTER Xviii.

I SUPPOSE that, as a rule, men do not count the
cost of their words, or else, that they are ignorant
of the importance some women attach to them.
Perhaps,  educated as they are, to be pleasure-seekers
from the very beginning, thej may never
anticipate the serious consequences of either word
or deed until the consequences of both are thrust
upon them against their will. They exist,  for
the most part,  far more than women do,  for
the day only, leaving the morrow altogether to
Fate, and so are much less affected than we are
by the pleasures and pains of either retrospection
or anticipation. With but few exceptions, too,
they are disinclined, by Mature, to live over again
in the Present that which has once been in the
Past; and indeed, the stir and turmoil of their
lives generally precludes them altogether from
solitary and sentimental breeding.

It is not often that a full-grown Englishman,
(off the Stage,) has ever been seen to shed tears
about a woman's love, and one may make pretty-sure
that,  as a rule,  the cheerful and well-satisfied
bridegroom will be transformed into an
equally cheerful and well-satisfied widower, should
occasion demand.

An Englishman will bury his father, his
mother, his wife,  his best friend,  with an extraordinary
amount of equanimity. At the grave
of his child,  perhaps, he may seem to falter, 
for is not his child a part and parcel of himself ?
It is the mother of his child, however, who has
foreseen this dark and terrible day from the
moment when her darling was first stricken, and
when her husband could only grumble at the
frequent demands upon her attention, or at the
extravagant charges of the doctor. She has lived,
in fancy,  through the whole of this desolate
time,  long before her bereavement was actually
achieved,  and her eyes have grown dim and
weary with weeping whilst her lord and master
was peacefully and noisily slumbering. But
have men, for all this,  less true affection,  less
consciousness of real emotion, upon the little day
for which they seem to have elected to live ? . . .

When the hour of their awakening at last
strikes,  and ere the sounds of the hammer have
died away into silence,  may they not, perchance,
experience in a more concentrated form,  the
feelings which are strained by us women to reach
from the Past to the Future ? . . .

I have always endeavoured to believe this
myself, and shall go on now trying to believe it
to the end ;  and I believe, too, that the blunders
and barbarities of men towards the women who
love them, are often nothing more than the
blunders and barbarities of ignorant children,
who will pick the wings off a flying order to
make it look like a beetle, or try to improve the
eyes of a mouse by filling them up with red-hot
sealing-wax,  unconscious, all the while, of the
horrible sufferings they inflict.

Had the hero of Lucy Barlow's imagination
guessed at the effect of his words,  perhaps he
might never have uttered them. Did he, or did
he not,  realize the impression they were likely
to produce upon her ? . . . . Perhaps he had not
thought about it at all, and was merely living
out his day, and filling it to its fullest with
pleasurable emotions, because he realized and
intended that it should be a day, and a day only ?

But, to Lucy, lie appeared to be intensely in
earnest. To lier, one of the words tie lead just
made use of, was as an assurance that he could
not have been speaking lightly. He had alluded,
only half-seriously,  it is true  to the fact that
she had been taken for his wife. Surety, surely,
he would never have reminded her of this had
the notion appeared to him to be either absurd or
altogether impossible of fulfilment? . . . Was
not the name of * wife ' too sacred a name to be
lightly uttered,  even in the sense in which he
had littered it just now ? . . .

The moon, Which at Hampton Court, must have
looked down upon so many losers,  royal, as well
as obscure,  had arisen now in all her splendour :
almost a full moon, which, it is said, makes mad
people feel their madness more acutely. She
seemed to have come forward into this particular
quadrangle as though to examine Lucy and her
companion. A sympathetic and appreciative
moon,  for there is a good deal of individuality
about different moons,  which seemed like a
silent and sentient witness throned aloft in the
sapphire firmament.

Here and there, the windows and corner-stones
of the old Palace reflected her rays, and

the shadows of Lucy and her companion were
cast upon the stone pavement with wonderful
distinctness.

He led her out of this full moonlight down
one of the side galleries, and so, on,  sauntering
leisurely',  through the Fountain Court towards
the passage at the foot of the Queen's Staircase,
where the sound of the music reached them only
in broken and fitful strains,  mingled with the
gentle whispers of the fountain.

Lucy experienced a sense as of being entirely
cut ois, and separated from, the rest of her kind.
From not onh those lilian creatures who usually
'lived and moved and had their being' in her vicinity
;  but from the very age and epoch in which it
was her lot to exist. She and this one man,  almost
a total stranger,  shad wandered together into the
realms of the shadowy past,  back to the times of
the Tutors, the Stuart, and the early Georges, 
a period utterly done with and gone by, and,
sacred, dignified, pathetic, for this very reason, 
with none of the soullessness of that remoter
antiquity which seems to lie almost beyond the
pale of ordinary modern sympathy ;  for it would
have been only b} the performance of an acrobatic
feat, that the Emperors Yitellius and Augustus, 

set lip, in their rounded niches, upon the further
side of the quadrangle beyond, could have peeped
into this mysterious corner.

Lucy's companion was the first to speak : 

The moon makes one feel so insignificant,' he
said ; * so much as if one was acting a part which
sie must have seen played out so often,  it's nicer
here, where we're out of her sight I . . . How
many people before us,  must have wandered
forth, like this,  in the moonlight, and yet tome,
and, to you (perhaps . . . ?) how new it all
seems ! ' . . .

He spoke sadly and tenderly. Her arm was
still through his, and he held it to him as with a
sense of possession. Lucy scarcely dared reply.
It seemed as if some magic spell would be broken
if she spoke.

Henry the Eighth wandered here, I believe,
With Anne Boleji,' she ventured at last. She
would be safe, perhaps,  if she kept exclusively
to the traditions of history !

*So I read in the guide-book,' he answered,
smiling ; *and I learn, too, upon the same authority
that Henry intertwined her initial "A" with his
own " H " over the gateway of the Clock Tower ;
but that, by the time the Banqueting Hall required

decorating, a "J" had to be substituted for the
*'A." Perhaps, however, I oughtn't to have told
you this ! '

Wby not ? '

Because it will make you think that men are
so dreadfully fickle ;  just as you are beginning
life, too, and when you ought to be so full of
illusions ! . . . Tell me what your initial is ? '

My initial is an " L,"  my name is '' Lucy," '
she answered falteringly.

He had spoken so irresponsibly about her
beginning life,' as though, whilst desiring that
her existence should be bright and prosperous, 
he himself could have no possible share in it. To
her quickened senses, his words had conveyed this
meaning, and they chilled her to her heart.

Suddenly, she recollected the initial ' L ' which
she had observed in the tennis-court tattooed upon
the arm upon which she was now leaning.

'You have an "L " marked upon your arm,'
she said, impelled by a sudden and irresistible
impulse. ' I saw it when you were playing at
tennis.'

Being so near him,  she could perceive that
he started slightly. Then he answered carelessly,


VOL. I. Q

 Yes ; young soldiers have a silly fashion of
covering their arms with tattoo-marks. There's
generally some fellow in the regiment who prides
himself upon his skill in this respect, and earns
an honest penny by disfiguring the whole lot of
subalterns for life, and one doesn't like to deprive
him of what he considers his due ! . . . ' L " is a
graceful, lithe, entwining letter,' he went on,  as
though returning from his subaltern reminiscences
to the present;  *but an **L" will twist, and
twine, and interlace itself, with the whole
alphabet, and look always appropriate,  "Zwc?/,"
I think,  is different ! '

Yes ; Lucy is different ! ' she repeated mournfully.


Something in his tone seemed to sadden and
depress her. She felt that she had, perhaps,
taken both him and his words too seriously.

Yes ; she is different,'  he said,  taking the
little hand which nestled against his arm. * She
is utterly and entirely different from all the rest
of the world,  or, so she seems to me at this
moment ! But in a very few years, the world
will probably change her. On the surface,  at
least, she will become more like other people ! '
He said this,  lucy thought, almost paternally,

and again the deaths chill seemed to invade her
heart. . . . ' In a very few years ! ' . . . Solitary,
desolate years, because that strong arm would not
be there to support and comfort her ;  years that
might well change her indeed ! . . .

As she mused thus, she shuddered involuntarily.


You are cold,' he said ; * perhaps I ought to
take you back to the ball-room ? '

Oh, no, no I I'm not cold ! ' she answered
quickly. ' I was only thinking about something ! '

'About the ghost?' he asked; 'we are just
coming near to the haunted gallery. You know
the story ? '

He paused within sight of the passage leading
towards the Chapel Royal. There was an oaken
bench in one of the narrow arched recesses, and
here they sat down,  arm in arm,  as before.

It seems,' he began, assuming a trite narrative
manner, as though to conceal some sort of
rising emotion, ' that when poor Katherine Howard
fell into disgrace, she was shut up somewhere near
here,  in one of the guard rooms ;  but finding
out, one day, that the King was praying in chapel,
she escaped from her keepers, and ran down that
passage, there  in order to appeal to him. Just

as lie got to the entrance of the rojal pew,
however, the guards seized her, and dragged her
back again. Her screams were so loud that
they echoed all over the Palace, but Henry, 
although he heard them, went on quietly with his
devotions, and now her ghost is supposed to shriek
here from time to time ;  perhaps we shall hear
her now ? ' . . .

He drew Lucy closer to him as he spoke, as
though to protect her from the shrieking phantom,
and they both looked towards the shadowy entrance
to the Chapel Royal.

It was very cruel of him ! ' said Lucy,
almost in a whisper.

*It was, no doubt; but in those days, 
although they may have been more brutal; 
they were, at any rate, more honest. I fancy that
when a man is thoroughly tired of a woman,
almost the kindest thing he could do to her,
sometimes,  would be to cut off her head ! '

But for a quick sigh which escaped him,
Lucy might have imagined that he was not
speaking seriously.

Is it really so ? ' she asked in earnest tones ;
but yet, if a man has never really loved, surely
he can never grow tired ?/

*He can grow tired without having really
loved, and he can really love without ever growing
tired, for a passing fancy does not deserve the
name of love. Once, perhaps, in a lifetime, a man
may meet with a woman of whom he knows that
he can never tire, but then Fate generally contrives
to tear them asunder. Could they but
meet and be joined together, life would be too
much like Heaven, I suppose.'

He sighed again, and then continued, as with
inspiration : 

God help the woman of whom the man she
still loves has become weary ! Even to him it
must be almost pathetic to see the way she wastes
her futile arts ! One quarter of the same devotion
if displayed by another woman would thrill his
whole being with gratitude, but for her he has no
pity. He is defended against her as with a
shield, and buckler ; her jealousy, which in
another would flatter and please him, insults
and exasperates,  her silence is distracting, 
her words irritate,  her tears can move him no
longer. In a thousand ways he, too, can insult,
distract, and irritate ; he will seem to her to be a
demon, a tyrant, an inhuman monster, and yet,
perhaps, she may still love him in spite of it.

The ties wliicli should be woven out of roses,
become like iron gyves wliicli gall and canker.
When things come to such a sorry pass as this,
surely it were best that one of the two should
snap the links and be free ! '

I should think so,' said Lucy, deeply impressed
by his earnestness ; and she then added
suddenly, ' You must have been very, very tired
of somebody once, to know so well what tiredness
means ? '

A moment afterwards she repented her of her
indiscreet speech. "What if he should be offended
with her ? But he only continued more calmly, 

*A man who is tired of a woman is always
being confronted, when in her presence, with the
worst side of his own nature; for I suppose weare
selfish creatures who are never really pleasant
unless we are amused. But I am speaking to a
mere child of what she can never have known or
imagined.'

*I can imagine what you say to be true,'
returned Lucy ; * but I hope I shall never feel
it, or suffer from it. For a woman it must be
hard to bear.'

*I am afraid that it is. But I have been
talking to you much too seriously. Having met

with some one who seemed to me, from the first,
like a friend, I have, I suppose, forgotten myself
a little. I am leaving here tomorrow, however,
and who can say whether we shall ever meet
again? So I don't regret making the most of
the fleeting moments.'

You are going away tomorrow ! '

A sense of desolation had swept over her
spirit whilst he was speaking, and the words
escaped her like a moan.

Yes ; I have to leave here tomorrow, Thursday,
soon after two o'clock. I've nothing to do
with the detachment here, and only came to see
how they were getting on in my private capacity,
and as a friend of Sparshott's. I ought to be at
Hounslow now. God knows why I stayed on
here ! '

So he was going away ! His meeting with
her had been merely a chance episode in his
soldier's life. She had crossed his path for a
moment, and he could let her go on upon her
journey by another way. Oh, for the relief of
tears !

She drew away from him towards the further
end of the bench, and looked out into the moonlit
quadrangle.

Are all men fickle and cruel, I wonder ? ' lie
asked, with the manner of one who is thinking
aloud.

His voice changed almost to a whisper as he
answered her, 

Ah, Lucy ! ' he said tenderly and regretfully,
by some strange chance we two have met,  we
have met,  at least, and I have known you.
"Were it possible that you could ever have cared
for me,  could I,  by a word, have made any
sympathy sou may have felt for me, grow up
into affection, I should be a brute to saj it. To
go from you now is cruel,  most cruel to mj/sclf,
but to stay might be, perhaps, cruel to yoii. We
go now upon our different ways,  you will pass
on, I daresay, to many new and varied experiences,
 who knows but that you may twine
almost as many initials as Henry the Eighth into
your life and memory I But still we have met
once, and I can never altogether regret it. I am
glad, too, that our meeting-place happened to
have been this old palace, which is not likely to
be altered or pulled down, at anj rate during the
course of our two short lives ; for in future years
I shall be able to say, as I look down these
desolate passages, " It was here that I knew her



first,  she leant here upon my arm, and walked
with me alone in the moonlight,  it was here that
I kissed her ! " '

He di-ew her to him as he spoke, and pressed

his lips to hers.

It was the first time that Lucy had ever
known a lover's kiss, and the lips that taught her
this new lesson were the lips of the man she loved.

The sense of isolation from all other lilian
influences seemed to endue this first embrace
with something mystic and sacramental, which
made it appear less like a revelation than a fulfilment.
From time to time she heard, as in a
dream, the gentle plashing of the fountain, and
the distant strains of the music.

By-and-by, the great astronomical clock in
the second quadrangle struck midnight.

Lucy tore herself from his aetas at the soit,
and rose from the bench.

As she did so, the bunch of fern and stephanotis
fell from her bosom.

He picked it up, and pressed it passionately to
his lips.

You must give me this,' he murmured, in
broken accents ; * something that has been yours,
to keep for all time ! '

Then lie led lier out silently into the moonlight,
and so,  through the Clock Court,  under the
stern reproving gaze of the six Imperial Caesar
in terra-cotta, back into the ball-room.

I see,' said Lord Belmorris when they
reached home, and as he was helping Lucy to
take off her cloak, 'that you've lost the poor
button-hole ; I pinned it in badly, and it's fallen
out. You see I've taken better care of mine ! '

Yes ; it's lost : it's gone ! ' she answered
abstractedly.

Alas ! something that had been beating quite
close to those fading blossoms had gone, too, to
keep them company !

CHAPTER XIX.

As this is anything but one of those complicated,
sensational romances in which nearly everybody
turns out to be somebody else, and wherein the
reader is perpetually being thrilled b}' all sorts
of unexpected disclosures and developments, the
writer of it has not been at any pains to conceal
the workings of what she may please to call the
plot, and whatever bore the faintest resemblance
to a mystery, must, therefore, have been immediately
solved.

The handsome soldier with whom Lucy Barlow
had fallen in love,  almost at first sight, 
was, of course, no more a Veterinary-Surgeon
than I am. The real Veterinary-Surgeon of the
regiment  Mr. Oscar Grubbe,  was deservedly
popular with all classes ; for, besides being an
accomplished member of his own profession, he
was a first-rate tennis-player, a hard rider, and

an excellent hand with his cue. He had seen
service, too, years ago, in the Crimea, where he
had even been slightly wounded, and where a supposed
resemblance to King Victor Emmanuel, 
remarked and commented upon by some of the
most distinguished of our Italian allies,  had
induced him to cultivate the enormous moustaches
which have already been described. Besides
these, however, he possessed other points of
resemblance to ' II Be (jalantuomOy for he had the
reputation of being brave as a lion, and was
known to be a devoted admirer of the fair sex.

At the railway station at Hampton Court,
Miss Binks had bowed politely to this gentleman,
having become acquainted with him through her
brother Algy, with whom he had sometimes
played at billiards. Lucy, however, had imagined
that her cousin was bowing to Colonel Hepburn, 
who, at that moment, engrossed the whole of her
attention, and it was in consequence of Adeliza's
subsequent remark,  to the effect that she had
bowed to the ' Yet,'  that the absurd misunderstanding
arose.

Anthony Hepburn, Who, through a combination
of fortuitous circumstances, found himself,
when but little over thirty, in command of the

Isti Lancers,  was descended upon his father's
side, from an ancient Scottish family,  the same
which, some three centuries before, had given a
third husband to one of the most beautiful and
importunate of Queens, and contributed to history
one of its sternest and most uncompromising personalities.
His father, who had likewise entered
the army, had been dead now some fourteen or
fifteen years. This gentleman had married, early
in life, the beautiful daughter of Lord Falcon-borough,
 a nobleman possessed of large estates
in the north of England,  and Anthony was the
sole surviving offspring of this union. After the
death of her father, Mrs. Hepburn had stayed
continually" with the brother who had succeeded
him, at Falconborough Park, during the absence
of her husband upon foreign service. Upon
being left a widow, she took up her abode there
altogether ; and it was there that her death occurred,
some nine or ten years before the opening
of this story.

The Hepburn, however, were possessed of a
good landed property in Scotland, which, at one
time, had encircled a fine old manor-house with a
somewhat unpronounceable name. This manor-house
had been unfortunately burnt down before

Anthony's birth, and as his father had never
rebuilt it, he came to regard Falconborough Parkas
his natural home. There was a good reason
for this besides the burning of the Scotch manor-house.
Lord Falconborough was childless. His
marriage had turned out unhappily, and when he
eventually became a widower,  upon the principle
of the ' burnt child,' he did not care to make a
second matrimonial venture. Mrs. Hepburn, his
sister, kept house for him, and presided at his
table. He was devotedly attached to her ;  the
place was settled upon her after her brother's
death, and ujDon her son Anthony after her,  so
that, notwithstanding his childlessness. Lord Fal-scarborough
was not without an heir-presumptive.

Mrs. Hepburn, however, pre-deceased her
brother by several years,  whilst Anthony entered
the army, and only revisited the scenes of
his boyhood at rare intervals.

He had been fully prepared, therefore, for the
possibility of his uncle's re-marriage, and had
never thought much about his prospects, until
Lord Falconborough's death,  which event had
taken place some two years previously to the
opening of this story.

Anthony Hepburn then found himself, whilst

the best years of his life were still in all human
probability, before him, a rich man. The title, 
of course, for want of a direct heir-male,  had
become extinct,  but Falconborough Park,  nth
all the adjacent lordships, manors, messuages,
tenements, farm lands, and hereditaments, had
passed to him by right of his mother.

The new possessor of the Falconborough
estates had seen a good deal of active service.
He had passed the first three years of his military
career in India, and was so sunburnt when he
renewed his acquaintance with his uncle and his
servants upon being summoned to Falconborough
to his mother's death-bed, that they had scarcely
recognised him.

Since this time, however, his soldiering had
been fortunately confined to his native land,  for
his accession, later on, to his uncle's estates,
seemed to render a residence in England to a
certain extent imperative. He had revisited, too,
from time to time, the Scotch cradle of his race,
and had gradually collected together all the
pictures, furniture, and other remaining objects
which had escaped the fire, and which had been
housed for more than forty years by the factor
of the estate. These, he had had transported

to Falconborough. Park,  for his pheasants
memories were associated with what had now
become his English home, and it was surmised
by those persons who interested themselves in his
affairs, that if he ever settled down to a married
life, it was there that he would establish himself.

But, shortly after his succession to the Fal-scarborough
property, quite a romantic circumstance
had come to pass.

As Colonel Hepburn, who happened to be upon
a visit to his north country home, was sitting,
one afternoon, in his study, overlooking some
papers connected with his new inheritance,  his
soldier servant announced that a lady and gentleman
desired to speak to him upon business. They
were shown at once into his presence, and the
lady's first words were certainly something of a
surprise.

I have come, Anthony Hepburn,' she exclaimed,
with a good deal of melodramatic
gesticulation, 'to present to you a personage
whose existence you have found it expedient,
until now, to ignore, notwithstanding that several
letters have been addressed to your solicitor upon
the subject. Anthony Hepburn!  this young
man is my son,  the only child of his widowed

mother I . . . He is the present Lord Falcon-borough,
 the rightful heir to the estates which
you have purloined ;  the injured cousin whom
YOU have so basely defrauded of his inheritance ! '

The lady, who was stout and apoplectic-looking,
 notwithstanding some traces of past beauty,
breathed hard as she concluded this speech, and
sank heavily into the nearest arm-chair.

A claimant to the Falconborough peerage and
estates ! . . .

Anthony now remembered to have heard of
this woman before, through his uncle's solicitor,
but it had never occurred to him that she would
have ventured upon any claims of this kind.
Sbe had been an actress once,  an old flame of
his uncle's, and an annuity had been settled upon
her by his will. Of her son, or pretended son, 
no mention was made, and Anthony Hepburn
could onh regard the affair in the light of an
attempt to extort money. Nevertheless, he preserved
a polite indifference of manner, and dismissed
his two visitors with a promise that he
would investigate their pretensions.

This promise-with the help of the family
lawyer, he had been enabled to keep. It turned
out as he had expected. The lady in question

VOL. I. R

had no just pretension to be regarded as the
late Lord Falconborough's wife. The joimg
man was believed to be certainly her son, 
but he was the son also,  as far as it is possible
to establish such dubious relationships,  of an
Italian scene-painter, who had been a favoured
admirer of his mother's before her acquaintance
with the late Lord Falconborough. In
Lord Falconborough's lifetime, no such claims-had
been advanced, and the lawyer at once characterized
the matter as a conspiracy with intent to
defraud, and made known his views to the two
conspirators. Anthony Hepburn, having left the
affair in the hands of his legal adviser, dismissed
it altogether from his mind. The claimants
recalled themselves from time to time to his
memory, by sending him letters full of threats
and denunciations, but he merely enclosed them
to his lawyer, and troubled himself no more about
them. A good round sum, paid down, would no
doubt have saved him from all further annoyance,
and he felt tempted, more than once, to settle the
matter by this means. He was strongly advised,
however, to do nothing which might be set do's\Ti
to fear,  or to the desire,  upon his own part, to
effect any manner of private compromise, and so he
had ended by simply daring them to do their worst.

Could lie have brought himself to believe that
the young man claiming to have become Lord
Falconborough, was in reality his uncle's child, 
the fact that he was certainly illegitimate would
have been no bar to Anthony Hepburn's generosity.


But the pretender in question,  although
he affected to be several years younger,  was
evidently very nearly as old as Anthony himself,
and it was apparent, from some letters which had
been discovered by the family lawyer,  that the
late Lord Falconborough had not made the acquaintance
of the mother until some years after
his birth. The lady herself had been handsomely
provided for, and Colonel Hepburn did not consider,
therefore, that he was under any further
obligation with respect to her;  whilst regarded
merely as an object for promiscuous benevolence,
 she did not seem to be deserving of his
consideration.

But although he had disposed of the matter
thus summarily, he knew that the man who called
himself ' Lord Falconborough ' bore him no goodwill.
Nay, more ; having been thwarted in his
project for extortion, his 7/-will had become so-thoroughly
aroused, that it was only the uc

certainty and obscurity of his position which,
rendered him powerless for evil. In a word, 
Anthony Hepburn had acquired an enemy,  who,
should the occasion present itself, would be always
ready to work him mischief.

At the time of Colonel Hepburn's meeting
with Lucy Barlow, he was seriously thinking of
retiring from the army. The monotony of a
soldier's life in days of peace, was somewhat
wearisome to a nature capable of wider sympathies
and more varied interests than could be ministered
to satisfactorily in barracks. He had a taste for
art, for literature, for sport, for foreign travel,
and he was not unmindful, either, of the responsibilities
involved in the possession of a large estate.
He did not, therefore, require to continue with his
soldiering for the sake of a distraction, and he
was too well off to be at all influenced by the
question of pay.

During the time that a detachment of his
regiment was occupying the barracks at Hampton
Court, he had more than once visited the Palace.
He had never remained there, however, for more
than one night at a time, and probably, upon the
day when he first fell in with Lucy, he might
have proceeded directly to Hounslow but for the

accident wliicli had placed the barrack-room
usually occupied by the Captain in command at
his disposal.

The ladies at the Palace had not taken these
flying visits as complimentary to themselves.
They regarded Colonel Hepburn as somewhat
reserved and eccentric,  ' not hae such good fun '
as most of his predecessors,  and he had only
been presented,  amongst their number, to the
three Miss Bolderos, who always contrived to
scrape an acquaintance with anything in the
similitude of man.

Adeliza Binks, therefore, although she had
seen and admired the haughty Colonel at a distance,
was only introduced to him at the Boldero
dance. Her uncle. Lord Belmorris, had charged
himself with this first duty of a conscientious
chaperon, and he had sauntered with her through
the figures of a quadrille.

Belmorris Castle was not far from Falcon-borough
Park, and notwithstanding some nine
or ten years' difference in their respective ages,
Anthony Hepburn and the sporting nobleman
had knoAvn each other well in the past, whilst
Adeliza Binks,  although she had never happened
to fall in with him during any of

her visits to the North, was jDcrfectl} familiar
with Colonel IIej)burn's name, and had informed
herself of a good many facts connected with his
family history. So much for the antecedents of
the man who seemed likely to exercise some kind
of influence over Lucy Barlow's future. It maybe
as well, perhaps, to see whether his enemy and
pretended cousin bore him any resemblance.

Family likeness,' (says George Eliot,) 'has
often a deep sadness in it. Nature,  that great
tragic dramatist, knits us together by bone and
muscle, and divides us by the subtler web of our
brains ;  blends yearnings and repulsions, and
ties us by our heart-strings to the beings that jar
us at every movement.'

Had the young man who,  when moving in
circles wherein it was unlikely that the imposture
Avould be discovered,  insisted upon styling himself
Lord Falconborough,  relied, for the acknowledgment
of his pretensions, upon his resemblance
to any of the Falconborough family, his claims
would have been dismissed at a first glance.

By ' bone ' and by ' muscle,'  as well as by the
subtler web ' of his brains,  he seemed to be
utterly divided from every member of it. His
yearnings and repulsions ' were altogether different

from those of Anthony Hepburn, and save
for those earrings, at every movement, which
occur too frequently amongst close kinsfolk, no
evidences of consanguinity would have stood
revealed had the two men ever enjoyed an opportunity
for mutual scrutiny.

Falconborough,  as I may as well call him
for want of another name,  was anything but
reserved in manner. Words came easily to him,
and his apparent frankness had the effect of prepossessing
new acquaintances in his favour, by
impressing them with the notion that one knew,
as it were, the worst of him at once. He pretended
to no virtues, but had the good sense to
conceal his vices ; whilst, without being well
educated in the higher meaning of the term, he
was decidedly accomplished.

From the theatrical scene-painter,  a son of
the Land of Song,  he had inherited a tenor voice
of exceeding sweetness, and a remarkable facility
with his pencil. He was possessed, too, of a very
uti-British gift of tongues,  most modern languages
seeming to come to him quite naturally, 
without any necessity for the irksome studying of

mars.

With all these endowments,  united as they

were, to a handsome person,  Falconborougli
might easily have made his way in the world without
relying upon others for assistance. Unfortunately
for himself, however,  besides being a
born gambler,  he had a craving for expensive
pleasures, and the ' dolce far niente ' spirit of his
race apparently neutralised every attempt at serious
application. On the whole, however,  thanks to
the finite nature of his aspirations, and taking into
consideration the small amount of effort which he
expended in bringing about their realisation, he
had a right to congratulate himself, in some respects,
upon his good fortune. His title and
estates, (according to his own account of the
matter), had been kept from him,  it is true, 
but, in spite of this,  over those persons who Avere
unacquainted with the ramifications of the Peerage,
he was enabled to lord it to his heart's content
; and, indeed, it almost seemed as if he had
ended by persuading himself of the justice of his
own claims. He had coquetted with the muses, 
dabbled in amateur stockbroking,  composed an
opera, and had talked quite seriously of going
upon the stage. In the Bohemian, and not over-fastidious,
circles, wherein, for the most part, he

was in the habit of moving,  'Lord' Falcon-borough's
artistic leanings were treated with
tenderness and respect. It was thought to be quite
natural that, when it came to the point, the young
nobleman should shrink from all the drudgery
entailed by the adoption of any particular profession,
and his failures, when they came, were
always borne by him with so much careless good-humour,
that they gained him almost as much
sympathy as a success. Those amongst his associates
who may have suspected that there existed
some sort of hitch with regard to his peerage, had
never seemed in the least inclined to look upon
him in the light of an impostor. One day,  (he
would explain, with an airy wave of the hand,) 
all these family-complications would be satisfactorily
arranged. He coidd settle the affair at
once, were he to harden his heart and plunge into
a lawsuit, but a natural delicacy deterred him
from attacking those who were so near of kin : 
he looked upon this remedy in the light of a last
resource :  other, and more friendly, means, ought
first of all to be employed,  but the whole thing
was merely a question of time. . . .

His mother,  during her lifetime,  had been

enabled to supply him pretty liberally with money,
for she bad possessed other friends almost as
generous as the late Lord Falconborough,  and
this had enabled him to cut a distinguished figure
amongst the artists and citj-folk with whom he
associated, and who were quite willing,  in order
to secure the society of one so agreeable and accomplished,
 to overlook any flaw which might
possibly exist in his title.

But his mother had died,  quite unexpected,
some time before the period at which this story
opens,  and with her, the income which he had
assisted her so willingly to dispel. AYith the
usual improvidence of her class, she had set aside
nothing.  Falconborough, therefore, had been existing
for more than a year entirely upon his own
resources.

In appearance, Anthony Hepburn's pretended
cousin was dark, pale, and slight ;  below,  rather
than above the middle height, but active and
graceful as a panther. His brown eyes were
dreamy and melancholy, and his voice,  in speaking
as well as in singing,  extremely melodious.
Underneath a cloak of habitual carelessness and
good nature, there seemed to his admirers,  both
male and female,  (and the latter predominated

in a large proportion,)  to lurk something romantic,
 melodramatic,  Byronic,  which could
not fail to invest him with a peculiar charm. It
was remarked, also, that scarcely anything appeared
to be capable of affecting his serenity, and
that love, loss, and disappointment alike, seemed
to glide conveniently from the tablets of his
memory like water off a duck's back.

So much indifference to the ordinary events of
every days, might have augured, perhaps, the
existence of some secret interest of an absorbing
kind ; but this view of the matter was not taken
by any of his friends and associates. They regarded
it, rather, as one of the evidences of his
nobility,  as a sign that he was in some measure
beyond the reach of the petty worries and vexations
wherewith they, themselves, were tormented;
a sort of repose of ' Very de Vere,' which was
one of the most unmistakable characteristics of
along descent'

And, after all, it was not wonderful that these
people,  ignorant as they were of Falconborough's
strange antecedents,  should miss the clue to his
apparent indifference to those matters in which
they were interested themselves.

Had they desired, however, to see their languid

lordling animated, indignant, impassioned,  his
thin nostrils distended,  his soft eyes flashing
forth hate and defiance,  they would only have had
to whisper in his ear the name of Colonel Anthony
Hepburn of the 18th Lancers ;  but this, of course,
it was not likely that they could know.

CHAPTER XX.

It was not likely that Lucy Barlow, being* young,
impressionable, and, by this time, hopelessly in
love,  would have been able to obtain much sleep
when she retired to her chamber after the Miss
Bolderos' dance. She remained for some time at
her open window, framed by the climbing tendrils
of the blush-roses,  gazing pensively at the
silvery river over which that same sympathetic
moon was still shining.

It was nearly half-past one o'clock, and, notwithstanding
the brightness of the moonlight, all
was silent, save when the footfall of some belated
wayfarer echoed from the towing-path to the left
of her window.

A soldier had strolled along it,  just now, 
with his sweetheart. A soldier of his regiment,
and invested, therefore, with an especial interest.
He had stepped up to the little iron gateway

which separated the outer Palace-3'ard from the
river-side, and had rattled at its handle ;  ' Locked
out, by Jove ! ' she heard him murmur, and ho
passed on down the towing-path with his companion.


The expression was not particularly poetical ;
but to-night everything seemed poetical to Luc3

Happy, happy girl ! (she mused ingenuously,)
wandering, thus, with her chosen lover, by the
side of the beautiful river, with the gentle moon
gazing down at her from the starry firmament,
and casting over everything a glamour of enchantment
! . . .

Perhaps, to this simple maiden, her soldier-lad
seemed almost as great a hero as did one
of his superior officers to another maiden,  seated,
not a thousand miles away,  at her lonely
bower, overlooking that same moonshine river !

Lucy watched the two figures until they
became merged in shadow, and sighed a quick
sigh,  as of regretful yearning.

From the little strip of garden below, there
arose the perfume of roses,  of mignonette,  of
carnations ;  a mingling of delicious odours. She
turned from the river and gazed wistfully across
the outer court to where she could see, upon her

right, the long low line of the cavalry-barracks.
There, too, all was silence. At no one of the
many windows could she perceive a light. All
those magnificent warriors, with the exception of
the sentries, and of the young man who had been
locked out, were doubtless, Ij'ing, wrapped in profound
slumber. . . . And was he, too, asleep ? . .
Probable  because she had always heard that
men were quite different from women. It was
not likely that the memories of that evening
would be powerful enough to keep a man awake !
. . He was sleeping in barracks to-night, 
(this much she had ascertained,  indirect,  of
course,) occupying Captain Sparshott's quarters,
who,  in consequence of his accident, had gone
home upon sick-leave,  leaving the command to
the young subaltern to whom Adeliza had alluded
as * little Pj'croft ;'  and it almost seemed to
Lucy as if she could penetrate through the brickwork,
and behold the room wherein he lay,  with
its simple Spartan appointments, and the martial
accoutrements dangling from door and bed-post.
She knew exactly what his aspect was when he
was asleep, because she had seen him sleeping in
the train, and looking, as she thought at the time,
just as one might imagine a knight upon a tombstone.

. . . ' Upon a tombstone ! ' . . . Away with
the ghastly and terrible comparison ! . . . Must
he, too, then, some day, die  this noble creation
in God's image,  and lie cold and forsaken in
some dark church vault, for whose dear head no
silken pillow could be too soft,  no gentle lady's
arms too tender ? . . .

She turned from the window with tears in her
eyes, and commenced absently undressing.

As she unhooked the front of her white dressa
roll of bluish writing-paper fell on to the floor.
It was the half sheet of a letter which Lord
Belmorris had wrapped round the wire-mounted
stalks of his 'button-hole' in order that they
might not scratch her, and it was covered with
bold, manly, characters, which seemed, somehow,
to be familiar.

Thinking that, if it had contained anything of
a private nature, Lord Belmorris would not have
parted with it, and that she was, therefore, at
liberty to examine it, she spread it out abstractedly,
upon her pin-cushion, and read as follows : 

My dear Lord,

Being in town yesterday, on business of
my own, I ran round to jour place, according to

your wishes, and paid a visit to Miss Marclmioiit.
I found lier in, as lie was in too bad a way to go
out. I had lier stripped, and took a good look at
her. My opinion is, that there is internal inflammation
which goes against her improving,  as
well as the injury to her jaw, which is now all
on one side, and seriously interferes with her
enjoying her meals. Her tongue, too, is much
swollen, and hangs some way out of her mouth,
and my candid opinion is, that your Lordship will
never derive any further satisfaction fi'om the
possession of her. She has been blistered as well
as physicked, and all done for her that can be
done, and I agree with you that it will be
advisable to have her immediately destroyed.
I am, my dear Lord,
Yours faithfully and obediently,

Oscar Grubbe.'

To the Eight Hobble.

The Earl of Belmorris, &c., &c.*

To what erroneous conclusions might not
Lucy have arrived, derogatory alike to Lord
Belmorris' s humanity and to his morals,  if she
had not read in Lady Mabella's letter of invitation
that ' Miss Parchment ' was the name of
VOL. I. s

*the celebrated mare, who but for a lamentable
accident would certainly bave won the Oaks ! '

Tbis letter, however, whilst it gave rise to no
unpleasant misunderstandings, reassured Lucy
upon a subject about wbicb sbe may still bave
experienced some lingering doubts. It was in
precisely the same handwriting as the note sbe
bad taken from the tennis-court boy in Beauty
Boldero's cupboard;  the same rampant, wriggling
creature, wbicb sbe bad mistaken for a serpent, 
was emblazoned upon the paper :  there could be
no further question about the matter ! Tbis was,
no doubt, the * communication ' to Lord Belmorris
alluded to by the real * Yet ' during the pauses of
the valse ; and it was for this absurd-looking little
man that the youngest of the three Miss Bolderos
had, smite che mieiix, * got up,' (as her eldest sister
had declared,) * quite a furious flirtation !'
But it was fortunate, on the whole, that everybody
bad not exactly the same taste ! . . .

After showering blessings upon her hero, 
lying, as she imagined him,  in all the dignity of
placid repose,  Lucy repaired to her little white
bed,  to ' assume,' (at any rate,)  Lady Mabella's
favourite ' recumbent position,' but, of course, not
to skcj) !

What restless, interminable hours before the
morning actually dawned ! and yet, the east was
beginning to grow rosy long before she had
thought of going to bed ! . . .

"Without waiting for the housemaid to call
her, she arose, and seated herself again at the
window. The sunshine was almost blinding at
first, and the river was alive with boats, barges,,
and outriggers. The barracks, too, presented
their usual animated appearance. The troopers
had already returned from watering their horses,
just as she drew aside her curtain they came
clattering into the barrack-yard.

What a contrast to the drowsy stillness of the
previous night ! . . .

Perhaps,  she thought,  if only she remained,
long enough at her window, she might behold.
Jdm just once again. Afterward,  when he was
utterly gone from her,  she would not like to
think that she had missed even this melancholy
satisfaction when it might have been within her
reach, and it would be no use dressing too soon,
as Adeliza was sure to be late after the dissipation
of the night before.

At about half-past eight o'clock Lucy met
with her reward. She perceived Colonel Hepburn.

crossing the barrack-yard, clad in a suit of
boating-flannels, and carrying a dark yachting


(Why, ob, why, did be seem more beautiful
in every different costume ?)

He sauntered on until be came close under
the railing of the garden, and sbe could bear ibis
footsteps passing quite near to ber. Sbe drew
back into the curtain overwhelmed by emotion,
.and at that moment the housemaid knocked at
the door.

When Lucy looked out again sbe saw that be
lead gone out through the small iron gateway
wbicb bad been tried by the soldier on the
previous night, and was making bis way towards
the boats. Evidently be was going for a morning
row.

It now occurred to ber that if sbe could only
dress whilst be was on the river, sbe might go
outside and await ber cousin under the lilac-busy
"beneath the window, were sbe bad noticed that
there were some garden chairs, and in this way,
perhaps, catch a furtive glimpse of bim through
the railings, as be came back ;  for be would
probably return by the way be went, instead of
going round to the further gates.

As soon as she was dressed, and after a last
look to see that he was not already in sight, she
tapped gently at the door of Addie's room. As
she had anticipated, her cousin was still in bed.
She was awake, however, and seriously thinking
of getting up, only', she was so dreadfully sleepy,
and could not imagine what possessed Lucy to bestirring
so early.

Mama won't be down for hours,' she said,
yawning ; * she'll take advantage, thinking we're
sure to be late, and so will Gussy. I didn't mean
to get up till eleven ! '

Then I shall wait for you in the garden,' said
Lucy, * and please don't hurry on my account ; I
shall be quite happy sitting under the trees ! '

She went out, through the dining-room
Avindow, into the narrow strip of private garden
where she had seen a group of chairs upon the
precious da3\ They were no longer there, however,
and she found that they had been moved
outside the railings to a shady spot under a
large elm-tree overlooking the river, probably by
Algy and Lord Belmorris when they had indulged
in their after-dinner smoke. As she was
dragging one of them back into the garden,
Colonel Hepburn came quickly hip the steps

leading from the towing-pati to the iron gateway.


The garden-chair escaped from her hold, she
felt too overpowered by emotion to utter a word.

He came towards her, and, also without
speaking, took her hand and led her towards the
chairs. She sank into one of them, and he was
about to follow her example, when he uttered an
exclamation : 

Ah ! . . . Sergeant-major Willis ! . . . Good
morning to you ! '

Lucy glanced up quickly, with a mingled
sense of relief and disappointment, and perceived
a very magnificent looking personage standing
bolt upright before her. To her inexperienced
eye, he appeared less like a sergeant than a field-marshal,
although he wore only an undress
uniform.

Some portion of the mysterious electric, or
mesmeric current, which seemed always to influence
Lucy when in Colonel Hepburn's presence,
seemed now to have become diverted by 
Willis (for it appeared that this
was his proper style) .

The colour began to return to her cheeks, and
she breathed more freely.

Beg pardon, sir said the Troop-Sergeant ;
might I ask when we may expect to see Captain
Sparshott ? . . . Father a heavy list of complaints
for him, sorry to say, sir ! '

I hope to see him this evening in London
answered the Colonel. ' I'll find out his plans, and
send 3'ou over some one from Hounslow if he's
likely to be laid up much longer. There's nothing
serious, I hope?'

Usual charges, sir, but a full sheet. Captain's
be disappointed, sir, in Private Pretyman, as I
was myself. Locked out, last night, and I'm
sorry to say, sir . . .'

The Sergeant-major lowered his voice, and
hesitated.

Ah ! a lady in the case ! ' said the Colonel,
as though to anticipate what he might be about
to put into cruder language.

Well, no, sir, not exactly a " lads." ' . . .

A " Romans' then,' returned Colonel Hepburn,
smiling, and he then added, in an undertone,
turning to Lucy, 

You see how your sex seem always bent upon
luring us on to destruction ! '

'Beg pardon, sir, but I don't think I should
quite say a " u-oman," sir,' suggested the Sergeant-major,

respectfully' ; ' first offence, sir, so I don't
think we must be too liard upon him : I think it
would be as well to enter it as ' a young female''
sir!'

All right ! As j'ou say, wc mustn't be too
hard upon him ! ' and he glanced towards Lucy
with a look which seemed to sa", as though in extenuation
of the soldier's misconduct : 

we too, have played,

We, likewise, in that subtle shade
"We too, have twisted in our hair
Such tendrils as the wild Loves wear ! '

A " young female," ' he remarked, when
Sergeant-major Willis had saluted and departed,
seems, in the regiment, to describe some sort of
central grade, not quite so high up as a " lady,"
nor altogether so low down as a " woman"'

They were alone together once more. Lucy
glanced at his face with a look of appealing
scrutiny, seeking there for some trace of his more
earnest mood.

As her ejes wandered, she perceived in his
button-hole, her bouquet of the previous night,
which had been given to her b} Lord Belmorris
just as she was starting for the Bolderos' dance.
The stephanotis was brown and faded, and the

maiden-liar fern tad lost all its feathery verdure,
but lie was wearing it still, close, quite close, to
his heart ! . . . "With all his seeming indifference
of manner, then, he was not utterly and entirely
without feeling ! . . .

He perceived that she had noticed the flowers.
Their eyes met for a moment, but their lips were
silent. The grey eyes said, quite plainly, to the
brown, 

 Perhaps I may not wear my heart upon my
sleeve for days to speck at, but I'm not qinte made
of adamant for all that ! . . I can love, I can feel,
I can remember ; are you not, sometimes, just a
little hard upon me ? . . .'

Whereupon the timid brown eyes seemed to
answer them back, 

Forgive me ! Forgive me ! . . . I see that I
have judged you too harshly ; but I am a poor,
ignorant, distraught creature, about whose path
all sorts of strange waves of emotion seem to be
raffino and suroino ! . . I am rudderless, anchorless
; I have neither aim nor purpose ; I float like
the thistle - down before your breath ! But I
know that you have become my master, and that
I love you, and bless you, and thank you for
wearing those withered blossoms ! ' . . .

There was a footfall upon the gravel path, and
Lord Belmorris came towards them from the
house. He was accompanied by his toothpick,
and carried the morning papers milder his
arm.

Up early. Miss Lucy ! ' he said, as he shook
hands. * Good morning, Anthony ! . . Off to-day,
I hear ? So " 'Happy 'Hampton " is over ! '

He seated himself upon a vacant chair to
Lucy's left, and unfolded a newspaper. By-and-by
he looked across her towards Anthony Hepburn,
and she saw that his eyes became riveted,
with rather a perplexed expression, upon the
mummified remains of his own magnificent
button-hole ' upon the Colonel's breast.

He wished her to perceive that he had observed
it, no doubt, for he coughed in a marked
manner, as if to attract her attention, and then
glanced down at the flap of his own coat.

He, likewise, she now saw, was wearing, as it
were, her colours I The rose-bud he had picked
np from the floor when her bunch had fallen from
her dress, limp and disconsolate in appearance,
was now in his button-hole ! . . . The sense as of
being utterly rudderless and irresponsible, whilst
winds and whirlpools were encompassing her

round-upon every side, grew stronger and
stronger in Lucy's bewildered mind. It seemed
to her, that, by no direct act of lier own had she
striven to bring about such a misleading state
of affairs, and yet, what would she, herself, have
thought of any other girl whom she might have
surprised in a like situation? . . Seated, complacently,
as it might seem, upon an iron chair,
between two men whose respective buttonholes
were each of them decorated with what must
appear like the evidences of her preference ? . . . .
Ah ! she saw, now, how very unjust one might
sometimes be to others, if one permitted oneseK to
judge entirely by appearances ! . . . .

I say ! Do just look at Lucy Barlow ! '
whispered young Algernon Binks to his sister.
He had gone into her bedroom in order to hurry
her, and had sauntered to the window whilst she
was arranging her hair; seated coolly under the
trees, there, between her two admirers ! '

I can't get up now,' returned Adeliza. ' I'm
quite late enough as it is I . I think Mama's
been nicely mistaken in her, and I'm sure I'm
very glad of it. I think she's one of the most
outrageous flirts I ever met I '

I think so, too,' said Algernon, beginning to

whistle ; ' but if she is, so much the better ! . . I'm
sure / shan't complain ! '

'not I, either,' replied Addie. 'I hate and
abominate those sneaking, slow girls, without any
*' go " in them ; they're very nearly always so
horribly sly ! '

She's got plenty of " go " in her, I can tell
you ! ' remarked Algy, wagging his beardless
chin ; * and I think you'll see, before long, that
she'll show us some fun ! / like a girl that's got

"go"'

Lucy, in the meantime, was fully realising the
truth of the time-honoured adage to the effect
that although two may be ' company,' three is
about the most unsociable number that there can
possibly be.

Lord Belmorris presented quite the appearance
of having taken up his position for the day.
A little furrow, own brother to that which miffht
be so often perceived on Lady Mabella's forehead,
Alas traceable upon his brow, and his white teeth
were clenched firmly upon his toothpick. He and
his iron chair seemed as much part of one another
as the body and hind-quarters of a Centaur. Lucy
experienced a feeling of intense discomfort and
restraint. It would have been the greatest relief

to her, at that moment, if Troop-Sergeant-Major
Willis had returned to them with fresh complaints
of insubordination.

By-and-by Colonel Hepburn sighed and rose
from his place.

He is going I He is going ! ' she thought in
her heart ; ' and I may never, never, see his face

again !

She looked in an agony of mute appeal, for in
such moments every feature is expressive, at the
rooted figure with the toothpick, but he appeared
to be absorbed in his newspaper, and showed no
sign whatever of stirring.

Lucy almost regretted, now, that she had
fallen in with Colonel Hepburn at all upon this
last morning. She would have desired that her
final parting with him should have been private,
sacred, screened from all other eyes. As a last
memory whereupon to dwell in her after-loneliness,
she would greatly have preferred those hallowed
moments near to the Haunted Gallery,
with their passionate heart-beats, and only the
silent moon for a witness. It seemed a miserable,
prosaic, disappointing thing, to part, like this, in
public.

Good-bye,' said Colonel Hepburn. He was

standing before lier now, holding out his
hand.

Good-bye she faltered, rising from her
chair.

Because of Lord Belmorris,  no doubt, he
only clasped her hand for a second.

Ta, ta ! ' murmured the laconic nobleman, 
see you down home soon ? '

*Not yet,  unless for a day or two answered
the Colonel,  perhaps about Christmas.'

He shook hands with his country neighbour,
and walked across the outer court back to the
barracks.

He was gone from her,  perhaps for ever !
. . Oh, miserable moment of restraint and
desolation ! , . .

 Nice fellow, Hepburn,' Lord Belmorris remarked
as soon as the Colonel's tall figure had
disappeared.

He was scrutinizing her face attentively from
under his marked eyebrows. Lucy found his gaze
distressingly penetrating,

Yes ; very nice she answered mechanically.

Good-looking, too ? '

'Yes; very good-looking,' she repeated, as
one in a dream.

'And well off;  fine place,  deer park, 
capital shooting.' . . .

Is lie ? . . . Has lie ? ' . . . was all lie was
able to reply to these statements, for she felt
oppressed with misery.

Pity he isn't a marrying man ! ' his lordship
concluded, with a sudden jerk of his toothpick.
"VVe might have hooked him for Addie ! '

I . I think,' faltered Lucy,  afraid lest
she might display her emotion by some outward
and visible sign, ' that I had better go in and see
if Addie is ready.'

Not going indoors this fine morning ! ' cried
Lord Belmorris, protesting ; ' and just as I'm off
to London! We've got lots to settle and talk
over ;  all about those donkey races, and that
"pony!'

I think I had better go in,' she repeated ; ' I
haven't had any breakfast yet.'

Miserable, material, transparent, subterfuge !
. . When would she ever desire to eat any
breakfast again ? . It seemed, however, to
have produced the desired effect.

Not had your breakfast yet ! ' he repeated
with concern. ' 'No wonder you look a little
shaky ! Come in, and we'll feed you up ! '

This was not quite what she had intended !

They walked together, however, towards the
house.

Once there, she might contrive to escape to
her own room.

As they passed in through the dining-room
window, they saw that the breakfast-table had
been cleared. It had only been spread, as yet,
with Lord Belmorris's breakfast. Miss Binks
having said that she would ring for hers when
she came down, and she had not appeared as yet.
Lucy perceived her opportunity, and ran upstairs
upon pretence of looking after her cousin. As
Lord Belmorris was watching her from the ,
she felt bound to go actually to the
door of Adeliza's room, which was situated just
at the top of the stairs.

Miss Binks was still seated at her dressing-table,
engaged with her luxuriant tresses ; for,
like the sister of the first wife of the poet Shelley,
she seemed to have quite an inordinate liking
for brushing her hair. She begged, however,
that Lucy would by no means wait for her, 
but that she would ring the bell and begin her
breakfast at once. Perceiving, upon quitting her
cousin's apartment,  that Lord Belmorris was no

longer at this post of observation, Lucy was enabled
to beat a hasty retreat to ber own room.
But it seemed as if it was fated that sbe should
nowhere obtain the seclusion for which belonged


An Englishwoman's bedroom should be ber
castle ; but bow protect that castle from the
inroads of the inevitable housemaid ? . . . Tbe
housemaid, then, or rather the housemaids,  for
there were two of them,  were already at work in
Lucy's room, wbicb was encumbered by many of
the fell accessories of their calling. Tbey were
engaged,  as sbe entered, upon ber poor little
inoffensive white bed, wbicb they were belabouring
for all the world as tbougb it bad offered them
some personal affront. Tbe room was filled with
minute particles of floating dust. Tbe looking-glass
was covered over with a towel. Tbe jug
was lying sideways in the bath. Tbe water-bottle
was in the washing-basin turned upside down : 
in a word, all was horrid confusion, and Lucy
saw that sbe could not bave remained there in
peace.

Sbe went downstairs again, therefore, and
rang the bell, as Adeliza bad begged ber todo,
for breakfast.

VOL. I. T

Lord Belmorris,  in the meanwhile, had employed
the few moments that remained to him, 
for he was leaving Hampton Court for London
by the 11.15 train,  in bidding farewell to his
sister. Lady Mabella had been up,  she said, 
and even down,  but she was now reposing after
the fatigues from which she had escaped, and had
reassumed ' the recumbent position' in her private
sitting-room.

You must all run down home,' he said, ' in
November, and help me through with some fellows
that I've got coming to shoot the pheasants.'

Thank you, dearest Gussy ! ' she answered,
gratefully and humbly ; ' we shall be delighted,
I'm sure ! '

He embraced his sister, and made as though
he was about to leave the room. He turned, however,
before he got to the door : 

And I say, Mabel,' he said, ' you must bringdown
the bay filly, you know ! We'll put her
through her paces ! '

Thank you, dearest Gussy ! ' she made answer
once more ; * she will be delighted, I'm sure ! '

Lady Mabella was accustomed to her brother's
peculiar phraseology, and knew at once that by
the bay filly ' he meant Lucy. As I have before

remarked, to Lady Mabella Binks, her brother's
wish was law.

'What do they mean, Algy,' Lucy asked, 
later on in the same day,  finding herself alone
for a few minutes with her male cousin,  ' when
they say of a person that he 'isn't a marrying
maner

'It means one of two things, my dear,' returned
Algernon Binks, who was seldom at a
loss for an answer ;  ' it means either that he
positively can't bear the sight of women at all,
hates and abominates the whole lot, and wishes
every one of them at the bottom of the Eed Sea ; 
or else, that he's so awfully taken up with one
particular woman that he hasn't time to think
about marrying any of the others. That's about
the English of it!'

Certainly Colonel Hepburn's manner towards
her had not impressed her with the notion that he
had wished her * at the bottom of the Eed Sea ! '

CHAPTER XXI.

It was towards the middle of the month of
November,  early in the afternoon of a grey
and rather melancholy-looking day.

Lucy Barlow was seated in an ancient throne-like
chair in the banqueting-hall at Belmorris
Castle, gazing into the fire which glowed in an
enormous grate between two heraldic chimney -
dogs. All her surroundings were stately,  feudal,
imposing.

The lofty walls of the apartment were of dark-coloured
oak,  panelled at regular intervals with
full-length family portraits in ruffs and farthingales.
Between the pictures,  shields, lances,
and battle-axes were arranged in patterns. The
floor was of stone,  worn into uneven dents and
pathways by the passing to and fro of many feet,
with Oriental rugs flung down here and thereto
give an air of modern comfort.

Lucy was dressed as tliougli for an afternoon
gallop,  in a neatly-fitting riding-habit;  and
was absently drawing patterns in the ashes with
her whip.

At her feet, upon a low wickerwork chair,
was seated Algernon Binks. His fair hair was
roughed up unbecomingly, and he looked flushed
and excited. Xo doubt when he grew older, he
might become handsome, as his features were
good, and he was considerably above the middle
height, but he did not look handsome now.

'I say, Lucy,' he exclaimed earnestly, as he
propelled himseK towards her upon his wicker
chair ; * Do think over seriously what I spoke
to you about the other day ! . It's not so
impossible, really, my dear, as you seem to
think!' . . .

Oh, Algy I ' cried Lucy impatiently ; ' you
know I told you that you oughtn't to talk such
nonsense ! How you would repent in a few years
if I was silly, or wicked, enough, to encourage
you ! Whj', you're younger than / am and I
was only twenty last September! Men, very
often, don't marry till they're over forts'

That's a thing that'll improve soon enough ! '
returned Algy, as he smoothed the down upon his

upper lip. 'Surely you'd rather have a young
husband than an old one?'

I'm not thinking of a husband at all. I consider
that /,  as well as you,  am much too young
to marry, and, besides, we shouldn't have any
money:  we should have to go to the workhouse ! '

'Oh, lots of people get married, now, upon
nothing at all ! ' replied Algy, carelessly. ' You
see, when I pass for the army, I shall have my
pay;  and, just at first, we could live a good deal
upon our relations. That old aunt of yours, I
should think, would " cut-up " well ;  rather a
tight-fisted old lady,  as far as I remember, 
never tipped me, I recollect, when I was a
youngster. And, afterwards, we might take a
tiny, tiny little house,  somewhere in Bury
Street,  or South Kensington,  and we'd buy
everything at the Co-operative Stores, and only
keep maid-servants,  and we'd have a bicycle
instead of a brougham,  or one of those double,
newfangled things,'  he added tenderly,  ' upon
which we could both go,  you know,  and we'd
write all our letters upon half jenny post-cards !
And then, as to the future,  why ; when my
Uncle Belmorris dies. . . .'

He paused abruptly, hearing a brisk footstep

approaching, and the nobleman in question, 
neatly equipped for riding,  came through the
loHiere at the further end of the hall,  looking
as though he was in no hurry to gratify the
expectations of his heirs.

What ? ready in time ! ' he exclaimed upon
perceiving Lucy. ' You're certainly a wonderful
woman ! Feel equal to riding *' Mustard " ? '

' Mustard ' was one of Lord Belmorris's many
hunters, and was pronounced by everyone of his
many grooms to be as quiet as a lamb. He had
never carried a lady, however, but had been
going through a careful training to this end, 
with a horseflesh flapping against his left side ;
and was now reported to be 'perfectly safe.'

Ever since Lucy Barlow had been at Bel-morris,
 and she and her relations,  the Binkses
had been staying there, now, for nearly three
weeks,  its noble owner had spared no pains in
order to initiate her to nearly every manner of
field sport. At his particular request, she had
provided herself with a riding-habit,  Adeliza
having supplied her with the address of a fashionable
tailor, and after giving her a few private
lessons in equitation,  at which she had proved
herself an apt and willing pupil,  his lordship)

had escorted lier, in turn with this niece, to most
of the near meets of foxhounds,  providing, most
considerately, a carriage in which she could return
in safety upon the dajs on which he himself
continued to follow the hounds.

Notwithstanding that she was,  as yet,  a
mere novice in horsemanship, Lucy possessed
(so Lord Belmorris informed her) a most excellent
'seat,'  perhaps from the fact that she
was naturally graceful,  and she was, likewise,
extremely intrepid,  possibly from her ignorance
of the many dangers which may attend inexperienced
riding.

She found the exercise itself perfectly delightful.
It was quite a revelation to her to feel
the springy movement of the hunter beneath her,
as she galloped through the fresh wintry air
accompanied b} her kind and attentive ' caretaker.'
What a different sensation to that of
riding a donkey ! . . . She had made her first
acquaintance with shooting, too, although about
this sport she could feel but little enthusiasm.
Adeliza, to whom these things were not new, had
walked out with the sportsmen during the large
shooting-party of the previous week,  which had
now dispersed,  and had chronicled the number

of innocent creatures slaughtered by Iter uncle,
with the aid of a little instrument having hands
something like a watch. But, when it had come
to Lucy's turn to perform the same service, (which
she did at Lord Belmorris's particular request,)
she had felt nervous and miserable during the
whole time. The noise of the guns,  going off
so close to her ears,  alarmed her dreadfully, 
she pitied the pheasants too much to be able to
admire the most accomplished shots,  whilst the
screams of the poor hares,  crying out,  as they
did,  just like babies, positively made her heart
bleed. Altogether, she was not sorry when the
big shoots ' came to an end. Algernon Binks
went out occasionally with his uncle in the early
morning,  when game was required for the
house, and 'potted about,'  as he termed it, 
in the near woods, but Lucy's disagreeable duties
as assistant-marker were now over.

Upon leaving the house,  on the da about
which I am writing,  Lucy and her cavalier
proceeded through the park, and then, by lanes and
devious ways, until they reached the open country
beyond. This, for the most part, was wild, grand,
and rather desolate-looking,  compared,  at any
rate,  to the suburban scenery to which Lucy

lead been accustomed. Vast moorland tracts,
stretching apparently for miles, met the eye upon
every side. Here and there, they passed through
fields of plough and pasture,  much larger than
any fields that Lucy had ever seen,  or they
skirted a dark mass of forest and underwood,
-which, by its enclosing fence, seemed to indicate
the park of some local magnate. Strange unfamiliar
birds,  plovers, waterfowl, and, now and
again, a long-legged heron with huge flapping
wings, flew across their path, and up into the
grey heavens, startled by the tread of the horses.
They passed but few cottages,  cheerless and comfortless
dwellings to look at, (so Lucy thought,)
without either gardens or orchards,  about which
hard-featured women were squatting,  for the
most part unoccupied,  gazing out at the wild
landscape from inter their beetle brows. Some
few of these curtseyed rather surlily, as the riders
went by, but the majority took no notice of
them.

We're rather a rough set about here,' Lord
Belmorris explained ; ' but we speak the truth,
and hate all shams and '' bunkum." Kick our
wives to death, and that kind of thing, when,
they deserve it, but we're not ashamed to confess

to it afterwards, and we " swing " for it like men.
ISot a bad lot, take 'em as a whole ! '

It must be nice to feel that everybody speaks
the truth, though I'm afraid that wouldn't make
cue forgive being kicked to death,' replied Lucy,
smiling.

I think,' Lord Belmorris went on, ' without
any humbug, that, in these parts, we've stronger
likings and hastings than other people. It's
not worth while liking everybody one comes
across, or hating them either, and it takes us
some time making up our minds as to whether
a thing's "chalk " or first-rate. But once they're
made up, they're made up for good, and I don't
believe that Eton or Harrow, or the army or the
navy,  or all the women in the world,  white,
black, or copper-coloured,  could ever make a
Korth- countryman quite like a Southerner, for
we're a peculiar people, and just as obstinate as
the Devil ! '

The ostensible object of this particular ride
had been to fall in with the fox-hunters. The
nearest meet had been too far off for either of
the young ladies to go to, but Lord Belmorris
had made nearly sure that the hounds would
draw towards the direction in which they were

going, in which case he and Lucy might have
followed them for a little while * with their
heads '  as he expressed it,  * towards their own
stable.*

They had seen no trace of them, however,
so, as they were some way from home, and as
it became dark, now, pretty early in the afternoon.
Lord Belmorris proposed,  after they had
ridden on for about another mile, that they
should retrace their steps. By cantering across
a large ploughed field which lay to their right,
they could get b} a shorter cut into the main
road.

They turned in at the gate, therefore, and
made for an opening at the further end of the
field. Mustard,' finding,  perhaps,  that he
was being urged in a homeward direction, soon
broke from a canter into a gallop,  a much
faster and more determined gallop than Lucy
had ever experienced before.

Don't give him his head too much I ' shouted
Lord Belmorris, who was now some way behind.

Sit tight ! ' she heard him call out by and
by,  but his voice sounded, now, quite a long
way off.

Lucy now realised that * Mustard ' was running

away. At first, it was anything but an
unpleasant sensation. Half the ploughed field
was before her;  in so much open sjoace it did
not seem as if they could come to any real
harm. The wind whistled in her ears, and large
clods of earth were scattered to the right and
left. Her hat was soon blown off, and her hair,
which she fancied she had secured so firmly,
became unfastened, and floated behind her like
a banner.

At first she felt a good deal more astonished
than frightened. At the extreme end of the
field there was a gap in the stone wall, through
which Lucy and her host had intended passing,
but she soon perceived that ' Mustard,'  instead
of malting for this gap,  was urging his mad
career towards the stone wall itself,  beyond
which there was, evidently, a considerable drop,
for she could only discern the tops of the shrubs
which grew upon the other side.

At the idea of this terrific jump, Lucy's
heart failed her, and inspired by fear, she did
what was, perhaps, the only thing to be done.
Leaning back, she brought her whole strength
to bear upon the reins, and succeeded in turning
'Mustard's' head to the right just as he came

up to twig wall. He plunged and struggled fora
while,  as though bent upon carrying out his
original intention, and Lucy, who was, b} this
time, pale with terror, ran great danger of being
thrown. But, just as she was giving herself
up for lost. Lord Belmorris came up with her,
and seized the reins. He, too, had been seriously
alarmed, and had felt powerless to render her
any assistance, being afraid that if he pursued
her too closely, the sound of hoofs would only
have urged on her impetuous steed. He bestowed
great praise upon her for the adroit manner in
which she had contrived to avert a catastrophe,
and,  with some difficulty  seeing that  Mustard'
still displayed signs of insubordination, 
assisted her to dismount.

Standing,  pale as her sark ' with dishevelled
tresses, in the middle of a ploughed field,  the
grey clouds drifting over her uncovered head,
Lucy presented an interesting but disconsolate
picture. Seeing that all danger was over, however,
she soon regained her presence of mind.

Lord Belmorris was jerking at * Mustard's '
head with some show of irritation.

Oh, don't hurt it, poor thing ! ' Lucy called
out ; ' perhaps it didn't really mean any harm I '

!Notwitlistaiiding that lie lead now fairly recovered
lier courage, and that * Mustard too,
seemed somewhat quieted. Lord Behnorris refused
to allow her to remount. But, as they were at
least ten miles from home, and there did not
appear to be any human habitation within sight,
it was not easy, at once, to settle upon a plan
of action. Pending a decision, Lucy went off
in search of her hat. When she had recovered
it, she saw that Lord Belmorris was riding off
towards a distant corner of the field, and beckoning
to her to follow. He was making for a small
shed, in which, no doubt, he thought of securing
the horses, and where she would be able to rearrange
her disordered attire.

She laboured along as she best could. Someway
from the shed Lord Belmorris met her, on
foot, and assisted her towards it with his arm.

Upon entering the shed or bothie,' she saw
that it was much larger than it had appeared
from a distance. It had evidently been erected asa
shelter for cattle, or as a feeding-place for man
and beast during the intervals of ploughing. It
was thatched neatly with dry heather, and was
provided, inside, with a rough manger and plenty
of clean straw.

What a nice cosy little place ! ' cried Lucy,
looking round with satisfaction.

It did, indeed, feel delightfully warm and
comfortable, and, after plodding along in the
teeth of the wind, seemed quite like a haven of
rest.

You must sit down here and keep quiet for a
bit,' said Lord Belmorris, proceeding to build up
a convenient resting place with heather and straw;
and we'll settle up the hair, and won't hurry
ourselves the least bit in the world. We shall
get back all right, I hope, for I've made up my
mind what to do.'

He had fastened the horses to the manger
with a couple of halters which he had fortunately
discovered, and he now seated himself b}" Lucy's
side upon his improvised divan, at a safe distance
from their heels.

I shall change the saddles,' he explained, ' as
soon as I've set you to rights a little, and you
shall go home upon " Merlin," who's just as quiet
as an old pig.'

Merlin ' was the horse he had been riding
himself, accounted even more lamb-like than
'Mustard;' but somewhat rougher in his paces,
and, consequently, not so suitable for a lady.

This was why Lucy had not been mounted
U23on him in the first instance.

Two hair-pins were luckily discovered in
Lucy's veil, for all the others had been hopelessly
dispersed, and with the help of these, and of
Lord Belmorris, she commenced re-arranging her
dishevelled locks.

I'm not half such a " duffer "as I was,' he
said, with some pride.

He was alluding, no doubt, to the evening at
Hampton Court when he had pinned his * buttonhole
' on to her dress, and thinking that this was-not
the first occasion upon which he had performed
for her the duties of a lady's-maid.

satiate hair it is ! ' he added admiringly, ashe
stuck in the last of the two pins.

In this out-of-the-way shelter, Lucy and her
companion seemed to be as far removed from all
external influence and interruption, as Crusoe and
his man Friday upon their desert isle. Through
the opening that served for a door, they could see
nothing but a desolate expanse of brown plough-land,
dotted over with white-breasted plovers,.
that, unsuspicious of their near vicinity, had
alighted close by in considerable numbers. Overhead,
the grey wintry clouds went drifting past,.
VOL, T. y

revealing, as they were rent asunder in their
hurry, a glimpse of pale primrose towards the
western horizon.

AYhat a grateful sense of withdrawal from the
striving world,  of privacy,  of remoteness,  of
blessed and uninterrupted communion,  might
she not have experienced upon this very same
November afternoon, if only Lord Belmorris
could have been suddenly transformed into sofnc-
body else ! For, kind as he was, he did not
seem to her to be quite the right person for the
situation.

Had Lucy possessed any experience of life,
she might, perhaps, have reflected that the remaining
for an hour or more,  even with the
 right person,* in a desolate cow-shed,  is not
always productive of results calculated to render
smoother one's after-journey, and she might
have felt some sort of secret thankfulness for
the security of her actual position.

She knew nothing, however, of such matters ;
and so was conscious only of a hungry yearning
at her heart which she could in nowise have
translated into words.

By-and-by, Lord Belmorris got up, and consulted
his watch.

We must be jogging on again he said sighing,
as he helped her to rise. * It's turned four
o'clock, and we shan't be back till long after
dark. I shall think of to day,' he added, looking
her full in the face ; ' whenever I come upon this
cow-shed, all the days of my life ! '

 I shall often think of to-day, too,' returned
Lucy simply ; ' though I don't suppose I shall
ever see this shed again.'

CHAPTER XXII.

There are, no doubt, days upon which horses,
like human beings, seem, as it were, to be possessed
of the devil.

Lord Belmorris bad taken the man's saddle
from bis own horse, and placed it upon 'Mustard,'
and be then set to work to arrange the side-saddle
upon the back of 'Merlin.' He bad just succeeded,
after some effort, in girthing it on
securely,  when ' Merlin,'  of all horses in the
world,  ' Merlin,  accounted almost too quiet
and sluggish for convenience,  scared, possibly
by something altogether novel in the situation,
broke away suddenly from the manger, and with
a frightened, swerving movement, dashed past
Lucy, out of the door of the ' botbie,' and was
very soon lost to view. Anything less like the
behaviour of ' an old pig ' could scarcely have
e en imagined.

Averse done ! ' exclaimed Lord Belmorris,
with a low whistle; 'we'd better set about making
ourselves comfortable for the night.'

Lucy looked at him inquiringly. Was he
really in earnest, or only giving her a specimen
of his ' dry wit ? '

Shall we really have to stay here all night ? '
she asked with concern.

Unless you feel up to walking ten miles, I
don't see what else we can do ; for I'm not going
to put you on that nasty brute again,  besides
which, we've only the man's saddle.'

How were they possibly to get home ?

The problem wovild have been much less
difficult to solve if ' Mustard ' had been the lamb-like
creature he had been represented as being.
Lord Belmorris might then, perhaps, have rigged
up some sort of side-saddle, well versed as he was
in all kinds of stable-work, and with the help
of his own coat, and one of the old halters, arranged
that Lucy should have been securely
mounted, whilst he walked by her side, like a
page of the olden-time, leading her bridle-rein.
He might even have invented some kind of
pillion, upon which she could have ridden behind
him, and which would have been almost as pleasant

and sociable a nicthod of locomotion as the
double tricycle alluded to by Algernon Sink?.
But 'Mustard in his present uncertain mood,
would not have been like' to brook any departure
from the beaten track, and it might be rash,
therefore, to subject him to experiments.

I've been lodged for the night in many a
worse crib than this,' remarked Lord Belmorris,
as he leant against the entrance of the shed and
flicked at the posts with his whip.

Lucy, too, was leaning against the doorway
and looking out at the desolate landscape.

Twilight was fast gathering aroundthcm, and
great violet clouds were floating across the pale
lemon of the distant sky. The line of park-woods
which they had passed on their way,
looked like a mass of shadowy vapour collected
to the extreme right. The white-breasted plovers
had all of them disappeared, and a bat had commenced
its monotonous flitting to and fro, so near
to them that they coidd feel the air stirred by its
wings upon their cheeks.

It'll be dark in half-an-hour,' said Lord
Belmorris, after he had again consulted his watch.
Dazzled by the reflection from the evening sky,
he had some difficulty in discerning the time.

By-and-b}, lie went back into the botbie and
began unfastening ' Mustard's ' baiter.

I think there's a way of getting borne, after
all be said ; ' I'd quite forgotten the coal-pit.'

He bad perceived the shaft in the distance,
and it occurred to bim that, perhaps, the colliers
might be able to furnish them with some rough
kind of conveyance.

And, I daresay, you won't mind if it's only
a wheelbarrow,' be said ; * so long as you're able
to get bone ? For my own part, I'd rather bave
remained on bere ! '

He led * Mustard ' out of the shed as be was
sjDcaking.

You'll bave to stay bere all by yourself,
I'm afraid,' be said, as be mounted bis horse.
Don't get into any mischief ; you may be sure
that I'll be back as soon as I can.'

He put spurs to bis horse, and set off across
the brown ploughed field in the direction of the
coal-pit.

As it happened, Lucy was not sorry to bave a
short time to herself . Tbe last three weeks bad
seemed to ber like a dream, and sbe bad seldom
found herself alone at moments when sbe felt
capable of reflection or self-examination.

During the five months which had intervened
between her visit to Hampton Court Palace and
this darkening November afternoon, she had
neither seen nor heard anything of Colonel Hepburn.
He had avoided, as it seemed to her now,
making any inquiries as to her mode of life, or
place of residence, in order that he might be
secured against any future entanglement. By
the light of a daily-increasing experience, his behaviour
seemed to admit of only one interpretation
; he had met her by a mere accident,  he
had liked her just sufficiently well to prevent
him from wishing her * at the bottom of the Eed
Sea;'  being a inrfii,  and prone, therefore, to
yield to the temptation of the moment, he had
permitted her to perceive this languid liking in
order that she might minister to his vanity, and
help him to play at sentiment when he had had
nothing pleasant to do ! He had kissed her,
it is true, and his kisses were as the kisses of no
other man could ever be,  they had seemed to
her even as a sacrament,  sealing her for ever as
his own ; but, no doubt  (as men were so different
from women)  he had been merely obeying
the impulse of the moment; and, now, she was
either utterly and entirely forgotten, or hopelessly

confused, in this mind, with the heroines of
many another moonlight flirtation ! Those sacred
moments, which must linger in her memory forever,
which had changed, as it were, the whole
colour and current of her existence, had merely
provided him with an amusing episode between a
valse and a quadrille ! They had met, and now
they had parted ; and he had no desire either to
see her, or to hear of her again, or to renew any
of his fleeting impressions, because he was ' not a
marnjiitg man ! ' She had helped him to pass
what might have been otherwise but a wearisome
evening, and now she had served her turn and
was done with! This was all. Perhaps, in time,
and with the help of the bitterness that such
musings brought with them, she, too, might
have strength given her to forget, but this time
had not come quite yet.

Alas I had Lucy only known that, at this very
moment,  when the object of her thoughts was,
for aught she suspected to the contrary, 
separated from her in body, spirit, and association,
her feet were actually set upon his inheritance ;
if she had guessed that this brown, ploughed
field,  with the horses that had laboured in it, 
were, alike, his property, and that the long line

of shadowy woodland, hard by, was the boundary-lino
of his home ;  she might, indeed, have marvelled,
 as she had marvelled once before,  at
the strange and unexpected workings of destiny !

When Lord Belmorris returned, it was very
nearly dark. Lucy was so absorbed in her reverie,
that she did not hear his horse's tread upon the
soft ground until he was quite close at hand.

It's all right,' he said, cheerfully ; ' if you
can manage to walk as far as the *' coal-hole."
I shall leave *' Mustard " here,  where an intelligent
youth will see to his requirements till I can
send over for him, and I've sent out scouts to bring
back "Merlin." We shall have a rough kind of
carriage for the first part of the wa}'-, for I've
settled that we're to be run down in a truck with
the coals ; but I've a friend who lives a little
further on, and if we're set down near his place,
I daresay I can borrow a '' shay " to drive you
home in. Sorry to say it looks a good deal like
rain.'

They quitted their Crusoe-hut, and skirted
the ploughed field, along a narrow footway
bounded by a low stone wall. It was so dark
now, that Lucy could scarcely see her way, and
could only blindly follow Lord Bclmorris's lead.

By the time tlicj readied what lie had designated
the * coal-hole,' it was raining steadily, and
Lucy, in her clinging riding-habit, would have
stumbled over the rough ground but for her companion's
arm.

A group of colliers were awaiting their arrival,
having come to an end of their day's labour.
They were sullenly smoking their pipes in the
rain,  wearing empty coal-sacks across their
shoulders like shawls. Two of them carried
lanterns, with which they lighted Lucy and Lord
Eelmorris to the trucks.

This single line of rough railway, ran from
the mouth of the pit to a village some few miles
distant, whence the coal was conveyed by regular
trains to the nearest manufacturing toATi. The
engine went only at a foot's pace, and it was to
be stopped at a spot which Lord Eelmorris had
indicated to the driver.

Notwithstanding the sacking which the colliers
had spread at the bottom of the open truck,
Lucy soon felt that she was becoming as black asa
chimney-sweep. Everything she touched was
black, wet, and chilling. The rain was still
falling, and knowing nothing of the locality, it
seemed to her as if they were making their way

through a rcahn of impenetrable darkness. lord
Behnorris sat close b} at her side. He had
pulled up the collars of his coat, and was softly-humming
to himself,  with no particular attempt
at tune. The time appeared to Lucy to go with
extraordinary slowness. By-and-by, Lord Bel-morris
called out to the engine-driver, and with a
good deal of scraping and grating, the coal trucks
came to a stand still. Lucy was assisted to
descend from her uncomfortable position, and,
after crossing the railway in the direction of a
scaling Which ran parallel with the line, they
passed through a white gate and found themselves
in front of a neat-looking lodge.

Lord Belmorris went to the door, and tapped
at it with the handle of his whijD. A tall man,
looking like a game-keeper, appeared in answer to
the summons.

He recognised Lord Belmorris at once, notwithstanding
his drenched condition, and invited
him respectfully to enter the cottage. Lucy followed
:  she felt by this time, rather chilled and
exhausted, and the sight of a cheerful fire was
very pleasant. Lord Belmorris explained the
situation, and asked the keeper if he could lend
the young lady ' a change of raiment whilst her

riding-habit was being dried. Perhaps bis wife
could find something wbicb sbe could slip on to
go borne in ? . . . .

Lucy was grateful to ber kind most for ibis
paternal solicitude, but it turned out that the
keeper was a widower. He pointed to three small
children engaged at the tea-table with their bread
and butter : 

They've not got no mother, now,' he remarked
sadly.

Lord Belmorris was evidently vexed at having
touched inadvertently upon so painful a subject.

We'll walk on to the house, then,' be said to
Lucy. ' It's not far off,  and get hold of the old
housekeeper, who is a friend of mine. Anybody
at home ? ' he inquired, turning to the keeper.

The man replied in the negative, and invited
his unexpected visitors to partake of tea before
they again set off to brave the elements.

Lucy would willingly have availed herself of
this invitation, but Lord Belmorris, remarking
that she woidd most certainly be laid up with an.
ague if she sat for a moment longer in her damp
clothes, hurried ber out of the cottage and into
the night.

There was neither moon nor star to be seen ;

lout it was not too dark for Lord Belmorrls, who,
apparently knew the way well,  to distinguish.
path from brushwood. Lucy clung to his arm in
silence, as thc} threaded their way through what
seemed to be a shrubbery of young spruces. The
rain had now almost ceased, but the drip from
the overhanging branches pattered down upon
their heads at every step. By-and-by they
passed through some sort of defining boundary,
and the trees, so far as Lucy could perceive, 
appeared to be of much larger dimensions. The
pathway became smoother and better tended ; it
was as though they had entered the pleasure-grounds
belonging to an extensive park. Suddenly,
they emerged from this * mystery of
covered ways,' and Lucy could dimly distinguish,
before her, an open space, studded over with trees
trimmed into a variety of fantastic shapes, beyond
which there arose what looked like a vast and
shadowy palace.

Here and there, upon the basement-floor,
lights twinkled at some of the many windows.
Lord Belmorris, with Lucy still clinging to his
arm, made his way across the lawn, and up to
the front-door, which was approached by a broad
flight of marble steps.

He rang the bell, and as the sound of ft reechoed
through the house, a deep-mouthed watchdog,
in some distant courtyard, began to howl
furiously

I wonder,' said Lord Belmorris, as they
waited together upon the door-step, 'whether
you remember a fellow you met last summer, at
Hampton Court ? . . . . Anthony Hepburn ; 
nice fellow,  good-looking,  well off,  lives down
here in my part of the world ? . . . . This is
his place.'

Angels and ministers of grace defend me ! '
thought poor Lucy,  although, possibly, not in
these very identical words.

CHAPTER XXIII.

Colonel Hepburn,  and for this Lord Bclmorris
had been prepared by the keeper,  was,  at the
present moment,  absent from Falconboroiigh
Park. The housekeeper, however,  a kind,
motherly dame,  who informed Lucy that she
had been the Colonel's nurse,  having taken him,
she explained, * f rom the month';  said, however,
that he was expected shortly,  for a few
days' shooting. A friend,  an officer in his
regiment,  a Captain Sparshott,  she believed,
was to accompany him, and there were, consequently,
two bedrooms all ready aired and prepared,
in which his lordship and the young lady
could set themselves in order after their drenching.
The worthy dame would search amongst
the Colonel's effects,  she said,  for some sort of
warm cloak or wrapper, which Lucy might don
in place of her soaking riding-habit ;  whilst the

butler went at once to the stables to order that
the brougham might be prepared to convey
them back to Belmorris after they bad partaken
of tea.

Lord Belmorris seemed to be well known to
the few servants remaining at Falconborough.
He was popular with all classes, and they commenced
vying with one another in their attentions
to the wet and belated wanderers.

Looking upon life and its strange combinations,
with the eye of an experienced philosopher
whom nothing can shock, astonish, or disconcert
;  knowing, too, the extravagant demands
and requirements of *the voracious goddess of
Romance,'  I feel that I need scarcely be at the
pains of informing my readers into which of the
two luxuriously furnished sleeping apartments
Lucy found that she had been ushered.

The door was closed upon her, and she looked
about her as one in a dream.

His room,  where every visible object, in its
very minutest detail, breathed and whispered to
her of him ! . . . . These walls had enclosed
him ;  on these pictures his eyes had rested, 
yonder mirror had reflected his beloved form, 
this happy carpet had been pressed beneath his

VOL. I. X

feet,  upon that iron bedstead, in the corner, he
had reposed when he was weary ! . . . .

Oh, strange, portentous, and unexpected chance
that had led her,  Lucy Barlow,  into this sacred,
spirit-haunted chamber ;  by tortuous and mysterious
ways,  situated, as it was, in a county
separated by very nearly the whole length and
breadth of the map of England from Clapham
Common ! . . . .

The housekeeper knocked at the door before
Lucy had recovered from her bewilderment. She
brought with her a long, heavy garment, grinned
with Astrachan wool and lined with grey
squirrel.

What the Colonel always speaks of as his
"old campaigner'" she explained, as she gave it
into Lucy's hand.

This cloak,  likewise eloquent of its absent
possessor,  seemed to Lucy like the last straw ina
whole camel-load of coincidences.

*What is the use of struggling any longer
against one's destiny?' she thought, as she took it
from the housekeeper's hands.

As Boon as she was again alone, she made an
examination of the room and its contents,  scrutinising
every object with intense and almost

painful interest. Two pictures,  hanging upon
either side of the bed,  particularly arrested her
attention, for in each of them, it seemed to her,
that there was something of him.

One was the portrait,  in miniature,  of a very
beautiful woman, dressed in the fashion of some
five-and-twenty, or thirty, sears ago. Evidently
from the likeness to Colonel Hepburn, this portrait
represented his mother, and Lucy found herself
contemplating it with mingled feelings of tenderness
and admiration.

The other was a miniature of quite a young
child,  the date of which it was less easy to determine,
seeing that only the head was represented,
without dress or adornment, emerging,  like
an angel's,  from the clouds. Probably, (Lucy
thought,) this was the portrait of a sister of
Colonel Hepburn's, who might have died young,
for,  as in the case of the beautiful lady upon the
other side,  the child possessed his eyes,  and
indeed the whole face seemed to her to be f amiKar
by reason of its resemblance to his.

Thinking that Lord Belmorris would be awaiting
her by this time, she next commenced making
her toilet,  during which she had the privilege of
smoothing her dishevelled tresses with an ivory

hair-brush, upon the back of which, under the
presentment of two heraldic creatures were the
initials ' A. H.' disposed in monogram.

The using of this sacred hair-brush caused
Lucy intense emotion,  but she was afraid to linger
any longer,  and so, set about arraying herself
in her novel costume.

She took up the *old campaigner,' and examined
it with attention. It was well-worn, (worn
by him ! . . .) and weather-beaten, and its name
seemed highly appropriate. She examined the
pockets,  the buttons,  the military * frogs,' and
then wrapped it round her as she stood before the
looking-glass. The arms were, of course, very
much too long, and the waist-band,  for there was
one attached to it,  came a great deal too low
down. Lucy turned up the cuffs to the proper
height, and, drawing the band out of its slides,
tied it round her waist in a bow. The effect was
anything but unbecoming. It was astonishing
how well it fitted her,  upon the whole,  and, as
it reached down very nearly to her feet, it felt
delightfully warm and comfortable. Then, 
after several fond and foolish little fetishisms, 
which for the honour and glory of my sex, I

should be loath to reveal,  she tore herself from
the hallowed chamber and rejoined Lord Belmorris
below stairs.

She found him established in the library. He,
too, had made several changes in his costume.
He was delighted with the appearance she
presented arrayed in the *old campaigner,'
although he declared that she looked for all
the world like *a most ferocious little Afghan;*
and as he had travelled about a good deal, he
probably knew exactly what an Afghan was
like.

Lucy wished that she could have been left to
herself if only for a few moments. She longed to
dwell and linger over every object in this library,
as she had done in the room above. Being of
spacious dimensions, it was but dimly lighted by
the one pair of candles which the butler had set
upon a table, and she would have liked to have
penetrated into every nook and corner.

But Lord Belmorris' s presence rendered any
private investigations impossible, and he was,
besides, somewhat impatient to get home. Supposing,
 as might well have happened,  that
Merlin,' with his riderless saddle, had found his

way back to his own stable,  there was no telling
what alarm bis presence might not bave created.
As soon, therefore, as they bad partaken of tea.
Lord Belmorris proposed that they should set off,
and Lucy passed out,  probably,  as sbe thought,
for all time,  of this bouse wbicb was now
Anthony Hepburn's borne.

Sbe could see but little of the ' deer park,' as
they drove towards the lodge-gates,  on account
of the darkness. How often he must bave taken
bis way beneath these overhanging branches ! (she
was thinking). Where was he note,  upon this
very evening ? . . . Had he any sort of presentiment
that some one,  altogether forgotten,  it
might be,  some one about whom be bad never,
perhaps, thought seriously at all!  bad crossed,
thus accidentally, the threshold of his home, and
was being driven through the darkness over the
old familiar ground ? . . .

Lucj felt very grateful to her companion for
bis silence, as it enabled her to dream on. Knowing
as he did, however, the geography of the
country, be became aware, after some time had
elapsed, that they were approaching home. Then,
and not till then, be seemed to awaken from what

was probably, also,  a reverie. He drew nearer
to her, and took possession of ber band in its
manly sleeve.

Tell me,  little woman,' be said, ' for you
know that I'm your Father-Confessor, and you're
bound to tell me every thing ;  bave you enjoyed
yourself to-day ;  bave you bad a good time,  bas
to-day been a bappj day ?'

He spoke very earnestly, and was no doubt
looking at ber earnestly as well,  if sbe could only
bave seen the expression of bis face, and be bad
quite put aside, for the moment, the language of
the stable-helper.

Lucy did not exactly know whether sbe was
expected to bave 'enjoyed' the running away of
Mustard,'  the time passed amongst the coals, 
or their walks through plough and brushwood in
the drenching rain. Tbe last portion of the eventful
day bad been too much fraught with varied
emotions to be altogether what might be termed
enjoyable,' but of course Lord Belmorris coidd
know nothing of this.

We seem to have gone through a great deal,'
she answered, ' and to have bad a great many
unexpected adventures. It's different from any

other day I have ever passed before, and this has
made it seem a good deal longer

It's different from any other day that / have
ever passed either returned Lord Belmorris,
earnestly. 'It's about the happiest day I ever
passed in my life, and this has made it seem a
good deal shorter ! ' and with this they drove upto
the door of Belmorris Castle.

CHAPTER Xxii.

But it is time that I should return to Barlow
Lodge and its venerable inmate.

Miss Elizabeth Barlow's line of conduct had
been greatly simplified by the fact that Mr. Pod-more
had remained at Liverpool much longer than
he had originally intended. Upon his return, 
soon after Lucy came home from Hampton Court,
he had appeared to be entirely occupied with
business,  and he had still further relieved Miss
Elizabeth's mind by begging that, for the present,
she would postpone making known his wishes with
regard to her great-niece.

Monsieur de la Yieilleroche,  who in common
with most Frenchmen, prided himself upon his
powers of observation,  was ready, he declared, to
wager a very considerable sum, that Mr. Podmore's
affairs were going through some alarming and
critical phase. Mr. Podmore himself accounted

for the extra attention wliicli he had been obliged
to devote to his business in a variety of different
wajs,  having to do, for the most part, with commercial
fluctuations, which Miss Elizabeth,  who
did not possess a very keen intelligence with
regard to business matters,  was unable altogether
to understand.

I have become convinced,'  he had remarked
to her upon one occasion,  ' that industry, probity,
and attention, are not, now, sufficient in a
business upon so large a scale as that in which I
have embarked. Other accessories are needed.
My heads of departments are well chosen ;  I
have taken infinite trouble with respect to essentials,
 but there is,  as it were,  a lighter and
more attractive element required. Some young
gentleman of fashion,  who could advance the
interests of our house in West-end circles,
would be able to render me the most valuable
assistance ; and I think I may almost say, at the
present moment, that I see my way to securing
the services of some such an eligible person.'

Mr. Podmore had drawn himself up to his full
height after this speech, and had patted his waistcoat
as only a man who was solvent and prosperous
would have had the heart to pat it,  so

Miss Elizabeth thought,  and, soon afterwards, he
had again left home for the purpose,  as he
stated,  of making arrangements for the engagement
of a fashionable partner.

At about this time the  Infant ' who was the
real possessor of ' The Aspens ' had attained his
majority, and decided upon disposing of the
remainder of the lease. Mr. Podmore, as the
reader may remember, had long coveted this
property, and a report soon became current in the
neighbourhood to the effect that he was making
preparations for its purchase.

The old French Professor,  acting as Lucy's
friend,  and repudiating for this reason, any
notions as to Mr. Podmore's great wealth, was of
opinion, he said, that this accession of territory
could not be obtained in the present equivocal
state of his affairs except by borrowing the
necessary funds ; and he was extremely sinister
in his surmises as to the insecurity of Mr.
Podmore's financial position.

Indeed, my dear Marquis,' Miss Elizabeth
had replied to some of these unfavourable insinuations,
' I feel certain that,  for a wonder, 
you are entirely mistaken ! Mr. Podmore ujDon
obtaining possession of this property, has some

grand project for making it yield double and
treble its present return. If he can only persuade
the person now living at "The Aspens," 
the lady with whom you are acquainted,  to quit
the place before the expiration of her lease,  he
woidd begin at once to carry out his scheme. I
hope this may be the means of restoring your
confidence,  otherwise I should have kept the
fact a profound secret ! '

But for all this, ever since Lucy had been
invited to stay at Belmorris Castle, her great-aunt
had taken much less interest in the affairs of
her consequential neighbour. I need not say
what ambitious dreams were agitating her aged
breast,  for the reader has been made aware of
them already.

there is the key of the large tin box under
my bed,' she had said to Sarah soon after she had
been informed of the invitation : ' take it, my
good girl, and get out,  with great care,  my set
of ermine trimmings which you will find, just
inside, done up in blue paper. Shake them well,
each piece separately, and then hang them over
the back of a chair near the open window in Miss
Lucy's bedroom,  not in mines  for with the
wind in this quarter they will receive the blacks ;

and if you should come upon some large cigars
which, have been placed there to keep off the
moth,  put two or three of them upon the
mantelpiece in the dining-room,  for I should
like to offer them to the Marquis, as he is a
smoker,  when he pays us a visit this evening

In view of a most desirable ilion which did
not seem, now, to be so utterly impossible, 
might it not be expedient that the ermine-trimmings
and the plum-coloured moire-antique
should likewise be joined together?

Lucy, however, seeing that Mr. Podmore was
now so much from home, and knowing nothing
further, as yet, of the proximity of Belmorris
Castle to Falconborough Park,  than that both
places were situated * in the North ; '  shad not
displayed any particular anxiety to accept this
second invitation, and had only done so, eventually,
in obedience to her great-aunt's express desire.
Her Hampton Court experiences had strangely
troubled the placid waters of her existence. Like
a ship which has been tossed and buffeted in
mid-ocean, she had regained her quiet haven,
and she had no wish,  just yet, to jut out again
to sea.

In mind,  in heart,  in appearance, even, 

lie had been a good deal changed by this first
voyage into the unknown. Miss Elizabeth Barlow
was of opinion that she was greatly improved.
She had acquired a certain amount of serviceable
small-talk,  in which, previously to her departure,
she had been altogether deficient ;  she bore
herself with more dignity and assurance, and had
discovered that speech is useful,  sometimes,  for
the purpose of concealing thought. Adeliza
Binks, too, had given her several valuable hints
upon the subject of dress,  about which, however,
she could not,  as yet, feel any very absorbing-interest
;  whilst the society of persons who,
appeared to look upon life entirely in its lighter
and more superficial aspect,  had left its trace
upon her conversation and demeanour.

But Lucy Barlow had been created with one
of those earnest and concentrated natures,  unfortunate,
because existing, nearly always, in a
minority, and oppressed, therefore, with a certain
sense of isolation,  which, in the presence of
trivialities, is cast down and disheartened. She
had been intended to meet, and combat, the
great emergencies of life,  and in the company
of those whose aims were either petty or sordid,
she felt constrained and uncomfortable.

As, however, she was endowed with south,
health, beauty, and,  more uncommon than either
of these,  an admirable sense of honour,  there
were moments when her friends might have
credited her with high spirits, or, her foes with
flippancy. But all such ebullitions were sadly
transient,  mere temporary reactions after some
more than usually pensive mood.

Happiness, rather than pleasure or amusement,
 the happiness which is shared and ministered
to by another,  seemed to her the chief aim
and object of her earthly existence, and she
realized now, that, unknown to herself, she had
been longing for the coming of this other being
even before she had arrived at woman's years.

Lucy's ideal had become,  as it were,  incarnate,
in the person of a good-looking Colonel of
Lancers ; but ajDart from anything having to do
with his outward appearance,  Anthony Hepburn
was possessed of the voice and bearing of a hero
of romance,  and there was something in the
reserve of his ordinary manner, suggestive of the
mystery and incomprehensibility in which an idol
if it is to remain an idol,  ought always to be
shrouded.

!Neo wonder, therefore, that Lucy Barlow had

returned from Hampton Court Palace a changed
woman,  with a look of regretful tenderness in
her brown eyes which Miss Elizabeth had never
observed there before, and which she had not
perceived for many many years past in her ovn.
The woman who feels, upon entering life, that
she is too feeble to stand alone, and who is yet
capable of passionate and unquestioning devotion,
is sorely in need of a guide and comforter who
can be always with her,  by sea as well as by
land, by daylight as well as in the silent watches
of the night ;  who will neither go upon long
journeys, nor be assailed by dangers like husband
or lover,  whose strong arm shall be even as a
shield and buckler, and upon whose bosom she
can rest and be content. Herein,  and apart
from all selfish strivings after the saving of one's
own soul,  lies the real power and consolation of
religion ;  and such consolation is more particularly
grateful to those women who have been
taught by the indifference of man that they
are unfitted for the tenderer, if less enduring,
emotions : 

I was not good enough for man,
And so am given to God,'

sighs Charles Kingsley's 'Ugly Princess.' But

the Lucy of my story was different. Lie was
good enough for man in all conscience, notwithstanding
that the force of her infatuation led her
to humble herself in the presence of the man she
loved. But she had often longed that God Himself
could have seemed to be more near, although
she felt that she could even have 2 rayed better in
the presence of the Beloved. The region, however,
to which she had hitherto conformed, had
not, altogether, satisfied her aspirations, and the
God that had been set u]d above her was too
august and terrible to become her friend.

Miss Barlow the elder,  whilst upholding, in
theory, many of the prejudices and austerities of
the now obsolete Clapham Sect,  had seemingly
draped her spiritual convictions in the garb of an
adaptive conventionality, by which their original
bent had become distorted and obscured ;  and
most of the other followers of the Suburban God
had appeared to Lucy to conform to a creed which
was vulgar, hypocritical, and un-christians intolerant.
Then, suddenly,  in the path of this
girl to whose ardent imagination had been revealed
a God disfigured by man's of the petty
failings of a man,  there had arisen a man
seeming to her to be endowed with the dignity

VOL. I. Y

and nobility of a god, and she had fallen down,
straightway,  and worshipped him.

It was shortly after Lucy's return home from
Hampton Court, that Anthony Hepburn gradually
came to be enshrined in her mind as an Ideal
Being, and she could not prevent herself from
keeping for ever on the alert for his second coming,
whilst feeling, at the same time, that such an
event was in the highest degree improbable.

The stopping of a hansom cab within even
twenty yards of Barlow Lodge, would set her
heart beating with extraordinary rapidity,  whilst
the sight of a tall man in a shooting jacket caused
her almost to faint with emotion. She could see
Anthony Hepburn so plainly in her mind's eye,
that she was always expecting the realisation of
her fancy,  and could never, now, look out of the
Avindow, without a hope and a prayer in her heart.

One morning,  quite early,  about a month
after her return from Hampton Court Palace, 
(for this chapter,  it will be perceived,  is retrospective,)
 so strongly was she possessed with this
infatuation,  that she could almost have believed
that her perpetual prayer had been heard.
A male figure,  clothed as he might perfectly
have been clothed,  and looking,  with its back

towards her,  at least,  just as he might have
looked in a like position,  was seated upon a
public bench a little to the right of the entrance
to Barlow Lodge, reading a newspaper,
and smoking a cigarette. He was some way off,
facing the Common, with the trunk of a lime-tree
rising behind him, and partly concealing his form.
As he was sitting down,  it was possible that, 
when he stood up, he might turn out to be
quite a short man, although he did not look like
one in his present position ; but he was leaning
forward in an attitude which seemed to Lucy to
be almost painfully familiar, and his left ear, and
the half of the back of his head which was not
concealed by the lime-tree, looked, oh, so fearfully
and wonderfully like! . The real Anthony
however, was so mixed up, and confused, in her
imagination, with the Ideal Being, that she could
iot, upon the spur of the moment, indulge in
anything like certainty ; and why in the world,

seeing that he had taken no pains whatever to

discover her whereabouts, should he suddenly
appear to her seated upon a public bench upon
Clapham Common? . . .

Before she had had time to answer this
question, the breakfast-bell had sounded, and

slice liurriecl downstairs to make her great-aunt's
tea, for Miss Elizabeth was the soul of punctuality.

When she had peeped out again,  after her
breakfast, a very ordinary-looking person indeed,
bearing no sort of resemblance to either the real
or the ideal Lancer,  was sitting, smoking, upon
the public bench just over the road,  to the right.
Could this be the same individual that she had
observed little more than half-an-hour ago ? . . .
Probably,  for it was not the first time she had
been thus deceived. Evidently, she was becoming
possessed of but one idea ! . . .

In this way, the uneventful dajs slipped by,
imtil the lime-trees upon Clapham Common, 
which assume an autumnal tint before real
country trees,  began to grow sere and yellow.
There was a fine show of pears hanging against
the grey lichened wall which separated Barlow
Lodge from The Aspens ;  the fruit upon the
gnarled medlar-tree was getting brown and ready
for picking, and the fallen leaves began rustling
about all over Miss Elizabeth's trim little lawn,
until the kitten became quite excited, and ran
after them, thinking they were mice. London,
that lurking mystery,  which seemed everyday
to be creeping nearer and nearer,  was now

oftener than ever shrouded in brutus vapour ; 
the lamplighters wont forth much earlier upon
their rounds, for its many eyes began to twinkle
soon after four o'clock, and little Miss Yan Eure,
next door,  whom Lucy had only caught sight of
at a distance since her return home,  had exchanged
her pretty summer frocks for a smart
blue velvet pelisse trimmed with swan's down.

Everything, in fact, heralded but too plainly
the approach of winter,  and ere long Lucy
Barlow once more quitted her quiet suburban
home, bound for Belmorris Castle.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON:

Printed by Steangewats & Sous, Tower Street, St. Martin s Lane

VOL. I. Z

VOL. II.

VIOLET FANE

AUTHOR OF ' SOPHY ; OR THE ADVENTURES OF A SAVAGE,'
THE EDWIN AND ANGELINA PAPERS,' ETC., ETC.

Thro' Love and War,  by ways of Death and Doubt,
My soul has travell'd to the hoped-for Heaven.*

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, Publishers,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1886.

All rights reserved.

'Thro' LOVE AND WAR.'

CHAPTER I.

Very shortly after Lucy's departure for the
North, !Mr. Podinore had returned to Palmyra
House, and he lost no tie in paying a visit to
his neighbour at Barlow Lodge. He seemed less
put out than Miss Elizabeth had anticipated at
her niece's second absence from home, although,
according to his wont, he had made it the occasion
for a few words of sound Podmorian teaching.
I perfectly agree with j'ou,* he remarked,
after Miss Elizabeth had dwelt upon the advantages
which Lucy would be likely to reap from an
intimacy with persons of distinction ; * the dear
children ought certainly to acquire the manners
and accomplishments of good society ; but I would
encourage nothing bearing the slightest resemblance
to levity, and I would impress upon her,

VOL. II. B

above all, that the greatest discretion and circumspection
should be observed with regard to the
social relations between the sexes. This is, 
I am told,  not sufficiently considered by the
British aristocracy, and it would be extremely
repugnant to my feelings,  I must confess,  in
the future, if, on my return home after a day
spent in honourable toil, I were to find some man
of pleasure,  like this Lord Belmorris,  eating
my plovers' eggs,  or lolling upon the sofa in
my wife's pocket ! '

Miss Elizabeth had never realised that it was
indiscreet to eat plovers' eggs,  although,  to be
sure,  it was rather an expensive taste,  nor had
she, hitherto, associated ' lolling upon the sofa '
exclusively with immorality. Something, however,
in Mr. Podmore's tone had made both acts
seem to her to be shocking.

Oh, I can assure you, you are mistaken ! '
she protested eagerly ;  ' neither Lucy nor Lord
Belmorris would ever dream of doing such things,
I am convinced ! . . . He is not at all the kind
of person ! ' . . .

I am delighted to hear it,' returned Mr. Pod-more,
patting his waistcoat, complacently. As
you are aware, I have but little leisure to worship

at the shrine of fashion, and I must plead guilty
to a total ignorance of the manners and customs
of high life . . . But, by-the-bv,  my dear
Miss Barlow,  you who know so much about all
the great ones of the earth,  can you tell me
anything with regard to a young gentleman
styling himself 'lord Falconborough ? " I met
him for the first time a few years ago,  and I
have lately fallen in with him again,  quite
accidentally. I must confess that the young
fellow takes my fancy amazingly, and experience
has taught me that Sydney Podmore is seldom
mistaken in his estimate of character.'

*' Falconborough ?" ." Falconborough ? " '
. . repeated Miss Elizabeth, as though considering.
' Ah ! yes ! . Of course ! . . . I remember
. A Viscount;  of Norman extraction;
settled in England at the time of William
the Conqueror . . . Not ** young'' however;
. . how, my dear Mr. Podmore,  can the
present Lord Falconborough possibly be a younrj
man?' . . .

*Not if he came over with William the
Conqueror, certainly,' returned Mr. Podmore,
smiling; 'this must be one of that old gentleman's
descendants.'

Miss Elizabeth regretted at that moment that
her * Peerage,'  besides being so very old, 
happened to be upstairs in her bedroom.

She taxed her memory, however, and finally
recollected to have read of the death of a Lord
Falconborough about two years ago,  without
issue,  (of this she was perfectly certain,)  she
had fancied that the title had thereupon become
extinct, but yet had a dim notion that she had
read something about his having been succeeded
by a nephew. To have appeared doubtful would
have been to display ignorance upon what had
always been regarded as her strongest point.
She answered,  therefore, with apparent confidence,
 not knowing the importance Mr. Pod-more
might attach to her words : 

Oh, yes ! . Of course ! . . . This young
man must be the nephew of the late lord ! . . .
My memory must be failing, or I should have
remembered the circumstance at once ! '

Mr. Podmore seemed to be perfectly well
satisfied with this explanation, and the conversation
soon turned to other topics.

Mr. Podmore had met ' Lord Falconborough '
in a railway carriage upon his way back from
Liverpool. He had before had a slight acquaintance

with him,  having fallen in with him once,
in the waiting-room of a certain City usurer, 
upon which occasion the young nobleman's affable
manner had so captivated him, that, as they
walked together out into the street, he had invited
him to partake of luncheon with him at
his club.

Mr. Podmore was already comfortably installed
in the London train when ' his lordship '
happened to enter the same compartment. At
first, Mr. Podmore had failed to recognise him,
but Falconborough revealed himself almost
immediately,  besides which, he was travelling
already labelled, as it were, with his viscount's
coronet emblazoned upon his dressing-bag, so
that Mr. Podmore could not have remained long
in doubt as to his identity.

A more agreeable companion than Falcon-borough
during a tedious railway journey,  it
would have been almost impossible to imagine.
Mr. Podmore,  who, being something of a purist
in speech,  had even experienced a difficulty, at
times,  in hitting upon the most appropriate
words for his purpose,  was greatly struck with
his ease of manner and felicity of expression.
It was altogether the manner,  he thought,  of

an ' hereditary legislator and,  (let the extreme
Radicals say what the" would about the indolence
and incapacity of the aristocratic assembly of
which this young man professed himself a
member,)  there way undoubtedly, something
particularly fascinating in the conversation and
bearing of most of our * old nobility ! ' . . .

By the time that they reached London, Mr.
Podmore and his fellow-traveller had apparently
become friends for life. In his candid, good-humoured
way,  which seemed to imply that
he did not fear to take the whole world into
his confidence,  Falconborough had touched upon
his family complications,  his impending lawsuit,
and the injustice and rapacity of his
relations. Mr. Podmore,  without fatiguing
himself by following too closely all the ramifications
of the narrative,  was much flattered at
the young nobleman's condescension. He became
acquainted, too, with a circumstance which seemed
suddenly to reveal a whole group of new and
advantageous possibilities.

Lord Falconborough,  notwithstanding his
exalted social position, was,  pending the settlement
of his family affairs,  on the look-out for
some kind of honourable employment which

would ensure for liii the enjoyment of a more
liberal income. Could lie be destined to become,
in time, Mr. Podmore's * light and attractive '
element ?  the ' young gentleman of fashion '
Alio was to advance the interests of his ' house '
in * West-end circles ? ' . . .

At first the idea seemed almost too good to
be true. But the more Mr. Podmore conversed
with his agreeable companion,  the more feasible
it seemed to become. Fearing to giA'e
offence, however, by any suggestion insulting to
his lordly dignity, Mr. Podmore determined to
broach the matter with extreme delicacy ;  above
all, to do nothing precipitate. He would study
his noble friend,  discover what were his business
capacities, and then,  some day,  after they had
become better acquainted,  he would make him
a proposal. . . . "With this object in view, Mr.
Podmore, with all the caution of a diplomatist,
invited his lordship to dine with him at his club,
where his irreproachable evening costume,  his
intelligent remarks upon the subject of wine
and cigars, and the obsequious manner assumed
by the waiters, had worked together to confirm
Mr. Podmore in the belief that he Avould prove
a most valuable acquisition to his * house.' The

dinner at the club had been followed by an
invitation to dine and sleep at Palmyra House,
which invitation had given his lordship ' great
pleasure to accept.'

The two gentlemen went to Clapham by train,
early in the afternoon, and, as the day was
exceedingly fine, walked to Palmyra House from
the Junction. Mr. Podmorc was determined that,
to-day, if possible, he would sound his companion
upon the subject which was occupying his mind.
He felt a little nervous about it, certainly, for the
employment ' his lordship was seeking was,
probably, of an altogether different character ; 
Because I have condescended to talk to you
about my private affairs,'  (Mr. Podmore feared
that he might possibly retort,)  ' that is no reason
why you should assume that I am willing to
become your dependant ! '

During the walk from the railway station,
therefore, Mr. Podmore was considering anxiously
what would be the best method of approaching the
subject, when he was assisted,  almost providentially,
 (as it seemed to him,) by an incident which
occurred upon the way.

Perhaps it was almost too trivial an occurrence
to be dignified by the name of an incident at all ;

but it became the means,  at any rate, of furthering
Mr. Podmore's purpose.

As be and bis noble friend approached the
entrance to ' The Aspens,' Mrs. Van Buren crossed
the foot-path, on her way to a carriage which was
awaiting her. She was accompanied by her little
girl, and followed by the black ayah, and by a
boy-in-buttons carrying shawls and air-cushions,
so that, for the moment, the pathway was completely
blocked. Mr. Podmore and Lord Fal-scarborough
gave place to the procession, and
remained standing whilst Mrs. Yan Buren took
her seat in her Victoria,  displaying, as she did
so, a very neat foot and ankle. As she threw
herself back amongst her cushions, she hurled a
look of haughty defiance at Mr. Podmore,  recognising
him, probably, as the new landlord,
who, far from having shown her any civility',
had openly expressed his desire that she should
quit the premises even before the expiration of
her lease.

Fine woman, Podmore,' said Falconborough,
looking after the carriage as it drove away.
'' Bel 2)ezzo di cameo'' as they say in Italy!'

Quite so ; ' returned Mr. Podmore although
he understood not one word of Italian. 'But I

must tell you that this same " fine woman " is
something of a thorn in my side. I will be
candid with you,  for one good turn deserves
another, and I have been deeply touched, I can
assure you, by all the confidence you have reposed
in me. To tell you the truth, then, my
lord. . . .'

Call me " Falconborough," ' interrupted the
young nobleman condescendingly".

Thank you ; I shall be proud and pleased todo
so  Well then, I must inform
you that, although to a ga" yong fellow, like
yourself, I probably appear to be the most
confirmed and "humdrum" of old bachelors, 
I have been rash enough to form an attachment.
. . . '

And the lady resides with you down here ? '
cut in Falconborough with an arch smile. ' Ah,
my dear Podmore ! you have destroyed my last
lingering belief in hmnan virtue ! '

JN'ot at all ! Not at all ! ' Mr. Podmore
protested eagerly",  his' brow clouding over for a
moment. ' You have altogether mistaken my
meaning ! . . . . I am proud to says that no lady
has ever suffered in name or in reputation through
the instrumentality of Sydney Podmore, and I

sincerely T\'isli that every young fellow of my
acquaintance could say as much. ! '

I sincerely wish that they could I ' returned
the ' young fellow ' at whom Mr. Podmore seemed
to be pointing his moral. ' But you know, mon
cher,  we can't be all of us like Sydney
Podmore I '

Well then,' Mr. Podmore went on, dropping
the didactic manner,  (for, after all, one ought,
perhaps, to be prepared for a certain amount of
license in the conversation of a young nobleman
who must often find himself in situations of exceptional
temptation I)  ' I am old-fashioned enough,
my dear Falconborough,  to believe in old-fashioned
forms of contentment,  and I am of
opinion that none of the wild and exciting pleasures
of dissipation arc to be compared with the
happiness which may reign at the domestic
hearth.'

Hear I Hear I ' exclaimed Falconborough,
somewhat flippantly.

'With the object, therefore, of seeming this
form of contentment,' Mr. Podmore continued;
I have already almost chosen the young lady
whom I destine to become my wife. I have not
yet broached the subject to her personally; 

desiring,  in the present unsettled condition o
affairs,  to leave myself a loophole, through
Which it Avould be possible to retire in the event
of any unforeseen occurrence interfering with the
realisation of my hopes. I have, however, for sears
warded over her interests, directed the course of
her studies, and protected her from all influences
which might tend in the slightest degree to corrupt
the natural purity of her mind. Residing
as she does, with an aged maiden-aunt,  for she
is an orphan,  this young creature is ignorant of
the very existence of any of the pitfalls which
may lie in her future path. She is visiting,  at
this moment,  it is true, at the country-seats of
some of her relatives ;  for I Alas naturally
anxious that she should acquire that tone and
finish which can only be obtained by mixing in
first-rate society, and these relatives are altogether
tip-top people ;  but, beyond this, no external
influences have been allowed lo approach her.
Have I done well,  (I sometimes ask myself,) 
in not preparing her more fully for the temptations
of the coming strife ? . . . . " You have
done well, Sydney Podmore ! "  (This is the
answer which comes to mc.)  " If, in the future,
also, you can protect her with this shield of innocence

;  if, in the future,  when you and she
may be joined together." ' . . . .

In a word,' interrupted Falconborough,
smiling ; ' Sydney Podmore,  who is not even
married as yet, is already dreading the inevitable
destiny of almost every husband ! '

He made a mysterious sign upon his brow
with his two first fingers, as he spoke, which Mr.
Podmore failed altogether to comprehend,  and
the latter continued, in a more confidential
tone : 

But now, how about this Mrs. Van Buren, 
(the lady we have just seen setting out for a
drive,) and who will be residing in the next
house but one to that occupied by my wife ? . . .
I cannot say that I know anything positive as to
her or her antecedents,  and far be it from me,
although I may be as blameless as most of my
neighbours,  to throw the first stone. But without
making any inquiries as to her mode of life,
three circumstances are patent to all persons possessed
of ordinary powers of observation ;  she
is a woman who is separated from her lawful
husband ;  her establishment is conducted with
lavish extravagance;  and,  she is continually
receiving the visits ol gentlemen ! '

Mr. Podmore stopped at this awful climax,
and looked for the effect of his words in his companion's
face.

Falconborough gave a low whistle.

You may imagine, perhaps,' Mr. Podmore
went on, ' from my acquaintance with these facts,
that I have demeaned myself to act as a spy upon
this lady's movements,  but it is not so, Falcon-borough,
 I can assure you ! Had I the will,  I
have not the time for such unprofitable employment.
Scarcely a day passes, however, that I am not
reminded by some circumstance,  trivial circumstances,
 sometimes,  of her indiscretion and prodigality.
Only last week, for instance,  (to
descend to particulars,) an enormous barrel of
native oysters is left at my door,  natives being,
now,  as I daresay you are aware,  at least
three-and-sixpence or four shillings a dozen. My
servants receive it without examining it closely ; 
I perceive it confronting me in my entrance-hall
upon my return,  express astonishment,  deny
all knowledge of it,  and,  finally,  upon examining
the label,  discover that it is addressed to
Mrs. Van Buren, and has been deposited at my
house through an error of the carrier ! Then,
again,  yesterday,  looking forward, as I was,

to the honour of your company, this evening, at
dinner,  I give orders to my cook to obtain from
the butcher the best sweetbreads he can s apply,
and I even go to the trouble of expressing wishes
in writing. "What happens, however ?
. . . The butcher's boy arrives at the usual
hour, bringing with him the joint, and the necessary
supply of stock-meat. . . There is no sweetbread
! . . . . My cook questions him. He replies,
 on behalf of his master,  that he is very
sorry to disappoint me, but that all his sweetbreads
have been bespoken by " Mrs. Tan Lure
of The Aspens ! " My cook telegraphs to me in
desperation,  and I am compelled to bring down
the sweetbreads with me from London,  wrapped
up, as you see,' (and he held out a parcel carried
in his hand,) ' in newspaper I . . . . These, however,
are only isolated examples of a System which
pervades everything. The green grocer could
tell you the same story with regard to early peas
and forced asparagus ;  the woman's expenditure
must be enormous,  and what docs a person
separated from her husband, and dining, 
presumably,  alone,  require with all these
luxuries ? From whom does she derive her income
? This, however, is by no means the most

important aspect of the case :  Situated as I am,
I should be unwise if I ignored the future. . . .
In the future, then,  we will assume, during
my absence from home upon business,  my wife,
Mrs. Sidney Podmore,  strolls out upon the
Common with her book,  and seats herself upon
the bench, yonder,  under that clump of Ihne-
trees immediately in front of Mrs. Van Buren's
windows. 'What happens? Some smart
young libertine from the West End drives down
in a hansom-cab to visit this woman,  pulls up at
her door,  observes my wife sitting upon the
public bench,  (I don't mind telling you, my dear
Palconborough,  that the young lady I have in
my mind, is one of the loveliest girls in all
Clapham,)  studies her habits from the windows
of " The Aspens "  (for it is no secret that some
of these gentleman visitors have been known to
remain there for several days,)  walks out upon the
Common,  it may be,  next day,  upon pretence
of a smoke, or what not,  seats himself upon the
same bench with my wife. . . . You, Falcon-borough,
 knowing the world as you do,  must
perceive my meaning ! You must perceive, at once,
how anxious I am that a neighbour of this kind
should betake herself from my immediate vicinity.'

Do YOU suppose, then,' said Falconborougli,
twirling his dark moustaches reflectively, 
that this lady is really the fashion ? That she
is a person who is at present in vogue ? '

Of this,' returned Mr. Podmore, ' I know
nothing. Upon such subjects I am profoundly
ignorant, and I cannot regret that I am so. I
am certain, however, that her editors are gentlemen
of no occupation, and independent means,
by the time that their cabs occasionally remain at
her door,  but this is neither here nor there.
The question is,  How am I to get rid of her ?
How am I to let her know,  firmly and
decidedly,  that I wish her to quit the premises
at once ?'

I should think,' returned Falconborough,
that you could scarcely proceed to any such extremity.
The lady probably considers that she
has as good a right to live here as you have.'

But there is a feature in the case,' said Mr.
Podmore, ' which, under ordinary circumstances,
would make my course perfectly easy. The
house in which this person is residing, has lately
become my property', and I believe that I have a
perfect right,  if I choose,  to eject her. I
might, at any rate, give her fair notice to quit, 

VOL. II. c

using as a pretext a plan I have had in my mind
for some time. I could tell her that I desire to
knock down the partition-walls,  (for the smaller
house which you see there,  to the left of " The
Aspens," is also my property,)  in order to build
a row of eligible modern mansions upon the site,
a project which it is really my intention to
carry out, (d. y.) upon the death of an old lady
who now resides in the smallest of the two
houses

 I see that you are quite a landed proprietor,'
said Falconborough. * Well,  and what prevents
you from availing yourself of your feudal
privileges ? In your place I should claim all
sorts of autocratic " droits clu Seigneur ! " *

I will tell you, my dear Falconborough ; 
even at the risk of making you smile ! . . . All
this would entail a personal interview,  several
interviews, perhaps. Mrs. Yan Buren is a
dangerous woman ; as you have just seen, she is
not without personal attractions of an objectionable
kind. It is evident that she readily obtains
an influence over gentlemen. She might end
by talking me over,  or making it difficult forme,
at any rate,  to carry out my plans, and
the acquaintance once made, what is to prevent

lev,  in the future,  from calling upon my wife,
and insinuating herself into her friendship ? . . .
I mistrust my own powers in the presence of
the designing,  for Sydney Podmore,  although
rather hunt and uncouth,  perhaps,  is, above
all things, honest and above-hoard. You, my dear
Falconborough,  are essentially a man of the
world. It is not impossible that some such
complication may have arisen in your path.
AYhat course of action would you advise me to
pursue ? ' . . .

The two friends had sauntered on, past the
entrance to Palmyra House, and had now reached
the turning which leads to London by way of the
Cedars Road. Mr. Podmore began swinging the
parcel containing the sweetbreads in quite an
agitated manner,  as though genuinely embarrassed
as to what to do.

I can only venture upon one suggestion,'
returned Falconborough,  after a few seconds of
seeming reflection. ' As you are so averse to
confronting this syren yourself,  make me your
Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary
;  endow me with full powers,  and I'll
answer for it that this little difficulty will soon be
satisfactorily arranged I '

My dear Falconborougli ! ' exclaimed Mr.
Podmore effusively, ' how can I ever thank you
sufficiently for your great kindness and condescension
! '

What a delightfully considerate and complimentary
manner of putting it ! . . . ]Neo sort of
hint of anything like servitude or dependence, 
and Mr. Podmore himself raised, as it were, by
a graceful figure of speech, to the same position
as the Emperor of China, the Shah of Persia,
or the Mikado of Japan ! . . . . Lord Falcon-borough's
remark, in fact, seemed to have removed
mountains !

I cannot tell you, my dear fellow,' said Mr.
Podmore towards the close of this eventful evening,
'what pleasure it would give me,  if,  not
only in the matter of Mrs. Yan Buren,  but in
all that concerns a certain portion of my affairs,
generally  you could become my agent and representative
! You will, no doubt, find punctuality
and attention to business a little irksome at first,
but, with patience and perseverance, a yoimg
gentleman of your fine intelligence and first-class
education, ought to be able to carry everything
before you. There will be,  at any rate,  I
think I may say,  unlimited confidence upon

cither side, and I need hardly tell you that it is
niv desire to make our little scheme one of mutual
advantage.'

80 the bargain was struck that very evening,
as Mr. Podmcre and his guest sat together, 
after dinner in the smoking-room at Palmyra
House, whilst the shrill tones of Mrs. Yan Buren's
metallic soprcoio were wafted across Miss Elizabeth
Barlow's narrow garden, and in at the open
window ;  for, notwithstanding that it was now
the middle of 'chill October,'  when, 'natives,' 
as sir. Podmore had remarked,  were still threads
sixpence, or four shillings, a dozen,  the
night was as warm as many nights in an English
Juno,  and Mr. Podmore had thrown open the
window to let out some of the tobacco-smoke.

I should wish that woman out of the way,' he
said, as these sounds reached his ears, ' were she
as virtuous as Lucretia ! . . . "We have all suffered
long enough from her abominable screeching ! '

Falconborough only smiled languidly by way
of reply, and took up the air in his clear and
melodious tenor. Certainly, (Mr. Podmore
thought,) the evening had been a complete
success, and his young friend was one of the
most well-bred and fascinating of men.

CHAPTER II.

I TELL you what, my dear, this iclll never do ! *

The speaker, in this instance, was not Mr.
Jeffrey of the Quarterly Review, but young Alger-non
Binks. He had gone into the morning-room
at Belmorris Castle where he found his
sister alone. She was leaning back in an armchair
by the fireplace, with her feet upon the
fender,  apparently deeply engrossed with the
Morning Post.

What will never do ? ' she asked with the
raised eyebrows of inquiry.

Why, the way Lucy Barlow's going on !
Just take the trouble to get up and look out of
the window, now ! I declare it's almost enough
to send a fellow off his head I '

Well, I don't see anything so very awful ! '
Adeliza returned,  after she had looked out,  as
requested, and reseated herself by the fender. * I
suppose Uncle Belmorris has asked her to go

with liiiii to the stables, as thevVe turned down
that way. Perhaps he'll take her out riding,
later on. I'm sure she's taking a deal of trouble
oSt my hands by keeping him anrnsed, for he's so
fearfully ptmctnal, and active, that it's generally
pretty hard work ! '

My heavens ! ' exclaimed Algernon. * Girls
are selfish I You don't seem to have the slightest
feeling about the honour and glory of the family!'

I don't see that what Lucy's doing now can
have any effect upon the family honour and glory!
She isn't interfering with me in any way,  or
spoiling my chances ! It's a merciful dispensation
that she didn't cast her spells over Charlie
Sparshott,  but one can't " carry on " with one's
own uncle ! '

She mayn't be spoiling your chances,' replied
Algernon irritably,  ' and I suppose that's the only
thing you care about,  but she's most decidedly
spoiling mine as fast as she can! . . I tel you what
it is,  my dear ! ' he added in a tone of ominous
prophecy ; * my Uncle Belmorris '11 marry her ! *

Oh, he couhim't be such a born fool ! ' Adeliza
exclaimed, looking a little startled nevertheless.
I shan't believe it till I find myself in Church, 
hugged out as a bridesmaid ! '

There you are again ! Always thinking of
yourself and your dress ! . . . No thought for
your unfortunate brother,  reduced to beggary, 
very likely,  and all his future prospects entirely
ruined ! '

Oh, I forgot that, Algy ! . . . But you don't
really think that he'll marry her ? We shall
have to get up a plot to prevent it.'

There's only one way that I can think of,'
said Algy, as he toyed pensively with his incipient
moustaches ; ' though I've been turning
the matter over in my mind for very nearly
a week, and that is . '

To get u]D a flirtation with her yourself ? . . .
Not at all a bad idea, and to tell you the truth, I
rather fancied you had done so, already ! . . .
But men are strange creatures ! . . . It might only
have the effect of bringing him on. Sometimes,
when they fancy a thing's going to be taken from
them, they seem to care about it all the more ! '

*Yes, I know;  it would be a very ticklish
game,  so I've given up all idea, nov, of proposing
to her myself ! '

Of j:)roposVi to her ! ' . . . I should think
so, indeed ! "What would Mama and Uncle Bel-morris
have said to tJiat I wonder ! '

I shouldn't have cared much for what they
might have said returned Algy, looking rather
crestfallen. ' I liked Lucy Barlow, awfully.
She's a girl I think I could have stuck to,  (if I'd
married her,)  and settled down with,  and all
that, and not been bored. And I think  never
having been " out " much,  and knowing nothing
of the world, she wouldn't have worried one, or
asked questions, or found out things, and been
jealous;  and so,  to tell you the truth,  one day
last week, the day that she and my Uncle Bel-morris
came back from riding so late, in a
brougham,  and pretended that they'd gone
through all sorts of adventures,  I did propose
to her in a kind of away, just before she went out
but she wouldn't hear of it at all,  having her
mind fixed, no doubt, upon much higher game, 
for I believe she awfully fond of me,  really.
She said, however, that we were a great deal
too young, both of us, and shouldn't have half
enough money.'

There she showed her good sense,' remarked
Adeliza ; ' and I must say I respect her for it. I
fancied she was more of the moonshine, sentimental
sort. But it's a great thing for a girl, 
particularly for an orphan,  to begin by being a

little mercenary,  besides which, you know, we
all intend you to marry an enormous heiress ! '

I don't feel quite so sure about this enormous
heiress that you're always talking of ! ' returned
Algy, rather despondingly. * You know when
you first came out, you said you were determined
to marry a Duke,  but, you see, you haven't! '

I was a little ambitious, at first,' said Adeliza
in an off-band tone; * but then, that's just as it
should be ! It doesn't do,  in this world,  to
hold one's self too cheap. However, it's no good
striving after the impossible, and I declare, now, I
think I could be almost content with a Baronet ! '

*It's a tremendous come down,' replied her
brother ; ' but I can't help thinking you're about
riffht. If I was a srirl, I'm sure I'd much rather
be happy with a Baronet than miserable with a
Duke ! '

That's a very noble sentiment, Algy; but I'm
afraid that noble sentiments don't pay ! As long
as we " go in " for being people of fashion, it's
our duty to strangle our better feelings, like
serpents ! But I've clot them, sometimes, just as
much as you have. I can see how hollow and
contemptible most of my own ambitions are, 
and I remember that somebody says,  ,

 that when one confesses one's self
guilty,  one is on the high-road to becoming
innocent. But I mean to give worldliness a
chance for a year longer. At the end of that
time,  if I'm not married,  I've made a vow that
I'll take to " good works," and try how that
answers ! . . . I'll become a district-visitor,  or
something of that kind, and you'll see me trudging
all over Belgravia with a basket ! '

I don't think,' said Algy, ' that that's at all
in your line ! . . . I fancy that Lucy Barlow, 
with all her flirting is more the kind of girl for
good works." If I were you, I think I should
stick to the Baronet.'

*Ah! . . . that reminds me I . . . Did you go
into the gun-room and look out what I told you
to, in ''Burke?'''

About Charlie Sparshott ? '

Yes ; to find out whether he's the eldest, or
youngest, son, of Sir Timothy Sparshott. I heard
him say that his father had only had two boys.'

I looked him out, yesterday,' returned Algy,
as you told me,  and I find he's Sir Timothy's
second son.'

Gracious heavens ! . . . And I've been behaving
just as if he'd been the eldest ! '

He's a second son,' repeated Algernon, assuming
an arch expression ; * but, . . . this elder
brother was drowned at sea ! '

Thank goodness ! ' cried Adeliza, fervently ;
you made my blood positively run cold ! . . . I
was afraid I might have gone too far ! '

*I only meant it for a "scare"' Algy explained
; * but, now look here ;  I've helped you
with this, and I want you to help me with your
womanly wisdom about Lucy Barlow, and my
uncle Belmorris.  You know Hepburn ? ' . . .

Yes ; of course ! Why, he was dining here
only yesterday ! '

I mean, you know about him and Lucy ?
. . You saw,  of course, that she's carrying on
a sort of flirtation with him as well ? ' . . .

I saw,' replied Addie ; ' now that I come
to think about it,  that she seemed rather absent
and excited after she heard he was expected,
and that she took much longer than usual dressing
for dinner. She asked to come into my
room, too,  to look at herself in the long glass,
which she's never taken the trouble to do before.'

"Well,  I can assure you that's it ! . . . She
and Hepburn have got something bat ween them,
I'll take my oath!  I watched them the whole

of dinner-time, and they believed just like two
people wlio're in love,  but Tho want to humbug
each other, and pretend that they're not.'

Colonel Hepburn isn't a marrying man,' said
Adeliza, quoting a phrase she had often heard
repeated.

I'm not quite so sure about that ! ' replied
Algy, in a tone of superior wisdom. ' You see,
you've never been a man yourself, and so, you
can't know as much about men as I do ! He
mayn't have been a marrying man oncBy and he
may have become one now, from circumstances !
Sometimes a fellow of that kind gets tied up early
in life with some one he can't marry, general'
some other fellow's wife, or something of that
kind, don't you know, and that's awfully apt to
keep him single ; for, though you girls seem to
enjoy carrying on with two or three people at
once, it's a beastly bore for a man to find that
he's on with his new love before he's off with his
old ! . . . But, very often, after a bit, he gets
sick of the old love, or she, very likely', dies, or
bolts off with some other fellow, and then he's
just as keen to marry as anybody else ; and I
shouldn't at all wonder if Colonel Hepburn hasn't
been in some fix of this kind.'

And what makes you think that he's got out
of his fix now ? '

Because I believe he's spoony (in his icy)
upon Lucy Barlow, only he's an awfully proud,
reserved kind of fellow, and ashamed to show it.
Besides which, you know, he may be afraid of
spoiling sport," or of taking the wind out of my
Uncle Belmorris's sails. Now, my plan is, to
give Hepburn a hint, in order to bring him on.'

I should think that would be rather a delicate
matter,' said Adeliza ;  as you say, he's fearfully
proud and reserved. I'm sure I don't envy
you your mission I '

Oh, I've made up my mind exactly how I'm
going to begin,' returned Algy, confidently.
'He's coming over here, tomorrow, isn't he, to
shoot, and to stay for two or three days ? '

Yes ; he's coming over with Charlie Spar-short.'


Very well ; now, last night, after you and
Lucy Barlow had said good-night, Hepburn's man
kept them waiting some time for the carriage ;
we all went into the smoking-room, and there
Charlie Sparshott and my Uncle Belmorris very
soon fell asleep. . . .'

Charlie Sparshott soon fell asleep ? ' repeated

Della quickly, as though wounded at the notion
that her admirer should court oblivion so shortly
after he had basked in her smiles. * I must say, I
rather wonder at that I . . . Did you discover
whether he snores ? . . .'

I wasn't thinking about him at all returned
Algy. ' I was wondering whether I shouldn't
begin giving Hepburn *' the straight tip;" I
ended, however, by thinking I'd better put it off
till another time, for I was afraid, just as I'd got
into the full swing of the thing, the servants
might interrupt me by coming to announce the
carriage.'

And so you never said anything at all ? '

No ; and it turned out I was quite right ; for
Hepburn and Charlie Sparshott had to be off in
twenty minutes. But I mean to speak to him the
next time the same thing happens, as I've no
doubt it will, every night whilst they're here ;
only, I must just watch Hepburn's and Lucy's
goings-on for the first day or two,  so as to make
sure that I wasn't mistaken. I've settled just
how I'm going to begin, but I don't quite know
which would be the best line to take afterwards,
and want your advice about it. I don't know
whether I ought to take the line of coming forward,

 (as Lucy Barlow's nearest male relation,)
and asking Hepburn what the devil he means by
trifling with my cousin's affections if he isn't ina
position to marry, and all that ;  or, whether
I'd better simply appeal to him upon the question
of my own prospects, and say, '' 'Now, look here,
Hepburn, you know j/ou had an uncle once, hadn't
you ? who seems to have left you uncommonly
well off. Wouldn't you have cut up rather rough
if, after you'd been brought up to expect the
best part of his fortune ever since you were a
youngster, you'd seen him just on the point of
making a born fool of himself by going and proposing
to a girl of nineteen or twenty?" . . .
Something of this kind, I fancied, would be the
best way of broaching the subject.'

I think that way would be better than the
first way,' said Adeliza ; * I don't think, at your
age, Algy, you could possibly ask a man like
Colonel Hepburn his intentions, before you are
even sure that he has any ! . . . You might only
make him awfully angry, and put everything
out!'

Well, goodness knows, I'm not particularly
anxious for Hepburn to marry her,' returned
Algy; ' I'm too spoony upon her myself for that !

But I'd rather lie proposed to her tomorrow than
that my Uncle Belmorris should go and make a
fool of himself and of me too ! . . . Anyhow, I
think my plan will make a sort of diversion.
Even supposing Hepburn can't marre it may
make him more keen about her if he finds out
that some other fellow's in love,  because that's
just the way with us men ;  and he may flirt
with her more, at any rate ; and then, seeing
that he's a younger, better-looking fellow, and
all that, and that Lucy prefers him, (as I really
and truly believe she does, for she's probably
only carrying on with my imcle from interested
motives) ; then, very likely, my Uncle Belmorris,
who's always been used to having it all his own
way with women because he's a lord, may turn
sulky, and sheer ois, don't you know ; and so long
as he doesn't marry her, and spoil my future, I
don't care one brass farthing whether Hepburn
marries her or not ; in fact, if I had my choice,
I'd rather she remained as she is. What do you
think of my project?'

I don't think it's a bad one at all. It can't do
much harm, and it may do good ; but I'm glad I'm
not you, to have to speak to Colonel Hepburn. He's
about the only man I was ever afraid of in my life! '

VOL. II. D

I don't think, my dear said Algernon, ' that
lie ever seemed to have much fancy for you /'

*Perhaps,' returned his sister, as she glanced
complacently at her reflection in the chimney-glass
; * one mayn't ever have taken any trouble to
inalxe him " fancy " one ! From the very first,
one always heard that he wasn't a marrying man ;
and I've a perfect horror of people whore no good ! '

Well, I think we shall soon find out whether
he's really a marrying man or not,' said Algy.

Adeliza was still contemplating her image in
the looking-glass.

Don't you think it's a very odd thing, Algy,'
she remarked after a while, ' that a middle class
girl like Lucy Barlow (for really and truly, she
isn't anything more ; they say, you know, that her
grandfather was only an Alderman), living right
in the middle of Clapham Common, should exercise
such a tremendous power of fascination over
every man she meets, from you upwards,  or rather
 doivnwardSy'  I suppose I ought to say! I
wonder whether it's magnetic, or what it is, and
where in the world she gets it from ?'

I should think,' replied Algy, turning, also,
to the contemplation of his face in the glass, ' that
she gets it from the Binkses ! '

But, at this moment, a faint hacking cough,
apparently rather the result of habit than of chest-affection,
made itself heard, and Lady Glabella entered
the apartment, wearing her usual resigned
and expiatory expression. She held a clean,
black-bordered pocket-handkerchief in one hand,
whilst with the other she tightened her hold upon
the skimp' shawl which covered her narrow
shoulders. Mrs. Gussy, almost similarly attired,
and, seemingly equally woe-begone, followed behind
her mistress, bearing wraps, and a small
basket, containing lozenges, smelling-salts, salvolatile,
and other restoratives for failing powers.

The dejected aspect of both mistress and maid
seemed to produce, at first, rather a depressing
effect upon the two young people, whose countenances
underwent a decided change. They
rose, however, and embraced their parent respectfully.


*I hope, Mama dear,' said Adeliza, 'that
you've had rather a better night ? '

Thank you, dearest,' answered Lady Mabella,
sighing ; * I can most truthfully declare that I
don't think I have once closed my eyes ! From
the extraordinary noises I heard during the night,
I feel morally convinced that there must have

been an enormous rat in the room. I remember
there used to be rats. . . /

Hurrah ! ' cried Algy unfeelingly,  we'll go
and rout him out with the terriers ! '

Dearest Algernon ! ' murmured his mother,
plaintively ; * do control your unaccountably high
spirits, and speak a little lower ! I suppose his
voice must be cracking, isn't it ? ' and she turned
helplessly to Adeliza. * Is that what makes it so
dreadfully loud ? '

I think it ought to be mended by now,
Mama,' Adeliza answered.  It seems to have
been cracking for such a very long time ! I
think it must be his natural voice.'

Oh, I trust not ! ' returned Lady Mabella ;
for that would be too distressing ! Dear me ;
how terribly draughty this room is ! I think the
window must be open in his lordship's study.'

Lady Mabella proceeded wearily to settle herself
upon the sofa, whilst Gussy went into the
adjoining room to investigate the cause of the
draught.

I have closed the window, my lady,' she said
presently. 'Does your ladyship require anything
more ? '

She spoke with the manner of a person whose

time is of value, and who dislikes wasting it upon
trifles.

The basket containing the restoratives had
been placed upon a small table within reach of
the sofa, together with some pretence at needlework,
and the wraps and cushions seemed to bo
all satisfactorily disposed.

 My poor feet feel terribly cold,' remarked
her ladyship wearily. ' I think you must have
forgotten to put the cork-soles into my shoes.'

I beg your ladyship's pardon,' replied Giiffy ;
I remember putting them in perfectly well.'

But in the meantime Lady Mabclla was investigating
the matter with her ovm hand.

Ah ! I see what it is ! ' she exclaimed regretfully.
' You have put in one of them and

the other, which is far worse than forgetting
them both, as one feels the contrast terribly I '

I could have taken my solemn oath,' returned
Puffy, looking much annoyed ; * that I
put both of them in I After this, I shall never
be sure of anything again I '

I suppose,' said Lady Mabella, making a feint
of moving, ' that I shall have to go up and fetch
it myself ? ' and she heaved the sigh of a martyr.

Your ladyship knows,' rejoined Puffy sternly,

that I am only here to wait upon your ladyship
and she quitted the room with some show of
irritation.

'One would have fancied,' remarked Lady
Mabella, as soon as her attendant was out of earshot
; ' that a servant who had lived with one for
over twenty years, might have got to know one's
habits ! ' and she sighed again.

The fact is, mother,' cut in Algernon, ' Gussy's
getting a great deal too old and too lazy ! You
ought to look out for a much younger maid.
You'd find her a deal brisker.'

Thank you, Algernon,' returned his mother,
with a smile which, in anyone less dejected,
might have been suspected of containing a germ
of humour ; * I select my maids for my own convenience,
and not for your amusement ! '

We must wait till your voice has done cracking,
Algy, before getting a yoimg and good-looking
maid,' said Adeliza playfully; 'you're
just now at the most susceptible age ; isn't he.
Mama ? '

I'm sure I don't know, dearest ! ' replied
Lady Mabella wearily. ' He ma?/ be, but I don't
know, and my poor head is so painful, that I
feel quite unable to enter into a discussion!

Young people must settle these matters their
own way ; I have my own opinion, of course,
but I am anything but strong, and I was so
terribly disturbed by that rat ! '

She closed her eyes for a moment, sprinkled
some eau de Cologne upon her handkerchief, and
passed it over her brow.

I am sure no one can think less than / do
about my poor miserable self,' she murmured
after a while ; ' but I should ver' much like
to know,  merely out of curiosity,  what this
agonising sensation can possibly mean?'

*I remember,' said Algernon, 'that Dr. Winnington
told Addie and me that it was '' one of
the myriad forms of indigestion." '

*Dr. "Winnington could never have said
anything so obviously mitre ! ' returned Lady
Mabella, a little sharply. ' How could he have
divined that that wretched Gussy would have
neglected to put in my cork-sole, and would have
sent all the blood up into my poor head through
causing me to have such icy feet ? '

*Lucy has gone round to the stables with
Uncle Belmorris,' remarked Adeliza, changing
the subject abruptly.

That is well ! ' replied her ladyship absently.

She will help us to entertain those two dreadful
men I When do they arrive ? '

To-morrow afternoon said Adeliza ; ' and
Mama dear, I've found out all about Captain
Sparshott.'

Indeed, dearest ! I am glad to hear it !
Oh, where is that miserable Gussy ? '

Captain Sparshott is the second son of Sir
Timothy Sparshott,' said Algy. ' I found it all
out ; but his eldest brother was drowned at sea.'

That is well,' returned Lady Mabella dreamily ;
I mean,  poor young man,  that, as we could
not have prevented it, it is, perhaps, better '

It happened a good many years ago,' said
Adeliza. * I should think, by now, they had all
of them got over it.'

My Uncle Belmorris says that Sparshott
Priory is one of the j oldest places in Ireland,'
remarked Algy ; ' and that they've got first-rate
trout-fishing.'

I am glad of it,' replied Lady Mabella feebly.
She took a prolonged sniff at her smelling-salts,
as though to brace herself for some unusual effort,
and then added, 

My dearest Adeliza, I thinly I almost think,
that it would be as well if you did not appear

to have heard of this sad catastrophe whilst
Captain Sparshott is staying here; I think it
would be wiser to appear to believe that he is still
a younger son. In life, these things are sometimes
better, when good may come of them.
Perhaps I do not make my meaning very plain,
but my poor head is really splitting ! '

 I quite see what you mean. Mama dear,'
returned Adeliza quickly ; * you mean that this
will make us appear to be more disinterested,
supposing that he '' means business'' '

*I almost forget what my meaning was,
dearest,' replied her mother vaguely ; ' my mind
is in a terrible state of chaos, but I know that I
was intent upon your welfare ! '

It's a first-rate notion, mother I ' cut in
Algernon, looking knowing. ' And you'll see
how well we'll follow your advice. *' We must
dissemble ! " '

You see, Algy,' observed Adeliza afterwards,
when Lady Mabella, wearied out with the exertions
of the morning, had once more retired to
her own room ; * even Mama, who pretends to be
so awfully particular about propriety', seemed to
think it perfectly natural that Lucy shoidd go
about alone with Uncle Belmorris.'

Sisters closet always believe that girls are
so ready to make love to tHeir brothers replied
Algy in a marked tone ; ' they're aj)t to hold
their brothers' powers of fascination rather too
cheap ! Besides which, she was thinking about
her cork-soles.'

Shall you really speak to Colonel Hepburn
about it ? ' Adeliza asked, as though wondering
at her brother's temerity.

Yes ; I've thoroughly made up my mind,'
returned Algernon doggedly. *I shan't speak
out the first day he's here,  but, perhaps, the
second,  and, certainly, the third, and I think
you'll see that after he's heard my candid opinion,
matters will, somehow, be brought to a crisis. I
can't go on any longer sitting upon thorns ! '

CHAPTER III.

When a woman, after much longing and many
prayers, meets again the man she imprudently
loves, without having received from him any of
those assurances which she can never grow weary
of hearing rcj)cated,  when, after days of vain
expectation, and nights during which he maybe
revealed to her in dreams, she beholds him
once more as he is in the flesh,  hears,  once
more,  the ever-haunting tones of his voice, but
sees him and hears him,  in the restraining presence
of others,  guessing only at what may be
hidden away in his heart as he touches her hand
formally for one little hurrying moment,  when,
after he has bidden her a constrained farewell,
and the sound of the hoofs and of the wheels that
are bearing him from her, have died away in the
distance,  she seeks, in her desolation, the solitude
of her chamber, and reviews every moment
of the long-hoped-for ' day that is dead,'  is not

disappointment,  cruel and bitter, because seeming
to be as irremediable as it was undeserved
and unexpected, the dominating feeling of her
crushed and despairing heart ?

Lucy Barlow, who knew nothing, until the
morrow, of Lord Belmorris's invitation to his
country-neighbour to stay and shoot at the Castle
for a few days, or of how this invitation had been
readily accepted,  experienced some such painful
emotions, when she had retired to her solitary
chamber, upon the evening when Colonel Hepburn
and Captain Sparshott, his brother in arms, had
driven over to dinner from Falconborough Park.

He was gone now, -for good,  as she sadly
imagined,  Falconborough must be certainly nine
or ten miles from the castle,  even by the very
shortest way,  and it was unlikely, therefore, that
he would come over again whilst she and the
Binkses remained at Belmorris. And he had said
no word to her ;  he had given no look or sign
which might have satisfied, in some measure,  at
least,  the intense longing of her heart ! . . .
True,  she had not seen him alone for a single
second,  and the words she hungered for were
scarcely such as could have been uttered in public,
but surely,  surely,  if he had cared for her in

the very least, lie Avoid have allowed lier to learn
this blissful knowledge from the depths of his
wonderful eyes which coidd say so much sometimes
? . . . Had he quite, quite, forgotten those
enchanted moments in the shadowy cloisters at
Hampton Court ? . . .

Lucy's apartment at Belmorris had nothing
about it which could have helped to sadden even
the most gloomy imagination. It was a small
bachelor-room, with a bright brass bedstead,  the
curtains of which were blooming all over with
blossoms, and fluttering with butterflies. If Lord
Belmorris had searched through his entire castle
with the special desire of selecting the most comfortable
and cosy-looking room, he could scarcely
have succeeded better in his object. Nevertheless,
upon the evening when Colonel Hepburn had
dined and departed, Lucy passed many miserable
hours under these same blossoms bed-curtains.

He is gone ! he is gone ! ' . . . was the sad
refrain that seemed to be chanted and wailed close
to her sleepless pillow from dark to dawn. But
then, on the morrow, came a joyful and unlooked-for
revulsion of feeling.

He is coming ! he is coming ! ' the same
spirit-voices seemed to be shouting and singing

triumphantly during the whole of the following-night.
* He is coming over to stay for a few days
tomorrow, accompanied by Captain Sparshott ! '
and the voices only ceased when she fell into a
delicious slumber, brightened by hopeful visions ;
and then,  lo and behold ! ' tomorrow ' had
grown into * to-day !'

Colonel Hepburn and his military friend rode
over from Falconborough Park, and reached the
door of Bclmorris Castle at about four o'clock,  a
dog-cart, containing their portmanteaux, arriving
shortly afterwards. Lucy's bedroom,  by a fortunate
chance, was situated immediately over the
principal doorway,  and, from this vantage-ground
she was enabled to witness both these
arrivals. Every detail connected with Colonel
Hepburn seemed to her to be fraught with an
absorbing interest,  down to the very initials
upon his baggage,  whilst Captain Sparshott's
portmanteau,  notwithstanding the first-rate trout-fishing
at old Sir Timothy's,  was hauled down
almost unnoticed.

Lucy observed that the armorial bearings upon
the blinkers of the horse which was harnessed to
the dog-cart, were the same as those engraved
upon the back of the sacred hair-brush with which

she had smoothed her tresses upon a ceram.
memorable evening. They consisted of a horse's
head,  bitted and bridled,  the ancient cognisance
of the Hepburn of Bothwell and Hermitage,  and
a falcon, hovering over its nest, for Falconborough.
"Was it likely that the great red lion-rampant
of the Barlows would ever enter into a polygamous
union with these two illustrious heraldic
beasts?

Upon his arrival. Colonel Hepburn condescended
to partake of tea, which was already prepared
in the gmi-room, and which was handed to
him by Adeliza Binks. Captain Sparshott,  preferring
a ' B and S,' was likewise accommodated
in the same apartment, and here it was that Lucy,
having ventured tremblingly downstairs, was once
more confronted with the man she loved. There
was the same formal grasp of the hand as yesterday,
 the same calm words of ceremonious greeting.
Hope, however, was lurking in Lucy's heart,
for was he not going to remain on at the castle
for several da s ? . . . .

Lord Belmorris,  who had been scrutinising
her very closely,  so Lucy fancied,  during this
disappointing hand-shaking,  but then,  at such
moments,  she had lately grown to imagine that

she was always unusually observed,  now proposed
that they should go out for a stroll in the park
before dinner. Adeliza, who had not yet removed
her walking-apparel, started off with her brother to
accompany them, but Lucy, who, in an evil moment,
had taken off hat, jacket, and thick boots,
felt too timid to propose that they should wait
whilst she equipped herself anew,  and so, had
the disappointment of watching them depart
without her.

Adeliza led the way briskly, with Captain
Sparshott,  Colonel Hepburn and Lord Belmorris
following at a more leisurely pace,  whilst Alger-non
Binks straggled along in an unpaired condition,
for the gravel pathway was scarcely wide
enough for three. Perhaps,  after all, she would
only have had to walk with him,  and this would
have been no very unusual pleasure ! . . . .

Before they arrived at the iron-gateway leading
out of the flower-garden,  Colonel Hepburn
paused,  looked back at the house, almost as if he
had forgotten something, and was about to return.
Lucy's heart,  as she watched him from the window,
 began beating tumultuously. "What if he
were to come back,  leaving the others in the
garden,  just to whisper the few kind words for

which she hungered ? How easily it could have
been done,  and without inviting the slightest
suspicion I . A uvmcm,  in Colonel Hepburn's
place, would certainly have managed it I . . . But
Colonel Hepburn was not a woman. The impulse,
whatever it may have been,  passed off,  and
she saw him continuing his way with the others.

As soon as they were out of sight, Luc} seated
herself in the chair lately vacated by the Colonel,
and endeavoured to read the morning papers.
The house, however, seemed suddenly to have
become terribly lonely. Lady Mabella was at
home,  it is true,  but she was resting upstairs in
her own private apartments. Gussy was,  of
course,  at her tea, with the other servants,  but
the housekeeper's room was too far off for any
sounds from it to reach the occupants of the upstairs
sitting-rooms. In a very short time, therefore,
the feeling of solitude became too oppressive
for her to endure, and, going up to her bedroom
she arrayed herself in her walking-costume, and.
went out of doors.

After passing through a part of the flower-garden,
 she took her way through the rookery,
crossed the carriage-road, and found herself ina
wood beyond, which was intersected by many

VOL. II. E

pathways. Thick bushes of laurel, box, and rhododendron,
grew upon each side of the way, so
that the now half-naked branches of the trees
beyond were scarcely discernible in the deepening
twilight. Lucy had often wandered about in
these shady pathways before,  it was a spot
favourable to 'maiden meditation;' and the
rustling of the withered leaves, as she flitted along,
seemed like a fit accompaniment to her thoughts,
which,  it must be confessed,  had been somewhat
sad and desponding of late.

By-and-by, she became aware of a louder and
more continuous rustling. Some one was following
in her footsteps. She looked round, and found
herself face to face with Colonel Hepburn.

Just heavens ! . . . He was alone : she could
perceive no signs whatever of the rest of the
party ! . . . .

She felt paralysed in every sense. No word
escaped her lips, and her heart began to behave
as it invariably did behave in Colonel Hepburn's
presence. Fortunately, he very soon put an end
to the embarrassing silence.

So you prefer your own company to ours, I
see. Miss Barlow,' he said as he came up with her.
Belmorris, finding you weren't with us, has gone

back to look after you. May I ask if you always
go out for these solitary strolls ? '

Sometimes Lucy answered, helped by ibis
conventional tone into making a supreme effort
over ber emotion. ' Twilight is the time I like best
in the whole day. I can always think better then.'

And might one enquire,  without appearing
to be presumptuous, whether your thoughts are
pleasant ones?' he asked, with a kind of mock-formality
which, in some circumstances, is so
particularly irritating and disheartening.

Lucy was now no longer trembling and embarrassed.
Colonel Hepburn's manner,  almost a
manner of condescending banter,  as it seemed to
her sensitive ears,  had re-awakened her slumbering
pride. She regained her presence of mind,
though her heart felt sore with disappointment.

*My thoughts are not always pleasant,' she
answered, calmly and seriously. ' How can they
be ? There seems to be a great deal in the world
which is very sad and very cruel.'

Tears were in her eyes, but happily, it had
grown too dark for him to see them.

Poor child ! ' he murmured, in an altered voice.
' Surely no one can ever have been cruel to you ?
Your life ought to be all brightness and hope ! '

W'VERs/TYOFrUfNO,,

Again that same parental, abstracted, irresponsible
tone, wbicb had chilled her blood more
than once before ! . . . He stopped, however, 
took her hand,  and looked down earnestly into
her face

But just at this moment the withered leaves
began to rustle tumultuously, and Algernon Binks
came scampering down one of the intersecting
paths.

Ah, there you are, Lucy ! ' he cried, in his
discordant boy's voice. * We've been hunting for
you all over the place ! . . . Here she is ! ' he
called out to his sister and the Captain, who were
now seen emerging from an adjacent grove. 'My
Uncle Belmorris has gone all the way home to
look for you ! '

Poor Lucy's heart seemed to grow cold in her
bosom. Colonel Hepburn, too,  she could not help
fancying,  looked a little annoyed.

They retraced their steps to the castle by a
different way to that by which they had set out,
Adeliza walking on first, as before,  with Captain
Sparshott. Colonel Hepburn and Lucy
loitered some distance behind them, whilst Al-vernon
Binks kept fastening on to, and disturbing,
first one couple, and then the other, and proving,

if the truth must be told,  about an equal annoyance
to both.

Upon emerging from the rhododendron grove,
they found themselves upon the brink of what
was almost a ravine,  the decline of which was
richly wooded with forest-trees. Notwithstanding
the advanced season,  some of these were still
clothed with foliage, coloured in brilliant autumnal
tints. A grey vapour clung softly to the side of
the valley,  concealing the full extent of the
declivity, and beyond this, a wild and picturesque
tract of country lay mapped out before them,
extending in every direction as far as the eye
could reach, and seeming to be utterly indefinite
in the subdued light of a newly arisen crescent-moon.


Adeliza Binks,  in spite of having strangled
all her aesthetic leanings upon the altar of fashion,
was aware that this view was generally much
admired, and was determined that Captain Spar-short
should not miss seeing it,  if only for what
Algy had called 'the honour and glory of the
family.*

They contemplated it with varied feelings, 
for some seconds in silence. Colonel Hepburn
was the first to speak.

This is one of the finest vieAvs in England
lie said ; ' I know of hardly ans other that is to be
compared to it.'

*I don't suppose it's any finer than the view
on Clachan Common remarked Algy archly;
*eh, Lucy?'

 Clapham Common* repeated Colonel Hepburn,
looking at him quickly. 'Why Clapham
Common?'

'Because that's where ni} cousin lives when
she's at home replied the irrepressible Algy.
Isn't it, Lucy ? . . . and she's always telling us
how beautifully the moon rises there, and how
grandly the sun sets, and how little we cockneys
know of its perfections, although it isn't half an
hour's drive from London in a hansom.'

'I can't help liking my own home,' returned
Lucy simply ; ' there's a quiet, old-fashioned
feeling about it, which one realizes the charm of
after one has lived there for some time, although,
of course, there's nothing that can be compared in
any way to this.'

I had no idea said Colonel Hepburn, as they
turned from the moonlit landscape, and continued
their homeward way, ' that you lived anywhere near
Clapham Common. You never told me before.'

I didn't think you would care to know. It
was not because I was ashamed of ni' home;

She spoke with dignity,  almost with sternness.


'He does not care for me she was thinking
bitterly. ' He could break anyone's heart and
then not know that he'd done it ! 'VVhy should I
become the slave of one who cannot understand ? '

The' were alone again,  for a few minutes, at
least ; for Algy had walked on with his sister and
her admirer. Colonel Hepburn seemed to wish to
hang back.

Upon which side of Clapham Common do you
live ? ' he inquired gently.

*Upon the side which has its back turned to
London and the river,' she answered. * I suppose
being so very near a large town, and yet outside
it, is,  really,  what makes it seem to be so faraway
from it. Sometimes, Avhen I listen, in the
evening, to the chimes from the London churches,
and then look at the grey' walls of our little
garden, I feel as if they completely shut us off
from all the rest of the world.'

Your garden,  I suppose,  is at the back of
the house,  upon the side which docs not look out
upon the Common ? '

Yes ; but we have a little strip of garden
upon the Common side,  as well,  and a beautiful
lime-tree with a seat under it. When the evenings
are fine, I sometimes sit a long time at the window
and watch the people playing at cricket,  as my
room looks out that way.*

The early mornings are very pleasant there,
too,' remarked the Colonel, absently. * I shall be
sorry when anything happens to those old lime-trees.'


You know Clapham Common then ?' she said,
pausing, and looking up at him suddenly. She
was thinking of the mysterious figure,  so like
him in every respect, which she had seen seated
one morning, upon the public bench nearly
opposite her own door,  and wondering whether
it had been really an optical delusion after all.

Of course I know it,' he answered carelessly ;
as your cousin says,  it isn't half an hour's drive
from London in a " hansom." '

But you know it well ?' Lucy insisted timidly.
*You sit, sometimes, under the lime-trees upon
the Common in the early mornings ? '

*Have you any particular reason for asking
this?' he inquired, as though impressed by her
earnest manner.

I fancied, once, that I saw you,  that's my
only reason. There is a group of seven lime-trees
nearly opposite our windows, with a bench
inter them,  and I looked out one morning, and
saw a man sitting there who seemed to be just
like you. But his back was turned to me, and,
afterwards, I thought I must have been mistaken ;
but now, I was wondering whether it oughtn't
have been you after all.'

It's quite possible that I may have been upon
Clapham Common, now and then,  in the summer,'
returned Colonel Hepburn vaguely. ' There's an
old fellow living near there, who travelled with
me, long ago,  as a kind of tutor, and I run down
and look him up sometimes. So your house is
just in front of those seven lime-trees ?'

Yes ; it's a quiet, peaceful-looking little
Queen Anne house, standing between two much
larger ones. I shouldn't think that you would
have observed it.'

I shall observe it in future, if I ever happen
to be near there again ! And is it as quiet and
peaceful within as it looks outside ?'

Yes ; the Jwuse is peaceful enough,' she
answered, * and my Aunt, who, though she is so
old, has never had any troubles,  is peaceful and

contented too. It is a house that seems meant
more for peace and quietness than for happiness ;
everything seems to be so old-fashioned and
toned down.'

But 7/ou are happy there ?' he asked, stopping-again,
and looking searchingly at what he could
perceive of her in the growing darkness. ' Why
did you sigh as jou spoke ? Tell me, once, that
you are not unhappy ? Ah, if you only knew
how much I wish for your happiness ! ' . . .

What more he might have said will never be
known,  for at this moment Lord Belmorris made
his appearance in the dusky pathway. He was
whistling,  not always,  with him,  a sign of
high spirits,  and flicking at the leaves of the
laurel-bushes with his stick. Lucy and Colonel
Hepburn started in rather a guilty manner, 'and
then went forward to meet him.

'Well, Miss Lucy,  you're a nice young
person, I must say I' he exclaimed. ' What have
3'ou to say for yourself,  giving us the slip, and
then leading me a regular wild-goose chase to try
and find you ? '

Lucy feared that he was really angry with her
from his tone, which, considering his kindness to
her during her stay beneath his roof, was the very

last tiling lie would have desired. Lie commenced,
therefore, to explain her conduct, in
somewhat faltering tones, but before she had proceeded
far with it, her cousin Algernon again
appeared upon the scene.

"lucy wasn't up in the mother's room,' he
said to his uncle, ' where you said I was to go and
look for her, whilst you searched downstairs,  and
the mother was in an awful wax at being woke up,
though Gussy said she wasn't really asleep,  but,
when I came back, I found her in the " King's
Walk" with Colonel Hepburn. Didn't I, Lucy?
I didn't go back and tell you, because we
thought you'd be sure to turn up.'

Lucy acquiesced faintly. Somehow, this afternoon,
her nerves seemed to be terribly unstrung !

'Now, what have you to say for yourself,
Miss?' asked Lord Belmorris, knitting his dark
brows with sham severity. All the others had
gone on ahead, and he was walking with her
towards the house, which was now close at hand.

Oh, 2e(se don't be so angry with me ! ' she
pleaded. ' Surely you know that I wouldn't have
offended you willingly ! '

Lord Belmorris perceived, to his surprise, that
she was in tears.

Why, what a brute I am I ' he exclaimed with
contrition ; ' I've actually made you cry ! . . . My
dearest child ! Say that you forgive me ! '

He, too, paused,  just as Colonel Hepburn had
done, and took her hand tenderly and remorsefully.
Lucy became confirmed in her impression
that life was assuredly full of the strangest contrasts
and complications.

It's not for me to forgive ! ' she faltered, 
feeling sadly at a loss for words. * There's nothing
for either of us to forgive ;  only, . . . only . . .
I fancied you were really angry with me, and I
was so sorry, because you have always been so
Try kind ! ' . . .

*I wasn't in the least angry,' he answered,
drawing her hand through his arm and stroking
it paternally ; * besides,  if I had been, it wouldn't
have mattered two straws ! You're quite right to
prefer Hepburn's society to that of the rest of us,
for he's a very clever, well-read, agreeable
fellow,  besides being so good-looking. It's a
pity he isn't a marrying man ! '

CHAPTEE IV.

The second day of Antliony Hepburn's sojourn,
at Belmorris Castle brought Lucy as little solace
as the first. The men went out shooting during
the greater part of it,  returning to the house
soon after four o'clock. Then ensued a fev conventional
words,  haying reference to subjects
without much interest to a young lady in Lucy's
emotional state,  a stroll in the twilight,  with
Lord Belmorris or Algy making an unwelcome
third,  and, afterwards,  dinner,  to which
Colonel Hepburn escorted Lady Mabella,  Captain
Sparshott taking in xldeliza, and Algernon
straggling in,  as he generally did,  unprovided
with a female. Poor Lucy,  paying the penalty
of remote relationship rather than of greatness,
was taken in first,  upon the arm of the master
of the house, and found herself, thus,  the
furthest removed of anybody at table from the
object of her affections. At these critical epochs

of existence, one is prone to cling to the slenderest
straws of comfort, and so, she may have derived
some sort of consolation, perhaps, from the fact
that, when the moment came for the ladies to
retire for the night,  it was Colonel Hepburn
who, having accompanied them to the foot of the
staircase, graciously took upon himself to light,
and hand to her, her bedroom candlestick,  gazing
lingeringly after her retreating form as she took
her way upstairs out of his presence. But, in
spite of this unimportant incident,  her horizon
appeared still to be clouded over with apprehension
and uncertainty.

Then, sadly and swiftly,  as such terrible
days have a way of dawning,  came the day
upon which he was destined to depart. He was
going away from her again,  leaving her no
tangible evidence of his interest or affection to
cling to, but the lighting of a miserable bedroom
candlestick ! . . . . She was physically weakened
from having, alone, and quite unaided,  done
battle with so much disquiet. The last two nights
had been almost,  if not entirety,  sleepless ;
and Lord Belmorris seemed to be quite distressed
at the failure of her appetite at breakfast, luncheon,
and dinner. When,  she asked herself

despairingly,  would this uncomfortable state of
affairs come to an end ? . . . .

It transpired soon after breakfast, however,
that, although Colonel Hepburn and Captain
Sparshott were,  of a truth,  about to leave the
Castle, it had been arranged that the two young
ladies should make an expedition to Falcon-borough
for the day,  accompanied, of course, by
Lord Belmorris and Algernon Binks, as their
natural protectors. The weather, although anything
but warm, was so fine that there was
every reason to suppose the ' outing ' would be an
agreeable one, as the fine old Tudor house, with
its historical and family pictures, was well worthy
of a visit.

The party set out immediately after luncheon
in a waggonette, with Algernon Binks upon the
box, instead of a footman.

It was not possible during the drive for any
of the occupants of the waggonette to talk confidentially,
and the conversation turned, therefore,
merely upon general topics.

Upon entering the lodge-gates of Falcon-borough
Park, Lucy gazed eagerly about her, for
the night was so dark when she had visited it before,
that its beauties were entirely new.

How different everything looks lie exclaimed,
presently, * by da light, to what it
does at night ! '

The words escaped her almost unconsciously,
more as if she were thinking aloud than addressing
her companions.

You have been here before then ? ' said
Colonel Hepburn,  seeking her eyes inquiringly.

Lord Belmorris,  in a few telegraphic sentences,
gave a rough account of his and Lucy's
adventure, of which, to her surprise, she found
that the Colonel had not been informed. His
servants had, apparently, said nothing to him
about it as yet, and Lord Belmorris was not the
sort of person to volunteer information, unless
it was particularly required of him. Colonel
Hepburn, therefore, seemed to experience something
of the same kind of surprise that Lucy
herself had felt upon discovering his familiarity
with Clapham Common.

I am afraid that there will be nothing forme
to show you that you have not already seen ! '
he said, as he helped her out of the waggonette,
when they had arrived at the door.

We only went into one room, do loi stairs she
replied, ' for all the others seemed to be shut up.

and I should so much like to see the portraits
of  of  your relations

 Ancestors  she thought, afterwards, might,
perhaps, have been a wiser and more appropriate
word. But she had spoken the truth. He had
grown so unaccountably dear to her, that her tenderness
seemed to reach back, and enfold, even
his father and mother, and she desired to see
Avhat these unknown loved ones had been like
in the flesh.

The' all passed together into the entrance-hall,
which was lofty and oak-panelled. There
was a glass door leading into an old-fashioned
flower-garden, at the further end of it.

If you would care to look round the garden
for a few minutes,' said Colonel Hepburn, leading
the way to this door, and then opening it,
I will just take Miss Earlow to look at the
pictures before the light goes. I think you
have all seen them,  such as they are,  but I
don't know whether Miss Binks has ever heard
the echo in the old orangery :  Sparshott's a
capital hand at setting it going ! '

He spoke carelessly, but there was something
determined in his tone. Lord Belmorris looked
up at him as though a little startled at his

VOL. II. F

proposal. An expression of annoyance passed
for a moment over His face. He stood as though
irresolute, upon the top step, showing no sign
of going into the garden. Lucy almost feared
that he was about to accompany her to the
pictures. Adeliza Binks, however, and Captain
Sparshott, had darted out, and were now on their
way to evoke the echo. Algernon was nowhere
to be seen, and Lord Belmorris, as uncle and
chaperon,  may possibly have felt bound to
hover within sight of his niece and her admirer.
Be this as it may, he gazed for a second in
Lucy's face,  with a look that had in it something
of a mute appeal,  and then, slowly, and as if reluctantly,
 went down the stone-steps into the
garden.

Lucy Barlow and Anthony Hepburn were
alone.

Should you real/?/ care to look at the pictures
? ' he asked, as soon as Lord Belmorris was
out of hearing.

To Lucy,  whose perceptions were quickened
to intensity, it was as though he had said, openly  

 Looking at the pictures was merely a pretext.
Our first desire was to be together ; ' and now it
occurred to her that his reserve as regarded outward

expression,  might proceed from a consciousness
of the mutual sympathy which had
become established between them, and which
seemed to him, perhaps,  to render words superfluous.


I should like rcaJhj to look at the pictures,'
she answered, aware, in every fibre of her being,
of this tacit understanding.

Come then,' and he led the way to the library,
in which she had found herself once before.

Passing on together through this room, they
entered a long gallery beyond, in which the pictures
had been arranged by the late Lord Falcon-borough
with care and intelligence. The descriptions,
 together with the names of the
masters, were painted u2Don the frames. There
was no need, therefore, of explanations, and Lucy
and her host went over them in silence. By-and-by,
however, they came to a picture which was
described and unnamed. It was by a comparatively
modem artist, and represented a Jewish
money-lender,  in turban and spectacles,  seated
at a counter strewn over with knick-knacks,
whilst a beautiful young widow with an infant
in her arms, was offering him the miniature of
her husband for sale. An older child was clinging

to her garments, and gazing at the usurer
-svith. frightened ees.

 The meaning of this picture Colonel Hepburn
remarked, and in his tender and concentrated
tone there was nothing to dispel Lucy's
idea about the mysterious sympathy existing
between them ; * can be interpreted in several
different ways, and for this reason, it seems tome,
one doesn't grow tired of it. Sometimes I
fancy the painter meant merely to illustrate
the trials of poverty This poor woman may
have been devoted to her husband ; his portrait
may be almost her only remaining treasure ; but
the children require bread,  they are more to
her, even,'than the picture ; the picture must go !
This is one reading of the subject.'

And the other ? ' inquired Lucy, almost in a
whisper.

The other you will, perhaps, think, could
only have occurred to a cynical mind, and I suppose
I only take this second view when I am in a
Horrid state. At such times, I fancj that the
widow is too becomingly dressed to be realty
poor ; she has gold earrings, you see, and a fine
large cross on her neck. Vhy not dispose of
these trinkets before she parts with the picture ?

Nol I daresay she never cared a straw
for tier husband! The ornaments may
serve to attract some new suitor. Let the portrait
go first ! '

'But yet said Lucy, forgetting herself for the
moment, and taking the 23art of the young widow ;
her face looks so dreadfully sad, and she holds
forward the picture so reluctantly. I think she
must really have cared for him ! '

I don't attach much importance to the sad
look,' returned Colonel Hepburn, seeking her eyes
inquiringly ; ' for I always thought that a woman
could make her face sad or gay, just as she
fancied, without any reference to her real
feelings.'

Lucy thought that he must have said this
merely to test her, and determined, therefore,
to reply with discretion.

'Some women may be able to pretend,' she
answered ; ' but surely some are to be believed ? '

I hodie so ; till now, however, I haven't been
much of a believer.'

I am sorry to hear that. Perhaps the women
you knew best were not truthful.'

The words escaped her almost unawares.
Colonel Hepburn seemed to wince for a moment.

Lucy feared that lie had, perhaps, aroused some
painful memory.

I think,* he said, after awhile, * that women
nearly always desire to convert one from every
kind of unbelief, whether it be in Heaven, or in
themselves ; because a woman, whether truthful
or the reverse, is generally kind, and, being kind,
she vll desire that you should derive happiness
from the sources that have proved a comfort to herself
; and, to hc)\ it is everything to believe. I like
to think that good women, however, do not always
care for the best men

 "Why ? ' she inquired, wondering.

Because most men, I should think, would
rather be loved by a good woman than a bad one :
and because men are generally so full of failings
that no good woman could ever love them if she
cared only for perfection.'

I should think, ' returned Lucy, ' that if a woman
once really cared for anyone, she would forgive his
failings, however much she might regret them.'

Do sou think,' he said, suddenly, in an altered
voice, * that a good woman could ever care for a
coward ? '

*A coward V repeated Lucy, looking at him
inquiringly.

There was an expression of pain upon his face.
She was at a loss, in spite of her quickened senses,
to divine his meaning.

Yes ; a cowards he answered, sadly. ' I am
interested in your reply, because I have discovered
that I am a coward myself.'

You a coward ! ' exclaimed Lucy in astonishment.
* I heard that you had been in battles, and
fancied that you were so brave ! '

My bod' is tough enough, I daresay, and
I'm not much afraid of physical pain, but,
morals, I am a miserable coward. Without displaying
personal cowardice, a man may sometimes
find himself in a position whore a bold stroke
would put an end to much that he feels to be
both irksome and humiliating, and he may yet be
wanting in the courage to strike.'

He spoke with the manner of one who is
about to make some sort of painful confession.
Lucy was thrilled to the soul at this seeming
proof of his confidence.

I have heard that men dislike annoyance
more than we do,' she answered. * So, perhaps,
a man might go on bearing what was painful, if
to put an end to it would entail doing something
unpleasant.'

Yes ; some men carry this to an extreme ;
and, as they have to bear the consequences of
their own acts, they are generally more than
sufficiently punished. But there are cases when
this want of moral courage may bring suffering
to others,  to those they care for more
than they do for themselves ; you can understand
this?'

Yes ; I understand it, although I know
nothing of what may be in your mind. In
such cases a woman, I think, would feel herself
obliged to strike the blow, and go through the
annoyance, however great ; but then, women are
so different from men.'

But, supposing, in striking this blow for the
sake of one you loved, as well as for your own
peace of mind, you felt that you were behaving
with heartlessness towards a third person,  someone
who had given you proofs of friendship and
affection, and to whom you were under certain
important obligations,  in such a case, might not
even a woman hesitate ? '

Would to act as you would like to act, annoy
this friend very much ? ' Lucy inquired.

(* Perhaps,' she thought, *he has some uncle
or cousin who would be injured by his marrying,

possibly his next heir,  and this may be Yhy
he has never married before')

*It would do more than annoy, perhaps,' returned
Colonel Hepburn, still speaking Yith great
earnestness ; * it might cause real pain, and, for
this reason, the man who is a coward recoils from
striking. The blow will have to be dealt some
day, but he delay's and temporises

But it must be struck some days for certain ? '

For certain, I think,' he answered. ' "When,
in life, events take particular turns, one can
perceive their tendency as surely as one perceives
that a river must flow towards the sea. The man
who is not morally brave, is always hoping for this
time, and dislikes hurrying what is inevitable.'

He is too impatient to wait for the end which
must come ? '

No ; he would wait for it for years and years,
if only he could be sure that it would really come ;
but, unfortunately', life is short, and the time
during which it can be enjoyed is shorter still.
It would be selfish, perhaps, to make sure of one's
happiness, but might it not be foolish to let it
escape one altogether ? A man may reason like
this sometimes, and then, come what may, he
feels impelled to seize his happiness note'

He gazed at Lucy as he said this, as though
his entire destiny hung upon her answer.

'What would you do,' he asked presently,
if you found yourself in this man's place ? '

Lucj endeavoured to turn the matter over,
dispassionately, in her mind, but before she had
decided upon her answer, he said suddenly, 

Have you ever read Tennyson's ** Idylls of
the King"'

About King Arthur and his knights ? Yes ;
I have read most of them. In my room at home
there is a print of " Elaine " floating down the
river in her barge after she is dead.'

It was strange (she thought), that he should
speak to her about these poems, when, upon the
very first occasion of her meeting with him, she
had likened him, in her mind, to Lancelot ' the
great knight,  the darling of the court ! '

Well,' continued Colonel Hepburn, speaking
still with more earnestness than the occasion
seemed to demand ; * read over again the one called
*' Elaine," there are some lines in it which may
tell you more than I am able,  more than I dare
explain.'

You are telling me something about yourself
? ' Lucy inquired.

Yes ; for I should like you to know the
worst of me. But we will say no more about this
now. Let me show you the picture of one of the
best women in the world.'

They went back again into the library
Colonel Hepburn stopped beneath the full-length
portrait of a lady in a white dress. She was
represented standing at the foot of a broad staircase,
with one hand upon the head of a large dog.

From the reverential expression which came
into his eyes, as well as from the resemblance
which existed between this portrait and the
miniature hanging in his bedroom, Lucy was
quite prepared for this explanation, 

This is my poor mother.'

They both looked up at the portrait without
speaking.

Lucy experienced a strange awed feeling. It
seemed to her almost as if she was being presented
to Colonel Hepburn's mother upon approval,
and she felt quite nervous as to what the
beautiful lady in the white dress might think of
her.

You see, she was quite young when this was
done,' he said at length ; ' but she looked still
young the last time I saw her. She had nothing

of the '' motlicr of the Gracchus " about her, and
from the moment I became a soldier she was
always in terror lest I should be killed.'

I can fancy returned Lucy, * how dreadful it
must be for a mother or a father to lose their
child.'

Yes ; I fancy it's the strongest instinct
Nature has implanted in us,' he replied ; ' cxcej)t
one'

He looked at her intently as he said this.
Lucy was thrilled by his gaze, and painfully confused.
It would have been almost a relief to herat
that moment, if some one had entered the room
and broken the spell ; for she felt that those appealing
eyes were gazing down into the very
depths of her soul, and that ere long they must
read her secret. It seemed ages before either of
them spoke again, during which time Lucy experienced
a sensation as if her heart was running
a race with the library clock, trying hard to beat
it, and succeeding. Suddenly, a new light seemed
to break in upon her.

Do you mind my asking you something ? '
she faltered. ' Are you married ? '

*No, I am not married,' he answered; 'I
swear it ! '

But do YOU care very much for any one ? 
some one you cannot marry ? ' she asked, breathlessly
; 'ah, pray tell me the truth I '

I am not married,' he answered ; * and I love
no one but you, so help me God ! Surely sou
must know this I Tell me, my Lucy, that you
can love me too ? '

He drew her to him. For a moment she was
in his arms.

You know I  you know ! ' was all that she
found voice to murmur. ' You have known it fora
long time ! '

Then I may think of you as my own Lucy ? '
he said tenderly. ' But for the present we must
keep our secret to ourselves. Come, let us go
into the garden.'

He took her hand in his, and led her back
through the deserted rooms, and she felt that he
knew that she loved him.

I must say, Algy,' remarked Adeliza to her
brother, upon their return to Belmorris after the
expedition to Falconborough Park ; ' that I don't
think much, after all, of your boasted valour !
Here's Colonel Hepburn been, and gone, and yet
you've never mustered up courage to say anything

to him about his attentions to Lucy, which I must
confess are becoming a little marked ! Did you
see the cool way, to-day, in which he led her off
into the library under all our noses ? Uncle
B. was awfully roughed up by it, and vented
some of his ill-temper upon poor me, by watching
Charlie Sparshott and I whilst we were listening
to the echo, just as if he'd been a detective. He'd
much better have gone indoors and looked after
Lucy ! '

I'm not quite blind ! ' returned Algy, complacently
; ' and I saw everything just as plainly
as you did ; but I've come to the conclusion that
I can express myself better in writing, so I'm going
to fire off a letter to Hepburn tomorrow morning
by the early post ! '

CHAPTER Y.

True to his promise, immediately after breakfast
upon the following morning, Algernon Binks
seated himself at the library writing-table. lie
selected a new quill pen,  with a broad nib, and a
sheet of emblazoned writing-paper, of the consistency
of cardboard ;  for his letter, although
friendly in tone, was intended to be of a very
firm and determined character.

The opening words,  'My dear Hepburn,'
flowed from his ' grey goose-quill ' glibly enough,
but, arrived thus far, he paused for some time,
and it was not before he had bitten off the end of
the pen, and stroked his beardless chin repeatedly
with the stump, that he was enabled to go on with
his composition.

He advanced, even then, but slowly', for he was
neither a very good hand at writing nor at spelling,
and he felt called upon, in a letter of so much
importance, to make use of a good many hard

words. When completed, too, the paper was so
marred by erasures and corrections, that he decided
upon treating it merely as the rough copland
it was very nearly post-time, therefore, before
it was actually finished. When finally corrected
and approved it ran as follows : 
My dear Hepburn,

I take up my pen to address you upon a
delicate subject, which I should have placed in
the hands of some one more experienced in such
matters, if my cousin, Miss Lucy Barlow, had not
been, as she is,  an orphan, with no male relations
living except me. I expect by this beginning of
mine, you will be able to guess the drift of any remarks
I may think fit to make to you, and that you
will take them kindly,  like the good fellow that I
really believe you are,  in spite of what ill-natured
people may say to the contrary One
has always heard, that, for some reason best
known to yourself, you were not considered a
marrying man ; of which I was informed by my
sister as long ago as when we were all staying
down at Hampton Court in the summer. Iow,
being a man like yourself, I know, my dear Hepburn,*
(I had better treat him quite in an affectionate,
brotherly, way,  at any rate till he turns

nasty, thought Algy to himself, as lie wrote
this,) . . . ' I know, my dear Hepburn,' (he continued,)
' that lots of little temporary entanglements
may occur, which prevent one's wanting to
settle down till one has had one's fun,  but, after
all, these affairs are very easy to wind up or
square,"  particularly when a fellow is as rich as
you are ; and once a fellow has sown his wild oats,
he is generally just as ready to marry as any
other fellow. Both my mother. Lady Mabella
Binks,  my sister, and myself,'  (' I think,' he
soliloquised, * that it wasn't a bad move, bringing
in Mama's name, for we want rather to frighten
him, and he won't know that she doesn't take the
slightest interest in anything except her complaints
!') .' My sister and myself,  have remarked
the attentions you have paid my cousin
Miss Barlow, and I am writing this with a view
to some sort of explanation of your conduct, 
which I cannot describe as gentlemanlike or
above-board, if you are not in a position to behave
honourably to my cousin,  as I have no
doubt you will think proper to do upon consideration.
But, dear Hepburn,' (the term of endearment
was here inserted to console the Colonel for
any pain which might have been caused by the

VOL II. G

severity" of the previous remarks,) . * there is
another side of the case to be looked at which
equals, if not surpasses, the first. It is this ;
yiz. :  If you do not make my cousin Miss Barlow
an offer, it is my firm belief,  as sure as I
am sitting here in this chair,  that my Uncle
Belmorris uill and I am as sure as anything,
also, that, if he does so, he will be accepted like a
shot, for an Earl with over forty thousand a-year,
and decent-looking besides, and not too old, 
does not propose every day to a young lady whose
face is probably her only fortune, although she
may be lively, and good form, and all that, as I
am sure you will agree with me that my cousin
Miss Barlow is. But now,  in this case, my own
position will really be one with which I should
expect you to sympathize with, and to help me
out of, if it is in your power, as you have had
the good luck to escape from the same kind of
danger yourself.

Belmorris Castle, and most of the landed
estates, together with the title, will go,  at the
death of mj uncle,  to his first cousin,  a fellow
he has hardly ever seen, and who is, besides, a
parson;  but there are three or four very nice
farms, and a whole pot of ready-money's, saved

up, and got by racing, &c., &c., but which would
be settled if he married, upon his younger
children. I have alway's been looked upon by
my mother. Lady Mabella,  as heir to this nice
little fortune, as her younger sister, happily, did
not leave any children before she died ; and I
appeal to you, my dear Hepburn, as to whether
you would like, in my place, to see jour own nose
put out of joint in this unexpected way. It
is my candid opinion, being a fellow to keep my
eyes open, that, though my cousin would, of
course, accept my Uncle Belmorris if he is fool
enough to propose, and has been flirting with
him, perhaps, and keeping him on, and all that,
that, in reality, she very much prefers i/ou, and
that, as you arc, also one of the best matches in
the county, I feel sure she would at once accept
you if you made her the first offer; for ' a bird in
the hand " is, as we all know, " worth two in the
bush." I warn you, therefore, my dear fellow,
for your own sake, if you are at all " hard hit,"
and if you mean business, to go in and win at
once, if 3'ou are in a position to do so with clean
hands, and I hope you will excuse me for having
taken the liberty of giving you the " straight tip."
Excuse, also, bad writing, and any mistakes I

may have made with my spelling. I am studying,
as you know, for the Army, and am going in
for one modern language besides Latin, which
makes me a little shaky, now and then, with
my English, and, with my kindest regards to
Sparshott,

Believe me to be

Yours very sincerely,

Algernon Binks.'

Lucy, in the meantime, could neither eat,
sleep, nor think, (save upon one subject,) for
very gladness of heart. All night long, she lay
in a state of beatitude, thanking God for the
great blessing that had befallen her, and when,
next morning, she tripped down to a pretence of
breakfast, she felt as if she was treading upon air
instead of stair-carpet.

Some few of ns, perchance, may have experienced
the same enchanting sensations, which
are, usually, sadly evanescent. Such emotions,
however, might wear out our fragile organizations
by reason of their very intensity, were they to be
of long continuance. Let ns be patient, therefore,
under the Supreme Decree ! . . .

I suppose no one in the whole world was ever

quite so happy as I am I ' she thought to herself,
remarking at the breakfast-table ' the loveless
looks of other men ' as represented by Lord Bel-morris
and Algernon Binks. His lordship, certainly,
appeared to be more silent and preoccupied
than usual. Possibly, (Lucy thought,) he might
have had bad news from his racing-stable. He ate
next to nothing, seemingly preferring his toothpick
to anything more substantial, and the little
family-furrow, which was his sister's constant
companion, had established itself upon his brow,
as if for good.

Algernon Binks, on the contrary, did ample
justice to the viands that were set before him, but
he was meditating upon the important letter
which he had determined to write as soon as his
appetite was appeased, and so, was not in his
habitually talkative mood.

Now, it was the custom at Behnorris Castle,
soon after the morning's post had arrived, to set
out the letters upon the billiard-room table.
Sometimes the guests were able to obtain these
before breakfast, but, seeing that they were dependent
upon the speed of the postman, and upon
the will and pleasure of the servants, they could
never make altogether sure of doing so.

Lucy had not heard, for some days, from her
great-aunt, and, in spite of the delightful frame
of mind in which she now found herself, she had
not forgotten this fact, and so, betook herself to
the billiard-room as soon as the morning meal was
over.

The letter she had expected was there ; Miss
Elizabeth Barlow was well, Mr. Podmore, too, was
in the enjoyment of good health, and had been
receiving company. Mrs. Pilchard, the cook, had
had a visit from her brother who was a soldier.
Sarah had, unfortunately, caught a severe cold,
which had settled in her face. . . .

There was, however, another letter upon the
billiard-room table, which bore, likewise, the
Clapham post-mark. It was addressed to Colonel
IIej)burn at his own country-seat ; * to be forwarded
' was written upon it, however, and the
Falconborough servants must have sent it on to
Belmorris, where, by some postal carelessness, it
had arrived just too late to reach him before his
departure.

As she happened to be alone in the room,
Lucy took up the letter and feasted her eyes upon
the beloved name. It would not have been inhuman
nature to have resisted so great a temptation.

The writing, she remarked, was rather
spidery and scrawl, the characters of a woman,
rather than of a man, but what riveted her
attention most was, that the envelope had an exceedingly
deep black edge.

Who could it possibly be from? Without
being in the least of an inquisitive nature, this
question naturally occurred to her.

She had often thought, with deep interest,
about Colonel Hepburn's familiarity with Clapham
Common, and of how he had accounted for
it by the circumstance that ' an old fellow ' lived
near there who had once travelled with him asa
kind of tutor,' and whom he was accustomed,
occasionally, to ' look up ' in the summer. Could
this ' old fellow,' (she had since wondered,) be her
dear friend the Marquis de la Yieilleroche ? . . .
He had travelled,  of this he had informed
her,  with several young gentlemen of position.
Had Anthony Hepburn been one of these ? . . .
The letter before her was certainly not in the
Marquis's handwriting, but might it not be,
possibly, in that of his landlady.

Was the poor old Frenchman ill, or even dead?
Her aunt had not alluded to him in her letter,
however, and, surely, had any misfortune befallen

so valued a friend, she would never have omitted
to mention the fact ? . . .

As Lucy was debating thus, she became aware
of a scratching sound proceeding from the library
beyond. ' Is that you, Addie ?' she called out.

JN'o ; my dear, it's me /' answered the voice of
her cousin Algy. ' I'm just Writing a letter to
our friend Hepburn.'

There's another letter for him there,' remarked
Lucy with assumed indifference, as she
tripped down the flight of steps which separated
the two rooms,  with the letter,  which would so
soon reach the beloved's hand,  dressed close to
her happy heart. * It's got "to be forwarded "
on it, and it's been sent on here, but now he won't
get it so soon as if it had waited for him at home.
Perhaps it could be sent on to him by the early
post as it may be important ? '

It can go with mine,' replied Algy, who was
just in the act of affixing his signature to the
communication which has been already made
public ; ' for t/uifs very important, too ! If you'll
kindly get me out a big envelope I'll enclose the
two letters together.'

Bayonet it save time if I direct the envelope ? '
she asked. It would be a secret pleasure,  she

thought,  to know that something from lier would
"be spirited into the sacred presence through the
agency of the penny post, even if the recipient
remained unconscious of the fact, through being:
unacquainted with her handwriting !

'All right I' returned her 'nearest living male
relation,' condescendingly'. ' And you can stick on
the stamps, too,  whilst you're about it,  an extra
penny and a halfpenny one, as well,  so as to be
on the safe side,  for my letter's an awfully long
one !'

CHxVPTEE YI.

About a week previous to the time of wLicli I
have been writing in the last chapter, ' Lord '
Falconborough,  in his newly-assumed character
of envoy, agent, and fashionable partner, paid his
first visit to ' The Aspens,' at the request of his
patron and employer. He did not present his
card at the door, preferring to reserve the power
of revealing himself,  in  Alma-vice' fashion,
later on,  should circumstances seem to indicate
that such a course would be to his advantage.
For the moment, therefore, he was merely * a
gentleman from Mr. Podmore,' who had called
upon business,  and as such he was described to
Mrs. Van Buren.

The somewhat showy and sensational style of
this lady's personal attractions,  as perceived by
him whilst she was taking her place in her
Victoria,  had made a deep impression upon the
mind of the young adventurer, and the extreme

care with which he had arrayed himself for his
visit, proved that he regarded it with no common
interest.

He was kept waiting for some time in a small
apartment adjoining the drawing-room, which,
struck him as being very luxuriously furnished,
and in which he perceived a faint aroma o
tobacco. Here, he amused himself by contemplating
his reflection in the chimney glass, 
examining the songs upon the pianoforte, and
turning over the leaves of the photograph-books.
By the time the lady of the house made her
appearance, he had investigated almost every
object in the room.

Mrs. Yan Buren, although she was certainly a
good deal heightened, tightened, whitened, and
lightened,  by heels, ' over-pressure,' ' hJnnc de
2)C}'hSj and ' auriferous-fluid,' would have been
what is commonly called ' a fine woman ' without
any of these meretricious aids. She was tall and
well-made, in spite of a decided inclination to
stoutness,  her features were regular,  of a somewhat
aquiline and unfeminine type, and her eyes
brilliant and expressive. She was fair and pale
by nature,  although not quite so lily-like and
ffolden- tressed as she had contrived to make herself.

Her movements were imperious, and lier
voice loud and unsympathetic. One could see, at
a glance, that she was a woman who had fared
sumptuously', and lived luxuriously, and that anyone
who might expect her to interest herself in
the duties of a housewife, would probably be
doomed to disappointment.

To some people, an honest and inoffensive
ugliness is almost preferable to this sort of
flaunting and sensational beauty, but there are
others,  principally xerj young, or very old men,
to whom it appears particularly to appeal. To
ralconborough, although he belonged to neither
of these two categories exactly,  the handsome
grass widow seemed to embody all that was most
fascinating and attractive in woman,  and he
looked at her with admiration in his dark eyes.

Mrs. Yan Buren was engaged with her toilet
when Mr. Podmore's emissary was announced,
and her first thought had been to dismiss him
imperiously. There were certain reforms and
concessions, however, which she desired at the
hands of her new landlord, and she had ended by
passing on an elaborate garment composed of sky-blue
satin and white lace, in which she had at last
appeared before her visitor's dazzled gaze.

It Twas not very difficult for one of Falcon-borough's
intelligence to perceive that Mrs. Tan
Buren was, at once, deeply impressed by his good
looks. Evidently, lie was not in the least the sort
of person she had expected to see. She started
perceptibly upon entering the room, and did not
recover from her astonishment for some seconds.

Mercy on us I ' she exclaimed at length ; ' my
stupid servants have shown you into a room
without a lire!'

She coughed a little nervously, and motioned
him into the adjoining apartment, with a plump
white hand, glittering with valuable rings. Here,
it appeared to Falconborough,  who, notwithstanding
his refined exterior and fastidious tastes,
had known what it was during some of his past
vicissitudes to be lodged in squalor,  that the
same profusion and luxury were revealed upon
every side. He was delighted with the warmth,
the softness of the carpet, the cushioned divans,
the perfume of many flowers, and with the trilling
of a whole cage fill of foreign singing-birds
which stood near one of the windows, so as to
catch the few rays of wintry sunshine.

Mrs. Yan Buren was a patroness of what I
shall call  for want of a better name  the 'Jungly '

style of upholstery, and she had introduced palm-trees
and pampas-grass enough into her sitting-room
to have served as a very respectable lair fora
Bengal tiger. Under most of the palm-trees,
and overshadowed by nodding grasses, were
arranged low divans,  looking like idealized
feather-beds, tricked out with soft pillows and
Oriental embroideries,  some of which were shut
off from the rest of the apartment by gilded
screens overrun with artificial ivy. The stems of
the palms were embellished with mirrors, photographs,
and knick-knacks of almost every description,
attached to them with bows of satin after the
manner of the decorations upon a Christmas-tree,
whilst a good deal of really clever manoeuvring
was required, on the part of the visitor, to steer
clear of a whole pack of modern Dresden pugs
which were standing and lying about upon the
carpet. A portrait, representing the goddess of
this luxurious shrine, dressed in fantastic costume,
stood upon an easel, set up askew, in the midst of
a grove of India-rubber plants, and overshadowed
by a gigantic wine-glass filled with bulrushes and
other specimens of aquatic vegetation, whilst by
groping one's way cautiously, and ' treading delicately
like Aga, through the palms, the pug-dogs,

the pampas-grasses and India-rubbers,  for
the light which penetrated through the pink silk
window-blinds was softened and subdued,  the
visitor arrived eventually' at the fireplace, which,
shrouded in velvet and point-lace, presented somewhat
the appearance of an altar. Xor was there
a single photograph-frame, mirror, or object in
ormolu, that had not its own particular trappings
of lace and coloured ribbons, lat a contrast
this drawing-room presented to the little parlour
at Barlow Lodge, (only, of course, ' Lord ' Falcon-borough,
never having set foot there, could not
appreciate this,) with its black paper profiles, blue
ginger-pots, and prim eighteenth century' calm I
He could perceive, however, that its ' treatment '
was utterly different from the ' first-class waiting-room
stjde,' affected by Mr. Podmore at Palmyra
House, and it struck him as being vastly superior
to it in every way.

What a delicious scene of enchantment I * he
exclaimed, as he flung himself carelessly upon one
of the idealized feather-beds, and gazed up at his
companion through the overhanging palm-leaves.

Mrs. Tan Buren looked a little taken aback at
the extreme ease of his manner. Falconborougfh
perceived this, and instantly rose from the divan.

Forgive me ! ' he murmured, in his softest
tones. * I was forgetting that, without your permission,
I have no more right to seat myself in
your presence than the plumber and glazier, or the
clock-winder ! . . . Ten thousand pardons ! ' . . .

I must say,' returned Mrs. "Van Buren,
smiling, ' that you don't look much like a plumber
and glazier, or a clock-winder either, though the
young man who winds up my clocks is quite a nice-looking
young fellow I can assure you ! '

'A nobleman in disguise, no doubt I ' said Fal-scarborough,
glancing at her admiringly. ' One
whose path you may have crossed, perhaps, fora
moment, and who has conceived this method in
order to obtain a renewal of the vision. Happy
clock winder ! '

You're talking great rubbish ! ' exclaimed
Mrs. Van Buren looking down at her rings ; ' and
I can't make out, for the life of me, who in the
world you are, or what you want with me ! ' She
had, perhaps, taken the hint which he had
intended to convey when he had spoken about a
nobleman in disguise. At any rate, she spoke less
angrily than coquettishly.

You think, perhaps, that I am like the pretended
clock-winder ? "Well, well, on rcrm ! . . .

In the meantime, I am simply Mr. Podmore's
representative, and we must converse entirely
upon business I '

'Have you really anything to do with, that
dreadful Mr. Podmore ? ' the lady inquired, 
looking at him with an expression as of growing
interest.

I am absolutely and entirely his instrument
and creative ! ' returned Falconborough lightly ;
at any rate for the present. I am saturated and
imbued with Podmore's interests and opinions to
the ver' core of my being. . . . But why should
we remain standing?' . . .

He sank down languidly upon the divan.
This time, Mrs. Van Buren displayed no signs
of surprise. The divan appeared to her to be
his proper place.

Amongst the embroidered cushions lay a large
wax doll, with a broken nose, and a guitar. Upon
the back of the guitar was a female name, inlaid
in ebony and mother-of-pearl.

I have discovered three things about you in
as many seconds,' said Palconborough, taking up
the musical instrument as if with tender reverence.
' You are blessed with a daughter, you play
upon the guitar, and your name is " Leonora." '

VOL. II. H

I have one little girl returned Mrs. Yan
Buren, as she, also, seated herself upon the divan ;
 she is a sweet, pretty child.' . . .

" Bella maclre hell figliaj ' interrupted Fal-scarborough
with an admiring glance. ' Perhaps
I may be permitted to behold this little angel
some day? . . . When we have finished talking
over Mr. Podmore's affairs,' he added archly.

'My tiresome nurse has stupidly been taken
ill,' returned Mrs. Van Buren, *and the child
isn't fit to be seen this morning. I bring her upto
despise anybody who isn't hen mise, and never
allow her to appear in public unless she is properly
dressed.'

Quite right ! an excellent early education
for a pretty woman ! . . . Cruel to ns, however,
since it renders her all the more irresistible ! . . .
One's servants,' he added,  with the manner of
one who is master of a complete establishment
of well-fed family retainers,  *are very apt to
make themselves ill through over-eating.'

They are ; but this one is a black woman,
from India, and we can't get the foolish creature
to eat anything but rice,  just as the
doctor says, she must be kept up in every possible
way I '

They are all equally provoking ! * observed
Falconborougli, as with the weariness of an oppressed
householder. ' But tell me ;  is not your
name " Leonora ? " '

'Yes; but I am called "Leonie" by those
who know me best.'

(She had been christened ' Eliza ' at the font,
but there was surely no need to inform anybody
of this ;  indeed, she had almost forgotten the
fact herself I)

Leonora is by far the more beautiful name
of the two,' murmured Falconborough dreamily.
It is warmer, more passionate, more Italian, and
it suits you better, besides. If ever a poor
plumber, glazier, clock-winder,  call me what
you will I  were to venture to address you so
familiarly,  he would call you by you' owt
glorious name. . . . You are too young to remember
Mario, but you may know one of his
most lovely songs. I heard him sing it once, 
long ago,  when I was quite a child.'

He struck a few chords upon the guitar, and
sang, in a soft undertone, the first verse of the
celebrated tenor song from the Trovatore which,
in spite of the ruthless manner in which it has
been murdered by the amateur and the organ-grinder,

must remain beautiful to the end of
time.

Mrs. Van Buren, who had, probably, accepted
the * nobleman-ins disguise ' theory, in explanation
of this unexpected visit, and who had seemed disposed,
 after her first astonishment had subsided,
to abandon herself to the charms of the situation,
 was now completely carried away from her
moorings.

Oh, how exquisitely you sing ! . . . How
beautifully you pronounce Italian ! . . . Oh, do,
please, go on ! ' . . . She exclaimed in a breath.

But, just at this moment an interruption occurred,
 an interruption that occurred frequently
at Barlow Lodge : 

If you please. Mum,' said the boy in buttons
appearing in the doorway, ' it's the Marquee.'

'A tiresome old Frenchman who comes to
teach my little girl,' Mrs. Yan Buren explained,
sotto voce. ' He'll have to come in here as there
isn't a fire in the study. That provoking woman
has put everything out by getting so ill ! '

Falconborough dropped the guitar, and rose
from his place on the divan. Another moment
and Monsieur de la Yieilleroche entered the apartment.


Good morning,' said the Marquis, bowing,
with, old-fashioned politeness, almost to the
ground. 'There is no occasion to inquire if
Madame is well. Her blooming appearance assures
me of the fact ! '

A gentleman who has called to see me . . .
upon business,' 'Madame' proceeded to explain,
indicating Falconborough with a wave of her
jewelled hand.

Upon musical business, I presume ? ' said the
Professor, bowing again. ' I am proud to become
acquainted with one who is an artist to the very
tips of his fingers.'

Mrs. Van Buren gave vent to a little contemptuous
titter, as though to apologise to Fal-scarborough
for the old man's oddity of expression.
The ' nobleman in disguise,' however, bowled
politely in dignified appreciation of the compliment.


I have been listening outside your door,' the
Marquis went on, as he wiped and carefully
assumed his innce-nez, ' whilst I was removing
my paletot, and I have been in a complete state
of "ravishment ! . . . Your friend, Madame, is a
real Orpheus,  she has made an impression upon
a " Vieille Roche'' You may remember, perhaps,

that the young explorer of the Infernal Regions
was in the habit of ravishing the rocks by his
strains ? '

But Mrs. Yan Buren appeared to be too much
overcome by a desire to giggle to be equal to a
reply.

Having adjusted his pince-nez to his satisfaction,
Monsieur de la Yieilleroche looked at the
young man before him, for some seconds, with
attention.

Monsieur is Italian ? ' he asked, when he
had completed his examination.

Pardon me returned Falconborough, with
an engaging smile, * I am an Englishman.'

Strange ! ' muttered de la Yieilleroche, with
the manner of a person thinking aloud. . 'I
could have declared it upon oath ! . . . Englishmen
with tenor voices of this particular calibre
are extremely rare. . . . You are the first I have
met with after a long residence in this country.
. . And now, my young friend, examine me
well in your turn. My name is Achille de la
Yieilleroche,  I am a Frenchman,  as you will
have perceived,  and very proud to avow my
nationality. Look at me well,  consider my features
attentively,  and then tell me where it is
that we have met before.'

I cannot remember having ever had the
pleasure of meeting you until to-daj'/ returned
Falconborough, looking a little uncomfortable.

Strange ! * muttered de la Yieilleroche, again.
'As we grow old, what tricks the memory is inclined
to play us ! . It becomes overcharged, like a
page of blotting-paper which has served us for
too long ! . . . "When you were quite a little boy,
so tall, only'  (he held his hand not more than a
foot from the carpet)  'did I never give you
lessons in the French language ? . . . That would
account to me, perhaps, 'for your eyes seeming
to be so familiar.'

Xot that I am aware of,  unless it may have
been, as Monsieur suggests, when I was very
small indeed. I have no recollection of the fact
myself.'

*And I never instructed you in the art offence,
or accompanied you upon your grand tour,
or entertained you,  in my more prosperous days,
in the hereditary chateau of the de la Yieilleroches,
situated upon the borders of the Loire ? '

Not that I am aware of, Monsieur. It may
have been when I was an infant in arms, but yet,
one would hardly teach a baby to fence ! '

Then, Monsieur, it can only be that you bear
a marked resemblance to some friend. "With

time, I shall remember to whom, "iras amis do
nos amis sont nos amis'' This may, surely, apply,
sometimes, to those who are like our friends in
feature ! . . . Again permit me to felicitate you
upon the possession of so beautiful a voice ; and
then,  to my delightful labours ;  how is my
dear little pupil and the faithful Rajama ? '

Oh, that tiresome woman doesn't seem to get
any better ! All last night she was moaning and
groaning, and keeping everybody awake ;  talking
all kinds of nonsense about her body being
eaten up by vultures ! I fancy she must have
been delirious, for the fever seems to get a good
deal worse towards evening. Mr. Bury declares
that it isn't catching, but I must say I'm beginning
to feel awfully nervous,  I thought of
running down to Brighton for a little blow of
sea-air.'

But you would take the child with you ?
You would not allow so precious a life to become
endangered ? '

The old Professor looked sternly at Mrs. Van
Buren as he said this. It seemed to Falcon-borough
that she quailed beneath his glance.

{' That old fellow has got the " whip-hand "
of her, somehow,' he said to himself.  she is

in his power, and seems to be afraid of Mni : I
must find out the reason ! ')

'I'm not at all sure that I shall be able to
get Lily to go with me to Brighton replied Mrs.
Yan Buren almost apologetically ; ' and I thought
it would be bad for her to force her against her
will. For so young a child, I can tell you, she's
awfully obstinate,  it's as much as we can do,
now, to get her out of her ayah's room, and she's
been crng, so that she looks a perfect figure of
fright. She's a child that takes the most absurd
fancies to people ! '

The dear child has heart ! ' exclaimed the
Marquis, striking his chest Anciently to the left
of his crumpled shirt-frill. * Her ayah has
nursed her from a baby. "\"hat wonder is it
that they should love one another?'

Oh, I daresay it's all perfectly natural ! ' returned
Mrs. Yan Buren, still speaking in an
aggrieved tone ; ' but it's very provoking, all the
same ! . . . This Alas why I didn't think of taking
Lily to Brighton, once the doctor assured me that
the illness wasn't catching.  I must say, also,
that change of air doesn't do one the same amount
of good if one has a child with one, to fuss about ;
for, you see, now that her nurse is laid up, my

maid and I would have Lily entirely upon our
hands

Tar better this, and the temporary inconvenience
attending it, than that the little angel
should suffer by remaining here ! ' returned the
Marquis, speaking like one having authority.
'These fevers, which in themselves may not be
infectious, proceed, often, from something im-wholesome
in the state of a house. The same
cause that gives them to one person, will communicate
itself to another. May I trust, therefore,
that Madame and Miss Lily will go for a change
to the seaside as soon as possible ? May I write
to friends who may be anxious to know, and
inform them that this is the case ? '

I've been wondering a good deal about the
state of the house,' said Mrs. Yan Buren, without
replying to this last question; * and I've come to
the conclusion that there's really something wrong
with it. I've been meaning, for some time to
white to Mr. Podmore about it, and I was just
going to speak to this gentleman upon the
subject.'

Monsieur is a sanitary inspector ? ' asked the
Professor, turning to Falconborough, and again
examining him through his glasses. * A sanitary

inspector with the voice of a Mario ! He must be
as uncommon as the Dodo ! *

I believe I'm here in some such capacity,'
replied Falconborough, smiling his sweetest smile.
Mr. Podmore commissioned me to put forward
his views with regard to this lady's occupation of
the premises, and should any repairs be needed,
I will make a point of laying the matter before

him.'

Monsieur is accompanied by a builder ?  an
experienced working-man accustomed to these
investigations ? '

No ; but I will make it my business to secure
the services of some such person tomorrow. At
what hour, Madame, may I have the pleasure of
waiting upon you again ? '

He bowed low to Mrs. Yan Buren as he spoke.
The handsome grass-widow seemed embarrassed
as to how to reply under the keen pince-nez of the
old Frenchman. She looked down at her white
hands and played with her rings, as though considering.
The Marquis, however, came quickly
to her rescue.

Do not lose any time, I implore you. Monsieur
!' he exclaimed, earnestly; ' the matter is of
the utmost importance ! Pray cal here tomorrow,

at your earliest convenience, accompanied by
an experienced workman. I will look in during
the afternoon in order to learn the result

Believed, thus, of all responsibility, Mrs. Van
Buren dismissed her fascinating visitor with an
inclination, the formality of which she took care
to exaggerate, so that he might perceive that it
was merely assumed in consequence of the presence
of a third person.

His lordship ' described his visit to Mr. Pod-more
something after the fashion in which History
is occasionally written.

Well, my dear Podmore ! I called this
morning upon the syren ! but didn't get through
quite as much business as I could have wished.
Ladies are a little inclined to shirk such matters,
and one has to approach them delicately. I arrived,
too, it seems, at rather an unpropitious
moment. The lady was dressing, and kept me
waiting for nearly an hour. Then, the fire was
out, and a nigger servant down with the measles,
or something of the kind, (they're not sure, yet,
whether it's catching or not,) and the brat was
squalling, with nobody to look after it or put on
its clothes ; and then, just as we were beginning
to talk things over, in came a bothering old

Frenchman to give the child its lesson. He took
me for a sanitary inspector, for it seems they've
a screw loose somewhere in the house, which the"
want you to set to rights, and I was very nearly
being taken downstairs to examine the dust-bin
and the grease-trap. However, I've made an
appointment to call again tomorrow,' he added,
airily, when, I've no doubt, I shall be able to
make up for lost time I '

Mj dear fellow!' cried Mr. Podmore, effusively,
' how can I ever sufficiently thank you ?
You shock me, however, grcath', by what you tell
me. How was it that you did not send in jour
card at the door, or have yourself properly announced
? You would then have been treated
with proper civility.'

*I can't say that I was treated uncivil,
exactly,' returned Falconborough, as though
making: the best of what mio-ht have been a little
unpleasant. * Mrs. Yan Buren received me asa
lady generally receives a stranger calling
upon business, and this was precisely" what I
wanted. Who knows, supposing that I had
given my name, whether she might not have
considered it necessary to gossip about the opera,
or the latest scandal ? in which case, my dear

fellow, your affairs would have had to go to the
wall ! '

Mr. Podmore threw quite a romantic expression
of gratitude into his round green eyes, and congratulated
himself more than ever upon his talent
for discovering intrinsic worth.

But there was one circumstance connected
with his visit to * The Aspens ' which Falcon-borough
determined to keep to himself, and which
had considerably heightened the interest he
already felt in the lady of the house.

Whilst awaiting the coming of Mrs. Van
Buren, with no sort of malicious intention, be
it understood, but simply for his own amusement,
he had examined the contents of a large
photographic album which was lying upon the
table. Most of the portraits were those of persons
totally unknown to him ; Anglo-Indians, as far ashe
was able to judge by their cool costumes and
palmy backgrounds ; and there were also a good
many representations of buildings, distant views
of cities, bristling with minarets, and of Buddhist
tombs and rock-temples.

Three separate groups of figures, however,
taken upon a somewhat larger scale than the
others, particularly arrested his attention.

The first of these, as it was a good deal faded,
had probably been taken some years ago. It represented
Mrs. Van Buren, in elegant summery
attire, and considerably slimmer in figure than she
was at present, seated in what was evidently the
verandah of an Indian bungalow. On one side of
her sat a common-looking person in his shirt-sleeves,
smoking a long pipe, and on the other, a
handsome joung man of military appearance, and
wearing a very becoming ' Sombrero  was leaning
back in a bamboo rocking-chair, with his right
arm in a sling.

In the second group, Mrs. Van Buren, dressed
in a light, but verj tight-fitting riding-habit, was
depicted mounted upon horseback, whilst the same
handsome young man, in undress uniform, and
wearing his forage-cap very much on one side,
was stooping down in the act of adjusting her
stirrup-leather. In the background the common-looking
person could be discovered, standing someway
off, with his hands in his pockets.

The third group, which seemed to be of a
somewhat later date, represented Mrs. Van Buren
seated, smiling; the common-looking person, seated,
smiling likewise  rather sardonically,  and a native
* ayah,* dressed in loose white garments,

carrying a hah. The handsome young officer,
looking a little older than in the two first portraits,
was standing holding a white parasol over the
ayah and the baby, wearing rather a serious expression,
as if of responsibility and solicitude.

Falconborough, whose memory for faces was
remarkable, immediately recognised the handsome
young man who lounged in the bamboo rocking-chair,
adjusted the stirrup-leather, and shaded the
baby.

It v,'as Anthony Hepburn ; the man with
whom he had insisted upon claiming cousinship,
and upon whom he had sworn that he would one
day be revenged.

CHAPTER Iii.

The first week in December brought Lady arabella
Binks's visit to Belmorris Castle to a close.
She had already stayed there much longer than
she had originally intended, having been pressed'
to remain on by her brother, first upon one pretext
and then upon another.

Lady Mabella always liked to stay long enough
at a country-house to recoup herself for the
expenses of the journey, but this end having now
been more than achieved, and her snug little house
in Wilton Place made ready for her reception, she
was desirous of settling herself in town before-christmas,
 a season which she had never consented
to pass at Belmorris since the decease of
the late Mr. Binks, who had won her affections
whilst he was officiating there as private chaplain.
The very day, therefore, after Lucy's eventful
afternoon at Falconborough Park, the Binks
family set about preparing for their departure

VOL. IT. I

and Gussy, wearing even a more agonised expression
titan usual, commenced the arduous
business of packing up their effects.

Lucy, too, had deposited the first and second
strata, consisting of books, boots, work-boxes, and
other solid matter, at the bottom of her modest
trunk; but Lord Belmorris had begged  as a
favour  that she would leave out her riding-habit
to the very last, so that he might take her for at
least one more ride, promising that, this time, he
would be careful to mount her upon a more
reliable steed. The last day of her stay at the
castle dawned at length, and, early in the afternoon,
she started off, with her host, for her last
ride.

Lord Belmorris, who had been more than
usually silent and pre-occupied of late, scarcely
opened his lips until they had passed outside the
boundaries of the park. He took his way towards
the scene of their previous misadventure, and
when within sight of the little Crusoe-hut upon
the edge of the ploughed field, he pulled up his
horse, and pointed it out to Lucy, saying, with a
sigh,

Look ! [there's the little crib where I was
once so happy I It turns one quite heart-sick to

look at it now ! If it was mine, I think I should
have to pull it down ! '

He spoke bitterly, and Lucy noticed that he
looked haggard and unhappy. Some notion of
what might be the cause of his changed aspect,
flashed ujDon her as though by intuition. She was
becoming more learned every day in the mysteries
of the heart I . . . .

She looked in his face inquiringly. Pity
and remorse mingled in her glance. Was it
possible that  because he had been so very, very
kind to her, and because she had been anxious
to show him that she was not altogether mi-grateful
 she might, inadvertently, have given
him some sort of encouragement?

Their eyes met. He had always been clever
at reading her thoughts.

You see how it is I ' he said sadly ; ' and
there's no help for it now, I suppose, so it's not
for me to worry you about what I may have to
bear ; but I should like, if I may, to talk to you
a little about yourself ! '

I can't bear to think that you're unhappy,'
faltered Lucy, tears starting to her eyes. * Oh,
I hope that it hasn't been all my fault ! '

It's nobody's fault but my own. If it hadn't

been for my abominable vanity and stupidity, I
must have seen just how things would have
ended ; but, somehow, I never quite realised the
extent of my folly until the day before yesterday !
I suppose,' he added, after a short pause, * that
you're very fond of him ? ' lie pointed, as he
spoke, to the dark line made by the Falcon-borough
woods upon the horizon immediately to
their left.

Do you care about him ver' much ? '

I think I do,' she answered softly ; ' as much
as I can ever care for anybody in the world I '

AVell then, look here, m} child I Far be it
from me to upset your illusions. Mistrust crops
up quite soon enough in this world, and once it's
there, it's apt to haunt one like one's shadow.
But I shouldn't be right, considering everything,
if I didn't give you a word or two of advice.
You won't set it all down to envy, hatred, and
malice on my part, if I speak to you quite openly
as a friend ? You see I can't, now, ever hope
to be anything more ! '

I will listen to anything you have to say,'
returned Lucy, feeling some misgivings, nevertheless.
She hoped he was not going to tell her
anything to Anthony's disadvantage, for, even

although lie might not be influenced in the least
by bis words, they would be very painful to
listen to !

'well then, look here, my dear little Lucy,
for I think we know each other well enough forme
to call you by your name, have you anything
certain to go by in the future ? Hepburn may
care for you, I dare say, for everybody who
knows you must grow to love you, and I daresay
he has managed to let you know this  I don't
ask you Jioic, or icJicrc, for I think I would far
rather not know ; but I feel bound to put one
question to you as 3ou'ye been, as it were, under
my charge :  Has he ever asked you to become
his wife ? '

Remembering, as she did, Anthony's last
words to her, Lucy felt that she was bound to
silence.

I  I  can't answer you that,' she stammered,
*I dare not say; I think  I hope  that he will
ask me some day I '

Ah I ' murmured Lord Belmorris, drawing a
long breath, whilst his dark eyes flashed for a
moment ; ' I feared as much. It isn't quite fair
upon my soul it isn't ! I don't want to say a
word against Hepbm-n ; I believe he's a good

fellow at heart, and doesn't know the harm he
may be doing, and if there wasn't any danger of
his making you suffer, he's quite welcome to
amuse himself as much as he likes; but it isn't
quite fair of him to fix upon anyone like you
to play with ! He's placed in a very awkward
position, and has no right to be making love to
young ladies at all. Anthony Hepburn isn't a
marrying man.'

Again these ambiguous words which she had
heard so often reiterated. How she longed, now,
to contradict them !

He is a marrying man I ' she would have
exclaimed, but for his express desire. * He has
called me his own " Lucy." Some day I am to
be his wife ! '

As matters stood, however, she had to listen
in silence.

*This being the case,' Lord Belmorris went
on, * and caring for you as you must have seen
that I did care, perhaps I behaved like a fool in
asking Hepburn over to stay. But I'm one of
those fellows that would rather know the worst
at once, than go dragging on in uncertainty, and
I wanted to see, before I said anything to you
myself, whether you had any room for me in

your heart. Hepburn was the only fellow I was
afraid of, for I thought you cared about him as
long ago as when we were down at Hampton
Court, and when I saw him wearing the "buttonhole
" I'd given you the night before. He might
have talxoi it, (I said to myself,) against your will,
but as soon as I saw you and him together, here, I
knew it was all up with my hopes. I'm afraid,
however, that he can't marry you.'

 Is he married already ? ' she asked, feeling a
death-chill at her heart, but desiring, like Lord
Belmorris, to ' know the worst at once.'

(' I am not married, I swear it ! ' he had said
to her as they stood together under his mother's
picture, but what if he had deceived her ? . , . .
Alas, * mistrust,' as Lord Belmorris had just remarked,
' crops up ' soon enough in all conscience
I)

He's not married, I believe,' her companion
returned, with some show of hesitation; *but, 
and this I should never have spoken to you about,
except for circumstances,  he got into a scrape
about ten years ago in India, and since then he
can hardly be looked upon as quite a free man.'

'Did he do anything realJf/ icrong ?' Lucy inquired,
turning very pale.

He didn't do any thing particularly icisc, but
lie did no worse than a good many of his neighbours,
and nothing whatever to lower himself in
the opinion of his friends; for, you see, we men
are the lords of creation, and we make moral codes
to suit ourselves ! He was very young at the
time, and all the women ran after him and made
much of him, for he's the sort of manly, good-looking
fellow, that women like ; I've no doubt
there was hardly a man in his regiment who
wouldn't have acted precisely in the same way, if
he'd found himself placed in the same circumstances.'


But what did he do ? ' asked Lucy, breathlessly
; ' tell me all, now that you have told me so
much ! '

She reined in her horse, and looked into her
companion's face imploringly. He was unable to
resist her appeal.

It's better you should know, perhaps,' he said
after a jDause; 'for you're nearly certain to be told
about it some da3 A good-looking woman nursed
him after he'd met with an accident, and took a
fancy to him, and, afterwards, fled to him for
protection from a brute of a husband, and there
was a row.'

And did etc care for her ? . . Was he in love
with her too ? . .'

She was looking at Lord Belmorris with haggard
eyes, and clinging with one hand to the
pummel as if in fear of falling.

I can't pretend to say what his private feelings
may have been, but I was in India at the
time, and so heard what was generally reported.
The fancy was supposed to be chiefly upon the
side of the lady, who was said to have taken
fancies of the same kind before. I suppose, however,
that having been the means of getting her
into trouble, he thought that he ought to stick to
her and make the best of it.'

But he didn't marry her ; you're sure that ho
isn't married, and all this happened ten years
ago? . .'

Quite ten years ago, I should think. Hepburn
couldn't have been more than two or three
and twenty at the time, and he couldn't have
married the lady even if he had wished it. The
husband had behaved too badly himself to be
able to "come down" upon his wife; for there's a
law by which a man can't get rid of a woman if
there are faults on both sides. These are matters
that you'll understand better as you grow older.'

mind lie didn't care for her very much ? . . . .
You said that bethought in India, that he
didn't really care ? '

'That was the general impression, I believe,
amongst his friends, and a good deal of pity was
felt for him; for anything of this kind taking
place when a fellow's quite young, is apt to
hamper him in after-life. I dare say, too, that,
well off though he is, it may have made a hole in
his pocket.'

He isn't married, and he didn't care for her,
and it all happened quite ten years ago ! ' repeated
Lucy, as if talking to herself. * Ah, then,
it was really nothing after all I '

She looked eagerly in Lord Belmorris's face,
for a confirmation of her words. The colour had
returned to her cheeks. It was as though some
terrible danger which she had dreaded was over-passed.


It wasn't exactly " nothing," ' returned Lord
Eelmorris, gravely; 'but it's all very difficult to
explain to a child like you. You'll he able to
make out all about it by-and-by, and I hope you
won't think any the worse of me for what I've
told you ; I've been trying to act as a friend.'

I shall always feel grateful to you for your

kindness; but, now, please tell me one other
thing. Amid, if this all happened so long ago, and
if Colonel Hepburn didn't marry her, and didn't
care, oughtn't he be free now to do as he
likes? . . . After so long  oughtn't he nearly
have forgotten her? . . . T fancied that men
could forget so easily I Or, do they only forget
when they ought to remember, and remember
when it would be better for them to forget?
. . . . Why oughtn't he be quite free
now? . . . .'

I concluded, of course, that he incas free. I
had too good an opinion of him to suppose that,
otherwise, he would have acted as he has done.
The day before yesterday, at Falconborough,
when he walked you off, before everybody, into
the picture-gallery, you must have seen that I
was rather put out. I was very nearly going
after you, but I said to myself, " He's got quit of
his millstone, and he's going to propose." If he
had done so you would have heard nothing of all
this, from inc, at any rate. He did not do so, however,
 you are unable to satisfy me upon this point.
He's made you care for him, he knows that you're
going away tomorrow. He has had plenty of opportunities,
and he's given you no sort of assurance

that lie had anj serious intentions. The fact
speaks for itself I '

They had turned out of the highroad, and
were taking their way abstractedly, at a footpace,
over a piece of waste land covered with dead
heather and seedling firs. Ahead of them, lay a
plantation through 'hich they could return home
by a circuitous route.

Lucy had been deeply moved by all she had
heard. But revelations of this nature are sometimes
the means of discovering to a woman the
real depth and intensity of her affection ; and,
notwithstanding the painful emotions which were
agitating her bosom, she felt that there was no
diminution whatsoever in her love.

The Indian episode, seeing that it had happened
so long ago, that Anthony had called no
other woman by the sacred name of  wife,' and
that he could say  after it was over and done
with  to his * own Lucy : '  ' I love no one but
you,' she did not attach very much importance
to  being still in that first state of innocency
when the subtler mysteries of existence are
wholly unrevealed ; and she wondered that Lord
Belmorris  who did not seem to take an exaggerated
view of matters in general  should have

appeared so disposed to overrate its consequences.


They rode on in silence, Lord Belmorris looking
grave and pre-occupied, until they reached
the avenue leading from the chief entrance to
the Castle. Then, turning to Lucy, he said
earnestly : 

I hope to Heaven that things-will go well
with you, my child, and that you'll be hajpy and
prosperous in the future. But, should they go
wrong, and should you ever stand in need of a
friend, don't forget to write to a crusty old
bachelor up in the north who loves you very
much, and who'd lay down his life to serve you.
Promise me this ! '

He held out his hand in token of his good
faith. Lucy yielded him hers.

I promise,' she said, as they clasped hands ;
and she smiled gratefully at him, though there
were tears in her eTS.

Good-bye ; and God bless you I ' he said
sadly.

Oh, look I ' she cried suddenly ; * there's the
new moon ! AVe ought to wish I ' . . . .

It was foolish, of course, to attach any importance
to such wishes, but the appearance of the

new moon just at this moment, in the amber evening
sky, seemed like an auspicious omen. It was
such a lovely new-born moon, too,  set straight
up over their two heads 

No bigger than an eye-lash or a " C " '

between the dark lines made by the trees of the
avenue.

The sworn friends looked up at it together
with hands still clasped.

It isn't much good my wishing anything again
by moons,' said Lord Belmorris at length, with a
sigh ; ' but you can wish something nice for yourself,
and then I'll wish that you may get it ! . . .
"What a blank there'll be, at home, when I look
at that same moon tomorrow night ! '

CHAPTER YIII.

On the morning of this da' upon which Lucy
and her host had sallied forth for their last ride
together,  for that year, at any rate,  within the
shadowy line of park woods which was visible upon
the western horizon, the master of Falconborough
Park was sitting at home in his study the room
wherein he had been confronted, once, with the
man who pretended to lay claim to his uncle's
title and estates. Colonel Hepburn, and his guest
Captain Sparshott, had been out for a long ride
before breakfast, and were now taking their ease,
each after his own fashion. Anthony was
seated at his writing-table, dashing ofp, in a
desultory' manner, the arrears of his correspondence
; whilst Captain Sparshott lounged in an
easy chair by the fireplace, smoking a cigarette,
and reading the Sporfuir/ Times, Later on they
had arranged to shoot a little in the near coverts.
Charlie Sparshott, as he was called by nearly

everybody, Alas a smart-looking young man of
extremely military appearance. His features Avere
delicate and slightly aquiline, this hair cut as
short as a convict's, and his complexion like that
of a * Professional Beauty.' His head was somewhat
high and narrow, betokening perhaps, a
little too much caution and self-esteem, with the
ears set on rather high up, an evidence (as I have
heard), of keen powers of ordinary observation,
as opposed to the perception of artistic combinations.
He was below, rather than above the
middle height, slim and well built, as became a
noted rider and dancer, and would have been described
as dcu'li, rather than fair, although with a
degree of darkness which was essentially English.
In ' the 18th ' he was excessively popular,
affording amusement to his brother officers by his
display of the quaint mixture of caution and candour
of which his nature seemed to be composed.
He was one of the few people in existence who,
apparently, said precisely what he thought upon
nearly every subject, and his personal hopes and
misgivings became at once the property of the
regiment. For his Colonel he entertained sentiments
of affection and respect, which trod, as it
were, upon the heels of worship), regarding him

as the noblest, the cleverest, the most chivalrous
of men. Colonel Hepburn had been touched by
his artless devotion. Charlie Sparshott had joined
the regiment soon after he had entered it himself
for there was a difference of a few years only,
in their respective ages. They had served
together in India and Afghanistan, and making-allowance
for certain contrasts which existed in
their dispositions, the two men had ended by becoming
firm friends.

Colonel Hepburn looked, upon this particular
morning, a good deal brighter and happier than
was his wont, for the expression of his face, when
in repose, was usually rather serious, and at times
almost careworn. To-day, however, he seemed to
have flung aside this marble sternness ; and, as is
often the case with those who but rarely unbend,
his gaiety' and geniality were fraught with a
peculiar charm.

The ingenuous prattle of his friend, Sparshott,
prevented him from making much way with his
letters, but he was not engaged upon anything of
importance, and so was quite willing to Ksten to
the Captain's remarks, interspersed, from time to
time, with extracts from the sayings and doings
of 'Gubbins,' ' Ole Beer Rabbit,' or 'the Pote.'

VOL. II. K

I say, Colonel ! ' exclaimed Captain Spar-short,
by-and-b}, speaking with more than usual
animation. * Look here ! . . . . I want to ask
you a question, because you're clever, and all that,
which /'m not ! . . . . If you were a fellow
whose " governor " was always bothering you to
marry and settle, which would you rather choose,
a girl, or a widow ? '

Well, of course, if I had been previously
attached to a widow,' returned Colonel Hepburn,
smiling ; * I should probably wish to marry the
woman I liked best. But I think if I was " heart-whole
and fancy-free," I'd rather choose some
nice girl, and start fair I '

The worst of it is,' said the Captain, with a
look of mingled astuteness and perplexity, * you
can't tell a bit how a girl's going to turn out !
You see a nice cheery girl, don't you
know, with plenty of * go " in her, and looking as
fresh as paint, and all that ; but it's just like seeing
a horse in the stables with all his clothes on ; one
wants to take him a turn in the paddock, for I'm
not a fellow that likes taking a leap in the dark ! '

Ah, you were always prudent, Charlie ! . . .
But you mustn't overdo it! . . "Nothing
venture, nothing have," you know ! '

Yes ; I think of that ; and that it doesn't do
to let a good thing slip ; but I must say, I'm
awfully nervous about girls ! . . . They do seem
now-a-days, to be so uncommonly' Knowing ! and
I never '' went in " much for other men's wives,
even in India,  being a fellow that's boimd to
marry sooner or later, and not wanting to get into
a row, or run my head into a halter ; and I think,
if I marry at all, I should like it to be sooty
because, then, the old man woidd be alive to see
it, and it would please him. . . . But I've just
remembered that there were such things as
widows.'

'You weren't thinking, then, of any one
widow in particular ? '

Xo ; I just saw something in the " Pink 'Un "
about " a neat little short-legged widow," and
that put widows into my head. I'd quite forgotten
about them ; and I was wondering if one
oughtn't be less disappointed with a widow than
with a girl, because one wouldn't expect her to bea
'* guileless young creature," or anything of that
sort ; and one might get to know the worst of her
first. But these girls do seem, sometimes, to be
so awfully cunning ! '

It would just depend upon what sort of girl

you cHose to set your affections upon,' observed
Colonel Hepburn. ' Some of them seem to be
right enough ! '

Well, I was thinking of setting mine  in a
kind of a way  (mind you, nothing to break one'S'
heart over !), upon that Sinks-girl. She does
seem such a cheery, easy-going, jolly kind of a
girl, and comes down to breakfast looking so
sleek and well groomed ! . . . But there are two
things I don't, somehow, feel quite sure about,,
her temper and her complexion I She's got a
wildish look in her eye, sometimes, that makes me
think she might turn nasty when roused, and I
fancied the other day, when she was here, and
when we were listening to the echo, that that nice
pink colour she has was *' raddle. It looked
almost too good to be true ! '

Really, my dear Charlie, you'll have to take
some things upon trust ! ' remarked Colonel Hepburn,
amused at his naivete.

These are the two things I don't feel quite
sure of,' Captain Sparshott continued ; ' but there
are others about her, I must says, that ' fetch"
me uncommonly ! She's no notion, whatever,
that I'm the least in a good position, fancying
that poor Tim (my elder brother, don't you know.

that was drowned) is still alive (I found this out
from something she said to me in this very room) ;
in Which case, as you may suppose, I should have
been just as poor as a church mouse, and not
worth a rush in the market ! . . . AVell ; this
doesn't seem to make the least difference to her,
and, say what you like, it's always nice when a
fellow can feel sure that he's cared about for
himself ! ' and the Captain caressed his pointed
moustaches as with an agreeable sense of gratified
vanity.

I fancy that the disinterested affection of a
woman (of course I am speaking onh of a woman
who is able to please), is what tells most with us
in the long run,' said Colonel Hepburn, turning
roimd his chair from the writing-table, and
confronting his guest. * A man may not always
value it when he discovers it first ; but should hein
the flush of youth and prosperity, put it from
him as a thing of little account, I believe in a sort
of "Nemesis" which will cause him, at sometime,
to feel the want of it 

For Beauty is easy enough to win.
But one isn't loved every day,"

as " Owen Meredith " says I '

You're quite right I ' returned the Captain

warmly ; * as, I must say, I think you nearly
always are ! And now this is just what takes me
so much with that Sinks-girl, though I'm not in
love, or anything of that sort, and would a thousand
times rather go on a little longer without
speaking, than run the least risk of being imposed
upon, for you know that I'm not the kind
of fellow to be taken in ! The first day I was
over at Belmorris, I must say I took a tremendous
fancy to that other girl,  the cousin,  Miss
Lucy.' (Colonel Hepburn started rather uncomfortably,
and wheeled his chair round again to
the table.) * She's quite as good-looking,  if not
better,  and a deal more certain, I should say,
with regard to temper; but she hasn't quite as
much *' go " about her, and I didn't find her
nearly so easy to get on with ; besides which, I
saw, directly, that she'd paired off with the little
Earl, and I'm not the sort of fellow to interfere
with any other fellow's game, or spoil a young
woman's chances in life, as you know ! '

What made you think that Miss Barlow had
paired off " with Belmorris ? ' asked Colonel
Hepburn with assumed indifference. 'I can't say
that I noticed anything of the kind myself.'

If you'd been a marrying man, like me, and

thinking about the girls, you'd have noticed it
directly. I never saw a man so spoony in the
whole course of my life I How he did suffer
from " the green-eyed monster," too, when you
took her back to look at the pictures I Rather a
bore for young Binks, I should say, who seems
to behave as if the whole place was going to
belong to him ! However, he's an awful young
ass, and wants licking into shape very badly.
Ah, here come the letters I '

Anthony Hepburn was not sorry for this
interruption. The conversation had taken what
was to him anything but an agreeable turn.
Captain Sparshott became very soon absorbed in
his letters, and Anthony commenced, likewise,
opening and reading his own.

Amongst them was a well-filled envelope
from Belmorris Castle, directed in an unknown,
but very sympathetic, female hand. Not Adeliza
Binks's, for with that he had become acquainted
during his stay at Belmorris. An expression of
tenderness came into his eyes as they lighted
upon it. What if it were a letter from his ' own
Lucy?'

His brow clouded for a moment, when, upon
opening it, he discovered that it was from Alger-non

Binks, and darkened still more at sight of
the other letter which was enclosed.

This he turned over and examined several
times, as though impatient, and yet fearful, of
knowing its contents.

Finally, he set it upon one side, and read
Algernon's letter through hast.

As you very truly observed, my dear Charlie,
that young Binks is an *' awful young ass ! " ' he
remarked when he had com to the end of it.

Wants licking into shape very badly ! ' repeated
the Captain. 'Remember me to him, if
you're writing, and tell him that I'm the man that
could do it ! '

"Without acting precisely upon this suggestion,
Colonel Hepburn took up a pen and wrote off his
answer then and there, as if it gave him some sort
of satisfaction to dispose of Algy's impertinences
at once. His letter ran as follows : 

My dear Binks, 

I have to acknowledge jour letter of
yesterday's date, and to thank you for the interest
you apparently take in my private affairs.
When contemplating any step as serious as marriage,
a man generally endeavours, first of all, to

please himself, and when in need of any additional
guidance, seeks it from those whose wisdom and
experience will ensure its being of some sort of
value.

With Sparshott's kindest regards,
Believe me to be, my dear Binks,
Yours very sincere',
'Anthony Hepburn.'
(' I'm afraid,' said Algy to his sister, when he
had received and read through this letter, upon
the morning of his departure for London ; * that
it doesn't look much as if he "meant business,"
after all ! ')

CHAPTER IX.

After dashing off his answer to Algernon Binks,
Colonel Hepburn turned again to the missive with
the black edge. He felt that he would rather
read this letter where there would be no chance
of his being interrupted by the witticisms of the
Sporting Times, so, although Captain Sj)arshott
seemed to have settled down quietly to his own
correspondence, he rose from his place at the
writing-table, and went into the library, in order
that he might be alone.

An expression of pain passed over his face ashe
tore open the envelope. It was as though a
flood of unwelcome recollections, buried for a
while, and even, perhaps, well-nigh forgotten,
were crowding upon him with overwhelming
force. He glanced towards the ending, after he
had looked at its opening lines, turned pale, and
then, flinging himself into an armchair, read
through the whole attentively.

As he proceeded, the care-worn look returned
to his face, and, by the time he had finished, he
appeared to have groan almost ten years older.

These were the words which seemed suddenly
to have thrust him back into the realms of Doubt,
Deception, and Despondency : 

*You will have been well aware, before receiving
this, of the terrible effect j-our cruel,
unfeeling letter of the other day must have produced
upon me. Whilst reading it, I really and
truly could scarcely believe my own senses, and I
was so upset by it, that I have been seriously ill
ever since, with a return of those awful palpitations
which you used to pretend, once, made you
so dreadfully anxious, and which the doctor declares
are nothing but the result of a most violent
shock to my system. The coldness and neglect
with which I have been treated during the last
five years, ought to have prepared me, perhaps,
for the blow you have just dealt me ; but it was
difficult for me to believe that, after all the sacrifices
I had made for you,  apart from having
once actually saved your life,  I should be so
ungratefully repaid.

My affection helped me to make excuses for

your almost constant absence,  your regiment,
your country visits, the extra business connected
with your estate,  I said to myself that these
were the causes which prevented us from meeting
more often, and I went on hoping, as it now turns
out, against all hope, until I received your last
letter. I can scarcely bring myself to write
about the insulting proposal it contains, without
feelings of the deepest indignation. No doubt,
the annuity that you propose settling upon me, in
order, it is quite evident, to pension me off, and
get rid of me for ever, may seem to you to be a
very magnificent sum ; and if I had been some
low bar-maid, or actress, whom you had ruined
and then grown tired of, it might have served,
perhaps, as some sort of consolation ; for, in such
circles, female confidences is treated with more
charity, and one might still hope to settle down
comfortably with a respectable person in one's
own class. But what is to compensate a born
lad', and one in the very best society,  as I
was when I most unfortunately met you first, 
for the loss of everything that makes existence
enjoyable ?

I can assure you that, when I think of the
Governor's Ball, at which you paid me so much

attention, and were so loud in your admiration of mv
wreath of real alive fire-flies,  of the Governor's
wife coming to call upon me, and almost goings
on lier knees to beg me to sing at her concert,
and of the Charity Bazaar, at which I held a
Stall, and sold my own photographs for as much
as ten rupees a piece,  I feel the blood positively
boiling and hissing within my veins I And then
to think of these miserable Cockneys and wretched
retired shopkeepers actually refusing to A'isit mc,
and treating me as if I was dirt beneath their feet I
'Now, what can these odious vulgar middle-class
people possibly know against pie / Nothing
whatever I I have been living quietly and respectably
enough, goodness knows, with nothing-pleasant
to relieve the mortal dulness I But
they have found out, somehow, that I was separated
from my husband, that I was living here
alone, with no gentleman to look after my interests,
except that ridiculous, half-crazy old
Frenchman, who seems to have been placed over
me b}' you, as a sort of detective, to pry into all my
actions, so that, although I am perfectly lonely
and neglected, I cannot look upon myself as
enjoying the privilege of independence, and I
am not able, in any way, to follow out my own

plans. In fact, if I lead been anybody's kept mistress,
 sprung out of the most obscure of gutters,
I could not be treated by everybody with more
want of consideration. Even our dear little Lily,
whom you used to say you would make a point
of watching over and protecting as long as you
lived, is subjected to insults wbicb the child is
sure to observe and question me about when begets
older.

Only the other days, for instance, I bad sent
ber out for a run on the Common, and was watching
ber from the window, as sbe came back over
the road,  as Rajama is still laid up in bed and
utterly useless,  when ber book) ran up against
our new landlord, wbo happened to be passing, a
vulgar City fellow, a stockbroker, or something
of the kind, wbo pays me no sort of attention,
and bas about as much knowledge of manners asa
sbe-bear. Tbis snob, instead of giving the
child ber book back again, as any real gentleman
would bave done, pushed it rudely away from
bim, and then positively turned and ran, just as
some of the elephants used to do at sight of a
pig, only because be happened to know that sbe
was my child! What you say in your letter
about '' defraying the expenses " of ber educa-



tion,-constituting yourself "legally" lier guardian,
and settling "an ample fortune upon her
when she comes of ages-is all very fine, and
very generous, no doubt, and I will not stand in
the way of your doing what is, after all, only
your Lund duty. But, a circumstance has lately
happened which will enable you to do even more
than this. Yes, Anthony, just as your cruel and
unfeeling letter had cast me into the utmost
depths of despair, another, which reached me by
the Indian mail, proved to me that Providence
had not yet quite deserted me, and made me feel
that yoa will now be enabled to make the only
reparation which is in your power to the woman
who has endured so much pain and humiliation
for your sake ! That brute, whose violence and
unkindness were the means of causing me to become
so easily your prey, is now no more ! A
simstroke, it seems, carried him off, quite suddenly,
although he had left his bungalow apparently
in his usual health, though after a rather
heavy luncheon. Some of the details are really
distressing, but it would be hypocritical of me
to repine, and I can only feel truly thankful that
I am free, and spared to enjoy what wil be, I
trust, a brighter and happier future for us both.

You may, possibly', have forgotten the promise
whicli you gave me, in writing, a short time
before the death of your mother, when the divorce
proceedings against me had entirely collapsed,
but when /, in my turn, might have brought forward
the counter charges, and obtained my perfect
freedom, had you not dissuaded me, for fear of
the scandal ; and purchased my silence, as it were,
with this signed paper, to the effect that, if I
became a widow within the period of ten years,
you would make me proper reparation for the
Avrong I had suffered at your hands, and that you
bound yourself not to contract a marriage with,
anybody else until that time had elapsed. I ama
widow, now, Anthony, and for the sake of my
child, I must hold you to your promise.

Please remember, that there has been no sort
of scandal in England, and that the accusations
made against me in India had to be almost immediately
abandoned. I consider, therefore, that
my character is as good as that of any of my
neighbours ; and if there was ever any damage
done to it, it was done by you. No one knew of
this, however, but a few of your own brother-officers,
and one or two other people who happened
to be out there at the time, and several of

whom have since died. You will, therefore, be
only marrying a lady who has had a husband
before, and one daughter by her first marriage,
which is a thing that occurs almost every day,
and could do no harm whatever to your reputation,
of which you seem suddenly to have
become so uncommonly careful ! I shall go into
decent mourning at once, as anyone else in my
position would do, and put Lily into black
frocks ; and I suppose (though this seems a
perfect farce!) that we ought to do the correct
thing, and wait for a year before we are married ;
but during this time I do not mean to keep it a
secret that I am engaged, for I feel convinced
that, although you seem lately to have forgotten
all your obligations to me, the remembrance of
my past devotion and self-sacrifice will occur to
you now, and will prevent you from endeavouring
to escape from what you must recognise as the
path of Duty and Honour. Lily sends her love
and many kisses to '' dear god-papa," and this
little elephant, which she has just drawn for you
by laying down one of her Noah's Ark animals,
and tracing all round it. The dear child's talent
for drawing is quite extraordinary! . I wonder
very often whether her picture is still where you

VOL. II. L

told me sou hung it  by the side of your bed,
where you could see it the first and the last
thing? and whether the threepenny-piece which
she gave you on the day she was three years old
is still hanging upon your watch-chain, with your
mother's wedding-ring, where you said you would
always wear it ? . I will not, however, recall
to your mind things you may long ago have forgotten,
but will conclude with my best love 
although you will probably spurn it  and remain,
still, yours, as devotedly as ever,

Leonie.

Pes.  As I have had, so very unexpectedly,
to go into deep mourning, and to put all the
servants in too  and crape is so very expensive
you might, perhaps, write this quarter's cheque
for rather a large amount.'

After reading this letter to the end, Anthony
Hepburn threw himself back in his chair, and
covered his face with his hands, like one who is
stunned by a sudden blow. Old memories had
been awakened  hitter memories to him  and,
for awhile, they held him completely in thrall.

He was in India once more, and assisting, infancy,

at the grand ball which, had been given,
more than ten sears ago, by the Governor of
Bombay. He could hear the strains of the music,
smell the perfume of the flowers, and see the
native princes in their gorgeous costumes, the
verandah, lit up with its coloured lamps, and
himself, as he was then  a careless English lad
with no presentiment of any coming event
which might darken and embitter the best
years of his life.

Then, in all the glories of a fresh Parisian
toilette there had loomed upon his sight the
golden-haired, showy-looking wife of the  Judge
SaJiih, in her wreath of living fire-flies. In this
radiant vision he had recognised a former acquaintance
 the woman who, passing by chance,
with her husband, at the hour of his need, had
nursed and tended him after a serious accident,
which had befallen him some six months previously
whilst he was upon a hunting expedition
in Cashmere. Gratitude at the recollection of
her past kindness, a boy's artless admiration for
her somewhat sensational charms, had induced
him to ask her for the pleasure of the next
valse. . . .

How thick and fast events seemed to have

followed one another after that first dance, and
how suddenly and unexpectedly lie had found
himself, as it were, involved in a web of toils !
Ah, this had all happened more than ten years
ago ! But surely at very nearly three-and-twenty
he ought to have known better ! Boys remain
boys, however, much longer than girls remain
girls, and the after-wisdom of both boy and girl
is often somewhat dearly purchased.

He had changed  in mind, in spirits, in heart
since that well remembered evening, and yet
the consequences of his boyish infatuation were
haunting him still, and seeming to stand like
spectres between himself and the daylight ! Perhaps
it was quite right and proper that rash and
lawless deeds should bring in their train a whole
horde of loosened demons to torture and torment,
but punishments which are administered in the
name of Justice are none the less painful upon
that account, and for the first few moments his
destiny seemed to him to be almost too hard to
endure.

One of the unpleasantness things about this
letter was its truth. To almost every charge
brought against him by the writer of it, Anthony
felt in his heart that he must indeed plead guilty.

He realised that for the last five years, and even
before that time, he must have appeared both
sold and neglectful to the woman who had certainly
placed him under the most serious obligations.
He had utilised his regiment, his
'Country visits, his estate, as excuses for those
long absences which, under other circumstances,
he could not have endured himself. He knew how
bitter, how humiliating, all this must have been
for a woman, and such a woman, to endure ! He
blamed himself, and himself only, and could have
found harsher words for the expression of this
blame than any she had made use of. Was therein
fact, one single sentence in the whole of her
letter which he could honestly and conscientiously
refute ? Yes ; there was one, and one only.

You seem, lately,' she had written, ' to have
forgotten all your obligations to me This
was untrue. Alas, neither formerly nor lately
neither yesterday, to-day, nor tomorrow 
could those fatal 'obligations' become effaced
from his mind ! The open-eyed world had looked
on and seen the ad. God, and his own heart,
knew of the motive which preceded the act and
brought it about. Had this first motive, or intention,
been good or evil ? It would seem like

an effort at self exculpation were lie to endeavour
to prove, even to himself, that it had been good.
Good or evil, it had had, as its root and origin,
this haunting, all-pervading, sense of obligation
this overwhelming debt of gratitude, which
somehow, and some day, he felt that he was
called ujDon to repay. Whatever boon this
woman had asked of him, he would have considered
himself bound to grant, and when she
had seemed to crave only for his love, he had
given her the best that it was then in his power
to give. But, since that time, he had known
another woman, and had loved her with another
love, and he knew now how worthless was the
reward he had given, more than ten years ago, to
the woman who had saved his life !

When he took his hands from his face, and
returned to his own library from his imaginary
journey into the Bombay Presidency, he looked
haggard and miserable. He had made out, however,
confusedly, a plan of action. He would go
up to London that very day, seek an interview
with the lady, double, or treble, if need be, the
amount of the proposed annuity, and make, at
any rate, one last desperate fight to recover his
freedom.

He picked up the letter, which had fluttered
on to the carpet, and repairing to the morning-room,
rang the bell for the butler.

"Well, Colonel ! ' cried Captain Sparshott
from his easy-chair, as Anthony re-entered the
room ; 'I'm still taken up with the future Mrs.

S , and can't make out, for the life of me,

which she'd better be  a girl or a widow ! "Worst
of a girl is, that you only get to know the best of
her first ; and the worst of a widow is, that if one
got to know the worst of her first, it oughtn't be
quite so easy to make the best of her afterwards !
Hullo I I hope you haven't had bad news ! ' he
exclaimed, breaking off suddenly, and glancing
up at Anthony's altered face, and then down at
the black-edged letter which he held in his hand.

*0h, no ; nobody's dead that I cared two straws
about, but some tiresome business has come upon
me, which I ought to get settled up at once, and
I'm afraid I shall have to leave you and go up to
London this morning. There's no train, is there,
before the 3.15?' he inquired, turning to the
butler, who had answered the bell.

You could just catch the four minutes to one,
sir,' replied the man, looking at his watch, ' if I
ordered the dog-cart, and you started off now 

immediately. I could put your evening things
in the bag, and send jou up the small portmanteau
tomorrow.'

'That'll do capitally, Jervis. Good-bye, my
dear Charlie. Behave as if you were in your own
house, and do just as sou like about shooting and
riding, and waiting till I can get back. I may be
kept in town for a day or two.'

'I'll just wait till the first post tomorrow,
and then go up by this same train,' returned
Captain Sparshott, wringing his friend's hand.
I was meaning to be back by about then ;
Good-bye!'

Driving post haste on his way to the station,
Colonel Hepburn passed the western entrance to
Lord Belmorris's park about two hours before
Lucy and her cavalier were destined to emerge
from it. He had no time to linger or investigate,
but he cast a wistful glance through the iron
gateways and down the long avenue which led to
the castle. He saw nobody however. It would
have been strange indeed if he had perceived the
form he was seeking, but yet, sometimes, such
wonderful coincidences had a way of coming to
pass ! . . .

He caught the train by a miracle, secured a

carriage to himself, endeavoured to read, to smoke,
and finally, to sleep, anything,  anything, to
make the day pass which had begun so miserably!
The weather, which, in the north, had been
crisp and frosty, grew damp and foggy as he
neared London. It was as if all nature lay
shrouded and buried away beneath a grey pall of
desolation. The cold was intense, and seemed to
penetrate to the very marrow of his bones. He
drew on the 'Old Campaigner,' which he had
meant to use merely as a railway-wrap, and
fastened it round his throat with the military
loops and ' frogs.' Then, plunging his hands, for
warmth, into the depths of the wide pockets, he
endeavoured, once more, to court oblivion in sleep.
In the right-hand pocket of the coat he encountered
some sort of soft gossamer substance.
He drew it forth and examined it by the light of
the lamp, for, by this time, all was darkness without.
A woman's handkerchief, with a lace
edging, a border of pink stripes, and ' Lucy ' embroidered
in the corner I The old housekeeper at
Falconborough, when the coat was returned to
her, had carefully pulled down the sleeves and
restored the belt to its slides, but she had evidently
omitted to search in the pockets.

To Anthony, however, unaware as he was that
his ' old campaigner ' had once been folded round
Lucy's graceful form, this discovery, just as his
heart was so full of regretful emotions, seemed
almost to partake of the character of the supernatural;
a circumstance quite worthy of being
communicated to the Council of ' the Society for
Psychical Research,' supposing it to have been
then in existence ; and astonishment as to how he
could ]Possibly have become possessed of Avhat was
to him like a sacred and beloved relic, had the
effect of banishing his more melancholy thoughts
for the remainder of the journey.

He arrived in London at about half-past seven,
dined  that is to say, endeavoured to dine  at a
club,  slept, or rather 'assumed the recumbent
position,' at Long's Hotel, and drove down to
Clapham soon after eleven o'clock upon the
following morning.

He crossed the river at Chelsea, skirted Battersea
Park, passed under a succession of railway
viaducts, and so came, by-and-bj to the ' Cedars
Road,' where the air seemed to grow purer and
more countrified. Arrived at the top of the hill,
he directed his cabman to the right, past the
scarlet pillar-postboy, and then,  for the first

time during the drive,  lie recalled his wandering*
spirit and began to observe the objects in his
material path.

The Common lay extended to his left, and
presented a gay and animated appearance, notwithstanding
that the branches of its trees were
naked and its gorse-bushes blossomless. Some
boys were sending their dogs into the pond to
swim after sticks, and several young couples were
strolling forth in the wintry sunshine.

When he came within sight of the public
bench under the seven lime-trees upon which he
had been sitting when Lucy had perceived him
from her Avindow, he called out to his cabman to
drive slowly. He wanted to take a good look at
Barlow Lodge, the place that was Lucy's home,
and where she would be, in all human probability,
and barring, of course, any terrible catastrophe
attended with loss of life upon the line of the
Great Northern Railway, at about eight o'clock
upon the evening of that very day. He would
have recognised at once, from her chance description,
and without oven looking at the name upon
the gate-post, the 'peaceful-looking little Queen
Anne house, standing between two much larger
ones,' with its unpretending exterior, and prim

Adams decorations. The lime-tree just inside the
protecting wall, being naked as its fellows without,
he was enabled to take in the entire house at a
glance, and his eyes lingered lovingly over every
detail.

As he was looking up at it, a buxom maidservant,
with bare arms, threw open one of the
bedroom windows, and set out, upon the sill, some
long strips of ermine-trimming,  (no doubt, lie
thought, the property of the old lady). Within
he could perceive a waving white curtain, and a
little square of trellis wall paper.

Was not this Lucy's room, which she had told
him looked out upon the Common, and which was
being made ready for her home-coming ? . . .

God bless you, little white curtained room ! '
he murmured with emotion.

But the hansom cab, creeping slowly along
according to orders, had now arrived at the gate
of ' The Aspens,' and, hardening his heart, he
sprang out of it and rang the bell, almost oversetting,
as he dashed abstractedly across the footway,
an extremely pompous-looking individual,
arrayed in well-brushed broadcloth and creaking
boots,  who was evidently making his way to
Clapham Junction, for he carried in his hand a

small black bag, upon wbicb the initials ' >S'. A. P.'
were sainted in white letters.

To this gentleman,  in whom the reader will
no doubt have recognized an acquaintance, 
Anthony Hepburn proffered a hurried excuse,
which, however, was somewhat gruffly received,
and, following the lead of Mrs. Yan Buren's ,
he went into the jungly drawing-room
to do battle with fate.

CHAPTER X.

The departure of Lucy and the Binks family from
Belmorris Castle was something of an undertaking,
seeing that the party numbered in all five souls,
and included two confirmed invalids, for Lady
Mabella and her attendant, Mrs. Gussy, considered
themselves fully entitled to this designation.

Lord Belmorris, who had accompanied his
relatives to the station, and was assisting Lucy
and Adeliza to grapple with their small baggage,
caught sight, upon the platform, of a groom in
the Hepburn livery.

Colonel going up by this train ? ' he inquired
carelessly, whilst Lucy's cheeks became suffused
with crimson.

Colonel went up yesterday, my lord,' replied
the man ; ' quite unexpected, and I've just driven
down with his portmanteau and Captain Sparshott.'

It was now Adeliza' s turn to blush. Captain
Sparshott going up to London by this very train !

Oh, if he could only be induced to get into their
carriage I But the compartment, although its full
complement of passengers was not actually made
up,  what with rugs, air-cushions, dressing-cases,
luncheon-baskets, umbrellas, and foot farmers, 
presented already an appearance of being unpleasantly
crammed ; the Bclmorris footman, who
was at least six feet two in height, was standi no-like
a dragon at the door, and it was highly probable,
Adeliza feared, that unless Algy was told
off at once, to drag him uj, as it were by the
hair of the head, the Captain might elect to take
his place in a smoking-carriage. Yielding, therefore,
to Adeliza's whispered entreaties, Algernon
Binks, as there were still a few moments to stare,
started off in search of him.

He was discovered at the book-stall, in the act
of supplying himself with novels and society
journals, smoking an enormous cigar.

My mother and sister are in the train,' said
Algy, after the first greeting, pointing to where
the gigantic footman was standing like a sentinel.

The Captain made at once for the carriage as
though impelled by some irresistible magnetic force.

Adeliza flew forward to the window wreathed
in smiles.

I see your carriage is quite full,' lie observed,
after lie had glanced inside it, and assuming an
expression of disappointment, he made as though
about to take his place elsewhere.

Oh, no, it's not ! ' exclaimed Adeliza persuasively
; ' we've got heaps of room for you ! Do
come /'

10, no, I shall only crowd you ! ' returned the
Captain, making a last effort to escape.

"We're not so exclusive as not to be able to
make room for a friend'' cried Miss Binks, whilst
her bright eyes seemed to be saying ten thousand
flattering things.

But I'm smoking,' pleaded the gallant Lancer,
looking at his newly-lighted cigar. He felt like
some poor fly, struggling helplessly in the meshes
of a most seductive spider.

Never mind your cigar ! ' exclaimed Addie,
perceiving that he wavered, and assuming almost
a tone of command.

A guard, shouting, * Take your place, sir ! '
came behind him at this moment, and the gigantic
footman opened the carriage-door and assisted him
on to the step. Adeliza held out her neatly gloved
hand with a bewitching smile. He took hold of it,
flung aside his cigar, and, in another second, found

himself in the bosom of the Binks family, and
hemmed in on all sides with their belongings.

Lord Belmorris waved his hand in farewell,
hurling a somewhat despairing glance towards the
corner where Luc} was sitting, the gigantic footman
touched his hat respectfully, and the train
glided out of the station on its way to London.

In order that Captain Sparshott might occupy
a place next to Miss Binks, it was suggested, soon
after the commencement of the journey, that Mrs.
Guffv, who declined to travel second-class during"
the winter months, on account of the draughts,
should change over, and sit upon the opposite
side, between Algernon and Lucy, for Lady Mabella,
besides being liable to travel with her
back to the engine, had been enjoined by her
medical adviser to * assume the recumbent position
' whenever she went upon a journey, and
this, of course, necessitated the occupation of two
seats.

GufP}, however, had always chosen to imagine
that she could no more sit with her back to the
engine than could her mistress, and she at once
put on an expression of martyrdom, which, Adeline
feared, must have been very annoying to
Captain Sparshott, whom she was, of course,

VOL. II. M

anxious to impress favourably. She lionel that,
by taking no notice of Gussy's affectations, she
would end perhaps by becoming resigned, and
that she might even seek solace in slumber, and
thus enable Captain Sparshott and herself to converse
in comfort, which would be, of course, utterly
out of the question if they were liable to be
interrupted every moment by groans and complaints.


Algy, however, had been greatly annoyed by
having Gussy, whom he could not endure, placed
between Lucy and himself. Foreseeing that his
mother, if not actually asleep, Avould close her eyes,
and feign slumber, in order to escape from the
fatigue of having to join in the conversation, and
that Adeliza and the Captain would probably engage
in a sort of semi-sentimental banter in which
he could take no part, he had imagined that he
would have had his cousin Lucy entirely to himself
during the whole of the journey up to town ;
and, besides the fact that he was, as he had expressed
it, decidedly * spoony upon her,' he had
determined, not only to endeavour to find out how
matters stood between herself and his * Lncle
Belmorris,' but also, to rally her on the impression
she had apparently made upon the heart of

the haughty and inscrutable Colonel, who, mitil
now, had never been looked upon as ' a marrying
man.' He would have produced, perhaps, from
his pocket, the letter he had received that very
morning from Colonel Hepburn, allowing her only
to glance at a portion of its contents, in order that
lie might ' get a rise out of her,' and revel in her
discomfiture and mystification. All this, however,
had been frustrated by the inopportune intrusion
of Gush' ; and as he was a spoilt child, and accustomed
to be given way to in everything, he was
at no pains to conceal his irritation. His sister
kicked at him beneath the fur railway nig in
order to induce him to keep quiet, but he only
kicked her back in return, and seemed seriously
disposed to lose his temper. Just as Gussy had,
apparently, subsided into a state of resentful
torpor, he roused her up again, and requested that
she woidd change places with Lucy, (who was
sitting also with her back towards the engine, in
the corner nearest to the right-hand window, immediately'
opposite to Captain Sparshott), so that
he and his cousin might be enabled to converse
together at their ease, without being obliged, as
must now happen, to talk uncomfortably across
the lap) of an intermediate person. Gufiy-, however,

who had a perfect horror of draughts, flatly
refused to sit next to the window, notwithstanding
that this one was closed.

I'm sorry I dursnH oblige novi, sir,* Adeliza
could hear her protesting in a peevish undertone ;
but it would be as much as my life was worth, I
can assure you it would ! '

Algernon and Gussy went wrangling on after
this fashion until they had effectually aroused
Lady Mabella from her pretended slumber, who
forthwith discovered, to her horror, that a ,
containing some extremely valuable
articles of jewelry, had mysteriously disappeared.
This intelligence very naturally filled every
member of the Binks family with consternation ;
GufPy became loud in her lamentations, whilst, at
the same time, exonerating herself from all blame,
and Lucy adventured a few words of sympathy
and hope.

nothing could have exceeded the kindness
and courtesy of Captain Sparshott at this trying-moment.
He searched high and low, in the
carriage, for the missing bag, groped under the
seats, and shook up the cushions and railway-rugs,
until he had raised such a cloud of dust that
he and his fellow-passengers were well-nigh

smothered by it ; after which, seeing that the
bag was nowhere to be found, he turned mournfully
to his newspapers with the manner of a
person who has lost a friend. After bewailing
her loss for about three-quarters of an hour,
Lady Mabella, acting upon Captain Sparshott's
advice, determined to send a telegram to her
brother, in order to ascertain whether, after all,
the missing bag might not merely have been left
at the Castle. Neither Lady Mabella, Algernon,
nor Gu, appeared to have about them such a
thing as a shilling, and Adeliza remembered to
have left her purse in the pocket of her ulster-coat,
which was strapped up with the umbrellas
and walking-sticks, and as they were just arriving
at a station, there was no time to get these
undone.

Before Lucy had been able to find her money,
(for her new serge travelling jacket had almost
too many pockets to be convenient), the good-natured
Captain had produced the modest sum required,
and, as he was seated nearest to the door,
he dashed out of the carriage as soon as the train
came to a standstill, in order to send off the
stage.
Adeliza endured a moment of real agony when

the train began showing symptoms of moving ou
again before Captain Sparsbott bad returned. 8be
darted to the window, beckoning to bim frantically,
and was just in time to save bim from
stepping, in a fit of abstraction, no doubt, into the
wrong carriage.

Tbe gloom occasioned by the loss of the bag
cleared off a little after this, particularly as Adc-
lisa suddenly remembered that sbe was almost
certain that sbe bad seen it placed under one of
the seats in the waggonette, were, in all probability,
it still remained. It was felt, however,
that, after so niucb worry and anxiety, a little
luncheon would be b}'- no means unacceptable,
and Algy set to work, with a will, to unpack
the basket. Cbicken-and-bam sandwiches, a cold
pheasant, properly dissected, bard-boiled eggs,
delicious rolls, with salt, pepper, mustard, an
enormous bunch of hothouse grapes, and two
bottles of red wine, everything, so it seemed, that
the soul of the hungry and thirsty wayfarer could
possibly desire I . . . ,

Gracious Heavens ! ' exclaimed Adeliza, when
they had all satisfied their first cravings ; * if those
idiotic servants haven't forgotten to put in a
tumbler I '

It was too true I . . . The Belmorris butler
had counted, probably, upon Lady Mabella's silver
drinking-cup, which he had had cleaned n-p for
her upon the .previous evening, and which had
always proved so useful upon long journeys, but
this, alas, was at the bottom of the missing
bag ! Captain Sparshott, however, immediately
came to the rescue, and produced from a 
travelling-bag, which seemed
to contain almost every necessity and superfluity
of life, a bright silver cup embellished with his
coat-of-arms.

Ashy is it,' said Adeliza, addressing the Captain
in a whisper, 'that younger sons always
have everything so very nice ? '

Now, seeing that this was the Captain's own
drinking-cup, which he had proffered voluntarily,
for the benefit of his fellow-travellers, he felt
constrained to drink out of it the very last of all,
and so, refused absolutely to put it to his lips until
every one of the occupants of the railway carriage,
including GufP} had thoroughly quenched their
thirst, b} which time its lustre was considerably
dimmed, and it had groan to be somewhat
thinned and crumbs.

He rinsed it out superficially, and gave the

rim a rub over with newspaper, but be felt that it
would be neither complimentary, nor in good
taste, to wipe it too much, and so, did not particularly
relish the dregs of tbc last bottle of
light claret which fell to his share.

After this, all went well until the train stooped
again, when GufPy, perceiving a boy with a tray
strapped to his chest, and having been rendered
thirsty by the chicken-and-ham sandwiches, became
possessed of an insatiable craving to indulge
in an orange.

There was nothing for it but to gratify her,
and mitil she had finished eating it, and had
handed the pieds and peeling to Captain Sparshott
to throw out of the window, he being seated in
the place nearest to the doorway, it was useless to
dream of settling down comfortably to literature,
conversation, or slumber. The wintry daylight,
however, was now fast drawing to a close. Lucy
could scarcely see to read the book in which she had
been trying to interest herself in spite of these frequent
interruptions, and, at the last station, where
they had purchased the orange for Gussy, a
porter had climbed upon the top of the carriage
and hurled down a lamp into its appointed
aperture. . . . Perhaps, (Adeliza said to herself.

With a fluttering heart,) there "sverc going to be
tunnels I . . .

Tunnels there were, in a little while, sure
enough, added to which, it gradually became
totally dark outside. The train went tearing on,
through space, at a terrific rate, for it was almost
twenty-five minutes behind time, and was endeavouring
to make up speed. They would not
sto]) again. Captain Sparshott said, for ' a perfect
age.'

Lucy was leaning back in her corner with
closed ejes, and had not spoken a word for sometime;
Algernon and GufPy, tired out, as it seemed,
with their wrangling, had subsided into silence,
and Lady Mabella commenced making preparations
for a real sleep. The glare of the lamp,
however, she found, came directly in her eyes,
and Captain Sparshott rose at once to remedy the
evil. There was a small blue curtain upon one
side of the lamp, which, when drawn down,
and looped over the light, made quite an
effectual screen. The carriage was now plunged
in almost total darkness,  a sound, as of a gentle
snore, came now and again from Lady Mabella's
corner. . . . Adeliza experienced a delightful
sense of mystery. To all intents and purposes,

she and the Captain had every right to consider
themselves alone ; and when two people find themselves
as it were ' alone in a crowd,'  particularly
when the crowd is asleep,  they are apt, somehow,
to feel more than usually drawn together in
their isolation.

Some sentiment of this kind may possibly
have animated Captain Sparshott's gallant breast,
for moving nearer to his only waking companion,
he felt underneath the fur railway-rug and obtained
possession of her hand. . . .

But just at this moment, a loud exclamation
from Algy awakened the sleepers, and caused
the two young people suddenly to unclasp their
hands.

It now transpired that Gussy, in consequence,
as she declared, of having been forced to travel
with her back to the engine, had just communicated
to Algy that she was feeling exceedingly
howell; in fact, that ever since leaving the station
at which she had insisted upon purchasing the
orange, she had felt exactly as if she ' was sailing
upon a vessel I '

Everybody, including even Lady Mabella,
started simultaneously to their feet upon hearing
this news, and displayed signs of the keenest

perturbation IVhat was to be done ? . . . There
was not a moment to be lost ! . . . Captain 
remembered that he had a flask, containing
brandy, in his magnificent though somewhat
cumbrous dressing-bag, and it was hauled down
for the second time, and the remedy promptly administered.


Gufiy, however, declared that she could sit
no longer with her back to the engine, and Algy
was now strongly of opinion that she ought not
to nm any such risk. The only safe way by
which the travellers could protect themselves
from a recurrence of these distressing s\Tnptoms,
was b}' arranging that Gussy should go over
to the other side, and sit facing the engine; butin
this case, she would have to change places with
either Adeliza or Captain Sparshott, and thus prevent
them from occupWug adjoining seats. Of
course, if Algernon could have been persuaded to
move over likewise, all might yet have been weD,
but he had now slipped into the invalid's place, next
to Lucy's comer, and declared that nothing woidd
induce him to sit near Gussy again, and that he
was not going to be ordered about * from pillar to
post By thoroughly re-organizing the disposal
of the places, Adeliza and the Captain might still

have been enabled to sit together, but this, besides
looking, perhaps, a little too marked, would have
necessitated the shifting of the greater portion of
the ' cargo,' which, together with creating dust,
would have seriously disturbed Lady Mabella, who
was again endeavouring to court a well-earned
repose.

Owing, therefore, to Algernon's incorrigible
obstinacy, and to Gussy's captiousness, Adeliza
foresaw that she and her admirer were destined
to be separated during the rest of the journey ;
for Captain Sparshott was not the kind of person
who could look on at a female in distress, no
matter what was her social position, without doing
everything in his power to assist her. He
changed over, therefore, at once, and settled
himself in the place which Algernon had just
vacated.

All hope, Adeliza felt, together with all hand-pressing,
was over and done with for this afternoon,
at least ! . . .

Well, GufPy,' she relieved her feelings by
whispering, as the cantankerous lady's maid
established herself by her side ; ' I must say that
you certainly arc an old brute ! ' and the Captain,
who was now too far off to catch her remark,

noticed the ' willis look ' In her eye to which he
had alluded in his conversation with Anthony
Hepburn.

But T have already dwelt at too great a length
upon the vicissitudes of the journey.

In due course of time, and without any further
contretemps, Lucy, Captain Sparshott, the Binkses,
and Mrs. Gussy arrived in London.

*I can see Upjohn waiting upon the platform,'
said Adeliza, putting her head out of the window
as the train glided into the station.

Joseph L'pjohn was the one male retainer of
the Binks family. He presented the appearance
of a boy, but was much older than he looked,
having been taken by the late Mr. Binks either
direct from the plough or the choir, and pressed
into service for a merely nominal wage, in the
hope that he might one day turn out to be a valuable
acquisition. He possessed, however, a large
appetite and small ambitions, and had never improved.


At railway stations, and all places where
there was much traffic, he displayed terror,
standing as one paralysed, with his arms in the
position of the lower sails of a windmill. Upon
the present occasion he was worse than useless,

and, but for the ' honour and glory of the family,'
might just as well have remained at home.

Captain Sparshott, assisted by Adeliza, (for
Algernon was far too selfish to do anything which
entailed trouble, whilst Gussy's prostration only
just enabled her to crawl to a four-wheeled cab,)
succeeded, however, in recognizing the luggage, 
amongst which, to Lady Mabella's intense relief,
was discovered the missing bag, which had been
labelled and put into the van by mistake ; and
after despatching a second telegram to apprise
Lord Belmorris of this fortunate circumstance,
securing his own portmanteau, and remunerating
the porters, he sprang into a hansom-cab, and
drove off to his club.

Lucy accompanied her relatives in their
double brougham, as far as Wilton Place, after
which she and her trunk were transferred to a
cab ; and bidding her aunt and cousins an affectionate
farewell, she took her wav, via Cadogan
Place, Sloane Street, and sloane Square, to the
Chelsea Embankment, and thence to Clapham
Common.

Perhaps it was not altogether consistent in
Lady Mabella, who, besides being, as her daughter
had said, ' so very particular had the lowest possible

opinion of London cabman, to send her
young and lovely niece so far afield alone and unprotected,
after the foggy darkness had set in.

Lady Mabella, however, like a great many of
her neighbours, did not always behave with perfect
consistency. It would have been indecorous
in the highest degree, for Algernon to have
escorted his cousin, although he had expressed
his willingness to do so ; Gussy's health was, of
course, quite unequal to the exertion, and L"p-
john's services were required, just then, to *help
up' with the boxes. Lady Mabella, therefore,
salved her conscience by asking Adeliza to write
down the cabman's number, and packed Lucy off
with a blessing.

Lucy's cabman,  except for one or two unimportant
deviations, resulting from individuality of
character,  proceeded on his way by the same
route which had been taken, that very morning,
by the driver of Colonel Hepburn's ' hansom.'

At the gate of the unpretending little Queen-anne
house, Sarah the parlour-maid was waiting
to receive her.

*Glad to see you back home again, Miss
Lucy ! . . . I hope I see you quite well ? . . .
How much is it, cabman ? . . .'

Four-and-sixpence the fare, Miss, and twopence
extra for outside luggage,' answered the
wicked cabman, seeing that he had to do only
with beings of the weaker and more confiding
sex. For such wretches,  shad Dante ever suffered
by their extortions,  he would surety have
reserved a hot corner in his  Inferno ! ' The unsophisticated
Sarah, however, delighted at the return
of her youthful mistress, instead of handing
him two-and-eightpence with a jeer of derision,
immediately paid the money, and even added a
cheerful * Good evening, cabman I ' the outcome
of her trustful and ingenuous heart, as the villain
drove back to London, well pleased.

Luc'' cast one look in the direction of the
blurred gas-lamp, which, but for the clinging fog,
might have revealed to her the public bench over
the way, beneath the now leafless limes,  then she
followed Sarah into the house with a sigh.

The little storm-tossed bark had returned to
its peaceful haven  Barlow Lodge once more, 
with its Chippendale furniture, blue ginger-pots,
and prim eighteenth-century calm !

CHAPTER XI.

Ah, my dear young lady said the old French
professor, some weeks after Lucy's second return
tome, as lie contemplated the staircase window at
Barlow Lodge, with its heraldic blind; 'I had
imagined, nay, I had made sure, that on your
coming back, I should have been informed that
some noble device must be painted, without delay,
inside that escutcheon in outline ! . . . . My
honourable, but unfortunate friend, Benvenuto
Rossi,  unfortunate from the circumstances of his
private life, as well as from his loss of sortie, 
and who was breakfasting with me this morning,
has never succeeded in chasing from his memory
the enchanting apparition which confronted him
here, when he called to display to your aunt his completed
achievement. . . . " How is that charming
young lady who has the fisonomia of Beatrice
Cenci?" he inquired; "when am I to be summoned
to her gentle and dignified presence in

VOL. II. N

order that, to the long roll of illustrious devices-which
I had the honour to copy according to my
poor ability, I may add that of her promised
husband ? " *

'I'm sorry we can't give your friend this little
commission,' replied Lucy, smiling rather sadly,
as she thought of an ' illustrious device ' which
she had seen upon a pair of ivory hair-brushes,
and, also, upon the blinkers of a horse harnessed
to a certain dog-cart. ' Is he really so badly
off ? '

Like myself,' returned the Marquis, ' he has
passed through vicissitudes. He has been forsaken
by those who should have consoled him
by their affection, and the misfortunes arising
from the errors and follies of his youth have
overshadowed his riper years. Happily, however,
he is possessed of the artistic and imaginative
temperament. He exists chiefly in a world
peopled by the creations of his own brain, and
these, at least, have remained his friends

This speech aroused in Lucy a painful
memory  a memory which, now, was never
entirely asleep.

" The errors and follies of his south ! " ' she
repeated half absently. ' Ah, tell me,' she added

suddenly, as she looked up eagerly into the old
man's face; 'you travelled, didn't you, long ago,
with, several young Englishmen who wanted to
see the world ; amongst them was there one
named Anthony Hepburn ? '

" Anthony Hepburn ? " ' repeated the professor,
looking surprised ;  so you are acquainted
with Anthony Hepburn  you have seen him ? '

eyes, I have seen him,' she answered, looking
down ; ' tell me about him when he was quite
a boy  before everything happened ? '

'You know, then, about *' everything." Ho
has told you the history of his life. The ideal
man and the ideal woman of my dreams have
met, then, at last ; but alas ! when it is too
late ! '

You are quite sure that we have met too
late ? ' She asked this in a tone of almost hopeless
resignation, as though the old man's words had
merely confirmed an impression already existing
in her own mind.

I fear so, my chid; and if, as I divine from
your manner, you take more than an ordinary
interest in my gallant friend, I can only recommend
you to try' to become resigned to what
appears to be the almost universal doom of poor

humanity ! Sad comfort, certainly, but it is the
best I can offer! What says one of our most
cultivated writers  a man who, having thoroughly
investigated facts, has, in consequence, a right to
be listened to ? " S'il se trouvait, he says, * jxir
hazards deux metres capahks de ressentir wi amour
reel. Us ne se rencontraient ;!s, on se trouvaient
dans la vie plaecs dos d dos ; chacun des deux se
trouvait apparel avec un etre dame autre nature' '*

 And is it always like this ?'

Nothing in life is always,  constant inconstancy,
 the certainty that all is uncertain,  caprice,
 variety,  mutability; our small existences
are composed of these elements, for the life of
prescribed and regulated stagnation is only for
those beings who can put forth no wings with
which to escape from it ! Those of the finer ptdte
must be for ever struggling and expecting ;
hoping the good thing whilst they foresee the
evil, knowing that by their tears they are earning
the sunshine of coming smiles, and more free,
consequently, in a dungeon than those others
are in a palace ! Of such a nature is the
philosopher, and it is this awaiting the unexpected,
this knowledge that we are unable to go
Alphonse Carr.

entirely by precedent, which makes our existences
tolerable at all

I should like to think that one might alway's
hope said Lucj, sadly.

You may think it, my child, but yet it would
be wiser to cultivate the nature that can say,
What signifies this sorrow or this exultation ?
When the earth itself is of so little importance,
what matter the contortions of the individual
worm ? " This is what I have been saying to-dato
our friend the Colonel.'

*' jTo-fy / " ' repeated Lucy aghast  'you
have seen him to-day ? Colonel Hepburn has
been here ? '

Certainly,' returned the old Frenchman;
why should he not be here ? We have been
consulting together, turning matters over, and
endeavouring to arrive at satisfactory conclusions ;
but, like most Englishmen, he has been too
reserved ; he has been afraid of betraying, even
to so old a friend, his hidden motives. He has
talked to me about what I already knew, but he
has said not one word to show me that he had
met you. You shall tell me all about it yourself.'


He has been here,' exclaimed Lucy, as though

not heeding the Professor's words; * and lie didn't
care to come and see me ! He knows where I
live. He knows that I must be waiting and
hoping, and he has never wished to see me when
he has been quite close to my door ! Ah, Who
would think that he could be so cruel ! '

You shall tell me about all this when you
are calmer said the old man, soothingly ; ' for,
at present, it all seems like a mystery. Do not
think, however, that our friend is cruel. He
dreads only too much the idea of giving pain.
He is for bearing all the suffering himself.'

But Lucy felt crushed with humiliation at
the news she had just heard. Anthony so near
to her, yet passing by without pausing at her
door ? Was she then as nothing to him after
all ? Did men always speak and act so lightly ?
Why had no one warned her that they were
creatures who could neither feel love nor pity ?
Before she had recovered from her agitation she
heard her great-aunt's black silk dress rustling
upon the staircase ; another moment and Miss
Elizabeth entered the little sitting-room, and all
signs of emotion had to be suppressed.

Lucy looked at her with yearning and disappointment
in her glance. An old woman (she

found herself thinking) who had lived so very,
very long, and endured the monotony of rising
up and lying down so very often, and who yet
had known none of those soul-stirring and
absorbing emotions which enable us poor mortals
to find something of divine inspiration in the
most prosaic act! A woman who had looked,
morning and evening, for so very many years
in her glass, in order to make herself neat, and
comely, and attractive, for nobody in particular ;
who had wandered, peradventure, in the days of
her far-off youth, by ocean, and wood, and running
stream, glorified and unscathed by the
faintest spark of that sacred fire ! A woman,
born a woman, but Who had learnt nothing to
mike her forgive the destiny which had cursed
her with the narrower vision  the weaker arm.
A woman, whom no lover had ever held in his
embrace, whom no child had ever called by the
sacred name of mother. How Kettle could such
a woman know of life, despite the passing of
those seventy-seven years !

Looking for consolation and sympathy in
her great - aunt's withered face, Lucy seemed,
with her newly-awakened eyes, to read in it
no trace of bygone struggles, of heart-aches

over-passed, temptations overcome, or affections
blighted.

Oh, if I had only a mother ! ' was the cry
that came now constantly from her heart. *I
could tell her about all this, and she could
advise, and comfort, and understand ! '

It will be surmised from the foregoing pages
that the horny hand of adversity had descended
somewhat heavily upon the Lucy of my story.
A letter from Anthony Hepburn, received upon
the day after her return home, was what had
dealt her the first blow. It ran thus: 

I must write to you the saddest words that
I have ever had to write. I hope to God that
to yoxi, who are at a more hopeful time of life,
they may be less bitter to read than they are
to write. We spoke, you may remember, when
last we met, of what I fancied must surely happen
in time. I ought to have waited for this time
before speaking to you of my feelings, but I
feared it might be long in coming, and love
made me impatient. Noisy what I hoped for
seems further from my reach than ever, and,
indeed, an unexpected circumstance which has
lately taken place, may render it altogether impossible.
My natural impulse would be to ask

sou still to wait ; I might delay the pain of
bidding you farewell, in the hope that, after all,
the words need never be said. But by temporising
thus I might ruin your happiness as well
as my own. Brighter prospects may open out
before you, and I have no right to blight them.
I can only implore you, therefore, to forgive me,
and I feel that I ought to ask you to forget meas
well. This, however, I cannot bring myself todo
qxiite yet. I long to occupy a little corner in
your memory, and I long, too, to be able to make
you believe that I am not really quite so heartless
or so selfish as I must appear to you to be. You
must think of me as of a doomed wretch who
cannot now hope for any true happiness in life,
and that this is owing to my own follj does not
make my fate seem to be less bitter. YoUf however,
deserve that your future should be bright
and unclouded, and I will not darken it with the
shadow of my misfortunes. I wish I might once
more call you my own Lucy, and hold you again,
for one moment, in my arms. The day when I
did so will always seem to me the happiest and
most triumphant day of my life. Pray believe
this, and believe, also, that I loved you, and love
you now, better than ans' other woman I have

ever either known or dreamed of. Good-bye, and
may God bless you always.  A. H.'

Lucy bad kept this letter folded to ber bosom
by day and by night, feeling that she could
almost forgive its terrible significance for the
sake of the concluding words.

To a ionian there is so much, too much, perhaps,
in a declaration of affection. A niariy once
he has delivered himself of these verbal assurances,
is apt to imagine that the lady of his heart
Avill consider herself loved once for all, and will
rest contented with the deeds that go to prove it.
These she will accept with all thankfulness if she
be worth the serving, but ever, in her heart of
hearts, will linger a secret yearning after the joy
begotten of spoken words, and something will
seem still to be wanting, unless she can hear
repeated, from time to time, those delightful
forbids expressive of an enduring passion.

Most men, however, once they have captured
and secured their bond - slaves, dole out these
precious words with a disheartening parsimony,
as though they dreaded the exhaustion of some
sort of commodity, or stock-in-trade, which would
become more valuable in the hoarding like old
port. And it may be that the love of * making

scenes,' of which women are often accused, lias
something to do with this mistaken economy, and
with this feminine longing, so often ungratified,
for words and protestations. Since, in the dramatic
situations and emergencies of life, be they
situations suited for congratulation or for condolence,
a man may produce these hidden treasures
from the depths of his being, just as he will send
down to the cellar for his choicest vintages upon
the occasion of marriage-breakfast or funeral-feast.
He will write, however, sometimes, what
he is so chary of saying, and hence the joy and delight
of love-letters. At the beginning, perhaps,
and, almost certainly, at the ending of his letter,
he will let his pen run on, if only from indolence,
and the force of habit, into the old familiar
groove; and thus it happens that to a woman, the
letters of the man she loves are so inexpressibly
precious, so terribly difficult, always, to tear up
or burn !

Lucy Barlow had now in her possession one
of these priceless treasures. A declaration of
despairing affection written by that beloved hand,
addressed to herself, and signed 'A. H.', and it
was impossible, therefore, for her to be altogether
miserable.

For, to a girl, young, loving, imaginative,
but ignorant as yet of the dominating passions of
existence, the notion of marriage, with all its
new responsibilities, and severing of old associations,
is not always very attractive in itself. Her
longings and aspirations are often as well fulfilled
by an idea as by a reality, and the secret
consciousness that she is loved will atone to her
for the absence of the material lover. A romance,
an inspiration to all good and noble deeds, a
companion who can be With her, in imagination
in all solitudes ; this, with a vague sense of something
nearer, dearer, and altogether incomprehensible,
which may be awaiting her in the far
future, will generally suffice to her until she has
tasted of the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge ; and
to Lucy, during the first few weeks after her return
home, the warm love within her heart, and the
treasured letter outside it, seemed to ensure her
an immunity from all doubts and uncertainties,
even if she might never now hope to be Anthony
Hepburn's wife.

So, like Elaine, she * lived in fantasy,' until
the New Year was past, and the first days of the
chilly English spring were close at hand, when
the trees in Miss Elizabeth's little garden, as well

as the limes upon the Common beyond, began to
show signs of breaking into tender leaf, and the
sparrows commenced twittering and coquetting
upon the house-tops.

But then, influenced, it may be, by the same
universal law which orders the budding of limes
and the pairing of sparrows, there came into
her heart an intense and insatiable longing to
look once more upon the face of the man she
loved, and to hear his voice.

So the days went by, feverish, expectant, uneventful
days, but still, not altogether barren of
hope.

Clapham Common, now, had become, as it
were, hallowed ground. It was some sort of consolation,
as the weather grew warmer, to stroll
across the road, and sit down upon the bench
underneath the seven sacred limes, and to know
that he had sat there one morning, reading his
newspaper, and smoking his cigarette, unconscious
of her straining eyes !

Talking of newspapers, she had induced her
Aunt to exchange the Standard, the Tory organ
Miss Elizabeth had formerly patronised, for the
Morning Foss, and she had been rewarded by beholding
Colonel Hepburn's name in print,

amongst those of the officers present at the annual
regimental dinner of the 18th Lancers at Willis's
Rooms. Lucy's ideas with regard to such dinners
were, naturally enough, extremely vague, and without
actually believing that officers who failed to
attend them were either cashiered or shot as
deserters, she rightly imagined that the Colonel's
absence from so important a ' function ' might be
remarked and commented upon. Had she seen it
chronicled in the newspaper that he had attended
a hall, or any social gathering of a frivolous description,
she might, perhaps, have felt somewhat
shocked and disheartened ; deeming that, for
anyone placed in so unfortunate a situation, it
would be unseemly to caper and jii'ouette with
careless worldlings. nevertheless, as she looked
out over the walls of her narrow garden, she
found herself contemplating London with altogether
different eyes. He was there, probably,
pacing its noisy streets, mingling with its teaming
human life, breathing the atmosphere which,
seen from a distance, looked so murky and
obscure. . . . Oh, if she could only be in
London, too ! . . . . Then, in the midst of all
this longing and uncertainty, came the news that
he had actually been within almost a stone's

throw of her ! . . . . He had ' looked up ' the
old fellow with whom he had travelled, long ago,
as a * kind of tutor ; ' but he had not taken the
trouble to turn aside even to knock at her door ! . . .
He had passed by the peaceful-looking little
Queen Anne house, in which he must have known
that she was waiting and hoping ! . . . . Ah,
men could, indeed, find it in their hearts to be
very cruel sometimes ! But why should this
man select, as his victim, the woman who loved
him so much more than anybody else in the whole
world ?

CHAPTER XII.

In a life so uneventful as that whfcli Lucy was
obliged to lead during the giddy season which
showers notes and visiting-cards upon the hall-tables
of fashionable Londoners, the most trivial
circumstance is apt to assume a fictitious importance.


Thus, the drawing up of a brougham, one
afternoon, outside the entrance to Barlow Lodge,
caused her almost to faint with emotion. She
happened to be looking out of her bedroom
window at the time, which, but for the screening
lime-tree within the wall, would have commanded
a full view of the road. As it was, however, she
could see quite distinctly that the carriage was a
private one. Somebody let down the nearest
window. . . . Who could it possibly be ? . . . .

Before, however, she had had time to make
any conjectures, she recognised the clumsy figure
of Upjohn, climbing awkwardly down from the

box-seat. He rang loudly at [the bell, and then
went back to the carriage-window. Lady Mabella
Binks bad evidently come to call upon Miss
Elizabeth Barlow.

Upon making this discovery, Lucy immediately
flew downstairs to apprise her great-aunt, who had
lately developed a habit of dropping off to sleep
over her knitting, and who woidd have disliked,
above all things, to have been ' taken unawares

The old lady was dozing as her niece had
anticipated, and it was necessary to arouse her
rather suddenly. She muttered, as she woke up,
something incoherent about a ship foundering
off Vigo with all hands ; ' but after a few
hurried words of explanation, was enabled to
grasp the situation, and by the time Lucy had
gone out to the front door in order to welcome
her relatives, had satisfactorily re-assembled her
wandering senses.

But, as Lucy looked out into the road, she
saw Upjohn remounting the box of the
brougham. Lady Mabella had merely deposited
her card, and Lucy saw her black gloved fingers
scratching out something with a pencil from a
paper, probably inscribed with a list of visits, as
the carriage drove off.

VOL. IT. o

Poor Lucy's heart had been set beating, and
Miss Elizabeth had been awakened from her
dreams, for nothing more than an unsympathetic
piece of paste-board. Lady Mabella Binks had
called,' and, for the present, at least, this was all
that came of it !

As the Binks' brougham disappeared in the
distance, Lucy could not help experiencing a sense
of disappointment. Since her return home, she
had been invited more than once to luncheon, and
to spend the afternoon in Wilton Place ; but, feeling
in very indifferent spirits, and somewhat shy
of Adeliza's fashionable friends, besides being
unwilling to leave her great-aunt, from whom
she had lately been a good deal parted, in total
solitude, she had declined upon each occasion to
avail herself of the invitation. She found herself
regretting this now ; Adeliza, who was probably
still pursuing Captain Sparshott with her
attentions, might have been able to tell her something
authentic with regard to the Captain's commanding
officer. At any rate, when she had
found herself actually at Lucy's door, it seemed
rather unkind, after all the affection she had
professed for her suburban cousin (for the two
girls had parted the very best of friends),

not to come in and say a few words of friendly
greeting! . . .

Lucy had seen ad spoken to her little friend
at *The Aspens' several times since her return
from the North. The first time she had done so
was only just before the old Frenchman s unwelcome
communication-the

child was wandering about, alone, close
to the boundaries of Miss Elizabeth's (harden,
looking very forlorn in her little black frock.
She was nursing a large wax dol with a broken
nose, which was also dressed in deep mourning.

Lots of people are dead,' little Lily observed,
in explanation. * The earth must be very full of
dead people, and, upstairs, in the nursery, I've got
a whole drawer full of dead dois, so I put my dory
on a black frock to be iu mourning for them ; and I
tell her she must be sure and not die too, or else
I shall have to punish her by cutting off her head.*

She looked very solemn and sad, Lucy
thought, and her little face wore an expression
of quite grown-up pain and anxiety.

My ayah's dead,' she went on by-and-by ;
God didn't mind her not being white a bit, but
took her up to live with Him in Heaven. I daresay
Heaven's a good deal nicer than Clapham ! *

I daresay it is, dear Lucy had answered,
touched at the child's earnest simplicity. She
had already heard of the death of the faithful
back woman, and of Mrs. Van Buren's recently
assumed widow's weeds. Sorrow, which Lucy
now realised, must come, one day, to all who are
capable of feeling, had evidently visited this poor
child betimes !

Jane washes and dresses me now,' the little
ffirl had continued, in the same tone of sorrowful
regret ; * but she doesn't know how to do it properly,
and lets all the soap get into my eyes.
She can't make my hair curl with only water,
like my ayah could, but has to put it up in paper
every night, and so it's in hard knobs all over my
head, and I can't go to sleep ; but last night, fora
great treat, it wasn't curled at all, because Mr.
Perkins, who Jane's going to be married to, some
day, came in just at my bed-time ; but it doesn't
signify how I look now, because my Mama's gone
down to stay at Brighton. If it wasn't for my
dolly, I should be left quite alone.'

Little Lily went prattling on in the half-wise,
half-foolish way, in which children are apt
to talk, when, through being cut off from the
society of companions of their own age, they

have begun to think too soon. Lucy felt for
the child in her solitude, and had she been sole
mistress of Barlow Lodge, would have straightway
lifted her and her doll over the garden-paling,
and taken possession of her for the rest of
the day. As it was, however, she had to content
herself with stroking her golden locks, which
certainly looked somewhat tangled and unkempt,
and with kissing the little face which seemed
too thoughtful and serious for the face of a child.
So, gradually, spring-time turned into summer.
The fledgling sparrows began with their independent
bird-life, and the seven lime-trees upon
the Common, together with their fellows, burst
forth into all their fulness of leaf.

The water-cart went regularly to work now,
in the road in front of Barlow Lodge, notwithstanding
which the dust had bloTSTi over the wall
and powdered all the nearest flower-beds like a
miller's coat. Strawberries became cheaper and
cheaper every day, and were being hawked about
by thousands upon barrows. Nearly all the men
upon the tops of the omnibuses had taken to
white hats, and there had been two cases of sunstroke,
and one of hydrophobia, in the vicinity of
Clapham Common.

Smartly dressed people from London went
whirling by the windows on their way to suburban
breakfasts and garden-parties, the ladies having,
for the most part, (Lucy thought), faces looking
like beautiful barbers' blocks as they leant back
in their open carriages under white veils and pink
parasols. The London season, in a word, was just
at its height.

But to Lucy Barlow the summer days brought
no glad tidings. Praying and longing ever ' for
the touch of a vanished hand,' she waited and
watched, hoping, as it seemed, against all hope.

In vain, in vain ! Had her image faded entirely
from his heart ? "Was he trifling and
flirting in London with women with beautiful
doll-faces, like those she saw driving past with
the white veils and pink parasols ? . . . How much
better to have been born like one of these, if,
indeed,  as she unjustly assumed from their appearance,
 the were merely the frivolous butterflies
of fashion, than to possess such an intense capacity
for loving, and feeling pain !

During the first days of solitude and disappointment,
she derived consolation from the
knowledge that Anthony had wrested from her
an avowal of her love, deeming, in the innocence

of her heart, that the certainty which he must
now feel with regard to her affection would serve
to strengthen and confirm his own. Love (she
said to herself) begets love. Knowing how inexpressibly
dear he had become to her, was it
possible that he could find it in his heart to turn
from her for ever without even one spoken word
of farewell ?

But when, looking, as she did, upon the old
French professor as an embodiment of all that
was experienced and instructive with respect to
such matters, she had spoken to him upon this
subject  entirely in the abstract  his answers had
not been altogether reassuring.

He began with the formula which Lucy had
learnt, now, to expect from most of her elders,
and which, monotonous though it was, could not,
at any rate, be applicable for ever !

*It is difficult,  nay, almost impossible,  to
confide to a child of your inexperience my opinion
upon such a subject. Quotations from authors
who have made it essentially their study do not
assist me much. . . . '' Unefcmme qui avoue quelle
aime chest loi vol qui antique ;" here is an applicable
quotation. But who is it that avows her love?
The person of experience,  the achieved woman.

The woman who has conferred upon her adorer
substantial proofs of her friendship and esteem, 
who has conferred them, even, with too lavish a
hand. Of all this, my dear Miss Lucy, you are
still profoundly ignorant.'

But I shall not remain ignorant always?'

Decidedly not. During the greater part of
your existence you will probably be enrolled
amongst those tho know,  and you will then discover
that it produces, often, a demoralizing effect
upon a man to be aware that he is too exclusively
beloved. It was intended that the affection of
the woman should be nourished and developed by
the devotion of the man, and it is this endeavour
to retain what he may at any moment lose through
his neglect, which raises him from the condition
of an animal, and makes of him a being capable
of enjoying that higher life which is known only
to a few, and which cannot be experienced without
a complete self-abnegation. But a man will not
call forth the grand qualities that lie dormant in
his nature,  his chivalry, his fidelity,  the sacrifice
of what may have been, until now, an indomitable
will, for that which will flourish of
itself. You cannot induce him to esteem the
passion he inspires because it is greater, or nobler.

or superior to that of another. He will not regard
it as a man regards a cabinet specimen. He will
esteem it, more often, because be bas obtained it
with difficulty,  because it droops, fluctuates, 
shows signs of becoming extinguished,  because
he is obKged constantly to watch, to tend, to encourage,
and that, in doing all this, he calls to the
surface his nobler qualities. These, you may be
sure, do not escape his own notice,  he is surprised
at them, and admires them in himself, and so,
partly by the growth of his own self-esteem, he is
rendered hapjy in his passion

Lucy pondered these words attentively, applying
them, of course, to her own case.

Had she, then, been unwise to confess her love ?
You know,  you know ! You have kno\STi it
for a long time ! ' she had said to him in the
library at Falconborough Park, when his arms
were around her and his lips so close to her own.
If she had left him in doubt as to the true state
of her feelings, would he have been less cruel and
less regardless of them since ?

Then, before she could arrive at any satisfactory
conclusion, the Professor had added these somewhat
enigmatical words : 

But all I have said can be of no service to

one of your inexperience. My observations were
for the achieved woman. With yoUy my child, it
is altogether different. No one, as yet, has uprooted
you from the native soil of your innocence
and planted you in his garden, and it is not
possible for a man to grow weary of a treasure
which he has never possessed.'

CHAPTER XIII.

The person styling himself ' Lord Falconboroiigli '
Lad followed up his first visit to Mrs. Van Biiren
by several other visits of the same description.
Each time that he found himself in her presence
his admiration for the lady's flashy attractions had
increased. He had been enabled to reveal himself
upon the occasion of his second visit, thanks to
an accidental circumstance. A letter had been
brought to Mrs. Van Buren shortly after his
arrival. By the expression upon her face, he
guessed at once that it was a letter to which she
attached some interest, and he begged that she
would read it without standing upon ceremony
with him. She opened the letter, thereupon,
glanced at the first words, and then, with a
gesture of petulant impatience, thrust it into her
pocket. The envelope, however, had fluttered to
the floor. Falconborough picked it up, and was
about to return it to its owner, when his keen eye

detected the words ' Falconborougli Park ' in spite
of their being partly hidden by the seal. He divined
immediately who the letter was from.

Why am I for ever pursued by these strange
coincidences ? ' he murmured dreamily, as he gave
back the envelope into Mrs. Van Buren's hand.

Naturally enough, she begged that he would
explain himself further ; whereupon, drawing
from his little finger a signet-ring, he handed it
to Mrs. Yan Buren and begged her to compare it
with the seal upon her letter.

The same two heraldic creatures which had
been observed by Lucy Barlow upon hair-brush
and blinker ! A facsimile of the armorial bearings
upon the seal of Mrs. Yan Buren' s letter, only
surmounted  in the case of the signet-ring  by a
Viscount's coronet !

Fuller explanations followed in due course.
The young ' nobleman ' revealed his pretended relationship
to Anthony Hepburn, and described 
more or less correctly  the circumstances which
had brought him into connexion with Mr. Pod-more
and his affairs.

Mrs. Yan Buren had never heard Colonel
Hepburn refer to any such first-cousin,  nor had
he ever mentioned to her that there had arisen a

claimant to his new estates. But his accession to
the Falconborough property had occurred at a
time when the confidential relations, which maybe
assumed to have existed once, between him and
the wife of the 'anglo-Indian official, had apparently
ended for ever, and, even at their very
beginning, he had never spoken to her much
about his private affairs. The close of the dramatic,
or emotional, period, had not been followed, in
this instance, by the da-wing of a more enduring
friendship. The recollections of the preference
which Mrs. Van Buren had manifested for him in
the past, oppressed Anthony, it is true, with an
almost unendurable sense of obligation in the
present. He was unable to forget the smallest
detail connected with his Indian adventure, and
he was not the kind of man who, because a woman
has made him the most important sacrifices, will
deny her the courtesy and attention which should
always be the privilege of the weaker sex. A
man, however, may cloak a woman when she is
cold, or offer her his arm when she is weary, and
yet be removed,  so far as his spirit is concerned,
thousands of miles from the recipient of these
formal civilities.

The 'flame' of Anthony Hepburn's boyish

heart-seas utterly uncongenial to him at the period
of his awakened experience. He had realized this
sooner, perhaps, than most men would have
realized it, and he had become embittered by the
disappointment which such a consciousness had
brought with it.

Some of this bitterness and disappointment (as
must needs happen when such sentiments have
once been called into existence) had reacted upon
the being who unconsciously inspired them, so
that he had had to endure his full share of passionate
reproaches, regretful comparisons, and unprofitable
repining.

The contrast which is nearly always apparent
between a man's demeanour during the hopeful,
or expectant, period, and that which he is wont to
assume after all hopes and expectations have been
fulfilled, must have sent a death-chill to many a
tender heart, even where there exists a secret consciousness
of dormant affection ; and women are prone
to speak about their grievances to those they love.

Where the heart is not tender enough to feel,
the vanity is often all the more sensitive, and the
woman who has been accustomed to command will
not be likely to endure the loss of her sovereignty
with equanimity.

'And has it come to this ? . . . the suppliant rules !'*
she will say to herself, although, perhaps, in other
words ; and that a suppliant should come to rule
at all, however benignly, must always seem to her
an injustice and an incongruity.

The man, therefore, who has * loved out,*
rapidly and irrevocably, an unwise and an unlawful
love, and who has grown thoroughly weary
of the woman who inspired it, cannot expect,
thenceforward, to derive much enjoyment from
her society ; and, of late years, Anthony Hepburn's
brief visits to 'The Aspens,' had been
distasteful enough to him to seem to partake of
the nature of a penance, which merited almost to
be turned * to the use of edifying.'

Mrs. Van Buren, although her complaints may
not seem to be deserving of much sympathy, had
certainly some grounds for discontent. Colonel
IIej)burn, whilst denying her no luxury or comfort
which could minister to her personal well-being,
appeared, almost, by the coldness and formality of
his manner, as though he were punishing her now
for the favours which she had bestowed upon him
at, perhaps, the only period of his existence when
he could have appreciated them.
Earl of Eosslyn.

Looked at from a woman's point of view, there
would seem, naturally, to be something of injustice
in this. Just, or unjust, 

What breath shall fire and re-inspire
A dead desire?'

And herein lay Mrs. Van Buren's real grievance.
Whenever he found himself in her company,
Anthony Hepburn was *lord of himself to a
degree which seemed to her to fall little short of
being insulting. Upon hwiy she had become
utterly dependent, even for her daily bread.
From her, he neither desired nor demanded anything.
He was her lover no longer, and yet,
more than ever her master, and the advantage of
his position over her own could not fail to wound
and gall her. It was no doubt intended by
Nature, that, even where real affection exists
between two persons of different sexes, the man
should seem to rule and be strong, whilst the
woman obeys and is weak. But I have often
wondered  being a woman myself, and so taking,
probably, the narrow feminine view in such
matters  why a man, who can be so truly great,
both by reason of his better brain and because of
his more vigorous physical strength  whenever he
chooses to display it  should so flaunt his power

and glory before the eyes of his female slave,
who, once she has become his slay indeed, is
about the most helpless and vulnerable of God's
creatures ?

I should laye thought, on the contrary (looking
still through my narrow woman's eye), that
the really strong man, in the presence of a being
so miserably feeble, would, out of common humanity,
make no sort of display of his superiority ;
just as a modest rich man might hesitate about
pouring forth all his wealth before a beggar. It
seems to me that, if he felt benevolently disposed
towards the beggar, and yet, could not altogether
satisfy his needs, he would, at any rate, dissemble
his great riches for the time being, or even
simulate a kindred poverty in. S'0r///;/,7  for there
arc was's in which we are all of us poor  and so set
the mendicant more at his ease, without affecting
much the contents of his own money-bags.

Rich men, however, are often rather purse-proud
than generous, and although Dies may not
laye fed Lazarus with anything very sustaining,
he was, no doubt, pleased that the beggar should
see how sumptuously he dined.

Anthony Hepburn had as little of the ostentatious
tyrant in his disposition as was consistent
yoL. II. p

with his manhood. Without, however, making
any conscious display of his strength, he appeared
to Mrs. Van Buren to be painfully exempt from
most human weaknesses. Her tears, threats, and
supplications, were wasted upon one who endured
them less like a man than like a statue of
stone. They elicited no flow of tenderer consoling-words,
no generous vintages were poured forth
from the hidden cellars of his being to make glad
her heart ! She was powerless, now, either to
influence or to move him, and sought in vain in
the depths of his grey eyes, for a ray of the sacred
fire which had inspired them once. In the
presence of his former mistress, he was strong,
impassive, and self-controlled. He was glad that
it was so, and she knew that he was both strong
and glad  because of his strength.

But now, to this woman, smarting under a
sense of anger and humiliation, a man had appeared
who seemed to be as free from all Anthony
Hepburn's shortcomings as he was deficient, in
reality, in his nobler qualities. Young, handsome,
eloquent, and pre-eminently un statuesque,
Falconborough was the very person to console a
woman who was, or conceived herself to be, the
victim of neglect. The interest and admiration

with which, he regarded her, had evidently been
mutual from the first. He thought her beautiful,
whilst she imagined that he was sympathetic. He
believed her to be rich, and she believed him to
be noble. In these circumstances, it was not
wonderful that their friendship should have advanced
with gigantic strides.

In common vith most women who have not
mingled much in intellectual circles, Mrs. Van
Buren was disposed to converse about people rather
than things, and the person in whom she coidd
take the most sympathetic interest was the * first
person singular.' Whenever she enlarged upon
the hopes, disappointments, and tribulations of
this particular person, she found herself thoroughly
at home ; and Falconborough, who had just entered
upon the hopeful and expectant period, was only
too glad to listen, in the intervals between a good
many similar reminiscences of his own. The
name of Anthony Hepburn very naturally cropped
up in the course of these confidential conversations;
but Mrs.Yan Buren's amour propre had not
permitted her to describe the facts of the case
precisely as they were.

After listening to her account of the matter,
Falconborough had come to regard Anthony Hepburn

in the light of an ardent and importunate
suitor, who had long pursued her with his unlawful
attentions, and who, over and over again
repulsed, had returned over and over again to the
charge. The old Indian photographs  one of them
faded now to a pale mustard colour  went, certainly,
some way towards confirming this impression,
and whenever he happened to find
himself alone in the smaller sitting-room at *The
Aspens Falconborough returned to the contemplation
of them with malicious satisfaction.

Alas ! what memories they may awaken, those
old mustard coloured photographs, which owe
their existence to the rays of suns that have forever
set ! and how they may mislead and torture,
when they appear before us like spectres, tricked
out in their old-fashioned garments of the past !

Of the three Indian photographs. Falcon-borough
preferred the one which represented Mrs.
Yan Buren on horseback. It gratified him to
observe Anthony Hepburn's slavish and obsequious
attitude as he stooped down to adjust the stirrup-leather.
Supposing that he could wrest from this
man, who had defied him, the affection of this
woman, whom it appeared evident that he loved,
would there not be good reason for him to

triumph ? And when, in addition to this, the
woman in question was rich, handsome, and
seemingly not averse to respond to his advances ?
Must not such a situation seem, to a susceptible
and revengeful nature, to be fraught with the
keenest possible dramatic interest?

At the commencement of Falconborough's
connexion with Mr. Podmore, it had merely been
his intention to obtain some sort of lucrative
employment for a time, and to amuse himself 
Whenever he happened to have the opportunity 
by flirting with his new patron's good-looking
neighbour. He had determined that the 'pour-passers
' relative to Mrs. Tan Buren's evacuation
of ' The Aspens,' should not be brought to a conclusion
imtil he had grown weary of them himself,
and he had devised complications which woidd
have the effect of detaining her at Clapham
whether Mr. Podmore desired it or no. But, as
his keenness for the adventure had become intensified
by the mingling of wanner and fiercer
emotions, he had felt impelled to change his
tactics altogether.

He was impatient, now, for Mrs. Van Buren
to remove from her present abode to take up her
residence in London, where the frequency of his

visits would not be observed and commented upon
by Mr. Podmore ; and all his persuasive eloquence
bejjan to be directed towards the furtherance of
this project, which did not seem to be at all distasteful
to the lady herself.

He commenced by expressing his surprise that
any woman, possessed of so many attractions,
should consent to bury herself alive within
actually, walking distance of the most brilliant
society in the world ; and he then proceeded to
lay great stress upon the probably unhealthy condition
of ' The Aspens which condition, he was
enabled to state upon authority, Mr. Podmore had
no intention of remedying at present. All seemed
to be combining satisfactorily towards the conclusion
he desired, when, with the news of Mr.
Tan Buren's death, Mr. Podmore's intentions
unexpectedly underwent a provoking change.

The reasons that he gave for thus departing
from his original plan, appeared to Falconborough
to be somewhat shadowy and unsubstantial, and
he at once suspected the existence, in Mr. Pod-more's
breast, of motives which he was unwilling
to avow.

Money-complications, Falconborough came to
the conclusion, lav, most likely, at the root of the

matter. Mr. Podmore had, perhaps, found out
that he was unable, just yet, to set about the
demolitions and additions which were to transform
The Aspens ' into an estate worth three times its
present value, and he desired, probably, to retain
Mrs. Yan Buren as a tenant until he saw his way
to making these expensive improvements. He
had been a little too hasty, he averred, in his
estimate of the lady's character and position. She
had possessed a real husband, at any rate, who
seemed, from an account which Mr. Podmore had
seen reproduced from an Indian newspaper, to
have been rather a distinguished person. Added
to the ample pay of an Anglo-Indian official, he
had, possibly, a private fortune of his own, and
this would account for the luxurious manner in
which his wife and child had been enabled to live
in England,  for the early peas, forced asparagus,
and barrels of native oysters. The  separation
' had, very likely, been merely an amicable
affair of climate, for it seemed to be an almost
invariable rule that, when the climate of India
proved congenial to a husband, it disagreed
seriously with the wife; and the fashionably
dressed young men who had driven down from
London in hansom-cabs, were, in all probability,

Mrs. Van Buren's brothers. Perhaps, now that
she had lost her husband, and gone into such very
respectable mourning, she might not play and sing-quite
so loudly as before her bereavement. And,
perhaps, again, the change which had taken place
in her circumstances might necessitate her leaving
The Aspens ' of her own accord.

Anyhow, Mr. Podmore did not see any particular
reason (he declared) Why she should boas
it were, almost forcibly ejected.

His matrimonial projects, too, Falconborough
could not help perceiving, seemed to have undergone
several important modifications. Had Mr.
Podmore ever really nourished any such projects
at all? the reader may be tempted to inquire.

When, some six or seven years ago, he had
first made the acquaintance of Miss Elizabeth
Barlow, and had beheld her great-niece. Miss
Lucy,  seated, hemming dusters, under the
gnarled medlar tree in the back gar den,  it may,
perhaps, have occurred to him that, as it is not
good for man to live alone, he would probably
find himself, one day, on the look-out for a helpmate,
and that this sort of pretty, meek, duster-hemming
kind of wife, was just the one that
would be best suited to his need. Or, it may

have been, that,  as he was possessed of a somewhat
' fussy ' and officious nature,  and delighted
in occupying himself with other people's affairs,
and in being looked up to as a sort of benevolent
Providence,  he may have found the house of
Miss Elizabeth Barlow (who had fully ministered
to his vanity in this respect) a pleasant one to
frequent,  and in order to furnish himself with a
plausible excuse for so doing, he may have hinted
at these shadowy matrimonial projects in the
dim future ;  or he may even have advanced
them from other and more unworthy motives, 
with a view of obtaining possession of some of
Miss Elizabeth's savings in order to invest them
in shady and hazardous speculations.

Perhaps, however, this apparent change in
his plans was occasioned by the changes which
had taken place in Lucy herself.

Instead of the meek and subservient ' children '
of the old time,  in her simple morning dress
and flowery lawn - tennis aprons, the gaping
pockets of which (seeing that lawn-tennis had
never become established at Barlow Lodge) were
filled with tapes, bobbins, and buttons, instead of
with India-rubber balls,  Mr. Podmore was now
confronted,  whenever he called at Miss Elizabetli's

residence,  with, what may have appeared
to him to be a languid and fashionably dressed
young lady, who treated him with coldness, not
to say haughtiness, and who seemed to have
entirely given over the hemming of dusters.

The old Frenchman's indiscreet revelations,
following, as they did, upon a natural repulsion,
had, indeed, rendered Mr. Podmore altogether
odious in Lucy's sight. She regarded him as a
being to be classed with those * men-slugs and
human sei-gentry' to which the Quarterly reviewers
took exception in John Keats' Endymion,
and with the view of averting, if possible, his
dreaded proposal of marriage, she had been at no
pains to conceal her feelings.

Between himself and this haughty and supercilious
beauty, Mr. Podmore may have perceived
that there existed no sympathy whatsoever. Miss
Elizabeth had refrained from questioning him, of
late, as to his matrimonial views. Perhaps she
too, would hare desired that this matter should
end by dying a natural death, and Mr. Podmore,
perhaps, saw no reason why he should return to
the subject uninvited. Supposing that he had,
indeed, irrevocably changed his mind, he might
find himself compelled, no doubt, to give some

plausible excuse in explanation of his seeming-fickleness,
 if Miss Elizabeth Barlow chose to
live on very long after the usually allotted time.
If, however, she departed this life within a
reasonable period, he would be spared even this
ingenious effort of the imagination.

Thus it happened, then, that, just as Fal-scarborough
was congratulating himself upon
having carried out successfully his own, as well
as his patron's wishes, Mr. Podmorc came to the
conclusion that it would be of more advantage to
his interests for Mrs. Yan Buren to continue his
tenant. It was, as yet, too early in the day for
the young adventurer to act in open opposition to
received instructions,  but with the assistance of
the lady herself, he was enabled to fall back upon
what seemed to him to be a very satisfactory
compromise.

Mrs. Van Buren decided, after a good deal of
vacillation, to go down to Brighton for about a
fortnight or three weeks, for change of air ; and,
at about the same time, Falconborough, also,
after mentioning to Mr. Podmore that a near
relative of his own was lying dangerously ill ' in
Sussex,' took his way to the same fashionable
watering-place.

Acting upon the suggestion of lier new admirer,
Mrs. Yan Buren did not take her child
with her to the seaside. She left little Lily at
The Aspens,' under the charge of her own maid,
and making the most of this act of apparent unselfishness,
started off alone, with an agreeable
sense of freedom and of emancipation from maternal
cares.

Notwithstanding that * his lordship ' had
begged her, from the first, to make no mention
of his name to Anthony Hepburn (the cousin, between
whom and himself there existed,  as he
had informed her,  a most unfortunate family-feud),
 it was not altogether impossible that, by a
mere accident, these two men might one day
clash, and the notion of this contingency,  unpleasant
of contemplation as it was to Falcon-borough,
 did not seem to be at all disagreeable
to Mrs. Van Buren herself. She had had good
reasons, perhaps, for taking a somewhat cynical
view of human affection, and shared Monsieur de
la Yieilleroche's theory,  to the effect that the
love of man is often stimulated by a sense of
insecurity, or a dread of loss.

Who could say whether, upon discovering
that she had captivated this handsome young

nobleman, Anthony Hepburn might not be piqued
into returning to bis old allegiance ? Judging*
by the behaviour of other men she had known,
she felt that this was not altogether impossible.
The effect which had been produced upon Fal-scarborough
by her confidences as to his * cousin's'
devotion had not escaped her notice. Might not
Anthony' be influenced somewhat after the same
fashion, if rumours of ' Lord ' Falconborough's
attentions were to reach his ears ? . . .

Animated by some such ideas as these, and
overjoyed to escape from the dull monotony of
her suburban home,  Mrs. Yan Buren quitted
The Aspens ' a few days previous to Lucy's return
from the North, and proceeded to Brighton,
rid Clapham Fiction, in order to join her new
admirer and * play with fire.'

CHAPTER Xii.

About this time there came to Lucy a communication
from the outer world, in the form of a letter
from her cousin Adeliza, and as it contained a good
deal of soit worldly wisdom, together with an
interesting piece of family news, I venture to
transcribe it in full : 

My dearest Lucy,' wrote Miss Binks ; * since
I last wrote, I have not had one single moment to
spare, otherwise I should have tried to make
another assignation with you, so as to have ensured
a meeting. But it is impossible, with all our
numerous engagements, to be sure of what a day
may bring forth, and so I have never been able
to fix upon a time ; and as all my intelligence is
sloughed away in replying to invitations, I naturally
avoid writing more letters than I can help.
But, besides all this, there is the everlasting
question of dress. Putting on, taking ofi, fitting.

altering, letting out and taking in, and buying bonnets
and bats that go with one's gowns. Then,
just at the very last moment, wbcn one fancies
one is rigged out becomingly for a ball or a garden-party,
ten to one if you don't find that your fan
or parasol is of the wrong colour, or that your
best open-work stockings bave run into " ladders,"
or that your long gloves bave all (one off to the
cleaners ! Wby not dress in a more simple way,
you will say, for living were you do, you can goon,
no doubt, through nearly the whole of the
summer with only a couple of frocks. In London,
however, you bave no idea of the competition,
and whilst one is upon approbation, one is obliged
to make every possible effort to please. Besides
wbicb, one is really hound, for the honour of one's
order, to try and cut out those horrid, flirting
married women (chiefly Americans), wbo spend
whole fortunes upon their clothes, and wbo, not
content with having captured ugly but eligible
husbands, endeavour to take away all the best-looking
and most agreeable men from us poor
girls ! However, I won't say another word against
married women, for, I must tell you, I am about
to become one of them myself I Yes, my dear
Lucy, Charlie Sparsbott bas, at last, come to what

Algy will speak of as "the scratch," and, I do
assure you, I feel just like a battered vessel that
has got into port. I must relate how it all came
about, even at the risk of wearying you :  When
first we came up to Town (after that dreadful
journey in the train, when Gussy tried so very
hard to destroy my prospects), I must say I felt
anything hut sure of him !

*Ie is one of those people, I am happy to
know (for I discover new virtues in him every day),
who are too honest, and too rjentlemanJilxe, to plunge
into a flirtation unless they actually mean " business,"
and, at that time, he had evidently not quite
made up his mind.

I was careful, however, to tell him our
London address, which I not only repeated
several times, but wrote down for him on the
back of an envelope, for I know what dreadful
memories young men generally have, particularly
during the Season. I never heard or saw anything
of him, however, until well into the month
of May, and, as nobody else better had turned up
in the meantime, I really felt upon the very drink
of despair, and was beginning to turn quite serious
and religious. The dear boy, however, had not
forgotten me, for, one Saturday, upon returning

from paying some visits sith Mama, what
should I see but his beloved card upon the hall
table !

But, as he had called just at the very time
when I had told him we were 2)erfecf/i/ certain to
be out  viz., between half-past three and half-past
four, I did not feel altogether encouraged! The
season for cotton-gowns and washing-silks had
now arrived, in which, I alway's think, one looks
awfully well in the morning, and so, upon the
following Monday, I asked Algy if he would
take me into the Park at half-past twelve, and
as, although he is selfish in most things, like all
boys, he is very good-natured about going with
one to places where he is amused himself, he at
once consented. Wc treated ourselves to chairs
and sat down under a tree and watched the
people who passed riding and walking. I can't
say that I much expected to see Captain Sparshott,
knowing that his regiment is not quartered in
London; being Monday, however, it was just
possible that he might have come up on Saturdays
to have his hair cut (as Algy says officers quartered
near London constantly do), and remained over
the Sunday ; I had, therefore, just a ray of hope.
As all this was passing in my mind, I looked

VOL. II. Q

down the path, and saw him looming in the
distance, walking with a friend, looking most
delicious (although not in uniform), and with a
beautiful red carnation in his button-hole.

I looked hard at him, in order to attract
his attention, and was certainly under the impression
that he saw me, and I should have
fancied, if I had never seen him again, for him
to explain, that he meant to avoid us, for he
suddenly darted across the walk, dragging his
friend through the row of chairs where there was
no natural opening, and continued his way behind
us, down the back path. As I don't suppose you
have ever been really in love, you will be qtcite
enable to imagine my feelings ! ' (' As I have
never been really in love ! ' Lucy could not help
repeating, audibly, as she read these words.)

'It turned out, however, that I was quite
wrong.

'Captain Sparshott had not seen us; being
(what I had never found out before) tremendously
near-sighted. I felt, in a few minutes,
that he was passing behind me, by a sort of
electric thrill which ran all down the back of my
dress, but had not the courage to turn round at
once, and when I did so, he had got very nearly

as far as Hyde Park Corner. I was, of course, ina
state of utter despair, but kept my eye upon
him all the same, and saw him part with his
friend, and then turn back and come towards us,
keeping, as before, to the path which goes down
behind the first row of seats. But, by this time,
I had settled upon a plan of action. When he
reached the place where we were sitting, I suddenly
started up, pretending that I fancied there
was something wrong with the leg of my chair,
and by this means dear Charlie and I were
brought face to face. Finding that escape was
impossible, he drew up an iron chair from the
back row, and sat down.

'ewe phmged at once into conversation, I
doing all in my power to flatter and encourage
him, when, by-and-by, what does that miserable
Algy take it into his head to do, but invite him
to luncheon, in a sort of generous, hearty manner,
as if we were accustomed to keep open house !

'I positively shuddered when Captain Spar-short,
who had at first refused, yielded to Algy's
importunity, and accepted, for it was not Mama's
day for asking people to luncheon, and besides,
being Monday, when there is always only cold
beef and pickled walnuts, I remembered that

Upjolin had asked permission to go to his father's
funeral (his father has had a funeral already, at
least twice before), so that the door-bell would
have to be answered by a maid, which always
looks so disgusting !

*As it happened, however, everything turned
out for the best,  dear Charlie declaring that
(iiext to me) cold beef was the one thing he preferred,
 (which was pretty strong, I thought, fora
first visit, particularly as being, as he said,
"rather chippy," he had only drank a joint of
Apollinaris Vater ! ) When men tell one that
they are " chipped," one naturally feels that they
have been gambling, or plunging into all kinds of
horrible dissipations, so it was quite a relief tome
when he explained that he had attended a
very long military banquet upon Saturday night,
having come up to London for the express purpose,
where there had been a good deal of gas in
the room, which always upsets him ; and sure
enough, upon looking through the Court Journal
upon the following Saturday, I saw that he had
dined at the Annual Regimental Dinner of the
18th Lancers, which had taken place at Willis's
Rooms. One finds men out so often in terrible
falsehoods and prevarications, that it was a delightful

surprise to me to discover that Captain
Sparshott had spoken the exact truth !

Mama, who was a little taken a-back at first,
at our having so unexpectedly brought home
Charlie to luncheon, did not put in an appearance
until after that repast, when she came down looking
quite beaming and cordial, for which I felt,
of course, everlastingly grateful. She invited
him to dinner, naming the following Tuesday
week, but, upon that day, he was, unfortunately,
already engaged. Mama, then, to my great astonishment
and delight, asked him to name his
own day, and, after a good deal of reflection, he
ended by selecting thud day mouthy  Tuesday, the
23rd of June. It was rather a disappointment tome
that he should have fixed upon such a distant
day, because one felt that before it dawned, an
earthquake might have swallowed us all uj), or
that one might have been driven, out of sheer
desperation to take up with somebody else. There
was nothing for it but to wait, however ; for, as
Mama has had to give up going this year to
Hampton Court, on account of the lending of
apartments being abolished by the Government,
my only chance of a meeting with Charlie was in
London.

Well, my dear Lucy, the liaj)p3' day came at
last. As you can fancy, I was in a great state of
trepidation about the dinner. Algy, who is very
sharp about such matters, as he hears what men
say to each other after the ladies have gone upstairs,
fancied that Captain Sparshott only drank
Apollinaris water that day at luncheon, because
he mistrusted the wine, and had pretended that
he was *' chippy " in order to sare our feeling Sy for,
it seems, after I had left the room, he poured out
a large glass of Mama's favourite brown sherry,
which he did not seem much to care for, and
left, and which Algy confesses he considers a little
treacly," though this did not prevent him from
finishing it up afterwards, whilst Charlie and I
were talking in the back drawing-room. I made
up my mind, therefore, to try and induce Mama,
who, as you know, is terribly economical, to get in
some really good dry eliamimgnCy for Algy declares
that he has heard men say that sweet champagne,
which is certainly much the nicety sows the seeds
of gout, and all sorts of horrible diseases, though
he says he has never found out that it disagreed
with him much himself. I was in a terrible state
of mind, too, about the cooking, for our own cook,
although a most respectable middle-aged woman.

who was once married to a policeman who ill-treated
her, and left her very nearly destitute,
and who is not at all a bad hand at fried soles, ora
Joint, is fearfully uncertain with regard to her
soiq)S and entrees, and decidedly heavy-handed
with her seasoning.

'At first, I thought of trying to persuade
Mama to have in a most excellent French man-cook
we know of, who had once lived with a
member of the Royal Family, but who can now
be had very cheap, having taken to drinking, inconsequence
of the failure of a Building Society
in which he had invested his savings. But I
ended by abandoning the idea, having heard that
one could never be quite sure of him, and feeling
that, at such a moment, any catastrophe might
** do " for one's whole future ! As, however,
Gunter's (the Coxcomb Street establishment) is
so very near, it occurred to me that we might
get in some Julienne soup and two nice little
made dishes, also some cream and lemon-water
ices; and I proposed this to Mama, although
rather with fear and trembling. To my great
joy, however. Mama rose to the notion like a
trout at a fly, and Gu was sent round at once
to enter into negotiations and bargain with the

confectioner. After a good deal of going backwards
and forwards, Mama and Gunter at last
came to terms, Mama having said that she did
not mind the creme de voIaUIe being partly made
np of rabbit, and that she preferred tinned peas to
fresh ones with the lamb-cutlets.

Still, although everything seemed to be going
on so smoothly, I was dreadfully nervous by the
time I went up to dress for dinner. . . . But I
shall only weary you, my dear Lucy, by entering
into all these minute details. Suffice it to say,
that the dinner went off very well indeed, though
Mama was much vexed to see that, after all
our efforts. Captain Sparshott only partook of the
fried soles and the Joint; for, of course, she had
not gone to the expense of delicious entrees, and
cream, and lemon-water ices, to see them all
gobbled up by Algy, which was what actually
came to pass ! The champagne, however, which
was got from a place under the Pantechnicon, was
pronounced excellent by everybody. Mama had
had in six bottles, having come to an understanding
with the wine - merchant that those
which were not opened were to be taken back;
but, to her surprise, Upjohn declared that they
had been all finished, which, I dare say, might

have annoyed her, if clear Charlie had gone away
shout expressing Jus fc'clhigs! . . . When one has
been, or fancied one's self, in love as often as /
have, and all to no purpose, I can't say what a
satisfaction it is when one gets, at last, a ira,
genuine proposal f . It took place upon the
green velvet sofa in the back drawing-room, and
to my djng day, I shall ever look upon that spot
as sacred ground ! . . . Mama had invited three
old friends of her own, who were fond of ir/iist,
and a young Scotch lad', who can sing old Irish
melodies, but who always prefers that people
should talk whilst she is singing, as, otherwise,
she feels so horribly nervous. At first the elders
all sat together and talked about their complaints
and the high prices of everything, whilst Algy
sat by the piano, and encouraged oui' other guest
to "give tongue," as he calls it, alluding, of
course, to her singing. Then, in the back
drawing-room, on the sofa, as I told you, it
happened at last, for the first time in my life, I
confess, with humiliation ; and one felt all the
blood positively tingling in one's veins with
triumph and delight, and the feeling of how
pleased Mama woidd be to get me off her
hands ! . . . I cannot tell you what a change

the whole thing has made in me, or how differently
I look upon Captain Sparshott since he
has actually some to the 2'>oint ! To write about
being in love to a person who has never been in
that delightful state, is like speaking of colour to
a blind man, so, my dear Lucy, I will not weary
3'ou with a description of my feelings ! When
your own time comes, as no doubt it will some
J> you may be, perhaps, better able to understand
! But, although I have been writing all
this time, I have not yet arrived at the gist of
my letter, which was written at Ma?na\s request,
in order to say that on Monday, the 6th of July
(this day week), we are going to have another
dinner-party here, of the same character, and
that we hope so much that you will give us
the pleasure of your company at a quarter to
eight o'clock. Upon that evening we propose
entertaining Sir Timothy and Lady Sparshott,
dearest Charlie's father and mother ; but I shall
not be unmindful of four interests, and so that
you should not be bored by looking on at our
billing and cooing (for, of course. Captain Sparshott
will be dining here too), I shall get Mama, if
you agree to come, to invite one of your most
devoted admirers to talk to you !

I dare say you wondered, the other day
when we left cards, why we didn't come in and
see you  for I might then have told you all this,
instead of writing you such an enormously long
letter  but the fact is, Mama and I were on our
way to Wimbledon, to call upon dear Charlie's
parents, who have taken a house there for the
summer, and wishing, naturally, to make a
favourable impression, I was afraid of getting
in and out of the brougham for fear of tumbling
my dress I

'And so, my dear Lucy, I shall soon bid
farewell to my hated hachelor-stnte ; and I can
assure you I am not sorry for it I . I shall not
have time upon the evening of the 6th to give
you the result of all my London experience, but
am determined to pass it on to you one of these
days, for I am sure that girls often miss very
good chances of getting settled in life more from
'' greenness" and stupidity than from posit ire rice !
As for men, it takes one at least three seasons to
find them out ; and, even then, so wicked are
they, and so deceitful (of course I am not including
Captain Sparshott, who has behaved,
always, in the most gentlemanlike icy), that one
can only know them htj hares ! I should say

the kind of man to be most mistrusted, in a
general way, by a girl beginning a London life
(particularly if one's mother, like mine, is an
invalid, and one's brother, like Algj, so young
and so greedy that he is always thinking of the
refreshments at balls and breakfasts, and never
looks after one at all) is the tall, good-looking,
djed, and '* done-up," middle-aged, married mali,
with the plain wife (married, of course, for her
money), and the large and hideous family (all
taking after the mother's side), whose two objects
in life seem to be, to keep his waist, and to make
fools of all the pretty girls who are inclined to
flirt with him. He misleads one at first by his
paternal manner, introducing one to his eldest
daughter, who is usually quite as old as one is
one's self, but a 2erfcct noodle, and by sending one
tickets for cherish entertainments, to which he
offers to escort one, with his daughter, preferring,
generally, night things, or places where there are
hushes and summer-houses, such as Fetes at the
Botanical Gardens, fireworks at the Crystal Palace
<&c. Here, the first thing he always does is, to
manage to lose his daughter, and then gives one
his arm and sets off to pretend to look for her in
all sorts of out-of-the-way corners and conserva-forks,

talking, all the time, the most absurd 
a man of his age ; or trying to kiss one,
if one happens to be at the Crystal Palace, in the
seclusion of the Pompeii Courts or down by the
artificial lake, amongst the extinct animals / . . .
Then, when this kind of thing has gone on for
some time, and other people, who might have had
more honourable intentions, have been kept oft
his poor, long-suffering, bruised reed of a wife
becomes jealous, and goes about vituperation one
right and left, behind one's each, until there
is nothing awful that she hasn't said of one,
although one would not laye been married to her
husband for all the untold wealth in the world !
This sort of man is ver' easily found out if one
is only xcide awalie ; and he sheers off, as soon ashe
is unmasked, in search of some more confiding
victim, after begging one not to be such a *' little
fool " as to tell one's mother of his goings on, and
make mischief ! . . .

But I laye just remembered another kind of
man, who is even more dangerous than this one,
and who is, of all others, to be avoided, for I will
not coimt the good-looking younger son, with
nothing,  who is afraid to propose because he
knows he will be refused,  or the tremendously

rich out-aud-out '' swell''  who is afraid to do so
because he is certain of being accepted, and who
puts ofP asking any one to marry him until he is
nearly eighty years old, and wishes to spite his
nephews ! . . . The man I mean, my dearest
Lucy,  and I beg you will pay attention to my
words,  is the man who is secret If hut irrevocable
tied up with somebody that iiohody knows anything
about / . As he is seldom allowed to dine out,
or go to parties, he has plenty of time to cultivate
his mind, and he enjoys his liberty awfully whenever
he is able to get it,  and yet,  behind a
kind of " bird-escaped-from-the-cage " manner,
which prevents him from seeming absent or inattentive,
 there is something melancholy and
resigned about him, which is,  I must say, 
dreadfully attractive / . . . He surprises one by
knowing all about one's dresses, and one's ways, 
for the mysterious object of his affections has taken
care to grind all the selfishness out of him, and
taught him exactly how to please conies. Feeling
that he is known not to be a marrying man, he is
perfectly at his ease, and not at all afraid of committing
himself, and so, he strikes one,  at once, 
as being utterly and entirely different from everybody
else ! But, believe me, my dear Lucy, he is

not of the slightest real food to us girls ; and,
since my engagement to dearest Charlie, I feel
so benevolently disposed towards my whole ser,
that I can't help giving you these few hints for
your future guidance / . As my engagement is
not yet announced, I have not received any u-ed-
ding-jyrcscnts, but expect, as soon as it appears in
the Morning Post, that they will come pouring in !

How I wish that, without giving offence to
common decency, I could publicly proclaim that I
should very much prefer really valuable jeicclry, to
trumpery or-niolu, stuck all over with skai)i onyxes
and that no author need present me with his, (or
her,) works, however beautifully they may be
bound ! . . . I must conclude, my dear Lucy,
by hoping that your own time may not be long incoming,
and that you will be as fortunate as /
have been in your choice ! . . .

And now, good-bye, at last, and with my kind
remembrances to your great-aunt, (Oh, Lucy, how
perfectly appalling to have arrived at her age, and
still to be an old maid ! )

Bereave me to be
Your very affectionate Cousin,
Adeliza Binks.*

One of your most devoted admirers ? ' Lucy repeated
to herself when she had finished reading
this long letter.

Was it possible that Adeliza, brimming over
With benevolence because of the happy change in
her own circumstances, could actually contemplate
inviting . . . ?

After all, there was nothing so very preposterous
in the notion ! . . . Had not Adeliza
and her brother been cordially welcomed at Fal-scarborough
Park ? . . . Was not Captain Spar-shot
t a brother officer ? . . . Who could say
what such a meeting might not bring forth, however
formal and constrained it needs must be, in
the presence of company ? . . . Adeliza, how-over,
had alluded in her letter, to a green velvet
sofa in the back drawing-room, upon which Captain
Sparshott, at any rate, had contrived to make
a proposal of marriage unheard. Might not
Colonel Hepburn, also, find an opportunity for
saying a few kind words in this same secluded
spot, particularly if the nervous young Scotch
lady happened to have been likewise invited, and
could only be induced to sing one of her old Irish
melodies just at the right moment! . . .

The bare hope, even, that she might be about

to see Anthony Hepburn again, came to Lucy like
a breath of new life ; and, after acquainting her
great-aunt with the contents of the letter, she sat
down and re]DKed to it at once, warmly congratulating
her cousin upon her engagement, and expressing
the great pleasure she would have in
availing herself of her kind invitation to dinner
on Monday the 6th of July.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XV.

I WONDER, now, not nearly so niucli as I once
wondered, at the extreme rarity of the infatuation
we call ' Love ' when it is in its highest state of
perfection. I am, on the contrary, surprised, considering
the number of ingredients that go to
compose it, and the years, with their memories,
their joys, and their sorrows, which must aid in
the maturing of them, that it should not be even
a still greater rarity than it is; and I am not
astonished, either, that those persons who have
had no taste of it themselves, should disbelieve
altogether in its existence.

For, like all the very best and most precious
of earthly things, the perfectly harmonious union
of two beings of utterly different natures must,
of necessity, be uncommon.

Think of how much is required, independent
of all individual action or design, to bring it
about in the first instance ! . It is not enough,

though this is one steps to the good, certainly, to
have been created with a heart capable of the
warmest and tenderest emotions. How many
beings secretly thus dowered, have passed, unblest
through the barren spring and summer of their
lives to the time of withering and whitening,
when even Hope must perish ! Nay, not all of
them have endured to this desolate season. Many
have fainted and fallen by the way. They are
shut ofP from their fellows by the bars of a madhouse,
or the grey river crawls over them and
their vanished dreams, or they have so turned
aside from their better impulses that they are as
much lost to life as the maniac or the suicide.

No ; this first step to the good, the sensibility to
emotions not quite enough, at any rate for a ivoman.

She of the tender heart must meet with her
predestined counterpart, and he must be set up
where she will know him for what he is. Ages,
tastes, the accidents of appearance and position,
should in some sort coincide, and even, I think,
for the better chances of a perfect understanding,
the accident of nationality, although love is not
to be shackled and restrained by such trifles as
oceans, mountain-ranges, or other geographical
demarcations.

Still, it is better that the two people ho decide
upon becoming, if possible, one, should begin
bv belonging to the same country, because from
the differences and disagreements which mil probably
arise between them in the future, howsoever
well they may be mated, a goodly number, at
least, having to do with creeds and customs of
private living, down to the very manner in which
they bake, break, and eat, their daily bread, will
in such cases, be excluded, and it is something, at
any rate, to be enabled to make a fair beginning.

But yet, should external circumstances combine
favourably, something, too, is required of
individual action and design, though these will
achieve nothing of themselves.

There must be courage, constancy, forbearance.
Courage to withstand, unmoved, the chorus
of cruel and cavilling voices, crying aloud that
all men are false, that no woman is steadfast, that
crowned love will assuredly perish. Constancy
of heart, not only in the resisting of what may
prove to be a temptation when it has been too
closely approached, but in the striving, for
loyalty's sake, by no inducement thus closely to
approach it ; and besides this constancy and concentration
of heart, there must be constancy and
concentration of purpose. Then, forbearance  on

the part of both, but chiefly, because he is so
much the stronger, on the part of the man, particularly
when he has to do with a certain sort of
romantic, idealizing, woman, who is not able to
love entirely without pouring forth her whole
substance in oblation, and who stands, thenceforward,
helpless and bare in the presence of her
master, discovered, conquered, and despoiled, with
no new gift either to give or to withhold.

There is a passion, a voracity, and yet, a
seeming hopelessness about the loving of this
kind of womtin, which is utterly unknown to her
more placid and complacent sisters, and which is
nearly always incomprehensible to its object. To
be jealous, with a jealousy which seems to sap the
very mainsprings of existence, and which reaches
from the remotest past to the uttermost future,
is an agony reserved for imaginative natures
alone; and in matters connected with the emotions,
women are generally much more imaginative and
susceptible than men.

The hungry tigress crouched all ready to
spring, will not be over nice as to the quality of
her prey, and so, to a certain sort of material and
impulsive woman, the present, with its tangible and
available enjoyments, will be all sufficing. What
need is there of questionings, of comparisons, of

torturing retrospection and anticipations ? . . .
What matter whether the idol of the moment be
fashioned of gold, or of the commonest clay?
Let us enjoy the hour and let it go ! This is the
sum-total of her philosophy.

And so, also, to the woman who is tender,
trusting, maternal, almost, in her instincts, whose
heart is unsealed by those fiercer fires that consume,
or by the memories that embitter  the present,
with its sweet meed of requited affection
will bring contentment enough.

He has loved others,' (she may say to herself,)
'but so have not all men? . . . Others have
loved him in return, and no wonder ! . . . He
has fallen; how sorely he must have been
tempted! . . . He has sinned, but has he not
also suffered ? . . . He has deceived me,  perhaps,
 but was he not hard pressed and encompassed
? . . . I forgive him, and I am so glad
to show him that I am able to forgive ! . . . I
have no wings that can carry me out from his
presence into the perilous regions of fancy ! . . .
He is kind, he is well, he is here, and I am content ! '

But to the woman whose longings are keen as
is the hunger of the tigress, and who has lost all
power either to conquer or ensnare ; who can out-love

the mother in lier tenderness and lier devotion,
and to whom it is yet given, to reflect, to
imagine, and to remember, God and man seem to
be alike unjust and unmerciful.

Sober, indeed, Jealousy is 'cruel as the grave
and the flame thereof ' most vehement since it
is her accursed privilege to assist, and look on, 
in fancy, at the very incidents which were the
means of calling these sufferings into existence.

So you are kind, I should not pause to ask

Where, or with whom, you pass the envied hour
That may not be for me ; what honey d flow'r

Allures you, or in whose warm smile you bask
When I am absent ! But, alas, a dow'r,

A fatal gift is mine, to Hft the mask.

And rend the veil, and so I have the pow'r

To read your fancy like an easy task.

I ask, yet need not ask ; I see, I know,
I feel, to all the sources of my being

The slightest secret shadow that may grow
Across our path, till feeling, knowing, seeing,

Even your vanish'd Past, I sigh, " 'Twas so

He kissed her! " though 'twere twenty years ago ! '

Heaven help the poor woman whose love has
thus recoiled upon her, and turned her into this
miserable sort of snake-tormented seer! for when
in such a mood, she passes trembling and faltering
into the presence of the beloved, there is scarcely

one man in ten thousand who will aim at even
the most rudimentary knowledge of what may bethe
inward and spiritual state which is productive
of such unprofitable regrets !

It is the woman who sleeps well, and eats well,
conducting herself rather more like a spectator
than like an actor in the struggle, who generally
receives from man his most devoted service, as
seeming to him to be the embodiment of something
pre-eminently tractable and feminine, and
her placid temperament enables her to grow fat
(like the queen-mother of the * termites,' or white
ants) upon caresses.

It is she who triumphs, as a rule, over the
poor slave of nerves and fancies; and when she
has succeeded in ousting her, the comparison will
always be favourable to the stolid usurper; for,
considering the strength of man's physical and
mental build, it is astonishing hoar little he can
submit to in the way of restraint or disquietude,
and notwithstanding that he is apparently enabled
to fling aside his cares as easily as he can take
off his hat.

So, then, there is forbearance needed, chiefly,
as I have said, on the man's part ; but self-control,
too, on the part of this first sort of fanciful

woman, so that the wings of her imagination
may not carry her too far afield ; for though
she can no more change her inward nature than
she can change the colour of her eyes, the very
weakest amongst us are able to dissemble  nay,
dissimulation is especially the weapon of the
weak  and, with the feigning of perfect contentment,
it may be that contentment itself woidd
come to her in the end.

For my own part,  so long as my bed was
made and shared to my liking, I would much
rather not possess the faculty of seeing further
than the four posts of it, and I commend this
sentiment to all imaginative married couples.
Human nature, however, was made before bedposts,
and men in the flesh, and women in the
spirit, have nearly always been incorrigible
rovers !

But, ah, when all these pangs and anxieties
have been endured and overcome, when all
asperities and disparities are softened and reconciled
by the soothing influences of time, how
blessed is the state of those two faithful lovers
who have clung together bravely to the end !
Hand in hand, and heart to heart, they sit as
though enthroned, up high over the heads of

other men, and seem to quaff the very nectar
of the gods. Theirs is no tinsel crown, no
cheaply earned reward ! What matter if his locks
he scanty, or her tresses silvered ? They are garlanded
with budding myrtles, the time of their
]probation is over-past, and they can rest together
in peacefulness and trust, and be content.

I had taken up my pen, meaning to proceed
conscientiously with this story, after saying justa
few words, at the beginning, having reference
to love in the abstract. But the subject proving
congenial, these few words have grown into a
long and prosy dissertation; and Lucy Barlow
and Adeliza Binks, with their military admirers,
have been left standing precisely where they
were before I sat myself down to write about
them.

For this I shall endeavour to atone in the
forthcoming chapter.

CHAPTER XVI.

A FEW days after Lucy had received the letter
from Adeliza which informed her of her engagement
to Captain Sparshott, she took iij) the
Coming Post in order to see if this interesting
piece of intelligence had, as yet, been made
Public.

Glancing down the colin upon which the
fashionable news is recorded, she came suddenly
upon a couple of familiar names  the formal
announcement of an approaching marriage, not
however, the announcement she had expected.

As one in a dream she read on to the end of
the paragraph, and then paused, dazed and stupid,
like a person who has, unexpectedly, received
a severe blow.

These were the printed words that had met
her bewildered gaze :  ' We understand that a
marriage has been arranged, and will shortly
take place, between Colonel Hepburn, 18th Lancers,

and Leonie, widow of Gustavus Yan Buren,
Esquire, of the Indian Civil Service

Colonel Hepburn, Mrs. Van Buren ! * Lucy
repeated the two names in utter bewilderment,
saying them over aloud for the better
comprehension of their unnatural union.

The newspaper fell from her hand, and she
remained staring vacantly at space. For some
moments she could neither see nor hear, a cloud
of agony seeming to shut her off from all consciousness
of material existence. Then, by-and-by,
her faculties returned as though oppressively
intensified. The clock ticked louder and more
monotonously than ever, whilst every object in
the room seemed to stand out with painful
distinctness.

Colonel Hepburn, Mrs. Van Buren ! * How
terrible  how wonderful  how incomprehensible
! The idol, raised by her unquestioning
devotion upon so high a pedestal, and the woman
who was not thought good enough by respectable
Claphamites for their wives to visit ! Between
these two a marriage had been * arranged,' and
would ' shortly take place ! '  What could it all
mean? . . .

It was fortunate for Lucy, perhaps, that

whilst she was in this first state of bewilderment,
and before she had come to realize the
actual significance of the paragraph before her,
she was forced by circumstances to control her
emotion. Miss Elizabeth Barlow had ordered
her bath-chair at eleven o'clock, and she expected
her great-niece to accompany her whilst she took
the morning aii', and eleven was just upon the
point of striking by the ticking timepiece.

As a rule the two ladies did not converse much
upon the occasion of these morning airings, experiencing
a certain sense of restraint in the
presence of the chair-man. Lucy felt, therefore,
that, by lagging a little behind, she woidd be
enabled to ponder over this terrible piece of news
at her leisure, for it seemed to her almost impossible
to take it in all at once.

She put on her hat mechanically, settled her
great-aunt in her bath-chair, and started the
chair-man upon his monotonous course roimd
Clapham Common.

Then, as she walked demurely behind, without
visible semblance or show of emotion, she commenced
wrestling with her misery inter the
modest shade of her white parasol, enduring,
silently, the most acute mental aofonv.

Site recalled, conscientiously, all the circumstances
which had led to the gradual development
of her love,  from the day of her first meeting
with Anthony Hepburn in the railway-carriage.
She perceived now, or fancied that she perceived,
why he had entered the train at Clapham Junction,
and why,  as was evident from the respectful
inquiries of the * Vet ' relative to the weather in
the Isle of Wight,  he must have previously inferred
that he was absent upon a visit to Cowes
instead of to 'The Aspens.' This discovery of
what seemed like disingenuousness on the part of
one, who, in spite of certain manly defects, had
appeared to her to be possessed of great nobility
of character, went like a sharp knife to Lucy's
heart. Dissimulation, which I have just referred
to as being especially the weapon of the weak,
must always seem, to a woman, unworthy of man's
stronger nature. Surely it is a little cowardly of
him thus to invade her armoury and pick out her
favourite weapon, when he has, at his disposal, so
many nobler means of self-defence ! So, since
the * Yet ' would probably not have cared in the
least where the Colonel had been staying, Lucy
wished, now, that he had replied quite openly;
I know nothing whatsoever about the weather at

Cowes, because I have been staying at Clapham
Then, woman-like, as soon as she had arraigned
him, and found him guilty, she set about pleading
with herself in his behalf. Vhy, after all, might
he not have stayed at Cowes previously to having
visited 'The Aspens?' He had started, perhaps,
from the Isle of Wight at an early hour upon that
very morning, partaken of luncheon at Mrs. Van
Buren's, and then visited the detachment of his
regiment which Alas quartered at Hampton Court,
travelling (most unfortunately) in the railway-carriage
in which she,  Lucy Barlow,  was unsuspectingly
taking her way. Because he had
not, at once, blazoned forth to the world precisely
where he had been, and because, at the very commencement
of their accidental acquaintance, he
had not confided to her the whole story of his
past, there was no reason why she should imagine
that he meant wilfully to deceive or betray. It
was evident that he was, by nature, rather reserved
than expansive ; a man like Captain SjDarshott
might possibly have rattled out many of tie
details of his private life during a first railway-journey.
Anthony' Hepburn, however, was utterly
and entirely different. Captain Sparshott and he
were not to be mentioned in the same breath !

But still, in spite of Colonel Hepburn's habitual
reserve, if sbe had not been more than usually
blind, and deaf, and stupid, must she not have
suspected, from the first, that he was involved in
some sort of mysterious entanglement ? Had he
conducted himself, in the train, like a person who
was eager to embark upon any new adventure or
flirtation ? No ; he had, at first, taken no notice
whatsoever of his fellow-passenger, but had calmly
and quietly composed himself to sleep in his
corner. Then it was, when his grey eyes seemed
to be quite fast closed inter their dark lashes,
that she had ventured to allow her own to dwell
timidly upon his face. He had suddenly looked
up, and smiled,  which was only natural,  whilst
she had looked down and blushed, which, after all,
was only natural too. But then that foolish old
woman had arrived upon the scene,  with the
edible Chinese female dog with the male name, 
and it was her persistence in the stupid blunder
that she had made, which lay, in reality, at the
root of all the mischief! Lucy's own blunder,
however, had certainly had something to do with
it as well. She had foolishly allowed herself to
imagine, after her meeting with Adeliza, that
'Colonel Hepburn was the regimental ' Yet.' Supposing,

after having been courteous and respectful
to him in the train, (when she had fancied that he
must be, at least, a Prince,) she had become
distant and haughty to him upon her arrival at
Hampton Court, might he not have suspected that
this change in her manner proceeded from her
having discovered that he was only a Veterinary-surgeon?
and seeing that we are all of us
fashioned out of the same sort of clay,  although
there seems, certainly, to be a good deal of difference
in the way in which it is kneaded into shape,
we ought always to be so particularly careful
not to wound the susceptibilities of our so-called
social inferiors I Perhaps, however, in thus
striving to steer clear of any show of pride, she
may have alloAvcd the interest she felt in her new
acquaintance to carry her a little too far in the
opposite direction. Perhaps, when she had so
unexpectedly found herself alone with him in the
shadowy passage which looked into the tennis-court,
she ought not to have permitted him to
take her hand? This momentary contact had
called into existence some sort of mysterious
magnetic influence, which had reduced her, ever
since, to the helpless condition of a slave ! Then
came the Boldero dance, bringing with it the dis-vol.

II. s

iiovcry that he was not a Veterinary-Surgeon after
all. The revulsion of feeling occasioned by this
intelligence must have totally confused and unnerved
her for the time being, otherwise how
could she possibly have been so imprudent as to
wander forth, with almost a total stranger, into
those shadowy, ghost-haunted corridors? How
could she possibly have allowed . . . ? Oh, sacred
and never-to-be-forgotten evening ! Oh, balmy
and delicious summer breezes ! Oh, silvery moon !
Oh, whispering fountain ! and ye two stern Imperial
Caesar in your rounded niches I Ye were
the silent witnesses of Lucy Barlow's initiation to
the first soft mysteries of love !

But now ; was this enchanting dream to end
as suddenly as it had begun ? Were all the
romance, and excitement, and joy in living, to
pass away from her ?

In the library at Falconborough Park Colonel
Hepburn had evidently striven to prepare her for
what might one day happen.

I am a coward,' he had said to her upon that
memorable afternoon,  ' a miserable coward ; ' and
then, when she had taken his words literally, and
expressed her surprise, he had explained that it
was in choral courage that he had discovered himself

to be deficient. 'AVittiout displaying personal
cowardice he had continued, ' a man may sometimes
find himself in a position where a bold
stroke would put an end to much that he feels to
be both irksome and humiliating, and he may yet
be wanting in the courage to strike.'

To what could these, and his ensuing words,
possibly refer, but to his humiliating entanglement
with Mrs. Yan Buren ?

But then, how had this same interview ended?

I love no one but you,' he had declared ; and
he had drawn her to him, and held her in his-arms.
He did not, then, feel any affection for
Mrs. Yan Buren ? or, was it possible for a man to
be in love with two women at the same time ?

So Lucy continued,  reproaching, pleading,
extenuating,  as she walked behind her great -
aunt's Quakerish black bonnet and fringed lilac
parasol of past date, unconscious of these, as of all
other visible objects.

By the time that she had made the entire
circuit of the Common, and was facing Barlow
Lodge upon her homeward way, Anthony Hepburn
was absolved from all charge of duplicity or
intent to deceive. She, herself,  lured on by a
whole host of combining circumstances,  had been

the first to embark upon this miserable adventure.
For this sbe was now being punished according to
ber deserts. Words were powerless to describe
ber wretchedness, and, even supposing that they
bad been forthcoming, to boni were they to be
addressed ?

Mr. Podmore's ' chaste ' brougham was drawn
up at the outer entrance of Palmyra House, and
its proud possessor was standing just inside the
gateway, drawing on a pair of tightly fitting
lavender kid gloves. Miss Elizabeth prodded the
bent back of the patient chair-man with ber parasol,
and the squeaking and grating vehicle came to a
standstill.

Greetings of a friendly character were, of
course, exchanged. Mr. Podmore bad forgotten
bis keys, (it was explained,) and the faithful
Kitchens bad gone back to the bouse in search of
them. Lucy, wbo bad gradually encouraged in
herself a feeling of positive repugnance to Mr.
Podmore, purposely averted ber gaze, after a
polite but formal * Good morning,* lest bis round
green eyes should discover ber misery. Inadvertently
sbe looked in the direction of  Tbe Aspens,'
and the sight of the gateway wbicb Anthony must
bave entered so often made ber faint and sick at

heart. Turning her gaze for comfort in an opposite
direction she encountered a face that seemed,
somehow, to be familiar. An elderly lady, finding
the pathway blocked, had, apparently, been obliged
to diverge into the highroad, making the tour of
Mr. Podmore's brougham. She had regained the
pathway immediately to the rear of Miss Elizabeth's
bath-chair, and was now looking back as
though seeking for some one who should have
followed her.

Changie ! Changie ! Changie ! ' she began
calling out, with an abortive attempt at a whistle.

It was the deaf and blundering old lady of the
edible Chinese female dog !

Was it likely that she would recognise Lucy ?
It was a little over a year since they had met.
During that meeting, however, they had been
seated close together. They had conversed. The
deaf old lady, as if to compensate for her defective
hearing, seemed to possess a keen and penetrating
eye, and Lucy's face was not one to be easily
forgotten.

Yes ; she appeared to remember Lucy at once,
and she advanced, smiling, to the back of the
bath-chair.

Ah, my dear madam ! ' she exclaimed, exclusively,

' cliarnicd to see you again after our agreeable
railway journey last summer ! '' Changie ''
and I hare been taking a little run upon Clapliam
Common ;  am I right in supposing that we are
neighbours ? And your kind, good husband ? I
trust he is in the enjoyment of good health ?'

Changie' s ' voluble mistress  as is sometimes
the case with deaf people  was in the habit of
talking as though all mankind partook of her
infirmity, so that it was impossible for Mr. Pod-more
to avoid over-hearing her remarks.

At the allusion to Lucy's 'husband,' and to
her journey with him in the train, he pursed up
his mouth with an expression which seemed to
say,

How very reprehensible and shocking ! ' and,
at the same time,  ' I almost thought as much ! '

Poor Lucy became suffused with painful
blushes at the words of this persistent jumper at
wrong conclusions. It seemed now to be too late
in the day to saj, 

*That tall gentleman was not my husband.
He was no relation to me whatsoever. I had never
set eyes on him before ! '

'For why, pray,' (the old deaf lady might
naturally rejoin,) ' should a young person like you

"be travelling alone with a gentleman to yllonl you
were not related ? And, if he was not related to
you, why in the world did you not tell me so
before, instead of appearing to encourage me in
my mistake ?]

So it seemed quite a fortunate circumstance to
Lucy that, just at this moment, ' Change,' who
had toddled off in the direction of the Cedars
Road, should have fallen in with an ineligible
member of the canine race,  a bold, big, mongrel
of the baser sort,'  who appeared inclined to
become far too familiar. ' Changie's ' mistress,
after a few incoherent words, flew off, brandishing
her umbrella, in order to nip this imprudent acquaintance
lest it should blossom and bear fruit ;
and all danger of an embarrassing explanation was
over for the time being.

'' Your kind, good husband," ' Lucy repeated
to herself, when she had gained the seclusion of
her own bedroom. "Words which might have
filled her heart with such joy, and peace, and
gratefulness to God ! But, alas, seeming only a
bitter and miserable mockery when they were
applied, as now, to a cruel and unfaithful lover !

CHAPTER XVII.

Fifty times, at least, before the date of the
Binks's dinner-party, Lucy was upon the point of
writing to excuse herself from keeping to her
engagement.

It was extremely unlikely, now, she said to
herself, that Anthony Hepburn would dine in
Wilton Place, and, even supposing that he should
be there, what could such a meeting bring forth
save pain and misery to them both ?

But then Hope, which ' springs eternal in the
human breast,' began whispering to her that,
perhaps, after all,  who could tell?  some unexpected
complication, some sudden turn of events,
might delay, or for ever frustrate, this unnatural
and ill-assorted union; that it would be some
sort of consolation, at least, however matters were
destined to end, to see him just once more before
he was irrevocably bound to another ; and that,
supposing she failed to avail herself, through

cowardice, of this last opportunity for so doing,
the memory of her faint - heartiness would
probably haunt her all the days of her life.
Finally, a second letter which she received from
Adeliza Binks, decided her, come what might, to
adhere to her engagement.

I have not the least doubt,' her cousin wrote,
that you received quite a " turn " upon readings
in the Morning Post, the announcement of the
approaching marriage of one of your most devoted
admirers ; and to such an odd person, too ; nobody
that anybody has ever heard of, except me ;
and I had only suspected that she existed from a
few darl- Jnnfs which dearest Charlie has let fall,
from time to time, in the course of conversation.
Knowing, however, what base, inconstant wretches
these men are (with, of course, one beloved exception
! ) I should not have been so very much
surprised even if I had not had my suspicions ;
but I felt how awful' upset you would probably
be, and meant to have written to you at once, but
was prevented by a woman who came with most
lovely nightgown and delicious p/o/rs, &c. &c.,
for my trousseau ; and, as it happens, I am glad I
did not fire off a letter upon the spur of the
moment, for now, dear, I am enabled to throw you

a sort of cruiiih of cow fort 1 Here it is:  Dearest
Charlie ran up against the individual in question
the other clay, in Piccadilly, and at once asked
him  in his frank, cheery Away  whether he
oughtn't to congratulate him? Whereupon he
merely put on rather a surprised, "stand off-wish"
sort of manner, and declared that he had no notion
of what Captain Sparshott meant ; and when dear
Charlie proceeded to explain that he referred, of
course, to the paragraph in the Morning Pod, he
said he had no idea Whatever of how it came to be
23ut in ; so that Captain Sparshott thinks, after
all, that it is quite possible the report may turnout
to be an entire sanction, although a certain
individual did not positively deny it, and dear
Charlie has several reasons for suspecting that it
may contain a ger)n of truth. He looked, however,
 Captain Sparshott says,  exceedingly
down on his luck,"  anything but like a person
'who is going to marry /or love, and dearest Charlie,
who is the very essence of tact, perceiving immediately
 as he told me  that he had *put his
foot in it," turned the conversation upon other
.subjects. But, I have no doubt that we shall be
better informed by Monday, and know for certain
whether it is " to he or not to he !

J) >

So, there was still just a ray of hope !

Colonel Hepburn had denied all knowledge of
the terrible paragraph, and he had looked unhappy,
 ' (Dti/fhing but like a person who is going
to marry ybr ice !

Luc} Alas too much of a woman not to feel a
good deal revived by this piece of information.
Unconsciously, too, she derived some sort of
solace and encouragement from reviewing, in
detail, Mrs. Yan Buren's imperfections.

As she was not personally acquainted with her,
she could only go by what she had heard ; and the
voice of rumour, she acknowledged, was not always
very reliable. Still, it was evident from her
appearance, that the occupant of 'The Aspens'
was not a woman of much refinement. ' That
vicar, that magnificent, that insupportable
woman I ' These were the terms which the old
French professor was wont to make use of regarding
her, upon the rare occasions when he alluded
to her at all. She was large and flaunting in
appearance ; she dressed, in all seasons, with unnecessary
extravagance and ostentation, and her
voice, at any rate when she sang, seemed to Lucy
to be exceedingly shrill and unsympathetic.

How cour Anthony Hepburn have cared for

such, a woman ? lie asked herself over and over
again, in her girlish ignorance of all the subtle
influences, imaginary, as well as real, which may
combine towards the beguiling of * a young man's
fancy.' How, if his nature was what she had
conceived it to be,  proud, critical, fastidious, 
could he have been in the least attracted by Mrs.
Van Buren in the first instance ? And how, assuming
that he had been thus attracted, could he
have felt afterwards, the slightest inclination for
one so utterly different from this former object of
his affections as was she,  Lucy Barlow ?

For, it was evident to Lucy from the first
moment of her painful enlightenment, that she
must be different in every > respect from her
magnificent ' next - door neighbour. Not, of
course, superior, upon this account (she was not
vain enough to encourage such a supposition), but
still, certainly (different, and, with a difference that
she could not altogether regret.

There exists a natural tendency on the part of
woman, when she finds herself in the sad situation
of having been deserted, for another, by the man
she loves, to dwell, for comfort, upon any defects
which may seem to be apparent in her more
fortunate rival ; and she is even prone to anticipate

and forestall those which are, as yet, less fully
developed. As, for example : * There is an imperious
look in her eye,' she will say to herself,
which shows that she has been accustomed to
command. Hot will he endure her tyrannies
when he was too proud to yield to my entreaties ? '
Or-she

is vain, ostentatious, extravagant : to
me he always preached humility, economy,
moderation ! '

Or, to descend to personalities, 
She is too massive and unwieldy in figure ;
at forty she will have grown into a porpoise ! '
Or-what

a rat-like and insignificant creature !
By-and-by she will shrivel up like a mummy ! '



am told that she takes a very large-sized
shoe,' and so on, ad infinitum !

Alas ! poor struggler upon the stream of
destiny, snatching so eagerly at these unsubstantial
straws ! . . . The man who has forsaken
you, may desire, indeed, that the woman he has
turned to in your stead, could become endowed
with some of your many virtues and attractions !
He may miss in her, of a truth, your slavish

submission to his will, your humility, your moderation,
your trim figure, or your small foot ! But
Hou, yourself, taken and considered as a whole,
he A\dll neither miss nor desire ! The tale is told,
and the sands in the glass have run down. The
tale that is twice told becomes wearisome, and the
hour that has run out is done with and dead ! . . .
The sunshine of his love has departed from you
for ever, and neither your own good qualities,
nor your rival's shortcomings, will make it glow
for you again ! Least of all Avill he be touched
by the manifestations of your enduring affection.
He will make almost a grievance of the fact that
it has survived his own. ' Ce sonf de Men Jolis
rcrs/ Louis XIV. is said to have admitted, after
he had read joor Louise de la Yalliere's harrowing
verses of farewell, ' sais, malhcureuscmcnt, Je
V Clime x>lu !  . . .

Whether to Lucy Barlow, or to Leonie Yan
Buren, belonged the better right of being classed
With the deserted heroines of History, my readers
will judge for themselves. Certain it is that, in
Lucy's breast, there arose much of the bitterness
and humiliation which is the portion of those who
have loved and been deceived, and, by the time
that Monday the 6th of July had dawned, her

recent experiences of man's inconstancy liacl made
lier feel at least ten years older.

Nevertheless, in spite of these painful emotions,
she dressed herself with more than ordinary
care, and it was quite impossible, she found, as
she stepped into the hired brougham which her
great-aunt had provided, to prevent her heart
from throbbing and fluttering with hope. Miss
Elizabeth Barlow, who was personally acquainted
with the driver of the hired brougham,  a most
respectable married man with a large family, 
commended Lucy to his paternal care with many
injunctions as to steadiness of pace, &c., &c., particularly
when he came in sight of the railway
bridges with their shrieking and flashing trains ;
seeing that his horse had, as she remarked to
him, ' a very frisky and ferocious look;' and she
con j used him, also, to be sure to be in waiting at
the door of Lady Mabella's house in Wilton Place,
at half-past ten o'clock punctually; and, moreover,
to announce to Lady Mabella's servants that 3Iiss
Lucy Barlow's carriage had arrived. But still,
as it was possible that Lady Mabella's dinner-party
might not break up quite so soon, he was
to be prepared to be kept waiting some time
longer, perhaps; and as it was not to be

expected that Luc} would be home much before
half-past eleven o'clock, by wbicli hour it
was bigbly important that Sarah, the parlour-maid,
who, as well as Mrs. Pilchard, the cook,
had to be stirring betimes, should have retired to
Yet,  ' Here, my dear child,' Miss Elizabeth had
concluded with solemnity, ' is the latch-key of the
front door, and, also, the key of the outer door in
the wall. I have never entrusted them to any
living creature in my life, before ; Sibthorpe ' (the
name of the driver) ' will wait, I hope, until you
have opened the inner door, and pray be very
careful to bolt it afterwards, both at the top and
bottom, and also to fasten the chain.'

Lucy took the keys with a due sense of
responsibility, and placed them, as she did not
possess a pocket in her evening dress, in her
bosom, where they would, of course, be perfectly
safe, and attainable at a moment's notice, since
the discomfort they occasioned could not fail to
remind her of their whereabouts.

Sibthorpe, having been so earnestly entreated
to be careful, set off at a snail's pace, although
his horse was long-toothed and hollow-backed
enough to have been deemed worthy of implicit
trust.

Lucj who was in a perfect fever of nervous
excitement and anticipation, relieved the monotony
of the first part of the drive by putting on
her gloves and arranging her silver bangles, but
although the gloves were fashioned to suit the
exigencies of modern taste  that is to say, of
considerable length, and took, consequently, sometime
to adjust and button, she had quite finished
drawing them on before she arrived at the tune to
the * Cedars Road,' and then, again, all was fever
and impatience.

swill he be there? How will he look?
"What will he say, and how shall I be able to
meet him with proper composure ? ' were the
thoughts that kept on agitating her brain.

Oh, do go on a little faster ! ' she exclaimed
at length, tapping the front window of the fly,
impatiently, \\i\h her fan ; for she felt that it
would be a great advantage to be amongst the
first to arrive, instead of having, perhaps, to come
tottering and faltering into the room under the
gaze of those wonderful grey eyes ! . . .

They were within sight, now, of the first of
the railway bridges, and a train went dashing
and screaming over it as Lucy spoke, but the
long-toothed, hollow-backed one displayed neither

VOL. II. T

fear nor emotion. Sibthorpe, by desire, made a
feint of applying the whip, without, however,
producing any perceptible result, and by the time
that they bad arrived at Chelsea Bridge, she was
in the last stage of feverish impatience.

But, at length, the river was crossed, and the
snail-like animal, after turning to the right, just
short of the Barracks, traversed Bury Street,
and made its way through Chester, Eaton, and
Belgrade Squares, to Wilton Place.

The clock of St. Paul's Church only pointed
to twenty minutes past seven when ' Miss Lucy
Barlow's carriage ' drew up at Lady Mabella's
door, and by the look of consternation and embarrassment
upon Upjohn's face, she perceived
that she had arrived a good deal before the
appointed time.

Perhaps it is better thus ! ' she thought to
herself, as she proceeded upstairs with a fluttering
heart.

Upjohn, who, possibly, may not have been
quite such a fool as he looked, coughed several
times, in a marked manner, before entering the
drawing-room, and rattled the door-handle.

Lucy was under the impression, at first, that
the apartment was empty, but upon glancing

towards the back di-awing-room, she perceived
Adeliza and Captain Sparshott seated together
upon the green velvet sofa.

Gracious goodness ! ' exclaimed her cousin,
starting up from her seat, * you are early !
Charlie has come half-an-hour before the time
to help us with our arrangements, but we didn't
expect you,' she added, in rather a tone of disappointment,
' until a quarter past eight, at least ! '

CHAPTER Xviii.

It was a terribly anxious moment for poor Lucy
when the guests began to arrive in good earnest.
Every time the drawing - room door was flung
open her heart seemed to start off at a fresh
gallop.

The party was to consist of twelve persons,
altogether, Adeliza had informed her ; * rather a
risky number to invite,' her cousin had added,
*as a thirteenth person  a relation, or somebody
one couldn't help asking to stay on, was very
nearly certain to turn up unawares ; and so many
people objected to thirteen ! '

More than this, however, Lucy was unable to
ascertain.

The family-party, so to speak, was already
assembled  to wit. Lady Mabella, Algernon, her
son (who was to assume the responsibilities of
master of the house * for this night only),
Adeliza and Captain Sparshott, and Lucy herself.

Five persons in all ; ergo seven more were
still expected. Would he be amongst them or
not? . . .

It was evident that Lady Mabella, in spite of
her habitual limpness, was capable of rising to
an emergency, and of making, upon important
occasions, the necessary effort.

The mother has pulled herself together,
wonderfully; hasn't she? ' Algernon whispered to
Lucy as his parent entered the drawing-room.
You mustn't think that she's collared the family
diamonds, but my Uncle Belmorris allows her to
wear them for the present. If he's unkind
enough to get married, you know, she'll have
to give them up again ! '

Lady Mabella, indeed, without looking positively
handsome, presented, now that she was
arrayed in the Belmorris family jewels, a very
refined and distinguished appearance. She had
disposed 'them about her head and ears, something
after the fashion of a charger's trappings,
mounted upon a structure of black velvet. Her
dress was, of course, black, as usual, and of the
same vague and indefinite form, but she had
replaced the skimpy fringed shawl, so often
associated with deserving penury, by a black

lace wrap partaking rather of the character of a
mantlUa; so that, although the little furrow of
resignation to martyrdom was still upon her
brow, she looked less like a distressed needle-woman
than some ' wan cathedral saint,' who
might have been prevailed upon to come to a
London dinner-party, wearing lier aureole.

Adeliza, aware of her mother's rooted distaste
for all mental and physical exertion, had taken
the chief responsibilities of the evening upon her
own shoulders, and had now established herself
close to the doorway, where she was busily
engaged in conning over the names of the guests,
which she had set down, according to their order
of precedence, upon a scrap of paper.

How Lucy longed to know whether one particular
name had been inscribed there or not !
. . Perhaps the whole idea was evolved out of
her inward consciousness, and there had never
been any intention of asking him to dine in
Wilton Place ! . . . The bare notion of such a
possibility seemed almost to paralyse her with
despair. What should she do,  having braced
herself to this supreme effort,  if her hope of
seeing Anthony once more were to evaporate into
thin air? . . .

Lady isabella sank languidly upon the sofa,
close to Luc' and her varied emotions, whence
she could command the doorway at which her
daughter was standing. Captain Sparshott, with
laudable show of devotion, hovered about his
affianced bride, whilst Algy,  stationed at one of
the windows,  was ready to give the very first
intimation of the arrival of any of the expected
guests.

The clock upon the chimney-piece struck
eight just as Lady Mabella had finished buttoning
her black kid gloves, and almost simultaneously,
the same hour was more solemnly proclaimed
from St. Paul's Church over the way. Within a
very few minutes, Lucy woidd know either the
worst,  or the bed  (as it seemed to her)  that
she could now hope for !

Her sense of hearing became so intensified
that she felt as if she would have surely recognised
Anthony's step even if it had pleased him
to come on foot.

Almost before the church clock had finished
striking, she heard the soit of approaching
wheels,  grating and hesitating, as if the driver
was considering the numbers of the houses,  then
a carriage di'cw up at the door. It seemed, however,

to be too slow and too heavy for a  hansom'
cab.

Ob, I say ! ' exclaimed Algy from bis post
at the window ; * bere is a rmnmy turn-out ! '

Lady Mabella drew herself up for a moment,
and assumed a more animated expression, whilst
Adeliza gave a little start of expectancy. Captain
Sparsbott sauntered up to the window and
looked out.

Ab, I thought so ! ' be observed, quietly ;
it's the old family mustard-pot ! ' and be took
up bis position again by Adeliza' s side.

It was, in truth. Sir Timothy and Lady Spar-scott,
in their old-fashioned yellow chariot. They
bad started from Wimbledon in good time, 
seeing that their horses were fat and well stricken
in years,  and so bad arrived punctually at eight
o'clock.

Upon hearing of the arrival of * dearest
Charlie's ' father and mother, Adeliza, also, flew
to the window, upon a pretence of eager affection,
but, in reality, in order to administer a sharp
pinch to her brother, to enjoin discretion,  for
the parent Sparshotts had almost as much right
as their time-honoured equipage to be described
as * rummy,' and,  as the houses in Wilton Place

have the advantage of possessing a small garden
between their front-door and outer-gate,  there
would be every opportunity for observing them,
as it were, ' in the open After these two first
arrivals, the knocks upon the front-door fell
thick and fast, until, by a quarter past eight
o'clock, eleven souls in all,  counting both the
guests and their entertainers,  were assembled
in Lady Mabella's drawing-room. One person
was still to come. Who could it be? . . .

Lucy, who was, by this time, in a terrible
state of agitation, began counting over the company,
in order to discover the probable sex of
this lingering guest. Six women, and only five
men. The belated one was evidently a male !

Shall we go on waiting for him any longer ? *
Lucy heard Adeliza whisper to her mother.

 I think, dearest, we had better go on waiting,'
Lady Mabella made answer.

I should think we'd much better have up the
dinner,' cut in Algy ; 'he's evidently missed his
train.'

Don't you see that it'll put out all my arrangements
if we don't wait, you stupid boy ? '
returned Adeliza in a tone of irritation; 'and that
a lady will have to go down by herself ? Of

course yoiiYC miicli too greedy to care, but /
would rather wait on. You remember how late
our train was the hist time we came from the
ISorth ! '

The train from ' the North / ' . . .

A thrill of gratitude, as for a crowned hope,
electrified Lucy's whole being. Probably he had
been staying at Falconborough Park, and had
only arrived in London that very evening. No
wonder that he was a little late !

Adeliza now presented Lucy to a short, stout,
elderly man, with gold spectacles and dyed whiskers
;  ' Doctor ' Somebody,  but she was unable
to catch the entire name. He began to converse
upon a variety of uninteresting subjects  fall
subjects, indeed, except one, would have seemed
uninteresting just at this moment). She replied
mechanically and abstractedly, for she was listening
all the while, with a beating heart, for the
coming of the expected * hansom.'

After she had imbibed quite an exhausting
dose of the doctor's platitudes, Lucy observed
that Adeliza was again displaying signs of perturbation.
She consulted the clock anxiously,
compared it with that of the church, and then
whispered something in her brother's ear. The

guests, haying got through the ordinary amount
of before-dinner small talk, relapsed, for the most
part, into a languid silence, as though fearful of
encroaching upon the supply which had been
reserved for the enlivening of the repast itself, 
for which it was evident that they were growing
rather impatient.

If you'll only ring the bell for dinner,' Lucy
heard Algy suggesting, * jou'U see that he'll be
sure to arrive direct. People always do.'

Thus adjured,  and seeing that it was nearly
half-past eight by both the clocks,  Adeliza
somewhat reluctantly rang the bell. Upon this
occasion, at least, Algernon Binks proved a true
prophet.

Almost before the bell had left off tinkling, a
swift speeding ' hansom ' drew up outside,  with
a jerk which brought one of the wheels on to the
kerbstone with a grating sound familiar to all
Londoners. Its doors were flung open with a
bang, and a quick footstep was heard coming
along the stone-paved way between the garden-gate
and the front-door. The longed-for, yet
terrible moment, had at last arrived! . . .

Poor Lucy, in a state of breathless emotion,
leant eagerly forward, so as to get a good view

of the door, which was now partly obscured by
the stout figure of the doctor.

The-heart of Belmorris ! ' cried Upjohn,
flinging open the door as wide as it would go.

Lucy would never have believed,  only a
little while ago,  that she could have been so
filled with bitter disappointment at the sight of
a faithful and valued friend.

But * human longings,' says George Eliot,
are perversely obstinate ; and to the man whose
mouth is watering for a peach, it is of no use to
offer the largest vegetable-marrow.'

Lucy Barlow was not a ' man,' any more than
Lord Belmorris was a * vegetable-marrow,' or
large ; ' but the adage is applicable nevertheless,
as it was his lordship's misfortune, at this particular
moment to play * marrow ' to Anthony
Hepburn's 'peach.'

He began by excusing himself on account of
the lateness of the hour. The train from the
North,  as Adeliza had surmised,  had been behind
its time, and this had ' thrown everything
out.' Then he drew his niece aside, into a
corner : 

So you've landed him at last ! ' Lucy could
hear him whisper,  the overstrung condition of

Iter nerves having intensified her sense of hearing
;  and he thrust a sealed packet into Adeliza's
hand.

Lady Mabella next presented her brother to
Sir Timothy Sparshott and his lady,  but before
many words had been exchanged, XJ]3John announced
that dinner was served.

Oh, do look. Mama ! ' cried Adeliza, who had
by this time opened the sealed packet ; * what a
beautiful diamond bracelet ! . . . How very,
very kind of you, my dearest Uncle ! . . . I
always said that I so much preferred jewelry to
anything else ! '

But the guests were waiting to be sent do1l
to dinner in their proper order,  so, after one
more admiring glance at her uncle's wedding-present,
Adeliza proceeded to marshal them in
couples : 

A\gy dear,  as master of the house,  will
you take down Lady Valentine Bennington ? . . .
Dear Lady Sparshott, you have already made
the acquaintance of our Uncle Belmorris? . . .
Miss McTavish,  you behold your fate in General
Reilly ! . . . Doctor Winnington,  you are to
take doATi my cousin, Miss Lucy Barlow . . .
Charlie I you know that you have become mu

property I . . . Sir Timothy, will novi kindly give

5011 arm to Mama ? ' . . .

Upon entering the dining-room, Lord Bel-morris,
who had not yet spoken to Luc}, beckoned
her towards the place next to his own,  so that
she found herself seated at the table between * the
Earl and the Doctor.' By this time, however,
she was overwhelmed by such blank despair, that
everybody in the room,  including the sporting
nobleman upon her right,  seemed to be alike
indifferent to her.

Until dinner was actually announced, she had
been buoyed up b} a thousand wild expectations,
and had fixed her eyes foolishly and feverishly
upon the drawing-room door, in the mad hope
that, by some miraculous chance,  brought about
by her yearning prayers,  the thirteenth guest,
whom Adeliza had spoken of as * very nearly
certain to turn up,' at dinner-parties of twelve,
might suddenly put in an appearance, and might
prove to be the one whose presence she so eagerly
desired.

But now, even this absurdly improbable hope
(for upon such occasions it is not always possible
to hope quite reasonably), had been finally
blighted, and all was despair and disappointment.

Lucy's legitimate partner at the feast was
that same Doctor "bennington, whose elopement
only a year or two ago, with Lady Yalentina de
Bohiin, had been a nine days' wonder. How
different he was from the ideal doctor of Lucy's
innocent imagination I

And how different, too, was that ideal,  stiff,
formal, and unimpassioned, from what seemed
now to her to be the only one admissible type of
mani' perfection I

The real doctor, as beheld in the real flesh,  of
which he had an abundance and to spare,  was a
being of another sjDccies altogether, plain, vulgar,
and apparently consumed by a ridiculous vanity.
Kind-hearted, perhaps, and possibly intelligent in
his profession, but the very last person one would
naturally have associated with a * ladder of
ropes,' and a clandestine marriage. But then.
Lady Yalentina was,  externally,  quite as unattractive
as her husband ; and had Lucy, at this
moment, been in full possession of her critical
powers, she might, perhaps, have giAen utterance
mentally, of course), to some such remark as that
of the little girl, who, after looking on, in surprise,
at the blandishments of two affectionate
earwigs, exclaimed with disgust,  ' Horrid creatures

! I wonder how they can be so fond of each
other ! '

The Doctor conversed to Lucy about the grand
personages with whom he was intimate,  of the
confidence they reposed in him,  of the delicate
missions with which he was constantly entrusted
by them,  and of their protestations of gratitude
and eternal friendship.

She heard what he said, certainly, but only
indistinctly, replying vaguely and abstractedly,
as a person might reply in a dream.

Lord Belmorris, who sat upon her right, seeing
her looking so intensely wretched, glanced at
her with affectionate concern, but beyond begging
her, sympathetically, to pass him an adjacent
salt-cellar, and inquiring, in the same tone,
whether the French roll which was set between
them, was her property or his own ; he was
unable, during the commencement of dinner, to
express his feelings in words, because of the
amiable importunities of Lady Sparshott, to
whom he had been told to make himself particularly
agreeable.

By-and-by, however, whilst Dr. Winnington
was complimenting Ladj Mabella upon the deliciousness
of her second entree (a replica of that

same mixture of crane de rolaille and rabbit, to
which, reference has been made upon a former
occasion,) he took advantage of a crash of plates
to murmur in Lucy's ear, 

My dear child, what in the world's the
matter ? Is there anything I can do to help
you?'

To which Lucy answered, gratefully, but incoherently,
and speaking likewise, in a whisper, 
 Oh, no, no !  Indeed, you can't do anything !
You would only think I was mad ! Thank you a
thousand times ! '

Do tell me ! ' he pleaded, earnestly ; * I might
be able to do more than you think ! '

But before Lucy had time to answer him, the
Doctor, having finished singing the praises of the
second entree, turned to her again, and took up
the thread of his narrative,  for she realised, now,
that he had been narrating an anecdote of some
sort for a considerable time,  where he had broken
it off.

*. . . Well, now, to proceed: how do you
suppose the noble lady in question behaves in this
critical emergency?  for I don't mind telling you
this much  (which won't be any kind of breach
of confidence, for if you were to go down on your

VOL. II. u

knees to me, I shouldn't tell you her name !) 
that she is a personage of the highest rank and
distinction,  a Duchess, in fact,  though one of
my very kindest and dearest friends, as I feel
sure she will continue to be to the end of our
existence in this wicked world,  well, how does
this dear good woman proceed ? *' There's only
one human being in the whole of Europe '* (says
she to the Duke), " who can possibly get us out
of this infernal scrape " (I don't mean to say that
these were Her Grace's actual words , but I give
you the gist of them,  she made use of an expression
very nearly as strong),  *' because " (she
was good enough to say),  " his wisdom, his benevolence,
and, above all, his discretion, are knowTi
to be altogether without parallel, and you and I,
my dear, have had, I think I may say, proofs of
all three ! This dear, good friend of ours,  who
has stood by us in so many vicissitudes,  will
help us now with his valuable judgment and advice,
and will pull us out of this horrid mess if
anybody in the world can ; we must send immediately
for our dear Doctor Winnington ! " '

Lucy probably made use of such conventional
exclamations as * Yes ! ' ' [N'o ! ' ' Really ! ' ' Oh ! '
Exactly ! ' ' Fancy ! ' &c., &c., &c., in their proper

places, for the Doctor continued his story without
appearing to be conscious of her lack of interest.
He succeeded, of course, in extricating his noble
friends from their ' infernal scrape,' but how he
managed it, and what was the nature of their
horrid mess,' Lucy found, afterwards, that she
had not retained the faintest notion.

Lady Sparshott, however, had seemingly grown
jealous of Lord Belmorris's interest in his left-hand
neighbour, for Algy, who sat upon her other side,
was too much occupied with his knife and fork to
make much effort to divert her, and she had taken
quite a fancy to the sporting Earl, having been,
as she was at some pains to inform him, a most
enthusiastic sportswoman herself. Lord Belmorris,
therefore, would have been prevented from continuing
his sympathetic inquiries, even supposing that
the Doctor had not resumed his wearisome story.

Lady Sparshott, previous to her marriage with
Sir Timothy, had been a provincial belle of some
reputation, and she retained, even now, in spite
of a rather weather-beaten appearance, decided
traces of good looks. It was from her, no doubt,
that the Captain had inherited his sporting proclivities,
and his knowledge of horse-flesh, since
Sir Timothy, as his wife remarked during the

course of dinner, notwithstanding that lie had
been reared in the country, and, like his son, had
entered the army at an early age, ' did not know
the difference between a hunter and a chest o
drawers.'

During the first portion of her married life,
she had followed her husband's regiment both at
home and abroad ; and some of her military reminiscences
were exceedingly racy and entertaining.

She had a way, however, excusable in an old
campaigner, of calling persons and things by fine,
simple, Biblical names, of conscientiously dotting
her ' i 's and crossing her  t 's which Adeliza
foresaw might possibly make Lady Mabella feel
rather nervous, particularly before company, for,
with regard to such matters, she was somewhat
over squeamish and ' lady-like.' Upon Sir
Timothy's retirement from the army. Lady Spar-short
had resided with him at Sparshott Priory,
County Tipperary,  the ancestral home of the
family,  where she had devoted herself to dog-fancying
and to the pleasures of the chase. In one
of her hunting accidents, however, she had had
the misfortune to break her leg,  complications
ensued, which had necessitated a serious surgical
operation,  in a word, ' dearest Charlie's ' mother

was now the possessor of a cork leg. It was since
the time of this occurrence that Sir Timothy, in
order to divert his lady, who was now debarred
from so many of her favourite amusements, had
passed a portion of each summer near London.
The atmosphere of the Town itself had been pronounced
bad for the asthma, from which he
suffered, but it was quite possible to enjoy a
little polite society whilst living at Wormwood or
Wimbledon.

Sir Timothy himself seemed to possess less
individuality than his wife. He was a large,
heavily-built man, with a bald head, and a face
like that of an elderly cherub. He spoke in gusty
whispers, on account of his asthmatic affection,
and puffed like a walrus after the slightest
physical exertion. Lady Sparshott, whenever
she was within hearing, answered for her husband,
in order to spare him superfluous labour,
for, although she was in the habit of speaking
somewhat slightingly of him in public, and was
wont to express great contempt for all prudish
and strait-laced notions; besides, having been
surrounded in her youth, by a crowd of military
admirers, she was, in reality, a pattern of conjugal
devotion, her * bark ' being (as Algernon

expressed it), 'a good deal worse than lier bite ; '
whilst, as for * calling a spade a spade,' this was
done (in the opinion of her future daughter-in-law),
entirely in order 'to shock people who were
too particular, and give them a scare.'

Adeliza, who was seated at dinner between
Sir Timothy and his son, behaved with commendable
self-denial, neglecting her affianced in order
to assist her mother in entertaining the wheezing
Baronet, although she found it, as she afterwards
remarked, * most awfully up-hill work.'

Lady Mabella had not been * taken down ' by
Lord Belmorris,  the personage entitled to pay
this penalty of greatness,  because, as the reader
may remember, he strongly objected, on account
of the existing consanguinity, to be coupled with
his sister during the whole of dinner, added to
which, it had been deemed advisable, in the present
circumstances, to yield the place of honour
to Sir Timothy.

Captain Sparshott, as Lucy could not help
observing, after a glass of the boasted 
champagne had somewhat steadied her
nerves, was much more silent and jure-occupied in.
manner than was his wont. Possibly, on account
of his approaching alliance with the family of his

entertainers, lie may have shared in some of their
anxieties ; or, perhaps, lie was apprehending a more
formidable outbreak of the paternal asthma ; or a
more than usually pungent anecdote from the
maternal lips ; or it may have been that Miss
M'Tavish (the young Scotch lady who could sing
old Irish melodies), who sat upon his right-hand,
knowing him to be already betrothed, and, inconsequence,
as Adeliza had expressed it, referring
to a different person, ' not of the slightest
real good,' did not go to much pains to entertain
him, but addressed herself chiefly to General
Reilly, who had taken her down to dinner.
The General, a dried-up veteran, who occupied
an appointment of some importance, conversed a
good deal upon military matters. Alarming news
had arrived, lately, from South Africa,  our troops
had met with reverses,  and the General's prophecies
regarding coming events were listened
to with attention.

Matters would become a good deal worse, he
feared, before they grew better. The movement
was of far greater importance than people seemed
to imagine ; the British reverses in South Africa
would seriously affect our prestige in India : more
troops ought to be sent out, and that at once.

Your regiment won't have to go out, will it,
Charlie ? ' Lucy heard Adeliza murmur to her
betrothed. * It seems' only the other day that it
came back from foreign service ; surely they won't
send you out again just yet ! '

 No ; I'm afraid they won't ! ' returned the
Captain in rather a disappointed tone. * "Worse
luck ! '

" Worse luck ! " Oh, you naughty, unfeeling
boy ! . . . . Don't you call that a very hardhearted
remark of your son's. Sir Timothy?' and
she turned playfully to the asthmatic baronet,
whose reply Lucy was unable to catch.

I must say,' the Captain went on, by-and-by,
still speaking as with something of regret ; * I
should like to see a little real fighting, for that
business with the Afghans was merely child's
play. Lots of fellows '11 volunteer, whether their
regiments are ordered out or not ; ' and he twirled
his dark moustaches reflectively.

" Volunteer ! " what a horrible idea ! ' returned
Adeliza as though aghast. ' " Real fighting
" isn't intended for engaged people, is it. Sir
Timothy ? . . . . You must leave that to poor
miserable, solitary wretches, who have nobody to
care for them, or to men who have married unhappily,

and want to get away from, their
wives

'Ashen was a j'oimg woman, of about your
age, my dear,' cut in Lady Sparshott, speaking
across the table ; * I was only too proud to
follow my husband wherever his regiment was
ordered ; and if everybody had had their rights,
I should have gained my Crimean and Indian
Mutiny medals as honestly as Sir Timothy.
Girls were different, however, in those dajs,
and weren't nearly so keen as they are now about
their comforts. Many's the time I've slept upon
the bare ground with nothing but a waterproof
for my night-shift, for, whenever we were
skimmed as to our baggage, I always preferred
taking out the weight of a camp-bedstead in
something else. . . . But the worst hardships I
ever went through in my life, was when we were
lodged in so-called " comfortable winter quarters,"
when I and Sir Timothy had to cram into a bed
only six foot by three. Never shall I forget the
B-flats " and the snoring of the men ! '

Captain Sparshott, who had heard before of
the discomforts his mother had endured upon the
occasion to which she alluded, looked a little
nervous and responsible during this speech.

He seemed to breathe more freely, however,
after her mention of the B-flats perceiving
that the calling of these little members of the
genus disgusting by so polite a name, was a proof
that she did not desire to ride rough-shod over
Lady Mabella's susceptibilities.

Lucy's spirit, meanwhile, was wandering miles
away, hovering over all sorts of varied scenes,
to which she travelled with surprising velocity.
Now she was at her bedroom window at Hampton
Court, in the first early days of her infatuation,
overlooking the glimmering river, with the
cavalry barracks upon her right ; in one of the
rooms of which she pictured Anthony as he lay
asleep, with his sword and sabretache slung over
the bed-post. Now, she was seated with him
upon the oaken bench near to the Haunted
Gallery. She recalled, with the utmost vividness,
all the sensations she had experienced, of
mystery, of awe, of enchantment, upon that
never-to-be-forgotten summer night ; and of how,
mingling with these, there had been a vague sense
as of a consciousness of predestination and ominous
historical coincidence ; a fear, an inward struggle,
a pleading for protection against she knew not
what incomprehensible danger, which had seemed,

somehow, to be mixed up yith Henry YIII.
and Katherine Howard, and the cruelty and
inconstancy of man. . . . And then, there were
his kisses, to the accompaniment of distant music,
and a murmuring fountain.

She could recollect every one of Anthony's
'words upon that memorable evening. ' When a
man was '' thoroughly tired of a woman " ' (he
had said, amongst other things), ' the kindest
thing he could do to her, sometimes, would be to
cut off her head ; ' and she remembered how, after
this strange speech, he had sighed quickly, but
for which, she would not have believed that he
was in earnest. . . . Whose head would it be
kind of him to cut off, now (she fell to wondering)
; her own, or Mrs. Van Buren's ? . . . .

You remember the three Miss Bolderos, Lucy
dear, at Hampton Court, don't you? and our
friend "the Yet"'

It was the voice of Adcliza appealing to her
across the table. Observing her cousin's abstracted
manner. Miss Binks was desirous of
recalling her wandering spirit. Lucy started 

Oh, yes ! ' she answered ; ' I remember them
quite well ; and I remember the " Yet," too ! '

lyell, only fancy I . . . . Charlie tells me

that *' Beauty " Boldero and he have eloped together
! . . . . It's caused the greatest sensation
in the Palace, as you may imagine. How could
she possibly have liked such a little monster ? '

The " Yet's '' a very good little fellow returned
Captain Sparshott, loyally ;  and at Miss
Beauty's time of life it doesn't do to be too particular.
One has to take what one can get ! '

Do you really mean that she mayn't care for
him ? ' asked Adeliza, assuming quite a shocked
expression ; * but that she only wishes to get a
husband ? Well, for my own part, rather than
marry any one I didn't care for, I'd go into a
convent, or throw myself into the Thames ! '

Lord Belmorris smiled at Lucy during the
expression of these high-flown sentiments. He
met, however, with only a very feeble response,
for she had once more started off upon her travels,
and was journeying rapidly to ' the north ' by a
train which is never behind its time. She had
gone over in spirit, Anthony's stay at the Castle,
and the library-scene at Falconborough Park, 
Lord Belmorris's personality, the while, being
but dimly shadowed forth, merely as a sort of
accessory, or supernumerary person, when the
voice of Lady Sparshott recalled her to the present.

'The mare slipped up backwards lie was
saying, *and then set to and rolled over me
several times, so that if I hadn't been made of
pretty tough stuff, I should have been squashed
as flat as a pancake. . . . My skirt was completely
torn off me, and there I lay, in only my
boots and " inexpressible ! " By-and-by, a young
fellow rode up to my assistance. " I'm not a bit
hurt," said I, trying to get up ; but I found that
I couldn't stir to save my life, and when I looked
down, I saw that one of my legs was bent all the
wrong way, like this :  " (she hastily dashed offa
rough sketch of the position of the legs upon
Lady Mabella's best damask table-cloth, with the
point of a fork). ' It looked so odd,' she went on,
'that, at first, I couldn't help laughing, for I
never felt a twinge of pain, only a sort of
numbness. I can tell you a different story, however,
when they began cutting off my high boots
to make splints of ! " Good Heavens, George ! "
said Sir Timothy, riding up at the moment, 'you
do look a figure of fun, and do mistake !"
Fun or no fun," I answered, " they tell me
I've broken my right thigh, and that it's a
ticklish place for a smash. You may very likely
find, one of these days, that you're tied to a

Avoman with a cork leg ! " and, as it happened,
my words came as true as Gospel ! '

During this account of her ladyship's hunting
misadventure, Captain Sparshott's good-looking
face again assumed an expression of
anxiety, and he appeared to be relieved when
the anecdote was concluded, although he could not
have failed to appreciate the motive which had
induced his mother to substitute the word ' inexpressible
' for * breeches.'

But at last this dinner, which seemed to Lucy
to be so hopelessly interminable, came to an end,
and the ladies proceeded to the drawing-room.
Lady Sparshott, who graciously begged them,
because of her lameness, to ' stand not upon the
order of their going,' being assisted upstairs by
her future daughter-in-law, last of all.

As soon as the gentlemen had finished their
wine, the young Scotch lady turned to her old
Irish melodies, and proceeded, as Algy had expressed
it, to ' give tongue ' vigorously.

Whilst she was singing to the assembled
company in the front drawing-room, the back
room was entirely deserted. Anthony would have
had ample opportunity, supposing that he had
been present, to have whispered a few tender

words of farewell upon the green velvet sofa.
What was the use, however, of thinking, now,
about what might have been ? . . . .

Before 'Miss Lucy Barlow's carriage' was
announced. Sir Timothy and his lady bade goodnight
to their hostess, as they had so long a drive
before them. Captain Sparshott, who had promised
to sleep that night at Wimbledon, accompanied
his parents, and all the pleasure of the
evening was over for Adeliza Binks. One by one
the other guests prepared to depart, and in another
ten minutes, Lucy and Lord Belmorris were all
that remained of the party.

Upjohn now informed Lucy that her carriage
was at the door, and she, too, rose to depart.

Oh, do stay a little longer, Lucy ! ' exclaimed
Algy, forcing her back again into her chair.
All those tiresome people are gone now, and
we're just going to talk them over ! '

CHAPTER XIX.

"When the family were once more alone, Lady
Mabella immediately assumed 'the recumbent
position being, no doubt fatigued with her unusual
exertions.

I am glad that it is all over ! ' she murmured,
as she sniffed languidly at her smelling-salts.
Don't you remember, dearest Gussy,' she went
on, addressing her brother, * how poor dear
Mama used always to say that Baronet's wives
had so very often a decided touch of vulgarity,
and that it was one of the things she was never
able to account f or ? . . . I think dearest Mama
was hardly ever wrong ! '

Rather liked the old lady, myself,' returned
Lord Belmorris. ' Plenty of pluck, and all that,
and yet just as tender-hearted as a spring-chicken.
You'll be able to ride her on the snaffle,
T should think, Addie ! '

I like Iter very much, indeed,' said Adeliza
demurely. *Lie seems to be so very kind and
good-natured; and I like Sir Timothy very much,
too, although he wasn't very easy to get on with at
dinner. I think I'm an extremely fortunate girl.'

I'm sure I think so too ! ' exclaimed Algy, in
his discordant tones; ' although you did hold your
head so high when you first came out, and talked
such " rot " about marrying a Duke ! and I'm
sure I hope Baronets' wives will have improved
by the time that you're one yourself ; you'll have
to try and polish them up a bit, for I suppose we
needn't go on pretending any longer that we
fancy Charlie Sparshott's a second son, need
we ? '

I must say, Algy, that you haven't got particularly
polished manners yourself ! ' was all that
Adeliza condescended to reply. . . .

What can make them like this, I wonder ? '
murmured Lady Mabella dreamily, as she screwed
and screwed the top of her smelling-bottle.
I'm sure they usen't to be quite so bad ! . . .
They seem to have become much worse lately ! '

It would not have been easy to make out,
from her words, whether she was alluding to the
degeneracy of smelling-salts or of Baronets' wives,

VOL. IL X

for it was her habit to wander from one subject
to another without confiding her mental transitions
to her listeners.

They used to have a very strong pungent
smell she went on, by-and-by, * which made
one's eyes water directly they were opened. The
fact is, they are too much adulterated ! '

Ah ! Mama is going to talk about her complaints
and her remedies,* whispered Adeliza in
Lucy's ear, 'which won't be at all amusing ! Come
into the other room for a few minutes ; I want to
give you a little advice before you go.' Adeliza led
her cousin into the back drawing-room, and the two
girls seated themselves upon the green velvet sofa.

I can see, my dear,' said Adeliza, in a low
voice, ' that you're not quite yourself to-night.
You're unhappy about something. Has it anything
to do with the paragraph in the Morning

Fast?'

Adeliza spoke much more kindly and tenderly
than usual, Lucy thought. Now that she was
evidently about to be sympathized with, it required
all her fortitude to prevent her from breaking
down and bursting into tears. She pressed her
cousin's hand gratefully, but could not trust herself
to speak. By-and-by Adeliza continued : 

I'm sure it's about that, without your telling
me. Well, I do assure you, my dear Lucy, that,
if I yere you, I would give up all idea of marrying
the individual in question and turn my attention
to something more profitable ! It's my firm
belief that he's no good whatsoever, and that even
if he doesn't marry this dreadful woman, he's
irrevocably tied up with her somehow. Even
dearest Charlie, who's awfully devoted to him,
and wouldn't say a word against him to save his
own life, confesses, now, that it's always been suspected
in the regiment that he had something
mysterious hidden away somewhere, although
he wasn't the kind of person that any one
could " chaflt " about it. One can't expect, of
course, that men can behave exactly as if they
were angels, with wings sprouting out of the
back of their necks ; but still, there are limits
to one's forbearance, and, in this case, I'm
sure it would be much wiser to forget all about
him. I don't believe that you're really In
love!' . . .

Ah ! ' . . . sighed Lucy, with a sad smile.
This sort of sound practical advice, which is
always so easy to give, seems often somewhat
difficult to follow! .

Without saying a word against him Adeliza
went on, ' Captain Sparshott has told me several
things about him, in the strictest confidence,
which would have made my flesh positively
creep, if I'd had any hopes of him myself !
One day, for instance, at Hounslow, when he
had been up to London, he brought back a large
parcel with him, and left it on a chair in the
mess-room. Dearest Charlie opened it, by mistake,
before several of the other officers, and what
do you think it contained? . . . An immense
wax doll with blue eyes that opened and shut by
pulling a wire ! '

A wax doll ! ' exclaimed Lucy. She was too
unsophisticated to divine the new vistas of speculation
which this discovery must have opened out
to Anthony Hepburn's brethren in arms !

Yes; a wax dolls her cousin repeated, pursing
up her lips. ' Dearest Charlie was so frightened
that he dropped it as if it had been a scorpion,
and he's afraid he must have damaged its nose ;
after which, he carefully wrapped it up again so
that Colonel Hepburn shouldn't know that the
parcel had been undone ; and next day, he mysteriously
disappeared, taking it with him, and saying
something about running down from Saturday till

Monday to stay with a friend in the Isle of
Wight. Now, wonkln't this have opened your
)es ? '

'AVhat, the wax doll? . I should have
thought that he'd bought it as a present for his
friends child.'

'No doubt returned Adeliza mysteriously,
and that child  was ? . . .'

Ah, I see what you mean ! You mean that
it was for Mrs. Van Buren's little girl, and that
he was going to see her ? . . .'

'You knew, then, that she had got a little
girl ? ' said Adeliza, as though rather surprised.

Yes ; she happens to live quite near to us at
Clapham ; and I know, too, that the child hasa
large wax doll such as you describe.'

You seem to know a good deal,' remarked
Adeliza reflectively, ' and yet to be wonderfully
unsuspecting ! . . . When people are so terrifically
" green " it's very difficult to advise them or
put them on their guard ! . . . Now Tre never
pretended to be innocent, or romantic, or anything
of that sort, and I've made a point of
checking myself if ever I felt inclined to be
maudlin or sentimental, so I can only give you
worldly, practical advice, because I've " gone in "

for being nothing more than a worldly and
practical girl. All the same, it's impossible for
you not to see, because everybody must see it,
how utterly and entirely devoted I am to Captain
Sparshott ; and yet, I can assure you, if he were
to behave to me as a certain individual seems to
have behaved to yoiy to lead me on by paying me
marked attentions, and then to trifle with my
affections, and make me look like a perfect fool
before all my relations, I should certainly not go
about " wearing the willow," with a face half as
long as my arm ; and I've even said as much to
dearest Charlie himself. I should dress myself in
my best, and look as jolly as I possibly could,
and show him that I didn't care one brass
farthing, and flirt right and left, and try to take
up, at once, to somebody else. I hope I don't
shock you by my plain speaking ? '

Before Lucy could reply to this question, their
conversation was interrupted by Algy.

Well, girls,' he exclaimed, * I don't know
what you think, but I think that it's not very good
manners to get up into a corner, and talk secrets,
and leave everybody else quite out in the cold !
Addie's very fond of making out that I'm so selfish.
I call this being selfish herself ! '

Oh, Algy ! ' cried Adeliza impatiently ; ' I
wonder when you'll learn to have a little tact !
Can't you see that Lucy and I have got something
to say that's ver' important ? '

But their confidential talk was over for the
evening. Lord Belmorris, perceiving that it had
been interrupted by Algy, came towards them
from the front drawing-room.

Are you two young ladies going out to-night,
to any of these scenes of dissipation?' he inquired.
* Can I be of ans service as a chaperon ?
Miss Lucy knows what a good one I am.'

I'm not going anywhere this evening, thank
you,' Adeliza answered. ' Mama says that now my
prospects are assured," it's no use taking me out
any more. You sec, she's had a good long spell
of it, poor thing ! '

And you, Miss Lucy ? * his lordship next inquired.
*Not going to honour the world with your
presence ? I should have thought this beautiful
get up " ought to have been more extensively
admired ? '

Lucy had certainly taken more pains than
usual with her personal adornment, but from no
desire to court the admiration of the fashionable
world.

I'm not invited anywhere she answered ; ' I
don't know any of the people who give parties.'

'That's their misfortune he remarked, casting
an admiring glance in the direction of the
green velvet sofa.

Just at this moment, the clock upon the mantelpiece
struck half-past eleven.

Oh, I must go home ! ' cried Luc} starting
up. She realized that Sibthorpe and his snail-like
horse must have been waiting for quite an hour at
the door.

She bade good night hastily to her aunt and
cousins. Lord Bclmorris, likewise, took leave of
his relatives.

*I shall look in at the Club,' he said, ' and find
out if there's anything fresh from South Africa.'

He offered his arm to Lucy, and they proceeded
downstairs together, leaving Algy at the
door of the drawing-room, looking a good deal
disappointed. In his character of master of the
house, he considered that it was his place to escort
his cousin to her carriage. Prudence, however,
forbade him to interfere with the will and pleasure
of his Uncle Belmorris.

You might give me a lift to the Club,' said
his lordship when he had assisted Lucy on with

lier cloak. ' " The Travellers " isn't much out of
3' our way,' lie added, not,  alas,  quite truthfully.


Of course Sibthorpe had never heard of the
Travellers' Club, and had no notion in which
direction lay Pall Mall. He would have been an
exceptional suburban firman if he had.

Drive down Piccadilly,' said Lord Belmorris,
as he followed Lucy into the y, * and I'll direct
you.'

Sibthorpe, having been instructed as to the
situation of Piccadilly, they set off at a slow
trot. It was one of those deliciously clear and
balmy evenings which are rare in England, and
above all, in London, even in the month of July.
There was not a cloud to be seen in the heavens,
the tail of the Great Bear, which made a flourish
over the clock at Hyde Park Corner, was more
than usually accentuated, and all the less familiar
constellations and fixed stars were glittering and
twinkling like diamonds.

The gates of the Park were soon about to be
closed for the night, and crowds of people, the
women arrayed in light summer clothes, were
trooping out of thence The streets, too, particularly
the thoroughfare through which they were

passing, were thronged with carriages. Lucy
who had never been in the fashionable part of
London in the season, and at night, was quite surprised
at the animation of the scene. Even here,
she thought, in the very heart of that great city
which seemed so dim and murky when looked at
from A-ithout, it would be quite possible to feel
bright and happy, and contented, in certain enviable
circumstances ! . . .

Some such idea must have occurred, at the
the same moment, to Lord Belmorris.

*How nice it would be,' he exclaimed suddenly,
as they drew near to a large house, the
windows of which were brilliantly illuminated,
and perceived the guests, who had been set down
at the door, making their way in, under the
superfluous awning ; * if only you belonged to me,
and we could both go into the world together !
What a different life ! '

Lucy and her companion were, by this time,
hemmed in, and encompassed, upon all sides, by a
dense crowd of carriages,  for Sibthorpe, bent
upon doggedly continuing his way, in spite of
obstacles,  had plunged into the very midst of
the string of equipages which were bound for the
fashionable entertainment hard bv.

His reckless defiance of all established precedent
soon drew upon him the notice of the
police, and he was precipitated headlong into the
stream of public traffic, which was also much
swollen and disturbed by reason of the party.
Here, however, the hired suburban vehicle and
its driver did not fare any better, being evidently
regarded by cabman and fashionable coachmen,
alike, as neither ' flesh, fowl, nor good red-herrings
Several of the former made use of very
insulting language;  the driver of a 'hansom'
inquiring, sarcastically, where in the world Sib-thorpe
was driving to? (only, as Dr. Winning-ton
had said, when relating his anecdote about
the Duchess,  this was rather the ' gist ' of his
speech than his ' actual cords '),  a question
which was promptly, though rudely, answered
by the driver of a ' four-wheeler,' and the probable
place of destination as rudely indicated;
whilst a vulgar young man, standing upon the
back step of an omnibus, suggested that it would
be far better for the ' common-weal ' if Sibthorpe
were to get inside his own conveyance, and be
driven by his fare, a remark which was received
with a good deal of rough applause.

Whilst they were being thus tilted at by

poles, buffeted by policemen, and sworn at by
the drivers of public vehicles, it was quite impossible
for the occupants of the hired fly, seeing
the really imminent risks to which they were
every moment exposed, to enter upon anything
like a sustained conversation. By-and-by, however,
they succeeded in extricating themselves
safely from the crowd, and turned down St.
James's Street, where the traffic seemed to be
in its normal condition. Here, Lord Belmorris
took Lucy's hand, and begged her again to tell
him her sorrow.

 I suppose,' he said, ' that it has something todo
with Hepburn's marriage ? '

His " marriage / " ' she repeated aghast. ' Is
he then married already ? '

Not yet, I fancy. But I read in some newspaper
that he was going to be. You see, it was
as I feared ; he wasn't free of his fetters when he
was at Belmorris. 1 should think better of him
now, if he hadn't behaved as if he had been.'

Oh, but he didn't ! he really didn't ! ' Lucy
protested. ' I know from what he told me, that
there was something,  tcliat, I didn't quite know;
but he made me understand that he wasn't free
yet.'

Ah, you defend him, of course ! You're no
doubt right to do so ! I liked him once, and
would defend him now, if I could, but I like you
still better,  " //Ay," in fact, is scarcely the word,
and so I can't help feeling rather sore about
his behaviour. It might have happened, under
some circumstances, that I should have been
grateful to him for throwing you over,  from
selfish motives of my own,  but, as things are,
I can only remember that you may be made to
suffer. Even Hepburn himself won't gain by his
own recklessness ; and I'm afraid a consciousness
of hk imperfections won't make you any the more
indulgent to mine will it ? '

As he spoke, he leant towards Lucy eagerly,
as though half-dreading:, and vet lonoinof, for her
reply.

I don't see that you have any imperfections,'
she faltered ; ' I only wish that everybody seemed
as kind and good as you do.'

Well, now, look here, my dear little Lucy,
try and lay to heart what I'm going to say.
Hepburn mayn't really care two straws for this

Mrs. Van , whatever her name is, and yet

he may be so bound to her, for there are probably
ties between them of which you know nothing.

that lie mays consider himself pledged all the same
to make her his wife. Supposing he marries her,
and settles down with her, and you never set
eyes on him again, are you going to pay him the
compliment of remaining single for his sake all
the days of your life ? '

I don't know,' she answered sadly; * I haven't
thought much about the future

But it's high time you should, or that your
friends should, for soul I don't mean to say
that you're not young enough to wait, for you're
a mere baby in most of your notions, but the old
lady at home must be getting on in life. How
old is your Aunt, Miss Elizabeth ? '

I'm not quite sure about her age : about
seventy six, or seventy-seven, I should think.'

Then, she can't be looked upon as quite a
chicken ; and you've no notion whether she's
made any provision for you ? '

]o ; she settles all her money-matters herself.
A French gentleman, who comes to see us sometimes,
told me that he thought she had been speculating
lately, but I know nothing about it myself.'

Is this French gentleman, who sometimes
comes to see you, young or old ? ' Lord Belmorris
next inquired.

Oil, quite, quite old ! ' replied Lucy, smiling
in spite of lier unhappiness, at the idea which had
evidently arisen in his mind.

His lordship appeared to be at once relieved.


Well, now, look here, my child,' he went on,
still holding her hand, and gazing earnestly at as
much as he could see of her face ; * I've not lived
over three-and-forty years in the world without
knowing something about life, and there are many
things which would seem to you to be uncommonly
strange if you knew of them. You don't,
however, as yet, and / do ; and this places me in a
position to advise. Now, one of the oddest of these
things, is the way in which you young ladies sometimes
shift and veer about after marriage. I've
known cases where a woman,  after being so much
in love that you'd have sworn she'd have broken her
heart if she hadn't been "given her head,"  has
married the object of her affections, and loathed
and abominated, and thrown crockery at his head
for ever afterwards. And then, there are cases
where, having loathed and abominated him before,
she's taken to him so kindly afterwards,
that she's followed him about like a dog, and
made herself quite foolish by exalting him into

a kind of hero. Now, how do you account for
these seeming inconsistencies in your sex?'

I can't account for them at all Lucy
answered. ' As you say, I no doubt know very
little about life as yet.'

Still, you must know that these wonderful
changes can't be brought about by simply going to
church in a smart dress, and having a gold ring
thrust upon your third finger by a man in a bluecoat
and light trousers, can they ? '

 No ; of course, there must be other causes :
being so much together must make one find out
one's husband's faults as well as his virtues.
Sometimes, perhaps, he may have more faults
than one expected, but still, I should think, one
would forgive them if one cared about him, for he,
too, would be sure to discover defects.'

All you say is very sensible, but there's
something more than this, which has nothing todo
with virtues or defects. It partakes of the
nature of a magnetic attraction or repulsion, and
this is what really lies at the root of all conjugal
loving and hastings ; but one doesn't always discover
its tendency until, as you very wisely remark,
with regard to mutual defects,  one has
been thrown a good deal together. Now, this is
what I find myself pinning my hopes to.'

In -hat way can it affect your hopes ? ' Lucy
inquired.

In this way : as all lasting human affection
depends, in reality', more upon this magnetic attraction
than upon anything else, we are not
absolutely the slaves either of beauty or of merit.
Once a person possesses, for one, this mysterious
charm, one thinks her beautiful, even if she's as
ugly as sin, and tries to persuade one's self that
she's good, and, what's more, one doesn't break
one's heart if one finds out that one's mistaken,
so long as one doesn't run the risk of being parted
from her. That's how a man feels. N'ow, looked
at from outside, simply as two individuals of the
male sex,  Hepburn must always cut me out in
everything ; but how do I know whether,  just
by way of compensation,  !Nature mayn't have
secretly' thrown into my composition what I
should value far more than anything else,  the
power to make you care for me, if you'd only
give me a chance of trying?'

Lucy felt deeply impressed with the truth of
her companion's words. One did not need, she
thought, to have lived over three-and-forty years
in the world, to realise that life was fraught with
unaccountable attractions and repulsions.

VOL. II. Y

'Now, I can't believe,' he went on, after a
pause ; ' that such an attraction as I've always
felt towards yoUy can be all one-sided. I'm not
vain enough to fancy that you care about me a
rap as yet, or that you've imagined it to be possible
that you ever could. But, as I'm so much
older than you are, I have a right to look on
a-head, and consider what may seem like impossibilities
to a person who only sees things as they
are at present ; and so I implore you to give mea
chance of trying my luck, before I make up my
mind that you're altogether out of my reach.
Promise me,  promise me, Lucy, that you'll let
me try ? '

Poor Lucy was terribly embarrassed at this
unexpected vehemence. She had nothing whatever
of the heartless coquette in her nature, and
felt real distress and remorse at having awakened
so hopeless a passion in so manly and deserving a
breast.

Those amongst my readers who are familiar
with London, will know that Sibthorpe must,
long ago, have driven past the Travellers' Club.
He went steadily on through Pall Mall, utterly
unconscious of the varied emotions of which his
humble vehicle had suddenly become the theatre.

Lord Belmorris lead pulled the check string, unobserved
by Luc' , when he had reached the turning
to the Haymarket, and had directed him to
the right,  past the Trafalgar lions, and so, on
through whitehall and Westminster,  to the
Thames Embankment.

Lord Belmorris still continued his appeal in an
impassioned tone : 

W/i>/,  if it was all to end in nothing at all, 
did I feel what I did about you from the very first
moment I set eyes upon you, that evening when I
took you down to dinner at Hampton Court ?
How lovely you looked in your simple white dress !
Do you remember that night, Lucy, and how we
walked together through the cloisters to the ball,
and how I picked up the flowers that fell from
your dress ? Look here ! *

He drew from one of his pockets some sort of
card case or memorandum-book, and Lucy perceived
what looked, in the uncertain light, like
the mummified remains of the rosebud which
she had gathered more than a year ago !

So tangible a proof of devotion could not fail
to impress her, but the impression was painful
rather than agreeable, bringing with it a sense of
mortification and disappointment, as at the sight

of a good thing wasted and flung to the soar
winds. How differently she would have felt if
Anthony Hepburn had produced from his pocketbook
Lord Belmorris's faded ' button-holes which
she had also worn upon that eventful evening !

Oh, pray don't talk like this, I beg, I implore
you ! ' she exclaimed in real distress. ' What can
I do? What can I say? How could I foresee
what has happened ? I am quite miserable when
I think that I have to seem to you to be so
unkind ! '

How many compassionate maidens, in like case,
have given utterance to similar protestations !

Try ; do tell me you'll try to care for me justa
little ? ' he made answer, speaking still with embarrassing
earnestness. * If I thought you could
ever succeed I should be one of the happiest menin
England ! '

It seemed to Lucy, at this moment, that Sib-thorpe
was proceeding at a more uncertain and
vacillating pace. Perhaps, she thought, this
painful situation was about to be brought to a
close by their arrival at the Travellers' Club.

She glanced over Lord Belmorris's shoulder to
the right, and perceived, under the curved tail of
Ursa Major j  who appeared, somehow, to have

become ubiquitous,  an imposing, though rather
gloomy-looking pile. This was, probably, Lord
Belmorris's favourite club,  one of those mysterious
head-centres of forlorn bachelorhood of which she
had heard so often. To the left lay the river,
twinkling with the reflection of many lights, and
forming, no doubt, a very convenient roadway for
such ' Travellers ' as chose to arrive from foreign
parts b}' water.

I think we must be just coming to the gate
of the *' Travellers' " Club,' she said, as she shrank
back into her o-n comer of the fly.

Lord Belmorris, in spite of his emotion, could
not repress a smile.

'That's Millbank Prison,' he said, following
the direction of Lucy's glance. * Your ignorance
is almost as charming as your innocence I '

Then we have gone past the " Travellers' "
Club?'

Of course we have, some time ago. "We were
in the middle of such an interesting conversation
that I hadn't the heart to pull up.'

And so you've come all this long distance out
of your way I '

I can't say the way has seemed particularly
long to jjic, and I'm sorry fou should have felt it

to be so ! The fact is, I didn't like the idea of
your driving* so far, all by yourself, in the middle
of the night, and so I thought I might just as
well see you safely home.'

 Home ! Do you mean to say that you're going
all the way to Clapham ?'

 Unless you object to my company, I was proposing
to do so. I meant only to escort you in
the capacity of footman, but fear I've been tempted
to make rather a fool of myself. You must try to
forgive me.'

' But the house will be all shut up ! ' exclaimed
Lucy in consternation ; ' and the servants gone to
bed, and the candles put out ! My aunt gave me
the latch-keys so that the maids shouldn't have to
sit up ! '

I can get on without either the candles or
the maids, so long as I see you home. And look
here, Lucy, I won't teaze you any more about my
own feelings,  for you must understand them, by
now, almost as well as I do myself. I daresay
I've been a fool to speak of them again so soon.
I ought to have waited till Hepburn got married
and settled with his Indian widow, and then come
forward and tried my luck I Remember one thing,
however, whether, in the future, fortune favours

me or not, should you ever be in want of a friend
don't forget to write to me. You loiow where a
letter will always find me sooner or later, and
though you mayn't care to be bothered with me
now, you can't say what the years may bring-forth.
People are very fond of saying this kind
of thing,  placed as I am,  but / really mean it.
Will 5'ou remember this, and do as I ask you ? '

I will remember,' she answered, relieved to
think that, by thus assenting, she could bring this
embarrassing situation to an end. ' I don't kno'
what I have done to deserve such kindness ! '

Lord Belmorris pressed her hand as though in
grateful acknowledgment. He was silent during
the rest of the way, keeping well into his own
corner of the fly, and Lucy almost fancied that,
wearied out with his emotions, he had fallen
asleep. He roused himself, however, when Sib-thorpe
drew up at the entrance of Barlow Lodge.
*So this is where you live, is it ?' he said, looking
up at the peaceful little Queen Anne house which
stood wrapped in slumber beneath a clinging mass
of clematis and Virginian creeper. ' Is that your
window which is left wide open ? '

Yes ; my aunt sleeps upon the garden side
for quiet, although she's getting very deaf, and

liardty any carriages go past at night. How are
you going back to London ?' she added suddenly.

I shall pick up a '' hansom '' on the road, or
walk, if the worst comes to the worst.'

*' Hansoms " are not easy to get at this late
hour. Do let the flyman take you to a cabstand ;
there's one in the town of Clapham ?'

JS'o, no ! ' he answered ;  don't trouble your
head about me. I shall get home all right ! '

They descended from the fly, and dismissed
the trusty Sibthorpe. Lucy produced the two
latch-keys, and Lord Belmorris opened the outer
door with the largest of them ; the one which had
caused her the most discomfort in its temporary
resting-place. Lord Belmorris came into the
quiet little garden, and made as though he was
about to unlock the front door. Lucy, however,,
notwithstanding her gratitude for his attentions
was now extremely anxious to get rid of her protector.
Supposing, after all, that her aunt had
decided to await her return, arrayed, probably, ina
modest though somewhat unbecoming night-gear,
might not Lucy's appearance, accompanied
by a stranger, produce a terrible effect upon the
old lady's nervous system ?

You must go,  you must go ! ' she whispered

therefore, holding the garden-door ajar so as to
allow of his passing out. * Thank you a thousand
times for all your kindness ! I hope you will
soon meet with a hansom-cab. Good night ! '

Good night ! ' he answered sadly, holding her
hand in both his own, and looking,  by the light
of Mr. Podmore's flickering gas-lamp,  unutterable
things. Then, before she had quite closed
the door upon him and his aspirations, he pushed
it open,  just far enough to admit of the passing
in again of his hand,  and wringing hers, for
the second time, he repeated the injunction so
mysteriously uttered upon a solemn occasion,  by
King Charles the Martyr ' to the Archbishop of
Canterbury,  ' Boncmhcr /'

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

Printed by Steangewats & Sons, Tower Street, Upper St. Martin's Lane.

VOL. n. z

K 3f \.



'Nil-".v

;i :> j- 1' * .-*.**<? vgfrirl- v=S' '.'1     -,
;; ' '''111 'T--W*!

./ ill

:'*if

K'i-

CI 'of'' ',''

hii.:.; ,; I,-:L

f

vrai

t-!!'l

mim

A

4.:

g'

i'

ll&-3- 

VOL. III.

VIOLET FANE

UTHOK OF 'SOPHY; Oil THE ADVENTURES OF A SAVAGE,
the EDWIN AND ANGELINA PAPERS,' ETC., ETC.

Thro' Love and War, by ways of Death and Doubt,
My soul has travell'd to the hoped-for Heaven."

IN THllEE VOLUMES.
VOL. IH.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1886.

.1// rights referred.

'The' LOVE AND WAE.

CHAPTER I.

It seemed to Lucy, after she lead finally closed
the garden-door, and when the retreating footsteps
of her faithful friend had died away in the
distance, as if all communication with the outer
world,  its loves, its ambitions, and its crowding
hopes,  was cut off for ever.

She paused before retracing her steps to the
front-door, and contemplated the quiet, sleepy
little house from under the drooping branches of
the great lime-tree, which stood like a sentinel
just inside the wall of the garden.

How could she ever return to this dull, suburban,
* middle-class ' life, and endure the tedium
of its monotonous days and nights, unilluminated
by the hopes  delusive hopes, for the most part,

VOL. III. B

it is true  which had shed their rays upon her
path for more than a year, hallowing and idealizing
an existence which must have appeared dull
and prosaic enough when looked at from the
outside ?

It is the inner vision, however, which lends
enchantment to surrounding objects, and those
beings who derive the truest of their enjoyments
from purely imaginary sources, would certainly be
to be envied, if only they could bring more
philosophy to bear upon the discovery of their
delusion. To

Cloy the hungry edge of appetite
By hare imagination of a feast,'

is disappointing, certainly, when we have found
out that there is no feast forthcoming, but, even
then, there is the consolation of thinking that it
might not have been worth the eating !

Lucy, however, was, as yet, a mere novice
in all things,  philosophy included,  and the
view of her future, as it was then presented
to her, seemed to be lonely and loveless in the
extreme.

The latch-key, with its dangling fellow'
beneath, was still in the lock, and, with a sigh,
she was about to remove it, when the sound of

What a pity it had not appeared a little earlier
upon the scene, as then Lord Belmorris would
have been spared the fatigue of a long midnight-walk,
for it was unlikely that he would fall ia
with one, at least for some time. She reopened
the door, and went out into the road. The driver
glanced back at her, and held out his whip interrogatively.
No ; she was not in want of a cab,
so she shook her head.

Unfortunately, Lord Belmorris was completely
out of sight. She remembered, now, that he had
always been a fast walker. She bethought her
that she might have explained to the cabman, ashe
passed, that he would see a gentleman, further
on, who was in want of a cab, but she could only
have done this now, by going some way down the
road and calling after him.

She turned again to her silent home,  sadly,
and rather reluctantly,  but before she had time
to re cross the footpath, she heard the gate of

The Aspens ' swing upon its hinges, and a tall
figure stepped out into the road, apparently with
the object of hailing the retreating cab, or of
looking out for another.

No need of the 'friendly light of stars,' to
enable Lucy to recognise that familiar form ! It
was Anthony Hepburn, the man upon whom she
had lavished all the affection of which her girlish
heart was capable, looking out for a cab, to take
him from the presence of his affianced wife, with
whom he had probably been sitting far into the
summer night !

Crushed and humiliated at this thought, Lucy
shrank back into the shadow of the doorway like
a wounded spirit. But he had already perceived
her, and in another instant he was at her side.

*Lucy!'

There was a ring of something very like
anguish in his voice which quite took her aback.
If she had had time to make conjectures, she
would have expected him to be self-possessed and
formal in manner ; seeming a little sarcastic, perhaps,
and embittered ; but this merely out of
compliment, and because it would not seem quite
decent to flaunt any signs of happiness in the
sight of so miserable a victim. By-and-by (if she

could have found Voice to blame or reproach), he
would have been primed, no doubt, with wise,
sorrowful saws, having reference to the passing
nature of all pleasant things ; mixed up with a
good deal of trite, worldly wisdom, with here and
there a stray phrase to the effect that she knefir
nothing at all, as yet, not even what was in her
own heart, and that some day she would arrive at
the conclusion that he had acted entirely for the
best

This, from what she knew, or fancied she knew,
of his disposition, was what she would have anticipated,
had she foreseen any such meeting. To
see him thus,  haggard, broken,  looking and
speaking like one who had actually loved and
suffered, filled her with pity and astonishment.
A feeling of intense tenderness flooded her whole
being, causing her to forgive him, upon the instant,
for all the sorrow she had borne, with this first
consciousness that he, too, had suffered.

And yet,  so complex, and involved, is the
nature of even the most ingenuous of women, 
because these evidences that she was still beloved,
gave, as it were, new life to every nerve and fibre
of her being,  she was enabled to find strength
sufficient to ieeniy at least, to be calm and unmoved,

when the man for whose coming she had
been hoping and praying for the whole evening,
stood beside her at last.

Yes ? ' she answered quietly, when he called
her by name.  What do you want with "Lucy'*
now?'

Avant you,' he said, ' in every way in which
a man can want a woman. I have been lost and
wretched without you ! '

Two youths, who passed by at this moment,
stared back, curiously ; surprised, no doubt, at
seeing the tall gentleman in the white neck-tie,
and the young lady in the evening dress, engaged,
seemingly, in such an earnest midnight conversation.


Come inside,' said Anthony, as he pushed
open the door, and he drew her into the quiet
little garden of her own home.

There was a bench underneath the drooping
branches of the sentinel lime, and here they sat
down.

Speak to me,' he whispered, taking both her
hands,  * for God's sake be like your own self !
Don't you care for me any longer ? '

What can it signify to you, now,' she asked,
bitterly, ' whether I care about you or not ?'

For all answer, lie made as though he would
fold her in his arms, but she thrust him from her.

Oh, no, no ! ' she cried, warding him off ; ' not
when you have just come straight from her ! '

Listen, Lucy,' he protested eagerly; ' I have
not come straight from her ! I have not seen her
for weeks. She is away at the seaside. On my
honour she is not here ! '

'Ah, don't talk about "honour"' she exclaimed,
feeling, all the same, that she could
believe his words. * What can have brought you
here but this ? It was not to see me that you
came ! You must have passed this house often and
often, and you have been to her and not to me ! '

Because I would not come to you straight
from her, or because I could not come to you first,
knowing that I must go to her afterwards.
Because, too, I could not have told you that I was
free from my promise, made years ago, before I
had ever seen your sweetest face ! But to-night
they sent to me to say the child was ill. I had no
intention whatever of coming down here, I was
dining at a club, having been only in London a
few hours. I came on here at once, and have
been here ever since. This is the truth, I swear
to you ! '

'AVTiy isn't the mother with her own child
when it is ill ? '

Why, indeed ? She's away somewhere, 
angry,  offended, because I cannot at once fall in
with her views. The child has been neglected,
and left to ignorant people who don't understand
her. She felt the loss of her Indian nurse dreadfully,
and has been pining ever since, being a child
capable of intense affection.'

'She inherits this, I suppose, from her
mother?' Lucy found courage to venture with
bitterness.

*From \iQV father y I fear,' he answered, speaking
sadly and regretfully. ' Ah, Lucy ! ' he went
on, after a pause ; * don't let me make you hard,
and cynical, and embittered, for Heaven's sake !
Can't you understand ? Surely you must know,
you must have read about it in books,  that a
man may be bound to make reparation for a
wrong done long ago? He may have become
entangled, when quite a lad, by circumstances
which had nothing whatever to do with real
affection,  as he may come to understand it later,
and so, he may have a hard fight to obtain his
freedom, even although he mays detest his chains?
Answer me,' he continued earnestly, as she still

remained silent. ' Be my own kind, gentle, forgiving
Lucy ! Tell me that you can imagine such
a case, and some miserable wretch condemned to
pay thus dearly for the folly of a moment, because
of circumstances?'

But all feelings of bitterness and resentment
had vanished from Lucy's heart. It was only by
an effort, indeed, that she had been enabled to
harbour any such sentiments at all. By calling
to mind some of the phrases of Adeliza's ' plain
speaking,'  her remarks, for instance, to the effect
that she had been ' made a perfect fool of ' before
all her relations,  she had succeeded, until now,
in preserving an appearance of anger and wounded
pride,  but she could wear the mask no longer.

Mingling with the love of a good woman,
there is, almost always, a touch of something
maternal ; and, strange as the assertion may appear
at the onset, this sentiment is usually the more
dominant in the love of a good woman when she
is very young. Perhaps it may be merely a continuation
of what she felt, only some few short
years ago, for her doll, * for bachelor-bullfinch or
gay gold fish,' or for anything else she once
fondled and petted, and stood towards in the
position of a Providence. Or, perhaps, the

material alloy which often commingled with more
matured passion, although it may serve, like the
copper in our gold coinage, to strengthen and
make endurable what might have proved too
ductile and susceptible without it, is apt, to a
certain extent, to smother and outweigh those
sentiments which are purely selfish and ideal.

Be this how it may, Lucy, seeing the man
upon whom she had become dependent for all
that seemed to make existence desirable, thus
humbled and abased before her, striving to excuse
himself, so as not to appear, in her eyes, to be too
utterly erring and unworthy, explaining, pleading,
craving for her pardon and her forbearance,
realized, only, that her previous affection for him
was confirmed and intensified. Her whole being
was his to hold or to loose, as it seemed good unto
him, whilst the present blissful consciousness that
she was near him once more, triumphed, for the
moment, over all her fears for the miserable
future.

 Try  try to understand how it all happened! '
he pleaded, taking her hands in his again and
drawing her towards him. ' It had nothing todo
with love like tJiis ! '

But she loved you, I suppose ? '

Lucy felt impelled to ask this question by a
variety of mixed feelings, all of them essentially
feminine. From a wish to know, for certain,
that another had once been as weak and helpless
in his hands as nie now was. From a yearning
after the consolation which might be afforded by
the consciousness that she had triumphed over
this other  in one sense, at least,  in spite of obstacles
; and, finally, from that strange propensity
for self-torture which so often lures a woman onto
know the worst,  when the worst may prove
more bitter to her than death.

I suppose,' he answered, ' that she may care
for me in her way. I shoidd act differently if
I knew that she did not.'

You don't wish to be unkind, then, to those
who love you ? You are not really heartless, and
cruel, and unfeeling ? '

Then, before he had had time to answer her,
yielding to what seemed like a supreme and
incont reliable expression of sorrowful renunciation,
she passed her hand gently over his face,
smoothing back his hair lingeringly and regretfully,
with the compassionate maternal instinct
warm at her heart, and the tears born of tenderness
and despair starting to her eyes.

He snatched eagerly at lier caressing hand,
and covered it with kisses. Mingling with his
kisses, warm, passionate words  words which have
been uttered by so many lovers  fell from his
lips.

He drew her to him and rested his head upon
her bosom. He seemed to be as much unnerved
and overcome as if he had been a woman.

Lucy was surprised, and a little frightened, at
seeing his emotion; but yet to know that he
was 'near  so heavy was the greatest of all
possible joys.

This is happiness,  this is home,  this is
love ! ' he murmured with a sigh, as of some
hunted and tortured creature, that has, at last,
found sanctuary.

Lucy's heart, beating beneath so dear a burden,
awoke to all the intense mysteries of
human passion unrevealed to her until then.

Ah, why are you not free ? ' she asked
despairingly. * How am I to go on living
without you?'

For all answer, he lifted his head and joined
his lips to hers.

She had neither the will nor the strength to
resist him. How long they remained thus, locked

in one another's arms, neither of tlieni could ever
have told. So still and so silent were they, that
anyone peeping over the grey wall, and through
the quivering leaves of the sentinel lime-tree,
might have taken them, in the uncertain light,
for two figures sculptured out of granite or
marble  *Hero and Leander,' perhaps, clinging
despairingly together, or some other classical or
mythological group, set out in a garden by way
of ornament.

The two tail-stars, however, of the ubiquitous
Great Bear were the only eyes that could have
penetrated their leafy retreat, and had this constellation
been, indeed, the four - footed beast
which it so little resembles, (for I could never
perceive much likeness), he would surely not
have been at the trouble of turning round his
head in order to look down upon a sight which
he must have seen before so often  in so many
gardens, kingdoms, and comes! . . . The sight
of two finite beings striking the first chord of
that entrancing music which must go on reaching
through the spheres as long as there are men
and women on earth, and stars in heaven.

Chapter II.

Anthony Hepburn was the first to break the
silence. He rose from the bench and shook
himself, as a man might do who awakens from
a dream.

I ought never to see you, or speak to you,
or touch you,' he said, ' till I can tell you I am
free  till I can make you quite my own.'

You will be free, then, some day ? ' Lucy
asked, speaking also with the manner of a person
descending upon earth from other spheres.

I can never feel free of responsibility whilst
that person lives,  or her child,' he answered;
*but I might be free to marry if she would
release me from a promise which I made her
before I knew what such a promise might entail.
It is not binding in law, and, for this very reason,
I feel bound to keep it ; but there are moments
when the sacrifice seems almost too great. Then,
again, there are times when fresh complications

seem to drive me to it. Ah, Lucy ! ' he exclaimed,
suddenly changing to a tone of supplication,
'have mercy upon me! Forgive me if toucan
! God knows what I feel when I think that
I have made you suffer ! '

Can nothing help us ? '

She rose from the garden seat and looked up
at him earnestly as he stood before her in the
warm summer night.

Yes ; one or two events that might happen,
could. This is what has made me go on temporising,
 hoping,  deluding myself,  until I ended
by almost forgetting, sometimes, the position in
which I was placed through my own folly ; and
now I seem suddenly to be hemmed in and encompassed
upon every side. I have written ; I
have made one last effort. If I am free, I shall
come to my darling at once ; if I am not, I must
never see her again.'

Never ? ' the word escaped her like a cry of
pain ; ' oh, it cannot be meant that we are to be
quite parted ! '

Perhaps not,' he answered in an altered tone,
reckless, rather than despairing; 'perhaps it was
meant that I should take you here, now, to-night,
for my very own ! Perhaps I am acting like a

fool to let you pass out of my life. Man arranged
marriages, and ordained that there should be
priests and shrines, but God, alone has taught
lis how io love ! Which voice should be the most
sacred ? '

Awed by something tragical in his manner,
and feeling, just then, in no mood for theological
discussion, Lucy remained silent.

I have made all sorts of wild plans,' he went
on, * at times ! I have thought of every possible
way by which we might be together in the future.
This way, amongst others ; of fulfilling my
promise  marrying this woman, making over to
her everything I possess, except just enough to
set me up in another land, and then, of leaving
her at the church door, and taking you with me
across the seas  to Australia, or New Zealand,
somewhere, anywhere, to be my own real darling
wife, in a new home, under bluer skies, where
there would be nothing to remind us of the miserable
past, and where we might look forward to a
future such as I sometimes dream of. Here, however,
I fear it can only come in a dream. "Would
you come away with me, my Lucy, if I asked you ?'

Lucy realized, in this supreme moment, that,
for the bare hope of being with this man always,

of waking to look upon his face, of watching his
coming and going to and fro during the day, and
then of feeling that in the darkness of the night
he would not be divided from her; she would
journey, willingly, to the uttermost ends of the
earth, daring shame, poverty, and all other misfortunes,
which would not seem to her to be like
misfortunes then. "Was this, indeed, the voice of
Godly as Anthony had just called it, speaking
within her, or the voice of that same Arch Tempter
who had whispered once too often in the willing
ear of a woman, in the good old antediluvian
time, and in a larger and much more luxuriant
garden than this poor little * acre of earth ' in
the London suburbs ? . . .

Alas, in all times, climes, and gardens, this
whisper, be it of God, or of the devil, has made
itself heard in the unruly heart of Man ! In
the heart of Woman, too, when it has been lured
into beating in such tender unison with his.

Loves of all shades and colours,  many voiced,
With song-notes variable as the birds'
By sunny shores, and under bluer skies
Beguiled and won ! '

My business, however, is only with the loves
of Anthony and Lucy.

VOL. III. c

Antliony took Lucy again in his arms, and
drew her to his lips.

The * old, old, story ' once more ! The sight
of which the ' Great Bear ' must have grown
weary even unto death, if only he had been a
bear at all ! . . .

*I love you too much to ask you to make
sacrifices for me,' he murmured at last, as he
stroked the head tenderly that rested upon his
breast ; * but I must go from you,  I must leave
you, if I am to do you no more harm ! Good-bye,
my darling,  the wife and love of my heart ; goto
your peaceful home, and try to be hajDpy and
to forget me,  if we have to be parted for ever!'

He passed his hand over his watch-chain, as
if seeking, amongst the trinkets that hung from
it, for something which he could give her byway
of a keepsake. His fingers, however, encountered
only the wedding-ring, the gold key,
and the threepenny-piece with the hole in it ;
and two of these were fraught with memories
either too sacred, or too much at variance with
his present mood, for him to be able to leave them
with her ; whilst the other locked up everything
of a private nature which he possessed in the
world.

'Give me your lips once more lie said,
letting the chain drop into its place ; ' goodnight,
and may God bless you always ! '

As though mistrusting his man's nature, he
put her quickly from him, opened the garden-door,
and was gone. Lucy sank down upon the
bench, overcome with conflicting emotions. Gratitude
to Heaven for the precious gift of his love,
seemed, for the moment, to triumph over all
sadder considerations.

He loves me ! He loves me ! ' she repeated
to herself, covering her eyes with her hands, as
though to exclude every object which might
interfere to dispel so blissful a belief. Then,
starting to her feet, she flew to the garden-door.

"Whilst he was jet within reach, before he
was gone from her, perhaps for ever, she must
see him, speak to him, hear again, from his-lips,
the assurance which was to compensate her,
in some sort, for whole years of misery and
desolation ! . . . .

She looked out into the road, but all was
bare and deserted ; unusually deserted for a district
so populous. A sudden gust of wind came
wafted across the Common, flickering the gas in
the lamp over the gate of Palmyra House, and

rustling through the branches of the sentinel lime-tree,
with a sound like that of a long-drawn sigh.
Anthony Hepburn was nowhere to be seen.

Oh, Anthony, my love, my love ! ' she
moaned despairingly, as she re-entered the deserted
garden, and felt that he had bidden her
indeed farewell.

An altogether accursed thing y exclaimed Goethe
wife of Buddha, ' is the forcible parting of a
man and a woman tho love ; ' and, like every
uttered expression of what must be true in all
ages, this passionate lamentation has never yet
been suffered to die into silence, but is reawakened,
perpetually, in many a desolate heart !

CHAPTER III.

Upon the morning foUomng the night of Lucy's
parting with Anthony Hepburn, Mr. Podmore, in
his adjacent * villa-residence ' might have been
seen standing before his looking-glass, apparently
in wrapt contemplation of his own image. He
had adjusted his hat, which was particularly new
and shiny, a good deal to the right side of his
head, and then tilted it somewhat to the front, ina
jaunty, and at the same time rather a bellicose
manner. His coat was, as usual, very carefully
brushed, his boots were as shiny as his
hat, whilst just the right proportion, as far as
becomingness went, of blue-bordered cambric
handkerchief, protruded, corner-wise, from his
breast-pocket, and added an effective note of
colour to his ensemble. Before leaving the room,
he added one or two finishing touches to his
costume, and further accentuated the determination
of his expression by a contraction of

the brow and a tightening of the lips. One
might almost have fancied, in fact, from his
manner, that he was rehearsing for some important
dramatic part.

In the entrance-hall he encountered the
faithful Hitchens.

Shall I do ? ' he inquired of that functionary.
I think I look the outraged benefactor to a
T 'M . . . . Once I have disposed of my
imaginary matrimonial engagement, we must
make ready for our little Continental trip. We
have played for high stakes and lost ; but the old
lady, of course, will know nothing of this.
Recollect, I am going to quote you as a witness.'

Its never been my intention,' returned Mr.
Hitchens, gravely, ' to do an injury to any
fellow creature ; but I saw what I saw ! '

Upon quitting the precincts of Palmyra House,
Mr. Podmore directed his steps towards the
entrance to Barlow Lodge, where he rang the
bell. Sarah, who appeared to be somewhat
 flustered ' and surprised at the arrival of so
early a visitor, replied to his inquiry that Miss
Elizabeth Barlow was within, and, in another
minute, he was ushered into the old lady's
presence.

Miss Elizabeth, who was seated at her writings
rose politely from her chair She, too,
Alas a little startled at this unusual morning
visit, which something in the expression of Mr.
Podmore's face led her to suppose must be upon
important business.

At her request, Mr. Podmore, as soon as the
door was closed behind him, seated himself upon
one of the spider-legged Chippendale chairs,
which, at first sight, looked scarcely equal to
its consequential burden.

Once seated, Mr. Podmore delivered himself
of a little premonitory cough ; a cough which
seemed to Miss Elizabeth to be full of sinister
presage. She immediately bethought her of her
investments, with regard to which she had felt
some delicacy about questioning Mr. Podmore
of late.

I hope, dear Mr. Podmore,' she said timidly,
as she drew her chair nearer to that of her
visitor, ' that nothing has gone amiss with
our little pecuniary venture? You will
excuse my anxiety, I feel that you will, knowing,
as you do, my intentions with regard to
this money. As you know, it is what I have
set aside, not without some trouble, I do assure

you, in order to make dear Lucy independent
after my death. Till I possessed an experienced
friend, like yourself, to direct me, I was afraid to
pursue a very spirited course; but upon your
kindly representing to me how much dear Lucy's
future portion might be increased, I gave it over
as you will remember, into your hands ; for, at
that time, owing in a great measure, to what you
had confided to me yourself, I looked upon this
money as being almost as much yours as hers, for
there seemed, then, to be every probability that
your interests and Lucy's might, one day,
become identical. Since last year, however, I
fancy that you may possibly have changed your
mind  as we have all a perfect right to do in
such matters ; and so, as I realize every day more
clearly, that I must very shortly take up my
abode in a house " not made with hands " (for I
shall be seventy eight on my next birthday, and
the most favoured amongst us cannot expect to
walk this earth for ever), you will forgive me,
I'm sure, if I confess that I have been just a little
anxious with regard to this particular sum;
foolishly anxious, perhaps ; but then, you know,
I am only a foolish old woman ! '

She uttered these last words with a touch of

playfulness, which was intended to cajole and
conciliate, in case the first part of her speech
might have proved unpalatable.

Mr. Podniore again delivered himself of the
ominous cough.

With regard to the disposal of Miss Lucy's
fortune,' he said, grandly, ' I'm quite ready to
excuse your anxiety, although, I confess, I am
unable to account for it. I am unaccustomed, too,
to have my opinion, upon such subjects, called
in question ; but I will not pennit myself to be
offended at your mistrust, ladies being, as we all
know, proverbially nervous about what they do
not understand. To split up and redistribute my
capital, would be extremely inconvenient to me
just at present, but for which it would be easy forme
to set your apprehensions at rest. As I am
now situated, however, I must content myself
with reminding you that I have invested more
than three times the amount to which you allude,
in the same concern, so that, whatever happens in
the future, we shall sink or swim together.'

Now, had there been any question of an actual
swimming match between Mr. Podmore and his
venerable neighbour, instead of a mere figurative
allusion, it would not have been difficult to pre-diet

which of the two competitors would have run
the greater risk of being immersed in a watery
grave ; since, apart from all considerations of age
and sex, * adipose matter,' by reason of its nature,
has always a tendency to keep to the surface ; and
in the event of any sort of financial crisis, was
it not more than probable that the ' man of substance
' would be the least likely to suffer permanent
inconvenience ? . . . .

Some thought of this kind may, possibly, have
flashed across the old lady's mind.

Indeed, dear Mr. Podmore,' she exclaimed, ' I
do not feel the slightest mistrust ! . . . . Were
I as wealthy as you are, I should never trouble
my head about such matters ; but, placed as I am,
I am sometimes a little anxious about dear Lucy's
future ; Lucy, the dear child in whom you used
once, to take so great an interest ! '

'And in whom I take a great interest stilly
my dear Miss Barlow,  the very deepest interest
possible, although, at the same time, a somewhat
painful one. If you will allow me, I should like
to speak to you upon this subject, leaving, for the
present, the discussion of our little financial venture.
You alluded, just now, to an apparent
change in my feelings with regard to your niece.

Your observations were correct ;  my sentiments
have undergone a change, but then, Miss Lucy is
great' changed as well.'

Dear Lucy is still very young,' returned Miss
Elizabeth. * To me, of course, she seems younger
than she does to you ; still, this is a defect that
will improve. You may have noticed in her,
perhaps, instances of carelessness, of punctuality,
which might seem blameable in the mistress of an
establishment, but she is very quick and obliging,
and never objects to being told of her faults, and,
although she is certainly not one of those giggling,
chattering girls whom I look upon as thoroughly
objectionable, she possesses good even spirits, and
is never sulky or out of temper. She is, I
admit, a thorough Barlow ; and the Barlows were,
always, to a certain extent original, and difficult
to understand. anybody, however, who did not
consider that she would be able to hold her own
as the wife of the first nobleman in the land,
would exhibit, to nvj mind, a very deplorable
want of judgment ! '

Miss Elizabeth spoke proudly and almost defiantly,
as though conscious of the influence in her
blood,  of the fierce old mediaeval Barlows with
their battle-axes. She had experienced quite a

comfortable sense of indifference with respect to
Mr. Podmore's matrimonial intentions ever since
Lucy had been so affably patronized by her
fashionable relatives, and, although she had not
felt that it was necessary, just yet, to re-arrange
her ermine trimmings, she was certainly not going
to remain passive and listen to disparaging
remarks about a young lady who had been so
much admired in circles which Mr. Podmore had
altogether failed to penetrate !

A strange expression passed over Mr. Pod-more's
face. * Still you will admit, my dear Miss
Barlow,' he said, smiling cruelly, ' that it is not
unreasonable to suppose that even '' the first
nobleman in the land," whoever he may be, might
expect of the young lady he honours with his
preference that she should be well conducted and
circumspect,  to speak quite plainly,  that she
should be chaste ? '

Mr. Podmore had employed the word ' chaste '
advisably. It was a word which, to some minds,
must seem absolutely shocking by reason of its
antithesis. Miss Elizabeth Barlow, a maiden lady
of very nearly seventy-eight years of age, was
likely to possess a mind of this character, and
Mr. Podmore had evidently determined to open.

the campaign by shocking and paralysing his
aged victim.

Nor had he miscalculated the telling effect of
his words.

Chaste V repeated the old lady, starting up
from her Chippendale chair as though she had
been stung by an adder. ' Be so good, Sir, as to
explain the meaning of your words V

I will, I will I ' replied Mr. Podmore, in a
tone of suppressed agitation ; ' painful as such an
explanation must necessarily be ! I will endeavour
to be as brief as possible. Well then, last night
I happened to be dining at my Club with a friend,
with a young nobleman, (to be correct as to
details). After dinner, we did what I have not
done for many years, for I am not,  as you are
aware,  a man of pleasure. We visited the Italian
Opera. I proposed, afterwards, that my friend
should accompany me home, to sup and sleep, 
supper, in fact, had been prepared ; merely a light
repast, but he declined, being obliged to return
that very night to Brighton, by the last train,
where he was in close attendance at the sick bed
of an aged relative. (I mention all these particulars
in order that I may be quite exact as to
my facts.) I accompanied him to Victoria Station,

and, being there, it occurred to me that I would
return home by train, for I had not taken my
brougham out, thinking that there would be so
much waiting about. Well, upon arriving at the
Junction here, there was not a cab to be seen,  I
dislike walking at such a late hour along a lonely
road,  I don't deny that I dislike it,  I waited,
therefore, fully a quarter of an hour before I
could obtain a conveyance. At last, a cab was
procured by a porter, I handed the man a shilling,
sprang into it, and reached Palmyra in safety at
about twelve forty-five. By this time, however,
Hitchens  my servant  had grown extremely uneasy.
He had been several times to the gate to
see if I was in sight, and, upon one of these
occasions, perceiving a vehicle about to draw up,
made certain that I was at hand. I come, now,
to the painful part of mj narrative. This vehicle,
a fly from the livery stables round the corner, 
contained Miss Lucy and a gentleman-now, you
have often alluded to a young relative of Miss
Lucy's,  a Mr. Binks,  and I concluded, at first,
that this young gentleman might, perhaps, have
escorted his cousin home,  an indiscreet ]proceeding,
certainly, (as I should say with my old-fashioned
notions of propriety,)  but still, not

utterly inexcusable, as he would probably not
have done so vitbout the sanction of bis mother.
Hitchens, however, assures me that this person
was no mere lad. He could not obtain a very
distinct \'iew of his face, but observed that he
was a fashionably dressed man in a-VN'hite cravat,
and that he carried a light overcoat upon his arm.
He assisted your niece from the fly with the
greatest attention, pressing her hand familiarly,
and retaining his hold of it afterwards. They
dismissed the fly ; Miss Lucy produced the latchkey.
They unlocked the door, and entered the
garden stealthily together. The whole thing is
terribly distressing,  to nvj feelings, as well as to
yours, believe me, my dear Miss Barlow I Before
proceeding any further, however, I should like to
ask you one question ; your answer may possibly
afford me some sort of' relief. Tell me then, my
dear lad', I beg of you, did Miss Lucy inform
you, this morning, that she had returned to your
house late last night accompanied by a gentleman ?
Did she make any allusion to so exceptional and
compromising a proceeding ? . . .'

He stared fixedly in Miss Elizabeth's face for
fully a minute with his round green eyes, but the
old lady made no reply.

All, I see I ' he resumed, with a sigh as of
resignation ; * she has made no mention whatever
of the circumstance ! Don't distress yourself by-answering
my question ; I will proceed with my
painful duty. Unfortunately, the worst is yet to
come. My servant, as you may suppose, being a
highly respectable man, with strict notions, was
much scandalized and astonished at Miss Lucy's
extraordinary behaviour ; but the yard, which is
in front of my stables,  being, as you are aware,
situated between the walls of the two gardens,
and the door leading into your grounds being
closed,  it was impossible for him to see or hear
anything more for some time, which I must
confess,  although he is an old and valued
servant, who would never have made any bad use
of his knowledge,  I cannot help looking upon asa
fortunate circumstance, all things considered !
In a short space of time, however,  Hitchens is
unable to say how long to a moment,  our fine
gentleman of fashion takes his departure. Miss
Lucy opens the door for him noiselessly, and they
exchange farewells. My servant has an opportunity
of observing him as he passes my gate,
xmder the lamp, and can swear to his being slim,
actively built, of about five-and-thirty or so, and

clean shaved He walked fast, and was way soon
out of sight. Hitcheiis, my servant, remained
some minutes at the gate lost in conjecture. By-and-by,
he is again aware of approaching wheels ;
and now, my dear Miss Barlow, I must prepare
you for another mystery ! ' . . .

For another!' repeated the poor old ladj-,
looking terrified.

Yes, for another ; as inexplicable, if nol
so, than the first ! Hitchens,  who natmalfy <
eluded that this time there could be no
as to who was approaching,  remained waiting
for me, as he thought, just inside the e tian ce
gate. A hansom-cab appeared in sight. It was
empty, however, and my arrant was about to
re-enter the house, when, who should dart owt
into the road but Miss Lucy ! She looked anxioaalj'
after the hansom-cab as though expecting somebody,
 (at twelve o'clock at night, my dear MIk
Barlow, you will please to make a note ol tbebonr!)
then, quick as lightning, a tall figure steps ovt
of the shadow. The two exclaim, dais bands,
and disappear together into your garden, cfcwmg
the door behind them as before! Kitchens, as
you may imagine, is utterly bewildered. He
thought, at first, of ringing your bell end alarming

VOL. III. r

the house, but, sidon reflection, lie decided to
await my return in order to consult me. He
could hear no voices in the garden, as there was a
slight breeze rustling the branches ; also, he is
not quite so quick of hearing as he used to be.
He is unable to say, therefore, whether Miss Lucy
received her admirer within doors, or remained
with him out in the garden. My servant waited
for some time at the gate,  twenty minutes or half
an hour, at least, as far as he is able to judge, 
and then, failing altogether to solve the mystery,
he was about to retire, when the door in your
wall was again stealthily opened. He crouched
behind the gate-post so as not to be observed. A
man's tread passed by, quite close to him, and,
upon looking out into the road again, he perceived
a man's figure in the distance. Hitchens, as you
know, is not quite so young as he was, and the
night, although extremely fine, was not quite like
daylight. He cannot speak, therefore, very positively
as to the stranger's appearance. One thing,
however, he is prepared to affirm upon oath. He
was a different person altogether from the first
man ; taller considerably, and he walked less
hurriedly. You will agree with me, however,
that the personal appearance of these individuals

is of very little consequence. The facts of the
case remain the same whatever they were like ;
and these facts are, that, late last night, after the
rest of your household had retired to rest, Miss
Lucy received ic clandestine visits of two gentlemen
; and that, from the systematic manner in
which she went to work, it is to be inferred that
she is no mere notice in such matters. In
acquainting you, thus, with her behaviour, I have
felt that I was discharging a very painful duty.
This, however, is now over, and I will spare you
the distress of any further comments. You will
see, my dear Miss Barlow, that, as far as I nwself
am concerned, only one course is open to me ? '

'And to mc too,' faltered the old lady rising, and
going towards the door, ' only one course is open !
I will call Lucy and ask her for an immediate explanation
 for an explanation which, I feel convinced,
will set all your suspicions at rest ! It is
quite impossible that she can have gone so-thoroughly
against her ovnx nature, against all
the precepts she has been educated to respect I
There must have been some deplorable mistake ! '

Now, my dear, good lady ! ' exclaimed Mr.
Podmore rising, also, and barring her advance to
the doorway with his philip white hand,  ' I

must really implore you not to create a commotion
! . . . Although I must confess that I have
but little experience in such matters, I can perfectly
well imagine the annoyance a young lady
would feel upon finding that her indiscreet behaviour,
 (to call it by no harsher name,) had
been discovered ! . . Why, neither I, nor my
poor, faithful, old Hitchens, would be able to stay in
the place ! It would be made much too hot for us ! '

And is my niece to remain under this disgraceful
imputation in order to protect you and
your servant from her very just indignation ? . . .
You have admitted that Hitchens is both deaf and
near-sighted. How easily such a person might be
mistaken as to Lucy's identity ! '

*This was, very naturally, my first notion,'
returned Mr. Podmore, sadly ;  and had you confided
your latch-keys to any other young lady, or
engaged a local fly for anybody else, there might
have been some reason for such a supposition.
As matters stand, however, I fear there is very
little room for a doubt ! '

I shall call Lucy at once ! ' said Miss Elizabeth,
turning again to the door. She spoke with
firmness, but it was evident to her visitor that she
was deeply agitated.

'Listen, my dear lady ! ' lie remonstrated. 'It's
perfectly natural that you should wish to investigate
this matter, and I can make no objection
whatsoever to your doing so, but I must bargain
for one thing ; you must permit Hitchens and
myself to get out of the way first. It would be
extremely unpleasant to us both to have to undergo
the young lady's " very just indignation,"
as you have designated it ! I am going, very
shortly, to indulge in a holiday. Hitchens will
accompany me ; we are both in want of a change.
Very possibly we may take a little trip abroad.
Please reserve your investigations, my dear lady,
until after we have departed. I don't think under
thecircumstanccs, that I am asking too much of you?'

And you propose starting  when ? '

To-morrow evening at latest ; so, I am only
asking for a very trifling postponement. I feel
sure that you will oblige me in this ? '

'Yer' well,' returned Miss Barlow, as though
consenting reluctantly; 'I will say nothing to
Lucy until the day after tomorrow, in spite of
my impatience that she should clear himself, as I
am convinced she will do, of these shocking
charges. I suppose I am at liberty to consult
with a friend in the meantime ? '

Anybody you like replied Mr. Podmore,
cheerfully, * provided that Kitchens and I can get
clear off before the young lady herself is informed
of our unfortunate discovery ! . . . Nothing remains
for me to do now, but to apologise for
having troubled you at so early an hour, and to
wish you good morning ! '

As soon as Mr. Podmore had departed, Miss
Elizabeth sank into an arm-chair like one who has
just been half stunned by a blow.

 Ah, Lucy! Lucy ! . . .' she murmured faintly,
in tones of mingled reproach, disappointment,
and distress. Then, rising slowly, as though
more than usually conscious of her burden of years,
she made her way, feebly, towards the chimney-piece,
and, after a glance at her own withered
countenance in the looking-glass, she turned to
the contemplation of one of the framed profiles in
black paper, which was hanging upon one side
of it.

The portrait upon which her gaze had become
riveted, was that of a gentleman with regular
features, as far as could be inferred from this
manner of delineation, the nose protruding to no
unnatural length, and the head seeming to be
well shaped, and carried with dignity. What

appeared to be a naval uniform of some sort, the
cocked-list being worn ' athwart sbips/ was indicated
by faint gold touches, which were made to
lend to the features, likewise, some semblance of
humanity. As far as one could judge, in fact, it
was the portrait of a good-looking man in the
prime of life.

Ah ! . . . ' murmured the old lady after she
had gazed for some time at this portrait through
spectacles which were becoming misty. * If only
she cared about some one more like Jim / . . . .
Then, I coidd forgive her anything! . . . But
the visits of two gentlemen ! . . . Loth upon the
same evening, and so late, too ! . . . and the very
first time I had allowed her to have charge of
the latch-key ! . . . Ah, Lucy, Lucy ! how can
it all be possible, and you a Barlow ! . . . I shall
send for Monsieur de la Vieilleroche,' she decided
after a while. * He is a gentleman, and a man of
the world. I will ask his advice in this matter ;
I JxiioWj I feel quite certain, that there must have
been some terrible mistake ! '

CHAPTER lY.

Upon the afternoon of this same day, Lucy, who
had been wandering about the Common like the
unquiet spirit she had now become, fell in, at the
further end of it, with Monsieur de la Vielle-roche,
on his way to obey Miss Elizabeth's summons.


The old Professor's keen, wolfish glance, and
fire-eating' expression, belied, as Lucy knew
well by this time, a tender and compassionate
heart.

This poor old Frenchman, she had come to
realize, who looked, for all the world, like a
hungry and superannuated Mephistopheles, was
possessed of a nature lamb-like in point of amiability
; he was vain, of course, because every
Frenchman is vain, but with a vanity which, like
his sensitiveness, was altogether feminine and
pathetic. His own weaknesses, plausibly excused
and accounted for by himself, had enabled him to

S}Tnpatlnze with, and excuse, the weaknesses o
his fellow-creatures. Above all, he was never
either surprised, or shocked, at anything.

Had Lucy informed him that she had just
strangled her aged relative, and deposited her
body at the parcels' office at Clapham Junction,
wrapped up in American cloth, he would have regretted,
no doubt the tragical ending of so estimable
a person, but would have searched for, and
quickly discovered, extenuating circumstances on
behalf of the doer of the deed, for, agreeing in
the Shakesperian \-iew, to the effect that

All the world's a state,
And all the men and women merely players,'

he seemed to be always prepared for the most
dramatic and startling combinations.

As for the secret meeting of a couple of lovers
in a garden at midnight, such an incident would
take rank in his mind merely amongst the ordinary
occurrences of everyday life. Lovers who
had never thus met in star-lit gardens, and star-lit
gardens which had never thus received the visits
of lovers, had left unfulfilled an important part
of their appointed mission !

This is the stuff of which a confidant, to be of
any comfort at all, ought to be made. Let the

man who aspires to the post of professional  guide,
philosopher, and friend,* only endue himself with
this patient spirit of toleration, with no listings
of astonished eyebrows, and he will have the
whole parish flocking to him to confess its sins !

During the leisurely walk back to Barlow
Lodge, Lucy confided to her old friend,  making
only some few reservations of trifling importance,
 the events of the previous evening. How,
after Lord Belmorris had escorted her home,
Anthony Hepburn had suddenly emerged from
the gateway of ' The Aspens,' and how they had
met and talked together in the garden.

In some mysterious manner, how, Lucy knew
not, as yet, the old Professor had become associated
with Mrs. Van Buren and her child. He
was acquainted with Anthony Hepburn, too, and
had travelled with him, years ago. What was the
meaning of this incongruous confederation ? . . .
Surely the moment had come for the clearing up
of enigmas ? . . . .  Tell me,' she pleaded
earnestly, *I have a right to know. Why is
Anthony Hepburn under such obligations to this
woman ? . . . Why, if he does not care for her
is he so bound and tied to her ? . . . Why can't
shee told the truth?'

As you says,' returned the old man gravely,  it
is time, in all conscience, that you shoidd know !
To begin, then, with the obligations; Primo ; this
lady was the means once of saving the Colonel's
life. It occurred in this wa'. When he was with
his regiment in India, he obtained leave of absence
in order to go upon a shooting expedition ; a thing
your Englishman delights in. He was accompanied
by a friend, a young comrade named Spar-short,
who had but lately joined, and by a large
retinue of native servants ; shikaris, coolies, black
men who collect in the train of the hunter, as
jackals follow in the track of the lion. Upon
one occasion, during a long day's chase, our young
friend, for at this time he was not more than two
or three and twenty, became separated from his
companion. He encamped for the night, alone,
upon the borders of a forest, some of his attendants
disposing themselves by the banks of a
river close by, for the hunters were making their
way partly by boat. In the middle of the night,
he was awakened by a commotion outside his tent.
Poising from his sleep, he imprudently went out,
unarmed, to discover its cause, when he was set
upon, furiously, b}' some half dozen pariah dogs,
enormous yellow animals, more to be dreaded than

wolves, which had been attracted to the place by
some remains of provisions. He called to bis attendants
to bring bim bis guns. Tbey ran to ibis
assistance in all baste, dispersing the dogs with
oars and boat-books. Tbey were, however, not intime
to prevent our hunter from being terribly
mangled about the right arm.'

'The right arm?' Lucy repeated,  the remembrance
of a murderous-looking scar upon a
certain manly wrist, recurring to her mind. * Has
be the mark of this still ? '

Ah ! . So you have seen the mark ? . . .
Yes ; be will carry that scar with bim to his
grave,  and for this reason,  the native doctor
who cauterized the wound, burnt, by some unpardonable
blunder, entirely through the principal
artery. Next day, our friend finds himself, 
many miles distant from any civilised town, 
bleeding, apparently, to death, through the ignorance
of this charlatan. Shikaris, coolies,  the
rabble of attendant jackals,  stood round him
helplessly, awaiting the death of the lion. His
favourite native servant bent down his ear to
catch his last dying depositions,  pressing his
thumb, meanwhile, upon the wound, in order to
arrest the flow of blood. Our young hunter was

fast sinking from exhaustion,  another moment,
and he lost all consciousness of his situation

Ah, don't tell me about it ! ' cried Lucy,
turning pale ; * it's too terrible ! '

I will pass over, then, the moment of his
extreme danger. When he regained his senses,
he found himself established comfortably in a
luxurious bungalow. His arm had been bound
up, and attended to, by an English doctor. Stimulants
were administered, and, an excellent constitution
coming to his assistance, he was restored
to life.

A woman,  young, elegant, and handsome, 
was seated at his bedside, and he soon learnt that
he was an inmate of her husband's bungalow, 
the country residence, in other words, where he,
a Bombay judge,  was accustomed to spend his
vacation. This woman, who nursed our young
friend through a long: and troublesome convalescence,
was Leonie Van Buren. jNow we have
disposed of obligation the first ! '

During the whole of this narrative, Lucy had
felt chill and faint at heart. For the time, it
seemed as if all that lent her warmth and animation
had become arrested. Jealousy,  to some
sensitive natures, even Avhen it is retrospective, 

is a real physical agony. I can imagine cases
where it might kill outright, as certainly as
poisoned draught or assassin's dagger.

'WTi} had this woman (Lucy thought miserably)
obtained,  through a mere accident,  a
perpetual claim to Anthony Hepburn's gratitude,
whilst she,  Lucy,  had never been able to render
him the slightest service ? . . . Imagination
(which, taken as a whole, may be looked upon
as a somewhat doubtful blessing), seemed to make
her at once familiar with every circumstance of
what the old Frenchman had spoken of as Anthony's
* troublesome convalescence.' . . . 'Troublesome
' to ichotn,  in the name of Heaven ? . . .
To Mr. Yan Buren, perhaps, the husband of this
too fortunate woman, who may have chafed,
possibly, under a sense of neglect, whilst his wife,
' young, elegant, and handsome '  was ministering
to the requirements of the interesting
stranger ! . . . Alas ! it was more than probable,
that,  to the principal actors in this romantic
drama,  the * convalescence ' had seemed anything
but * troublesome ! ' . . . There must have
been so many tender, emotional, never-to-be-forgotten
episodes connected with this time, 
memories of which were lingering still in Antliony

Hepburn's mind. . Oh ! for some magic
spell which-would compel him to lose all trace of
this past adventure ! . . . Oh, that he might
forget it as utterly and entirely as if it had never
been ! . . .

Mingling with all these miserable thoughts,
there arose a poignant and irrepressible regret, 
a regret which, to anybody unacquainted with
the intricacies of the female heart,  might have
seemed incongruous. Anthony, as the Professor
had observed, was possessed of an excellent constitution.
Very possibly,  (and surely, in this,
there shoidd have been matter for extreme thankfulness
?)  he might never again be stricken down
and disabled b} serious illness. A matter for
extreme thankfulness, of course, but then, Mrs.
Tan Buren would have enjoyed an absolute monopoly
of nursing, and in this thought there
lurked an extreme bitterness !

The worst of men, generally,  (when looked
at from the tender, ministering, maternal, point
of view),  is, that they are so terribly stalwart
and self-reliant. And yet, when they are, by
nature, feeble and valetudinarian, they seem to bo
even ' poorer creatures ' than women. But a
strong man stricken down and disabled by temporary

illness !  (by an accident, or a wound,  an
illness, of course,  from which he is quite certain
to recover),  who is made to feel,  for once,  his
dependence upon the frailer and more submissive
nature ;  a strong man tamed and humbled for
the time being;  who has to be watched, and
dressed, and combed, and fed, just like a baby ; 
who cannot even walk without the aid of woman's
weaker arm, and who may be read to, and sung
to, and amused in a dozen different ways;  this
is an ideal which must have been hugged and
cherished in many a loving female breast!

The voice of the old Marquis recalled Lucy
to the present : 

Obligation number two,' he remarked, continuing
his narrative, * is more difficult to explain
to a young lady like yourself. I will, however,
try to convey some idea of it. Our young friend
is recovered. He bids farewell to his host and
hostess, and rejoins his regiment. All would
have been well if things had finished here, but
Destiny had ordained differently. At a grand
entertainment given,  some months later,  by
one of your Resident Governors,  he remarks a
lady radiant, surrounded by adorers, arrayed in
the height of the fashion. He recognises, at once,

his benefactress,  the person to whom he is
indebted, maybe, for his very existence. It is
the wife of Van Buren the judge, who succoured
him at the moment of his extremest need. What
reward is this woman to have? . . .'

'I should say,' exclaimed Lucy vehemently,
that it was but a poor reward to take away her
affections from her husband ! . . . Ah, how could
he do it ? . . . Look what misery it has brought !
If he did not consider her husband, he ought
to have thought of her child.'

Love, jealousy, humiliation,  together with
an irrepressible sense of wrong,  had gone far
towards revolutionizing Lucy's usually gentle
nature, and, for the moment, those fiercer elements
which had contributed towards her composition
assumed the ascendency. To nobody,
however, save to this faithful and partial old
friend,  ever ready with his palliative specifics,
could she have brought herself to acknowledge
that Anthony Hepburn had ever deliberately
erred. And in the present instance, she experienced
such an eager craving for the Professor's
justifications, that she was willing to invite them
by her reproaches.

As she hoped and expected. Monsieur de la

VOL. IIL E

Yieilleroclie took up the cudgels at once for Ms
absent friend.

It was no question he said, * of taking away
affections from a husband. Van Buren and his wife
were already sufficiently estranged. More openly
so, in fact, than is the case with the generality
of Anglo-Indian couples,  and, at this time, the
lady did not possess a child. There appears to
be something in the atmosphere of India, which,
like my own beloved Paris,  produces upon
most English ladies an effect Which is little short
of demoralizing. Is it,  one asks one's self, 
because you are more spoilt and complimented
than you are at home ? and is it that this does
not agree with the English temperament? . . .
I know not ! What is there in Paris, likewise, 
that enchanting capital !  which so utterly transforms
your women ? . . . I intend it as a compliment,
 you may be sure,  when I say that by
a residence in Paris, you English ladies generally
gain nothing. You return to your own land
having lost many of your own graces, without
having acquired any of ours, Nowhere, in fact,
are you English ladies so charming as you are at
home ! . . . What Leonie Yan Buren may have
been previous to her residence abroad, I know

not. At the time of her meeting with our friend,
she was a woman who,  in a very young man, 
might possibly awaken admiration ; but who was
utterly incapable of retaining affection. Yan
Buren, who had been married to her some four
or five years, would have strangled her willingly',
could he have escaped detection ;  a frame of
mind at which, it is my belief, her young admirer
might have arrived not long afterwards, had he
not been a man of a more chivalrous and forbearing
nature !

Your Englishman, when he selects a female
companion, prefers one who has some attachment
to home-life ;  who will open her workbox, seat
herself at the table close to a candle, and begin
to mend something,  so much the better if it is
something that he has torn himself ! . . . But
Leonie Yan Buren was not a person of this sort.
Consumed by an intense vanity, she delighted in
all that was melodramatic and sensational,  in all
that woidd bring her face, or her name, before
the public,  and she preferred to be spoken ill of,
than not to be mentioned at all. This woman,
then, who is so publicly remarked, admired, condemned,
 whose name is in every mouth,  who
entertains with hospitality,  (for the Yan Burns

were in affluent circumstances, and their country
Residence was not far from where Anthony was
then stationed)  and of whom all other women,
of course, are furiously jealous ;  honours With a
decided preference this young English officer,
with whom she became first acquainted under
such romantic circumstances.

The institution of " cavalier e mr vented  it
would seem,  exists in India as well as in Italy,
and when a lady openly makes known to a young
man that he may aspire to this situation,  a first
stepping-stone, it may be, to more tender relations,
 his position is extremely difficult. If he
accepts the flattering invitation, his comrades are
made jealous by his success,  his conduct is condemned
by all persons of severe morals,  he runs
a risk of becoming permanently entangled, and
of incurring the displeasure and vengeance of the
lady's husband. If, on the other hand, he avoids
profiting by his good fortune, he is ridiculed by
his comrades as an "imbecile,"  the persons of
severe morals (secretly) do not esteem him one
bit the more, for he has defrauded them of the
excitement of an expected scandal,  and last, but
not least, he incurs the displeasure and possible
vengeance of the lady herself. Without reflecting,

probably, upon any of the consequences
which might follow, Anthony,  young, adventurous,
and impulsive, caring at that time for no
other women,  accepted the invitation at once.
The pretended jealousy of the lady's husband
(for, from what I have heard, I am convinced
that it was only assumed),  was the means of
bringing affairs to a crisis. Exasperated by the
caprices and extravagances of his wife. Van
Buren, a coarse, brutal, and unscrupulous man,
perceived that the marked attentions of this
young officer might furnish him with a means
of getting rid of her. "With this object, he permitted
them to be much together, whilst he rendered
himself more than usually odious to his
wife by his violence. No doubt, his intention
was to drive her to elope with her admirer. Our
young friend, during his frequent visits to the
Van Eurcns', became the witness of many painful
matrimonial disputes, in all of which, as in duty
bound, he very naturally sided with the lady.
He is, as you must know, kind and considerate to
all women. The thought that a man could permit
himself to swear at his wife,  to strike her, even,
awakened his fiercest indignation. It awakened
also other sentiments,  sentiments of interest and

obligation. By acting in accordance with, this
laches's flattering wishes, he had seriously compromised
her character, and brought misery to
her home. For his sake, she was subjected to
insult and ill-treatment,  what a situation for a
young man of heart ! Here, then, was obligation
the second.'

Oh, why, why, didn't he go away ? ' exclaimed
Lucy, who was now pale and haggard
with emotion. ' Oh, if he had only left the
place ! '

'This was the very idea that occurred to him,
but Fate was not to be cheated thus. Unfortunately,
obligation the third followed as soon as
was possible upon the track of obligation the
second. Our young friend withdraws himself
from the society of the syren, saying that he will
no longer continue to sow the seeds of dissension
in her home. An excellent pretext is furnished
him, as his regiment is, just then, transferred to
other quarters. So far, so good ! He cannot,
however, deny to this lady,  to whom he has
done so much, harm already,  the consolation of
letters. They correspond, therefore, and one of
these letters,  from Madame to our young friend,
is intercepted by the husband. It is in the

highest degree compromising,  admitting of only
one interpretation. In consequence of what he
had read, Van Buren repudiates the baby, who
has not been Yere long in existence, and commences
proceedings for a divorce. Anthony,
who has again started upon a hunting excursion,
does not hear of all this until some time afterwards,
and by the same messenger a telegram is
put into his hand informing him of the serious
illness of the mother whom he adores, and begging
him to return to England at once. Conscious that
his departure, just at this crisis, might be misconstrued,
he wrote to Mrs. Yan Buren in explanation,
enclosing the telegram he had just received,
and started as soon as was possible for Bombay,
where, before embarking, he confided his affairs to
the care of an experienced lawyer. Upon setting
foot on the steamer, however, the very first persons
he encountered were Madame, her child, and her
faithful ayah, Eajama, bound also for England.
The husband had found it would be impossible for
him to obtain a divorce, in consequence of certain
well-known facts connected with his own conduct,
but he had refused any longer to support either
his wife or her little girl. The doors of her
home were closed against her, and she threw

herself, henceforward, upon Antliony Hepburn's
protection. Our young friend, as you may imagine,
had, perhaps, not quite bargained for this,
but he coidd only act, in such circumstances, like
a man of honour. For the first time, the seriousness
of his situation was revealed to him. Immediately
upon his arrival in London, he held a
consultation with me,  his old friend, and former
instructor. Mrs. Yan Buren,  violent and excited
by what she considered her wrongs,  was
for bringing before the notice of the public the
brutality of her husband,  his injustice in retaining
possession of her private belongings,  for
the restitution of which she threatened that she
would go to law. Anthony, who had not a
moment to spare, having that very evening to
take the train for the north, left me to pacify
her as best I could, and, fearful lest some breath
of this scandal should embitter the last moments
of his suffering mother, he purchased her silence,
unknown to me, by signing the promise of which
she noah demands the fulfilment. His good
mother, happily, passed away in total ignorance
of her son's Indian escapade ; and then we behold
him,  young, rich, attractive,  possessing, in a
word, everything that can render existence agreeable,

burdened already WT[tli the cares of a family,
and bound in honour to a woman older than himself,
whom he cannot really love. The affection,
however, which he was unable to bestow upon the
mother, descended,  although in a different form,
upon her child. You have seen and spoken to
this child, who should rather be described as a
little angel. You can imagine,  can you not, 
that seeing her often, and, being, as he then was,
lonely, for the first time, in his country-home,
Anthony should feel his affection centring upon
this beautiful child ? '

But Lucy was, by this time, very nearly
speechless. All the agonizing emotions which
such a revelation could not fail to awaken in a
tender and susceptible nature, came crowding
upon her with overwhelming force. It seemed to
her of but little moment, in comparison with the
rest, whether Anthony Hepburn was, or was not,
attached to Mrs. Van Buren's child !

Go on,' was all that she was able to reply to
the old man's question; *tell me what this promise
really was which she made him sign.'

They were not very far now from the gate of
Miss Elizabeth's dwelling, and she was impatient
to hear on to the bitter end.

CHAPTEE y.

He made her a solemn promise, in writing
answered the Professor, ' that, provided she
would do nothing to create a public scandal, he
would make a permanent settlement upon herself
and her child, and would himself remain unmarried
for the space of ten years, and that if,
before this period had expired, he found himself
in a position to make her his wife without the
disgrace and exposure of a divorce, he would hold
himself in readiness to do so. As, however, it
was of some importance that he should marry
eventually, and as he realised already that sentiments
of this kind are liable to change with the
years, he did not feel obliged to bind himself
indefinitely, and he begged that the lady herself
would feel at liberty to make any changes she
thought fit in her mode of life. He reserved to
himself, however, in such a case, the sole guardianship
of the little girl. Had our friend known, at

this time, for certain, that his mother-would die
so soon, this fatal paper would never have been inexistence
at all. But he dreaded that, in the
event of her recover', she should be distressed by
hearing of his misdoings, and his chief desire was
to temporise. At the moment of his meeting with
you, my dear young lad", the years of his probation
were gradually drawing to a close. To him
they had not been happy ones, and a prisoner of
the Bastille could scarcely have longed more
ardently for liberty than he did. 'With the
view of preparing for his emancipation, he now
saw but little of sirs. Van Buren, excusing himself
on the surround that he was immersed in military
affairs, and in the cares of his estate; and
visiting the child,  the only object at this time
of his affection, when I had informed him that
the mother was from home. They met occasionally,
as a matter of course, but I could see that
his visits to " The Aspens " were never happy
ones, dictated by duty rather than affection, and
that he left the house with feelings of relief. It
was my old friend Benvenuto Rossi, painter,
poet, musician, I may add indeed, " almost universal
genius," who, upon one of the occasions
when he happened to be my guest, perceived that

the desirable villa-residence, " The Aspens," was
to be let upon lease,  just as Colonel Hepburn
was seeking for a house in the neighbourhood of
London. It was taken at once, for the lady and
her little girl, and, as it had the advantage of
being near the place at which I was residing, I was
enabled to attend to their interests, and furnish
our friend with occasional news of them.'

 Oh, would to Heaven that you had taken a
house for her somewhere else ! ' interrupted Luc}
passionately ; ' thousands of miles away from this
place ! What a terrible coincidence that she and
I should live next door to one another ! '

You are mistaken, my child,' returned the
Professor tenth'. 'In your living in the next
house to this lady there is no coincidence whatever.
One is obliged to live next door to somebody
! The strange fatality consisted in your
getting into the same railway compartment with
the man who had once been her favoured admirer,
and who probably would never have visited
this iDlace if she had not been established here.
But for her, you might never have made his
acquaintance.'

Lucy had it upon her quivering lips to
exclaim that she would have been only too

thankful to have escaped this fatal acquaintance,
Which had so disturbed the placid current of her
life. Something, however, restrained the reckless
words. Had the fruit of the tree of such
knowledge as she had gained, been, then, so
utterly without sweetness ?  and to whose magic
influence was any such sweetness due ? Xo ; she
would not behave like those savages who beat and
abuse their idols, when things do not turn out
exactly to their mind !

The thing that first started these distressing
complications,' the Professor went on ; ' was the
bite of that accursed pariah dog. How little do
we know, when these events happen, what is to
come of them ! The next misfortune is, that Van
Buren, a greedy man, of a full habit of body,
should over-eat himself, and succumb to an
apoplexy, just three days before the expiration
of the ten years. A thousand maledictions upon
the cook who prepared for him that tempting
meal ! '

And just before he heard of this death did
he fancy that he was free ? *

She was thinking of his words in the library
at Falconborough Park, when he had answered
her question so earnestly, and with such apparent

truth, saying  ' I love no one but you
and of the grateful and tender expression which
had come into his eyes as he spoke, as though
some heavy burden had, at last, been taken
from him. Surely he must have believed that he
was a free man then?

He believed it indeed,' answered the old
Frenchman ; ' for the ten years were gone by,
and he was commencing to make projects for
the future about which he had hardly dared to
think till then. (All this he has told me since.)
He feared to seem unkind by acting with too
much precipitation, but he was impatient, as
every man must be when he is in love. Then
came this intelligence like a thunder-bolt. He
did not, however, at once lose hope. He
came up to London that very day, to try
and arrange matters. He sent for me to
meet him and dine with him at his club. I
did so. He has a face which easily betrays
emotion, and I perceived, at once, that there
was something amiss.

'" The child is not ill?" I asked, ignoring,
at this time, that there was another being who
was still dearer to him. I had not been for two
days to '' The Aspens," and I feared that if any

misfortune had happened there, he might have
thought me neglectful.

" Xot that I know of' he answered me ;
*but Yan Buren has just died of an apoplexy
in India."

" Ah ! " . . . said I, not dreaming, of course,
of the worst ; " and so he has died just after the
critical moment, when the ten years have, at
last, gone by ! "

" They have gone by now," replied he, sadly,
*but they had not elapsed at the moment of
his death. It wanted just three days to the
time." '

" Malediction ! . . . . but we must triumph
over this confrctoups somehow ! . . . . There is
a difference between English and Indian time ? "

" There is," he answered ; '' but I require
more difference than exists to make things come
right."

"But surely," said I, 'you will not adhere
to a promise extorted from you milder such conditions
? "

*"A promise is a promise," he answered;
but I am going tomorrow morning to try and
get off it."

But if it should not suit her to free you ?

Surely you will not embitter the happiness of
two lives for the sake of an exaggerated demonstration
of honour? Madame and you
cannot agree together for an hour. How are you
to exist together after you are married ? "

" Oh, there would be no question of * agreeing
" he replied, decidedly. " I should bid farewell
to her at the church door ! It has been done
before. The case would not be exceptional ! ''

" "What ! just after you had sworn to love, to
comfort, and to honour her? To forsake all
others and keep only to her ? " I exclaimed,
quoting from your marriage ceremony. " These
are promises, I assume, which every husband is
prepared to break!"

'' I am afraid that / might break them," he
answered, " situated as I should be then."

"Situated as you find yourself noic, said I;
for I am a regular old Jesuit, who will do evil,
always, so long as good can come of it ! " and
having made up jovir mind that you must be
false to one promise, why not make a wiser
selection, and break the first in order that you
may keep the second to some one whose charms
and virtues will help you to be a true husband ? "
And then, by the look which came into his face

as I spoke, I perceived that Mrs. Van Buren
possessed a rival ! '

'And lie came down here next morning to
try to get himself freed?'

Yes ; if it had not been so late he would
have gone that very night. " Perhaps," said I,
seeing his melancholy expression when we parted,
"Yan Buren may not be really dead. Why
should a man who is scarcely fifty years old
expire of an apoplexy ? It must have been
owing to some gross mismanagement of his
doctor ! Why was it that they did not have
him bled ? "

*"Itis the age at which Englishmen die of
an apoplexy in India," he answered, sorrowfully,
and so he left me for the night.'

But you saw him again soon afterwards ? '

Yes ; upon the following evening, just as I
was about to retire to rest, there came a knock at
my door. The Colonel was there, looking pale
and miserable, like a broken man. " For Gods
sake, de la Yieilleroche," he said ; " see if you
can't help me somehow ! " Then we sat down
and discussed the situation.'

'Ah, of course, she would not let him off
his promise ! '

VOL. IIL F

*0f course not; but that is not the worst
of it. She made him another promise herself.'

Another promise ? '

Yes ; suspecting  as I suspected  the existence
of a rival, she vowed to him most solemnly,
that, in the event of his contemplating marriage
with anyone but herself, she would do some
deadly injury to his intended wife, and then
poison both herself and the child. Our friend
tried to dissemble his alarm at this terrible
declaration ; but I could see that it had affected
him deeply. " Of course," he said, 'rit is only
the meaningless threat of an angry woman.
She can have no serious intention of the kind."
He seemed to await my answer with anxiety.'

But you thought as he thought,' interrupted
Lucy, ' that it was only an angry threat ?
Surely no woman could really do anything so
horrible ? '

There are many kinds of women in the
world, my dear Miss Lucy ; and, of most of them,
it is easy enough to predict how they will behave.
We know when they are in earnest, and when
they speak merely for effect. We know that
though their words may be terrible, they would
shrink from the commission of terrible deeds-but

this woman is different. She possesses, it is
true, a certain amount of good nature, and hasher
moments of generous impulse. But she
adores all that is sensational, extravagant, out of
the ordinary run. She is tired to death of her
obscurity, and longs to electrify' the world by
performing the first role in something  comedy
or tragedy  I do not think it would matter to
her which ; she is devoid of all moral sense ; she
does not know either shame or fear; whilst so
great is her personal vanity, that I think she
would almost prefer to have her head cut off than
that it should not be looked at at all ! ** My poor
friend," I said, addressing the Colonel and taking
his hand, " you must be carotid how you behave
in this important crisis ! Do not subject yourself
to a life-long remorse by hurrying on events to a
tragic conclusion ! Above all, do not altogether
make light of these extravagant menaces.
Leonie Yan Buren is of the material of which
great criminals are made ! " After this he could
no longer conceal his alarm, and then transpired
what I had suspected all along. His affections
were engaged elsewhere. No name was mentioned,
and it was only from your words, not long afterwards,
that I discovered the whole truth.'

And did lie say that lie really cared for somebody
else ? * asked Lucy, eagerly.

From his manner I perceived that he '' really
cared," but he is not a person who says much
upon the subject of his own feelings. " As you
value her safety," I said to him (little guessing,
at the moment, to whom I was making allusion),
do not allow her name, or the place where she
is living, to transpire ! Visit her with the
greatest precaution ; be discreet upon the subject
of letters. Madame may possibly make use of a
detective. I have met a stranger lately at the
house." '

Oh, I see now why he was afraid to come and
see me ! ' cried Lucy ; ' why I have had so few
letters ! . . . . But I have no fears myself ! . . .
What harm could this woman possibly do me ? '

 Into that it is useless to inquire ; suffice it to
say, that I know of a case of this kind, when a
catastrophe actually took place. The betrothed
husband of the person sacrificed never recovered
from the shock. Colonel Hepburn was deeply
moved by my narration of this episode. *rit
would be far juster," he said, as I let him out of
my house, " if she would be content to wreak her
vengeance upon me ! I'm the one that deserves

it ; and, on my word of honour, I do not care
one rush for my life ! " '

Lucy shuddered involuntarily.

Oh, no, no ! ' she exclaimed ; * let me be the
one to suffer ! '

Now we arrive at the culmination of tragedy ! '
said the Marquis, smiling ; ' two people, young,
beautiful, well off, and with excellent constitutions,
and yet desiring, purely from motives of
sentiment, to have done with existence ! Those
Who have endured more material privations and
sufferings, woidd scarcely believe in it ! '

A year ago, I might not have believed in it
myself,' Lucy answered with a sigh. * People
often don't believe in a great many true things ! '

About the time of the announcement in the
newspaper,' Monsieur de la Yieilleroche went onto
the effect that our friend and Mrs. Van Buren
were to be married, I discovered  as you know 
who was the real object of his affections ; a young
person,' said the old man, pressing Lucy's arm
affectionately, ' with whom I have been in love fora
very long time myself! With regard to the
announcement in question, the Colonel had certainly
no hand in it. Madame, also, protests her
innocence. It is one of those things that, upon

especial occasions fall down from the clouds ! . . .
Now I have told you all ! '

You'fhave' kept nothing back ? nothing that
I may find out some day ?'

Not willingly ; all depends upon how much
you have understood. Do not suppose that I have
been abusing confidence. 'have you told her
all?" I inquired of the Colonel only upon the
occasion of our last meeting. '' I dare not tell
her !" he answered. "Do it for me, some day, if
you can ; " for, by this time, he was aware that I
had discovered the object of his love. Do not,
either, think too hardly of him, I pray you !
Your heroes of romance must not be too immaculate,
or your romance will be a dull one ! Our
friend has his share of human defects, but they
are those of a generous and impulsive nature, and
he has paid for them dearly. Remember, he did
not start in life with very severe or ascetic notions.
He was rather a "Lancelot " than a " Galahad."
Your poet-laureate,  accounted a pure writer, 
has told the same story before, and I have myself
seen young English ladies reading it. It cannot,
therefore, be devoid of a salutary moral.'

Yes ; many young English ladies had read
and sighed over this pathetic idyll ; one of them

had read it with very particular attention ! ' Head
over again the one called " Elaine," ' Anthony
had said to Lucy in the picture-gallery at Falcon-borough
Park,  ' there are some lines in it which
may tell you more than I am able,  more than I
dare to explain ;' and needless to say that since
that time she had read through the poem in
question continually. But now, immediately upon
her return home, she would read it through yet
again. With eyes enlightened by this further
knowledge, she might be able to discover the very
lines to which Anthony had alluded ! . . .

It was strange, now, she thought, that the
Professor should liken him to Lancelot, when,
upon the occasion of her very first meeting with
him she had instinctively associated him, in her
mind, with Arthur's greatest knight : 

. . . . the darling of the court,
Loved of the loveliest.'

And, seeing that she had, at this time, formed no
conception of Lancelot's * outward man,' this
notion could only have been inspired by some
subtle moral resemblance, made manifest to herby
way of warning !

But set, she said to herself, he is ' Lancelot '
with a difference,  his love being no longer given

to the woman who was once his Queen. Thank
heaven for this, at any rate ! And yet, what
might not this other woman be suffering now, by
reason of his change of heart ? . . .

The picture of the *Lily maid of Stoat'
floating down the river in her barge : 
Pall'd all its length in blackest samite

rose up vividly before her mind ;

In her right hand the lily,  in her left
The letter.'

Might it not be better and happier for everybody,
Lucy asked herself, if she could triumph
thus quietly over all this darkness and desolation ?
Like Elaine in the poem, ' Him or death ' was the
cry that came forth from her aching and despairing
heart,

Now, then, you know everything,' said Monsieur
de la Vieilleroche as they drew near to the
door of Barlow Lodge. 'You comprehend the
danger and delicacy of our friend's position?'

I think I understand it,' she answered faintly.

And you understand, also, his anxiety whenever
he hears that the little girl is not feeling
well?'

Yes ; he may be afraid her mother may have
given her poison ! '

'And you-understand why he, of all people,
should feel hound to protect her from any such
misfortune ?'

Yes ; he would fancy that it all came about
by his fault.'

]Now, then, for the concluding exhortation.
Let your charitable feeling towards the actors in
this unfortunate drama extend even as far as
that ;' and he pointed with his stick in the
direction of Mrs. Van Buren's abode. ' She and
I have had terrible pitched battles together inside
those walls, and yet, I cannot say that she has not
her wrongs, or that I can consider her in the
light of an enemy ! What I have said of her to
you, has been for your ears alone. You have
heard, perhaps, Corneille's celebrated verses upon
Richelieu ?

Icon parle mal ou hen dufameux Cardinal,
Ni ma prose ni mes vers nen diront jamais rien,
II m' a fait trop) de bie7i jour en dire du mal ;
II mei fait trop de mal pour en dire du hens''

Change merely the name, and the sex, and these
are my sentiments with respect to Leonie Yan
Buren !'

 Leonie? repeated Lucy, possessed by a new

and sickening suspicion. 'Then her Christian
name begins with the letter " L ' like mine ? '

The memory of those blissful moments passed
with Anthony in the shadowy cloisters at Hampton
Court Palace, recurred vividly to her mind, whence,
indeed, they could never be entirely effaced. She
recalled the quick start he had given when she
had alluded,  inspired by unwonted boldness, 
to the letter tattooed upon his arm, and then, his
careless explanation, to the effect that he had
been branded thus in order to please * a fellow in
the regiment,' who prided himself upon his
tattooing skill, leo doubt this ' fellow's ' hand
may have been responsible for the actual tracing
out and puncturing of the letter, which must seem
now like an indelible stigma, but by whose will
had that hand been directed ?

How many years does it take for the marks of
tattooing to wear out ?' she inquired of the old Frenchman,
in a voice hardened and altered by misery.

He divined her meaning at once.

They can never come out of themselves,' he
answered ; * and to cut them out, besides making
a deeper disfigurement, would be painful, even
dangerous. 'No ; he must carry that letter with
him to his grave ! '

Ah, then the past can never be quite wiped
out I'

nobody's past can ever be entirely effaced
returned the old Professor. ' He is happy if that
letter is all that remains of it ! ' and they went
together into the house.

The afternoon sun, as though in mockery, was
shining through the staircase window as they
entered the hall, and Sarah, perceiving this, drew
down the great genealogical Barlow blind with an
energetic 'whirr ! ' so that, as constantly happened,
Lucy could not help beholding, on her way upstairs,
her own particular lozenge, linked irrevocably
to the phantom shield.

Maidenhood ? Widowhood ? Desolation ? . .
Of what might not this blank escutcheon be
possibly the symbol ? Might there not have been,
after all, something ominous and prophetic in
Benvenuto Eossi's flattering conceit ? . . .

Upon reaching her bedroom, Lucy went at
once to her book shelf and took down her ' Idylls
of the King,' turned to 'the one called Elaine,'
opened it midway,  in ' sortes VirrjiUancB ' fashion,
closing her eyes, and placing her forefinger
upon the centre of the right-hand page.

Upon looking at the place, she perceived that

her finger was pointing to where it is thus
written : 

The shackles of an old love straiten'd him,
His honour rooted in dishonour stood,
And faith unfaithful kept him falsely true.'

!N'o wonder that, at her first meeting with him,
Anthony Hepburn had become associated in her
mind with * Sir Lancelot du Lake ! '

CHAPTEE VI.

The foregoing mention of Benvenuto Rossi and
his blind reminds me of an incident wHcIl
occurred shortly before the conversation I have
just recorded ; for, although it may seem to be of
little moment, its effect upon some of the personages
concerned in this story obliges me to
relate it.

It was the sixtieth birthday, then, of this
same Benvenuto Rossi,  ' painter, poet, musician,
almost universal genius,' as the old Professor had
declared,  and the two friends, in order to celebrate
the occasion, had dined together with more
prodigality than was their wont at a restaurant
in the vicinity of Leicester Square, after which
they had arranged to commit a still greater extravagance,
 that of attending, for the first time
for many years, the Italian Opera.

Achille de la Vieilleroche and Benvenuto
Rossi had been the victims of too many sad vicissitudes

for them ever to experience, uow, what is
called ' le via gal ' circulating in their shrunken
veins, no matter how generous had been the
evening's repast. Their ' after-dinner mood 
whenever they had partaken of what might be
styled by courtesy a ' dinner ' at all,  was, as a
rule, sombre, cynical, and censorious ; relieved,
from time to time, perhaps, by a quivering about
the lips or a mistiness about the pi)fcc-nez, as some
memory arose connected with man's ingratitude
or woman's folly. The bottle of light Burgundy
which the two friends had consumed upon this
particular evening, had not produced a more than
usually exhilarating effect. Upon first entering
the Opera-house, they experienced chiefly an uncomfortable
feeling of self consciousness, and a
sense of doing something unusual, and perhaps
foolish. These sensations, however, they endeavoured
to dissemble by the assumption of a
somewhat arrogant and tigerish demeanour ; and
after haughtily declining to remove their overcoats,
 from a want of confidence, perhaps, in the
garments they served to conceal,  and glaring
defiantly at the occupants of the adjacent places,
thej settled themselves with superb dignity in
their eight-and-sixpenny seats.

There is no occasion to describe a scene which
must be so familiar to m} readers as the interior
of a London Opera-bouse. Suffice it to say, that
Faust ' was the opera about to be jDerf formed,
with Patti as Marguerite. A Frenchman's opera,
with an Italian prima donna,  the entertainment
promised, consequently, to be of equal national
interest to the two friends.

Benvenuto Rossi, without possessing exactly
what his countryman has termed the ' dono infeJice
di hellczza,' might certainly have been described
as a good-looking man for his years. He was
neither so tall, nor of so commanding a presence,
as his companion, nor did he pretend to any such
illustrious associations ; his forefathers having
been, for the most part, artistic rather than
aristocratic. To hear him talk, indeed, one would
have thought that all such accidents of birth as
are usually accounted fortunate, appeared to him
to be both vain and contemptible ; and it is
possible that, had the old French Marquis
derived any material benefit from the possession
of his ancestral appanages, Benvenuto Eossi
might not have condescended to remain his
friend.

He had fine dark eyes, grey hair, a broad

brow, and a warm Southern complexion, with a
firm Napoleonic chin  a little bluer, perhaps 
than it would have been, could he have had
access, as of old, and at as cheap a rate, to the
barber of his native village. A face, in fact,
which must have been almost handsome in youth,
but which, with increasing age, might possibly-degenerate
into commonness, and a figure which,
but for his straitened circumstances, might have
become fat and clumsy.

De la Vieilleroche, who generally assumed
towards this * almost universal genius ' somewhat
the attitude of a patron, whilst treating him withall
the cordiality of a friend, was the entertainer
of the evening. It seemed, therefore, to be only
right and proper, if merely with the object of
depreciating the value of his own beneficence,
and lessening, in consequence, E-ossi's burden of
obligation, that he should let loose upon his
immediate surroundings what Charles Lamb has
termed * the accursed critical spirit  the being
called upon to judge and pronounce'  which
burns more fiercely in the Gallic breast than in
that of the plethoric though splenetic Briton.

I suppose that, occasionally, in his own
country, a Frenchman must see something

worthy of being admired  a picture, a woman,
a well-clipped poodle. Here, however, the same
objects will rarely awaken his enthusiasm, whilst
upon our manners, and our institutions, he vents,
generally, his supreme and bitterest contempt ;
pouring out upon them what we must speak of
for the future vide the Refused Version of the
Scriptures) as the ' ho its ' of his wrath  a more
appropriate expression, in this case, than the
more familiar one ; for I take it that a  bowl '
will hold very nearly three times as much
wrath as a ' vial' May the wrath of others, then,
if there is as much difference, as I fancy, between
the sizes of the two vessels, alway's descend upon
us in * old stjde,' whilst, like the countryman who
preferred his whisky ' in a mug,' we measure
out our own according to the newer reading . . .
Eut this is a digression.

The nil adniirari spirit on the part of the
French, to which I was alluding, is probably
merely the remains of a very excusable national
jealousy. Words of praise and commendation
may rise here,  as elsewhere, to the very  gates
of speech,'  when the remembrance of Cressy,
Poictiers, Agincourt, of the six burgesses of
Calais, kneeling barefoot, in their halters; of

VOL. III. G

Blenheim, of Waterloo, and of the harsh treatment
of Bonaparte by Sir Hudson Low, rises
iij) like a choking fog, and impedes their
utterance.

The Marquis was no exception to this ordinary
rule, although he was capable, as we have seen,
of concentrating his sympathies upon certain
favoured individuals. He seemed upon this particular
evening to be thoroughly out of harmony
with the assembled audience ; and the ' Sage of
Chelsea,' himself, could scarcely have been more
severe in his strictures upon the 'poor phantasms'
seated hard hj, notwithstanding that, for the time
being, they had divested themselves, at any rate,
of most of their tangible and material ' outside
wrappages.'

Of the representation itself, however, he found
nothing to complain. Both the friends were
passionately fond of good music, and the singing
of the artists before them called forth their
enthusiastic applause. The story of the opera,
likewise, awakened in their breasts many slumbering
memories. Be la Vieilleroche was old
enough to sympathize profoundly with Faust's
lamentations over his lost prime, whilst Rossi was
young enough, or so he chose fondly to imagine,

to reaKze the full force of the Fiend's subsequent
temptation.

The scene in which Marguerite tries on the
jewels before the mirror, seemed to affect the two
friends about equally.

Ah, women have always been the same ! '
sighed Rossi ; ' to be taken Yith. a few pinches
of gold dust, and half-a-dozen glittering pebbles !
\Tiy, then, have I more reason to complain than
another ? '

" . . . Sabine, un jour,
A tout donne, sa beaut e che colombe,

Et son amour,
Four Vanneau cor du Comte de Haldane,

Pour un bijou l"* . . .'

murmured de la Yieilleroche, quoting Victor Hugo.
Well, let her go off with her Comte de Haldane
if she prefers him I These are not the losses for
which one should shed one's bitterest tears ! '

Perceiving, in these words, an allusion to the
loss of some blameless and cherished object,
Benevento Eossi merely grasped his friend's
hand in silent recognition of his emotion, and
said nothing.

The scene in the garden recalled lighter and
gayer reminiscences,  not all of them, perhaps, to

the use of edifying. In somewhat similar circumstances,
apparently, both the friends had played,
in days gone by, the part of the hero, to the
destruction of just such another innocent maiden
as Goethe's Margaret.

Alas, poor girl ! ' murmured de la Yieillc-
roche with a sigh, ' and to think that, now, I
cannot so much as remember the colour of her
hair ! '

Ah ! he was no relation of hers ! ' said Eossi,
after they had witnessed the fatal termination
of the duel scene, with Marguerite's brother
writhing in his death-agony ; ' he was a rival
only, who supplanted me because of his rank
and his fortune ; in any other country but this,
I might have obtained the satisfaction for which
I longed ! '

And supposing that he had been a relation,'
returned the old Frenchman, assuming his most
ferocious expression, as he twirled his heavy grey
moustaches with his thin nervous fingers ; * had
you been enabled to challenge him, you would not
have hesitated because he was related to you or
to her. Are not the obligations of the duel quite
as sacred as the ties of family ? Directly I find
myself standing up in front of the man who has

insulted me, I know that I am bomicl to rmi him
ttLroiigh. the body meme si d'etat moi pere I '

Before Marguerite had fully expiated her
frailty the female portion of the audience began
struggling with their opera-cloaks, and collecting
their fans and pocket-handkerchiefs. The two
friends rose from their places and contemplated
the last scene with visible emotion.

So it all finishes ! ' exclaimed de la Vieille
sighing.  So, also, everything ended with
me ! Mother and child both taken from me at
nearly the same moment ! And I, who have
always adored children and young people ! But
for yourself, Benvenuto, and one or two others of
my good friends, I shoidd be a lonely old man,
indeed ! '

Benvenuto Eossi knowing, probably, which of
the Marquis's late wives had been borne aloft to
the accompaniment of a full chorus of angels, perceived
Why he was thus affected by the stage
representation, and murmured a few words
intended to console.

'Better so, my friend,' he said; 'believe me,
it is far better ! Only contrast your fate with
mine, and you must admit that you are the most
fortunate. Of what happiness to me is my child ?

Has lie not gone from me as irrevocably as
yours ? 

You have no news, then, of your son ? '

Not a word, not a sign, for more than three
years, now. His mother, before her death, had
forfeited all claim to my love and esteem ; but
why should she have estranged the affections of
my boy ? '

You think that it has been her doing ? *

Whose doing, else, could it have been ? His
heart was not so bad at the beginning, but he
was easily led. If you could have seen, too, how
handsome he had become ! *

I saw him last when he was a lad of seventeen,'
returned the Marquis, ' then, being the
living image of his father ; I could only admire
him. Let us talk, however, of other things ! '

They had passed out, noah, into the corridor,
making but slow progress, on account of the
crowd. Some way in advance of them. Monsieur
de la Yieilleroche perceived a figure so well
known to him, that he recognised it by merely
seeing the back.

Mr. Podmore, accompanied by his friend, Fal-scarborough,
had visited the Opera-house upon
this identical evening. They had occupied the

more expensive places immediately behind the
orchestra, and the Marquis had not observed
them during the representation itself.

'Look he whispered, now, addressing his
companion ; ' one of the most austere of our
Clapham neighbours !  The self-made man, above
indulging in any sort of pleasurable relaxation. 
The censor of our suburban morals !  Ah, he is
only of flesh and blood like the rest of us ! We
surprise him at the Opera, although he has about
as much ear for music as that calf's head we
partook of this evening '' en torture ! " I would
wager that he has not comprehended one word of
it, and that he would be vastly astonished if we
were to tel] him that he has been assisting at the
representation of a story of seduction and infanticide
! Let us show him that we have perceived
him before he has time to depart.'

They quickened their pace, and came up with
Mr. Podmore and his ' noble friend ' in the vestibule.
Monsieur de la Yieilleroche greeted them
with ostentatious politeness; Benvenuto Rossi, not
imagining that he was acquainted with either of
them, lingering somewhat in the rear. When he
came forward to rejoin his companion, he and
Falconborough were brought face to face. Both

started perceptibly. Rossi gave utterance to what
was rather a moan than an exclamation.

Yincenzo ! My son ! God is good to me ;
I have met yon at last ! ' he murmured in Italian.

Falconborough's face assumed an ashen pallor.

Madman ! would you ruin ni} prospects for
the second time ? ' he replied in the same language,
affecting a tone which was calculated to mislead
his listeners as to the true import of his words.
Tell me Adhere you are living, and you shall hear
of me tomorrow, if you will only leave me in
peace now ! '

He drew a pencil from his pocket as he spoke,
and wrote down, from dictation, the address of
Benvenuto's humble lodging upon his spotless
shirt-cuff.

Meanwhile, Mr. Podmore, with round 'wonder-waiting
eyes,' stood looking on in silence. The
Marquis, too, with no external display of interest,
had been an attentive listener.

' You understand Italian, of course ? ' said the
young nobleman,' turning to Mr. Podmore when
he had disposed of his unwelcome acquaintance.

'Well,  yes,' Mr. Podmore answered, hesitating
a little nevertheless ; ' that is to say, I did
understand it once, perfectly; but of late years

polite accomplishments have had to be sacrificed
to business, and I have soniewliat neglected it.
But, my dear fellow, bow pale you look ! I trust
3'ou have beard no distressing news ? '

[N'ot a bit of it I ' returned Falconborougb,
lightly ; ' it's only the heat of the theatre I That
old fellow is a countryman of my poor dear
mother's, and from time to time he crosses my
path and duns me for the price of some family
portraits which she employed him to copy, out of
charity, and for which he pretends he wasn't
sufficiently paid. I send him a cheque whenever
he bothers me, and hear nothing more of him. for
some time. Rather a foolish system, I 'ye no
doubt ; but the poor old fellow is needy, and a
little crazy as well.  Come, let us get out into the
fresh air ! '

CHAPTER Il

Lucy received a letter from the old Professor on
the day which followed upon that of his painful
revelations. It ran thus : 

A word of warning, my child, from your old
Jesuit ! The Aunt has been informed of your
romantic meeting with our unfortunate friend.
Podmore, that pattern of suburban propriety, has
informed her of all ; for his servant (whom I have
long suspected of being his father in disguise, but
on this point be prepared for further disclosures !)
played the part of amateur detective, and watched
the Colonel enter your garden. Like me, however,
he is old and half-blind, and he can make
sure of nothing, so I have been enabled to excuse
you by a device which I hope you will consider
ingenious, and excusable as well, when you can
feel confident of the good motive.

'You were escorted home, I have told your
aunt,  for of this I could truly say you had informed

me,  by the nobleman at whose cMteaii
you were residing in the autumn,  an honourable
and illustrious personage, to whom your aunt
would take no sort of exception. As for the tall
man who appeared suddenly from the entrance of
'The Aspens,"  be not angry with me, my child,
for my effrontery, if I have, at my time of life,
assumed the role of jcune 2)rcmicr " for one night
only. " That individual," I said to your good
admit, " tall once, no doubt, but bent now with
years, is standing now in your presence I" Old,
hopeless, incorrigible sinner that I am ! without
cither conscience or remorse when it is a question
of the affections ! But the admit was rendered
happy immediately, and to make another happy
which of us will not occasionally deceive ? I
hope to see you again soon, and to describe to you
more fully the results of my interview. Believe
in the devotion of sour old friend.  Adieu ! '

Satisfied, apparently, by this pious fraud, Miss
Elizabeth Barlow refrained from making any
allusion to the taller of her niece's two midnight
visitors, concentrating all her interest upon the
slim, actively-built, clean-shaved person (as he had
been described by Mr. Hitchens), carrying the
light overcoat ; vith. regard to whom Luc' could

speak without fear and without rejDroacli, assuring
her great-aunt that this was, of a truth, no other
than her 'honourable and illustrious' hosts the previous
autumn, who, in spite of her reiterated remonstrances,
had insisted upon escorting her to the
door of her suburban home. This act of chivalry
upon the part of the ' little Earl,' seemed to afford
the old lady such unaccountable pleasure, that
Lucy could not bear, in spite of some severe
pricking of conscience, to disturb her satisfaction
by any more definite explanations. Some day, 
she said to herself,  she would make a clean
breast of everything ; but she would bide her time
and await a really favourable opportunity, which,
in the event of a more fortunate turn of circumstances,
would not be difficult to find.

Then followed long weary days of doubt and
uncertainty ; weeks, which seemed to Lucy like
the longest of months, and then there came, at
last, a letter. A letter, directed in a bold hand,
upon thick, bluish writing-paper. It was sealed,
and looked as though it had emanated from a club,
or some such place of manly congregation and
resort ; a letter to set the heart beating tumultuously,
to drive the warm blood from the cheeks,
and then to send it back there again with painful

impetuosity I In a word, it was a letter from
Antliony Hepburn.

How impossible it is, when looked at from outside,
to guess at the purport of a letter written b}
a man ! A ivomau, when she sends forth the
message of hope or desolation, will generally
betray  either consciously or unconsciously  some
sort of warning hint in her calligraphy. vere I
a man, I should never feel alarmed at receiving a
woman's letter whereupon the stamp was stuck
with regularity, the address neatly and carefully
written, with jaunty, independent dots and dashes,
and a triumphant final flourish at the bottom of
the envelope, traced there for no useful purjDOsc
imaginable, but merely as an uncontrollable outlet
for sheer exuberance of spirits I Such a letter
would speak for itself, and say to me just as
plainly as words, 

All things are going on brightly and prosperously
: I am the letter of a happy woman, and
I come, too, to bring you an anticipation of happy
hours. Do not be afraid to tear me open and
read ! '

But the letter of an utterly miserable woman
will seldom seem to have been very carefully
written. Besides its incoherency of expression,

the characters themselves will bear witness to a
limp and ]helpless despondency ; faltering a little
here and there, and looking as though shaky and
infirm of purpose. Even the very postage-stamp,
it may be, will be stuck on upside down, or askew,
a result of the terrible mental and moral 
which is pervading and revolutionising
her entire being. How is it possible, when the
heart and eyes are alike filled to overflowing, to
pay much attention to handwriting or punctuation,
or to care whether all the blood seems to be running
down into the Queen's head upon the postage-stamp,
or not ?

Men, however, are possessed of natures much
less complex than ours. They thinJx, I suppose,
much nobler and wiser thoughts than we do ; but
they seem less prone to anticipate, or to adapt
themselves to, the thoughts which their most
trivial actions may awaken in the breasts of others.
In the supreme moments of existence, it is only
the man possessed of a somewhat feminine nature,
who will allow the flood of his emotion to escape
and spend itself in narrow runnels.

'I have failed,' Anthony wrote now, quite
calmly and steadily,  too steadily, poor Lucy
thought, as she read over his words ;  ' in what I

desii-ed so earnestly to bring about. My best plan
will be, I think, to leave England, wbieb will
seem unbearable to me for awhile.' (Only unbearable
' for awhile ! ' At the end of this
indefinite period, it would seem, then, like the
England of the past?) 'A wing of the 18tb,'
the letter went on, ' will probably be ordered out
to South Africa. If so, I shall take the command
of it, and go out there for a time ; for whilst I am
here it would be quite impossible for me to resist
the temptation of seeing you, and I have no right
to do you hand, or stand in your way. I am inclined
too much, perhaps, to set things down to
the force of circumstance, instead of blaming
entirely my own folly and infatuation. "Whatever
was the first cause of my misfortune,  of " our "
misfortune, I fear that I ought to say,  I can
assure you I do not go unfinished. I should be
less wretched if I could feel that I suffered alone !
Active service, however, is the best thing to divert
one's mind in such cases : jrhaps, even now, it
may help me to forget. Do not, therefore, allow
yourself to pity one who has probably richly
deserved his fate. Forgive me, my darling, for
any pain that I may have caused 3'ou. I love, 
and have loved you,  tenderly, passionately, devotedly,

and I will prove this to you if ever God
brings us together in the future. iVb?r, however,
I feel that it is unwise even to hope. Good-bye,
then, my Lucy,  perhaps for a long time ! Your
dearest face will accompany me wherever I go,
and your memory will live for ever in my heart.
God bless you always.'

Anthony had failed then, once more, to free
himself from his fetters ! He was about, perhaps,
to leave England, bound for a distant land,
Fraught with dang-er of death and pain,'
the fathomless depths of the perilous sea would lie
between them, and there would be no moment in
any one of the miserable days or nights which
must pass during his absence, in the which she
might say to herself, in hopeful confidence,  ' He
is well ! he is safe ! he is alive I '

But this ' wing ' of his regiment, (she thought
presently, striving to catch at every slender straw
of comfort,) would take some time to prepare for
the expedition. The authorities at the Horse
Guards,  so she had read in the newspapers, 
were accounted dilatory and procrastinating.
Thank Heaven for this ! Then, again, although
he might ajoply for the command of the ' wing '
in question, would he be perfectly certain to

obtain it? Did not the colonel of a regiment
invariably remain with the bulk of his men ?
How many men constituted a swing?'

These thoughts, in quick succession, flashed
through Lucy's mind.

Anthony's letter was tender, passionate, devoted,
 as he had described his love to be. She
read it over and over again, finding the greatest
solace in the ending of it, because there he had
written what a woman can never read too often,
when the words have been traced by the hand of
the man she loves. The sentence which Anthony
had, no doubt, meant for some sort of balm and
consolation, was not quite so well calculated to
serve its intended purpose.

'Active service, however,' he had written, 'is
the best thing to divert one's mind in such cases.
Perhaps, even now, it may help me to forget.'

It had occurred, probably, to Anthony Hepburn's
finite man's mind, that the notion of his
permanent and inconsolable misery would add a
new pang to those which Lucy must already have
to endure, and hence, perhaps, this hint thrown
out, of possible diversion of thought, nay, even of
forgetfulness, maybe, through the opportune
assistance of ' Active Service.'

VOL. III. H

To Lucj, however, there was certainly something
a little disheartening in the idea that he
should at once have recourse to so powerful a
remedy ; whilst the fact that he should confide to
her, by way of comfort, how much it was likely
to benefit him, convinced her that there must,
indeed, be a wide difference between the mainsprings
of their two natures.

It has been almost universally conceded that
the true love of a true woman is in the highest
degree disinterested and unselfish. When, however,
she is ' a true woman ' only, and neither
an angel, a martyr, nor an altogether heroic
and uncommon person, her disinterestedness
will unusually be of a peculiar and exclusive
kind.

To shield the being she loves from physical
suffering, I do not believe there is any agony of
mind or body from which she would willingly
shrink. To afford him sunlight or fresh air,
were he to be deprived of them, she would go
forthwith, and take his place in a dungeon. Or
she would endure all the gnawing pangs of thirst
and hunger, if, by such means, she could supply
him with the food he required.

But here, save, as I have just remarked, in

very exceptional instances, her disinterestedness
and unselfishness will come to an end.

Inquire of her, after she has ' kissed the book,'
or otherwise prepared herself for the taking of a
reliable oath, whether, supposing that her lover's
immunity from suffering, his sunlight, nutriment,
and fresh air, must come to him through the
intervention of a rival  she would not prefer,
rather, that he should languish on in his torment,
than owe his deliverance to the devotion of
another ?

I know not what such a woman woidd reply
when questioned, but I know this, at least  that
women do not always avow what is the truth !

/ hope that you will he very happy tvith somebody
else, and quite forget that I ever existed.' . . . .

These are words which have been said, no
doubt, by a great many women to a great many
men ; but they must either have been men about
whom these women did not particularly care ; or
else, these women did not quite mean what they
said !

Good-bye ; and I trust that you icill thoroughly
enjoy yourself ! ' This, too, has been said
many a time, to the husband or lover, who
is bound for a long journey, a pleasure-trip,

or what not. But the seeker after truth
will discover a hollow ring of unreality in the
words.

The true desire of the true woman is, that the
happiness and well-being of the man she loves
should be derived wholly and exclusively through
her; and the consciousness that he is perfectly
well able, by reason of his different nature, to
enjoy life without her, must always be to her a
secret source of disappointment and humiliation.

But she will desire often, to deal out and
apportion him his unhappiness as well. Her
great love, perhaps, has made her acquainted with
great sorrows, and half unconsciously, she thirsts
for some sort of reprisal or retaliation. Is it
quite fair that she alone should pine and languish ?
Ought he to go wreathed in smiles whilst
s/?e is weeping? Shall his heart be permitted
to be light whilst hers is heavy ? . . . .
May he so readily forget, whilst she is condemned
to remember ? . . . .

So, when she is very, very miserable, indeed, it is
comforting to be able to think that he, perhaps, maybe
just a little miserable as well ! From the reverse
of this thought, at least, that he is disporting
himself as if nothing had happened, the most

disinterested of women will hardly derive consolation
!

For my own part, I can perfectly well conceive
the state of mind of a woman, who, in
the tyranny of her affection, and yearning after
undivided possession of her idol, should desire to
shut him up between four walls, and feed him
through prison bars, only allowing him to smile,
or frown, or to close, or open, his eyes, when she
should pull at an invisible wire, like a doll ! . . . .
But I am betraying some of the secrets of my
sex, which had better not become too freely circulated
abroad !

The Lucy of my story, however, had yielded,
as yet, to none of these exaggerated and unreasonable
longings ; and so, Anthony IleiDburn's
words, admitting the possibility of his forgetting,
only called forth a gentle sigh, whenever they recurred
to her, a sigh which seemed to sa}- rather
reproachfully, 

So he will be able to divert his thoughts and
forget me ! . . . . Alas, why have we women so
seldom any equivalent for *' Active Service ! " '

All day, after the receipt of this letter, she
was a prey to fears and apprehensions. Monsieur
de la Yieilleroche, to whose probable coming she

had looked forward, had not appeared at Barlow
Lodge for several days. Perhaps, she thought,
she might have persuaded him to go to Anthony,
or to write to him, in order to implore him to
remain in England, and to give up his perilous
adventure. By the time night came, however,
she had almost made up her mind to write herself.
She would write, at any rate, the rough copy of a
letter which she might, or might not, send upon
the morrow. It would be some consolation to her
in her unhappiness to wait until the rest of the
little household was wrapped in slumber, and then
to sit down in the silence and solitude of her own
chamber and commune with the man she loved !

But it seemed as if Sarah, who, as usual, had
assisted her to undress, would never depart and
leave her in peace. She had brushed through
Lucy's long hair conscientiously, folded up her
clothes neatly, and placed them upon a chair ; but
still she lingered, as though loath to say goodnight.
Her young mistress, who was in the very
throes of composition, having already mentally
evolved what would have filled more than a dozen
letters, during the brushing of her hair, was
burning with impatience to be left alone.

Good-night, Sarah,' she said, at last, collecting

her writing materials by way of a still
broader bint ;  it's nearly half-past eleven ; I
really mustn't keep you any longer.'

Ob, Miss ! ' exclaimed Sarab, rushing, with
an expression of terror, towards the dressing-table
; * you've gone and put three candles all on
one table ! It's bad luck ! '

It was too true ! Two tall tapers were already
alight upon the dressing-table, not contented with
wbicb, Lucy bad just set doA\Ti there, in a moment
of mental aberration, the flat bedroom candlestick
with wbicb sbe bad found ber way upstairs !
So it's bad luck, is it ? ' sbe observed carelessly,
as Sarab removed and extinguished the
offender. ' Ab, well ! . . . . I itbink my bad
luck must all bave come by now ! ' and sbe behaved
an unconscious sigh.

Indeed, Miss ! . but still I wouldn't not
quite make light of such things, even if there's
no truth in them ; and I wouldn't not put my
new shoes upon a chair, either, Miss, if I was
you ! '

What, is that unlucky, too ? I seem to be
doing all sorts of unfortunate things to-night !
I must try and bave good dreams ! '

Talking of dreams. Miss,' said Sarah, assuming

an air of mystery; *me and cook's had the
most awfuUest dreams lately that it's possible for
anybody to imagine ! I says to cook this very
evening, coming upstairs, "I'm certain, Cook," I
says, " there's something most awful and unexpected
going to happen in this house," I says.
So am I, Sarah," she says, and this was just the
very minute before I come up into your room.
Miss.'

What young woman, however strong-minded,
or however much in love she may be, will resist
the temptation of listening, once the conversation
has veered round to the eerie, the uncanny, the
occult ?

Sit down, then, Sarah,' said Lucy, notwithstanding
her impatience to be rid of her attendant
; * and let me hear about your wonderful
dreams before you go.'

 The one I had last night. Miss, was much the
awfuUest of them all,' began Sarah, as she settled
herself in a chair near the dressing-table ;  and
it was that natural that I couldn't get it out of
my head the whole day long. Me and cook, I
thought, was standing together, looking out of
the front gate, when, coming from the direction
of Tooting Common, I seemed to see a lot of

white carriages drawn by beautiful white horses,
all coming towards us very slowly. " Why there's
a grand wedding, or something, coming," I says
to Mrs. Pilchard. " Wedding, Sarah ? " cook says,
when it got a little nearer, " it's nothing of the
kind! It's a white funeral," she says,
*' which I never saw before in all my life, and
which isn't put down in any dream-book. It
must betoken something terrible strange I " And
when it come by the gate, sure enough, Miss, a
white funeral it was, and there was banners floating
in the air, and streamers, all made of the
most beautiful white satin, worth, I should say,
quite fourteen-and-sixpencc, or fifteen shillings
the yard, and when we looked at the people that
was following the carriages, that we thought at
first was mutes and undertakers, we was astonished
to see that they was all soldiers.'

Soldiers ! ' interrupted Lucy, interested now,
in spite of herself.

Yes ; soldiers. Miss, all marching two and
two, keeping step in the most awful solemn way
possible ; and they was chanting some sort of
hymn, which I could hear just as plain as if I
was in Church, and they all touched their caps tome
and cook as if they knew us, as they went

circling by, and I heard the " tramp, tramp,"
of their footsteps, shaking the ground like, long
after they'd passed by the gate.'

And you're quite sure, Sarah, that they were
soJcUers ? What kind of uniform were they in ? '

'Well, that I can't say exactly, Miss, for
certain, for I was so flurried and took all of a
heap, that I can't remember. But it must have
been some kind of a dark sort of a colour,  navy-blue,
or invisible green,  else I never should
have thought at first sight that they was mutes,
and I know that they was Aoyse- soldiers, because
I remember noticing that they all had on spurs.'

horses soldiers ! ' Dark uniforms ! Spurs !
Was it possible that the phantom-shapes of Sarah's
ominous vision could have been blue Lancers?

Cook's very learned about dreams,' Sarah
continued, after a pause ; ' because she once had
Bonaparte's own dream-book,  what he had with
him when he fought the Battle of Waterloo, only
it was stolen from her by a friend,  and she says
she had just the same dream as me about a year
and a half before she lost her first husband,  for
she's been married twice in ten years ;  ' But it
isn't likely, cook," I says, " that we shall all
have such good luck as you, and we can't not lose

a thing which we haven't yet got, and I haven't
found a husband yet," I says; "and I'm not
likely to, either ! " But, anyhow. Miss, it's a
dream that betokens misfortunes.'

And you don't think,' asked Lucy, more
earnestly than the occasion seemed to warrant;
that anything put the notion into your head 
about the soldiers, for instance ? '

Not unless it was seeing cook's brother that
was going out to the war, and came to bid her
good-bye. He looked in the day before yesterday,
 just about tea-time,  as his regiment was
ordered to start off sooner than he expected, and
he was telling us about all the fighting he'll get
with the niggers, till he nearly gave cook and
me a fit of the hysterics. He says they're the
dreadfully people in the whole world for fighting.
Do what you like, he says, they never icill
run, and they all carry great, long, pointed spears,
that's most of them poisoned. Directly as he
heard as there was going to be more fighting, he
says, and that a wing of his regiment was going
to be sent out, he applied to the Colonel for his
discharge ; but the Colonel only said that if everybody
was just like him, the Queen wouldn't have
no British army at all, and that a fine young

fellow like Mm ought to be glad of getting a
chance of distinguishing himself, and so, as lie
says, he'd lay down his life for the Colonel any
day,  because he's one of the right sort, he's
had to go out after all, poor young fellow ; and
such a fine, handsome young man, too ! Cook
say she doesn't never expect to see him come
back again ! '

Little did poor Sarah guess the torturing
effect produced by her words !

What regiment is the cook's brother in ? '
Lucy inquired, in faltering tones.

'Well, that I can't quite remember, Miss,'
returned Sarah, who seemed to possess the retentive
memory peculiar to most persons of her
class ; ' but I know for certain that it's a Iiorse-
regiment. " Pretyman's " his name, which was
cook's, too, before she was married first, and
when you was going to stay at Hampton Court
last summer, he was quartered at the barracks
there, because cook says, just as we was driving
off to the station, " I'll write and tell Tom to lookout
and see and get a sight of our young lady ; "
and some time afterwards he wrote a letter to
her, and he says,  ''I think I've spotted your
young missus," he says, ''I mostly see her of

mornings and evenings, sitting at her window,
and looking out over at our barracks." '

The name of ' Pretyman ' seemed to Lucy
to be somehow familiar.

She possessed a good memory, and the name
was a peculiar one. An uncommon one, too, perhaps
because so few people may have been thought
worthy of it at the very beginning of surnames, 
when appellations indicative of occupations, habits,
or personal merits and defects, were first dealt out
to the community. Making an effort of memory,
she was able to recall the occasion upon which
she had first heard mention of it. It was when
she had been seated, one morning before breakfast,
under the elms, overlooking the glistening-river,
just in front of the apartments of the
Admiral's widow in Hampton Court Palace,
and when her tete-d-tcte with the beloved had
been suddenly interrupted by a non-commissioned
officer of imposing appearance, who had complained
of the behaviour of this very same private
Pretyman, the own brother (as it now transpired)
of Miss Elizabeth Barlow's own cook ! Within
how narrow a circle do we strive, seethe, struo-srle,
despair or triumph, and in how strange and absurd
a manner do the most trifling circumstances seem

sonietinie.s to become mixed up and associated
with matters of graver and intense interest !

And when does the cook's brother expect to
start ? ' Lucy just found voice enough to inquire.

He have started, Miss,' returned Sarah, displaying,
likewise, visible signs of emotion. ' He
told us the vessel was going to put off to-day, and
he wanted us both to get leave to go down and see
him off ; but I says I knew I should be certain to
break down and burst out crying at anything to do
with soldiers,  particularly as there was sure to
be hands,  which always strikes up playing, " The
girl they left behind them," whenever they goes
off to battle, and cook says she didn't think she
could manage it either, as Miss Barlow had ordered
a beef-steak pudding for dinner, and she's been
looking so poorly lately, and I haven't an over and
above light hand with pastry.'

 Oh, Sarah, I wonder you didn't both of you
go ! He was going out, I suppose, with the rest
of his regiment ? '

Yes, Miss, with the half that was ordered to
join the war, as far as I understood him,  not
with the whole of it. He spoke of it as a

sings'"

But, I suppose,' said Lucy, who was beginning

to awaken to a terrible fear, ' that there
were officers ? '

Her question was, of course, in the highest
degree absurd, but there are moments when one
does not care whether one's words are absurd or
not, and this moment was one of them. Even
Sarah assumed a look of wondering reproof as she
replied to it.

Well, Miss, I never heard before of soldiers
going out anywhere without officers ! The officers
that was ordered out are sure to have gone with
their men.'

Anthony Hepburn's letter, then, supposing
that he had taken the command of this * wing,' ashe
intended, must have been written upon the
very eve of his departure !

*0h, what a dreadful thing, Sarah, if anything
were to happen to them ! ' exclaimed Lucy
impulsively.

Yes, indeed. Miss ! ' returned Sarah, tears
coming into her eyes. 'If you could only see
what a fine handsome young fellow he is, too !
Cook says she feels she's seen the last of him ! '

Alas, poor Sarah ! It was but too evident
that she had not passed out unscathed from the
presence of the cook's fascinating brother ! No

need to tell her now, Lucy thought, since it seemed
so utterly unlikely that he would ever return, 
that he was probably no better than a gay deceiver,
who had once been actually reprimanded
for his indiscreet conduct when in company
with ' a young female ' at Hampton Court !
Private Pretyman had departed, then, in the
vessel ' which was to bear him and his comrades
to that distant land, whence,  as his sister had
prophesied,  he might never be destined to return.


It was terrible to surmise vJlO had probably
departed with him !

 "War is a most horrible thing, Miss,' remarked
Sarah, wiping her eyes with her muslin apron ;
*if I was the Queen, I wouldn't allow it for a
moment ! '

It is, indeed, dreadful,' returned Lucy, with
a sigh ; * what terrible misery it brings, and to so
many different people ! I even pity the poor
savages, for they, too, will lose quantities of husbands,
and sons, and brothers ! '

I don't seem to care so much about ilium,
said Sarah, echoing her young mistress's sigh,
nevertheless.

She rose from her chair, lit the flat candlestick,

bade Lucy good-night, and opened the
door.

'Why, good gracious, cook! ' she cried, starting
back suddenly ; ' who would ever have thought
of seeing you here ? '

It was, in truth, Mrs. Pilchard the cook.
She was standing just outside Lucy's door, as
though upon the point of knocking at it. She
carried a small basin of gruel in her hand, and
was looking as pale as a ghost.

Oh, Sarah, do ask Miss Lucy to come here ! *
she exclaimed in an agitated whisper. * I've just
been in to take Miss Barlow the cup of gruel she
ordered, and I see she's been took in a fit ! '

VOL. IlL

CHAPTER YIII.

"When persons who have arrived at the mature
age of seventy-seven years, are suddenly ' took ina
fit it is not often that they permanently recover.
Miss Elizabeth Barlow's * fit ' proved to
be a stroke of paralysis. She was, apparently,
entirely unconscious when Lucy went to her, and
the doctor, who arrived soon after, entertained
but little hope of her rallying.

Lucy was, of course, distressed and alarmed at
this new and unexpected calamity,  seeming, as
it did, to prove that sorrows came not as * single
spies, but in battalions ;' her senses, however,
were too much numbed and blunted by previous
shocks, for her to experience any very poignant
agony of grief : 

Crabbed age and youth cannot live together.'
The great reader of human hearts who wrote
thus alluded, of course, to the ill-assorted union
of persons of different sexes, but the same words
will apply as truly to cases where a very old

woman, and a very young one, are condemned by
Fate to pass any portion of their existences together.
I have used the word 'condemned' advisedly,
for between two persons thus situated
there is seldom any real sjTnpathy. They may

live ' together, it is true, in spite of the Shakespearian
assertion to the contrary, but without
enjoying that free and unrestricted communion
of souls which is one of the choicest of earthly
blessings.

For this both are in some measure responsible.


Age, even when it is the very reverse o

crabbed,' is apt to plume itself too much upon
its unenviable burden of years,  as though longevity
partook of the nature of a personal merit.
It stands, often, in its own opinion,  upon too
much of a pinnacle,  high over the heads of the
younger generation, to whom it is 'generally intolerant
and didactic,  till, from ' dealing perpetually
in saws and sermons, it comes to be
regarded altogether in the abstract,  houseless,
passionless, mummified,  a ' thinrj' rather than a
breathing human incarnation.

Youth, ever wayward and independent, and
sometimes even a little cruel as well, is naturally

inclined to take umbrage at Age's ridiculous assumption
of superiority,  seeing that, in no
community, can blear eyes outshine bright ones,
grey hair seem lovelier than golden tresses, 
or a bent back lord it over one that is straight
and lissom.

What ideas can we two possibly have in
common ? ' Golden-locks will say to herself, and
she sets a seal, forthwith, upon the door through
which all confidences must pass.

Miss Barlow the elder and her great-niece
had now occupied the same habitation for over
twenty years,  deducting such times as had been
passed by Lucy in visiting her mother's relations
; but, notwithstanding the affection which
existed between them, something of the restraint
consequent upon so marked a disparity in age,
had prevented the development of any closer intimacy
as the days went by.

Ever since the time of Lucy's initiation to the
mysteries of the heart, she had been possessed of
an intense craving to confide in some being who
would turn a willing and sympathetic ear to the
recital of her sorrows,  who would advise and
comfort her, and, above all, lead her to suppose
that he (or sie) was not unfamiliar with the varying

phases of the malady from which she was
suffering herself.

She would have preferred that this confidant
should be a woman, because, to a woman, she
could have spoken so much more openly than to
a man, before whom one must always experience
a certain sense of rumination when describing the
encounters wherein one may have been disastrously
worsted by one of his own species. But yet Luc'
felt that it would have been ten times easier for
her to confide her troubles to the flippant and
worldly Adeliza,  to Lady Mabella herself,  to
Sarah the parlour-maid,  to Mrs. Pilchard the
cook,  or even to the misanthropic and hypochondriacal
Gussy, whose asperity might possible'
have proceeded from the fact that she had been
crossed in love,  than in the amiable, placid, and
cheerful old lady who had acted towards her as a
second mother.

If Luc' could have believed it possible,  by a
daring flight of the imagination,  that, long,
long ago, her aged companion, arrayed in all
the glories of turban and gigot sleeves, had
loved, and been loved in return by some being in
tight pantaloons and Hessian boots,  things
might, very likely, have been altogether different.

Adeliza the flippant was, or imagined herseH to
be, desperately in love with Captain Sparshott.
Lady Mabella, the fretful, the languid, the intellectually
vague, had been, as was well known,
so deeply attached to the Rev. Mr. Binks, her late
husband, that, since his demise, she had become
altogether a new creature, dressing herself everlastingly
in rusty and inexpensive mourning, and
passing her existence almost entirely in * the
recumbent position.' Sarah the parlour-maid, and
Mrs. Pilchard the cook, must have been in love,
too,  as a matter of course,  because it is in the
nature of cooks and parlour-maids to love early
and often ; and perhaps, or rather most probably,
the morose and cantankerous Gussy. In the
breasts, therefore, of all of these it might not have
been impossible to awaken a chord of sympathy ;
but to the sealed-up septuagenarian heart of Miss
Elizabeth Barlow it would be vain and useless
to appeal,  seeing that she had elected to live
single all the days of her long life, and had
seemed perfectly resigned and contented with her
lot. It was unlikely, therefore, that she could
ever have been really in love.

Alas, for the purblind and finite perceptions of
the young !

Two or three days after her great-aunt's
alarming seizure, as Lucy was sitting watching
by her bedside, an expression as of returning
consciousness illuminated her withered face. She
opened her eyes, which, until now, had remained
almost entirely closed, and fixed them upon her
niece with a look of gratitude and affection.
Lucy, who, in spite of her close proximity to
the invalid, had been wandering miles away
from her in the spirit, became upon the alert
at once, and leant doom towards the bed in order
to catch any words which might fall from her
aunt's lips. But although these moved, as if
making an effort to speak, no sound escaped
from them. Lucy looked and listened with still
greater attention, but failed altogether to understand.
The old lady raised her left arm, the only
one over which she now possessed any control,
and taking her niece's hand in her OAvn, directed
it, with more energy than Lucy could have supposed
her to be still capable of, in one particular
direction, straight out into the middle of the
room, and then, sharply, and almost impatiently,
to the right.

Being still unable to comprehend, notwithstanding
her earnest endeavours, the meaning of

this gesture, Lucy fell to considering what the
object could be that a person, evidently nigh even
unto death, would be likely to desire so ardently.
By the time that Miss Barlow's pale fingers had
relaxed their hold from exhaustion, Lucy came to
the conclusion that this object could be no other
than her ' last will and testament.' Perhaps she
desired to read it over, in order to rectify some
omission, or to make some alteration in it. Where
was this will likely to have been deposited?

sphere, but in an old-fashioned combination
of bureau and book case situated between the
fire-place and the furthest of the two windows.
The position of this piece of furniture agreed,
too, with the direction taken by her Aunt's hand.
Lucy went quickly towards it. Miss Elizabeth's
pinched countenance betrayed an expression of
satisfaction. It seemed, even, as if she was
faintly smiling her approval. Lucy could no
longer doubt but that she was upon the right
track.

The centre part of this bureau opened by
means of a drawer, which when pulled out and
flattened down, formed itself into a writing slab.
Inside there were pigeon-holes, filled, for the
most part, with bills, all neatly tied up in bundles,

and there were also some of Lucas own letters,
written from Hampton Court Palace ; but for the
good old bulky traditional will, sbe perceived at
once that there was no room whatever.

Lucy returned, empty-handed, to her Aunt's
bedside. The old woman's face assumed a look of
disappointment. She turned wearily upon her
pillow and sighed. Although bereft of speech,
it was evident that, for the moment, at least, she
was mentally conscious.

Can you not tel me what it is ? ' Lucy
asked, bending over the withered form. * Make
some sign to tell me what it is not. Is it your
wil?'

Miss Elizabeth shook her head almost impatiently,
and pressed her thin hand to her bosom.

Are you in pain, dear Aimt' ? ' Lucy next
inquit-ed.

Again Miss Elizabeth made a sign of dissent,
and again she raised her hand to her neck. Something
was missing, apparently, that she had been
accustomed to wear ; a ribbon, a necklace, a keepsake
of some kind, which she desired should be
near her at the last, and might even wish, perhaps,
to have buried with her when the last was
over. Lucy remembered to have perceived sometimes,

the glimmer of a gold chain inside the
collar of her Admit's black silk dress, and without
knowing what treasure might possibly be suspended
from it, she came to the conclusion that
it was for this chain that the thin fingers were
seeking now. She went back to the bureau, but
upon searching through it again, discovered only
Miss Barlow's  lyUice-nez threaded upon its black
string, and set as a marker between the leaves of
the butcher's last weekly account (unpaid). Then,
seeing that nobody could wish to be buried with
either their eye-glasses or their butcher' s-book,
whether paid or unpaid, she directed her investigations
to the dressing-table.

Here, nestling up against the cover of an old-fashioned
book of devotion, and half-concealed by
the folds of a lace pocket-handkerchief, she came
upon what she conceived to be the missing treasure.
A likeness, in miniature, of a very handsome
young man in an obsolete naval uniform,
hanging upon a long gold chain. A portrait,
seemingly, of the Conway and Plumer period, but
yet, obviously, by neither of those great masters ;
the kind of miniature which may be always easily
obtained by such collectors as are not discriminating
with regard to art, but from which the

eye of the connoisseur must ever turn With. disappointment,
however deeply the heart of the man
may be touched by the pathetic wisp of dead
hair upon the reverse side, or the linked initials
in seed pearls, which stand, now, for a forgotten
name, so dear to somebody, it may be, in * the
days that are done ! '

Melted almost to tears by this unexpected
discovery, Lucy returned with the miniature to
her Aunt's bedside.

'This is what you meant?' she whispered,
feeling that the restraint of years was suddenly
banished for ever. ' Dearest Aunty, it's the picture
of some one you cared for ; isn't it ? '

The withered hand closed upon the soft young
fingers in token of assent. Lucy, who had grown
terribly tender-hearted with regard to all subjects
connected with the affections, fell upon her knees
by the side of the bed, and burst into uncontrollable
sobbing.

Ah, why didn't you tell me this before ? ' she
murmured regretfully, still retaining her hold of
the withered hand and caressing it gently. ' We
should have known each other so much better ! . .
It's the same with me,  so I could have understood
all about it ! . . . / care for somebody too ! . . .

Tears prevented her from saying more. A
look of intelligent sympathy passed over the old
woman's face, and she pressed Lucy's hand affectionate'.
It was quite evident that she had
understood. Would that this mutual understanding
could have become established sooner ! . . .

By-and-by, Miss Elizabeth released her
niece's hands and felt nervously for the portrait.
Her lips moved, but no sound came from
them.

Lucy could read her meaning now, however,
without the assistance of words.

'You would like me to put it round your neck,
wouldn't you? ' she said gently, 'to wear always?
Quite always,' she added in a significant tone ; ' it's
never to be taken off any more ? '

Miss Barlow gazed at her niece with a look of
grateful acknowledgment, and Lucy clasped the
chain about her neck, to remain there, as she had
expressed it, ' quite always,  never to be taken off
any more ! ' . . .

The old woman turned aside upon her pillow
as though wearied out with striving after what
had now been accomplished. Lucy, the tears still
dimming her eyes, moved away gently, and took
her palace by the window.

She gazed at the narrow strip of sun-burnt
suburban garden, wearing already a brown
autumnal air, and at the shadowy delineation of
the great city beyond, without perceiving either
the one or the other. Mingling with her dreams
of Anthony; of her love for him, which she
realized now must prove the master-passion of
her whole existence  of the gliding troop-ship
which was, but too probably bearing him further
nd further away from her as the moments
ticked on  were other musings and speculations,
awakened by the pathetic revelation which had so
newly come to her.

That pale, shrivelled, old woman, the sands of
whose life were gradually running out within a few
feet of where she sat, had actually been in love,
after all, in the spring or summer-time of her long
and apparently unruffled existence, with a young-gentleman
with handsome dark eyes, wearing
 mutton-chop ' whiskers, and a naval uniform of a
past fashion. Why had she never been limited to
him at the altar ? . . . It was evident, too evident,
that he must have died young, since, had he
-proved heartless or unfaithful, she would never
have clung so eagerly to the possession of his portrait.
How, when, and where, did he meet his

(loom ? . . . Did his ' heavy allotted hammock-shroud
' drop ill his  vast and wandering grave
or did he perish, less romantically, upon dry land,
of some one of the many ills the flesh is heir
to ? . . . But then, after his death, caring about
him as it was evident, now, that she did care 
how had it been possible for this woman to goon
living as she Juan lived  at any rate ever since
Lucy had arrived at an age capable of observing
her,  quietly, cheerfully, contentedly ? . . . Occupied,
nay, even interested, in the trivial and prosaic
matters connected with her limited household,
not altogether despising the echo of a little scandal,
suffering no seeming agony from the contemplation
of his pictured face, nor from that of the
great spiked and spotted ocean-shells which Avere,
probably, the memorials of some of his far voyages
; and deriving positive pleasure, apparently,
from a quiet rubber of whist, and from the profitless
study of heraldry ?

During all the years that Lucy had been domiciled
with her paternal great-aunt, she could not
recall upon Miss Elizabeth's part, one single fit of
unaccountable depression, or of pessimistic repining.
Brisk, contented, and cheerful, with a
cheerfulness which rose, at times, to actual

sprightliness, Lucy lead never surprised lier yitll
so much as a tear in her eye, or a tremor in lier
Voice !

There There some-women, of course, Lucy was
old enough to have discovered this fact, who, by
reason of sheer physical unattractiveness, appeared
to be debarred, by nature, from a participation
in the intense joys of their more fortunate
sisters. Wan, hard-featured, and flat-footed, they
seemed to have been predestined, from the very
beginning, for nuns, dentists* assistants, or for the
helpmates of blind men who must remain for ever
blind. Miss Elizabeth Barlow, however, was not
of these unfortunate beings. There could have
been no reason why, in the f ar-ofi" days of her youth,
she should not have indulged in all the romantic
dreams and aspirations which must have been
common then, as now, to most of the well-favoured
and agreeable young ladies of the age.
Of course, after the demise of the gentleman in
the naval uniform, it was only natural that she
should decide upon a Kfe of perpetual celibacy,
seeing that all other men must then have appeared
to her as mere hollow phantoms, possessing neither
interest nor individuality ; but still, of the many
women who may have been compelled, by a like

misfortune, to arrive at this melancholy resolution,
how few there were who could have endured
the desolate years with such perfect patience and
equanimity !

Lucy seemed to perceive now, by the light of
this recent revelation, what it was that had supported
her great-aunt in her widowed maidenhood.
With a piety as sincere as it was unostentatious,
she had been looking forward to an eventual reunion
with the Beloved, a union over shadowed
by the dread of no possible parting, final, indissoluble,
eternal !

"With the help of a vivid and exuberant imagination,
it did not take long for the narrow strip of
suburban garden, beneath the window, to lengthen
and expand, before Lucy's gaze, into what might
have passed for the * counterfeit presentment ' of
the fancied fields of Heaven.'

Boundless, infinite, interminable, the green
savannahs seemed to stretch away to the uttermost
visible edge of the horizon. What enchanting
groves of palm, tamarind, and pomegranate !
What a profusion of hanging yellow bananas,
figs, grapes, oranges, and other delicious fruits !
As balmy zephyrs wafted aside the laden branches,
Lucy could perceive, between them, the glimmer

of a silvery river, its bosom strewn with floating
water-lilies and gliding swans. So, there were
scans in Heaven ! . . . . Aye ; and other birds
as well ! long-tailed, crested, flashing the most
gorgeous colours as they flew from tree to tree,
and yet, warbling just as melodiously as any of
the more sober suited thrushes or nightingales of
earth. To the right of this imaginary landscape,
whither the shimmering river was taking its
course, lay a blue expanse of placid ocean, alive
with painted barges and fairy skiffs, upon whose
shining sands the great spotted cowries, and wide-mouthed
spiked shells, were cast up already
scoured and polished, like those which were
grouped about the fender in the sitting-room
downstairs. Statues, sculptured by no mortal
hand, long bowling-alleys, sided by 'peacock-yews
and princely gateways of iron work magnificently
wrought, lent to the garden an aspect
which was, perhaps, "Watteauesque, rather than
celestial; the imaginations of our hearts, however,
are, usually, merely the reproductions of
what we may have beheld with our outward vision,
so that Lucy need not be too severely censured
for her somewhat free rendering of ' the eternal
joys of Heaven ! ' . . .

VOL. III. K

Wandering beneath the sliadc of these delightful
groves, reposing in sociable groups upon the
wide-spreading velvet lawns, or breasting the
sapphire wave in skiff and galley,  the Elect, 
men and women resembling in almost every respect
the men and women of earth, except that their faces
and figures seemed to have undergone some sort
of process of illumination and idealization, invested
the landscape with an air of gala and animation.
With such enchanting surroundings,
(Lucy thought, as she went on with her fantastic
day-dream,) it was not to be wondered at if
everybody appeared to be joyful, radiant, in
peaceful and sympathetic communion one with
the other ! . . .

What a delightful vision ! and "not, (it maybe,)
so utterly impossible of realization, one day,
after all ! . . .

But ah, she perceived, by-and-by, that her
conclusions had been somewhat premature ! . . .
IsTot evenjhody seemed to be perfectly happy, even
in Heaven ! . . .

Who is yonder handsome young man, roaming
solitary and disconsolate, aloof from the radiant
groups of contented spirits? . . . Clad in a
British naval uniform, with heavy old-fashioned

epaulettes, tie paces up and doTi the long 
nearest to the principal entrance, and
gazes anxiously in the direction of its massive
gateways of wrought-iron. He is pale, impatient,
preoccupied. He has been expecting, (and for so
long ! ) the being he loved best upon earth, and
he can neither rest nor be content until she arrives.
As he turns and confronts Lucy's mental vision
in the course of his  quarter-deck ' pacing, she is
enabled to examine his features. They are those
she has just seen depicted in the sham 'Conway*
miniature. It is that same sea-captain who was the
love of Miss Elizabeth Barlow's early days ! . . .

By-and-by, as he still lingers, expectant, the
heavy gates slowly revolve upon their hinges. A
fresh convoy of the Disembodied,  accepted,  regenerated,
 have presented themselves for admission.
A gentle flutter, as of welcome or anticipation,
is apparent amongst the permanently
established spirits within. Something seems to say
to the pale sea-captain that she has come at last !

Trembling with grateful emotions, he advances
to the gateway. His heart spoke truly, for he
can hear her calling upon his name. But ah !
what cruel trickery is here ? "Who is this aged
beldame who comes forward to greet him with so

much effusion ? His mother ? His grandmother ?
His faithful old nurse ? Into, surely ! He has
never beheld her before ! Bent, withered, pinched
in form and in feature, how can this be the sunny-girl
to whom he once plighted his troth ? An
explanation follows. Reluctantly he is brought
to a recognition of the truth. She points to the
portrait which she is still wearing round her
neck ; the portrait which resembles him still !
His heart,  or rather the precipitated substance
which does duty, now, for that organ,  is benumbed
within him. He has met her at last,
and what happiness has this meeting brought
him ? Alas, but sorry consolation ! And this,
after waiting and hoping for her coming for such
a very long time ! Because of it, in fact, because,
during all this time, she had been withering and
whitening upon earth, and turning, gradually,
into this venerable crone whom he must have
failed altogether to recognise, but for his own
portrait hanging about her wrinkled neck !

Arrived thus far in her musings, Lucy, too,
felt suddenly discouraged. Warm as was the
interest with which the discovery of her aunt's
early attachment had inspired her, it was improbable
that she would have let loose her spirit

upon so protracted a flight, could it have acquired
in its aerial wanderings no subtle impressions
suitable to a personal application.

Anthony, her own Anthony,  (as she would
not resist calling him still, in spite of the obstacles
which were threatening to separate them for ever)
who, at this very moment, perhaps, was pacing
the deck of that receding troop-ship and thinking
of her,  might, too probably, never live to retrace
his course. Strong, loyal, and courageous, he
would, of course, be ever foremost in the fray,
and the painful uncertainty which existed with
regard to his future, might even tempt him to
seek positions of exceptional peril, in order, thus,
to escape from having any future at all. Cut ofP,
in the flower of his youth, by the cruel Zulu
assegais, what would remain to her, Lucy Barlow,
but to wrinkle and shrivel, in disconsolate spinsterhood,
as her great-aunt had wrinkled and shrivelled
before her? But then, her great-aunt had not
been in the least disconsolate, because she had
entertained the blessed hope of an eventual reunion.
To Lucy, however, this hope seemed so
fraught with doubts and difficulties that she was
uncertain whether it could ever afford her much
real consolation. The future,  in fact, the extreme

and ultimate Hereafter,  appeared at this
moment to be as dreary and uncertain as that
wliicli was bounded by an earthly horizon. Her
surmises, however, were probably altogether idle
and erroneous. In the perfect heaven, was it not
more likely that everybody would seem to be of a
perfect age? Nay, had we not the highest
authority for supposing that, not only our spirits,
but the shapes also in which those spirits were to
be made visible, would be glorified and idealized?
Lucy's grey and shrivelled great aunt, therefore,
might spring forward, rosy-cheeked and golden-haired,
to meet her faithful and expectant sea-captain,
 who, with whiskers eternally black, and
hazel eyes of an enduring brightness, would welcome
her joyfully to the realms of an abiding bliss !
But then, how, thus physically changed and
rejuvenated, would Miss Elizabeth Barlow be
recognizable to Lucy herself, who had only known
her when she was quite an old woman? Ah,
well ! This recognition would not be of so very
much importance after all ! So long as all the
faithful lovers, and all the well assorted husbands
and wives, could make sure of one another's
identity, it would not matter so very much about
the rest of the community !

Nay ; but how about the great-nieces, who,
for lack of husband or lover, had concentrated
their warmest affections upon their great aunts,
and the great-aunts who ardently yearned for this
second meeting with their great-nieces ?

Lucy, as the reader will have perceived,  in.
no conscious spirit of profanity, but simply by the
ingenious working of an imaginative brain,  had
been lured on, imperceptibly, into fields of abstruse
and unfamiliar conjecture, and the mind that
permits itself such an unwarrantable license, must
be prepared to encounter new difficulties at every
turn!

The sky had grown amber above the shrouded
mystery of the great city whilst she had been
dreaming on. The ' fancied fields of heaven ' had
disappeared, and she beheld, as usual, the narrow
garden beneath her, bounded by its walls of
mellowed brickwork, with its formal flower-beds,
across which the evening shadows were lengthening,
 and the gnarled medlar tree, under the shade
of which she was wont to sit and hem dusters in.
what seemed now quite like olden times.

Her aunt had been dozing,  quite peacefully,
apparently,  ever since she had regained possession
of the precious portrait. Lucy felt afraid of

disturbing Iter by rising from ber place. Sbe
remained, therefore, patiently seated, until some
twenty minutes later, the door opened softly and
Sarab, followed by the doctor, entered the room.
Tbey went straight to the bedside. To Sarab's
inexperienced je, ber aged mistress seemed to be
quietly slumbering. Tbe doctor knew it at once
for ' the slumber of the Just.'

Ab ! sbe bas passed away very comfortably ! '
be remarked. Then, turning to Lucy, be added
cheers uUy, ' I was scarcely prepared for so speedy
a termination to ber illness. These hopeless cases
drag on, sometimes, for a very long while !
Recovery was impossible from the first.'

Lucy came from the window feeling awed and
bewildered.

Tbis change, wbicb, for years, would bave
seemed to most people to be within the most
reasonable limits of probability, seemed, now,
almost like a shock and a surprise ; and this even
after sbe bad followed ber aunt, in spirit, to within
the very gates of eternity !

There is a Spanish proverb wbicb says that
*neither death, nor the sun, can be regarded
fixedly ; ' and it is fortunate for us that it is so,
since the fleeting moments of many a joyous

meeting would be too often embittered by the
ever-present consciousness of approaching separation.
Constituted as we are, however,  although,
as George Eliot has remarked, * in every parting
there is an image of death,'  it is an image which
is evoked only for an instant, and the human
mind is provided with such numerous appliances
for exorcising the unwelcome apparition, that
even his most necessary and unavoidable visitations
are regarded by us in the light of intrusions.

The end of all, the poppied sleep ! ' . . .

Insensible, indeed, must be that man, or that
woman, who can contemplate, without emotion,
the evidences of this eternal rest,  no matter how
weary and travel stained may have been the wayfarer
who lies, to-day, at peace with all the world !

CHAPTER IX.

Upon the death of lier paternal great-aunt, Lucy,
as in duty bound, wrote off at once to inform her
mother's relations of the fact.

The morrow's post brought her, in reply, a
letter from her cousin Adeliza, which I transcribe
in full, for although the literary style of this
young lady was by no means perfect, her practical
common sense, shrewd, worldly wisdom, nay, even
the flippant and irreverent manner in which
she seemed to regard the most solemn subjects,
will serve, perhaps, to relieve the gloomy impressions
which may have been awakened by the
last chapter.

I condole with you, my dear Lucy,' Adeliza
wrote, ' from the rene bottom of my heart ! Poor,
dear, old soul ! So, she has gone at last ; and I
daresay, at first, you will feel quite lonely without
her, for one can't help missing things one
has become used to. She was very old, however,

and could not, anyhow, have lasted much longer ;
as it is, she has lived a good deal longer than
most people, and this, and the thought that you
did everything for her that you could, must bea
great consolation to you now. I suppose you
have not yet heard about her Stilly and don't
know whether she died well off ? Mama thinks
she must have put by something, having lived so
economically for years, although she did not
begin life rich. Of course she has left you
everything ! You will be quite a small hcircsSy
which must make up, I should think, for a good
deal! You can't imagine the relief that / feel
to know that soon, very soon, I shall have a settled
income of my own, for I have stipulated for three
hundred a-year pin-money', and that I shall not
be obliged to scrimp and screw, and twist and
turn, and fly to Mama to drag out every farthing
that I require for even the barest necessaries of
life ! All this, however, has not been arrived at
\dthout trouble ! Ah, Lucy ! what troubles 
what miseries  what awful anxieties I have had,
lately, to undergo ! Going to be married, I can
assure you, is not all roses! It is to be hoped
that marriage, itself, will compensate one for all
these previous bothers ! Oh, Lucy ! this terrible.

terrible war ! Whenever there have been wars
before, I have never taken the sJighAcst interest in
them, and have always felt so bored with all the
people who did ! In the Ashantee war, I never
cared a bit how many people were killed, or
whether they were black, white, or piebald ; for,
as Algy was not then of " an age to go into the
army, and even thought, at times, of going into
the Church instead, to save trouble, I really did
not care in the least which way things turned;
as, supposing that Algy did finally decide upon
being a soldier, I thought it would be better to
get as much fighting as possible over before he
"passed;" for in those days one stupidly fancied
that one's brother would always be one's first
thought! But alas! what changes have come
o'er the spirit of one's dream," since that time !
I must tell you, as briefly as I can, of all the
terrible complications that have come to pass
since last we met, in case you have not heard of
them from another quarter! Perhaps it may
cheer you up, a little, to know how miserable
other people have been, for I think this is always
some sort of consolation to one in sorrow ! Well,
then, to begin with, as I have no doubt you
already know, a wing cf dearest Charlie's regiment

was ordered off to this horrible war. The
second officer in command, it seems (who is a
highly respectable married man, but not strong 
a rcrf/ different person, by all accounts, from a
mutual friend of ours who shall be nameless), was
not over and above keen about going, particularly
as his wife was just upon the point of expecting
a baby, and so there was some doubt, at first, as
to which officer should go out in command, as a
certain individual, not knowing that any part of
the 18th was to be ordered out, had sent in his
papers some time before, intending to leave the
army and travel. \Tien he found out, however,
that the authorities thought of sending out half '
the regiment, he moved heaven and earth to keep
them to the notion, and declared that nothing
would prevent him from taking the command
if they went out. It was all arranged just ashe
wished, and it seemed, for a day or two, as if
everything was satisfactorily settled, without
interfering in any way with one's future plans.
As I was thinking, one afternoon, how very
much worse matters )iifjht have turned out, I
saw Captain Sparshott drive up, suddenly, in a
hansom ' with a face half the length of my
arm! I flew downstairs and let him in, before

lie had time to ring, and begged him to tell
me if anything dreadful had happened, for I felt
morally certain from the expression of his face,
that either Sir Timothy, or that awful old mother
of his, had gone off in an apoplectic fit ! But
what do you suppose had really happened ? He
too, had been ordered off to South Africa ! Tho
news had '' fallen upon him like a bomb-shell,"
he said, for some time he could '' scarcely hold
up his head's By-and-by, however, he remembered
that " England expected every man to do
his duty ;" hoped I would '' put a good face on
the matter, and keep up my pluck." The "worst
of it was," our marriage would have to be postponed,
&c., &c., &c. ! . . . You can imagine, I
dare say, what my feelings were when I heard
this awful announcement ! or rather, you will be
quite f?able to do so, never having been engaged 
as / am, to the only being on earth that you
feel you could ever really have loved ! His
going out to the war was, of course, bad enough,
but when compared with the postponement of
our marriage, it seemed as nothing ! I could
not, of course, interfere with the orders of the
Commander-in-chief, much as I should have
liked to have done so, but, knowing how very

drapery men are, ixirticularhj officers, I determined,
immediately, upon one tiling that I would be
married to dearest Charlie before lie quitted these
shores, no matter bow hurried, or how private,
the wedding; for even if he should, afterwards,
have the terrible bad luck to be killed, the
position of a tcidow has so many " pulls " over
that of a girl, that I felt it would be wrong
of me to allow my fears to stand in the way of
my future. As soon as Captain Sparshott was
gone, I went up to Mama, who was lying do\\Ti,
and talked over the matter With her. She was
jwrfccthj horrified when she heard that dear
Charlie was thinking of leaving England a freeman,
and said that whatever happened, we must
certainly be married first. When once Mama
takes an idea into her head, she is as obstinate asa
mule, so I felt that I had gained a reaUf/ valuable
alhj ! She wrote off, immediately, to Uncle
Belmorris, who happened to be in London, and
who arrived soon afterwards, and we all held a
regular council of war. It never entered into the
head of Uncle Belmorris, who is, as you know,
open as the day, and truthful and honourable to
a fault, to imagine, for one moment, that Captain
SjDarshott had been playing us, in any way, false.

Mama, however, who is a good deal sharper than
anyone would suppose, and awfully cunning, was
full of suspicions from the very first  fancying,
I don't know why, that dear Charlie contemplated
wriggling out of his engagement; and
without admitting that this idea was altogether
well founded, I must confess to you, with min
and humiliation, that Captain Sparshott was not
acting altogether " tijoon the square / " . . . Uncle
Belmorris had an interview with him upon the
subject of hastening on our marriage. He
appeared, it is true, to be just as keen about
it as I was, but feared, he said, that he would
be unable to get sufficient extension of leave
for the purpose, as his orders were that he
was to sail at once with his men; and he then
alluded to the serious risk I should run of being
left a widow, if he married me before he came
back. I had prepared my uncle, however, that
if any allusion was made to this point, he was to
get over it as best he could, without displaying
any want of proper feeling ; and, as he knows
perfectly well, that I would sooner risk being
left a widow three times over, than miss the
chance of being once a life, this little difficulty
was very quickly disposed of. But, to make a

long story short, what do you suppose transpired
when Uncle BeLmorris, thinking to do a really
Christian act, went to the authorities at the
War Office to try and get Charlie an extension
of leave ? He had volunteered ! ! and the story
of his having been ordered out with his troop
was an utter and entire fabrication from beginning
to end! . At first, of course, we were all
very much disgusted  7, most of aU, as you may
imagine, for I had believed Captain Sparshott
to be utterly different from all other men,  who,
I have always known, were fearfully treacherous
and deceiving. All the same, when my uncle
began to talk about offering to give Charlie his
liberty, or, at any rate, putting off the marriage
until there was a "cessation of hostilities," I
felt my heart regularly sinking down into my
boots, and I determined that I would forget
and forgive ! We sent for Chare, and he and
I had the most harrowing interview upon the
green velvet sofa in the back drawing-room, 
the very place where, as I reminded him, he had
told me he cared for me first. I cried buckets
full of tears, and I did, indeed, feel dreadfully
wretched and unsettled,  and he, I must say,
was awfully kind and affectionate, and even, now

VOL. III. L

and then, loerfectlij impassioned in his manner!
After hearing his explanation of the circumstances,
too, they assumed altogether a different
aspect. He had been seized, it seems, when he
heard that his Colonel was going out in command,
for whom, like some other people I know ofy he
seems to have a sort of blind infatuation !  with
an utterly uncontrollable spirit of martial ardour ;
and we must remember, dearest Lucy, that men
are not quite like we are ! Inspired by this
feeling, and finding that he was not one of the
officers " down " for active service, on account
of its being known that he was going to be
married, and that he was to be left, probably, at
the depot, he sent in his name to the authorities,
scarcely knowing, at the moment, what he urns
doing / . . . He did not tell me of this at the time,
fearing  dear boy !  that it might " give me a
turn'' and not knowing, after all, whether his
services would be accepted. When he heard that
he had been selected to go, he mentioned this
to me without saying that it was in consequence
of his having sent in his name, because, he said,
he feared that we might have " misinterpreted "
his 'motives." I told him that this was exactly
what we had done, but that he might, jerliaps,

make it all right with. Mama and Uncle Belmorris,
if he would only obtain an extension of leave and
push on the settlements. I said, however, that they
were, naturally, much upset b}- his conduct, and
that, unless he set about repairing it at once, I
feared no joiner on earth would ever induce them
to consent to our marriage ! I very soon found
that my spirited tactics had produced an effect, 
for it is astonishing how much fonder of one men
seem always to become when they think there is a
chance of their losing one altogether! Captain
Sparshott immediately did exactly what I told
him to do ; so now, our wedding is settled to take
place, quite privately, next Tuesday week,  entirely
owing to my ovn exertions ! As you may
suppose, my family were delighted at this result,
and they all complimented me warmly upon my
diplomatic skill. Algy remarking, in his brutal,
blunt, brotherly way, that "a fellow who had
been found out telling such a terrific ' whopper "
ought certainly to be '' collared " at once,  as
there was no saying what other '' tricks " he
might not plays one, if one allowed him to escape
from one's " clutches ! " And, I must confess, that,
although I do not, now, believe, for one moment
that poor dear Charlie meant to tell a "whopper"

at all, there is, certainly, in what Algy said,
a very decided germ of truth ; Captain Sparshott's
conduct having been,  I can't help admitting, 
uncommonly *' fishy;" and this makes it a great
comfort to think that the day for the wedding is
now actually fixed ! In consequence of his falling
in, so kindly, With my views, the part of his
regiment that was ordered out had, of course, to
start without him, and he will have now to pay
for his own passage and go out three weeks later,
by one of the ordinary steamers,  which, however,
as I tell him, will be a great deal more
comfortable, so that he is not really so very much
to be pitied after all ! . . . Lady Sparshott,  who
is rabidly fond of soldiers, and who ought, certainly,
to have been a man  insisted upon going
to see the troops off, and as Charlie was, of course,
bent upon going too, /, also, had to rise with the
lark, and rush off, without any breakfast, to
witness the departure,  for, knowing that Captain
Sparshott would be ' pawing the ground " to
accompany his men,  I did not dare trust him
out of my sight ! "VYe all went down to Gravesend,
in a special steamer which had been chartered
by a friend, and drew up, when we got there,
alongside of an enormous troops-ship. Our steamer

icohhled very unpleasantly whilst we were waiting
to go on board the other one ; and had it not been
for my more melancholy feelings I should have felt
a little uncomfortable. After some delay, however,
a rope was thrown over and a plank put
across for us, and we soon found ourselves onboard
the troop-ship,  tightly packed in a dense
crowd, composed chiefly of the soldiers and their
friends. Some of the men, I noticed, looked
rather pale and dissipated, as if they had been
*' making a night of it I saw a good many with
black eyes, and pieces of sticking-plaster on their
faces ; and as they had evidently cast off all
ceremony upon going on board, they were not
half so carefully " got up " as usual. The officers,
of course, looked aicfuJly nice ; (there were several
of these who belonged to other regiments going
out;) although some of them looked, I thought,
a little rough about the chin,  as if they were determined
to lose no time in letting their beards
grow ! I looked everywhere for a certain individual,
but could see nothing of him, at first,
owing to the crowd. I never let Charlie out of
my sight for a single second, except once,- when he
and his dreadful old mother started off to look at
the chargers in another part of the ship, and then

I sent Algy (who came with us) to keep a sharp
look out upon him, in order that he might not
come under any dangerous influence ! Before
leaving, they settled me upon a large deal
packing-case,  in a secluded corner,  for all the
chairs and benches were occupied, and as I was
almost ready to drop with fatigue, I was very
thankful to obtain any kind of seat. Ah, Lucy !
how I thought of you when I read the direction
which was written upon this case ! I have copied
it down for you : 

'colonel Hepburn,

Commanding 18th Lancers,

H.M.'s Troopship 'Cleopatra.'

(Pompey 4" Greco, Reims. Extra Sec. 18 dozen.)
Glass, with care. Ttiis side upwards."

I saw that there were several other packing-cases
from the same place piled up close by, so it is
evident that the Colonel intends to keep ud his
spirits during the voyage ! Just as this idea was
occurring to me, I happened to look,  quite
accidentally,  through some iron railings down
on to a lower deck, and there, who should I see
talking to Algy and Captain Sparshott but the

veris indwiducil himself ! He was looking particularly
well, and did not seem to be at all cast down
at the idea of going. Thinking that if I got up
and made any sort of friendly demonstration , I
should lose my place, I remained sitting where I
was, upon his champagne-case, and, in a few
minutes, he totally disappeared from view ! I
questioned Algy, however, afterwards,  knowing-how
interested you would be in the matter,  as to
what he said, what he had on, &c., &c., &c., but
you know how provoking boys are ! All that I
could drag out of Algy was, that he " looked all
right," and *' seemed aivfuUy cheery y but I could
get no details. Some of the officers had on most
delicious-looking high light-coloured campaigning
boots,  very becoming indeed,  something like
those worn by the Cavaliers in the time of Charles
the First, but that stupid Algy said he actually
had not observed whether the Colonel had on
boots of this kind or not ! The day had turned
rather damp and chilly, and I saw, when I looked
down at him, that he was wearing, (half on and
half off,) a very romantic-looking long cloak, 
dark grey,  trimmed with " astrachan,"  but this
is all that I can tell you with regard to his
appearance, for, just at that moment, a bell rang.

which was the signal for all the friends and
relations of the soldiers to leave the ship ; and
when Charlie, and Algy, and Lady Sparshott
rejoined me, your Jcc'ticular friend was not with
them. As soon as we got on board our own
steamer again, we started down the river, in order
to accompany the troop ship) for a short distance.
It soon overtook us, of course, and as it glided by
us deafening cheers rang from each ship, accompanied
by tremendous waving of hats and handkerchiefs,
whilst a band, somewhere, struck up
*' The girl I left behind me'' Several of the
officers climbed up into the rigging so as to be
able to get a better view of their friends, and I
recognized Colonel Hepburn standing on the deck
as the ship passed. He waved his hand to poor
dear Charlie, whose eyes, I saw, were quite full of
tears! I believe it was really an awful blow to
him to be left behind,  even when he knows that
it is because he is going to be married ! Men
are, certainly, very differently made from what tee
are, as I have said before ! Fancy any of us
actually u'eejring with disappointment because we
couldn't go out to run the risk of being killed
quite so soon as we had expected ! for I daresay a
great many of those fine fellows will never come

"back to these shores ! The scene, I must say, was
really too artfully harrowing ! I have become a
good deal hardened to most things, on account of
all that I have had to go through, but I don't
mind confessing that, if it had not been for the
fear of getting a red nose, and looking a positive
monster, I think I should certainly have been
unable to help breaking down and crying myself !
JN'ow, dearest Lucy, I have given you a thorough
description of some of the worries I have had to
go through ! Mama,  who is in bed with bronchitis,
 begs me to join her love and condolences
to my own. She would have liked you to have
come to us now,  if it were not for the terrible
state of confusion we are in with all these preparations
on hand,  but she hopes for this pleasure
a little later on, and has no doubt but that you
have plenty of kind neighbours who will be a
comfort to you at this trying moment ; and it will
be easier for her to act, she sap's, when she knows
the contents of your Aunt's will, and what her
desires were with respect to your future. Algy
begs me to say, his love, and will it be any comfort
to you if he puts in an appearance at the funeral?
Because, (/ so, he will, with pleasure,  only, he
must Imo at once, as he has no black coat. I

would run down and see you myself, but that I
am so busy getting ready for my wedding. With
much love, and hoping that you will keep up
your spirits,

Believe me to be,
Ever jour affectionate Cousin,

Adeliza Binks.'

As may be easily imagined, the foregoing
letter,  notwithstanding that it contained so exhaustive
an account of Adeliza's troubles,  did
not produce an altogether cheering effect upon
loor Lucy !

She allowed it to fall listlessly from her hand
after reading through its eight closely-written
sages, and remained for some time Wrapped in a
profound reverie, fraught with bitter memories
and gnawing apprehensions.

From beneath a burden of sorrow and desolation,
two or three of the careless sentences in her
cousin's letter kept on recurring to her mind.
Over and over again, she found herself repeating
them, half-unconsciously, and each time they
seemed to cause her new disappointment and
humiliation.

He n-as looking imrtkulavhj well, and did

not seem to he at all cast down at the idea of
going.' . . . ' Se look-ed all right, and seemed
airfnllg cherry . . . and then, last, though not
least in its power to contribute a passing sting,
because of its seeming cruel incongruity,  ' 
4' Greco, Reims. Extra Sec. IS, dozen. Glass
with care. This side inwards ;' and Adeliza's subsequent
remark to the effect that it "was evident
that the Colonel intended * to keep up his spirits '
during the voyage.

These were the haunting words which seemed
to blight and crush the little hope that still
remained in her heart ! And this even as she
sat alone, in a shrouded chamber, whither she
had gone with an earnest desire to pray ; within
sight, too, of the narrow coffin-lid and its simple
inscription, in the midst of which the two long-tailed
* sevens ' stood close together, in indication
of her dead benefactress's accomplished years !

Life is, indeed, a strange medley of contrasts,
combinations, and contradictions !

CHAPTER X.

Miss Elizabeth Barlow's last will and testament,
when it was eventually discovered in the depths
of the tin box which contained the 
engine trimmings, was concise and explicit
enough for even Lucy to understand without
assistance.

Testamentary depositions are apt to seem
tedious except to the persons immediately concerned
in them. It will be enough, therefore, to
say that she had bequeathed the whole of her
fortune and her savings, amounting, in all, to
about 20,000/., to her great-niece. This money,
it appeared, from a memorandum, had been invested
in a Government security, yielding, it is
true, only a moderate interest, but free, as far as
could be foreseen, from all dangerous risks and
vacillations. Particulars relating to this investment
were to be found, (according to the same
memorandum,) in a large envelope marked *A1 '

in red ink, which would be found in one of the
pigeon-holes of the bureau which has already
been mentioned.

For Lucy's benefit, also, her kind great-aunt

had been at the trouble and expense of insuring

her life, (particulars relating to this policy would

be found in the same pigeon-hole, enclosed in

another envelope marked * B 2.') Furthermore, to

her true and valued friend Achille Marquis de la

Yieilleroche, the sum of two hundred pounds, as a

remembrance, only, and token of her esteem ; and

to Lady Mabclla Binks, to her son Algernon, and

to her daughter Adeliza, likewise merely as a

modest souvenir, the sum of two himdrcd pounds

a-piece, to be paid to them free of all legacy duty.

Particulars relating to the appointment of

Luc3''s guardians need not be alluded to here,

Miss Elizabeth's prudent decisions having been

nullified by the fact that her great-niece had just

attained her majority, and was therefore deemed

competent, according to the law of the land, to

take care of herself.

In the first portion of the will, the old ladj-'s
solicitor, Mr. Fletcher, together with the Bcv.
Orlando Binks, Lucy's maternal uncle, had been
appointed her executors. Then, ujDon the demise

of the last-named gentleman, ' Sydney Adolphus
Podmore, of Palmyra House, Clapliam Common,'
had, for a short time, supplied the vacancy thus
created. Quite recently, however, so recently
that Lucy wondered that she had not become
aware of the circumstance, a codicil had been
added to the will, witnessed by Miss Barlow's
medical adviser and the highly respectable clock-winder,
by which, whilst the name of her solicitor
continued still to be associated with the final administration
of her affairs, 'Sydney Adolphus
Podmore,' for no reason therein assigned, was
deposed in favour of 'Achille Marquis de la
Vieilleroche. '

It was impossible for Lucy not to feel deeply
grateful for this alteration. Relieved as she was,
however, she could not help being a little surprised
at it. ' Achille Marquis de la Vieilleroche '
was, in the first place, a man well stricken in
years. Further stricken, indeed, than, with the
tenacious vanity of his race, he might have wished
his female friends to suppose. He was, of course,
noble, chivalrous, possessed of a thousand amiable
and loveable qualities ; but he was a foreigner,
impulsive. Quixotic, eccentric, and pre-eminently
unconventional. . * Infatuated old simpleton ! '

Imbecile, utterly incapable of reform.' . . . These
were a few of the epithets which he was in the
habit of hurling at his own head, so that Miss
Elizabeth's attention must have been constantly
directed to his weaknesses. His administration of
his OAVTi property, too, had been, as far as could be
inferred from his present circumstances, anything
but successful. If the glories of the de la Vieille
had ever existed anywhere save in the
imagination of their last living representative,
how had those glories departed ! . . . Revolutions,
it may be, the unsettled condition of France,
the Marquis's avowed sympathy with the Legitimist
party ; these causes were, no doubt, amply
sufficient to have dissipated his worldly goods
without any assistance, upon his part, of rashness
and extravagance ; but still, it was reasonable to
suppose that, to Miss Elizabeth Barlow, ' Sidney
Adolphus Podmore,' the ostentatiously punctilious
man of business, the ardent supporter of all that
was practical, orthodox, and respectable, must
have seemed a far more suitable person to carry
out her last wishes, than an eccentric old Frenchman,
of erratic habits, and doubtful antecedents.
Apart from the respect and affection with which
Lucy herself had always regarded the old Professor,

the fact that Anthony Hepburn had entrusted
him with the management of affairs to
the utmost degree 'private and confidential
seemed, in her eyes, to be an undeniable proof of
his wisdom and integrity'. But then, Miss Elizabeth
Barlow could have laiown nothing about this.
What then, had caused Mr. Podmore to be deposed
from the high place he once occupied in her
esteem ? Had there been any recent quarrel, any
serious difference of opinion ? or was the substitution
of Monsieur de la Yieilleroche's name due
merely to the proverbial capriciousness of Miss
Elizabeth Barlow's sex ? . . .

Lucy, at any rate, could find no fault with her
great-aunt's decision. Not even in her present
desolate situation, had she been kept in ignorance
of his supposed matrimonial intentions, and o
his subsequent tale-bearing, could she have derived
so much as a crumb of comfort from Mr.
Podmore's society. There exists an Italian proverb
to the effect that it is better to walk alone
than to be badly accompanied ; Lucy experienced
the truth of this, now, and was relieved to find that
the society of one who had never been congenial
to her, need not be thrust upon her through the
force of circumstances.

Had Mr. Podmore's presence been most urgently
desired, however, at this particular juncture,
the Marquis gave it as his opinion that it
would have been extremely difficult to find him.
He had departed from Palmyra House, according
to the same authority, without leaving any definite
address. Several persons, the Marquis had been
led to understand, were particularly anxious to be
informed of it. . . . Coming events, events of
considerable gravity, ' were casting their shadows
before.' . . . Nothing could be more insupportable
than to hear people declaring, after the discovery
of a catastrophe, that they had always
been convinced it would happen. Nevertheless,
were it not that he was afraid of being classed
with these people, he would affirm that, from the
very first moment of his meeting with * that magnificent
Podmore,' he had experienced, instinctively.
. But no ! . He would allow events
to have time to developed themselves before he
gave a hint as to his suspicions ! . . . * Podmore '
had been written to, upon a ver' grave and important
matter, by Miss Elizabeth Barlow's solicitor.
Time would show what answer he would
vouchsafe to this communication. Till then,
Monsieur de la Yieilleroche would remain silent,

VOL. III. M

breathing not one word as to the apprehensions
that were agitating his mind ! . . .

Algernon Binks, notwithstanding that Lucy
had expressed no particular desire for his presence,
had graciously condescended to appear at
her great-aunt's funeral. But for the message
he had sent to her by Adeliza, it would never
have occurred to her to take any particular notice
of the colour of his coat. Since he, himself, had
alluded to the subject, however, and had been at
the trouble of informing her that his attendance
at Miss Elizabeth Barlow's obsequies would
necessitate the purchase of an appropriately
'inky garb,' and since the human mind is so
grotesquely constituted that it is prone to turn as
if for solace, in sacred and supreme moments, to
the contemplation of trifles ' light as air,' Lucy
could not help remarking, as her cousin stood between
the sable garmented forms of the old Professor
and the family solicitor, in the rays of a
searchingly strong light, that his coat did not,
certainly, appear to be quite black ; of an invisible
green, rather, or surreptitious mulberry,
she could not afterwards remember which. Still,
it was very kind of Algy to have thought of
comines at all, and his little visit of condolence.

after the sad ceremony, besides serving, for the
moment, to distract her mind, seemed to betoken
that, beneath an habitual assumption of selfishness,
he was not entirely without sympathy for
the misfortunes of others ; and once we discover
that a person is possessed of sympathy and compassion,
it is easy enough to forgive him the unsympathetic
cut or colour of his coat !

Algernon Binks had failed again in his preliminary
examination for the army. Most of his
friends had not been unprepared for this result.
His mother and sister, whilst regretting, for many
reasons, the fruitlessness of his efforts, were less
cast down than might have been expected, for
they inclined to the belief that he was, probably,
one of those transcendant geniuses whose minds
repudiate the drudgery and humiliation of set
tasks ; and that, possibly, after he had, somehow,
taken the world by storm, and become famous, it
would be stated in his biography, for the encouragement
of the incompetent, how utterly impossible
it had been for him to acquire almost
every kind of information through the ordinary
channels ; for there exists, according to Himie, 
*an ancient prejudice, industriously propagated
by the dances in all countries, that a man of

genius is unfit for business;' and of all businesses,
that of assimilating knowledge is not always the
least irksome.

Be this bow it may, poor Algy bad found it
utterly impossible to demonstrate, unassisted, what
would be the exact cost, per square yard, of a piece
of ' kamptulicon ' oil-cloth, 72 J yards in length
and 27J inches in width, and the price of wbicb,
as a whole, would amount to 12/. 19s. llfr/. He
bad tried and tried, until bis bead bad positively
acted, and be bad then left this, and several
other questions of the same nature, to shift for
themselves.

He bad felt dazed and impotent, too, when it
was required of bim, amongst other more abstruse
problems,  to * describe an equilateral triangle of
2 J inches side,'  on one of the sides of wbicb be
was further requested to * describe an isosceles
triangle, baying its two sides each 3 inches long,'
and be did not even feel quite certain as to bow
be should set about inscribing a square (as the
examination paper demanded of bim), 4n the
quadrilateral figure thus obtained.'

Some of bis translations from the French, also,
would bave been almost comic, but for the deplorable
ignorance they displayed of the Gallic idiom !

And then, to crown all, this English, dictation
!

How disgracefully it had been spelt, and low
utterly degrading to an Englishman to be actually'
plucked ' in the spelling of his own language ;
and to show, as Adeliza afterwards remarked,
that he possessed ' not even the most rudimentary
knowledge of the roots of words ! '

For Adeliza, who, in spite of her frequent
bickering, regarded Algy, secretly, very much
as most young ladies are apt to regard an only
brother, being unable to plume herself upon his
magnificent attainments, seemed determined to
glorify and exaggerate the extent of his ignorance,


Nobody in the whole world could spell in
quite such an original way as Algy ! ' ' Algy's
pronunciation of the French language was something
quite delightfully special ! ' ' Algy would
be certain to say, if anybody asked him what two
and two was, that it madc,/?Ve/' &c., &c., &c.,
as though she was desirous that these evidences
of boyish stupidity should take rank as full-grown
and respectable Binks idiosyncracies I

About a fortnight after the death of Miss
Elizabeth Barlow, Adeliza Binks and Captain

Sparsliott were joined together, quite quietly, in
holy matrimony.

Lucy, as a matter of form, was invited to the
wedding ; she excused herself, however, on account
of her recent bereavement, and so was
spared the witnessing of what is seldom a very
enlivening ceremony to the lookers-on.

In less than a week from the day of his marriage,
the Captain's extension of leave came to an
end, and he forthwith embarked for the seat of
war.

Adeliza, whose character, ever since the celebration
of the sacred rite, seemed to have become
greatly subdued and mollified, implored that she
might not be separated from her 'dearest Charlie
without whom, she had now discovered, it would
be utterly impossible for her to exist, and it was
finally settled, therefore, that she should accompany
him, notwithstanding her horror of seasickness,
and that, upon landing in South Africa,
she should remain at some comparatively civilized
station, whilst her husband proceeded up the
country in order to join the British force.

Lucy went up to London for the day, to bid
farewell to Mrs. Sparshott previous to her embarkation,
and as the Captain was very busy with

his final preparations, the two cousins were enabled
to converse confidentially together, for some time,
without interruption.

Lucy, with her pale anxious face, and plain
mourning dress, presented a marked contrast to
the handsome bride, who had donned one of her
most fascinating trousseau-toilettes for the edification
of her suburban kinswoman.

Several large black trunks,  marked ostentatiously
with Adeliza's newly-acquired initial, 
were encumbering e\eTy available space upon the
narrow staircase in Wilton Place.

A strange feeling of profitless longing came
into Lucy's heart as she beheld them, which, had
it taken the form of words, might have been
expressed somewhat as follows : 

Fortunate, though inanimate, black boxes ! 
bearing in your passionless bosoms the soft raiment
of a newly-made bride ! Would that J, too,
could get myself packed up in your inside, and
borne, over sea, to the far land where my love may
have soon to do battle with the dusky foe ! '

Perhaps,' whispered Adeliza, just as she was
in the middle of these melancholy reflections ;
when I get out there, I may see something of a
certain individual ! '

Lucy had often remarked, with some amusement,
that, according to the traditions of the
Binks family, people did not appear to have
been born ' individuals.' They had their individuality
thrust upon them by circumstances, and
it seemed requisite, too, that these circumstances
should partake somewhat of the equivocal,  the
mysterious,  the marvellous.

For example, let a person conduct himself
(for Lucy had noticed that ' individuals ' were
invariably males), with decency and circumspection,
treading carefully in the beaten track,
and denying himself all conventional or romantic
vagaries, and he was no more entitled to
take rank as an 'individual' than you or L
Once let it become known, however, to any
member of the Binks family, that he had been
suspected of cheating at cards,  of intriguing
with a ballet-girl,  or of walking in by the
window instead of the door,  and his title to ' individuality'
was permanently established forthwith.


Adeliza had evidently regarded Colonel Hepburn
as a confirmed * individual ' ever since the
day when ' dearest Charlie ' had confided to her
his discovery of the large wax doll in the brown-paper

parcel, and lie had thoroughly established
his claim to the title by his subsequent behaviour.

Lucy knew, therefore, at once, to whom her
cousin was alluding. She Ime, too, that the
allusion was not intended to be altogether complimentary.


Oh, Addie ! ' she exclaimed, in reply ; * do
you really think that you will see him ? Won't
he be stationed up the country quite an immense
ways off? '

He will, of course,' Adeliza answered ; ' but
then, Charlie will be there too, and he'll be constantly
writing to me. I'll get him to tell me
everything about him,  how he looks,  what ho
talks about,  what he has on, and whether he
snores, if Charlie and he happen to sleep in the
same tent ; and I'll write home and tell you all
about it ! And as, if I hear that dearest Charlie's
been wounded, or got fever, or anything dreadful,
I've made up my mind to call a bullock waggon
and fly off to him that very moment,  it's not at
all unlikely that I may come across the individual
myself. Haven't you found out, yet, that the
world's an awfully small place ? '

Oh, thank you !  thank you ! ' was all that
Lucy could answer, for tears were starting to her

eyes, and she felt altogether overwhelmed with,
emotion.

Captain Sparshott returned at about two
o'clock, from the Army and Navy Co-operative
Stores, where he had been busy making purchases
all the morning, his * hansom ' looking like an
exaggerated horn of plenty, overflowing with
parcels containing groceries, ironmongeries, and
indispensable unguents and medicaments.

Shortly after dismissing his cab, he joined
the two young ladies in the back drawing-room,
mopping his forehead, and looking, Lucy thought,
rather harassed and fatigued. He shook hands
very cordially with his new cousin, and, after
embracing his bride, informed her that he felt as
if he was ' quite ready for his " grub'' ' Luncheon
followed in due course, when the Captain's
appetite proved that he had not spoken unadvisedly.


Lucy came to the conclusion that JWy too, was
much softened and improved by matrimony, an
almost tender and altogether considerate bearing
having replaced a certain swaggering impudence
of manner which had before distinguished him.
He looked at her, she thought, with quite a new
expression of benevolent sympathy in his dark eyes.

Probably there was not one jot or tittle of lier
history,  or as much of it, at any rate,  as could
be known to anybody besides herself, wbicb bad
not been already confided to bini by bis devoted
wife, and bence, perhaps, the newly awakened
interest in bis glance !

After luncheon, at which Lady Mabella, who
had not previously come down, and Algernon,
who had not previously come up, both put in an
appearance, the young couple started off together
to bid farewell to some of the few friends who,
from a variety of causes, happened to be still
lingering on in Town. For it was just the time
of the year when London presents the aspect of
Dublin, or rather, of Bloomsbury, her own neglected
child ; of a citj, that is to say, which has
seen better days and smarter people. The shutters
were up in nearly all the houses in the fashionable
squares, and the nasturtiums and mignonette
in their balconies were all straggling and running
to seed. Drivers of hansom-cabs,  so haughty
and independent in mid-season,  condescended,
now, to interrogate even the shabbiest-looking
wayfarers. The coachmen of great families,  who
happened to have been left in Town during the
absence of their employers at Continental spas,

wigless, billy-cocked, having cast aside all the
outward badges of servitude,  were taking their
friends and relations for airings in Hyde Park in
connected barouches, whilst the water-cart,  indefatigable
always, at this dead season, and one
solitary horseman, who was in momentary expectation
of becoming a father,  shad got Rotten Eow
entirely to themselves.

On her way from Wilton Place to Victoria
Station, Lucy perceived many of the signs of this
annually recurring desolation. By five o'clock
she was at home again,  her quiet, solitary, little
home ! But still her ' home ' for all that,  a
resting-place from the feverish turmoil of the
world, and saddened and sanctified, now, by so
many memories, bitter for the most part, but yet,
some of them (thank Heaven for this, at least), 
sweeter and more precious than it was possible for
words to express !

A few lines were awaiting her from the old
Professor :  ' Still no news of our exemplary
neighbour ! . . . . Accumulations of letters,
telegrams, and urgent messages, are awaiting him
at his residence ! . . . . We are becoming more
than anxious about him. It has occurred to me
that you might search again through your Aunt's

correspondence. Look well through all her letters
this evening. Perhaps he may have written to
her about this mysterious absence from home, and
maj have even confided to her his destination.'

Lucy was not ignorant of the cause of her old
friend's anxiety, although she had not yet begun
to share in it, for poverty, to a young and incorrigibly
romantic person, who has never experienced
it, is apt to seem like one of the least important
and disquieting of human ills.

But, Miss Elizabeth Barlow's money being
bequeathed as it was bequeathed, and Lucy being,
as Adeliza had surmised,  quite a small heiress,'
what fears coidd there be with regard to pecuniary
matters? In ordinary circumstances, Lucy's
independence, in the future, might hare been
looked upon as assured. Circumstances, however,
to judge by Monsieur de la Yieilleroche's
ominous remarks, were inclined to take a somewhat
alarming turn.

Upon referring to the envelope marked * A. 1,'
in red ink, the ' particulars ' it enclosed consisted
simply of the following words, in the late Miss
Barlow's handwriting :  ' 10,000/. consols, and
9,500/. India four per cent, stock, transferred to
Sydney Podmore, Esq., for re-investment at

liifflier interest.  E. B.' Mr. Podmore's two

o

receipts were enclosed in the same envelope ; lie
could not, therefore, deny that he had received
the money. But then, where was Mr. Podmore
either to affirm or deny ? . . . And where, above
all, were Miss Lucy Barlow's nineteen thousand, five
hundred pounds ? . . . . These were the momentous
questions that Avere at present agitating the
rugged breast of Lucy's faithful old friend.

'Monsieur didn't say he would come back
later ? ' Lucy inquired of Sarah, after she had
read the Professor's note.

No, Miss, the Marquee was in a great hurry.
He had an appointment he said. I watched him go
in at the gate of '' The Aspens " after he left
here.'

The gate of The Aspens /' The gate
from which Lucy averted her gaze, now, as from
some accursed thing ! Would she live long
enough, she sometimes asked herself, to marvel,
or to smile, at the emotions which the 'sight of
everything connected with ' The Aspens ' could
not fail to evoke ? . . . . Was it not more likely
that she would one day wonder, should Fate
direct her footsteps to * pastures new,' how she
had ever been able to exist at all within sight of

a house capable of awakening such miserable
thoughts ? . . . . No ; the memories that
clustered round ber quiet little bone were not all
sacred ones !

Any person possessing true sensibility must
experience a feeling of shrinking embarrassment
when called upon, however urgent the occasion,
to read through the private papers of one wbo is
no more. As be or sbe glances over the written
words ; written only for the eyes that are now
fast closed ; it is almost impossible to help feeling
a certain apologetic timidity, a sense as of being
hitched  from either above or below  b} this
same pair of eyes, grown alert and vigilant ; and
the being who would willingly offend the susceptibilities
of this invisible witness, must have come
to be reckless and indifferent indeed !

Any quabns of conscience, however, which
Lucy Barlow might have experienced whilst
going through her great-ait's private correspondence,
were neutralised b} a conviction that
the old lady's blameless existence forbade the
supposition that she could have had anything to
conceal. Sbe read, therefore, reverently and
conscientiously, all such letters and papers as
might have been supposed to have any bearing

upon the matter in question ; but discovered no
clue either to Mr. Podmorc's present whereabouts,
or to bis disposition of the moneys

Quite unexpectedly, however, she chanced
upon a record which brought tears of sympathy
to her eyes.

A record of the past ; of the past long buried
and done with ! . . . A letter to her great-aunt
from the lover of her far-off youth !

To read this, after the silent understanding
which had been established between aunt and
niece, at the very last, Lucy felt would be no
indiscretion; nay, it seemed almost as though
the awakened e3es of the departed slumberer
were watching her in mute approval.

The letter, traced in brown faded ink, upon
hand-made writing paper, ran thus: 

My dearest beloved Betsy,

'Another death-blow to the plans we
had at heart ! . . . . I have just been directed
by the Admiral (Damn his eyes !), to put myself
under the command of Captain Fireplace, of
His Majesty's ship Scorpion, and proceed with
him immediately to cruise in the Gfutt, standing
in once a-day near enough to discern

signals from Gibraltar Bay. How long this
state of things may continue, is known only to
the Great Disposer of Events, to whom alone
I look for a favourable issue, and a delivery
from uncertainty and suspense ! I hope,
my dearest girl, that you will bear up, and put
your trust in Heaven, for I entertain a firm conviction
that affection founded, as ours is, upon
mutual esteem and respect, cannot go on forever
unrecompensed. You are only now seventeen,
and if we can but get "spliced"  as we
sailors have it  by the time you are twenty, I
shall think myself one of the luckiest fellows on
shore, and shall pray that I may be enabled to
support this delay upon the high seas with
Christian fortitude ; for I feel certain that if weare
not destined to be joined together in this
world, we must assuredly come together in the
next, so that I shall endeavour to put a good
countenance upon the matter, whichever way the
wind blows. In spite of all the delay and discouragement
I have lately had to contend with.
I'll not say a single bad word for the sea. 'Tis a
fine profession, and I rejoice to learn that your
brother, to whom I desire my affectionate respects,
is thinking of putting his little Billy into the Royal

VOL. III. N

iNavj The people about these coasts have a very
pretty talent for music, and I have set down, to
the best of my power, some of their songs upon
paper, so that we may sing them together, to your
guitar, if God wills that I am ever to listen to it
again upon this earth. I am impressed at times
with a belief that I may never again enjoy this
privilege, which is present to me so often in
imagination. But I'll not repine, trusting, as I
do, in the abiding mercy of an All-powerful
Providence, and in the constancy of my dear
Betsy's affection. For myself, you must believe,
too, in my sincerity and truth, added to which, I
find it almost an impossibility to get on shore ; or,
at least, to visit those places where I should be
likely to fall in with the society of females. I
doubt, too, whether the Senoritas would have anything
to say to me, for I am convinced if you saw
me, you would protest that I was the damnedest-looking
scoundrel imaginable, burnt to the colour
of an old shoe, and sadly in want of new smallclothes
! . . . . But I'll consider the lilies of
the field, which toil not, neither do they spin,
and yet Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed
like one of these ; and look forward to better
times and sounder garments. If you told the

painter to put another coating of brown paint
over the face in my picture, lie would make a far
better likeness of it. Poor little devil ! I daresay
lie would be glad of the job. I must beg of
you, my dear girl, that you do me the honour
and favour of wearing this portrait as long as
your affection continues for the subject of it,
which I desire to believe will be to the very end
of this earthly pilgrimage, like his for you, who
will do the same, also, by your picture, and has
left orders that it shall be lowered down with him
into his last resting-place, whether this be at sea
or on dry land. And now, that God Almighty
may have you safe in His keeping, and lead you
to the perfect knowledge and understanding of
His ways, is the earnest prayer of your ever-faithful
and affectionate servant and lover,

'George Christopher,

Who wishes, with his whole heart, that his
dearest girl could be present for one moment, so
that he might press her once more in his arms.

'His Majesty's Ship, Venturous,

Gibraltar Bay, Sept. 11, 18. . .'

This letter, which was addressed to 'Miss
Betsy Barlow, at Lesser Pucklington, Bucks,*
bore upon the outside these few words in the

handwriting of the recipient :  ' From my ever-dearest
Gr. C. (Can. R. N.), whose ship went
down with all hands, off Vigo, on the 27th
October, 18. . . this last Utterly

So, Captain George Christopher, En., had
been drowned at sea very nearly sixty long years
ago ! . . . Affectionate, musical, religious, and yet,
seemingly, not averse, upon occasion, to the employment
of tolerably strong language, he must
have been worthy, indeed, of Miss Elizabeth
Barlow's early affections !

!Not that this was precisely the kind of love-letter,
perhaps (the result of an affection founded
upon mutual esteem and respecter), that Lucy
would have desired to receive from ' a certain
individual ! '

Lucy, however, although she may not have
mingled much with the most thoughtless and
worldly of her kind, was essentially the child
of these flippant, telegraphic, synoptical, lawn-tennis
latter days ; when the most sacred and
solemn subjects may be touched upon, lightly
and airily, even in the hearing of an Archbishop ;
when news can flash ' from Greenland's icy
mountains to India's coral strand,' in the mere
'twinkling of a bed-post;' when nobody knows.

and few people seem to care, anjtliing whatsoever
about ' the dim hereafter of the soil ;' when
the greater portion of the civilised globe seem
to be intent only upon that most depressing and
fatiguing of occupations  the pursuit of pleasure ;
when nearly" every fashionable woman possesses
a pug, and every fashionable parson a beard,
and when all the pillar post-boxes are painted
scarlet.

To her, therefore, the letter of the departed
sailor seemed to be a little ' rococo bearing
plainly upon its brow the imprint of its sixty
years. The strong language, it is true, lent it
stamina and backbone, but still the combination
of texts and oaths seemed to be rather incongruous,
and to expose its style to the reproach
of what Mr. Matthew Arnold has termed ' provinciality.'


Naval officers, however, are apt to be more
unaffectedly pious than those employed in the
sister service. Is it, perhaps, that lonely night-watch
 that silent contemplation of the starry
firmament, with the consciousness that only a
few planks and cross-beams are set between him
and eternity, which causes the sailor to believe
with more sincerity in the efficacy of Divine

Protection ? . . . Sixty years ago, however, piety
and strong language were ' the proper thing ' on
shore as well as at sea, and even in the very
highest places.

*Why the devil, sir, didn't you remain for
the Sacrament ? ' a royal duke is said to have
remarked to his equerry, upon rejoining him at
the luncheon-table, after church; 'only H. K. H.
made use of an expression which is looked upon
as even more emphatic than the much-abused
name of the ' pair deil ! ' So that there is,
Ardently, a fashion in these things just as
there is in bonnets.

CHAPTER XI.

The blow which Monsieur che la Yieilleroclie had
looked upon for some time as impending, fell
upon Lucy before she bad realized the possibility
of any such catastrophe.

Mr. Podmore sought for, far and near, by his
numerous creditors, was not forthcoming, and
the money that had been entrusted to him by
Miss Elizabeth Barlow, and other confiding
persons, had, likewise, mysteriously disappeared.

The leases of Palmyra House, Barlow Lodge,
<md ' The Aspens,' were to be disposed of, immediately,
to meet some of the most urgent
demands; and Lucy, but for the mangled remains
of her great - aunt's modest fortune,
and the Insurance policy, which produced
barely 100/. a-year, would have been penniless
and homeless as well. She was entitled,
it appeared, upon referring to the original
agreement, as the tenant in possession,  to the

first refusal of the lease of Barlow Lodge, and
application was made to lier upon the subject.
An empty form, Avitli wliieli lie could willingly
have dispensed, seeing that it was utterly impossible
out of the slender funds Avliich were
now at her disposal, to do more than encounter
the necessary expenses of every day.

And yet you will persist in paying these
legacies at once to your relatives who are already
in easy circumstances ? ' the old Marquis inquired
of her one day, after they had talked together
upon money matters until her head positively
ached.

Yes, of course, I shall persist she answered
sadly ; ' all the legacies must be paid off as soon
as possible. I shall not feel at rest until this is
done.'

'And where, my dear, do you propose to
obtain the money to pay off all these people?
For myself, I do not intend to accept one
sov.'

I'm sorry for that ! I wish you wouldn't be
quite so proud. We are such old friends, however,
and we shall see so much of each other,
I hope, that I may be able somehow', to help
you, should you be ever in want of money. I

might assist you with, your lessons, perhaps, or
work for you in some other way; but my
relations and the servants must have their
legacies. As there isn't enough money in the
Bank, I suppose I shall have to sell some of
my things.'

She balanced round the little sittings-room as
she spoke. Sever before had its simple, old-fashioned
furniture appeared so dear to her I
A new home woidd have seemed much less
foreign and desolate could she have conveyed
thither all her lares and penates; but now the
greater portion of them would have to go !

You see,' she went on, by-and-by, ' I shall
have to live in a much smaller house  quite a
cottage, in fact ; or, very likely, only in one
room. A\Tiat should I do with all this furniture
? '

'You do not think that it would be best
for you to write and inform your aunt, milady
Binks, of your position?'

Oh, no, no ! ' replied Lucy, quickly. ' [My
one wish is to conceal it from her I She isn't
at all rich ; she hates worries ; and she has
just been ordered out to Cannes for her health.
What good could she possibly do mc? But

even if she offered me help, I should refuse it.
Before everything, I should like to be independents


She was thinking that, were she to confide
in Lady Mabella, Lord Belmorris, also, would
probably become aware of her misfortunes. She
remembered, and appreciated, his constantly reiterated
request to the effect that, in any future
trouble, she should address herself to him, as to
her sincerest friend ; but, she bethought her, too,
of the reasons why she had decided, in her own
mind, that she could never avail herself of his
kindness. Lady Mabella had just started for the
South of France, whither she had gone chiefly
on account of her health ; but with the object,
also, of visiting the tomb of the late Mr. Binks,
who had been interred at Cannes.

She had started off escorted by Algy, and the
morose, though indispensable Gussy. It had been
foreseen, however, that vague, peevish, and irresponsible
as she was, she would be unable to
remain for long, by herself, in a foreign land,
after her son's departure for England; and
Lord Belmorris, with his usual good nature,
had promised to *run down South' and 'look'
his sister ' up ' during the winter ; supplementing

this duty by a little distraction in the shape of a
fl3dng visit to Nice and Monte Carlo. Were he
to hear from Lady Mabella of Lucy's financial
crisis, what more likely than that he would either
write or repair to Clapham, immediately upon
his return to England, and might not any such
letter or visit prove highly embarrassing, in the
position in which she now found herself ?

She desired, therefore, to pay off the legacies
at once, as though Miss Elizabeth Barlow's affairs
had been left in proper order ; and then, with
Lady Mabella at Cannes, and Adeliza in South
Africa, there was no reason why the reduced state
of her circumstances should become known to
them for some time, at least ; and who could
say what unexpected events might not have
taken place before then ?

The funeral is paid,' she went on, now, going
through a list of creditors with her pencil ;  the
doctor, the law-business, the butcher, and the
servants are paid  all but their legacies. I can't
go on living in this house, and there would be
too nmch furniture for a smaller one, so I shotJd
have to sell some of these things, anyhow.
Where I am to go to, I don't know !

And so it came to pass that, within two

montis of the decease of Miss Elizabetli Barlow
a large black board was fixed up under the
branches of the sentinel lime-tree b} the garden
door, over the very spot where Anthony had
held Lucy in his arms ujDon that never-to-be-forgotten
summer night, whereupon it was set
forth, in staring white letters that  'the desirable
villa residence,' known as Barlow Lodge
was forthwith to be sold. Furthermore, pasted
upon the outside of the garden-door, itself, a
printed bill informed the public that, in the
course of the ensuing week, a sale would take
place within doors, of most of the effects of Miss
Elizabeth Barlow, deceased ; consisting of plate,
pictures, household furniture, kitchen utensils
garden implements, &c., &c., &c. ; and that the
same would be on view, upon the premises, for
three days previous to the time fixed for disposing
of them b} auction. Orders to view the objects
in question were to be obtained  (and here
followed the name and address of the local
auctioneer.)

Lucy felt terribly homeless and forlorn when
the first of these three days eventually dawned.

The v>'hole house had been despoiled and dismantled,
the cosy downstairs-rooms having been

revolutionized so that they were scarcely recognizable.


The honest dining-room ' mahogany elongated
to the dimensions of a table cVJiote, was
groaning beneath an unaccustomed burden of
silver, glass, crockery, and plated goods, all
arranged and congregated together, according to
their distinctive species. The * threaded fiddle-pattern
service,' according to its kind ; the silver
skewers, the * fish-slice,' the wine-funnel, and the
George the First marrow spoon,' according ta
their kind; the octagonal mustard-pot, with ladle
and blue glass liner,' and the ' substantial square
cruet-stand,' with the  four cut-glass bottles and
sauce-labels,' according to their kind ; and then,
the quaint old Worcester, Swansea, and Wedge-wood
services ; the ' coffee-pot on stand, with
lamp, and tea-pot, partly fluted ; ' the ' two round
waiters with maroon edges,' and the old familiar
 bronzed and plated tea-urn ; ' all herded pathetically
together, like poor negro-slaves, who are
about to leave the  old plantation,' and be dispersed
amongst new masters in unknown places !

Several of these assorted articles were to be
sold singly, as well as in lots, so that nut crackers
and grape-scissors, toasting-fork and toast-rack, 

those old comrades and coadjutors,  were on the
brink, it might be, of an eternal separation !
Tureen and ladle might, henceforward, ' tread
severed paths to varied ends,' whilst even tho
cut-glass bottles of the * substantial square cruet-stand
' might well have quailed and faltered could
they have realized how soon the sauce-labels they
had cherished for so long were destined perhaps,,
to be torn from their faithful breasts !

Like the hairs of our heads, too, the very
fenders, fire-irons, and coal-scuttles, were all
numbered.

They, also, so Lucy fancied, looked crestfallen
and reproachful, * as who should say,' 

'Good-bye to you for ever. Miss Lucy Barlow!
We have served you well and faithfully for many
a long year, but you have cast us off now, and
we shall be forced to protect, poke, shovel uj), and
supply fuel for alien hearths ! . . . May you
meet with more generous treatment in your own
old age ! ' . . .

Lucy had selected from amongst her possessions,
a few favourite pieces of furniture, the two
smallest of the three blue ginger-dots (the third and
centre one, besides being slightly chipped, was so
bloated and cumbersome that she had decided

upon sacrificing it, and it was lording it, now,
over the baser and more modern vessels upon
the dining-room table.) The family-portraits in
black paper, and that other portrait,  likewise in
black,  representing, as far as it was possible to
conjecture, Miss Elizabeth's early love ; and the
great spiked and spotted ocean shells, which had
been brought home, at different periods, either by
Captain Christopher, or by Lucy's father, (the
little Billy ' of the Captain's letter,) were, of
course, too sacred to be started with ; as was, likewise,
the hereditary Barlow great seal, with its
ramping lion ; and the genealogical window-blind
upon the staircase, which had taken so much time
and trouble to limn and to devise !

These, with a silver tea-pot, six tea-spoons, a
few cups and saucers, and the best of the engravings,
Lucy had collected together in the late Miss
Barlow's bed-room. If the things downstairs did
not sell for as much as she hoped and expected,
some of these others would have to go too !

It was with some satisfaction that she had set
out upon the dining-room table the showy-looking*
photograph-book with which Mr. Podmore had
presented her just before he had visited the Isle
of Wight. It was as good as new, but would go.

of course, for a mere 'song' notwithstanding that
it must have been expensive in the first instance.
Willingly would she have included the * aquarium'
also, in the list of articles destined for sale ; but,
upon her return home after her visit to Belmorris
Castle, she had found it stagnant and forgotten,
with the uncongenial molluscs lying, pale and unstuck,
upon the shingle at the bottom, and * all
dead corpses ! ' Mrs. Pilchard the cook, who had
been left in charge of it, had, for some days allowed
the * 'aquarius to slip her memory,' (as she
had tearfully informed her young mistress,) and
she was sorry to say that ' the 'aquarius looked
as if they was dead I ' and never were any deaths
so little lamented !

At about three o'clock upon the afternoon of
the first day of inspection, as Lucy was wandering
about the upper part of the house like an unquiet
spirit, she heard a loud tinkling of the front-door
bell. Below-stairs, several brokers and dealers
had arrived. She could hear their creaking footsteps
upon the careless floors, their rough voices,
aggressive coughing, and seemingly sacrilegious
laughter ; and guessed that, with hawk eyes and
clawing fingers, they were appraising, comparing,
approving, depreciating. Feeling, somewhat unjustly,

as if these men were lier natural enemies,
who were come to gloat and triumph over her in
the hour of her humiliation, she had remained upstairs
during the whole of the morning, endeavouring,
with but little effect, to distract her
thoughts by reading, writing, tearing up and
docketing old letters, and by setting her few remaining
possessions in order.

She peeped out of the window, now, to see
who this new-comer could be.

The figure of a hansom cabman was perched
up above the line of the wall, and upon the door
being opened by Sarah, a fashionably-dressed
young couple came tripping up the pathway to
the house. The young lady was decidedly pretty ;
the man, too, tall and good-looking. By leaning
over the staircase, Luc" could just see them enter
the house, and turn into the dining-room. The
vulture-like brokers made way for them with abject
civility, and subdued, at once, their coughing,
snorting, and unseemly laughter. Possibly
the young couple were persons of distinction.
Sarah now came upstairs to say that they were
unprovided with an order of admittance. They
were just driving by in a * hansom ' when they
had seen that there was to be a sale, and had rung

VOL. III. o

at the bell. Dazzled by their resplendent appearance,
Sarah had opened the door to them at once.
Might they * just take a look round?' . . .

'Yes ; they might look round with pleasure,' 
Xiucy answered,  feeling how hollow and incongruous
the word ' pleasure ' sounded under the circumstances.


Thank you. Miss,' said Sarah, going downstairs
again ; * they seem very respectable.'

But the flippant talk, and rippling laughter, of
this * respectable ' pair, soon jarred upon Lucy
almost as painfully as the snorts and guffaws of
the * vultures.' Evidently, they did not regard
the situation in its pathetic asjDcct. Lucy could
hear nearly the whole of their ribald talk, as
they, too, ignorant of her near vicinity, appraised,
compared, approved, or depreciated, irreverently,
her household gods.

*Father a jolly thing in pickle-jars,' said the
pretty lady, by-and-by, alluding, no doubt, to the
largest of the three hereditary ginger-pots ; * I
should like to annex it.' Lucy winced painfully.

No, no ! ' returned her companion, evidently
a husband, * I can hardly pay my way as it is !
I must wait till I get my rents before plunging
into useless extravagance ! '

*It couldn't come to much, dear! ' pleaded the
pretty lady ; ' may I say that we'll go as high, as
fifteen shillings ? '

Fifteen shillings for that rotten thing ! . . .
Why it's not worth fifteen ;e;?ce / . . . It's got
a great crack all down one side ! Besides, it
won't be much use to us when we're in the workhouse
! '

A mad-\iovi%Q will be the best palace for yoiiy
I think ; you seem to have got rents on the brain !
May I give a commission, then for ten shillings ?
Mama gave seven pounds, the other day, for one
that wasn't anything like as big as this one ! '

I always thought that your mother wasn't
overburdened with brains; now I'm sure of it !
"Well, then, ten shillings, if you won't bother me
about anything else !

Many other types of the bric--brac hunter,
some of them seeming even less sympathetic than
this flippant couple, dropped in at Barlow Lodge
whilst Lucy's household gods were set out upon
approbation.

Then came the sale itself ; a day of anxiety,
confusion, of unrestrained trappings, snorting,
and laughter, below stairs ; for it was evident to
Lucy that the situation appeared comic, rather

tliaii tragic, to most of the persons ayIio assisted
at the dispersion of her goods.

Then followed hammering, tittering of straw
and waste paper, the cording and carrying out of
hampers, parcels and packing-cases ; and then, 
a lull,  a grateful sense, as of peace restored, and
of uncongenial elements banished and cast out ;
but emptiness, curtailed, careless, desolation ;;
mingled with a painful uncertainty as to the
whereabouts of any future home.

Lucy's own bed-room still presented its normal
appearance, and here, consequently, she felt
less forlorn and disconsolate than in the dismantled
apartments downstairs.

What poor sufferers against Fate we make of
ourselves, when we allow even inanimate objects to
find their way into our hearts ; and when we lament
the loss of a Chippendale chair, or a blue pickle -
jar, even as though it had been a living friend !

One day, after the last van, bearing away
the last packing-case, had driven off from tho
door,  Lucy, whilst sorting and arranging her
books and papers, chanced upon two records of
the past which,  read by the light of sad after-experience,
 were not exactly calculated to remove
her depression.

These were, first, the slip of paper upon which
she had copied out ' Maxime's ' impassioned
speeches in the 'Roman (run Jeiinc homme pauvre
whilst she was reposing in the Miss Bolderos*
apartment at Hampton Court Palace.

Mar fj UP rite,' (the words ran), ' scouted hen !
Je rous aime, c'est vrai, ct jamais amour jjIus ardent
pius desintcrcsse, plus saint, n'est entre dans le
coeur d'un Homme ! . . . Mais vous aussi, rous
ni'aimez . . . vous m\iimcz, maJheurcuse ! Et rous
me tue / . . . Vous me arises le coeur ! . . . Mais
ce coeur, il est a. vous / . . . Vous jiourez en faire ce
fpCil rous plait. . . . Quad a mon honneur, il est a
moi, et je le garde ! . . . Et sur cet honneur, je rous
fais serment, que si je meurs, rous me jleurercz ! . .'

This speech, essentially that of a Frenchman,
making so sure both of Marguerite's love, and
of her tears, in the event of a catastrophe, 
seemed, to Lucy, in her present miserable frame
of mind, as though it might have been addressed
to herself with some justice by Anthony Hepburn.


She regarded herself as the indirect cause of
his having departed upon active service ; for it is
difficult for a woman to reaKze the actual yearning
after perilous adventure,  for its own sake, 

wliicli seems to exist in nearly every male breast ;
and which would, probably, have induced Colonel
Hepburn to make an offer of bis services under
the very happiest circumstances, and even supposing
that be bad not been in duty bound, as
now, to accompany the half of bis regiment wbicb
bad been ordered abroad.

Luc} however, could only think, now, of
some of the possible consequences of bis departure,
and of bow disastrous these niigbt
prove.

Had sbe consented to fly with bim,  * to
Australia, or New Zealand, somewhere, anywhere,'
 as be bad whispered to ber upon that
star-lit summer night,  there to make ' sl new
bone under bluer skies,'  be might not now be
separated from ber by ' long line of land and sea
encompassed on all sides by dangers,  a hopeless,
desperate man,  to whom a violent death might
come almost as a deliverance from future torments
and complications !

It is right and proper, assuredly,  and conducive,
too, to the preservation of morality, 
that the maiden wbo is solicited and entreated by
man to sacrifice, for bis sake. Prudence, Duty,
and Discretion, should do battle determinedly for

"her virgin honour, and come off victorious if
possible, from the 'tented field

There may be rare instances, however, when
she who loses wins an inexpressible blessing,  a
treasure,  a cause for perpetual rejoicing ;  or
where she who comes off victorious, may lose,
nevertheless, what no sense of after security or
self-congratulation can compensate her for !

Maiden chaste ! Maiden fair !
Sitting combing yellow hair,
Take care ! Beware ! "
Letting lovers sigh and pass,
Mocking when they cry " alas ;"
Sitting smiling at thy glass,

Telling all thy beauties over !

Maiden proud ! Maiden fair !
Time may bleach thy yellow hair !
"Take care! Beware!"

Time mays strike thy lover dead.
Leaving but for thee, instead, 
Dark and narrow bridal-bed,

Lithe red worm to be thy lover ! '

Still, it is as well, perhaps, that maidens should
continue to * beware ' rather after another fashion,
since their carelessness might give rise to scandals,
backbiting, and the humiliation of honest folk.

At this moment, however, Lucy could not

help realizing, with a sinking heart, that, were
Anthony Hepburn to meet his doom in South
Africa, she would derive but sorry consolation, 
as she gazed, desolate and forlorn, at the seven
lime-trees beneath which she had once seen him
seated,  from the reflection that her maiden-honour,
at least, was still safe and untarnished !
In a word, that if the being for whom alone, all
her joys in living must henceforth be derived,
were to cease to exist,  partly through her own
selfish prudence and circumspection,  it would bea
lifelong regret to her that she had not bowed
herself obediently to his desire, and followed him
* somewhere,  anywhere,'  to the ' new home
under bluer skies,' of which he had spoken !

She liked to think, now, that the notion of
deserting her great-aunt,  a solitary old woman,
who had watched over her own defenceless years,
shad weighed more heavily in the balance than
fear for honour, reputation, or of the world's
scorn. Indeed, I know not to what lengths her
infatuation might not have led her, could Anthony
Hepburn's tall form have appeared, at that
moment, under the now leafless branches of the
sentinel lime !

There are fleeting moments in the existences o

nearly all real ionic )i, during the wliicli,  if only
the absent lover could reappear before tbcni in the
flesh,  he might find, perhaps, that his pleading
would not be altogether in vain. Mesmerism ?
Electricity ? The shifting seasons ? A sudden
distemper of the blood? I would lay the true
responsibility of a strong woman's passing weakness
at the door of all of these, if I could, before
I would admit that the lady herself had any hand
in her own undoing I But, be this how it may, in
nine cases out of ten, the eager, outstretched arms,
encounter nothing but emptiness. The beloved is
absent still. The clock strikes. The perilous
moment is over-passed ! . . .

The second record which sent a sharp pang
through Lucy's heart was inscribed upon the
tattered cover of a child's picture-book,  a stray
portion of the missile which Mrs. Van Buren's
little girl had flung at a butterfly in her neighbour's
garden,  ' To my little Lily, from one who
loves her.'

It was not possible to be mistaken as to the
writer of those manly characters. So well known,
now, so treasured, so beloved, had become every
peculiarity of this particular handwriting ! There
was a certain serpentine flourish in the lower

portion of the ' L,' in ' Lily  which, (as in tlio-

Lucy ' of lier oyn name,) was carried clown
below the level of the other letters,  a fearlessness
about the clothing and dashing,  as though
they had been set clown with a pen that knew no
guile, and feared no evil ;  in a word, it was the
handwriting of Anthony Hepburn.

Those who have arrived at the afternoon of
life,  that subdued, contemplative, and not altogether
une joy able period, whereat, nevertheless,
a susceptible and affectionate nature cannot
be said to be entirely * out of the wood,'  will
admit, I think, that young and inexperienced
persons are unable to appreciate fully the bitterest
and most terrible forms of human jealousy. To
feel, with intensity either the loss, or the desecration
of an idol, to realize, even, the state of mind
which may be engendered by the fear of any such
possibility,  one must have penetrated into the

holy of holies,' and lifted, or rent the veil
asunder. For the agony which is ' cruel as the
grave,' and the coals thereof  coals of fire,' is
reserved for the being whose nature has been
achieved and completed, and it is scarcely possible
in consequence that a maiden can ever experience
the fiercer blasts of this ' vehement flame.'

Lucy, therefore, whilst looking with only
partially enlightened eyes, upon the words written
by Anthony Hepburn for a child,  his own child,
of which she was not the mother ;  knew not,
perhaps, the fullest extent of misery which such a
contemplation may sometimes bring with it. A
cup may be bitter, however, even at its first sip,
and before we have been well-nigh poisoned with
its dregs, and Lucy, as she read those few written
words, suffered acutely, ' according to her lights

This child, with her golden hair,  her sad,
appealing, seeking eyes,  had attracted and
fascinated her at first sight. In the eyes, too,
of the father of this child, the same expression
lingered at times. "Was this why, (Lucy had
asked herself since,) his face had seemed so
familiar to her, even in the first hour of her
meeting with him,  and, if so, why, when she
had come to know, and to study, every stroke of
his handwriting, had she had no inkling of the
truth ?

Why, too, had she not recognised the likeness
of this child, when she had seen it hanging over
Anthony Hepburn's bed at Falconborough Park ?
AVhv had she not understood, at once, the full
purport of Adeliza's anecdote about the large wax

doll, and the old Professor's allusion to Anthony
Hepburn's devotion to Mrs. Van Buren's little
girl ? In a word, why, (to make use of Adeliza's
.slang expression,) had she been, for so long, so
lamentably,  so * terrifically green V  so slow to
suspect and understand? To be innocent, one
need not be stupidly ignorant ! To be discreet, it
was not necessary to be absolutely blind !

Gradually, however, a fuller knowledge had
come to her. Her attention had been directed,
through sheer force of suffering, towards the
mainsprings of the intense emotions. Adeliza's
married talk, too, had had some share in her
enlightenment, and once she had emerged from
the mists of uncertainty, what a mass of conclusive
evidence had seemed to stand suddenly
revealed ! She knew, now, why this little girl
possessed such a persuasive voice, and such sweet
eyes ;  why she might so easily have crept into
her heart had occasion offered ;  and she knew,
too, that she could never again look into the
depths of those innocent child-eyes, or listen
again to that engaging prattle, without experiencing
the bitterest of human emotions ! Supposing,
 only opposing,  that the very best of all
hoped-for things were ever to come to pass, would

not the form of this little golden-haired fairy,
with her coaxing, clinging ways, seem to be perpetually
gliding between Anthony and herself ; 
reviving memories which ought to lie buried forever,
and uttering,  in didcet tones,  the one
discordant note to mar what might, otherwise,
prove a perfection of harmony ? How, too,
should Anthony's strong arms ever fold her again
to his breast,  would she be able to endure the
thought that, tattooed upon one of them, was the
twining initial of the name of that fairy's mother,
a woman he must have cared for once,  after
some sort of a fashion, at any rate ? If so fair a
future Avere ever to dawn for her, and, afterwards,
ran risk of being thus irrevocably clouded, what
could she possibly do in order to conceal, or rub
out, this detestable record ? Ah, well ! Adeliza
had said, once,  speaking as though from bitter
personal experience,  one must not expect men to
behave * exactly as if they were angels, with
wings sprouting out of the backs of their necks ! '
At the present moment, however, Lucy could
almost have wished that Nature had provided her
absent lover with wings instead of arms. He
could have floTi to her, in the first place,  overland
and sea, only poising upon the masts of ships

from time to time to rest his pinions;  and,
secondly, she could have made sure, in the future,
of being spared the sight of Mrs. Yan Buren's
initial, and of the scar left by the wound which
her hands had first bound up !

CHAPTER XII.

The beginning of a new year saw Lucy established
in a new borne.

It bad all come about in the most natural
manner imaginable. Monsieur de la Yieillerocbe,
as the reader is aware, bad resided for some years
Clapham. He lodged at a little detached bouse,
* Tine Cottage ' by name,  standing in a by-lane
upon the eastern side of the Common, and
wbicb seemed to peep out, as it were, with only
one eye, in the direction of Barlow Lodge.

Although the old Professor was anything but
well-off, be attached great importance to the
claims of friendship ; and so, Benvenuto Posse,
bis brother in art and in misfortune, could always
make sure of a bed and a dinner beneath the roof
of this bumble abode.

But of late, new cares and complications bad
beset the path of the ill-starred Italian artist.
Bent on business of the most important tbougb.

unpleasant nature, (as Lucy was informed by the
Marquis,) lie lead suddenly been obliged to depart
for the Continent, whence it was unlikely that lie
would be able to return for some time. His room,
therefore, upon the first-floor, was vacant ; and as,
just at the convenient moment, a couple wbo had
inhabited the ground-floor apartment, had decided
also to remove elsewhere, what more natural and
proper than that Lucy, in her present reduced
circumstances, should take up her abode,  for
awhile, at any rate,  under the same roof as her
old friend; inhabiting, with the faithful Sarah,
who had consented to share her young mistress's
fortunes, these very ground-floor rooms, whilst
Monsieur de la Yieilleroche retained his accustomed
garret, and utilized, as a study, the
chamber of his absent friend ?

By this arrangement, each of the two lodgers
could enjoy a proud consciousness of independence,
Whilst Lucy, at least, would be spared the sense of
utter desolation and abandonment which might
possibly have taken possession of her had she
found herself in an unfamiliar place, amongst
total strangers.

There could be no doubt, whatever, now, as to
the cause of Mr. Podmore's mysterious disappearance.

Whether lie had been pursuing for all
these years, a conscious system of fraud and
embezzlement, or whether he had merely allowed
himself to become involved, as the dupe of unprincipled
speculators, in bubble companies for
the working of profitless mines, the running of
purposeless railways, or the building of unnecessary
houses, is all one as regards this story.
Suffice it to say, that ' true-hearted Sydney Pod-more,'
in spite of his high-flowii sentiments,
bluff, outspoken manner,' ' punctual, matter-of-fact,
business habits,' and manly, ' British-lion '
appearance, was now an outlaw. "Writs had been
issued for his apprehension, supposing that he had
the temerity to set foot upon English soil ; and
not only was he, himself, irretrievably ruined and
Jiumiliated, but he had been the cause, too, of
widespread ruin and humiliation of others.

Vincent Rossi, alias ' the lord Yiscoimt
Falconborough,' had also,  as far as might be inferred
from his conduct,  become involved in this
unexpected financial crisis.

Believing, or affecting to believe, in the 
of his patron, he had embarked upon a new
career of extravagance, denying himself no luxury,
or superfluity, which coidd invest with probability

VOL. III. p

his imaginary claims to nobility ; without any
thought as to who should pay the score when the
day of reckoning finally arrived.

Hcy too, as far as could be gathered, at present,
had fled from his creditors. He had been heard
of last at Brussels, and it was in order to discover
his whereabouts, and to sow, if possible, the seeds
of a tardy reform, that his long suffering father
had gone forth in search of him now.

Monsieur de la Yieilleroche  mysterious as
ever  whilst awaiting what might prove reliable
information, was full of vaguely-expressed hints
and surmises. There were * strange combinations
and developments in the drama of real life, which
would seem often to be too romantic and improbable
to represent upon the stage.' . * Sometimes,
 although very rarely,  athwart the oppressive
darkness by which we are surrounded,
and in which, like benighted moles, we appear to
be left to grope about without superior guidance,'
he, (Achille de la Yieilleroche,) hardened old unbeliever
that he was, fancied that he could * dimly
discern the finger of a directing Providence ! '
Or, again,  One day,  a day that was not, perhaps,
so very far distant,'  she might be in a
position to impart to his yoimg friend. Miss Lucy,

a piece of intelligence wHch might excessively
surprise lier, though not, he hoped, ' in altogether
a disagreeable manner,' &c., &c.

To these shado'y insinuations, Lucy, who
knew that Anthony was encompassed by dangers,
in the midst of a savage land, and that there
could, therefore, be no question, as yet, of his
return, (the only agreeable surprise which, in her
present state of mind, she was enabled to contemplate,)
gave but very little heed or attention.

Sometimes, after he had been absent for nearly
the whole day, the old man would return in the
highest spirits, and scarcely able, as it seemed, to
refrain from confiding to her the reason of his
elation. At other times, his brow would be
anxious and cloudy ; he would merely look in at
the door of her little sitting-room, and press her
hand sadly, before taking his way upstairs, where
she would hear him, afterwards, pacing his narrow
chamber overhead, as though oppressed by a whole
host of demons of unrest.

Sarah was of opinion that these sudden alternations
in the 'Marquee's' mood were due to
worry,'  the result of 'how things were going on
at 'the Aspens;" seeing that he was known to
be a friend of the lady, and to have something todo,

as well, with the teaching and bringing up of
her little girl

The people at * The Aspens ' ought (Sarah informed
Lucy,) to have  cleared out ' long ago ;
for the place was to be  sold up,' with the rest of
the property, on account of Mr. Podmore's embarrassments
;  of which Sarah had been very
much surprised to hear, because Mr. Podmore had
always seemed to her to be ' such a perfect gentleman,'
and because Mr. Kitchens, too, was apparently
* so very respectable ; ' although, now,
people * did say,' that he had never been in service
before, but that he was a friend or poor relation of
Mr. Podmore, and * all mixed up with him in the
same swim ! ' Whether they were both * regular
downright rogues,' or nothing more than ' a couple
of great sallies,' Sarah was sure she could not tell.
She had * heard say ' that they had got uj) a
company ' for digging ujd mahogany,' in some out-of-the-way
place abroad, and had persuaded
people to put their money into it, but that when
the shareholders went out to look after their investment,
they found that ' the mahogany was
only made out of painted deal,' and so they had
all either to ' starve, beg, or go to the workhouse,'
which Sarah hoped she would never be called

upon to do as long as lie lived; and it would not
be, certainly, from the same cause, even if she did
go there, for lie lead always had a perfect horror
of investments, and didn't 'hold very much,' even,
to banks; whilst she had never so much as told a
fellow-servant, in her whole life, where she kept
her savings,  acting 'upon a principle.' Other
people, again, asserted that Mr. Podmore and his
confederate Kitchens had set afloat a scheme for
collecting, and buying up, all the old iron pots
and pans, ' such as one sees thrown out upon dust-heaps,'
in order to convert them into * lines of
railways;' but that, lo! when they were laid down,
it was discovered that the trains refused to run on
them, because the iron crumbled away, being
entirely 'worn to ribbons' already, and all the
strength ' boiled out of it ' by frequent boiling ;
and that this scheme, likewise, had been a cause of
ruin to many confiding persons !

Be this how it may, there were to be great
changes at ' The Aspens,' and the lady had been
written to to ' take herseH off,' but no answer had
been received from her, as she was travelling
about abroad, and so (Sarah thought) in the course
of a few days, little Miss Lily would have to be
turned out, and go somewhere else ; and this, and

lier Mama's prolonged absence, lead put the poor
child * in a terrible way  so Mr. Perkins, the
young man at the green grocer's, had declared, 
that was ' keeping company ' with Jane, ' that
looked after Miss Lily ever since the death of her
black nurse,' or rather, ' that was engaged to look
after her, but that neglected her shameful; ' so much
so, indeed, that, not many days ago,  the child had
wandered out upon the Common,  all by herself,
looking as if she hadn't been brushed or
combed for a week,' and there, somehow or another,
had managed to tumble into the pond.
Whether she had slipped in whilst trying to rescue
her doll, which may have fallen in first, or whether
she had thrown herself in on purpose, because she
felt 'downright forsaken,' nobody could say for
certain.

A friend of Sarah's had seen her sitting upon
the edge of the pond only a few minutes before,
although the weather was so cold, looking ' as
grave as a judge,' and it was ' by the greatest
miracle in the world,' that this same friend, happening
to turn back for something * that had
slipped his memory,' had arrived in time to pull
the little girl out of the water, since which time she
had been taken ill with low fever, and all manner

of aches and pains ; and Mr. Bury the doctor,
who was now at ' The Aspens ' ' morning, noon,
and night,' seemed to think that her illness was
not unlike that of which her black nurse had died
some time before ; and Sarah had heard that, besides
wishing to move her on account of the impending
sale of the premises, the doctor had said
that he didn't consider the house was  that healthy
having been allowed, by Mr. Podmore, to continue
in a fearful state of repair,' which didn't matter
so much when the child was able to get ' out and
about,' but which was very bad for her now that
she had to be kept entirely to one room; and
Sarah thought that ' the Marqu<:',' who, she had
heard tell,' was a great friend of the poor child's
father, that had died quite suddenly in India, was
a good deal * upset and worried' about all this,
and ' couldn't be quite certain, besides, that the
fever wasn't a catching-fever ; ' and that this was
probably what made him seem, at times,  so much
against coming near Miss Lucy ; ' although Mrs.
Porter, the landlady had informed Sarah that he
had been, ever since she had known him, very
eccentric in his habits,  varying 'terrible' from
day to days, ' with regard to his temper,'  sitting
up, sometimes, the whole night long, in his armchair,

and taking his meals with less regularity
than any other gentleman with whom she had
ever 'had dealings in the whole course of her
born - days ' !

Alas, poor Sarah !  what a strange medley of
fact and fiction would have been apparent in her
ingenuous gossip, to one who could have known
all!

Long after her handmaiden had quitted the
room, Lucy remained pondering her words.

So, this child, for whom she had conceived
such a sudden sympathy and affection, was, apparently,
deserted now, by her frivolous and
unfeeling mother, and left entirely to the mercy
of careless servants ! Whilst Anthony was absent,
in the far land whither he had gone, no
doubt, partly in order to escape from the complications
arising from his painful position, this
child (his own child ! ), might actually perish
through illness and neglect, while she, Lucy
Barlow, looked complacently on, without moving
so much as a finger to save one of the few beings
that there remained to him to care for upon
earth !

In Avhat light would such heartless conduct
upon her part appear to Anthony Hepburn in the

future ? "Would it seem to Mm to be consistent
with genuine affection ? Where would he perceive
in it the loving woman's voluntary renunciation
of self, and selfish jealousies, the sacrifice
of every personal feeling for him, and for his
happiness ?

And yet, the alternative, Lucy realized, would
be productive of the most bitter emotions,  emotions
of the very existence of which she had been
utterly and entirely ignorant less than two short
years ago !

Ever since she had divined the truth about
Mrs. Yan Buren's little girl, her soul had
sickened at the very mention of her name.
The sight of ' The Aspens,' too, had become hateful
to her, and the knowledge that she would no
longer be oppressed by what seemed like the shadow
of a upas-tree, had gone far towards consoling her
for the loss of her old home. Mrs. Van Buren's
protracted absence, the increasing inclemency
of the weather, and the fact that little Lily had
been almost constantly ailing, had spared Lucy
the misery of beholding either of these near
neighbours since Anthony's departure for South
Africa, and for this she could not help feeling
sincerely thankful.

A woman's heart, liowcvcr, seems capable of
dividing itself, quite naturally, into as many
independent sections as an orange ; and with a
portion of this same woman's heart,  the portion
that was fostering, pitying, maternal, opening, as
it were, its arms, to succour and comfort all weak,
disconsolate, and defenceless things,  she longed,
now, to hold to her bosom this very child,  to
console her in her motherless, forsaken state,  to
stroke, with caressing hands, her golden tresses,
and to look, With tenderness and compassion, into
the depths of those appealing eyes, which must
always seem henceforward to stab and wound her
to the quick !

But, then, again, other voices within her
seemed to cry aloud,  ' Better, far better, for
Mm-y  for you,  for everybody,  if this child had
never been born at all ! Better, far better, if it
could now be wiped out utterly from the face of
the earth ! '

And between these two moods, with their
subdivisions and modifications, Lucy Barlow vacillated
for the whole of one miserable afternoon.

It had been a cold, raw day, towards the end
of January,  the January of a year not so long
gone by but that it must be still painfully impressed

upon the memories of man" people. By
four o'clock in the afternoon, it had become
almost dark in Lucy's little sitting-room, but she
was too much pre-occupied by disturbing reflections
to think about lighting the candles. She
sat upon a low chair near the hearth-rug, gazing
dreamily into the depths of the fire, and
having quite lost consciousness of her actual
surroundings.

Lying upon the little white bed in the inner
room, she seemed to behold, in fancy, Anthony
Hepburn's golden-haired child,  safe, as far as
safety could be ensured by tender watching, 
and, for a while, at least, in her own keeping.

Something of his,  of liim  that might grow
to love her in time. And yet,  and yet,  not
altogether ' of him ' either ! Some traces,  some
characteristics must cling to this child of the
mother who bore her,  of the flaunting, overdressed
woman, who, as the old Marquis had
expressed it, was ' vulgar, magnificent, insupportable
! ' What could have induced Anthony,
who, with regard to most things, seemed inclined
to be somewhat hypercritical and over sensitive, to
fall in love with such a person as this, even in the
blind impetuosity of early youth ?

Lucy was not the only woman who has asked,
in like case, a similar question, without being
able to light upon a satisfactory reply, although,
in the present instance, the problem might possibly
have been partly solved by the assumption
that Anthony Hepburn had never been in love
With Mrs. Van Buren at all ; Love as Lucy would
have comprehended the term, not being always
the prime ingredient in the making of a mistake.


Lucy's pitying, maternal instincts were just
upon the point of gaining the day, when the
dread of a future possibility arose to check them.
Mrs. Yan Buren, so Sarah had heard, upon what
authority Lucy knew not, had been written to
about her child's illness. As yet, however, she
had vouchsafed no reply to this communication ;
but, then, Sarah had also stated that Mrs. Van
Buren was ' travelling about abroad.'

Supposing that she was moving continually
from place to place, might not her silence have
been due to the fact that the letter had not
reached her quite so soon as had been expected ?
Eldon receiving it, would she not be almost certain
to hurry back to England at once,  and
might not Lucy, at the sick-bed of Anthony

Hepburn's child, be forced into contact with the
woman who had once been Anthony Hepburn's
mistress ?

It was not the fear of moral contamination
which made Lucy shrink from the idea of any
such contact. She was wise enough, in spite of
her inexperience in such matters, to suppose that
Mrs. Yan Buren, whatever her antecedents miffht
have been, would, in any such circumstances,
assume a virtue ' if she ' had it not,' and pose
as a model of prudery and maternal solicitude.

But, then, the pain, the terrible, the inexpressible
misery of such a meeting to herself !

In such a situation, a greater omit of
self-torture may be endured by a highly strung,
imaginative woman, than can be conceived of by
one possessing a different nature.

With that unjust, impassioned jealousy,
Which reaches from the Present to the Past,'

how will she seem, instinctively, to feel, to know,
and to perceive, every tender caress, every admiring
glance which may have been bestowed and
lavished by the man she loves upon the woman
who, of all others, is the least likely, now, to
become her rival ! Scene after scene, picture

after picture, rise up and confront her. Agonizing,
heart-breaking as they are, she is condemned,
by reason of her temperament, to analyse and
examine them all. No distressing detail, or accessory,
can escape her notice. As though reflected
in a mirror, this hated vision of the past
stands revealed before her, until there comes into
her heart,  if it be a heart that is tender,  unreasoning,
and unheroic, gentle, averse to bloodshedding
and strong violence,  not so much the
desire to stab, torture, or utterly annihilate the
woman who may once have been foremost in her
lover's thoughts, as to destroy in her own mind all
faculty of remembrance or imagination, to root
out, from her own heart, its capability of profitless
suffering, because of what is now so long ago
gone by !

Thophile Gautier, in his poem called * La
Mort dans la Vie,' has written a passage which,
from a man's point of view, will seem to be subtle
as well as true to nature. He is writing of the
dead ; and after describing how the moss has
effaced the letters of the forgotten names upon
their tombs,  how the worm has spun his web
across what once were their eyes,  and how the
dust of their bones, as they moulder, falls upon

that of their departed forefathers ;  he goes on
thus : 

 Leurs heritiers, le sot'r, font plus yeur qu'ils reviennent,
Best a lysine, a present, si hews chiens seen souviennent ;

Ensues et jwudi'eu.v,
Less jiortmits adores trained dans les boutiques;
Leurs jaloux d' autrefois font leurs pancgyriques ;
Tout est Mini pour eux'

A man, then, it would seem, from this poem,
san praise and think kindly of his rival, simply
because he has ceased to exist, and can no longer
stand in his way. With a woman, however, or,
at any rate, with some women, all bitterness
will not end here. The images evoked by the
very thought of a rival, whether living or dead,
must likewise be effaced and shrouded, and, over
these, what graveyard moss will grow,  what
friendly worm will spin his web ?

In no possible future could Lucy have felt
capable of making ' panerjyriqxies ' of Mrs. Van
Eure, whilst she knew that, even were she to
save her life from shipwreck, or what not, she
could never come to regard her in the light of a
friend.

No ; the thought that she might possibly be
brought into personal contact with this * vulgar,

magnificent and ' insupportable ' woman, must
prevent her from entertaining, for a moment, the
notion of ministering to the requirements of
Anthony Hepburn's child.

Having arrived at this final decision, Lucy
rose from her place by the fire, and went to the
window.

It seemed to be dreadfully cold and raw without,
and the gas-lamps, when she drew aside the blind,
looked blurred and hazy in the clinging fog.

Very few people were abroad ; Monsieur de la
Yieilleroche had not yet returned. He was a
good deal later this evening than usual. She
remained at the window watching for his arrival,
A man was passing by, upon the main road,
shouting out something.

Perhaps there had been fresh news from South
Africa ?

She leant her ear against the window and
listened eagerly, but could distinguish nothing
intelligible. A moment afterwards she heard the
front-door open and shut somewhat tumultuously,
and then footsteps in the passage.

Probably it was the old Professor. He always
brought home the evening papers ; he would tell
her if there had been any fresh news.

"With a beating heart, lie flew to the door,
and was there met by Sarah, looking pale and
hysterical, nth a newspaper in her hand.

 Oh, Miss ! ' she exclaimed, as she thrust the
paper into Lucy's hand ; ' there's the most dreadful
news possible from the war ! There's been
an awful battle, and the blacks have beaten the
English, and there's a list of officers killed and
wounded, and " casualties I " '

VOL. III.

CHAPTER XIII.

About half-an-hour afterwards, when Sarah,
having knocked without receiving any response,
went into Lucy's little sitting-room, in order to
spread the board for her simple evening meal,
she found her young mistress extended upon the
floor, in an apparently lifeless condition. Pale
and terrified, she rushed downstairs to apprise
Mrs. Porter the landlady.

Mrs. Porter, a woman of wisdom and experience
in all matters connected with illness, at
once despatched a wan, slip shod child of some
thirteen summers, to whom she was in the habit
of alluding as *my servant,' for Mr. Bury,
the doctor, after which she accompanied the
trembling Sarah to Lucy's room, prepared to
revive suspended animation by the application of
hot bricks, cold keys, and the cutting of laces ;
to be followed by remedies of a more potent and
re-inspiring nature.

Lucy's mysterious seizure began to yield to
treatment soon after she had been lifted on to
the little white bed in the adjoining room.

By the time that Mr. Bury arrived, she declared
that she felt quite well again. She looked,
however, dazed and bloodless, like a person who
has been stunned by some sudden and terrible
blow.

Sarah and Mrs. Porter retired to the sitting

o

room, leasing her alone with the doctor.

It's something to do, I'm sure, with this
awful battle, and with the " casualties," ' remarked
Sarah, wiping her eyes ; for the sight of
her young mistress in so disastrous a slight had
shocked and alarmed her greatly.

Is there any officer she's got an interest in
out at the war ? ' Mrs. Porter inquired.

Not that I know of returned Sarah ; ' but I
only just took one loolc at the paper, for the
"casualties" of the privates and non-commissioned
officers wasn't put in yet.'

These wars are terrible trials to us all,' said
Mrs. Porter solemnly ; ' sometimes I feel quite
surprised to think that the Lord doesn't set His
face against them and put a stop to fighting
altogether ! '

Sarah had by this time possessed herself of
the newspaper, which had fallen upon the floor
from Lucy's hand, and was hurriedly devouring
its contents.

Without reading the account of the fight
itself, she turned to the list of * casualties,' and
skimmed through, to the best of her scholarly
ability, the names of the officers who had either
fallen, or been Abounded, in the recent disastrous
engagement.

"killed: Major General Clutterbuck, in
command of force ;" no ; she doesn't
know Clutterbuck ; I'm quite sure of that ! . . .
"Colonels Perse, Liddell;  A. Hepburn, commanding
18th Lancers." Ah, that's who
Alas Tom Pretyman's colonel, that was brother to
Mrs. Pilchard, that lis-ed with us as cook Avhen
Ave Alas at Barlow Lodge, that Tom said he'd lay
doAvn his life for any day ! .-. Then there
comes a captain and some lieutenants; nobody that's
Cater Visited us, though ; as far as I can make
out ! . . . . " Bodies, in some instances, fearfully'
mutilated !" Poor fellows ! . . . .
Oh, I see Avhat it is ! ' she exclaimed suddenly.
'Here it is! Just listen! 'captain
Charles Sparshott, of the 18th Lancers, to Avhose

conspicuous intrepidity in the emergency we have
alluded above, and who is, we are happy to add,
progressing favourably, is the only surviving son
of Sir Timothy Sparshott, Bart., of Sparshott
Priory, County Tipperary." That's him,
sirs. Porter I . . . . He's just married her
cousin,  Miss Binks that was, and he's had
conspicuous intrepidity in the emergency'' I
daresay that's what made her feel faint ! '

No wonder, poor young lady ! ' returned Mrs.
Porter compassionately ; ' I've no doubt there'll
be a good many of them down with that before
they get home ! ' and she shook her head in
ominous presage.

At this moment they were interrupted by the
entrance of the doctor.

Lucy, who seemed now to be almost recovered,
followed him to the door of the sitting-room.

So I can leave it to you to arrange ? ' she said,
speaking slowly and mechanically, in a voice
hollow and unlike her own. ' You will settle
about it tomorrow, if you find out that she can
be moved here ? '

I will settle everything if you will allow me
to do so. Pray give yourself no trouble in the
matter. You ought to lie down and keep quiet

now, find you will soon be yourself again. Mrs.
Porter and I can make all the necessary arrangements.'


Then, turning to the landlady', lie added, 

Miss Barlow has kindly consented to look
after Mrs. Van Buren's little girl, who is rather
in a deserted condition just now. There's nothing
in the least infectious about her disorder ; so, if
you don't object to taking her in, I will superintend
the moving of her here tomorrow. It
will be a great relief to me to get her away from
*' The Aspens," and I think, if we can avoid any
risk of catching cold, the change here can do
her nothing but good.'

Mr. Bury, Mrs. Porter, and Sarah quitted the
room together, in order to talk over further details,
and Lucy was left to the solitude of her inner
chamber.

Here, moaning piteously, she fell upon her
knees by the bed.

Oh, Anthony, Anthony ! ' she cried aloud in
her agony. ' My darling, my darling, you cannot
be really dead ! . . . God could not be so cruel
as to take you from me for ever ! . . . . Listen
to me ; look at me ; pity me now ; if you are not
too far off to see and hear ! . . . . My Anthony,

my love, I forgive you ; I forget eVerjiihing but
my love for you. How can I go on living if you
are really gone ? '

Tears came to lier relief ; a relief that was
merely physical. Before this, site had felt as if all
power of weeping had been numbed and frozen
within her.

When she rose from her knees, she seemed
like one who has become regenerated through the
suffering of years, rather than of moments.

Yes,' she murmured to herself ; * everything
is over now, love, jealousy, hope ! . . . . It's all
buried and done with for ever ! . . . . She is
the only thing left for me to care for upon earth ;
all that remains to me here of him ! '

CHAPTER Xii.

Monsieur DE LA YiEiLLEROCHE, who had read
the terrible news contained in the evcnino-

o

paper, just as he was about to return to ' Fine
Cottage,' was much overcome by it.

Apart from the affection with which he regarded
Lucy and Anthony  an affection which
must needs have caused him to regret deeply the
death of either the one or the other of them 
and the sympathy he had felt for them in the
midst of all their troubles and entanglements, it
seemed as though the occurrence, just at this particular
moment, of so lamentable a catastrophe,
rendered absolutely void and ineffectual all the
combinations which had been working together
of late, for the eventual benefit of his two young
friends.

To think that this misfortune should come to
pass note ! ' he soliloquised, as he flung himself
wearily into his shabby and familiar arm-chair.

** joic, wlieii I hold here, in my hand, the positive
proof that he is free as the air ; that this woman
lias actually contracted a marriage with another
man I . . . . A mutual deception, no doubt,
each having been mistaken as to the true position,
of the other, and which must end, consequently,
in disillusion ; unless, as may happen also, there
lias been some sort of mutual attraction. This
need not be impossible, the lady has already had
many admirers ; the man is a handsome young
fellow, intelligent, accomplished, amiable, and
easy-going with women ; as fascinating, in fact,
as he is unprincipled ! More probably, however,
their marriage is the result of a true Comedy of
Errors. Sic, thirsting alike for revenge and for
consolation, believes him to be noble, believes
also, that through her marriage with him, she
will be placed, one day, in the very position
which Anthony Hepburn thought that she was
unworthy of occupying ; she will urge on her
husband to enforce his imaginary' claims, and
then will come the painful awakening ! . . . Jlcj
too, has seen in her a rich widow, a fine woman,
elegant, accomplished, attractive, according to
his taste. Above all, she is a woman who is
sought after and desired  for so she has made him.

believe  by the man against whom be bas vowed
eternal vengeance. To supplant Anthony Hepburn,
be would bave pursued, and made love to,
one wbo was not even possessed of her meretricious
charms I . . . . Alas, poor fool ! . . . He
bas been merely plotting to remove from the neck
of the man be bates a millstone, an incubus
wbicb bas been crushing and embittering ibis
existence for more than ten years ! . . . . He
bas removed it at last. Anthony Hepburn is
now a free man. '' A free man ! " . . . Aye,
free indeed, from all miseries and anxieties in the
future ! No man, and no woman will ever again
bave power to disturb bis rest ! His kind
heart, bis generous impulses, can mislead bim
no longer ! He is at peace  asleep ! ''A freeman,"
but dead  dead  dead ! And / wbo
was almost commencing to believe in the theory
of a benevolent supervision over our human
affairs ! '

Tbe old Professor bad gleaned this information
relative to Mrs. Yan Buren's second marriage
from various sources. From the letters of the
lady herself to Anthony Hepburn, wbicb be bad
been deputed to open and read, during bis friend's
absence ; from that  almost universal genius,'

Benvenuto Rossi, who was now in possession of
many facts connected with his son's recent proceedings,
and who had been warned by him that
any paternal interference upon his part might,
just at the present moment, prevent his settlement
in life with a ' rich, beautiful, and accomplished
widow ; ' finally, from a letter written by the

Young Pretender ' himself, to his unfortunate
father, and which had been forwarded by him, to

Fine Cottage,' for his old friend's perusal.

This letter informed Benvenuto Rossi, before
he had had time either to warn, or to interfere,
that the brilliant alliance in question had, now,
actually taken place.

The letter Alas written in Italian, and concluded
with the following characteristic passage,
which, when translated, ran thus :  ' It is a wise
child,' so says the English proverb, * that can
make sure of knowing its own father,' and I
would venture to add, that the father is wiser still
who can be sure of knowing his own child. You,
however, have made pretension to this superior
wisdom, and, in the face of much contradictory
evidence, have persisted in recognizing in me a
son. Let me profit, now, I pray sou, by this
amiable infatuation upon your part, since I have

lead good reason to suffer from it in the past ! . . .
Your good-for-nothing son, (as you lias sometimes
called me,) is now upon the highroad to
reform ! . . . Let the dictates of parental affection
cause you to refrain from damaging his
smiling prospects ! . . . My beautiful better-half
believes conscientiously in my mission, nevertheless,
for reasons into which I decline to enter,
I shall not continue, for the present, at least, to
prosecute my just claims. The law is proverbially
capricious. I might, after all, be worsted in
the encounter. My wife is, of course, ambitious
for my future ; she would desire that I should
immediately assert my rights. I confess, however,
that, at the present moment, I feel tempted
to resign the allurements of ambition for those of
domestic felicity. Let the usurper reign on,
therefore, over the territory which he has wrested
from the rightful possessor ! . . . Perhaps, without
depriving him of his worldly goods, I may
have been enabled to impoverish him in other
ways ! . . . Without soiling myself with one
drop of his blood, I may have been enabled to
stab him to the heart ! . . . In this there is only
a just retribution. I am merely a chastening
instrument in the hands of Fate, but the punishment

which I laye been the means of inflicting,,
will enable me to pursue in the future a pokey
of mercy. I shall assume the attitude of a generous
adversary, who, knowing well the fatal
power possessed by bis Weapons, holds his hand,
and will not condescend to strike. Let your acts,,
likewise, incline towards the better part of valour !
Be discreet, and pain me no more with your im-pleasant
retrospection and repining I . . . Upon
the discretion of the soi-disant father, depends
the forbearance and friendship of the *' son!" . . .
For this, I promise you, you shall not go unrewarded
I

Without being able, for obvious reasons, to
fall in exactly with your absurd paternal pretensions,
I should yet, not be unwilling, if you
will provide yourself with a suitable outfit, to
present you to my wife as a humble friend, or,,
even, as a poor relation. It is to be regretted that
habits of self-indulgence, united to a sedentary
occupation, have combined together to spoil your
fio-ure, otherwise, as we are of about the same
height, I could have presented you with my own
clothes as soon as I had no further use for them.
Your unsightly corpulence, however, is a foe to
mv benevolent intention. Still, let this be a bargain

between us ; you are clothed, decently, respectably,
as becomes, in fact, a member of my
own family ; you are supplied with ample, tbougb
not with superfluous funds ; jo\i occupy, from
time to time, an honoured place at my table ; upon
condition that, instead of sowing the seeds of
conjugal dissension, you endeavour to cement and
foster the union which has been brought about so
auspiciously ! . . . . Let me know, Benvenuto
Rossi, if I may count upon your "paternal " (!)
affection to render me this easy, but important,
service ? . . . Speak now, or let your voice le
silent, as far as my ears are concerned, to the ending
of our days ! '

Young scoundrel ! ' . . . murmured the Professor,
as he returned the letter to its envelope.
Young irretrievable scoundrel ! . . . But his
sentiments, however unnatural, are not so badly
expressed ! . . . He is a young gentleman who
will be enabled, should all else fail, to live very
well upon his brains. His wife, too, can make
certain of an assured income, the reward of merit.
This interesting couple, then, need not fear
starvation, whatever disappointments may be in
store for them in the future ! . . . They can be
dismissed altogether from the mind, and I shall be

sat liberty, now, to give my entire attention to my
two poor suffering children,  my poor widowed
Lucy, and Lily, the poor forsaken little orphan ! '

One of Monsieur de la Yieilleroche's besetting
sins, a kind of moral cowardice, which caused
him to shrink from the sight of all human suffering
which he knew that he was powerless to relieve,
and which it was his boast to compare and
contrast with, his constitutional pugnacity with
respect to more material evils, had led him to
avoid looking upon Lucy in the first hours of her
agony. Having read the terrible intelligence
himself, and having been informed by Sarah,
upon his return to 'Fine Cottage,' that 'Miss
Lucy ' had seen something in the evening paper
which had ' upset her dreadful,' he had slunk
upstairs to his garret with the stealthy tread of
a conspirator, where he remained in dread lest
Lucy should send up for him, and thus force him
to become an unwilling witness of her despair.

Upon the following morning, nerving himself
for a supreme effort, he sent to ask whether she
would like to see him before he started out upon
his rounds ? In reply to this inquiry, Sarah
brought him back a message to the effect that
Lucy, although much better, was * very tired and

TGiy bus}/ and that, if equally convenient to
himself, she would prefer seeing him upon his-return
home in the evening.

He departed, therefore, with a clear conscience,
though feeling much crushed and broken
in spirit. Before commencing his professional
visits, he repaired, as he had lately repaired everyday,
to ' The Aspens.'

On his way thither, he fell in with Mr. Bury
the doctor, who informed him of Lucy's offer to
take charge of his little patient. Seeing that
this was the very arrangement which the old
Professor would have himself proposed, could he
have summoned up courage to suggest it to Lucy,
he felt as much satisfaction, upon hearing it, as it
was possible for him to experience at so melancholy
a time.

The morning j)pers had been filled with
harrowing details connected with the recent
fighting.

There was no disguising the fact, humiliating
though it was, that, as Sarah had remarked upon
first hearing the news, the * blacks ' had ' beaten
the English.'

Evidently there had been either carelessness
or mismanagement upon the part of those in

command. The neglect of proper precautions
lead resulted in a surprise, followed by what was,
virtually, a defeat, or, to speak more euphoniously,
a ' disaster ' to the British arms. 

" News ! ' . . . ' What news ? what news of the war ? *
 News of blundering and defeat !

Slaughtered forms and flying feet !

Captured colours and broken ranks !

News of numbers hacked and slain !
Of a nightmare scene, when a desperate band
Stood face to face, and hand to hand,

With a foe as dense as the desert sand,

Or the waves of the pitiless main ! " ' . . .

Anthony Hepburn, as will be surmised from
what has already been written about him, had not
been amongst those of the ' flying feet

From the official list of the ' numbers hacked
and slain,' his familiar name stood out sadly and
unmistakably, bringing tears into the eyes of his
faithful old friend, as he read it over and over
again, with the vague hope that he might perchance,
discover some loophole of escape from so
terrible a truth.

Every day, of course, fuller particulars would
be forthcoming. From all that could be gathered
at present, it appeared that the Colonel had fought

VOL. III. R

gallantly for his life, till, overpowered by numbers,,
lie bad fallen, covered with wounds. His body,
pierced through With assegais, and cut and
slashed so as to be barely recognizable, had been
left lying near the scene of the engagement.
There were hopes that it might be eventually recovered,
when it would be interred with military
honours.

The old Professor had been careful, upon
leaving home, to place the newspaper containing
these heartrending details out of Lucy's way.
The very atmosphere, however, seemed charged
with gloom and anxiety. People gathered together
in groups upon the London pavement to
talk over the disastrous news. It was almost a
certainty that, somehow or another, when he was
not there to protect her from it, she must come to
know the very worst.

Finding that the sick child, ignorant of her
new and terrible bereavement, appeared to be
cheered and pleased at the notion of quitting her
solitary home, Monsieur de la Yieilleroche went
forth sadly to his daily toil, for the doctor had
kindly offered to superintend every detail connected
with the transplanting of poor little Lily
to a more genial soil ; and be felt that, for the

time being, at least, there was a positive solace to
be derived from the very monotony of his professional
duties.

Returning to ' Vine Cottage ' at about five
o'clock upon the same evening, and venturing to
peep in at the door of the ground floor sitting-room,
he caught sight of Lucy's figure, en profile,
seated by the fire-place, rocking Lily to sleep
upon her knee. The brown head was leant down
close against the child's golden tresses, which
were curling all over the tender breast of this
new mother. He heard the murmur of some
sort of gentle sleep-inducing lullaby ; so, as they
both seemed to be, at least outwardly, in a state
of such peaceful contentment, he crept upstairs
to his garret without giving outward or visible
sign of his return.

Five minutes afterwards Sarah looked in at
the door.

It's only the Marquee's evening paper, Miss ;
I thought you might just like to take a look at it
first.'

 Thank you, Sarah ; I don't think I shall ever
want to look at an evening paper again ! '

She spoke with the sadness and resignation
which had been perceivable in her tone ever

since her mysterious fainting-fit of the previous
evening.

Sarah felt altogether doubtful, now, whether
Captain Charles Sparshott's 'conspicuous intrepidity
' could have been sufficient, in itself, to
be the cause of so much concentrated anguish.
It was more probable, she thought, that her
young mistress had read amongst the list of
killed or wounded, the name of some one nearer
and dearer than a first cousin by marriage !
"Who could this be ? Perhaps, when ' Miss
Lucy' used to sit at her bedroom window at
Hampton Court Palace, and look over in the
direction of the Cavalry Barracks, it was because
she had developed a tender interest in one of the
officers quartered there ?

'If little Missy isn't quite ready for bed
yet, I'll just cut the paper and see if there's
anything fresh,' said Sarah, as she plunged
a bread-knife into the heart of the Pall Mall
Gazette.

Oh, Miss I ' she exclaimed, presently ; ' do
just look here ! . . . Won't Mrs. Pilchard be
proud of her brother, now ? '

Has her brother distinguished himself ? '
Lucy inquired in a tone expressive of but

languid interest. show thankful lie ought to
feel that he isn't killed ! '

Oh, it's most interesting, Miss ! ' cried Sarah,
excitedly. ' I wish I'd got a brother, myself,
that would have behaved so splendid ! Do listen.
Miss ! ' and she commenced reading in a voice
trembling with enthusiasm and admiration 
" Instance of personal gallantry.  The numerous
friends of Colonel Anthony Hepburn, in command
of the service troops of the 18th Lancers,
whose death was announced in our issue of the
23rd inst., will be deeply relieved at the gratifying
intelligence just received," ' . . .

Oh, Sarah ! ' cried Lucy, springing to her
feet, to the consternation of sleepy little Lily ;
let me see it ! Let me read what it says for
Heaven's sake ! '

The paragraph which had thus visibly affected
both mistress and maid, ran as follows : 

The numerous friends of Colonel Anthony
Hepburn, in command of the service-troops of
the 18th Lancers, whose death was announced
in our issue of the 23rd inst., will be deeply
relieved at the gratifying intelligence just
received, and which we have quoted above. It
appears that the gallant Colonel owes his life,

in a great measure, to the brave conduct of one
of the soldiers in his regiment. Private Thomas
Pretjman, perceiving that his Commanding
Officer was defending himself against fearful
odds, dashed forward just at the moment when
he fell, exhausted from loss of blood, and being
well armed and mounted, succeeded in bearing
off the Colonel's body from the field, little thinking
that he was still alive. Colonel Hepburn's
name was inadvertently entered amongst the
list of the slain, as he had been last seen surrounded
by his savage assailants ; and his gallant
deliverer having been able to convey him to a
British encampment some miles from the scene
of the disaster, where his wounds, which are
serious, but not, it is to be hoped, mortal, were
promptly attended to by an English surgeon.
The terrible manner in which some of the
bodies were mutilated and disfigured, accounts
for the mistake which occurred with regard to
the supposed discovery of the Colonel's remains.
It is to be hoped that bravery, such as we have
just recorded, will not be permitted to go without
proper recognition. Surely it is for men like
Thomas Pretyman that the Victoria Cross was
originally instituted and designed.'

 Oh, Miss I ' cried Sarah, enthusiastically,
when they had both finished reading ; * wasn't
it most gallant of him?'

But Lucy had covered her face with her hands.
Tears were tricking through her fingers, and she
was sobbing hysterically

Oh, Sarah I ' she exclaimed, at last, sinking
back, as though exhausted, into an arm-chair;
 this good news seems almost as hard to bear as
the bad I If he dies of his wounds, now, I shall
feel as if he had been killed twice over ! '

Ah, Miss ! then it is the Colonel you was
interested in ? '

 Yes, Sarah ; you have been good and faithful
to me. I have no wish to hide anything from
you ! What can we ever do for the brave man
who has saved his life ?'

Luc} felt, at this moment, that she would
have placed all her remaining goods  even the
hereditary Barlow great seal  at the disposal of
Private Thomas Pretpnan, if he had expressed
u desire to become possessed of them !

I don't, certainly, feel as if I could have the
heart to deny him anything, noiv, said Sarah,
with a sigh.

You have denied him something once then,

Sarah ? He has asked you, perhaps, to many
him?'

I have denied him everything that a respectable
young woman has got to offer to a soldier
retired Sarah, looking down at her apron and
blushing the blush of conscious virtue. ' I didn't
know, then, that he was going to behave so particular
gallant ! '

Sarah's speech was somewhat enigmatical.
Lucy, however, appeared to understand it.

We must pray, Sarah, that they may both
come safely back,' she said, earnestly and tearfully
; ' oh, for a word to say that he is going on
well ! '

It is not often in life that the desire of the
heart is fulfilled at the very moment of its
audible expression, an} more than it is common
for a person spoken of to appear, as if by invocation,
at the mere mention of their own name.
Such instances, however, although rare, do occur
sometimes. White wings make their appearance,
occasionally, when we are speaking of an angel ;
whilst a chance allusion to the devil may be
followed by the sight of his tail. So it is not
often, but fortunately, sometimes, with the heart's
desire.

The fulfilment of Lucy Barlow's uttered wish
arrived, * clad in russet gown almost before her
words lead died into silence.

'Telegram for Miss L. Barlow, if you please!'

It was the voice of Mrs. Porter's diminutive
maid-servant. Drab and dishevelled, she was
standing in the doorway bearing in her grimy
fingers the missive which, in spite of its familiar
aspect in these 'our latter days,' will never be
beheld by anybody possessed of a sensitive and
imaginative nature without a certain prayerful
tremor of apprehension.

Oh, Sarah ! open it for me ! ' gasped Lucy,
looking pale as any traditional ghost ; ' mj fingers
shake so that I can't open it ! '

Thus adjured, Sarah tore open the brown
envelope, and read as follows : 

'Mrs. Sparshott, Pietermaritzburg, to Miss
L. Barlow, Barlow Lodge, Clapham Common,
England.  Don't believe newspaper report. Certain
individual wounded, but doing well. Charlie
progressing also. Displayed conspicuous intrepidity.'


'Ah, thank God! thank God!'

CHAPTER XY.

The first news of Anthony Hepburn's death had
reached Lord Belmorris whilst he was staying at
his country home.

there's a 'go!'" Algernon Binks had exclaimed
one morning when they met at the
breakfast-table. * Jervis says there's a report in
the village that there's been awful fighting, and
that Hepburn's killed ! '

hepburn killed"' repeated his lordship,
with a start. ' Good God ! you don't say so ! '

He said no more than this, but seemed, as
Algy wrote off soon afterwards to his sister at
Pietermaritzburg, 'perfectly thunderstruck,' and
was ' quite queer for a day or two afterwards,
until the report turned out to be a false one.'

Algernon Binks, after depositing his only
remaining parent in the South of France, and
returning for awhile to his studies, had just * run
up to the north,' shortly after the Iew Year, in

order to 'lookup' his uncle Belmorris, and obtain
some of the last of the shooting.

Finding himself in clover, it was his intention
noah to remain on until the end of the month, at
iibout which time Lord Belmorris proposed starting
off for Cannes and Monte Carlo ; and Algy
foresaw that, by journeying with his uncle to
London, he could save his railway expenses, and
make sure of travelling in pleasant company.

The report of Colonel Hepburn's death did,
certainly, appear to have produced a decided
effect upon his country neighbour. It was not
possible, however, for Algernon Binks to divine
the precise character of his emotions, seeing that
he was reticent and undemonstrative b} nature, 
especially so when in the society of his nephew ;
and that the said nephew, in spite of his shrewdness
and inquisitiveness, was not a particularly
food hand at readings riddles.

Then came the news that this first report had
been erroneous. Colonel Hepburn was dangerously
wounded ;  possibly he might have to
undergo a serious surgical operation. It was
hoped, however, that his excellent constitution
would enable him to 'pull through.' . . . The
servants and country people about Falconborough

Park, who lead been thrown into a terrible state
of despondency by the first news, were greatly
relieved at this second piece of intelligence.

Then, and not till then, did the noble owner
of Bclmorris Castle,  seeking the seclusion of his.
study,  sit down at his writing-table, and indite
a letter to 'Miss Lucy Barlow,' at her old address,.

Barlow Lodge, Clapham Common,' whence it
was forwarded to her at her newer and humbler
abode.

From this letter, rather than from Algy's
halting conjectures, some idea may, perhaps, be
obtained of the writer's real feelings ; for the

stable-helper manner,'  which, as Lucy had at
once divined, was merely a harmless affectation, 
was entirely set aside for the moment, and he
wrote, or appeared to write, exactly as he felt.

My dear Miss Lucy,' he began, ' I remember
hearing once of some great man, who is
said to have owed his success and popularity, in
some measure, to the fact that he always wrote to
condole with his acquaintances upon the occasion
of a death in their home-circle, and to congratulate
them when there had been an addition to
their families. A few dajs ago,  with this

eminent example before me,  I took pen in
hand to write a letter of condolence to one of
the most charming of my friends, when, (you
may' laugh at me, if you will !) I found myself
so overcome by mixed feelings, that I positively
couldn't write anything but bosh ! and so, after
wasting an enormous amount of note-paper in
vain attempts at making sense, I came to the
conclusion that my literary style was more
adapted to congratulation than to condolence,
and I made up my mind to await the more
auspicious occasion of a birth. This occasion
has just presented itself :  I consider that, when
a man's death has been announced in nearly all
the leading newspapers ; when the bell in his
parish church has gone on tolling for the best
part of the day; when his own servants have
set about ordering themselves decent mourning ;
and then, when one hears that he is alive, and
doing remarkably well, although suffering from
highly honourable wounds, thtit one has a right
to look upon him as one who has been born
again ; and it is upon this new birth that I am
writing to congratulate you now. But I hope,
my dear child, that in doing this, I am not behaving
like an impertinent and short-sighted old

donkey. I hope that the fact that a certain fine
friend of ours is still alive, may really turn out to
be a subject for congratulation. If, however, he
has only been spared to come back in order to
make everybody profoundly uncomfortable, as he
once did, and to set all of us by the ears, I shall
honestly wish that he had never returned to us at
all ! In saying this, I am trying not to consider
my own feelings. I dare say you will think that
it's absurd, at my age, that I should have any
feelings at all ; and in this idea soli don't stand
alone. I often repeat to myself some verses of
Thackeray's about waiting till you come to '' forty
year," and think how absolutely tDitvue they are,
at any rate with regard to myself. The individual
treated of in them, having arrived at this
period of senility, confesses to a state of perfect indifference.
Young ladies with whom he was once in
love, and whose names are mentioned, die off like
flies, and marry with impunity. Their weddings
and funerals produce no sort of effect upon him.
He has become a sort of Epicurean-Stoic, and so
long as he can go on ' dipping his nose in the
Gascon wine," cares not one brass farthing for
anything that may happen. I must say, judging
by myself, that I think the great novelist has

fixed the date of this period of insensibility a
little too early ; but then I may be different in
this respect, perhaps, from the rest of my species,
a sort of lusus natural in whom young] people
can't quite believe,  like the tame oyster, who,
when he was whistled to, used to respond by
running upstairs. For my OAvn'part, (and I can
speak " as one having authority") I think that
one feels things rather more at, and about, forty
than one does either at twenty or thirty '' year,"
perhaps because the desires of one's heart, at
that are, are generally more creditable to one's
taste than one's boyish fancies. I believe that
a disappointment would disappoint mc quite as
much as it would a certain military hero who
shall go unnamed,  for the loss of a good thing
isn't less hard to bear because one hasn't got
either tLj nope or the energy to set off and look
for a better. If, therefore, I refrain from dwelling
upon my own feelings, it isn't because they
don't exist : I've merely shut them up, out of the
way, where they will remain, eating their heads
off, until they're wanted ; but perhaps they won't
ever be wanted at all !

. . . I don't suppose you have ever been a
very determined patroness of British melodrama.

If you had been, you would have observed that,
before the curtain falls at the ending of the
play, the whole company,  with the exception,
of course, of the villain, who is either carted
away dead, or led ois, handcuffed, to a living
tomb,  stand up in front of the audience, in a
paired-off and happily affianced condition. The
young lovers, who have been so terribly plagued
and persecuted all through, are locked together
in a close embrace :  he looks down at her tenderly
from time to time, and pats her on the
head; her black dress, clean white collar, and
the violet-powder upon cheek and brow, combine
to tell how fearfully she has suffered, both
in body and in mind. The handsome, middle-aged,
married couple too, who have been misunderstanding
and suspecting each other all
through the piece,  in consequence of opening the
wrong telegram,  announcing the drowning of
puppies, which they choose to mistake for babies,
or something of the sort, are finally reconciled.
John the footman, and Betty the chambermaid,
are ogling each other at the back of the stage ;
Whilst even the comic boy-in-buttons has got his eye
upon the pretty little girl who has just been rescued
from the clutches of the cruel acrobat  (you see I

have got the plot of the story pretty pat I ) Now,
all this is just as it should be. But, at the conclusion
of the last play of this kind at which I
assisted, the crusty old bachelor of the drama, 
yho, it was easy to perceive, had been madly in
love with the heroine from the very beorinninor, 
was made to pair off with a most objectionable
old spinster in ringlets, who had been prying and
peaching all through the piece, and making as
much mischief as she possibly could out of the
puppy-telegram. This is absolute' untrue to
Nature. It is merely arranged to satisfy the
ignorant people in the pit and gallery, who like
everything to wind up according to their own
notions of what is right and proper. In the
drama of real life, the crusty old bachelor is left,
at the fall of the curtain, standing by himself, for
it isn't likely that,  having once been in love
with such a charming young creature as the
heroine,  he could derive any consolation from
marrying a hideous old maid. He stands alone,
but I flatter myself,  being very much in the
same position,  that, although he may not be
particularly ornamental, there is no reason why
he should be absolutely useless. He may be of
service to his friends and relatives in a variety of

VOL. III. s

ways, and by assuming a purely platonic and
impersonal attitude, may end by making himself
feared as well as respected. He is in great request
as a godfather,  an uncle,  a trustee for
marriage settlements. When the young people
come into the world, he presents them with spoons
and silver mugs. Later on, it is his agreeable
mission to administer physic or corporal punishment,
should they prove either imprudent or
unruly during their holidays. He escorts them
to Christmas pantomimes, accompanies them when
they visit their dentist, and tips them handsomely
when they return to their academy. To their
papas and mamas, likewise, he is bound to deal
in home truths, and wholesome, though unpalatable,
advice, should they ever quarrel or
commit extravagances ; whilst he is expected to
remember both them and their offspring in his
will, and so has always a pleasant feeling of uncertainty
as to whether the attentions he receives
from his relatives are the result of affection or of
self-interest. So the years pass on, over the head
of one who may have dreamed of better things !
Nobody will ever know, quite, what he suffers,
though the recklessness with which he rides, bets,
and mixes his whisky-toddy, may reveal to a close

observer how little importance he attaches to
health, wealth, or public opinion. How such a
poor, forlorn wretch would bless any kind and
beautiful fairy who would put a ring through his
nose, lead him about by a string, and beat,
torture, and maltreat him, sometimes, if she
liked; but who would make him feel, at rare
intervals, that she was not quite indifferent to
him ; and who would let him watch over her, and
run her messages ! Into occupation refused, however
menial, so long as he might win her smiles !
. . Ah, my dear Lucy ! I write like an old fool !
My letter was to congratulate you, and not to
condole with myself ! You know, I think, the
very high opinion I have always had of you. I
am not likely to change it, should this resuscitation
fail to bring you the good luck I tri to hope
that it may. If it does bring it, however, you
will find in me, as long as I live, a faithful friend,
and a country neighbour who will look upon your
interests as identical with his own. Let me know
whether you ever receive this. My sister told
me you were thinking of changing your house.
How well I remember our drive together in the fl}
the night you took Millbank Prison for the
Travellers' Club ! Other memories, which it

would be the height of imbecility to encourage, 
rise up in my mind, and warn me that it is time
for me to set about my daily task of trying to
forget you. Your interesting kinsman, prompted,
no doubt, by disinterested anxiety for my welfare,
bas thought fit to interrupt me several times,
nevertheless, mj letter has grown to an unconscionable
length ! Why is it, that, when the
females, in some families, are so charming that
one would willingly follow them all over the
world, their male relatives produce upon one an
impression so different that one is perpetually
plotting and planning as to how one can escape
from their company, and so be in comparative
peace, if only for the space of half an hour ? '

Having relieved his feelings by this concluding
sentence. Lord Belmorris signed, sealed, and
stamped his letter, with something which began
like a sigh, and then turned, as if quite unconsciously,
into a prolonged and despondent
whistling,  barren of any particular tune or
purpose. Before this had died into silence, there
came a quick knock at the study-door. It was
Algernon Binks. Lord Belmorris slipped his
newly-directed letter between the pages of the
blotting-book in rather a guilty manner.

I didn't know, Uncle, whether you'd like me
to come with you for a gallop ? We haven't had
the horses out for several days.'

Thank you, Algy, I'd just as soon remain
quiet. I've a good deal of writing to get through.'

You wouldn't like me to hang about so as to
potter round the place with you when you've got
over your letters ?'

Thank you,  I'm old enough, now, to be able
to look after myself.'

Then, if you don't want me. Uncle, I think
I'd just like to take " Mustard" for a canter over
the moors. Can I give Jervis the order ? '

By all means. My wish is that everybody'
should amuse themselves their own way, and leave
me to do the same. Recollect this whilst you're
here ; and remember, too, my boy, that there is a
point at which politeness ends, and persecution
begins. Shut the door fast after you ; it's apt to
come open again !'

(' Why I can't help fancying that the rummy
temper my Uncle Belmorris has been in, lately,
has got something to do with Hepburn's being
killed and then coming to life again,'  I am
quoting once more from Algernon Binks's letter
to his sister in South Africa,  'is, that after

hearing that the Colonel, instead of being dead
was " alive and kicking," he shut himself up in
his " den " for upwards of two hours, after
luncheon ; and, upon my going to the door, 
thinking he might have been taken with a fit, or
something, and with no sort of idea of anything
but " doing the civil,"  he gave me, without
rhyme or reason, about the most beastly snubbing
that I've ever had in the whole course of my life,
which I took, of course, like a lamb, but should
certainly " owe him one " for, if he had been
anybody from whom I hadn't had future expectations.
When I saw that he had been writing to
Lucy Barlow,  as I found he had been, for I saw
*' Clapham Common " quite plainly upon the
envelope before he managed to scramble it away,
I must confess that I felt rather in a " funk,"
thinking that he might have made an ass of
himself, and proposed to her, and I would have
given a good deal to have been able to get a peep
at the letter. But, on second thoughts, I have
made up my mind not to meet troubles half-way,
for I really and truly believe that Lucy Barlow
is such a queer sort of a girl that she might
actually refuse him, even if he has asked her to
marry him, and there's all the more chance of

this now that we know for certain that Hepburn
hasn't been killed ; although, we also know, 
more than ever,  that he's anything but a
marrying man. AIL my calculations, however,
may be awfully upset, supposing he takes it into
his head to die of his wounds ! ')

CHAPTER Xii.

The possibility that Anthony Hepburn might, to
use Algy's expression, stake it into his head to
die of his wounds,' haunted Lucy now at every
waking moment of the day and night.

*A passionate woman's love,' says George
Eliot, sis always overshadowed by fear.' By a
fear, too, which can assume as many forms as
Proteus himself.

Beloved ones who (it may be) are neither
particularly * passionate,' nor foolishly over-fond,
whose fetters, if they are to be fetters at all,
must weigh no heavier than a feather, and who
repudiate, and are impatient of, all the counterbalancing
anxieties which are ever the accompaniments
of an absorbing attachment, may often
have made this discovery to their cost.

Hydra-headed and persistent, fear after fear,
anxiety after anxiety, arise in the  passionate '
woman's mind.

No sooner is one thoroughly subdued and
trampled under foot, than lo ! another straightway
uplifted its accursed head !

If we examine into the circumstances of
Lucy's acquaintance with Colonel Hepburn from
the very beginning, we shall find that there
could scarcely have been a single moment during
which she was wholly free from doubts and
apprehensions of one kind or another.

Treading upon the delightful discovery that
the world contained at least 0)ie being who seemed
worthy of a woman's dearest affections, came the
conviction (owing, of course, to a misconception
of facts), that the princely creature with whom
she had journeyed from Clapham Junction to
Hampton Court, was no other than the Veterinary
Surgeon belonging to the regiment of which
a squadron happened to be quartered in the
Cavalry Barracks at the Palace. Surprise ! Disappointment
! Consternation ! Doubts as to
whether (supposing that sympathy and admiration
had been mutual), Miss Elizabeth Barlow
would ever consent to an engagement with one
whom she would probably regard as her great-niece's
social inferior; the brain tortured and racked
in its search after apposite historical precedent.

Then came the knowledge that lie actually
commanded the regiment in which she had
foolishly imagined that he occupied so subordinate
a position. He was rich, sought after,
courted ; with a fine old Elizabethan house  up
in the north,' surrounded by broad acres and an
ancestral deer-park ! Revulsion of feeling hereupon.
Surprise, disappointment, and consternation,
although of an utterly different kind I

Then followed these enchanted moments
amongst the shadowy cloisters, with only the
pale moon and the terra-cotta Caesar for witnesses
: the soft light in his eyes ; the blissful
first consciousness that she was indeed beloved,
and by the one being who seemed to realize her
highest ideal of human perfection. But his kiss,
tender, passionate, resistless,  was as the despairing
kiss of renunciation, for, * he was not a
marrying man !'

But, then, in the library at Falconborough
Park, under the very portrait of his own
mother, had he not almost asked her to become
his wife ?

Ah !  only ' almost ! ' There was some obstacle,
 some impediment,  to their union ; an
entanglement with some other woman !

Was he married already ? ]N'o ; lie yas not
married. He swore that lie was not !

Did he, then, care about anybody whom he
was unable to make his wife ?

No ;  so help him God ;  he was in love with
no one but her !

What, then, was the mysterious obstacle that
stood between them ?

Alas, the day was not very far distant when
all would be made plain to her ! Oh, for the
blessed time before this bitter knowledge had
been thrust upon her !

With all its heartaches, its misgivings, its
vacillations of hope and fear, what would she
not give to enjoy but one day of her previous
ignorance !

But she had been aroused and enlightened
now.

Slowly, and by degrees, she had come to
know the worst.

nearly every circumstance connected with
Anthony's former entanglement had been revealed
to her, and now she could never be
shielded by her ignorance again !

The pain she had experienced at this miserable
time, was not like the pain of a sharp wound

or sudden blow, which should smart and ache less
as the days went by. The effect of this pain (she
said to herself) would be permanent, enduring,
leaving her only when the faculty of remembering,
and the capability for suffering, had become
blunted or extinct I

But she must grow hllnd, too, as well as
oblivious and insensible, otherwise, would not
the sight of a golden-haired maiden (such as
little Lily might grow to be one day), and the
initial encircled by the eternal serpent, upon a
certain manly right arm, awaken, even in the
midst of the very brightest future, recollections
which would be able to sting and torture still ?

But, then, as these thoughts had crowded
upon her, usurping, whatever her outward demeanour
or occupation, the first places in her
mind, came the news that Anthony Hepburn had
been ordered out upon active service.

How quickly did the bitterness, the jealousy,
and the regret, which had been evoked by the
revelation of his past, seem to become swallowed
up, and absorbed, by her apprehensions for his
safety in the present ! The worst misfortune
that could be, was not (now), that he should
ever have cared about another woman, or that

memories and reminiscences connected with, this
adventure should haunt and pursue her through
the coming years !

All this past misery was as nothing, when
compared to a calamity which might be impending
in the future !

A few anxious weeks of dread, of silent supplication
and prayer, and then the blow had
fallen ! The worst had happened, as far as she
then knew, and she found herself looking out,
like a creature stunned and dazed, at an utterly
hopeless and desolate world.

Whilst Lucy had believed in the truth of this
terrible news,  every other torturing emotion,
save the sense of irreparable loss,  had been laid
to rest.

Anthony Hepburn became the centre of a group
of tender, reverential, and adoring memories.

As she beheld him, with the eyes of the
imagination, lying in the cold slumber of Death,
pale, passionless,  on his lips the seal of an eternal
silence,  it would have seemed almost like sacrilege
to remember that he had ever erred.

The fancied resemblance which had occurred
to her between her lost lover, when asleep, and a
knight upon a tombstone, seemed to her now to

have had its origin in something psychical and
prophetic.

She had been inspired with this notion, probably,
as a warning that Death might step in at
any moment, and extinguish, with his icy breath,
the newly illumined torch of Love,  that she
should garner and cherish Love's transient blossoms
before the Grim Mower came with his
relentless scythe ;  why had she not taken this
warning to heart before it was too late?

During this short period, which seemed long
by reason of its wretchedness, Lucy had concentrated
the powers of loving that remained to-her
upon Anthony Hepburn's child. This child was
all that was left to her now, of her departed idoL
A living and breathing proof that he, too, had
lived, and breathed, and had his being, and that
the one romance of her now widowed existence
had not been altogether a dream !

Thisnewly awakened love (since, before her
bereavement, the affection she had experienced
for little Lily was merely that which every tender
and impressionable nature must feel for an innocent
and attractive child), seemed sent to her,
now, as balm and consolation.

Free from the faintest taint of agitating

earthly passion,  pure as one may imagine trio
loves of the angels,  here was surely an emotion
in which she could indulge without let or hindrance
!

The misery of a few hours, only, seemed to
have chastened and etherealized every feeling in*
the heart that was once besieged by such impetuous
and eager longings !

Anthony Hepburn was dead : why had she
been permitted to live on after learning this
terrible news, if it were not because she was
destined, by way of penance and consolation,
to love, and watch over, the welfare of his
child?

With the resuscitation which Lord Belmorris
lead compared, in his letter, to a second birth,
Lucy's sentiments with regard to Lily had undergone
no material change. The knight, it is true,
had arisen, as it were, from his tombstone, to take
his place once more amongst living men.  But the
woman who loved him best had beheld him, in
imagination, lying in his marble sleep, and the
effect that this contemplation had produced upon
her was too powerful to be dispelled, even when
he had turned again into a being of flesh and
blood.

All bitterness, all sense of humiliation and of
wrong, had been slain, when she bad believed that
Anthony was lying slain upon that fatal field, and
dead feelings are almost as rarely called back into
life as dead men !

Here is an excellent receipt for the promotion
of tolerance and forbearance between a man and
woman wbo really love, in spite of their differences,
and for the prevention of the setting of
suns upon their wrath, better it be  righteous *
or ?unrighteous :  Let the one who is the most
aggrieved, picture to himself (or to herself, as the
case may be), the beloved offender, lying straight
and silent, deaf for ever to the voices of complaint
and remonstrance, powerless alike either to retort
or to explain, wearing always that same expression
of complacent dignity, rail we never so fiercely.
After dwelling for a Awhile upon this mental picture,
he (or she) will surely come to the conclusion
that it is better, as well as wiser, altogether to
forgive !

But unimaginative persons, it may be argued,
are utterly [incapable of calling up this mental
picture. Let them endeavour, nevertheless, to
forgive ; for neither will such persons be haunted
by other pictures and phantom shapes, that disturb

and chasten. Their need of counsel is not
so urgent. I do not write for such as these.
Head, all ye who can love, and suffer, and
imagine, the words of Thomas Carlyle, himself
a man of many grievances, upon this subject,
written soon after the being who had most claim
to his kindness and consideration had ceased to
exist : 

How pungent is remorse,' he writes, inter
the date of December 15, 1870, ' when it turns
upon the loved dead, who cannot pardon us, cannot
hear us now ! Two plain precepts there are.
Dost thou intend a kindness to thy beloved one ?
Do it straightway, while the fated future is not yet
here. Has thy heart's friend carelessly or cruelly
stabbed into thy heart ? Oh, forgive him I Think
how, when thou art dead he will punish himself.
True precepts, clear dictates of prudence both,
yet how often neglected ! '

Anthony Hepburn, then, returned to life
pardoned and exonerated by the woman who
loved him, and who had mourned him  for only
some few hours, it is true  but for hours that
were * shod with lead,' and pregnant with the
concentrated agony of years, as one dead.

Had he died, indeed  she had come now to

VOL. III. T

realize  this final act upon his part, would have
inflicted ujDon her by far the * most unkindness cut
of all I ' But she had been spared a prolongation
of any such disconsolate anguish, and so,
could afford, now, to forgive him for every other
careless or cruel stab.

She could say to herself now  blessing God
all the while for His mercy  that Anthony Hepburn
was still alive. Her mission was, to watch
over, and care for the welfare of his child, until
the moment of his safe return. And then ?

Further into the future than this, Lucy had
not dared to penetrate. It seemed to her that
Anthony's safe return, or merely the knowledge
of it, would be to her as the culmination of all
her hopes. She longed and prayed, now, for
nothing more definite or consoling than this.

But what if Anthony, after so much had been
achieved with regard to the curbing and controlling,
of her personal feelings, should  take it
into his head to die of his wounds ? '

This was now the haunting dread that pursued
her ; the gnawing fear that had absorbed and
triumphed over every other fear and apprehension.


The old French Professor, acting entirely

from benevolent motives, lead not yet informed
Lucy of Mrs. Van Buren's second marriage. He
had stated, indeed, that there was now no chance
of her immediate return, and that Lily woidd
have been left desolate and forlorn, but for her
own care and devotion. More than this he had
not revealed. He had perceived, or imagined,
upon Lucy's brow, the pale resignation of the
fatalist. An expression as of hard-earned philosophic
calm, which it might be unwise to disturb,
even by the awakening of fresh hopes, until
Anthony Hepburn was safely landed upon English
soil. In common with Lucy, it was as if all
his expectations were fixed and concentrated upon
this day. Once it had actually dawned, he held the
conviction that things would shuffle themselves
right without very much further difficulty; but who
coidd make sure, allowing for distance and dangers,
both by sea and by land, whether this hoped-for
day would ever be permitted to dawn at all ?

Lucy would sit, now, for whole hours together,
in the faded arm-chair, near the fireplace, in her
little sitting-room, with Lily upon her knee,
talking to her, and telling her stories. 'When the
mornings were fine, the two would stroll forth
upon the Common, walking hand in hand. The

most perfect understanding appeared to have
become established between them.

Lily conversed in the old-fashioned, reasonable
manner, peculiar to only children who have
always lived apart from merry companions of
their oati age. She seemed to be deeply
interested in matters relating to cause and effect,
and to have no taste whatever for romping, or
for childish games.

Little girls she said, * ought always to play
with little boys and she had never known any
little boys to play with.

The only object approaching to the nature of
a toy, which seemed to afford her either pleasure
or amusement, was her large wax doll, about
whose broken nose there clustered such a swarm
of stinging associations. ' Jane ' had told her,
she said, that she was ' a great baby to go on
nursing dolls ' now that she was * turned ten
years old ; ' but she liked this 'big dolly ' because
it was given her by her ' god-papa,' and she liked
her god-papa much better than her ' real Papa,'
who was dead no\', and whom she ' couldn't recollect
quite.' But now her god-papa had gone
away, like everybody else !

Tears, idle tears,' would fall, silently, from

brown eyes, upon golden locks, during these innocent
and childish babblings I

At other times City would question Lucy
upon a Variety of subjects; foolish, babyish
questions, perhaps, but yet displaying unmistakable
powers of observation and reflection,
and altogether impossible to answer. As for
instance :  "whether if God were to be engaged
in the creating of a pig, and the pig
called out, and said, ' Oh, do please let me be a
man I ' God would listen to the pleading pig's
voice ; and whether Lucy did not think that this
might be the reason, perhaps, why Mrs. Porter's
husband's face had just a little the look of
a pig?

And again :

Why the Creator had selected green, especially,
for the colour of the grass and the trees ? . . . .
"Why they were not made blue, instead, like the
trees upon the nursery plates? Was it
because God had never seen the plates until after
He had done making the world, and that then it
was too late to have it changed? . . . And why,
if God was so great and so powerful, could He
not easily have changed the whole earth blue, ina
'sino-le minute,' even if it was all finished?

. . . Perhaps, however, it would have looked
prettier to have made it jinli ?

Or ; whether Lucy could really be quite sure
that there were no butterflies in Heaven ?
Because butterflies flew about in every nice place
upon warm days; and whether the birds would
sing there as they did here? and whether they would
be bigger birds? and whether they would lay
more eggs in Heaven than thej did upon earth ?
and whether the birds that flew about in Heaven
would have to come out of these eggs ; or whether
they were the spirits of birds that had once lived
down upon the earth ?

To these inquiries it was almost humiliating
to be obliged invariably to answer : 

Indeed, I don't know, dear ! It's all a great
mystery, not meant for us to find out ! '

As soon as Monsieur de la Yieilleroche had
verified the contradiction of Colonel Hepburn's
death, he wrote to him a detailed account of the
events which had taken place since his departure
from England. By the time this letter arrived at
its destination, it was probable that the wounded
man would be sufficiently recovered to reply toit
; or else, that the worst would be over ! The
old Professor, after informing Anthony' of Mrs.

Yan Buren's marriage, of Lily's illness, and
of Lucy's unselfish devotion, lead expressed himself
thus in conclusion : 

*To be brought into dais contact with a
gentle and noble nature  instinctively and spontaneously
derived from gentle and noble natures
that are now no more  is, in itself, a kind of
moral education, from which, in spite of all my
confirmed bad qualities, I cannot fail to profit.
Events have now combined to render this
privilege within jour reach also. You will enjoys
it, I hope, for many years, long after the old
friend who now writes to you is laid at rest ! The
words of a living poet, who, in spite of the
obstinate exaggeration of his political opinions,
must always be regarded b}' Frenchmen with
pride and veneration, recur to my mind at this
moment, whilst thinking of the enviable fate
which I trust may be in store for you : 

" Etre Vejwux I saisir Range perdu qui fiat !
Te voir a chaque instant, te parler jour et nuit,
Tons les mots du bonheur, f entendre me les dire
Tremblante, et les venir hawser sur ton sourire !
Avoir le paradis pour jouff et ]sour devoir I "*

*Do not, then, my friend, make shipwreck of

Victor Hugo.

your life for the second time, but come back,
upon the first opportunity, to England, and take
possession of your happiness ! It will have been
matured out of materials of the right sort : 
Suffering, self-sacrifice, steadfastness of purpose ;
and you will have been long in attaining it ! But
for these reasons, it is likely to be the more
enduring. Remember, " Le temps nepargne pas ce
qui sait sans lid ! "

CHAPTER Xiii.

The next six weeks of Liiey Barlow's existence
were almost entirely uneventful. She had received,
indeed, quite an exhaustive letter from
her cousin, Adeliza Sparshott, giving a graphic
account of the terrible battle which, it was at
first supposed, had cost the 18th Lancers their
Colonel's life. She described Anthony's rescue
by the gallant Pretjman, who seemed to have
laid well to heart the words addressed to him
by his Commanding-officer, when upon, hearing
that there might be fighting, he had desired to
retire from the service. Colonel Hepburn, she
said, was progressing favourably in spite of
severe wounds. Of these she would give no
description whatever, for fear of making Lucy
'feel nervous.' Lucy ought to ' cheer up ' however,
and make up her mind that he was * going
on capitally,' and to think 'how very much
worse things might have been ;' for everybody

was agreed that ' a certain individual ' had had
the very narrowest ' shave ' in the world !

The whole thing,' Mrs. Sparshott had continued,
' will probably be settled up very soon,
now. A fcAV troops, I believe, are to be kept
out for a little while longer, but most of them
will return, and of course, all those who have
been wounded will start for home as soon as
they are well enough to travel. Dearest Charlie,
as I have already told you, is progressing very
favourably, for I am most thankful to say his
wounds were not at all serious, although Avery
misleading in character  being, almost all of
them, in the each  where people, in ancient
times, objected so much to being wounded,
because it looked as if they had been running
away. Dearest Charlie, however, could never be
laid under any such imputation, for he displayed
the most conspicuous intrepidity  which has been
alluded to in all the newspapers  and after fighting
like a lion, rode right through the enemy's
country with dispatches, and received those
wounds from some of their horrid spears. . . .
If, when we get away from here, it is not too
late in the season, we are thinking of joining
Mama at Cannes, and returning with her to

England ; for, of course, with my wardrobe in
its present campaigning condition, I could not
remain there ; as one feels bound, for the honour
of one's order, to iv and cut out those horrid,
flirting, picnicing girls, with whom the place
is always crawling alive ; and whose one object
in life seems to be to get away all the nicest
and best-looking men from the poor married
women; and I shoidd be quite unequal to competing
with these creatures in my present state !
So we should probably return to England at
once. . . . Poor, dear Mama I . . . Do you
know, Lucy, I \vd\Q sometimes thought, lately,
that we may have been, perhaps, a little hard
upon her? If her affection for poor Papa Alas
anything like what mine is for dearest Charlie,
I can well imagine the awfully paralysing effect
which his loss must have produced upon her;
and when one has nobody left in the world to
look after one, and make one their first thought,
one has, naturally, to look after one's-self, and
run the risk of being considered egotistical.
Mothers, too, seem always afraid of confiding
in their daughters for fear of "losing caste;"
and so, I dare say, poor Mama's life may
really be very lonely and depressing!'

To Achille de la Vieilleroclie, too, within this
interval of six weeks, there had come a letter,
bearing the same kind of Colonial stamp as that
upon Mrs. Sparshotts envelope. It was addressed
in a strange, straggling, crooked, handwriting 
a very curious handwriting, indeed ! and after
carefully examining the direction, the old man
tore it open with trembling fingers, and commenced
eagerly reading its contents.

When he had finished its perusal, he covered
his face with his thin hands, and being of the
impulsive and susceptible nature which is usually
the accompaniment of Southern blood, burst forth
into a paroxysm of lamentation.

Fortunately he was alone  in the seclusion of
his own attic, when the letter in question had
been delivered to him. He remained there for
fully an hour afterwards, plunged, apparently,
in melancholy reflection, or doing battle with
violently conflicting emotions.

'No ! I shall say nothing about it to her I '
he murmured at last, as, after taking up his hat
and cane, he quitted the room with a sigh.
He leaves the matter entirely to my discretion 
I shall say not one word I She shall not read it,
cither, if I am able to prevent her, in the newspapers



! " I shall bo back," be says, " with the
first lot that are sent borne." Then be can tell ber

himself ! '

And so it happened that Lucy was not even
aware of quite all that bad appeared in the 
wbicb must always seem to
be scanty enough to those who long to know
every detail connected with any one particular
person !

It was now about the middle of the second
week in March. A promise of sin-ing- once more
but, as yet, only a promise.

Tbe weather, as is usual at this season,
blustering and capricious; sunshine sometimes,
but of a wan, colourless kind, with hurrying
clouds up overhead, and a frown of menace on
the horizon.

Nevertheless, the gorse-busbcs upon the Common
were plentifully bedecked with golden
buds; some of them well-nigh bursting forth
into blossom, whilst bright lines of crocuses and
tufts of pearly snowdrops were to be seen in
almost every suburban garden. Still, as the
wind was sometimes so cutting and so cold, and
as Lily Yan Buren was neither a gorse-bush, nor
an early-blossoming bulb, laity was often obliged

to go abroad without her little companion, who
did not seem, somehow, to be making very rapid
progress towards a perfect recovery.

During these solitary walks, Lucy's thoughts
dwelt almost exclusively upon Anthony Hepburn,
upon her hopes of his return home,  the chances
of her meeting with him,  what attitude he would
assume with regard to herself ? What likelihood
there was of Lily becoming restored to her usual
health before that time ? Whether Mrs. Van
Bur en might not, very probably, reappear upon
the scene and claim her child ? Together with a
thousand other speculations and conjectures having
reference to the same subject. But, in Lucy's
heart, at this season, there awoke mysterious and
intangible yearnings, for which even Anthony
Hepburn was not altogether responsible. Impressions,
begetting tender and melancholy emotions ;
favourable, no doubt, to all that he might have
chosen to desire or to demand, if only he had been
there to plead ;  but yet proceeding more immediately
and directly from the uncontrollable self-abandonment
of Nature, which must ever inspire
with vague and indescribable longings the souls
of those beings whose pulses respond, unconsciously,
to the passionate heart-beats of the

universe. Spring-time must be a sorry season,
indeed, for those who can lay these tender dreams
and impressions at the door of no earthly visitant ;
who must look on, unloving and unbeloved, at
peeping purple crocus blossom and drooping snowdrop,
and in whose breasts the twittering notes of
early mating birds can awaken no secret echo of
consolation and hope !

On this particular March morning, as Lucy
sauntered homewards across the Common, she
perceived Sarah standing at the wicket gate
leading to ' Vine Cottage,' evidently on the lookout
for her return. What was the matter 'f

Miss Lily,' (Lucy's faithful handmaiden explained,)
had suddenly been taken 'very odd.'
Her head ached, and she "was rambling in her
talk,  asking about her ' Mama,' her ' god-papa,'
and saying she was soon going to heaven to see
her black nurse.

Lucy at once despatched Mrs. Porter's little
servant for the doctor, and hastened to Lily's bedside.


The child recognised her at once, and appeared
to be relieved at her return.

Stay here, won't you?' she whispered, as she
clasped Lucy's hand in both her own. ' Don't go

away from me, like everybody ! I want to feel
that you're near me even if I can't see you,
because I love you, and because you are so kind.
My Mama was beautifully than you, and she was
much beautifully dressed,  but she wasn't half
so kind to me as you are. When will my Mama
come back from abroad ?'

Lucy could only return an evasive answer ta
this inquiry.

/ will be a Mama to you until yours comes
back,' she said, as, with tears in her eyes, she
clasped Lily to her heart.

Only a little while ago,  before she had succeeded
in training herself in the school of adversity,
 these childish questionings might have
proved terribly painful and embarrassing ! She
winced still, it is true, at every allusion to Mrs.
Van Buren,  but it was a wincing for Which she
was thoroughly prepared,  a pain she knew for
certain that she must experience, differing altogether
from the crushing misery of an unexpected
revelation, bringing with it the toppling down of
an idol, or the withering of a long-cherished hope !

For once we have come to realize that the
idol,  although prostrate and abased,  is still the
dearest object of our adoration, and that a hope

if it is to rim no risk of being suddenly bKglited,
had better never be suffered to flourish and
luxuriate at all, pain and humiliation become,
as it were, our accepted portion ;  happiness and
pleasure are then our only unexpected guests !

To adore,  without faith,  without hope,  a
shattered idol ? What is this but another name
for a state of perpetual torment and unrest ?
But yet, to be able to adore at all, is surely something
(J ! How many there are who have not
advanced even thus far upon the pathway of
human knowledge ! and it is necessary to Ix)i0Wy
and to endure, before it is possible to enjoy with
wisdom !

Adversity had taught Lucy the secret of some
such philosophy as this, and so, expectant only of
pain and humiliation, she was enabled to answer,
with apparent equanimity, the questions of Mr.
Bury the doctor.

Little Miss Van Buren ' was ' a very fine
little girl,' but the brain 'as in a 'highly irritable
and excitable condition.' Did Lucy know whether
there had ever been any tendency to brain disease
in the Van Buren family ?

No ; Lucy could tell him absolutely nothing
with regard to the family in question. She had

VO],. III. u

never heard that an} member of it had ever
suffered from brain disease.

The mother,  Mrs. Van Buren, of The Aspens,
was a remarkably fine-looking woman. K'o
doubt Lucy was acquainted with her ? Did Lucy
know anything about the little girl's father ?

No,  yes ; that is to say, Lucy (ltd know something
about him. She had always heard that he
was quite strong and in good health.

Ah ! Mr. Bury was glad to be informed of
this ! It had an important bearing upon the
case ! The child had evidently outgrown her
strength,  she was very tall for her age. He
had heard that she had been born in India ? Did
Lucy know how long she had remained out
there ? Her father had been,  Mr. Bury believed,
 an Anglo-Indian official ? Did Lucy
know of what complaint he had died?

Yes ;  no ; that is to say her father was not
yet dead. Oh, yes I by the by ! of course ! He
had died not very long ago, quite lately, in fact !
Lucy fancied that she had been told that he had
died in a fit.

These blundering surmises and responses resulted
in an opinion, upon the part of the doctor,
to the effect that ' little Miss Van Buren,' besides

having decidedly outgrown her strength, had inherited
from her father, the Anglo-Indian official,
who had recently expired in a fit, ' an intense
susceptibility of cerebral structure,' and ' that the
chill she had caught, a short while ago, through
falling into the pond, had predisposed her to
rheumatic and neuralgic pains.'

There mighty however, be other causes for her
indisposition, which time woidd enable him to
discover. She might have fallen down, at some
period, and affected her spine, or swallowed a
thimble, or a brass button. . It was quite impossible
to guard against these contingencies !
He had great hopes that she would improve with
the fine weather, but spring was always a very
trying time for children. In the meantime, it
Alas absolutely necessary that she should be protected
from catching another chill. . . . He would
prescribe a little bromide of potassium; a most
valuable medicine in such cases ! . . . and, he
would look in again ' the day after tomorrow.'

Mr. Bury, who was not much of a sentimentalist,
and a sentimental doctor should be looked
upon as altogether an exceptional being, had not
been sorry' to glean what he considered must be
authentic information with regard to Mrs. Yan

Buren and lier late husband. He had admired the
Anglo-Indian widow, as it were professionally,
and from a carnal and anatomical standpoint,
had decided that she was a 'magnificent creature
and magnificent creatures happened to be possessed
of more interest in his eyes than creatures of an
inferior type.

As soon as Mr. Bury had departed, Lucy summoned
her one attendant, and gave her the prescription.


Take it at once to the chemist's, Sarah, and
have it made U23. Why, how happy you look I '

"Well, Miss Lucy,' answered Sarah, blushing,
I can't help, certainly, feeling rather in better
spirits to-day, Which you'll understand, situated
as you are yourself. Miss, when I tell you that
Mr. Pretyman has written me a letter all the
way from where the fighting's been, and he says,
*'I expect to be back," (he says,) " almost as soon
as this reaches you, which I hope," (he says,) "will
find you, as it leaves me, in first-rate health and
spirits ; and with a good appetite for \hQ cold
roast beef of old England, Which I shall be
heartily thankful," (he says,) " to look upon once
again, yourself included," (he says,) " as well as
the old folks at home, which is thinking now,"

(lie says,) ''of retiring from the 'public' business,
altogether, and leaving it to me ; and who
I should very much like to introduce you to,"
(he says,) " one of these fine days, as it's about
time," (he says,) " that their affectionate son Tom
should marry and settle down with the girl of
his choice, if she will have him, which is a
young person," (he says,) " that you may see in
the glass every time that you cleans yourself up
for the day." . . . And so, you see, Miss,' continued
Sarah, with a happy smile, ' he's on his
way home, now, as sure as sure, and it's ten to one,
I think, after reading what he says about settling
down, and taking a "public," that his intentions
is perfectly honourable I '

I hope so, Sarah, I'm sure,' returned Lucy
sadly.

So do I, Miss ; and in another part of his
letter which comes before that, he says he's
probably going back in attendance upon one of
the officers that's been wounded, and I "hope,"
(he says,) " that I may get Dut on to the Colonel,
which is what I am trjng hard to get hold of,"
(he says,) " and as I believe he's after the same
intentions himself," (he says,) "I've every hope of
bringing the matter off, which is one of the

arrangements which would satisfy me best," (lie
says,) 'ras I always said I would lay down my
life for the Colonel any day, which is thoroughly
one of the right sort," (he says,) '' and I came
very near doing it, too," (he says,) 'ein no mistake!"
. . :

Oh, Sarah, supposing they should come back
together, in the same ship) ! '

I think you'll see that they will. Miss,' replied
Sarah cheerfully. ' It will be a great mercy
to feel that they're safe home again, I'm sure ! '

It will indeed ! . . . and I hope that, if you
care about him, this young man will keep all his
promises, and come up to your expectations, and
be true, and faithful, and never do anything in
the future to make jon regret that you ever met
him at all ! ' and she sighed the sigh of the
experienced.

Mingling with her own fears and uncertainties,
there had arisen, just at that moment, the
memory of Private Pretty man's midnight ramble
by the side of the moonshine river, with the
young female ' at Hampton Court.

Had all men, then, independent of class and
station,!   affairs and adventures in the
past ? . . . Must every man have, hidden away

in his heart, recollections, and regrets, which
would cause the woman who loved him best to
shudder, and turn pale, if they could be made
known to her? . . .

. . ' And dare we to this fancy give,
That, had the wild oat not "been sown.
The soil, left barren, scarce had grown

The grain by which a man may live ? ' . . .

The voice of Sarah recalled Lucy to the present.

I hope so, too, Miss,' she said, referring to
her young mistress's words ; ' but once I get
married, I don't mean to bother my head about
the future ! One can't have everything, you know,
Miss, and a girl like me must make up her mind
to take the rough with the smooth when she sets
her whole affections upon a young fellow that's
been in a cavalry regiment and seen fighting ! '

CHAPTER XVIII.

But neither Lucy's devoted attentions, the
anxious solicitude of the old French Professor,
nor Mr. Bury's valuable ' Bromide of Potassium
were destined to bring back the hue of health to
Lily Yan Buren's cheek. In little more than a
week from the time when sarah had tripped off
so gaily to the chemist's, her bosom all aglow
with love and admiration for the gallant Lancer,
Anthony Hepburn's child lay cold and silent ripon
the little white bed in what had once been 'Lucy's
sleeping-room, albeit closed and shrouded now,
and transformed, through the mysterious working
of destiny, into a chamber of death.

How long a coffin for so young a child ! Very
nearly six feet in length from end to end ! The
undertaker was quite surprised, Sarah said, when
he heard that the young lady was only ' just
turned ten and a half years old !' There
were precedents, however, for this sudden 

of children cliirino a short illness. Mrs.
Porter, the landlady, could quote a remarkable
instance ; Mr. Porter, the pig-faced man, could
remember another ; Sarah could recall a third.

A death in the house is not always a wholly
unacceptable incident to the majority of ' that vast
prolific cockney middle-class, that makes its principal
meal about mid-day ! ' Suddenly, and without
any direct intervention of their own, a dramatic
element has invaded their vulgar and prosaic
lives. They are assisting, gratis, at a real
tragedy', and are occupying, as it were, places in
the front row. Imagination is stimulated ; sympathy
is evoked ; for a whole week, at least, there
is an excuse for the continual wagging of tongues!

During this sad period, Lucy slept in a little
room upon the ground-floor, opposite the sitting-room
; a room which had been previously occupied
by Sarah, who had migrated, for the week, to the
upper regions.

Monsieur de la Yieilleroche had begged her
to make use of his own sitting-room, at any rate,
during the hours of his compulsory absence from
home, deeming that if she remained in solitude
below stairs, her spirit might become too painfully"
oppressed b}' the close proximity' of death.

Lucy, however, but rarely availed herself of
her old friend's kindness, preferring to remain
downstairs in a familiar place, surrounded by
familiar objects ; fearing nothing from the pale,
tall child who was lying asleep behind the closed
folding-doors in the inner chamber, and bearing
for what was left of her, too much maternal love,
to brook the thought of leaving her there deserted
and alone.

Ah, if she could only remain for ever looking
exactly as she looked now ! . . . . So beautiful,
so tranquil, so like the lovely white flower after
which she had been named ! . . . . But to her,
as to every other fallen blossom, there soon would
come a change ; a change, the very thought of
which must fill the susceptible mind with repugnance
and regret, and cause those whose imaginations
are capable of penetrating beneath the
daisies green sward, to wonder how anybody,
who is not a ghoul, can have the courage to
wander about complacently in a churchyard I

Lily, as she lay there in her last sleep, looked
strangely like her father.

A certain stern dignity of expression, which
is the invariable accompaniment of death, when
the dead person is what undertakers are wont



to designate ' a handsome corpse,' and the fact
that the child's long golden hair had been cut
short by the doctor's orders, served to heighten
and accentuate the resemblance already existing ;
a resemblance which, whilst it had been to Lucy
a source of constantly recurring torture, had
served to endear its possessor to her as nothing
rise could ever have done ; and so, she could not
look upon Lily now without tears of genuine
tenderness and sorrow.

The old Professor, too, who had loved her
almost as though she had been his own child,
was deeply affected at her death.

If she could only have lived,' he exclaimed,
until she had known some of the intense joys
of existence I With these, perhaps, Avould have
come also, the intense sorrows I But still it is
so sad to die before one has ever lived at all ! '
and he had repeated sadly and sorrowfully Alfred
de Musset's lines upon the death of a young
maiden : 

" i:ile est morse et na point vccu,
EUefaisait semhlant de vice
De ses mains est compile litre,
Bans lequel die na rien lu '

But, perhaps, Lucy thought, although the

Book of Life had fallen thus, unread, from her
hands, she would taste, now, of jo\s which need
possess no counterbalancing burden of pain ! . . .
How many mysteries might now be made plain
to her ! . . . . How many of those childish questions
answered, to which Lucy, in her ignorance,
was unable to give any reply ! She would know
now, no doubt, whether living creatures had been
permitted, unconsciously, to have any voice as to
their own fashion or semblance ; why the world had
not been made all blue, like a willow-pattern
nursery plate ; and whether the birds and butterflies
of Heaven, supposing that there were any
there at all, were indigenous to those high realms,
or merely such birds and butterflies as had flitted
and carolled decorously through the fields and
forests of earth, and so, had met, at last with a
deserved reward !

Upon the first symptoms of danger in Lily's
illness. Monsieur de la Yieilleroche had telegraphed
to both her father and mother. From neither of
them, however, had he, as yet, received any
answer. This did not surprise him.

Anthony Hepburn,  supposing, always, that
he had been sufficiently recovered to travel,
had probably started upon his homeward way

as soon as lie had received his old friend's former
letter.

He, and Sarah's soldier-sweetheart, had embarked,
very possibly, on hoard the same returning
troop-ship, which with every fleeting moment
must he gliding nearer and nearer home.

As for the mother of the dead child,  ' that
magnificent, that insupportable woman,'  it was
quite impossible to say where she might, or might
nos, be, at this particular time. Whether she had
over received the telegram was altogether doubtful
; and whether, having received it, she would,
consideringhcr altered circumstances, elect to come
and look once more upon her child, was even
more uncertain still. The Professor had informed
Lucy that there was a remote possibility of her
arrival at ' Vine Cottage,' and was quite astonished
at the philosophic calm with which she had received
his words.

It is a pity no one should see Lily,' was all
she answered, ' when she looks so beautiful, and
must soon be hidden out of sight for ever ! '

Of the probability of Colonel Hepburn's immediate
return, the Professor had thought it would
be wiser to say nothing, seeing that any such hope
would be liable to be so bitterly disappointed,

supposing that the wounded man,  after leaving-the
hands of the surgeon-were to suffer from a
relapse, or succumb from exhaustion. The Professor
was thoroughly prepared, however, for the
event himself, and he had written to Anthony at
the club he usually frequented, and at which he
would probably be set down upon his arrival in
London ;  breaking to him the sad news of Lily's-death,
and giving him all the particulars respecting
the arrangements which had been made for
her funeral.

But the day before the sorrowful hiding out of
sight for ever had dawned now, and no Avoid had
reached the Professor of Anthony Hepburn's return.

The funeral ceremony could be delayed for
awhile, but the coffin-lid was to be closed tomorrow
upon what could look ' so beautiful, for only a
little Awhile longer now !

All day long Lucy had felt nervous, disturbed,
impatient,  expectant of she knew not what.

Early in the morning she started off for a
solitary walk, having for its object the gathering
of spring leaves and flowers for Lily's final
adornment.

She had to go some distance, at this early
season of the year, before she could find any, and

then they were only such as would have seemed,
to most people, very commonplace and ordinary
for her intended purpose.

A few white flowers, looking like small ox-daisies,
 and yet not altogether ox-daisies either,
which grew close up under the gorse-bushes
in the more sequestered parts of the Common ;
some snowy clusters of blossom which she found
decking the leafless branches of the spiked blackthorn
; and then, long trailing sprays and natural
garlands of dark glistening ivy, which she discovered
clinging to the trees and hedgerows in
Nightingale Lane.' She had a sort of superstitious
wish that Anthony Hepburn's child should
lie only among flowers of her otnti gathering, and
so had refrained from buying any of the conventional
funeral wreaths and crosses which were to
be obtained in the town.

The crimson ribes in Mrs. Porter's little
garden, was scarcely out as yet ; but there was
quite a wealth, considering its narrow area, of
snowdrops, primroses, and crocuses, and with
these added to the flowers she had already' gathered,
Lucy knew that she could make her garlands look
quite bright and pretty.

Upon her return home, she placed her basket

iiDon the centre-table in the sitting-room, and sat
weaving its contents into wreaths and crosses
until quite late in the afternoon.

To achieve, with perfect satisfaction to oneself,
any kind of work, requires time and patience.
Lucy, therefore, who had become really interested
in her occupation, went on with it steadily until
sunset, deeming it altogether a labour of love, and
never pausing to ask herself whether it was not
rather a mere pastime of pious supererogation,
and whether it might not seem (from the point of
view of the flowers, at least,) to be just a little
barbarous as well, since not every one of these
newly unfolded blossoms might have desired to be
banished, so soon, to the regions of eternal night !

At about half-past five o'clock, as she was
seated close to the window, in order to catch the
last rays of departing daylight, she was aware of
the opening  click ' of the garden gate. It could
only be Monsieur de la Yieilleroche, she thought,
but yet her foolish heart began to beat and falter.

The ' Marquis,' seeming, likewise, to be anxious
and perturbed in spirit, had quitted home at an
unusually early hour ; ostensibly, with the object
of going through his round of daily lessons, and
so divert the melancholy current of his thoughts ;

but in reality to ascertain, in London, whether
any more definite information had been received
relative to the arrival of the first convoy of
wounded men from South Africa ; and whether it
was probable that any of the officers might have
started for home, independently, without awaiting
the departure of the appointed troop-ship.

But it was not the old Marquis who was returning
now. As Lucy gazed anxiously through
the window, a tall handsome young man, very
much sunburnt, and wearing a blue Lancer uniform,
made his appearance inside the paling. He
looked rather sheepish and self-conscious, and
flicked off some of the best blossoms of the ribes,
with his cane, as he strode along the narrow pathway
leading up to the front door.

Happy, happy Sarah ! Her soldier-lover had
returned safe and sound from the seat of
war !

Lucy's first impulse, upon beholding this martial
figure, was to fly immediately to the door, 
to welcome him,  to question him,  to overwhelm
him with thanks and blessings for having so
gallantly rescued from the jaws of death the man
she loved. To inquire whether he, too, had returned
home, or would shortly return, together

VOL. It. X

with many other inquiries fraught with such
burning interest for her.

But as she rose from her chair with this intention,
she heard Sarah's footstep in the passage,
going towards the front door. No ; she would
not interfere with the meeting of these happy-lovers
! Afterwards, when she had quite finished
wearing her funeral garlands,  when Lily's
sleeping form had been decked out with the
result of her pious toil,  she would ring the bell
for her faithful handmaiden, and ask for a private
interview with the ' young fellow in a cavalry
regiment ' who had ' seen fighting ! '

The twilight had set in now, and she had to
complete her work by the aid of a candle.

The wreaths, when finished, looked much
better, she thought, than those that were sold in
the shops. She had made a large cross and two
beautiful garlands. There were a few stray
flowers left over, even then ; these she intended
to strew wherever there was a flowerless corner in
Lily's narrow bed.

With a heart full of reverence and regret, she
went into the inner chamber, and looked down
upon her little friend for the last time.

The faint light from the one candle in the

sitting-room, streaming through the half opened
folding-doors, fell softly upon the pale, cold face
with its closed, long-lashed eye-lids, and dimly
revealed the few objects which had been suffered
to remain in the room.

Upon the chest of drawers, to the left of the
bedstead, the large broken-nosed doll was sitting
bolt upright,  its blue eyes having been pulled
open for the last time by those poor dead little
fingers,  wearing the inane and irresponsible
smile with which foolish, addle-pated folk are
wont to stare on in the midst of human misery; 
whilst upon the dressing-table, under the window,
a bright bunch of golden curls, bound together
with a black ribbon, seemed as though it was
caressed by the invading beam.

Lucy went up to the dressing-table, and toyed
absently with the curls.

The hair of Anthony Hepburn's child ! . . .
Having about it so much that was of him,  so
much of his still unburied past ! Clinging and
coiling about her fingers, just as the love of him
must ever cling and coil about her heart ; just
as his past must ever cling and coil about her
memory! But ah, surely without bitterness,
now, after so much had been suffered and

endured by both of them, so much subdued !
The coffin-lid, which would be closed tomorrow,
would hide away, for ever, all that might yet
remain of bitterness,  jealousy,  humiliation ; 
with the lovely child-face that would never again
be looked upon by mortal eyes !

Meditating thus, Lucy turned to the bed, and
laid the cross and the two garlands upon City's
unconscious form.

Ah, no one else would ever see her now ! That
cluster of clinging golden curls was all that Lucy
would have to show to Anthony if ever he returned.
It was a pity he could never behold her
lying thus asleep !

Worn out with her conflicting emotions, Lucy
fell upon her knees beside the little white bed,
and buried her face in her hands.

Silent tears soon came to her relief, and with
them some sort of silent and unconventional
prayer;  a half-unconscious lifting up of the
heart to the Eternal Throne in earnest and passionate
supplication, for strength to meet, and
endure, without repining, whatever fate might be
reserved for her in the shrouded future ; and then
a prayer for Anthony,  for his safe and speedy
return,  for his love (if Heaven so willed it),  and

for their happiness together. If not, for his
happiness,  without a thought about herself, 
away from her, out of the sight of her longing and
loving eyes ; but for Diis happiness and well-being, at
any rate, first and foremost of all things ! . . .

How long she remained silently pleading thus,
she never knew.

The sound of a footstep in the adjoining room
aroused her at last, and, without rising from her
knees, she looked up suddenly.

Something came between her and the ray of
candlelight. A man's figure. Whose could it
be ? Could her scarcely - uttered supplication
have ascended so speedily to the Throne of
Heaven ? Was it Anthony Hepburn, or his
wraith, that stood contemplating her from just
within the half-opened folding-doors?

She remained upon her knees for some seconds
staring with haggard eyes, at this unexpected
apparition,  her outstretched arms and clasped
hands reaching half across the flower strewn
cofl of the dead child. Then, with a stifled cry,
she sprang towards the doorway.

It was Anthony Hepburn indeed, although, in
the subdued and shrouded light, she could scarcely
discern his features.

He stretched out one hand towards her appealingly,
 imploringly,  almost with the manner
of one who has returned, at last, to something
precious, which he is half afraid to claim.

What she could see of his face looked sad,
wistful, thinner than when she had seen him last.

With her hand still clasped in his, she drew
him gently to the bed-side, and they stood gazing
together upon Lily's pale face, lit up by the caressing
beam of invading light.

There are moments in life when a combination
of pathetic circumstances seems to render
speech impossible,  moments, too, which, with
the emotions they awakened,  we can never
entirely forget, but to which we seldom, if ever,
allude, even to our nearest and dearest. This
moment was such a one.

Lucy was the first to break the silence.

You must kiss her, and say good-bye to her,'
she whispered, impelled, as it seemed, by some
sudden and irresistible impulse.

And you must, too,' he answered, in a broken
voice, and they both leant down towards the
cosily together. ' Come to the light,' he said, by-and-by
;  let me see how you look ! ' and he led her
through the folding-doors into the room beyond.

Their eyes met, and still standing hand in hand,
they gazed at one another tearfully and wistfully.

And you ? ' she asked f falteringly, after she
had dwelt tenderly upon every line of his face ;
are you quite well,  quite strong again ? '

I'm almost as right as I can ever be,' he
answered sadly.

Lucy was struck with something constrained
and unusual about his bearing.

Ah, your wound ! It still hurts you ! You
were wounded in the arm ? '

Yes ; in the right one ; I shall be rather
awkward for some time longer.'

She glanced from his face to his right arm,
and uttered a cry of consternation.

An empty sleeve fastened across Anthony
Hepburn's right breast told its own tale.

Lucy fell upon his bosom, sobbing and weeping
bitterly.

I'm only a poor cripple now,' he said, as he
bent dowTL and kissed her tenderly ; * who can
scarcely even write his own name yet so that
anybody can make it out ! But I am a free man
once more I Perhaps, however, I'm not now worth
your taking ? Tell me, my Lucy, if you think
that you can care about me still ? '

A strong man stricken down and disabled, 
tamed and humbled for the time being ! All, to
think that there should have been a time when
the yearning after some such terrible misfortune,
which should make him utterly dependent upon
her devotion, could have existed for one moment
in her sinful heart !

Some ten minutes later, the old Professor,
who had been informed of Anthony's unexpected
arrival, looked in at the door of Lucy's little
sitting-room, and then beholding the lovers, retired
as noiselessly as he had come, closing the
door discreetly behind him.

Ah ! it does not finish so sadly after all ! ' he
murmured, when he had climbed up to his solitary
attic chamber. * Anthony's Past is dead and done
away with, but before him is unfolding the promise
of a happy Future ! He will have a new life now,
with new jojs, new hopes, and new ambitions !
Perhaps, too, one of these fine days, he will have
other children, and then Achille de la Yieilleroche
will instruct them in the French language ! '

Still, with poor little Lily lying there dead,
nobody could feel altogether light-hearted.

