PROLOGUE

Alien we were girl and boy together,
We tossed about the flowers,
And wreathed the blushing hours
Into a posy green and sweet. . . .'  T. L. Eddies.

Chapter I.

Some fifty or sixty years ago, Henry Fauntleroy,
banker, was hanged for forgery ; and a few disaster
this melancholy event, in an old country house
in the south of England, a beautiful young lady, whom
even the gir/of sleeves and unbecoming headgear of the
period failed to disfigure, was reading aloud an account
of his execution from one of the leading journals.

Her chief listener was a man so much older than
r herself that he might have been taken for her father,
nay, his antiquated style of dress might even have
misled a stranger into believing that he was a generation
further removed from the girl who sat at his feet,
crumpling the newspaper in her pretty hands. But
one of those hands (the left one), besides a diamond
and emerald ' hoop ' (a hoop which in those days went
all round the finger, causing exquisite pain whenever
;the hand was cordially squeezed  the reason, perhaps,

VOL. I. B

N

why modern jewellers have abandoned this manner of
setting), was adorned with a wedding-ring ; and the
young lady was, in reality, the wife of the old gentleman,
who, with his knee-breeches and frilled Jabot,
looked like a living impersonation of some one of the
portraits in Rousseau's Nouvelle Jleldise or Voltaire
himself resuscitated. Her other unsuspected listener
was a little boy of some seven years of age, with tawny
hair omit straight across his forehead, and lapping donation
each side of his face like the ears of a King Charles's
spaniel, which animal he very much resembled, with his
great dark ejes and short baby features. All at once,
this child, stopping in the midst of his play, knocked
down the castle of wooden bricks which he had been
raising with such care, and running towards the pretty
lady, buried his fluffy head in her black satin apron,
and burst into a flood of tears.

What is the matter, Godfrey ? ' demanded she, in a
sterner voice than that in which young mothers are
wont to address an only child, whilst the old gentleman
walked quickly towards the bell, which he rang several
times.

The little boy was still weeping, but this action on
the part of Mr. St. Clair  such was the name of the
old gentleman  recalled him apparently to reason, and
holding up his head, \q answered, in a subdued voice, 

T don't know, mamma.'

You do not liuoic .' repeated Mr. St. Clair, looking
at him firmly but benevolently. * Are you unable to
give any reason for this sudden outburst?'

Indeed I cannot tell,' persisted the little boy. * I
cannot tell what made me cr}'.'

Nothing is without a reason,' said Mrs. St. Clair ;
and she then added, making a movement with her knee.

lift up your head, dear ; your tears are dripping allover
my apron, and will spoil it;' and, indeed, the
apron seemed too pretty to spoil, as it was embroidered
with rosebuds and forget-me-nots in floss silk.

There is a cause for everything that exists in the
ii verse,' said the boy's father.

Indeed I don't know Avhat it was,' repeated little
Godfrey, now no longer sobbing.

I am sorry", Godfrey, that you should add falsehood
to passion,' said Mrs. St. Clair, sternly.

Search your mind, Godfrey,' urged his father,
with mild insistence ; and he then added to his wife,
in a lower voice, * It is very important to the ultimate
success of our system, that we shoidd inquire into both
cause and effect, and thus endeavour to strike at the
first fell germ of rising evil.'

If I did say,' pleaded the little boy, as though
after a sudden resolution, * you would be sure to laugh
at me.'

And supposing that we laughed, it could only be
because you were deserving of ridicule,' answered his
father, sententiously.

The desire to escape being laughed at springs generally
from an inordinate self-love,' added Mrs. St. Clair.

Well, then,' said the child, firmly, * when mamma
began reading about the person that was hung, I didn't
listen ; but next I did listen, and then I got to pity
him, and to be sorry for the bad thing he did ; and
then I thought perhaps he didn't mean to do it, and
wouldn't do it again ; and then I thought, whether he
was good or not, it was a dreadful thing that they
should kill him ; and when I heard that he was called
Fauntleroy," it was such a pretty name that I couldn't
help crying. This is the real truth.'

You are fretful and excitable,' said Mrs. St. Clair.
Perhaps he is not well, and ought to have something
to take Y ' she added, appealing to the superior wisdom
of her husband.

No,' muttered the old gentleman, who, after adjusting
his glasses, had scrutinised his son's face as
though he had been some curious specimen in natural
history ; ' the child seems to be in excellent health.'

 This man was a forger,' said Mrs. St. Clair, again
addressing herself to the boy ;  and it was quite right
that good people should hang him. Murderers forgers,
and all had men, always are hanged ; ' and she looked
significantly at her husband.

'Not alwaj's, not always, my dear,' rejoined he.
Before the young wx must always be careful to be
just, guarding against any misstatement of facts
But to return to the point :  You did not
know this man, Godfrey, and you cannot therefore
pretend to any affection for him. Were you to weep
at the downfall of some hero I would join my tears
to your o\l ; but in this instance your emotion can
only proceed from a morbid sentimentality. And as
to the sound of his name having been, as I confess it
was, euphonious, he would have deserved your sympathy
as much, supposing him to have been a worthy
person, had he inherited a more ordinary surname.
This episode confirms me in my opinion that yours
is a nature, my dear boy, capable of leaving a reality
for a shadow.'

Like the dog in the fable ? ' asked the little boy.
Oh, I shall try not to, papa.'

One cannot make a silk purse out of a sow's
ear,' murmured Mrs. St. Clair, in an aside to her
husband.

I don't know, my dear he replied. ' I know
that such is your opinion. Time, however, will show.
I believe that one can.'

The boy continued to hang his head, feeling that
he was reproved, though the reason for his reproof
was not quite so clear to him. Another moment, and
the butler, entering in reply to the bell, demanded what
were Mr. St. Clair's orders.

Be good enough, Jamieson, to send Mary Parker
here,' said the old gentleman ; and very soon Godfrey's
nurse presented herself at the door. She was a 
woman, with a wide mouth, a florid
complexion, and honest eyes.

Another inexplicable fit of crying, Mary,' Mrs.
St. Clair said, pointing to her son.

Indeed, ma'am, I'm sorry to hear it,' returned
Mary Parker, looking at Godfrey reproachfully.

He has done nothing deserving of blame in itself,'
Godfrey's father explained. * But, believing, as we do,
that the first step towards improvement consists in the
exercise of self-control, we are constrained upon the
present occasion, for the good of our boy, to inflict
some small punishment. Godfrey, you are relegated
to your nursery, nor will you be permitted to comedown
stairs during the evening. Every extravagant
exhibition of emotion may be controlled, and the hidden
promoter of it resisted. Resist, and strength will
come ;  this is the lesson I have endeavoured to impress
upon you all  is it not, Mary ? and I trust I
have done so in a manner incapable of offending even
the most susceptible of my household.'

You have indeed, sir,' answered Mary, in a grateful
tone ; and then, turning to Godfrey, she said,
kindly, * Perhaps you will come along with me, sir?'

The boy needed no further bidding, and, taking
his nurse's hand, he passed out from the presence of
his parents, pondering, as he went, upon their trite
copy-book sayings.

Hardly had the swing-door, which divided the
entrance-hall from the servants' apartments, closed,
when Mary Parker's manner underwent a sudden
change. Covering her young charge with kisses, she
broke forth at once into the language in which tender
women are wont to address little children ; and finally,
after a thousand foolish words and promises, she insisted
upon carrying him all the way up the steep
stone stairs, at the head of which his nursery was
situated, on her entrance into which she again commenced
hugging and fondling him, and doing all in
her power to efface from his mind the remembrance
of the parental teaching.

Some time before Godfrey's usual bedtime upon
this evening, Mary Parker, expecting, probably, a visit
from Mrs. St. Clair, had placed him in his little cane-sided
crib, peeping through the manifold holes in which
he coidd see her as she passed to and fro setting his
nursery in order for the night. Whilst she was partaking
of supper in an adjoining room, he used, when
the days were long, to lie awake watching the gray
square of twilight through the two windows, across
which were the five wooden bars set there to protect
his tender years.

The dark Scotch firs at the further end of the
flower - garden used to sway their heads slowly and
mournfully in the evening breezes, each one seeming
to him an old friend who was saying ' goodnight,'
with a face full of sympathy and benevolence.
For to little Godfrey the black fir-trees possessed

faces. Profile after profile seemed to peep down
at him from the window as he lay there dreaming
awake in his little cane-sided crib, the outline of each
one of them generally taking the wrong curves, like
the head of George III. upon a spade guinea, where
every line of the face is made to bulge outwards ;
whereas, as most people know who have had anything
to do with ' High Art,' a well-regulated profile ought
to curve in an exactly contrary direction, if, indeed, it
curves at all : for, probably, it would be disposed at first
in a series of sharp, square little angles, to be finished
off afterwards with one of Nature's neatest chisels.

Amongst the branches of these old friends, Godfrey's
lesser, though more noisy, acquaintances, the
rooks, had built themselves nest after nest, during
many generations of men. Judging by their noisy
and excited cawing, and by the frequent disturbances
and arrangements that took place long after the
little boy fancied that they were comfortably settled
for the night, their lives could not have been altogether
free from discord. They seemed contented, however,
on the whole ; nor could a nouveau richCj who had
hired one of the manor-houses in the neighbourhood,
and who thought that a rookery would look respectable,
induce any of them to remain with him, though, besides
providing them with ready-made nests, he had
tied raw meat to his tree-tops, and scattered grain
at the foot of them. The cunning birds * ate and
were filled,' but declined to roost where they had
supped, and remained constant to the gnarled groves
of Dallingridge. On this evening, there seemed to
be an unusual commotion amongst the black-feathered
colony  the parent birds whirling oftener than was
their wont over the gray chimney-stacks of the old

house, followed by the young ones with their shriller
voices ; and, by reason of it, Godfrey was kept awake
until nearly nine o'clock, by which time Mary Parker
had finished her supper, and he could see her seated
at the table in the middle of the room, mending a pair
of his socks, close to the tail of the great white rocking-horse.
It was now that he heard, as usual, a dull
thudding sound just outside the nursery-door, accompanied
by the murmur of gruff voices, and the tread
of hobnailed boots. This he knew proceeded from
Joe Crosby and John McBean  gardener and leaf-sweeper,
respectively  in the act of filling the large
wood-basket ; and he knew that when the filling was
accomplished, John McBean would come into the
nursery, to say good night to Mary Parker, and to
drink a fflass out of a black bottle which she used to
bring forth from the cupboard,  for this was what
happened every night, although he was sometimes too
sleepy to see it. With John McBean (an honest
red-haired Scotchman, imported from Mr St. Clair's
northern estates  for he had property in Scotland as
well as in England), there came into the nursery a
mingled odour of mould, clay-pipe, and corduroy,
which would even linger there some time after his
departure ; but to Godfrey, who was too young as yet
to be fastidious, this was only the well-known aroma
of honest John McBean, and he liked it.

After sitting down for a while at the table until
he had finished what Godfrey innocently looked upon
as water  and, indeed, it was of the same colour 
John used tenderly to embrace Mary Parker, with
whom he had * kept company ' for many years, and
take himself off ; nor was there anything singular, to
Godfrey, in this proceeding : he was at an age when

chat is, seems to be identical with iclint ought to he, and
to him the advent of John McBean was always a
pleasurable circumstance.

On this particular evening, when lie felt restless
and low-spirited, be was more than usually gratified
at perceiving the presence of bis old friends  for to
bim these simple people were friends indeed ; and bad
any one asked bim at this period of bis life wbo were
the two persons be loved best in the world, be would
almost certainly bave answered, * Mary Parker and
John McBean.'

He now called out to the former of these two, and
asked ber to 'make bim go to sleep,'  wbicb meant
that sbe was to lean over bim, patting bim on the
shoulder, and whispering and crooning soft things
until be was too sleepy to hear them. Mary Parker,
it is true, was only a plain red-faced countrywoman,
with rather a thickset figure ; but to Godfrey sbe was
the representative of warmth, womanhood, maternity,
and consolation. Her form seemed to bis bead to be
soft all over,' With no hard points or angles ; and
though ber dress was generally only of rusty-black
merino, at any rate be was never chided for spoiling
it, when, as now, be laid bis tawny head upon
her bosom, and endeavoured to compose himself to
sleep.

You are so kind,' be said to ber timidly, ' that
sometimes I think you ought to have been really a
mamma. Had you ever a little boy of your own ? '

But instead of answering him, Mary only drew
bim closer to her heart, and Godfrey saw that sbe
was in tears.

Seeing a ' grown-up person ' cry, somehow inspired
bim with a very uncomfortable sensation, which parr



took partly of awe, partly of surprise, and partly of
a nervous inclination to laugh, wliicli soon had the
effect of banishing his own sadness.

Perhaps,' he thought, ' she has got a headache ora
toothache ; ' or, could it be, he asked himself, that,
though she was so much older than he was, she had
been naughty', and that this had made her shed
tears ? He had always been taught that people who
did wrong were invariably unhappy. He felt himself
in the presence of a mystery  something he could not
quite understand ; and as he was wondering about it
he fell asleep.

"Whilst little Godfrey was snugly ensconced behind
the cane walls of his crib, the following conversation
was taking place downstairs in the drawing-room.
Mr. St. Clair began it by remarking anxiously, 

I am really alarmed at the extreme sensibility
of that child, since I cannot but foresee that a
nature, thus prone to receive impressions, may be in
danger of garnering up tares as well as wheat.'

It was a most extraordinary circumstance that he
should sympathise with a criminals said Mrs. St. Clair,
with a shudder. * I declare to me it seemed quite
ominous ! '

*Now 3'ou know, my dear,' returned her husband
reproach fully ' that by saying this you are assigning
the fallacy of my favourite theory ; a theory based,
I am convinced, upon principles both of Wisdom and
Humanity.'

You mean your theory of counteracting natural
and inherited tendencies by a system of education,
arranged specially for each individual case ? ' inquired
Mrs. St. Clair, pandering rashly to the old man's love
of recapitulating his opinions.

I do,' he answered ; * and with Godfrey the system
I intend pursuing is this : Primo  towards ourselves
as his parents, it is important that we should inculcate
a sense of respectful submission ; he must never, whatever
may be the circumstances, venture to think even,
of questioning our decision ; but to arrive at this end
it is not my intention to make use of harshness. I
would rather that he should feel the calm force of an
indomitable will, crushing and pushing him, as it were,
towards the accomplishment of our design . . .

But is it not also to be conjectured that he himself
may develop an indomitable will ? ' interrupted
Mrs. St. Clair ; ' joined, perhaps, to fiery and untamable
passions ? It would be only natural.'

Maybe,' replied her husband. * And yet what
avail culture, refinement, and the teachings of morality
if they may not successfully combat and triumph over
any such evil tendencies ? You speak of these tendencies
as " natural :" are they not, perhaps, entirely artificial?
The result, rather, of the unnatural state of
our owen society ? Let us fight the world, then, with
its own weapons, bringing Art to bear upon Art, and
scouting Nature where, at the outset, Nature has been
the least invoked and consulted.'

'As you say, dear, of course.' (Like Frankenstein,
Mrs. St. Clair felt that she had called up a
superior force.) * And yet the whole thing is only an
experiment.'

A successful one, hitherto,' answered her husband,
with satisfaction. 'I think, Eliza, you will at
any rate admit this. I have looked at that child as
though through a microscope ; I have studied his
every movement, and analysed the impulse that
prompted each thought, word, and action ; and,

honestly, I can find no cause either for complaint or
disappointment ; and I say this from no sentimental
feeling, such as so often obscures the better judgment
of a person of ripe years, where children, the types of
innocence, are concerned : I say calmly and dispassionately,
after much observation, and \vith some surprise,
that I can detect no vice in him whatsoever.'

Could one be really vicious, do you think, at seven
years old ? ' inquired Mrs. St. Clair. * Would not the
bad qualities develop later ?'

I believe we should even now perceive them,' replied
her husband. * My unfortunate brother Francis
had, even at that early age, developed in some measure
almost all those evil tendencies which have since lured
him on to destruction, like ignesfatui; for, at ten years
of age, besides refusing to pray, he was already opposed
to capital punishment, and advocated republican principles
of government. What is he now ? Alas ! we
know only too well. An infidel, a radical, and a
homoeopathic ! A judgment is falling upon him,
however ; he is becoming blind.'

One has always heard,' said Mrs. St. Clair, with a
pretty little shudder, * that he was a very objectionable
person. Oddly enough, though he is living so near
us, I have only seen him once in the distance ; he was
sitting upon the beach at Southcrbourne, eating shrimps.
He is decidedly good-looking.'

That it was my misguided brother I have not the
slightest doubt, Eliza, since you tell me what was his
occupation. Eating shrimps upon a public beach at a
fashionable watering-place ! Yes ! . It was always
his delight to fiy in the face of society, and outrage
all the most sacred of its established laws. His is a
very terrible example. When one considers the responsibilities

of parents, one wonders how any one can
voluntarily accept so important a trust

'Yes, indeed, dear,' cut in Mrs. St. Clair. 'And
yet surely nobody need marry unless they like ? '

'Except with some special object in view, it is indeed
marvellous that they should,' replied her husband.
You know, Eliza, why I married you ? '

I do, dear,' said Mrs. St. Clair, quite placidly : ' in
order that you might have a child who would cut out
your brother and his children, if he ever had any ; for
his little girl was not then born  the brother who was
an infidel, a radical, and a homoeopathist at seven.'

'Not at seven dear,' interposed her husband. 'Above
all things let us endeavour to be truthful. 'Twould be
fatal to Godfrey's eventual regeneration were he to hear
his mother making so serious a misstatement. I was
alluding just now to \h.Q present tendencies of my miserable
brother.'

'And their bearing upon the present case, dear,'
said Mrs. St. Clair, ' if one is to be really correct.'

With Godfrey under our eyes, then,' continued
the old man, 'I need not remind you of the object
that we have in view, and you know the jealous interest
with which I shall watch the progress of his moral and
mental culture.'

Yes ; but now, with regard to his real education,
do you consider that Mary Parker is intelligent enough
to be his constant companion ? His mind is forward
for his age ; he can really read and write very nicely.'

The example of Mary Parker,' began Mr. St. Clair,
again deviating from the subject, ' will show you how
much may be done by constant precept joined to the
wholesome occupation of correcting another. When
Mary committed her youthful indiscretion there seemed

or

every danfcr that her moral character would degenerate ;
for juries, though it may ennoble and purify a superior
intellect, acts frequently', with persons of a less robust
mind, in a contrary direction ; and you may remember
that, after the death of her baby, Mary showed a decided
inclination for the absorption of stimulants  the curse
of so many of her class

Of this she is quite cured, dear  at any rate for
the present,' said Mrs. St. Clair. * And John McBean,
too, is much improved. Really,' she added, with a
little laugh, ' our house will end by becoming a kind
of reformatory.'

And this will show you,' continued her husband,
prosing on, ' the advantages of example and moral
training. You know my ideas upon religion. . . .
You know the importance I attach to established
forms. It is true that I would employ religion
merely for tonic and drastic purposes ; but, then, I
am one of the privileged few who can separate and
reflect upon cause and effect. The igtioraiit have need
of Christianity ; above all, it is of value to themes
that they should contemplate, in their
mental twilight, the conception of eternal punishment
; and, should you for one moment doubt the
salutary effect of a persistent moral training upon
a human being, I must beg you to turn your attention
to the vegetable kingdom, where you will
observe many plants of the most noxious and poisonous
nature rendered harmless, nay, even edible, by judicious
pruning and delving, combined with removal to a fresh
soil, which is often artificially ]procured. There are
several varieties of the potato-tribe, for instance.' . . .

But here Mrs. St. Clair, becoming impatient, interrupted
suddenly, 

Don't you think, dear, that, as it will be sometime
before Godfrey will go to school, it would be a
food thine: to have a tutor for him  some one who
would read with him and teach him languages ? '

Ilad you been more patient, Eliza,' said Mr. St.
Clair, * I should have told you that this notion had
already occurred to me. I was, in fact, actually leading
up to it.'

'Let me see. Who is there?' cut in his wife.
'Mr. Pettigrew, the new curate, wouldn't do, of
course, though my friends at Bath, who recommended
him, said that he was very clever and estimable ; but
we couldn't have him without offending his Rector,
Mr. Hornblower, who, as he takes pupils, will, of
course, think himself the most fitted.' . . .

Hornblower is an old fool ! ' interrupted Mr. St.
Clair, with vivacity. He was always glad, in the
presence of his wife, to call attention to the Rector's
intellectual shortcomings ; for Mr. Hornblower, though
barely his own age, was already beginning to show
signs of mental degeneracy. ' But he is a good creature
; and, though Godfrey would probably learn but
little, that little would be of the right sort, for Hornblower
is a sound Churchman. Of Pettigrew I know
nothing.'

He is a very clever person, I am told,' said Mrs.
St. Clair ; * but beyond this I, too, know nothing. Indeed,
I don't know why I mentioned his name ; for I
felt sure you would be afraid of offending Mr. Hornblower.'


*0f offending Mr. Hornblower?' repeated the old
gentleman, looking at his wife with an expression of
incredulity. * / afraid of offending that old donkey ?
Really, Eliza, I am ignorant wherein I have so far

incurred your contempt as that you should suspect me
of such an absurdity ! Why, he is not a man one can
offend ; and even if one could I own I cannot
imagine myself in so unusual a state of mind as that
I should be afraid of offending old Hornblower ! *

Well, at any rate, dear, / am afraid of offending
him. Fio might be too stupid to understand a slight,
but I believe his family would make themselves very
unpleasant. It is true that Mrs. Hornblower is bedridden,
and that one never sees her ; but there is
Mary Anne, who will never marry now, for she must
be considerably over forts I am told that she once
tried very hard, years ago, to marry you, and that she
has been very spiteful about it ever since, sajdng she
only cared for your money, and that now she is wiser,
she would not take you at a gift. But, still, I dare say
her father will be the best person for Godfrey.'

Mary Anne Hornblower said that, did she ? ' exclaimed
Mr. St. Clair, with a sudden fire in his eye.
Aha ! that was what she said ! * and he appeared as
though he was controlling himself with an effort.

She is a spiteful creature,' returned his wife ;  but
her father, as you say, is a good-natured old idiot, and
Avill do very well, I am sure, to teach Godfrey.'

And why, Eliza,' cried the old man, turning the
tables suddenly, * am I to submit to seeing the boy
instructed by this old donkey? Am I to sacrifice
Godfrey's future simply because j'ou are afraid of
offending a bedridden old woman and a hideous old
maid ? So Mary Anne Hornblower said, did she, that
she would not now take me at a gift !'

I would certainly far rather have her for my friend
than my foe,' remarked Mrs. St. Clair, whose long blue
eyes wore an expression of veiled triumph. * By-the-by,

did I dream it, or did you tell me, that Mr. Pettish
had once been chaplain to a gaol ? '

I did not tell you it,' answered her husband.
Has he ? So much the better if he has ; but I know
nothing about him

Well, then, I shall consider it a settled thing that
Mr. Hornblower reads with Godfrey ; not quite yet,
of course, but a little later? Is not this your wish,
dear ? '

My wish ! ' exclaimed Mr. St. Clair, with irritation.
My wish ! Not the very least in the world ! Really,
Eliza, there are moments when you are particularly
dense ! It is the last thing that I should wish, now
or ever ; particularly when close at hand there seems
to be another man exactly fitted for the purpose.'

And who may that be ? ' inquired his wife, innocents


'Ashy, Pettigrew, of course. A highly-cultivated
man ; a young man ; a man accustomed to control and'
counteract all lands of moral and mental obliquities
in this prison where he has been chaplain ; a man most
strongly recommended by your friends at Bath.'

Oh, I had forgotten him ; and besides, now I think
of it, I don't believe he would undertake it. I believe
nothing would induce him to come.'

"Why not ? For what reason should he refuse if
we make it well worth his while ? At any rate we can
but ask him.'

Mrs. St. Clair did not say anything more ; but her
previous words must have had some influence vdih. her
husband, for, six weeks after this time, the Rev. Felix
Pettigrew was engaged, in the intervals of his professional
duties, to read with little Godfrey, and to instruct
him in the first rudiments of his classics.

VOL. T. ' c

ro

Chapter II.

But, jDertiaps, before continuing, it will be as well to go
back some years, and to look into the earlier history of
Mr. Erskine St. Clair of Dallingridge (the pedantic old
gentleman with the pretty wife and the little boy), and
his only surviving brother, Francis. That they came
of an old and illustrious family all those who may have
studied the annals of ' the lordly line of high St. Clair '
will already have divined, for from this noble Scotch
stock the St. Clairs of Dallingridge were lineally descended.
They had had a French cross, a Spanish
cross, and even an Irish one ; whilst Dallingridge Park
had come to them at the time of the Commonwealth
through an English heiress, who had married a
younger son of the Scotch house ; but they were
St. Clairs for all that, and were very proud of their old
name.

Erskine and Francis were only half-brothers, and by
reason of the disparity in their ages they might perfectly
have been, instead, father and son ; for the
former was the elder by some twenty-eight years, so
that he was now at least sixty-five years old, whilst
his half-brother was not yet thirty-seven. In appearance
and in disposition they were altogether as dissimilar
as in their ages ; and as they had developed
different tastes and opinions, their sympathies, never
very congenial, had been drifted still further asunder
by time and circumstance.

Erskine St. Clair, the elder brother, was a fair,
slenderly-built man, bearing no trace in his physiognomy
of the Moorish eyes and strongly-marked brows

wliicli were supposed to have been introduced into the
family by a Spanish great - grandmother, and which
Francis had decidedly inherited. His figure was
dapper ' rather than athletic or symmetrical, and he
affected an antiquated style of dress, which, whilst
it endowed him with a certain omit of seeming
originality and distinction, made him appear to belong
to quite another historical epoch  an artificial epoch of
shirt - frill and shoe - buckle, of formal carriage and
stilted address, with which his younger brother, who
had identified himself with modern progress and reform,
could feel no sympathy whatsoever.

Had these two men not happened, unfortunately,
to have been brothers, they might, perhaps, have
mutually restrained each other's failings and exaggerations,
remaining at the same time upon tolerably
friendly terms ; but, forced as they were by the ties of
blood and vicinity to rub perpetually against eaclk
other, the friction had gradually established a raw,
and at the time of which I am now writing they had
become the bitterest of foes. Several causes, besides the
difference in their ages and opinions, had worked together
to produce this estrangement. For instance,
when, some years ago, Erskine St. Clair had contemplated
representing the neighbouring borough of
Southerbourne in the Tory interest, it had been
mortifying to his sense of the fitness of things' to
be playfully informed by his younger brother that he
intended opposing him on the side of the Liberals ;
and indeed, his address, issued from the neighbouring
farm of Little Stillingfleet, where he had
taken up his abode, was so fine a specimen of political
eloquence that, though he could hardly have hoped for

anything save the defeat ho experienced, it stamped
him in the public mind as a young man of genius and
promise, who might one day achieve greatness, although
his opinions were so strangely at variance with those
then in vogue with English country squires.

Then, again, the very fact that Francis should have
lived at Little Stillingfleet at all, was in itself a source
of annoyance and complaint to Mr. St. Clair of Callings
When his father, the old Squire had married
for the second time (late in life, and when there seemed
to be no reason whatever for his so doing), the act had
struck Erskine as being foolish and aggravating in the
extreme ; but when, in addition to this, he presumed sofar
as to become the father of Francis, and, moreover,
to desire to saddle the estate with him as well as with
his second wife, this sense of his folly and of his aggravating
conduct took the form of ill-judged words, and
still more intemperate letters.

Erskine St. Clair had obstinately refused to sign
any agreement for providing for this second family ;
and to punish him, as was supposed, for his insubordination,
the father, at his death, had willed away, to his
second son, all the unentailed property of which he had
lately become possessed, including the snug farm of
Little Stillingfleet, originally a part of the neighbouring
estate of Poynings Abbey, and which was only separated
from Great Stillingfleet (the last farm on that side of
the Dallingridge property') by a shallow hazel-copse,
and a privet-hedge with a rickety gate.

Looking over this gate, the long, low, whitewashed
farmhouse could be distinctly seen, with its three pointed
sables, covered in summer with many-coloured climbing
roses, and only showing its dark oaken cross-beams and

rafters in the naked winter season. Found about it
were clustered its trim straw-stacks and hay-ricks, its
byres and its barns, looking like so many chessmen setup
in the midst of the rich green pasture-lands, which
stretched on northwards until they joined the broad
acres of Sir Peckham Hickathrift, of Poynings Abbey.
This, then, was the second reason (apart from his first
offence of being born at all) which had alienated the
friendship of Erskine St. Clair from his only brother.
But the ' last straw ' to a whole camel-load of ill-feeling
was added a few years later, when, scorning the voice
of popular opinion, Francis St. Clair actually ran away
with, and married, a beautiful gipsy girl, with whom
he disappeared for some years from the eyes of civilised
man, leading, so rumour insisted, a wild nomad life in
Eastern lands, and becoming, so far as society was concerned,
to all intents and purposes a dead man. That
he was not one, however, was proved by the fact that
he still continued from time to time to draw his allowance
in due form from the county bank ; and at last,
after some seven or eight years of wandering, his
only female retainer  an honest countrywoman, who
took care of the house of Little Stillingfleet  received
an intimation of his projected return ; whereat
she and all the farmhouse gossips in the neighbourhood
had become intensely excited. It was
confidently expected that Francis St. Clair would
make his appearance in what was popularly called
*a caravan'  that is to say, a covered gipsy-cart,
furnished on the outside with rough wicker - work
baskets, green brooms, door-mats, and kettle-holders ;
and on the inside with a black-browed and slatternly
small, consisting of bold-looking women and shocked



hojulcfl balls, whose squalling was usually accompanied
by the yelping of sundry ill-favoured mongrel
curs.

But in whatever form of conveyance they might
present themselves, the advent of these interesting
Bohemians was looked forward to with no small degree
of curiosity, which increased considerably as the day
approached which had been fixed ui:on by 'Mr. Frank'
for his return. Being in total ignorance as to the point
of the compass whence this eccentric family would
journey, it seemed for some time doubtful which would
be the most favourable spot to select as a point of observation
; but it was at last suggested by one shrewder
than his neighbours, that as there was but one lodge-gate
leading into the estate of Little Stillingfleet, this
entrance would be the place at which they had better
post themselves ; and here it was, consequently, that a
little knot of them were gathered together on the afternoon
of the expected arrival.

After they had waited some hours, during which
time every approaching vehicle had been keenly scrutinised,
a dark speck appeared upon the far white
expanse of turnpike-road, seeming no bigger at first
than the 'little cloud' seen by the servant of the
prophet, and every eye was immediately strained in
the direction whence it was seen advancing. On, on
it came, growing every instant larger and more distinct,
accompanied by a cloud of dust, which blew all
to one side of the road, and vanished over the hedge
like smoke.

But, disappointment ! it turned out to be nothing
more nor less than the four-o'clock coach from London,
which had somehow managed to arrive a little before

its time ; and, upon this prosaic discovery, the baffled
gossips withdrew their gaze from the despised thing,
and began to scan the distant line of white turnpike-road
in an opposite direction. What, however, was
their surprise when, at this very lodge gate of Little
Stillingflcct, the great swinging, lumbering, dust-covered
London coach, came suddenly to a standstill,
and Francis St. Clair, * clothed and in his right
mind,' to all appearance  that is to say, dressed very
much like anybody else  and looking as handsome as
ever, sprang lightly down from his seat by the side of
the driver.

How d'ye do, Stubberfield ? How d'ye do, Nelus ?'
said he, nodding, as he recognised some of his old
friends amongst the assembled rustics ; and, without
more ado, he walked carelessly round to the left-hand
door of the coach, where a female passenger handed
him, out of the window, a small bundle of plaids, and
another still smaller bundle, which squeaked a little,
as it was evidently somewhat ruthlessly awakened, and
opened upon the beholders a pair of very large black
eyes. This second biddle was Francis St. Clair's only
child  a daughter  the sole issue of his marriage 
whose mother had died, but a few months ago, in
giving her birth, and who might one day have become
the possessor of Dallingridge Park, had not Erskine
St. Clair, anxious that the old place should not pass to
what he considered so degenerate a race, married almost
immediately after his younger brother. He had united
himself to a very pretty young lady of eighteen, whose
acquaintance he had made at a fancy-fair at Bath ; and
the arrival of Godfrey upon the scene, a year or two
afterwards, had effectually done away with the future

pretensions of any possible gipsy-cousins; for, notwithstanding
that Francis had married before Erskine, his
little girl was not born until Godfrey was about five or
six years old.

Taking possession, then, of these two bundles,
Francis St. Clair walked briskly dovn the hilly road
to the white farmhouse with the pointed gables ; and
here it was that he had resided, oft' and on, ever since
leading his own life, dreaming his own dreams, and
associating no more than he could help with his neighbours,
who were most of them somewhat curious to
know what the object of his life and of his dreaming
really Alas. Several strange stories naturally got
afloat, which were afterwards either toned down or
exaggerated, according to the wisdom or credulity
of the first hearers. It was suspected that some
mysterious scheme for the eventual regeneration and
reorganization of Europe and the East was what occupied
chiefly his thoughts and his energies ; for,
during his eight years of married life, he had travelled
much in Eastern countries, and had come back
impregnated, like so many other Englishmen before
him, with the subtle fascinations of Oriental
life. It was known that, besides having been created
a Turkish Bey, he had great influence with the
Sublime Porte ; he had been sent on a private mission
to the Vladikaj or Prince-Bishop of Montenegro,
and he had since foregathered with many high-poised
functionaries and politicians, as well as with revolutionary
leaders and celebrities  saviours and reformers,
perhaps, in the eyes of their disciples  who flash
from time to time across the political horizon, leaving
behind them a trail luminous, it may be, but often

sadly bespattered with gore. Nay, some of these
had even penetrated to the sjdvan shades of Little
Stillingfleet ; and it was by no means an unusual occurrence
for the London coach to set down at the
lodge-gate fierce-eyed Circassian warriors, whose long
moustaches, and picturesque leggings, delighted and
astonished the honest chawbacons ; Whilst Polish
princes, Italian Carbonari, and 'rightful heirs,' dispossessed
of their inheritance, became, as it were, mere
drugs in the market,' being sent down by the dozen,
whenever (as Mr. St. Clair's * London correspondent '
informed him) they were considered 'dangerous,' and
required the tranquillity and salubrity of the country.

But Godfrey knew nothing of these strange kinsfolk
; their very existence had been carefully concealed
from him, although they were living so near
that, by going up into the high meadows where the
mushrooms grew, and looking over the rickets" five-barred
gate in the privet-hedge, he might almost hspve
dropped a pebble straight down upon the snug homesteads
of Little Stillingfleet, which lay smiling in the
hollow beneath. And indeed not only Godfrey's father
and mother, but most of their very orthodox and straitlaced
neighbours, avoided the place as though it had
been accursed ground, since by many of them one of
the current rumours was conscientiously believed, 
namely, that Mr. Francis St. Clair and his daughter
went about wearing very little in the way of clothes,
and worshipped the devil.

And now, when I have said a few words respecting
the Rev. Samuel Hornblower and his new curate, the
Rev. Felix Pettigrew, I shall pass on to the continuation
of my narrative ; but, as these two persons are,

in some measure, involved in it, I feel bound, before
proceeding, to describe them superficially.

Taken individually, they might be regarded as
typical clergymen of opposite opinions, which opinions
nowadays would probably, in the case of the Rector,
have taken an aggressively * Evangelical ' turn ; whilst
his curate might, perhaps, have given more decided
expression to those Hitualistic leanings which were
lurking secretly in his bosom. The times were young,
however, for those changes of form and dogma which
have come upon us lately with gigantic strides ;
and, as neither Mr. Hornblower nor Mr. Pettigrew
had ever arranged their ideas in any definite form,
they did not consider it necessary to assume one towards
the other that attitude of animosity and menace
so common now between brethren of the same cloth.

Samuel Hornblower, tall, burly, and upright for his
years, was a heavily-built man, who rode at least sixteen
stone, and loved his midday meal and his bottle of old
port at dinner. His mind was hardly in the same
robust condition as his body, although this fact may
have been nowise owing to his sixty-seven years ; for
Erskine St. Clair was wont to say that he had been a
young fool before he was an old one, and that he had
never had two ideas in his head since he was an infant
in arms. He was a married man ; but as his wife was
a person of inferior birth and education, she had very
seldom been permitted to appear upon the scene,
and having now become a helpless invalid, she had
been put away somewhere in a back-room, and nobody
ever thought about her at all.

It was Mary Anne Hornblower  the only daughter
of this marriage  a spinster of some forty years of

age  who took the management of lier father's house,
and was in reality the only motive-power in the establishment.
She it was who entertained his guests when
they came to call at the Rectory, receiving them in the
prim drawing-room, where everything was either placed
carefully upon a woollen mat or milder a glass case.
It was in this room that she would be discovered
upon their entrance, engaged in drawing or stench
in modelling wax so as to look like flowers, or
leather so as to resemble carved wood ; for she was
positively bristling with minor modern accomplishments
; whilst in the background lurked a harp of
formidable dimensions, shrouded in a spectral covering
of brown holland.

And yet it could not be said that, in order to
pursue the artistic relaxations of life, she neglected
any of its more serious duties. In an upper chamber
she used secretly to manufacture under - garments
for the poor children of the village, which, when
completed, would gladden the heart of many an
indigent cottager. The red-worsted shawls worn by
nearly all the old women in the neighbourhood were
knitted by her, and she reigned supreme at such
benevolent institutions as soup kitchens, boot clubs,
and school feasts ; for her father, though a good-natured
man on the whole, seldom troubled himself
about the poor, and left their interests entirely in
Mary Anne's hands, who, as he used to say, was
capable of becoming anything in the parish, 'from a
midwife upwards.'

He himself was generally to be seen riding about
the country on a fat cob for his own amusement, or
basking in his garden whenever the weather was

ami, reading the sporting newspapers. His dislike
to parochial visiting was only confined to visiting the
poor ; so that he was constantly in the habit of paying
his respects to the oviicrs of Dallingridge Park and
PoTiings Abbey, presenting himself usually at or about
the luncheon-hour, for one of his chief delights was to
feed in the society of persons who considered themselves
his betters.

On these occasions he was generally full of anecdotes,
or rather, he was full of the only two anecdotes
he ever related, and which he had related so often that
the whole neighbourhood knew them perfectly well by
heart, and had long ceased to consider them in the
light of anecdotes at all, paying no more attention to
them than is paid to the distant burning of a barrel-organ
at a London dinner-party, to which everybody
tries not to listen.

Knowing that the establishment was conducted
upon very eccentric and unorthodox principles, that
the house was generally filled with 'Jews, Turks, and
Infidels,' and divining that the fare was primitive, and
the wine scarce (for Mr. Francis St. Clair joined to his
other foibles that of being a water-drinker), Mr. Hornblower
had never turned the nose of his trusty cob in
the direction of the flesh-pots of Little Stillingflcct,
though its owner had more than once remarked innocently
to 'his little daughter, * I almost wonder whj old
Hornblower never comes dol our way now : he used
to be very kind to me when I was a boy ; ' and this may
have been true, but then that was before Francis St.
Clair had put himself outside the pale of good society
and the Church.

Of Mr. Pettigrew it will not be necessary to say

much, as lie will figure oftener than the Hector in these
pages, and will consequently have opportunities for
developing and revealing himself. His personal appearance
formed a decided contrast to that of Mr.
Hornblower. He was a pale and delicate - looking
j-oung man of nearly thirty, with refined features ;
the faults of his countenance consisted chiefly in a
somewhat contracted line of brow, a general absence
of shade, and the poorness and weakness of the ejes,
which seldom looked any one straight in the face. Besides
being almost an eyeless man, he was also, to all
intents and purposes, lipless ; that is to say, there
was not the slightest difference in colour or texture
between the faint lines which indicated the position of
his mouth, and the waxen pallor of the surrounding
space. This pallor, which might have made him
appear interesting to those who regarded it as the
possible result of the midnight vigil, or of a warfare
constantly waged against 'the world, the flesh, and the
devil,' di(fot apparently proceed from these causes.
His health, judging by his appetite, was excellent; and
his parochial activity showed that he must have been
possessed of a constitution capable of enduring perpetual
fatigue.

He smiled seldom; and when he did so, his smile
was of a forced and mechanical kind, as though in
obedience to the pulling of some invisible Aire, causing
a momentary relaxation of the compressed lips, and
displaying a white and substantial row of grinders, so
evenly planted as to suggest, at first, a suspicion of
Ait rather than Nature, and giving to the lower portion
of his countenance a somewhat carnivorous expression.
So faded and insignificant, indeed, was this

countenance, that it seemed as though Nature, after
she hud limned and coloured it, had taken uj) a
sponge, and endeavoured, as far as was possible, to dab
out her handiwork, leaving only the shai*]), clear-cut
nose in profile, and in full face, these same white teeth,
and his gold spectacles, so persistently worn that they
appeared almost to have become a feature. When
alluding to his o\l stature, Mr. Pettigrew always
described himself as being ' of the middle height ; '
but this would, of course, depend upon the nmnber
of feet assigned to the two extremes. He was possessed
of a harsh, grating voice, which sounded
peculiarly discordant in the sensitive ears of the little
boy, who experienced in his tutor's presence a sense
of discomfort and constraint, which he was unable,
at this period of his life, satisfactorily to explain.
With all Godfrey's craving after knowledge, he
woidd have preferred a thousand times the society of
Mary Parker, whose conversation, although homely
and ungrammatical, was interspersed with quaint
saws and curious county folk-lore, delightful to his
young mind, and in which there lurked, often, the
first germ of some grand truth. However, it was only
from ten o'clock until midday that Godfrey was taught
by his uncongenial mentor, aimless it pleased him, as it
sometimes did, to make, instead, an assignation for the
afternoon, when the boy would call for him at his
lodgings in the village, and accompany him on his
parochial rounds, drinking in, the while, the wisdom
that fell from his lijs.

But this continual intercourse had not the effect of
arousing any attachment in the boy.

He's like a stuffed man,' he explained to Mary

Parker, as a reason for this indifference to his tutor.
And lie seems wound up with a key like my coach
and horses

And, indeed, the harsh grating voice of the curate
was not unlike the whirring sound made by a mechanical
toy when it has nearly run its appointed course, and is
in want of re winding.

After Godfrey had studied for a year and a half
under Mr. Pettigrew he had made, however, very great
progress, and he was even more advanced than some of
the bigger boys who were reading under Mr. Hornblower
at the Rectory ; for besides the classical education
which he imbibed from the curate, his father, having
lived a great deal abroad, had been able to instruct him
in French and Italian, and he could now read and speak
both these languages with a certain degree of facility.
Nevertheless, it was a sorrow to him that he could not
feel more affection for his instructor, or rather, his
instructors, for the cold and formal manner adopted
towards him by Mr. St. Clair, seemed as uncongenial
as the more pardonable severity of his tutor ; and,
during these early sears, there was some danger of
his becoming rather too sad and contemplative, had
it not been for an unexpected happiness which came
ere long to brighten and cheer his melancholy child-life.


Chapter III.

When Godfrey was about twelve or thirteen years
of age, and well primed by his pastors and masters withall
manner of goodly knowledge, there came upon him
an inexpressible longing after some living object whereupon

ho might lavish the pent-up affection of his
strangely desolate youth ; for although his exemplary
parents seemed to be for ever anxious about his physical
comfort and moral well-being, he had never received
at their hands any of those foolish fondness which,
even if they are not always appreciated by the children
upon whom they arc bestowed, are missed and hungered
after by those to whom they have been denied. The
fault, if there was one, did not certainly lie with the
boy ; for his father, Godfrey had always entertained
the deepest reverence ; whilst his mother, who seemed
to his youthful eyes beautiful as an angel, he could
have adored, as the higher spirits are adored by the
faithful, had she ever deigned to encourage by word or
deed the outpouring of his ingenuous heart.

Mrs. St. Clair, however, was the last person in the
world to encourage effusiveness of any kind, particularly
in a child.

There are some women, gentle and amiable, it maybe,
in themselves, in whom the maternal instinct does
not exist ; and as Nature has evidently left it out of
their compositions, it would be as unjust to blame them
for it as for any other omission she may have made.
As a rule, mothers may be classified under three
headings, each of which may be again split and subdivided.


First, there is the foolishly-fond mother, who, besides
adoring and spoiling her own children, is in love,
indiscriminately', with all the little ones in the world,
and becomes, by reason of this unreasoning fondness, a
universal and inveterate baby-kisser, and the stor}-
teller and sweetmeat-purveyor of whole families of
youngsters.

Then there is the mother whose peculiar form of
selfishness prompts her to love and deal gently with
her own offspring, to the ferocious exclusion of the offspring
of other people, who straightway become to her
only as so many ' brats ' imps and * torments filling
her with repulsion and disgust should they happen to
be malformed or ill-favoured, and exciting her jealous
indignation if they appear to others to be either more
beautiful or more intelligent than her own.

Lastly, there is the mother who seems to have become
one by some strange accident or mistake ; who
gazes with surprise and aversion upon all babies, especially
upon her own ; who would be afraid to touch one
of them ; and who does not like being left with one
alone in a room  mistrusting it as something weird
and elfin, and never feeling quite sure, even when it is
asleep, of what it may take it into its head to do next.
Fearing to exasperate it, she abstains from displaying
any open sign of animosity ; and this pent-up sense o
constraint, widening and broadening with the years,
develops gradually into a feeling of positive aversion :
for Nature, perverted, deals always in exaggerations,
nor will Time often vouchsafe to supply what she has
carelessly forgotten at the outset.

It waste this last type of maternity that, judging by
appearances, Mrs. St. Clair of Dallingridge seemed unconsciously
to belong. She had evidently a rooted distaste
for children, and everything that appertained to
them. It is true that she frequently addressed Godfrey
as  dear,' and that she even permitted him to embrace
her, both before breakfast and at his bedtime ; but
any one looking on upon these occasions would
have realised at once that she was merely submitting,
from a stern sense of duty, to what was to her a

VOL. I. D

superfluous and disagreeable form. She would turn
aside her well cut profile in such a way as only to present
a portion of her small car to the boy, her lips
growing compressed the while, and her brows contracted,
whilst the whole expression of her countenance
seemed to say as plainly as words, * Since it has to be
done, for Heaven's sake let us get it over as soon as
possible ! '

Godfrey himself had noticed this, ever since he was
of an age to notice anything at all, and he one day remarked
innocently to Mary Parker, 

'When I kiss mamma she makes a face as if she was
smelling a bad smell, and shrinks away as / used to
when I was little, and when you used to soap my
face

In answer to this, Mary (who was a genuine specimen
of the unreasoning and indiscriminate lover of all
children) only broke forth into affectionate and sympathetic
words, as she always did ujon the slightest provocation.


She was tying on her bonnet, and Godfrey was
going to accompany her as far as the dairy, which was
situated some way from the house, on a lately-acquired
piece of ground, divided by the turnpike-road from the
rest of the park. Before starting, however, he had occasion
to replace a book in the drawing-room, and, finding
his parents alone there, he ventured to make known
to them the unaccountable void which seemed widening
in his heart.

Mamma,' he said timidly, for he always approached
his mother with feelings of the deepest awe and admiration,
' sometimes I can't help feeling a little lonely.
Might I have something to amuse me ? '

Have you not your books, Godfrey ? ' demanded
his father, looking up at him from the newspaper over
his spectacles.

Yes, papa  I know  but I meant something //i",'
explained the boy.

I fancied,' said his mother, in a somewhat aggrieved
tone, 'that you were getting so attached to
your pony.'

Yes, so I am, mamma. I am very fond of him ;
but then he lives in the stables. I mean something
that I could have always with me, that I could nurse
and pet  something bigger and more intelligent thana
white mouse or a gold-fish. Tom Hickathrift had a
very large black dog when he was at Mr. Hornblower's,
and then he was only twelve and a half.'

That dog is sure to go mad and bite,' answered
Mrs. St. Clair severely, 'and then Tom Hickathrift will
die in the most dreadful agonies.' 

"Will he ?' asked Godfrey anxiously, concerned for
the welfare of his friend, the only hope of Sir Peck-ham
Hickathrift of Poynings Abbey, who had just left
the neighbourhood for Eton.

And if Tom Hickathrift goes mad,' continued his
mother, ' that is no reason why you should too. Let
me see ; what animal is there, dear, that would not bite
or scratch, and that would live in this climate without
giving trouble, and that wouldn't eat the white mice, or
the gold-fish, or my love-birds ? He doesn't seem to
care for guinea-pigs.'

"We will consider,' answered Mr. St. Clair gravely.
This will be no easy matter.'

To be sure, there is a hedgehog ! ' Mrs. St. Clair
murmured pensively.

Oh, no ! I would rather not have that, thanks ! '
excluded the boy, ' for I'm sure just as I fi;ot to be
fond of him, he would roll himself up in a ball.' And,
indeed, it seemed to him as if everybody, except Mary
Parker, behaved somewhat after this fashion.

I have solved the question,' said Mr. St. Clair, in
an oracular voice ; and then, as Godfrey looked at him
with wonder waiting eyes,' he added benignantly,
You shall have a tortoise, my boy. It does not bite, it
possesses very little feeling or vitality ; most of the
jar it is torpid, and you can carry it about in your
pocket like a brickbat.'

But Godfrey departed from the presence of his
parents without feeling very much happier at the
prospect of this unemotional consoler, and his life
seemed to him as desolate as ever.

Mary Parker, after she had left the dairy, took
her return-way by a circuitous route, in order that
they might pass through the little wood, in the
centre of which, curiously enough, was situated the
church. The church thus romantically placed was of
extremely ancient origin, having been erected so long
before the invention of coaches and carriages, that
it could only be approached by a narrow footpath
traversing the shady surrounding grove of oaks, alders,
and hornbeams. Its interior, which had remained in
precisely the same condition for several centuries, was
well worth a visit ; but as the good old English
custom of keeping churches hermetically sealed and
locked during weekday's prevailed here as elsewhere,
Mary Parker and her young charge coidd not have
entered it had they desired to do so. They passed
by the porch, therefore, and took their way slowly

throiig'li a portion of the burying ground, the boy
loitering behind, from time to time, in order to
add to the bunch of wild flowers which he held in his
hand.

The churchyard, ' where the departed peasants mixed
with clay,' seemed, at this period, to be almost exclusively
the resting-place of the poor ; for, save that, three or
four of the older monuments, gray and crumbling, bore
the names and arms of some of the leading local families,
it was undulated only with upheaved osier-bound
mounds, for the most part without either head stone or
foot-piece. Since the days, however, of which I am
writing, the neighbouring watering-place of Souther-bourne
has become fashionable, and visitors, on the
look-out for the picturesque, have discovered this
quaint little ]Norman church, the situation of which,
embedded in woods, and unapproachable by wheels,
delighted their cockney imaginations, and inspired
them with the desire to baptize, to marre, and, eventually,
to bury their dead, in this romantic and secluded
spot. In an incredibly short space of time, monument
after monument has arisen, garish with paint and gilding,
and looking for all the world like so many gaudy
mushrooms. Here may be seen, now, every species of
debased funereal decoration  cruciform, pasty-form,
castellated  priggish urns, reminding the beholder of
soup-tureens, and smart polished obelisks of shining
red granite, which shoot up pertly, amongst many
other vulgar emblems of life and immortality. A
master-stonemason, with his men, has established himself
in a temporary shed hard by, where he turns off
prim fashionable tombstones by the dozen ; and were it
not that

The grave's mouth laughs unto derision
Desire and dread, and dream and vision,
Delight of heaven and sorrow of hell,'

and that the dead possess

No place for sound within their hearing,'

the whirring of circular saws, the hankering of
mallets, and the scratching and chipping of chisels,
together with the singing, whistling, and jesting of
these artificers, would surely disturb the silent neighbours
for whom they are labouring so cheerfully. But
as yet the ruthless colony of new dead had not invaded
this quiet corner, or thrust their company upon its
humbler occupants, ploughing up their mouldering
coffins, dispersing their garnered bones, and giving to
this once rustic * God's acre ' the appearance of a
public tea-garden.

Here, then, at this time, remote and shut away
from all the jarring discords of the world, 'the rude
forefathers of the hamlet' slept, each in his humble
osier-bound bed. They were a little company of
friends, too, could they have made answer to some
manner of military roll-call; and many of them lay
at the feet of their earthly masters, hard by the more
important tombs. ' Tom,' ' Dick,' and ' Harry,' boon
companions in the tap-rooms of the Harrow and the
Black Horse  men smock-frocked, hale and hearty,
handy with hoe and pitchfork  wearers in life of
the low-crowned black-beaver hats, now almost obsolete,
and addressed, once, by their farm-servants
as ' Master,' having exchanged their hats for a chin-band,
and their smocks, broidered in chain-stitch and
honeycomb-pattern, for a shroud, waited here patiently
in the blessed hope of a joyful resurrection.' * Master '

Adds, ' Master ' Gladwish, 'Master ' Brett, and ' Master '
Skinner  all great men in their day  slept here side
by side, even as they had laboured in life, their resting-place
unmarked by stock or stone ; but Godfrey knew
well where they were each one of them buried, although
they had no names written over them (according to the
new fashion, the initial letters are all painted in in
red), and would say, pointing with his finger, ' There's
Master Adds, there's Master Gladwish,' or, ' There's
Master Brett that was gored by our new bull before
he had chains fastened to his nose,' &c. ; for to him
each green mound possessed an individuality, and
Death having for him no terrors, he used to run over
the names quite cheerfully : in fact, this was one of
his favourite walks.

*The nuts grow so much bigger here in autumn
than anywhere else,' he remarked to Mary Parker,
looking up at the hazel bushes on the confines of the
burying ground, which displayed as yet only their
waving tassels of ' lambs' tails.' * And look how green
the grass is ! I am glad those poor sheep are allowed
to come in and eat it.' And indeed the grass was
much greener here than in the meadows beyond.

Yes, it do look beautiful and peaceful, to be sure,*
answered Mary, with tears in her eyes. ' And I do so
love to see sheep and lambs feeding in a churchyard.'

So do I,' said Godfrey. * But look what a funny
little grave that lamb is climbing on to, just between
Master Adds and Tom Brett ! I never noticed it before.*

Mary was weeping now in good earnest.

Don't, Mary, don't ! ' cried the boy. * I am sure
they're all very happy and comfortable here.'

Yes, dear, I know,' she answered. * And they
will all rise up some day, and be as beautified as

angels ; and they're angels now, too. Let us sit down
here and rest

I can't understand low they can be here and there
too said Godfrey, pointing to the clouds.

'All, but they are, dear, somehow,' said Mary.

I know they are t/icre,* said the child, again looking
up.

And I feel that they are /icre, too,' said Mary,
looking down sadly at the little mound. ' It's all a
great mystery.'

'It just fits into my back,' Godfrey remarked,
establishing himself against the tiny grave. 'Poor
little thing ! I suppose it was a baby ?'

I suppose it was, dear,' answered Mary, still
weeping. * Just you run on home,' she added, presently,
' and I'll soon catch you up. There's the key
of the gate in the wall; and in case you get there
first, leave it ajar with a stone, and mind you don't
cross over the road before you've looked to see that
there isn't a cart coming.' And with this she gave
Godfrey a key, which fitted one of the smaller entrances
in the park wall.

I'll leave these here,' he said, as he rose to depart ;
and he placed his nosegay of nodding fox-gloves and
bluebells upon the little mound. He Alas glad to have
the chance of running home, for, child though he was,
he at once perceived that Mary Parker was about, for
some reason or another, to indulge in ' a good cry,' and
he was afraid that his presence embarrassed her.

Bless you ! bless you ! you are a dear boy ! ' she
exclaimed, as she embraced him suddenly. 'I really
do believe you are the best boy in the world.' But
he hardly heard this concluding remark, he was already

bounding off homewards, with a sensation akin to one
of relief.

After leaving the churchyard, he ran on for some
distance through the wood, his mind still musing upon
the great mysteries of life and death ; and as he
switched the joung leaves from the overhanging hazels,
his thoughts were strangely at variance with his boorish
and light-hearted action.

When he came to the stile separating the wood
from the high-road, he perceived, coming from the
direction of Southerbourne, which was about five
miles distant, a heavy four-horse waggon, half hidden
in a cloud of dust. It was so far off that he could easily
have crossed over the road before it approached within
a dangerous distance ; but, joy, as he looked and
listened, a delightful tinkling sound broke upon his ear,
which told him that it was drawn by ' bell-horses,' and
he could not resist the temptation of waiting until he
had seen it pass. He was fully prepared to cross osier
as soon as it was out of sight ; but, as Fate would have
it, no sooner had it arrived opposite the stile, than the
carter, with many exclamations, adjurations, and cracking
of his whip, understood only by his handsome,
iron-gray, scarlet-tasselled team, stopped the waggon,
which was filled full of new hop-poles, and began to
remedy something which had gone amiss with the
harness of one of the leaders. In this carter, Godfrey
at once recognised an old friend  Abel Reynolds, now
in the service of Sir Peckham Hickathrift, but who
had been born and bred on the Dallingridgc estate ;
and, upon glancing down at the side of the waggon
near to where the drag was suspended, he read,
sure enough, in white letters on a blue ground, ' Sir

Thomas Pcckluim Ilickathrift, Baronet, M.P., Poyuings
Abbey,' and then followed the names of post-tol and
county. This fitly accounted for the deep-mouthed
bells ; for it was the custom in this part of England,
as it may be, perhaps, elsewhere, for the owners of abbey
lands to decorate their teams with bells and tassels.

Abel Reynolds, a fine hale young waggoner in a
smock-frock, corduroy trowsers tied round the knees
with string, and a black-beaver hat, the brim of which
looked as though it had been gnawed by rats, had
just relighted his pipe previous to starting, when, perceiving
Godfrey, he greeted him respectfully, at the
same time asking whether he could give him ' a ride

Along o' missy there,' said he ; and he pointed to
some one who sat embedded amongst the hop-poles, and
whom the boy had not yet remarked. lie glanced up
now, and saw, seated in a cleft towards the further side
of the waggon, a very strange-looking little girl, holding
in her arms a beautiful white cat. Godfrey never
knew whether it was the remarkable countenance of
this child, or an irresistible desire to pat the white
cat, which made him fling to the winds Mary Parker's
recent injunctions, and brave the probable displeasure
of his parents, by availing himself of Abel's polite
offer. Certain it is that he had climbed nimbly in at
the back of the waggon before the carter had time to
assist him. * Crack ! ' went the brass-pointed whip ;
once again were exclamations and adjurations uttered
by the waggoner, but with a different meaning now, for
off went the powerful iron-gray horses, the merry sound
of their jangling bells delighting the heart of Godfrey,
who found himself sitting quite close to the little girl
with the white cat. She had at first seemed surprised,
and almost frightened, at his sudden appearance ; but

this expression on her face soon yielded to one of calm
indifference, very unusual in so young a child, and she
continued to stroke and fondle her cat in dignified
silence.

Put me down at the next lodge-gate, please,' Godfrey
had said to the carter upon climbing into the
waggon. He began to Wonder now what he should say
to the strange little girl, and he commenced looking her
over attentively, with the view of judging, if possible,
from her appearance, what subjects would be likely to
interest her.

But now a great surprise awaited him.

This little girl, who, with her pretty face and
shoulders protruding from amongst the hop-poles, had
seemed to him to resemble some beautiful fairy
princess, was, now that he came to examine her,
meanly and poorly clad ; or rather, she could scarcely
be said to be clad at all, for the flimsy skirt she
wore was so short and tattered that it hardly descended
to her knees. Her feet and legs were bare, and
her hair, which was long and wavy, hung loose about
her naked sunburnt shoulders, seemingly little kempt
or cared for. In fact, everything about her dress, or
rather ?redress, led him to suppose that she was merely
some poor little beggar-maid, whom the good-natured
Abel had conveyed out of charity upon part of her footsore
journey, and to whom he might himself appear
quite in the light of a young Cophetua,  whence, perhaps,
her look of mingled terror and surprise when he
had leapt into the place beside her. With this notion,
he was just on the point of searching in his pockets
for some small change, when the strange look of
dignity in her dark eyes caused him to hesitate, and
he resolved, before committing himself, to question

her a little, with the hope of finding out who and what
she was.

Children arc often far more shy and self-conscious
than their elders ; and it was, therefore, not without
considerable inward emotion that Godfrey, having
decided upon breaking the ice, demanded politely of
his little companion whether she would give him permission
to stroke her cat.

Yes, you may stroke him,' she answered, in a very
gentle and refined tone. * He likes to be scratched just
above his tail and over his eyebrows;' and she lifted
the white cat on to Godfrey's knees.

How old are you ? ' he inquired now, emboldened
by her kind manner.

I am eight and a half,' she answered. * How old
are you ? '

I shall be thirteen next month  my birthday is on
the thirteenth.'

Mine is on the thirteenth, too,' said the little girl,
'only of a different month. That is an odd coincidence,
is it not ? '

Yes ; you use very fine words for your age,' said
the boy, smiling. He felt now as if they had been
friends for a long time.

I live with grown-up people, and I always read
grown-up books : perhaps that's the reason. I suppose
most children are very babyish ? '

I don't know many,' answered Godfrey. ' I haven't
got any brothers or sisters. You are the only little
girl I have ever seen close, except . . . except . . .'
he added, after a pause, * quite common children, you
know.'

/ have no brothers or sisters either,' remarked the
little girl. ' Another coincidence ! '

Yes ; I'm sure we ought to be friends. And
now, do tell me, where do you live, and what is your
name ? '

My name is Sophy, and I live there pointing to
a distant belt of fir-trees, which looked black against
the pink evening sky. ' At least, that's the rookery
at Sir Peckham Hickathrif t's  the nearest place
to m}' home that you can see from here. My
home is rather too low down for you to see : it's
between there and here. And now, where do you
live yourself ? '

I'm afraid I'm very near, indeed, to my home,'
said Godfrey, sadl3\ ' In fact, we are driving just outside
the wall of it. I wish, I'm sure, it was further
off. I shall have to get down directly.' And he could
not help heaving a sigh.

As he said this a very strange expression came over
the face of his little companion. It was a look of
mingled horror and astonishment. 

You live there ! ' she repeated, excitedly. ' Oh,
how dreadful ! Then you come from the enemy's
country ! '

Where is the " enemy's country?" ' the boy asked,
opening his eyes.

There  here  inside this very wall ! ' answered
little Sophy, waving her bare arms towards the
boundary of Dallingridge Park. * We have a terrible
border-feud with them. Haven't you heard
about it P '

About what ? ' asked the boy, bewildered.

The feud ;  I sometimes make incursions across
the frontier from the other side ; but I go, of course,
always armed to the teeth. It's very romantic and
exciting.'

I should think it must be : but, oh, here we are
at the lodge-gate ! I'm so sorry, just as you were
going to tell nic about something so interesting ! *

And, indeed, this strange little girl had begun to
interest him already. lie waited for the waggon to come
to a standstill before he tore himself from her side; but,
as either good or ill luck would have it, Abel EejTiolds
seemed to have forgotten all about his instructions, and
the gray bell-horses went steadily on imtil they had
passed the lodge-gate. Godfrey's heart failed him ;
and yet he thought, at last, that he had better call out
to him to stop, and he was about to begin saying goodbye
to Sophy, when she interrupted him by exclaiming,


He hasn't stopped there of his own accord, so let
him go on. It's kisDict.

And what's that ? ' asked Godfrey, who had never
heard the word before.

It's a part of our religion,' answered the little
crirl : * and it means that it was meant bv the Fates
that Abel Reynolds should go on.'

I'm really very glad he didn't stop,' said the hoy,
his conscience quieted by his companion's positive
manner. * I shall go on now as far as the Black Horse,
and then run home by the high mushroom-fields above
Great Stillingfleet.'

Do you ever miss any of your mushrooms?' asked
his companion mysteriously.

Not that I know of : but we never count them.
Why do you ask ? '

Never mind  I won't say,' answered the little girl,
laughing.

You're very finny, and different from other

people said Godfrey, smiling also. ' But I like you,
and I hope I shall often see you again.'

*Yes, and so do I like you, though you are my
enemy ; but then that's what very often happened in
ancient times. I read about it in old ballads. When
there were feuds and quarrels in families, the sons
and daughters nearly always fell in love. The Child
of Elle and Fair Emmeline fell in love, and a lot
more.'

Did they?' asked Godfrey; and whether it was
that he thought the idea possible or impossible, he felt
certain that he was blushing, and he asked hurriedly,
in order to turn the subject,  'At what time do you goto
bed?'

Go to bed ! ' repeated Sophy scornfully. * The
Mussulman never puts himself between sheets ! '

'Oh, no, of course not  I forgot!' (for he had no
wish to appear ignorant). 'But are you a Mussulman
or perhaps,' he added, ' I ought to say a " Mussel*
woman?" '

'No, I'm not exactly,' answered the little girl
vaguely. ' Father says we're in reality kind of early
Christians, only what makes us different is, that we
don't exactly believe in Christianity.'

How dreadful ! But who do you say your prayers
to ? In my geography it says a great deal about the
religions of different countries,  there are Protestants
(the only true religion, of course), Roman Catholics,
Presbyterians, Greek Church, Jews, Mahometan,
Buddhists . . . . '

Oh, pray don't go on ! ' said little Sophy impatiently.
' I've never heard of most of those long
names.'

How dreadful ! ' exclaimed Godfrey again. * And
pray what kinds of religions hare you heard of ?'

I have heard people speak of Deists, Atheists,
Gnostic, and Agnostics, and the followers of the
Prophet,' answered the little girl. 'And father says
that though we go a great deal by the Koran and the
Zendavesta, Ave can't be exactly considered to belong to
any religion at all ; but on the whole he says he thinks
we may best describe ourselves as Agnostics, or else as
early Christians.'

'Oh, really! ' answered Godfrey, somewhat mystified.
And who do you say yqwv prayers to ? . . . I suppose
to " Agnostic," ' he added, with a sudden ' happy
thought.'

Oh, no ! I never say my prayers to anybody.
Father says it doesn't at all matter, so long as one
does right.'

I don't believe there ever was such a god as
'' Agnostic," ' Godfrey remarked musingly, going over
in his mind the names of most of the mythological
deities he remembered. ' No, I'm quite sure there
wasn't an} such' a god anywhere.'

I can't argue with you,' said the little girl, with
quiet dignity ' Father said that I shouldn't meet
many people of our religion, because we are living
amongst idolaters.'

What a shame of your father ! just as if we were
the savages that ate uj) Captain Cook I ' he added indignantly,
still thinking of his geography.

Well, they were quite right to eat him said the
little girl. ' I should have eaten him myself. Father
says the pale-faces only introduce smallpox and fire-water
amongst the poor savages and red Indians. How
would you like people to come to your country and take

it away, and give you instead only glass beads and illnesses,
and horrid things to drink ? '

Captain Cook would have introduced the Bible
answered Godfrey, with solemnity.

Yes, I dare say he would,' rejoined Sophy warmly.
Well, how would you like people to take your country,
and introduce the smallpox, and the Bible, and gin, and
brandy, and glass beads ?'

The Bible ought not to be spoken of with
those things. It's a book, and a very, very good
one.'

Oh, is it?' said the little girl carelessly. *I've
never read it.'

Never read the Bible, and never said your prayers !
Sophy ! ' and for the first time he called her by her
name.

Father says he wouldn't have me read it on any
account, till I'm older ; but when I'm grown up, I
shall read that and several other books I mayn't read
now. I have my books given out to me to read ; but I
read others as well. I can read French books,' she
added proudly.

You seem to be wonderfully clever for your age, and
to know a great many things, but you ought to know
others as well ; . . . you ought really to read the
Bible.' . . .

He would have said more, feeling as though the
mantle of the late Captain Cook had descended upon
him, had not Sophy interrupted him by exclaiming, 

Really, from the way you talk, one would think
the Bible was the most wonderful book in the whole
world!'

Oh, so it is,' responded the boy eagerly.  It really
is ! Everybody says so ! Do read it ! Mr. Pettigrew

VOL. I. E

says that if we donty wc shall go to hell ! I'll lend it
you

How can I do what father would not like ?' asked
the little girl sirapl}-.

A new light now broke in upon Godfrey ; but he
did not know exactly how to put it into words. He
had been much struck at first with his little companion's
remarkable appearance : her large lustrous eyes, her
usually thick and curling hair, and the sunburnt
hue of her complexion. He now fancied that he coidd
account for this, as wxU as for her father's peculiar
ideas.

Is your father a white gentleman ?' he asked,
having arranged his words in a manner that would not,
he fancied, give offence. In some illustrious Oriental,
or noble savage, he felt he could readily forgive these
heterodox opinions.

No,' answered Sophy, after taking a good look at
her companion, * my father is not quite white.'

Ah, I thought not ! ' Everything seemed clear to
him now.

He is a kind of light-pink colour, like jou,' for
she had been brought up to practise an unswerving
truthfulness.

Oh ! ' was all Godfrey ventured to exclaim in reply,
for he could not help experiencing a sense of disappointment
; and at this moment the waggon di-ew up
in front of the Black Horse.

Here Abel RejTiolds had a tankard of ale brought
out to him by the barmaid, whilst his gray horses
quenched their thirst at the wooden trough under the
sign-post, which bore the rough portraiture of their
sable relative.

Just as Godfrey was bidding his little companion

an affectionate farewell, an old and valued friend of his
own came staggering out of the inn door. This was
no other than John McBean, who, having a ' wee
drap' in his *ee,' was walking rather unsteadily.
Upon perceiving the two children, however, he seemed
to become suddenly sober, and, to the astonishment of
them both, he laid hold at once of Godfrey with a
herculean grasp, and lifted him by the coat collar out
over the back of the waggon, as though he had been a
kitten. The boy was too surprised at first to remonstrate
; and before he had recovered his self-possession,
John McBean had hurried him through the white gate
at the back of the inn, leading to the high meadows
where the mushrooms grew in the autumn. But, first
of all, he had shaken his fist menacingly at the profile of
the waggoner, which was dimly to be perceived through
the diamond-panes of the low tap-room window,
exclaiming ominously as he did so, in his broad.
Lowland Scotch, ' Ah, Abel Rejoiolds, man ! It'll
be an ill day's work ye're done the days ! '

Chapter IY.

Godfrey felt very sorry next day that he had been
unable to arrange another meeting with his little
friend, and he was also much provoked at the obstinate
taciturnity of John McBean, who, to all his questioning,
could only be induced to reply, 

Ye'll know it a' in high gude time ; and ye'll no
say a word o' this, or ye'll have poor Mary in sir
trouble ; ' and then proceeded, after the manner of
midmost everybody else, to ' roll himself up into a ball,
like a hedgehog.'

Sophy, or

lie had sought the high meadows in the direction
of Great Stillingflcet, and looked over the gate at the
back of the ]Lack Horse, at the place where he had
last seen little Sophy's astonished face peering out
from amongst the hop-poles. Two carts and a miller's
waggon, filled with white sacks, were dra\l up in
front of the inn, but, alas, no bell-horses and no
Sophy !

He listened for some time to the distant voices of
the tap-room topers, the clashing of pots and pans, and
the cackling of the fowls in the stable-yard, and went
away feeling somewhat depressed, little guessing that
had he peeped over either the five-barred gate or
through one of the clefts in the adjoining hedge, he
would have beheld the object of his search playing
with her white cat in the garden of the gabled farmhouse,
which seemed only a stone's throw beneath the
wooded slope. He took, however, an exactly contrary
way, and, turning his back unwittingly upon what he
was so anxiously seeking (as both man and boy have so
constantly done before), he walked sadly home through
the new plantations of the upper park.

Perhaps it was only, after all, the longing for some
kind of congenial companionship, even that of a sister,
which made him wish to see once more his strange
little newly-made friend, with her bare feet and
tangled elf-locks ; but yet, with this longing, there
came also the knowledge that she was no sister of
his  that she was a stranger, wrapped in some curious
and impenetrable mystery ; and this was quite enough
to insure that, at any rate for some little while, she
would occupy his thoughts. As he entered the house,
Mr. St. Clair, hearing his footsteps, called out to him
from the library; and, upon obepng the summons, he

perceived his parents seated together in front of a
table, and wearing, each of them, an expression such
as one might suppose the judges to have assumed at
a Yehmgericht of the Middle Ages.

They were not going, however, to chasten or
reprove ; far from it. They were bent upon performing,
in their cold mechanical fashion, every jot and
tittle of a parent's duty, part of which was to minister
to the harmless pleasures of their son, and to afford
him every legitimate method of relaxation, in order
that, by so doing, an impression of their care
and equity might stamp itself upon his youthful
mind.

With this object, they had applied that very morning
to a naturalist at Southerbourne, who at once
provided them with what they required ; and the
presentation of the tortoise, which was contained ina
basket upon the library-table, was now about to take
place, not without a few appropriate words * to the ijee
of edifying.'

Mr. Pettigrew was sitting in a corner of the room,
engaged in turning over the leaves of a book, and he
thus appeared, as it were, to assist at, and give countenance
to, the proceedings, without encroaching upon
the parental privilege.

Wipe your boots, Godfrey,' Mrs. St. Clair began,
and come here.'

'Where have you been, my boy?' inquired her
husband, in a tone of studied suavity ; delicacy of
feeling preventing him from putting forward at once
this new benefit, and hurling, so to speak, the tortoise
at his son's head.

*I have been towards Great Stillingfleet, papa,'
answered the boy. * I went as far as the end of the

park, and looked over the gate of the Black Horse,
and then came back.*

Both parents here exchanged rapid and significant
glances, whilst Mr. Pettigrew coughed rather uncomfortably.


'You said Great Stillingfleet, I think?' Mr. St.
Clair inquired, blandly. ' I ask, because there is an
extremely savage dog, I am told, at Little Stillingfleet ; '
and, not altogether displeased with the evolving of this
savage dog ' out of his inward consciousness, the old
gentleman glanced up with a somewhat arch expression
at his wife.

*Yes, papa; knowing Little Stillingfleet didn't
belong to us, I have never been so far, and have only
seen it in the distance.'

That is well,' replied the father. ' But what
made you go to the Black Horse ? It is a low public-house.
Alas, Mr. Pettigrew,' he went on, appealing to
the curate, 'when will these terrible curses disappear
from our midst ? The Black Horse and Harrow, both
of them so near to us  one, in fact, actually joining
the estate  have always proved a source of the greatest
temptation to our servants.'

You might catch some complaint there,' chimed in
Mrs. St. Clair, sharply, ' and then give it to the whole
house. I wonder you should like to go amongst low
drunken people.'

Boys will be boys, sir,' said Mr. Pettigrew, sighing,
but preserving, in other respects, a strict neutrality.
He dealt largely in proverbs and wise saws, and usually
addressed Mr. St. Clair as ' sir,' in a spirit of genuine,
or mock, humility.

I will not now enter into our reasons for desiring
you to confine your rambles to the inside of the park,'

Mr. St. Clair continued. ' We have several, and
I do not think that anything in our past behaviour
towards you ought to warrant you in imagining that
they are unjust ones.' At this moment Godfrey's
attention was attracted towards the basket, whence
issued a strange scratching sound, ending now and
then in a dull thud, as if some heavy weight had
fallen to the bottom. Mr. St. Clair placed his thin
white hand upon one of the flaps of the basket, and
continued : ' But, as you are shortly going to exchange
home life for that of a school, where you will not be
permitted to enjoy the same amount of luxury hind
liberty as you enjoy here, we feel that we are in some
measure bound to minister to your pleasure and amusement
whilst you remain with us, therefore I will refrain
from hampering you just now with any new restrictions.
It is with this view, also, and in order that you may be
made aware how anxious your mother and myself are
to provide you with every enjoyment of a legitimate
kind, that we have purchased for you this little animal.
See ! ' said he, with a wave of the hand, as he proceeded
to open the basket, * it is perfectly harmless
and well-conducted, and we trust that you may derive
some pleasure both in tending it and in observing its
habits.'

At this juncture, the ' prisoner in armour,' who had
been for some time vainly endeavouring to crawl up
the side of the basket, achieved his object; but he
almost immediately fell over on his back upon the
table, where he lay with his feet beating the air, and
the under portion of his shell exposed to the company.
Godfrey looked at him at first without much enthusiasm,
wishing with all his heart that he had been a dog, or
even a guinea-pig ; but at last he took him up carefully',

and, after examining him with curiosity, slipped
him into his jacket pocket, and was about to leave the
apartment, to show him to Mary Parker, when his
father recalled him, saying, 

I think, my boy, it would not be inappropriate if
this afternoon 3'ou were to read, in your Natural History,
some account of the curious little creature of
which you have just become the possessor. I believe
that you will find it classified under the head of the
Testudinatcv, or ' Shield Reptiles.' You might thus discover
traits, which would be of interest to you, relating
to its nurture, mode of living, &c.'

It may have lettuce and green vegetables everyday,
and once a-week raw meat, cut up into little
pieces about the size of a pea : it will also drink milk,'
said Mrs. St. Clair, reading from a paper of directions
which had been enclosed in the basket. * Its name is
** Alexander'* and it is about sixteen years of age.'

Sixteen years old ! ' exclaimed Godfrey, in astonishment,
drawing from his pocket the tortoise, which
looked like a large struggling black beetle, and gazing
at it mistrustfully. * This thing sixteen years old !
"VYhat, older than me ? '

One of the great advantages of selecting the tortoise
as a domestic pet,' remarked Mr. St. Clair, pedantically,
 arises from the fact that its existence is
prolonged to a far greater extent than that of the
generality of God's creatures. Nay, unless some accident
should by misadventure befall it, it will even live
longer than a man.'

*' For the days of our age,' " murmured Mr.
Pettigrew, * "are threescore years and ten ; and though
men be so strong that they come to fourscore years,
yet is their. . . ." '

But here Mrs. St. Clair was attacked by a severe
fit of coughing, which silenced the curate, by reminding
him that her husband had already arrived at the
allotted age.

' So teach us to number our days that we may
apply our hearts unto wisdom," ' ejaculated the old
gentleman piously. ' This, Mr. Pcttigrew, is my daily-recurring
prayer. And now, my dear boy,' he added,
turning to Godfrey",  to your afternoon studies.'

After repeating to Mr. Pettigrcw his Latin task,
reading aloud in English, and gleaning all the information
he could respecting the habits of the tortoise,
Godfrey had a good hour for reflection ere he again
presented himself before his parents. It was not his
privilege to dine with them ; but he used to remain in
the library until they had finished their dinner, after
which he would generally play a game of dominoes
with his father, and then retire for the night. Part
of one of the passages selected by Mr. Pcttigrew ior
his reading upon this particular afternoon lingered
long afterwards in his mind, occupying his thoughts
for nearly the whole of the rest of the day.

It consisted of a long-winded dissertation upon the
evils resulting from an excessive love of approbation,
which the author proceeded to prove was contrary to,
and opposed to, the true spirit of Christianity. During
this reading Godfrey had felt his conscience prick him
more than once ; and he now asked himself whether the
unaccountable yearning of his heart for human sympathy
might not spring merely from a vain and ignoble
desire to be flattered and commended  a sentiment so
mean and despicable, that it was surely his duty to
root it at once from his bosom, casting it from him like
a poisonous weed. The passage occurred in the Essays

of John Fonsfrr (eleventh edition, p. 425), and ran as
follows : 

The good opinion of mankind, expressed in praise,
or indicated by any other signs, pleases us by a law of
the same order as that which constitutes mutual affection
a pleasure, or that which is the cause that we are gratified
by music, or the beauties and gales of spring.
The indulgence of this desire is thus authorised to a
certain extent by its appointment to be a source
of pleasure. But to what extent ? It is notorious
that this desire has, if I may so express it, an immense
voracity. . A whole continent applauding
or admiring has not satisfied some men's avarice of
what they called glory. To what extent, I repeat,
may the desire be indulged ? Evidently not beyond
that point where it begins to introduce its evil accessories
 envy, or ungenerous competition, or resentful
mortification, or disdainful comparison, or self idolatry.
But I appeal to each man who lias deeply reflected on
himself, or observed those around him, whether this
desire, under even a considerably limited degree of
indulgence, be not very apt to introduce some of these
accessories. . In wishing to prohibit an ej:ccss of its
indulgence, he has perceived that even what had
seemed to him a small degree has amounted, or powerfully
tended, to that excess  except when the desire
has been operating inter the kindly and approved
modification of seeking to engage the affection of relations
or a few friends.'

Indeed,' the boy had said to himself, when he
arrived here,  this is all I want ! and that they would
seem more like live people themselves, and not treat
me quite as if I was a machine ! '

*But now,* continued the essayist, 'if the most

authoritative among a good man's motives of action
must be the wish to please God, it is evident that the
passion which supplies another motive ought not to be
allowed, in a degree that will empower the motive thus
put in force, to contest in the mind the supremacy of
the pious motive . . .'

Ah,' thought Godfrey reproachfully, ' I am very
likely a vain horrid boy, wanting to be spoilt and flattered,
and I am discontented with papa and mamma
only because they are too wise to give in to me ! '

And, by way of antidote, he set to work to think
upon all their care of him ever since the days when
he coidd first remember anything at all. Next he
called to mind their kindness in so promptly presenting
him with the tortoise, and he ended by asking
himself what thing it was that his evil heart led him to
imagine that they had left undone. Perhaps he was
still hankering after and coveting Tom Hickathrift's
large black dog  the dog that * would be sure to go
mad and bite ' (as Mrs. St. Clair had said, no doubt ina
moment of keen maternal solicitude). From Tom
Hickathrift's black dog his thoughts passed on unconsciously
to Tom Ilickathrift himself, and then to his
family and their surroundings, which he began to contrast
somewhat painfully with his own. Not that he
would have preferred Poynings Abbey to his own
home, the home of his fathers, his dear Dallingridge,
which he loved with a love amounting almost to
idolatry.

It is true that the fine old Norman gateway at the
Abbey, the high battlemented wall with its festoons of
clinging ivy, the cool fish-ponds with their octogenarian
carp, and the scutcheon banqueting-hall, once the
refectory of the monks, awakened far older historical

associations than did anything at Dallingridgc Park,
which possessed a Tudor house, but one which seemed
almost modern when compared to a building, great
part of which existed long before the Conquest. But,
all the same, Dallingridge was his home, the place
after his own heart, and he would certainly not have
changed houses with Tom for anything in the world.
Nor could he conceal from himself another fact, Which
must, he fancied, have been patent to everybody.
Taken merely as specimens of the human race, his own
parents were both apparently immeasurably superior to
the parents of Thomas Hickathrift, Who seemed possessed
of positively no personal attractions, and a very
limited proportion of intelligence, notwithstanding that
Sir Peckham had for some years represented the
borough of Southerbourne in Parliament, having succeeded
Erskine St. Clair, Godfrey's own father. "Was
not their personal appearance, indeed, ridiculous in the
extreme ? Often and often had he watched, with
amusement, the arrival of Sir Peckham and his lady,
who, when they dined at Dallingridge, always insisted
upon entering the room arm-in-arm, the very footmen
who announced them choking the while with suppressed
merriment at sight of their long noses and
prancing gait. Yes, it did not require, Godfrey
thought, much perspicuity to perceive that his own
parents were immensely superior, as human beings, to
those of poor Tom ; but as regarded their treatment of
himself, in what degree were they, to speak truthfully,
so very much ahead of Sir Peckham and his
high-featured lady ?

An uncomfortable memory, which he had often
tried to bury away from him, here thrust itself again
upon his mind, and he determined to meet and grapple

with it once for all, hoping to subdue it finally, as the
possible ancestor of the Hickathrifts, the celebrated
Tom ' of the story-book, had encountered and subdued
the bears and lions in the old time. This was the
memory which, somehow, seemed to bring with it a
sense of jealousy and bitterness.

Godfrey had gone three or four times with his
friend Tom, before his departure for Eton, to luncheon
at the Abbey, and on each of these occasions, though
Tom had only been absent at Mr. Hornblower's since
eleven o'clock that very morning. Lady Hickathrif t had
been discovered waiting for him at the entrance of the
ancient crypt (now used as the dining-hall), actually
panting and heaving with maternal solicitude, ready
to throw herself, like an expectant tigress, upon
her returning cub, whom she had each time pressed
passionately to her bosom. Yes, this woman, as severe
and irascible, to all appearance, as a colonel of dragoons,
would fold Tom over and over again in her impatient
arms, and cover him with such noisy maternal kisses,
that they echoed down the low vaulted crypt for several
minutes afterwards.

What a contrast was this fond and expansive welcome
with his own return, when his beautiful mother
of the long blue eyes, of the fine clear-cut profile, of the
delicate shell-like ear, would invariably turn all these
three pretty things away from his admiring gaze,
giving utterance either to some trite copy-book saying,
or begging him in chilling accents to be sure to wipe
his boots before he approached her ! As if the impetuous
spirit rushing headlong to meet the fulfilment
of its ideal coukl pause, without a sense of deep humiliation
and baffled purpose, to wipe its boots !

Such, or some such, were the thoughts of this

strangely nurtured boy, could lie have put them into
intelligible language, as be ascended the staircase which
led to bis solitary room at the top of the old bouse,
for be now no longer inhabited the cosy nursery
at the bead of the stone stairs. He could not help
feeling sad and disconsolate, and, turning for comfort
to the unemotional tortoise, be was disappointed to perceive
that it bad already secluded itself for the night.
He looked with some bitterness at the bard, headless,
limbless limit before him, and retired to bed in no very
enviable mood ; whilst his last thoughts, could they
have been verbally interpreted, would probably have
taken the form of that portion of Scripture wherein
it is written, * What man is there of you who, if bis son
ask bread, will be give him a stone ?*

Chapter Y.

The first time that a south or a maiden leaves ibis
or her home must necessarily mark an epoch in the
life of both the one and the other. He or she may
(nay, probably will) return to it again, but not precisely
as the same boy or the same girl. He or she, in
exactly the old mood and mind, will never again cross
the sacred threshold of home ; against this youth or
this maiden the well-known doors have closed forever
!

Several circumstances contribute to this irrevocable
transformation ; but perhaps the chief amongst them
arises from the fact that contact with the outer world,
and the mingling with its various tjes and individuality,
whilst they may ripen, develop, and restrain, imperceptibly

rub off some portion of that fresh, bloom
of innocence, of enthusiasm, and of hope, which, like
the soft do'SMi on the peach, or the gold-dust on the
wings of the butterfly, disappears, even after the most
delicate handling.

This change was about to happen to Godfrey St.
Clair. He was to go to school in about a week, and his
last dajs were passed in making his preparations, and in
bidding a fond farewell to every nook and corner of
his beloved Dallingridge. He felt many regrets at the
idea of his departure, but he was also filled with new
hopes and ambitions ; and it must be confessed that,
with one or two exceptions, his heart ached more at
leaving the actual soil and rooftree of his home
than any of its uncongenial occupants, notwithstanding
that fate bad willed that these should be his
parents. But there was one regret with which neither
home soil nor roof tree had anything whatever to do,
and this was the regret that he should never again
have been able to catch even a distant glimpse of the
strange little girl, whose acquaintance he had made
amongst the hop-poles in Abel Reynolds's waggon.
Perhaps, he now thought reproachfully, he had not
looked enough for her. He had gazed down at the
byres, and barns, and hayricks of Little Stillingfleet ;
and determined, during these few remaining days, to
push his search to its furthest limits, he had even gone
so far as to penetrate some way into the adjacent hazel-copse,
braving the ferocious banco to which his father
had alluded ; but he had hitherto failed to catch sight
either of her or her white cat. He felt somewhat disheartened
in consequence : but still the ' kismet ' of
Sophy's religion seemed ever to lead him in the same
direction.

I live tierce slice had said, pointing with her little
simbiirnt hand to the dark fir - tree belt beyond
Poynin<s Abbey on the crest of the hill ; and she
had then added that her home was too low down
to be seen from the road. Hence, her home must
be in a hollow, and hence the young heir of Callings
found himself continually gazing from what
little Sophy, with her love of romance, had termed
'the encmj's country' at the low-luring fields and
woodlands beyond its utmost boundary. Nor did the
old French saying, that everything comes to those
who wait, proA'e false upon this occasion; for, one
afternoon, as he was gazing dreamily over the five-barred
gate at the gabled farm-house and its outbuildings
beneath him, he was aroused from his reverie
by the sight of a little girl, who, at that distance, he
might not possibly have recognised, had it not been
for her cat, which, with its tail straight up in the air,
was following her like a dog, although from where he
stood it looked no bigger than one of his owt white
mice. She appeared to be coming towards him, in the
direction of the hazel-copse ; and to vault lightly over
the five-barred gate, throwing to the four winds all
remembrance of the savage dog, was only the affair of
a moment He had not proceeded far when, having
struck into a green arcade of hazel-boughs, he heard
the bare feet of his little friend coming pattering towards
him, and, as she was either talking to herself or
to her cat, he was quite sure, before they actually met,
that he had not mistaken her identity.

The two children stood silently looking at each
other for some time, unable at first to find words in
which to express their delight and astonishment. At
last Sophy, who seemed by far the more outspoken of

the two, kissed Godfrey affectionately on both cheeks,
saying at the same time, 

Oh, I am so glad to see you again ! I've thought
of you so often ! '

So have I,' answered the boy, unable, nevertheless,
to help feeling rather shy. ' I had no idea you lived so
near.'

Oh, I thought I told you ! And I wondered why
you didn't come.'

You certainly did say that you lived " there,  but
you pointed so  quite to the edge of the sky.'

*Ah,' said the little girl, sadly, 'manj people do
live there, I suppose, at the edge of the sky ! Where
do you suppose it leads to  to the happy hunting-grounds
? '

'To heaven, I should think,' answered Godfrey,
thoughtfully. * And, really, if it isn't very wicked to
say so, I should say I didn't wonder if you came from
somewhere near there ; you don't look like anything
earthly.'

Don't I ? Well, to-day I fancied I looked very
earthly indeed. Look, there is earth all over my frock ;
but I am saving up my clean one for tomorrow, as I
am going to a Party.'

Eeally ? ' exclaimed the boy eagerly. * I wish I
was going too.'

' I don't suppose that you know Janus and Nelus,
do you ? '

No ; who are they ? '

Janus is our maid ; she once took care of me when
I was very young ; and she cooks for us now, and docs
a great many other things besides. Her real name is
'jane;" but I call her "Janus," because it sounds
better.'

VOL. I. F

or

You seem to like fine-sounding names

Yes, so I do ; and I like long words, and things
taken from other things.'

Quo fat ions, I suppose you mean. And now tell
me who Nelus is.'

Oh, he's our boy, as we call him. He does all sorts
of things, too. He carries the letters, and runs messages,
and helps to look after the cart-horses and cows, and
my cats. His real name is Cornelius Ford.'

Nearly all the people about here have Christian
names taken from the Bible,' said Godfrey.

Have they ? I told you I had never read the Bible,*
answered Sophy carelessly. ' Well, Janus and Nelus
are going to be married at last. They've " kept company
" ever since Nelus first came to us, when he was
only eighteen, and he's only twenty-five now. Janus
is a very great deal older, but that didn't prevent her.
from falling in love. Thej have got a little girl
named Delia, but we call her " Deely " for short.
She's only six. Being so young makes her cry a good
deal.'

I wonder,' said Godfrey, looking down tenderly at
his little companion, ' that Nelus should like to marry
any one so much older than himself.'

Father sajs it always happens in these hearts,' answered
the little girl. ' And when he gave Janus her
wedding-present, he told her she was an old fool. However,
they'll stay on just the same; so it really won't
make any difference to us, except that father says we
can now put them both together in one of the attics
over the cart-horses  they used to have the two between
them  and then we shall have an extra room when
people come to stay with us.'

Ah, yes ; that will be much more convenient, for

your house doesn't seem very large. But do you have
a great many people staying with you ? '

Hundreds ! ' replied little Sophy ; and she then
added, correcting herself, ' Oh, no ! Of course, not quite
so many as that ! We have only the King of Poland
and the King of Spain staying with us now ; but there
are others coming next week, so we are rather hurrying
on the marriage.'

What, other kings? And do they all sleep over
the cart-horses ? ' exclaimed the boy, astonished, calling
to mind the splendid apartments at Dallingridge
House, in which he had been told that a royal personage
once slept, and thinking that, since then, monarchs
must have become strangely indifferent to comfort.
are they really the presei kings ? ' he inquired.

Yell, they are the r///f/ kings,' answered Sophy.
The kings that ought to reign, and that till reign some
day if father can make them.'

Ah,' said Godfrey, feeling relieved, * I dare say one*
needn't take so much trouble about them. But, only to
think of you seeing so much grand company ! How
different you are from what I fancied you were at first !
"When I first saw you, what do you think I fancied ?
I am almost afraid to say, for fear of offending
you.'

People of our religion are never offended,' she
answered with dignity, ' unless it is at anything false
or wicked.'

Ah, yes ; I forgot that you were different from us !
Well, what do you think ?  Eeally, I hardly like to
say.'

People's thoughts are so different,' said Sophy
dreamily, as she drew a curious pattern on the gravel-walk
with one of her bare feet. ' Father says the insides

of our heads are as different as the outsides ; and
set there are some stupid creatures who want to force
us all to think alike ! *

Your father must be a very extraordinary person.'

Oh, if you only knew what he is ! ' exclaimed the
little girl enthusiastically. show great, how good,
how wonderfully clever ! '

Yes, I am sure he must be. But now I'll tell you
what I thought when I first saw you. Seeing you with
bare feet, and that, and with your frock torn (please
don't be angry), and no socks or petticoats, I thought
I wondered  if your papa was quite a gentleman.'

Oh, he is indeed ! ' Sophy answered eagerly. * Not
that such things matter much in our religion ; still, we
don't mind it. My father is of very good family.'

I am glad of that,' said Godfrey ; * for I think it
is always nice to know that one is of good family. I
said the other daj' to my mamma, after I had been
looking at some of our old pictures, of grand people in
armour, and thinking of all the brave things they had
done, that I felt in my veins the blood of a thousand
generations, and so I really did ; but my mamma said,
rather crossly, that it was a good many to feel, as it
would carry one back quite forty thousand years 
supposing everybody had lived to be about forty  and
that would be long before God created the world ; and
I felt rather ashamed, for I didn't know it would have
gone back quite as far as that.'

My mamma's family went back quite as far,' returned
Soph', flourishing her arm so as to describe a
circle round the setting sun. ' She was a queen over
numbers of people of all nations, who are all of them
of such old family that the cleverest men in the world
can't say where they came from, or when they began.'

Really ! ' said Godfrey, in astonishment. ' I was
quite sure you were something very extraordinary. I
suppose she was enormously rich?'

Well, no ; that's just what she wasn't, and that's
what I can't quite understand : but father will explain
to me all about it some day. Sometimes, if I come in
softly, father, who is growing near-sighted, doesn't seeme,
and I find him with his eyes filled with tears ; and
then I always go away again, for I know he is thinking
of her.'

I'm sure she must have been a very nice person,'
remarked Godfrey, not quite knowing what else to
say.

*I hate your calling her "nice!' exclaimed Sophy
impetuously ; ' it sounds so common ! She was a queen-angel.'


Oh, yes, of course ! ' said the boy, feeling a little
confused ; and he then added, in order to turn the subject,
'What is that large book you have under your
arm, with all those papers in it ? May I carry it for
you?'

The papers are the history of my cats, which I am
writing myself.'

Oh, do let me see it ! '

*Not to-day. It's too late. The day after tomorrow
I will.'

The day after tomorrow ! May I really come
then?'

Yes, of course ; not tomorrow, because of the
Party.'

And then you promise me to read the history of
your cats?'

I promise.'

And now, what is the book ? '

It is called Gil Bias,' said Sophy, ' and it's lent
mc to tcacli me the manners and customs of the world,
and all the hard and funny things there are in it. I
will read you a little.'

The two children thereupon sat down near the
trunk of an old oak-tree, the lower branches of the
green hazels waving gently above their heads, and the
little girl commenced reading with a good accent from
the opening chapter of her book.

***Blasde Santillane, mon jDere, acres avoir longtemps
port les amies pour le service de la monarchic
Espagnole, se retira dans la ville ou il avait pris naissance.
II epousa une petite bourgeoise qui n'etoit plus
dans sa premiere jeunesse . . . ." That's like Janus,'
said Sophy, breaking off, in order to show that she
understood what she had been reading.  Sic's not in
her first youth either.'

Have you got very far in the book ? ' asked Godfrey,
astonished at her erudition.

Oh, yes ! I read a little every day, and I've already
got to the part where the Archbishop of Grenada turned
Gil Bias out of the house because he found fault with
his sermons. It was dreadfully unfair. He had liked
him very much before, and was always bothering him
to say what fault he saw in them, but of course poor
Gil Bias was afraid to say. But when he bothered him
still more, he said, one day, that he didn't think the
last one was quite so good as the others ; and this
made the Archbishop so angry, that he turned him out
in the most sudden and unkind way, telling him that he
wished him all sorts of prosperities with a little better
taste.'

It was horribly unjust ! '

Yes ; but father says it's just like life. It has
taught me, at any rate, always to praise Avhat other
people write, and never to be angry with those who find
fault with what I write myself.'

Those are two very good things to learn.'

Yes ; but I've learnt a great many other lessons
besides. For instance, supposing you were to offer
to give me a most beautiful ruby ring now, I shouldn't
take it.'

Shouldn't you ? ' returned Godfrey, wishing withall
his heart that he possessed some jewel of the kind to
lay at the bare feet of his strange little companion.

And why not ?'

Because I should he afraid that it might he a false
one she answered. ' That's another thing I have
learnt from Gil Bias ! But listen ! I hear voices.'

Perhaps,' said Godfrey, feeling alarmed at the idea
of being caught trespassing, 'it's the King of Poland or
the King of Spain ? ' 

Oh no, it isn't ! ' answered Sophy, in a whisper, after
she had stooped dovn and peeped under the branches.

It's only Janus and Nelus out courting. She's going
home now to lay the cloth for dinner. Look ! it's easy
to see that they're sweethearts ! ' added the little girl,
pointing.

'Why?' asked Godfrey again. It seemed to him
that he was learning a great many new things.

Oh, because they walk like that,' answered Sophy,
promptly. * All sweethearts walk like that about here.
Janus always walks first, and her face looks very red,
and shines, and she wears her best bonnet. And then
Nelus walks a good way behind, and whistles, and
knocks the heads ose the tall daisies, and generally

chews a piece of grass or straw. Look ! don't you see
them?'

And indeed, when Godfrey, stooping down very
low, peeped under the waving hazel branches, he
beheld the rustic lovers demeaning themselves precisely
in the manner described. They were evidently
going towards the house, and soon vanished out of
sight, without having perceived the two children.

I will bring you something from their Party,' said
Sophy ; * for they're going to have a beautiful wedding-cake,
and all sorts of nice things.'

About what time shall I come?' asked the boy,
eagerly.

Oh, about the time you came to-day. I promise
to bring you something very nice.'

Oh, I really don't care about that, except as
coming from you. But, Sophy '  for here a sudden
doubt flashed upon him  'would your father like
me to come, do you think? Since you talked so
much about 'enemies," and all that, I feel so afraid of
making you do anything wrong. "What did he say
when you told him you had met me in the waggon, for
of course you told him ? You saw the way John
McBoan dragged me away from you ? There must
have been some reason for it.'

Was that red-haired man John McBean ?'
Yes, the man who came out of the Black Horse.
But what did your father say about it ? '

Of course I tell him everything,' answered
Sophy, ' and I said, " Abel Reynolds brought me
home in his waggon, because it went faster than the
cart with Janus and Nelus. There was a boy in it,
part of the way," I said, *' and four beautiful bell-horses."
'

But you didn't tell him my name ? All, Sophy,
that was only half telling ! '

I didn't know it then,' said the little girl, in a
contrite voice, * so how could I tell him ? It was only
to-day I knew you were called Godfrey.'

 Well, you must promise to tell your father next
time,' said the boy ; ' for I shan't like to come again
like a sneak or a poacher. But what did your father
say when he heard there was a boy in the waggon?'


'He only said, *'0h!" and that was all I wanted
him to say ; and then he went on talking to the Great
Prophet about E-ussia, and the East, and the Tartar
hordes, and the battle between the Surs and the
Assure. We're very busy just now stirring up the
Poles.'

Oh, really ! But you will be sure and tell him
next time, won't you?' the boy demanded earnest.
You see my reason.'

But at this moment a bell was heard ringing from
the neighbouring farmhouse ; and little Sophy, exclaiming
hastily, ' Oh, I must go now ! There is the
tocsin of the soul ! ' sprang away from him like a roe-deer,
as though to evade the question, and was soon
lost to view.

At the appointed day and hour he was again at
the trysting-place, and it was not long before he was
joined by Sophy, who came accompanied by her
white cat, and with her books and papers under her
arm. The July day had been oppressively hot ; but
now a fresh evening breeze had sprung up, and the
cool, shady hazel copse, seemed to Godfrey the most
delightful spot in the world.

She at once commenced a glowing description of

the * marriage feast,' at which she had assisted on the
previous horning.

It would have been such fun,' she said, after she
had described the personal a2)2)carance of the bride and
bridegroom, * only somehow I didn't care about it alone.
I wanted you to be there. I meant to have saved you
something, too, as I said  in fact, I really did save it.
It was a beautiful biscuit,' she added sadly', ' with a
scalloped edge ; ' and, as though oppressed by some
painful memory, she looked down at her bare feet,
with which, following a childish habit, she commenced
drawing diagrams upon the gravel. ' I didn't like to
take away too much she said at last, still seeming a
little ashamed of herself, ' because they were going to
save what's left for the christening.'

What ! are they going to have a christening as
well?' asked the boy, astonished at such an excess of
dissipation.

Yes ; Janus says they are going to have it sometime
within the next month, but they haven't fixed on
the day yet, and that the hardbake and biscuits and
gingerbread-nuts won't be too stale, she hopes, to come
in. Only to think of the luck of some people  having
a baby directly, when other people have to wait whole
years ! '

Yes, they are very fortunate. And now go on
telling me about the Party.'

Well,' answered the little girl, somewhat reluctantly,
' I had saved you a caraway.'

'What is a caravan?' Godfrey asked. *I have
heard of a '* Jibbaway," or some such name. He is an
Indian, and tomahawks people.'

This is a biscuit,' said Sophy, ' called so because of
little black things stuck into it. It is round, and has

scalloped edges, and is most fi?i-licious ! And, really
and truly, I do assure you, I saved you one, and I took
one myself ; and then I ate mine, and then . . / and
here she blushed and hesitated.

Ah, I see what happened,' said the boy, smiling ;

I suppose you ate mine too. Never mind ! '

 No, that's what I really didn't do ! ' she protested.

But I thought as I looked at it that it would be
so nice to eat half of it myself, and then give the other
half to you.'

So it would. It was a capital idea.'

'Wait till you've heard the end,' she went on
gloomily. ' Well, I ate half of it, and I saved the
other half, and I put it on a chair near the mat where
I sleep. But in the night I woke up to see if it was
safe ; and I put out my hand and felt it, and by that
time I was so hungry, that . . . '

That you ate that, too ?' suggested Godfrey.
Well, what does it signify ? I didn't really want it
in the least ! '

No, I didn't eat it all,' continued the contrite little
girl. ' I broke off half of it as neatly as I could, and
then there was a quarter left ; but in the morning, before
breakfast, I felt even hungrier than I did in the night.'

*And then you ate it quite all! I can guess all
about it. But please don't look so very unhappy' ; I
didn't want it.'

Well, I did eat it ; but I saved you this out of it,'
said Sophy, who, after searching in the pocket of her
one scanty garment, produced a very small piece of
paper, in which something precious seemed to be
enfolded. * It's a beautiful large caraway seed,' she
said, presenting it to her companion. ' Take care that
it doesn't fall out.'

Thank you very much. You're a funny little
thing ! I shall not eat it, but keep it inside my watch-case
as a remembrance of you, whilst I'm away at
school ; ' and he slipped the tiny piece of paper into
his jacket pocket.

Sophy seemed relieved after this confidence, and
began skipping about and playing with her cat, apparently
in the highest possible spirits.

Did you tell your father, Sophy, that you had met
me again yesterday ? ' Godfrey now inquired. He had
been wishing for some time to ask her this question,
but she had seemed always to evade it.

Yes, I did,' she answered, casting down her eyes.
Well, and what did he say ?'

Perhaps if I told you, you might be offended, as
you are not one of us,' she answered doubtfully.

Oh no, I shan't be. Let me hear ! '

Well, after coming in after the wedding yesterday
morning, and making my salaam, I said, " Father, I
saw a boy yesterday, and talked with him;" but father
hardly answered, and went on with his conversation
with the Great Prophet and the two Circassian Chiefs
who are standing with us . . . '

They didn't lose much time in coming after the
wedding. I wonder you can find room for so many
people.'

Oh, they don't all sleep in beds,' replied Sophy,
*any more than I do. Most of them sleep on rugs
and mats, wrapped up in their war-blankets. Well,
when father had done speaking, I said again that I
had seen a boy, and he said it must be either Moses
Weller or Jesse Stubberfield ; but I said, " No," because
you were clean and smelt good, and wore Frank clothes,

and that your name was *' Godfrey," and that I thought
you came from the enemy's country ; upon which he
only said, '* Oh, I suppose it must have been that poor
child that they're trying to bring up by clockwork;"
after which I salaried again, and am here.'

*And by that do you suppose that your father
meant me ?' exclaimed Godfrey, shaking himself in
order to prove that he was not, at any rate, made by
clockwork.

There, now, you are offended ! ' said the little girl,
sorrowfully. 'How easy it is to see that you don't
belong to our religion ! '

Really, Sophy,' rejoined the boy, still ruffled, ' you
are always talking about your religion, and I can't
find out that you have any ! You make fun of everything,
and seem never to be grave. Nothing seems
sacred to you. I wish,' he added thoughtfully, ' that
you would some day go to church.'

Why should I be grave?' asked Sophy, opening* her
large eyes. ' A little girl with no troubles, and such a
happy home ! And as for going to church, I'll go,
somehow, if you really wish it; though if it makes
one grave and unhappy, I would far rather stay away.'

It makes one serious, I think,' said Godfrey, ' but
not unhappy. It makes one know that one must
die . . .'

Well, surely that isn't a happy thought ! I know,
of course, that we shall all die some daj, but I try to
think of it as little as possible. Father says that if
people were to be always thinking of it they would go
mad ; and the King of Spain said there was a proverb
in his country which says, " Neither Death nor the
Sun can be looked at fixedly." '

I think of it a good deal,' said the boy, sadly ;
and I often wonder why Death came at all, and why
God allows it. It must be very horrid to lie cold and
alone underground. But we shall all awake, though,
when the last Trump sounds.'

Father and I are going to be burnt when we die,'
remarked Sophy, firmly. ' That's settled. At any
rate we don't want to be buried in a churchyard. Perhaps
I shall be buried in a garden, or somewhere
here ; ' and she began digging a little hole with her
foot in the dead leaves.

Oh, dear Sophy ! please don't talk like that ! It
is really very wicked ! '

Godfrey, at this time, was very devout, and fashioned
of the same stuff as that of which martyrs
and missionaries are sometimes made. Sophy, however,
though apparently a heathen, as well as his
inferior in age, seemed to understand and sjTiipathise
with his feelings ; she assured him that he was merely
undergoing a phase.

I know all these thoughts,' she said, kindly.
Most people have them when they are vers young ;
but they go off again. When I was a very little girl,
a woman came to help Janus, who sang hymns, and
talked to me about devils and angels, so that one
morning I woke up and cried, and was most dreadfully
frightened, because I fancied that I had heard
the Last Trump. But it was only a French gentleman
who was staying here, who had taken down one
of the large horns in the hall, and was trying to blow
it. My papa had arranged that Sir Peckham should
take him out with his beagles ; but he wouldn't go
without that large horn. It curled all round his body
like a sea-serpent; after that no one was allowed to

speak to me about such things : it made father very
angry.'

I can't understand your father said Godfrey,
thoughtfully. ' But don't let us talk any more about
these serious subjects. You remember you promised
me that you would read me the history of your cats.'

This is only quite a rough copy,' said the young
authoress, looking bashful.

 Oh, do let me see it ! ' exclaimed the boy, holding
out his hand for the book.

No, really you mustn't. I can't spell any hard
words yet ; and I have written it very untidily : besides,
I can tell you instead.'

Then please do,' said Godfrey ; upon which the
little girl began, 

*Well, the first cat was called "Job," and she . . .*

She ? Why, Job was a man ! '

'Ah, well, I didn't know that,' explained Sophy,
apologetically. ' I happened to hear the name, and
thought it would suit my cat.'

Why, he's in the Bible ! ' said Godfrey. ' Fancy
your not knowing ! He had three friends . . .'

Yes, that was what I heard. " Job had three
friends ; " and so had she  other cats  a black cat, a
tabby, and a yellow cat. How they did screech and
fight, driving poor father almost mad, when he used to
be writing in the evening ! Then Janus said to Nelus,
when he came in for the letters, '' There's our cat's
three friends; drive 'um away', that's a good lad."
And Nelus said, ** They seem more like Job's comforters."
I don't know what he meant : but as I was
searching for a name, she was called Job from that
day ; and when I told father he laughed.'

Didn't he tell you Job was a man's name ? '

No ; little things like that don't trouble him.
Well, this " keeping company " amongst the cats
ended, as it nearly always does end, in a marriage . . /

Mary Parker and John McBean have " kept company
" for fifteen years, and they are not married yet,'
remarked Godfrey,

Well, anyhow, it ended in li it tens said the little
girl, in a tone calculated to cut short all objection ;
upon which their father, who had been till then a
base-born cat, was made a Serene Highness, and a
Count of the Holy Roman Empire.'

A Count of the Holy Roman Empire ! '

Yes : I get these titles out of the newspapers.'

I remember that you said you Avere fond of long
names. You certainly seem to know a lot of curious
things.'

Yes ; I try to learn as much as I can. I wish very
much to know everything ; and I think I shall in time.
All these three cats, Job's friends, came from Great
Stillingfleet.'

I don't think there are any cats there now,' said
Godfrey. ' Only the old shepherd's dogs, Pompey and
Watch, and a hedgehog in the kitchen. I hate hedgehogs
; don't you ? '

o ; I like them very much. When that one
has young ones I've been promised one ; but it's
too prickly  nothing will marry it. But now,' she
added with emotion, ' I must tell you all about the
great tragedy. All these three cats took to poaching
and were caught in ** clams"* and young Tom
Stubberficld  the son of Old Stubberfield, who is Sir
Peckham Hickathrift's head-keeper  nailed all their

A word used in Kent and Sussex to designate a steel trap with
teeth, set for vermin.

heads on the posts of the black gate at the end of the
pheasant-drive, and made their skins into caps for himself
and his family. Would you like to come and look
at their heads ? '

'No, thank you,' answered the boy courteously.
Some other time, perhaps ; to-day it is too late.'

Well,' continued Sophy, * in Cat History all this
is changed, just as my papa says all histories are
altered. There it is stated that he (the Serene Highness)
and his companions were slain in a border-foray
by the Stubberfields. I forgot if I told you that he
was Warden of the Marshes ? '

No, you didn't. What a lot of titles he had ! '

It is then stated that the two others . . .'
\Tiat, the black cat and the yellow one ? '

Yes ; you interrupt. It is then stated that the two
other comrades in arms fell upon one another when
inflamed with wine, and were so seriously woundec
that, being in a strange place, where their wounds
could not be dressed, they both of them died.'

'I suppose they killed each other, like the Kilkenny
cats ? ' suggested the boy.

Yes, they did. I never heard of the Kilkenny
cats. Who were they?'

I don't know,' answered Godfrc} ; ' but Mary
Parker constantly talks about them. They killed each
other, and nothing remained but their tails. I believe
they where Irish.'

Who is Mary Parker ? '

She was once my nurse, and now she stays on at
Dallingridge ; but she hasn't much to do. I like her
very much indeed. But do you go on about your cats.'

Encouraged by this, Sophy commenced reading
aloud from the book in her hand, though she would

VOL. I. G

not permit Godfrey to look over lier shoulder, lest he
should see how phonetically most of the fine words
were spelt with which it abounded.

** Woe worth the while for the evil race of the
Stubberfieldiuses ! " '

Are those the Stubberfields ? '

Yes, they are spoken of in cat history as the
"Stubberfieldiuses." '* Woe worth the while for the evil
race of the Stubberfieldiuses ! A day will dawn when
the anger of the great goddess, which has been so long
burning against them . . ." '

Who is the great goddess ? '

Mey of course. You are always interrupting ! '
Do go on ! How beautifully you do write ! '

" May their vile offspring never pollute with their
degenerated presence the sacred ground of the Sophie
Empire " (that means Stillingfleet) . . .'

Called after you ? ' asked the boy.

Called after me, of course. How you do interrupt
! '

I don't think I should have called it the '' Sophie
Empire." There is no " r " in '' Sophia." I think
it sounds rather bad; and "degenerated presence"
seems somehow almost too fine to be quite right.'

I shall not read you an} more of it ! ' exclaimed
Sophy, shutting up her book with apparent annoyance.
I can see that you have no soul ! '

Ah, you're just like the Archbishop of Grenada
in Gil Blast said Godfrey, smiling ; ' you won't let me
find a fault, however kindly.'

It's because I am so ashamed of it,' replied Sophy,
colouring. 'It sounds all right to me till I am laughed
at, and then it becomes all nonsense, and I feel inclined

to tear it up. But it's a pity to make me feel this when
I work so hard.'

I am very sorry said Godfrey, in a contrite voice.
I could never write like it myself. It seemed to me
so good that I wanted it to be perfect. But do go on.'

I will tell you, instead of reading it, as it is right
that you should know,' answered the little girl. * Well,
Job had three kittens : one was drowned, and the two
that were kept were called Minna and Brenda. Minna
strayed and never came back. I called her, and rattled
a saucer of milk against the steps for many a night,
but all in vain. Brenda was caught in a clam ;
but she dragged it home on her foot, and I undid it.
It was in the winter time ; and one could easily see,
by her footmarks in the snow, that she had been
into Sir Peckham Hickathrift's wood to look at her
father.'

The Serene Highness ? The cat whose head is '
nailed on the black gate ? '

Yes. Well, I put pounded alum into the wound
in her foot, and it soon got well ; and in a short time
she gave birth, amongst others, to the beautiful Fleada
(so called because she had fleas), who in time became
the mother of my lovely Spitfire, my king of cats ! ' and
she commenced embracing her white cat affectionately.
But really,' she added presently, * you have now done
such a funny, foolish, ridiculous thing, that I don't
know  no, indeed I don't know  how I can write it
do-SMi in Pussy-cat story ; ' and she began hugging and
kissing him anew.

What has he done ? ' Godfrey inquired, as he also
bent and stroked the white cat.

Janus says that he's married his grandmother,' replied

the little girl gravels ' And rcalh',* she went on,
addressing the unheeding culprit, ' if I had been a fine
young cat like you, iroukl I have been so benighted as
to tic myself up in such a silly way ! For shame,
Spitfire ! and you that might have done so much
better ! '

Thus did these two children trip lightly and laughingly
over the grand mysteries of life and death,
drawing their ingenuous conclusions from the result
of their own limited experience, and almost half
guessing, sometimes, the great riddle which can never
be but half guessed at last, and which has baffled alike
the fool and the philosopher. They asked themselves,
innocently, and wonderingly, whence sprang the first
vague intangible germ of what we, in our ignorance,
have designated Life,  the great underlying
spirit of vitality, ever fresh and undaunted, pervading
and inspiring all Nature, and which we can neither
restrain nor reanimate. They asked too, as innocently,
the object and significance of that Other Power, winged,
scythed, and shrouded, represented, in the old time, by
the vicmento mori of the ancients ; the Spectre that,
strange to say, does not assist at many of our feasts, and
rightly, since who could ' eat, drink, and be merry '
within sight of those hollow eyes and grinning jaws ?

Chapter YI.

"Whilst Godfrey is at school, undergoing the education
of most lads of his age, it may be necessary forme,
like another Asmodeus, to lift the roofs off one or
two of the houses in the neighbourhood of his home,

the occupants of which will have more or less to do
with my story.

Like the local guide-books, I shall commence with
the Abbey, or rather with its inmates ; for enough
has already been said nth regard to its external
architecture to show the reader that it must have resembled,
to a certain extent, most other ancient abbeys
of the same epoch.

Sir Thomas Peckham Brambles Satterthwaite
Twiselton Hickathrift, fifth baronet, was the present
possessor of Poynings Abbey, and of a very fine surrounding
property. He was also M.P. for the neighbouring
borough of Southerbourne, which he had
represented in the Tory interest ever since the retirement
of Mr. Erskine St. Clair.

Upon his succession to the family honours, there
had been a warm discussion amongst his friends as
to which one of his formidable Christian names worm
be the most appropriate for him to adopt ; and ' Peck-ham
' was at last decided upon by vote, his neighbours
fearing to crack their jaws by pronouncing
either of the three longest of his other names, and
yet thirsting for some change after the monotony
of two succeeding sir Thomas,' with the prospect
of yet another in the future.

Before becoming possessed of Comings Abbey,
the family of Hiclcathrift had been revered as one of
the most ancient in the kingdom, having existed in
opulence (it was affirmed) ever since the days of the
Heptarchy, and, as many declared, even long before
that. In Sir Peckham, too, had merged and centred
the fortunes, pictures, plate, and armorial bearings of
several other well - kno-vvn and illustrious families,
which, save for him, would have become altogether

extinct ; and, as a river becomes gradually swollen
through gathering force and volume from its tributaries,
one could not help fancying that he had acquired
positive physical width and breadth from thus sopping
up, as it were, and assimilating, nearly half the blue
blood in the county.

And, indeed, when he was seated at the end of his
hospitable board in the huge banqueting-hall at the
Abbe', blazoned round with heraldic devices, and
panelled with the smirking and scowling portraits
of the absorbed, annexed, and departed Peckhams,
Brambletyes, Satterthwaites, and Twiseltons, it was
admitted upon all sides that he was about as good
a specimen of the fine old English gentleman as anybody
could ever reasonably hope to see. Ill-natured
people might have said, perhaps, that he was * fine '
chiefly after the manner of a prize ox or Christmas
turkey ; for he was a man of enormous height, upon
whom, in later years, had fallen the curse of fatness.
He had given up hunting because no horse could be
found capable of carrying him, and shooting, because
his own legs had at last refused to perform their
arduous office, except under protest for short intervals,
and when aided by the support of a stout stick. His
face was so large that, with the exception of his nose,
his features seemed almost to be lost in space, and yet
there was enough flesh beyond them to have made
faces for several ordinary-sized mortals.

He possessed, however, the ' Hickathrift nose '  a
nose deserving to be designated a * limb ' rather than a
feature, and which it seemed as though all the extinct
Peckhams, Brambletyes, Satterthwaites, and Wisely
had conspired to swell to its present formidable
dimensions.

It was strange that Sir Peckham, whose offspring
might be likely to inherit, or, at any rate, he subject
to, this stupendous member, instead of choosing, when
the time came for him to marry, a mate from amongst
the pug-nosed damsels of his county (and there were
many such), should have actually gone out of his
way to confirm and exaggerate his t}e, travelling
several inches across the map of England in order to
perpetrate what little Sophy would have termed a
border foray,' and bring back with him, from the
far North, a lady as tall as a Life Guardsman, and so
terribly ' nosey ' that she might almost have passed
for a half starved sister of his own, for good Lady
Hickathrift was altogether as gaunt and bony as Sir
Peckham was the reverse.

It could not have been difficult to foresee, at the
outset, what would be the result should this lady ever
become a mother. This event came to pass in the
course of a few years, and young Tom Hickathrift's
personal appearance fully realised the expectations of
those who had thought about the matter at all.

He came into the world with a magnified concentration
of the family limb ; that is to say, although
in other respects an exceedingly handsome boy, he was
doomed to go through life looking like the Prince
with the Nose ' in the story-book, without the hope
that some day a fairy godmother might come forward
and relieve him of his burden.

He became so good-natured and pleasant, however,
as he grew older, his figure was so good, and he was
so tall and manly-looking, that somehow his nose (if I
may make use of such an absurd expression) seemed to
f/ro2v upon o)ic. One liked it better every time one saw
it, till, having begun by forgiving it, one ended by

almost forgetting it altogether. Besides which, was it
not Thomas Ilickathrift's nose ; and woidd not Thomas
Ilickathrift become, a very few years after the opening
of this story, one of the most eligible young men in the
whole of England ? "Would he not, one day, be, in all
human probability, not only the owner of Poynings
Abbey, with its historic memories, but also of all the
broad lands, situated hard by and elsewhere, which
were now in the possession of Sir Peckham ? And was
not his family of such remote antiquity that no one
could be found learned enough to translate its motto 
doubtless the war-cry of some ancient and powerful
race  tall and stalwart as himself  who may have
walked about painted blue, reposing probably, after a
life of glorious achievement and unprecedented valour,
either in barrows or tumuli ?

Be this how it may, the ' Ilickathrift nose ' was
very much respected ; and more that one fair lady,
when Tom came to man's estate, would not only have
been proud to call that nose her own, but would  if
the occasion had favoured her  have covered it with
as many garlands and caresses as were lavished by
Titania upon the unsightly head of the translated
weaver. But at this period Tom was merely an Eton
boy, having lately quitted his ancestral home for those
distant spires,' and life, in the true sense of the word,
had not yet begun for him.

One afternoon, at about this time. Sir Peckham
suddenly burst into his wife's boudoir, where she sat
gaunt and rigid as a grenadier, working away vigorously
at a pair of canvas slippers. From their elephantine
proportions it was easy to divine for whom
they were intended.

'Raree-show! ' he exclaimed, in a voice of thunder,

as lie flung down a pamphlet upon the table (he always
spoke in the abrupt manner in wbicli we 'of the
modern time ' are wont to Avoid a telegraphic despatch).
' George Inn ! Aztecs ! '

Lady Ilickathrift took up the pamphlet, the pink
cover of which was adorned by rough woodcuts,
representing two of the last descendants of an ancient
race.

'Indeed, my love, I am extremely sorry that our
dear boy is not here  he would have enjoyed looking
at these curious little creatures ! Are they, indeed, the
last of their kind ? Dear me ! how interesting I . , .
But they will, I presume, marry and thus . . . Ah,
I see that they are both boys  two youthful' priests 
descendants and specimens of the ancient sacerdotal
caste, now nearly extinct, discovered in the idolatrous
city of Iximaya." '

D d nonsense ! Jews ! Dwarf idiots ! Whitechapel
! ' exclaimed Sir Peckham geographically. Its
wife, however, could read between the lines, though,
she generally interpreted his spasmodic utterances even
to herself, the result of having had to do so constantly
for the benefit of others.

Nay, love,' she now interposed, ' I can hardly believe
they are as you say, Jew-dwarf-idiots from
Whitechapel. Indeed I cannot ! I cannot believe
that Mr. Green, of the George, would wish us to
countenance an imposture, knowing so well our position
in the place ! I feel certain, indeed, that he would
hardly have left this for our perusal, or invited us to
attend, if . . .'

Here Lady Ilickathrift broke off, being apparently
too much engrossed with the pamphlet to continue.

The history of these two last remaining Aztec

specimens was, indeed, touchingly pathetic, and the
kind-hearted hide felt a lump rising in her throat as
she perused it.

It appeared that an American coloured gentleman,
a missionary, who was deeply interested in the architectural
remains in Mexico and Central America, was
once travelling in the province of Yea Paz, beyond
the Sierra Madre, when he came suddenly upon the
ruins of an ancient city of great magnificence, amongst
which, like Marius at Carthage, these two last connecting
links between the Present and the Past sat
mourning over the decay of their former greatness.
After providing them with food, this benevolent gentleman
made knovn to them, in the Maja language, the
saving truth which it was his mission to promulgate ;
and after listening to him with the greatest reverence
and attention, the two unfortunate youths resolved at
once to embrace Christianity, and depart for ever from
a spot which must needs have been fraught with such
painful reminiscences for them. Mr. Barnum, with
his mermaid and woolly horse, had not yet sought
these shores, and so novel and touching an exhibition
as was now offered to Lady Hickathrift soon attracted
much attention both from scientific and ignorant sightseers.
After a successful campaign in London, the
Aztecs were making a tour in the provinces, and hence
their arrival at the little toA\Ti of PojTiings, in the
centre of which was situated the entrance to the feudal
dwelling-place of the Ilickathrifts. But what appealed
particularly to the sympathies of the British public
was the fact that (as was stated in the pamphlet) the
money collected upon these occasions was to be spent
in procuring for the * last descendants of the sacerdotal
caste ' a more enlightened education, and in strengthening

and confirming them in that faith which they
had so wisely embraced.

My love, it seems really highly interesting ! '
Lady Hickathrift exclaimed, after she had perused the
greater part of the pink pamphlet. 'And I really
think we ought to patronise anything that will further
religion.'

Too late ! Gout ! Ilornblower ! ' blurted out Sir
Peckham ; which meant, when interpreted, that, besides
having a slight attack of gout, he had invited
the Hector of Dallingridge to dinner, and that after
his departure he feared it would be too late to assist at
the entertainment at the George.

Then I shall certainly not go alone,' said his
devoted wife ; and she slowly left the room, in order
to make some slight change in her dress for the benefit
of Mr. Ilornblower.

I have put out your ladyship's " philemon," ' * said
Miss Peacock, her ladyship's maid, when she had gained
the precincts of her dressing-room. ' And your ladyship's
new turban, with the yellow bird oi parorcdicc'

Birds of paradise are always yellow. Peacock,' said
Lady Hickathrift, who prided herself upon instructing
while she commanded her abigail. 'You talk as though
the creature was dyed ! But only Mr. Ilornblower is
dining here to-night, therefore I shall not change my
coifoor. (Amongst other things. Lady Hickathrift was
excessively proud of her knowledge of French.)

Ho ! what a disappointment to Mr. Green of the
George ! ' exclaimed Miss Peacock, aghast. ' And me
that thought the poor 'athens would like to look at a
bird that came from their owt countries ! They all

Feuille morte. A colour once in vog-ue, and thus pronounced
by the vulgar.

consider your ladyship such a first-rate dresser, that
they will come from far and wide and run their blood
to water when there's a chance of catching a sight.
However, Mr. Green must make up his mind to a
empty 'ouse to-night ! '

I see no reason, my good Peacock, why these
people should flock to see me,' rejoined Lady Hicks
flattered nevertheless.

 Ho, my lady ! your ladyship is known to lead the
fashion about here ! ' replied Peacock reproachfully.
I do believe the Miss Spearinks have gone and imitated
sour ladyship's new turban already ! Ho them
Miss Spearinks ! anything like their hairs and graces I
never came in contract with ! However, they'll have it
all their own way to-night, and no mistake ! When I
went over just now to buy a iiece of wadding to cover
your ladyship's busk, I heard the remark passed of
how sour ladyship was such a splendid dresser. " Her
ladyship," I said, " 'as not many twilight, but she
have's little and good'' '

I should imagine that I possess quite as many as
the Miss Spearings ! ' answered her ladyship, somewhat
nettled. * And, dear Peacock, do pray learn your o"\vn
language before you pretend to speak French ! It is
not *' twilight," it is " twalig/if," ' and she rushed
innocently from Scylla to Charybdis.

Lady Hickathrift was standing before her dressing-table,
occupied with some mysterious rite connected
with the toilet ; whilst, in order to economise time,
Peacock was standing behind her engaged in slightly
tightening the lace of what looked like a Woman
warrior's cuirass. She had not yet removed her headgear,
which, with its nodding ribbons and plumes,
added the sublime element to the ridiculous. During

this performance, in fact, and as she occasionally endeavoured
to check any too sudden movement made
by her attendant by an admonitory stamp of the foot,
her ladyship, whose physiognomy was of a somewhat
equine cast, reminded one instinctively of a determined
* crib-biter ' undergoing its grooming, or of a
sable-plumed hearse-horse being driven deliberately
with a stay-lace.

She's terrible hargnmentious at times, and nags
haivfal ! Miss Peacock had once confided to Mr. Green
of the George. 'But one can always come over her
with a little palaver ! ' Upon which Mr. Green had
passed the remark ' that he should like to know where
that man or woman ever stcjd whom Miss Peacock could
not 'come over' by the charms of her person and of her
mind?

Upon the present occasion Miss Peacock, being-anxious
to go herself to the entertainment, and
anxious, therefore, that her ladyship should not require
her at her usual hour of undressing, did so far
come over ' her mistress that she induced her to promise
that she might perhaps go after all, and to array
herself in the dress, at once gorgeous and grotesque,
which it was her wont to wear at entertainments of the
kind ; and she shortly afterwards descended the broad
staircase leading to the banqueting-hall in all the
glories of her 'philemon' and blue turban, with the
tail of the bird of paradise, which had somehow got
awry, sticking up like the war-plane of a North
American Indian.

Mr. Hornblowxr had only just commenced the narration
of his second anecdote  which usually came after
the cheese  when Lady Hickathrift, who prided herself
upon the courtesy of her manners, rose from her

clair, and, seizing the hand of the Hector, began au
elaborate excuse explanatory of her early retreat from
the dinner-table.

Good night, good night, dear Mr. Ilornblower,'
she concluded, curtsying after the old fashion, whilst
the form of the palpitating Peacock was seen hovering
in the doorway, carrying a richly - embroidered
Indian shawl. * Good night again, my dear Mr. Ilorn-
blower. Noblesse oblige, you know ! ' And with a second
courtesy she swept majestically out of the banqueting-hall.


Xtacumbi and Upaxaelulah, the last of the Aztecs,
or, as they were designated in the pink pamphlet, 'the
surviving remnant of an ancient and singular order of
priesthood called Kaanas, which had accompanied the
first migration of this people (the Iximayans) from the
Assyrian plains,'  were a weird and dwarfish-looking
couple, weak and wavering in their gait. Their heads,
too, were * fearfully and wonderfully made ; ' and it was
even surprising  according to the theory of the * survival
of the fittest'  that brain, spine, and legs having
apparently struck work simultaneously, these unfortunate
young men should have survived at all to tell of
the departed glories of their race.

There was, however, a pathetic reason for their
debility'. ' Forbidden ' (the pink pamphlet explained)
*by inviolably sacred laws from intermarrying with
any persons but those of their own caste, they (the
sacerdotal) had dwindled down, in the course of many
centuries, to a few insignificant individuals, diminutive
in stature and imbecile in intellect. . . .'

They went through their performances with great
dignity and docility, but sadly, as with the apathy
of the fatalist; and it was easy to perceive that the

strange vicissitudes they lead undergone lead permanently
affected their spirits, lending to every movement
an indescribable tinge of melancholy.

The tall ' sacerdotal '  he was tall only by comparison,
measuring some thirty-four inches in stature
instead of thirty, the height of his companion  did
indeed appear at moments to weary of the inexorable
destiny which compelled him thus, day after day, to go
through performances which must have seemed to partake
of the ignominy and monotony of the treadmill.
One would have fancied, from his expression, that his
proud spirit occasionally rebelled, and would no longer
brook such bitter humiliation, or else that the contrast
with his glorious antecedents oppressed him so painfully
that he Alas almost unable at times to proceed.
To find himself alone  save for one solitary companion,
mortal as himself  to be apparently in a chronic state
of debility, to have forsworn, in a moment of desperation,
the ancient faith of his fathers, and to be exhibited
thus in a common tavern, in a foreign land, was not all
this enough, and more than enough, to account for the
expression of languor and melancholy which overspread
the countenance of the elder of the two surviving * sacerdotal
remnants ?'

Lady Hickathrift was greatly interested in the performance.
She occupied one of the best places in the
front row of chairs, as became her position, so that the
Miss Spearings  daughters of the local postmaster and
linendrajoer, newly established as milliners  who sat
immediately in her rear, by the side of Miss Peacock,
had ample opportunity for studying the strange formation
of her imposing head-gear.

After singing several of their national songs, and
performing a limp and tottering sacerdotal dance, the

unfortunate young men went through one verse of an
English hymn, and the proceedings, so far as they
were concerned, terminated; though, before they finally
withdrew, they presented a few copies of their biography
to some of the most distinguished of the assembled
company.

It is needless to say that Lady Hickathrift was one
of the first to receive this interesting memoir, which
she accepted very graciously from the hands of the
taller of the Aztecs.

*Poor little manikin-piis ! ' exclaimed Miss Peacock,
as he presented her, secondly, with a copy of his history,
perceiving that, next to her mistress, she was the most
ridiculously attired female in the room, and probably
concluding, therefore, that she was a jackson of distinction,
and so saying, she patted him on the head with
benevolent condescension. The unfortunate  remnant,'
however, had doubtless been unaccustomed for long years
to the familiarities of the fair sex, and his whole being
seemed suddenly to become flooded with soft emotions.
He was thinking, perhaps, of those lovely creatures
who once graced the now ruined halls of Iximaja, and
whose semblances, graven upon the ancient temples
and palaces of that historic land, proclaim that they
belonged to ' a microcephalous t}oe of human organization.'
yhat a contrast to these temples,

grand and missed,
Mighty as any castle sung.
And old when oldest Ind was young,
With threshold Christian never cross'd,' **

must have seemed the assembly-rooms at the George
Inn at Poynings ; and how must Miss Peacock's sjon-

Joaquin MUer.

pathetic movement have affected the desolate heart of
the ill-fated young man ! As a proof of his emotion,
he suddenly reached out his hand with a movement
resembling that of an ape, and clutching tightly
hold of the *tail feather' of Miss Peacock's bonnet,
endeavoured to draw her towards him, whilst the surprise
occasioned by so unexpected a demonstration
caused her to utter a shrill and piercing scream. Butin
a moment the eagle eye of the Rev. Mr. Carver
(for such was the name of the American missionary)
recalled the wandering fancy of the infatuated ' sacerdotal.'
He smiled faintly, gave a slight lurch forward,
passed his delicate hand hurriedly across his strangely-shaped
brow, and returning to the raised platform, in a
few seconds ' Richard '  or rather * Upaxaelulah '  was
himself again.'

The Rev. Mr. Carver was a tall, thick-set, negro,
with a shining ebon complexion, flat feet, rolling eye
and a scrupulously clean tie and shirt-front. He had
accompanied the Aztec remnants during their peregrinations
through Great Britain and Ireland, acting
towards them, according to his own account, in the
united capacities of cicerone, spiritual adviser, and
interpreter, whilst exercising over them the supervision
of a parent. After the two youths had withdrawn,
this gentleman did not disdain in his turn
to minister to the amusement of the company ; and it
became apparent that, besides being professedly an
earnest and exemplary Christian, he was an exceedingly
funny man, his religion not being of that kind which
fosters a morbid melancholy.

Having begun with anecdotes of a serious and
pathetic nature, relating to the cruel treatment by
American slave-owners of some of his own coloured

VOL. I. H

brethren, of their extraordinary piety and powers of
endurance, &c., he proceeded to give several interesting
examples of the singular power of mesmerism, electro-biology,
and animal magnetism, powers which, he declared,
were only now in their infancy, but which
would become, some day, a staff in the hands of the
godly, and a dangerous weapon when wielded by the
emissaries of the devil. Having thus, in the first instance,
affected his audience to tears, and succeeded,
secondly, in arousing their keenest interest, he finally
proceeded to convulse them with laughter, by relating
to them ludicrous incidents of negro life, stories of the
most diverting and entertaining kind, and which might
yet be published on the house-tops, so free were they
from anything Which might have tended to shock or
scandalise the prejudices of the British provincial
female mind ; so that the whole audience departed
highly delighted with themselves, the Aztec remnants,
Mr. Carver, and the world in general.

Of course (as Mr. Carver himself admitted), like all
who have become prosperous through a rigid adherence
to duty and religion, he was not without his detractors.
These, however, were chiefly persons interested in rival
concerns  of the  spotted baby ' and * pig-faced lady '
kind ; and it was not difficult to perceive that their
malice was generated by jealousy at his success. Some
of these evilly disposed persons had even carried their
lying and slandering ' to such an extent as to declare
that Mr. Carver himself was the father of the said
remnants,' he having married early in life a Hebrew
lady of weak intellect, who had died shortly after
giving birth to the phenomena ; so that (reversing the
behaviour of the pelican in the wilderness) he was
actually preying, as it were, upon his own young !

'But then as Mr. Carver concluded by remarking,
*if we gave credit to half the evil reports we hear,
where, ladies and gentlemen, should we find an honest
man ? '

A few moments before the assembly-rooms were
cleared, and just as Mr. Carver was collecting some of
the articles of which he had made use to illustrate
his experiments, one of his myrmidons pushed aside
the curtain through which the Aztecs had disappeared,
and presented him with a note, telling him at
the same time that a messenger was waiting for an
answer ; and before the curtains closed a good-looking
young man, in the garb of a rustic, was seen for a
moment by the departing company. This was no other
than ' Nelus,' groom of the chambers and factotum to
Francis St. Clair of Little Stillingfleet, whose usually
beaming countenance  owing, no doubt, to his recent
marriage and to the impending christening 
wore a somewhat scared and harassed expression,
which the sudden glare of a well-lighted room after
a three miles' walk in the dark had perhaps helped
to intensify.

The note which was delivered to the missionary ran

as follows : 

Little Stillingfieet, July \Q>tli, 1829.

*Mr. Francis St. Clair presents his compliments to the
Rev.  Carver ; and though he has not the pleasure of his
acquaintance, he writes to say that it would gratify him
extremely if he and the two interesting Aztec specimens now
under his protection could make it convenient to pay him
a visit of a few days at his house in this neighbourhood.
The great interest Mr. St. Clair has always taken in the
descendants of ancient races must be his excuse for making
this request without having had the honour of a previous
introduction.'

To this invitation Mr. Carver, without consulting
the Aztec specimens, immediately replied : 

'The Rev. Josiah Carver to Francis St. Clair, Esq. 
Yours to hand. Aztec specimens and self will be proud to
accept the hospitality of an English gentleman, and will
(d.v.) wait on Mr. St. Clair at his residence tomorrow, after
the morning representation.'

I don't like that '' d.v.," ' Francis St. Clair remarked
when he received this answer. *Ten to one
the fellow is a scoundrel.'

Nevertheless, on the following afternoon Mr.
Carver, and the two last specimens of the ancient
sacerdotal caste, repaired to Little Stillingfleet in a
one-horse fly.

Chapter Iii.

Francis St. Clair of Stillingfleet,' as he was
usually styled, in order to distinguish him from his
brother, resided at his farm very much after the
strange fashion to which his daughter had casually
referred whilst conversing with her new playmate.
His habits were primitive, and his corporeal wants few.
As for his ambitions, they were so vast, and so impossible
of fulfilment, that  as extremes are said to meet 
he became in the eyes of the world at large one of the
least ambitious men upon the face of the earth  a man
who not only scorned the ordinary comforts and refinements
of life, but who had outraged almost every one
of its social laws, and thrown away" for ever his own
chances of success. I do not know whether he himself

looked upon his career as a failure, or if what the world
might have pronounced to be a success would have
seemed like a success to him. Living in a realm
teeming with the creations of a rich and vivid imagination,
he was less dependent than most other men upon
the actual realities of life, whilst whether he was surrounded
by luxury or squalor affected him but little.
He had associated himself with a small band of enthusiasts,
who were one and all of them interested in the
mysterious cause for which he himself laboured without
ceasing  the grand political scheme of which the
ignorant outside world knew absolutely nothing, though
its ramifications were so numerous and complicated that
thc} were said to traverse and encompass the whole
continent of Europe, and a great part of the East, as
with a network of electric wires. One of the chief
drawbacks connected with 'the Great Cause'  as Mr.
St. Clair and his friends were wont to designate it 
seemed to consist in its extreme vagueness, and hence
it was that those votaries whose precise minds insisted
upon a particular detail of its tenets, were generally
observed to withdraw in disappointment from what was,
apparently, too vast and intangible to be subjected to
ordinary laws, or even comprehended at all, except in
the abstract. It was evidently a scheme which could
be better described by a wide flourish of the hand in
the direction of the far sunset, or b) sundry bold
sweeping hieroglyphics, traced with the point of a
walking-stick upon the gravel of a garden-path, than
by any of the words employed to convey ordinary ideas.
But whatever the ' Great Cause ' may have seemed to
others, it was a reality to Francis St. Clair, and to him
the horizon was golden with hope. He was, indeed,
pre-eminently hopeful by nature. Somewhere or another

I liavc road a story about an economical couple
who, when grass was scarce, tied green spectacles on
the nose of their cow, and sent her out to graze upon
shavings. Francis St. Clair had, as it were, gone
through life in green spectacles, the greater portion of
mankind perceiving only dry shavings where he imagined
fair pastures ; but then  as he would have been
almost sure to remember, before allowing any such
ignorant surmises to affect his peace  *the greater
portion of mankind ' do not themselves know shavings
from grass !

He was at this time about two-and-forty years of
age, with a tall, lithe figure, and a keen, thoughtful face
of an Oriental type  an Oriental uncorrupted by indolence
and luxury, a child of the desert, an Ishmaelite,
inured to danger and fatigue, rather than a luxurious
inhabitant of Cairo or Tambour. His countenance
wore all the dignity and calm of that of a benevolent
philosopher, the man whom nothing could surprise,
nothing disconcert, and whose temper no storm could
ruffle. It would seem as though the pageant of life
passed him by, with its mummers and masquers, whilst
he stood looking on at it from the wayside, taking no
part in the proceedings ; for, with regard to the smaller
things of existence, he had endeavoured to follow the
precept of Sainte-veuve, Etrc et rester en dehors de tout*
a condition which he had not arrived at without a
good deal of severe schooling.

On account of his unoi'thodox religious opinions,
which did not permit him to assist at anj performances
of public worship, Francis St. Clair was looked upon by
most of the neighbouring clergy as an Atheist ; for it
was then, as now, customary to brand with this appellation
all those persons whose minds, being constitutionally

unfitted to accept theories apparently irreconcilable
with reason and science, had either received tinder
protest, or contemptuously rejected altogether, such
great mysteries as the doctrine of Original Sin and the
belief in Everlasting Punishment. He was himself of
opinion that the fact of his wearing a beard  a great
rarity in these days  had given more offence to his
conventional neighbours than any of his theological
and political convictions, either indicated or expressed ;
and, indeed, Mr. Pettigrew, the new curate, little foreseeing
the present bearded condition of the Anglican
priesthood, and ignoring or forgetting many representations
of sacred and holy persons, had gone so far as
to declare that, whenever he saw an individual who
did not shave he knew him by intuition to be an
Atheist ; and he added that he had only once been
mistaken. He did not condescend to mention the
name of this exception, who was, perhaps, merely
thrown in to prove the ride ; but it was evident, at
any rate, that he spoke from conviction. Francis
St. Clair, when these words were repeated to him,
could not but plead guilty to the beard, which he
had permitted to grow partly from indolence, and
partly in consequence of his failing eyesight, which
rendered shaving a truly arduous undertaking ; for,
as his brother had once remarked, * a judgment ' was
falling upon him, and he was at the present time in
great danger of becoming blind. The growing of his
beard was, he admitted, a voluntary and determined
act of insubordination and unconventionality. As to
beliefs or unbelief, he denied that they were under
the control of the individual, and he therefore held
his conscience absolved from any of the consequences
which might accrue from his opinions. He contended

that these were based upon the dictates of reason and
the teachings of science ; and that, as neither reason
nor science remained at a standstill, he was at liberty
to vary and modify this own private convictions as it
seemed good to himself, provided that he never indulged
in the impertinence of becoming a proselytiser,
*Lit'C and let live ' being the first commandment in his
decalogue.

One of the most appreciative of Shelley's recent
biographers* writes thus upon the subject of the poet's
spiritual convictions, 

He believed so firmly and intensely in his own
religion  a kind of passionate positivism, a creed
which seemed to have no God because it was all God
that he felt convinced he only needed to destroy
accepted figments for the light which blazed romid
him to break through and flood the world with beauty.
Shelley can only be called an Atheist in so far as he
maintained the inadequacy of hitherto received conceptions
of the Deity, and indignantly rejected that
Moloch of cruelty who is worshipped in the debased
forms of Christianity. He was an diagnostic only in sofar
as he proclaimed the impossibility of soaring the
insoluble and knowing the unknowable.'

*With a difference,' these words were singularly
applicable to Francis St. Clair. The difference lay in
the fact that he never made any attempt to ' destroy
acccjDted figments.' He denied no more than he destroyed,
and deserved, by reason of his passionate love
of Nature, rather to have been called a Pantheist thana
disbeliever in the existence of the Deity. He was
sustained and supported in that loneliness enforced by

John Addington Symonds.

the holding of opinions so greatly in the minority, by
a spirit of supreme toleration, which might even have
tempted him to exclaim with the Pharisee, * God, I
thank Thee that I am not as other men are ! ' were it not
for the humility engendered by the contemplation of
two great mysteries  the mysteries of Life and Death,
in the presence of which the wise man is even as the
fool. This Pantheistic love of Nature, resulting in a
horror of all that was false and meretricious, and
which rendered so odious to him the conventionalities
of society, had influenced him in all the most important
acts of his life ; and his marriage with the * gipsy
maid ' had, no doubt, proceeded partly from his admiration
of all that was genuine and spontaneous in
woman. This marriage, though stigmatised by his
friends and relations as an unpardonable and irreparable
error, had, contrary to their expectations,
turned out happily. Women are known to be wonderfully
adaptive, and no mere absence of worldly
wisdom, or ignorance of the usages of fashion in the
maiden of his choice, would have offended the sensibilities
of the youthful enthusiast. He had started
prepared to forgive anything but that innate vulgarity
of mind which is not always the sure accompaniment
of rags, any more than refinement can be
said to be that of soft raiment ; but he had found
nothing to forgive.

Sophy's mother had apparently belonged to that
very select and still diminishing contingent, the aristocracy
of the soul. He had moulded and educated her
into a woman after his own heart ; and the first grief
she had ever given him had been caused by her early
death. Since he had been left desolate, no other woman
had seriously engaged his sympathies, or played any

or

active part in his life. ITc had devoted himself exclusively
to the furtherance of his mysterious political
scheme, and to the broader development of his spiritual
opinions, describing himself to those who would have
failed to comprehend any more complicated appellations,
by some such names as his little daughter had
caught up, parrot-like, from his lips, or occasionally
even, with certain mental reservations, as an ' Early
Christian who did not exactly believe in Christianity

On the second evening after the arrival of Mr.
Carver and the * Aztec remnants Francis St. Clair
and his political mentor, * the Great Prophet ' of * the
Great Cause,' were seated together in one of the
centre rooms of the white-gabled farmhouse. Probably
it had once been the sitting-room or parlour,
though in its present condition it bore more resemblance
to an armoury, its walls being ornamented with
a variety of ancient British and foreign weapons, together
with many of the murderous implements made use
of in modern warfare.

The Great Prophet, at whose feet Mr. St. Clair
sat (politically), had not acquired his appellation by
reason of any physical magnitude. Externally, he was
a person of a mean and insignificant presence, and his
superiority to the rest of mankind was evidently entirely
mental. He was lightly, nay, almost transparently,
clad in loosely-made garments of raw silk;
he wore a perpetual fez ; and, when walking abroad,
shuffled uncomfortably in thin helpless slippers, which
he was careful to remove before recrossing the threshold.

Most European languages were apparently familiar
to him, but it was his habit to employ the Oriental
idiom, and to speak, as it were, in parables. A mystery
him seemingly over both his nationality and his age,

which Mr. St. Clair was either indifferent to or lead
failed to penetrate. In conversation with the uninitiated
he usually described him (with a flourish of
the hand towards the distant horizon) as "an Asiatic
mystic, acquainted with many of the keys of human
knowledge, who has explored the mysteries of the
Ansari in their hidden caverns, in whose possession
are the most recondite secrets of the Druses, and who
dwelt with the Yezedis, or devil-worshippers, and
witnessed their dark rites, previous to associating himself
with our friends, the Turks of the Soofi heresy.'
After which ' the uninitiated,' though awed and interested,
felt that they knew very little more of the
mystic's private history than before.

Upon the present occasion he was smoking, seated
cross-legged on a divan in the embrasure of the bay-window,
in front of which stood three suits of rusted
mediaeval armour, which, propped up, as they were,
upon frames, presented a very lifelike and martial aspect,
giving to the room, from the outside, an appearance
of being filled with armed men.

Francis St. Clair, either out of compliment to his
much-honoured guest, or from a habit contracted in
Eastern lands, had assumed precisely the same posture
in the left-hand corner of the window-seat, where he
sat, apparently toying with some ancient flint lance-points
and arrow-heads, which had been lately exhumed
in the vicinity of Poynings Abbey. Sir Peckham
Hickathrift, knowing the passion of his eccentric
neighbour for all manner of antiquities, was in the habit
of sending him these implements, as an inexpensive
present, in relays, just as they were dug up, and there
was now a sufficient quantity of them at Little Stil ling-fleet
to have mended most of the surrounding roads,

could tliclr possessor have brought himself to employ
them in so useful a maimer. Like the Great
Prophet, Mr. St. Clair wore the fez ; he had removed
his coat, and even his fine linen shirt was left open at
the throat, whilst his feet, like those of his little
daughter, were bare, his slippers being placed by the
side of the divan. All three windows were open, as
was also that of the room beyond, so that the Prophet
and his disciple had the satisfaction of knowing that
they were sitting in a direct current of air, a condition
of things which seemed to be somehow mysteriously
interwoven with the tenets of the Great Cause.

'Where is the 'fair Sophia?' Mr. St. Clair demanded,
looking up for a moment from the contemplation
of his arrow-heads. ' Sophia ' was by no means
fair ; ' he was merely quoting from the ' Ballad of
Lord Bateman.' Like his daughter, he was fond of
innocent and obvious quotations. ' Things taken from
other things,' as she had remarked to Godfrey.

Obedient to the clapping of hands, little Sophy
came running towards the window from the further
end of the garden.

'What is it?' she asked, as she vaulted lightly
upon the window-ledge close to where her father was
seated.

Where, Sophy, are our interesting guests, the
illustrious sacerdotal ?' inquired Mr. St. Clair, with a
certain melancholy playfulness. ' Where are " those
last living specimens of an antique race so nearly extinct?'
he continued, quoting now from the pages of
the pink pamphlet.

'They are in the kitchen garden,' answered the
little girl, ' eating gooseberries with Mr. Carver.
When I came away, the biggest " sacerdotal " wasn't
feeling very well.'

And naturally, my child, if ever since lie left us lie
has been plunging into these excesses ! Run back,
Sophia, and explain to Carver and "the illustrious
microcephali " the dangers attending a surfeit of the
British gooseberry ; yon, who are so fully competent to
write a treatise upon the deleterious effects of unripe
crab-apples and green shoes, warn these impetuous
Iximayans to desist ; when one is the last of one's race
it is impossible to be too careful of one's digestion  ch,
Sophia ? Ah . . . the child is off again ! '

Francis St. Clair addressed this last remark to the
Great Prophet, and returned once more to the contemplation
of his arrow-heads.

Little Sophy delivered her message ; but instead of
returning to the house with the Aztecs and their
guardian, she wandered through the flower-garden andover
the rustic bridge until she found herself in the
midst of the hazel-copse.

In the morning she had been here also, for it was
Godfrey's last day at home, and he had promised that,
if possible, he would come and bid her good-bye. He
was not there, however, and she had gone away disappointed.
Now, she had a great wish to look again at
the place where she had seen her new plaTnate for the
last time. It was too late, however, to go very far ; so,
after looking sadly at the gnarled oak-tree with its
rustic bench, near to which she had read to Godfrey
from the pages of Gil Bias, she was about to retrace her
footsteps, when she observed Moses Weller, the youngest
son of the old shepherd at Great Stillingfleet, in the
act of climbing over the five-barred gate which separated
the two properties. He was calling out to her to
wait for him, and waving his arms like the sails of a
windmill. The little girl at once turned, and went towards

him, for he was an old acquaintance. With him
and his brothers she had often made spirited attacks
upon the bird's-nesting and cat-trapping Stubberfields,
on the other side, causing them to disgorge their begotten
booty, and she regarded him as a firm ally,
notwithstanding that she had recently had a slight
misunderstanding with him upon the subject of his ill-treatment
of a toad. He was the bearer of a small
brown-paper parcel ; and telling her that it was sent
her by * young muster,' and that she was to open it immediately,
he thrust it hastily into her hand and returned
by the way he had come. The parcel was about
the size of an ordinary brick  one side of it seeming to
be rounded and slightly indented, whilst the other was
smooth and even to the touch. It was very nearly the
first present that Sophy had ever received, and notwithstanding
Moses's injunction to open it immediately,
she could not resist the temptation of revelling for a
little while longer in a state of blissful anticipation,
half fearful lest her treasure should vanish altogether if
she began to untie the string which enclosed it. Just
as her eager little fingers were busy with a somewhat
complicated knot, her father again summoned her after
his peculiar fashion ; and in order that the pleasures of
hope might be still further prolonged, she placed the
precious packet inter a fuchsia-bush not far from the
porch, and hastened into the house.

Upon entering the sitting-room, she perceived Mr.
Carver standing in the centre of the apartment in the
attitude of an orator or expositor. One of his large
black hands, with its white nails, and ornamented with
a diamond ring, was placed upon the head of Xtacumbi,
the smaller and younger ' sacerdotal,' who looked up at
him with the cowering expression of a performing ape

anxious to obey instructions. The elder and taller of
the Aztecs had fallen apparently into a comatose state
at the foot of an armchair, with his head resting upon
the seat. Mr. Carver had evidently been expounding
his theories relative to his interesting charges, and he
was now addressing himself to Xtacumbi and inviting
him to make his obeisance previous to retiring for the
night, for it was the custom of the * remnants ' to court
repose at a comparatively early hour. It was their
delight (Mr. Carver was also explaining) to sing at the
beginning and end of each day a few verses of a hymn.
Without performing this act of devotion, neither 
nor Xtacumbi coidd have rested with a clear
conscience.

Stand up, Xtacmnbi,' said Mr. Carver, in a firm
and very distinct tone, as he fixed his eyes in a peculiar
manner upon the trembling little creature.

Xtacumbi is a very bright youth,' he continued,
turning to Mr. St. Clair.  But he is this evening in a
highly nervous condition. He places his hand to his
cheek in consequence of having suffered from an attack
of ear-ache. As for Upaxaelulah, he is downright sick
from the excitement he has undergone during: this
pleasant and salubrious afternoon. Xtacumbi, you can
salute this gentleman and his family before retiring.'

But instead of doing as he was bidden, the ' sacerdotal,*
either from carelessness engendered by fatigue,
or from previous association, began, in a faltering voice,
and with a strong nasal twang, to give utterance to
some strangely incoherent sounds, as though it had
been his wish to sing one of his national songs which
had escaped his memory. At last, however, he delivered
himself with difficulty of the first verse of the well-known
hymn which commences, 

or

Not all the blood of beasts
On Jewish altars slain,'

although not until after Mr. Carver (taking advantage
of a moment when the Great Prophet had stooped to
adjust his chibook, and when Mr. St. Clair had turned
his clouded gaze once more in the direction of his
arrow-heads) had administered a vicious pinch to the
ear which the importunate youth had been so anxiously
protecting, at the same time jobbing him quickly
with his knee in the region of the stomach. Thus
encouraged, Xtacumbi commenced going through his
melancholy evensong of praise. The ' fair Sophia ' had
observed both the pinch and the movement with the
knee.

Poor little thing ! ' she whispered in her father's
ear. ' Look, he doesn't like doing it ! and look how
cross that horrid black man is to him ! Do tell him
not to go on ! '

My dear Mr. Carver,' said Mr. St. Clair, who was
even now beginning to be influenced by the opinion of
his daughter, ' this is " Liberty Hall." An Englishman's
home should be not only his own castle, but that of his
guests. Do, therefore, exactly what you all like best,
and pray follow whatever mode of worship is most congenial
to your feelings and to those of these illustrious
young men ; but if, as I fancy', this performance is irksome
both to yourself and to them, and is only gone
through in order to conform to what you may imagine
are our religious prejudices, I must beg of you to dispense
with it altogether. Perhaps it would relieve the
feelings of this promising youth could he be made to
comprehend that, as yet, we have identified ourselves
with none of the classified religious opinions of the day,
and that we are, therefore, unaccustomed to all outward
forms of worship.'

The expression of Mr. Carver's face during this
speech was, as the saying goes, *as good as a play.'
He replied, however, merely by a low bow ; and after
arousing the elder * remnant ' he left the room, in
order to preside at his charges' arrangements for the
night.

The Aztecs are miserable impostors,' said Mr.
St. Clair, as soon as they had departed, addressing
himself to the Great Prophet, ' but Carver is a grand
study ! '

'A strange interest attaches to the observation of
the difference of race,' answered the mystic. 'Allah is
all-powerful. To him belonged dominion. He giveth
life and cause death. He hath created both the little
and the great ! Yet even in the individual it is possible
to perceive that warfare between Sur and Assur which
still continues to wage without ceasing, as it will continue
to do to all time ! '

Oh, father ! ' interrupted Sophj, for she had never
been cowed into silence in the presence of her ciders
like some children of her age ; * I like the little men,
but I can't bear that Carver ! He has such horrid
white nails ! ' And she shuddered in disgust.

'Allah!' rejoined Francis St. Clair, ignoring his
daughter's speech and inclining his head reverently, (or
his latest scientific substitute), 'is indeed great. Mr.
Carver, I should imagine, has already enrolled himself
amongst the host of the Assure ? '

Individual types, like events, revolve in cycles,'
remarked the Great Prophet, ' and arc continually
recurring. Good and evil, wisdom and folly: it is upon
these that the changes are perpetually being rung.'

By-the-by ! ' exclaimed Mr. St. Clair, suddenly
relinquishing his arrow-heads, ' was it not this evening

VOL. I. I

that we were expecting the return of our embassage to
the Teuton Swine ? '

It was indeed this evening answered the Prophet,
glancing up at the timepiece, ' and at about this very
hour. But the blow which is to convulse Christendom
will fall neither to-day nor tomorrow. . . .'

Hun, Sophia ! ' exclaimed the disciple, fearful lest
his little daughter should overhear some project for
meting out to the whole of Europe the fate which Guy
Fawkes once intended for ' King, Lords, and Commons : '
run, my child, and see that the misguided Jane does
not again serve up for our supper the accursed flesh of
pig ; and impress upon her, furthermore . . . Ah ! ' he
added again, almost disappointed at the fleetness of his
willing messenger, * the child is gone ! '

Sophy, indeed, needed no second bidding : she was
already panting with impatience to look at her present ;
and after delivering her father's message to Jane, she
slipped quietly into the garden and ran eagerly towards
the fuchsia-bush.

There lay the precious packet just as she had left
it, and seizing upon it hastily she carried it up to her
little room in triumph. Once there she could no longer
pause to untie the string, a pair of scissors was close at
hand, and in a moment Godfrey's present was displayed
upon the table. Sophy gazed at it for some time in
astonishment. The parcel contained the tortoise,
wrapped round in the paper of directions furnished
by the naturalist, whilst bomid tightly to its breast
was a New Testament in a black leather cover.

Oh, what an extraordinary thing ! ' exclaimed the
little girl, as * Alexander,' overjoyed at regaining his
freedom, trudged off in the direction of a neighbouring
pin-cushion.  But I dare say I shall get very fond of

it in time.* And she tlicn turned to the contemplation
of the sacred volmne. *He was determined that I
should read the Bible somehow,' she remarked, smiling.
He is exactly like his friend Captain Cook.'

Chapter VIII.

In the first early days of spring, before the waving
 lambs' tails ' were yet fully out in the hazel-copse,
and when the primroses and cuckoo-flowers wore still a
pale starved look amongst the dead leaves of a departed
year, Godfrey St. Clair came home to spend his
Easter holidays at his beloved Dallingridge. For the
very soil and air of his native place were dear to him :
and he even wondered at his own facility for really
loving what was, after all, only-blind, mute, deaf, anc
irresponsive. But it did not appear to be irresponsive
to Jiim. A thousand voices, understood by him alone,
seemed to welcome his home-coming. The fern was
as 5et too young to shelter him ; but each tiny crook-let
that upraised its tender head was full of feathery
promise. The old beech-trees were clad only in their
mossy velvet hose, their branches being all bare, save
for a little green pennon waving at the tip of each
twig  every one of which was to Godfrey even as a
little banner of welcome. The garden-beds were
empty, except for their purple and golden regiments
of crocuses, and the little tufts of dark shining leaves,
amongst which were lurking the pink and azure
hypaticas. The white magnolia, leaning against the
southern wall of the old house, wore still its winter
garments of folded matting ; for though the sun was
warm at midday, the mornings and evenings were yet

smarting under the keen breath of winter ; but to the
returning schoolboy this was the breath of the winter of
his home, and he loved it.

The house, also, was filled with old inanimate
friends, over and above the live ones.

The grim portraits of ancient warriors, of gallant
cavaliers, and of smiling almond-eyed ladies, draped
I e scanty garments of the olden time, looked
down upon him, as he fancied, with kind, approving
glances. The ancestor, however, for whom he felt the
most real sjTnpathy was represented in a portrait of
more modern date. lie was a captain of dragoons,
who had fallen at the battle of Culloden, after having
distinguished himself in circumstances of the greatest
difficulty and danger. Godfrey had been named after
this heroic great-uncle, who was an elder brother of
grandfather ; and it was impossible to look at the portrait
without remarking the extraordinary family likeness
which existed between the good-looking young
soldier, in the red coat, and powdered hair, and the
last male descendant of his ancient house.

As in the younger Godfrey, the brow was low and
broad, the powdered hair contrasting happily with the
somewhat accentuated line of the dark eyebrows. The
eyes were wakeful, honest, passionate, whilst a look of
chivalrous daring, mingled with an emotional expression
of tenderness about the lips, rendered the countenance
peculiarly fascinating. Godfrey had always been
very proud of this particular ancestor, and he felt for
him much more affection than most children would
have been capable of feeling for a mere piece of painted
canvas. He was proud, too, of the pretty ladies in
their low square-cut dresses of faded blue and dingy
white, with their wonderful head-dresses, their pearl

necklaces, and their slender Vandyke hands ; and lie
was glad to think that he came of a family which (as
Erskine St. Clair was in the habit of affirming) had
always been celebrated for the possession of  beauty,
bravery, and brains.'

Is pride of birth, I wonder, like so many other
impressions which have been hitherto fostered and
revered, only a sham and a delusion after all, or is
there something really stimulating and ennobling in
the contemplation, from afar, of virtue upon which we
cannot reasonably plume ourselves, beauty not always
hereditary, wisdom in which we have had no part,
or of bravery often the result of mere accident, or due
to that indifference to death and disaster engendered
by the perils and uncertainties of * troublous times ?'

To Godfrey this contemplation seemed certainly
to have been both stimulating: and ennobling;. These
rows of departed St. Clairs, looking out at him from
their gilded frames, were to him like friends and
mentors ; and he would have cowered before them in
bitter humiliation, had he considered that any thought
of his boyish heart was unworthy of so gallant an
ancestry.

His living friends (for Mr. and Mrs. St. Clair
behaved towards him more after the manner oi friends,
or acquaintances, than ordinary parents) had received
him with kind and condescending approval. His
mother had patiently submitted to his filial embrace,
whilst his father had seemed really gratified at the
progress he had made in his studies, and at the
improvement which even so short a time had made
in his appearance.

*The boy is growing extremely handsome,' he
remarked, after Godfrey had quitted the room. * The

likeness to my uncle, trio hero of Culloden, is very
remarkable.'

It is indeed replied his wife ; * it strikes me as
most extraordinary. We "severe quite right to call him
*' Godfrey." '

Mary Parker, too, received the bo' with every
kind expression of welcome. He had passed his
Christmas holidays in London, whither his parents
had repaired during the severest portion of the winter,
so that it was quite a long time since she had seen
him. She had no particular vocation now, her young
charge having grown, as she said, * too much of a
man ' for her ; but she stayed on at Dallingridge all
the same, mending the household linen and helping
the other servants, inhabiting now an almost subterranean
apartment below the level of the carriage-road,
and looking out upon a grassy bank which rose up
like the side of a dry moat and concealed the lower
range of windows from view. Godfrey used to visit
his former nurse by sliding down this bank, and
slipping in at the window (a mode of entrance which
was likewise perfectly well known to honest John
McBean) ; for he had not yet been long enough at
school to affect that contempt for all women-folk
which is generally expressed by the British schoolboy.


But there was yet another person with whom he
very soon sought an opportunity of meeting  his little
cousin Sophy, who received him literally with open
arms. She began by thanking him very much for his
double present. The tortoise, she said, was perfectly
well and happy. ' Nelus ' had bored a tiny hole in its
shell, to which she had tied a piece of string, and it
was now tethered out on the front lawn, opposite the

centre gable of the house. All the winter it had been
just like a dead body, but with the fine weather it had
returned to animation.

The j[ew Testament she had not yet begun ; but
she was going to read it quite carefully after she had
finished Gil Bias, which had got on rather slowly inconsequence
of all the reading and writing she had
had to do for her father during the short winter days,
and now that he was becoming ' so near-sighted.'

I have done something, though, which I know
will please you,' she cried triumphantly. * But I don't
suppose you coidd guess what it is in a hundred years.'

Godfrey felt it would be useless to try to do what
seemed so difficult.

Do you give it up ? ' asked little Sophy.

Yes ; I give it up.'

Well, then, / have been to church ! However, J
will begin and tell you from the beginning. One day,
quite lately, when I was wandering along by the side
of our river, that little stream that runs through the
garden, beyond the place where the bridge is, who
should I see but Janus ; she was walking along very
fast, in her best gown, and hiding something under
her shawl, pressed quite close to her. Altogether she
looked as if she was going to do something wrong.'

How do people look asked the boy, amused,
'when they are going to do something Wrong?'

Oh, I don't know ! They walk fast, and look hot,
and put on their best clothes and very new thick boots,
which make a great deal of noise, and they look to the
right and the left and behind and before  at any rate
she looked like this. Father has always said that in
secret she was an idolater ; and it turned out that she
was going off to church on the sly.'

Well, I don't see that there "was anything wrong
in that,' said Godfrey, looking grave.

Oh, you are not one of us ! But, at any rate, it
was very wrong of me to go with her.'

And you did ? ' exclaimed the boy, his countenance
brightening.

Yes ; I insisted. In vain she tried to drive me
back. I ran along after her all the way to PojTiings
Church, making footmarks on the dusty road, just like
the savages in Robinson Crusoe

And did she let you go to church like that, with
no shoes and stockings ? '

She would have stopped me if she could ; for she
asked me very often to go back, but I wouldn't. Just
before we got to the entrance of the tol she picked
up a flint and pretended she was going to throw it at
me ; but I only took up another, a much bigger and
sharper one, and on I went. When I came into church
you should have seen the faces of the Dean and all the
people ! '

I should think so, coming in like that, with your
bare feet ! Had you these dead leaves sticking in your
hair, I wonder ? '

'Yes; I dare say I had; but let me go on. Patter,
patter I went do\Ti the middle part of the church,
which felt so cold and smooth after the prickly road ;
but what do you think I was walking on all the time ?
Graves  hundreds of graves ! Nearly two thousand
dead bodies, they say, are buried under Po3lings
Church  nearly all of them Hickathrifts. I read some
of their names as I went along.'

One always heard that the Hickathrifts were a
very ancient family,' remarked Godfrey, and from his
manner the little girl perceived that he took no exception

to the two thousand dead bodies.

Well,' she continued, ' on and on I went, following
Janus ; and when I looked up from the graves, lo and
behold, there were Sir Peckham, and Lady Hickathrif t,
and Tom, with his large nose  come home from Saturday-till
Monday  all looking at me in the greatest astonishment
from a square place, like a little room, with red
curtains and no ceiling.'

that is called a pew,' explained the schoolboy.

I should think, indeed, that they icerc astonished ! '

I would have said, " Good-morning, Tom ; good-morning.
Sir Peckham," but they all looked so grave
and solemn that I was afraid to speak. Then Janus
sat down and covered up her face for a little while, and
I saw she had on her new drab-cotton gloves ; and I
did the same, only I peeped out of one eye, through
my fingers, and saw all the people just the same. In
fact I did like she did in everything. When she stood
up / stood up, and I sat down and knelt down and did
all the things quite right. Really it's all quite easy.
There was a very odd smell in church, partly of poor
people, and red baize, and old straw footstools, and
stuffiness.'

Ah, it may be very easy to sit down and stand up
at certain places,' said the boy, severely. *But you
might do this, and yet not know tvJnj, nor understand
what was said. I should like to know whether you
understood the prayers or the sermon? '

I ought to have understood them,' answered Sophy,

for they said over the same thing a great many times,
till I was quite tired of it ; and the droning, and buzzing,
and odd-smelling went on for some time, and the kneeling
down and getting up again, and the standing, and
then came the sermon.'

I do hope,' said Godfrey, fervently, ' that it was a

good one, and that it taught you something. I have
hoard my father say that the Dean is a little longwinded
; but one oughtn't to mind the length.'

Well, I could have preached a better sermon myself,'
replied the little girl decidedly. */ understood
it all ; but I saw Janus and all the poor people looking
quite stupefied, and several of them went to sleep. Instead
of giving them good advice, the Dean got up and
talked the greatest nonsense you ever heard. Even
Janus was obliged to own she didn't know what it was
all about.'

Perhaps,' said Godfrey, * that you weren't either of
you paying proper attention.'

I know that / paid proper attention, for I can remember
every Avoid of it, and I have thought a great
deal about it ever since. First of all, he said that he
was "the Good Shepherd ;" and then that he was " the
true vine;" and then, I think, he said he was "a
door ;" and when he had said it once, he said it several
times all over again.'

He didn't mean /?;i.sr//,' explained Godfrey. ' Those
were t}3es.'

So he told us. And next he said, " Stow, what is
a door ?" but before I had time to answer him, he went
on and answered himself ; and this was what he kept on
doing all through, asking ns questions, and then
answering them himself in his own way, and sometimes
quite wrongly. It was so provoking ! '

Sermons generally are preached in that waj,' said
Godfrey.

Well, it's a way I don't think I could ever get to
like. It puts one so much out of temper. He said
that there were several kinds of doors, which, of course,
we all knew. Some were big, he said, and some were

small ; some Avec so narrow that only one person could
go through at once, and others were so enormous that
a whole army could ride under them on horseback ;
some opened with a latch, and some with a bolt, and
some with a key, and some where always kept locked,
so that no one could pass in ; and others were always
left open, so that any one could go in who liked.
That was like his door. It was always left open, and
any one could go in, and yet they were so foolish that
they wouldn't ! Then, when he had said this once, he
said it all over again ; and then he began worrying
the Good Shepherd " and the " true vine," just in
the way he had worried the door ; and then he said a
great deal more that no human being could make
head or tail " of ; and then he covered his face with
his hands, and seemed ashamed of all the nonsense he
had been talking ; and then everybody did the same ;
and then Sir Peckham and Lady Hickathrift and Tom
came down from the little square room and walked out
first, and Janus followed, only she would let nearly all
the others pass out before her, from humbleness, which
was a great disappointment to me, as I had something
to say to Tom ; but 'svhen I got outside he was just
going in at the Abbey gateway, and though he looked
round, I couldn't make him see me. And then the
whole thing was over, and I was very glad ; and Janus
and I walked home, and had boiled beef for dinner and
apple dumplings.*

Thus ended little Sophy's church going for many a
long year.

Nor was it altogether surprising that, to a child
reared as she had been reared, a religious ceremony in
an ill-ventilated country church, and conducted by a
clerical dignitary possessed of very average powers of

or

eloquence, should present nothing cither attractive or
inspiring. She had gone to it impelled by no high-strung
sentiment of reverential awe ; for, being absolutely
destitute of any inculcated spiritual predispositions,
she could only look upon the whole ser\'icc in
the light of an entertainment, and as such, notwithstanding
its novelty, it was disappointing. It is true
that, whenever the fine old organ scaled forth, she
experienced a sensation which was new to her ; but her
untutored mind failed to connect it with any divine
yearning to hold communion with her Creator. To
her it seemed merely a louder and more penetrating
kind of music than any she had hitherto heard, and as
such it surprised her somewhat awfully ; but it was
o)i/f/ music, and nothing more, just as the New Testament
had seemed to her to be onli/ a book, to be named
as she had named it  in the same breath as Gil Bias,
and to be read and criticised in the same spirit as that
in which she had read and criticised the autobiography
of the Spanish adventurer, without knowing that to
many such a proceeding would have seemed irreverent
in the highest degree.

But Sophy's nature was by no means irreverent.
According to her lights,' she reverenced and admired
all that appeared to her worthy either of reverence or
admiration : the wide, green-bellowed ocean, the pink
and golden sunsets, the ever-present spread of high
heavens, dappled  as now, in the spring-time  with
floating white clouds, blue and serene in the summer,
flecked in autumn with wild ' mares' tails,' and rent
with the voice of the tempest, or lowering in the dim
days of winter with leaden menace of white snowflakes.
Further even than this had she strained her
childish gaze, and her wandering fancy would often

glide tliroiigli the little clefts and crevices in what
seemed the lower and more penetrable firmament, in
the vain and longing endeavour to catch some glimpse
of that mysterious Beyond  the * happy hunting-grounds
' of the savage, the ' grand peut-etre * of the
sceptical philosopher.

My religion seems a great deal bigger than yours,'
she said, in reply to Godfrey's reproachful comments
upon her want of devotional feeling. ' I don't believe
any church could shut it in.*

Ah, Sophy, that isn't indeed a sign that it's big.
x\ll religious people, in all parts of the world, go to
church ! In my geography '

You are always talking about your geography ! *
exclaimed the little girl impatiently.

And you are always talking about your religion.'

Yes, that is the difference between us,' said
Sophy sadh * Religion is a great deal bigger than
geography.'

Geography is the whole world ! ' cried the boy
earnestly.

*Yes, but religion is this and every other world,
and the sea, and the sky, and beyond the sky ! Geography
is all mapped and measured, and named ; but
my religion is not ruled down or planned out. It's allover
the place ! ' and she waved her sunburnt arms in
the direction of the distant horizon.

I suppose,' said Godfrey, in a tone of patronage,
that it is your father, and all these odd people that
stay with you, who fill your head with these curious
ideas. If the fellows at school heard you talk, how
astonished they would be ! '

Perhaps I shouldn't understand them either,'
answered Sophy. 'But, indeed, my father leaves me

very iniicli to myself. lie's obliged to do so, Laving
many other tidings to attend to besides me  things
having to do with the good of the whole world. And as
for the people who stay with lis, though they are all
very kind, they can't take much notice of me either 
they are all so much taken up with the Great Cause.'

And what is the Great Cause ? '

Oh, it's a very Great Cause indeed ! ' answered the
little girl, with more hesitation than Godfrey was
prepared to expect ; ' though I am too yoimg, father
says, to understand it in all its bearings. It has something
to do with Russia, and with the Turkish bath,
and with the great Tartar Horde, and the battle between
the Surs and the Assure, and with wearing very little
clothes. It's rather difficult to understand, but father
says that events " revolve in cycles," and that the
whole thing lies in a nutshell, and is as broad as it's
long.'

Indeed ! ' said the boy, drawing a long breath.
It seems rather complicated.'

Yes. Still I'm certain it's right, for all the
people working for it are such wonderfully clever
people, whilst every one else seems so dull and stupid.
Nothing is new to them. They read of something, asa
new thing, in the papers, and then they can't help
laughing, for they've known about it for years and
years, only they never tell! This happens over andover
again.'

*I suppose we shall all hear of your father some
daye,' remarked Godfrey. * He is certain to leave his
mark on the age.'

You will never hear of him ! ' exclaimed Sophy
with an air of triumph. 'That is just what he sajs is
the best of it ! He wouldn't be heard of for worlds,

for he says of himself that he's only a wire-puller, and
that wire-fullers are never seen or heard. Have you
ever been to a play ? ' she asked suddenly.

No said Godfrey ; ' but I went once to a circus
at Poynings Fair.'

So did I, and I have never been to a play either ;
but father says in a play there are several kinds of
people who have to be brought together before it can
go on at all. There are the people who sit in the seats
and look on, and who don't know what's going to
happen or come next. Then there are the actors,
dressed up so smartly, as kings and queens, wearing-crowns,
or as generals or judges ; but these, though
they do look so grand, can't move about as they like,
they're obliged to do as they're told, and to say particular
things, or walk in a particular way. The
people clap their hands when they do all this well, and
hiss at them when they do it badly ; yet, after all,
father says, they are only puppets. But then there
are the people who write the plays which are spoken ;
and the prompters, who whisper to the kings and queens,
and tell them what they are to say ; and the scene-shifters
and the carpenters. These are never seen at all,
and the people in the seats don't clap their hands at
them ; and yet they manage everything, and no play
could go on without them. They're like father and his
friends. Now do you understand ?'

Yes, I think I see what you mean. It seems all
very wonderful.'

Whilst they were conversing upon these important
subjects, they had crossed the fields at the back of the
farm, and entered a long belt of woodland, towards the
middle of which the jn'opert} of Francis St. Clair
joined that of Sir Peckham Hickathrift, the division

being marked by a long, low, black gate, upon the two
posts of which were nailed the heads of several cats,
along with the bodies of stoats, weasels, and other
vermin which had been caught poaching

Look ! there is the head of the Serene Highness !'
said Sophy, pointing to one of these ghastly objects.
He is fast becoming what I used to call a '' skelicum '*
when I was very little. Open the gate quickly I
don't like to look at him ! You must lift it  like that
it generally sticks

Godfrey lifted the gate, and rearranged the chain
with which it was fastened, and they entered together
a low alder wood adjoining part of the Poynings
rookery.

Hush ! ' cried Sophy suddenly, fancying that she
distinguished voices above the noisy cawing of the
rooks, that seemed somehow to be in a great state of
turmoil and commotion.

Ah, I see what it is ! ' she whispered at last, with
grim satisfaction. ' Now I've really caught them !
It's those horrid Stubberfield boys taking the poor
rooks' nests ! Look ! Jesse is climbing up the tree ;
and there is Enoch with a large nest in his hand ! '

'What ought we to do?' asked Godfrey. * Are
not they on their own ground?'

Yes ; but Sir Peckham hates their doing it, Tom
told me. It was Tom who first taught me to attack
them. Moses Weller is on my side ; don't you see
him there ?  the second biggest boy. He's my spy,
and he's only looking on to tell of them. Oh, how
wicked they are ! Let's advance very quietly. Have
you your stick ? '

Yes,' answered Godfrey, who was creeping along
so as to make as little noise as possible.

The youthful rustics were standing only about fifty
yards off, but the noisy cries of the disturbed rooks
prevented them from hearing Sophy and Godfrey as
they approached. One of them was in the act of
sliding down the straight stem of a Scotch fir, at the
foot of which his companions were anxiously awaiting
him. They seemed to be lads of from twelve to fifteen
years of age, and were all dressed in the drab smock-frocks,
yellow spatterdash, and casein caps, which in
this part of England form almost a national costume.

The boy Sophy had pointed out as her ally seemed
to be demeaning himself strangely after the manner of
an accomplice. He appeared deeply interested in the
descent of Jesse Stubberfield from the fir-tree, even
lending him a final * back,' and gathering up his
smock frock like an apron, in order that he might
receive a portion of the booty.

Sophy could scarcely believe the testimony of hei
own eyes, when she beheld a young rook, wide-mouthed,
long-necked, and naked, hurled struggling
into the lap of her partisan, but she generously hoped
that he was only ' concealing his pla?" ' from diplomatic
motives, and in order that he might establish a more
certain proof of the enemy's guilt.

When the advancing party were within only some
dozen paces of the birds-jesters, Sophy gave the word
for a charge, and uttering a loud ' war-cry,' she and
her companion rushed headlong upon the astonished
Stubberfields. Alas for the valour of the British
chawbacon ! Unexpectedly stalked and encompassed,
though by a foe inferior to themselves both in age
and numbers, the craven-hearted ' Stubberfieldiuses '
took refuge at once in flight, without so much as striking
a single blow. Had Sophy and Godfrey taken the

VOL. I. K

trouble to pursue them, hurling at them missiles of
vengeance, none of their wounds would have been
received in front. Moses remained behind, pulling
his forelock, and looking rather uncomfortable, the accusing
voice of the young rook sounding hoarsely' from
the folds of his gaberdine.

'How's this, Moses?' inquired Sophy sternly*. 'You
seemed to be helping the Stubberfields. We were
watching you.'

Flushed with victory, she had seized upon him by
the loose sleeve of his smock.

It wur Jesse done for un,' muttered the rustic
sulkily, pointing to the signs of carnage upon the
ground.

Well, but why did you let him ? How could you
stand by and see it done ? "Why didn't you come at
once and fetch me? inquired the 'Great Goddess of
the Sophirian Empire.'

Jesse, he done for im,' persisted the lad doggedly,
evidently thinking that to establish his colleague's
guilt would go some way towards whitewashing himself.

How wicked of him I ' cried Sophy. ' I don't think
you would do anything I disliked so much, but still, you
looked on*

He tuk un up, soa,' said Moses, illustrating the fact
upon the young rook, which he now hold in his hand.

Oh, don't ! jou'U hurt it ! ' exclaimed the apprehensive
Sophy, shuddering at his rough handling.

He tuk un up, soa,' continued Moses Weller, not
heeding her. 'An' Lard strike me dead, missy, if he
didn't wring the neck of un soa ! ' Whereupon the
ignorant boy wrung the neck of the poor yomig rook.

Oh, oh ! ' gasped Sophy, looking as though she
were about to faint.

What a horrible oath ! ' said Godfrey, very much
shocked. god might really strike you dead some day.'

Ah, but He never does ! ' sobbed the little girl.
Moses says it always before everything, so you mustn't
mind. Oh, the poor young rook ! You horrid boy ! '
she continued, scowling at him, anger having taken the
place of sorrow. *How could you do anything so cruel? '

Strike me, if that wasn't just wot Jesse did for
im ! ' answered the chawbacon, too thickheaded to
understand.

But don't you see, you cruel creature ! that you've
just done the same thing yourself ? Ah, these people
are quite hopeless ! ' she exclaimed, flinging herself
passionately into Godfrey's arms. * How can one ever
teach them or make them do what they ought ?'

Strike me, if Jesse didn't throttle un ! ' reiterated
Moses ; and having no living creature upon which to
illustrate the fact, he commenced throttling a portion
of his smockfrock.

Yes, and some day God ivill strike you dead, you
bad boy ! just as you did that poor toad the other day ! '
said Sophy ominously, as she disengaged herself from
Godfrey's protecting arms. * You are always saying
that, and then striking everything dead yourself.'

What did he do to the toad ? ' asked Godfrey.

Oh, it was too dreadful ! I saw him, the other
day, hacking and smashing at something with a stone.
He seemed quite angry, and kept on calling out to the
poor innocent creature, "I'll larn ye for being a toad!" '

'Well, he wur a toad, burnet he?' said the incorrigible
Moses, with a knowing leer. * A middling sized
toad.'

*0h, get out of my sight!' exclaimed Sophy fiercely.
please go ! for if you stay, I'm afraid I shall dash you

off the face of the earth. You are yourself far horrid
than twenty thousand toads ! You're just like some
dreadful Roman emperor ; and I do wish, I'm sure,
that you had only one head, so that I might strike
it off.'

Moses "Weller was very ncarlj replying that he had
only one head, but as he did not feel quite sure that
he might not have got two, neither of them very well
stocked with brains, he was afraid of volunteering a
statement, and so slouched off, with the gait peculiar
to his species, without saying another word.

They can't help walking like that,' said Sophy,
looking after him. * The shoemaker makes all their
boots exactly the same size, after a certain age. There's
the boy's size, and the man's size ; and whilst you're a
boy you must wear one, and when you're a man you
must wear the other. Father says they're like the bed
of Procrustes.'

Boots or no boots,' said Godfrey, ' thej all seem
dreadfully ignorant. I wish one could improve them.'

Yes, they're dreadful,' answered the little girl
sadly. *It isn't that they're wiclicd; it would be better
if they were, for a wicked person might be got good,
but they're stupid. Their brains are arranged wrong,
and how arc we to get at the insides of their heads ?
And the worst of it is that they think the)/ re right, and
that were wrong ! Oh ! what can we do with them?'

I believe,' said Godfrey thoughtfully, ' that if we
were rid of all the stupid people, the bad ones might
be got right with good teaching.'

Yes, but if we began to get rid of them, we should
be blamed and called cruel by the people who didn't
know our reason. Which would you use to kill them
with  poison or clams ? '

Oh, I was only in fun, of course,' answered the
boy, smiling at lier zeal. * You are a funny little girl,
and I do believe that you would kill any one if you
fancied it would do good to the rest of the world

*Yes, that I certainly would!' answered she earnestly,
* and myself as well ; but most people kill only
to do harm

The youthful reformers, however, reached their
respective homes that evening without either causing
or deploring any further bloodshedding.

A very few days after the discomfiture of the ,
a revelation came to Godfrey which left a
profound impression upon his youthful mind. Sophy
and he had guessed, of course, by reason of their common
surname, that they were in some manner related ;
but they could gather no particulars from their attendants,
and they were both somewhat nervous about
questioning any of the higher authorities.

It is true that Sophy had eased her conscience by
mentioning to her father, at first, that she had ' met a
boy ; ' but she had since abstained from alluding to any
of her after-meetings with Godfrey from a feminine
instinct which warned her that such meetings might
possibly be forbidden her in the future. She had,
indeed, repeatedly inquired of Janus who the boy really
was who came from the ' enemy's country,' and what
manner of enemy it was who dwelt there, but the stolid
serving-woman had only replied, as she generally did
reply, ' Little girls shoidd be seen, and not hoard ; ' or,
You must go fur to ask your jr ; ' or, * I've other fish
to fry, missy.'

One day, however, Sophy determined to take the
bull by the horns, and inquire boldly of her father.

I have met that boy again, father,' said she accordingly;

* the boy that's called "Godfrey," who comes
from the enemy's country, and who gave me my tortoise

'Have 5'ou?' answered her father carelessly. 'What
makes him come our way ?'

I don't know,' said the little girl, ' but we like
walking and playing together. What relation is he
tons?'

He is the son of my brother,' replied Francis St.
Clair ; ' at least, I believe he has a boy of that name.'

I am very glad he is a relation,' said Sophy, * for
now I know I can see as much of him as I like. Before
I wasn't quite sure.'

*I have no feeling whatever against that unfortunate
boy,' rejoined the Philosopher, ' but I don't want to see
his father ; and my reason is that I believe him to have
injured me. He is a man, however, whom I could
never have endured, even if he had rendered me a
service. If your seeing the son leads to my seeing the
father, I would rather by far that he kept away.'

A thrust from the spear of a brother smarts more
than the smiting of a stranger,' remarked the Great
Prophet, who was still making the home of his disciple
his head-quarters ; * and yet blood is stronger than
water.'

It is ; but the ties of blood ought not to blind one
to the voices of truth and justice,' said Mr. St. Clair.
'Now, if a man who is not my brother wrongs me,
insults me, bears false witness against me, what follows?'

His blood becomes as water at your feet,' answered
the Mystic ; ' his bones will be made to whiten before
the vengeance of Allah.'

'Exactly; and yet, if he happens, most wifortxinaichj,
to be my brother, I am to overlook all this, and fall
upon his neck and embrace him. And why? Not from

any affection that I bear him, but simply because my
contemptible self-love won't permit me to condemn as
worthless any one who is nearly related to myself ! It
is absurd ! I think I may say that I have done the
only thing to be done  I have avoided my brother ; I
have borne him no ill-feeling, but I have simply avoided
him. I said, years ago, "May his shadow never darken
my door ! " and it never has. Since then I have made
my own life without him. I have no need of the society
of a man I could neither like nor respect.'

The battle between Sur and Assur,' remarked the
Prophet, ' between Good and Evil, shall continue to all
time ; and now the victory shall be on the one side,
now on the other.'

To use a canting phrase continued Francis St.
Clair, I see now that "it was all for the best;" and
so, Sophy, my child, though I bear no malice to this
poor boy, I don't want him to be, as it were, the thin
end of the wedge ; I don't want the rest of the lot
coming and invading us here. You're an intelligent
child, and so I don't think I need tell you not to
mention anything I may have said about his father.
It does no good, and don't put your two heads together,
and fetch and carry and make mischief.'

Oh, indeed we won't ! ' cried the little girl, glad to
think that she and Godfrey might still be friends, even
if they did not 'put their heads together.' A))i I
that sort of person?' and she spread out her hands
appealingly.

'Well, no, I don't think you are,' said her father,
smiling and pinching her cheek.

I have a very romantic thing to tell you,' she said
to Godfrey next time she encountered him in her
rambles. ' Your father is the brother of my father ; so

we're very near relations indeed  the next thing to
brother and sister. They don't speak to each other,
because they quarrelled, and it was your father's fault ;
but my father doesn't mind our playing together, only
you're not to be the thin end of the wedge, and we're
not to put our heads together, and fetch and carry and
make mischief.'

I should like to know a little more about the
quarrel,' said Godfrey, guardedly. * How do you know
that it was all the fault of my father ? '

*We might ask Mrs. "Weller something about it,'
suggested the little girl, looking in the direction of the
shepherd's house, which, with its one thick middle
chimney, lay nestling amongst the hop-cowls and
straw-ricks of Great Stillingfleet. *"VVe might say
something like this to her : " Don't you think we're
very much alike for cousins, Mrs. Weller ? " or we
might say : " We mean to marry some day, Mrs. Weller,
and make up the quarrel, and join the two properties."
Don't you think that would be a good plan ?
Then she'd be sure to talk to us about it.'

We'll go in, then,' said the boy, turning towards
the cottage. * How funny of you thinking about our
ever marrying ! '

Yes ; as if we ever should ! But it's only a way
of beginning. Come along.'

As they approached, however, the little girl detected,
through the open door, the accents of the
offending Moses, Mrs. AVeller's youngest son, and she
exclaimed nervously, 

Oh, really, I don't think I can bear to look that
Moses in the face after his behaviour ! You must go
in alone.'

Godfrey was very glad afterwards that he happened
to go into the cottage without Sophy, though he felt

somewhat in need of her feminine tact when he found
himself face to face with Mrs. Weller and her son
Moses. He did not know exactly how to begin.

Come in for a drop of milk, my dear ? ' asked the
good woman, relieving him of his difficulty, whilst
Moses, looking very much ashamed, hobbled off into
the washhouse, where he remained clattering about
upon the brick floor during the remainder of Godfrey's
visit.

Yes, please, Mrs. Weller, I should like some milk ;
and may I take some out to my cousin, who is waiting
outside ? ' He said this in obedience to a sudden inspiration.


 Dear, yes ; but won't the little lady come in ? '
answered the shepherd's wife, good-naturedly, as she
proceeded to procure the new milk.

She's had a quarrel with Moses,' Godfrey explained,
raising his voice so that he might be overheard
by the malefactor in the washhouse. ' He's offended
us both by taking birds' nests. It's very cruel.'

There, there ; well it do please one, surest, fur to
see you a-going about together as kinsfolk should,'
remarked Mrs. Weller, ignoring the allusion to her
son. ' We can't goo fur to certify wot's kep you all
apart so long ; and I'm sure, my dear, your par is so
well belied we don't ought to goo fur to say anything
against un, we don't : but still, it do seem ill-naturally
fur two brothers to bear malice against one another,
and live fur all the world like strangers. It be surprising,
it be ! '

Godfrey was listening with all his ears ; but there
was no need for him to put in a word, as Mrs. Weller
went wandering on garrulously, after the manner of
her kind.

Well, to be sure, Muster Frank, poor dear gentleman,

they do w// lie be a little "vvrong in his top-story ; '
and she began tapping her forehead significantly.
*And that, and his flying out in the face of his
Almighty, and not holding' to his Gospel Truth, it do
hurt your dear par, it do ; and then fur him to go fur
to marry a common tramp ! . . .'

*"vl compton tramp f ' Godfrey echoed, in consternation.
This vas indeed more than he had bargained
for.

Well, a gipsy-girl, a poor creature as wam't dressed
nur reared like a Christian. There be a plenty of
such-like a-camping down by Poynings Bottom o'
fair times. She come up one evening' and art fur a
strip o' blanket, as it wur middling' chilly, it wur. I
set the dawns to watch her whilst I went up to fetch
un ; fur, bless your heart, one can't trust such customers
noways. They makes off with whatever they can lay
their hands on. I never could see, nohow, as she was
such a mighty beauty as we'd heard tell. . . .'

She Alas thought very pretty, then ? '

 Bless my soit, yes ! An' when she was took
poorly a little time afterwards, an' we made up a bed
fur her in the old barn, down comes Muster Locke,
as is land steward over at Poynings Abbey, to see
as how she wur a-wantin' fur nothing' ; and her ladyship
a-sendin' over jellies and medicine-bottles ; and
then up comes Muster Frank and teiikes and marries
her offhand, and all because she wur such an
almighty beauty, which neither me nor my Jerry'
couldn't never see nothing surprising' in, fur all we
heard say of her.'

But was she a real live gipsy ? ' asked Godfrey,
grasping, as it were, at a straw, * or only a lady who
liked living in a tent ? '

'A lady 1 cried Mrs. AVeller, contemptuously.
Bless your clear heart ! she was like the rest of them
gentlefolks as goo travelling about in a caravan allover
brooms and kittle-holders ! Why, her par took
and mended that 'ere chair, he did, and soldered the
bottom of that 'ere old black biter ; an' well he done
both o' them, that I will goo fur to say  well, he done

em

T '

*Ah ! ' said Godfrey, drawing a long breath, as he
passed out of the cottage, ' I see it all, now

It was a consolation, at any rate, to think that with
regard to the family quarrel his own parents were not,
after all, so very much in the wrong !

Little Sophy was waiting for him some few paces
from the cottage upon the opposite side of the road.
She was crouching under the bank, protected from the
wind by the privet-hedge which rose at her back, and
separated the properties of the unnatural brothers.* It
seemed a snug and comfortable resting-place, and,
very likely, it was not far from here that her tinkering
maternal grandfather had taken up his position whilst
mending Mrs. Weller's chair, or soldering the bottom
of her old black boiler. The long bare legs of the
youthful savage, burnt with the suns of some ten
summers, scratched with the blackberry bushes of the
same number of autumns, and chilled by the biting
frosts of winter, but seemingly well-faring now in the
spring-time, were gathered up so that her chin rested
upon her knees ; her weird arms encircled her shaggy
head, which, with its wonderful eyes, peeped out at the
young heir of Dallingridge as he advanced somewhat
sadly towards her.

I see it all now,* he repeated to himself, * and
that's why she's so odd-looking, and talks such nonsense.'

And, boy that he was, he could not help feeling
conscious of a certain change in his feelings towards
his newly-discovered cousin.

Poor little thing ! ' he thought, notwithstanding
this consciousness of superiority. * She's a dear little
thing, after all ; and it would break her heart to tell
her that her father's a madman, and that her mother
was a common tramp : for she thinks that he's the
cleverest person in the world, and that she was a queen.
I won't tell her.'

Well, how about the feud ? ' asked Sophy archly.
Are we not cousins ; and wasn't it your father who
was in the wrong ? '

*We are certainly cousins,' answered Godfrey, a
little gloomily, ' for our fathers are brothers. As for
the quarrel, I fancy there must have been faults on
both sides.'

Then why don't 3'ou seem glad to think that weare
such near relations ? ' asked the little girl, noticing
his changed manner, and looking as though about to
cry.

'Oh, don't I don't!' said Godfrey, taking hold of her
little sunburnt hand consolingly, ' you poor, dear little
thing ! '

When you say " poor " I know that you mean
that you look down on me,' sobbed Sophy. ' Because
when father talks about you he always calls you " that
poor boy." I don't want to be pitied by you, I want
to be JiJxcd. I want you to be glad to be my cousin,
and you seem sorry.'

Well, I am glad,' said Godfrey, kindly, as he
kissed her wet eyes.

The discovery had, indeed, brought with it several
grains of real comfort. He imagined now that he

knew the true reason for his parents' strange reticence
on the subject of his eccentric relatives, whose society
it was but natural they should consider undesirable.
Yet, whilst he applauded their wisdom, he could not
help feeling wounded at the idea that he had not been
treated with more confidence and frankness.

Surely,* he thought, * papa and mamma might have
told me all about it. They might have trusted me to
think that they were in the right, when of course they
were !'

And, as all concealment was odious to him, he
waited for an occasion when he might inform Mr. and
Mrs. St. Clair that he had discovered the mystery
himself. No such occasion presented itself, however,
until the very day of his departure for Eton  for he
had finished his private schooling. Just as the carriage
drove up to the door to convey him to the George
Inn at Poynings, where he was to meet the London
coach, Mrs. St. Clair afforded him the desired opportunity.


By-the-by, whilst I think of it,' said she, * where
is your tortoise? Papa and I fancied that you had
taken it with you to school, but we find you haven't
brought it back with you. Is it dead ? '

I have given it away, mamma,' hazarded Godfrey,
as he sprang lightly into the carriage.

Given it away ! ' repeated both parents in a breath.
And, pray, to whom did you give our present ? '

I gave it to my cousin Sophy,' said the schoolboy,
boldly ; and at this moment the carriage drove off,
leaving Mr. and Mrs. St. Clair looking (as Mary Parker
afterwards remarked to John McBcan) * for all the
world as if one might have knocked them down with a
feather.*

As the carriage, passing along the liigli-road to
Poynings, neared the confines of the ' Great Sophie
Empire Godfrey perceived Sophy, whom he had
informed of the hour of his departure, perched upon
the top bar of the entrance gate.

Good-bye, cousin Godfrey ! ' she called out to him,
waving her bare sunburnt arms, as the great yellow
carriage went lumbering past. ' I hope you'll like
Eton. Give my love to Tom Hickathrift, and try and
come back soon, before we turn into great, grand,
grown-up people.'

Good-bye, cousin Sophy ! ' cried Godfrey, leaning
out of the carriage window, until a turn in the road hid
from his gaze the weird figure of the little girl.

And now the time has come when I must ask the
reader also to say ' good-bye ' to the ' cousin Sophy ' of
those early days ; to the strange elfin little creature
with the bare feet, the tangled mane, and the wonderful
eyes peering out from her pensive child-face. The
Godfrey St. Clair of this time must also pass away ; for
it will not be necessary to follow the active good-looking
schoolboy, contemptuous of greatcoat and comforter,
to the small cupboard in which he was lodged
at his ' tutor's ' or his * dame's,' or to relate how he
wet-bobbed ' on the river, ' dry-bobbed in the playing-fields,
or played at fives under the shadow of the gray
chapel wall which most Etonians will remember so
well. It is as man and woman that I propose to follow
them in future through those * dark and sunlit pathways
' in which they were destined to tread. Yet, as
our after-actions are often only the natural results of
the boy or girl training ; and as the child is, incontestably,
the ' father to the man,' it may not have been

altogether out of place to have set down here superficially
some of their experiences in the morning of
life, and to describe a few of the exceptional circumstances
by which they were surrounded.

Let the reader imagine, however, that this morning-time
is surpassed. ' Good-bye, cousin Sophy ! ' * Goodbye,
cousin Godfrey ! ' When next we meet you, you
will be both turned into 'great, grand, grown-up
people.'

BOOK THE FIRST.

' The primrose path of dalliance.'  Hamlet, Act i. Scene 3.

Chapter I.

Seven years have passed away. To some people  and
to some people's lives  these years have brought with
them but little in the way of change ; twining no
garlands, either of bay, orange-blossom, or cypress ;
blanching no ringlet, and tracing not one furrow the
more. Measured by summers in London, autumns by
seashore or moorland, and winters passed merrily in the
shires, these * swift-footed years ' have seemed only like
so many months to the men and women of the great
world who are in the habit of greeting one another,
even after much longer lapses of time, as though they
had met but yesterday. No one, however, could thus
have met and recognised Sophy St. Clair without
experiencing a sensation of surprise, these few years
having transformed the strange-looking little woodland
savage into a really beautiful woman.

She was now only seventeen, and therefore scarcely
to be accounted a woman in our northern clime ; but it
was easy to perceive that her beauty was not of a kind
to diminish as she advanced towards maturity. There
was no trace now of the savage in her outward demeanour.
She seemed, indeed, at first sight to be
almost as civilised and accomplished as any other young
lady of her age. But though she went no longer barefooted
and half-naked, though her dark curling hair

was now gathered up and wound in a thick coil round
her head, and though she had acquired a habit of
courting repose in a conventional bed instead of upon
rugs and door-mats, she was but very little changed in
reality. The fact was, that her intelligence, having
been matured so early, was hardly capable of further
development, excepting such as it might seem to gain
by experience and the frequenting of what is often
wrongly termed ' good society.' Thus it was that the
old-fashioned philosophical child had grown up into a
childlike and ingenuous woman ; so childlike and innocent,
indeed, to all outward appearance, that it was
difficult for those who had known her before to understand
how it happened that she had not advanced with
broader strides towards worldly wisdom, whilst there
were some people even uncharitable enough to suspect
that she only enacted the character of the child of
Nature for reasons of her own, and that, moreover,*
she somewhat overdue the part. But the bare-footed
little Pantheist was not dead. She had turned into
a beautiful wood-nymph, that was all ; and whether
she found herself amongst the green boughs of her
sylvan home, or surrounded by the crowded habitations
of men, she differed only externally from the
ragged sunburnt little Sophy who, seven years ago, had
perched, barelegged and unkempt, upon the top bar of
the Stillingfleet gate.

Her father had watched  as long as a waning
daylight had permitted him to watch  this change in
his daughter's personal appearance, which to him
seemed almost alarming. But the moment at length
arrived when he had to hear of her growing charms
from the lips of others ; for his eyesight, which had
been gradually failing for several years, had now

VOL. I. L

or

almost entirely deserted him ; and save for a dim gray
square of paler darkness, which told him where he had
once seen the window, he was, to all intents and purposes,
a blind man.

For this, the most cruel of all painless maladies, he
had tried many ineffectual remedies ; and having commenced
by consisting nearly all the physicians and
oculists of his native land, he had been eventually
handed over, as hopeless, to the tender mercies of
several enterprising professors and quacks on the
Continent, and in this way Sophy had seen a good deal
of life. She had been with her father for several
weeks near the ' castled crag of Drachenfels, whilst he
was consulting a celebrated German oculist : she had
also travelled in Switzerland and Italy, visiting the
large towns, and remaining on the way some time in
Paris, and at most of these places her father had provided
for her instructors in music, drawing, and
languages, so that, contrary to the habit of most
rolling stones,' she had acquired a very fair coating of
moss in the form of education ; and as, added to this, she
found herself daily in close communion and companionship
with a man of refined manners and intellectual
tastes, it was not, perhaps, surprising that at first sight
she should appear to be quite as well informed as most
of her more conventional neighbours.

But it is not the mere fact of seeing the world  by
passing over its outward crust  that really educates
and develops the perceptions of a woman. Ere she
can become practically wise and experienced, she must
be made to feci as well as to think ; she must lose, in her
contact with other men and women, many of her own
prejudices, and even of her good qualities : in a word,
she must, to a certain extent, become forgetful of her

own individuality whilst mingling with the varied
entities of the crowd. Sophy, however, had had very
little chance of acquiring this particular form of
wisdom; her father, who had been at all times a
recluse, became doubly mistrustful of strangers, now
that his blindness prevented him from beholding their
faces, and judging, by certain frontal and facial angles,
of their possible moral tendencies, so that he and his
daughter mixed but seldom in general society. Returned
to England, they had remained for some time in
London, where  as a drowning man clings to a straw 
Francis St. Clair had pretended to hope good things
alternately of mesmerism, electricity, and even of the
prophetic biological ink spot, with its premonitory
sweeping broom. Nay, he had furthermore condescended
to consult the crystal globe of witch and
wizard, and to assist at the nocturnal incantations of
the necromancer, who, for his benefit, had chalked out
the mysterious magic-circle, said to be generally approached,
in the first instance, and previous to a fuller
and more complete manifestation, by a foot of enormous
proportions  a sight which is often to be beheld without
the co-operation of geomanc)

He had also sent a lock of his hair to a sprightly
and intelligent French lady, a Mademoiselle de ,
who had thereupon written him a prescription,
and whom he had afterwards visited at her residence on
the ' other side ' of Oxford Street, where, a younger
sister having performed over her some mesmeric passes,
she became clairvoyance, and in her turn mesmerised
the blind man, though it Alas permissible during the
seance to converse upon subjects less mysterious. It
was not at all displeasing to Francis St. Clair to feel
the light touch of the fair unseen, or to listen to her

lively and amusing conversation ; besides which, these
visits helped to make the time go, which must often
have seemed long to one who had seldom, before his
affliction, remained for many moments unoccupied.
But they made the money go too, and as he continued
sightless notwithstanding, he had at last become
resigned, and accepted his position as a blind man
without a murmur.

Sophy had generally been present upon these occasions
; and though she had experienced at first a natural
feeling of awe at the idea of approaching such mysteries,
she had somehow always come away more impressed
with the vulgarity of the mediums and their surroundings
than with any of the manifestations she
beheld.

Still, these people afforded her father society
and distraction, bereft as he now was of many of
the simple pleasures to which he had been accustomed ;
and with some of them a friendly intercourse was
continued after he had ceased to consult them professionally,
Mademoiselle de Cramponaye, amongst
others, having already visited Little Stillingfleet,
accompanied by her sister Adle, with whom Sophy
had struck up quite a friendship.

Mr. and Miss St. Clair had also fallen in, at an
occult seance, with a former acquaintance, the Rev.
Josiah Carver, who, under a new name  assumed, ashe
stated, on account of an accession of property  was
apparently engaged in the practice or investigation of
arts almost as black as his skin, having ceased to
associate himself with the fortunes of the ' Sacerdotal
Remnants.'

What had become of these unfortunate yoimg men
it was impossible to conjecture ; for, at an accidental

mention of their names, an expression of such evident
pain and displeasure passed over Mr. Carver's face, that
Sophy, with feminine tact, had hastily pinched her
father's arm and turned the conversation, fearing that
they were now either reposing in an early tomb, or had
behaved with base ingratitude to their former benefactor
; for only in this manner could she account for
the cloud which doubly darkened Mr. Carver's dark
brow.

Our Carver is evidently an irretrievable scoundrel,'
Francis St. Clair had remarked to his daughter, when
the seance was over. ' Poor fellow ! ' he added benevolently,
feeling for him the same compassion as for a
person bodily afflicted, 'he is really a highly intelligent
man.'

'I never could like him,' Sophy answered, shuddering
; ' and I don't think it can be only because he is
hack, for of course he can't help what he's like, y
more than I can myself.'

'I wonder what my 'fair Sophia" is like?' murmured
the blind man tenderly. ' Come here ; I should
like you to tell me.'

Don't call me your ' fair Sophia," ' replied his
daughter, going towards him. 'It sounds such a
mockery, for I am dark and smutty-looking.' And she
sat down upon the floor at his feet.

Ah, my child, I can't see you ! ' murmured he, ina
disappointed voice ; ' but you feel pretty. Tell me
what you are like ? Be honest and speak the truth.
Are you like her ?

I don't know ; but you shall have the best description
of myself that I can give you  the wheat with the
tares, and the sheep and the goats together ; nothing
will I extenuate nor set down aught in malice. I'll

begin with, my good points. First of all, I really do
think I've got rather nice eyes.'

Ah ! ' sighed her father, looking interested, * I
thought so.'

If they were only hues' she continued, * I should be
quite contented ; but they are, unfortunately, brown.
However, they're quite good enough for me, and a
great many people have admired them. The best part
of them arc their eyelashes, as I have quite as many
on the lower lid as at the top. Tom Hickathrift sajs
be never saw such a thing in his life. There, you can
feel, they're quite fuzzy, like spikes.' And she passed
the thin hand of the blind man over her eyelashes.

Tom is right,' said he, sadly ; ' it is very uncommon.
She had it, though. Tom is one of the
finest fellows I have ever known.'

'Yes, dear, if one was blind,' Sophy remarked,
archly ; ' for he has indeed a most kind and generous
soul. Ah ! I forgot. Forgive me ! I know you don't
believe that he has one ! '

No, dear, don't say that ! How can we tell ? If
ever you feel that it is possible, and reconcilable with
reason, that there should be an after-life, don't be
afraid of telling me your impressions. Women have
often strange powers of intuition, and it is not altogether
a disagreeable thought, in spite of the rival
allurements of Nirvana, as one finds oneself advancing
in sears. But now go on with your description. Tell
me about your mouth.' And it seemed as if he was
turning the force of some keener vision than that of
which he could now boast, back upon the past.

M} mouth is smallish,' Sophy proceeded candidly ;
that I certainly can't deny. My upper lip curls up a
little too much, I'm afraid; but I'm thankful to say

my teeth arc very even and white. This is all there is
in my face, for over my nose I must draw a veil, as it
does not belong to any family.'

Sophy was very fond of reproaching her nose with
belonging to no then known or classified family of
noses ; and, indeed, it may have been rather difficult
to describe, for it seemed, somehow, to be Homan in
profile, Greek in full-face, and in certain positions 'tip-tilted,
like the petal of a flower.'

Since these days, however, Middleniarch has been
written, and George Eliot has created and designated a
new species of nose, which was till now homeless and
unrecognised  namely, the nose with the 'little ripple'
in it ; and it was to this family that the nose of Sohy
appertained.

My hair is very long, as you know,' she went on,
and dreadfully difficult to keep in order. It's all of
different shades, which has an absurd effect by daylight
; but at night, I'm happy to say, it looks black.
I'm rather tall for a woman, as you can feel ; and the
nicest things about me are the things that are like you.'

Ah, no ; don't say that ! ' interrupted her father ;
you speak without knowing.'

'Well, I like best in myself what I like best in you,
for to me you seem quite beautiful ; and I've no doubt,
when those foolish eyes come back  as of course they
will  which have gone wandering off somewhere, you
will see things you think pretty in mc. All I can say
is, that I don't admire myself, for I think women should
be fair, like roses and lilies ; but men should be like
you  dark and fierce-looking, and yet with your dearest
of dear faces ! '

Having twisted herself with a sudden movement
upon her father's knee, she continued, as she stroked

or

his hair with her tender fingers, * At anj rate, I'm
quite good-looking enough to please myself, and I'm
glad, of course, that I'm not positively ugly. Whenever
I feel angn with my face, I think of people who
are worse off than I am  the halt, the lame, and the
hind  and I then feel much happier and more contented.'


I'm glad you think of the blind,' said her father,
smiling ; ' and that the thought makes you happier :
one always likes one's shortcomings to please some one ! '

Sophy and her father made a very touching picture
as their heads lay thus, close together, against the dark
back of the arm-chair. Francis St. Clair was still, to
all appearance, a young man, although he was not far
from fifty. The resemblance between himself and his
daughter was not now so striking as it had been in
Sophy's childhood, when she might have been taken
for the daughter of an Arab Sheikh, and he might well
have passed for some such father. Now, however, she
had about her more of the Hebe than of the child of
the desert ; whilst her father, his features having become
further accentuated, his figure leaner, and his
dark eyes, which, to a casual observer, did not appear
to be without sight, hollo wer and less hopeful, looked
more than ever like a chieftain of tented Bedouins,
reduced, through adverse circumstances, to bear the
ignominy of dwelling amongst the Giaours, and imitating,
with certain notable modifications, their manners
and customs.

Notwithstanding his affliction, he was as much
occupied as ever with the furtherance of the Great
Cause ; nay, it even seemed as though his enthusiasm
had increased with his blindness, and that this subject
alone now furnished him with materials for

castle-building, and for the indulgence in certain
fetishisms, inherent in all imaginative natures, but
which, owing to his spiritual scepticism, had taken, in
his case, a purely political form. Sophy, on the
contrary, was beginning, at about this period, to develop
sundry uncomfortable suspicions relative to the
mysterious scheme, and there were even moments when
she found herself actually doubting the infallibility of
thq Great Prophet.

*I see,' she Remarked one morning, as she looked
up from a packet of letters, for she was now employed
both as reader and secretary to the blind man, ' that
when the Prophet had his last audience of the Pope, he
arrived at the Vatican in a carriage drawn by four
horses, and with two postilions. As all these horses
and postilions come, in a kind of a way, out of our
pockets, do you really think he required quite so rainy ?
. . The Pope oughtn't have seen him drive up to the
door. Can't one go and see a Pope in a fly ? ' she inquired
humbly.

I think he was right,' answered the Disciple more
loyal than Peter. * I think the four horses and the
postilions were imperatively necessary in order to maintain
the dignity of the Cause, more particularly when he
was visiting a Pontiff whose prestige results in a great
measure from theatrical display. It is essential for the
furtherance of our scheme, just now, that we should
affect to coquette with Rome ; and we must do so, as it
were, in rouge and patches. Indeed, I don't see, my
dear Sophy, how, with the best of motives, he could
have done otherwise. In fact,' he added, lashing himself
into a state of ardent enthusiasm, * he dared not act
differently for the sake of a few miserable lire ! The
eyes of the whole of Christendom were upon him, and

it was very important that he should do nothing which
could degrade his august mission. Had he done so, how
could he ever have looked us in the face afterwards ? '

To this question his daughter made no reply.
There was, in fact, nothing more to be said.

Although at this time Sophy's most fervent prayer
unuttered, perhaps, but ever present in the heart 
was, that her father's sight might be restored to him,
she coidd not help experiencing a sense of relief when
it was at length decided that they should return to
their peaceful country home.

For to her Little Stillinofleet was what Dallinfj-
ridge had been to the boy Godfrey in the old days
a terrestrial paradise, endeared by a thousand
memories. The wide stretch of sloping lawn on one
side of the house, with its long shadows at eventide ;
the distant belt of dark fir-trees shutting off the pink
and amber of the sunset ; the less sombre woodlands of
Great Stillingfleet, with their softer outlines, glowing
now, in the autumn, as with smouldering russet fires, 
all these, with the faint streak of blue sea bounding the
horizon on the other side, beyond the smiling landscape,
mapped out with its farms, its spires, its squares
of plough and pasture, defined by the lines of the
darker hedgerows, had seemed always to greet her on
her return to them with varied voices of genuine
Welcome.

She was not, however, destined, just yet, to enjoy
these delights alone with her father, as she would have
desired.

We are soon going back again to Little ,'
Mr. St. Clair remarked, one afternoon, to
Mademoiselle de Cramponaye, as she was performing
her mesmeric passes in front of his sightless eyes.

And if you and the fair A dele should ever require a
change of air, I hope you will not disdain to pay us a
visit

The * magnetic lady ' paused for a few moments,
during which she must have rejoiced that her handsome
patient was unable to observe her emotion, but
she replied presently in a composed voice, 

Adele and myself will have much pleasure in
profiting by jour amiable invitation

The period fixed for the visit was about a week after
the proposed return to 'Little Stick-ins the mud'  a
name invented by the blind man upon the spur of the
moment ; for, as well as in ' quotations,' he dealt in a
kind of mild and innocuous species of facetiousness,
which, by reason of its very mildness, was at times
positively pathetic.

Sophy could not restrain a sensation of disappointment
when her father said to her, on his return iron
the clairvoyance, whither he had gone, for a wonder,
accompanied only by a servant, 

I have invited la helle Cramponaye to stay with us
again, and she has accepted. She and her sister will
come to us in about a week.'

'She is not particularly " ie//('," ' answered Sophy,
feeling somewhat annoyed. ' Adele is much the
prettier of the two.'

She seems, indeed, a most amiable young creature,
and she may be of service to you in helping you on
with your French ; to converse with her a little everyday
will advance you.'

Yes,' answered Sophy, touched at his solicitude for
her welfare. ' I know it thoroughly, but it will do no
harm to rub up my accent ; besides, I really am fond
of Adele.'

Ilcr sister is, of course, the cleverer woman. I
have seldom met a more thoroiighh agreeable and
enlightened person. Frenchwomen have, too (or lady
when I last had the pleasure of beholding them), an
extraordinary knack of putting on their clothes ; now,
as it is, unfortunately, the rule in this country, to protect
one's body by raiment from the salutary action of
the outer air, which is, in itself, as any chemist will
inform you, a life giver, as well through its effect upon
the human epidermis as upon . . .'

Wh}, you dear, foolish thing ! ' exclaimed Sophy,
with assumed anger, * what have you been worrying
your old head about now? Surely you haven't been
thinking that I wish to deck myself out in smart
dresses like some of the silly people we see here in
London?'

No, dear ; it isn't so much your actual dresses, but
there are many other little things which might help to
make you look well. Mdlle. de Cramponaye has noticed
that, notwithstanding your beauty, you have not yet
mastered several of the smaller details of dress, which,
so long as the'' are worn at all, may as well, as she
remarks, be of the proper quality . . .'

What ! gloves, boots, and shoes, and things of that
sort ? ' asked Sophy ingenuously. ' Oh, I've got plenty
of those ; and Janus is going to make me some new
white petticoats with frills ; I am to buy the stuff for
them.'

But why shouldn't you get them already made ? '
said her father, as with a sudden inspiration. * Prettier
ones than any that could emanate from the clouded
imagination of Jane ! I think Mdlle. de Cramponaye
would like to help you to make a few purchases. . . .
Here is a cheque for thirty pounds, which I signed in

her presence  in fact, she was good enough to guide
my hand  for I should like you he added proudly, * to
hold your own.'

you old darling ! ' exclaimed Sophy tearfully,
for she knew how much it must have cost him to tear
himself thus from the contemplation of his scheme for
the regeneration of Europe, in order that he might
busy himself with the construction of her under garments.
' Imagine my buying thirty pounds' worth of
frilled petticoats ! '

'Not only petticoats, my child; there are many
other articles of modern female attire which you
might buy  things of which I know nothing,' said
the Agnostic, with a sigh.

'When we become rich,' answered his daughter,
firmly, ' it will be plenty of time to think of all these
things. At present we have quite enough to do with
our money. First of all, we must make you see. Why
should I wear expensive clothes only for my own selfish
gratification ? Who is to see all these beautiful new
boots, and gloves, and frilled petticoats? And then,
when you are well, there is the Great Cause . . .'

It is true,' replied Francis St. Clair, in a gloomy
voice ; ' too true ! Hitherto I seem to have been
squandering money upon myself alone ! I have been
behaving like an old brute . . .'

You have been behaving like an old darling ! ' said
Sophy, interrupting him with a kiss. ' Only you seem
suddenly to have become half an idiot ! You know
that we are not very rich, and I'm sure I must cost you
a great deal. I have a very good appetite, and lately
I have been taking lessons in so many different things.
Then, besides me, there are Janus and Nclus and their
children, who seem always to be picking up scraps in

the kitchen ; and there are the cart-horses, Billy and
Dragon, and the other horses ; and the Great Cause, as
I said before . . .'

All these things seem, somehow, to have cost
nothing,' said the * Wire-puller,' earnestly. ' Though
/, too, had fancied that travelling, doctoring, dressing
ourselves becomingly, and learning wisdom, might have
made havoc with our fortune. I even thought that
La Cramponaye . . /

"Well, yes,' Sophy cut in somewhat eagerly ; ' a
guinea a visit is a good deal when you have to go to
her so often ! Not that one would begrudge it if it had
done you any good.'

She has been useful to me in many other ways,'
said the blind man. ' After what you said to me some
days ago about our expenses, I mentioned, as a reason
for discontinuing my sojourn in town, that I feared
I might be spending too much upon my own selfish
pleasures (for it has really amused me to consult her) ;
and I also told her that for many years indolence,
increasing blindness, and the numerous important subjects
with which I have been occupied, had prevented
me from looking into my accounts. She very kindly
went through them yesterday. She is a wonderful
woman of business . . .'

Oh, couldn't / have done it ? ' asked Sophy, with a
cry' as of a wounded spirit.

Yes, my child, of course you could, perfectly ; but
you had frightened me a little lately. You had led me
to suppose that we were half ruined . . .'

And you didn't want me to know of it, if we were ?
Oh, I see ! . . . Really, you are almost too good for
this world ! ' exclaimed Sophy, the cloud clearing from
her brow, and the tears coming to her dark eyes.

"Well, and now continued her father, * what do
you think ? It all seems *' passing strange " . . .'

I can't think ! Are we to be beggars ; and will
you have to carry a hat, like that rival blind man we so
often meet, whilst I lead you about with a string?'

Not a bit of it,' answered Francis St. Clair,
looking rather ashamed. * You must know that I
never thought of being miserly, and yet, of course,
I appeared so to others (not that one cares much for
the opinion of the herd), vegetating in the simple way
I did, with so few servants. Then, again, as you know,
I've positively nothing to keep up,  living, as we do,
in a mere rat-hole,  I can't hunt ; I preserve no game,
and yet plenty comes to us from both sides ; we don't
entertain much, or go out ; and I suppose this is how it
has all come to pass . . . .'

What has come to pass ?' inquired Sophy, anxiously.
You speak as though we had met with some misfortune.'

It is a misfortune which many people woidd willingly
share with us,' answered her father, smiling
sadly. ' The fact is, I am very much richer than I
thought I was. I, in my stupid way, have been going
on living on about five hundred a-year  from hand to
mouth, as it were ; requiring, as you know, yqvj little.
What was good enough for us seemed always good
enough for our friends ; and so, with an income of over
two thousand a-year, and little extras always tumbling
in  what do you think ? '

I really can't say anything, except that I always
fancied we weren't rich.'

*Well, living on like this for more than fifteen
years, and having sjoent very little before that, I now
find that I have saved a good round sin, quite a fortune,
in fact, and that without ever dreaming of it.'

E-eall} ! ' exclaimed Sojhy, unable to conceal her
astonishment. ' I knew, of course, that we weren't
extravagant in the way that some people are, that we
hated luxuries, avoided amusements, ate hardly any
meat, drank no wine, and wore as little clothes as we
possibly could ; but I remembered that we were conspirators,
'wire-pullers." I fancied that  scene-shifting
and  prompting'" and whispering instructions to the
*' painted puppets " (particularly when we can't arrive at
them without a carriage-and-four, with postilions), must
have cost something ; and I recollected, too, that we
were always in the clouds, and that we didn't see the
path under our feet, even when we had eyes : and all
this made me fancy that we were probably poor, or
that, if we weren't, we should very likely become so
some day.'

*/, too,' said Mr. St. Clair, 'had some such thoughts
at odd moments, so that my wealth has really come
upon me quite by surprise. When Mademoiselle de
Cramponaye explained to me the flourishing state of
my exchequer, I could hardly believe that I was not
under the influence of some magnetic slumber . . . .'

Perhaps you were,* interrupted his daughter,
quickly. ' Perhaps you dreamt all this about our
enormous riches, and that it isn't true ! '

It is, though, indeed. We went over the whole
thing together, what the property was worth, and
what our expenses were : and she even inquired into
my possible inheritance of Dalliiigridge, should any
misfortune happen to the son of my miserable brother.
I told her that it was entailed upon me ; that I could
raise money on this possibility, though it was, of course,
very remote ; and that the place could not be sold without
my consent at present. She went into every detail

most good-naturedly, and proved to me incontestably
that we are rolling in riches.'

One thing is remarked Sophy, with a little sigh
of resignation, ' it will soon go ! It will go to the Turks,
and the Poles, and the Circassians, and upon all the
rouge and patches " necessary to the " coquetting " of
the Great Prophet. It will melt away like snow before
the sun ! '

No, my child, it shall not ! ' cried the blind man,
with sudden energy. 'It shall go on rolling and rolling
up for you, until, some day, you will become quite a
small heiress, powerful to help the worthy and deserving,
whoever they may be.'

Oh, I don't want you to keep it for me ! ' said
Sophy, looking distressed. * Please give it all to the
Great Cause, for I dare say I should only throw it
away upon something quite as useless.'

And, ashamed of her own temerity  which might
appear, she fancied, almost like ingratitude at such a
moment  she buried her face in the ' lists ' of the
paternal beard, which ' youth gone out ' had not yet left
completely ' in ashes,' notwithstanding that it might
have vied, in other respects, even with the beard of
Merlin, as described by the Laureate.

Chapter II.

From Sophy's words in the last chapter it will be
apparent to the reader that, during the course of these
seven years, she had lost a considerable anoint of the
veneration with which she had at one time regarded
the Great Cause and all that appertained to it. And,

VOL. I. M

indeed, a very disagreeable sensation, which she would
have given worlds to stifle and trample in the dust,
had lately oppressed her. This took the foi of a
suspicion, of the basest and most unfilial kind  so it
seemed to her  for it had caused her to ask herself
more than once whether her father, upon some subjects
so sceptical and inquiring, was not, with regard to
many others, very little better than a dupe  malleable
as clay in the hands of the potter, and even seeming,
at times, to aid and abet in the throwing of dust in his
own eyes.

She realised, notwithstanding her youth and consequent
inexperience, that, by reason of this very
scepticism, a large mass of credulity in his nature was
left, as it were, free and unemployed ; and that this,
when requiring sustenance, was ready to fasten upon
whatever seemed palatable at the moment, provided
only that any such food had not been cooked in the
oven of orthodoxy, or shaped in what he was wont to
style contemptuously the * jellj-moulds of form and
doctrine.'

Nay, had not she herself her ' faiths and fetishisms,*
as she called them, entirely independent of theology,
and was there not in her nature a craving almost as
intense for the Ideal, the Marvellous, and the Romantic,
as there was for the Good, the Beautiful, and the True ?

Whilst she was yet a child, the irreconcilable contradictions
and vagueness with which the Great Cause
seemed to be fraught and environed, had not in the
least astonished her ; for she had said to herself that,
with time, all that was then mysterious would clear
away, and that the grand design for the political regeneration
of mankind would lie before her, nobly
transparent, even as the bosom of some mountain-lake.

discovered gradually by the uplifting of the morning
mists. But no such revelation had taken place. Rather
did it seem as if the increasing sunlight tended only to
thicken the lowering fogs which still shrouded the
great mystery, as though anxious to protect it from the
searching eye of the morning ; and her soul sickened
at times before the thought that, perhaps, after all, the
whole scheme was nothing more nor less than a mirage
and a delusion. There were even moments when,
tempted, as it would seem, by some persistent demon
of doubt, she actually dreaded a nearer acquaintance
with the enigma, lest, once it was unveiled, she should
contemplate it with as much abhorrence as did Silica
the terrible countenance of Johanna ; and yet it was to
this one idea that her father had devoted the best years
of his life ! To doubt its existence, or question the
wisdom of its tenets, was to doubt, likewise, his probity,
his intelligence, nay, his very sanity, into the bargain !
But it was only from time to time that these unpleasant
conjectures obtruded themselves upon her, and the
peaceful atmosphere of her country home was well
calculated to dispel them altogether.

Although she had once felt a certain jealous mistrust
of Mademoiselle de Cramponaye the elder, she
was, as she had informed her father, really attached to
the younger sister. Adele was a pretty brunette of
about two and twenty, with small features, sparkling
black eyes, and possessed of the winning manners and
sprightly retorts peculiar to most of the women of her
race, and Sophy had always found her a most agreeable
companion.

A few days after the arrival of these French ladies
at Little Stillingfleet, Sophy and Adele strolled out
together in the evening, walking, as is the custom with

young girls sentimentally (lis230sed, with their arms
affectionately entwined round one another's waists.
They had left Mademoiselle de Cramponaye to entertain
the blind man ; for Sophy was endeavouring to
subdue her first feeling of jealousy, sajng to herself
that this clever and accomplished woman of the world
must needs prove a more interesting companion to her
father than a mere ' slip of girlhood ' like herself, and
she had of late been deeply touched by the delicate
attentions which the elder of the two sisters seemed
ever ready to lavish upon him. Mademoiselle de
Cramponaye did not now receive payment in exchange
for her mesmeric passes, being regarded since her
arrival, and at her own request, in the light of a friend
of the family ; but she did not begrudge the expenditure
of some of her superfluous magnetic force from
time to time, and this was about the hour when, having
been put into a clairvoyant state by Adele, she continued
the treatment which she had commenced in
London for the benefit of her interesting patient.

As the two girls crossed the lawn in front of the
house, Adele's foot became entangled in a long piece of
string, and she would have fallen had it not been for
the support of her companion's arm.

CielV she exclaimed, looking towards some object
upon the grass. quelle /lorrcur f and she opened her
round black eyes very wide.

There is a whole romance tied to the other end
of that string,' said Sophy, pointing to the tortoise
Alexander, over whose hard shell the years seemed to
have passed without leaving the slightest impression.
That tortoise was given me by my cousin  a cousin
I had never seen until one day when we met quite by
accident in a hop-cart. After that I often saw him.

and I was quite in love with him when I was a little
girl. All those woods up there, as far as you can see,
belong to his father, who is now a very old man

And since those days,' Adele inquired, ' have you
met often ? '

Never ; that is the extraordinary part of it ! When
he came from Eton for his Christmas holidays, after I
saw him last, his father had taken a house in London
until Easter. At Easter ive had to go up to see a celebrated
oculist ; at midsummer we were again in town ;
that winter we went abroad  and so, somehow, this
kind of thing having gone on for years, we have never
met again. And now he is a young man of nearly two-ands
twenty, and I am quite grown up ; two kings of
England have died, the Reform Bill has been passed,
and Queen Victoria has ascended the throne ; and yet
here is this stupid thing looking just the same as it
always did ! ' and she tapped the shell of the tortoise
somewhat impatiently with her little foot.

EUc n' a Jamais prove cV emotions,' said the French
girl, with a sigh. * It is the emotions which make us
change rather than the years. Happy animal ! thou
hast kno\Ti neither loves nor hatreds ! '

I don't know how it could have known them,'
Sophy answered, laughing. ' Tied up with a string
to a stick, quite alone, and with such a very, very
thick shell ! But you talk as if you yourself had had
loves and hatreds by the dozen.'

Qui salt ? ' murmured Adele, with another sigh ;
and Sophy felt afraid of continuing a conversation
which seemed to give her companion pain.

Leaving, therefore, the solitary Alexander, she led
the way across the spread of park-land to the right of
the house ; and, after descending a slope of meadow-land,

the two friends entered a wood of alders, where
the ground began to rise again, joining eventually
the ir-belt belonging to Sir Peckham Ilickathrift of
Poynings Abbey.

They had not proceeded far when Sophy, catching
sight of a tall figure in one of the pheasant-drives,
carrying a gun and accompanied by a black retriever,
called out, in a playful voice, 

Now, Tom, pray what business have you poaching
upon our preserves ? '

Who is that ?' inquired Adele, in a whisper. ' Lc
jeuiic liommc a la torture V

No, no ; quite a different young man  our neighbour
on the opposite side. That old abbey you passed
on the road coming here belongs to his father. "We call
him 'the Prince with the Nose'"

Dieu ! quel nez ! ' Adele exclaimed, inter her
breath, as Tom Hickathrift advanced towards them,
looking rather shy and confused.

Cost le ncz les HicTiathriftsj' Sophy explained, with
somewhat of an Anglo-franco idiom. ' Vnd jou
mustn't say a word against it. Nouii h respects
beaucoup) 2)ar-i('i !

But Adele de Cramponaye, still astonished, continued
in a low voice to call upon the name of her
Maker, after the manner of the French, until Mr.
Hickathrift came up to the place where she and Sophy
were standing.

Thomas Hickathrift, since his schoolboy days, had
developed into a powerfully-built young giant. He
stood a little over six foot three without his boots, and
had none of the ' run-up-by-contract ' appearance which
is often the accompaniment of great height. But for
the peculiarity of his race already alluded to, and which

had grown with his growth, he would have been decidedly
handsome. As it was, he was a handsome
young man spoilt by too large a nose ; but he had fine
honest gray eyes, which looked out over it with the
grave and faithful expression of a retriever ; and,
indeed, the cast of his whole countenance bore a
marked affinity to that of the dog following at his
heel. This resemblance did not escape Adele de ,
who attached great importance to what Sophy
usually spoke of as ' the outside of the platter.'

Dicn ! qiCil resemble a son chien ! ' she whispered as
the young man approached.

Yes ; I've always noticed that people do grow very
like their dogs. He has had this one a long time.'

And, indeed, Mr. Hickathrift's present dog was a
pupp3 of that very black retriever which Godfrey St.
Clair had so coveted when they were both boys together,
more than seven years ago. 

This is my friend, Mademoiselle Adele de ,'
said Sophy, as Mr. Hickathrift, after raising
his ' wide awake ' to the two young ladies, held out his
hand. * She doesn't inter stand a single word of
English, so now we shall both hear how beautifully
you speak French.'

It is needless to say, however, that this was merely
a cruel practical joke on Sophy's part, intended only to
make poor Tom uncomfortable, for there were times
when it was her pleasure to tease and torment him.

I'm sorry" to say,' answered he, blushing, ' that I
don't know a word of any language except my own ; '
and he smiled nervously, displaying, as he did so, a row
of even white teeth under an incipient moustache.

'Dear me! how's that?' asked Miss St. Clair,
looking at him with knitted brows. * You that have

been so well educated at Eton and Oxford, and are
now an officer in the yeomanry ! I fancied, of course,
you would speak it like a native.'

Wli}', you see,' said the J'oung man, naturally
anxious to bring forward the few accomplishments
he possessed, 'when I was at Eton I went in, as I've
told you, more for rowing than " sapling." I won the
'pulling" twice, and then I wanted to get into the
"eight" . . .'

And now, instead of travelling, and trying to improve
your mind, you are always destroying life 
shooting, or going out with the beagles; and then,
upon the slightest provocation, you "have out the
ferrets," as you call it. It's very easy to see that
you're not a Buddhist.'

No,' answered the young man, with a slight south-country
burr, ' I am certainly not a Buddhist ; and
what's more, I don't see why I should be one.'

The Buddhists,' said Sophy severely, ' will not
destroy life, fearing, I have heard, to destroy their
ancestors ; believing, as they do, in the transmigration
of souls. And one sees Why. Supposing a man dies
and is buried, grass grows over him, does it not ? '

If one isn't buried in a vault,' answered Tom 
thinking, probably, of the ' two thousand dead bodies,
nearly all of them Hickathrif ts '  ' grass might certainly
grow on the top of one's grave. Well ? '

'Well,' continued the gleaner in all fields of philosophy
 the picker of the plies out of all creeds  ' a
cow passes by, we will suppose, or a sheep, and eats
some of the grass. Part of that man's nature somehow
becomes a part of the cow.'

I see what you mean,' said the young man. ' But
I don't see for that reason why one shouldn't shoot and
amuse oneself, or have out the beagles.'

 We will suppose proceeded Sophy, going on with
her idea, ' that the cow or sheep is killed, and that
some part of it is given to a beagle . . .'

Beagles,' said Tom Hickathrift, practically, * are
generally fed upon horseflesh

Yes, I know ; and the result would be just the
same if the grass were eaten by a horse, or even by a
rabbit.'

Her knowledge of the tenets of Buddhism being
extremely rudimentary, she was not sorry to escape
from having to follow up the transmigration of the
beagle, which, in a country where clog has never yet been
regarded as a staple article of food, seemed to present
more difficulties than it would have done in the Celestial
Empire.

This rabbit,' she went on, quite confidently now,
is eaten by a ferret  one of your ferrets, we will suppose
 that horrid white one with the pink eyes  whi(5li
in its turn is caught, killed, and eaten by . . .'

No ! ' cried the young man, goaded at last into
self-assertion ; * that really won't do ! No animal that
ever I saw or heard of could, or icon Id, eat ferret !
You've got wrong, somehow, in your calculation,
though I'm not clever enough to say where.'

After touching upon several subjects less involved
than Buddhism, the three young people retraced their
steps towards the pointed gables of Little Stillingfleet.
Mr. Hickathrift accompanied the two girls as far as
the confines of the alder-wood, where he prepared to
take his leave. As he raised his hat, politely but
silently, to Adele, she said, laughingly, 

I know how to speak English a little : my silence
was intended to tempt you to speak French.'

It did tempt me,' answered he, laughing too ; ' but
that was all. So the plan didn't succeed. It extracted

nothing; for mademoiselle to laugh at ; and /, too, am
decidedly a loser. I shall hope, however, to see you
and Miss St. Clair again, before very long ; ' and,
whistling to his ' faithful hound,* the good-natured
young giant strode off in the direction of his ancestral
home.

I like very much that young man whom you call
The Prince with the Nose," ' remarked Adele, as soon
as he was out of hearing. ' I find him very amiable
and comme il faut. II n'cst 2)as free heathy mais il a I'air
hou:

Ah, and, indeed, he is good ! ' exclaimed Sophy,
enthusiastically, for she was a most loyal friend. ' lie's
the kindest-hearted creature in the world ; he wouldn't
even hurt a fly. That's why one wonders at his being
so fond of shooting.'

Most giants are amiable,* replied Adele. * And
that was quite a pretty compliment he made me at
parting, ybr an Englishman !'

Yes, I was quite astonished at it ; for, generally,
talking and writing are not his strong points.'

I should fancy not ; perhaps he is what some
people prefer  a thinker. Still, it seemed rude to
tease him about his ignorance. And then you accused
him, too, of being a poacher ! Does he not object toit?'


 Not in the least ! ' answered Sophy, in an off-hand
manner. ' On the contrary, he likes it. The more one
teases him, the more fond of one he becomes.'

Then you wish him to become even more fond of
you than he is now ? ' Adele inquired, with an arch
smile. ' And yet it is easy to see that he is already
amoureux fou ! *

What nonsense ! ' cried Sophy, reddening nevertheless.

'Why, we are exactly like brother and
sister!'

No two people can be ' exactly like brother and
sister " who have not the least possible relationship.
A time always comes when either one or other of them
will break down.'

Oh, but we shan't ! ' said Sophy confidently. * We've
known each other much too 

may be that the brcaking-do\"ii time has not
yet arrived. Some day, however, it will come, and
then you will remember my words.'

I shall remember them, only to think how ridiculous
and absurd they were. In France, though, I have
heard, people talk and write a great deal about love.
Here it never enters one's head ; and two people can goon
for years and years as friends, without thinking of
anything more. It's something to do with the weather,
I believe,' she added, thoughtfully, as she knocked off
the top of a stinging-nettle, which happened to be in
her path.

Time will show,' rejoined the French girl, with
the manner of an oracle. ' But I think you will see
that eventually all will not go so smoothly.'

Indeed you don't understand ! ' Sophy protested.
It seems to me only the other day that we left off
kissing. I do believe wc kissed quite up to fourteen.'

Which of you was fourteen  you or he ? '

He was, or he might have been nearly fifteen, and I
was about nine or ten ; and then I only left it off because
I heard big bos's didn't like their sisters to kiss them.'

Ah, but that was some time ago, which makes a
difference. You couldn't do so now, and I think you
should leave off teasing him too, and calling him
'atom." What is his other name?'

lie is the son of Sir Pcckliam Ilickathrift of
Poynings Abbc}',' answered Soph 3% with some pride;
for in her ears this ancient name was like the sounding
of a chiron. * But if I called him " Mr. Ilickathrift,"
he would burst out laughing.'

Moi Dim, his name is as long as his nose ! And
is it possible that ancient abbey, as big almost as a
town, belongs only to a "Sir"  a Baronet  your noble
of lowest rank ? I imagined at least that it was the
possession of some Lord Mayor or Duke ! The complications
of your Peerage are most mysterious.'

'Well, I'll try and not tease Tom Ilickathrift so
much, though I can assure you he likes it. Besides, he
Ivuew I was only in fun. He wasn't really poaching,
but good-naturedly shooting us a few pheasants, as he
knew we had company ; and the best of it is, that
they're not our pheasants, but his  the poor things
come into our ground from both sides. When I was a
little girl, I used to attract them with corn and raisins,
and, I'm sorry to say, now Nelus sometimes sets clams
for them, when Tom isn't here to shoot them. My
father, as you know, is half a vegetarian, as he objects
to destroying innocent life. If he fancies, however,
that the pheasants get into clams set for destructive
creatures  quite by accident  he doesn't mind eating
them ; and I think it's good for him, as he seems to
live upon air. I'm in treaty for some new steel clams
that won't hurt the poor birds so much, and perhaps
wee shall catch you some to take back with you. ' You
see,' added the youthful poacher philosophically, ' if we
didn't kill the poor creatures, somebody else would !
One hears nothing but guns in the shooting season
popping round one in all directions. It's dreadfully
cruel.'

My sister,' said Adele, * likes very much birds of
all kinds  to eat. But now, tell me, on which side is
the property of your uncle ? '

There : all those oak and beech-woods I pointed
out to you before. If you like, I'll show you where I
used to meet my cousin when we were both children ; '
and she led the way through the hazel-copse towards
Great Stillingfleet.

It was a beautiful evening in the middle of
October. A good deal of rain had fallen at the commencement
of the month ; and this had been almost
the first fine day, though the clear pink and primrose
of the heavens seemed to promise just such another
tomorrow. In the air there was certainly a suspicion
of coming frost, but only enough to tinge the cheeks of
Sophy and Adele with what looked like a reflection of
the rosy sky, without causing them to feel chilled ;
and all Nature, as after a gala-day, appeared to be
sinking gradually and gratefully to rest, lulled by a
thousand little murmuring sounds from bird, beetle,
and belated humming-bee.

When they had reached the well-known five-barred
gate, the two girls remained for some moments in
silence, leaning their arms upon it, and gazing up at
the woods of Pallingridge Park.

How beautiful it is ! ' exclaimed Sophy at last.
'Could anything be more lovely?'

I am wondering in what colours one could paint
it,' rejoined Adele, who, under the auspices of her
friend, had been dabbling in water-colours.

I should begin by turning my paper upside down,'
Sophy answered, ' to prevent the colours from running
the wrong way ; and then I should dash in a streak of
yellow-ochre, or Indian yellow, at the lower part of the

or

sky, close to-where I had sketched the line of the earth.
This I should allow to run into a little pink-madder or
lake, which would run into the indigo that I should lay
on next. If I put blue next to yellow it would make
green, so I separate them by the lake, and the indigo
meeting it, would make just that lovely purple we see
there over the pink.'

'I long to try it,' said Adele. 'And then, what
would you do next ? '

I should let it get quite dry, and then mix together
all the colours I had used in the sky  indigo,
lake, and yellow-ochre  only a great deal stronger, and
not quite so wet ; and with these I should dash in that
mass of dark woodland as bravely' as I could, avoiding,
above all things, going over my work twice. I should
then carry what colour I had to spare diovm into the
foreground, leaving the paper unpainted for that streak
of water which you see there looking quite white in the
distance : and then, after that was dry, I should darken
the nearer trees and shadows, and, if I could, I would
paint in that violet cloud there, Which is floating across
the pink sky just like a great eagle. Ah, look ! . . .
As we are speaking its neck is getting longer and
longer, and now it has quite floated away from its body.
That's the worst of the sky ; it won't ever stand still
for a single moment ! '

Leading this happy life,' remarked the French
girl sadly, ' you have nothing to occupy you but the
forms of the trees and the colour of the sk} How I
envy you ! To me this is all as a delightful dream ;
but soon will come the awakening when I return to
London, and then quelle vie, quelle existence, mon Dieu ! '

'And yet,' her companion answered ' surely yours
is a much happier life than that of most people ? You

live in London, where you can see pleasant society ;
and you can help your sister, and get to know all the
clever persons who come to be mesmerised, and learn
so much that must be worth knowing.'

I do not find them particularly clearer,' rejoined
Adele ; ' neither do I desire to learn what they would
be best calculated to teach. I have been too long
mixed up with the "behind-the-scenes;" to me it is
all a supreme hetisc'

How do you mean ? You don't mean to say that
your sister is an impostor ? '

I mean to say,' replied Adele,  that she is not my
sister at all. Heaven knows who are my real relations
! They must have disposed of me when I was
too young to know them, in order that I might go
through these so-called mesmeric performances  to acta
lie, to pretend to be other than I am. Alas, when
will it all end?'

Dear Adele ! ' said Sophy, trying to console her ;
it must end some day, of course, and then you will go
home again to your real relations. Mademoiselle de
Cramponaje will know who they are. You must try
to imagine that you are only at school.'

*Alas!' exclaimed Adele, sadly, * to whose home
am I to go ? I have none ; neither have I any means
of discovering the parents who have cast me off.'

Well, but some day you will have a home of your
own, dear. You are very nice and very pretty ; some
day you will marry, and go away from Wimpole Street
with your husband, and be as happy as possible.'

I do not think,' answered Adele, ' that this is
at all likely  the happiness, I mean. I have had only
one real proposition of marriage in my life. It is the
first, and probably it will be the last.'

Then I should certainly accept it,' said Sophy, ina
decided tone. (Thus lightly and ignorantly do we
often dispose of the destinies of our neighbours !)

It is occupying very much my mind at the present
time,' rejoined the French girl, sighing. ' There are
moments when I think that I will most certainly accept
it, and then at others my heart is revolted at the very
idea.'

'Ah, but I shouldn't mind that one hits cried her
friend. ' I should certainly marry. What is the name
of your admirer, and what is he like ? '

It is that,' Adele replied with a shudder, ' which
makes the idea so very terrible. His appearance is at
the root of it.'

'Ah, but everij one says,' Sophy cut in eagerly, 
much wiser and more experienced people than I am, 
that good looks in a husband are not of the slightest
consequence ; and look how happy some women appear
to be, married to ugly men ! In a week sou will quite
forget what he is like.'

Oh, no ; never, never ! ' cried Adele, earnestly. * I
should never, never be able to forget that terrible face !
You know quite well the person who has made me this
proposition  Mr. Wilson, of whom you speak as Mr.
Carver. Ah ! how can I ever forget that he is black?'

Carver ! ' exclaimed Sophy, with an expression of
horror. ' What a terrible thought ! How dared he
propose to you?'

It would have been a very desirable marriage forme
in many respects,' rejoined Adele, humbly. ' And
had he been of the same colour as everybody else, I
think it might even now have been arranged. He is
possessed of a good fortune, part of which he has
acquired professionally ; ho is interested in those subjects

which I have studied under the auspices of my
pretended sister, and I should have been useful to him
in the production of the phenomena necessary to his
representations. My sister is in favour of it ; for we
should then take a larger house, and perhaps all live
under one roof, unless she also should marry . . . .'

Adele ! ' cried Sophy indignantly, ' how could
she wish it ? It must, indeed, never be ! Surely anything
would be better than that ! For myself, I know
that I would rather beg or starve

You J who have never had occasion to do either, and
who are born to fortune and happiness, can afford to
speak like this ; but to nne the idea of a permanent
home . . .*

A permanent home !' repeated Sophy ; 'that would
be the most terrible part of it ! A permanent home
with a permanent " mumbo jumbo " in it ! '

I think you have decided me against it ; it did not
require more than the weight of a straw.'

'I am indeed thankful if I have. And now you
will feel much happier. Consider that, if Mademoiselle
de Cramponaye is not actually your sister, you should
be all the more grateful for her care of you. She
really seems very kind.'

'She appears kind,' answered Adele, in a marked
tone. 'But she is always acting a part. She will
appear kind too, no doubt, to other people, when she
becomes your stepmother . . .'

When she becomes my stepmother ?' repeated Sophy,
changing colour. ' What can you mean ?'

I mean,' answered the French girl, ' that for a longtime
she has been endeavouring to marry your father,
and it is only you who have not perceived it.'

Oh, it can't be true ! ' exclaimed Sojhy, feeling a

VOL. I. N

chill at lier heart, whilst the doubts and suspicions she
had tried hard to thrust aside rushed back upon her
with redoubled force. * He never, never would marry
ajrain ! He doesn't care for her in the least ! He would
be quite as much surprised to hear of it as I am.'

'I have told her that he docs not care,' Adele
answered. ' I have said that he was of so vague and
dreamy a disposition that he did not see what was
under his nose . . .'

He does not even see what is under his eyes, poor
darling ! And how was he, so trustful and unsuspecting
as he is, to see through the machinations of
that woman ? But I will defeat them ! ' she cried,
clenching her little fist, and bringing it down with
some force upon the top of the gate  'I will defeat
them ! '

'And why,' Adele asked, feeling called upon to
advise in her turn, * should you speak of these matrimonial
designs as " machinations ? " In life it is the
desire of every ambitious person to rise, and happy are
fchey who can do this without the sacrifice of their self-respect
! My pretended sister entertains the project
of marrying your father. She has weighed it and
considered it in every light, and has arrived at the
conclusion that it will be in all ways beneficial to herself
and injurious to no one.'

'It is injurious to 7no! exclaimed Sophy, in an
altered voice. ' It will be stealing from me all that I
love upon earth ! '

'And for how long will you love him?' asked the
French girl. ' For only a very little while ; and then
some young man will step in, who has never rendered
you, perhaps, the slightest service, but you will love
him twenty times as much, and he will carr}'- you

away ; whilst your father, who has given you all his
care, will seem as nothing to you, and will be left alone
in his blindness.'

I assure you,' Sophy protested earnestly, ' that I
shall never marry. It would be impossible to me to
leave him.'

Time will show,' replied Adele, quietly. * But I
should have said that you were of the kind that will
be certain to be married before very long ; and bounded
as you are, on the right hand by *' The Prince with the
Nose," and on the left by " the young man of the tortoise,"
it will be strange, indeed, if eventually you do
not fall to the lot of one or the other of them. / am
for the Prince with the Nose ! '

That is absurd ! ' said Sophy, somewhat brusquely'.
'You speak without understanding. Come, let us go
home.'

Chapter III.

"When Mr. Hickathrift had said that he hoped soon
to have the pleasure of seeing Miss St. Clair and her
friend again, he had meant to express himself in a
very significant manner ; and sure enough, upon the
following morning he presented himself at Little
Stillingfleet.

Sophy received him with a cordial grasp of the
hand, which seemed to send the blood throbbing back
to his heart. He noticed, too, with concern, that she
looked extremely pale, and that her eyes appeared even
larger and darker than usual. The fact was, she had
not slept ' a wink ' all night in consequence of the conflicting
emotions aroused by Adele' s disclosures ; and

the presence of her oil comrade and neighbour seeming
to her like a solace, she grasped his hand rather more
warmly than had been her wont. For Thomas Ilicka-
thrift, at any rate, was gominc. Everything about him
was real, even the hereditary feature, which she had
often wished had been false, in order that she might
have screwed it off and left him beautiful as a hero
of romance. Like the conscientious Buddhist, she was
beginning to shed her illusions, though, far from deriving
happiness from the process, her heart ached
anew with every fresh demolition.

Apart from the sense of disappointment which
somehow seemed always to follow upon a closer contemplation
of the tenets of the Great Cause, other

causes,' convictions, and characters, appeared gradually
to be losing form and substance, and evaporating, as it
were, into thinnest air.

The so-called 'Aztec Remnants,' it was now surmised,
had had in reality very little to do with ' the
magnificent city of Ixymaya,' and * the ancient sacerdotal
caste,' so frequently alluded to in the pages of the
pink pamphlet. Nay, even Sophy's father, notwithstanding
his floating fund of credulity, was gradually
veering round to the opinion expressed by his more
conventional neighbour, Sir Peckham Hickathrift, to
the effect that they had been in all probability

Jew-dwarf-idiots ' rescued from the purlieus of
Whitechapel.

Carver, too, was not * Carver.' He was in reality

Wilson,' or else, he was in reality * Carver,' whilst

Wilson ' was only an assumed name. Adele de 
had properly no right to be called * de 
' at all. She was the unfortunate child of
parents '\\'ho had abandoned her  nameless, homeless,

a waif and a stray. Mademoiselle de Cramponayc (the
elder) was also an impostor. An adventuress and a
quack, endeavouring to better herself by an interested
marriage, whilst her clairvoyant and mesmeric pretensions
were all, according to Adele's assertion, a
supreme hetise ; but Thomas Ilickathrift was no other
than Thomas Hickathrift, as all the world knew, and
in Sophy's present frame of mind this knowledge
brought with it consolation.

It transpired that the object of his visit was to
invite Miss St. Clair and her young French friend
to a ball, which was to be given at the Abbey erelong,
and which it was intended should be a combination
of the usual yeomanry ball with certain festivities
ensuing upon the occasion of his coming of age ;
for which reason it was to take place at the Abbey
instead of at the George Hotel, and to be attended with
circumstances of extraordinary magnificence ; and, indeed,
Mr. Hickathrift's public coming of age had been
postponed for nearly six months in order to ' kill two
birds with one stone,' by selecting a time of jear when
most of the leading county families would be able to
assist at it.

He had brought with him a formal invitation from
his mother addressed to Sophy, which, in order to show
the friendly feeling at this time existing between the
two families, I will transcribe at full length : it will
also give the reader some idea of Lady Hickathrift's
peculiar punctuation and style. It ran as follows : 

My dear Sophia,  As an old friend, once, of your
father's, the' of late years, circumstances, religious, and
political differences of opinion, &c., &c., have combined to
separate us more than would have been the case, I fondly
trust, had the tastes of Sir Peckham and himself been

more in common, which I regret to say has not been
vouchsafed. May I hope that you will be permitted by
him to join the company we shall do the honour of inviting
to a ball in celebration of the birth of our dear son,
which would have taken place (as usual), at the Assembly
Rooms of the George Hotel, on the 29th of this month,
but, as is at present arranged, at the Abbey, in the ancient
crypt. (Dancing to commence at half-past nine o'clock.)
I am informed, by my dear son, that you have, staying with
you, a young French lady, whom, tho' we have determined
upon our company's being as select as possible, as she is a
friend of yours, pray invite de ma part  bad manners, or
breach of courtesy, being my abhorrence, as it is also Sir
Peckham's, I need not say. Did I but know her name, I
would write her a formal invitation ivith my own hand,
which I am sure she will excuse under the circumstances.
By coming early on Thursday, you will appear to be under
my living to those who do not. As you have no mother, you
will, perhaps, excuse me for mentioning that white is usually
worn by meditates, particularly before their presentation at
Court, and even afterwards. I can recall my own dress as
being of that colour at a Court ball I attended previous to
my portrait's appearing in the Both of Beauty. With our
compliments to your father, believe me, my dear Sophia,
yours affectionately, A. Hickathrift.'

Of course,' Sophy remarked, after reading this
letter aloud to her father, ' I can't go ! Give my love
to your mother, Tom, and tell her that the idea of my
ever going to a ball seems quite ridiculous. Adele can
go if she likes.'

We are, unfortunately, obliged to return to London
tomorrow,' answered the magnetic lady, in what
Sophy afterwards described as * a kicked-dog voice,'
so my sister will not be able to avail herself of the
amiable invitation of miladi.'

At these words, so great was the weight which
seemed suddenly to have lifted itself from Sophy's
heart, that she could have performed then and there a
spirited dance of delight, without attending the Great
Hickathrift Ball.

I don't see why the lovely and intelligent Sophia
should not have the pleasure of attending the festivities
upon this auspicious occasion,' Francis St. Clair remarked,
greatly to his daughter's astonishment, as he
turned his sightless eyes towards the place where he
imagined that she was sitting.

But I don't believe I can dance ! ' she answered,
looking terrified ; * and then,' she added, making use
of one of the favourite subterfuges of her sex, 'I
haven't got a dress ! '

As I am returning tomorrow morning to London,
can I not be of some use in ordering one ? ' inquirqji
Mdlle. de Cramponaye, still in the voice of a sonffre-
douleiir.

How fortunate it is that you should happen to be
returning just now ! ' exclaimed Mr. St. Clair, with
naivete.  If you would have the kindness to order
what she will require, I shall feel extremely obliged.
It is not often that we could hope for the co-operation
of so valuable an ally ! '

But the dress won't fit ! ' said Sophy, making a
last effort. ' It won't have been tried on ! '

I shall take the measure of your waist, your
shoulders, your round the chest, and the length of
your skirt, behind and before,' answered Mdlle. de
Cramponaye the elder. * Run upstairs, Adele, and
fetch me my centimetre.*

'Fifty-seven centimetres round the waist, 105 round
the shoulders, length of jupe in front 109, at the back

119,' mumiurod mademoiselle, as she measured Sophy
with the facility of an experienced dressmaker. ' The
dress shall be white. With regard to flowers, do you
prefer margticritcs, or will you be satisfied with natural
ivy?'

Oh, natural 'wy, answered Sophy, carried away in
spite of herself. ' It costs less.'

Before arranging it upon the dress,' said Adele,
take only so much of oil of salade as might be placed
in the eye, and rub over with it each leaf, wiping them
afterwards ; this causes a very pretty effect, as though
of wetness.'

It sounds awfully pretty,' remarked Mr. Hicks
who, astride on the seat of a chair, was gazing
at Sophy over the back of it in rapturous admiration.

'And next, if you will give me one of your shoes,'
continued Mdlle. de Cramponaye, as though anxious to
perform every jot and tittle of her commission,  I w411
have a pair of white-satin shoes sent to you at the same
time as the dress.'

Oh, thank you ! ' answered Sophy, beginning unconsciously
to flush with enthusiasm. ' My foot is the
same size as Adele's.'

That will do, then,' said the clairvoyante, winding
up her centimetre, with a sigh.

Perhaps I might go as far as the Abbey'' tomorrow,
when mademoiselle goes away,' remarked Sophy, addressing
herself to the blind man. * I could go in the
fly, and then I could talk it over with Lady Hicks


That will be capital ! ' cried Tom. ' You must
stay to luncheon, and mother will drive you back in
the pony-carriage.'

At this allusion to her approaching departure, so

melancholy was the expression that passed over the
countenance of the elder of the soi-disant sisters, that
Sophy could not help asking herself whether there
might not have mingled, after all, something of heart
as well as head in her matrimonial calculations. Of
one thing she felt almost certain,  an explanation of
some kind had taken place between her father and
the Frenchwoman ; and her manner and bearing was
strangely like that of a disappointed suitor fleeing from
the scene of discomfiture. There are some things,
however, which are destined to remain for ever unexplained,
and which it is best to dismiss at once from
the mind in order that they may take their places
alongside of such impenetrable mysteries as the parentage
of Pekin Warbeck, the birthright of the Bourbon
black nun, the man with the iron mask, the authorship
of. the letters of Junius, and a thousand other unanswered
riddles, to endeavour to divine which is unprofitable
in the highest degree ; and Sophy, realising this,
endeavoured, in the present instance, to dismiss her
fears, feeling that upon Mdlle. de Cramponaye's departure
the prime cause of her anxiety would be removed.

'Perhaps, Tom, you would kindly order a fly for
tomorrow ?' she said, as she bade farewell to the young
man with the retriever face. 'A shut one, please, as
there'll be some luggage. How tiresome it is that
the coach doesn't pick one up now at the gate as it
used to do ! '

Before quitting Little Stillingfleet, Adele felt called
upon to give her friend another serious lecture upon
her behaviour in * making Mr. Ilickathrift ' (as she
remarked) ' fetch and carry, as though in truth he were
no better than the dog he so much resembles ! '

As if any man could be better than the best of

dogs ! ' replied Sophy, laughing. * It's a compliment
to treat him like one, and he appreciates it.'

Ah, you are so happy that you can afford to be a
little cruel perhaps ! It is not my place, after all, to
give you advice.'

You may r/ire as much as you like ; I am not
obliged to take it ! I hope, however, that you will not
altogether neglect ?/V, for I too, like most people,
can give extraordinarily wise counsel to others. Remember
that your present existence, however miserable,
may at any moment change for the better ; whereas
once you are unhappily married your life is, as it were,
done for  at any rate, it will go on getting worse and
worse.'

Sometimes,' remarked Adele pensively, ' the first
husband will die, and one marries a second more
agreeable.'

Then I should certainly begin with the second,'
cut in Sophy eagerly.

Alas, that is impossible ! He has no fortune, and
the idea of our marriage has had at last to be abandoned.'


What ! do you know him already ? ' cried Sophy,
astonished at her friend's idea of approaching a second
husband through the medium of the first. ' I hope
that he is irhite, at any rate.'

Indeed, yes. He is a professor of poetry, history,
and elocution ; young and beautiful as an angel, but
without fortune. To marry at present would be to
endanger the success of his career, so we have had to
relinquish all thought of it.'

But you are sure to have other proposals,' said
Sophy encouragingly. * You are very young and very
pretty, so I shoidd certainly not marry, if I were you.

a person I wished out of the way. It must be such a
terrible position. Besides,' she added, ' I believe nasty
disagreeable people hardly ever do die. It seems always
the nice ones that go.'

Rather is it, perhaps,' replied the French girl,
that once they are gone we speak of them as though
they had been nice ; knowing that they can never
annoy us again, we forgive them, and try to forget
their nastiness.'

Perhaps so,' Sophy rejoined dreamily. ' With me,
however  that is, in my small circle of friends  no
one has ever died yet, ** nice " or '' nasty." '

TJnherufen ! For once I must use a horrid German
word. Take care what you say, and do not
boast.'

I don't see,' continued Sophy, with the manner of
one thinking aloud, * that there are many people even
in nij/ small world whose deaths would really grieve me.
There's my father, of course ; but I'm thankful to say,
except for his blindness, he is as well as possible : he
looks a little weary sometimes, and his face has grown
lately terribly sad, but he has never had an ache or
pain. Then there is Tom Ilickathrift and Janus ; but,
you see,' she added cheerfully, ' I don't present a very
wide target to the arrows of Fate ! '

How poetical you are ! For you, the well-turned
epigram, the allusion enveloped in metaphor ; for me,
the stern battle of life, the crude reality, the pill without
the gilding, and unaccompanied by bonbons ! . . .
But yet there is the young man of the tortoise, who
will probably occupy some place in your life after you
have met him at this ball ? '

Do you really think that I shall meet him ? ' asked
Sophy, opening her large eyes with a startled expression.

* All, but even if I do, he probably won't know
me again ! '

He will know you soon enough if you are admired,
and have a success answered Adele, somewhat bitterly.
For that is the way with men.'

I never thought for a moment that I should meet
him,' said Sophy, still looking alarmed. ' Do you really
think that my dress will fit P'

I will answer that it shall,' replied her friend reassuringly.
*And then, after I have superintended
your toilette de hal, do not be surprised if I run away to
escape from my own complications. Take warning by
me, ere you permit yourself to become involved with
two persons ! '

After which final piece of advice the two young
ladies proceeded together downstairs, and sought the
society of their elders.

The Poynings fly, obedient to Mr. Hickathrift's
orders, arrived on the morrow at the appointed hour ;
and as soon as the French ladies had taken their
places, Sophy sprang into it with a lighter heart than
she had felt for some days. Notwithstanding her
friendship for Adele, it was impossible to repress a
sensation of intense relief. The door of the fly was
closed at last, and after an exchange of parting civilities
with the blind man, the driver mounted upon the box,
and directed his way up the serpentine road which led
towards Poynings, having received instructions to set
down Miss St. Clair at the Abbey before conveying her
companions to the George Inn.

ClIAPTEll lY.

At length the day arrived upon which was to be
celebrated the twenty-first anniversary of the birth of
Thomas Hickathrift, which (according to the wording
of his mother's letter) ' could have taken place (as
usual), at the Assembly Rooms of the George Hotel,
on the 29th of this month, but, as is at present arranged,
at the Abbey, in the ancient crypt. (Dancing
to commence at half-past nine o'clock)' And nearly
an hour before the appointed time Miss St. Clair presented
herself at Poynings fully equipped for the
evening.

A girl's first ball-dress is not always a source of unqualified
gratification to its wearer. More commonly,
indeed, it serves only to impress upon her the truth of
the saying that ' ilfaut soiiffrir pour etre helle ; ' and as
this was the only occasion, since she had arrived at years
of discretion, upon which Sophy had appeared in the
costume which modern fashion demanded, she could not
help feeling rather shy as she glanced down at her bare
arms and shoulders, fearing lest, by some untoward
movement, she might slip altogether out of her gossamer
raiment, and appear in the more classical undress
of the typical wood-nymph she so much resembled, with
her * strange sweet face and tresses ivy-crowned.'

No such catastrophe, however, was destined to come
to pass. The dress, by some manner of miracle, kept
in its appointed place ; and upon beholding with what
apparent indifference good Lady Hickathrift displayed
to the multitude the bones and articulations of her
meagre frame, Sophy felt her confidence in a great
measure restored.

She had been permitted, upon her arrival at the

Abbey, to penetrate even unto the sacred precincts of
the dressing-room, where she had looked on with interest
whilst Miss Peacock gave the finishing touches to a
most gorgeous and expensive * twilight.' This consisted
of a dress of orange-coloured moire antique, over which
was scattered a profusion of black lace, and what the
abigail designated 'Jfeitrs de champs which, when translated,
seemed to mean buckwheat, poppies, and other
autumn field-flowers. The idea was repeated in the

coifoor,' arranged in pyramidal form, somewhat a
VEfipagnoIe, and the whole effect appeared to Sophy
terrible and imposing in the extreme.

The wearer of this magnificent costume advanced
towards her with the utmost cordiality as soon as it had
been successfully adjusted.

My dear Sophia,' she exclaimed admiringly, ' you
really look quite charming ! I had hardly expected,
indeed, that you would have been dressed with so much
*' goo." Look, Peacock, how new and " recherche f/" is
the " eorsarge*\f'

It is indeed most stylish, my lady,' replied Miss
Peacock approvingly. ' And I think I might do //up
your ladyship's maroon " glace " in the same fashion
for the evening.'

It was not my idea,' stammered out Sophy, blushing
under such sustained admiration. ' Those two French
ladies who were staying with us  one of whom (the
youngest one, Adele) you so kindly invited to-night,
only she couldn't come  tJicij ordered it.'

My dear Sophia ! ' exclaimed Lady Ilickathrif t,
whose every sentence took the form of an interjection,

that perfectly explains it, for the ** goo " is thoroughly
Parisian ! But where,' she added suddenly, in a tone
of perturbation, *are your fan and pocket-handkerchief?'


My pocket-handkerchiefs explained Sophy simply,
is pinned on underneath my silk " slip," as there wasn't
a pocket in the dress ; and I haven't got a fan.'

Dear me /' cried her ladyship ; and though she was
apparently * less angry than sad,' it was easy for Sojhy
to perceive that she had already committed some egregious
breach of etiquette. ' The fan and pocket-handkerchief
of a debutante,' said Lady Hickathrift, with
solemnity, ' are invariably held in the left hand  thus
. . ;' and, at a sign from her mistress, Peacock rushed
breathlessly towards the wardrobe.

Here, my dear Sophia,' her ladyship continued,
presenting Sophy with a fan and a piece of lace, ' is a
fan ; be careful of it, and do not on any account use it
for fanning yourself, but hold it in your hand  so . . .
the figures are very beautifully painted in imitation of
Watteau. Here also, dear child, is a pocket-handkerchief
 perhaps you could make use of the one you have
pinned under your silk slip ; but hold this, with the
fan, in your hand, so . . I have (as Peacock will
tell you) a special " sentiment " for both the fan and
pocket-handkerchief, as I was painted with them in my
hand in the portrait of myself which was afterwards
engraved . . . .'

But at this moment a clanking sound, as though of
spurs, sword, and sabretache, drowned Lady Hicks
reminiscences, and ' The Prince with the Nose,'
arrayed in all the glories of costive belonging to the

Yeomanry Cavalry,' dashed into the apartment

without perceiving Miss St. Clair, saying as he did
so, 

There, mother ! Do you think I shall do ? '

Upon observing Sophy, he blushed very uncomfortably
; and she, too, could not help feeling confused.

Miss Peacock, however, came to the rescue, and in
some measure (lisi)ellccl their embarrassment by exclaiming,


Io, my lady, might the Miss Spearinks come in
and sec your ladyship (dressed ? And I am sure, mum,'
she added, turning to Sophy, ' they would very much
like to see your " twilight " as well.'

(Oh, the relief and pride experienced when one is
called for the first time * mum,' instead of the inevitable
and perpetually-recurring ' miss ! ')

I am sure I see no reason why the Miss Spearings
should desire to look at me /' Lady Hickathrift remarked,
fishing as usual for a compliment.

Ho, nif/ lady /' was all Peacock had time to exclaim,
reproachfully, as she hurried off to fetch the impatient
Spearings, who, upon being ushered into the presence-chamber
(as Sophy afterwards informed her father)
'prowled round' herself and Lady Hickathrift 'like
wild beasts sniffing at their prey ; ' nor was there the
slightest detail in either costume which they could not
have faithfully reproduced upon the morrow in the interests
of their calling.

I'm glad that's over at last,' said Sophy, as she
and Mr. Hickathrift descended the grand staircase
together. * How shy it made one feel ! '

I don't fancy I should feel very shy if I looked
like you,' answered he, rapturously ; and, indeed, at
that moment, Sophy could not repress the pleasant
consciousness of being a great deal better-looking than
most people. It came upon her for the first time in
her life, and it was, no doubt, an enjoyable sensation
on the whole. Still, she was strangely out of her element
; and she entered the brilliantly-lighted ballroom
feeling like a person under the influence of

hasheesh when the action of the drug has been exhilarating
rather than depressing.

O youth ! delicious time ! Time of the quick-flushing
cheek, of the down drooping eyelashes, of the
heart that is set beating for so little and yet for so
many ! With all thy snares, heartaches, delusions,
and tribulations, who is there that would not have thee
back, were it possible that thou couldst revisit us
again ? For, surely, of all pleasures, this is the one
which would the least pall with the twice tasting,
and then  our first youth mapped out behind us like
a country already explored, with its finger-posts, lighthouses,
and danger-signals  who but a fool would ever
turn aside to wander into crooked pathways, or topple
headlong into the depths of an abyss ? . . .

Alas, vain desires and gainer resolutions ! We
have scampered rashly and hastily through the enchanted
country, scarcely pausing even to observe ife
wealth of bud and blossom. We have sown broadcast
our wheat or our tares, built our house upon the rock
or the shifting sand, hoarded or dissipated our talents ;
and now, maybe, the journey is well-nigh accomplished,
the harvesting is surpassed, and either our wisdom or
our folly rises up as a witness against us, and stares us
nakedly in the face ! . But I am moralising at a
ball ; and though it is, perhaps, the place of all others
where one feels the most tempted to indulge in such
profitless occupation, no one has a right to interfere
with the dancing.

A few guests only were as yet assembled  persons,
chiefly, who had come from a long way off, and who
had miscalculated the time it would take to get to the
Abbey. These were standing about in groups upon
the slippery floor of the ball-room, whilst Sir Peckhara,

VOL. I. o

walking-stick in hand, passed cautiously from one to
the other, endeavourijij] to fill up the interregnum previous
to the advent of his wife with a little spasmodic
conversation.

O Tom ! ' Sophy exclaimed, looking up at the
son of the house, as he stood now in the full light, glittering
in martial panoply, his tall figure towering
above those of the assembled guests, ' I feel so dreads
ulla nervous ! You promised you would dance the first
dance with me. Tell me, do I look very horrid ? '

You look quite beautiful,' answered the yoimg man,
enthusiastically, his fine gray eyes beaming tenderly
from above the hereditary feature ; * and I'll dance
with you, of course, as many dances as you like.'

Thank you ! How kind you are ! I can't help,
of course, feeling rather strange at first ; but I'm never
frightened when I'm with you. How nice you look in
your uniform ! And what a dear little jacket that is,
trimmed with fur, that hangs down by your left arm ! '

I'm so glad you like it,' Tom answered, pressing
her hand gratefully. ' Now you must let me take you
all through the rooms.' And they started off upon a
sentimental journey, Sophy having received an approving
nod from her ' cJiaperoone,'' as good Lady
Ilickathrift styled herself.

After traversing a long corridor, gaily decked out
for the occasion, they reached a small anteroom, where
Miss Peacock and a bevy of fair syrens were already
presiding at a tea-table. Peacock, who had received
her cue from Lady Ilickathrift, assumed an expression
of rapturous admiration on beholding Sophy upon the
arm of her young master.

'Tea, coffee, liieed coffee, or lemonade mum?' she
asKed, in her most persuasive accents.

Nothing, thank you,' replied Sophy. ' Oh, what
a delicious room ! ' And she flung herself into an
easy-chair.

Mr. Hickathrift was beside her in a moment.

This is really all too beautiful ! ' she went on,
excitedly. * My head is quite turned by it, so forgive
me if I talk nonsense ; for I dare say I shall say things
with no meaning, just to hide my shyness, and not to
appear to people to be saying nothing. I wonder why
they all stare at us so ? '

It's because you look so lovely ! ' rejoined ber
companion, as he leant further towards the easy-chair.
Mother said you'd be sure to be the belle of the
ball.'

What nonsense ! I made up my mind that 1
should look worse than any one else.'

It must be very pleasant to find out your mistake,'
said Tom, feeling inspired, and looking unutterable
things.

I saw myself in a long glass,' she continued,
candidly. ' And, after all, I don't really think I
looked quite so horrid as I expected . . . '

*You shouldn't talk like that,' Mr. Hickathrift
interrupted, reproachfully. 'Why run down what I
admire so very, very much ? '

Now I think I've got a little more confidence.
You can take me back again to the ball-room, if you
like.'

She was somewhat confused under such a fire of
compliment, and for the first time in her life felt a
desire to escape from a tete-tete with her old friend.

Oh, why should we go back just yet ?' he asked,
looking disappointed. * Have some tea, or coffee, or
wine, or lemonade ? ' and he turned to Miss Peacock,

who, thinking the happy moment had come, had sent
her assistants behind a screen, and arranged a crash
of plates to drown the expected proposal.

Perhaps I might stay and have a little coffee
said Sophy, wavering ; for she shrank above all things
from the performance of a hard-hearted action. ' Vine
or lemonade, or anything of that kind, would get into
my head, as I am not accustomed to it.'

The coffee gave Mr. Hickathrift a short reprieve.

What an enormous quantity of sugar ! ' she exclaimed,
presently, fishing up a spoonful of sugar-candy
from the depths of her cup. ' I don't like sugar. What
am I to do with it ? '

I'm afraid it was my fault,' said Tom, in a contrite
voice. * I put in too much. I'm so sorry ! But I'm
fond of sweet things myself.'

Would you like to have it, then ? ' asked the child
of Nature, ignoring the implied compliment, and holding
out her spoon.

Thank you,' said Mr. Hickathrift, bobbing down
his head till he encountered it.

At this moment three young gentlemen, clad likewise
in the glittering accoutrements of the ' Yeomanry
Cavalry,' came clanking into the tea-room.
Mr. Hickathrift and his young companion, being half
hidden behind the leaf of the door, escaped their
observation at first ; and two of the foremost made
their way towards the refreshments, bent, apparently,
upon bandying a few polite nothings with the fair
beings who were dispensing them, under pretence of
asking for a cup of tea. The third young gentleman,
ignorant, seemingly, of their intention, turned back
when he reached the opposite doorways, and, in seeking
for bis companions, his eye lighted upon Miss St. Clair

and lier admirer. His brethren-informs rejoined him
after a while, and they all three passed on together
into the ball-room.

Who's the pretty girl that was feeding Hickathrift
with sugar, behind the door ? ' inquired the officer who
had first sought the tea-table.

I don't know,' replied the second ; * but I'll find
out : I'll ask Hickathrift. Tom's a capital fellow, so
I won't go and ask him now and spoil sport  eh,
St. Clair?'

'I think I can tell you who she is,' answered
Godfrey, for it was no other than our former acquaintance,
Godfrey St. Clair, who, with two friends, had
passed through the anteroom. ' I can't be mistaken,
though I haven't seen her for years. I think she's a
cousin of mine ; she's very much changed since she
was a child, but I never saw any one else with eyes
like hers.'

Oh, who was that?' Sophy exclaimed, as soon as
the last speaker had quitted the apartment. * Do tell
me ! Can it be Godfrey grown up into an officer ? '

It is strange how the memory of a first impression,
even if it has changed and taken new substance with
the years, will remain with us obstinately for all time.
It is not the place here to hint at what the coming
years brought, or did not bring, to Sophy St. Clair.
Suffice it to say, that with them came no lessening or
fading out of a memory which clung tenaciously to the
end of her life ; nor could she ever afterwards recall
without emotion the new and mysterious sensation
which flooded her whole being as she looked, for the
first time since the days of her childhood, upon her
early playmate, arrayed in the blue-ands silver uniform

which from that moment became to her as a sacred
and hallowed garment, because it was that in which
was clothed the bright ideal of her fresh young
heart.

It is, indeed, Godfrey St. Clair,' rejoined Tom, in
answer to her question. * Surely you remember him ?
He's in mis regiment,' he added, as though he had been
the commander of the whole body of yeomanry.

Let us go back to the ball-room,' she said by-and-by,
in an altered voice.

What's the matter?' asked her companion, anxiously.
* You look so pale. Have a cup of tea ? '

'Thanks; not just after coffee,' she answered,
absently.

A murmur of ill-concealed admiration greeted her
return to the ball-room upon the arm of the son of the
house ; but she did not hear it. Her thoughts were
far away from the brilliantly-lighted room, down
amongst the leafy hollows of Little Stillingfleet, by
the old bench in the hazel-copse, under the dark fir-trees
of the rookery, in all the tangled places where
she had had her child meetings with the boy she would
never see again, the boy who had grown into this tall,
dark, serious-looking man, who seemed not even to
recognise her  the new Godfrey, newly crossing her
path  the same, and yet not the same to her.

The music now struck up a quadrille ; and when
Sophy and Mr. Hickathrift took their places, she perceived
that Godfrey St. Clair was to be her cifi-d-ris.
Just as she was wondering whether or no she should
greet him as an old acquaintance, Tom very good-naturedly
led him up to her side, and reintroduced to
her the playmate of her childhood.

After the quadrille was over, Mr. Hickathrift had

to go through what he called ' a duty-dance ' with the
daughter of an influential neighbour ; but Sophy did
not remain long near his mother's orange-coloured
moire antique before her hand was claimed by Godfrey
for the next dance.

The one after the next is mine, you know,' Tom
had said, as he went off in search of his partner. ' I
suppose I shall find you here?'

Yes, of course ; ' and Sophy walked off, radiant
with beauty and wreathed in smiles, upon the ann of
her yoimg kinsman.

But, alas for the promises of woman ! . . .

When, having gone through his ' duty-dance,' Tom
Hickathrift went in search of his lovely neighbour, he
did not find her seated in the appointed place. Another
and another dance followed, and still he failed to catch
even a glimpse of her ; and the ball seemed to him.
suddenly to become transformed into one of the most
melancholy entertainments at which he had ever assisted.
Godfrey St. Clair, too, was nowhere to be seen.
As he passed through the tea-room, however, some time
afterwards, he came suddenly upon the young couple
seated behind the leaf of the door. Godfrey occupied
precisely the same position in which he had found himself
an hour ago. Miss St. Clair also was seated, as
then, in the deep armchair with the red cover, whilst
her cousin was leaning towards her, his dark eyes
fixed eagerly upon her face. Her ivy-crowned head
being turned to Godfrey, she did not perceive Mr.
Hickathrift, who had just time to catch the following
fragment of conversation : 

How is the tortoise ?'

Oh, just the same ; and he seems happy . . .'
And the white cat ? *

*Alas, I'm sorry to say that he took to poaching,
and so the Slumber fields . . /

*And the Great Cause?' Godfrey next inquired,
whilst at the same time he opened the cover of his
watch, and appeared to be showing something to his
companion. The two young heads drew closer and
closer together, as though to observe some minute
object. The impulses of Cain, in a modified form, took
possession of Tom Hickathrift's bosom, causing him to
regret for a moment (notwithstanding his alleged unwillingness
to *hurt a fly), that the ties of vicinity
and friendship prevented him from at once provoking
Godfrc} to a pugilistic encounter.

Closer and closer together came the two young
heads.

I felt almost sure that I should see you,' said Godfrey
; ' and so . . .'

Oh, oh, the caraway seed ! ' cried Sophy, laughing,
and throwing herself back in her chair.

It was evident to poor Tom that she had as utterly
forgotten his existence as if he had never been born at
all, and that this renewal of a childish friendship was
advancing with formidable strides. He observed that
she held a cup of-coffee in one hand,  another instant,
and she began to dip and dive into it, as before ; and
such was the effect of * the green-eyed monster ' upon
the imagination of the young man, that as he rushed
headlong from the tea-room, filled with bitterness and
disappointment, he felt almost sure that he saw her
feeding Godfrey St. Clair with sugar-candy out of her
spoon.

Chapter Y.

The first ball at which *the fair Sophia' had assisted,
although seeming to her to have been a most
brilliant and unprecedented success, could not fail to
implant certain germs of bitterness in the maternal
bosom of good Lady Ilickathrif t. She had held out her
hand to this girl (as she said to herself), motherless 
 fatherless one might almost add, so far as social advantages
were concerned ; she had invited her to her
select ball, caressed her, * chaeronea ' her, given her
hints upon the subject of ' twaUgJit, and lent her the
fan and pocket-handkerchief which had been immortalised
in the portrait afterwards engraved for the
Book of Beauty. And what return had Sophy made
for all these privileges ? Contrary to her ladyship's
particular request, she had made use of the fan, and
broken it ; she had stained the pocket-handkerchief,
also, with coffee-marks, which Peacock felt confident
could never be * got //out ; ' and last, but not least, she
had evidently gone some way towards shattering the
large heart of poor Tom, the pride of the county, and
the joy of his mother !

It may be as well, however, to inquire into some of
the underlying motives which had induced Lady Hicks
to make these friendly overtures in the first instance,
apart from the sympathy she really felt for the
motherless girl ; and, in order to do this, it will be
necessary to quote a conversation which had taken
place some time before, between her ladyship and Mr.
Andrew Locke, her husband's land-steward, a shrewd
and confidential servitor, who took as much interest in
the Poynings estate as did Sir Peckham himself.

Lady Hickathrift happened one afternoon to be

(Irfvinpr lier ponies, and as she was accompanied by two
outriders  a fashion in vogue at this time with persons
of quality  she had no servant with her in the carriage.
She was returning from conveying her friend,
Miss Hornblower, to Dallingridge Rectory, when, halfway
between the Black Horse and the town of Nothings,
one of her ponies became somewhat restive and
impatient. Just as she was beginning to feel a little
nervous, she observed Mr. Ijocke, with his back towards
her, gazing sentimentally over the Little 
gate ; and thinking that she might confer a
favour and secure a protector at the same time, she
called to him condescendingly, and told him that if he
was about to return to the Abbey, she would be delighted
to give him a lift. Mr. Locke did not like to
refuse so gracious an offer, and the two set off together.
(' I drove Andrew Locke home, my love, from ,'
she said that same evening to Sir Peckham,
and he was very grateful, and gave me a good deal
of useful information, /o>' inferiors feel these things /')

Why, my good Locke,' she had remarked to the
inferior,' condescending to adopt a tone of banter,
you seemed quite absorbed ! I almost think 3''ou must
have been composing an ode upon Little Stillingfleet.'

Your ladyship is wrong for once,' replied Mr.
Locke. * For I was filled with envy, hatred, and all
uncharitableness. That place is a regular eyesore tome.'


 And why so, Locke ? A peaceful sunshiny spot,
a little amalgamated, perhaps, with melancholy reminiscences,
when we consider how misspent has been the
career of poor dear Mr. Francis . . .'

The Squire's not nearly so black as he's painted,'
interrupted Andrew Locke. * And I know for certain,

that though he's no churches, he gives his share
regularly towards all that is for the poor man's good ;
a little touched in the head, maybe.' And, like Mrs.
Weller, he began tapping his forehead ominously.

That is by far the most Christian supposition,'
remarked Lady Hickathrift, kindly *And as he is
by no means an unamiable man, it accounts for many
of his outrageous doctrines.'

My quarrel is not with Mr. Francis, my lady,'
answered the land steward, ' but with Little Stilling-fleet.
The Poynings property without Stillingfleet is
just like a man shorn of his right hand. In the old
maps 'tis down as a part of the Abbey lands ; and
more's the pity that man should have put asunder
what God had joined together, as one might make so
bold to say.'

I fancy I have heard Sir Peckham say that invasion
the time of his great-grandfather, old Sir Twiselton,
that Little Stillingfleet passed out of our family ; but
I am sure we have a sufficient amount of landed property
to spare so paltry a scrap.'

True, my lady ; but that farm, properly managed,
might be made almost anything of. That slope of
down to the right, that's planted now with rubbishy
nuts and alders, could be grubbed up and " trinket ; "
and Sir Peckham wouldn't have a hop-garden that
could be compared to it.'

If so, I wonder, Locke, that Mr. St. Clair has
never converted it into anything so profitable.'

'Any practical man would have done so, my lady,'
answered Mr. Locke. 'But he's like all gentlemen
that go early to foreign parts. It kind of turns their
heads, I've noticed. I take it they're all the same.'

When Mr. Francis dies, perhaps Miss Sophy will

or

sell tho place, if she is allowed to do so by law ; and
then, if all goes well. Sir Peckham might purchase it.'

I don't fancy,' said Andrew Locke, * that she could
sell it in law, and she'd have no call to do so, even if
she could. Tier father must have put by a good thirty
thousand.' (Thus had the modest economics of Francis
St. Clair grown in the public mind!) 'And, saving
your presence, my lady, there's every chance of Mr.
Francis outlasting Sir Peckham.'

*' Man proposes, but God disposes ! " ' ejaculated
Lady Hickathrift, piously. (An 'inferior' would hardly
have comprehended this saying had she delivered it, as
she longed to do, in the original French.)

Yes ; but if man do propose,' rejoined Mr. Locke,
mistaking her meaning, 'whoever is it likely to be?
If 'tis not Mr. Tom, or young Mr. Godfrey, ten to one
but she'll go find marry some peaky parson or outlandish
foreigner, who'll be as stiff-necked as Lucifer, a
regular thorn in Mr. Tom's side, maybe, after Sir
Peckham is taken, enticing our best birds to himself,
and very likely trapping them. . . .'

Locke ! exclaimed Lady Hickathrift reproachfully,
' I must beg that you will refrain from casting
any aspersions upon the Church! In these days, when
such horrible things are talked of in both Houses of
Parliament about reform, the educating of servant-girls,
&c., admitting to them Jews, Turks, Infidels,
and even Woman Catholics, where should we be, my
good creature, if it were not for the clergy ? '

Well, they do act as drags, certainly, my lady'
replied Andrew Locke, whose broad opinions occasionally
alarmed his patrons. 'And drags we must
have, and no help for it, when we're going downhill,
but we don't want them when we're on the highroad

to progress ; leastways, such is my own private
opinion.'

O Locke cried her ladyship,  you really are
shocking me exceedingly ! We all know what you
are, unfortunately  a most red republican in your
principles, down to the very backbone.'

My principles and opinions are my own,' said Mr.
Locke.  And I trust your ladyship will admit that I
have never thrust them either upon yourself or Sir
Peckham.'

No, no ; of course not, my good creature ! ' cried
Lady Hie hath rift, alarmed at his manner ; ' of course
not ! Well, then. Miss St. Clair, we have decided, is
to marry a clergyman. . . .'

She never ought, my lady ! she never ought ! ' exclaimed
the land-steward vehemently. 'She never
ought to be let to marry anybody but Mr. Thomas ! '

Well, really, Locke,' Lady Hickathrift rejoined,
bridling, * when it concerns anything respecting the
estate, your opinion is always exceedingly valuable; butin
affairs which have to do with the matrimony of one's
own family, though having, unfortunately, only one
son, surely a mother . . .'

Yes, indeed, my lady, as you say ; and far be it
from me to presume to give your ladyship advice 
with Mr. Tom, too, such a favourite with all the young
ladies ; but there's one of these he seems somehow to
fancy before all the others. And when I meet him,
time after time, making believe to shoot in that ragged
end of alder-wood up by the rookery gate  now it's the
pheasants, now it's the rabbits, now it's the rooks
themselves  I say to myself, " Ah, Mr. Tom, sir !
what have all these poor dumb creatures done to anger
you, that you should punish them so in all seasons?"

or

for it's one go down and t'other come up with Mr.
Thomas ; but, somehow, always in that particular bit
of underwood. I wonder there's so much as a shrewmouse
left to hold its own !'

lleaUy /' said Lady Ilickathrift, looking deeply
interested. 'And since when, my good Locke?'

Since ahcayfi,'' answered her companion curtly.

And she's philander, too, with t'other side as well,
or I'm much mistaken. She's a young lady that has
made short work of every one that's come near her
since she was in arms, like her mother before her.'

really!* exclaimed her ladyship for the second
time, slackening the pace of her ponies, for they were
nearing the Abbey. * Though doubtless you are exaggerating,
it would assume indeed a very dangerous
proximity for my dear son, as also to her other side,
could we suppose the continuation of the former state
of affairs.'

Mr. Thomas is very popular, and all that,' Locke
continued confidentially. * About him there's no pride
or uprightness, and he's so fair-spoken to all the pretty
farmers' daughters and barmaid . . . .'

Barmaid ! echoed Lady Hickathrift, with an
expression of horror.'

Barmaid, my lady,' repeated the cunning man,
perceiving his advantage ; for this reunion of Comings
and Little Stillingfleet was one of his pet schemes.

All these young persons seem to please Mr. Thomas
better than grand company with their airs and graces,
as has been remarked whenever any London ladies
have been staying at the Abbey. He'd as lief be
smoking a pipe along with Tom Stubberfield or Jerry
Weller as with the Emperor of Roosia or the Pope o'
Bone. So that, though there's no denying but what

Mr. Tom could do much better than marry Miss St.
Clair, why, it's certain sure, my lady, that he might doa
great deal worse

Alas, my good Locke ! ' exclaimed Lady Hicks
 really you do alarm me terribly, with your
revelations most strange and unaccountable ; and, to be
sure, the example of poor Mr. Francis St. Clair 
young, a really very handsome, distinguished man of
old family  marrying, as he did, a common gipsy,
though certainly one of the most beautiful women
possible, and even what seems more strange, remarkably
'' commy-foy frightens one for the ultimate wellbeing
of one's sons.'

It does indeed, my lady,' returned the land-steward.
* But now, with regard to Miss Sophy, one
can't say what windfall may not come to the young
lady. Why, if it so happened that young Mr. Godfrey
of Dallingridge was taken  and we're all of us subject
to the workings of misfortune  there'd be a sweep of
country reaching as far as the eye could see, and our
Mr. Thomas . . . .'

you dreadful man ! ' cried her ladyship, with
an assumed shudder. ' I declare you are for doing
away with everything and everybody ! '

But the words of the wily though well-meaning
dependent had created an impression, one of the results
of which was that Sophy was shortly afterwards
invited to the great Hickathrift ball.

Several weeks elapsed, however, before the fond
mother decided to speak upon this subject to her son,
though, when she and Mr. Locke had finally arranged
their matrimonial projects  the conspirators being
somewhat stimulated by the very decided preference
which ' young Mr. Godfrey of Dallingridge ' was beginning

to display for his fair cousin  it was deemed
expedient to consult Sir Peculiar, whose opinion had
always been considered of * great weight * both in the
county and in his own family circle. Sir Peckhara,
when consulted, had behaved precisely in the manner
in which it was known and intended that he should
behave. He had given several nervous jerks with his
chin, snorted thrice, and exclaiming apoplectically,
Riffht ! all rio:ht ! Mio:ht do worse ! ' had made
hastily for the doorway.

And it will show of what plausible distortion of
facts the human mind is capable, when the reader is
informed that these incoherent muttering were referred
to by Lady Hickathrift, some few weeks afterwards,
to her son as 'those most solemn dying death-bed
adjurations of my late precious husband, your father ;'
Sir Peckham having been, in point of fact, cheated out
of all death-bed ' adjurations,' * solemn ' or otherwise,
by the relentless ' kismet,' which decreed that he should
be choked at dinner by a fish-bone only a few weeks
after the ball. Thus suddenly was Sir Peckham Brambles
Satterthwaite Twiselton Hickathrift gathered
unto his fathers at the age of fifty-seven years, and
Thomas, his son, reigned in his stead.

And now there fell upon Lady Hickathrift, apart
from, and in addition to, her sorrow  for she had really
loved this dull, spasmodic old gentleman  a great and
terrible fear, which, though seeming at first somewhat
vague and shadowy, came to assume by-and-by more
formidable proportions, and haunted her perpetually
day and night. This was occasioned by the thought
that, perhaps, the time might not be far distant when
the Hickathrifts, following the examples of the Peck-hams,
Brambletyes, Satterthwaites, and Twiseltons,

would actually cease to exist altogether, expiring in
the person of her beloved son, who, though in the
enjoyment of excellent health, was in the habit of
inditing in manly pursuits not unattended with
real, or fancied, danger in a mother's imagination.
Under the influence of this idea Lady Ilickathrift
would have hailed with delight the prospect of Tom's
union with almost anybody, except one of the gipsies,
barmaid, or farmers' daughters, alluded to by Andrew
Locke. She would have received, indeed, with open
arms, as a daughter-in-law, any respectable young
lady upon whom he had set his affections ; and as, to
all appearance, he had set his affections upon Sophy,
the fond mother ended by forgiving her not only
her indiscreet behaviour at the ball, but also her
disobedience with respect to the fan and pocket-handkerchief.
*

When Lady Hickathrift had finally made up her
mind she sent for Tom, and it was not without some
trepidation that this worthy woman, so courageous in
outward appearance, awaited the coming of her only
son. Nay, even when he stood before her, clad in all
his doleful six foot three and a half of ' unmitigated
grief,' and looking kind, earnest, and tractable as usual,
her heart failed her, and she only ventured to ask him
to take her for a few turns upon the old battlemented
terrace, which she had so often paced with one who
could never pace it again.

Since the death of Sir Peckham Lady Ilickatlirift
had become the very readiest of widows  the thick
borders of her pocket-handkerchiefs, writing-paper, and
visiting-cards, were at least half an inch wider than
those of other persons similarly afflicted ; and as she
pranced up and down the broad gravel-walk in her

VOL. 1. p

dismal mourning array, she looked more than ever like
a venerable hearse-horse being led out for an airing, all
ready caparisoned for performance at somepompefimehre.

Tom felt his heart give a sudden bound under the
Paramatta ' pressure of his mother's arm, when she
had at length summoned up courage to make mention
of the beloved name. It is as pleasant as it is
unusual when the parental exhortation, or decree, is
in exact accordance with the heart's desire ; but * the
young Sir Tummus ' (as he was now beginning to be
styled), unlike what might have been expected of one
so eligible, was buoyed up by no certain hope of reciprocated
love and successful suit. More particularly
did he recoil from the notion of striking before the iron
was hot, or making hay before the sun really shone, for
everything had seemed to him to be somewhat cold and
cloudy of late.

His mother, on the contrary, was for getting the
preliminaries over as soon as possible, in order that the
wedding might take place quietly and snugly as soon
as the first year of her widowhood had expired ; for she
foresaw that the lawyers would make a good long business
of the settlements. With this view she suggested an
early day in the ensuing week as the one upon which
it would be expedient for him to make his formal proposal
to Sophy, though she left it to him to determine
whether he should not, even before that, broach the
subject privately to her father.

As she was speaking, Tom observed that she was
struggling to remove a large ring which, contrary to
modern custom, she always wore upon the forefinger
of her left hand, of which the joint was somewhat
knotty, so that it seemed no easy matter to draw it
off. This was, as he knew perfectly well, nothing

more nor less than the great Hickathrift ring of betrothal
Sir Brambles, old Sir Twiselton, the two succeeding
Sir Thomas, and, lastly. Sir Peckham himself, had
sealed to themselves their respective females by the
placing of this family jewel upon the forefinger of the
left hand, so that it had occupied its present position
for very nearly thirty years. It was of enormous size,
the setting taking somewhat the form of a Gothic
window, and the centre jewel, backed with foil, being
altogether an uncanny and suspicious-looking stone,
seeming something like a cross between a nondescript
ruby and a cough lozenge, which must have owed its
prestige entirely to the solemnity of its hereditary
function, or to the social position of its wearer.

Oh, mother ! ' exclaimed Tom, fairly awe-stricken
when he perceived her intention. * Whatever are you
going to do ? '

I am about to present you with this family
jewel,' she replied, in a tragic voice. ' Take it, my
dear boy,' (and she withdrew it with a final wrench) ;
*and after you have asked her to become your wife,
place it thus upon her finger, whichever one you like,
for I do not suppose this is of consequence. With your
blessed father it was the one happening to be nearest
to him at the time, where it has remained for thirty
years this Christmas, which is now so very shortly
impending, you having been born, as you are aware,
quite eight years after our marriage, and being now,
consequently, twenty-two. . . . You may have noticed
in the engraving executed for the Book of Beaut 1/ that
this ring . . .'

But here her utterance was choked by emotion, and
with a sob she handed over the hereditary jewel to her
son, who was fully impressed with the solemnity of the

occasion. The presentation possessed, indeed, all the
dignity of an investiture ; nevertheless, he felt a kind
of superstitious reluctance about taking the ring, which
he began rolling about in the palm of his hand, and
eyeing somewhat mistrustfully.

I think I would rather j'ou didn't give it me quite
yet,' he said, making as though he would return it.
It docs seem like being so awf ull} sure. If she were
to refuse me . . . ?'

*If she were to refuse you /' repeated his mother in
astonishment. surely, my dear boy, you have no
reason to suppose that poor dear Sophia is out of her
senses?' and for the first time since her bereavement
Lady Hickathrift actually laughed aloud.

Chapter YI.

But Sophy St. Clair had never thought less of the
neighbour by whom she was abounded on the right
hand ' than during the last two or three weeks. At
times, perhaps, when she either heard or read of any
act of slavish devotion, of dog-like fidelity, of Herculean
strength, or of imperturbable good-humour, she
would murmur to herself, kindly, though somewhat
contemptuously, ' How very like poor dear Tom ! ' and
then she would straightway forget his existence, until
he reminded her of it, either by paying her a formal
visit or by meeting her  quite by accident, of course 
during her sylvan rambles.

Upon the death of Sir Peckham she had felt a
great deal of sympathy for him, knowing that he had
always been a devoted and affectionate son ; and she

had written him a few words of neighbourly condolence,
besides cutting out of the local newspapers an
account of the funeral, together with some extracts
from the family history. These she had intended
pasting into a scrap-book ; and although she forgot
to do so, and even lost them shortly afterwards, Tom
was very grateful to her for this sign of interest.

When any old companionship, habit, or pastime,
gradually ceases to occupy us, it is usually owing to
the fact of our having acquired other companionship,
habits, or pastimes, of a more engrossing nature ; and
it may be that, in the present instance, Sophy's seeming
apathy with regard to * The Prince with the Nose '
was to be accounted for, in some measure, by the growing
interest she felt in ' the young man of the tortoise.*

But perhaps her feelings upon this, and several
other subjects, will be better understood if I venture
to transcribe, for the benefit of the reader, a letter
which she addressed, at about this time, to her young
friend Adele ; it ran as follows : 

My dearest Adele,  I have really got so much to tell
you that I don't know how to begin, "the plot" having
seemed, as it were, to have been "thickening" so dreadfully
lately, and the days having rushed by so quickly, that I
have been unable until now to find time to take up the
thread of the narrative. Praise be unto Allah ! none of the
catastrophes which you predicted have come to pass; though
it seems to me that, since the ball, I think quite differently
upon several subjects.

The ball was really  what I never expected it would bea
real success and a real delight. Everything looked
beautiful, except most of the people ; they seemed, somehow,
to spoil it : but they were all very kind. My aunt, Mrs. St.
Clair of Dallingridge, was there with her son. I avoided

her, on account of the feud, lout got to know him very well.
She was in black, with diamonds, and appeared to me to be
lovely, only with a face rather like a mask. It was quite
owing to you that my dress looked as it did. I was at first
afraid it would slip off; but seeing other people dressed in
the same way, seeming not to care in the very least, I threw
all my fears to the winds, and made up my mind to enjoy
myself, ivhich I really did. My father seemed very much
pleased at what he heard about my dress from the people
who could see it ; and my belief is that I shall be now
allowed, and even encouraged, to dress in a civilised way as
long as I live. Hitherto he has certainly held rather odd
opinions with regard to costume ; but all this is now very
much toned down, and I ought to be the last person in the
world to laugh at him, as his one wish has been all along
for my future good. You know, however, that I am of that
horrid nature that laughs at anything, however serious or
sacred, and I do believe that I should make a joke upon the
scaffold if I saw anything comic in the appearance of the
axeman. But my dear father's idea about wearing so very
little (which is mixed up in some manner with the Great
Cause) springs only from a wish to imitate Nature, and insure
good health. His wish is that I should live to be one
hundred and four, like most of the Nubians (as he tells me),
who wear no clothes whatever, eat rice and fish, bathe a great
deal in the Nile, and anoint themselves all over with castor-oil.
By-the-by, I heard him say, last night, that the
ancient art of " anointing " properly was utterly lost ; and
as this seems to make him really unhappy, I thought I
would try and find out if one could not discover the secret.
Ask " Othello " what he used to do to his skin when he was
in his natural state ; for, dearest Ad61e, I feel sure that that
hoiTid Carver (I can call him by no other name) is, in
reality, only an escaped savage, and not any more of a clergyman,
or missionary, than I am ! How I sympathise with
you when you tell me of his persecutions ! But remain

firm, and you may then perhaps be rewarded by marrying
your second husband first, after all.

'Sir Peckham Hickathrift, to whom that old Abbey
belongs, which j'ou thought was the lord mayor's (you
remember, the father of 'the Prince with the Nose), is
dead. The funeral was a walking one ; the coffin being
carried by eight of the oldest labourers on the estate in
smock-frocks. Janus and I, and the Great Prophet, stood
on one side of the road and saw it pass, and the Prophet
was surprised that a man of such high rank shouldn't have
had " howlers :" but I am so ignorant of all these things, and
so is Janus, that I didn't even know that it was the custom.
By an odd chance, just as I was writing these last
words, I heard a footstep upon the gravel-walk, and on
looking out of my window, who should I see but " The
Prince with the Nose " himself, standing in the porch,
having just rung at the bell. However, he has asked to
speak to my father upon business, I find, so I shall have
plenty of time to finish this letter before I go down and see
him. He has, as you may suppose, a good deal to do just
now, having just come into such a large estate, and he is
glad to consult my father and ask his advice. By-the-by,
please do not go on calling my cousin, Godfrey St. Clair, by
that ridiculous name which you gave him when I told you
about the tortoise, for I don't see in it the slightest attempt
at wit. He is very tall, rather dark, and quite different from
anybody else in everything. I have seen him once or twice
since the ball ; we meet sometimes, by accident, in the
woods, but all this I cannot write about. My father has
just given me a present  two most beautiful Arab horses,
sent over to him by a Sheikh ho once stayed with, and who
is grateful to him for all he has done for him, politically.
They came over with an Egyptian called Abdallah, who is
going to stay on here with us for about a month. I believe
that when he was quite young he travelled with my father
and mother as donkey-boy before I was born. On account

of the difference of climate he has caii<j:ht a cold, and coughs
a good deal. My father is quite delighted, as you may
suppose, at having this opportunity of airing his Arabic,
though he says that the Egyptian Arabs do not speak it by
any means well. One of the horses is black as Erebus, and
is named " Camaralzaman," but we call him " Cammy " for
short. He is a delicious creature, with a beautiful long
tail ; and he has been taught, when he is standing still, to
arch his neck and stretch out his jaz;5. This is the one I
am going to begin by riding, as the gray one, " Hasheesh," is
not nearly so quiet, and rears. Nelus and Janus insist upon
calling him "Ash-ash," and I can see that they will never get
his name quite right. All this is to tell you that I am in
want of a riding-habit  you will know, I am sure, where to
get one, and what measurements I ought to send. I am not
yet quite used to a civilised side-saddle ; but having been
accustomed to ride Billy and Dragon, the two cart-horses,
bare-backed, I am very good at sticking on. It is a bright
frosty day ; and before it is over, I am going to take my
father for a little turn ; besides which, I must see Tom before
he goes away, or he may think me unkind. Good-bye,
therefore, my dearest Adle ; revenge yourself upon me for
this egotistical letter by writing me one, very soon, all
about yourself ; and believe me to be ever your affectionate
friend, Sophy St. Clair.'

But when, having hurried over the last part of this
epistle, Sophy presented herself at the entrance of the
sitting-room, she was informed that Sir Thomas Hicks
had just departed, without having even asked to
see her ; at which she could not help feeling some
surprise and disappointment, for it is always pleasant
to look upon the face of a true friend (if there is no
one better loved in the way), though it be the face of a
friend only, and even if, as in the present instance, one
has long ago * left off kissing J

Finding that her father seemed to prefer pursuing
his own meditations, as he walked up and down the
straight gravel-path in front of the porch, to going for
the proposed * little turn,' Sophy determined to start off
for a ramble alone, and it will not, perhaps, be altogether
a surprise to the reader to learn that she directed her
footsteps towards the place where it was most probable
that one of those meetings with her cousin might
occur, which she had referred to in her letter, as merely
accidental. To this letter Adele's reply arrived in the
course of a few days ; literally translated, for it was
written in French, it ran thus : 

My very dear Sophy,  Having thrown my pretended
sister into a state of pretended clairvoyance, I leave her
with her last victim  the one who has replaced thy worthy
and dear father  a proprietor, very rich, but deaf, from
the Pays de Galles, named Lloyd, Lewis, Thomas, of all
three limited. I retire myself to this sad apartment, whence
I proceed to indite thee this letter, even more sad still !
Thou wilt know, very dear, how to figure to thyself the
appearance of la piece ; the aspect as of a flown-away
grandeur, which animates rather the original design of each
meuhle than their actual faded desolation. Also they are
not, nor of the most clean, nor of the most cared-for, as well
thou knowest ! Amidst the pile of a carpet, rich, but
dilapidated, repose the debris of the bones left there by the
female poodle of my sister  partly gnawed ; at each step
the foot encounters them, for our one bonne, occupied with
her other duties of menage, can with difficulty keep the more
important salle in the order of which this one must pass
itself. The sentiment of sadness engendered by the monotonous
ticking of the pensive, which, with a tarnished
garniture de chemin, regards me sadly in face, demands of
me my strongest resolution to dominate. Without, one of
those fogs, yellowish (jaundice), all particular, which exist

only in London, is doing its possible to obscure the very
little of light which remains to us in an afternoon of the
month of November. Lamps are already illuminating the
streets, though with a light which by its melancholy alone
escapes being ridiculous. The paletot of the policeman at
the corner of the street is glistening with moisture, as are
also all those of the cabman ; and by the violence of the
blows which they aim from time to time at their chests, I
suspect that it is making a cold of dog. Thy poor Ad61e,
however, has not been outside the door for several days,
having suffered from a neuralgia of the most abominable.
Vainly, and without results, did she repose for one whole
morning in the arms of her dentist (a man amiable and full
of wit) ; for though (that Heaven may be lauded !) the
rebel tooth is no longer in existence, her pains have not
ceased to live at the same time with him. Imagine, then, if
thine Ad61e, under these afflicting circumstances, can find
the courage to write thee the agreeable letter she meditated !
Rest quiet upon the subject of your ainazone ; knowing the
difference which exists between thy figure and mine own, I
shall succeed, if thou wilt amiably fill up the here-joined
measurements, in executing, without fail, your commission.
Would that Heaven had willed that / also had possessed a
steed of the desert, upon the back of which I might escape
from the complications which environ me ! How soon
would I leave behind me that Wilson,  (said " Carver " by
thee). But if ever a sad destiny decrees that I should espouse
him, oblige me by ceasing to allude to him in thy
letters as " Othello," a name which to all young married
women must be filled with sinister associations. His persecutions
continue ; and even now, were I to summon
courage to face this inclement weather, I feel convinced
that I should encounter him amongst the fog, like a demon
of bad augury. And now, whilst I am thinking of it, be
not surprised should you receive, at your address, letters
from him directed to me, which you can afterwards send me

with the ones you write me, or when you have occasion to
send to London ; for I have a project by which I hope to
escape, for a time at least, from his persecutions. It is this :
I shall pretend, whilst, owing to this " rage of teeth," I am
unable to leave the house, and when he will not, by consequence,
perceive me, that I am in effect absent, making it to
be believed that I am staying with thee. Should he ever
have the audacity to present himself chez toi, thou wilt, I
know well, allow thine influence to take the direction of my
desires, and in this manner merit my eternal gratitude.
Thanking thee beforehand for thy complaisance, and embracing
thee with all heart, I remain ever tout cb toi,

And, indeed, shortly after the reception of this
letter, two others arrived addressed to Adele at Little
Stillingfleet. The first was from Mr. Carver, with
whose handwriting Sophy was familiar, but the second
was evidently from a different person altogether.

'Ah,' thought she, as she turned over this letter
curiously, ' I suppose this must be from the second
husband ; and I dare say it's the only one she really
wants. However, I'll send her the "tares with the
wheat," ' and she placed both the letters together in
order that she might despatch them to her friend on
the earliest opportunity, accompanied by a few lines
from herself.

All this, however, is a digression, as it did not take
place until some days after the one upon which this
chapter opened ; whereas the ' young man of the
tortoise ' has been waiting at this present time for very
nearly a whole hour near to the confines of his uncle's
property. He has been seated for a part of the hour
upon the trunk of a fallen oak-tree ; and he has traced
so many hieroglyphics upon the ground with his stick,

decapitated whole families of scarlet toadstools, cut
down such quantities of dock and burdock, besides
having hurled quite a hailstorm of sandstones at the
rails of the five-barred gate, that it may be as well to
inquire into the secret cause which prompted him so
determinedly and unprofitably to waste his time  to
guess as to whether he is, or is not, waiting for anybody
; and, if he is indeed waiting, to hint at the
reasons which make her so long in coming to the
frost.

Chapter VII.

As soon as Sophy had thoroughly made up her mind
that Godfrey St. Clair was * quite different from anybody
else in everything,' she felt unconsciously influenced
by her own conception of him, and discovered
that, in his presence, she could not behave precisely as
though he had seemed to her like an ordinary mortal.

Never having before experienced anything in the
least akin to this sensation, which was one of mingled
shyness, embarrassment, and even, at times, of positive
discomfort, she endeavoured to defy and combat it as
far as was possible to her ; and she succeeded, in the
course of her efforts, in becoming almost as different
from her usual self as Godfrey appeared to be from the
rest of mankind. If this self-consciousness, or timidity,
or whatever may have been its proper name, did not
take the form of a state of partial stupefaction, with
monosyllabic responses, in the presence of her unconscious
tormentor, it usually impelled her to assume
with him a tone of flippant banter, utterly at variance
with her real nature, or she would even go so far as to

venture upon a joke, or introduce, perhaps, a play upon
a word.

At these he would generally condescend to smile,
kindly, though (as she fancied) rather regretfully ; but
he never gave vent to those encouraging peals of deep-mouthed
and genuine laughter which were wont to
follow each one of her lively sallies when Tom Hicks
was her listener.

And, indeed, there was something in the outward
demeanour of Godfrey St. Clair which seemed to indicate
that he was, to some extent, different from most
people. He possessed, above all, a calm impassiveness
rarely to be met with in so young a man, whilst a
certain air of dignity and self-restraint appeared to
discourage anything in the shape of a gushing freedom
of expression, raising up, as it were, a barrier which
concealed his inward man from the eyes of the curious
and importunate.

Having passed many years in the society of a father
so much his senior, he had unconsciously acquired a somewhat
ceremonious and formal style of address. He possessed,
in fact, what would have been termed at the
court of le Grand Monarque,  de hautes manners ; ' and, as
if from the fact that he did not affect any familiarities
himself, he seemed desirous of discountenancing them
in others. It is true that the chilling reserve of his
mother, his father's formal pedantry, and the didactic
utterances of Pettigrew (who was now almost a constant
inmate of Dallingridge House) alternately wearied
and disgusted him ; and yet, unconsciously, his manner
had caught something from theirs, and the real Godfrey
was so artificially concealed that he might not even
have recognised himself had the veil been uplifted.

If it be true that those who have first dominated

themselves are more likely, in consequence, to obtain
the mastery of others, the reason of Godfrey's influence
over his youthful cousin may be easily explained, since
hitherto he had held himself so thoroughly in hand
that he had hardly ever permitted himself to follow a
single unchallenged impulse. Nay, ever since the day
when, as a mere baby, he had been reproved for displaying
a feeling of pity for an unfortunate criminal,
he had been taught to believe that misdirected sympathy
lay at the root of all wrong-doing, and, by dint of striving
for ever to suppress his natural emotions, he had ended
by seeming to possess hardly any emotions at all.

It is true that, as yet, he had never desired any one
particular object over-eagerly, so that his powers of
self-control may not have been very satisfactorily
tested. He had lived the life of most young men of
fortune who are not destined for any particular profession,
and his experiences were on a par with those
of the greater number of his college companions,
though a strict vigilance over his own predilections,
and the power he possessed of reasoning himself out
of any passing fancy, had made him hold aloof from
many of their follies. Upon the present occasion,
when he had strolled forth upon the afternoon of this
bright, still, November day, he said to himself that it
was no dangerous or reprehensible impulse which
caused him to direct his footsteps towards the borderland
of Little Stillingflcet, but only a pardonable and
very natural desire to catch another glimpse of his
bright-eyed cousin, and that, in consequence, he might
give way to it, and proceed. He had loitered about
the high ground overlooking the hazel-copse for sometime,
feeling strangely restless and unsettled ; finally,
he had seated himself upon the trunk of the fallen oak-tree,

wondering at his own impatience, as lie endeavoured
to kill time in the various ways described.

Just as he had flung the last piece of sandstone
within his reach somewhat violently against the top
bar of the wooden gate, he heard a light footfall
amongst the crisp leaves in the woodland pathway, and
in a few moments Sophy was beside him. She wore a
walking dress of dark tweed, and a hat with a bright-coloured
feather, and, as she came smiling towards
him, he thought that he had never seen a more lovely
vision of girlish beauty Sophy, too, could not help
looking up at her cousin admiringly. Standing there
hand in hand  the tall dark young man, with his
upright figure and picturesque head, and an expression
strangely at variance with the stern code he
had drawn out for himself ; and the beautiful girl,
looking up eagerly at him, her eyes glowing wth
trustfulness and hope  they made a very pretty picture.


Good afternoon, cousin ! ' Sophy exclaimed, smiling
archly, though her heart was beginning to beat in a
very unaccountable manner. * You look as if you had
been waiting for me ! '

I was waiting for you,' he answered. * What made
you so late ? '

How should you know that I meant to come at
all ? ' she asked, seizing upon the chance of an argument
in order to hide her embarrassment. ' It was
only by accident that I happened to come this way. I
was going to walk with my father, but I foimd he
wanted to be left to himself.'

I knew that you would be here,' said Godfrey
quietly. ' I uillcd that you should come, and you
came.'

*You " wished" that I should cone? You speak as
if I were your " slave of i:lie lamp," and bound to obey
your command ! *

She was trying to lash herself into anger, provoked
at the sense of discomfort she seemed always to experience
in Godfrey's presence, whilst he was always
so calm and collected.

*Ah!' replied he, lingeringly and a little regretfully,
as he drew a long breath.

Sophy mused for many days afterwards over this
enigmatical ' Ah I ' wondering what it could have been
intended to convey, for at that moment the curse of
shyness fell upon her, and she felt afraid to inquire.
Could he have meant that he wished she had indeed
been a slave, but that it was impossible ? * Ah, that you
were really my slave, so that I might summon you at
my will ! ' Had he meant this ? Or was it that, when
she had thus spoken of herself, he had intended her to
understand that the slavery was all on the other side ?
*My " slave of the lamp "  alas, it is / that am hers I*
Or had he meant simply, *Ah, this girl is too stupid;
it is impossible to make her understand; I am only
debasing myself by holding communion with one so
much beneath me ! ' and then sighed from very weariness
of spirit ?

I must go home now,* she said by-and-by despairingly,
for she resented this feeling of helpless
constraint. * I only came here to see you for one
minute ; ' and she began nervously gathering together
the folds of her skirt.

I thought you said you hadn't come to see me at
all ! ' remarked Godfrey, smiling, as it seemed to her,
with the complacency of a cruel angler rejoicing at the
painful wriggling of the worm upon his hook.

ewe have some one coming to stay with us this
afternoon she answered, ignoring his question, and
rattling on very fast. * He's a really great man  a
seer, a prophet  the chief mover in the Great Cause.
I think I have told you about him before. To-morrow
we have invited some people to meet him at dinner, as
Saturday, the day after, he is obliged to go away.
This gives me a good deal to do just now. Many of
them are coming from long distances on purpose to see
him ; for some people think him one of the most
wonderful men that ever lived.'

Indeed ! But why should we remain standing ? '
and, like Sir "Walter Raleigh, he was about to take off
his coat and spread it upon the fallen trunk, when she
prevented him by saying, 

Oh, please don't ! You'll catch cold ! It's really
quite dry ; besides, I am used to 'sloughing it." '

I'm sure you ought to be well taken care of,' rejoined
her cousin, as he slipped back into his coat, and,
with the courtly manner of the olden time, led her
towards the fallen trunk, as though it had been a couch
of samite or brocade. 'And this wonderful man,' he
went on, as soon as they were both seated, 'is he a
foreigner or an Englishman ? '

He is an Asiatic mystic,' Sophy answered, feeling
now that she had full command of her subject ; ' but
he speaks all languages. He has seen an immense deal
of every kind of extraordinary thing, and he has
inquired deeply into all sorts of hidden and mysterious
arts, which are supposed to be inculcated in remote
corners of the Oriental world. He has explored all
the mysteries of the Ansari,' she continued, quoting
her father's oft-heard description of his leader, 'in
their hidden caverns ; the most recondite secrets of the

VOL. I. Q

Druses are said to be in his possession ; and he has
dwelt with the Yezedis, or devil-worshippers, and
witnessed their dark rites ; the triple cord of the
Brahmins, the prayer-wheel of the Buddhist, is not
strange to him. Lately he has identified himself with
our friends the Turks of the Sufi heresy. . . . My
father has a very great respect for him ; he consults
him upon all political and religious questions.*

Your father, then, believes in some kind of religion ?'
He is an extremely religious man, really; that is

to say, he thinks a great deal upon spiritual subjects ;
but he has a great dislike to all accepted forms.'

He attacks, in fact, all existing religions, in order
that he may invent one of his own. I suppose this is
really a true statement of the case ? '

Oh, no, indeed, he doesn't attack existing religion ! '
protested Sophy. * He says that would be, as the
French say, " hailing upon parsley." He's very good
and tolerant to religion whenever it comes in his way ;
for he detests bigotry of any sort, even the bigotry of
the Freethinkers. He himself is terribly open to conviction
upon every subject.'

I suppose by " parsley " he means the Christian
religion ? '

Yes, and all the other religions that profess to
dictate in an arbitrary manner to mankind, saying,
This alone is the true faith." He looks upon personal
religion as purely constitutional ; and, though he
is such a very religious man, he can't take in all the
beliefs of other people any more than he can always
eat the same food as they do.'

I see ; and even in the choice of his bodily food,
I think you told me, he differed a little from the rest
of us?'

Yes, he is almost entirely a vegetarian. He very
strongly objects to destroying animal life, in order
that we may support our own lives by it, when there
are other moans of doing so. Above all, he dislikes
the idea of turning the sufferings of animals into a
sport. I believe this is the Buddhist theory ; Coleridge's
ballad of the Ancient Mariner is founded on
it. You remember the curse that followed upon the
killing of the albatross for mere idle sport ? '

I always thought the poem very much overrated
answered the young man. * I am glad to know that
it possesses a hidden significance. And so your father
consults the Great Prophet on religious matters as well
as upon politics ?'

He believes,' said Sophy, ' that Asia is the cradle
of all religions possessed of vitality  Christianity
amongst the number  and that only Eastern who
are learned in mysticism are at all capable of inventing
religions. Europeans, he says, being positivists, can
form laws and political codes, but they are incapable
of taking Oriental metaphors and poetic phrases in the
proper spirit. He fancies that the European mind has
taken several of these much too literally  the apple,
for instance, the snake, and the creation of the world
in six days ; and he thinks that, in order to restore
the proper proportion of poetry and prose, mystics and
positivists ought to mingle together and interchange
their ideas.'

I think,' remarked Godfrey, ' that the time has
almost come when I ought to make your father's
acquaintance. I could represent the European element.'

Oh, I wish you would ! ' exclaimed Sojhy, warmly,
and losing all feeling of shyness for the moment. ' But
how is it to be managed ? '

I must leave that to you ; try and arrange it, if
you can

I-will, indeed ! ' cried she, enthusiastically. * Let
me consider;' and, leaning her chin upon her hands,
she remained silent for some moments, as though in
the act of developing a scheme.

I think I have discovered a way,' she said at last,
though my plan may seem to you rather complicated,
and not quite straightforward ; but it is the only one
I can think of.'

Never mind that,' replied the young man. ' Let
me hear what it is.'

Well, then,' rejoined Sophy, feeling now brave asa
lion, ' to-day is Thursday. Every Tuesday morning,
as it is market-day, Janus and Nelus go down to
Southerbourne in the cart, and when it is fine, my
father and I nearly always go too  I fancy it does
him good to have a little sea-air ; and when it was
warm weather I used to bathe. Anyhow, we have got
into the habit of going there upon this particular day,
for then Janus can ask my advice about the things she
buys ; and we then put our purchases into the cart,
and drive home all together before nightfall.'

Quite in patriarchal fashion,' remarked Godfrey.
*Well, and what then?'

Whilst Janus and I are doing our shopping, and
Nelus is attending to the horses, what do you think
my father does?' Sophy inquired.

I can't imagine,' answered Godfrey, smiling at
her enthusiasm. ' Though, if it wouldn't offend you,
I shoidd say, "probably something very extraordinary." '

This great, good, and clever man,' she continued,
for she still boasted of her father's wisdom to others,
although she hod sometimes felt doubtful about it

herself  * this man, whom other still wiser men will
come half across the world to see, who advises kings
and emperors and prime ministers, and makes war and
peace just as he likes  actually sits down quietly upon
the beach and eats shrimps ! '

And it is then that I am to be introduced to him ?'
asked Godfrey, looking amused.

It is then that you must introduce yourself. You
must go up to him and plunge into conversation. You
will recognise him from my description ; besides which,
you tell me you have seen him at a distance. I will
tell you also to what part of the beach I will lead him,
and then it will all go off beautifully.'

But in what way am I to begin the conversation ?
Won't he naturally think it very impertinent of an
utter stranger to address him ? '

Oh, no, indeed he won't ! ' answered Sophy, eagerly.
As he is quite unlike other people, he isn't governed
by ordinary rules. He's always on the look-out for
"tjrpes," "counterparts," ''idiosjmcrasies," "emanations,"
" brain-structures," and converts to the Great
Cause. Directly he hears you speak he will like you,'
she added, blushing, ' for he will like your voice.'

But what word is my voice to utter first ?'

Oh, you might pretend not to know that he was
blind, as he doesn't show it ; and you could ask him
the time  he always wears a repeater.'

That is, I believe, a very common way of stealing
a person's watch. He will probably take me for a
thief.'

'Ah, how little you can grasp his innocent and
unsuspicious nature ! He's a thousand times more
likely to take a thief for an honest man, than an
honest man for a thief: he never suspects anyhodi/ !*

And she sighed at several reminiscences which occurred
to her connected with her father's floating fund of
credulity.

'Well, and having asked the time?' Godfrey
inquired.

Then replied Sophy, * you must immediately
plunge into politics.'

And into the politics of what country am I to
plunge ?' asked her cousin, laughing. ' Of course, too,
all his views will be quite the reverse of mine. We
shall probably end in a quarrel.'

You must speak rather in the abstract,' explained
Sophy, waving her hand with the old movement
towards the setting sun. * You had better talk about
the balance of power in Europe, and the eventual
triumph of the Tartar race ; and, above all, be sure
to crack up the Turks, and the Poles, and the
Circassians.'

Godfrey laughed again at this piece of feminine
strategy, and Sophy looked up at him inquiringly,
uncertain as to whether he was not ridiculing both
herself and her project.

I am smiling,' he explained, * at the notion of my
going down to a provincial watering-place, and conversing
upon subjects of which I am profoundly
ignorant, with a man I have never spoken to before
in my life, and who is eating shrimps and wishing me
anywhere ! I am relieved to find that he does not
object to destroying the life of a shrimp.'

A certain number of shrimps are destroyed everyday,
whether he eats them or not. I fancy this is the
way he absolves his conscience. Besides which, I
confess he is not altogether consistent. People expecting
perfect consistency in him will be disappointed ;

but I know that after you have spoken two words to
him he will like you, so it doesn't much matter what
those words are.'

And would you be looking on at me all the time,
confusing me with your presence ?'

No ; I should be marketing with the servants.
But after he had got thoroughly to know you and like
you, I should appear upon the scene, and, lo and behold,
it would then turn out that you were the son of his
brother from whom he had been parted so long !
After this, I think there might come a reconciliation ;
only I want him to form his own judgment of you
first, before he knows who you are.'

You mean, that if he knew my name he would be
prejudiced against me ? It seems very unnatural.'

It does, indeed ! And you don't know how much
I have thought about it lately ! Here are our two
fathers living within barely three miles of each other,
and never meeting or speaking ! And all for some old
quarrel which they ought long ago (to have forgotten.
Very likely they may have forgotten it, but they still
remember their old bitterness. Really, I think that
it's time they should be friends, and that your father,
being the elder, ought to be the first to make advances.'

Sophy did not know, when she ventured upon this
suggestion, that it might appear to her cousin in the
light of an impertinence ; but he somehow made her
feel this, as he replied coldly, 

My father is now a very old man. He will not be
here much longer, and I endeavour to check myself
whenever I am inclined to criticise or cavil at his
actions.'

Of course,' answered his companion, feeling
crushed. 'Still, this family quarrel is a great pity.'

or

It is ; but we mayn't quite know the true cause
of it

I don't want to know it said Sophy, * if to know
would only set me against people ! I'm sure I'm
trying to do all in my power to patch it up by making
friends with you ; and yet I hardly like the idea of our
being so much together, when my father has never
known you or spoken to you. That's why I want to
bring about a meeting.'

Very well ; I will do as you wish. Next Tuesday,
if the day should be fine, I'll ride down early to
Southerbourne ; and, at about twelve, I'll be on the
beach opposite to where the bathing-machines used to
be in the summer.'

Thank you, thank you, a thousand times ! How
kind you are ! ' And she then added, anxious to
disabuse his mind of a possible misconception, * Of
course I don't say that my father would object to our
meeting, although, somehow, till the quarrel is made
up, I haven't liked to tell him about it. He didn't
mind it when we were children, neither does he object
to my walking about with Tom Hickathrift ; so the
only reason why he might not like me to walk with
you would be on account of this tiresome feud.'

Do you walk about much with Tom Hickathrift ?'
asked the young man  the real Godfrey looking out
for one moment from his eyes, and seeming not over-well
pleased.

*Not quite so much since Sir Peckham's death,'
she answered ; ' for he has such heaps of things to
attend to now, that he can't give me so much of his
time.'

He gave you a great deal of it, then, once ? '

Yes,' replied Sophy, simply. * And I miss him

now a good deal ; for its always nice to see the people
one likes.'

It must be very nice ! When I saw your manner
to Hickathrif t at the Abbey ball, do you know what I
thought ?'

'No; do tell me!'

Well, I thought that sou were probably engaged
to be married to him. I was very nearly congratulating
you.'

How calmly he said it, as if he did not in the least
care whether she was engaged to be married or not !
After all, what difference could it possibly make to
him ? Nevertheless, his manner depressed and irritated
her, and the crimson blood mounted unconsciously to
her cheek.

*But I was glad to hear, next day,' he went on
impassively, *that my impression was erroneous.'

And why should I not be engaged to be married
if I like?' she demanded, warmly, goaded almost to
madness.

There is no reason in the world,' Godfrey answered,
crushing her still further by his calmness. * You are
not, however, I believe ? I was wrong, of course, to
judge from appearances, as it was your first ball.'

Did I do anything so very extraordinary that you
should know at once that it was my first ball ? ' she
asked, now fairly put out.

I fancied that it was,' he answered, * by several
little things ; besides, I think you told me.'

You can't have been, yet, to a very great many
yourself ! '

This was intended as a cutting sarcasm, though, as
she gave vent to it, she wondered at her own extraordinary
temerity.

No ; we are neither of us very old ! ' he answered,
laughing good-humouredly. *But that is a fault that
is certain to mend.'

Now I must indeed go home cried Sojhy, unable
to account for her own irritation, as she rose suddenly
from her seat upon the fallen oak-tree. ' It's getting
almost dark.'

Godfrey rose also, and stood over her in the twilight.
He held both her hands in his for some time before he
let them go. In Sophy's heart so many conflicting
emotions had arisen during this short interview, with
the last of which there had mingled, somehow, such a
feeling of forlornness, that she almost imagined that
Godfrey, like some powerful and all seeing genius,
had divined its existence, and was about to take her
to his heart. A great wish came over her to be
comforted, absolved, forgiven, for she knew not what.
Instead of this, however, he raised her hand respectfully
to his lips, with something of the formal gesture
of a gallant of the ancien regime, and, without looking
back at him, she hurried homewards through the
gloaming.

Godfrey stood watching her thoughtfully until she
was lost in the darkness, and then, with something
very like a sigh, he vaulted over the five-barred gate,
and made for Great Stillingfleet.

So2)hy, in the meantime, was suffering keenly from
that mortifying sense of inferiority which always tormented
her in the presence of her cousin, and she
began to count over in her mind the list of her
imaginary iniquities  her awkwardness, her want
of tact, her slips of the tongue, her provincialisms, her
foolish tell-tale blushes, and what she was pleased to
call her ' barbarisms.'

I suppose she thought, sadly and penitently,
that I'm only a sort of wild woman of the woods,
and can't do better  a savage, a kind of Orson in
petticoats ; and yet I never feel stupid or countrified
when I'm with poor dear Tom ! Then I can go
rattling on without ever stopping to pick my words,
and, somehow, I always seem to say the right ones !
If only Godfrey would not speak to me as if I was
either very young, or very poor, or very much beneath
him, I should feel so much more at my ease, and /
shouldn't dislike him half so much ! Next time I see
him I will try to be brave, and put aside all this
foolishness

As she flitted along the gravel walk in front of the
bay-window, within which stood the three suits of
armour  empty now of all knighthood, mere shells,
like those of absorbed ichneumon flies, yet bearing no
outward trace of the death that had been so busy
within  she saw, by the lights in the inner sitting-room,
that the Great Prophet had already arrived ; for
when Mr. St. Clair was alone, he was accustomed to
dispense with light, declaring that he could see better
in the dark, and thinking, perhaps, that candles would
be wasted upon one who could not even see the sun.

Sophy slipped in at the front-door, hung up her
hat and cloak in the hall, and passed into the front
sitting-room, in order to arrange the books upon the
table, and clear away her knitting-needles and worsted-balls.
The door of the inner sanctum was open as
usual, but neither the Great Seer nor her father were
aware of her presence ; and before they perceived it,
she could not avoid catching the following fragment
of their conversation : 

The Great Prophet : * In a word, then, my friend.

be not over-anxious with regard to this matter, nor
imagine that evil consequences must necessarily follow
the union of cousins of the first degree, or that of
those bound, within certain restrictions, by the tie of
blood, a tie which we have ever held to be still further
fortified and cemented by the additional tie of marriage,
as marriage is confirmed and strengthened by an accompanying
tie of blood. . . . The Circassians, the Turks
even the Jews, intermarry, and, indeed, all
ancient races. To discountenance this was the invention
of your priests, in order to give dispensations for
which money is paid. . If these marriages are
abominable, and against Nature, as would be the
union of a brother with a sister, a son with his
mother, why should the abomination depart upon the
payment of money, as your priests pretend?'

Mr. St. Ckiir (bowing his head submissively) : * I
shall remember your words should I feel anxious again
upon this subject ; for if any man could convince me
that I laboured under an error, that man would be
yourself. Our prejudices, however, are more difficult
to eradicate than our reasonable objections, and I must
confess that I have always looked upon the marriages
of cousins of the first degree as abominable.'

After hearing these words, poor Sophy slunk up to
her room, feeling like a wounded spirit.

Chapter Viii.

One more letter from Sophy to her chosen friend,
and I have done, probably for ever, with the epistolary
style : 

The description of your unhappiness lie began,
lias made me feel how much I have in my own life to
make me grateful and contented. I am told that
bodily pain, too, is very disagreeable, though I have
never experienced it to any extent; and it does, indeed,
seem hard that, on the top of everything else, you
should have toothache. Console yourself, dear, with
occupation, with the knowledge that things seldom goon
for long exactly as they are, and with a belief in
the doctrine of compensation. All these I have proved
the truth of ; the second of them, sometimes, quite ina
tiresome way : for when one is well off and happy as
one is, of course one has no wish for changes ; and yet,
somehow, either in circumstances or feelings, they
always seem to come. I think I told you that the
Prophet was coming to stay with us again  you know
about him from my descriptions. The Great Cause, I
believe, is entirely of his own invention ; consequently
we all sit at his feet and worship him, speaking of him
as "Him"' (written with a capital H). * He is an
Asiatic mystic,' she continued, going through the
recognised formula, adding, by way of climax, as Mr.
St. Clair invariably added, ' He has dwelt with the
Yezedis, or devil-worshippers, and witnessed their
dark rites. . . . And now to tell you, dearest Adele,
a little characteristic trait respecting these Yezedis,
which, I really think, gives one a great insight into
human nature. . . It seems that these horrid creatures
go through all sorts of dreadful religious ceremonies,
worshipping the Spirit of Evil because they believe
him to be much stronger than the Spirit of Good (as
I should think he zcaSy from all I hear, though, of
course, this is no reason why they should try and conciliate
him, throwing, as it were, sops to Cerberus ;

but it seems this is their system). With people hers
on the contrary, the Great Prophet says, things are
exactly reversed. We are supposed to reverence
the Spirit of Good, looking up to Him, and professing
to do what would please Him most, though we don't
always do it. But fancy, the Prophet says  and my
father assures me that this is a fact  there are actually
some people here, in England, who, because they fancy
it looks fne and fashionable and independent, will positively
pretend that they are worshipping and following
the Spirit of Evil!  openly flaunting their sins in
the eyes of other good people, not caring a bit for
public opinion, and behaving in the most foolish and
extravagant manner, endeavouring to shock everybody
and trying to break as many commandments of the
English religion (I really forget what they all are, but
some are easier to keep, I believe, than others) as they
possibly can ! But now listen to the behaviour of
these absurd Yezedis, and then you will see that men
are really just as silly as we are, and, after all, very
much alike in all countries. The people amongst
them who wish to be thought smart and eccentric
begin, of course, as they do here, by going against all
the old-established forms. But how are they to display
their fashionable wickedness ? Not by healing
the commandments of the English religion, but by
keeping them ; so that actually the unorthodox people
and the dissipated young men amongst the Yezedis
set about doing good and scoffing at the Spirit of Evil
and they refuse to go to devil-worship and become
what we should call quite virtuous, though only from
contradiction ! Of course, however, they are looked
upon by their clergy as the wicked people are looked
upon here  quite as pariahs ; and they become, in a

kind of way, excommunicated, and the respectable
Yezedis won't visit them, or invite their fcmaloi to
their balls or parties. But they go on swaggering
in their lawless way whilst they are young, though, when
they get near their end, they generally reform (as bad
people do here), and become bloodthirsty devil worshippers
again, having '' sown their wild oats." After
this, dearest Adele, can you wonder at any of the extravagances
committed by men or women wherever
they are ?

Besides all this, the Great Prophet talks a great
deal about " atmospheres," *' spheres," " emanations,"
counterparts," &c. ; for all his views upon every subject
stand by themselves. I longed that your pretended
sister could have listened to him the other day, as it
is just the sort of stuff that would go down with her
victims ; and to the deaf ones it would sound so swell
through a trumpet. He tells me, too, that I am "a
leader of men," and that I am meant by rights for a
Priestess or a Prophetess.

Our dinner-party of the other evening was what
you would call " of the most original." It was got up
entirely for our Asiatic star, and several of his disciples
attended. We made up as many beds as we could in
the house, and over the cart-horses, but for one night
we were very much crowded. In the middle of our
preparations, judge of our consternation when we heard
that the Private Secretary of a certain minister, with
whom the Great Prophet is at daggers drawn (at any
rate in print), wished very particularly to make his
acquaintance ; and as he was staying at Southerbourne,
he proposed to my father, who has known him for a
long time, to drive over and meet him at dinner. Of
course we didn't quite like to refuse this request,

though, I must say, I almost feared that the meeting
might end in bloodshed ; and I hid away, secretly, all
the yataghans and tomahawks that are hanging up
in the dining-room, and also the rifle, loaded with
the golden bullet which never misses its mark (which,
you remember, we cast one day in Wimpole Street),
and I took care that the dinner-knives were all nice
and blunt. As a little surprise to some of our Oriental
guests, what do you think my dear father had devised ?
That we should have a real Eastern dish, called
"Kebobs," and it seemed to him quite providential
that Abdallah (who, as I told you, came over with the
Arab horses) should be here to prepare it. I went
into the kitchen during this painful operation, to see
if I could pick up any ideas; but the only effect of
my visit was, to make me feel that I would rather
starve than eat of the horrible dish. This is the way
it was made, though, if anybody says it isnty please
don't quote me ; for I really don't see why a common
donlxcy-hoy (and this is all Abdallah is in his own
country) should know anything about cooking. My
father seems to think, however, that because he comes
from the East he must know all about Eastern cookery,
as if any one would ever be so deluded as to believe in
the culinary talents of a donkey-boy of the North !
Abdallah, then, who can only speak his own language,
and that badly, made imperious signs, first of all, that
he wanted a leg of mutton, which was brought to him
by Janus, who looked very much disgusted at having
her province invaded by what she calls a '* barbarism."
After this he made her understand that he required
some little pieces of stick. These he sharpened with
his pocket-knife, and having cut up the leg of mutton,
with the same knife, into pieces about the size of a lump

of sugary lie put each of them upon one of the little
pointed skewers. He then commenced cutting up some
onions. I think I told you before that Abdullah has a
very bad cold, and this seemed to make it far worse 
his eyes cried dreadfully, and a long red pocket-handkerchief
with yellow spots, which he carried in his
hand, seemed to be trailing into everything, though he
didn't use it half so often as he ought. It was really
dreadful to watch him, and to think that human beings
were destined to eat what he was mauling about in this
awful manner ! When he had cut up the onions, he
threw them into a saucepan with the lumps of mutton
and some rice, and stirred them about for some time,
whilst Janus glared at him most ferociously. Now and
then he took up a tallow-candle and held it over the
saucepan, to see how they were getting on, and from holding
it so very near to the fire, a good deal of the tallow
couldn't help falling into the kehohs. The whole thing
was very terrible ; but when they were finished, and
sent into the dining-room, they were pronounced to be
excellent. Abdallah was sent for, and publicly complimented
in his native language, and not one of the
little horrors escaped with its life ! the introduction
of this Eastern dish, in fact, seemed to produce such a
good effect upon the Great Prophet and the Private
Secretary, that instead of quarrelling, as we had expected
they would, they apparently became friends for life ;
and I shall be very much surprised if those violent
articles directed against a certain minister, and accusing
him of bribery and corruption, do not cease, at any
rate for the present. What teas remarkable, though,
was, that two of the Prophet's own disciples, who had
always been the most devoted friends, had a terrible
dispute; not in the least upon an important subject,

VOL. I. R

but as to whether an Oriental dish called a inllauf discomposed
of chicken and rice, or with rice onhj. They
became black in the face with rage, foamed at the
mouth, threatened each other, and shook their fists,
swearing at the same time in several hnujuages, and according
to three or four different religions ! One called
the other the " son of the father of lies," whilst the
other replied that he was " a fool," and that *' nothing
remained to him but to grow fat;" and in the end the
Great Prophet and the Private Secretary had positively
to tear them asunder ! For the rest of the
evening they didn't speak, and great fears are entertained
lest the one who said that the pillcmf was made
with rice should withdraw himself from the political
party of the one who said that it was made with
chicken, in which case (my father says) the Great Cause
will lose the services of a man oi first-rate brain-power,
and all for such a very little thing ! This will show you,
that even great men are subject to certain weaknesses,
which it is always a satisfaction for us, who are only
women, to realise.

And now farewell, my dearest Adele, for my letter
has grown to an enormous length ; and but that you
said letters were a consolation to you, I should feel
ashamed to send it. I wish you the good fortune to
escape from your complications, and that with all
speed. I have not alluded to any complications of
my own, but will only tell you that I have had lately
some very sad thoughts. Had I the prayer wheel of
the Buddhists, I think I know what I should pray
for ; and they say that it is a great thing to know
what one really wants, as very few people do. My
music and drawing are going on very nicely ; but I'm
afraid I don't make quite so much progress with ny

religion, as I am met at every turn by such terrible
contradictions and deceptions. However, I cannot
really say with truth that I have as yet taken it
thoroughly in hand.'

Here the letter ended with a few affectionate compliments,
which, as it turned out, Sophy might have
spared herself the trouble of inditing ; for, to her
surprise, the whole composition was returned to her
in a few days, fortunately unopened, with a note from
the * pretended sister,' to the effect that Adele had
mysteriously disappeared, and that, by no manner of
means, could her whereabouts be discovered.

Letters continued, nevertheless, to arrive for her
from Mr. Carver, and as no more were delivered in
what Sophy had decided was the handwriting of the
second husband,' she endeavoured to subdue praising
anxiety, concluding, with a wisdom beyond
her years, that it would be perhaps more reasonable,
until further particulars reached her, to look upon this
mysterious disappearance ' in the light of an elopement,
rather than a case of suicide.

Chapter IX.

But all this time the great Hickathrift ring of
betrothal had been jingling about in Sir Thomas's
waistcoat-pocket, and he was looking forward with
mingled feelings of fear and excitement to the moment
when he should rid himself of it in one way or another ;
for, supposing Sophy refused him, it was to be returned
to his mother's forefinger.

Upon the occasion of his last visit to Little Stilling-fleet,

when, to the surprise of its unconscious object,
lie had seemed to ignore her very existence, he lead
ventured to make known his feelings to her father, and
had endeavoured to obtain from him some inkling of
what might be his possible fate ; for he had the candour
to admit that he was himself in a terrible state of
uncertainty.

I can't help thinking that it's rather too soon to
speak to her,' he had said ruefully. * But yet, what is
one to do ? If I put it off some one else may propose
first, and then, you know, one will feel like a fool.'

*I hardly think you need have any fears on that
score,' answered Mr. St. Clair. 'For I don't see who
there is to propose. My visitors here are, nearly all
of them, men older than myself  most of them are
foreigners, and they are too much occupied to think
of the allurements of love. Besides which, they belong
mostly to a religion which, though it denies the existence
of more than one God, sanctions a plurality of
wives ; and it would no doubt be considered indecorous
in a country where this rule is reversed  that is to say,
where three Gods, and only one wife, are permitted 
were I to give my child in marriage to a follower of
Islam. '

Of course,' replied the young man, ignoring the
theological portion of this remark. ' I'm not much
afraid of those you mention ; but there are other
people. . . . She was very much admired at the ball.
. . There's Godfrey St. Clair. . . .'

That can never be ! ' cried Sophy's father, with
animation. ' They are first cousins. But that is only
one of several reasons why I should be strongly opposed
to such a marriage.'

I don't say there's any just reason for my fear,'

rejoined Tom. ' But a fellow always is a little frightened
when lie feels as I do.'

Yes, and very naturally. We have most of us
travelled by the same road. And that reminds me 
since you have made me this confidence of your
feelings, I feel that /, too, should not be justified in
keeping anything back. . . . You know about her
mother ? '

I do,' replied Tom, touched and embarrassed by
the thought of the honourable feeling which prompted
the elder man thus to disinter his past. * At least, I
think I know all that you could tell me.'

That is well,' said the philosopher. ' And I ought
to have known you too well to suppose that, even had
you been ignorant till now of the history of my youth,
your feelings would have changed towards her at any
disclosures I might make to you.'

'Spare yourself the pain, sir,' interrupted Tom
eagerly. ' I know her mother was a gipsy ; but I love
her as much as if she had been a queen's daughter.'

Her mother was an angel,' said the blind man,
deeply touched at this heartfelt speech. 'And were
she alive now, neither you nor her daughter would
be ashamed of one of the most charming of women.
But there are still circumstances of which you may,
perhaps, be ignorant, and of which I feel that it is
my duty to inform you. . . . Sophy has other relations.
My wife's supposed father, a wild, lawless man,
who ill-treated her in her childhood, imagines that
on account of my marriage he has claims upon me.
It has been with the utmost difficulty that I have
succeeded in keeping this unprincipled person  one
Reuben Goddard by name  at bay ; for it is natural
that I should wish to avoid shocking Sophy's gentle

and refined nature by allowing her to come in contact
with one so lost to all elevating impulses, but who is
yet unfortunately bound to her by the tie of blood.'

I can't tell you how right I think you,' exclaimed
Tom warmly; 'for she would feel it, of course. It
would make her very unhappy, I'm sure it would.'

'But it makes no difference to you?' asked the
blind man, with satisfaction in his voice.

I'm sorry for it, of course, and for all the annoyance
it must have caused you ; but I don't see how it affects
me personally, except that I know now that she's more
in want of a second protector than I thought.'

You're a good fellow said Mr. St. Clair, feeling
for Tom's hand and pressing it ; ' and, whichever way
it turns, you will know that you have my best wishes
from the first.'

Thank you, sir,' replied the young man gratefully,
and for a few seconds both were silent. Francis St.
Clair was the first to speak.

This misguided individual,' he said, ' has received
from me, through my lawyer, a small annual allowance,
not sufficient to support him in idleness without some
effort on his own part to augment it, and yet enough to
protect him from absolute want. It is a sum which
will seerri to you ridiculously small  forty pounds only ;
but I was advised to give no more. I was also recommended
by my legal adviser to make him understand
that even this paltry sum would cease with my life ;
for he had fancied that it might have been still further
increased by a bequest, and it is unwise to give a man
of no principle an interest, however small, in one's
death.'

Indeed, yes ! ' Tom answered, guessing his meaning,
yet feeling, notwithstanding, no diminution in his

devotion to the unconscious granddaughter of this monster.
' Has lie ever actually threatened you ?'

Not in a way that has alarmed me for my personal
safety ; and, indeed, this has seemed to me but of small
account compared to the annoyance and grief which
Sophy would experience should this person present
himself at the house and reveal his kinship. During
my lifetime I think I have rendered this improbable
by a counter-threat that, from the day of such an occurrence,
his allowance shall cease ; but I don't think
it impossible that, after my death, he may cause Sophy
and her husband some trouble. YoUy my dear Tom,
will know now how to shield her from this ; and I
should advise some arrangement similar to the one
I have made.'

When Tom Ilickathrift heard himself spoken to
thus, as the future husband of Sophy, he experienced
a sudden and delightful thrill of emotion. This dream,
then, seeming to him almost too delicious to be realised,
was to Mr. St. Clair a possibility, nay, a probability
even. For some moments he could not trust himself
to reply, and the father of Sophy continued, 

There is one other circumstance which I feci that
I ought perhaps to mention to you, as some persons may
possibly attach importance to it. My daughter, as you
know, has always been called *' Sophia," or " Sophia
word signifying Wisdom which, as jowl may have
heard, was her mother's name ; and, as though with a
view of embodying this virtue, she has hitherto certainly
displayed a knowledge, an intelligence, a keenness
of perception, extraordinary in one so young.'

There's nobody like her ! ' exclaimed Sir Thomas,
with enthusiasm. * She's cleverer, and nicer, and
prettier, than any one else in the world ! '

*But this name Mr. St. Clair continued, * given
to her at a moment when my life became suddenly
darkened, when we were sojourning for a while in the
city of Sophia, her birthplace, was not bestowed upon
her in a church ; nor has she, in fact, ever received
baptism, in the usual sense of the word.'

Indeed ! ' returned Tom, looking rather blank,
though even now his heart remained loyal.

Of course this omission can at any moment be
remedied,' the Agnostic went on ; * and she will now
have the rare advantage of being able to select the
religious denomination with which she may desire to
become associated  if with any.'

Yes, of course,' acquiesced the young man. He
could not help, however, feeling a little uncomfortable.
Like the typical French hero of melodrama, he immediately
thought of his mother, and what she would
say to this ' omission.'

Perhaps I can take her off and get her christened
somewhere abroad,' he thought at length, and at this
he felt comforted.

And now, before we part company,' said Mr. St.
Clair, 'let me tell you how flattered and honoured
I feel that my daughter's hand should have been demanded
of me by an honest man. Thank you, my
dear Tom ; I say again you have my best wishes. I
know nothing, however, of Sophy's feelings respecting
marriage ; but I think I may say, without raising
false hopes, that she has always had a warm affection
for you, and looked upon you as one of her best friends,
as I hope you will continue to be, whatever happens.'

I will, indeed, sir,' said Tom ; * to the end of my
days  whether I win or lose.'

At this speech Mr. St. Clair became visibly affected.

He again felt for his companion's right hand, and, when
they met, the two hands clasped each other very cordially,
whilst with his left the * young Sir Tummus ' felt
nervously for the great Hickathrift ring, which he had
brought with him in his waistcoat-pocket.

I think I would rather get it over pretty soon,' he
remarked, after some moments of reflection. ' It will
be a weight off my mind. I'll ride over on Monday
next and ask her.'

And, indeed, the possession of this hereditary ]&we\
was beginning to seem to him like a care and a responsibility,
and he felt that he must get rid of it somehow
for the sake of his peace of mind.

Finally it was arranged, that on the following Monday
he should ride over, as he had so often done before,
as though by accident ; that he should send back his
horse ; that Sophy (as she, too, had often done befcM'e)
should accompany him upon part of his homeward way ;
and that during this walk she should be informed of his
intentions.

However, when Monday arrived he did not present
himself as had been agreed upon. A note from him
was sent over instead, which Sophy read aloud to her
father, and wherein (for he had felt sure this would
happen by reason of Mr. St. Clair's blindness) the
young man made no allusion to the object of his intended
visit. He did, however, go so far as to say this
much, which might have seemed to her to be somewhat
mysterious, had not her mind been filled with other
thoughts and projects : 

When I tell you the reason that I have not kept my
appointment you will laugh at me, and I shall deserve
it. I set out, and was half way on the road, when I
came across one magpie ; and fancying I might be out

of luck I turned back and went home again.' And he
then added, that unless the same evil omen appeared to
him on the following day, Tuesday, he hoped to present
himself then instead.

Poor dear Tom ! ' exclaimed Mr. St. Clair, as
Sophy put down the letter. ' He's a perfect type of a
true-hearted young Englishman ; and what is more, he
is a gentleman.'

*A better creature never breathed,' she answered
carelessly, as she tore the note into little pieces, and
flung it into the grate. To the blind man these words
seemed almost as ominous as Tom's magpie.

I hope, with all my heart, that she likes him,' he
murmured to himself ; ' but I'm afraid.'

On Tuesday Sophy rose with the lark ; for it was
the day upon which she had arranged her little seaside
project with Godl're}, and she felt unusually restless
and excited. The painful impression produced by her
father's words upon the subject of the union of first
cousins, had gradually subsided before the joyful expectation
of this meeting with her youthful kinsman,
which was to result, she fondly hoped, in a perpetual
'buying of the hatchet.'

Whether or no she had ever really asked herself
how this enthralling friendship was to end ; whether
she had looked on into the future, and seen Godfrey
and herself united by closer ties than those of a sentimental
companionship), despite the objections of a
beloved and affectionate father ; or whether she contemplated
the possibility of abandoning for ever such
sweet communion, and beholding him married to
another, whilst living thus within a stone's-throw of
his ancestral oaks and beeches, I must leave it to my
readers to conjecture. Those amongst them who are

the most conversant with the impulsive and unreasoning
minds of the young will, no doubt, come to the conclusion
that she had probably cast all fears for the
future to the winds, and resigned herself blindly to the
alluring sensibilities of the present.

The day was wonderfully fine for the time of year 
autumnal, rather than wintry. The dew lay thick and
white on the lawn, in the long morning shadows,
which stretched across it, as if to shake hands ; but
there was no real frost. The Dallingridge woods
looked blue and hazy in the distance ; but though the
season was so far advanced, they were as yet un-despoiled
of their foliage, owing to the dry weather ;
and the nearer copses glowed with warm russet tints,
from amongst which a primrose-coloured birch tree or
orange sycamore stood out here and there in brilliant
relief.

As Sophy looked out at this scene, two squirrels
darted across the lawn ; the birds were chirping as
blithely as if it had been spring-time, and everything
seemed replete with beauty and freshness, rendered all
the more touching from its contrast with that which
was inevitably to follow  the frozen sleep of winter.

What a delicious day ! ' she thought, as she leant
out of her bedroom window and drank in the crisp air,
and, contrary to her usual custom, she began considering
what dress she should wear.

I think my shepherd's plaid,' she decided at last.
My other two frocks he has seen so very often.' And
she set about making her simple toilet.

Sophy had not slept from a nervous fear of bad
weather, for there had been three hoar frosts running,
which are generally supposed to be forerunners of rain.
She looked, however, extremely well, notwithstanding ;

and she entered the breakfast-room, where her father
was sitting, seeming like a concentrated and incorporate
essence of youth, beauty, and happiness.

'Why are you hooking so sentimental?' she inquired,
as she kissed him loudly and affectionately,
for she had surprised him in what appeared to be a
brown study.' ' Why should your dear brow wear a
cloud when there isn't one in the whole sky the size of
a feather ? But, ah, I forgot ! ' she added, checking
herself reproachfully ; ' you can't see what a most
lovely day it is ! '

I can feel it though,' he replied. ' I knew at once
that it was bright and sunny.'

Janus, Janus ! ' she continued, rattling on, for
she felt that she must give some manner of expression
to her gladness of heart. * Again here is the accursed
flesh of swine, in the form of bacon, dear ; of course
you won't eat any ; but here are three poached eggs,
all hard, but one not broken ; some rice-milk, honey,
and a muffin. What will you begin with ? ' and she
placed a cup of steaming coffee by the side of the blind
man's plate.

Thanks ; I don't feel much inclined to eat this
morning,' answered Mr. St. Clair, who did not seem to
be in the enjoyment of his usual unruffled calm. ' A
little coffee and some toast will be enough for me.'

The sea-air will soon make you as hungry as an
ogre,' remarked his daughter, who was now, like
Werther's * Charlotte,' cutting bread-and-butter in the
most conscientious and determined manner, as though
to exhaust some of her superabundant energy. ' And
the less you eat now, the more appetite you will have
for those delicious strings. I'm sure I'm very glad
we've got such a fine day for our expedition.'

We are not going to Southerbourne to-day,' said
Mr. St. Clair, quietly. * I have just told Jane and
Nelus.'

'Not going to Southerbourne V echoed Sophy, dropping,
in her consternation, the heavy knife with which
she had been attacking the home-made loaf, and seeming
suddenly to become cold, and limp, and disconsolate.

No, dear  don't you remember ? you read me his
letter  Sir Thomas Hickathrift is coming to-day.'

Oh, is that all ? ' exclaimed Sophy with a sigh of
relief, the colour coming back to her cheeks. 'How
formal and grand we are ! Then ' Sir Thomas Hicks
" won't find the family at home, that'll be all !

My dearest Sophy ! ' said the blind man, and she
remarked that his thin hand trembled, and that his
cheek was unusually pale, * I delight in your happy,
joyous nature. . I shall miss it, my child, when you
are no longer with me ; so don't think I am checking
you if I say that I hope for once you will treat Tom
seriously, and listen to what he has got to say.'

'How do you mean?' she asked, painfully impressed
by his manner. ' What can Tom have to say
to me that won't keep ? or,' she added, blushing, as
she divined the truth, ' that I don't know perfectly
well already ? '

Perhaps, dear, you did know it ; / knew it, most
of our friends knew it, and so why should not you ?
However, Tom must speak for himself. I did not
even mean to say this much . . .'

*I do think it will keep,' said Sophy, nervously.
I'm afraid I know what he may be going to say ;
but he can say it some other time.'

My dear child, how could I guess that you attached
so much importance to going to Southerbourne ? Last

week you seemed so provoked at having to go. It was
a day such as I imagine this one to be, and you said  I
remember your words, because they struck me as being
80 true  " Why should we go amongst horrid men and
women, and houses and shops, to a town, when we can
enjoy, in peace and quietness, one of the last fine days
of a dying year ?" Don't ''ou remember ?'

T do,' she answered, hanging her head and feeling
abashed.

And now,' her father went on, ' I have as good as
promised Tom that he shall speak to you to-day, and I
hardly like to put him off. He is very anxious, and
he may have nerved himself into sajdng to-day what
he would not be able to say so well tomorrow. I know
well the feeling myself.'

It doesn't matter how well he says it ! ' exclaimed
poor So2)hy, bursting into tears ; *for I know that I
could never, never bring myself to marry him ! '

My dear child, I am indeed sorry ; I had hoped that
you cared for poor Tom a little.'

So I do,' replied Sophy, between her sobs. * But
that only makes it worse ! A person I hated I could
easily drive away ; but to Tom, whom I like so much,
but whom I could never marry, what am I to say ?'

You will know best, dear ; and you have enough
tact to prevent him, if you like, from actually proposing
to you. A woman can ward off these things in a
thousand little ways, and yet avoid hurting a man's
feelings. You can be very kind, and at the same time
firm ; and when he sees which way the wind blows, he
will pull up, for nobody likes to be refused.'

Kit why need I see him at all ? Oh, do tell him
about it ; and let me get out of the way, and go down
with the servants to Southerbourne ! '

You may do this, if you like ; but you will please
me better b} facing what nearly every woman lias to
face at one time or another. I'm very sorry that you
can't feel differently

One would think that you wanted to get rid of
me ! ' exclaimed Sophy, with a touch of feminine
irritation.

She was, indeed, torn and assailed by conflicting
emotions, of which not the least disturbing was the
thought that probably at about this time Godfrey
St. Clair's horse was being led round to the door of
Dallingridge House, in order that he might start on his
bootless errand. Tom Hickathrift's inconsiderate behaviour
seemed to her enough to provoke the patience
of an angel.

When you say that, you know that your words
have no meaning,' answered the blind man, stroking
her cheek. ' But, as Tom says, one day you are sute to
marry somebody ; and it would be an extraordinary
piece of good luck for me if you didn't go away further
than the Abbey. If you lived there, I should have you
with me at least now and then.'

You would probably have me with you all day,'
said Sophy, smiling through her tears ; * for I don't
think I could ever live in that gloomy old place, where
the rooms are so large that I feel in them no bigger
than a fly. I like nice, low, cosy-looking rooms like
these ; and now they've been digging up a lot of stone
coffins in the new kitchen-garden, and Tom told me,
with pride, that they were going to arrange them as
flower-stands at the top of the grand staircase! Fancy,
how horrible ! Tom says there's a hollow place scooped
out in all of them for the monk's head. . . .'

The system of interment in coffins very naturally

or

inspires disgust,' returned the philosopher, 'and yet,
did one venture to express a desire that one's remains
should be otherwise dealt with, I imagine that a great
outcry would be raised, the keynote of which would be
sounded by the parsons. But is this all you have to
say against poor Tom?'

*His nose is so very long Sophy answered, the
joke-on-the-scaffold' feeling obtaining a sudden
ascendency, 'and the shadow of it, which one sees
sometimes on walls, and curtains, and things, is so
ridiculous  it's longer still ! ' . . .

A slight cloud passed over the philosopher's Arab
face at these words, which seemed to him to be more
flippant than the occasion warranted.

'My dear child,' he remonstrated, 'if we could only
plan out the arrangement of our own features  in itself
a most subtle and mysterious thing ; and yet, what is
beauty but the harmonious setting of them together ?
those amongst us who were possessed of good taste
would, by a natural sequence, be as beautiful as
houris. . . . The thing would find its level, though,'
he added musingly, carried away by the subject ; ' and
it would not necessarily ensue that we should, in consequence,
perceive a superabundance of beauty anymore
than we are conscious at present of a surfeit of
good manners, becoming address, or appropriate costume.
Then, as now, some vulgar persons would
continue to make unpleasing combinations ; and thus
it would invariably happen that the most refined and
Sympathetic nature would be clothed in the most
attractive garb.'

You mean, I suppose, that the ignorant would
choose their features as they choose their bonnets now,
getting ugly ones and fancying them pretty? Sonne

people however, are naturally beautiful, without any
fine words, and with very few "garbs." . . . But then,
apart from his own looks, Tom has such an absurd
mother.'

*We can no more choose our parents than our
features answered the blind man reproachfully.

No, dear ; but we can choose our husbands j cut in
Sophy.

Tom is an honest man,' said Mr. St. Clair, without
heeding this last sally.

What temptation has he for stealing our family
plate?' she answered flippantly, having now thoroughly
recovered her good-humour, and bowing, as it were,
before the inevitable. * Nearly everybody is  honest*' '

During this discussion they had moved from the
breakfast-room, and established themselves upon the
red divan in the bay-window of the parlour, where the
empty harness of the dead knights shut them ofi* from
the rest of the apartment.

My belief is that Lady Hickathrif t is less vulgar-minded
than provincial,' Francis St. Clair continued.
*At any rate, she is thoroughly kind-hearted; so was
poor old Peckham, too, in private life, though he was
a fool, and, in his public career, a Tory of the most
virulent and uncompromising type  a type which is
fast disappearing, I am happy to say, from our midst
before the march of modern progress. Neither of
them had travelled at all, or lived much in London 
that great leveller of castes  consequently they imbibed
mistaken notions as to their own importance  very
excusable in persons who

Think of home
As one might think of it in some damp shire.
Where, tritons 'mongst the minnows of the miro,
VOL. I. S

Wandering to mouldy feudal sophistries,

We say, ' All these
Broad mortgaged lands are ours, yon 'scutcheon hall,
Bright with their banners who were lords of all.
Here, where we also reign, all these are ours.

From postern-towers
Bead how, of old, the winged arrows sped
From archers, then our vassals ; overhead.
Ours is the flag which dominates with pride

The country-side.' "

You remember those lines ? . . . Now Tom has none
of this nonsense about him.'

*He's certainly not proud or stuck up, but he knows
he's a ITicJiafhrift,' answered Sophy, nodding her head
with a movement implying conviction.

It would be odd if he did not know it, when one
considers how it must have been drummed into him
from his earliest childhood ; but I consider that he's
quite wonderful for an only son. His father, too, I
must say, behaved to me always with consistent
friendliness ; and this is more than I can say of all
our country neighbours. When, at the last election,
for instance, I declined to vote, disagreeing, as I did,
so thoroughly with either parts . . . .'

How like you to disagree with everybody ! ' exclaimed
Sophy. ' That's one of your chief charms ;
for you do it in such a gentle, quiet way, that no one
could possibly be angry ; and yet we all know that you
think the whole world in the wrong, and that you are
for doing away with everything ! '

I can say, with a clear conscience, that I have
always tried to be just,' answered the philosopher.

I know that,' said his daughter, as she patted his
head, affectionately. *We all know that you tri to

be just, and, once or twice, I have discovered that you
really were ! '

You think me an old fool

No, dear, I don't. I think you an old darling, and
a real genius, but with hardly a single grain of commonsense.
Common sense, however, is such a tiresome,
unpleasant thing, coming out, as it always does, at
wrong times, and putting an end to so many nice enjoyments,
that I'm quite glad to think that you are
so entirely without it.'

*How fortunate that my daughter inherits none
of my weak points ! '

I am happy to say that I inherit them all, but my
defects are never active at the same time that yours
are. I never feel so sensible as when you are foolish,
or so practical as when you are wool-gathering ; and in
this way we manage to get on pretty well.'

Well, I hope you will be sensible now,' said tier
father, in an impressive voice ; ' and be kind, at any
rate ' for he fancied that, if not now, at least at
some future day, Sophy might become Thomas Hicks
wife, if only she could abstain from wounding
his amour procure.

I will be as kind as you like,' replied Sophy resignedly
; * and I will do all I can to be sensible : but
I can't marry him. I shall not marry at all, or else
I shall do like my mother before me, and marry for
love : though there is no reason why I should be quite
so fortunate as a beautiful young lady of great family.'

No good fortune could have equalled her deserts,'
answered the philosopher, sadly. * And perhaps now
it would be as well to mention to you,' he continued,
in an altered tone, ' that your mother (in the finite
comprehension of those persons who wrongly consider

individual or family position to be superior to the
more imperative claims of race) was not apparently ol
either great or influential ancestry, although of course,
to those who think as we do, the humblest shepherd-boy,
descending (let us say) from one of the ancient
Scottish clans, appears to be by far more illustrious
than the wealthiest of English or Irish artemis, who,
upon the strength, perhaps, of a Scotch title and acquired
possessions (and of these there are several living
examples), has the audacity to sport the three feathers
and to set up a piper

Of course,' rejoined Sophy, unable, upon the spur
of the moment, to divine the meaning of this somewhat
involved speech.

Before, however, she had time to inquire further,
the keen ear of the blind man detected a distant sound,
and, upon glancing towards the carriage-road, which
wound down, serpent-like, to the house, unobscured by
the new avenue (so new, as yet, that every tree was
protected by a * cradle), she perceived the figures of
two advancing horsemen. The foremost of these she
knew at once to be her unwelcome suitor ; another
moment, and she heard the sharp twang of the garden -
gate, and before she had time to realise to what extent
her own particular ' plot ' was ' thickening,' a smart-looking
groom, in deep mourning, vomited upon a
spanking chestnut, rode briskly up to the front door,
making the gravel tingle against the windows as he
passed.

Sir Thomas Hickathrift followed in a couple of
seconds. He had already dismounted, and was leading
his horse ; but he handed the reins to his servant as
soon as Jane opened the door.

Chapter X.

When Sir Thomas Hickathrift came into the room lie
somehow seemed to Sophy to be unlike his former self.
His former self had never confused or tormented her,
and the fact that he was doing so now made him appear
to her in the light of a stranger, though it also invested
him with a certain borrowed dignity, causing her to feel
a little afraid of him. She became very cold as he
grasped her hand, whilst he, too, looked pale and
agitated, and she thought that neither his pallor nor
his agitation was at all becoming. The air of honest
candour, which made the charm of his countenance,
was effaced for the moment ; the faithful retriever eyes
seemed to shrink from meeting her own ; and one
might almost have fancied that the depression visible
in his usually upright figure was caused by the sizer of
the family feature, which appeared to be weighing him
down.

When a woman discovers, for the first time, that a
man, for whom she experiences only a sisterly affection,
regards her with feelings not by any means platonic,
and desires, moreover, to give expression to these
feelings with a view to appropriating her wholly and
solely, to the sudden exclusion of all the roving fancies
which may have made the excitement and romance of
her free maidenhood, she very naturally passes through
a strange revulsion of feeling. Nay, often, to her own
surprise, her former comrade becomes almost repulsive
to her ; for the sisterly love, being dispelled by him,
crumbles, as it were, to dust and ashes, whilst in this
strange love she can take no part ; and hence it is that
an old friend may become suddenly transformed into a

new adversary, whom, it seems her duty to combat and
put to confusion.

Such an adversary, in the person of Thomas Ilicka-
thrift, seemed to be standing before Sophy now, and
she commenced looking to her arms of defence.
Perhaps, however, amongst the many conflicting
emotions which possessed her, one of the most painful
was occasioned b}'' the thought that he might never
henceforth be to her the friend and comrade he had
been before, and that, unless she could ward off the fatal
words which he ha come on purpose to say, she mus
experience for the future constraint andembarrassment
in the presence of the very person whin wm sho/ad
felt, till now, so thoroughly at her es

Tom had evidently come toxWnchQ6n, which was
not until two o'clock ; and as ils s 90 w only one, she
foresaw that the time would djpRg easily until then.
As a means of hastening tlje moments, and also to
satisfy a longing which tdjjiiented her, she decided
that she would retire to her room and write a few
lines to Godfrey explanatory of her absence from
Southerbourne.

This would give Tom an opportunity, too, of
speaking privately to Mr. St. Clair ; and who knew if
he might not dissuade her * braw wooer ' from making
an attempt which would be certain to end in failure ?

Her letter did not take her long, although she first
of all made a rough copy of it, in order that it should
be perfect in form and orthography ; both of which,
however, were simple enough. It ran as follows : 

My dear Godfrey,  I have been extremely disappointed
at having been prevented from fulfilling my little scheme
for making you acquainted with my father ; unpleasant circumstances,
over which I had no control, having obliged us

to give up going, as usual, to Southerboume. You have had,
however, a beautiful morning for your ride, which I am
glad of. Probably, at this moment, you are wandering
about looking for us upon the beach. I fancy I can see
you. Good-bye.  From your affectionate cousin,

Sophy.'

As she completed these words  painful by reason
of their truthfulness  she pushed aside the letter, and,
bowing her head upon her hands, gave vent to a few
irrepressible tears. The thought that Godfrey was
waiting, that she could not go to him, and that he
could not know till the following day the reason of her
absence, filled her with a sense of helpless misery, such
as she had never experienced before. In a few minutes,
however, she roused herself , looked in the glass, (as what
woman will not, under what circumstances soever?)
sealed up her letter, and took it to the kitchen, in order
that she might slip it at once into the post-bag. Ilre
she saw, with satisfaction, that the pheasant at the fire
was very nearly roasted, whilst the cold beef from
Sunday (the only thoroughly Christian institution at
Little Stillingfleet, though rarely partaken of by the
master of the house), was all ready upon the dresser,
garnished with tufts of parsley. The death of this
pheasant, like that of several others whose forms
were from time to time suspended in the larder, had
been represented to the * semi vegetarian ' as purely
accidental.

Dang me, missy, if he didn't goo fur to git
claimed all along of 's own self ! ' Nelus had explained,
as he displayed the bird, a fine cock-pheasant, of magnificent
plumage.

Poor creature ! how very dreadful ! How often
this has happened lately ! ' * missy ' had made answer,

condoning the white lie as she darted a significant
glance at her fellow-poacher.

As the vital spark is extinct remarked the philosopher,
* which no man living has yet learned how to
reanimate, and as we are not responsible for its
extinction, we may as well have him roasted for
luncheon on Tuesday.'

And he was in the course of being roasted now,
having been confided in his last moments of cooking
to the care of Abdallah, who was seated, as Sophy
thought, unpleasantly near to the bird, with his face
swathed in a large yellow bandanna ; for, on the top
of his other ailments, he was now suffering from an
attack of toothache.

It's only a letter I wanted to put into the bag,*
Sophy explained. * How is his cold?' and she indicated
the * barbarism ' with a movement of her hand.

It's cough, it be a deal looser, it be,' replied Jane.

But 'tis a suffering' terrible with the toothache be sure,
it be ! Nelus lev put a hot onion into both of the
earn on un, he lev, and we can't goo fur to do no
moor, not if he wur our f eller-creetur, we can't ! '

The married life of Nelus and his mature better-half,
had turned out to be a singularly happy one.
Besides the child which had arrived upon the scene
before the legal union of its parents (now a buxom
maiden of nearly fourteen, called Delia, or * Deely,*

for short '), and the baby, whose christening had been
celebrated so soon afterwards, there were five other
thriving olive-branches, undistinguishable one from
another by reason of their absurd family likeness, bespeaking
on the part of the mother an absolute want
of the imaginative faculty. These children were known
to the philosopher and his daughter by the comprehensive
appellation of *the brats,' and it had been

arranged that they should be relegated exclusively to
the strawyard, where * Deely ' used to look to them
after a casual and desultory fashion. Upon rainy
days, however, they were wont to descend upon the
kitchen and out buildings like a shower of frogs,
where their crowing, pilfering, squalling, and fighting,
frequently tried Sophy's patience to the very utmost.
Upon the occasion of the advent of each one of these
particular * brats,' Mrs. Weller, the mother of Moses,
had been used to come down from the upper regions
of Great Stillingfleet, in order to minister to the
requirements of Jane and the household in general,
which was, nevertheless, put somewhat out of gear by
these constantly-recurring episodes in the life of one
who made its chief stay. Jane seemed now, however,
to have grown into quite an old woman ; she had lost
nearly all her teeth, whilst her hair was replaced by a
broad velvet band, upon which were tacked a row of
dark green ringlets made of a substance called * mohair,'
so that a casual observer might almost have imagined
that Cornelius Ford, like the impetuous * Spitfire,' had
committed the imprudence of marrying his grandmother.


When Sophy returned to the sitting-room, and
confronted once more the cause of her discomfort,
she found him seated near her father in one of the
window seats. He rose, however, as she entered, and
taking up his hat, went round to the stables to find
out whether his groom had returned to the Abbey
with the horses, according to his instructions, for it was
agreed, as the reader is aware, that he should walk home.

Am I to go with him all the same ?' she asked,
breathlessly, as soon as she found herself alone with
her father.

Nothing is changed,' he answered. * He wishes

to do it to-day ; ' from wliicli it nicay be inferred that
Sir Thomas had met with the right number of magpies,
and Sophy's heart sank within her, for she had
foolishly hoped for a reprieve.

Tom was back again before she could make any
further protestations, and there seemed to be nothing
for it but to resign herself to her fate, and get the
hated thing over as soon as possible. She was the
first, therefore, after one of the gloomiest luncheons
at which she had ever assisted, to propose that the
young baronet should escort her as far as the cottage
of the Stubberfields, which lay in his direct way home.

I shall Jiope, dear,' Mr. St. Clair had said, pressing
her hand, just before she set off ; but his words seemed
only to make her the more miserable.

By walking on very fast in front of her admirer,
after the fashion of the rustic maidens observed by
her in her childhood, she hoped, at first, to prevent
him from touching upon the dreaded subject. She set
off, therefore, at a brisk pace, picking out the cleanest
part of the woodland way, between the two deep carrots
which were half full of water ; so that, unless he
risked splashing her unmercifully, he was forced to
remain some way in the rear.

How fast you walk ! ' he remonstrated, when they
had reached the middle of the alder wood.

I fancied you could have kept up with me,' she
answered, 'being so much taller. I feel rather cold,
and wanted to get warm.'

I've got my spurs on,' rejoined Sir Thomas. * I
forgot to take them off, and they bother me.'

Can't you unbuckle them ?' she asked ; but, in a
second, she bethought her that this operation would
necessarily entail a halt, and that once they were both

at a standstill, the chances of a sentimental conversation
would be greatly facilitated, so she added,
hastily, with a little shiver, 

Oh no, never mind ! I shall walk on briskly to the
cottage, so as to be back as quickly as I can ! ' and she set
off again upon her impetuous way, poor Tom floundering
after her, as before, afraid, by reason of the spongy condition
of the ground, of approaching too near. Just ashe
was thinking that, perhaps, after all, it would have
been better to have unbosomed himself between four
walls, they came in sight of the black gate, upon the
posts of which was nailed what remained of the head of
the ' Serene Highness.' Sophy, too, became painfully
aware of its vicinity, and to her horror she saw that it
was closed. She knew well how difficult it always was to
open  how it must be lifted and shaken, and how they
would be constrained to stop close together during this
performance, very likely with their hands touching.
She foresaw that Tom would be unlikely to hurry over
what would bring them into such close proximity, and,
woman-like, she tried hastily to invent some subterfuge
for getting through it as quickly as possible.

Oh, do make haste ! ' she exclaimed, looking at
her companion with a terrified expression. * I can't
bear to look at those horrid dead things  those cats*
heads, and stoats, and weasels ! Do let us open it
quickly ! ' And with this she tried her hand at assisting
Tom to lift up the gate with such a will that she actually
succeeded in doing so. But in endeavouring to
escape from her doom, she had only accelerated it. The
tender heart of the young giant was lacerated at the
sight of such superhuman exertions ; he was honestly
fearful lest she should strain herself, or inflict upon
herself some bodily harm, and in proof of his anxiety

she felt his two hands closing suddenly upon her own.
Down went the black plate deep into the marshy soil of
the pheasant-drive. Tom's hands were still clasping
hers with no signs of leaving go, the expression of the
Serene Highness ' seemed to change to a ghastly grin

of derision, and she felt that her hour was come.

******

Sophy never knew exactly how it happened that,
on the following morning, when she awoke, the great
Hickathrift ring of betrothal was upon the fourth finger
of her left hand. Still more bewildered and provoked did
she feel, as she realised that, virtually, she had given
Tom no decided answer ; so that, for him, the affair
was still in a state of miserable uncertainty, whilst
she herself could not help being conscious that the
scene she had already gone through would have to
be repeated 'in a few days or weeks, at the utmost,
probably with only the same unsatisfactory result.
For she felt now that she could no longer trust herself.
How could she have guessed that she would have played
herself so thoroughly false, and outraged all the rules
of honour and decorum which she had acted up to until
this fatal moment ? It is true that she had retained
the mastery over her heart, but then she had completely
lost her head, unexpectedly, unpardonably,
idiotically !

The sight of Tom Hickathrift's honest face  pale,
anxious, with tears actually starting from his faithful
deep set eyes  the presence of genuine emotion, suffering,
and passion, had so affected her, that she had
been no longer mistress of herself. She had begun by
thinking that, when her old friend made her this formal
proposal of marriage, she should probably laugh ; nay,
that it might require a positive effort on her part to

prevent herself from laughing too soon. But laughter,
as it had turned out, was the one thing furthest removed
from her imagination, and she had even ended
by shedding tears !

Indeed, so sad, hopeless, and tragical, had been the
whole proceeding, so pale and melancholy the faces of
the two young people, that, had any of the birds-nesting
Stubberfields been so ill-advised as to play the eavesdropper,
they would certainly have concluded that
something was taking place far more unpleasant than a
wooing, even where the wooer was pretty certain of
being refused. The day, too, had clouded over since the
early morning, and an all-pervading stillness, dampness,
and grayness, lent an indescribable air of melancholy
to the autumnal landscape. With such mournful-looking
surroundings, sanguine indeed must have been
the heart capable of nursing a hope after writhing
under the fatal 'No.* But the fatal ' No ' had never
been uttered. She had not been able to muster up
the requisite courage, either, to tell Tom that she
did not love him as a wife should love her husband.
All this was reprehensible in the highest degree ; it
was dishonourable ; it was painfully like the behaviour
of a coward ; more especially did it resemble the shifting,
wavering conduct to be expected of one of those inferior
creatures who was ' only a woman.'

Then, again, she had actually kissed Tom Hickathrif t !
At the time it seemed as if she could not help it, and
now she could hardly believe it.

Give me one kiss, then,' he had said, * before we
say good-bye ; ' and he had looked so utterly miserable,
and honest, and devoted, that she had not the heart to
refuse a boon to which he appeared to attach undue
importance. To her it seemed altogether a very trivial

and valueless concession. She required, in fact, to be
told that it was wrong before she could realise that it
was so, and no one happened to be there to tell her.
So she got it over as soon as possible  childishly, confidingly,
platonically, lifting up her face to meet that
of the young giant, as she used to do when she was
only six years old. After this they had each wended
their different ways with their handkerchiefs to their
eyes.

Sophy had certainly never expected that she would
have broken down in this fashion. But we none of us
know of what stuff we are made till we are tried ; and
our bindings and breaking are apt to surprise no one
so much as ourselves, since we alone know how upright
was our previous intention.

The whole thing seemed now like some haunting,
uncomfortable dream, leaving, after the awakening, a
sense of responsibility, of obligation, of bondage, and
of a conscience terribly ruffled and perturbed.

"Why, oh, why had she not had the courage to exclaim
boldly, * No, no ! never, never, never ! '

These were the words which she now flattered
herself she would have been able to write in a letter
had Tom been generous enough to have allowed her
this method of reply. For it was really ungenerous
of him, she argued, to take advantage of her youth
and inexperience, to lead her into a desolate autumnal
wood, to bar her from all escape with a black gate, and
then to make knovn to her, in this cowardly manner,
how unhappy he was, and how madly and devotedly he
loved her, until, without feeling for him anything
more than the calm attachment of a friend, she had
been prevented from disjlapng either anger, surprise,
or even her customary sense of the ridiculous, and had

actually ended by seeming tender, miserable, and much
too affectionate, under the circumstances ! The fact was,
she had never before beheld a fellow-creature giving
expression to what appeared to be true masculine
anguish, which she alone was called upon to curb and
control. But, alas ! at what price ? She felt very
angry with Tom now, when she thought it over : angry
with herself, and angry, above all, with the great
Hickathrift ring of betrothal, which had found its
way to her finger, though it was so much too large for
her that she had to keep it on with a little silver ring
which had once belonged to her mother, and which she
always wore.

Mingled with all these feelings, however (and it is
sad to be obliged to acknowledge it), there lurked a
germ of something very like gratified vanity. At least 
then, she was not so far inferior to the rest of womankind
as she had imagined when in the presence of
some 2)eo2jle . . It was evident to her now that she
was no longer a mere child, and that some one was
capable of loving her  madly, devotedly, distractedly
and of laying at her feet his heart, his name, and an
ancient abbey, big enough (as Adele had declared) to
be the residence of a duke or a * lord mayor.' This
young man, too, whom, by reason of a personal peculiarity,
she had been accustomed to speak of as the
Prince with the Nose,' was in reality, if one judged
by his possessions, and the quarterings upon his armorial
bearings, a personage quite as important as any of
the heroes created either by Grimm or Hans Christian
Andersen. And the ring with which the chiefs of this
ancient and illustrious family were wont to seal to
themselves the ladies of their choice was now actually
upon her finger !  upon hers !  Sophy St. Clair's !  a

wild woman of the woods, a savage, ' an Orson in petticoats,*
as she had once designated herself in a moment
of deep humiliation. Might it not cause her to rise,
pera venture, in the estimation of a certain other person
  who, no doubt, looked upon her as his inferior  if he
were to behold this family jewel glittering upon her
finger, and hazard a guess at the reason of its being
there? . . .

And at this thought a whole fabric of feminine
speculation and intrigue seemed to begin weaving itself
in the secret recesses of her soul.

*Take this ring, anyhow,' Sir Thomas had said to
her, as he drew forth the heirloom from his waistcoat-pocket.
* I never wish to behold it again, for I fancy
it seems to have brought to me ill-luck ; and it can
only bring it to mes for my mother has lived very
happily with it for years. I felt so sure, somehow,
that I should never be fortunate enough to see it on
your hand, that I should like you to wear it for a little
while, even if it's only to destroy the superstitious
feeling I had about it.'

Tom ! ' she had answered him, but, being half-choked
with emotion, this was all she could say.

It's no good whatever to me, now,' continued the
young man, in a broken voice. * It's the ring with which
all the ladies of our family were engaged ; and if it's
not fated to go upon your finger, I don't think I shall
ever care to put it upon any one else's ; and as I'm the
last of us, there'll be no one to want it after me. If it's
not decreed that I shall ever marry, I should like it, at
least, to belong to the only woman I shall ever ask to
be my wife.' And somehow he had forced it therewith
upon her finger.

Tom ! ' she had exclaimed again ; * please, please

don't I AVhat a beautiful ring I What "will Lad'
Ilickatlirift sny ? '

She will be wretched if I bring it back to her,' he
answered. ' She'd be the first to beg you to keep it
always,'

How kind you are ! ' So2)hy had rejoined. but
really, really, I would rather not have it ! Take it
back, dear Tom ! ' And she returned it to him again.
*And please don't talk about not marrying. Bo
marne !  somebody much nicer, and ji'ttier, and
worthier, than I am ; and give her this beautiful ring I
If you don't, you'll become extinct ! '

'Ah ! ' he had thereupon exclaimed bitterly, 'who
would have thought that f/oii could have been so
cruel ! '

Cruel ! / cruel ? ' cried the poor child, replacing
the terrible ring upon her finger. ' Oh, if you only
knew how hard I'm trying to be kind I ' 

 Kind r exclaimed Tom passionately  ' kind, to say
that I shall ever fall in love with any other girl ? You
don't know what love is ; you've never been in love
yourself ; you've been awfuUj liPPy H your life ; and
you haven't thought, and you don't know, what the
feeling is, when you see a thing you've been building
for years, crumbling and falling to the ground in
one moment I '

You talk as if you were quite old ! ' returned Soph',
drumming upon the back of his hand consolingly.
Cheer ujd, dear Tom, and don't look so miserable
about a silly little thing like me ! ' And here she
endeavoured to smile through her tears.

Do you care about anybody else ? ' he had asked
suddenly, looking her full in the face.

'iS'  no,' she answered hesitatingly, and feeling,
"v or,. T. T

or

somehow, guilty and ashamed. ' I'm too young, as
you say ; I don't think I know what love is . . . I
haven't thought about it . I don't want to let myself
think of falling in love yet.'

And you've no real dislike to me ? It's not because
I'm a great, big, ugly, hulking, brute, with a
long nose 't '

Oh, no, no, no ! ' replied Sophy earnestly, as most
women would have replied in her place.

Very well, then, I shall Jiopo,' rejoined Sir Thomas
firmly ; and probably he was hoping now.

She had fled home through the gathering twilight,
oppressed with a sense of defeat and humiliation.

I have found myself out,' she thought ; ' and from
this moment I give myself up ! What a miserable
creature I am, not daring to speak the truth I '

Later on in the evening, she could only reply to the
questionings of her father : 

I really don't know, dear. 3Iy head went ; the
whole thing was very dreadful. I certainly didn't
say "Yes;" but I couldn't say " iso." All the same,
I don't mean ever to marry him !'

Then you have come to no final decision ?'

Alas, no ! ' she answered dolefully ; ' would that I
had ! But it's all in a muddle ; I didn't really know
that I should feel as I did. . . .'

Perhaps, my child, you have loved poor Tom all
along without being conscious of it,' said her father,
feeling more and more satisfied with the manner in
which affairs were apparently righting themselves ;
and when I am taken, my fair Sophia may have a
home where she will be tenderly cherished.'

Then love nest be a very uncomfortable feeling,'
Sophy remarked. 'But no; unfortunately, I don't

think I sore him at all, and yet I /iliC him so much.
To-(h(//, however, I feel angry with him, and with
myself, and with everybody in the world ; and ?r/t//,
seeing me so sad, should fou, too, begin to be
disagreeable, and talk about being 'taken?" Oh,
you mustn't be "taken" for a very, very long time;
for how could I possibly live without you?' And
here she found relief in a flood of tears, seeming to
have been long pent up, though they had flowed so
freely that very same afternoon.

The day after this first real event in Sophy's
existence, was very different from the previous one.
A gray pall-like mist hung over the whole landscape,
obscuring all sight of the sky, whilst the chilly dampness
of the atmosphere penetrated through every chink
and cranny. The near woodlands looked like an
indistinct mass of undulating vapour ; the iron gate of
the garden was hardly visible from the windows ; tie
lawn was so clouded over with rime that the footsteps
of Icterus could be seen almost as plainly as if they hud
been implanted upon snow ; and every spider's web
looked like some wonderful fabric of crystallised lace.
Over everything, too, there hung a mysterious silence,
broken only now and again by the stray shot of a
distant sportsman, or the baying of a watch-dog in
one of the neighbouring farms.

This was precisely the sort of subdued day, which
(next best to one which seems all shimmer and shine)
Sophy used particularly to delight in. She liked the
cool damp feeling in the air, making her cheeks glow
with a delicious freshness ; and she would have heartily
despised herself, or any one else, for remaining indoors
on account of the wet.

But, somehow, this morning, she was not inclined

(>/'

to Ceo out. She decided that she would rather sit down
quietly and think over the situation ; so she untied her
bundle of wools, and began to work away at a knitted
waistcoat : for one can knit and think at the same
time, and she had always liked doing several things at
once, if possible.

It is unsatisfactory, however, to knit a waistcoat
when one has not the faintest idea who is eventually
to wear it. AVhat a contrast to the sweet labour
which transforms every stitch into an idol  a magic
web of hopes and fears, hallowing and idealising the
growing fabric which is destined one clay to nestle so
close to the heart of the beloved I

But Sophy's present handiwork brought with it no
such honeyed mead. She had already knitted a waistcoat,
not only for the man she loved, but for the man
who loved her ; and she could only imagine that Nelus
would be the probable recipient of the new one she
was now commencing  a thought which was hardly-calculated
to urge the progress of her needle !

She had lately learnt a new and fashionable
stitch ; and in order that she might practise it, and
at the same time invest her occupation with a halo
of romance, she had conceived the idea of knitting
a waistcoat for Godfrey as a little cousinly present,
for he had expressed a wish to possess one, and had
even condescended to sa}- of what colours it should
be composed  blue, striped with black, knitted in ribs
longways. She was a little bungling at first, but had
improved as she went on ; and had ended by becoming
so fascinated with her work that she felt impelled,
after its completion, to begin at once upon another,
th's time with no "prentice hand.' The colours of
this one were black and lavender, exceedingly becoming

to a fair complexion ; and as all superfluous
clothing would have seemed hateful to her father,
there was nothing for it but to bestow it upon
Tom Hickathrift. For it was part of the mysterious
system of which Francis St. Clair was a follower, to
dress lightly, regarding cold as a foe to be resisted
with open defiance rather than to be pandered to with
furs and comforters. Most of the political * scene-shifters,'
* prompters,' and * stage carpenters ' arrayed
themselves, too, after a primitive fashion ; and it was
this which led Sophy, when a child, to the conclusion
that to .s/iiirr was one of the most important tenets of
the Great Cause. Of Tom's waistcoat she was particularly
proud. In consequence of its subdued neutral
tints he had been enabled to wear it now that he was
in mourning, and, curiously enough, she had felt her
eyes riveted upon the stitches even at the very moment
when he was proposing to her. Godfrey's, howevw,
was not quite so satisfactory when looked at by the
light of a more perfect knowledge ; and she was the
more sorry for its defects, as he had lately sought
out for himself new hunting-grounds, where his personal
appearance would be criticised by a larger ' field.'
Since the completion of the railway it took but a short
time to get up to London, and thence on into *the
shires ; ' so that by keeping horses of his own elsewhere,
or by accepting mounts from his friends, he
could enjoy, from time to time, a few days' real sport,
impossible, all true Nimrod declared, in a country so
blind and wooded as the one to which he had been
accustomed. One of the most annoying of the thoughts,
therefore, which had crowded upon poor Sophy when her
father finally abandoned his project of driving down to
the seaside, originated in the knowledge that, but for the

or

expectation of mcctino- with lion on that particular' day,
Godfrey would probably have proceeded to Melton
until the end of the week.

Directly he has to make sacrifices for me he will
]probably hate me,' thought this youn: lifb'? 'vhose
appellation signified ' Wisdom,' and who seemed inclined
occasionally to act up to her name, as she knitted
away sadly at the predestined waistcoat.

Hatred, perhaps, was rather too strong a term ; but
was not Godfrey, at any rate, utterly indifferent ? and
was not utter indifference from him almost as difficult
to bear as hatred would have been  She knew, at
least, that he could submit to being for man' days
where there was no chance whatever of meeting with
her, whereas Thomas Ilickathrift had never been able
to tear himself from her immediate vicinity : but then,
as Sterne has pithily remarked, ' It is the fate of
mankind, too often, to seem insensible to what they
may enjoy at the easiest rate.'

Chapter XI.

Godfrey St. Clair, however, did not go to Melton on
the day after that which he confessed had brought
with it a disai:)pointnient.

He had started upon his somewhat romantic expedition
in higher spirits than he was wont to indulge
in ; for he had been educated to avoid all extremes,
and an excessive buoyancy of mood appeared to him
to be as unseemly as a morbid and unreasonable melancholy.
Upon arriving at the town of Southerbourne

lie had put up this liorso, and loitered restlessly about
the beach, throwing pebbles into the depths of the
glittering waters, Which, in the morning, were glare
with light. But, just as he had given up all hope
of meeting with either Sophy or her father, the day
clouded over, as, no doubt, it might have seemed to do
even had the sun continued to shine.

This was the same gloomy change which came on
at Little Stillingfleet later on in the afternoon, when
the gray sea-fog floated landward, just as Sophy and
Tom Hickathrift were standing hand-in-hand by the
black gate in the alder-wood ; and as Godfrey rode
home, through the gathering mist, towards the gray
home of his fathers, he found it impossible to prevent
some portion of the atmospheric depression from communicating
itself to his Avell-regulated mind.

There, straight before him, was the hoary wall of
Kentish 'rag' which encircled the southern side of
Dallingridge Park, revered by him in his earliest
childhood, as forming then the barrier rising between
the Known and the UnknoMi, the Seen and the
Unseen, but seeming, as the years went on, to have
become lower and of less account. Above it, dwarfed,
by the perpetually-recurring sea-blasts, and leaning all
in one direction, as though shrinking before the breath
of some invisible commander, the dark crests of the
Scotch firs rose sadly" in the mist, forming, like the
trees he had watched from the cradle of his babyhood,
profile after profile, each one seeming distinct and
recognisable. lie asked himself almost unconsciously,
as he came thus within sight of his home, what it was
that this gray wall encircled which made it seem sacred
to him, as though it had enclosed a treasure. He
thought of the old house, his parents, the family pictor



thirds ; and yet, somehow, althoiiji;li these were Avithiu
it, he missed, involuntarily', something else. At this
moment  no doubt occasioned by the condition of the
atmosphere  a longing possessed him for home-ties
which would be warmer, closer, more indissoluble  for
memories, hopes, ambitions, such as he had never yet
indulged in  for an aim in his life, and a love in his
heart ; for it now occurred to him that he was existing:
without either the one or the other, and he began to
wonder, incidentally, whether any one would particularly
care if his horse were to throw him at that
moment and break his neck.

As he entered the lodge-gate, he was within sight
of that lesser gate, opposite to the Woodland stile, where
he had waited for Abel Reynolds's waggon in the old
days ; and the whole scene arose so vividly before him
that, as he looked down the blank stretch of turnpike-road,
he almost expected to behold the weird figure of
the little girl with her bare feet and floating elf-locks,
as he had beheld it at that first meeting in his departed
childhood.

Such feelings as these taking possession of a young-man,
without, for the moment, either occupations or
distractions, are not easily dispelled, and by reason of
them, Godfrey St. Clair entered his ancestral halls in
what was, for Jiim, a somewhat emotional state of mind.
If the home of his eccentric relatives at Little Stilling-fleet
was altogether ' scramble ' and unconventional,
reeking, as it were, with an unrestrained and unrestrained
spirit of Bohemianism  a philosopher,
half-clad, in the sitting-room  a neuralgic Egyptian
donkey-boy in the kitchen ; whilst ' brats,' cats, horses,
and farm-stock, seemed to be everywhere but in their
proper places,  at Dallingridgc House all was order,

decoriini, and punctuality. Every clock upon the whig-li
marble chimnoypieces was right to a second. The
breakfast, luncheon, and dressing-bells, followed regularly
the example of the clocks ; whilst the great
booming gong, which sounded half over the park, was
wont to inform the matchless wayfarer that it was half-past
seven to a minute. Loon the two round tables in
the large drawing-room, not a single book or casket was
out of its place. iso two chairs, nestling familiarly
together, told of cosy or confidential converse. The
blinds were all drawn up to precisely the same height
on the tall windows, the footstools were never pushed
away from the chairs, the sofa-cushions were unequalled,
and there were no untidy signs of feminine
occupation in the form of worsted-balls or paint-boxes,
as in the drawing-room at Little Stillingfleet.

Mrs. St. Clair's own private boudoir may, perhaps,
have displayed occasional traces of a polite and well-regulated
dilettanteism. Music-books were to be seen
open before the pianoforte ; some tapestry-work, half
completed, stood upon a frame near the window ; whilst
a novel might, perhaps, be lying upon the sofa with a
paper-knife protruding from its leaves. But as Godfrey
rarely Ventured to enter this apartment uninvited, his
early impressions were chiefly derived from the appearance
of the larger reception-rooms.

Upon the present occasion, after dismounting and
entering the house, he crossed the entire length of the
hall, meaning to go into the garden by the opposite
door, when, on passing his mother's sitting-room, which
lay to the left, he heard an indistinct murmur of voices,
and thinking that his father had perhaps repaired
thither after his drive, he concluded that he might
venture in himself.

There were double doors to this apartment, and the
movement of the outer one, which was ajar, was apparently
unheard by the persons within ; for, before
making kno"\\n to them his presence, Godfrey lead involuntarily
caught the following words, in Mrs. St.
Clair's dulcet tones : 

JVoH- do you wonder at my seeming Avant of
affection ' '

'/ (fo j/of," replied the person to whom she was
appealing, in a voice which resembled the winding of
a mechanical toy ; and, upon entering the room, the
young man was surprised to find, not his father, as he
had expected, but Mr. Pettigrew. He and Mrs. St.
Clair were seated rather close together over the fire,
and, from the appearance of his mother's eyes, Godl'rej'
would almost have fancied that she had been weeping,
could any spell have proved potent enough to move
a woman seemingly so unemotional. Pettigrew, too,
looked paler than usual, and, without taking any
notice of the intruder, he made a dash at his hat.
The Low-church clergy had not taken as yet to
their flabby 'wide-awakes' and unkempt beards, nor
the more Ritualistic to shaven cheeks and the hideous
inverted soup-plate with tassels (forerunner, peradventure,
of the Continental shovel-hat, which is really
picturesque) ; so that the curate walked away in all the
glories of ' chimney-pot ' and lufton-chop whiskers,
since it was under this dispensation that he lived.

At first Godfrey could not help feeling indignant
that Pettigrew, for whom his affection had not increased
since his boyhood, should be permitted to
(sconce himself thus confidentially in the cushioned
chairs of this sacred chamber, which he (Godfrey) was
so seldom privileged to enter, and perhaps something

of this betrayed itself upon Ms countenance. But lie
had formed the habit of checking at once any thought
which imputed the slightest shadow of blame to either
of his parents, and he set about explaining, therefore,
this mysterious interview to his mother's advantage.
He remembered to have heard that women  irreproachable
wives and mothers  occasionally possessed
hidden sorrows, which they would confide to none
but God and their priest ; and he recalled to mind
historical instances wherein ladies who, with their
husbands and sons, were described as distant and
reserved, had yet been completely under the domination
of the Church. Another example was no
doubt confronting him on the present occasion.
Wonder of wonders ! his mother tearful and embarrassed
! Pettigrew, too, apparently deeply affected !
Doubtless she had just been confiding to her spiritual
adviser some secret sorrow which oppressed her ina-trial
heart.

In consequence of the somewhat melting mood in
which the young heir of Dallingridge found himself
just then, a sudden tenderness overflowed his whole
being at the idea that perhaps his mother was secretly
suffering. This apparent coldness, this seeming reserve,
might be in reality nothing more than the studied
reticence of a proud spirit unwilling to display its
bleeding wounds to the multitude.

'What is it, mother?' any other son would probably
have inquired, and he might even have clasped in his
filial arms the sorrowing and beautiful woman before
him. But Godfrey had been trained up in other ways,
and had the impulse seized him, he would probably
have felt bound to dismiss it.

As they were standing thus, both of them apparently

or

cxpcricncino- a certain sense of embarrassment, a new
emotion suddenly came to their relief. One of sirs.
St. Clair's love-birds, Avhicli was allowed to fly about
the room at will, as though for the express purpose of
creating a diversion, even at the risk of its own life,
walked cautiously out of its cage, looking as wise the
while as minerva's owl, and flew deliberately into the
fireplace, where it perched coquettishly upon one of the
smouldering logs.

Oh, look at 'lou-lou !'* ' exclaimed Mrs. St. Clair
anxiously. 'If she is burnt, "Pilot's will be sure
to die.*

Godfrey immediately went to the open cage, and
took from it some grains of hemp-seed, and after closing
the door to prevent further catastrophes, he endeavoured,
by holding them towards 'Lou-lou,' to attract her from
her perilous position. Eve-like, she soon responded to
the temptation, but in crossing a fiery ravine, between
two pieces of wood, one of her wings was severely
burnt.

Poor little thing ! ' cried Mrs. St. Clair, holding
her favourite to her bosom, and caressing its bright-green
plumage.

Godfrey, too, began stroking the bird, and in so
doing, he came in contact with the soft white hand of
his mother.

The wife of Erskine St. Clair could not now have
been less than forty, but she was still so beautiful a
woman as to suggest the notion that she had discovered
the elixir of perpetual youth, and Godfrey, as he stood
leaning over her, looking more at her than at the
wounded love-bird, could not help thinking this. Ashe
examined it closely, he perceived that not a single
silver thread streaked the sleek masses of dark hair,

svliicli were coiled tightly round lier neatly-shaped
head, her complexion was as blooming as that of a
girl of eighteen, her long blue eyes were as bright as
they had ever been, and, except that her face wore a
harder and more set expression, she was but little
changed since the days of her first youth.

*Poor little thing ! ' Godfrey repeated, still smoothing-the
bright-green feathers. ' And poor, dear mother ! '
he added, urged by he knew not what sudden movement
of tenderness, as he retained the slender hand
in his own ; ' for I see that jou are unhappy.' And
bowing his head, he pressed a kiss upon her forehead.

!Now certainly" it was not the first time that he had
done this since the old days when she used to permit
him to embrace her somewhere near the little shell-like
ear, which was all she had ever presented to his boyish
lips ; but it was, perhaps the first occasion upon which
he had, as it were, unexpectedly and spontaneously at
no given or fixed period of departure or home-coming
without excuse of birthday or sacred festival 
imprinted, thus suddenly and impulsively, a kiss upon
his mother's brow.

Also he was both wounded and astonished at the
effect produced upon her by his undue familiarity,
although he was aware that the usually-existing
maternal element had been left out of her composition.
But it seemed to him now that this omission went even
further than he had supposed ; for she drew herself
away' from him suddenly almost as though she had
been stung by a serpent, whilst a strange expression
came for a moment into her long blue eyes, not unlike
that which passes through those of some feline creature
when it is about to spring.

Pray don't go through the form of kissing me ! '

she remarked, in a tone of concentrated bitterness ;
kissing is nearly always such a ridiculous farce ! '

Stung and shocked in his keenest sensibilities, the
young man, too, hastily recoiled from such uncongenial
contact, and passed out of the room into the garden.
There, a sense of desolation, strangely at variance with
his usual complacent mood, swept over his spirit, and
for a while he did not himself know Avhat peculiar
form his fit of depression might take. Later on, an
uncontrollable longing after sympathy and affection
gained possession of him ; and, betaking himself to the
deserted library, he felt impelled, by a force too strong
to be resisted, to sit down to the writing-table, where
he wrote the following lines with one of the new quill-pens
he found there : 

You were not at Southerbourne to-day, though I waited
there until four o'clock. For God's 'sake, let me see you
tomorrow ! I will wait in the hazel-copse, near to the oak-tree
bench, between three and four.'

After pressing this brief note upon a sheet of
virgin blotting-paper, he directed it to Sophy, and felt
happier for the rest of the evening.

Chapter XII.

Early the next morning Godfrey received Sophy's
letter. It told him that he had been in her mind at
any rate during the short time she was inditing it,
though of course this thought might suggest itself at
sight of the handwriting of the most indifferent of
correspondents. But to Sophy, Godfrey's fcAv hurried

lines came like the blessed dew from heaven upon a
flower that has been parched in the wilderness. It
was brought to her as she was engaged with her
prosaic knitting ; and the warm blood rushed tumultuously
to her cheeks as she eagerly devoured his
words.

Sophy Alas pre-eminently sympathetic and appreciative
of the feelings of others, and to her keen
perception Godfrey's letter appeared to be, what in
reality it was, the involuntary cry of a wounded spirit.
The tears came blindingly into her large eyes as she
thought that he was unhappy ; that he, unemotional,
unsympathetic even, as he had sometimes seemed, had
actually need of her ; and with this an intense feeling
of gratitude passed over her spirit towards the Great
Creator of all things, whom she had never been taught
to individualise, or to call by His name ' Jail ; ' so that,
looking towards the shrouded face of external nature,
she could only murmur in her heart, authentically, 

I thank you and bless you, woods and fields and
floating autumn clouds ! He is in want of me ! I
may comfort him, and I am happy ! '

But Godfrey, having, as the saying goes,  slept '
upon his melting mood, arrived at the trysting-place
thoroughly steeled against his ovm. emotions. The
influence of early training is proverbially lasting. He
had hitherto been accustomed to measure tho force
he should employ to defend, by the strength of that
which he conceived would be likely to attack ; and in
this way he had succeeded in preserving a very creditable
balance of moral power. Upon the present occasion
he saw no reason why' he should relinquish his
system.

All Sophy's warm sympathy, therefore, her gratitude

or

to Heaven, and the superabundant vitality wliicli she
had brought with lor to the tryst, seemed suddenly to
receive a check when she encountered that * repose of
Vere de Yere ' in which her cousin appeared to be
shrouded ; and her enthusiasm experiencing what she
felt to be an undeserved and luicxpccted attract, she
took refuge, as she generally did, in a kind of nervous
and excitable prattle, to fill up the silences which were
so long and formidable when Godfrey was fixing her
with his earnest dark eyes, and yet not adventuring a
syllable.

The Great Prophet had been staying with them
again, she said, and she described the original dinner-party
which had been given in his honour : the cooking
of the kchohs ; the amicable meeting of the two hostile
guests ; the dispute between the hitherto friendly disciples
about the composition of the pillars ; and, finally,
the departure of the seer.

And I don't suppose you would have known,' she
added, ' if you had met him upon his journey, that he
was such a very remarkable man, and cpiite different
from anybody else.'

'And yet he evidently is,' rejoined Godfrey, ' or yoH
think so, Which comes to the same thing. Averse they
all Orientals at your dinner ? '

'Not all of them. There were persons of several
nations : an Irishman, a Dane, and an Italian Prince,
who is an atfacJie. They were all very much interested
in the Great Cause except the Prince, who seemed
more inclined to laugh with me at the others.'

Really P ' remarked Gods re', somewhat sarcastically.
' To laugh irish 3'ou ! '

Yes ; and he was really amusing, for he talked of
other things besides politics. Cone of his stories was
rather funny.'

What was it about ? ' inquired the young man,
rather contemptuously

Evidently he felt no love for this Italian Prince !
Sophy was glad of this, for some inexplicable reason,
and she continued, speaking very fast, as though in
order to keep up her own courage, 

AVell, it was the story of an adventure of his own
for some people hare adventures, you know  some
romantic people like thon, and are 0)i the look-out for
tlicmy she added, in a marked tone.

I suppose you mean that I am neither romantic
nor adventurous : however, go on.'

'Well, then,' continued Sophy, smarting a little
under this command to proceed,  after dinner my father
made some allusion to Scotland, having, like your
father, Scotch blood, and being very proud of it ; and
it so happened that, just at that moment, Janus, our
maid, brought round a salad, in which there were somfi
hard-boiled eggs, and the Prince said that this reminded
him of an adventure which once happened to
him. Father never drinks anything except water, but
I noticed that the Prince filled up his glass very often
with wine . . . .'

*And this anecdote, I suppose, was the result.
Well?'

*He then told us,' continued Sophy, pleased to have
pitched upon a subject which was thoroughly impersonal,
' that once, when he was travelling in Scotland,
a lady, who lived in an enormous castle, fell desperately
in love with him.'

How like a foreigner, to boast about women ! '
exclaimed Godfrey indignantly ' I dare say lie fell in
love with her /'

No, that was the worst of it : he didn't care nearly
so much.'

VOL. T. u

or

Ugh ! ' muttered the young man, with an expression
of disgust.

But unfortunately Sophy went on, ' this lady was
married to some one else ; a very disagreeable, jealous,
ugly kind of person, and quite old : but she managed
to smuggle the Prince into the castle somehow without
his knowing it, where she hid him away in a lumber-room
in a distant turret for a fortnight, and fed him
every evening with hard-boiled eggs.*

'And you actually believed him?' inquired Godfrey,
espousing the cause of the Scotch chatchdiie with
apparent warmth.

I believed him,' answered Sophy, ' because he told
us it was perfectly true. She used to come and see
him every evening, after dark, bringing him the eggs
in her pocket. The first day he was so dreadfully
hungry" that he ate them all ; on the next, he didn't
like them so much ; on the third day he wasn't at all
inclined for them ; and, at last, he took such a disgust
to them, and to the poor lady, that he said he had
never since been able to think without horror of either
Scotland, Scotch ladies, or hard-boiled eggs ! '

The whole story was probably a lie,' said Godfrey.
A beastly foreigner will say anything.'

It's very narrow-minded,' she replied, glad, at any
rate, to see her imperturbable kinsman in some way
moved, * to speak of all foreigners as " beastly." It's
the regular " roast-becf-of-old England " cant and claptrap
; it means nothing, except that the person who
sa3s it is ignorant and doesn't know foreigners a bit !'

I wish yoii didn't know quite so much of them,
with all my heart,' rejoined the young man, with a
sigh, which was more angry than sad. ' And I wish
jour father wouldn't let you listen to their boasting,

lying, blackguards aftcr-dimicr stories : they're not
fit for sou to hear.'

Knowledge is power,' answered Sophy, with a
wave of the hand. ' The more one knows, the better
one can distinguish between good and evil. It's the
people who know little who always fly out against what
seems to them to be wrong ; and they do this because
they toilet know Xhe difference between wickedness and
folly, being too stupid ! '

Thank 3''ou,' said Godfrey, smiling at her warmth.
She had hoped, at least, that he would have been

angry.

I dare say the story mayn't have been true,' she
continued, with renewed courage ; ' but, at any rate, it
was a))uisi)uj. It made one feel, too, that there are
people in the world who let themselves go and say too
much, as well as people who seem to count ten before
every sentence, and weigh every word.' 

I wish, Sophy,' remarked Godfrey gravely, ' that
you could like things and people more because they
were great and good and true than because they were
amusing and out of the common. At first sight sour
originality is a great charm, I admit ; but, somehow,
after knowing jou well, one feels that it's rather a
blemish. There are times when one almost wishes you
were more like other people.'

*And I should like you a great deal better, too,
if you weren't so dreadfully *' cut and dried," she
answered, with sudden recklessness, feeling that to
quarrel, even, would be better than to go on for ever
without moving either backwards or forwards. I wish
you'd sometimes speak out and let me know what you
are, for now I really don't in the least know ; you seem
to be a follower of that man who said that speech was

or

given us to conceal our thoughts, or like a person perpetually
dancing a Court minuet in the reign of Louis
Quatorze.'

'And what would you have me dance?' he demanded,
smiling. 'An Irish jig?'

Yes ; if it was an honest, merry kind of jig,' she
replied, seeming to become inspired with sudden energy.
But a premeditated, sarcastic kind of jig, is quite as
wearisome as any other stilted and affected sort of
dance. Be yourself, and let me see what you are made
of. Talc off' your mask /'

As she uttered these words she looked her companion
straight in the face, and she fancied that he
quailed beneath her glance. She was playing a desperate
game, and she knew it. For the first time she
was addressing one to whom she had unconsciously
looked up as a god, as if he had been an ordinary
mortal; and though she was shocked herself at her
own temerity, some malicious demon seemed to be
pushing her on to the last extremity of impertinence.

'You are very seyerc upon me,' returned Godfrey,
without raising his eyes ; ' and yet I don't know what
I can laye done to make you so angry.'

Nor do I,' she went on, unreasonably. * I can't
explain exactly why I am angry with you, but the
fact that I feel so, shows me that you are somehow in
the wrong ; and to-daj I am braye, and can tell you so.
Generally, I am so afraid of you that I aren't speak
openly to you, as I do to others.'

'What is my offence?' demanded Godfrey sadly.
lie had, at any rate, taken her words seriously.

'Your offence is, that your reserve wounds me,'
answered Sophy desperately. ' It's like a reproach tome
for my impulsiveness. I feel hoidenish and gushing,
always, when I'm with you ; and you seem to try

to make me feel more so. Besides, I want to knoiv
you . . . Father says, if one scratches a Russian one
finds the Tartar ; and he says he likes what's underneath
better than what's at the top, and perhaps it might bethe
same with you : so do let me know what you really
are  don't seem always like the man with the iron mask ! '

Perhaps I should be worse than you think,' he
answered. * Surely self-control can never be unwise ? '

I hope, indeed, that you are worse ! ' she exclaimed,
the tears coming into her eyes : * for then you
would seem more like an equal.'

*Dear Sophy,' said he, coming nearer to her, and
looking at her earnestly and reproachfully, * what can
you possibly mean ?'

Sophy never afterwards knew what it was which
induced her at this moment to think of the great
Hickathrift ring of betrothal, as of a talisman which
might invest its wearer with dignitary honour.
Perhaps she Alas urged on by the same persistent demon
who had already tempted her to reproach, "without
reason, the being she loved most in the world. Be this
how it may, she drew off her glove and passed her hand
carelessly through her hair, holding it in such a position
as to display the hereditary jewel to her young kinsman.

*What a quaint old ring!' he exclaimed, suddenly
gaining possession of her unloved hand. ' Is it
Oriental?'

*No ; but that's just what I thought it was at first.
Isn't it like the window of a little mosque ? '

I never saw a mosque,' replied her cousin. ' "Was
it given you by the Great Prophet ?'

No ; it was given me by Tom Hickathrift. It's
the ring with which all the ladies of his family have
been engaged.'

She had played her trump-card recklessly and desperately

; and she now waited, breathless and emptyhanded,
for the result. This was even more remarkable
than she had dared to anticipate. Her cousin's face
became suddenly overspread with an ashen pallor, as ho
exclaimed bitterly, 

So you arc engage-ed to be married to Ilickathrift ?
I thought so ! ' And from his countenance it seemed
as though it would have relieved him to have made use
of some forcible expression, as what Sophy was wont to
call * a reining-in look ' was strongly marked upon it.

 No, I'm not,' she faltered, flattered and yet
frightened at seeing him so moved.

But he has proposed to you ? lie has asked you
to be his wife ; and you have allowed him to put this
hideous thing upon your finger?'

'Yes,' replied Soph', in a trembling voice. *Just
now you said it was a quaint old ring.'

That was before I knew. And what did you say
when he proposed to you ? '' Yes," of course ! '

I neither said " Yes " nor " No," ' answered Sophy,
looking down at the ring. And, indeed, this came
verj near to the truth.

'And what made you do that?' asked Godfrey;
l/oUy who pride yourself upon being open and natural
and aboveboard  you, who taunt me because I don't
wear my heart upon my sleeve ? '

I  I  shall never marry him,' said Sophy, trembling
all over, and fairly alarmed now at the result of
her indiscretion.

'Then why not tell him so? But no  3'ou are
playing with him instead, in order to lead him on, and
make him all the more eager to marry you  that is
very like a woman, but not a woman such as I had
hoped that you were. Well, at any rate, we shall be

neighbours ! ' And turning aside, lie began to vent his
irritation upon an inoffensive bramble-bush, flicking its
red leaves into ribbons with his stick.

I meant nothing. I feel for him as if he was my
brother. I don't love him enough to marry him ! '

'Then why make him think that you do?' asked
Godfrey, with warmth. * Why try to make me think
so ? and why offend my eyes by 'wearing this hideous
thing ? Take it off ! ' Yielding to an uncontrollable
impulse, he seized her hand before she had time
to resist him, and drawing off the great Hickathrift
ring, which was so loose that the difficulty from the
first had been how to keep it on, he flung it with all
his might into the midst of the adjoining hazel-copse.
Sophy heard a ' click,' as though it had struck against
the circular bench which surrounded the trunk of the
gnarled oak-tree ; but, even with this clue to its whereabouts,
she felt there was no certainty that she should
ever recover it.

Godfrey I ' she exclaimed, terrified at such unexpected
violence. * Please, please don't I It's their
family ring of betrothal  it really is ! What shall I
do ? Whatever can I say to Tom ? '

You can say this to him,  that /, your kinsman,
bearing your name, and feeling in some measure responsible
for sour actions, flung away in a moment of
anger and disappointment what seemed to me a sham
a hideous gewgaw set upon your finger to deceive two
people, who, being both of them honest men, deserve
fair play ! '

Sophy was now pale, terrified, and repentant ; but
Godfrey continued mercilessly, still speaking as though
from a pinnacle, 

If I have for once given way to violence in your

presence, foro-ive me, and remember that you had begun
by taunting mo with my reserve, which to you seemed
to imply a want of candour. Who knows, however, if
after all, I mays not be the more candid of us two ? 
the more easily deceived, perhaps ? Thank God if I
am not, for I would rather be offended with my own
shortcomings than with yours I '

I know I have heaps of defects,' faltered poor
Sophy. 'when did I ever pretend to be perfect?'

There are many defects which have in them nothing
to offend, the result of south and inexperience alone :
with these no one could justly reproach you. But try,
dear Sophy, never to stoops to arts at which you miry
one day blush. I ask you this before I leave j'ou  for
some time, perhaps. Above all, if 30 u desire to gain
the love of others and to retain your own self-respect,
yoUj who are so beautiful, and who possess so much to
make you lovable, do not condescend to set off one man
against another  Vnn pour oifraitwr autre, as some of
your foreign friends might express it. Leave that to
women who can please in no other way. Good-bye.'

He held out his hand, as it seemed to her, almost
parentally, vaulted over the low wooden fence, and was
gone.

Sophy remained, stupefied and bewildered, watching
him until he was out of sight, but he strode on without
once looking back, flicking at everything that came in
his way with his cane. lie thought it strange afterwards
that, feeling as he did, he should have whistled
on his way home ; but there is a kind of whistling
which proceeds more from a perturbed spirit than from
lightness of heart, so that this need not be taken as a
sign that he was altogether unmoved : for if his own
words had left his young cousin in a state of blank

despair and consternation, her imperative and unexpected
' Take off your mask ! ' had also affected him
considerably, and led him to encourage rather than
subdue the unusual fit of recklessness which he felt
was upon him.

Whistling still, he entered the house, and hearing
sounds of music proceeding from his mother's boudoir,
he walked boldly in, never pausing this time to ' wipe
his boots,' either in spirit or in deed. He was desirous
of making a communication to his father, but he found
he was not there. His mother and Mr. Pettigrew were
seated near to the pianoforte, with an open music-book
in front of them. Mr. St. Clair, he was informed, had
just gone into his study to rest before dinner, and had
desired that he should not be disturbed.

Mr. Pettigrew and I were just trying over that
anthem in C,' explained Mrs. St. Clair, in accents more
conciliatory than she was wont to address to her son.*

'Oh, were Jou?' he answered, With a manner which
caused her to look up suddenly, slightly elevating her
regular eyebrows ; and passing out of the room without
another word, he strode up to his bedchamber, banging
the door after him as he entered it, so that it re-echoed
through the length and breadth of the house.

Quarter XIII.

After Godfrey had departed, Sophy remained for sometime
in a state of helpless despondency. Her heart
seemed to be beating very loudly, and she was trying
hard to feel angry and aggrieved, to imagine that her
cousin had endeavoured to dictate to her  to master
her without due reason or excuse. With this, however,

or

she experienced, somcliOAV, a desire, u longing, to be
dictated to and mastered by him, by this strong, earnest
nature, which seemed to stand revealed to her for the
first time. so free vas he (she said to herself) from
all guile and disloyalty, that, at the risk of offending
her even, he could tell her, as now, of her numerous
shortcomings. He had worn, too, whilst lecturing hera
look of disappointment, (this was the hardest of all to
bear !), a look as though he had expected better things
of her  of her, a savage, a heathen, a wild woman of
the woods ! And yet, was it not for his sake alone
that she had endeavoured to control her Bohemian
nature, and striven to think and talk like other people
to wear gloves, and to resist the temptation of
shocking her neighbours in a thousand different ways ?
. . But he had never known it ; it had all been thrown
away upon him ! . . .

She knew now that he had been her ideal, her one
dream, this beautiful boy, who had seemed to her, even
in their childish days, to be above her in everything ;
to step down, not merely from the higher ground of
Great Stillingfleet  the which, with its surrounding
broad acres, he would one day inherit  but to descend
like some bright young god of antiquity from a rosy
cloud, lowering himself by holding converse with her
in her rags of mortality ; na', even trying to improve
and elevate her unregenerate nature. With all the
strength of her warm, impulsive heart, she had adored
this condescending yomig god, but now he had mounted
into his chariot again, and floated away upon his cloud.
As for poor Tom Ilickathrift, she thought, what was
he in comparison ? A kind, good hearted creature
enough, but moulded from Nature's most ordinary
class That he was brave, and generous, and fond of

her, e knew perfectly well. Two of these things
had made her respect him, and the last, perhaps, had
flattered her a little, and even pleased her. And why ?
Alas ! (for here she was constrained against her will
to hearth a sorry truth !) upon poor Tom she had
practised, woman-like, as musicians have been known
to practise upon a dumb pianoforte, whereon no discord
can offend, 'just to keep their hands in,' as the saying
goes. So had Tom Hickathrift been used, and now he
had fulfilled his thankless mission and was done with.
But for whom was reserved the finished tune, the
perfect melody' ? . . .

The thought of Tom reminded her of the Great
Hickathrift ring, and, going sadly to the place where
she fancied it had fallen, she began to search high and
low for the accursed thing, which had proved (as it had
turned out) the cause of her present sorrow. But it
was nowhere to be found. Vainly did she look for it
under the damp, decaying leaves, between the planks of
the bench, and even amongst the twisted branches of
the oak-tree. She felt annoyed that it should have
been lost ; but this annoyance seemed to be of little
account compared to the fact that she had quarrelled
with Godfrey, that he had left her in anger, and, worse
than all, that she now knew for certain how dear he
had always been to her. A thousand tender memories
rose up to convince her of this, and, sinking down upon
the gray lichen stained bench, she covered her face with
her hands and burst into a flood of tears.

Her actual paroxysm of grief did not last long :
those few tears were a relief ; but when they left her
eyes dry again she seemed to look out upon a different
world. She lead quarrelled with Godfrey, she had
taunted and reproached him in many bitter ays. She

or

had (lone so before, in a lesser degree, and he had borne
it because he was noble, and chivalrous, and generous,
and because she was * only a woman.' She found no
name now too hard to apples to herself ; she had even
enough of the savage still in her composition to feel a
desire to cut and lacerate herself as a punishment :
but, alas, this would do no good ! Besides which, was
she not punished enough already ? for was he not gone
from her, and did she not love him ?

'Oh maj dear, dear love ! ' she exclaimed pitifully in
the silent watches of the night, when she, and she only,
la' awake in that sleepy little house, * you were with
me once, and we were so happy ; but now I have made
you angry, and driven you away, and you will never,
never know what I feel about it ! ' And here she
began sobbing again, until the pillow was quite wet
with her tears.

When Jane came in, in the morning, to call her,
she was astonished at her disconsolate appearance. Just
as the wintry sun shed a pale light through the un-shattered
panes of the window she had fallen into a
deep slumber.

'Why, missy, you be asleep, sure///' exclaimed the
honest serving-woman, as she gazed at the prostrate
form of her young mistress.

Sophy's bed was, indeed, in strange disorder, and
her face bore unmistakable traces of her first real heartache.
Her knees were disposed in the form of an
Alpine peak beneath the white coverlet; one despairing
arm hung listlessly at her side ; her dark hair, which
had become untied during those hours of self-humiliation,
strayed over her pillow in long dishevelled coils ;
and her side-face, with its closed eyelids and fringed
lashes, looked sharp, and pinched, and unaccountably sad.

Poor Jane was quite alarmed.

'Get up, missy!' she cried anxiously as she stepped
forward and shook her by the round, white, hanging-arm.
* Get up, now, for the Lord's sake ! You look as
if you were dead ! '

Thus aroused, Sophy slowly opened her large eyes,
collected her ideas, remembered (as, somehow, if one hasa
sorrow, one always does remember at waking) what the
soreness meant which was gnawing at her heart, and
sinking back again upon her pillow, as though utterly
exhausted, said gloomily, 

No, I don't see the use of getting up. I shall stay
in bed. There can't be any good thing in to-day!'
And here she began sobbing and sighing anew.

Lord a' mussy, missy ! what's the matter ? ' asked
Jane, sitting down upon the bed and taking her hand.
Maybe you've gone and got sour feet wet, and caught
a chill-like. You bennet agooin' fur to take on so be
sure now ? '

Janus, don't, please, say silly things about
taking chills, as if that could possibly make me cry ! I
wish, indeed, I could confide to you everything I feel,
and all that has happened to me. But you wouldn't
understand it. You've never known what it is to be
unhappy. Nelus has always behaved well to you,' she
added suddenly. This was intended as a * feeler,' to
ascertain if Jane Ford could sympathise with sorrows of
the heart.

Oh, Miss Sophy, don't you goo fur to take on so ! '
repeated Jane reproachfully. 'And as to dat 'ere Nelus,
afoot I gone to church along on him, Nelus he wur a
terrible yoimg Turk ! '

You needn't take any trouble about my hair,' Sophy
remarked tearfully, when, half an hour later, Jane, who

was treating her like a baby under lier affliction, had
finished brushing her luxuriant tresses. ' I don't think
I could bear the weight of it round my head. You can
plait it, and let it hang down ; and give me my very
ugliest dress,' she added, forgetting that she possessed
only two available winter gowns.

Why, sure///, missy,' cried Jane, regarding her in
wonderment, * you'll look for all the world like the
maiden "all forlorn!'

'So I am "all forlorn." Go away now, and don't
ask me any more questions ; and if my father says
anything about my being so late, be sure and tell him
that I've only got a headache.'

Jane Ford did as she was bidden, muttering to
herself that her joung mistress was just like all the
other persons of her acquaintance, who had been either
moonstruck ' or * bewitched ; ' and Sophy was left once
more to her melancholy reflections.

She dressed herself languidly and without enthusiasm.
Her selected gown looked creased and tumbled.
Jane had asked her if she should not ' iron it out,' but
she had answered that she preferred it as it was ; and
so she did. The knowledge that no one will look
upon her with a loving or admiring eye has turned
many a woman into a sloven ; but Sophy's present
carelessness was rather the protest of a mournful
despondency, the sackcloth and ashes of a loving and
repentant spirit, which took the form of hanging
tresses and environed garments. Iter aspect was truly
pitiable ; and as she contemplated herself in the
looking-glass she could not help remarking it.

At any rate, I Pooh unhappy,' she thought. ' 'What
a difference it makes in one's face ! But I don't care
in the least how I look )wic !

At this moment Jane, with a beaming countenance,
re-entered the apartment.

V\e good news for you, missy,' she said cheerfully
; * and you'll have time fur to let me iron out
your frock, fur I scz as how you'd overstep' yourself ;
and he'll wait.'

''Overslept myself; and he'll wait?' repeated
Sophy, bewildered. ' Who'll wait? Please, please tell
me at once, or you'll drive me out of my mind ! '

*It's the young Sir Tummus as is below, missy,'
explained the serving woman. ' He wur just stept outby
chance-like, afoot his breakfasted, when dat 'ere
black dawn o' his tears off after some'ut, and no
whistling' would do fur un, so he thought perhaps he was
a-got to terrifying' of your cats.'

Oh, it's always my cats ! ' cried Sophy, in a tone of
irritation ; for never in her life had lie felt less
disposed for an interview with the man whom she
regarded, unjustly, as the cause of her present unhappiness.
'Give my compliments to him, and say that
his dog isn't worrying my cats that I know of ; and if
it teas, I shouldn't very much care, for I don't seem to
care to-day for anything in the world ! '

The breakfasted be all ready,' hazarded Jane Ford,
with an imploring look ; for the * young Sir Tummus '
was extremely popular with both great and small.
'There be a couple of poached eggs and a dish of
bacon, and there's passengers in the kitchen, wot 's
been a having' on.'

I forbid you to ask him to breakfast ! ' exclaimed
Sophy, with determination. ' Tell him I'm ill ; tell
him anything, only send him away'' ! And how often
have I told you not to give pork to Abdallah ? It's
against his religion,'

'You do look so beautiful, miss!' persisted Jane,
still anxious that she should relent. 'And if I say
you're ill, we shall have him and the whole family
a-coming to inquire, and them 'ere new loose covers
not done yet fur the drawing-room cheers !'

That's true, Janus ; you're a sensible creature.
Say, then, that I'm not very well, but that I'm not ill.
Invent j;ome sort of complaint that isn't serious, and
that jou'd think nothing of yourself, only be sure
and say that I can't see him.'

A few moments later she peeped out of the window,
hearing Tom's departing footsteps union the gravel-walk,
only she took care that he should not see
her. In her heart she could not help feeling some
compunction, so slowly and unwillingly did he seem to
go from her ; and she could sympathise now with all
those who really loved. But it was with a sense of
relief that she knew he was gone ; and Jane came
presently to assure her of the fact.

And you said that I was not very well, but that I
had nothing serious the matter Y '

I said,' replied the waiting woman, ' that you was
took poorly with the sick headache, and looked all
nohow ; and he said as 'twas his belief as how the sick
headache was a-going about.'

Sophy, however, felt particularly annoyed at being
supposed to suffer from an ailment which she regarded
as pre-eminently unromantic.

I am sorry, Janus,' she remarked, ' that you shoidd
have thought fit to say anything so disgusting and so
untrue. However, what docs it signify ? So long as it
keeps tiresome people away, 3'ou may say I have the
smallpox if you like ! Still, you know that I have
never once been ill in the horrid way you said. What
will they think of me at the Abbey ?'

Poor Jane was sorry to have annoyed lier young
mistress, although, being a person without refinement,
she failed to perceive in what manner she had offended.
As Sophy was, however, extremely" anxious to do away
with an erroneous impression, she sat down at once
and wrote the following note, which it was intended
that Nelus should convey' to Poynings Abbey as soon
as he had finished this dinner : 

My dear Tom,  I have undergone a great deal of mental
worry lately, and am, consequently, not quite in my usual
spits. This made me late this morning ; and I asked Jane
to explain to you that I was not able to see you when you
so kindly called. She gave you, however, quite a wrong account
of my illness. j\Iy headache was merely what is called
nervously for I am really quite well, only a little sad. I
also think that it is right to tell you that it can never he
(what we spoke about in the wood, by the black gate). It
is more honest and fair to tell you this than to keep you
any longer in suspense ; and I Avould send you back, with
this letter, the beautiful ring you so kindly ivonld give me,
only, unfortunately, it has been mislaid, and 1 cannot find it
at present.'

But before Nelus had had time to start off with this
note, an opportunity occurred of sending it by a sweeter
messenger ; for a groom in the Hickathrift sables
spurred hurriedly up to the door, armed with a large
package tied round with pink ribbon. This contained
two bottles of medicine, which kind Lady Hickathrift
(as she explained in a note) had at once despatched
upon hearing of Sophy's indisposition, having prepared
the decoctions ' with her own hands ' from a family
recipe. Hereupon Sophy felt compelled to write another
letter, which was sent off by the groom with
that which was intended for Tom. It ran as follows :

VOL. I. X

or

My dear Lady Hickathrift,  I was extremely soit
that when Sir Thomas called this morning I was not well
enough to see him ; and I am very inch obliged to you for
your kind thought of me in sending mc so much medicine.
I do not think, however, that it will benefit me to partake
of it, as my headache arose merely from nervousness
and from a sleepless night, and was not of the kind
which our servant stupidly described to Sir Thomas.  With
my father's kindest regards, believe me to be your very
affectionate, Sophy St. Clair.'

Having fired off these two epistles, she felt somewhat
pacified. She had eased her conscience, too, by
nipping, as she conceived, in the very bud, any aspirations
which poor Tom might be nursing, b}' the chilling
and withering sentence,  If can never ho.'

 And you can throw all that horrible stuff out of
the window,' she said, turning to Jane, and indicating
the decoctions with an expression of disgust.

'Yes, surely, misses,' Jane had made answer, with
the manner of a * kicked dog ; ' but Sophy afterwards
learnt that, thinking it * a sin to waste good medicine,'
she had administered it to ' What-jou-call-um' (by
which name it was her habit to designate the Egyptian),
and that, in consequence, * AVhat-you-call-um '
(to make use of Nelus's forcible expression) was a
changed sight better.'

Ch AFTER XIV.

Alth(3L'gii Godfrey St. Clair, after his short interview
with his mother, had closed the door of his room
upon the outer world, he could not exclude the conflicting
emotions which crowded in upon him uninvited,
reducing his mind to a state of confusion to which it

lead been hitherto unaccustomed. He endeavoured to
analyse and classify this sensations ; but this brain
seemed to have lost for the moment its former powers
of just criticism, and he could only recognise in the
abstract an all-pervading sense of cUsillusionncmeiit and
soreness of heart.

Like Sophy, he had never paused to ask himself
what was his ultimate intention. He had been content
to drift, straw-like, upon the stream of destiny ; for,
to a man, marriage is not the storm-proof goal, or haven,
which it often seems to be to a woman, and it seldom
presents itself to his imagination save as a dim and
shadowy possibility. The pleasure, therefore, which
he had experienced in Sophy's society had never warned
him to expect an} change in his own feelings ; and the
thought of this delightful period of unquestioning contentment,
came back to him now hallowed by all the
tenderness of regret, which must ever accompany the
memory of * a day that is dead,* when that day has
held what no other seems likely to hold in the future.
For, at the end of his reasoning, he had come to the
conclusion that he must give up seeing his cousin,
at any rate for some time, if he desired to secure peace
either for her or for himself. He strove hard to look
at the situation dispassionately, and, setting aside all
selfish considerations, he felt, as her kinsman and best
friend, how highly advantageous to her would be her
\mion with Sir Thomas Hickathrift of Poynings Abbey.
Had she been his sister, or any ordinary girl-cousin,
this would have been, indeed, a ' consummation devoutly
to be wished.' Tom Hickathrift, his old Eton
friend, his near neighbour, and one of the county
magnates  could anything possibly be more satisfactory
? But now  And here again he felt an inexplic-

<>)'

able soreness of liciirt, inin<led with a longings for
action, excitement, and clung of scene, which might
bring with it, likewise, a change of ideas.

Yes, he would leave England for a while  he would
travel in distant lands, and endeavour to comprehend
and sympathise more with the customs and peculiarities
of their varied inhabitants ; for he had felt Sophy's
taunt about his ignorance of foreign people and habits,
and he began to wonder whether there was not some
truth in her remark about the * roast-beef-of -old-
England cant and clap trap.' At any rate, there
were many things to be seen in the world besides those
which lay in his immediate path. Why should he not
see them, and gain wisdom and experience in the
seeing ?

The idea that this would entail giving up Sophy's
society, at least for some time, did, indeed, send a
painful thrill through his whole being ; but he had been
accustomed to look upon life as a state of probation,
of dissatisfaction, of struggle, and to regard with a
certain sad self-complacency any act partaking of the
nature of a sacrifice or penance.

I could not love thee, dear, so well,
Loved I not honour more,'

and * honour * seemed now ro demand of him that he
should give up for the time being the pleasure of his
cousin's society leaving her to his friend and neighbour
to win and to woo for his own, without let or hindrance.
To sa' that he felt like the king in the fairy tale, who
has sworn to sacrifice to an implacable genius, or wizard,
the first object he encountered, after that object had
turned out to be his soul's beloved, will give some
notion of his sensations. Indeed, honour had lately

seemed to him, upon several occasions, to have become
a veritable bugbear  a voracious Cerberus, into whose
many mouths he appeared to be perpetually flinging
buns ; and he could not help trembling at the possible
reaction which might one day ensue upon so disagreeable
and monotonous an occupation.

This day had not yet arrived, however, and whilst
he had the strength he would strive. Hence, after a
very minute self-examination, he came to the conclusion
that the wisest and most, honourable course for him to
pursue would be to leave Dallingridge almost immediately,
in order that he might make what used
formerly to be called the (grand tone, without which
the education of no young gentleman was thought
complete.

Your doctor of the soul is strangely at variance
with your doctor of the body upon the subject of self-examination
 the one telling us to search, probe, and
keep a continual watch over our emotions ; whilst the
other admits that, after certain broad hygienic rules
have been laid down and acted upon, too minute a
scrutiny of either our physical or mental condition is
apt to generate a species of neurosis, which may take
the form, in time, of chronic hypochondria, and encourage
the growth of those very evils which it is our
interest to prevent. Certain it was that the constant
inward-gazing of Godfrey St. Clair's moral vision had
fostered in him a kind of mental hypochondria, which
threatened to cast a gloom over these first years of his
early manhood.

It is far less difficult, at times, to sacrifice an idea
than an individual ; and, as yet, Sophy had seemed to
him a being so ideal and intangible, that she was more
like the representation or embodiment of a particular

or

froup of ideas than a creature of flesh and blood. To
separate from her was to separate from many pleasant
illusions and associations ; but * honour * demanded of
him this sacrifice, and he would make it, although with
a heavy heart!

When, upon entering his mother's boudoir, he had
inquired the whereabouts of his father, it was with the
view of submitting to him this new plan of foreign
travel. He had not been able, however, to arrange an
interview for that evening ; but next morning, whilst
walking with him up and down the terrace of the
wintry flower-garden, he made known his projects for
the future. Erskine St. Clair was now a very old man.
He had, indeed, been an old man when his son remembered
him first, seeming, to him, to embody and represent
the civilisation of a departed age. Had he ever
been young, and possessed of the faults and failings of
other young men? Godfrey had sometimes asked himself.
If so, his son had never known him during this passing
phase, and as he was now in his seventy-eighth year, all
moods and phases would probably soon be over for him.
It had ensued, naturally enough, by reason of the
great disparity of years, that the two men had had but
little in common, notwithstanding that Godfrey had
unconsciously formed himself upon his father's example.
Neither did there exist between them any outward
resemblance to stand in lieu of the more subtle affinity
of character. Godfrey was darker and taller than his
father had ever been, and his features, although less
regular, and wanting in the almost feminine neatness
which characterised those of the elder man, were endowed
with a certain strange picturesqueness which, to
an observer possessed of artistic consciousness, was not

without its especial charm. There was a fire in his
eye too, and a dignity in his whole demeanour, which
seemed to separate him from the majority of his fellow-creatures,
and to bespeak some manner of out-standing
from the herd. lie might omit, peradventure, to draw
upon the intellectual forces which appeared to be lying
in reserve ; but, ten to one, he would never subside
altogether into insignificance.

As they paced slowly up and down the terrace
together, arm in arm, Godfrey' noticed that his
father, old as he had always appeared to him, looked
now even older than usual. lie observed, too, with
pain, that he began to show marked signs of bodily
feebleness, walking but slowly, and leaning heavily
upon his arm as though for support. He realised how
lean and shrivelled he seemed now, compared to what
he had appeared to him in his own boyish days, when
he had gazed up at him with his earnest child-eyes, acid
imagined that he was a tall man. He had shrunk and
dwindled, however, just like the gray park wall, once
an almost impassable barrier, but sunk now into a thing
so small and insignificant that he could easily leap
over it.

He realised, too, how thoroughly these few years 
a mere nothing in the life of the old man  had, so to
speak, reversed their relative positions, transforming
himself into the protector, the strong arm, the breadwinner,
if need be ; and a sentiment of tenderness and
compassion possessed him as he felt how his father had
now actually need of him to support his tottering footsteps.
Then, again, Godfrey was conscious of a decided
change in his mental showers. His ideas were no longer
so lucid and concise as in the old days, his memor' seemed

or

often to fail him, lie repeated himself more than once ;
and it Alas evident that, at his advanced age, these
changes were likely to be the precursors of that great
change which, sooner or later, must come to us all.
For a moment this thought caused the young man to
falter in his intention of quitting England. As his
father seemed, however, rather to encourage the notion,
he ended by adhering to it, foreseeing nothing imminent
in the gradual breaking up of one whose health was,
after all, particularly sound for his years ; and before
their morning walk Alas over, the preliminaries had
been arranged for his departure.

And I desire to tell you, Godfrey, before you go on
your travels,' said the old man kindly, as they were
about to separate, ' that in no way have you ever disappointed
either myself or your mother. Since your
earliest childhood, you have displayed evidences of an
equals-balanced and carefully-regulated mind. In
adolescence you have contracted neither vices nor liabilities,
and we have every reason to suppose that your
tastes are cultivated and refined. Strive, wry dear boy,
to form your manhood upon the pattern of so exemplary
a youth, which has been owing in a great measure,
you will admit, to an admirable education. God bless
you, ni' dear boy ! I repeat to you, for the second
time, that your conduct hitherto has afforded us unmitigated
satisfaction.'

'You arc very kind, sir,' said Godfrey, pressing
his aiTu.

Had this speech been worded differently he would
have felt touched and gratified. As it was, the somewhat
mechanical treatment of the subject jarred upon
him slightly, and he found himself thinking, he knew
not why, of Sophy's childish words, when she had

repented to liiiii her father's remark about ' the poor boy
who was brought up by clockwork ; ' but then, upon
this particular day, he was, perhaps, rather morbid and
hypocritical

That evening, after the candles were lighted, he
locked himself ujd in his room, sat down at his writing-table,
and wrote to Sophy. It was a much longer letter
than he had ever written before upon the subject of his
own impressions ; and in order that the reader may be
able to judge whether she was rendered any happier by
the reception of it, I give it here : 

I implore of you to pardon me,' he wrote, ' for having
given way to violence in your presence. My excuse must be
that, feeling provoked, I lost that self-control which I have
always counselled others to preserve, and which you reproached
me With having maintained until now. In doing
this, I fear I have both pained and wounded you ; and from
what you tell me, it seems that, in this respect, I have unwittingly
offended before. I have taken upon myself, also, to
advise you upon various subjects  yon who, being a woman, are
probably perfectly competent to judge for yourself of the fitness
of some things, and I perceive that I must have appeared
to you to be both dictatorial and impertinent, llcmember,
however, dear Sophy, that as I am one of your nearest kinsmen,
it is not natural that I shoukl appear at times to be
desirous of usurping the place of a brother in your heart ;
for to me you have always seemed the sister you would have
been indeed had not om two fathers chosen ruthlessly to set
aside those natural tics which should have united themselves
and their children.'

When Godfrey came to this part of his letter, he felt
painfully conscious that he regarded Sophy in no wise
in the light of a sister, and that, by asserting that he
did so, he was outraging his own uncompromising moral

()}'

code. ITo argued, however, jesuitical', that it was for
II good end. It was good for Sophy that she should
think of him as a friend only, a kinsman, a brother ;
and as for himself, what matter whether, to Jd))i, the
thought brought joy or bitterness?

But when the poor little adopted sister herself read
these cruel words, she felt a sudden death-chill at her
heart. For a few moments it seemed as though it had
ceased to beat altogether. She pressed her hand to the
place where it was wont to be ; but she only felt as if
her bosom harboured some dull, inanimate stone, which
possessed, nevertheless, a tendency to ache.

It is all over ! ' she sighed hopelessly, as she gazed
out of the bay-window at Little Stillingfleet, towards
the winding roadway'' between the avenue of young
trees.

Her blind father, who could not perceive her emotion,
Und who had been anxiously awaiting, for many days,
tidings in confirmation of some grand triumph, connected
with one of the numerous ramifications of the
Great Cause, pricked up his keen ears as he detected a
sound as of the crumpling of note-paper.

Can it be,' he inquired eagerly, ' that replies to our
two latest communications are already in our hands?
Our baits have indeed been laid judiciously ; and before
the period at which inebriated Christians are wont
erroneously to celebrate the nativity of the Nazarene, it
is my belief that ve shall have landed another mighty
fish. . . . My last pamphlet upon the Eastern Question
has been successfully introduced into the household of a
certain minister, who is dyspeptic, in the guise of an
advertisement for a particular species of dinner-pill,
very valuable subject-matter being incorporated with
what is, professedly, the encomium of an utterly inno-

I

cujus simple. . . . This, however, is only the thin end
of the wedge. . . . Three of the khidinuifjhars of thither
promising young man, Wnzy Ally Khan, have been
seduced by our emissary ; but there are wheels within
wheels ; . . . and the reluctance of our old friend, shah
Behaved All, to lodge in his bank those thirty lacs
of rupees necessary for our expense in Rude, is now
thoroughly explained.'

Sophy, however, had never felt less inclined to enter
into a discussion upon the Great Cause, and she replied,
somewhat impatiently, 

I wonder whether there will ever dawn a day  a
very, very distant one, of course ; but still, I can't help
thinking, a very lippy oiie  when we shall hear no
more of the Eastern Question or the Great Cause ? '

The gentle regenerator of the universe was paralysed
with astonishment at this unusual display of
pettishness. For some moments he could not replj to
her question, and he ended, like Jane and Lady Hicks
by coming to the conclusion that perhaps his
daughter might not be in the enjoyment of her usual
health.

But this is a digression, and I must return to
Godfrey's letter : 

I have spoken to my father,' it wont on, ' and he approved
of my wish to see more of the world ; for I informed
him that, with his permission, I desired to leave England, and
he accorded it at once. When I return, I shall hope to be
divested, to some extent, of that " roast-beef-of-old-England
cant and clap-trap " which has been till now such a law in
my character, and which has very justly given you offence.
Never, however, has England seemed more dear to mc, with
some few of its inhabitants, and I shall depart from it with
sorrowful regret. Perhaps, like many of the St. Clairs, our

ancestors, I mijht have gone on living at Dallingridge without
ever guessing that I was so grossly prejudiced and unenlightened,
had not the veil been torn from my eyes.
Thanks to you, however, I have become aware of my
ignorance, and am tired with a longing after better things
things wider, deeper, more cosmopolitan. Maybe, where
I am going, I may fall in with them. So far, so good ; but
as you used to say, in those happy days when we were boy
and girl together, 

Ev'ry white must have its black,
And ev'ry sweet its sour ; "

and I must confess that I am not over-pleased to learn that
;Mr. Pcttigrew is destined to be the companion of my travels,
for (probably without just reason) I have always disliked
him. However, it is to the kind solicitude of my father
that I owe what I am undutifully disposed to regard as a
grievance. I am old enough, it is true, to dispense with the
company of my former tutor ; and were he to assume the
character of mentor, I fear I should be tempted to show
some signs of impatience. But when it was simply a question
of our travelling together, as any ordinary acquaintances
might travel, it was dithcult to object, my father himself
having started the idea ; and as Pcttigrew is suffering from
a cough, he docs not seem averse to a holiday. My father
has taken all trouble off his hands with regard to providing
old Hornblower with a substitute, and I think we shall start
towards the beginning of next week.

I must tell you, too, that, before leaving my father,
I could not resist an opportunity which presented itself of
alluding to our unfortunate family quarrel, and of expressing
to him my own feelings upon the subject. I ventured to
represent to him that it struck me as being contrary to the
laws of Nature and the dictates of true religion, that a feud
between two brothers should continue for so many years,
particularly when, from the fact of their living so close to

each other, the whole neighbourhood was rendered aware of
it ; and I ventured to remind him that there is said to be
but one step from the siibhme to the ridiculous. The
neighbours, I assured him, regarded such an exaggerated
display of ill-feeling in the light of a family eccentricity,
replete with all the elements of comedy ; whilst to myself,
I informed him, it seemed to partake more of the nature of
a tragedy, bringing painfully to my remembrance the terrible
history of that first falling out of brothers which is mentioned
in Scripture. When, however, I had proceeded thus far, he
became visibly annoyed. Looking at me steadfastly, he
begged me, with a commanding gesture, never to speak to
him again upon this subject, adding that, did I know the
true state of the case, together with certain extraneous circumstances
of which he felt almost tempted to inform me,
I should certainly have bitten out my own tongue before I
made any allusion to the story of Cain and Abel and the first
murder. It was not possible for me, after this, to continue the
conversation, and I was constrained to change the subject.

And now good-bye, dear Sojhy, and God bless you !
Who can say what changes may have taken place ere we meet
again, as I hope we shall meet, in the early spring of next
year? You will know, however, with what sincerity I
trust that whatever happens may be for your happiness,
which, believe me, is as dear to me as my own. Once more,
farewell !

*P. S. Should you desire to write to me, pray direct
under cover to Dr. Dyer at Poynings, with whom I shall be
in communication on my father's account, and who has received
instructions to forward my letters. It is my intention
to visit, first, the chief cities of France and Germany ;
later on, I shall proceed to Italy, where I hope to remain for
awhile, at Genoa, Milan, Florence, and Rome.'

When Sophy had read through this letter, so chilling
in its self-complacent costliness, she turned blankly

towards the window, fcclin<> stunned and frozen, and
leant for support aainst the nearest of the three
soulless warriors. Clinging thus hopelessly to the
hollow steel arm wrought over 'saith golden tracery, and
fashioned cunningly to hold something so puissant once
at Poictiers or Agincourt, the young girl, whose want
youth was to her at times almost as a burden, a responsibility
difficult to deal with aright, seemed suddenly to
become as bloodless and inanimate as the armour. The
garden looked dismal in its wintry barrenness, and the
gray heavens appeared to be leaning down to an earth
forlorn and deserted of all pleasant things. Nelus had
been sweeping the dead leaves into little damp red
heaps opposite to the windows ; but others, newly fallen,
were scattering themselves all over the lawn, and the
footsteps of Winter were no longer to be dissimulated.
Before ' the early spring of next year ' should have
come, with its possible changes, Sophy imagined a long
array of daj's as gray and melancholy as this one ; and
gazing thus at the desolate landscape, all hopes of a
happy future seemed to die out of her heart.

CiiArxER XY.

Bi'T there is an end to the very gloomiest of days,
and no winter, however dismal, endures for ever. Intime
Spring returned, with her promise of perfect
summer. Timidly she came at first, as one that breadth
delicately, with here a peeping blossom, and there a
fulness of bud, which tomorrow, perhaps, was destined
to be chilled and blighted.

Though it was still early in the month of April, the

sun was sometimes warm enough for Sopli} and lier
father to sit out in the garden, on the southern side of
the white farmhouse. Francis St. Clair had looked
rather worn and pale of late, and his daughter encouraged
him to be as much as possible in the open air.
He would, perhaps, have felt insulted had she offered
him an overcoat, for to shiver was part of his religion ;
but she had craftily disposed the garden chairs, so that
they were sheltered from the cold winds in a little nook
between one of the angles of the house and the conservatory
and here they would often sit together and
converse, more after the manner of brother and sister
than of father and child.

So2)hy did not expect that Godfrey would return till
the beginning of Maj'  nearly another whole month to
wait  but still it was pleasant to feel that she was waiting
for him, and watching, so it seemed to her, every little
bud and blossom opening to welcome him home.

Perhaps, though she was far from suspecting it, she
herself was partly responsible for her father's careworn
expression. He had been disappointed at the failure of
Thomas Hickathrift's suit, although, in cherishing the
idea of this marriage, he lead not been actuated by
motives of worldly wisdom. Poynings Abbey, indeed,
with its historic memories and surrounding broad acres,
counted for little in the mind of one who was constitutionally
incapable of estimating social advantages even
at their true value. Francis St. Clair had been, all his
life, a dreamer of dreams, an enthusiastic follower of
an obscure and mysterious philosophy, irrational and
impracticable perhaps, but bringing with it, at an' rate,
one palpable advantage, or disadvantage. The common
things, to which common people are wont to attach undue
importance, appeared in his eyes ridiculously small and

or

insignificant. Woultli, position, a tine estate, were to
him as so many things of naught. But he desired to
see his daughter provided for in his own lifetime. lie
would have liked to know that her future would be
happy, peaceful, and respectable, and, by her union with
Sir Thomas Ilickathrift, he had fancied that such a
future would be assured to her.

Even Sophy herself could not help missing Tom's
constant visits. Out of loyalty to the man she loved,
she had striven to avoid his society of late, though she
secretly confessed that this faithful friend, with his
honest retriever-face, might have been in some sort a
consoler to her, and even a distraction, during the
absence of Godfrey, had he not foolishly forfeited her
confidence by loving ' not wisely, but too well.'

Still, this very love of her, although it was not
wholly reciprocated, had not been 's\-ithout its effect.
It had touched her very considerably, and she coidd
not help feeling for her rejected suitor a compassion,
half tender, even if it was a little contemptuous.

The first time that the first wooer informs a maiden
that he loves her, must always mark an epoch in her
existence ; an episode to be cherished, remembered, and
gone over, in fancy, again and again, although she may
have wished at the time (as is often the case) that the
flattering Avoids had been uttered by somebody else.
For is it not her first real conquest of that formidable
natural antagonist, Man, with which has come to her
the consciousness of her beauty, her dominion, her
womanhood ? Therefore, if it be nothing more, a
declaration of undying affection, to the simple-hearted
girl who does not altogether expect it, is at least a
revelation. There are revelations, however, which are
only hiuf revelations ; and though the semblance of the

truth may come to us, it is possible that it may not be
what children call ' the vat truths after all. Still
Tom's proposal was an event in Sophy's life, and the
situation, at any rate, had been romantic.

It all looks so peaceful and lovely to-day,' she said
to her father, as she gazed musingly at the distant
landscape. * I thinly I like this view better than that
from the other side, where all the lines seem to go too
much the same way, like the lines of a copy-book.'

I used to admire both views when I could see
them,' he answered, rather sadly ; ' but noir the two are
the same.'

Ah, but your eyes will come all right soon, and
then you Avill see and admire them again. I have
noticed lately that you've looked as if you could see.'
Somehow, to-day, she seemed hopeful and cheerful
about everything. 

 I shall never see again,' said the blind man,
sighing. ' 'ein this instance alone" (as Milton replied
to the invectives of Salmasius), "and much against my
inclination, I am a deceiver." '

Oh, but I feel sure that you will,' exclaimed
Sophy consolingly. * Janus says she once knew a man
who told stories, and didn't believe in the Bible, and
who was struck blind ; but as soon as he repented and
spoke the truth, and became a Methodist preacher, he
got all right again, and saw better than ever.'

And I have heard tell of another man,' said the
philosopher, smiling, ' who lost his eyes through
jumping into a quickset hedge, but who recovered his
sight as soon as he jumped into another.'

You are making fun of me,' cried Sophy, feigning
displeasure ; ' so I shall change the subject. . . How I
should like to have a statue or a sun-dial put up between

VOL. I. Y

or

those two curly-shaped borders ! A fountain would
look too cockneyfied ; besides which, wc haven't
enough water : but it seems so to cry out for some sort
of sticking-up monument or pillar.'

*It would be a delightful spot to be buried in
remarked Mr. St. Clair, reflectively. ' If, indeed, one
muss be buried at all  and I suppose it would offend
people were one to be singular with regard to one's
mode of sepulture  what one would desire, if burial is
imperatively necessary', would be merely to be laid at
rest near to the place which had held most of one's joys
and sorrows in life. Afterwards, you might put over the
place some simple monument, so as not to forget it, and
to break, as you say, the " lines of the copy-book." '

Those are on the other side,' Sophy answered.

And now, what can you possibly mean by talking in
this foolish way ? I suppose you wish to trade upon
mv feelings,' she added, gulping down a sob, and her
eyes filling with tears.

*"No man knows where he shall die"' rejoined
her father, apologetically, quoting from the Koran.

Neither can one be sure at what luoincnt one may be
called away. All I meant was, that if such a thing
could be, without giving fuss or trouble, I would so
much rather lie hero than in the damp church-vault at
Dallingridge.' And he pointed with his thin hand
towards the place where Sophy had said she wished fora
sun-dial.

Stow ridiculous ! ' she exclaimed, almost angrily
though it was fortunate that the blind man could not
see the tears which came to her ejes. ' You are perfectly
well and strong ; although, of course, if you ever
did die, no one would mind the " fuss and trouble," as
you call it, of burying you as you liked.'

The parsons would stand in your way,' lie answered
regretful'. * They wouldn't allow anything
unorthodox ; the Dean, Ilornblower, Pettigrew  the
whole lot of them  would insist upon carting me off to
the family vaidt.'

They shan't do it ! I won't let them ! ' cried
Sophy passionately, throwing her arms round his neck.
But why has our conversation taken this melancholy
turn ? '

She might well ask this ; it was destined, however,
to be interrupted shortly by Jane, who, appearing
round the sunlit angle of the wall, informed them * as
how a person' was waiting to speak to 'missy,' and
that it was 'very particular.'

This person was no other than Mrs. "Weller, of
Great Stillingfleet, arrayed in her Sunday shawl and
black coal scuttle bonnet  an heirloom once in the
family of almost every English cotta, but now, like
the tall Welsh beaver hat, rapidly becoming obsolete.
At sight of her Sophy could not restrain a shudder.
This old woman, who had hitherto asserted her
individuality chiefly upon the occasion of inconvenient
births, or who treated Little Stillingfleet as a pleasant
half-way" house when returning from a neighbouring
laying-out,' appeared almost in the light of some
sinister bird of ill-omen,

What is it, Mrs. Weller ?' she now asked, feeling a
little nervous.

Moises, he be very bad, he be,' answered the shepherd's
wife, alluding to her son of birds'-nesting proclivities,
now a grown-up labourer upon the Didlingridge
estate. ' He bin gone and got bit in one of his writes
along on a deaf order.'

There's no such thing as a deaf adder,' said Sophy,

or

fcclina' rellevccl. 'What viii call a deaf adder is only a
slow worm, and how do you know that is deaf?'

Mrs. AVeller could not answer her, as she was
amongst the most ignorant of women.

He must have been bitten by a common adder,'
Sophy went on. ' How did it happen ? '

leaf order she wur a curling up down among do
fern scrubs,' explained Mrs. AVeller, wiping her eyes.
*Deaf un she wur ! My son Moises, he goes fur to grub
up de old priA'cts, and sets his bill-hook down on its
middle like, fur to kill un. Whilst he bin after
scratching on her, deaf un she scarcely up de bill-hook,
and ketches my son Moises in de arm.'

'Ah, Moses was always fond of torturing animals,
and now you see how he's punished ! If he had at once
killed the adder in a merciful manner, who knows if
this woidd have happened ? But I hope you have sent
for a doctor ? '

Mrs. Weller replied that she had at once despatched
a neighbour, * wot ran messengers,' for the new medical
man from London, lately established at Poynings, but
that she had been informed that he was up at the great
house With 'de ole gentleman,' who was 'as bad as bad;'
and that the object of her present visit was to beg for
the loan of one of the farm-carts, in order that Moses
might be conveyed to Southerbourne to see a doctor,
and also to be ' dipped ' in the sea, to which operation
the peasants 'in des parts' attach considerable importance,
as a remedy either for snake-bite or hydrophobia.

You mean my uncle, I suppose ? ' Sophy inquired
anxiously. 'It is the beginning of the end,' she thought
in her heart.

De ole gentleman up at the great house, he partook
bad last forenoon, he wur,' answered Mrs. Weller,

who had seated herself whilst the cart was being prepared.
' Some do say it be de paralytic; anyhow, right
arm and hand on un be struck like dandified, and he betook
light-headed in all his limbs.'

How dreadful ! And can nothing be done for him ? '

Bless you, missy,' replied Mrs. Weller, ' dey lies
all that gold can buy, dey he's. And de man wot runs
messengers goes so fur as to say as how Joung muster's
bin sent fur, he do.'

At this unexpected mention of ' young muster,'
Sophy's sentiments underwent a sudden change. Compassion
for the sufferings of the ' ole gentleman,' for
Moses Weller, and any resentment she might have felt
towards the ' deaf order,' which had so disapproved of
being ' scratched ' that it had * screened ' and bitten,
vanished in an instant ; and her heart began to beat so
violently that, had not the noise of the cart-wheels
vomited at this moment, she fancied that Mrs. AYelTer
must have heard it. The worthy woman, however, was
far too much absorbed in the sufferings of her son to pay
attention to the emotions of others. As soon as she was
safely established in the cart, Sophy flew off to tell her
father the news.

'And I can't help thinking,' she said at the end of
her recital, ' that you ought now to make up this foolish
quarrel. It will be " now or never," dear ; for he is
evident" dyeing, and you may be sorry if you don't.'

I have always endeavoured to act justly and uprightly
towards my brother,' answered the blind man
nervously. * Our characters were uncongenial, and
jarred upon each other. As it was impossible that we
could ever become friends, we parted company ; and I
think I may say that, on jj?// side, at least, it was without
bitterness.'

or

No, it wasn't answered his daughter firmly. ' It
was with a great deal, which, ever since that time, has
been growing and growing, until you  who, upon most
subjects, are so clever, and open to conviction  became
quite prejudiced and silly about this. Eccrijhodu
'uoficrd it.'

*Who can have noticed it?' inquired the philosopher
earnestly. He was wounded at being reproached with
being 'prejudiced and silly.'

Never mind,' answered Sophy, making use of a
truly feminine resource. 'Besides,' she added, turning
her argument in another direction, ' although we don't
belong to any established religion, you know that's
only because no religion seems good enough for us.
We fancy that they're too small and narrow fur our
grand views, and we've read of all their cruelties and
persecutions. But still, in the Ei)gJi>iJi )'c/if/ioi(, they
preach charity and goodwill towards one's neighbour 
Tom Jlickathrift has told me so, and I've often seen it
in books ; and if coi a Christian would go and see his
dying brother, surely an Agnostic ought to do so several
times.'

I shall never sec him again,' answered the blind
man, as he commenced drawing upon the gravel with
his walking-stick.

NcA'cr mind that,' said his daughter cheerfully,
It isn't so much the sccinrj. I could lead you up to
his bedside, and joxi could say a few kind words.'

'Nothing is so unprofitable as a deathbed reconciliation.
Well enough had we been able to agree
during our lives.'

'Perhaps there may have been faults on both sides,'
said Sophy, encouraged by his manner. ' But note
surely it's time to bury the hatchet. Besides, I don't

feel at all sure that lie svoulcln't have come to see you
if you'd been ill.'

I'm sure I hope he would not,' replied her father
hastily. * Why should we be condemned during illness
to associate with those we could not endure in health ?'

You mean that it might make one worse ? Well,
happily you are in the very rudest possible health. But
still I see that you are what the Christians call " stiffened"
(" necked," I think it is generally pronounced) ;
and I am afraid, with all sour softness of manner, that
you are in reality very hard-hearted.'

I hope I am not,' replied he, taking her hand.

Very well, then,' said Sophy, seeing her advantage;
shall I go and fetch some ink and writing-paper ? '

I don't quite know what you want me to do.'

I want you to write a letter to your brother, or,
rather, you shall dictate it, whilst I write. Say a few
kind words to him, and tell him you'll come and see

ml

him if he likes ; and then you shall sign it.' So saying,
she was off like an arrow from the bow to fetch the
writing materials.

Sophy St. Clair was at that happy age when letter-writing
is a pleasure in itself, independent of all .
She wrote a beautifully clear hand, and
delighted in flourishing the graceful tails of her y's,
and slashing across the necks of her inoffensive 's.
Choosing, therefore, a new crowquill-pen, of her own
manufacture, she sat down beside her father, and wrote
as follows at his dictation : 

'My daughter and myself have just heard that you are
ill. In illness, things which seemed once to be important
fade often and become as nothing before newly-awakened
thoughts of deeper mysteries. If it is thus with you, the
heartburning of the past arc, maybe, forgotten : and I am

willing, should you care to see me, to show you that / too
can forget.'

Thus ended the letter, or, rather, thus ended Francis
St. Chiir's dictation.

But the sole secretary of a blind man, particularly
one of the female sex, must be singularly conscientious
if she does not, now and then, endeavour to improve and
soften down his phraseology according to her own ideas;
and Sophy was not altogether proof against this temptation,
though she j'ieldcd to it from purely benevolent
motives. Thus, at the commencement, she had written,
My daughter and myself have just heard that you are
ill icith the deepest regret ' (surely a much kinder way of
putting it). Further on she had improved * I am
willing ' into ' I am most willing ; ' whilst after ' forget
' at the end of the letter, she had added the word
ererf/t/iinr/,' and this she had twice underlined.

And now you can sign it,' she said, arranging the
letter before him. * And mind, dear, to hold your hand
as if you were writing douiuranh, otherwise all your
letters run up to the right in such a ridiculous way.'

The blind man did as he was bidden, and, having
succeeded in obtaining a very creditable signature,
nothing now remained but to despatch the letter. To
Sophy's annoyance Nelus happened to be from home;
and as Jane was now anything but fleet-footed, and
occupied, besides, with household affairs, there was
nothing for it but to confide the mission to Abdallah.
For Abdallah, the Egyptian donkey-boy, who, when
only in his thirteenth year, had assisted at Sophy's
nativity in the city whence she derived her name, was
still an occupant of the white gabled farmhouse, which
seemed now" to possess for him the same charm that
had hitherto prevented any of the other few retainers

from quitting it, and had lured back again and again
the guests who had visited it once.

The time had long gone by when it had been
settled that he should return to the flesh-pots of Egypt,
although a conscientious protector had been found for
him, even in the person of the Great Prophet himself,
who was upon the point of revisiting the East. At the
last moment, however, he had seemed to be seized with
an intense unwillingness to depart, and, after singing a
melancholy song of farewell, accompanied by music
upon a * tars or tantum, he complained of illness, and
had remained for some time groaning upon his bed.
Dajs passed by, and still he appeared to be oppressed
with despairing melancholy ; and the Great Prophet,
tired of waiting, went on his journey wondering and
alone. Then, and then only, did the Egyptian recover
his usual health and spirits ; and Sophy, who, looking
upon him merely in the light of a passing visitor, nat
never permitted him to become essential to her happiness,
began to fear that he intended inakiiig Little
Stillingfleet his permanent home. And, indeed, whenever
she had made any inquiries relative to the time of
his departure, his answers were always ambiguous in
the extreme.

When my beard is of the length of the beard of the
Effendi,' he had replied when she questioned him for the
first time in the presence of her father, who had interpreted
to her the meaning of his words ; whilst, upon
another occasion, he had indicated, as the moment of his
probable departure, ' Ashen the nails of the fingers of my
hands shall be even as the talons of the eagle.' Lastly',
he had dismissed the subject by exclaiming, with indignation,
' May the salt bo in the eye of whosoever shall
depart from a just master I' So that there seemed to

orbe

every clinch of his remaining where he was for the
present. In the neighbourhood he was spoken of indiscriminately
as 'the Frenchman,' 'the Turk,' 'the Nigger,'
Mhelngin,' and 'the Devil'  this last appellation having
been conferred upon him, not unnaturally, in consequence
of his having devoured live coals after the
manner of the dancing dervishes ; he had also performed
a charm for the extirpation of bugs in one of
the outlying cottages, which, having most unexpectedly
succeeded in its object, caused him to be regarded as a
supernatural being.* The chawbacons of the neighbourhood,
consisting of the ' Stubberlieldiuses,' the
boys at the turnpike, and Moses seller, before Nemesis
overtook him in the guise of a ' deaf order,' having
begun by taunting him, and provoking him to unequal
(combat, with the view, apparently', of 'laming' him
for being a toad,' had come to regard him, by-and-by,
With that toleration tempered with contempt which
one is apt to feel for a creature of clouded intellect
who seems to be striving, as it were, after the light.
Later on, however, he laid unconsciously succeeded
in securing the respect due to all those who maintain
with consistency the courage of their opinions; and
some few words of newly-acquired 'pidgen English'
ensuing on the top of this respect, left him master of
the situation. Behold him, lion, Oriental as ever in
man', even too many, of his habits, adapting himself
with singular docility to the prejudices and eccentricities
of the northern Franks. lie was distinguished from
them, however, by many points of dissimilarity ; and

This charm consists of the following: words from trio Koran
chap. ii. V. 244, written in separate letters: * last thou not considered
those who left their palpitations, and they were thousands,
for fear of death ? And God said unto them, Die, die, die I'

as Sophy reflected upon some of these, she could not
help wishing that she had possessed a less sensational
mode of conveying her letter, for she rightly conjectured
that her uncle might possibly have exaggerated
the conventionalities of Little Stillingfleet, and she
had no wish to parade any of them before him. She
remembered, however, that the sick man would be, of
necessity, confined to his chamber, where his wife was
probably in close attendance upon him ; and her straining
after civilisation had not yet so far demoralised her
as to cause her to attach any importance to the feelings
of the 'pampered menial' who might chance to answer
the door-bell at Dallingridge House.

There was no time to be lost, and in the course of
about twenty minutes Abdallah, turbaned and kaf tamed,
started off at a brisk gallop upon * Cammy,' whose long
tail, mingling with the folds of his rider's white
ahayaJij floated picturesquely in the breeze.

Chapter XVI.

Whu.st these first signs of a chilly and reluctant
spring, with its pale one-sided sunshine, were gladdening
Sophy's heart in England, and seeming to awaken
the hopes which had been frozen to sleep in the winter,
Godfrey St. Clair was basking in the lighter atmosphere
of the Riviera, which has the effect, generally, of
arousing the dormant senses of the apathetic Briton to
a consciousness of fuller life and enjoyment.

Since his departure from England, Godfrey had
felt thus imperceptibly aroused and awakened by each
new revelation of sight and sound he encountered ; but
he was uncertain whether this was entirely due to

atmospheric causes, or to a sense of emancipation from
the cold surroundings of his home, which, joined to the
effect produced by Sophy's shafts directed at his reticence,
had piqued him into endeavouring to live with
more intensity. For he had certainly left England,
more or less, in a fit of pique ; and tJicrc were even
moments when his uncongenial companion was tempted
to question him as to his Wearied alternations of mood.
Something, however, in the young man's manner dissuaded
him ; and, perhaps, two persons more utterly
disunited in spirit had never journeyed together.
There had not existed any sympathy between Godfrey
and his tutor even in the old days, when they had been
thrown together by reason of their relative positions ;
but the young are frequently unappreciative of their
pastors and masters' ' exertions for their welfare, and
it was to have been expected that this personal antipathy
would have worn off with the years. Singularly
enough, however, Godfrey's dislike seemed only to have
ripened with time, and the verdict of his maturer judgment
was but the echo of his boyish opinion. Hitherto,
there had been nothing in Pcttigrcw's conduct to justify
what might have been merely an unreasonable prejudice.
But it almost appeared as if these two fellow-travellers
had, since their departure from England, flung
aside simultaneously some mask or cloak wherein they
had each of them been shrouded until noah. It is said
that one of the unmistakable signs of being what is
called ' a good fellow ' (often a very ambiguous term of
recommendation) consists in the fact that the person
thus designated may be accompanied on journeys with
impunity, and without irritation to the feelings of his
travelling companion ; and it was when tried in the
balance by this standard that Felix Pettigrew was

unquestionably 'found wanting.' With such a companion
it was not possible for Godfrey to have much in
common ; and it was with feelings of gall and bitterness
that he had journeyed thus far with his unsympathetic
'bear leader.' Why, indeed, he asked himself,
need he have been hampered with a bear-leader at all ?
He had arrived fully at years of discretion, and was
unprepared to alter in any respect his mode of procedure,
even if Pettigrew had ventured to suggest it.
Perhaps, however, from his father's point of view, he
was still a schoolboy, standing in need of Mr. Pettish
fuller judgement and experience ; for it is with
difficulty that Age dissociates the idea of folly and hot-headdress
from its estimate of Youth. Be this how
it may, Pettigrew's society was utterly distasteful to
him ; and he decided in his own mind that they should
part company as soon as they reached Genoa, to meet
again, perhaps, some weeks later, in order that they
might arrive in England together; and having matured
this project without mentioning it to the curate, he
journeyed on fiercely and eagerly.

But he had another reason for wishing to push on
as quickly as possible. At Genoa he made sure that
he should find a letter from Sophy, for he had not
heard from her as yet, and her silence affected him
more than he could have anticipated. He began, in
fact, to realise how much more to him than he had
imagined was this wild woodland cousin ; how much
more, too, she had seemed a part of his own existence
since he had seen the possibility of her passing out of
it altogether ; and he asked himself, over and over
again, whether he had not acted in a somewhat Quixotic
manner, in thus leaving the coast clear for the approach
of a rival.

or

His way lay along the beautiful Cornice road,
bounded on the left by rich groves of olives and
oranges, from beneath which a newly-opened scarlet
anemone flashed forth here and there, from amongst
its earlier brethren of the purple, whilst the air was
laden with the odours of violets, starch hyacinths, and
mignonette. On his right, he perceived the wide expanse
of blue tideless ocean, its weaves seeming as
though wearied through battling with the fierce equinoctial
gales, and scarcely now finding strength to kiss
languidly the shores of the sunlit bays, palm-tufted,
and bristling with aloes and prickly pears. Thinking
always of England, he gazed dreamily over the glittering
water, whilst his unsympathetic companion dozed
on in a corner of the britzka, and they passed thus, indue
course, the beautiful islands of Ste. Marguerite and
St. Ilonorat. A rosy sunset lit up the sheer crag of
Ste. Marguerite, in front of the blue line of stone-pines
; and the postilion, having pointed out its
fortress as sometime the prison-house of the importunate
' man with the iron mask,' he remembered that
Sophy had likened him to that mysterious individual,
and felt that he was passing what had once been the
abode of a friend. It was with a feeling of relief that
he crossed the Yar bridge, and found himself, for the
first time, upon what was then Italian soil. The news
of a victory of the King of Sardinia over the 'Tedeschi*
had just been received, and the toA\*n of Nice was
brilliantly illuminated. Revellers paraded the streets,
bawling forth patriotic songs ; and, as it happened to
be also about the time of the Carnival, many of them
were tricked out as for a masquerade. National guards
some of them belonging to the best families in the
place  occupied the sentry-boxes in front of the public

buildings, in lieu of the gallant green-feathered ,
who had departed to seek either glory or the
grave ; and the wliolc population appeared to be in an
abnormal state of tui'uioil and excitement.

This circumstance furnished Godfrey with an excuse
for curtailing his stay in the town. Bj next dny
at noon he had seen most of the sights worthy of a
visit  the Roman amphitheatre at Cities, the castle,
the Jewish cemetery, and the new quays, at which the
convicts, in their red caps and prison dresses, wqvq
hard at work in the sunshine  and towards evening he
was enabled to set forth again upon his journeys This
sudden departure from a civilised town seemed to bo
the occasion of much annoyance to Mr. Pottigrew.
The curate had, indeed, been exceedingly fractious of
late, and his companion could only explain his behaviour
by concluding that the change of climate had
affected his nerves. It turned out, however, that there
was a more serious cause for his irritability. After
leaving Nice he became really indisposed, sickening
hour by hour, until, when actually within sight of the
lighthouse at Genoa, Godfrey'' was obliged, in the
interests of common humanity, to come to a halt, a
violent feverish attack having declared itself, which
rendered it dangerous for the curate to proceed. lie
was indeed half delirious already, and his excited
gestures had collected a small crowd round the carriage
; when, perceiving by the wayside, in the midst
of the village at which they were stopping, a 
inn, which, judging by the armorial
bearings sculptured over irs porte-cochre, seemed to
have been at one time the palazzo of some distinguished
family, Godfrey proceeded at once to engage rooms for
the night, having despatched his servant on to Genoa,

(I)'

with orders to hiring buck ti doctor as soon as possible,
and to inquire for letters at the post-office.

The inn at which the travellers alighted had indeed
been a palace, belonoino- once to the Doria family. Its
apartments were marble-paved and magnificent, its fare
scanty, and its landlord handsome, good-tempered, and
incompetent. It stood in the principal street or roadway
of the village of Pcgli, at this time a mere
hamlet devoted to fishing and shipbuilding, but seeming
now to have become a suburb of Genoa, united to it
by the connecting links of Sestri and Cornelian. As
soon as they had taken possession of their quarters
Godfrey assisted Pettigrew to bed, in an apartment of
spacious dimensions, paved with black marble, and
having a ceiling richly ornamented with paintings in
fresco, but which was devoid of all furniture, save a
high Venetian mirror, a small pallet, a rude fire-stove,
and a rush-bottomed chair. He was aided in his
philanthropic endeavours by an aged chambermaid,
bent, wrinkled, and bearded, who seemed to converse
in no known tongue, and notwithstanding her great
age, to do nearly all the work of the house.

The landlord, a good-looking young milanese, smelling
of garlic and bad tobacco, condescended, it is true,
to assist personally at Godfrey's evening repast ; but
he did so more with the manner of a familiar friend
pressing a somewhat fastidious guest, than of an obsequious
attendant. Godfrey found that he was particularly
well informed upon most subjects, except those
which Avould have seemed to come especially under his
notice. Now and then, during the meal, he appeared
fatigued, flung himself upon a chair, mopped his face
with a table-napkin, and went off into a rhapsody.
Art, love, metaphysics, poetry, and theology, seemed

to be, one and all of tlieni, at the ends of this dirty
bejewelled fingers, though upon questions which
Avould have lain next the heart of an English 'mine
host ' he appeared to be lamentably ignorant. The
young traveller was perhaps fastidious, more from the
effects of his meditations than by reason of the badness
of his dinner. Unconsciously, as he made a pretence
of tasting, in the first place, some greasy soup  a
helping of hup do mer (a coarse Mediterranean fish,
'cousin in the first degree' to our freshwater jacks,
and some portion of a battlemented tower, composed
of rice and garlic, wherein a couple of
sparrows had been immured, half fledged, wide-mouthed,
and lamentably spare of flesh for all
their scavengers  his thoughts took a morbid and
melancholy turn, as though in anticipation of some
impending catastrophe.

It was late before his servant returned with the
expected medico. To Godfrey's disappointment, he
brought no letter from Sophy. There was, however,
one from his mother, and another from her to
Mr. Pettigrew, as he perceived by the handwriting.
This letter he set aside until the invalid should be ina
fit state to read it, and he proceeded to open his
own with no very great impatience, for he did not
anticipate that it would contain news of any interest.
It proved, however, to be a letter of some importance,
as it gave him the first intelligence of his father's indisposition.
It ran as follows : 

Dear Godfrey,  I am sorry to tell you that your father
is not very well. Some days ago he injured his right arm
accidentally, so that he cannot now hold his pen nor occupy
himself as usual. The cold winds have kept him to the
house, and he is somewhat depressed in mind. I will write

VOL. I. Z

nain in a few days ; for slioiild lie continue in his present
state, it would be perhaps as well that you should return at
once. AVait, however, initial you receive a second letter from
mc. I may perhaps write tomorrow, should there be any
decided change.'

It was impossible for Godfrey not to feel anxious
after readings this. He had cared for his father as
much as he had been permitted to care, and he foresaw,
as Sophy had foreseen, that this illness was probably
the beginning of the end.' So strongly was he possessed
with this consciousness that, had it not been for
Petti grew's inopportune attack of fever, he would have
started at once on his return journey to England,
whither his heart was already winging his way. Ho
hardly liked, however, notwithstanding the small amount
of sjTiipathy with which the curate inspired him, to
abandon him  to die, perhaps  in a foreign land,
and he decided, therefore, to await the arrival of his
mother's second letter ; for he doubted not that it
would reach him on the morrow, and that by then the
doctor would be better able to judge of his companion's
condition.

In the meantime. Petti grew had of course gone
through the national process of blood-letting, for
his medical attendant was a determined follower of
Dr. Sangrado, and he lay now in what appeared
to be a kind of stupor, his face looking pale and
attenuated. There is no doubt but that an illness
may often invest with temporary dignity  in no way
comparable with the solemn majesty of Death  the
countenance which has before seemed commonplace
and insignificant; and Godfrey, contemplating the
prostrate figure of his former tutor, could not help
feeling this. In the position in which he was lying.

Pettigrew's features appeared to be regularly and
delicately moulded, and his physiognomy, now that it
was in pei'fcct repose, was possessed of a certain air of
culture and refinement. The disciple of Sangrado had
quitted the apartment to partake of a rechauffe of the
battlemented tower, and the young man found himself
alone with the invalid. Lying upon the one solitary
chair, he espied his mother's letter. It was still unopened,
and fearing lest it might be mislaid before the
sick man was well enough to read it, he was about to
put it in a place of safety, when he caught sight of
the postmark, and perceived that the date on it was
two days later than that of his own letter.

'Probably,' thought he, 'this letter contains the
latest news of my father ; ' and the fact that it was
addressed to Pettigrew, instead of to himself, filled
him at once with ominous forebodings. Not a moment
was to be lost, as, supposing that it contained bad news,
it might be necessary for him to set off immediately for
England ; but the doctor had left orders that Pettigrew
was on no account to be disturbed.

In these circumstances Godfrey St. Clair committed
what must be always an error of judgment. He opened
and read, with the best possible intentions, a letter
which was addressed to another person. The rash
act brought with it its own punishment. These were
the words which confronted him upon breaking the
seal : 

He has rallied, so there is now no immediate hurry ;
nevertheless, make this an excuse to return, if you possibly
can, for no words can say how I miss you. Could he have
been suspicious when he insisted that you should go abroad %
He is altogether very tiresome, and has been annoying me
by threatening to tell G. the family secret. Eliza.'

After roadiii* these words Godfrey flung the letter
from him as though it hud been a serpent ; and as he
passed the high Venetian mirror on his way out of the
apartment, he saw that his face looked like the face of
a corpse.

THE END OF THE First yOLl-:ME.

iONDON:
Printed liy Stuanoewats & Sons, Tower Street, Upper St. Martins Lane.

vv*

,1.''"'E8(TV

W

 1 ' ''i! A. 'ii

f::

i/M

OF The

UNIVERSITY

or Ill Noise

THOMAS 1UC5KTFAf.RER.

Abner HALL.

' -

OR

THE ADVENTURES OF A SAVAGE.

VOL. II.

OR

THE ADVENTURES OF A SAVAGE

BY

VIOLET FANE,

AUTHOR OF 'dENZIL PLACE,' 'ANTHONY Barrington,'

THE EDWIN AND ANGELINA PAPERS,'

ETC. ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13 GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1881.

All rights retiei'vcd.

Pressed BY Strangers AND SONS

Tower Street, Upper St. Martin's Anno.

SOPHY,

OR THE ADVENTURES OF A Sx\AAGE.

BOOK THE SECOND.

Oh death in Hfe, the days that are no more ! '  Tennyson.

Chapter I.

It is scarcely necessary to inform the reader that the
painful emotions which flooded Godfrey St. Claii**s
whole being, proceeded from a newly-awakened suspicion
of his mother's fealty to the father who seemed
now so near to his death. What was the extent of
this suspicion, he would have found it difficult to admit,
even to himself. It was impossible for him altogether
to dispel it, although he lacked the courage to put it
into a tangible form, and he would have certainly felled
any other person to the ground who had ventured to
hint at its existence.

He endeavoured to argue and reason with himself
upon the insufficiency of his evidence, but only with
partial success ; and he finally subsided into a concentrated
loathing of Pettigrew, and a determination to
return to England as soon as possible.

So terrible, indeed, had been the shock to his sensibility,
occasioned by the first part of his mother's letter,

VOL. II. B

that he haul paid but little attention to its concluding
words: * He luis been annoying me b} threatening to
tell G. the family secret.* * G.' was of course himself,
indicated thus, almost parenthetically, by an initial.
No word of missing /lini, nor of longings more intense
than words could tell for /n'.s return !

Nevertheless,' he muttered between his clenched
teeth, ' I will be there I ' and he thought, with grim
satisfaction, of how he should arrive at home without
the person with whom he had departed. The expression
'family secret' had reference, in all probability,
to the 'feud' which existed between the dwellers at
Dallingridge and Little Stillingfleet, of which he was
perfectly well aware already. At any rate, his heart
was too sore just now to i'eel much curiosity' upon this
subject.

No doubt we have, as a rule, formed the habit of
trjdng our own mothers by a very high standard of
excellence. The mothers of other people may'' trifle,
coquette, deceive ; they may ignore or ill-treat their
offspring, and commit every kind of extravagance ; for,
after all, they are ' only women,' and, so long as they
are no kith or kin of ours, we can make plenty of
excuses for them, and perceive at a glance how it all
came about. Our own mothers, however, must be little
less than immaculate ; wise as serpents, harmless as
doves, proof against every possible form of temptation,
and willing to walk barefoot over red-hot ploughshares
rather than abandon their duty. In our hearts these
women (for t/ff//, too, are * only women,' for all their
kinship) are enshrined as Madonnas of purity, nobility,
and self-sacrifice, and the day upon which we discover
a hole in this breastplate of innocence is a sorry day
for us.

To Godfrey St. Clair had come this painful revelation.

His mother, to say the least of it, had allowed
one who should have been to her as nothing, to establish
over her a reprehensible ascendency. She had confided
in him and missed him ; and forgetful of all the
dignity' of maidenhood, she had informed him of this
in a letter which she had had the indiscretion to sign
Eliza ' Beyond this, he knew nothing, and his heart
failed him whenever he strove to probe and investigate.
For the second time he invoked the shades of those
virtuous though misguided women whom history has
represented to us as under the too exclusive domination
of the clergy, and appealed earnestly to them to
dispel his more sinister imaginings. Nevertheless
Pettigrew's vicinity had become insupportable to him,
and it was in order to escape from it that, after wrestling
ineffectually with his tormenting fears, he hastily
caught up his hat and went out into the open air. It
was about four o'clock in the afternoon, for a night had
elapsed since he had read the letter. His servant had
been sent into Genoa to make arrangements for an early
start on the morrow ; but the bearded crone was in
attendance by the sick man's bedside, so it was with a
clear conscience that he went forth. The-garden, which
lay at the back of the house, was nothing more than a
wilderness of rank grasses, amongst which some lean
white fowls were scratching and cackling ; whilst the
linen of the establishment, strung upon lines in its
midst, obscured the distant view of sunlit cupolas and
wooded hills. In this flowerless garden there was
nothing very alluring ; so, making for an opening in
the stuccoed wall, whereon the lemons were trained en
espalier, he passed out into the street.

The old Italian palace looked sad and dignified ashe
gazed back at it. Standing there, out of the sunlight,
it was not unlike an English country-house, for

it was only bedaubed with <arisli frescoes on the side
facing the sea. Soniethin<- in the gray stone walls, and
slate roof, reminded Godfrey of ])allingridge, and set
him thinking upon the changes which he might find
there on his return. Upon emerging from the gateway,
he turned to the right, and walked down the street,
where elosely-cropi)ed urchins, and black-eyed little
girls, were playing pitch-and-toss amongst the filth
of the gutter, whilst their elders smiled at them
benevolently from where they lounged in the doorways,
revelling in the doJcc far n 'unite peculiar to their
race.

Arrived at a bridge which bestrode the dry bed of
a torrent, he followed its left bank, and found himself
in a narrow lane, enclosed on either side by a high
wall, and with the dry river-bed in the middle, rough
with huge blocks of granite. It was evident that when
the snows began to melt in the mountains the 'hole of
this lane would be transformed into a cataract, rushing
down headlong to mingle with the blue waters of the
Mediterranean. Even now, it was not over pleasant
walking, and the young man began looking out for
an aperture in the wall with a vicar to striking into
the country

He came upon one, before he had proceeded very
far, in the shape of an open doorway, which seemed to
lead into an extensive garden. According to the superscription
over it, he perceived that he was entering the
grounds of the Villa Palavacini  a residence called
after, or belonging to, the illustrious family which,
with the Dorian, seems to have monopolised nearly all
the landed property in the neighbourhood of Genoa.
Once clear of the imprisoning walls of the lane, Godfrey
doubted not that he could get through this garden up

into the mountains. No ' jjcnncs.so' was needed, a passing
peasant informed him, and he therefore turned in
at the gateway.

Within, he came upon a pink lodge or gate-house,
at the door of which a thick-browed mother, sen ted
beside her spinning, was supporting upon her knees the
close cropped head of one of her offspring, and performing
for him a service more essential to personal
comfort than suggestive of pleasant ideas. Godfrey,
indeed, imbued as he was with * 
cant and clap-trap,' could not help experiencing
a sensation of disgust at this picture, glowing
with unmistakable * local colour ; * and acknowledging
somewhat coldly the woman's smiling salutation, he
passed on into the garden.

Strolling leisurely up the incline, he came, by-and-by,
to a large, long, rambling villa, standing amongst
orange-trees, in front of which was a plot of vei*-
dure after the fashion of an English lawn. The grass
was, perhaps, a little rank and unkempt-looking, but it
was green nevertheless ; and must have been pleasant
to the inmates of the villa later on, in the intensity of
the summer heat, if, indeed, inmates there were, for, on
a second glance, the house looked deserted. The green
shutters were closed, the doors fastened, and it was only
in the portion set apart for the use of the servants that
signs of internal life were visible. These signs consisted
of the inevitable Indian corn strung up on lines
across the Windows, which were further obscured by
the still more inevitable 'washing' of many colours
hung out to dry m the sun, and seeming almost like a
too ostentatious display of cleanliness on the part of a
people who, with all their charms, are not largely endowed
with this particular virtue.

Pussin<>; in front of the lioiisc, he climbed the adjoining
hill by a winding pathway, which led through
a grove of pine, arbutus, and tree-heather. lie came
ai length to a green plateau, whence, through a gap in
the foliage, he perceived the scattered houses of the
lown, find the wide expanse of blue ocean beyond it.
Here, a kind of rustic pric-dicn had been erected, something
after the fashion of an easel, by the side of which
was a bench scrawled over with rudely-carved emblems
and initials. The rough stem of an overshadowing
pine formed a back to the bench, against which was
nailed a large crucifix, whence a pale and weatherbeaten
Christ seemed to be looking down in mute
reproach at the j'omig Englishman who had evidently
not paused here to say his prayers.

Flinging himself carelessly upon the bench, Godfrey
struck a match against the woodwork of the pric-dicu,
as though it had been any other hard unhallowed
substance, and, lighting a cigarette, gazed out dreamily
through the gap in the evergreens at the landscape
beyond. Window-like, the dark branches of bay and
arbutus had been clipped in Gothic fashion, and
below him, separated by a deep ravine, he could seethe
convent-church of what was doubtless some outlying
village, with its green-tiled cupola, noisy with
jangling bells, its yellow stuccoed portico, and well-tilled
graveyard, decked out with tawdry ribbons, cheap
prints, tint artificial flowers.

Poor simpletons I ' he thought, as he watched the
peasants hurrying towards the sacred edifice, obedient
to the monotonous hammering of the bells. And yet
there was something inexpressibly touching in this
display of eagerness to hold communion with, and

unbosom themselves to, their manifold gods, and in the
idea that they would afterwards go

Forth with souls easier for the prayer.'

And this set him musing upon the days when //,
too, had been filled with simple faith and trustfulness,
whence he passed on to musings connected
with Sophy, and the old home, and the days of his
boyhood.

Perhaps, he thought, feeling strangely expectant
of evil, Sophy might even now be already married to
Tom Hiekathrift. For her, maybe, some such jingling
bells had been ringing forth to-day in Poynings
Church ; and at this idea the sound of the continuous
tolling became so discordant to him that he rose up
impatiently and moved away from the place.

Turning to the left, he penetrated a thin belt of
evergreens, and found himself upon the summit of &
hill, which he began to descend by a winding pathway
leading in a different direction from the one by which he
had come. He had not proceeded far, before he came
suddenly upon what was to him a surprise, as he had
expected no such feature in the landscape. A flat
space presented itself to his view, scooped out from
what seemed the bosom of the mountain as though with
the trowel of a giant. On three sides the sheer rock,
clustering with ferns and brambles, rose to the height
of nearly one hundred feet, crowned with arbutus and
flowering laurels, the branches of which, meeting overhead,
well-nigh excluded the now fast-failing daylight.
In the midst of this level space, he saw extended,
a dark and turbid piece of ornamental water  nota
pond, but a conventional miniature lake, with an

obviously artificial island, overgrown with rank grass
and water weeds, and a ruined boat-house, to which a
boat was fastened by a rusty chain. ' The Mermaid '
he was surprised to read union her prow, in letters now
scarcely legible.

Some English people must once have lived here,'
he thought ; and so little had he expected to meet with
any traces of his countrymen in this desolate place, that
he felt almost as Robinson Crusoe may have felt when
he discovered the hunuui footprint. And yet, somehow,
he could not repress a certain uncomfortable sensation
as he gazed into the still black waters.

It looks like a haunted place,' he said to himself ;
and whether by reason of this idea, or in consequence
of the invariable chill which succeeds an Italian sunset,
he was imablc to control a shudder.

Descending the last steps of the declivity, he paused
in front of the gloomy waters and surveyed the spot
with attention.

The pond, or lake, was scooped out in the form of a,
horseshoe, the narrow end, whence he regarded it,
being fenced off from the raised footpath by an iron
railing, lace-like in its intricacy, and resembling the
workmanship which is to be seen in some parts of
Switzerland and the Tyrol. A long stone bench had
been erected against a portion of this railing, near to
which an iron gateway opened apparently' directly upon
the water. From this, a flight of steps, flanked by
antique statues, headless, armless, and generally dilapidated,
led to a dim avenue of bay and arbutus, sided by
a marble aqueduct which carried off the overflow of the
pond. Looking at the water and its surroundings, it
seemed to Godfrey that perhaps a house had once stood
upon this spot, that its foundations had become filled

svith the moisture draining from the hills, and that
these old gateways, with their graceful Renaissance
tracery, might ha'e opened once ujoon the courtyard of
some stately mansion, vhich, for reasons unknown, had
been left to go to ruin and decay.

On evTy side the asjjcct was the same.

All ruined, desolate, forlorn, and savage :



No hand or foot within the precinct came

To rectify or ravage.
For over all there hung a cloud of fear,

A sense of mystery the spirit daunted,
And said, as plain as whisper in the ear,
The place is haunted." '

So desolate, indeed, seemed the place, that it was
almost a relief to the young man to see a bright-tufted
'Cardinal' drake with his more sombre-suited harem,
consisting of three ducks, glide out from amongst the
reeds of the island, and swim towards the iron gateways
as though in expectation of being fed ; and, as small
circumstances are often prone to turn the current of
our thoughts, the importunate quacking of these creatures
suddenly .dispelled all Godfrey's notions of the
supernatural. Nevertheless it struck him as strange
that, just after having harboured an' such thoughts, his
gaze should light suddenly upon what he conceived at
first to be a tombstone. A white marble slab had been
let into the brickwork which formed the support of the
iron railing, but upon a second glance it appeared to be
only a memorial, for it bore an inscription in Italian
which signified, * Not far from this place lies the body
of one who was tenderly loved;' Whilst underneath was
engraved in English, ' I am the resurrection and the
life ; ' * Suffer little children to come unto Me, and forbid

them not ; for of such is the kingdoiil of heaven ;*
and here followed a date, 'April 13, 1816.'

How curious that, but for the difference in the
>/rar, this should be the date of to-day ! ' Godfrey
thought, as he considered the inscription. 'Little
children' he repeated. 'Perhaps some unhappy child
fell once into this pond. It looks like a place where a
misfortune lias happened.'

Turning at this moment from the contemplation of
the water, he could not help starting upon perceiving
two figures standing only a short distance from him.
They had, in fact, already half ascended the steps leading
up from the avenue, any sound occasioned by their
footfalls having been drowned by the quacking of the
ducks ; and so gray and shadowy did they appear, at
first, in the uncertain light, that it seemed almost as
though two of the broken statues had suddenly taken
form and motion. They where, however, only creatures
of flesh and blood : a middle-aged gentleman and lady,
to all appearance English, who seemed to be returning
from their walk by this deserted way. What Godfrey
had taken for the male apparition, was a personage
seemingly between fifty and sixty years of age ; tall,
upright, and distinguished-looking. The lady who
hung ujDon his arm was almost too conscientiously
shrouded and veiled to seem to be possessed of any particular
individuality. Her general effect was willowy
and graceful, but Godfrey could not distinguish her
features. He saw, however, that one of her hands,
which was unloved, was white and delicate, and that
she was carrying upon her arm a garland of unmortcllcs.

The appearance of Godfrey was, seemingly, equally
unexpected to the advancing couple, for the lady started
perceptibly, and clung as though for support to her

companion's arm. Instinctively the young man associated
these strangers with the misfortune which he
made up his mind had happened near to this spot.
The immortelle wreath, the strange coincidence of the
date upon the tablet-stone, pointed to the conclusion, he
fancied, that they had been in some manner concerned
or interested in 'the body of one who was tenderly
loved;' and unwilling to intrude upon their privacy,
or make an unknown and uninvited third, at some sacred
rite, dictated, pera venture, by love or sorrow, he quitted
his place by the water and descended the flight of stone
steps.

As he passed the strangers, the lady, with a slight
movement of surprise, looked earnestly in his face, but
her own was so thickly veiled that he could onlj see
that she possessed beautiful eyes. Something, however,
in her appearance, inspired him with an involuntary
feeling of homage, and, notwithstanding his usual
undemonstrativeness, he felt compelled to raise his hat
and wait respectfully until he had allowed her and her
companion to pass. And, thinking in after years of
this chance meeting by the deserted lake, Godfrey
St. Clair was not sorry that, contrary to the habit of
the Briton abroad, he had taken off his hat to the
strangers.

Chapter II.

By ten o'clock next morning, Godfrey was ready to
start on his return journey. At an early hour he had
walked into Genoa, where he had inspected the town,
and purchased, at a jeweller's in one of the narrow
footways leading to the port, a pair of filigree earrings

12 '''AV'

for Sophy. The good-natured, though incompetent,
milord had promised, from time to time, to cast an
eye upon Pettigrew ; whilst woman 

In our hours of ease,
Uncertain, coy, and hard to please ;'

but who, according to Sir Walter Scott, is transformed
into a ' ministering angel ' at the hour of our greatest
need  would be represented at his bedside by the
bearded crone, acting under the instructions of a doctor
seeming to know even less of his trade than most of the
practitioners of his country. Nevertheless, Godfrey
had not yet found it in his heart to pity the invalid.
After breakfasting, he had taken his cup of coffee out
into the loggia, which ran parallel to the windows of
the drawing-room ; and as he puffed at his cigar, his
mind wandered far away from the scene before him.
This scene, by reason of its light and movement, was
almost Neapolitan in character. Beneath, upon an
untidy beach, ship-building and boat-building were
going on in the easy" dilettante fashion peculiar to the
Italians, who arc seldom, if ever, the slaves of time.
The artificers, indeed, paused so often in their occupation,
hitched so frequently at their blue trowsers  in
some cases their only garment  and slopped so many
times to light their pipes, that it seemed wonderful
how any of their undertakings could ever be satisfactorily
accomplished. Fishers, too, bare-legged and
red-capped, were hauling in their nets in the same
careless manner, or putting off to sea in rickety little
skiff's with bright sails and pennons, unfitted, to all
appearance, to cope with the changing moods of the
fickle Mediterranean. Children, beggars, and noisy
mongrel curs, completed the picture, the foreground of

Avhicli was enlivened by the ever-present linen of many
colours, hanging from all the adjacent windows, or
spread out to dry upon the beach, whence it seemed
impossible that it would be removed clean. Beyond
this, the beautiful bay of Genoa lay unfurled like a
glittering banner, sparkling with millions of twinkling
stars. The lighthouse stood out at the end of what
seemed the furthest point, dotted then, as now, with
white villas, behind which could be dimly discerned a
shadowy indication of shore, seeming almost like a
floating promontory of cloud.

Godfrey St. Clair's spirit, however, was far away in
England, and the scene before him represented nothing
more than Jioi-sc and lig/tt, had he been called upon to
describe it in two words.

Although it was still so early in the day, the sun
was unusually powerful ; and notwithstanding that he
was protected from it by the shade of a sort of inner
verandah, the glare from the sea became, after awhile,
intolerable. The red sandstone balustrade of the loggia
rose only half way between himself and the watery
expanse, which seemed doubly dazzling to the view
when seen through its regular pilasters. The marble
flooring, too, was nearly hot enough to have cooked a
mutton-chop. Collecting, therefore, the English newspapers
he had been reading, he stepped back into the
drawing-room.

There the atmosphere felt tomb like after the sunshine
; and, as the Venetian blinds had been kept
closed, he could at first see nothing after so sudden a
transition from the light. This was, however, only
momentary ; and, upon recovering his sight, he was
astonished to perceive before him the tall stranger of
the deserted lake, who seemed destined to come upon

Line always by surprise. Godfrey was already aware
that this gentleman and his wife were staying at the
hotel, for, upon returning to it after his first meeting
with them, he was informed of the arrival of an English
milord,' whose name (hardly recognisable under an
Italianised form) had been repeated to him by the
landlord. At this moment the personage in question
had appeared in sight, so that there could be no doubt
as to his identity.

Godfrey had not the peerage at his fingers' ends,
but he remembered having been told that Lord Henry
Davenport was next brother to the Marquis of AVrox-
ever, of whom he had sometimes heard his father speak ;
and as he now stood before him, in the obscurity of
the vaulted chamber, he perceived that he was an exceedingly
distinguished-looking person.

Mr. St. Clair, I believe?' said he, bowing as
Godfrey entered from the balcony.

My name is St. Clair,' answered the young man,
bowing also. * I think I have the pleasure of addressing
Lord Henry Davenport ? '

Yes ; I sent in my card by your servant, but he
took it into the inner room, believing you to be there.
This must be my excuse for intruding upon you in this
sudden manner, without, giving jou the option of
denying yourself to me. Pray dismiss me if I am
interrupting you at an inconvenient moment.'

sot at all,' replied Godfrey, opening his watch and
shutting it with a * click.' ' I start from here at half-past
eleven ; till then, I am at Amour ser[ce. Pray take
a chair.'

I fancy' I must have been at Eton with your
father,' remarked the elder man, somewhat nervously,
as he seated himself by the table. 'A St. Clair of

Dallinfj:rid2:c was in the same house with me  a man of
about my age

That was probably my uncle ; my father is a much
older man.*

Then, as he was not your father, I may say
what I have since heard of him. He made an odd
marriage, I believe ; travelled a great deal in the East,
and became bitten with all kinds of eccentric political
notions. He was full of genius '

That is certainly wry uncle Francis. He has since,
importunately', become blind.'

Indeed !' replied Lord Henry, still apparently
beating about the bush.' ' I am sorry to hear it. Has
he any children ?'

He has one daughter,' said Godfrey, feeling a
secret satisfaction at being able to introduce Soph' into
the conversation.

A long pause ensued, during which his lordship
drummed nervously upon the table with his fingers. At
length, thinking to assist him in what was perhaps a
dilemma, Godfrey remarked, with formal courtesy, 

And it is probably to this early acquaintance with my
uncle that I am indebted for the pleasure of this visit ? '

*Not altogether,' rejoined the elder man, hesitating
a little. * It had something to do with it certainly, but
I am bound to own that my motive was not quite
disinterested '

Perhaps,' said Godfrey", interrupting him, * I maybe
fortunate enough to be of some service to you ; if
so, pray command me.' (* What can he possibly want ? '
he could not help inquiring of himself.)

Thank you, ten thousand times ! I come to you
upon a particularly delicate mission ; I may say, indeed,
it is quite the first time in my life that I live found

or

myself thus situated.' And risings from his chair, he
drew himself up to his full hei;ht.

He's jJoin<; to ask me to lend him money,' thought
Godfrey, as with an inspiration ; and it happened that
he was right.

Ijord Henry now proceeded to explain the situation.
Upon his arrival at Genoa, he had presented his letters
of credit at the bank in the usual manner. The hanker,
however, had refused to honour his signature until he
had communicated with his London correspondent,
driving: as his reason that he could not be certain of
his identity. Not having foreseen any such cause
of delay, Ijord Henry had not only engaged his apartments
at Milan, but had made an appointment to
meet a friend who was coming on purpose to see him
from some distance. This friend, together with the
hotel-keeper at Milan, and several English acquaintances
who happened to be there, would soon set at rest all
these doubts. But the question was, hov was he to
make the journey by the easy stages which his wife's
delicate health rendered necessary, with his ready money
at a low ebb, and with no possibility of obtaining credit
on the road ? The English Consul at Genoa, an old
friend of his own, had suddenly been summoned away,
and his substitute had behaved very much in the same
manner as the banker. In these circumstances, he had
resolved, at great personal inconvenience, to wait until
he had written to England and received an answer,
when, hearing through his servant that Mr. St. Clair
of Dallingridge was standing at the hotel, he had fancied
that this might be his college friend, and that to him
at least, notwithstanding the years which had elapsed
since their last meeting, he might have been able to
prove his identity.

Your name, I should have thought, would have
been a sufficient guarantee anywhere,' said Godfrey.

On the contrary' rejoined his companion. * And
this I feel bound to explain to 3'ou. Ati Englishman
with any other name would not, probably, have been
subjected to the same inconvenience, and for this
reason : a dishonest courier, who once travelled with
us, has been personating me ; and by the help of some
visiting-cards, papers, and signatures, which he obtained
whilst in my employment, has succeeded in defrauding
several persons of large sums. My name is, consequent',
just now, not in the best of odours.'

It was most fortunate that I happened to be still
here,' said the young man, with more fervour than he
usually displayed.

I have the misfortune, it seems,' Lord Henry continued,
* to be following in the track of this man. The
bankers are naturally bewildered, not knowing which is'
the real Dromio, and thus I find letters of credit,
cheque-books, &c., only as so much waste-paper. Everybody
has been very polite, explaining to me courteously'
the difficulties of the situation, and, once assured that I
am the man I assume to be, they will readily supply
me with anything I may require ; but to communicate
with my London bankers will take time, and there are
other reasons besides those I have mentioned, which
render it important that my wife should leave this
place  which we always visit at this particular time of
year, but where we never remain  as soon as possible.
However, pray do not let this explanation induce you
to commit what you may consider a rash act  what /
might consider a rash act myself, perhaps, were I in
your place.'

*I feel perfect confidence,' answered Godfrey; and

VOL. II. c

I wonder that tliCHC other people slioiikl doiiht you fora
incident.'

'They were all personally unknown to fine. That
made my difficulty. This landlord, too, is the nephew
of the old man who used to keep the inn. Had he been
here, I should not have had to depend iqxni the generosity
of a stranger.'

All I have is at your disposal,' said Godfrey, after
the manner of a grandee of Spain. ' You have only to
name the sum.'

A hundred pounds was the sum named ; and Lord
Henry continued, apparently much touched by the
young man's confidence, 

My dear Mr. St. Clair, if Ave ever become better
acquainted, you will know what it has cost me to make
you this request ! '

Pray do not mention it,' returned Gods i-ey ; ' who
would not oblige a person in whom they had the most
perfect confidence ? '

It is not misplaced,' answered the elder man
earnestly, ' though I sec no reason why you should feel
it. I must warn you, whilst you are abroad, not to
trust entirely to appearances. After all, 3'ou know, I
might be the courier.'

*sam sure you are not,' exclaimed Godfrey warmly,
but a little staggered nevertheless. ' I can sec that j'ou
are an English gentleman.'

Thank you. Permit me to return the compliment.
Don't fancy, however, because I am not a swindler, that
every one you meet is an honest man.'

In cases like the present,' said Godfrey, ' what has
one to go by but one's instinct?' But ho could not
help smiling as he thought how much this sentiment
differed from his accustomed code.

Instincts are sometimes dangerous guides ; beware
of them, young man ! This is what I should say to my
own son, if I had one. And now, to this jiece of
paternal advice allow me to add my sincerest thanks.
You have done me a very great service.'

I wish it had been greater,' answered the young
man, inspired by the sjanpathy he felt for the stranger.
You have asked too little of me.' (' I hope to Heaven
I shall never have to ask anything of the same kind
myself!' he could not help secretly ejaculating. * It
must be so excessively disagreeable ! ')

Some moments afterwards he presented himself at
the door of Lord Henry Davenport's apartment with
the money, and, upon entering the room, he was formally
introduced to the lady of the deserted lake.

No doubt, whatever may have been said to the
contrary, there is often something portentous in a first
impression ; and Godfrey did not easily forget the
admiration inspired b}" this lady when he beheld her
without her veils.

He saw before him, it is true, a woman no longer
young, but one whose beauty seemed to him to have no
need of the superfluous adjunct of youth. Afterwards,
when he tried to describe her, or to recall her features
to himself, he found it difficult to do so, since (save for
the beautiful eyes, which continued to haunt him) she
had no particular features to describe. In a modern
photograph-book her portrait might have been passed
over without comment, because even the warm sun could
not have reproduced the sweetness of her smile or the
dreamy tenderness of her glance. Her voice, too, Godfrey
thought, was as the voice of no other woman, and
her every movement was distinguished by an inexpressible
and unconscious grace which captivated him at once.

sie was leaniii<- back, when lie entered, in the only
arm-clair of which the apartment could boast, gazing
dreamily out at the sunlit expanse of water, half shaded
by a curtain of old brocade, against which he saw at
first only the outline of her pale side-face, and the
upturned curve of a dark eyelash. Her hair (amongst
which, when the sun lighted on it, he could distinguish
a few threads of silver) was gathered loosely back from
her forehead, somewhat after the manner of a picture
by Sir Joshua Reynolds ; and, but for these grey hairs,
Godfrey might, jDcrhaps, have fancied that she was still
quite young, so lithe and girlish \'as her figure, now
that he saw it divested of wraps. He remarked also
that her hands were like the hands in a portrait by
Vandyke ; whilst the point of her little shoe, which ho
caught sight of only for a moment, filled him with
wonder and admiration.

This is our benefactor, Mr. St. Clair, Georgians,'
said Lord Henry, indicating Godfrey'. 'After all, he is
neither Francis St. Clair nor his son. My old friend is
his uncle.'

You have done us a kindness we can never forget,*
returned the beautiful lady, holding out one of the
Vandyke hands.

Godfrey Alas about to give utterance to some platitude
suitable to the occasion, when Lord Henry interrupted
him.

mr. St. Clair must forgive me if / also wish to
prove the confidence I feel in him. You will oblige us,
I am sure, by keeping these two small cases in your
possession until I am able to repay you the uione}'
I have borrowed.'

As he said this, he took from the table two smooth
red cases, evidently containing jewelry.

This Brcguct watch belonged to 1113 father he
went on ; * the necklace is my wife's : it is, as you see,
broken, but the pearls are good. The watch, too, is out
of order. You tell me that you Avill be in London upon
affairs of your own shortly after your arrival in England,
by which time I shall hope to have repaid you ; and it
would be very kind of you, then, to leave these two
cases at the jeweller's in the Haymarket, whose name
you see on the lid. You see jou have it in your power
to oblige us twice over.'

And I should like this to be jours, to keep,' said
Lad'' Henry, smiling sadly, as she drew from one of
her slender fingers a ruby ring. ' Perhaps, if it is too
smith, you could let it hang on your watch chain, as a
little remembrance from an impertinent stranger who
takes a mysterious interest in your future.'

I am at a loss to know how to reply to so flattering
a speech,' returned the young man, unable to conceit
his embarrassment.

And, indeed, he might perhaps have felt that any
other woman was committing an impertinence had she
insisted upon presenting him with a keepsake on the
occasion of a first meeting ; but this woman seemed
somehow too charming to be governed by ordinary
rules. He fancied that he perceived, too, from her
manner, that, like Sophy, she was, or imagined herself
to be, a * leader of men,' and that she would brook no
contradiction. Her husband was looking at her, in the
meantime, with the expression of one who is regarding
the vagaries of a spoilt child.

Of course I must seem to you like a madwoman,'
she continued ; * but if I entered into any explanations
you would only think me madder still : besides, I have
always been accustomed to have my own way. Hold

out your hand, and let mc sec if the y\\\ will fit. Ah,
it's too small I Well, you must hang it upon your
\vatch chain instead.'

As she was speaking, some demon tempted Godfrey
to recall the story of Dona Camille, who gave the
false ruby to Gil T51as  an episode to which Sophy
often alluded ; but the memory vanished directly the
soft white hand came in contact with his own, and,
obeying an uncontrollable impulse, he raised it respectfully
to this lips.

As he did this, Lady Henry blushed very prettily ;
and possibly it was in order to divert his attention that
she exclaimed sudden', 

Turn again in that position for one moment,
please.'

Then, as he obeyed her, she said to her husband, 

Oh, Henry", do look ! Isn't it extraordinary ?'

I suppose I must be like some one they know,'
was all Godfrey could thinly b} Away of explanation.

And now sit down for a few minutes,' she went on,
indicating a chair, ' and tell me about yourself. Is
your sister like you in the face?'

I have no sister,' rejoined the young man, perceiving
where the mistake la3\ * I am one of those very
uninteresting Specimens of humanity', an only child.'

Oh, I thought my husband told me that his friend
had a daughter.'

That is my cousin,' he exclaimed, glad to have a
second opportunity of alluding to Sophy  ' the only
child of my icicle.'

Only children very often run in families,' remarked
Lady Henry absently, the dreamy look returning to
her dark oyes. * And your father and mother are still
hUvc?' she added, after a pause.

They arc,' returned Godfrey ; ' at least, I hope so.
But my father is seriously ill. That is the reason I am
leaving here so soon.'

Indeed I ' answered her ladyship, still rather absently.
' I regret to hear it. Your parents adore you,
I suppose?'

Parents arc usually over-careful for the welfare of
an only child,' answered the young man guardedly.
In my case, nothing has been neglected which was
essential to my future well-being.'

I do wish you weren't going away !' Lady Henry
now exclaimed impulsively', as she threw herself back
in the arm-chair and clasped her hands. * AVe might,
perhaps, have all travelled on together to Milan.'

Nothing would have afforded me greater pleasure,'
said Godfrey. ' I was going on there from here.'

It is very unfortunate, certainly. However, the
place of an only son is by the bedside of his father, f
course, when he is ill. That gentleman downstairs,
who is ill too, was once jour tutor, I suppose ? It is
sad to think of his being left all alone in this vmcom-
f portable place. Is he a nice person ? '

I don't so very much care about him,' answered
Godfrey, gnashing his teeth in spite of himself. ' B}'-
the-by,' he added suddenly, ' I have a few directions to
give about him before I start ; and I fear, therefore,
that I must take my leave. Pray believe me when I
say how much your kindness has touched me.'

It is for us to thank soit, m}' dear INIr. St. Clair,'
answered Lord Henry, looking at him with an expression
of real interest. ' Good-bye, and may God bless
you!'

'Bon roj/age l said her ladyship, holding out her
soft white hand.

Pcrhai)S slip is really a little mad he could not
help thinking, observing that as he quitted the apartment
her eyes were filling with tears.

Godfrey had indeed (determined, though in the interests
of common humanity alone, to give some final
directions with regard to Mr. Pettigrew ; and, with
this object, he entered the sick-room. The old woman,
whom he had left seated there with her distaff, was
absent for the moment, and he found himself alone
with the invalid.

Standing thoughtfully b}' the bedside, he considered
Pettigrew's features attentively. The curate
was apparently wrapped in an uneasy slumber, so that
he was enabled to pursue his study without interruption.


As he looked at the pinched side-face, the narrow
forehead with its crowning pinnacle of self-esteem, the
mean, lipless mouth, and the generally contracted expression
of the whole countenance, he wondered what
a woman like his mother could see to admire and
esteem in such a man, or how she could even accept
him, unreservedly, as a spiritual adviser. He wondered,
too, if he was in reality as dangerously ill as
the doctor had represented him to be ; and, supposing
this to be the case, whether his delicate constitution
would enable him to make head against the fever, or
cause him eventually to succumb to it, so that he
would never again leave this bed to kindle dissensions
and heartburning at Dallingridge. Finally he wondered
whether it was a proof, on his own jart, of any
very great want of proper feeling, that this notion
should positively inspire him for the moment with
a sentiment of profound satisfaction, which he found
it impossible to subdue.

Some trace of tlicsc conflicting thoughts was portrayed
most probably upon this countenance ; whether
or not, the sick man, waking from Lis slumber, started
up suddenly in bed, and gazed at him with an expression
of the most abject terror and abhorrence. The
delirium was evidently upon him ; for, holding out his
hands as though to exorcise some spirit of evil, he
cried out, in a voice of horror, 

Begone ! you that are accursed among men  you
that bear upon your forehead the brand of Cain ! '

Chapter III.

Meanwhile the 'fair Sophia,' far away in England,
was anxiously expecting an answer to her letter
of reconciliation. Abdallah had returned from hi
errand, but empty-handed; for he had only waited
for the ' pampered menial ' to open the door, after
which, according to his orders, he had salaried and
departed.

She was awaiting this letter, not merely from the
impatience which youth almost always feels to break
a seal. To her its advent was fraught with a far deeper
importance. The foolish and unaccountable misunderstanding
of Cars would probably, upon the opening
of this letter, be dispelled like a cloud of smoke ; and
Godfrey' might return to England just in time to
witness a deathbed scene after the most approved
model  the patriarch departing in peace, after blessing
all those bound to him by ' the tie of blood,' who would
be assembled round his bedside at the last, to assist at
so exemplary an end. Once this reconciliation was

effected, Ler own father would easily overcome his
unreasonable prejudice against the union of first
cousins ; and then, if Homohodi/ cl-v returned from
abroad, safe and sound and unchanged, all might yet
be well  too well, poor Sophy thought, half superstitious',
hardly daring* to realise so g-olden a future.

Till Godfrey was really gone, she had not guessed
to what extent she should miss him, or how sad would
seem those ' happy autumn fields ' once they were
bereft of his presence.

It is far the saddest in all separations, whether
temporary or eternal, for the one who is left behind ;
and Sophy, in her half philosophical, half analytical
way, had thoroughly realised this fact of late.

She had said to herself, ' If he retuniedioic/iaiir/cd ;'
because, although by no look, word, or sign, had he
ever said actually, ' I love you,' she seemed somehow
to divine instinctively that he desired to come to her
A''henever he knew her to be within attainable reach,
and that she possessed at least the power to draw him
to her side, even if, in the end, it appeared to be only
with the object of bickering and disagreeing. Their
little fencing and wrangling, however, had resulted
in making him dearer to her than ever ; and she often
found herself repeating, and hugging to her heart, an
old Oriental proverb, to the effect that ' they only can
quarrel with true bitterness who love dearly.' Searching
OA-er and over again for some tangible proof of this
as yet unuttered love, she always paused, oddly enough,
at the flinging away of the great Ilickathrift ring ;
and to this memory she clung as a drowning man is
said to cling to a straw. I>y the vicious ' click ' with
which the family jewel rebounded from some undiscovered
portion of the oak-tree or its surrounding

bcncli, she guessed that love lurked in the heart of
the flinger, mingled with a frenzy of jealous anger
which he coidd not for the moment control ; and hence
it was not altogether with feelings of unmixed vexation
that she regarded the disappearance of the heirloom.

Where, nevertheless, had it gone ? She confessed
some time ago, to Tom Ilickathrift, that she feared it
was irrevocably lost, but his faithful retriever nature
was incapable of resentment. It had been lost, she
explained, somewhere in the middle of the hazel-copse,
not daring to tell him the whole truth.

I must say I'm not sorry' it's gone,' he had made
answer, as though with a sense of relief. ' For now
my mother won't bother me to put it on the finger of
any other girl. All the same, I never mean to marry
any one aimless they've worn that ring ! ' he had added,
with sudden vehemence, as he brought down his
clenched fist ujon the table. ' I've a very strong
feeling about it. It's the ring with Which all my
family have been engaged.'

Then I'm afraid you're making a vow of celibacy,'
she returned ; * for I really don't think it will ever be
found. Where it has gone to is most mysterious.'

'Never mind,' he replied, with the sigh of a
martyr ; * there are other things in the world for a
man besides marrying.'

'' Love for our youth, ambition for our age," '
quoted Sophy, feeling, nevertheless, a little nettled.

When Tom Ilickathrift should convince her that she
had really become utterly indifferent to him, she could
not help) admitting that a large portion of her newl}'-
found self-esteem would fl' away like chaff before the
wind.

But all this lead happened some time ago, and, at

the present moment, Sophy is occupied with her uncle's
reply to her letter.

It came at last, on the afternoon of the second day
of impatience ; and it was with eager fingers that she
tore open the seal, and hastily devoured the contents.

The letter, however, soon fluttered to the ground,
as the poor little peacemaker uplifted her hands iu
mute horror and astonishment.

It contained only a few lines, 'hich ran as
follows : 

Because you believe me to be dying, you would wish
me to forget and forgive the ingratitude which has embittered
my life. But I do not desire to forget, neither do I consider
that I have anything to gain, in these last moments, by
summoning to my bedside an Atheist and a renegade. YoUy
doubtless, less far-seeing, even if you are more unscrupulous,
have allowed your mean motive to stand revealed by this
act of unprecedented impertinence. You will gain nothing,
however, by your importunity. " Where the carcass is, there
loll the eagles he gathered together.  '

After this followed the signature, and then these
few words in a trembling hand : 

Rats, it seems, do not always leave a sinking ship.'

"Eats? eagles?" . . . What can they possibly
mean ? ' Sophy could not help exclaiming, staring, and
aghast.

She said ' fhcg, because she guessed by intuition
that a letter of such intricate malice could scarcely
have emanated entirely from the clouded brain of one
whose right arm was * dumbificd,' and who was, besides,
light-headed in all his limbs.' The handwriting, too,
was firm and flourishing as her own, every cruel word
standing out in bold relief. The signature alone, and

the few words which followed it by way of postscript,
looked crabbed and uncertain. These lines might
possibly be the work of the old Squire.

It is surely a blessed dispensation of Providence that
we are enabled so easily to dissociate the ' beloved
object' from the authors of his (or Tier) being, should
they happen to be uncongenial to ourselves ; whilst we
as readily credit him with all the good qualities and
talents they may happen to possess, supposing they
have been fortunate enough to secure our esteem.

Thus Sophy did not permit any of the resentment
she felt against Godfrey's parents to recoil upon
Godfrey himself.

How unlike him they must be ! ' was all she
murmured to herself, as the tears came into her eyes,
and she with difficulty smothered a sob.

Again the keen ear of the blind man detected the
crumpling of note-paper from where he sat in the inner
chamber.

Is that a letter for me ? ' he inquired, rather
anxiously.

It's a letter for nic, dear,' she answered, feeling
unequal, just then, to telling him of the failure of her
mission : and holding the hated thing between the tips
of her finger and thumb, as though it had been some
venomous reptile, she stole quietly up to her room to
hold counsel with herself.

Here she again reviewed in her own mind the unnecessary
animosity displayed in the letter, concluding,
as it did, with an insinuation as insulting as it was
unjustifiable.

And I suppose these are quotations from the
Bible ? ' she said to herself, as she glanced at the
ending. ' Somehow, whenever people wish to be particularly

horrid and disagreeable, they always do seem
to quote from the Bible; or else they say, "As Dr.
Johnson was wont to remark ; " or, ** According to a
saying of Charles Lamb ! " . . . I wonder which /
am ? ' she continued, as she looked at her fair young
face in the glass. ' A " rat " or an " eagle " ?' But, do
what she would, she could only smile faintly at this
feeble 'joke upon the scaffold.'

Ah, how cruel I how unkind ! ' she went on, by-and-by.
' And my father, who is so good and so
unselfish, who never asked for anything in his whole
life, and is so proud ! How C((n I ever tell him y
After all, how very much better we must both of us bo
than these people Who think themselves so good ! AVe
neither of us conJd have written like this ! '

As she mused thus, she threw open her window still
further, although it was anything but a warm afternoon.
Her cheeks were flushed with anger and
mortification, and the cool air seemed to revive and
calm her.

Notwithstanding that it was damp and chill, there
was in the aspect of nature a promise of better things.

The singing birds were unusually lively, and a wood-pigeon
in the Dallingridge woods was cooing amorous
reproaches to her truant mate, who replied to her ever
and anon from Tom Hickathrift's dark belt of fir-trees.


She was aroused from her painful reverie by the
sound of Nelus's hobnails upon the gravel-path. He
was walking much faster than usual ; and though the
truck-basket which he carried was empty, he seemed in
so great a hurry to arrive at the kitchen that, ducking
his head, he plunged into the intervening laurels in
order to reach it by a shorter cut.

*How I do wish, Xelus, you wouldn't do that I' she
called out to him from the window ; glad, in her present
mood, to have an opportunity of scolding somebody.
It makes a hole in the laurels, and spoils them ; and
I've told you of it over and over again ! '

Cornelius Ford only grunted in reply to this admonition,
and shortly afterwards his wife knocked hesitatingly
at the door.

Nelus, he didn't mean fur to goo fur to screen thro'
dem 'ere lords,' she said apologetically * Not after
you'd told un on't, missy. But he wur so took all of a
flutter, he wur, after hearing' of the piece of news he's
learn. De old Squire be dead, he be. He wur took at
'leven o'clock in the forenoon.'

Then I need never tell him!' exclaimed Sophy,
with an irrepressible sensation of relief; and tearing
the hated letter into a thousand fragments, she flung it
into the fireless grate.

Chapter TV.

A FORTNIGHT had elapsed since the death of the old
Squire. * Young muster ' had been present at the
funeral, but he was not in time to see his father alive.

Poor sophy was so eager to see and speak to him
again, that, deeming her impatience shared, she had
been prepared for his coming to her from the very first
moment of his arrival at Dallingridge ; and when days
passed by, and still she saw nothing of him, all her expectant
heart-beatings subsided into a settled melancholy,
with which terrible doubts and apprehensions
began to mingle ere long.

or

TTc comctli not,' she cxclainu'd, with Tennyson's
Mariana, and ' the tliick-nioted sunbeam ' lighted upon
a head bowed down with the misery of a hope deferred.

As there was a mixture of buoyancy and melancholy
in Sophy's character, to fall from the highest pinnacle
of hope to the lowest depths of despair, was for her no
unusual occurrence, and lie now experienced a terrible
sense of reactionary depression. With some natures,
wounded vanity, and a consciousness of unmerited neglect,
might have come to the rescue ; but with her,
sadness generally took the place of anger, particularly
where she loved, and she was unable, consequently, even
to find solace in a feeling of pique.

Knitting away at the uninteresting and still undeveloped
waistcoat, she tormented herself with a
thousand misgivings, which, weaving themselves into
it with every fresh stitch, changed the whole fabric
into a hated thing.

She said to herself that this sudden visit to the
Continent had entirely obliterated her image from Godfrey's
heart  if, indeed, it had ever been there  or that
the image of some other woman might have replaced it,
and assisted (too horrid thought I) in the work of annihilation
and effacement. Had she ever (she now asked
herself) established over him an' real influence ? Was
she in an' way necessary to his happiness ? Why, indeed,
should he seek immediately the presence of one
who was, perhaps, after all, as nothing to him, hastening
to her, as it were, upon the wings of the morning ?
. And as she possessed neither confidante nor consoler,
her thoughts soon established themselves in the very
gloomiest of channels. Considering that she was now
at an age when most girls are either plunged in follies
and dissipations, or compelled to pursue for a while

studies wlilcli are to render them all the more irresistible
when the day of emancipation arrives, Sophy St.
Clair's life was certainly one of exceptional tranquillity
and freedom. But it was a life concentrated and self-contained,
all expansiveness and diffusiveness being
withheld from it by circumstance ; and when she had
chatted away to Tom Ilickathrift, or poured forth her
maiden confidences into the willing ear of the lively
Adele, she was simply unburdening herself of the
arrears of conversation which had been accumulating
for years.

'Sometimes I fancy that in reality Ism a great
talkers she had remarked one day to the young Baronet ;
and I'm afraid I rather like to talk about my own feelings
: but then, as you know, I couldn't speak on such
trivial subjects to my father, and I make it up by having
so much time when I can onh'' tJtiuk.'

But Tom Hickathrift's sad face smote her now with
a thousand reproaches.

I have spoilt his life,' she used to think, whenever
she came upon him loitering about the hedgerows. ' He
evidently can't go away from me, and yet how sad and
miserable I seem to make him ! He'll grow into a
regular clodhopper from standing here and never seeing
the world ; and it'll all be my fault !' and she then added
regretfully, and somewhat ambiguously, 'Alas, why can
one only spoil tic lives of people one cloesnH care much about?*

Tom Hickathrift then, by the absurdity of his conduct
(she said to herself), had prevented her from replacing
him on the old brotherly footing. Adele, as
the reader knows, had disappeared mysteriously, and she
was therefore constrained to combat single-handed all
the Hydra-headed demons of doubt which rose up to
torment her.

VOL. II. D

It is true she had of lite observed that amongst
some of the * wire-pullers,' ' prompters and ' stage-carpenters,*
there existed a disposition to cultivate and
conciliate her ; but by men so deeply imbued with the
superiority of their own opinions, she fancied that she
could only bo regarded in the light of a slave or a disciple.
Hardly would they have realised, she conceived,
that she was possessed of a mind at all ; whilst her
likings and loving, had she ventured to discourse upon
them, would have seemed to them but as the finite loves
of the subterranean moles about which a Frenchman
has written so wittily

The Prophet had corresponded frequently with his
right-hand disciple since his departure, and, to judge
by his letters, it was evident that the Great Cause had
undergone some important phase of development, and
that a crisis was breathlessly expected by all those wise
men whose faces were turned towards the East.

We are jubilant, we are exultant ! ' the blind man
had said to her, in explanation of the state of affairs, ashe
paced slowly up and down the straight gravel walk
in front of the sitting-room windows. * Coming events
are casting their shadows before, and everything is happening
as we predicted. . . . Slowly, but surely, the
Tartar horsemen are advancing  the men who first
forged the horseshoe, the stirrup, and the lancehead 
the swarming horde which is to invade Eastern Europe
moves determinedly onward to the envied goal, like the
black ants of Barbadoes, whose progress cannot be
arrested. Now will the sons of Islam arise, and thousands
of scimitars which owe no allegiance to the Sultan
will flash forth in the cause of the Prophet.'

Really ! ' answered Sophy absently.

She was gazing dreamily at the far beech-woods of

Dalllngridge Park, wliicli had now lost their purple
nakedness. She felt neither jubilant nor exultant ; and
at that moment the great Tartar horde seemed to her
of less account than so many twinkling blades of
meadow-grass, which she could crush and trample
under her feet.

'But we have glorious news likewise from the North
continued the wire-puller enthusiastically. ' The Scandinavian
League promises well. . . . The family of
Bernadotte must soon become extinct; for these children
of the South can never survive in the stern North
beyond a generation or two. The true heir of the Vases
has been discovered by one of our emissaries under the
most romantic circumstances. Christian of Denmark
has done well with regard to the Lex Regia  he must
now nominate his heir before the Powers can intervene,
. . Schleswig-Holstein will then give us Germans
and there will be a revival of the old Baltic Confederation.
I can't say what I feel about it ! '

He seemed to be looking earnestly towards the spot
where he imagined his daughter to be standing ; and
though his sightless aim was not absolutely correct, his
dark eyes were animated with such fiery eagerness that
it was diiSlcult to realise that he was almost stone-blind.

' You are exciting yourself, dear,' said Sophy,
anxiously, as she took hold of his arm.

By way of reply, he only bent forward impatiently,
and dashed in a series of diagrams upon the gravel of
the garden walk with the pointed end of his cane. In
the centre was a square, roughly and hastily depicted,
whilst from each of its four sides a cataract of vigorous
strokes radiated like the petals of a sunflower. Beyond
these, to the right, a formidable outlying Presence,
reaching very nearly to the laurel-bushes, through

which Nelus lead so recently * scrccled/ was indicated,
rather than described, by a few bold touches of oblong
form. Very possibly the roughly and hastily depicted
square may have represented Central Asia  the cataract
of vigorous invading strokes, the great Tartar horde
(' the men who first forged the horseshoe, the stirrup,
and the lancehcad')  whilst the hovering outlying
Presence may have been intended to portray Russia,
or ' a certain ministers or even Sur or Assur. Sophy,
however, did not pause to inquire. She had long ago
ceased to grapple with the incomprehensible mysteries
of the Great Cause.

So the early spring days passed by, till one May
morning dawned, sweeter, softer, balmier than all that
had gone before, on which she experienced the touching
influence of awakening nature with a redoubled
intensity. The voice of the wood-pigeon seemed, on
this particular day, to have a special message for her,
as well as for the truant mate still lingering in Sir
Thomas Hickathrift's fir-trees. The hanging crimson
tassels of the ribes, next to the blossoming lilac, wafted
a delicious fragrance through the sitting-room window,
and the garden-beds were all aflame with daffodils and
polyanthus.

As she passed out into the open air, she could not
help feeling, in spite of herself, that sweet tenderness
of mood which a sjonpathctic nature experiences under
certain favourable atmospheric conditions ; for wc are
all, more or less, the slaves of times and seasons, and,
like two white butterflies which she perceived coquetting
amongst the bloom of the orchard, looking almost
as if they were runaway blossoms themselves, we are
easily cast down by a storm.

But to-daA' all the butterflies were abroad, the whole

garden was alive with them, and not of white ones only.
*Reed Admirals 'Peacocks 'Tortoises ells' (these last,
of course, in the greatest numbers), * Orange-tips,' and
Painted Ladies,' were fluttering about, in couples, in
every direction; and Sophy even fancied that she espied
the rarer charms of a * Camberwell Beauty ' hovering
over the lavender-beds  this, however, may have been
a mistake. The solitary Alexander, awakened from
his long slumber by the sunshine, was trudging about
the lawn quite in sprightly fashion, exploring all that
came within reach of his tether. A few more such
mornings, and he might learn to regret that he was
doomed to be classified amongst the ' Testudinata, or
shield reptiles.' In a word, it was a day of days. . .

Perhaps, however, in my character of narrator, I
ought to say why it was so.

In the afternoon, then, of this particular day, a new*
guest arrived at Little Stillingfleet ; and, like Martha,
the young hostess found herself occupied with many''
household matters, all of them destructive to day-dreaming.


This guest was no other than that same Italian
Prince who had had the indiscretion to relate some of
his youthful experiences at the Feast of Kebobs. Sophy
had been wrong, however, in supposing that he had
come merely to * laugh with ' her at the rest of the company.
In reality, he had come as a neophyte, upon
whom the mantle of prophecy might peradventure
descend, and who might serve as an humble instrument,
under proper guidance, for carrying on the sublime
traditions. * I know nothing,' he had said to the Great
Prophet,  ' teach me ; ' and the Great Prophet had
condescended to permit that he should be taught. Of
mongrel birth, handsome person, ruined fortunes, and

diplomatic training, he had turned out an apt and intelligent
pupil, and both the Prophet and his right-hand
disciple had come to look upon him in the light
of a very eligible convert. The man who had had the
sagacity to introduce himself surreptitiously into a
Scotch stronghold, and to remain there, concealed in a
lumber-room, for more than a fortnight, without discovery,
must be, they argued, possessed of great determination
of purpose, as well as of remarkable staying-powers.


But he is valuable to us for another reason,' the
chief wire-puller had remarked to his daughter, somewhat
ominously : ' he possesses, in hisfamihj, an original
recipe for the preparation of the animal poison employed by
the Borgia sand

well, indeed, since his initiation, had this
yomig man proved that he merited the confidence reposed
in him. Not five moons had waned since the
Feast of Kebobs; and lo, he had already been requested,
for obvious reasons, to give in his resignation to his
diplomatic chief. Since this abandonment of his profession,
he had become  always in obedience to superior
orders  a kind of free-lance in the interests of the
Great Cause. Under Various assumed names, he had
visited most of the European capitals, bearing and receiving
messages. He was, in fact, the Mercury of the
Prophet, proving, by reason of his extreme velocity, an
efficient precursor of the then invented electric telegraph.
Already he had been credited with the blowing
of a tyrant, the rectification of a frontier, and the
mixing up of the Borgia solution in a cup of black
coffee for the benefit of a Grand Vizier. He had
coquetted,' too, with E-ome, in the language of the
Romans. Finally, he had succeeded in being labelled

dangerous ; ' aud it was deemed expedient that he
should remain for a few days secluded at Little Stilling-fleet,
drinking in wisdom the while from the lips of the
right-hand disciple, who was requested, in a private
letter from the Great Prophet, to relegate him to the
uttermost recesses of the beer-cellar upon the approach
of any stranger whatsoever.

So hazardous and eventful, indeed, had been the
career of this young neophyte, since he had rashly put
his shoulder to the wheel, that he might have been forgiven
had he occasionally gone back in fancy to the
past, and sighed, secretly, for a return of those hours of
idleness, spent in the lumber-room with the Scotch lady
and her hard-boiled eggs, which he had appreciated so
little at the time.

Be this how it maj, he had arrived on this particular
day at Little Stillingfleet, and all the afternoon
Sophy had been busy with arrangements for his comfort.
But towards evening she was free to listen undisturbed
to the little twittering good nights of a
thousand fluttering songsters. The repasts at Little
Stillingfleet were always somewhat irregular during the
sojourn of illustrious strangers, as it was the desire of
Mr. St. Clair and his amiable daughter to consult the
wishes of their guests only, in this respect ; and thus,
upon this delicious da"  to be marked for ever with red
chalk upon the tablets of Sophy's memory  the meal
that bore the nearest resemblance to a dinner was very
comfortably over by six o'clock, although at nine there
was every reason to suppose that something even more
ethereal might crop) up in the form of a supper.

On this ever to-be-remembered evening, did any
particular sentiment of loneliness, or of longing, urge
her to seek, as on that departed autumn afternoon, the

rustic bench which might have said so much to her if
its gray lichen-starred laths could have found a voice ?

It is not possible, unfortunately, to follow to a reliable
source these subtle combinations  these turnings
of the face to the east or to the west, and the good thing
that comes of the one, the evil thing of the other.

This evening it was a blessed thing that came to
Sophy in the twilight  a thing long desired, long
prayed for, tarrying long

Her father had dismissed her early, and telling her
that he would not require her till supper-time, he had
retired with his guest to the inner sanctum to talk over
the impending crisis ; and though the dark e3'es of the
new disciple seemed to say to her 'Staj,' almost as
plainly as words, she was only too glad to escape from
what her mind could not have grasped at the moment ;
and throwing a light shawl over her shoulders, she
strolled out into the garden. Passing through the blossoming
orchard, with its gnarled apple-trees and interloping
filberts and quinces, she descended the slope
which, divided by a murmuring rivulet, separated the
garden from the plantation of hazels, starting from
time to time involuntarily as she passed sundry of God's
smaller creatures which are wont to roam abroad at this
hour, to judge by their little rustling, squeaking,
buzzing, and croaking. But neither bat, frog, beetle,
nor harmless shrew-mouse, had ever alarmed her ; and
she was too much occupied just then with her own
thoughts to be distressed even at the notion of awakening
the early-roosting birds.

Listening thus to all these farewell voices of a departing
day seemed somehow to soothe her, and yet the
desire to bo soothed implies, at the onset, a sense of
heart-aching and ruffled plumes ; and as soon as she had

reached her dear woodland bench, the consciousness of
her sadness was further revealed to her. Here it was
that she had seen him last  her first love, her dream-king,
her ideal ! Alas the creeping bramble-bush still
there, she wondered, which he had smitten to ribbons
in his just anger against her ? If so, it would never
betray her secret, for its last year's leaves would have
faded now, and new ones would have come in their
place.

*Ah, my dearest, dearest Godfrey!* she sighed,
almost speaking aloud, * you were here and I loved you,
but I drove you away ; and now I fear you won't ever
come back to me again ! '

As she was musing and lamenting thus, a wild hope
came to her suddenly  the hope that by intense willing,
or by a concentration of prayer to some one, to something,
he, her truant love, might be constrained to comes,
to her side once more. So she willed and prayed in
her untutored fashion ; but the voices of the dying day,
fading gradually, seemed destined to be the only response,
and, in order to pursue her mournful reflections
nearer to the house, she quitted her seat by the gnarled
oak-tree, and prepared, with a sigh, to retrace her
steps.

As she rose, she glanced lingeringly up the narrow
woodland pathway', towards the spot where the arcade
of verdure terminated, leaving

A door for the grey of the sky.'

She looked, and her heart threw suddenly all its burden
of sadness to the four winds of heaven as she saw Godfrey
St. Clair's tall figure coming towards her, relieved
against the last glimmer of departing daylight. With
one bound she was at his side.

'Is it really you?' she asked eagerly, as lie took
both her hands in his own. * Oh, I thought you would
never come back ! '

Godfrey did not reply to her in words ; but before
she found voice or will to protest, he had folded her in
his arms and was covering her face with his kisses.
His silence, joined to the half darkness, rendered this
sudden union of love and youth all the more mystic and
intense ; and Sophy could never afterwards realise or
remember altogether how it came to pass that she and
Godfrey had thus resistlessly joined together their
warm lips. She only knew that his kisses were as she
had never deemed that kisses could be, and that, after
moments the sweetest, the fleetest, the dearest, he had
said to her, as he held her happy face between his two
hands and looked into her eyes, 

'Ah, Sophy, to think that we should never have
known this before ! '

CHArxpni V.

When a long-deferred and long-hoped-for happiness
comes suddenly to brighten our existence, its first effect
partakes often more of the nature of a sorrow in its
outward and visible manifestations. Thus Sophy's eyes,
on this too happy evening, were welling over with irrepressible
tears; her pillow was wet with them also
when she retired to rest, for her heart was beating far
too clamorously for her to think of sleep. Nevertheless
she did not experience any feeling of fatigue on the
morrow. The same restless sense of joy, gratitude,
and triumph, which had kept her awake all night,

sustained her during the day, mingling, as it did,
with a feeling of blissful wonder, a consciousness of
personal unworthiness, and a longing to tell somebody
all about it. First, she desired to break the news to
her father. This, however, Godfrey had decided had
better be postponed for a few days, by which time the
neophyte would have departed upon a new mission, and
she would have her father all to herself. In the meantime
Godfrey would find an opportunity of speaking to
his mother ; but, for the moment, to whom should she
confide her happiness ?

Would it be very, very cruel, she asked herself, to
talk about it to Tom Hickathrif t ? Such a kind old
friend would surely rejoice in her good fortune.

Still, when she met him that morning near to the
bottom of the alder wood, her womanly instinct told
her that it would be bad taste to enlarge to him upcn
the subject.

Godfrey has come back,' she had begun, thinking
of nothing better to say ; but the next moment she
could have bitten out her tongue, so melancholy was
the expression of his face as he answered, 

 Yes, I spoke to him at the funeral ; ' and he
continued to clip away at the hawthorn-hedge with an
instrument resembling a gigantic pair of scissors.

'The gipsies must have been camping down here
last night,' she said therefore, turning the subject, as
she pointed to some traces of recent fires on the greensward.
' That must have been what made the '
dog bark so last night. I heard him when
I couldn't sleep.'

I dare say,' answered Sir Thomas, still clipping,
and you must be careful of your poultry and things.
To-morrow's fair-day, and the place'll be all full of

other tramps and vagabonds besides the gipsies. They'll
pick np anything that comes in their wa}'/

Sophy felt so rich, however, at that moment, that
she could well have spared the gipsies a few ducks and
chickens.

I must go back, now,' she said in a little while,
fearing that if she remained she should be obliged to
touch upon the all-absorbing subject. ' I feel in a
riding humour, and I am going regularly to scour the
country upon my Arab steeds. I am going first to
take the shine out of one and then out of the other.'

The eyes of * the young Sir Tummus ' looked out
in astonishment from between the arrested blades of
his enormous scissors, as he listened to this evidence
of Sophy's superfluous energy.

I hope Ash-Ash has given up that nasty trick of
rearing,' he observed, rather anxiously. *And I
wonder whether you ought to go scampering about
the country like this by yourself.'

*Ah, now I know what you are going to talk
about ! About being proper and conventional, and
like other young ladies, who always ride out with a
groom behind them ; so I shall be off at once ! '

Does he still rear, though ? ' persisted the young
man, who had now quite given over clipping his hedge.

Of course he does ! ' she answered flippantl} 'And
to-day I feel as if I shall like it. It's a nice rocking-horse
feeling; and the worst thing that can happen
is that one's '' back hair " is nearly sure to come down.'

That's very pleasant for other people,' remarked
Tom, *if they happen to be looking on, for you've
awfully nice back hair ; but I can't agree that that's
the cord thing that can happen. . . . Perhaps, though,
you're not really going out by yourself ? '

Yes, of course ! Who would you have me go
with ? Why should you always doubt me ? '

Doubt you ? ' exclaimed the young man, letting
fall his scissors, and seizing both her hands from the
other side of the hedge. * How can I ever believe in
anything again ? '

Oh, I didn't mean to remind you of that ! ' cried
Sophy, backing, and looking frightened. In another
moment, however, she thought, * The hedge is between
us ; ' and feeling, as she did, so very, very happy, she
desired that her old friend, also, should gather up
some crumbs of comfort.

Don't look so miserable, dear Tom,' she said therefore,
patting one of his hands, * for I can't bear to see
it. Something to-day has made me so very happy that
I wish the whole world to be in the same state. Goodbye
! '

Good-bye,' answered the faithful creature, without
looking up ; and she soon regained the crest of the
hill, the * click, click ' of his great scissors ringing in
her ears long after he was out of sight.

Abdallah was no less surprised than Sir Thomas
when he heard of Sophj's resolve to mount the insubordinate
Ash Ash. He was sitting on the south side
of the great patrick, whence a square place had lately
been cut in the form of an arm-chair, basking in
anything but an Arabian sun ; and when she called
to him he was apparently receiving a lesson in the
English language from ' Deely,' who, clad in a lilac
pinafore, was holding in her hand a well-thimibed
hornbook. This picture reminded Sophy of a cheap
coloured print she had once seen, representing a little
white girl instructing the heathen, and she was sorry
to disturb the group. Nevertheless, her uncontrollable

restlessness needed some powerful safety-valve, and she
had set her heart on this ride.

'Hasheesh, he very skippy, missy,' Abdallah ventured
to remark, by way of protest.

Never mind ! ' Sophy answered. ' I shall be able
to tackle him.' And although the Egyptian was unable
to grasp the exact meaning of this phrase, he felt
convinced that his young mistress was possessed that
morning by a spirit of unusual intrepidity.

On the whole, perhaps, I had better ride Ash Ash
first,' she thought, fearing lest her courage might
evaporate; and, accordingly, the gray Arab was ordered
at half-past twelve o'clock. Upon beholding
sophy arraying herself at her rose-budding lattice,
the illustrious Italian, who, with his political mentor,
was pacing the garden-walk beneath, flung towards
her an impassioned and Romeo-like glance, learnt,
probably, at the novo-duro period. Fain would he
have accompanied her upon her ride had he known
of her intention. The Borgia decoction had been
brewed early in the day, and he was now undergoing
one of the bitterest penalties of his initiation  button-holding.
He was being reimbucd with the subliriie
traditions. For him the mysterious symbols were
being traced upon the gravel-path  Central Asia ; the
invading Tartars ; the hovering, outlying Presence ;
Russia, or Sur or Assur, or * a Certain Minister : ' the
scene-shifter was busy with his wand. By-and-by,
however, he detected the sound of an advancing steed,
and, ignorant that his daughter was preparing for a
ride, and dreading the arrival of some importunate
visitor, he acted at once upon the instructions of his
superior, and the neophyte was promptly relegated to
the beer-cellar.

J

Hence it came to pass that Sophy was enabled to go
forth upon her way alone, as she had originally intended.
Once mounted, With her overwhelming secret, upon the
back of the gray Arab, she somehow felt more composed.
Now she would be prevented, for several hours
at least, from conversing with any one about that with
which her heart and mind were filled to overflowing ;
unless, indeed, she could confide it to Ash Ash, and
thus, to some extent, unbosom herself.

Ah, Ash Ash ! ' she whispered, leaning forward
and tickling him affectionately with her whip. ' // you
only kneiv ! . . But you can't enter into it at all, because
you're only a horse ; and, besides, you don't yet understand
English ! All the same, I can't bear to think of
you shut up alone in your loose-box in a strange land.
I should like to find you some nice little companion in
your exile.'

And she said this rather from the spirit of indiscriminating
benevolence, with which happiness inspires
some amiable natures, than from any desire to conciliate
the rearing steed.

When she reached the turnpike-road, she found it
impossible to resist turning down to the left, in the
direction of Dallingridge Park, although she had arranged
no meeting with its youthful master until the
evening. Still, happy coincidences will sometimes occur,
and she only realised to what an extent she had hoped
for one of these when she had passed and repassed
Godfrey's three lodge gates, and was on her return-way,
out of sight of the gray park-wall, at which she
had gazed back so often.

Arrived at the Little Stillingfleet gate, she looked
out for some benevolent passer-by who would open it,
for she felt unequal to grappling with it alone, when

mounted upon a horse in "which she had not implicit
confidence.

No one was in sight, however, save an old man
breaking stones, so far down the road, that, once she
had reached him, it was nearer to turn in by the Abbey
rookery, and ride back past the Stubberfi ends' cottage.
Some one would be sure to be at hand to open the historical
black gate, and she could then go on through the
alder wood to the place where she had met Tom in the
morning, and so home, finishing up with a brisk canter
over the crest of the hill.

But when she arrived at the thatched cottage of the
Stubbcrfields, it became apparent that those enemies
of her race (as she had considered them in the old
time) had been lured from home by the attractions of
the neighbouring fair ; for, with the exception of the
old black watchdog, who came out of his kennel, stretching
himself and wagging his tail, the cottage and its
surrounding patch of cabbage garden were utterly
deserted.

Nothing daunted, however, she rode on to the black
gate. As ill-luck would have it, it was shut, and the
alder wood was silent as the tomb. * Something disagreeable
always happens to me at this gate,' she could
not help thinking as she began to wonder how she should
open it. She knew that, at all times, this was no easy
matter ; that it stuck obstinately to the moss-grown
clay of the pheasant-drive ; and that, in order to grapple
with the difficulty, she must dismount.

But before she had time to arrive at a final decision,
Ash Ash had begun to indulge in his favourite vice,
and all her presence of mind was needed to enable her
to retain her seat. Vainly did she endeavour, by dint
of little conciliatory chirps and whispers, mingled with

gentle taps of friendly remonstrance, to induce him to
reassume his original position. Her long auburn hair
was shaken from its confining comb ; whilst the new
black riding-hat, of which she had been particularly
proud, was hurled pitilessly into a cart-rut. But, as
Tom Hickathrift had remarked in the morning, this
was by no means the worst thing that coidd happen.

All that she could remember was, that, at about this
time, she heard the Stubberfields' watchdog give vent
to a succession of angry growls, as though at the
approach of something to be mistrusted, and then . .
A sudden flicker, as of ten thousand stars falling earthwards
before her eyes ; after Which a strange, unaccountable
blank, a long half-hour of suspended animation,
soulless, dreamless, death-like  of which she
could afterwards give no account whatsoever. Fortunately
she had been thrown clear of both horse and '
saddle ; and as the ground at that particular spot was
nearly" always swampy, she would probably' have escaped
with no worse injury than a severe shaking, had not her
head come in contact with the gnarled root of an overshadowing
fir-tree, which, like a red-skinned serpent,
straggled across the narrow woodland pathway.

When she recovered consciousness, she was startled
at perceiving before her an apparition which inspired
her at first with such real terror, that she felt almost
inclined to relapse once more into a dreamless slumber.
Her returning reason soon made her realise, however,
that the figure she beheld was only one of those wandering
tramps or gipsies, of whose visit to the neighbourhood
she had been warned in the morning. He seemed,
too, to have already rendered her good service ; for
Ash Ash had been carefully tethered to the bars of the
black gate, and he now stood, looking rather ashamed

VOL. II. E

or

of himself, and sniffing curiously at the crumbling
feline remains upon its two posts.

The individual whose personal appearance had so
alarmed Sophy seemed to be of no particular age. His
tall, upright figure, and jetty hair, which was plaited on
each side of his face into a loop, somewhat resembling
the sacred side-lock of the modern Egyptians, forbade
the supposition that he could be really old ; whilst
the parchment-like consistency of his swarthy cheek,
and the crows-feet surrounding his luminous eyes,
betokened a man whose middle age was well-nigh
surpassed. He was closely shaven, which perhaps
may have added, at first, to his false air of youthfulness
; but, as though to compensate for an absence of
beard, his thick eyebrows, like those of Eugene Sue's
Juif Errant, formed an almost regular line across the
upper portion of his face, and appeared, as it were, to
divide it in two. He wore gold earrings, a gay 
neckerchief, and when Sophy opened her
ej'es upon him, he commenced doffing a cat's-skin cap
not unlike that usually worn by Nelus. In this
ensemble there was, perhaps, nothing so very terrible,
yet something in the man's countenance was sinister
in the extreme ; and it was this, joined to his great
height and ragged costive, which had occasioned
Sophy some alarm upon first coming to her senses.
Her fears were over now, however, and she felt even
inclined to smile at them.

Thank you very much for tying \\]) m} horse,'
she said faintly addressing herself to the wild-looking
man. ' I'm sorry I haven't any money, I've spent it
all on turnpikes ; but if you'll come home with me I
can make you a little present for your pains.'

Thank you kindly, lady,' answered the gipsy.

displaying as he spoke a row of wolfish teeth.
*For there's many a hungry mouth waiting for me
amongst our people, not to count the babies

Have you many children ? ' Sophy inquired, anxious
to conciliate him. She had made several ineffectual
attempts to rise ; but each time she experienced a
strange sensation of giddiness, and she was now
leaning back against the trunk of the fir-tree, wondering
whether she was likely to faint again, and be
left to the tender mercies of this fierce-looking man,
whose approach had even caused the Stubberfields'
good-natured watchdog to send forth an admonitory
growl.

I have seven little ones in all,' returned the gipsy.
'But, as I say to my old Avoman, "The sharper the
shower, the sooner 'tis over"'

Ah, yes, of course ! ' answered Sophy vaguely
She was beginning to feel faint again, her hands looked
unnaturally white, and her voice sounded unaccountably
far off".

'Perhaps you will kindly go to that cottage,' she
said as steadily as she could. ' The people are A'cry
likely back now from the fair, and I'm not feeling
very well.'

A moment afterwards, however, she repented her
of her rashness. She would rather not have known
for certain that she was quite alone with this forbids
vagabond with his high cheek-bones,
hungry eyes, and white wolfish teeth ; and she would
rather, too, that he had not kno\ATi it himself.

I am a fool,' she thought, ' to let him make sure
that there isn't any one within two miles of us, and
yet what can he possibly rob me of?' and she glanced
down at the little silver ring which had once belonged



 Illinois

or

to her dead mother. 'Not of thi-s certainly, for lie
seems to have got one just like it upon his ovm finger.
How glad I am that I always take out my earrings
when I ride ! '

And remembering that the little pair of gold filigree
earrings, which Godfrey had brought her from Genoa,
were safely stowed away in the drawer of her dressing-table,
she experienced a sensation of relief.

Of course nobody had yet returned from the fair,
and Sophy fancied that the gipsy's eyes twinkled
maliciously as he informed her of the fact.

How I wash he would go away ! ' she thought,
despairingly, adding aloud, 'It would be so kind of
you if you could just lead my horse back to Little
Stillingfleet Farm. That's where I live. As soon
as you get outside this Avoid, and go to the top of
the hill, you'll see the chimneys. Ask a jackson
called Nelus to come and speak to me here ; but please
don't say a word about it to the other people in the
house, or they'll be frightened.'

Oh, there's where you bide, young lady ?' said the
gipsy, gazing at her, as she fancied, with a curious
look. ' And how long ago is it since the Squire was
taken ? '

Taken I' she repeated, almost reviving at the
terrible idea suggested b} this word. ' Bead, do you
mean ? I am thankful to say that my father is quite
well!'

One of my mates heard tell as how Squire St. Clair
was taken,' explained the tall man, advancing nearer
to the spot where she was reclining, with what seemed
almost like an expression of menace in his dark eyes.

'Ah, that was my uncle. You needn't wait here
any longer,' she added, earnestly desiring that he would

depart, as lie felt lie was losing more and more each
moment the consciousness which had returned to her.
Will you kindly go to Little Stillingfleet, as I asked
you ? '

'That I can't never do, young lady,' replied the
gipsy, who was now standing over her, his deep set
cavernous eyes, from beneath their beetle-brows, looking
down at her from his six-foot-two of fustian rags
and mangy furs,  *not whilst Squire St. Clair bides
there, nowise. Still, there's a many things I should
like to tell you, for that as'U put victuals into my
young ones' mouths, and not starve you in the
giving; for you're one as'll do more good to your
own folk, lady, nor some on 'em may ever hope to do
for you ! '

Thank you,' murmured poor Sophy faintly ; 'but
I really don't want you to do anything but leave me*.
Please go now,' she added, almost imploringly.

Give me your hand first,' returned the gipsy, still
preserving an objectionable proximity; ' and let me tell
you more than you may find it in your heart to guess
at. There's a dark-haired gentleman which you doats
on the very ground he stands on, and a light-haired
one as loves jou better nor you loves him. Let
me tell you which is the gentleman as you'll walk to
church with, young lady. Give us your hand.'

Had Sophy felt just then in her usual mood, nothing
would have afforded her greater pleasure than to have
placed her little hand in the bronzed palm of the gipsy,
and listened to his occult predictions. She had always
felt a strange attraction towards these wild, wandering
people, and their mystic utterances had even inspired
her with a vague sense of deferential awe, her heart
beating faster whenever a subject was touched upon

which referred, however indirectly, to its dearest hope.
Thus, she had been foolishly elated, some time ago, soon
after Godfrey had departed, at having been informed
by an aged gii:)sy beldame that she should ' walk to
church With a dark-haired gentleman in the army,
with a wicked hye ; ' for, notwithstanding that Godfrey
was not actually in the regular army, she had seen him
once in a most imposing uniform ; and though she had
never imagined that his eyes were positively ' wicked,'
she knew that they were the most wonderful eyes in
the whole world, and that they had utterly and entirely
dominated her.

You are a lady as is born between two planets,'
this Sibyl had said to her ; ' and you're a pussen, I can
see, as haves your pleasure rather more at a distance ;
for it's not everybody (that's martin) as is satisfactory to
your mind : so you'll mostly have two strings to your
elbow. But there's a dark-haired gentleman in the army 
lady, with a wicked hye, as is now between two seas: he's
the gentleman as you'll walk to church with ; and you'll
be the mother of two chiltern, lady  a boy and a girl 
a pigeon pair ; ' and at this predication Sophy, as I have
before stated, had felt unduly elated.

Now, however, everything seemed of small importance
compared with her desire to be left alone  to rest,
to sleep, to return to the dreamless slumber from which
she was but newly awakened. With this wish came its
fulfilment in part ; for, falling back against the red
fir-stem, she fainted again, and, alas ! in the hated
presence of the tall gipsy.

Whence, after all, do they come, these strange,
black-browed people  dwellers in tents and covered
waggons  who have taken for a symbol the Romano
chiriklo, or gipsy magpie, perchance because, according

to a recent authority upon gipsies,* it is * poor and
much wandering;' who are supposed, by some of their
detractors, to steal babies, lift sheep, fire beams, and
milk the cows by night; and who yet, from so ignoble
a Present, are looking back, haply, to the secretly-garnered
glories of a mysterious Past?

Their wild nomad lives, the beauty and fidelity of
the women, the jealousy and vindictiveness of the men;
their filial devotion, quaint superstitions, and th
supreme contempt entertained by them for the 'gorgias
have supplied the poet and novelist, from time immemorial,
with choice materials for the weaving of idol
and romance, with which, as in some faded fragment of
imperial brocade, there has seemed to be intermingled
a tracery of golden threads. But these threads have
apparently been lost now  frayed away, or tarnished
past all knowledge, by our mists and contours ; and
we look in vain, amidst the modern squalor of these
ancient people, for the jewels of gold and of silver, the
rich textures and fine linen, with which they have been
endowed by some of their historians. Nevertheless
they still possess an individuality as distinct, accentuated,
and incontestably Oriental, as that of any of the
children of Israel ; and although, unlike these, there
have been but few instances (if we except, as some
writers maintain we should except, the author of the
Pilgrim's Progress) of a gipsy having acquired any
manner of distinction, the race whose hardy living
must be necessarily conducive to ' the survival of the
fittest ' seems by no means in danger of extinction, and
who shall say whether, urged on by the gibes and
goads of the parochial authorities, they may not even
be journeying on to some promised Zion ?

Francis Lines Growing.

Again Sophy revived from her dreamless slumber 
this time to a consciousness of something cool, soft, and
sweet-smelling upon her aching brow. It was a cambric
handkerchief, which had been dipped in water;
above the handkerchief Alas a hand pressing it to
her forehead, which forehead was apparently reposing
close up against the waistcoat of the owner of the
hand. Her confused mind recalled the wild-looking
Romano ' in his furs and fustians, and, with a desperate
effort, she disengaged herself from what she
imagined, in her terror, might be his sustaining arms.
But the waistcoat was not of patched badger and water-rat.
It was of Berlin wool  black, striped with
lavender, knitted in ribs  in a word, her ovn handiwork
; and ' the light-haired gentleman, who loved her
better than she loved him,' was gazing doAm upon her
tenderly and anxiously his honest retriever-eyes suddenly
unburdened of a great fear.

Chapter VI.

'Don't, please, tell my father what has happened!'
pleaded Sophy as Sir Thomas walked her slowly home.

She was leaning upon his arm ; but she felt better
now, and her strength seemed to revive with every
breath of fresh air, fanning lier uncovered head, with
its long hanging coils of ' back hair '  a sight of which,
as Tom had remarked in the morning, was so 'very
pleasant for other people.'

It would frighten him, I dare sa}',' returned her
companion, who was looking pale himself, in consequence
of the recent shock to his nervous system.

Still, if I told, you would be able to get off and rest.
Promise me, dear, that you'll go and lie down?'

'But Ism quite well now,' she answered bravely.
It was only an odd feeling in my bead that got the
better of me ; otherwise, as you know, I'm not given
to doing anything so silly as fainting.'

I'm truh glad that I happened to be coming by
at the time,' said Tom fervently, ' or you might have
lain there all day and all night. But what made you
shudder so and draw away when you recognised me ?
Surely, Sophy, j'ou know me too well to think that I
would harm you?'

He paused as he said this, and stood looking at her
with an expression of tender reproach.

You are quite wrong,' she answered, pulling at his
arm to make him continue his way. ' It was because I
(U(hit recognise you that I shuddered. I thought at*
first you Avere that horrid ragged man with the scowling
eyebrows who was standing over me when I fainted.
If I had known that it was you,' she added, in a tone of
comfortable friendliness which drove a dagger into
her listener's heart, *why should I have shuddered
at all?'

Tom Hickathrift had seen no ragged man with
scowling eyebrows, and he could only fancy that she
was wandering in her mind.

Didn't you see him ?' she went on. *A tall gipsy,
with his hair plaited in loops, and with earrings, and
a cat's-skin cap, and a red handkerchief with yellow
spots? I should think he was at least six foot two.'

No, dear ; I saw nobody. He wasn't there when
I came up,' returned Tom soothingly. ' You must
have been dreaming.'

That I'm quite sure I wasn't,' said Sophy, passing

or

lier hand across her eyes, and then opening them very
wide. ' There he could stand, close to nie ; and he
kept coming nearer and nearer, crowding in upon me,
and Wanting to tell my fortune ; and, however much I
asked him, he would persist in not going away.'

The 3'ouug man was silent for some time.

Poor dear ! ' he murmured at last, in a tone of
tender compassion.

You think I fancied it all,' she said ; ' but I really
didn't. I saw him just as plainly as I see you.'

Sometimes,' returned her companion gently, *when
one has had a knock on the head  sparring, or anything
 or when one has had a fever, you know, one
gets to fancy all sorts of things. I remember when
I was at Eton, and had the measles, I felt just what
you describe. Lots of people seemed to be in my
room, and they all came up crowding so near to me
that I thought I should be suffocated : they all of them
seemed very big, too, I remember, like giants.'

I don't know what you may have seen when you
had the measles, but I know that this wasn't my fancy
I am surprised you didn't see him yourself.'

*Ah, but you say, too, that you saw stars of fire
before your eyes as you fell. You don't suppose they
could have been really there ? Andrew Ijocke was
with me, and I sent him off at once for Dr. Dyer,
and just then Jesse Stubberfield came down the path
from the fair. They both saw you lying there, and
your horse tied up to the gate. I sent on Jesse to
Stillingficct to prepare them ; but told him to be sure
and beg them to say nothing to your father.'

Ah, but who tied up Ash-Ash to the gate?' Sophy
demanded triumphantly. ' The tall man, of course !
How could he have tethered himself ? '

Tom Hickathrift was unable to reply to this, and
shortly afterwards lie said, 

Promise me, dear Sophy, that you won't go *' scouring
the country " again quite alone. You know how
easy it would be to get a servant to ride out with you
if you wished it. Your father will do just what you
tell him.'

I'll ride Cammy for the future,' she answered, feeling
that she owed Tom this small concession ; and just
at this moment Nelus appeared round a turn in the
path, his handsome weather-beaten face pale with
anxiety.

They all walked on together as far as the garden-gate,
where Tom bade her farewell ; and after begging
her to see the doctor, and then to lie down for the rest
of the evening, he returned home by the way he had
come.

When he arrived at the dark fir-tree With its
crawling serpentine roots, he paused for a while, and
recalled, with emotion, the happy yet terrible moments
he had just passed beneath its branches  terrible, by
reason of the fears which had crowded upon him ;
happy, because he had for once held his cruel love in
his arms, and seen her at last open her beautiful eyes.

Casting about him for some sign of her departed
presence, he picked up, as a sacred relic, a hair-pin,
which had fallen from her luxuriant tresses, and which
he espied lurking amongst what they had been used,
when little children, to designate * the hair-pins ' of the
fir-tree.

He remembered that Jesse Stubberfield had taken
home her battered riding-hat ; and he was just about
to pass on with his treasure-trove, when his eye lighted
upon a bright patch of colour in the foreground. It

or

was a red neckerchief with yellow spots. At first he
had fancied that it was only a scarlet toadstool. . . .
The young man shuddered as he looked upon this
evidence of the reasonableness of SojDhy's fears, and he
strode on towards the Abbey, his mind harassed with
many" strange forebodings.

When Sophy had begged Sir Thomas not to inform
her father of her accident, her chief object had been to
spare him any anxiety. But she had had another
reason  a more selfish one, perhaps, if it be indeed
selfish to look forward intensely to a great happiness
which we hope is shared by one who is dearer to us
than fifty thousand selves !

For it was upon the evening of this day that she
had arranged another meeting with her heart's ideal ;
and amongst the still transparent bowers of tender
spring-time, the summer blossoms of a glowing future
were to be planted at last.

It was to be a grand, glorious, blissful, eventful day
in her life ; and the annoying adventure of the morning
was no doubt only occasioned by some little passing fling
of feminine spite on the part of jealous Fortune, to try
and equalise the balance ; for Sophy believed firmly ina
doctrine of compensation, and was quite ready to pay
for a great joy with aching limbs and a throbbing
brow.

I am quite well,' she said to Jane, Who was awaiting
her in trepidation ; and the honest serving woman,
having expected, as she expressed it, to see her ' come
home killed,' was too much relieved to worry her about
a few bruises.

To her father she merely remarked, 

Ash Ash was a little tiresome at the black gate ;
next time I mean to ride Camm)\'

To the amiable philosopher, whose sightless gaze
seemed now more than ever riveted upon some invisible
Beyond, these words conveyed no hint of an
averted disaster, and Sophy was only too thankful
that no rumour of her misadventure had reached him.
The neophyte, too, released from durance vile,' had
gone forth again upon his mad career. Nelus was
stationed at the garden-gate, on the look-out for Dr.
Dyer, in order that, upon his arrival, he might be conveyed
round by the stable-yard, his patient having
decided that the place of consultation was to be the
harness-room, and her project for the evening appeared
(to translate literally a French metaphor) to
be ' going upon casters.'

 What does one do when a doctor conies to see one,
and what does one give him ? ' she had inquired of Jane ;
for upon this subject she was totally without experience.

One arts un jest to step in,* replied Mrs. Ford,
an' be so good as to please belike a cheer, an' be seated,
an' good fur to put out your tongue. Den, I reckon,
afoot he steps out again, 'tis manners to art un if so
be you may meiike so bold as offer un a glass of sherry-wine
; an' a bottle be jest opened for dat 'ere furred
gentleman. In some high families  as might be de
Abbey or Dallingridge House  I've heard tell as how
dey offers red port-wine  in some high families. . . .'

Let us imitate the high families then, and see that
there's some wine and a glass in the harness-room.
I'm anxious to be civil to Dr. Dyer, as I've heard he's a
very nice person.'

Nice or nasty, Sophy was aware that the new doctor
was a friend of Godfrey, and this was a sufficient reason
for desiring to be polite. Somewhere or another, the
two young men had been thrown together ; and it was

in consequence of this acquaintance that Dr. Dyer had
settled at Poynings.

Godfrey St. Chiir had now been at home for more
than a month, during almost the whole of which time
he had been occupied with business connected with his
succession to the Dallingridge estates, which, with house
property in London, grazing land in one of the midland
counties, and coal and iron in Scotland, brought in a
considerable income. As he had always foreseen, he
found himself the undisputed possessor of all the landed
property  his grandfather having, in what seemed now
almost remote times, settled his estates upon his elder
son Erskine and his issue male, lawfully begotten, with
remainder to his second and favourite son Francis, and
his heirs general, failing the issue male of Erskine.

The house, for some reason, was not included in
the entail, but had been devised to Erskine by will, on
condition that he also, failing a male heir, should bequeath
it to his younger brother. As no further
restrictions were put upon him, Erskine had now bequeathed
*the mansion known as Dallingridge House*
to his only son Godfrey ; but he left to his * dear wife
Eliza,' besides a jointure of two thousand a-year, the
possession and use of it during her natural life, although
this munificence might seem to be to a certain extent
neutralised by the words which followed, * so long as she
shall continue my widow.'

Still, though there had been no complications with
regard to the will, Godfrey had found himself immersed
in business, and, with the best intentions possible, he
could not have spared time to see much of Sophy. A
question having arisen with regard to the renewal of
certain leases, the Northamptonshire agent had lately
arrived at Dallingridge to talk the matter over ; and,

on the evening upon wliicli Godfrey had made an
assignation with Sophy, it had been decided to entertain
him at dinner, with a few of the more influential of the
tenant-farmers. Mr. Hornblower, the old Rector, was
also to assist at this banquet, although he was now in a
semi-state of imbecility ; together with Mr. Pettigrew,
who (much to Godfrey's secret disgust) had partially
resumed his duties upon the past Sunday, having returned
from the South almost entirely restored to
health.

This tiresome dinner had to be gone through somehow
; and it was his regard for the principle of ' duty
first, pleasure afterwards,' which had induced the young
master of Dallingridge to arrange his interview with
Sophy after it was over ; for it was to take place at a
comparatively early hour, and he hoped that before
seven o'clock he should be free. At this hour it would
be still light, and, under pretence of smoking a cigar,
he proposed strolling out towards the high beech-wood
above Great Stillingfleet, if only Sophy could manage
to come thus far to meet him. It was a lonelier and
less frequented spot than the hazel copse, and thc}
would be able there to converse upon their plans for
the future, certain that the sighing branches above
them would be their only' listeners.

Long before five o'clock, Sophy, for her part, had
begun to feel nervous and anxious, with that peculiar
kind of anxiety which is the precursor of an expected
happiness, and which makes every pulse beat fast and
every clock tick slow. By the time Dr. Dyer was announced,
she had entirely forgotten her aches and pains.

He had been shown, according to received instructions,
into the harness-room  a place thoroiighh congenial
to him ; for he was a keen sportsman and a bold

rider, and was always interested in the surroundings
and appurtenances of horses. lie was standing by the
fireplace when sophy entered, so busily engaged in examining
the workmanship of a peaked Oriental saddle,
which Francis St. Clair had brought home from his
wanderings, that he was unconscious of her presence
until she addressed him.

*How do you do. Dr. Dyer?' she said, advancing
towards him, and looking, as he thought, lovelier, and
in better health, than anybody he had ever beheld.
Instead of striking her dumb, any momentary embarrassment
had always had the effect of rendering her
particularly loquacious, and she continued flippantly,
though with a mantling colour, which arose entirely
from shyness, ' I've had a fall this morning, when I
was out riding. Will 3"0u, please, feel mc all over,
Dr. Dj'cr, and tell me whether I've broken anything?'
and, seating herself upon the oat-bin, she began to
unfasten her brown-holland dress at the throat.

Dr. Dyer (who was tall, yoimg, and good-looking,
with a broad forehead and sad, deep-set eyes) was an
exceedingly nervous man, particularly when in the
presence of ladies. Notwithstanding all his philosophy
for he was a philosopher  he could not bring himself
to look upon them simply in the light of machines, and
it was with some hesitation that he commenced doing
as he was bid.

The pain is chiefly /icrc, Sophy went on, perceiving
the Doctor's embarrassment and endeavouring to relieve
it, as she pointed to her collar-bone, where, by-the-by,
she had never felt any pain at all ; * but so long as it
isn't in the "bone Luz " I don't much mind. Supposing
fiat was broken, down here, on earth, what
should we do afterwards?'

The Doctor, who, although a young man, and a
sporting character, had imbibed at a German University
a decided taste for mysticism, nay, even a hankering
after certain Faustus incantations, felt his
attention immediately riveted by Sophy's remark.

You are the first young lady,' said he, pausing in
his examination, and literally button-holing her by one
of her ivory buttons, * who has ever spoken to me about
the Rabbinical bone Luz.'

'Am I really?' she asked, laughingly. 'Well,
I'm glad of that ! But then, you know, I'm tremendously
interested in all these things, which I dare say
my aunt, Mrs. St. Clair, and Lady Hickathrift, and the
Miss Spearings, may not be ! Where do you suppose
it is? Sometimes I've almost wished that I was a
Doctor to find out.'

You ladies endow us with extraordinary powers of 
discernment,' said the Doctor, with a smile. 'To us, as
to you, there are always some sealed books.'

Ah, but that's because you seal them yourselves,
Dr. Dyer,' exclaimed Sophy eagerly, ' by jealousy and
prejudice ! Directly a person is at all emancipated, or
turns out of the beaten way, you brand him as a
quack ! '

Dr. Dyer, who was by no means possessed of conventional
ideas, and who, in the secrecy of his study,
had lately been investigating several medical problems
after rather an unorthodox fashion, seemed now to be
listening to his own opinions, echoed back to him from
the lips of some beautiful fairy-princess.

I agree with you there, my dear Miss St. Clair,'
said he, enthusiastically. ' The ignorance and prejudice
with which we often have to do battle in our
profession is at times positively disheartening. But

VOL. II. F

may I inquire since when you liavc made these subjects
your study ? '

He took two or three excited strides up and down
the length of the harness-room, and the ' leader of
men ' felt, as she contemplated him from the oat-bin,
that he had entirely lost sight of her individual case.

I have tried to study these subjects alway's,' she
answered ; ' but of course I should seem to you to be
dreadfully ignorant. The more one knows, the more
one seems to feel how impossible it is to know all ; so
that now I say to myself honestly, '* I know nothing 
I am an Agnostic." '

*You seem indeed to be ver' different from most
young ladies of your age,' remarked the Doctor, with a
smile of melancholy interest.

As Sophy had surmised, he had forgotten utterly
the reason of his being sent for ; and even whilst his
eyes rested upon the beautiful girl before him, his
spirit travelled back to the old days of his student-life
to the orthodox philosophies which he had imbibed
at the German University ; to his boon-companions,
with their duels and love songs ; to his experiments in
alchemy and the occult sciences ; and, last of all, to
the Rabbinical bone Luz,' upon which he had once
been rash enough to deliver a lecture.

Sophy, too, was winging her way, in fancy, out of
the harness-room ; for, as she glanced uj) at the great
white face of the clock above the peak of the Oriental
saddle, she perceived that its hands were in a straight
line, like an index-finger upraised to admonish. It was
six o'clock, and, besides the time she intended setting
aside for personal adornment, it would take her at least
twenty minutes of brisk walking to arrive at the high
beech woods, and she meant to be there long, long

before Godfrey, in order that she might have all the
pleasures of anticipation.

'I wonder,' she hazarded therefore, 'whether I
might offer you a glass of wine before you ride home ? '
And so saying, she buttoned up the neck of her brown-holland
dress, and indicated a black bottle which stood
upon the mantlepiece.

A thousand thanks, Miss St. Clair,* answered he,
abstractedly. He poured out a glass, drained it
hurriedly, returned the cork to the bottle, and was
evidently about to re-engage in conversation, when,
holding out her hand, Sophy bade him suddenly farewell.
A moment more, and she was scudding through
the laurels on her way to the house ; whilst he silently
remounted his horse, the current of his thoughts
strangely diverted from its ordinary channel.

It was very odd,' Sophy remarked, afterwards, ir
reply to Jane's anxious inquiries ; * but as soon as I
saw the Doctor I quite forgot all my symptoms. However,
although he seemed to forget them too, his visit
has really done me a great deal of good ; I feel now
quite well, and I am just going for a little evening
stroll.'

Chapter Iii.

Arrived at the try sting-place, Sophy paced up and
down for some time under the shadowy beech-trees
with a palpitating heart.

The day had clouded over, and grown gray and
misty, whilst from the fallen leaves of many autumns
there arose an odour of decay, which seemed to pervade
the atmosphere far more than the faint promise of
green summer overhead.

At first lie was jlad tluit these mouldering records
of the dead years had been left unwept away', to rustle
beneath her feet, feeling that she needed some counteracting
note of sadness to tone do\vn the hallelujahs of
praise which thrilled her whole being at the expectation
of a great joy. Gradually and unaccountably,
however, the aspect of external nature communicated
itself to her soul. He fas not there ; and this had
pleased her in the first instance, deeming  loiterer
that she was, pausing often at the eleventh hour to
take * a ribbon or a rose '  that she would turn the
tables upon him, and chide him for a truant. This
had been her first thought, as she flitted up and down
the now dusky avenue. Feeling he must be either
near, or on the wing to her, the air had seemed so
charged with his presence, that she had scarcely realised
she was alone. But, by-and-by, this reassuring
sensation abandoned her. The weird beech-trees looked
as though they were lifting their half-clad branches,
like despairing witnesses, towards heaven ; the faint
scent of decaying vegetation became tomblike and
oppressive ; the dead leaves rustled after her in an
uncanny fashion ; she remembered that she was at
least a mile from her home, alone, under these dark,
unfriendly branches, and she was no longer buoyed up
with the consciousness of Godfrey's protecting presence.

Sophy was not, certainly, more nervous than most
girls, but she was essentially emotional and impressionable,
and certain combinations were wont to awaken
in her a suspicion of some manner of supernatural
intervention. She now imagined that, as this day had
commenced unfortunately, or, at any rate, inconveniently,
so, also, it might be destined to conclude \vith
a disappointment. An defined sense of fear took

possession of her ; and gathering lier cloak round her,
so that she should not hear behind her the weird
rustling of the leaves, she fled down the whole length
of the damp pathway until she reached an open space,
as though pursued by an invisible foe. In the shade
it had seemed to be already night ; but here, Adhere an
accidental break occurred in Avhat had once been an
uninterrupted line of self-sown forest, a rent banner
of gray heaven, as it were, floated above her, from
amidst a framework of feathery branches. At sight
of this her courage revived ; at sight, too, of a kind
little star, though she could not help gazing back at
her desolate trysting-place with all the more mistrust,
wondering how she could have remained there so long,
waiting with only the hope of a happiness.

Still, although the hour had gone b} which had
been so long in coming, the bare anticipation of which
had caused all the clocks to appear slow, she hardly
liked to leave the place without making some audible
demonstration. Within sight of these same towering
beeches  years, years ago, as it seemed now to her 
she, barefooted, lonely little savage that she was then,
had revelled in her childish dreams of the future  a
future big with the promise of ten thousand marvellous
things, foremost amongst which was the image of a
dark-haired fairy-prince, with sad, unfathomable eyes.
This ideal had changed somewhat with the years, inform,
in features, and in surroundings, according to
the varying moods of the little castle-builder, but he
had harmonised and adapted himself to them all ; and
when she had at last met him, in the guise of a cornet
of yeomanry at the great Ilickathrift ball, her whole
being: had recognised him at once.

Under the watchful eye of this kind little star, all

these memories came crowd in <>; back upon her, flooding
her heart with a sadness and a tenderness too deep
for expression. The sense of sadness predominated,
however. Nature had always been to her even as a
second mother, a friend and sympathiser, whose transient
smiles and frowns she had interpreted as we are
wont to interpret the commendations or reproaches of
one we love ; and to-night it occurred to her that
Nature was angr3 Hence she felt lonely, notwithstanding
that she was surrounded by her old companions
 the trees of the forest, the songsters with
their twittering good-nights, and the peeping Spring-flowers,
which she could scarcely distinguish in the
growing darkness. . . . Yes, before she gave up all
hope and turned homewards, she would call aloud to
Godfrey, and he would surely hear her, if he was
anywhere within reach of the sound of her Aoice.

Peering wistfully into the shadowy arcade down
which she had expected that her young lover would
come to her, she obeyed the impulse of the moment,
and called to him, hoping that, if he was even now on the
wa' to her, he might hasten at the sound of his name.
Godfrey!' she cried, almost imploringly  once, twice,
three times. . . . But it was not Godfrey who replied.

As she remained listening intently, after the last
musical notes had died away, she became aware of a
crackling and thrusting aside of branches close to where
she was standing. It was so dark now, that she could
only feel that some one, or some thing, was making
towards her through the intervening bushes. A
thousand hopes and fears made her heart beat almost
loud enough, she fancied, for the newcomer to hear it ;
and as she stood thus, uncertain as to whether she was
about to be taken to the arms of a lingering lover, or

menaced by some approaching danger, a tall figure
stepped forth from the crackling underwood and confronted
her in the pathway. It was not Godfrey', but
the wild-looking gipsy whose sudden appearance had
alarmed her in the morning. What this rough descendant
of many generations of vagrants told Sophy
under the shadowy branches of the high beeches, is
known already to the reader.

1 tell you, martin sure as you stands there, my
young ladyship,' he said, * my first girl, Wisdom Goddard,
was your own mammy ; and if you just go whisper
that in Squire St. Clair's ear he can't not dare gainsay
it.' And he had then added dates and other particulars,
which it seemed impossible to question.

The knowledge of this fact fell upon Sophy like a
thunderbolt. Perhaps, had she been informed of it
years ago, her romantic nature would have been
awakened into enthusiasm at the idea, and she might
have drawn of this unremembered mother a portrait as
flattering to her own self-esteem as the image now
evoked was destructive to it. A gipsy-queen ; a Niagara
of ancient and mysterious lineage, with flashing eyes,
beautiful bare feet, and floating love-locks ; a child of
Nature, communing with her (as she herself loved to
commune) in all her varying moods. This reads very
prettily in a novel by G. P. P. James, or in a poem by
George Eliot or Professor Longfellow ; but as she stood
face to face with this man, in his foul-odoured furs and
fustians, who had just revealed his kinship, the whole
notion was pre-eminently repellent to her. For this
rude relation resembled no more the ideal gipsy of
romance than Mr. and Mrs. Weller, up at Great ,
resembled the dapper shepherds and shepherdesses
portrayed by Watteau or Boucher, upon a

chicken-skin fan, with their satin doublets, rose-wreathed
hats, and silk stockings.

He seemed, too, to be animated by two of the most
reprehensible attributes of his kind, viz. ferocity (as
implied by the menacing of one who was for the
moment weak and undefended) and the desire to obtain
an unwarrantable possession of the goods of others.

And you just go ask Squire St. Clair,' he had continued,
raising his voice,  ' sharp, quick !  'mediately
you gets down-hill to your place, how he brings himself
to think on seven little ones, let alone their betters, on
that poverty-pittance he makes so good as spare to me
and mine out from his plenty ! Don't he fancy as I've
got no sense left in me, my pretty ?'

Are you really, really sure'' poor Soph' faltered,
that it is as you say ? Don't you think, perhaps, you
may have made a mistake ? '

There's no mistake, my dear, so you rest your mind
and be easy. And if so be the Squire takes it into his
head to say Wisdom was not one of us, because she was
so fair, but a baby that was taken away from gentlefolks
when she was little, and painted with walnuts, you
just tell him to go lie down along o' them as says we
eats up our old people, 'cause why you don't see none o'
them in your workhouses ! Them as will say that are
beasts. Wisdom was m}' own girl right enough, for all
that she looked like a born lady. Why, her mother, as
was my first wife, was fair enough for you to see the
Vine running down her throat whenever she drank ;
and you, my young ladyship, for all your fine highflier
ways, don't look so very fortified neither. I should
tell you for one of the Romane breed in a thousand ! '

So the wild man tallied on until she was sick at
heart.

Let me go home she said at length, almost imploringly
; ' and think over what jou have told me by
myself. '

Sophy's distress of mind at this disclosure did not
arise in any measure from the fact that she attached
undue importance to worldly position, which, as she had
often reminded Godfrey, appeared to be of small account
to one who thought as she did upon such subjects. But
she had believed her mother to have been endowed,
apart from her other social advantages, and her great
beauty, with refinement and cultivation ; and the knowledge
that she had been only a wandering gipsy-girl
certainly shattered an illusion.

The thought that one has been systematically and
gratuitously deceived, too, is never very pleasant ; aboA'e
all, when it is by a person in whom one has always
placed the most implicit confidence, blaming him (if at
all) rather for an excess of plain-sullenness, calculated
to damage him in the opinion of the world, than for
being an adept at deception ; and Sophy felt as though
she had been thus persistently hoodwinked and deceived
by her father.

Had she grown up from childhood with the consciousness
that she possessed in her veins what seemed
now almost like alien blood, she would probably have
hugged this consciousness defiantly to her bosom,
and prided herself, maybe, upon the very fact of
which she was now ashamed. For, if the truth must
be told, she felt that she waH ashamed of it, not
on her own account, leveller that she was  a despiser,
generally, of most established things  but on Godfrey's,
the young god who had stepped down condescendingly
from his cloud, floating, as she had imagined, so very
far above her at her best,  the long-cherished fairer



prince, who had at last wooed her in the flesh, and asked
her to be his wife, but whose wife she felt unworthy to
become, tainted, as she now seemed in her ol estimation,
through her newly-discovered relationship to
rogues and vagabonds. Slowly and sadly she took her
way homewards after this strange interview ; down
the shadowy pathway, across the shingly coach-road,
which, further on, passed the front door of Callings
House, and so, round by the copper-beech  as
yet almost destitute of leaves  through the quivering
grove of silver birches where the fern grew so high in
the summer.

As she approached the hereditary dwelling-place of
the Weller family at Great Stillingfleet, she perceived
a horse  a strawberry roan, with a bob-tail  fastened
to the lintel, and shortly afterwards a male figure came
out of the cottage. It was Dr. Dyer.

 Good evening to you. Miss St. Clair,' said he, ashe
set about remounting. ' I take it as a good sign
that you are out so late on your rambles. I hope the
collar-bone is easier?'

Thank you, yes. I went out for an evening stroll,
and something kept me longer than I expected. I'm
afraid it must be very late, as it's so dark: at first I
didn't recognise you.'

You didn't expect to see me, I dare say, any more
than I was prepared to see //on. You are, however, the
innocent cause of my being here at this unusual hour.
Your conversation, in the harness-room, was so excessively
enthralling, that I entirely forgot this poor
fellow Weller was expecting my visit until I found
myself more than half-way home. I make a point of
trying never to forget my duty to the poor, if possible,
so there was nothing for it but to ride back again, and

here I am  twenty minutes past eight. By pushing
on briskly, I may get back to Poynings by nine.'

I'm sure Moses ought to be very much obliged to
you for taking so much trouble, and giving up your
dinner. How is he going on ? '

Not quite so satisfactorily this evening. Though
the distressing symptoms of numbness have been neutralised
by having recourse to violent stimulants, and
to repeated doses of ammonia, which, in this instance,
I have deemed it expedient to administer internally.
I am very much interested in observing the effects of
snake-bite  in the action of all poisons, I may say,
which are communicated to the system by inoculation.'

Some minutes later, Sophy thought upon the Doctor's
words with blanched cheeks and beating heart. Notwithstanding
his remark with respect to the hour, she
had desired to ascertain it with more certainty, and so
glanced in at the harness-room clock on her way to the
house. The black bottle, with the glass from which
the Doctor had drunk, was still upon the chimncj'piece,
and something tempted her to examine it. Evidently
too evidently  it did not contain wine. ' Kisses
was written upon the label in the handwriting of the
departed neophyte. What singular fatality could have
made Jane imagine that this bottle contained sherry ?
. . There was no hope, Sophy felt, that she could be
mistaken in her terrible suspicion. It incas a .sample of
the Borgia decoction prepared by the hand of him who had
inherited the original recipe / . . .

But yet. Dr. Dyer was still in the land of the living.
The person she had just seen, and who had conversed
with her so affably, could not have been his wraith ?
By what strange chance had it happened, too, that he
shoidd have spoken to her about the action of poisons !

or

. . Here Alas surely some inexplicable mystery, or
else a mystery to be explained onlj in two possible
ways. Either Dr. Dyer, by reason of his scientific
and medical knowledge, had been enabled at once to
administer to himself an antidote  and this, judging
from the account he had given her of his movements,
seemed to be in the highest degree improbable  or
else, the deadliness of the Borgia decoction, like the
vitality of the Great Cause, was nothing more than a
delusion and a snare: it was, after all, only an innocent
liquid preparation, which, supposing any one was
absent-minded enough to mistake it for sherry or 'red
port-wine,' could be drunk with perfect impunity !
. . Here, surely (though this time the fault was on
the right side), was the destruction of another illusion!
Alas everijthiiifj, then, a sham and a make-believe, and nothing
precisely what it pretended to be? . . . Some such
thoughts as these, notwithstanding her other pre-occupations,
pursued her as she made her way to the house,
bearing with her the fatal bottle, upon which she felt
constrained to question her father. With regard to
Reuben Goddard's disclosures, she would say nothing
at present. To allude to them would only be to disinter
painful recollections, and reopen old wounds. If ever
she chanced to meet with him again, she would make
him a present out of her own private purse ; and,
in all probability, he would leave the neighbourhood as
soon as the people who were assembled for the fair had
finally dispersed.

I think you told me that that terrible Borgia
poison dcstro3'ed life almost immediately' ? ' she remarked
to the blind man upon entering the sitting-room.
Her check was still pale, and her eyes dilated,
supposing its action was slower than she had been led

to imagine, or that it differed with different subjects.
In this case, Dr. D3'er might still be a doomed man !

It was, therefore, a relief to her when he answered :

'Its fatal influence upon the human system is
almost instantaneous. . . . Sure as death, swift as the
feet of the bringers of evil-tidings, veiled as Destiny I
All three of these important characteristics appeared
to us to be embodied in the word '' Kismet j' which his
highness has placed upon the bottle as a distinguishing
mark ; of this I informed you, for fear of accidents, ina
message which I wrote to the best of my power, and
sent up to your room. I couched it in veiled language,
alluding to the poison as " date wine," and signing
myself " Schesheth the Blind," although, to be quite
correct, it was in reality the Rabbin Papa ; one of the
first usurers, who was in the habit of manufacturing
this delicacy.' 

An accident has already happened,' she answered,
unable to repress a feeling of melancholy triumph
at the thought of unmasking what she now looked
upon as an imposture. ' I never received your message,
and somebody, mistaking it for sherry, has tossed
oft' a whole glass of it, and isuH dead ! '

Taken internally,' remarked the philosopher, ' the
secret instrument of the Borgia is wholly innocuous.
I confess that I can scarcely bring myself to realise
the mental state of any person who could mistake it
for sherry ; but, assuming any such aberration possible,
it would be harmless as the virus of the cobra when
absorbed under similar conditions. The poison is communicated
to the system solely by inoculation.'

The ' instrument of the Borgia,' then, should have
the benefit of the doubt, and she would congratulate
herder upon the fact that it had been taken internally !

Illusions enough, in all conscience, had hon destroyed
already. After the total collapse of her faith in the
Great Cause, and the * beautiful joung lady of great
family,' how could she have borne, with equanimity',
the discovery that, after all, the Borgia mixture was
not poison ?

Having obtained from her father this reassuring
explanation, Sophy sat do"sl and wrote the following
letter to Godfrey, which she begged Nelus to convey
that very night to Dallingridge House. It was a letter
of renunciation and self-immolation, wetted "smith her
tears, and ran thus : 

Something I have heard to-day has made me feel that
I must no longer hope for the great happiness to which I
was looking forward  hoi much, you will never know. I
give you up for ever, my dearest. Please believe that,
though I was always unworthy of you, I have loved you
better than anything on earth.'

Sophy had formed the Quixotic resolution of
writing thus from mingled feelings of pride and
humility Too humble from the first to deem herself
worthy, ' at her best,' to mate with her ideal,
she possessed yet too proud and independent a spirit
to brook the thought that, out of pity, or in consideration
of her avowed affection, he might bend and
condescend towards her without some manner of protest
upon her part. For that he would so bend and condescend,
she had felt almost confident, even whilst she
was writing this letter, which she called a renunciation ;
and being constrained and entreated by the man she
loved * better than anything on earth,' she would not
be a solitary example of a woman who,

'Whispering " I will ne'er consent"  consented.'

Even to herself, she admitted that she did not think

Godfrey would relinquish lier without a struggle, and
her heart already yearned for those prayers and entreaties
which were destined, perchance, to melt her
in the end. It was, therefore, with surprise and bitter
humiliation, that she read these few lines from him
in answer to her letter :

As I received your note, I was writing to you. God
knows this is hard to bear. Let me see you tomorrow at
three o'clock in the hazel-copse to say good-bye to you forever.'


He seems quite glad to get rid of me,' she thought,
with a sudden reaction of feeling. ' Oh, why, icJiij, did
I ever give him his liberty ? He must he in lock icith
mmebodij else ! '

Chapter VIII.

But these poor lovers, like many others before
them, Avere playing at cross-purposes ; in order to explain
which it will be necessaries relate what had
been taking place at Dallingridge House whilst SojDhy
was lingering under the high beeches.

At the head of a long table in the large dining-hall,
oak-panelled, and hung around with simpering
and scowling family portraits, Godfrey St. Clair was
presiding oAer a dinner to some eighteen or twenty
guests, amongst whom his mother was the only lady.
She was seated at the further end of the table, and lead
given the place of honour, on her right, to Mr. Hornblower,
who, though old and feeble in intellect, was
enabled, by means of a vigorous physical constitution,
to assist cheerfully either at funeral feast or convivial
gathering.

This banquet partook, to a certain extent, of the
nature of both. At its commencement, some constraint
might have been observable amongst the majority of
the guests, respect for the memory of the old Squire
preventing them from launching forth at once into
lively converse in an apartment where, onh' a month
ago, some of them had beheld all that remained of him
covered over with a black velvet pall.

Godfrey had not yet acquired, either, that tone of
free-and-easy familiarity with his so-called inferiors,
which, although it springs often from an assumption of
the most impertinent condescension, hardly ever fails to
please them and to put them at their ease. A certain
shj-ncss and reserve, therefore, in the young man's
demeanour, particularly observable upon this occasion,
cast, at first, a chill upon the proceedings. By-and-by,
however, good food and generous wine began to cheer
the hearts of the hardy yeomen-farmers, and thaw them
gradually to convivial geniality ; so that, towards the
conclusion of the repast, the clatter of plates and glasses,
and the hubbub of voices, seemed to Godfrey to have
become almost insupportable.

Several circumstances, besides a natural distaste for
all public demonstrations, had caused him to regard
this entertainment with impatience. The whole affair
bored ' him inconceivably, and he foresaw now that it
would drag on to twice the length he had anticipated.

The presence, too, of Pettigrew, who occupied a
place at Mrs. St. Clair's left hand, irritated him beyond
measure, for it was in vain that he had endeavoured to
reason himself out of his uncomfortable suspicions. As
soon as he fancied that he had partly succeeded in
lulling them, some circumstance, often trivial in the
extreme, was almost sure to reawaken them, and bring

back to this mind the contents of his mother's letter,
which he had so often repented of having read.
Only that very afternoon, whilst searching for some
legal documents, he had chanced upon a bundle of
provincial newspapers, which had evidently been carefully
put aside. They bore the date of nearly twenty
years ago, and in each of them there appeared notices
of sermons preached upon various occasions by Mr.
Petti grew, which had been scored with ink in order to
call attention to the place. One of the paragraphs thus
indicated, somehow arrested Godfrey's attention, and
upon glancing carelessly over it he read : 

'Execution.  Barchester Gaol was again the scene of
an execution yesterday morning, the criminal who suffered
death being Caleb Draper, who was found guilty at the last
Liverpool Assizes of the barbarous murder of Joseph Parsons,
a fellow-labourer, on the 20th of March. . . . Shortly
before eight o'clock the solemn tone of the funeral bell commenced,
and in a few minutes the procession, headed by the
chief warder, emerged from the prison. Caleb Draper followed
immediately, with his arms strapped down to his sides ;
he manifested very little fear or emotion, and, as he was
ascending the scaffold-steps, he gave a quick look upwards,
and for a few seconds appeared to be scanning with interest
the apparatus of death. The condemned man was then
placed beneath the beam, no resistance or difficulty being
experienced, although as he came in contact with the rope
he gave a slight shudder. The executioner, with a quick,
business-like air, then strapped the unhappy man's legs,
pulled down the cap over his face, and adjusted the rope.
The Rev. Mr. Pettigreiv, the new prison chaplain, read over
him the Burial Service, to which he appeared to pay devout
attention, joining heartily in the responses, and exclaiming
frequently, " Lord, receive my spirit !" "Lord, have mercy
upon me !" and just before the falling of the drop he was

VOL. II. G

heard to murmur, "Safe in the arms of Jesus." Caleb
Draper attended service on Sunday at the prison chapel, and
appeared seriously attentive to a discourse preached by the
Rev. Mr. Pettigrew from the text, " Depart from me, ye
cursed, into everlasting fire" (Matt. xxv. 41); in the afternoon,
the Burial Service was used, and hymns appropriate to
the condition of the unfortunate criminal were sung.'

Godfrey never afterwards knew why he had perused
these offensive details, with others (omitted for the
benefit of the reader), to their 'bitter end.' At any
rate, the presence of Pettigrew upon this, and other
similar occasions, appeared, to him, to have disqualified
him for the post he had now assumed, of confidential
friend and adviser in his own household.

He was accustomed, once, to preach to men so vile
and abandoned,' he thought, ' so steeped in every
manner of wrong-doing, that he has naturally come to
assume a certain tone of superiority, which might easily
influence a woman, and delude her into thinking that
he was possessed of a superior judgment. At the outset
of his career he was placed in the position of one
having authority. He was not raised, however, upon
a pedestal by reason of his own merits, but in consequence
of the failings  nay, the crimes  of the wretches
by whom he was surrounded, which, by their magnitude,
must have blinded him utterly to his 0"ti
shortcomings.'

Hence, no doubt, the aggressive and dictatorial
spirit which sometimes seemed to animate him ; the
smug complacency with which, as from a height, he
looked down upon the foibles of others ; the bitterness
with which he was wont to denounce evil ; the want of
sympathy and the mistrust with which he regarded all
that appeared to other eyes to be good, noble, and disinterested.


Then, again, although Godfrey had but a poor
opinion of Pettigrew's mental powers, he realised that
he Alas endowed with enough of

That low cunning which in fools supplies,
And amply too, the want of being wise,'

to render him, perhaps, redoubtable as a secret adversary.
In fact, at this particular moment, the young
man, do what he would, could recognise no good in
him whatsoever. Unconsciously he called to mind the
curate's pale, pinched face, as he lay fever-stricken at
Pegli ; the closed eyes, opening suddenly, with an
expression of shrinking horror, to meet his own ; the
mean, lipless mouth, which had parted to accuse him,
deliriously, of bearing upon his forehead the brand of
Cain  no doubt in consequence of having revisited, in
some fevered dream, the scene of his early clerical ministrations.
The remembrance of this, and of his own
sensations at the moment of reading his mother's letter,
returned to him vividly now, as, silent amidst the
surging murmur of voices, he leant forward in his
chair, eagerly watching every movement of the man he
could not help detesting, as though prepared to spring
upon him, panther-like, should the occasion permit. He
was desirous, too, of catching his mother's eye ; for the
dinner was to all intents and purposes over, and he was
longing impatiently to join Sophy under the high
beeches before she should have become weary of
waiting. Just at this moment, however, old Farmer
Gladwish, one of the most respected of the tenants
upon the estate, rising from his chair, wine-glass in
hand, in obedience evidently to a preconceived design,
proposed, in flattering terms, the health of ' the young
Squire,' who perceived, to his annoyance, that the
toast would be accompanied by a few appropriate

remarks, to which lie would be expected to reply.
Once fairly started, the honest yeoman's discourse was
not wanting in a certain rough eloquence. Casting
back, he said, for more than half a century, he could
remember not only the old man who had just departed,
but his father before him ; and he expressed a hope
that Godfrey would imitate the virtues possessed by
those two of his forbears, and follow dutifully in their
footsteps ; adding that, from what he had hitherto seen
and heard of him, he doubted not but that this would
be his endeavour, and that a worthy representative of
the old name would be found in the j'oung man at the
head of the table, to whose likeness to many of the
portraits upon the walls he begged to call the attention
of the company present.

There did, indeed, exist between Godfrey and some
of these, a certain amount of resemblance, though,
perhaps, it was not more marked than that which maybe
discovered any day in a man to his ancestors, given
a good many of these last to select from, or combine,
and where the discoverer goes to work with, a will.
With one single exception, these family portraits had,
in reality, nothing more in common with their living
representative than was suggested by the fact of their
having been, for the most part, the possessors of marked
eyebrows and clear-cut features. The picture of
Captain Godfrey St. Clair, however, the young hero of
Culloden, which hung a little to the right of where the
present Godfrey was seated, did indeed bear a very
strong resemblance to him, which might be accounted
altogether fortunate, seeing that the face portrayed was
by far the handsomest of any looking down from the
walls, and that the accounts of its owner which had
descended to posterity, represented his character as

having been in keeping with the nobility of his
features.

Godfrey had always been proud of his likeness to
this particular ancestor, to which he had often heard
his father calling attention, and it had been his wont, in
boyhood, to invoke and appeal to him somewhat after
the manner of a patron saint, on all solemn and important
occasions. Upon this subject he could even now
have waxed eloquent. He could have alluded, too, to
the paternal care and solicitude which had warded over
the helpless years of his infancy, presenting him, byway
of example, only with that which was noble and
excellent ; and he might have concluded by promising
to select as a model for future conduct his gallant
and exemplary great uncle with the powdered hair and
scarlet uniform. All this he might have said, and a
great deal more, but he was impatient to the last degree
to be gone ; and so, filling up his glass with champagne,
he rose, bowed courteous to the old farmer,
and after only a few conventional expressions of thanks,
subsided again into the place he was so anxious to
leave. This was by no means Godfrey's first glass of
champagne, nor, indeed, was it the second, nor the third,
which he had tossed off during the evening, in reply'' to
such invitations as the following : * A g-lass of wine
with you, Mr. St. Clair, sir ; * or, * Mr. Godfrey, sir, I
look towards you.' * To the young Squire ! * 'To
young muster;' &c. But then this was not the first
occasion, either, in the course of his experience, when
he had assisted at a banquet upon a formidable scale ;
for he had not passed his adolescence only in clipping
hedges, spudding up thistles, ' having out the ferrets,*
and shooting pheasants, like his unambitious neighbour,
Sir Thomas Ilickathrift. He had attended * wine-parties

' at Oxford ; and in London, at Melton, and
whilst upon the Continent, had seen something; of men
and manners ; and although he was generally excessively
temperate, he realised that there were occasions
when it would be a double advantage to be able to
drink hard, and at the same time to keep the head
cool, and this, hitherto, he had always managed to
achieve. But he had sat down to this particular
dinner in what was, /(?> ///y;;, an almost unprecedented
state of nervous irritability, and he felt, as he resumed his
place, after replying to Farmer Gladwish's remarks, as
though if t)" thousand hammers were beating time in his
brain, in which the prevailing notion was a sense of fury
and indignation directed against Mr. Pettigrcw. He
wondered, angrily, whether any of these simple folk,
who were now so eloquent in their adulation of the rising
sun, could guess at the rancorous sentiments which
animated just then the breast of him of whom they were
prophesying such noble things. Perhaps, he thought,
with bitter humiliation, they already knew all about the
ignoble influence which had been undermining the honour
of his house ! Only upon the previous Sunday, he now
remembered, when the strange clergyman, who had not
expected Pettigrew to return so soon, had delivered his
sermon  which happened to treat of Felix and Drusilla 
he had observed that two of the most inveterate of the
village gossips had exchanged glances of a peculiar kind,
which he interpreted as having reference to the identity
of names in the case of the Roman governor and his
former tutor ; for it is a remarkable fact that, when once
a suspicion, however unreasonable it may be, has taken
root in the mind, almost every circumstance connected
with its object will seem to confirm it.

Godfrey, then, was angry, fevered, and excited in

mind, and burning yitll impatience to be gone. He
bad been hoping for some time that Mrs. St. Clair
would withdraw, after which he could hastily have
brought the proceedings to a conclusion ; but it seemed
to his jealous eyes as though she was purposely lingering
in order to prolong the enjoyment afforded by Mr.
Pettigrew's society, and that the curate himself (who
must have been aware that hmnan powers of endurance
are possessed of a limit) was preventing her from
leaving the room, simply with the view of acting in
opposition to his wishes. Nay, was it not even possible
that the man he detested  realising, perhaps, the
nature of his surmises, by reason of the unsealed letter,
which, upon his recovery from illness, he must have
discovered  might be positively bent upon subjecting
him to this present annoyance from a spirit of insolent
defiance, founded upon the consciousness of the empire
he had established over the lady of the house, and upon
Godfrey's own discovery of this empire ?

But upon looking now, for at least the hundredth
time, towards the place where his mother was seated,
the young man perceived, to his astonishment, that she
was in tears. The speech of old Farmer Gladwish had
apparently touched some chord which had remained
persistently silent in the past years ; for Godfrey never
remembered to have beheld her in any way moved upon
his own account, nor, indeed, had he ever seen her shed
tears at all, except upon the occasion which now came
back to him, when he had surprised her and Mr. Pettish
in the boudoir, just before he had himself left
England for the Continent.

As she passed her lace handkerchief across her brow
to conceal her emotion, Godfrey observed that Mr. Pet-tigre
called her attention to himself, by touching her

familiarly upon the arm, whilst, with the look of one
having authority, he indicated the door by an expressive
wave of the hand, which amounted almost to
a command.

Now, although Godfrey had been most impatiently
awaiting the moment when she should quit the apartment,
the idea that she should go in obedience to
Pettigrew's imperative order seemed, in his present
state of mind, to add the last straw to a whole camel-load
of injuries and humiliations. His blood was
fired with an ultimate and uncontrollable indignation,
and, rising from his chair, he called out, in a louder and
more authoritative voice than it was his custom to
assume, 

Perhaps, mother, you may feci this room a little
too warm. We shall not be long before we join you in
the drawing-room.' Then, as soon as Mrs. St. Clair's
trailing garments had vanished through the doorway,
*Jamieson,' said he to the butler, who appeared in
answer to a violent jerk at the bell-rope, *be good
enough to show these gentlemen into the library. They
are at liberty to smoke ; see that there are cigars and
brandy and water. Mr. Pettigrew,' he added, observing
that the curate was rising with the rest, 'have the
kindness to remain behind for a few minutes. I have
something to say to you.'

Chapter IX.

There was an aggressive ring in the young man's
voice, so singularly at variance with his usual courtly
manner of address, that it caused Mr. Pettigrew to raise
his faded eyebrows in momentary' wonder. His astonishment,

however, did not take the form of words ; and
Godfrey continued : ' There is one thing, sir, about
which I wish to come to an understanding with you, to
prevent any unpleasantness from arising in the future.
But as you are here this evening as a guest in my house,
I feel naturally some delicacy about plain speaking. . . .
On neutral ground  (and here he gulped down the
remainder of his claret)  on neutral ground,' he went
on, clenching his teeth, *I could express myself more
clearly'

One would fancy, my dear Godfrey,' answered the
curate, his thin lips relaxing, as though in obedience to
the pulling of an invisible wire, ' that it was your intention
to call me out, and murder me according to the
rules of the duello ! E-em ember that all priests and deacons
are men of peace. You can't select, as the victim
of your righteous indignation, a clerk in holy orders.' 

By Heaven / ' . . . Godfrey began, grinding his
teeth like a man-eating tiger. lie checked himself,
however, and continued more calmly, though with the
manner of one who has been goaded to an extremity :
If, as I have just remarked, you were not at the
present moment actually sitting at my own table . . .'

*My dear Godfrey,' remonstrated Pettigrew, smiling
again, 'forgive me for what I am about to say  in your
house, at your own table  but you are a little tipsy.'

I dare say I may be,' rejoined the young man excitedly,
pushing back his hair, and wringing his table-napkin
after the same murderous fashion as that in
which Moses Weller, in the old time, had wrung his
smock-frock in illustration of the strangling of the
poor young rook ; ' but upon one point, at least, I am
sober and resolved. You must leave this place  this
house,  this parish even.'

*I have your father's promise of the living in
writing,' Pettigrew answered, still smiling placidly.
It is for this that I have been waiting for all these
years, declining all other offers of preferment. You
have not, I trust, forgotten this ; and when Mr. Hornblower
is at last removed . . .'

They both glanced instinctively towards the end
of the long table, where they perceived Mr. Hornblower
still seated. He had heard nothing of their
discourse, however, being busily occupied with the
contents of three decanters, which, after revolving in
their appointed orbit, had fortunately stopped opposite
to his place.

You are quite right in surmising,' Godfrey continued,
in a lower tone, though he hissed out his words
in a very objectionable manner, * that the death of
Mr. Hornblower may be reasonably expected at any
moment, for he becomes daily more fatuous and incompetent.
I am aware, too, that, in the event of this
occurrence, you had succeeded in obtaining from my
father a promise of the living, and that hence there is a
probability of your making Dallingridge your permanent
abode. You must pardon me, however, if I say boldly
that, for more reasons than one, I most distinctly and
emphatically disapprove of any such arrangement. It
is an arrangement, indeed, which my father would
never have contemplated at all, had he been aware how
utterly repugnant it would have been to my wishes, and
I must warn you that I shall endeavour to prevent its
accomplishment. '

He spoke with a certain pedantry of expression to
which he was prone ; but as he awaited the curate's
reply, there was an expression in his eyes belying his
stilted form of speech.

Perhaps,' answered Mr. Pettigrew, in a voice of
studied calm, * you will be good enough to explain your
reasons for behaving in so gentlemanlike a manner ? 

The two men were standing up now, face to face,
glaring at each other at the head of the long table, at
the lower end of which Mr. Hornblower was apparently
relating one of his stock anecdotes with the greatest
complacency to vacant chairs and empty bottles. They
both knew that it was not worth while considering him
in the light of a listener.

Certainly,' rejoined Godfrey, raising his voice ashe
went on. 'You have obtained too much influence in
this house, and you have the bad taste, too, to display
it, even upon public occasions. There has been an
example this evening of your inconceivable impertinence
and want of tact ; indeed, I may even say ' (and
here he made the strangling-of-the-young-rook gesture
for the second time) ' of your confounded and unprecedented
impudence ! '

Mrs. St. Clair is the best judge of this replied
Pettigrew, still apparently unmoved. *It is to her that
I shall appeal ; ' and he made as though he was about to
quit the apartment.

You shall do no such thing ! ' interposed Godfrey
peremptorily, as he placed himself in a position to bar
his exit. * You shall not go sneaking and snivelling to
my mother upon every possible occasion. Nay, you
shall hear me out ! . If I have insulted you . . .'

You have insulted me,* muttered Pettigrew hoarsely,
as he twitched nervously at the table-cloth. 'But I
shall take no notice of it, as you are drunk.'

You sh((U take notice of it, sir ! ' cried Godfrey,
lashing himself into a state of frenzy. ' Good God ! is
your priest's garb to be to you always as a shield and

buckler ? Is it to be a talisman wbicb protects you
from the just recompense of your cowardly actions ?
And are you to be permitted to lie, to inn, to steal
from others their honour, their good name, simply
because you arc a priest ? By Heaven, no, sir ! I say
again, you shall take some notice of what you are
pleased to call my insult! Let it induce you at least to
leave this house, and never to set foot in it again  that
much vnW. content me for the present. Why, indeed,
are you here this evening ? By whose invitation ?
Speak, and answer me ; by whose invitation are you here
to-day ? Not by mine. Had I bade you hither, I
could not now speak so plainly, or *' insult " you as you
term it. I have insulted you once, you say ; but you
will take no notice of it. Let me then insult you
again ! ' As he said this, he left hold of one of the ends
of the table-napkin with which he had been playing,
and flicked it sharply in the face of his former tutor
with a sudden movement of his hand.

Mrs. St. Clair would not permit that I should be
insulted by you ! ' said Pettigrew, hoarsely, his pale
cheek flushing for a moment. * Not even if you were
her own son, much less now, by a hcggar on horseback'

What makes you presume to use such language tome?'
demanded Godfrey, through his clenched teeth.
Am I not her own son ?'

Yon are not /,' replied Pettigrew, still in the same
harsh, concentrated tones, and with what Sojhy would
have termed the ' reining-in expression,' making pale
his whole countenance. * You have nothing whatever
to do with these people' (and he indicated, with a wave
of his hand, the f amil} portraits) . ' You were adopted to
cut out that girl down at Stillingflect ; you are a beggar on
horseback.' He paused with a look of momentary satisfaction,
his thin lips relaxing into a smile of triumph.

Then, perceiving the ashen pallor which overspread the
young man's face, he added, with seeming contrition,
You goaded me into telling you this  you know you
did. Perhaps I have been unwise ; nevertheless it is
the truth

It's a lie ! ' exclaimed Godfrey passionately, a
strange light appearing suddenly in his dark eyes. 'It
is a cursed and abominable falsehood ! '

It is the truth,' persisted Pettigrew doggedly, 'and
nothing hut the truth. You are not the son of these
people.'

Liar ! Hound ! Snake in the grass ! ' cried the
young man, losing, in his anger, all self-command, his
clear-cut features looking ashy pale against the dark
"wainscoting. ' Leave this house, I say to you for the
third time !  and leave it at once, immediately ; so that
I may not so far forget myself as to lay violent han(
upon you, and soil myself by touching so malignant a
reptile.'

It was as though the suppressed and concentrated
hatred of years found voice now, and cried out loudly
and passionately. Unreasoning and desperate, the
nature which had been held so long pent up within
bounds broke forth at length, and Godfrey St. Clair
stood recklessly confronting, with set teeth, and quick-throbbing
pulses, the fancied enemy of his house.

As he gave vent to this last indignant utterance, he
unconsciously stamped peremptorily with his foot, dragging
aside, as he did so, a portion of the tablecloth ;
and a whole regiment of glasses, clattering dowTi upon
the floor, added emphasis to his words, awakening in
their fall old Mr. Hornblower, who, having delivered
himself of his two inevitable anecdotes, had sunk into a
]profound slumber.

It is quite true,' Pettigrew continued to reiterate.

You are not the son of these people ; you have nothing
to do with them whatever ; you are an adopted child.'

Godfrey was perfectly sober now  too sober, as it
seemed to himself, for his senses were quickened to an
extraordinary degree of intensity.

He remembered, afterwards, how loudly and distinctly
he had heard the ticking of the gilt clock
upon the high chimney piece, with what sharpness of
outline every object appeared to stand out upon the
white tablecloth, and with what an expression of painful
earnestness the dark eyes of the family pictures seemed
to ffaze down at him from the walls.

 Explain yourself,' he muttered hoarsely, as he
looked fixedly at his former tutor. ' What do you
mean ? '

I mean what I say,' answered Pettigrew, casting
down his eyes, and toying with a dessert-spoon which
he seemed anxious to balance upon the top of his finger-glass.
' But it was, perhaps, ill judged of me to inform
you of this now  the tongue is an unruly member.
You will do wisely to forget that I have spoken at all.'

What ! You arc unable to make good your words?
You shrink from proving your accursed slander ? Let me
brand 5ou, then, for the coward and liar that you are !'

Godfrey had already raised his hand as though to deal
Pettigrew a blow he might have good cause to remember,
when the curate darted rapidly towards the mantlepiece.

Ah, you would fulfil your destiny and strike me ! '
he exclaimed, as, faltering with fear and passion, he
laid hold of the bell-pull. ' Son of Cain ! Son of the
murderer and the adulteress ! '

You are mad ! ' cried the young man, staring at
him blankly, and dropping his upraised hand with an
expression of real alarm.

No, I am not answered Pettigrew, recovering his
composure and leaving go of the bell. * I have been
driven at last into telling you the truth. . . . You are
the son of a man who committed a murder. I don't
know whether they hanged him or cut off his head. . . .
He murdered his brother.'

Then why am I here ? ' asked Godfrey, looking
scared and bewildered. * Why am I here at all ? '

Yes, why are \o\\ two tiresome people staying on
here?' murmured the soft accents of Mrs. St. Clair,
who at this moment peeped in at the door. ' Do, Godfrey,
come and help me to entertain your guests. You
have been talking here long enough, I'm sure ! '

Listen to what this man is saying,' cried Godfrey,
striding towards the place where she was standing, ' and
give the lie to his words. Liar, repeat your calumnies ! '

What is all this ? ' asked Mrs. St. Clair, turning
pale, and seeming to cling for support to the handle of
the door. * Surely you have not been quarrelling ?' and
she looked at Pettigrew appealingly.

Godfrey has unfortunately drunk too much wine,*
replied he, turning aside his face and looking down;
and I have been driven to tell him the truth  to tell
him his real story  to show him his place. 

Mrs. St. Clair did not answer. She looked now as
though she would have fainted in good earnest, and
perhaps fallen, notwithstanding the sustaining door-handle,
had not Godfrey advanced towards her and
seized her suddenly by the arm. His grip was like
iron, but she submitted to it as a woman of marble
might submit, staring the while at the two men before
her as though in the agonies of some terrible nightmare.


You have told him ? ' she stammered out at last.

addressing herself to Pcttigrew. 'Then God help us
all ! What are we to do ? '

Then you are not my mother ? ' gasped the young
man, holding her from him by her shoulders, so that
he might scrutinize her features with more intensity.

'I have never had grandchildren faltered she, covering
her face with her hands and sinking upon her knees at
his feet. * Forgive mo, forgive me, Godfrey ; and don't
look at me like that ! . It was never ny wish from the
first. . . . But he was anxious for it  my husband 
it seemed the best thing for everybody at the time.'

The truth was out now, the whole truth, * the
family secret' to which she had alluded in her letter
to Petti grew, and to which allusion, as compared to
the rest of its contents, Godfrey had paid so little
attention.

This, then, was what the old man, upon his deathbed,
had been ' tiresome ' enough to threaten to divulge !
"Would the blow have fallen upon him then with less
"silence ? Would this ghastly secret have remained
for ever undiscovered but for the indiscretion of Pettish
? Who was he ? Whence did he come ? Where
were his own people ? . . .

Some such thoughts as these, as soon as he was capable
of thinking at all, passed through Godfrey's brain,
stunned and dazed as it was by the suddenness of this
terrible revelation.

Seeing thus, at his feet, this woman, to whom he had
endeavoured to look up with reverence and affection,
simply because he had imagined that she was his
mother  this woman, whose coldness had chilled him to
the very marrow of his bones, the suspicion of whose
levity' had stabbed him as with a poniard, and whose
every impulse, towards good or evil, he had watched

jealously ever since lie lead arrived at years of discretion
; his sentiments, even in the midst of his tribulation,
suddenly underwent a decided change. Tried in
the balance as his mother, this woman had certainly
been * found wanting'  in fondness, in tenderness, in
all those thousand little follies which are begotten of
maternal love. But she was not his mother after all,
and why should she have lavished upon the child of
another those precious gifts which, with her nature, she
might not have found it easy to bestow even upon her
own ?

A seeming defect in her character was thus accounted
for, and he understood and forgave. He had fancied,
too, that, by her undue familiarity with Pettigrew, she
had rendered his father ridiculous and cast a slur upon
the honour of his house. But the old man, who had
reared and nurtured him, was no father of his, neither
was his adoption due to any generous or philanthropic
impulse. He had been appropriated in order that
Erskine St. Clair might experimentalise upon some
living creature with a view to developing his own
peculiar theories of education, to gratify his personal
vanity, and to revenge himself secretly upon his unsuspecting
half-brother by thus* defrauding him of his
birthright.

With the intense loathing and contempt which he
found rising in his heart for this man, who had stood
towards him in the position of a father, Godfrey could
not repress a sentiment of the deepest compassion for
the woman who had been prevailed upon to act the part
of mother, who had acted it, too, so hardly, perhaps by
reason of her very horror of the deception, and who
now bowed her beautiful head in the dust, weeping and
clinging to his knees.

VOL. II. H

Get up lie said kindly, but looking pale like a deadman,
as lie raised her from the ground. * I am glad
that you are not my mother.'

I could have cared for you if I had been she
answered, still sobbing. ' As it wis, / Jive tried.'

Knowing what she did respecting sour unfortunate
parentage,' interposed Mr. Pettigrew, without raising
his faded eyes, ' it was not unnatural that your mother
. . that Mrs. St. Clair, I should say . . . that we all
of us . .' he hesitated for a moment, as though
searching in his mind for some befitting words, failing
which, he concluded by remarking impressively", ' "For
the sins of the fathers are visited upon the children,
even unto the third and fourth generation of them that
hate Me'" (somehow,' as Sophy had remarked only a
little while before, ' whenever people wish to be particularly
horrid and disagreeable, they always seem to
quote from the Bible')

Godfrey was leaning now, looking pale and haggard,
against the dark oak-panelling, feeling dazed
and bewildered. The clock seemed to bo ticking on
more loudly than ever, and the snoring of the old
Rector, who had slept on soundly through most of this
moral earthquake, was painfully audible. Suddenly ashe
was staring gloomily at the opposite wall, he encountered
the brown eyes of Captain Godfrey St. Clair,
gazing down upon him, as he fancied, with sympathetic
commiseration, for, as is often the case with a portrait,
the eyes seemed to follow those of the beholder.

Why am I so like that picture ? ' he demanded
eagerly ; and, for a moment, the idea flashed through
his brain that, perhaps, after all, this pretended revelation
was only some lugubrious practical joke.

Yes, it is very singular,' answered Mrs. St. Clair,

drjnng* her eyes, and looking up also at the portrait.
We both noticed it . . . your father  Mr. St. Clair,
I mean  and myself, when we first went to look at
you, years ago. We had been shown several babies
before, but they were not pretty ones, and when we
saw you my husband said, ** This one is hj far the
handsomest. He has eyes like Godfrey St. Clair. We
must have this one, and call him ' Godfrey \ *' and so
we did.'

The young man remained silent for some minutes.
He had pushed back his hair from his brow, and
seemed to be breathing heavily through his clenched
teeth.

Impostor I ' he cried at length, as, with a wild
gesture, he shook his fist at the unoffending portrait ;

and I that had taken you for my model ! '

We noticed that, Godfrey, we noticed that,' said
Pettigrew, taking his arm and stroking it, as a man
might stroke a restive horse with a view to quieting
him ; ' and we were all gratified at it.'

But his touch was still hateful to Godfrey, even
when, as now, it was intended as a sedative.

Need this man have known ? ' he almost groaned
as he shook himself free, and looked imploringly at the
woman he had striven to revere as a mother. * Need
this man have known all about me ? '

*You didn't know about it until quite lately, did
you ? ' said Mrs. St. Clair, appealing to the curate.

You remember the day when I first told you ? It
was in the boudoir, and Godfrey came in and interrupted
us.'

I remember,' answered Pettigrew, half closing his
faded eyes. *And I remember, too, how deeply pained
I was at the whole narration.'

Good God ! ' exclaimed the young man, passionately
; *this is terrible  to be pitied hy you! . . .
Perhaps, however,' he added more calmly, '1 am
wrong to hold you in such abhorrence, now that I
know all. I fancied  as I believe, with justice  that
you were a bigot and a sycophant ; that you had compromised
my mother, and brought dishonour upon
my father ; but this  whether true or imaginary 
was no concern of mine. These people, of whose
good name I was so unreasonably jealous, were no
kith or kin to me ; nay, you, who at any rate tutored
me, are not less nearly allied to me, and my hatred of
you is, therefore, as uncalled for as was my affection
for them. . . Good-bye, now, to all of you, and
to this old house, which, till to-day, I have called my
home. Let me get out of this atmosphere of lies ! '

Where are you going ? ' asked Mrs. St. Clair,
looking scared, as he pushed past her into the anteroom.


*I am going away,' he answered, 'to find out,
first, if this tale is true, and then to seek after my
own people.'

You are not going to publish this abroad ? ' she
exclaimed, aghast ; * to make a scene and scandal ?
After all these years, dear, what would be the good ? '
And she looked up at him imploringly.

This house  this place  is not mine,' returned he,
if what you tell me is true. Do you think I would
stand in the way of the real owner ? Tell me who and
what I am ? who are my own people ? what is my real
name ? '

As the young man, pale and haggard, stood confronting
them thus, both Mrs. St. Clair and Pettigrew
seemed to be cowed and dominated by his look of

mingled dignity and despair, and it was apparently
with real reluctance that the former answered, as she
cast down her eyes like one abashed, 

I can hardly bear to tell you what I know. . . .
Your father had done something very dreadful, and
had been taken off to prison. Your mother was very
pretty, we were told, but very bad too. She sold you
to get money to go off with some other man. "We
were at Genoa, and heard of you from a priest called
Padre Anselmo, who said that it would be a charity to
take you. When I heard of the story of your parents
I felt afraid ; but my husband assured me that a good
education would set everything to rights ; and we
wanted a baby. . . This is all I know. . . I can tell
you no more, except that you are an Italian.'

Chapter X.

How Godfrey, after the night which ensued upon this
terrible revelation, managed to be alive and well, and
seeming to the casual observer to be the same man as
before, remained for ever a mystery to himself. But
he was not the same man ; nor was it his pale check
alone, his anxious brow, or the lines and shadows which
had suddenly gathered about his dark eyes, that distinguished
him, for all time, from the Godfrey of the
past.

He was, he now realised, through no fault of his
own, an alien and a usurper ; one who had walked, too,
as it were, upon stilts above the heads of the multitude,
and who found himself dashed down on a sudden from
his high place, and compelled to go upon his way barefoot

and alone, shocking to lose himself amongst the
very crowd whose approbation he had courted from his
pedestal ; praying only that he might henceforth pass
on unnoticed, unnamed, and unmolested  a pariah,
a waif, and a stray  and alone, always alone : in
this thought lurked the interest bitterness of all!
He had lost his nationality, too. His very country
seemed to have been wrested from him at the same
moment as name, lineage, and good repute. * You are
an Italian* the woman he had hitherto looked upon
as a mother had said to him ; and although, to many
people, these words might laye conveyed anything but
an unpleasant idea, upon Godfrey  as I must still continue
to call him, for want of another name  they had
descended like a thunderbolt, searing and crushing him
to the very soul !

For, perhaps, until he had discovered his love for
Sophy, one of the strongest sentiments which animated
his bosom had been his affection for what he had conceived
to be his native land, and with this, as the reader
may remember, she had even ventured to reproach him;
and now, in spite of what she had termed his * 
old-england cant and claptrap,' he was not an
Englishman after all !

The whole thing seemed to him like a terrible
nightmare ; and to some such cause he might, perhaps,
have ascribed his sensations, but for the fact that he
had not closed his eyes during the whole night, thus
depriving himself of even the momentary hope that it
might have been all a dream.

He had passed the night in pacing up and do\Ti his
room, a prey to ten thousand painful emotions ; in
writing, and in burning, letters ; and in getting together
the very few belongings which might be considered

his own, previous to quitting for ever the place
he had now no right to call his home.

How much he had loved this old gray English
country-house, with its many deep-set windows, looking
out at him like the sad, wistful eyes of a friend, he did
not now dare to confess even to himself ; and as he
thought of the cruel trick which had been played upon
him, he felt almost as though what he had once called
his heart had turned to stone in his bosom.

And yet, after all, was this adoption of himself,
which he now resented so bitterly, anything less, in
reality, than an undeserved and extraordinary benefit
conferred upon him ? Had he not been fed, tended,
educated, and watched over in his helpless years,
by these very people whom he was ungrateful enough
now to load with silent reproaches ? What would the
world have seemed to him if he had been left to follow
uncontrolled the lawless instincts which were lying dormant,
doubtless, somewhere in his heart? With such
a mother as his own had been pictured to him 
inheriting too, possibly, some portion of the nature of
such a father  how would it have fared with him, in
all human probability, now ? . . . His high-flown sentiments
of honour, his reverence for truth and justice, his
boasted dominion over himself  would not all these
acquired virtues have been smothered, like good wheat
amongst tares, had it not been for his admirable bringing
up, under the eyes of these cold-blooded, decent-living
English people ? . . . .

'''Son of the murderer and the adulteress"' he
said to himself, as he stopped suddenly in front of u
looking-glass, and repeated Pettigrew's terrible words,
as though they afforded him a grim satisfaction. For
some moments he contemplated his image with attention.

Yes assuredly' ! The large passionate eyes,
with their long lashes ; the low, broad forehead, crowned
with its dark locks ; the regular teeth, and warm
Southern complexion, were all unmistakably Italian.
He recognised now, for the first time, these marked
characteristics of the Latin race, as he surveyed himself
in his bitterness. Why was it that he had never been
struck by them before ? Yes, without doubt he was a
foreigner  a child of the sunnj South, and it was
against the warm-blooded and impulsive nature of an
Italian that he had been warring ineffectually ever
since the days of his infancy. Small blame to him, he
thought now, if he had found it impossible, at times, to
subdue entirely the wild heart-beats of that hidden
self I Small blame to him now, whatever thar hidden
self might choose to develop into  mendicant, brigand,
or lazy macaroni-eating lazzarone ! Come one, come
all ! Let the base instincts which had, in all probability,
descended to him from his ignoble sires, stand
forth revealed in all their nakedness ! Away, henceforth,
with rules, maxims, and trite copse-book precepts,
since of what avail could these prove to him now, save
to bring into more terrible contrast the blackness and
baseness of his real descent? . . . Some such thoughts as
these passed through Godfrey's stricken and bewildered
brain during the miserable hours of that seemingly
interminable night, as he was making his final preparations
to leave the old home, from which he had resolved
to depart, ' branded,' as Pettigrew had exclaimed in his
delirium, ' with the brand of Cain.'

For he had thoroughly made up his mind, before
the tardy morning light had dawned, how he should
act. He would leave Dallingridge House next day ;
upon this point he Alas determined. A letter, which

he had prepared, should inform Mrs. St. Chiir of his
irrevocable intention ; and having thus decided, he
paused to consider whether either explanation or farewell
was due to any other person of the household.
Yes, there was one other person, Mary Parker, his
former nurse; the honest, red faced woman, who had
watched over his infant sears ; the only woman, indeed,
who had ever bestowed upon him a mother's
tenderness : for her, surely, he must leave a letter of
farewell. When, on the previous evening, he had been
informed that he was an adopted child, the remembrance
of this great tenderness on Mary's part had
caused him to imagine, for a moment, that he might
possibly be her son ; and, notwithstanding the real affection
which he had once felt for her, and for her faithful
admirer, John McBean, the notion that these two persons
might stand towards him in the relation of parents*
had filled him with painted emotion.

Since then, however, what a revolution had taken
place in his feelings ! The cruel details entered into by
Mrs. St. Clair and Pettigrew had left him in a position
so hopeless and so desperate, that he would have fastened
eagerly upon this very supposition, could he have hoped
that it possessed the slightest shadow of a foundation.

Unfortunately, however, he was endowed with a
good memory ; and having called to mind a tender
scene which had been enacted (years ago now) in 
churchyard, he could no longer doubt but
that, if Mary had ever had a child at all, it was lying
there, in the little osier-bound bed upon which she
had showered her tears, and which he had since looked
for in vain, as it had apparently ' melted into mother-earth,'
and become obliterated.

Still, to Mary Parker he would write a letter of

farewell, to be delivered to her after lie had departed :
a letter as from one on the eve of a long and sudden
journey, entering into no details, yet hinting at no
probable return ; and having done this, he reseated
himself at his writing-table, and set to work to compose
the most important letter of all.

This was a letter to * Francis St. Clair of Stilling-fleet,'
the blind philosopher whom he had hitherto
regarded as a kinsman, notwithstanding the family
estrangement. To him he had determined to bosom
himself in his distress: first of all, because he considered
that lie, too, had been grievously deceived and defrauded
; and secondly, because he was the father of
Sophy, and that he should address himself, upon an
occasion so momentous, to a man he had been accustomed
to regard hardly in the light of a rational being,
made him realise, for the second time, the full extent of
the revolution which had taken place in his feelings.

In this letter he omitted only so much of what he
believed to be his miserable history as possessed no
actual bearing upon the subject of his unconscious
usurpation. He wrote as a young man, broken down
and dispirited b} misfortune, might write to one older
and wiser than himself ; but he demanded nothing of
him save his forgiveness, and this  as he proceeded to
explain  for a wrong which had been wrought not
only against his inclinations, but without his knowledge.
As he held the pen in his hand, striving to
polish and condense his sentences, an uncontrollable
desire possessed him to write about Sojhy, more
especially as he considered that he owed her some
explanation as to his tardy avowal of affection : and he
knew that, by reason of her father's blindness, she
would be constrained to read him the letter. In his

hurried reply to her own letter of renunciation, which
had been brought to him on the previous evening, ho
had only had time to pray for an interview on the
morrow, without entering into any further particulars.
But it had occurred to him, upon receiving it, that
Pettigrew must have been even more indiscreet than
he suspected, and that, by some side-wind, Sophy must
have become acquainted with his true position before
he even knew of it himself.

He wrote now, therefore, with a sensation of momentary
relief, of his feelings towards her ; of the love
and admiration which, unguessed at first even by himself,
had grown and ripened with the years. He
alluded, next, to the reasons which had for some time
delayed the expression of these sentiments ; to the
thoughtlessness and love of procrastination peculiar
to youth ; the openly displayed devotion of a wealthy
and eligible rival ; and last, though not least, to the unhappy
family estrangement which, at first sight, seemed
to oppose a barrier to the union of the supposed cousins.
With the death of Erskine St. Clair a part of this
opposition had vanished ; but just as the consent of
Sophy's father appeared to be * the one thing needful,'
this terrible thunderbolt had descended, and he found
himself unworthy to lay claim to any such happiness,
since henceforth he was nothing more than a
nameless adventurer, dispossessed of home, fortune,
and honest kindred  a lonely wanderer upon the face
of the desolate earth.

I do not desire your pity,' he wrote, * for what I
must look upon as a malevolent freak on the jart of
Destiny, nor the pity of any other man ; but could I
know by some credible means that, save for my unlucky

star, I might, perchance, have gained your esteem, together
with your daughter's affection, I own that
I should feel in some measure consoled

As the young man penned these somewhat stilted
phrases, he positively' groaned aloud, for it seemed to
him that this renunciation must surpass in bitterness
any misfortune which might accrue to him in the
future.

She will read it, he thought at length ; ' though I
hope she will never know what it has cost me.'

And he then steeled himself to the point of discussing
some rather complicated legal details, having
reference to the succession to the Dallingridge property,
and to the receiving of the rents during his absence, or
rather, in all probability, during the remainder of his
natural life.

For, unless, by some chance, this story turns out
to be false,' he continued,  'and yet, after all, with
what object should they have lied ?  I shall never return
again to this place. . It is yours now, and it
will be your daughter's after you, according to the
terms of the entail. I cannot quite bring myself, yet,
to cut my throat, or blow out my brains ; in some cases,
to live requires the more courage of the two ; but I shall
be as dead to you and yours as if I had stooped to this
last resource of a coward. I shall consult with some
able lawyer as to the best mode of dying in my own
lifetime ; also, as to how you may be enabled to draw the
revenues of the estate, without publishing to the world
at large my miserable secret. All this will I endeavour
to do ; and if wishing goes for anything, you may
depend that my life will not be long enough to

protract any scruples wliicli may arise in your generous
heart upon my account. Remember that, but for me,
you and jour daughter are next in the entail, even had
no part of this disgraceful story come to light. Forget,
therefore, that I ever existed. Forgive me that I was
ever born to stand, as I have stood, unwittingly, betwixt
you and jour birthright ; for, cast down with
sorrow and humiliation, I feel that I can never forgive
myself . I pardon, however, these people whom I have
passed my lifetime in endeavouring to love and honour,
even if I can love and honour them no more ; after all,
they are no kinsfolk of mine. . I pardon and absolve
everybody. . I cast out my old hates, my old loves,'
he added, with a faltering pen. * And if any one
should inquire of you, in the future, as to what has become
of me, you can make answer in these words,
'godfrey St. Clair is dead"' 

Chapter XI.

Down in the peaceful hollow of Little Stillingfleet,
Sophy, as the reader is aware, was utterly unconscious
of all this. It is true that Godfrey had written to her
in a cruelly unexpected fashion, as she said to herself ;
but she was far from attributing his letter to its real
cause. Anxious and impatient for the interview which
would probably explain everything, yet with hope still
warm at her heart, she moved about the house in a kind
of daybreak, across which the individuals forming her
limited home-circle seemed to glide, from time to time,
more after the manner of shadows than like creatures
of flesh and blood.

or

A barrier, too, appeared to have arisen between
herself and her father, since the revelation of the previous
evening. He might really have trusted her (she
thought) with the true story of his marriage, instead of
allowing her to live on in a fool's paradise, imagining
what was untrue, and making herself, probably, ridiculous
in a thousand ways, through her ignorance of the
real position of affairs !

If her mother had in any way resembled the wild,
unkempt-looking gipsy Who had confronted her under
the high beeches ; if she had been as rude in speech,
and as ragged in attire, how, for instance, must Tom
Hickathrift have triumphed secretly, when, ignoring
the existence of this grinning skeleton in her ovn cupboard,
she had ventured, at times, to criticise some of
the peculiarities of kind Lady Hickathrift's dress and
deportment, going even so far once as to draw a caricature
of her as she appeared in the magnificent and imposing
costume which she had worn at the Abbey ball !
Tom had smiled kindly", but a little regretfully (she
now bethought her), upon beholding this work of art
(for it was so rcnj Uhe, and he was always so thoroughly
good-natured, that she had not been able to resist the
temptation of showing it to him) ; but he had uttered
not one single word of reproach ; and not realising that,
although one may be aware, oneself, of one's parents'
absurdities, it is not always particularly agreeable to
perceive that they are patent to everybody else, Sophy
now set down his grave face to the fact that he was all
the while aware that her own mother was a common
vagabond, who had probably gone about telling fortunes,
selling green brooms, and smoking a short clay-pipe.


The amiable philosopher, the keen sensitiveness of

whose nature had been intensified by his infirmity, was
not slow in perceiving that something had gone amiss
with his daughter's temper ; but as he made it a rule
never to wonder at, or to interfere with, the varying
moods of woman, which he attributed to purely physical
causes, he contented himself with waiting patiently for
her returning smiles, plunged in a more concentrated
contemplation of the Great Cause.

Towards the afternoon, however, Jane Ford, remarking
also that Soph 3 had evidently  got out of bed on
the wrong side,' and being, to some extent, a follower
of her master's theories with regard to her own sex,
ventured to confide to him, under the seal of secrecy,
how his daughter had, on the previous day, met with
an accident during her ride, how she had been visited
by Dr. Dyer in the harness-room, and how she had
afterwards gone forth upon a long and solitary ramble,*
from which she had not returned until nearly half-past
eight o'clock, since which (as even Nelus had remarked)
she had seemed to be ' all nohow.'

Upon hearing this, a great fear possessed the spirit
of the blind man. He trembled lest Sophy should be
suffering, or shattered and weakened by her recent accident,
to a greater extent than even the over anxious
Janus had imagined. He reflected, sadly, that his
blindness prevented him from noting either the languor
of her deportment or the pallor of her cheek, and,
acting in direct opposition to all established precedent
(for he placed but little faith in the remedies of the
accredited leech), he decided that Nelus should walk
over to PojTiings at once, with a verbal message requesting
Dr. Dyer to repeat his visit early on the
morrow, as though of his own accord.

This little conspiracy, against what they knew

would have been Sophy's own express desire, gave the
wire-puller and his serving-rapid an uncomfortable
sense of guilt, it is true ; but their anxiety was
quieted for the moment, and the former in particular,
having sacrificed, as he acknowledged, a principle to
his affection, was enabled, with a clear conscience, to
return to the illustration of his political schemes upon
the gravel of the garden-walk.

In the afternoon of this day, Godfrey had begged
for the interview which Sophy could not bring herself
to look upon yet, notwithstanding her nervous fears, as
even the prelude to a final separation. In the neighbouring
hazel-copse, as usual, this meeting was to take
place, some way from the only intersecting pathway,
in the small open space which had been cleared for the
better growth of the gnarled oak-tree, near to which
Sophy had unfortunately ' lost ' the great Hickathrif t
ring.

Notwithstanding her recent encounter with her
unexpected and unwelcome kinsman, she had determined,
this time also, to be first at the tryst, all
nervous apprehensions for personal safety having been
dispelled by newly-awakened misgivings of the heart ;
and long before Godfrey made his appearance in the
woodland path, she had established herself upon the
rustic bench, and sat thoughtfully picking at the
frilled edges of the little clinging gray and yellow
lichens, which somehow never tcoiild come off whole.

Looking up by-and-by, she saw Godfrey standing
within only a few yards of her, and without rising,
she waited for this closer coming with a loudly-beating
heart. But to her surprise he did not seat himself
beside her, or even endeavour to possess himself of her
outstretched hands. He remained standing sadly before

her, and lie now perceived the change that had taken
place in his appearance.

What is the matter ? ' she gasped, looking up at
him with frightened eyes. * You are angry with me ?
What have I done ? '

You have done nothing,' he answered, in what
seemed to her a hard and altered tone. * But a great
misfortune has happened to me. I have heard had
news.' He could hind no more words at this moment,
and thrusting his hand into his breast-pocket, he drew
forth the letter in which he had fully stated the case
as it now stood.

Is anybody dead ? ' she asked, anxious and astonished,
wondering chose death could possibly affect
him so visibly.

No one is dead,' replied the young man, gloomily ;
and he then added, as though he had guessed hdt
thoughts, 'Whose death could cause me so much
sorrow, except yours?'

Then it can only be a question of money,'
exclaimed Sophy, brightening. ' Some bank has
failed, and you have become poorer ; for my own
part, I am (jiadj as now you will seem more like an
equal.'

She had hoped to rouse him by this, but he still
looked inexpressibly wretched.

It has to do with money,' he said at length, his
words falling slowly ; ' and I am poor indeed : nothing
is mine, not even these clothes I stand up in. I
have lost everything in the world ; and now I am
come to say good-bye to you, too. . . . Everything
must go.'

As he said this, he sat down mechanically upon
the oak-tree bench, some way from her, and, instead

VOL. II. I

of looking at "her or taking her hand, he leant forward
like an old man, and gazed fixedly at the dead leaves
at his feet, amongst which he commenced absently
raking with a cane.

Sophy was now fairly alarmed.

What is it ?* she asked, again placing her hand on
his shoulder. ' Tell me what is making you so unhappy
? '

Godfrey then informed her of the events of the previous
evening, of the effect they had produced upon
himself, and of his resolve to quit Dallingridge for ever,
unless he should discover, after a further investigation,
that Mrs. St. Clair and Pettigrew had deceived him,
and that he was consequently entitled to return.

But I doubt if this is likely,' he said, looking her
in the face for almost the first time. ' Everything now
seems to confirm their story  above all, their anxiety
that I should hush it up, and behave as if I knew nothing.
I am going up to London when I leave you,
whence I shall start in a few days for Italy, to look
after my own people  if, indeed, I have any relations
still alive.'

A hopeless expression passed over his face; he
covered it with his hands ; and Sophy, perceiving his
distress, remained silent for some moments, her eyes
full of sympathetic tears.

Godfrey had omitted to tell her, in alluding to his
*own people,' who and what, according to his informants,
these people had actually been ; for, after the
high moral code he had always preached to her, he
shrank at first from confessing what were his ignoble
antecedents. It would be more honest to do so, however
; and it was to this end that he was endeavouring
to nerve himself now.

And wlieii you have found them, your real parents,
then will you come back to me ? ' Sophy inquired at last,
very gently. * 1 shall like them, I know ; and I shan't
mind in the least if they arc poor : I shall be fond of
any one that really belongs to you. Those other people
I never could like,' and she waved her hand in the
direction of Great Stillingfleet. * I am glad that you
are not their son.'

My father is, I believe, dead replied Godfrey, as
though with an effort. ' Possibly I may be able to discover
some trace of my mother ; but even this is very
unlikely. She is probably dead too.'

But if you find her ? Then will you be satisfied
and come back ? '

I shall endeavour to relieve her if she is in want,
though I don't know what is to be done without
monc} ; still, I can work. . . .'

'And then?' asked Sophy, pale with anxiety for
his reply.

And then I shall remain With her in Italy, or, if
that is impossible, I shall make my way to the Colonies.
I can work out my passage on board some ship. . . .'

Sophy looked at him as he said this in utter bewilderment.
The tears which had stolen into her eyes
were brimming over now.

And you would leave me here she exclaimed at
last, in broken accents, ' and go far away, to quite the
other end of the world ? Oh, how can I live without
you ? What have I done that you should become so
cruel?' And here she fairly broke down.

Godfrey took her in his arms ; he could resist no
longer. lie kissed her lips, her hair, her wet eyes, and
then held her close to him, as one might hold an infant,
for some time without speaking.

I must go from you lie said at length, shaking
himself free. ' I am not fit to touch you And he
moved again towards the further side of the bench.

Sophy Alas still weeping ; but between her sobs she
besought him imploringly, 

Oh, don't  don't leave me ! "What do I care about
all this ? Who can I ever love in the world as I have
loved jou ? Let us go together to the end of it ! Take
me with you wherever you go ! I will be your wife,
your sister, your servant  anything you like, only don't
leave me ! I care for you so much more than I did
when you were rich and powerful ; this has made me
know how I love you, and I should be glad of it, were
it not for what you suffer ! '

Godfrey had risen while she was speaking, and he
was leaning now against the oak-tree, as though for
support, at a spot where the bench, which had once
encircled the trunk, had been broken away. He looked
very fierce and pale, and, as Sophy fancied, with an
expression in his eyes like that of some wild animal at
bay.

She would have fallen on her knees at his feet and
again implored him ; but as she came towards him he
pushed her almost roughly away ; and, as one stunned
by a sudden blow, she stood before him, crushed and
wounded in spirit.

Ah, you no longer love me ! ' she cried, despairingly.
' You have hurt me ! '

But Godfrey did not turn to her as she had expected
that he would turn, protesting, pitying, remorseful,
asking her pardon with tender words and tenderer
kisses. He remained still standing, with his back
against the oak-tree, his face white and set.

Don't tempt me ! ' he said at last. * If you are
strong, be merciful. I am not fit to touch the hem of

your garment. Thank God, I asked you to be my wife
before I knew of all this ! '

The young man was, indeed, struggling with a new
and terrible temptation  a temptation which could
hardly have asserted itself and stood ground in the
past time, when he had conceived that his moral nature
was fenced round and protected by chivalrous and
honourable traditions. Before him stood the only
Avoman he had ever loved  for he realised this
thorough now  young, beautiful, her whole being
aglow with genuine and acknowledged love, passion,
and devotion, asking, nay, imploring, him to take her
to himself. * I will be your wife, your sister, your servant
 anything you like ! ' she had declared to him.
And he knew that she meant what she said.

Why should he not possess himself, then, of this
woman, who thus offered herself to him voluntarily,
body and soul ? For the feeling that he was, in some
sense, bound to act towards her as a brotherly protector,
had vanished with the knowledge that she was no kith or
kin of his. Not as a iter, therefore, would he appropriate
her ; not as a servant ; perhaps not even as a
ivifcy since what could marriage bring him, now, save a
miserable sense of thraldom and responsibility? But
there were marriages and marriages. . . . Could they
not each be free, and yet love one another, and live
together in the closest of all earthly communions, Without
the aid of church or priest ? For

Doth the priest know aught
Of sign, or holy unction, brought
From over sea, that ever can
Make man love maid or maid love man
One whit the more, one bit the less,
For all his mummers to bless "?
Yea, all his blessing or his ban ] '

'The poet of the Sierras' laid not yet written these
lines ; but some thought akin to that which inspired
them flashed through Godfrey's mind as he
stood leaning against the gnarled oak-tree and looking
at Sophy. Providence, or Fate, or ' Kismet,' or
by whatever name one might choose to designate
a superior governing power, seemed to have acted towards
him with undeserved malevolence, such as might
tend to evoke, in a proud nature, a spirit of reckless
defiance.

I have lost everything in the world,' he had said
to Sophy ; but here, at an' rate, was one good thing left
to him  one blessing which he had only to reach out
his arms to take  and was he to let this go from him
with the rest ? . In a word, should he not now make
Sophy really his own, and take her with him to Italy,
to Australia  wherever his chequered fortunes might
lead him in the uncertain future ? Would it not, indeed,
as she had protested, be cruel to hcVy as well as to himself,
to leave her behind him when he went forth upon
his way ? . . .

So spoke, in the young man's heart, the voice of the
tempter, to which man and maiden have but too often
succumbed ; and unconsciously Woman, in her most
seductive form, was adding her entreaties to the wiles
of the serpent.

*When I was looked upon by everybody as a
heathen and a savage ' (she was saying to him now),
* 3'ou cared for me  you have told me so since ; but
last night, when I found out about my mother, I
offered to give you up : I wrote to you and said, " No."
You seemed so above me in everything, and I thought
you woidd mind about it  it was not from any lack of
affection. . . . But now I ask you  I imphrc you  tolet

me love you still, and follow you wherever you go !
All, Godfrey ! how can I ever live without you ? ' she
exclaimed, stretching out her arms to him. 'Look, I
am on my knees ! How can you be so hard to me if
you reals love me ? '

I do love you,' he answered, * and you know it.
But though I am what I am  base-born, degraded, a
waif and a stray  thank God I have in me enough of
honour to give you up  to leave the hope, the life, the
love I have no right to. . . . Something within me tells
me to do this. It must have been forced into me by
education. God knows I can have no good in me by
rights.'

Godfrey ! ' exclaimed Sophy, taking his hand
and kissing it ; ' what do I care who your parents may
have been ? I know that you are good, and brave,
and noble. As I have said, I am glad you are not the
child of those cold-hearted formal people ! '

*My life seemed bound up in this place,' he answered,
in a broken voice, as he drew away his hand. * But,
after all, I was only a usurper. It is now your father's,
and, after his death, it will belong to you. Everything
is put down in this letter, which you must read to
him.'

He had triumphed over Mephistopheles, and he
only touched Sophy's hand to give her the letter.

I shall not read it  I shall not read it ! ' she exclaimed
passionately. ' What do we want with a large
place and more money? It might bring some curse
upon us, and put an end to our cain and happy life.
My father is better as he is.'

Godfrey, however, insisted upon her retaining the
letter.

If not to-night,' he said gently, ' read it to him

some other day  after I am gone ; not at once, unless
you like. In it you will find an address at which a
letter may possibly reach mc. I must say good-bye,
now

She was at his feet still, weeping and clasping his
knees, but he did not trust himself to raise her. The
tree was at his back, so that he could only escape by
disengaging her hands. This he did as gently as
possible, and, after he had pressed them again and
again to his lips, he sprang away from the many soft
voices which seemed to whisper to him * Stay ! ' and
went forth from love, wealth, and happiness, to do
battle in the great known outer world, with poverty,
loneliness, and an unexpected and unmerited shadow
of disgrace.

He had ordered that a dog-cart, with his portmanteau
and a gun-case  the only baggage he intended
taking with him  should await him at the upper gate
leading from the high-road, to convey him to the
railway station ; and as he sprang into it, and took the
reins, the servant handed him a long bluish envelope,
evidently containing a business letter. Mechanically
he broke open the seal, and to his astonishment read
the following words : 

london, Mme \7th, 1888.

Dear Sir,  We beg to inform you, as the solicitors of
the late Lord Henry Davenport (deceased on the 3d inst),
that you are entitled, under a codicil of his will (dated April
29th of this year), to the sum of 5000/. (Consols). A part
of this money, his lordship explains, is in payment of a debt
contracted about a month ago ; the rest he desires to
bequeath to you as a slight token of his gratitude for an
important service you rendered him at about the same
period. "We also beg to enclose the accompanying letter

from Lady Henry Davenport. Kindly inform us whether
you desire the money to remain invested as it is at present 1
Awaiting your orders, we beg to remain, dear Sir, yours
faithfully, < >

(And here followed the names of the solicitors in due
form.)

The second letter, from the lady of the deserted
lake, ran thus : 

Milan, May 7th.

He is gone, my dear young friend (if " friend " you will
permit me to call you), so suddenly, and without a struggle ;
and I am left alone in this bright, gay-looking city, with all
its life and movement seeming to me like a bitter mockery.
It was heart, so the doctors said, as they always do say,
when they can give no other cause for death. Why do I 
write to you in my new and terrible desolation 1 I ask this
of myself, and you will ask it as well, should you ever
receive this letter, for, maybe, at the last moment I shall
not find the courage to send it to England. I write to you
(I say to myself) for several reasons, each one of them
seeming sufficient. First of all, you are almost the last
Englishman with whom my dearest husband conversed
before starting for this miserable place ; and but for an
illness (which I grieve to learn has since ended in death)
in your own family, you would probably have accompanied
us here, and to your compassion and sympathy I might
even now have turned in my great sorrow. Secondly, you,
too, are at present in mourning and affliction  your father,
but lately dead ; your mother, like myself, a widow. You,
young, handsome, wealthy, happy (as I trust you have been
imtil now), will realise that at no moment, in no circumstances,
however prosperous, are we exempt from those
sorrows with which God chastens us, from time to time,
for some wise purpose of His own. To-day (I have said to

myself, since reading the notice of your father's death), you,
too, may be reflecting, perhaps for the first time in the
course of a prosperous Hfe, upon serious subjects, and
sharing some of my own sad thoughts. . . . These are a
few of my reasons for writing to you ; but I have yet one
more. . I have to ask your forgiveness for what may
seem to you an impertinence. My husband has left you,
by will, a small bequest. Insignificant, indeed, will it
appear in the eyes of a young man newly possessed of great
wealth and a fine estate. You will recognise, therefore,
that it is not for the sake of the money itself that it is
bequeathed to you, since at our first meeting lue were the
beggars, and you the generous stranger who relieved our
necessity. It is intended merely as a remembrance, to
remind you that you met us once, and to convince you of
the favourable impression you made upon us both. More
than this you might fail to understand, were I to endeavour
to explain myself further. Something tells me, then, that
my forwardness in writing to you is already forgiven.
Accept, in conclusion, dear Mr. St. Clair, the good wishes
of a childless widow, who will receive any information
respecting you, or your future career, with the deepest
interest. Farewell, and may God bless you ! Your faithful
and sincere friend,

Georgian A Henry Davenport.'

For a few seconds, Godfrey was, as it were, stunned
with amazement ; but this feeling gave place, ere long,
to an emotion of the profoundest gratitude, which
brought tears to his eyes. At this moment, such an
evidence of sympathy and interest affected him to an
extravagant degree. Upon the sum which had been
thus unexpectedly bequeathed to him, he felt that he
could draw without qualms of conscience, and he was
all the more reassured upon this point as the money
in question had been left to him by reason of a

personally-inspired friendship or congeniality. According
to Lady Henry's letter, lier husband had not been
influenced by the belief that he was a genuine and
undisputed scion of the family of the St. Clairs of
Dallingridge. Nevertheless, he felt in honour bound
to make to the widow of his benefactor a statement
relative to his changed circumstances. On his arrival
in town he would write at once. . As he thought of
this woman, whose manner and appearance had so
fascinated him, he felt instinctively on his watch-chain
for the little ring with which she had presented
him at their first and last interview. Yes, it was quite
safe ; and as in the possession of a talisman, vouchsafed
to him by some benevolent fairy, he was, for the
moment, more resigned to his fate.

He was nearing Poynings now, having driven fast
in his excitement ; and perceiving Tom Hickathrift's
tall figure crossing the market-place, he turned in at
a cart-road by which he could reach the station without
passing the Abbey, in order to avoid a meeting with
one whose position seemed now to contrast so painfully
with his own.

I leave him in possession,' he thought bitterly, ashe
gave the horse a flick with his whip ; ' but, at any
rate, I am not quite a pauper. With strong arms and
a clear brain, there is no reason now why one should
starve.'

Upon his arrival in London he addressed the
following letter to Lady Henry, under cover to her
late husband's solicitors, whom he requested to forward
it at once. It ran thus : 

Madam,  I am beyond expression touched at the proof
of kindly interest with which you have honoured me, by
writing to mo at a moment when your thoughts must have

been so painfully preoccupied. No poor words of mine can
serve, unfortunately, to comfort or console you. Yet I
must beg of you, nevertheless, to accept the assurance of
my sincere and respectful sympathy, which, were it in my
power, should now lighten the burden of your sorrow. Still
more keenly am I enabled to feel with you, since learning
that /, too, have lost a friend, the knowledge of whoso
unexpected generosity inspires me with the most heartfelt
gratitude, joined to a sense of my own extreme unworthiness.
Never, assuredly, did an unlooked-for benefit descend
more opportunely upon a human being than in the present
instance ; for, through the discovery of some unfortunate
circumstances of which I was ignorant till now, I find
myself suddenly compelled to resign what I had hitherto
conceived to be my birthright, and to become, from this
time forward, a nameless wanderer upon the face of the
earth. In a word, madam, I am the child of chance and
misfortune ; and I have no connexion whatever with the
family of the late Mr. St. Clair of Dallingridge, by whom,
it seems, I was only adopted.

It is from no desire to inflict upon you, at this time,
an account of my own private affairs, that I have been
induced to inform you of this. I have considered it my
duty to do so ; for should 3'ou be of opinion that in
bequeathing to me this legacy your husband was influenced
by his early friendship, either with Mr. Erskine St. Clair or
his brother (with whom, I believe, he was at Eton), I should
feel bound, in my present painful circumstances, to decline
its acceptance. I venture to enclose, herewith, an address,
in case you might deign to honour me with any future
commands, although, as I shall probably be moving from
place to place, a letter may not always reach me immediately.
I am leaving England very shortly for Italy  the
country, I believe, of my birth  and it is unlikely, I fear,
that we shall ever meet again on this side of the grave.
The ruby ring  another proof of your kindness and

generosity  I shall always preserve as one of the most
precious of my few remaining treasures. I look at it everyday,
and it will serve to remind me during my exile 
should I ever prove myself so insensible as to need a
reminder  of one of whose sympathy and consideration I
can never be sufficiently proud.

Adieu, then, madam ! That the choicest blessings of
Heaven may be reserved for you in the future, and descend
upon you when this hour of your affliction is surpassed, is
the earnest prayer of one who can only sign himself, with
the deepest respect and gratitude, your ladyship's obedient,
humble servant,

Godfrey.'

Godfrey's epistolary style had always been, to a
certain extent, stilted and pedantic, and he was unable
immediately upon his change of fortune to divest himself
of all the results of an exemplary and methodical
training. The letter, however, expressed pretty clearly
the sense he had intended to convey, and he despatched
it that very night.

Chapter XII.

No one can say that dry toast is an animal product,'
remarked Sophy, some months after the events recorded
in the last chapter, perceiving one morning that her
father appeared to be unwilling to partake of his breakfast.
* Or try a little of this nice hot muffin, or some
oat-cake ? Here, too, is the last of our spinach, for a
year at least ; as usual there's half the gravel walk in
it, but you won't mind that. It can't be good, in this
cold weather, to live, as you have been living lately,
positively upon air.'

Notwithstanding her cheerful tone, it was easy to
perceive that her gaiety was only assumed, and that her
anxiety about her father's health proceeded from a conscientious
desire to repair what she had now come to
regard as her recent filial shortcomings.

She had not closed her eyes for many nights after

her final parting with Godfrey. She had thought of

her love, and sighed, and mourned, and wept over his

departure from her. She had felt the great void

widen and darken around her when she had arisen,

pale and haggard, upon the desolate morrow, with the

consciousness

That nothing good could be ;'

but towards her father she experienced a nearer raj)-
jyrocJiemcnt. She seemed to have grown older, wiser,
more cognisant of the motive-powers which influence
action ; less far removed from one of his years. In a
word, she had lived and suffered, and her sympathy
for him, in his solitude and darkness, had increased
since she knew what heart solitude really meant.
Then, again, she was haunted by one particular memory.
At the moment it had been to her even asa
revelation.

On the May evening when she had turned homewards
after her parting with Godfrey, the daylight had
darkened almost to dusk before she regained the house;
bats were already on the flit in front of the sitting-room,
and though Jane had not yet drawn doT\ni the
blinds, she had brought in the candles, and closed the
centre windows.

Sophy was glad of this. Had these windows been
left open, her father would surely have detected her
passing footsteps, even when, as now, she confined
herself to the thin strip of grass which bordered the

travel-walk so as to make no noise. As it was, however,
her footfall could have sounded no louder than a
snowflake, and she would be enabled, before rejoining
him, to steal up to her room and endeavour to still the
beating of her fluttering heart.

As she passed by the windows, she had peeped in
at the blind man. Only for a moment; but in that
one glance she seemed, for the first time, to take in
and comprehend the utter desolation of his position.

The candles lit up the further end of the apartment
with a cheerful radiance, in front of which the empty
harness of the three departed warriors stood out in
bold and black relief, except upon the side where the
reflected light, falling on casque and shoulder-piece,
produced the effect of an after outline, traced, as it
were, in golden ink.

Crouched helplessly by the side of the fireless
hearth, upon a sort of improvised divan, the blind
philosopher was waiting patiently for her coming.
He was leaning forward towards the light, which was
to him as darkness, his keen face, with its clear-cut
Arab features, supported upon his thin hand, in the
position of one who listens intently nay, almost painfully,
for 'a sound that cometh not.* His whole
countenance wore an expression of strained and
anxious expectation, of intense melancholy, and of
enforced submission to an inevitable decree.

The ' 'prisoned eagle'  the wild steed of the Pampas
lassoed, bridled, and tied in stall  these were the
images suggested to Sophy's mind, as she contemplated,
thus, the silent despair of this passionate and enthusiastic
nature, bound in the chains of everlasting darkness.

I have neglected him lately ! ' she had thought
remorsefully. * Taken up with my own miserable

hopes and fears, I have for "gotten low helpless and
dependent upon me he is ! For the future I will try-not
to be so selfish.'

She realised, too, with sudden self-humiliation and
reproach, how she had been willing, nay anxious, only
half an hour ago, to separate herself, possibly for ever,
from this blind father who was in such bitter need of
her companionship ; and the words which had been once
uttered by her absent friend, Adele, flashed back upon
her memory with all the impressiveness of fulfilled
prophecy'.

For how long will you love him ? ' the French
girl had asked her, a year ago now, upon that October
afternoon when they had leant together over the five-barred
gate at Great Stillingfleet, and looked up at the
russet Dallingridge woods. 'For only a very little
while ; ' (for days, and weeks, and months, for nearly
a whole year, surely? Until that very afternoon, no
thought of leaving him'; had entered her perverted
mind !) ' And then,' Adele had continued, ' some
young man will step in, who has never rendered you,
perhaps, the slightest service, but you will love him
twenty times as much, and he will carry you away ;
whilst your blind father, who has given you all his care,
will seem as nothing to you, and will be left alone.'

There are moments when our passions speak and
decide for us,' says George Elliot, 'and we seem to
stand by and wonder ; ' and although Sophy could not
have the advantage of profiting by these actual words,
she had experienced to the utmost the sensation they
describe. Most of all did she wonder, upon the morrow,
when her passions had, for the moment, ceased
speaking, and when loneliness and remorse seemed
likely to be her portion in the future.

But no ! . . . lier father should not be left alone!
. . The temptation had passed from her. No young
man had carried her away, despite her undutiful desire
that one should do so, and her widowed youth should be
devoted in future to cheering her father in his affliction.
She would never neglect him again ; on this she was
determined, notwithstanding the partial fulfilment of
Adele's prophetic words. Then, by a natural sequence,
her thoughts reverted to the matrimonial projects of
Mademoiselle de Cramponaye the elder.

Perhaps,' she had thought, still torturing herself,
after she had retired to her little white bed, ' I was
wrong to be so angry with her, and to hate her, and
Lavish her away, just because Adele fancied she wanted
to marry him ! And wh} should it have been, after
all, only for the sake of his money? Surely he 'is
good, and handsome, and clever enough, for a woman
to care about him for himself alone ? She may have
been really in love with him, poor thing ! . . . and
then, if ever  if by some too happy possibility . . .
things had been different, and I had ever happened to
marry and leave home  she could have stayed herewith
him, and looked after him, and mesmerised him,
and listened to all his plans about Central Asia and the
great Tartar horde ! . . . I have been very, very
selfish!'

Then and there, upon the spur of the moment, she
would have risen from her bed, struck a light, and
written to Adele, whilst the good fit was upon her, and
notwithstanding her great trouble, in the hope, at any
rate, of tranquillising her own conscience ; but her
only female friend was mysteriously missing, and there
were even grave doubts as to whether she still lived.
Not a word  not a sign  from her had been received

VOL. II. K

for months ; and the hopes Sophy had nourished as to
her having been merely in hiding, would have faded
out altogether, but for the letters in the handwriting
of Mr. Carver, which poured in continually by every
post, addressed to her at Little Stillingfleet. One had
arrived, indeed, only that very morning with an urgent
underlined ' To be forwarded ' on it ; and whilst anybody
so * 'cute * and wide-awake as this negro adventurer,
believed her to be still alive, Sophy felt that it
would be foolish to mourn her as dead.

She will probably appear here again some day,*
she used to say to herself, as, after paying the postman,
she locked up the black man's letters. So, as she
hardly liked to be the first to reopen a correspondence
with the elder sister, it seemed probable that her good
intentions Avould only go towards contributing to the
mosaic pavement of the nether world. Still, she had
registered a avow that she would devote herself, henceforward,
to her father, and in this determination she
had continued firm and strong ever since.

Over and over again she had read and re-read
Godfrey's letter. She had received another one from
him, too, written a few days after their last meeting,
and when he owns just about to depart for Italy. This
was the very dearest letter, she thought, in the whole,
wide Avorld. No other letter could ever have been
welcomed with such passionate heart-beatings, or read
over so eagerly and so often. She carried it about with
her, hidden in the bosom of her dress, and Alas wont to
take it out, and devour it, in secret places. All night
it was with her, inter her pillow, where she could
touch it by simply stretching out her hand. Had Jane
chanced upon it by accident, it woidd have been incomprehensible
to her as a cuneiform inscription, since, as she

expressed it, lie was * not learned ' in reading * writing-letters
hence there was no danger in leaving it about.
Whilst she was dressing, she used to spread it out near
the pincushion. In a very little while she knew it
perfectly well by heart, and could say it over to herself
without referring to the original text ; while its edges
had become so frayed and dilapidated that it looked like
one of those ancient manuscripts which are discovered,
from time to time, in the tombs of the Pharaohs, along
with the grains of wheat.

Over and over again, too, she had replied to it ;
tenderly, reproachfully, passionately, despairingly, according
to her mood. These letters had been written
at night, in the secrecy of her chamber, when the rest
of the household were almost certainly plunged in sleep,
and when, somehow, her ideas generally seemed to flow
more freely. Too freely, perhaps ; for when read by
the morning light, they always appeared to her to be too
tender, too reproachful, too passionate, or too despairing,
as the case might be, and she had ended, up to the
present time, by setting them on one side to be recopied,
and toned down at some future day; thereby resembling
the eccentric lady who used once to write love-letters to
Lord Byron, consigning them afterwards to the depths
of her trunk, and to whom he had the ingratitude to
allude as ' the mad skeleton.'

Nor did Sophy's conduct, in this respect, spring
altogether from what Godfrey had once termed ' the
procrastination peculiar to j'outh.' She was not yet
quite sure of herself. If, in reply to one of these
letters, breathing a too undisguised spirit of affection,
Godfrey were to write to her, ' Prove all this by coming
to me in my solitary exile ! ' where, then, would be all
her good resolves of filial devotion ? No ; she felt that

it would be wiser not to write to him just yet. By-and-by,
when she was stronger, she would compose a calmer
and more sensible letter, but she was not quite strong
enough now.

Then, again, she had put off, as yet, reading to her
father Godfrey's otJicr letter, from mingled feelings of
a different kind.

Perhaps,' she had said to herself, ' the whole thing
will turn out to be untrue after all. Before long I may
hear from him again, or some news of this story will
get about in the neighbourhood. . I will not do anything
in haste. It will be better to wait till the end of
the year.'

And so the days and the weeks went by, and it was
very nearly the end of the year now ; and in order to
act up to all her good resolutions of ministering to the
requirements of her blind father, she was pressing him,
upon this particular October morning, to partake of dry
toast or buttered muffin. At the same time she poured
out, and set before him, a cup of coffee, which, being
prepared with the grounds, according to Eastern custom,
almost answered the purpose of meat and drink combined.
He thanked her affectionately, warmed his thin
hands by clasping the hot cup, but did not partake of
its contents, and continued with his sightless gaze fixed,
as it were, upon some object in the far distance.

Sophy thought she had never seen him * look so far
off,' as on this morning. He was wool-gathering,
doubtless, in some country of the imagination out beyond
Tom Hickathrift's furthest belt of dark fir-trees,
and, anxious to recall his spirit to habitable regions,
she continued, 

If you were to ask my advice, I should say that
-some of that nice beef-tea which we sent up yesterday

to Moses Weller, or a leg of one of those pheasants
grilled, would do you more good, this cold morning,
than to sit there, eating nothing, and staring in that
odd manner at the clouds ! '

 Am I staring?' he answered humbly, and shifting
the position of his chair, he turned his blank gaze in
another direction.

Although profoundly touched at his humility, she
felt bound to proceed with her harangue.

You J of all people, I should have thought,' she said,
believing in no other existence after this one, ought
rather to have taken to the " eat, drink, for tomorrow
we die," kind of system, which even a good many religious
people seem to have done. Instead, however,
you become ever'' day more ascetic, wearing no warm
clothes, and living almost entirely upon vegetables and
cold water. It isn't as if sou were an anchorite, and.
thought that it was pleasing to God to see you living
upon a parched pea or a herring's tail I You haven't
this excuse, as you fancy that all they believe in is
nonsense ! '

How do we know, dear ?' murmured the Agnostic
dreamily. * It is the assumption of perfect knowledge
which offends us in the accepted creeds. But, with
the years, we become more tolerant. . . . Now
when I hear of one calling himself a rational
being, who is blinded and hampered by enervating
superstitions, I am no longer filled, as heretofore,
with indignation. It produces only such an effect
upon me as if I were to behold a grown man running
after a hoop, or whipping at a spinning-top; and
yet I can but revere the religious sentiment which
animated our King Canute, when he sent to Rome to
purchase St. Augustine's arm-bone for one hundred

talents of silver, and one of gold. At that period of
the world's history, I might even have desired to possess
the relic myself ; noir, a wise man should have done
with such follies

It seems impossible to know what is right,' remarked
Sophy, * when nobody agrees with his neighbour,
and when the religious people, even, are always
quarrelling. Is there nothing certain by which we maybe
guided ? '

In all the surviving creeds there are some grand
elements of truth, which have preserved them from
extinction,' replied the blind man. 'Witness the pervading
principle of the religion of Zoroaster, set forth
in the Vendidad, or older canon of the Zend scriptures
the battle between Ormazd and Ahriman, which
shall continue to all time, in the world without, as well
as within  in man's corporate nature. " Earnestness,"
too, says the Dhammapada, " is the path of immortality
; thoughtlessness the path of death." Here,
surely, are grand truths! Beyond which, and that weare
born to die, we know nothing, although we may,
at times, deriA''e some comfort from the notion of an
eventual absorption in Brahm, or Universal Being.*

Ah, but we know f/iis, at smy rate,' said his daughter,
reassuming the materialistic tone, * nuai is a carnivorous
animal. That's what Tom tells me, whenever
I reproach him with shooting so many living creatures,
and "having out the ferrets'* upon the slightest excuse.
I have often told him that it surprised me in one so
religious, and he always answers that beasts, and birds,
and fishes, were intended to support the life of man ;
and I really believe that he's right.'

Now, under ordinary circumstances, these words
would have produced the same effect as the flourishing

of a red cloak before a bull. Very few things were
capable of arousing anger in the philosopher's inild and
contemplative breast ; but there were two erroneous
statements possible for the uninitiated to give utterance
to, which, looking upon them, as he did, as the outcome
of crass ignorance and prejudice, were wont to call
forth his contemptuous indignation. The first and most
offensive of these  made generally by persons wholly
unacquainted with the subject, old women, country
squires, or provincial doctors of medicine  was to the
effect that the use of the Turkish bath was not only
weakening and injurious to the constitution,' but that
it had now and then proved actually fatal ; and the
second, the declaration by persons equally ignorant,
or, at any rate, equally unqualified to express an
opinion that man was *a carnivorous animal,' and
that this fact was supported by evidence in the formation
of his teeth.

Sophy, therefore, had expected that a long and
heated argument would ensue upon the assertion which
she had thrown down like a hostile gauntlet. She
expected to have been reminded  not, indeed, for the
first time  that both the writings and example of many
of the greatest men of the earth  Pythagoras, Socrates,
Plato, Epicurus, Plutarch, &c., not to count more
modern instances  went to show that they had been
the fearless and conscientious champions of the vegetarian
system of diet ; that Cuvier, in his Animal Kingdom,
has taken occasion to remark that * the natural
food of man, judging from his structure, appears to
consist principally of fruit, roots, and the succulent
parts of vegetables,' and that this also was the opinion
of Linnaeus ; that the teeth of man have not the
slightest resemblance to those of the carnivorous

animals, except that their enamel is confined to the
external surface, and that, though he possesses the
teeth called ' canine,' they do not exceed the level of
the others, and arc obviously unsuited to the purposes
which the corresponding teeth are designed to execute
in the carnivora ; that these animals /aj?, instead of
drinking, whereas man dn'niis, like the herbivora. Ina
word, that man is essentials ' herbivorous,' * frugivorous,'
and * graminivorous,' and was intended, in his
natural state, to subsist upon herbs, grain, nuts, fruit,
honey, and edible fungi.

But Francis St. Clair said not a word of all this.
Ferreting and religion are very apt to coexist in the
same individual,' was all that he remarked, having, no
doubt, Tom Hickathrift in his mind. ' Destruction of
animal life does not necessarily imply cruelty of disposition,
strange as it may seem to us. It would have
pleased me could you have cared for Tom. Unfortunately,
however, we are enable to force our affections.'

Something desponding in his tone fairly alarmed
his daughter.

You are not well, dear,' she said kindly, yet
endeavouring to disguise her anxiety ; * and I know
how ridiculous you'll think me  it isn't that I fancy
you're really ill  only would you, just to please me,
allow me to send for the doctor ? It can do no harm,
and he's such a nice man. I have met him once or
twice by accident, and we talked about the "bone Luz."
I believe he's a freethinker,' she added cheerfully.

Let's have him here, then,' answered the blind
man in an offhand tone. * He is not a physician, I
presume; but we had better treat him as one, and
present him with haclxsheesh. This keys on my chain
opens my green despatch-box in the other room. Get

out a pound and a shilling, and wrap them up in a slip
of paper.'

ril undo it exclaimed Sophy, perceiving that he
was struggling ineffectually with the chain, which had
become entangled in a button-hole. ' How dreadfully
cold you are ! ' she went on, as she came in
contact with his hand. 'I shall light the fire, although
it is only October, and you don't like beginning fires till
next month ; but why should we have decrees like the
Modes and Persians?' And, so sajdng, she knelt down
and set light to the dry sticks and logs in the fireplace,
after she had removed the key from its little split ring.

A few of my last wishes, roughly set down, are in
the same despatch-box,' remarked her father slowly,
as the newly-lighted fire went crackling gaily up the
chimney. * It is as well that you should know this ; I
have never made a will.'

Why, you talk as if you were at the last gasp ! '
exclaimed Sophy, almost angrily, but feeling, nevertheless,
a chill at her heart, and she glided hurriedly
from the room. Once outside, she flew, palpitating,
into the kitchen.

Jane ! Nelus ! ' she called out breathlessly, ' send
off this very moment for Dr. Dyer ! He isn't well.
Perhaps Nelus could ride Cammy, or Billy, or Dragon?'

Wh}'', missy, you be as white as a sheet I ' cried
Jane, looking anxiously at her young mistress before
proceeding to the stables to execute her commands. On
her way out, she almost tumbled over Abdallah, who
was seated at one end of the table peeling onions.
With the first frosts, the Egyptian had ensconced himself
iu the kitchen, creeping indoors unobserved, as
slugs and spiders do in wet weather ; and as he willingly
performed the duties of an impromptu scullery-maid,

Mrs. Ford was content to bear with him in a general
way. Before Sophy, however, she thought fit to treat
him as an intruder.

How that uns ornate critter do goo fur to git under
the soles of yer feet, sure///,' she exclaimed, scowling
at the inoffensive child of the desert, ' turn which
way one nuit ! Git along out with you, ,
and don't sit like a born naturel, staring
at your betters I '

The ingratitude of Jane had ceased to be a matter
of surprise to Abdallah. He was thoroughly used toit,
and set it down, with many other habits and customs,
as impossible of explanation. He hobbled off
now towards the doorways, where he stood looking out
at the chilly landscape with the expression of a child
eyeing the cold tub into which it is about to be
unwillingly plunged.

If you can't find Nelus let Jiim go,' said Sophy ;
'but some one  at once  as soon as possible ! ' She then
ran hastily into the sitting-room, unlocked her father's
despatch-box, taking out a guinea, as he had requested
her to do, and slid back again into the dining-room,
from which she had not been absent ten minutes.

Ten minutes ! and yet, in that short time, some
sudden and ominous change had taken place in her
father. He was speaking  murmuring something to
himself  but strangely and incoherently as though
without consciousness either of her presence or of the
meaning of his words. * This is a great truth,' she
heard him saying, as she came anxiously towards him.
The Zendavesta declares it . . . Ormazd and Ahriman
. . the perpetual battle . . . and afterwards  Rest,
surely Rest ! perhaps  Light ! . . .'

His head was leaning forward upon the table, sup-

ported upon his folded arms. Sophy could not see his
face. Going up to him, she placed her arm tenderly
round his neck.

Get up,' she said, her heart beating very fast and
loud. ' Lean upon me, dear, and come and lie down
on the divan.'

He did not reply to her, however, and, kneeling
down, she tried to peep up at his features.

Jane ! Nelus !' she cried, in a frightened tone, hearing
voices and footsteps in the passage ; ' come quickly !
Where is the Doctor ? Why have you not sent ? '

I am here,' said Dr. Dyer, advancing, hat in hand,
in front of Janus and Abdallah. * I was just on my
way to Weller's cottage, and i'll in with your messenger.
I hope there is nothing serious the matter ? '

He came towards the table, and took one of
Francis St. Clair's cold thin hands in his own. Hehel(i
it for some time without speaking, and then bent down
until his head touched the dark hair of the blind man,
and seemed to be listening attentively.

We must lift him on to the sofa,' he said at last,
beckoning to Abdallah to help. shad not Miss St.
Clair better leave the room ?' he added to Jane, indicating
Sophy with a movement of his head.

Ijook away, missy,' said the serving woman, guessing
that it would be useless to ask her to go ; and,
almost stupefied with terror, Sophy did as she was
bidden. When she looked again, her father was lying
stretched out upon the divan. His face seemed strangely
severe and dignified. Dr. Dyer was leaning over him,
with his hand upon his eyes.

They shut dovn beautiful, Doctor,' said Jane,
beginning to sob. ' When next he wakes, poor soul !
he'll have his sight.'

Abdallali, too, commenced now giving vent to low
guttural lamentations.

What is it  what is it ? ' asked Sophy breathlessly,
her heart seeming suddenly to become cold as stone.
Has he fainted ? '

I am afraid,' said the Doctor, looking up at her
compassionately, ' that there is no use in disguising the
truth. lie is dead. Bear up, my dear young lady.'

Sophy remained standing like one thunderstruck.
Jane and Abdallah, loud in their lamentations, went
forth, presently, to break the news. The Doctor continued
for some time to bend over the red divan ; by-and-by
he arose, and reaching his hand towards a
table-napkin, he spread it gently over the face of the
dead man.

Chapter XIII.

Dr. Dyer had been gone for some hours, and Sophy
still stood leaning against the breakfast table like one
entranced.

Jane had fidgeted in and out of the room time aftertime
since the Doctor's departure, treading on the tips
of her toes, as though from a fear of arousing the dead.
She had brought in hot water, cold water, and white
linen ; last of all, she had drawn down the blinds with
a harsh, grating sound : but Sophy took no notice of
her, and remained dreaming on.

The breakfast was still upon the table. By the side
of her father's vacant place, the untasted cup of coffee,
now quite cold, and a frugal morsel of oaten cake,
crushed into atoms when he had fallen forward. In
the centre, a dish containing something more sibi



statical, with the cover still unlisted, and a couple of
blue willow-pattern plates, with the' representation of
the three Chinese going over the bridge with their
ding-dongs, and above them the two hovering pigeons.
All this was like a foolish mockery now, when it
seemed impossible that she should ever require to eat
or drink again as long as she lived ; and yet (poor
earthworms that we are !), as some physical cause lies
generally at the root of most of our impressions, the
fact that she had eaten nothing since she had arisen, at
seven o'clock in the morning, and that it was now past
three in the afternoon, may have gone some way towards
producing the sensation of numbness and inanition
she now experienced  a sensation which seemed to
blunt and stultify her powers of mind to such a degree
that she asked herself, whenever she felt capable of
thinking at all, whether she, too, was not dead, and far
removed from this earth, whilst her spirit gazed on indifferently
at the torpor of her owl body, as though at
that of a second person.

By-and-by the door was again opened by Jane, and
behind her, Sophy was aware of another figure.

It's only the young Sir Uranus, missy,' she explained.
* He wouldn't take no denial.' And Tom
Hickathrift came into the chamber of death, treading,
like Jane, upon tiptoe.

Sophy held out her hand to him mechanically, which
he pressed in both his owt. He then stooped dowTi
and kissed her on the forehead, even before Jane
was fairly out of the room. Sophy took no notice
of this kiss, which was essentially sympathetic and
fraternal.

Did I send for you ? ' she asked, with a dazed
expression.

No, dear ; I came of my own accord, thinking I
might, perhaps, be of use.' He had retained possession
of her cold little hand, which he stroked affectionately

How did you hear of it ? ' she inquired, with the
same bewildered manner.

Tom murmured something in repl5

I can't hear you,' she said, leaning towards him.
She seemed to have become deaf as well as stupid.
You can speak out. He won't wake.'

Dyer was to have lunched with us to-day,' he
answered, still in a low tone ; * but he didn't come, and
afterwards he sent to tell us why. I came off here at
once. My mother would have come too, only she's got
a touch of bronchitis. She said she hoped you would
come and stay at the Abbey till all was over. She
expects you this evening, and she's going to send for
you, with your maid.*

He had added this last clause conscientiously at his
mother's request, although he well knew that Sophy's
only female attendant was in no sense entitled to the
appellation bestowed upon her.

Thank you ; but I had rather stay on here. Lady
Hickathrift is very kind.'

I could talk to you better in the other room,' said
the young man, glancing nervously'' in the direction of
the red divan. * I have several things to say, and they
want you to come out of this room.'

Thus appealed to, Sophy allowed herself to be led
gently into the sitting-room. Here she saw a glass of
wane and some biscuits upon another of the blue willow-pattern
plates.

I asked for this for you,' said Tom. ' Drink it up,
it will do you good. You've eaten nothing.'

Sophy drank the wine mechanically, as she seemed
to do everything now, and toyed with a biscuit.

They're not going to take him away ? ' she asked,
with a sudden fear, as she heard the coming and going
of footsteps in the passage.

No, no ; they only want to tidy up the room and
put things straight, and it's better you should be out of
their way.'

*He will have to be buried,' she said by-and-by, in a
hollow, tearless voice. ' What am I to do ? '

*I wanted to talk to you about that very thing,'
Tom answered. ' There's a great deal to do which will
be very sad, as I fully realised when my poor father
died; but if you'll let me, I'll try and take all trouble
off your hands. Old Spearing, at Poynings, managed
everything for us, as it was thought better to employ
some one in the neighbourhood, and we were very well
satisfied. I've asked him to be here at half-past four,
and we can then make the arrangements.'

Thank you ; then I shall leave everything to you,'
said Sophy, helplessly ; * for I'm not able to think : I
can't even cry. I wish I could cry.'

You'll be better after a little,' rejoined Tom, taking
her hand. * You've had a great shock. When you feel
better we must settle about the day.'

Yes ; I'll tell you the day, when I feel better,'
she answered absently, as she looked out at the far
distance.

It now seemed to her that they sat together for a
very long time without speaking, holding each other's
hands, and gazing into the newly-lighted fire. They
might have remained thus for an hour, or two hours,
or for only five minutes ; she had lost all power of
computing time. To Tom Ilickathrift the moments
did not seem so long ; but he could not either have
given any correct estimate of them.

The voice of Jane Ford aroused tlieiii at last from
their reverie.

Everything is put to rights now,' she said, ' if
you'll please be so good as to step this way and look.'

Oh, they've taken him away I ' cried Sophy, springing
towards the dining-room door, and then looking inside.
* Oh, he is gone ! '

lie's upstairs,' said Jane ; and she then added,
turning respectfully to ' the young Sir Tummus,' ' If
you'd be pleased to walk upstairs to the summer-room.'

On the narrow staircase they encountered Mrs.
Weller in her Sunday shawl and best bonnet. Sophy
shuddered as she brushed past her, guessing, instinctively,
upon what ghastly errand she had come.

The apartment to which the dead man had been
conveyed was situated at the extreme end of the house.
It possessed two windows, one of which, facing eastward,
looked out over the Dallingridge woods, whilst
the other commanded the same view as the sitting-room
beneath. These two windows, three outside walls, and
a total absence of carpet and curtains, had combined
to render this chamber excessively cold in the winter,
and hence it was that it had always gone by the name
of ' the summer-room.'

Francis St. Clair had used it as a dressing-room
and study until he had become blind, partly on account
of the charming woodland view from the eastern window,
and partly because, in a small way, it was a real
museum of curiosities, nearly all of which had been
collected in his past wanderings, of which they had
served to remind him as long as he could behold them.
Shell-necklaces and waistcoats ; Indian pouches and
war-plumes ; embroidered moccasins formed of birch-bark,
and fringed with feathers ; carved cocoa-nuts,

ostrich-eggs, gigantic fir-cones, and cases containing
studied birds and dried insects, appeared on all sides.
But it was also an armory : nearly all the weapons whichever
had been, or were still, employed by most of the
known inhabitants of the globe, being suspended from
its four walls. The space above the narrow chimney-piece
was adorned chiefly with the engines of mediaeval
warfare, the centre of the design being formed by a
huge two-handed sword, such as was borne in Paris
towards the middle of the sixteenth century, by the
captains of the Swiss Guard  more, it is to be hoped,
with the object of striking terror into the hearts of
the beholders, than with any exaggeratedly murderous
intention. Branching out from this nucleus,
in rays, stars, and crosses, were halberds, glaives,
battle-axes, and spiked iron balls, growing, like the
double cherry', upon a single stem or handle, to which
they were attached by chains. There were crossbows,*
too, inlaid, in bone and ebony, with quaint mediaeval
figures, represented as careering after curly-tailed
boars, and stags with branching antlers, upon hog-manet,
Roman-nosed palfreys, through a whole forest
of conventional trees. Shields, targets, and emblazoned
quivers, were disposed round the ceiling in regular
patterns, whilst from the centre, supported upon a
protruding spear-head, hung a suit of chain-armour,
of so fine a texture that it appeared almost as though
it had been knitted with threads of steel. Immediately
above the mantlepiece was an oblong glass
case, containing a stuffed crocodile, and beneath, upon
a rack, the gun was wont to repose with which it had
been destroyed. This gun (a modern rifle) had been
taken down to make room, apparently, for a garland
of laurentius which surrounded the oblong case, and
VOL. II. L

it was now standing propped up against the wall, not
far from the fender. Sophy remarked this change at
once, and resented it. She was annoyed that the position
of anything in this room should have been altered.

You ought not to have moved that gun,' she
whispered, glancing at Jane reproachfully. ' He wished
it left there. It's loaded!'

And, indeed, this was the identical gun alluded toby
Sophy, in one of her letters to Adele, as having
been loaded with the golden bullet warranted never to
miss its mark, which had been cast by Mr. Carver,
several years ago now, in the De Cramponayes' dingy
consulting-room, at a period when Mr. St. Clair and
his daughter had been going through some of their
alchemic and geomantic experiences. As she looked at
this gun now, the whole scene came back to her. She
remembered, too, how, when the bullet-mould had
required feeding, she had become inspired with the
enthusiasm of a Benevento Cellini, and had hurled
into it a new gold thimble set with small garnets, with
which Tom Plickathrift had presented her upon a previous
birthday.

You remember,' she murmured, turning to him
now. ' lie was there ; and it was loaded by him, too.
Jane shouldn't have touched it.'

She now glanced for the first time towards the
further end of the room. A great transformation had
taken place.

It was here that Adele had slept when she was
last at Stillingfleet ; and, in order that some of these
trophies of foreign travel might not, by misadventure,
descend upon her and crush her during her sleep, she
had had the light iron bedstead moved into the middle
of the room. Sophy had looked towards this place on

first entering, seeking anxiously for what remained of
her father ; but she could see no bed, and Sir Thomas's
stalwart figure intercepted, for the moment, all sight
of the right-hand corner of the apartment.

He stood aside now, and she perceived that the bed
had been moved back to its old place against the southern
wall. It was draped with white linen, and her father's
body was lying upon it surrounded by flowers. Camellias,
azaleas, stephanotis, white waxen orchids, and
creamy autumn roses, were strewn about in lavish profusion,
mingled with red velvety-looking leaves and
delicate green ferns, such as could only have been
procured, at this season of the year, from a carefully-tended
conservatory. The flowers were nearly all white,
and in several places upon the walls bouquets of them
lead been disposed at regular intervals, and twisted
in amongst the arquebuses and sword-blades. They
lent to the room almost the appearance of a bridal
chamber.

Ah, how beautiful he looks ! ' exclaimed Sophy, as
she advanced breathlessly towards the bed. * My poor,
poor darling ! And what lovely flowers ! '

She guessed at once whence they had come.
How very, very kind of you ! ' she sobbed, taking
her companion's hand. *I don't know how to thank
you!'

*I told the gardener to bring them over,' he
answered; 'I thought you might like them.'

The sight of all these beautiful white flowers

seemed suddenly to thaw the fountain of Sophy's tears.

Sinking down upon her knees by the side of the

bed, she covered her face with her hands, exclaiming

between her sobs, 

What shall I do? Oh, what shall I do without you?'

Tom looked down at lier with an expression of the
truest sympathy. He was silent, however, finding no
words at hand which would be likely to bring with
them any consolation.

Don't go for to take on so, missy,' said Jane, coming
forward from the doorway'. ' He's happy now, poor
gentleman ! and nothing need never dorrit him no

moor

T>

Think as how dere's One above, my dear,' chimed
in Mrs. Weller, deeming it expedient to proffer the
consolations of religion.

Yes, dat dere do be, Mrs. Weller,' answered Jane,
who, as the reader may perhaps remember, had always
been suspected of being secretly san idolater.' 'The
Lord's been and taken on un to Himself, and the poor
soul's in glory.'

Ever since the day upon which Jane Ford had been
surprised and followed bj Sophy, when in the act of
going surreptitiously to church, she had preserved unconsciously,
deep down in the hidden recesses of her
nature, a latent germ of orthodox and conventional
piety. The dignified and unaggressive Agnosticism of
Francis St. Clair  which had enabled him, during his
lifetime, to wait and to hope, even in the midst of his
uncertainty, and then to die, warning, as it were, the
hand of friendly forgiveness and toleration towards
the surviving creeds'  had combined, with his daughter's
enthusiastic and indiscriminating Pantheism, to
discourage any assertion of these private sentiments ;
and Janus had so far conformed to the usages of the
household as to abstain from giving them outward and
visible expression, or from seeking to confirm them by
an indulgence in any definite religious observances.
Being utterly unable, by reason of a childlike simplicity,

to derive comfort from the conception of a vague and
impersonal Deity, such as modern Forethought was beginning
to mould and fashion into shape for the further
enlightenment of mankind, or even from * the notion of
an eventual absorption in Brahm, or Universal Being,*
she still clung fondly and tenaciously (at stray moments,
when not occupied with maternal or culinary matters)
to the more tangible Jehovah of the Bible  human in
His sTiipathy, His love, and His jealousy, but comprehensible
at any rate, and taking, moreover, a benevolent
fatherly interest in her, Jane Ford, Nelus, ' Deely,' and
'the brats'  the friendly and familiar ' Liche GoW of
the German peasantry, who fills the children's Christmas
stocking with good things, and hangs crackers and
tin trumpets upon the branches of the Christmas tree
a God to Avhom she could pray to make Deely * more
handy with her needle,' to decree that Hie brats' should
not ' whoop over spring-time,' and to protect Nelus
from the temptations of the ' Black Horse ; ' and now
that Francis St. Clair was dead, and his daughter cash
down by despondency, the moment had surely come for
the propounding of this loving and homely evangel,
and testing its consoling powers.

But Sophy had never felt less disposed to imbibe a
spiritual anodyne, or more averse to contemplate the
probability of the existence of a personal and omnipotent
God. The idea that there was in the * heaven
above, or in the earth beneath, or in the water under
the earth,' a Being so farseeing and omnipotent that
He could not only have foreseen all this misery, but
actually have arrested it, and who yet had not condescended
to do so, filled her with misery and bitterness,
and caused her to turn, with undisguised repugnance,
from Jane's well-intentioned words.

Sophj/j or

*Get them both out of the room she said, raising
her bowed head, and looking appealingly at Tom.

How can I bear to think of God )ion', when lie has
been so unkind?'

JInj)j)i)irss, she felt, rather than the chasten Kings of
God's wrath, would have sent her kneeling to His footstool.


She experienced a sense of relief when the two
women had withdrawn. She had knovn, too, the momentary
consolation of tears. But a great desire took
possession of her to be left alone with her thoughts.

When are you going back ?' she asked, rising from
her knees, and again looking up at the young man,

If you like, I can walk back with you to the top-gate.*

To some people this hint would have seemed almost
ungracious ; but one of Tom's many good points consisted
in the fact that he was hardly ever offended,
particularly With Sophy, and that he managed to preserve
his own dignity nevertheless  a combination
which some touchy persons seem to consider impossible
of attainment.

He was sorry to go, of course ; but he had already
been suffered to remain longer than he could have
anticipated, and, grateful for small mercies, he did not
venture to complain. After they had both looked again,
tenderly and reverently, at the lifeless form upon the
bed, they left the room together, Tom leading Sophy by
the hand.

As they came in sight of the dining-room, they
perceived that a stout bald-headed man was standing
inside the doorway. This was Mr. Spearing, postmaster
and haberdasher in the town of Polling, and father
of the two Miss Spearings. He had conducted the
funeral arrangements of several of the local gentry

recently deceased, this greatest success in this line of
business having been achieved upon the occasion of the
'walking funeral' of the late Sir Peckham Hickathrift,
of which he had had the entire management.

It flashed upon Sophy's mind that, /br an undertaker ,
he was singularly rosy and jovial-looking, even whenas
now, he assmncd an extremely subdued and obsequious
manner.

Upon perceiving him, Tom let go his hold of Sophy's
hand.

Good-day to you, Mr. Spearing,' said he. * Perhaps
you won't mind coming in here and speaking to Miss
St. Clair ; ' and he led the way to the sitting-room.

Whilst Sir Thomas and Mr. Spearing were discussing
the final 'arrangements,' Sophy remained crouching
uon the hearth-rug like a frightened thing, her pale
face wearing an expression of intense misery and horror.
Now and then they appealed to her upon some question,
but on every point she was submissive to Tom's superior
judgment and experience.

It was all very dreadful and very ghastly. She had
read, of course, in books that such things were, but she
had never actually realised, until now, the horror of
them.

Were there all these heart-rending details to begone
through whenever anybody died ? she inquired of
herself. No wonder, if so, that she had seen men and
women going about looking pale, and sad, and gray-haired,
with their heads bowed down, and their brows
scored all over with lines of care ! It was altogether a
new and terrible experience.

I think. Sir Thomas,' Mr. Spearing was saying, as
though in conclusion, ' that, with the young lady's permission,
I had better go up and view the body.'

It was the greatest relief to Sophy when he had
bowed and departed. Before he had ascended the staircase,
however, she heard him retracing this creaking steps,
and his shiny head reappeared in the doorway.

If sou please, Sir Thomas,' he said obsequiously,
I believe I understood the 3'oung lady to say that the
Remains would have preferred an ordinary parish-shell.
But there has been no mention as to the shroud.'

Sophy glanced \\\) at Tom helplessly and miserably
with a look which said plainly as words, * This is more
than I can bear ; the cup is becoming too full.'

I think,' continued the undertake', with humility,
that it would be preferable to envelop the body in a
wrapper of swansdown, instead of the usual shroud.
This will come a trifle more expensive ; but we are
using it very extensively just now for winter-burials,
especially where the coffin is thin. It will be warmer.'

Even Tom Hickathrift's reverential mind perceived
a grotesque element in this speech, and he darted a
quick glance at Soph', expecting to see her smile sadly,
perhaps, as she often smiled at such odd times. But
her face was still pale, set, and miserable, and she only
answered abstractedly, 

Yes, let it be made like that. It u-ill be warmer J
It would be ten times better, he thought, to see her

laughing at wrong moments than she should behave
like this, seeming as though she was only half alive !

Po you think you could walk with me to the top-gate?'
he asked, as soon as Mr. Spearing was really
gone. He thought, perhaps, that the fresh air might
revive her.

Yes, I should like to go out,' she answered, as she
moved towards the front door. She was about to open
it and pass out into the cold air,, when Tom, perceiving

a plaid shawl of the Gordon tartan hanging from a peg
amongst some outlandish specimens of male and female
headgear, wrapped it carefully round her shoulders in
the porch, looking down at her the while with a proud
sense of protection and appropriation, which she might
have resented, perhaps, could she have divined at that
moment the secret workings of the young man's heart.

That's where he wanted to be buried,' she said
sadly, when they had passed out into the garden,
where the once glowing flower-beds were nipped and
blackened by the frost, as she pointed towards the spot
upon which she had once proposed to erect a sun-dial.

I noticed that all the lines in the view went one way,
as you see, like the lines in a copy-book ; and when I
told him that something in the middle would be an
improvement, he said that he would like to be buried
there, and that then I could put up some kind of
monument to his memory. But I suppose it would
be impossible?' .

I should think it would be,' answered Tom gravely ;

quite impossible, I should think.'

Yes, that's just what I feared. They will want to
bury him at Dallingridge, but I wish it could have
been here ! ' And she looked yearningly out over the
green lawn.

Suddenly she left Tom's side upon the path, and
darted towards some object beyond. This turned out
to be Alexander, the tortoise, who, even at this season,
was sometimes tethered out upon sunshiny mornings.

How careless of Nelus ! ' she cried, as she took up
the creature. ' It ought to have been brought in long
ago. But, 0)1 account of all this, it has been left out
and forgotten. I believe it is dead.'

'Perhaps,' said Tom, hopefully, * it's only torpid ; '

or

and he looked down benevolently at the hard lump in
Sophy's hand.

Suddenly she uttered an exclamation, and let it
drop heavily upon the gravel-walk.

Oh, look ! ' she cried. ' IIo\v horrible ! It has been
eaten up by the rats ! Look ! it has no paws ! '

This was but too true. sophy had been clasping an
almost hollow shell, to which clung only the lacerated
remains of what had once been a tortoise. A few ants,
already busy with their scavengers, had crawled out
of it upon her hand, revealing the distressing fact.

This incident, although but slight in itself, would
have affected Sophy considerably at any other time.
In the presence, however, of her recent terrible bereavement,
it could only take rank as an annoying
accident. Still it was, to a certain extent, unpropitious
and ill-omened. Alexander had seemed to her like a
link which connected the Present with the Past.

Godfrey gave it to me ! ' she exclaimed, in a tone
which pierced through Tom's heart like a knife. * It
was nearly the only thing I had to remind me of him!'
And the tears came into her eyes anew.

As Tom Alas as yet unaware of the reason of Godfrey's
departure, and was far from surmising that it
was intended to be definitive, he was unable to grasp
the entire meaning of these words. He saw, however,
that she was really distressed at the death of what he
had always considered as rather an uninteresting animal,
and hastily bethought him of what might, perhaps, act
as a consolation.

If you'll let me have it,' he said, * I'll take it upto
London next time I go, and have something made
for you out of its shell. Mounted in silver, I think
it would make rather a nice box.'

Thank you very much. I should like to hiivo
something made out of it that I could keep always 
something to remind me of this day

So you shall ; and, if you liked, we could have the
date of the day engraved inside, on the mounting.'

Yes, that will be very kind of you. It will make
a box to keep my treasures in.'

*You don't think that it's still alive?' he asked, ashe
picked up the shell and eyed it mistrustfully.

*Alas, no ; it will never breathe again. I was told
that it might live for more than one hundred years, and
you see how soon its life has ended ! '

It was as though everything had been done, upon
this particular day, to impress her with the uncertainty
of life, both as regarded man and beast.

Then I shall take it to London with me,' said Tom,
and tomorrow I'll come and see you again, dear  or,
at any rate, the day after. That will be Sunday.'

Yes, on Sunday. Let me have a day to myself.'
Tom then took possession of the tortoise, and, after

wrapping it up in a sporting newspaper which he happened
to have in his pocket, he bade Sophy an affectionate
farewell, and the two young people separated.

She stood watching him absently as he strode on.
across the brown autmnn fields in the direction of the
Abbey. By-and-by she could see him no longer, because
of her tears. He had reached the spot where the
old scarecrow, which had stood there for so man' years,
was leaning all awry with its long, outstretched arms.
It wore still, as it had always worn during Sophy's
lifetime, the only 'Frank' hat and coat which Francis
St. Clair had ever been known to possess within the
memory of man ; and hence it had become, upon this
sad day, as it would alway's remain, a sacred and vendor



rated object  an object which could not be even looked
at now, because it was too sad. Chilled and numbed
with misery, she turned away, and retraced her footsteps,
tr\nng hard to stifle her sobs.

But everything seemed to recall the sense of her
misfortune, and to impress upon her how impossible it
would ever be to forget it, or to look with the same eye as
heretofore upon familiar things, even 'after long years.'

In the straight garden-walk, for instance, she encountered
what caused her to pause with a swelling
heart. She was treading inadvertently upon the mysterious
symbols, traced by the hand  now cold in
death  of the departed * scene-shifter,' and which were
as yet obliterated. Central Asia, the Outlying
Presence, the invading Tartars  all these she could
soon see no longer for her tears. The cup of sorrow
was, indeed, filled even unto overflowing.

Chapter XIV.

As Sophy approached the house, she again looked
longingly towards the smooth plot of greensward which
she would fain have converted into a place of sepulture.
She could not endure the idea that her father should betaken
away from the old home ; it would seem to her
like a second parting, she felt, and it would have
afforded her real consolation, at that moment, could she
have obtained her desire. She then glanced up sadly
at the summer-room. Over the top of the eastern
window was a pigeon-cote, in and out of which the soft
gray and white birds were hovering and fluttering,
whilst others strutted about upon the lower ledge, cooing

gently, and ruffling up their breast-feathers. This
room was the only one in the whole house of which the
window-blinds were not dra"\\Ti down ; and for a good
reason, that there were none to draw. Jane Ford had
pinned up white sheets on the inner side ; but they did
not effectually shut out the daylight, and it was so long
since the sliding outer shutters had been closed, that
they had stiffened back in the grooves, and it had been
found impossible to draw them forward from the inside.
Nelus had been about to remedy this, deeming it more
decent that this room should be darkened, for a garden
ladder was set against the wall, under the window, with
a truck-basket containing carpenters' tools ; but he had
evidently been interrupted in his undertaking, and the
pale wintry sunlight still found its way into the deadman's
chamber. Sophy was glad of this. Unable to
realise, as yet, that what remained to her of her father
was non sentient and unappreciative, or that the sentient
and appreciative element, which, for want of a
better name, we are in the habit of designating * she
soul,' had now for ever separated itself from those poor
rags of humanity which we speak of, in contradistinction,
as * the body,' she was pleased to think that he
should still linger in the daylight, listening to soft
sounds of fluttering wings, and that these innocent
white doves should peep in at him through the windowpane.
Before going upstairs again she drew forth
Godfrey's last letter from the bosom of her dress.
There was no need to torment herself now as to whether
her father would have been influenced by its contents
for or against the young lover of her heart. Ought she
to have debated with herself for so long without informing
him of the ' family secret ? ' It was too late to ask
herself these questions now. For the second time in

the course of lier brief existence, death had stepped in
and saved her from having to make an embarrassing
revelation.

Iter tears fell warm and fast over that portion of
the letter wherein Godfrey had dwelt upon the steadfastness
of his love. She kissed the words over andover
again, and pressed them passionately to her heart ;
but at this moment, much as she desired to tell him of
what had happened, she could not have composed herself
sufficiently to write. Perhaps, b} tomorrow, she
miirht regain some of her old enero'v. Yes, she would
certainly write to him then, to the direction at which
he had stated that a letter would be most likely to find
him  namely, 'Poste-resfantc, Genoa.' A feeling of desolation
took possession of her as she thought of the
distance intervening between them ; but the assurance
of his love had gone some way towards calming her for
the moment, and every line that she read seemed to
draw him nearer to her heart.

She was not quite equal, just then, to considering,
in all its bearings, the change which would inevitably
accrue to her own circumstances, were she to act (ashe
had desired that she should act) upon the information
contained in his first letter to her father. Since Godfrey,
upon the discovery that he had been no better
than an unconscious usurper, had voluntarily ceded his
dominions, so to speak, to the rightful heir, all the
broad acres of Dallingridge Park, together with the
rest of the landed property appertaining to this branch
of the St. Clairs, belonged to her incontestably in the
eye of the law. But this eye, unless specially directed,
would not be able to pry into her private correspondence
; and she had long ago decided that, so far as she
herself was concerned, the matter should be left to die

a natural death. When Godfrey perceived that nobody-was
in any way benefited by his disinterestedness, perhaps
he would make up his mind to return. There
seemed now to be such a simple way of putting everything
straight without the necessity of robbing any one
of his or her rights !

She had kept on the plaid shawl which Tom Hicks
had wrapped round her shoulders ; but there is
something so intensely chilling in a real sorrow that she
felt cold, notwithstanding. At six o'clock Jane brought
her some weak tea and bread-and-butter, setting down
the frugal meal upon the table in the parlour, and then
silently departing. Sophy noticed that she wore her
best Sunday stuff-gown, and that the mohair ringlets
were disposed with unusual neatness. The fact was, a
few acquaintances, Who had got wind of the sad news,
had dropped in from the neighbouring farms and
homesteads ; and, notwithstanding the sincere attachment
Jane had always felt for Mr. St. Clair, the first
poignant sentiments of sorrow for his loss were already*
beginning to give place to an almost pleasurable feeling
of excitement, consequent upon the arrival of these
cheerful and agreeable gossips, all of them eager for
the fullest details. Mrs. Ford was aware, too, from
past experience, that, owing to the intensity of her
grief, Sophy was not jet prepared to listen to any
manner of consoling talk, and she rightly guessed that
she would prefer, just now, to be left to herself.

Before an affliction is digested,' says Sterne, ' consolation
ever comes too soon; and after it is digested, it
comes too late : there is but a mark between these two,
as fine almost as an hair, for a comforter to take aim
at.' And feeling incapable of discerning this particular
mark, Jane Ford thought it wiser to remain silent.

or

To ' the poor in spirit,' Death does not always come
in the guise of a hideous spectre, severing with his dart
the closest and most sacred ties ; dragging bride and
bridegroom asunder, and tearing the tender infant from
its mother's arms. It is rather to the refined and
imaginative nature, imbued with the traditions of false
philosophy, and meretricious art, that the great healer
of all sorrows, the giver of ' the popjied sleep assumes
so terrible a form.

Washington Irving, describing the tomb of ]Mrs.
Nightingale, by Houbilliac, in Westminster Abbey,
has come forward as the advocate of the so-called
King of Terrors,' often so cruelly maligned and
misunderstood.

The bottom of the monument,' he says, ' is represented
as throwing open its marble doors, and a sheeted
skeleton is starting forth. The shroud is falling from
his fleshless frame as he launches his dart at his victim.
She is sinking into her affrighted husband's arms, who
strives, with vain and frantic effort, to avert the blow.
The whole is executed with terrible truth and spirit ;
we almost fancy we hear the gibbering yell of triumph
bursting from the distended jaws of the spectre. But
why,' he continues, 'should we thus seek to clothe Death
with unnecessary'' terrors, and spread horrors round the
tomb of those we love ? The grave should be surrounded
by everything that might inspire tenderness
and veneration for the dead, or that might win the
living to virtue. It is the place, not of disgust and
dismay, but of sorrow and meditation.'

To Jane Ford, the act of dying meant simply a preliminary
absolutely necessary for the removal of the
deceased to another sphere  a sphere where matters
were more decently and satisfactorily ordered ; where

there "was a general shuffling to rights of everything
and everybody, and where folks did no house or farm
work, but walked about all day dressed out in clean
smock-frocks and black Sunday bonnets, nodding and
recognising one another, just as they did at Poynings
Fair.

Whenever she began to reflect how the travellers
managed to reach this far-off bourn, whether by cart,
fly, coach, * a-horseback,' or by railway train ; whether
they flew, swam, or arrived there by means of a balloon,
she owned to becoming somewhat confused in
mind, or, as she was wont to express it, * all of a
muddle ; ' but she ended by leaving the solution of the
problem to her betters, whenever the comprehensive
local term, significant of dissolution, Aaz. being * taken ,*
failed to explain matters to her complete satisfaction.
The 'good God' of Jane Ford's simple creed was essentially
easy-going and obliging, with a short memory for
past affronts ; so that nearly all were pretty sure oi
getting to this pleasant and comfortable country ; provided,
of course, they had not been notorious as * bad
livers,' though, even then, she did not despair but that
at the last He would, perhaps, excuse them, and admit
them after all, just as a kind shepherd will hold open
the wattles of the sheep-fold, and let through the whole
flock, even if some of the sheep lag or limp a little way
behind, by reason of * scab ' or the * foot rot.'

Blessed are the poor in spirit : for theirs is the
kingdom of heaven . . .

Blessed are the pure in heart : for they shall see
God.'

There is surely some sort of provisional ' kingdom
of heaven' revealed to the poor who are *pure in heart,'
even previous to a possible translation, and they have

VOL. II. M

the blessedness of alreadj'- seeing God in an aspect far
more consoling than that conceived of by the bigots.

Dieu nest pas si noir qiion le crois ! ' * exclaims a
modern French author ; and although he may not have
intended it, there are, in his words, the materials for an
edifying theological discourse.

After her tea, Sophy crept softly up into the summer-room.
It felt very still and empty  much emptier than
it had ever seemed before, in the days when no one,
either alive or dead, had reposed there. It was very
silent, too, with a silence that could almost be heard,
and which caused a buzzing sensation in her ears quite
like a noise. Her father's body was entirely covered
with a white sheet, beneath which could be plainly discerned
the angular delineation of his tall, spare frame.
Sophy did not remove this covering ; but, drawing a
chair towards the eastern window, she lifted the temporary
curtain, and looked dreamily out at the now
fast-fading daylight.

After all, notwithstanding the death-chill at her
heart, the day had been a fine one, considering the
advanced season ; and in other places, perhaps, the
sunset glow had shone upon happy faces.

It was now that borderland of day and night when
the drowsy robin chirps a sleepy good-night to the
newly - awakened bat, who thereupon commences his
monotonous flitting, dazzled just a little by what remains
of the sun. The green and brown trees grow
blacker every minute, and their outstretching branches
become more clearly and sharply defined against the
pink glow of the sky, which is flecked, here and therewith
deep violet-coloured clouds, golden-bordered and
quaintly shaped, sometimes like Alpine ranges, draw

Ludovic Halvy.

gone, lions, leaning towers, winged angels, or horsemen
upon rearing steeds.

Yesterday evening, when Sophy had wandered forth
in the gloaming, and peeped, as usual, into Godfrey's
precious letter, the sky had seemed all angels, floating
floating  gently onwards, with soft gray pinions,
streaming tresses, and long, thin, pre-E-aphaelite-looking
hands, outstretched, as though in the act of blessing.
But this evening the heavens were full of sinister
omens and presages ; and as she sat gazing upwards,
longing for some faint inspiration of hope, a great
dragon shaped cloud, which had been growing away
in the far distance, swept suddenly over the near sky-anew,
swallowing up in its vast jaws almost all that
remained of the daylight ; and, with an involuntary
shudder, she turned away from the window.

If she could have beheld but one little twinkling
star, or a friendly slip of the new moon, she would
have felt less desolate : but the moon was as yet to
young to be visible. The last of the white-and-gray
pigeons had flown up to roost in the pigeon-cote ; the
rippling sound of their cooing, even, had almost entirely
ceased ; and one branch from the great black
fir-tree by the window, looking like a fox's brush
with a cone at the end of it, and which nodded and
bowed to her through the pane with a sad and monotonous
movement, was the only familiar object seeming
to wear an expression of sympathy.

She watched this kind, sad, fir-branch, until she
could no longer distinguish it from the darkness
of the moonless firmament beyond, and when only
a gentle brushing sound, and an occasional tapping
from the cone, reminded her of its vicinity. The
night had come in all its blackness, and, going up to

the cliimneypiece, she struck a match and lighted a
candle.

For she had made up her mind to pass this night
in the summer-room. To sleep would be, she felt,
utterly impossible; so she might Just as well sit up
here, with her knitting and her books. After all, she
would not have him with her so very much longer that
she need fasten upon the excuse of the darkness for
leaving him alone !

She went downstairs, therefore, and fetched her
knitting, some writing materials, and two books : the
New Testament  which Godfrey had given her when
she was quite a little girl, at the same time with the
deceased Alexander  and a translation into English
of the celebrated Ruhdiyat of Omar Khayyam ; and,
having collected together these belongings, she went
into the kitchen to inform Jane of her resolution.

The troop of inquiring friends had departed ; but
Nelus, Jane, and Mrs. Weller, were seated at the kitchen
table in anticipation of supper, whilst Deely  promoted
now into being treated like a grown-up person  was
washing up the tea-things in the scullery, assisted by
Abdallah.

As soon as Jane heard of her yomig mistress's resolution
she became loud in her remonstrances.

Never you goo fur to do such a thing now, missy!'
she exclaimed, appealingly. *No one nor her years
good fur to play such pranks as that ; now do dey,
Mrs. Weller?'

'No one nor ever I leered on, Mrs. Foord,' answered
Mrs. Weller. * You don't never know what oughtn't
not come over you in de middle of de night, my dear ; *
and she looked ominously at Sophy, wagging her chin.

No, dat you never do know,' returned Jane Ford,

in the same tone. ' Mussy, Avliat tales one do hear,
Bwiehj ! You mind, Mrs. Weller, maybe, a pore yomig
feller as wur a-settin* up along on a dead uncle on his
mother's side, over at One-chilly Farm ? . . Dey'd
a- warned un, too, dey had ; 'cus why, de ole gentleman
hadn't not bin a good-liver  yes, a-warned he'd bin. . .*
Here, however, she checked herself, fearing, perhaps,
that her anecdote, which was of a supernatural
character, might alarm Sophy inter the present circumstances.
By-and-by she continued in a more cheerful
voice, 

But, law ! my dears if so be as you fancies poor
muster 'd like to lev some one on us a-settin' up along
wit un, why, dere's Mrs. Weller here, she be a-used 
beiin't you, Mrs. "Weller ?  to such-like, sh be. She
don't fear none on dem, " be dey alive or be dey
dead." Now do you, Mrs. Weller ? '

No, not in a gen'ral way, / do notes replied Mrs.
Weller, with rather an uncomfortable expression. * I
never mind nothing* o' such-like, in a general icay Mrs.
Foord.'

Well, I'll tell you ?t'Ao'll goo fur to do it, and be
thankful ! ' cried Jane, perceiving Mrs. Weller's unreadiness,
and as though inspired with a brilliant idea.
What-you-call-um, as be a parly wooing, in dere, wit
our Deely ! Looked here, What-you-call-um, my good
ritter ! ' she called out, speaking very loudly and
distinctly, for she could never disconnect the Egyptian's
difficulty of comprehension from the idea of
permanent deafness, ' should . . . jou . . . mind . . .
a-settin' . up . . . along o' poor . . . muster . ind'
empt' room ? . . . Law ! . . . you don't almond it,
What-you-call-um, now, do you ? '

Abdallah did not reply at once. He glanced at

Soph//,

or

Dcely as thoufli in bcwildenncnt, and muttered a few
incomprehensible syllables.

Meiike un bear, Deely ! ' said Jane, turning to the
girl. * Ne'er a one but our Deely can make dis unfortunate
ritter bear reason ! Art un if bell jest goo
and set up along o' poor muster, in d' empt' room, an'
spare missy ? '

Wbat-you-call-um say be don't mind a-settin*
up in d' empt' room, mother,' said Deely, after sbe bad
exchanged a few pantomimic gestures with Abdallab,
s' long as / goes up and sets along with un, toa.'

Mrs. Weller looked immensely relieved.

But Sophy was confirmed in ber determination.
Was it likely, indeed, sbe said to herself, that sbe
should shrink from this pious duty, and allow creatures
like Mrs. Weller or an Egyptian donkey-boy to
take ber place by the side of ber sacred dead ?

'I mean to sit up with him myself,' sbe said quietly,
as sbe prepared to leave the kitchen. * And I shall not
want anything more. Good-night.'

'Dat's right, my dear !' rejoined Mrs. Weller, in a
tone of relieved apprehension. ' You goo uj) dere, and
read your Bible-Truth, and set up along o' your pore
dear par ! And doting you goo fur to fancy notbin'
six reel if-loilie  no ghosts, nor notbin' ! '

And Sophy departed, forthwith, to begin ber solitary
vigil.

Chapter XY

Before ten o'clock, and when it seemed as though the
evening was only just going to begin, Abdallab crept
away from the kitchen. Deeply', too, began yawning

and rubbing her eyes, and by-and-by she also retired.
The * barbarism ' escorted her to the stable-door, and
watched her form as it disappeared up a ladder which
led to the sleeping-apartment she occupied in common
with the ' brats,' ' over the cart-horses ; ' Abdallah
himself occupying a kind of loose-box below, near to
his two charges, * Cammy,' and * Ash Ash.' The
young people having withdrawn, Jane, Nelus, and
Mrs. Weller were left to themselves in the kitchen,
where it was their intention to spend the greater part
of the night in conversation, instead of retiring to rest
as usual, on account of the solemnity of the occasion.

Now no one could have said with truth that Mrs.
Ford or her husband Avere in the habit of taking more
stimulants than were good for them. On the contrary,
they were, for their class, an exceedingly temperate
couple, drinking, ' in a general way,' only the washiest
of tea and the weakest of table-beer. Mrs. Weller,
too, had always been accounted * a decent sober body.'
But, then, to-day nothing had gone on ' in a general
way.' The circumstances had been altogether exceptional
; and they had separately realised that, having
sustained a severe shock to their nervous systems,
something a little more potent than tea or table-beer
would be invaluable as a tonic. Mrs. Weller, to whom
the situation was not new, had foreseen this natural
demand, and thoughtfully provided herself with what
was necessary for its supply. This consisted of a clear
liquid with an aromatic smell, contained in a stout
black bottle, and which when tasted, especially by the
uninitiated, caused the partaker to look, for the time
being, upon the rosiest side of everything, and to
forget that he or she had ever been possessed of a
dorrit.' It seemed to be wonderfully conducive, too,

to sociability ; and after each one of the three friends
had partaken of about an equal portion of the magic
beverage, the cockles of their hearts grew warm one
towards the other ; and drawing their chairs close upto
the fire, the following conversation took place, Which
I venture to transcribe rrrbatini, although it is impossible
to render correctly the nasal twang peculiar to the
South Anglican dialect.*

Jaiic (sighing). Law, how strciinge all dis 'ere do
seem, 'be sure ! It don't seem nat'ral,  dat it don't
seem ! . . . Pore muster  as wur noa cage  fur to goo
an' git took, an' many a soul left as 'ud bin only too
lief fur to goo ! An' Nelus, as have wicked here both
man an' boy . . .

Neliis (who almost always acquiesces). Aye, aye,
'tis soa. Both boy an' man !

Mrs. Weller (musingly). An' my ole genTman,*!*
up dere, a-waiting' an' a-waiting' fur de Lard's good time,
ever since last hoj)pin'. D' Lard's strange ways,
sure/// /

Nelus. He have, 'be sure, Mrs. Weller.

Jane (with interest). How he your ole gentleman
jest now?

Mrs. Weber. Ole Master Weller ? . Oh, he be
party middling', he bo, an' thanked fur austin', Mrs.

If I have braved the possible displeasure of my readers, and
given the greater part of this chapter in the original idiom, it has
been only from a conscientious desire to tell 'the tale as 'twas told
to me.'  V. F.

t It is a noticeable fact, in this part of England, that after
peasants of either sex become old and infirm they are alluded toby
their relatives and friends (perhaps by way of compensation)
as 'the old gentleman' or 'the old lady.' 'Tue Old Gentleman's
however, very significantly accentuated, and probably Aviitten in
capitals, is the name employed for 'the Devil.'

Foord ; barren' his legs an* wrists, as comes o' shepherd'
o' all seasons, come wet, come dry. He tears
his meals as regular an' hearty as a young un, he do ;
but as de days dey goo b}, he be a-getting' very fussy-like
for himself, fancjan' as how d' Lard's gone an'
bin an' overlooked un, he be.

Jane. De good ole gentleman ! Now do it daily
be?

Nelus. Law, 'tis queer now ! De pore ole gentleman !

Mi's. JFc/ZT (continuing). Yus ; it have regular got
in 's head, it have. ' My time's come, Martha,' he do
goo fur to say day after daj, Mrs. Foord. ' D' Lard's
bin an' gone an' forgotten me, Martha.' ses he, * sure
as I be a-settin' here a-waiting' now fur moor nor a
twalmont,' ses he, * come next hopping'. / knows my
age,' ses he ; * fur Parson Hornbook got it in d' big
book, sure as gospel ; so d' Lard He needn't goo fur to
fancy I've bin an' last my calculations. . . . Though
but fur my legs,' ses he, ' an' my wrists, dang m'
ses he, ' if I bennet not got ten er 'leven sears' more
good luck in my body, Martha,' ses he.

Jane. Ah, dey ole folks, bless you, dey do goo fur to
git terrible worritin' an' fidgeting' dey do ! . . . Nelus,
he minds his ole gentleman (as was). Don't yer,
Nelus ?

Nelus. Ole Master Foord? m} father? . . . He
wur a wearing' ole gentleman, he wur ! Last years o'
his life he enjoyed riir?/ poor health, he did, as meiide
un very complaining'. D' Lard spared un great while
after he wur took bad. He wur a regular trite to his
family 'be sure !

Jane. He wur dat hard o' hearing, too, d' you mind,
Nelus ? A regular ole Turk he "wur, an' no mistake !

Nelus (retrospectively) A rale ole termagant, pore

or

olc pen'rman ! Howsomcdcvcr, he be took now ! (He
sighs.)

Mrs. Weller. An' olc Master Weller '11 <oo too, all
in d' Lard's good time, as I kips on a-tellin* of un ;
an' it bciin't not a bit o' good a-hurrjan' d' Lard, as I
ses to my Jerry. * Lookcc, Jerry, my good ritter,'
scz I, ' d' Lard chide hcav'm an' earth, an' all dat in
dcm is, an' de Jews, an' Gentles, an' Promised Land,
an' Tower o' Babel, an' all things creeping' and crawling',
an' rested d' seven' day. Law, His hands be full
enough, Jerry,' ses I ; * an' Hc\ other fish to fry nur
to hearken to you a-callin' an' a-complainin' jest when
it good fur to come into your mind ! . But on dis
you may depend,' scz I, ' ho2:pin' or no hopping', lambin'
or sheepshearin', Sunday or weekday, d' Lard '11 come
all in 's OA\Ti good time, dat I'll lay you a guinea ; an*
so you leave ars a-tarmentin', Jerrj dat's a good
ritter,' scz I. An' so d' Lard will come, be sure,
Mrs. Foord !

Jane. Surely, Mrs. Weller I

Nevis. You may trust d' Lard fur dat !

Jane. Your Motives be arisen' moor's foor'n-twenty-
year old now, bciin't he, Mrs. Weller ? What's diff'rence
wit d' young Sir Tummus? . . . Let's see; you
was married late in life. . . .

Mrs. Weller. Oh, Sir Tummus he be a bit younger, I
know for martin. Sims like as he wur a-going' to
church along o' your missy, he do ; and a very proper
young gentleman too.

Jane. A very proper young gentleman. . . . Ah,
poor missy, a-setten' up-stairs along of her pore dear
par ! . . .

Mrs. Weller. Now d' you know, Mrs. Foord, why I
wouldn't not be your missy now, no, not for'n 'sundered
pound ?

Jane. Not I, Mrs. Weller. But speak your mind.

Mrs. We/kr. Wal, you see, Mrs. Foord, an' no-offence
meant, pore dear Muster Frank (as we knows,
wal, an' moor's d' pity), he burnet not no Christian-soul,
he burnet. . . He went fur to fly out in d' face
of his Almighty, I reckon . . .

Jamie. No say in' but he did so ; but he wur a good-liver,
Mrs. Weller, he wur a good-liver !

Nelus. Dere's no mistake about dat. A good-liver,,
he wnr, poor soul !

Mrs. Weller. I'll say nothing' to de country, Mrs.
Foord, nur you, Nelus ; but I weill goo fur to say as I be-glad
I bent your young missy, a-settin' up dere alone
in d' empt' room ! . . . Some do say as how d' Ole
GenVman takes an' fetches dem away as casts in
der lot wit sinners, dem as ain't never set foot in do
church. . . . ' Danger if church sile shall have un at
all !' ses he, an' jest takes an' snatches away d' body.
'S happened, time after time, in des 'ere parts !

Jane (mysteriously, and approaching her chair to
that of Mrs. Weller). Wal, now you come fur to speak
on it, Mrs. Weller, we have heard, Nelus and me, we
have heard de remark part as how poor muster
wouldn't not never bide in churchyard sile. An' dat
'ere tale I was fur tellin' on ye, only I stopped arcus o
missy. . . . Nelus, he minds it. . . . Ugh ! (shuddering.)
It do meiike you sin all surely and glorified,
it do!

Mrs. Weller. Give us yer tale now, Mrs. Foord! . . .
He be fur ars at d' other end o' d' house, poor dear, hebe
! An' den, maybe, I'll tell yer another as '11 lift yer
best bonnet ars yer head, I will !

Jane. Yus ; but if what you good fur to say bo
feasible, an' if so be as de Ole Gen' T man takes it into
his head an' horns fur to set on un? . . . I dont like

or

a-talkin' on *un, somehow ! . . . You never knows
wit de Ole Gcnrnuoi, Mrs. Weller ; you never Jicn
tell!

Nchis (fondly and indulgently, as though speaking
of some familiar acquaintance, whom, notwithstanding
his eccentricities, it is impossible to dislike). No ; you
can't never tell, not wit d' Ole GciCVman, you can't !
He'll be after some o' dem 'ere games o' his, afoot you
ses ' My name's Jean Foord,' he'll be ! . . . Oh, Jie'W
goo fur to play his pranks, he "wtiU ! (smiling fondly.)
Law, he be dat artful, 'be sure !

Mrs. Weller. Now I wants yer story, Mrs. Foord !

Nelus. Git along, Jean ! (To Mrs. Weller.) Trust
her fur tellin' of ye stories! She'll jest tickle yer
feeling's, she wull ! An' she ken sing, too, she ken ;
jest's well as any o' dem 'ere changed nightingale !
(He begins to fredonner :)

A-waalkin', and a-taalkin', and a-singin', good I,
Fur to meet my dear Billy, wot's a-comin'' by'm by, 
Fur to meet it be a pleasure',  fur to part it be a great,
Fur an ill-constant lover be fusser nur a sheaf.' . . .*

You mind dat 'ere song o' your's, eh, ole Jetin ? '

Jane. I mind it right enough ! . . . Goes on fur
to say, it do (singing):

Fur a sheaf he will rob yer, an' teiikc all ye have.
But an ill-constant lover wull bring yer to dc greave.'

So, looked, dont you never goo fur to be * ill-constant,'
now, you Nelus !

During the writer's infant years, a Sussex nursery maid was
wont to sing her to sleep with this very song, which, from its
construction, she suspects must be of ancient origin. The ' ill-constancy
' of man was thus impressed upon her from the cradle.
There are other verses, which are omitted.  V. F.

Nclus. It beiiut not likely as shell never give meno
chance o' been' ill-constant : now be it, Mrs. Weller ?

Mrs. Weller (who is also acquainted with the song).
Song goes on fur to say (singing), 

An' de greave, it \vull rot yer, au' bring yer unto dust,
An' dere's not one in twenty dat a feare mead can trust.'

Yus, rot yer dat wuU, de greave, sure enough, Mrs.
Foord. ! But now fur dat 'ere story ?

Jane (commencing her narrative). Wal, 'twas on a
Friday night, as might be jest dis 'ere ; an' away up at
dat 'ere thatch' farmhouse towards ole Sir Peckham's,
as has only got one great big chilly, dey did say as
how ole Farmer Saxby, as lived dere time o' my young
days, didn't not fear 's Almighty, nor hold to 's Gospel
Truth. . . . He wur a wal-to-do man enough, but lived
single after he buried 's must wife ; and when 's own
time corned fur to be took, ne'er a bit 'ud he send fur
no parson. 'Cus, ses he, he burnet not afeared o' no
hell-fire, ses he, and no Ole Gen' V man neither ! *But ii
80 be,' ses he, *as dere do he an Ole Gen'Vman at al
(which I dont not hold to, no ways), wal, den,' ses he,
he's right welcome inside my house,' ses he, ' whenever
he chooses fur to set foot within ! ' . . . An' a pore
young feller as was only a new o' his on de wife's
side, as had bin took an' housed-like, fur charity (as
done garden-luck some time, up to Dallingridge
House), he ses, ses he (when d' ole gentleman wur dead,
an' laid out in d' back parlour), 'When I wur a pore
young feller,' ses he, * as was only a new o' his on de
wife's side, changed,' ses he, * if he didn't goo fur to
house me, an' see ars ter my schooling' ; an' now as he betook,'
ses he, 'an' gain to judgment, an' al dey sniv'lin'
time-servers' (meaning' d' ole gentleman's own family),
*bin an' gain an' teakcn dcrsclves ars, an' left un,

dang me ses he, * if I doiint not goo fur to keep
watch wit un, d' last night in d' ole house ! ' ses lie ;
and wouldn't not be overpersuaded nohow, not he !

JWr.'i. Weller (admiringly). A rale venturesome young
feller, 'be sure !

Nclus. Ah, dat he jest wu}% too !

J(7>?e (continuing). Wal, . . . 'twas a Friday night,
as might be dis 'ere, an' d' clock, . . . (Nelus, wot bet
a-clock now ?) wal, . . . d' clock it wur jest soa  agone
twelve a-clock . . . an' dis pore young feller, he
wur a-settin' up all along o's ownsclf in d' front room
wit' d' big chilly . . . (mind yer, dat 'ere chilly
it done service fur both o' dem two rooms  back an
front  'twas in de back-room as he wur alain' out) ;
wal,. . . he'd a- jest littenup's second pope. . . . 'Twas
kind a' strange windy night, like, o' times, an' den
fiirrihle stilly. . . . 'Twas kind-a-come-in gredt-slaams
agen de doors an' winders, an' den, ars it wur ! . . .
He'd put a pear o' dips on d' parlour-table, he had, an'
dere dey was a-standing'. . . . By'm by, one o' dem two
dips begins fur to gutter, it do, jest fur al d' world as
if so be as der vnxr a sheaf nigh un ! . . . He didn't
not feel dat comfumhlc at dis, an' he sets to an' thinks 
an' thinks he, * Why, dem 'ere best snuffers, on de
plated tray, dey be in d' other room,' thinks he. . . .

Mrs. Wcllcr (shuddering, and drawing in her chair).
It do goo fur to git terrible slxrcehj,'' be sure !

Nchis (suddenly, as though listening). Harkee ! . . .
Wot be dat ? . . .

Jane (starting). Oh, don't you goo fur to terrify
one now, you Nelus ! None o' your gems now, dere's
a good ritter !

Mrs. Weller. Wal, goo on, Jeiin Foord ; . . . you
was a-sajdn' .

Jane (continuing). Wal, . . . one o* dem 'ere taller
candles it sets to a-splutterin', an' a-gutterin', an' a-
strain' down al a' one side, . . . jest fur al do
world as if so be as a theirs er a windy sheet wur in it.
. . An' jest den lie feels a kind a' cold clammy sorter
air, he do. . . . Coined down d' big chilly it did.
An' a little daxccj as was a-settin' screwed up quite
comfurable-loike, good f ur [to set to an' wind in' s sleep,
* Dat be strange,' ses he. An' jest same time he
turns (fur to look behind un), an' he sees a sofnef/iiji*
a-settin' bunched-up in d' fur earner, as he thought at
must, wur's own shudder. . ' Why, an' wot be f/oii,*
thinks he, * as be a-settin' bunched up in d' fur earner,
as I thought, at must, was me own shudder ? ' . . . An'
den he looks agen ; . . . an' den he goes fur to take
anode look, he do ; an' he can't not make it out, he
can't, not nohow. . . . An', jest den, dere comes a
paraffin' an' a paraffin', an' a clapping' and a flapping', an' a
scratching' an' a scratching', an' a gebb'rin' an' a gebb'rin',
an' d' little dawn he begins fur to shake an' shiver, he
do ; an' den he looks an' he looks, an' he starts well-nigh
out o' his soul an' living' body, he do, fur he looks
an' he sees, . . . an' b'm by, he Hears

Just as Jane had arrived at this thrilling part of her
narrative, a loud and piercing shriek, accompanied by
an unusual and unaccountable sound, fell suddenly upon
the startled ears of the three boon companions. It proceeded,
apparently, from the further end of the long,
low, gabled farmhouse, in which was situated the
summer room, and hose who heard it were, for the
moment, numbed and petrified with horror. Neither of
them spoke ; but with their half-filled glasses in their
uplifted hands, they remained dumb and motionless,
their hearts seeming to have stopped, gazing blankly

into one another's faces, and looking, for the moment,
like figures turned into stone.

By-and-by, the doors which intervened between the
kitchen and the chamber of death were opened and
closed violently in rapid succession  the door of the
summer-room itself, the swing-door at the end of the
passage, and the red-baize door at the foot of the narrow
stairs. The shriek must have been piercing, indeed,
to have penetrated all these intervening obstructions.
. . Meanwhile Someone, or Something, was coming
nearer and nearer. Blankly, and stupidly, the three
rustics remained staring aghast ; their lips blue and
their faces bloodless, though their hearts had been set
going again, and were beating loudly. There came a
sound as of a rushing of wind; or of a fluttering of garments
; the kitchen door was thrust open in wild haste,
and Sophy, looking white and ghastly as a spectre,
staggered almost fainting towards them. Evidently,
something terrible had happened, though not a syllable
escaped her blanched lips. The tartan shawl was floating
behind her like a banner, mingled with a thick tress
of dark hair which had escaped from her comb. Her
eyes were dilated with terror, and her whole countenance
wore the expression of that of a helpless creature
flying from some pursuing danger.

Instinctively Nelus rose from his arm-chair as
she entered ; nor was he a moment too soon, for, as he
advanced towards her, she uttered a low moan, and fell
senseless into the place he had just vacated. Mrs.
Weller, with great presence of mind, darted towards
the door, and not only locked and double-locked it, but
pushed the heavy kitchen-table against it by way of
barricade ; after which she went to the assistance of her
two companions, who were already applying restoratives
' their young mistress.

Chapter Xii.

This was what lead happened in the summer-room.
By half-past ten o'clock, Sophy had thoroughly installed
herself, with her New Testament, her 'Omar Khaj'yam,'
and her knitting, by the side of her solitary candle.
She had begun with her knitting. It was the same
piece which had been but slowly growing for nearly a
year now, for as its destination was as yet undetermined,
she had worked at it without much enthusiasm ;
and it had been, for most of the time, lying about
behind chair cushions and under tables, where the
worsted ball had afforded the cats many moments of
recreation.

On this sad evening she had only taken it up, as she
said to herself, to help her to think ; for there is something
very conducive to reflection in the quickly-recurring
movement of the knitting-needles, and in the
regularity with which the stitches fall from or cling to
them, one after another.

Sophy had always liked to do three or four things
at once, if possible ; so, after she had knitted, and
thought, for more than half an hour, pausing, from
time to time, to watch the reflection of her quickly-moving
fingers, her white cuflts, and her one candle, in
the curtailed window-pane, or to listen to the low
sighing of the swaying fir-branch, she determined, besides
working, thinking, watching, and listening, to
read as well : she took up, therefore, the little black
Testament, setting it open upon the table before her,
and keeping its leaves down with her ' Omar Khayyam/
so that her hands might be free to continue her sitting.

Gentle and noble and humane, the Founder of the
Christian Faith, the Hebrew Protestant, seemed to

VOL. II. N

stand out as from a cloud of Surrounding error, impressing
lion, as she read on, with reverence and admiration.
She knew, now, why her father had sometimes
called himself *an early Christian'  a term which
(seeing that he did not believe Christianity to be divinely
inspired) had always struck her before as anomalous.
"Whilst repudiating Jesus as a God, he had yet looked
up to Ili, and revered Him, as a man; and he had
held, for the most part, the same spiritual opinions as
that simple band of Galilean fishermen, before those
opinions had been distorted and blazoned forth to the
world in a spirit often strangely at variance with the
teachings of the Great Master. She read on thus for
some time, her whole seul j-earning towards Him who
had been, whilst on earth, the friend of the fatherless
and the widow, the champion of the poor, and the
denouncer of bigotry and oppression : who had healed
the sick, restored sight to the blind, and suffered little
children to come unto Him, but who had rebuked the
Scribes and Pharisees, calling them 'hypocrites,' 'blind
leaders of the blind,' and 'a generation of vipers,'
who had ' cast out them that sold and bought in
the Temple,' overthrowing 'the tables of the moneychangers'
and 'the seats of them that sold doves,' 
and who had reproved those that ' make broad their
phylacteries, and enlarge the borders of their garments,
and love the uppermost rooms at feasts, and
the chief seats in the synagogues.'

No wonder  no wonder, she thought, that the One
who had given utterance to so many divine precepts
should have been worshipped afterwards as a Divine
Being by His disciples ! Yes, her father had been ' an
early Christian '  a conscientious follower of this ' just
man,' who, nevertheless, was to him but as a man, after

sall, and, for this reason, trio Scribes and Pharisees of
to-days had turned upon him and reviled him, and
would, no doubt, have persecuted him if they had
dared; and, as these thoughts passed through her
mind, she looked tenderly towards the shrouded figure
upon the bed.

The room was very, very silent, and, as before, the
stillness seemed almost aggressive, forcing itself, as it
were, upon her senses, and obliging her to recognise its
existence. It was quite a relief to her when she heard
the stable-clock strike out midnight in slow measured
tones  although, when the last stroke had died into
silence, she felt even more lonely than before  as if a
friend had finished speaking to her and had departed.
At this hour, too, she had every reason to suppose  not
knowing of the party in the kitchen that she was the
only waking creature in the whole house ; nay, the
only living creature, in all probability, for Jane and her
husband inhabited the next room to that occupied by
their family, ' over the cart-horses,' and long before
this advanced hour, it was their habit to retire for the
night. They were sleeping soundly, she thought, now,
0 soundly that they had very likely not even heard
the striking of the great stable-clock, although it was
only just above their heads, in the little pointed turret
under the gilt weathercock. The night must be still
for her to have heard it so plainly, for it was some way
off, and yet there was enough wind to make that low
moaning at the window  a wearisome and depressing
monotone, and to sway backwards and forwards the
black fir-branch with its tapping cone. Sometimes it
seemed to brush and slide across the window-pane with
a sound almost resembling the soft passing of fingers,
and at this she would lift her head and gaze out, with

startled eyes, into the darkness ; but she only saw, as
before, the reflection of her one candle, bcr book, and
her two white hands, which were the nearest objects
to the light. She was not frightened ; perfect grief
has this in common with perfect love, it ' casteth out
fear ; ' but she felt a little nervous  a purely physical
condition, prone to start easily, to imagine noises, and
to glance suddenly over her shoulder with a sense of
having felt a cold breath of air, difficult to account for
or explain. To dispel these uncomfortable sensations,
she took up the ' Omar Khayyam ' from the table. It
opened of itself at page 25, possibly because there
occurred here some favourite verses of Mr. St. Clair,
to whom the book had belonged, and who had frequently
pondered over it before he had been afflicted
with blindness. To Sophy, however, it was almost
new, and she commenced reading with interest the
following lines : 

As, under cover of departing day.
Slunk hunger-stricken Rameau away,

Once more within the potter's house alone
I stood, surrounded by the shapes of clay.

Shapes of all sorts and sizes, great and small,
That stood along the floor and by the wall ;

And some loquacious vessels were, and some
Listened, perhaps, but never talked at all.

Said one among them, " Surely not in vain
My substance of the common earth was ta'en,
And to this figm-e moulded, to be broke.
Or trampled back to shapeless earth again 1 "

Then said a second, " Ne'er a peevish boy

Would break the bowl from which he drank in joy ;

And he that with his hand the vessel made
Will surely not with after wrath destroy."

After a momentary silence spake
Some vessel of a more ungainly make :

They sneer at me for leaning all awry.
What ! did the hand, then, of the potter shake 1 "

Whereat some one of the loquacious lot 
I think a Sufi pipkin, waxing hot :

All this of pot and potter. Tell me, then,
Who makes, who sells, who buys, who is the pot ? "

Why," said another, " some there are who tell
Of one who threatens he will toss to hell

The luckless pots he marred in making. Pish !
He's a good fellow, and 'twill all be well ! " '*

Arrived at this point, Sophy set down the book in
order to meditate more profoundly.  To Hell ! ' . . .
A place of everlasting torment and tribulation, to wbieli
mortals vere to be consigned as a punishment for the
errors committed during their emmet-lives ; lives
which had been thrust upon them without permission
; errors to which many of them were predestined
by disease and misfortunes ! The last line of
this last verse expressed in trite and familiar language
the simple creed of the late Francis St. Clair, whilst
she, herself, had often sympathised, unwittingly, with
the questionings of the 'Sufi Pipkin.' There was
nothing, then, after all, so very novel, or original, in
modern Scepticism, since * Khayyam, who stitched the
tents of Science,' had ventilated the same ideas more
than seven hundred years ago !

But then, what strange contradictions and incongruities
had existed, besides, in her father's nature !

I have committed the anachronism of quoting Mr. Fitzgerald's
admirable English translation, although it was not published, T
believe, until 1850.

or

"Whilst professing; to rccopniso only a religion of reason,
how tenderly and tenaciously had he seemed to cling
to many of the records of a shadowy and superstitious
Past ! How had he revelled, and luxuriated, in the
romantic and the marvellous, whilst adoring* at the
shrine of modern science and reform ! A lover, theoretically",
of peace, and a celeste of blood-shedding,
he had ever gloried, 2)ersonall3', in perilous adventure,
and applauded in others all acts of prowess in the
field. A mighty hunter, ere yet the curse of blindness
had fallen ujon him, whilst jealously defending
the interests of tame and savage animals. Dabbling
in necromancy and soothsaying, and yd professing a
loathing for all things which bore not the honest imprint
of truth. Pointing with one hand to what he
had regarded as undeniable evidence opposed to the
divine inspiration of the Scriptures, and grasping, in
the other, the hazel-wand with which he half expected
to discover the philosopher's stone, or the rifle, loaded
with the golden bullet, destined never to miss its mark !
Poor, wise, foolish, loving, and beloved father ! No
doubt the blending together of all these strange currents
in the one individual had, over and over again,
given good cause to his enemies to blaspheme, to
despise him, perhaps, and to look upon him, frequently,
as one who Alas irresponsible for his own
actions. But yet it was this quaint admixture of past
and present, of fool and philosopher, which had made
Francis St. Clair so charming as a companion to the
very few who had ever found themselves in intimate
contact with him, most of all to the daughter who was
now mourning his loss, and who, in sprite of her affection,
had never been blind to his inconsistencies. And, after
all, fashioned as we are, would it not be strange if
these contradictions and incongruities did not exist ?

When we consider, too, how many subtle and insidious
atoms, or germs, of this or that departed personality
may have crept into, and commingled with our composition
? A commingling which must, towards these
latter days, have become somewhat bewildering to the
would-be conformable, by reason of the antagonisms
developed by the imprisonment of so many varied and
uncongenial elements within what is termed the same
individual. It is certain that, were all these accidentally
concentrated idiosyncracies to be resolved back into
their original, or individual, forms, there would be but
little similarity between them, nor would they probably
arrive at a unanimous conclusion upon any one given
subject; and it is not wonderful, therefore, if the four
great grandfathers and grandmothers (to go back no
further) in a man's blood, rise up sometimes and make
havoc of his consistency. The fact is, we cannot be correctly
termed individuals at all. We are, each of us, a
combination of many and various individuality, warring
with, and arguing with, and detesting one another,
during their enforced sojourn together in the same
flesh ; and the wonder is, that the word * consistency '
should ever have been invented, to give expression to
an idea which can so seldom suggest itself with anything
like correctness to the human mind.

But he was dead now, Sophy thought sadly; the
sceptic, the philosopher ! The Philanthropist, who
would not willingly have injured a fly, who would have
removed the earth-worm from his path, murmuring
compassionately, ' There is room for thee and for me ; *
and who had yet done his best to strike at the root of
what is to many even as the Tree of Life ! lie was
dead now, and his contradictions and inconsistencies
would soon be buried with him in the grave.

This is my first really hojclcss sorrow,' she thought,

as she looked tearfully towards the shrouded bed. *No
new years can ever take it away. Come what may, I
shall always remember that he was with me once, and
that he has gone from me for ever. I shall miss him
as long as I live ! *

But he had not gone from her yet. lie was with
her still, in that silent room. She had felt his influence,
although he coidd not; speak to her. He was
sealed and vowed to a perpetual silence, that was all ;
but he was there. It was this conviction which ht-d
enabled her to endure such seeming solitude; she had
never been really' alone. A friend was with her  a
well-wisher,  some one who had loved her once, ard
who loved and warded over her still ; only he had fallen
asleep. "With this thought, a sudden wish came upon
her to look for consolation in his face, and she advanced
hesitatingly towards the bed. Still that same cold air
seemed to follow her, and still the sighing fir-branch,
swayed to and fro by the low moaning wind, murmured
sadly as it brushed against the pane of the shutterless
window ! These sounds made her start occasionally,
and look, as before, in the direction of the window; but
she was not frightened, for was she not with her father?
She was standing now, somewhat irresolute, by the side
of the iron bedstead. Anybody else would probably
have murmured a prayer ; and slice, too, was praying,
after her own fashion  an aimless, nameless, unconventional
prayer, but a genuine lifting up of her heart,
nevertheless, to some great though invisible God.
'Then, slowly and reverently, she drew aside the sheet
which covered her father's body, and looked sadly and
wistfully into his face.

It was the same face surely, and yet not the same !
Strangely altered  idealised, perhaps, in its waxen

whiteness; but the comfort she had sought for in it was
not there ; her father, as she had known him, was gone !
Very carefully she rearranged the white coverings,
hiding away what had proved only a disappointment ;
but with the knowledge that she was really alone, a
sense of terror and desolation passed over her spirit.
Alone thus, in the dispatches of the night, with what
seemed now to her as her strange dead ! A tall man 
resembling a Bedouin Arab  with closed eyes, thin
chiselled features, and pale lips, seeming to her to
wear, in their sealed silence, a strange, wise, unaccountable
smile, unlike her father's usual expression: a smile
which was almost a sneer, as though at the smallness,
and briefness, and vainness, of everything human, perceived,
at last, through some newly-obtained knowledge.
Sophy wished now that she had never looked at the
face of this strange man. She felt very, very sorry,
that her father had gone from her, and very lonely and
uneasy in her newly realised solitude. Nervous, too
and certainly frightened. . . . Yes, she could not help
confessing this to herself with deep humiliation. Her
candle had burnt down rather low already, and she had
foolishly omitted to provide herself with another. She
began to wonder now, with something like consternation,
how much longer it would last, and whether it
would be possible, in her present frame of mind, to
endure the idea of being left eventually in total darkness.
Again, whether she could summon the necessary
courage to go down stairs  opening and shutting the
four intervening doors  fetch another candle, and then,
having ascertained that she alone of all the household
moved and breathed, whether she could nerve herself
into returning  reopening and shutting the four doors
and again taking her place as watcher in this silent

climber. It was not so much the notion of leaving
the room tliut alarmed lier ; it was the idea of reentering
it, although she could not explain to herself
the reason of this.

The summer-room was the last room in the
house, and as she realised this, a weird and ghastly
story, related by the neophyte, occurred to her remembrance.
It was founded upon an old Italian superstition,
to the effect that, if any person happens to go,
alone, and at midnight, into a deserted house, and penetrates
as far as the east chamber, locking himself into
each separate room, one after another, as he goes along,
and mixing the keys of each particular door upon a
bunch, in order that it should be impossible for him to
pitch, in haste, upon the right one;  if he does all this,
and furthermore, if, when he arrives at the last room,
he proceeds to stand before a looking-glass, and to
laugh loudly to himself three tiinefi, just as the clock
is striking midnight, after his third laugh he will
see in the mirror a reflection of the devil ! He will
then, probably, endeavour to escape, seized, as he invariably
is, with blind terror ; but the keys being hopelessly
mixed upon his bunch, it is impossible for him to
select the right one with his trembling fingers, and
Sophy had been assured b) her informant, that those
who had lightly undertaken this nocturnal adventure,
either out of bravado, or for a wager, had frequently
paid for their temerity with their lives. IV hy this
foolish story should recur to her now, she was at a
loss to imagine, she could only explain it by thinking
that there must be certain ideas and recollections which
seem mysteriously predestined to assert themselves at
wrong moments. Certain it was, that the remembrance
of it affected her now, although, when in a normal state

of mind, she would have regarded it simply as an oldwife's
tale.

She was standing, unconsciously, opposite to a little
round Turkish looking-glass with an embroidered velvet
frame and lid, such as are used by the ladies in the
harems, which was hung up on one side of the mantlepiece.
Her face looked unnaturally pale, and upon
perceiving it, she moved away instinctively, lest she
should see, or imagine that she saw, some other reflection
besides her own. It was a foolish idea, and, of
course, whatever she might perceive, could only be the
creature of a strained and excited imagination, but it
would alarm her just as much as if it really existed, so,
for the present, she would rather not look in the glass.
No, nor yet even at the reflection of her candle in the
window-pane, lest she should encounter, there also, the
face of some imaginary goblin ; and having thus resolved,
womanlike, she then and there gazed up suddenly in
this very direction, feeling again that same chill-breath;
ing air, and hearing the tapping of the fir-cone, which
always made her start.

How was this ? Where was the reflection of her
fast-expiring candle,  of her 'Omar Khayyam,' with
its broad-margined pages, which was lying open on the
table under the light ? She held up her hands to the
candle and moved them, turned over the pages of her
book, and then looked up again at the window. Still,
no reflection, and still darkness  but thick darkness 
at once horrible and appalling, as though of some dusky
body at the window which had interposed between her
and the spark of candle-light.

Merciful Heaven ! The window, she saw now, was
nearly half open ; something must have been pushing it
up noiselessly whilst she had been turned in the direction

of the bed, and it was continuing to slide up now,
softly and mysteriously. A hand was pushing it ; she
could just see the fingers ujoon the window-frame 
swart dusky fingers, as though they had been dipped in
ink. It was not imagination, for she could feel the cold
night air rushing into the room as the window slid open;
and suddenly, with a simultaneous movement, inspired
by terror, the peaceful denizens of the pigeon-cato
fluttered forth into the darkness upon their startled
wings.

"White and speechless with horror, Sophy staggered
back towards the chimney piece, reaching out her hands
to save herself from falling. The candle had begun to
flicker and tremble now, and there were moments when
it seemed to be almost extinct. She was as white as
the dead man upon the bed, her large eyes were staring
blankly, and through her bloodless lips her breath came
short and fast. Her heart had altogether stopped, so it
seemed to her, and she was fast becoming deafened by a
loud singing noise in her ears. Meanwhile, the Thing,
man or devil, whatever it was, continued slowly lifting
up the sash of the window. She could see now, bending
downwards, as though to enter through the aperture,
the delineation of a shadowy form, and hear, in
the deathlike silence, the low sound of some creature
breathing. All this had taken only a few seconds, but
they seemed like years  years of horror  such as are
said to make people old and gray-haired.

It was too terrible, too ghastly, too unaccountable,
but soon she must faint and lose all consciousness of
this horror.

Why did she not faint now ? nay, why did she not
(Uc, with all that she had to endure ? . . .

As these thoughts rushed through her frenzied

brain, she clung for support to a corner of the chimney-piece,
and in doing so, her hand encountered something
even more icy than itself. It was the muzzle of the
rifle, which had been taken down that morning from its
place  the rifle loaded with the golden bullet, which
was said never to miss its mark ! At this contact, a
desperate hope flickered through her mind, the last
chance, as it seemed, that remained to her. Rousing
herself, with a momentary effort, she seized upon it,
as upon all that was left to her of salvation, with the
desperate resolve of scaring away this man, or demon,
or whatever dark shape was either really there, or
seemed to be there, to her diseased imagination. It was
the work of a moment. She raised the gun, pointed
it at the window, which she could now hardly see in the
growing darkness, and fired. . . . The golden bullet
had struck home. There was a long, loud shriek  a
dull, heavy sound, as of some one falling from a height.
The blue smoke which followed upon the discharge of
the gun curled softly out of the now wide-open window,
the thick wick of the candle flickered finally and fell
forward in its socket, and Sophy, half crazed with terror
and emotion, fled wildly down the passage, thrust open
the four intervening doors, and had just sufficient
strength to reach the presence of her faithful retainers,
ere she sank, cold and inanimate, into the oak seat by
the kitchen-fire.

Chapter XVII.

Sir Thomas IIickathrift, whilst in the act of completing
his simple toilet upon the following morning,
might be said to be in as bad a temper as was possible
for so thoroughly amiable a young man.

He had begun by awakening from the sound sleep
begotten of an innocent conscience (Tom generally slept
soundly, whatever happened), with only an undefined
sense of depression. By-and-by, he remembered its
cause. Sophy St. Clair, the girl after his own heart
(' ///.s girl,' as he had sometimes called her, to himself,
for every thing seemed to be drawing them together
again now), was unhappy; her father, whom, notwithstanding
his eccentricities, he had always liked and
respected, was lying dead in the white gabled farmhouse,
and the poor little thing was now quite alone in
the world. . ' Dear little thing ! ' he said to himself,
* with her wild face and great startled eyes ! '

Still, through this same sad circumstance, did he not
find himself suddenly and unexpectedly placed in the
position of almost her only friend and protector ? . . .
At any rate, she had given him permission to make
the necessary arrangements for the funeral, and this she
would not laye given to an every-day acquaintance.
And, after all, was he not the proper person to protect
lier, and to take all trouble off her hands ? Who was
better fitted to do this than her oldest friend and
nearest neighbour? . . . Ah, there was, perhaps, one
office 2)erso)i. One who was bound to her by the ' tie of
blood,' whose name she bore, who was also her near
neighbour, and, it had even been whispered, as devotedly
attached to her as he was himself ! . . .
Averse /le to appear just now upon the scene, his presence
might very seriously disturb the current of
events ! But he was away  abroad  according to rumour,
for some time; and Tom hoped that it was not
very unneighbourly of him if he desired earnestly that
he might not return for the present. . . .

Sophy's bereavement, then, had certainly made

Tom feel sad upon her account ; but it was not this
which had actually caused him to be angry, and to
brush away so irritably at his short hair with two
enormous ivory brushes.

Strange to say, his indignation at that moment was
directed against the clergy, and against Mr. Pettigrew
in particular. There was, indeed, some excuse for his
annoyance.

In order to lose no time, he had written, on the
previous evening, to Mr. Pettigrew, as it was useless
now to communicate with the old Rector upon matters
of business. In his letter, he stated that, having called
upon Miss St. Clair, since her bereavement, and found
her in a \Qry depressed and forlorn condition, he had
offered to take all trouble oft* her hands with regard to
the funeral. He therefore wrote to acquaint Mr.
Pettigrew that he thought the best day for the interment
would be either Tuesday or Wednesday next, whichever
would suit his convenience. Perhaps Mr. Pettigrew
would kindly let him know by the bearer as to topmost
convenient hour ? He concluded, of course, that
the deceased gentleman would be buried in the family
vault; but upon this subject Mr. Pettigrew would,
perhaps, communicate with Mrs. St. Clair ; for the
present, it would be sufficient to send a reply regarding
the day.

The messenger had returned with ' Mr. Pettigrew's
compliments, and he would send an answer to Sir
Thomas's note as soon as he had consulted with Mrs.
St. Clair.' And this morning, early, the answer had
arrived, which Tom had perused with the deepest
indignation. In the nearest approach to a rage possible
to one of his temperament, he had determined, upon his
OYm responsibility, to wash his hands of l*ettigrew

or

and the Dallingridgc crew, and to throw himself upon
the mercy of his old friend the Dean, who lived in the
square red-brick house at the back of the fine old
Norman church, just over the way. To him, therefore,
he at once despatched a letter, the answer to which had
arrived just as he was brushing his hair. This also
was extremely unsatisfactory, and hence it was that,
upon this particular Saturday morning, Sir Thomas
Ilickathrift was in what was (for Jii)n) an exceedingly
bad temper with the clergy.

lie did not, indeed, foresee all these unpleasant complications
when he had undertaken to superintend the
final arrangements ; ' but he was heartily glad that
Sophy had not been left to do battle with them alone.
That his old friend the Dean, whom he had found so
courteous and amenable ujDon the occasion of the late
Sir Peckham's 'walking funeral,' should select this
opportunity for displaying, as it were, the * cloven
hoof,' was, indeed, most unexpected and provoking;
for he perceived, in his conduct, the germs of a possible
breach between the Deanery and the Abbey, which
might be productive of unpleasantness even in the
remote future.

It would be very disagreeable to be obliged to inform
Soph" of all this ; but he felt that it was his duty
to do so, notwithstanding that she had requested him, in
rather a marked tone, not to repeat his visit to her
until the following Sunday. She would know, however,
that circumstances might arise which would
oblige him to consult her. So he would order a horse,
hurry through his breakfast with his mother, and ride
over to Stillingfleet immediately afterwards.

What a pity it is,' he thought to himself, as he
finished tying his neckcloth, * that people can't always

behave kindly and charitably, and like Christians, as
we're told to behave in the Bible ! Fancy wanting to
pay out a dead man ! It's like kicking a fellow when
he's down ! '

As he reflected thus, he pulled at the bell-rope
rather more violently than usual. The summons was
answered by his valet.

Order the chestnut mare at eleven ; not a moment
later. I shan't want any one with me.'

Eleven's just the hour as Mr. Stubberfield was
a-going to step round again. Sir Tummus,' answered
the man. * He's been here twice already, but I told
him as you were engaged.'

Oh, confound Tom Stubberfield ! ' * Sir Tummus '
could not refrain from exclaiming, irritated at the
thought of any possible delay. * Tell him to call when
I come back. He can drop in after luncheon.'

*I think it's something very particular. Sir Tummus/
hazarded the servant, mysteriously. * Something as
Mr. Stubberfield says won't keep. Almost a matter
of life and death, I may say. Sir Tummus.'

Then ask him to come round now,' said Tom,
pulling out his watch rather impatiently.  I dare say
he's only waiting round at the George.'

This surmise proved correct, and in a few minutes
*Mr. Stubberfield,' arrayed in hobnailed boots and buff
spatterdash, presented himseK at the door of the
library.

Thomas Stubberfield (to whom the late Sir Thomas
Peckham stood sponsor) was a hale-looking man in the
prime of life. He was an elder brother of those same
Stubberfieldiuscs ' with whom the little Sophy of the
old time had had so many hostile encounters, and he
was, until quite lately, utterly obnoxious in her eyes

VOL. II.

from having been personally responsible for the death
of * the Serene Highness.' For some years he had been
the head Ilickathrift keeper in all but the name, his
father being unfitted, by reason of his advanced age,
for the harder duties of the situation ; and now (the
old man having lately died) he had assumed the title
as well, and succeeded to the green velveteen coat and
red waistcoat, which, from time immemorial, had distinguished
the head gamekeepers at Poynings Abbey.

Dcrc's bin queer goings-on last night in de low
fir-'oiid. Sir Tummus,' said he, as he came lumbering
into the room, pulling his forelock. * A case o' poaching'
an' a-knockin' over d' head, an' a-lettin' ars o' firearms,
as was a God-a-mussy didn't not end in murder
outright ! But he'll be brought in manslaughter. Sir
Tummus ! He'll be brought in manslaughter, surely.'

 What's happened ?' demanded the other Tom, somewhat
apathetically. ' Who have you caught poaching
now ?'

Why, d' jOM mind. Sir Tummus, as I ses, moor
'n a fortnight ago, ses I : " Dere be a great, tail,
strapping' gipsy-feller. Sir Tummus, kind a' tramp-chap,
as bin a-loafin' about moor 'n I like de look on,
along o' des 'ere dark nights an' early morning's," ses
I,  " as has bin seen afoot now a-carryin' of a gun, an'
he's a kind a' mouse-lurcher-dawg a-foUerin' on
nn, as wears a red-an'-yaller neckerchief' an' brass
earrin's ?" .'

Oh, yes, I remember,' answered Tom, interrupting
him, an uncomfortable shadow passing over his face, 
I remember ; but I think you're really very likely to
be mistaken about him, Stubberfield  'pon my honour
I do ! The man may, after all, be up to no harm.
You're set against him because he happens to be a gipsy.'

No, it would not have pleased Tom if, just now,
when Fate seemed to be bringing him nearer to his
beloved Sophy, her maternal grandfather were to be
had up before the local magistrates  himself one of the
number  upon a charge of poaching with violence.
Very unpleasant particulars might be likely to ooze out,
and it was altogether a contingency to be prevented if
possible.

No, I bennet not set again un, 'cus-why he be a
gipsy-man neither. Sir Tummus,' protested the keeper.
Bless your soul an' living' body, Sir Tummus, naut I !
Here be d' facts o' de cease fur you to let lay, or take
up, as best suits your minds And he then proceeded
to make a statement of these facts in his native dialect.
In plain English they were as follows : 

As he was going, in the early morning of the present
day, upon his usual rounds, he was startled at
perceiving, not far from the black gate which separated
the Abbey lands from those of Little Stillingfleet, the
figure of a man sitting propped up against the straight
stem of a Scotch fir. His head was bent forward upon
his breast in such a position as to conceal his features,
and the keeper perceived, to his horror, that a small
stream of blood was issuing seemingly from a wound in
the left arm, round which a handkerchief had been
ineffectually tied by way of a bandage. Alarmed at this
discovery, so near to his own door, and fearing that the
man might be dead or dying, in consequence of some
foul play, Stubberfield was anxious to obtain a witness
as to the position in which the body had been found ;
and he therefore drew forth the whistle with which all
the Abbey keepers were provided, as a signal to one of
his * mates,' whom he knew at that hour could not be far
off, as he was on his way to combine with him on Ins

rounds. At the shrill sound of this whistle the wounded
man had lifted his head, and the keeper then saw,
greatly to his surprise, that his countenance was (as he
now expressed it) * as black as dat 'ere dawn ;' and he
pointed to the retriever at his heels. This circumstance
might, perhaps, have alarmed him somewhat,
had he not at once recognised in the sufferer a former
acquaintance, so to speak, whose colour had caused him
to be remembered, notwithstanding that it was some
years since he had seen him.

'Tour dat 'ere tail, rather stoutish, nigger-gent,'
he explained, ' as stayed down some 'ears ago, along o'
Muster St. Cheer nur Little Stillin'fleet, an' as comet
up to my place one forenoon, along o' missy (as was
den only a bit of a tit like) an' dey strange outlandish
critters (as were barbarisms or forming princes, or
some'ut), a-lookin' at our stuff-birds an' things  an'
dat 'ere great big trout as wur found in the time o' ole
Sir Peckham, a-screwged in d' small mill-stream o' my
f order ; as never could goo fur to give no guess nui*
where dat 'ere comet from, nur were a-going' to, eider ;
an' wot couldn't not goo fur to satisfy un, 'cus-why dat
'ere bennet not got no Christian tongue in's head 
naut he ! '

In a word, by the time his ' mate ' had come to his
assistance, he had recognised our old friend Mr. Carver,
alias Wilson, the amusing lecturer at the George Inn
Assembly Rooms, the ex-protector of the unfortunate
Sacerdotal Remnants,' and the guest, some years ago,
of the late Mr. Francis St. Clair, ' as wur a-waiting' now,
down nur Stillin'fleet, fur to be took to church, tho' der
he dey as ses as he won't not never be left to rest quiet
in church-sile, dey do ! '

Tom Hickathrift winced just a little at this remark;

for, to augur from the letters which were now in his
pocket, this rustic prediction seemed to be not impossible
of fulfilment.

But what makes you fancy that this black man
came to harm through the gipsy?' he inquired, recalling
his wandering thoughts with an efibrt.

The gamekeeper then continued his story. The
black ' nigger gent ' having been conveyed, it appeared,
to the adjacent cottage, had recovered sufficiently to
reply to his questioners, although after a somewhat
hazy and ambiguous fashion, easily to be accounted forby
his sufferings. It would seem, from what the
Stubberfield family could gather, that Mr. Carver had
hired a closed fly at the neighbouring town of Souther-bourne,
where he happened to be staying, with the intention,
as he stated, of dining with Mr. Francis St.
Clair, or at any rate of paying him an evening visit.
When, however, he had proceeded half way down the
approach to the house he had encountered a labourer,
who informed him that Mr. St. Clair had died suddenly
that very morning ; and not wishing to disturb
the family by a sound of wheels so soon after the sad
event, though he was naturally desirous of obtaining
particulars, he had ordered his fly-man to di'aw ofi" into
a field near to the road and await his return, whilst he
started off to make his inquiries on foot. The night
was very dark, and he had not, therefore, been able to
regain the spot where he had left his conveyance ; and
here he became so irrelevant and vague that Tom
Stubberfield, who had, in the meantime, developed a
theory of his own, felt called upon to assist his memory,
and he had succeeded at last in establishing what he
looked upon as an unbroken chain of circumstantial
evidence, which he now exjomided to his young master
with some pride.

or

* " You didn't not goo fur to final in' ses I, " wit a
loafin', poaching gipsy kind a' feller, as wur a-liangin'
about here in d' forenoon, an' a-up to noa good eider,
as has bin seen afoot now a-carryin' o' a gun, an' he's a
kind a mouse-lurcber-dawg a follerin' at his heels?"
ses I. An' den he sets to and considers, an' when we
wont fur to help's recollections furthermore, ses he,
*' Wal, now you mentions it," ses he, " an' dis 'ere tail
man wit's red neckerchief an' mouse-lurcher-dawg, . . .
I do goo fur to mind," ses he, *' as, jest afoot dat 'ere
shot wur fired . . ." "As how you seed dat 'ere man,"
ses I, '' a-standing' not fur ars ? " " Wal," ses he, afoot
he give me time to say no moor, 'right you do be," ses
he, " an' jest you help me to get at my shay," ses he,
an' goo fur to git up to Lunnon, to see my pedicle
man as '11 set me to rights," ses he, '' better nur any
o' your country sawbotinses ! " An' den, a-turnin' to
my mate, " Looked, my good' feller," ses ho (fur he
conducts himself right thro' like a rale gent, he do),
who'll goo fur to see after my close-fly ? " said he ;.
an' good fur to art wot time de next railway-train
starts fur Lunnon; an' ses he to my mate, "Be ars,
my good feller," ses he, " an' git my carriage an'
bosses down dis 'ere roiid, if so be as can ; an' I don't
care," ses he, " nur I meiike it well worth your while,
only," ses he, " git me out o' dis 'ere peirce wit yer
changed popguns an' poachers," ses he. An' while
my mate he wur ars to Black Loss, to see after's ,
" changed," ses I to my own self, " if I don't
goo fur to put all dis 'ere queer kettle o' fish afoot de
young Sir Tummus himself !" an' so here I do be,
surely.'

A queer kettle of fish,' indeed ; but upon one point
the mind of * the young Sir Tummus ' was considerably

relieved. Sophy's maternal grandfather had not actually
been taken red-handed in the fact, and Mr. Carver,
whatever his adventure had been, seemed anxious to
proceed at once to London without prosecuting further
inquiries. Would that he had departed, thought Tom,
before Stubberfield had made him aware of his discovery
; for, in his position of local magistrate, he could
hardly now let such a suspicious circumstance pass
without investigation. The whole thing was certainly
very provoking.

I don't really see,' he said, after musing for some
minutes, ' that you've proved anything against the
gipsy after all. Carver seems to have been shot in the
arm, but probably through some accidental circumstance.
We can't say till we've heard both sides. It
seems hardly fair to accuse a man of murdering another
at night only because he happens to have been seen
near the place in the morning; and I don't see why his
being there proves for certain that he was after the gtne.'

Toime'll show. Sir Tummus ; toime'll show ! ' returned
Stubberfield ominously. ' Fur me an' my mates
'11 lev un. Sir Tummus, an' no misteiike, one o' des
fine days. We be a-going' to set a regular claim fur
un, we be ! Dey do say as he be a-sleepin' up in d' ole
barn over at One Chimb'ly Farm, as ne'er a one won't
never live in ; 'cus-why it bin haunted ; but. Lor' ! dey
pheasants, dey bennet afeared o' ghosts, like we
Christians ; an' dey do say as how some un be seen
a-going' into dat 'ere barn a-ticin' on un along o' horses
dey do, as my missus found, sure///, in de crop o'
one as she had to wring de neck on ; 'cus-why it got
claimed o' missy's man, down at Stillin'fleet, only dat
got ars, claim an' al, an' so 't wur we come on un. It
s-ur one o' missy's new spring-claims. . . .'

Here was another disagreeable allusion ! . . . Not
that Sir Thomas objected to Sophy trapping his pheasants
; that she was in the habit of doing so he knew
perfectly well, for she had never made the least concealment
of it. lie knew, also, that Stubberfield knew
it, and that he (Stubberfield) knew that he (Thomas
Hickathrif t) knew it ; but all the same he was annoyed
that the subject should be broached just now.

' I think I'd better go round to your place and look
into this affair myself,' he said. ' I'll just hurry through
breakfast with her ladyship whilst you go downstairs
and get a glass of ale. Mind, not a word of all this to the
servants ! If you've told them anything already, pass
it off as a mere accident. It really isn't just to accuse
a man till one's quite sure he's guilty.'

Sir Tummus he alius wur terrible partial to al dey
gipsy-tramp kind a' customers,' mused Stubberfield,
as he betook himself, well pleased, to the servants' hall,
where the beer always flowed freely.

Breakfast over. Sir Thomas counter-ordered his
horse, embraced his mother (who still exacted this tribute
from her idol whenever he was about to absent
himself for more than ten minutes), and sent for Stub-garfield
from the lower regions. Then, having lit a
short pipe, and given his keeper permission to do the
same, master and man passed together out of the Abbey
gateway, and down the High Street on their way to the
lower fir-belt.

For some time they continued their way in silence,
Sir Thomas having indeed proposed that the keeper
should smoke, with a view of interrupting at least, if
not of stopping altogether, his easy flow of conversation,
which somehow this morning had a tendency to
turn into the wrong channel.

Dec she do goo lie remarked, however, at length,
as they were nearing the turn to the railway station,
taking the pipe from his mouth, and pointing down to
the left with the butt end.

"Who ?' asked Sir Thomas, looking up quickly.
He had forgotten for the moment that the pronoun

she,' in rustic parlance, might mean many things besides
a woman.

Two-loss close-fly,' explained the keeper, still
pointing ; and he then added, after scanning the road
with more attention, ' No ; here she do coom.'

Tom Hickathrif t followed with his eyes the butt-end
of the pipe, and perceived in the distance a large closed
fly, with two horses, standing out, black and lumbering,
upon the white turnpike-road, almost as though it had
been a mourning-coach.

*He be gain up to Lunnon,' said Stubberfield, 'to
see his pedicle man, he be. Shouldn't wonder if we
heard nothing' on im. no moor.'

Sir Thomas felt immensely relieved.

'The morning express has just started,' he said,
consulting his watch. ' We'd better wait and question
the fly-man.'

This they did, just as he was apparently turning off
to refresh himself and his horses at the George ; and
indeed, supposing Carver's story to have been true, both
he and his beasts would need rest and refreshment,
after their night's work, before starting on their return
drive.

In almost everj particular this stores was confirmed
by the fly-man. But one or two important facts had
been omitted by Mr. Carver. The man had been hired
several hours after the time at which it is usual for

fares ' to go out to dinner ; and he had been told that

he would liavc to return in time to catch the early-express,
which left Southcrbourne in the small hours
for Dover ; and also that a fly, with firmly-closing
windows and shutters, would be indispensable, as the
black gentleman was on his way to fetch a young lady
patient, whose delicate health would not admit of her
running even the slightest possible risk of cold. Such
a conveyance had only been procured with difficulty,
most of the seaside flys being anything but air-tight ;
but, the fly-man explained, a friend in * the black
business ' had finally the good nature to oblige him,
and hence the very natural resemblance presented by
his carriage to a mourning-coach.

He added, in conclusion, that, from Mr. Carver's
conversation, he was under the impression that he was
an eminent physician ; and also that, besides being indelicate
health, he was informed that the young lady
he had been chartered to convey away was likewise of
unsound intellect, and that she might, consequently,
make some show of resistance.

" The young lady .' " ' exclaimed Sir Thomas, now
fairly bewildered.

*"i)c young leadyV repeated Tom Stubberficld,
with a low whistle.

Where was this mystery going to end ? It was
imperatively necessary, now, that Sophy should be
interrogated at once. What inexplicable midnight
danger had threatened the desolate and unprotected
girl ?

The young Sir Tummus ' felt that his brain was
in a whirl ; and, leaving the gamekeeper to glean
further particulars from the driver, he strode off at
once across the fields in the direction of Little

Stillingfleet.

Chapter Xviii.

When Tom Ilickatlirift entered the sitting-room, lie
found Sophy leaning back languidly in an arm-chair.
She was wrapped in the green plaid shawl, and looked,
he thought, very pale and miserable.

She lev quite broke down to-day,' Jane whispered
to him, as she opened the door. ' An' no wonder ! '

Sophy's first words were a surprise to him.

I am so glad to see you ! ' she exclaimed, stretching
out both hands. ' I feel so dreadfully lonely ! '

Sir Thomas, who had felt rather guilty at the idea
of presenting himself again so soon, was at once
reassured.

Sit down,' she went on, rather excitedly, as she
pointed to a chair. * I want to talk to you about the
Devil.'

The young man raised his eyebrows in momentary
astonishment, notwithstanding he had long ago realised
the fact that Sophy, owing to her exceptional bringing
up, came out now and then with rather unexpected
things.

I shall be very glad to tell you all I know,' he
answered, smiling faintly ; * but I'm afraid that isn't
much. I suppose I ought to be glad it is so.'

 Well, then, to begin with, no sensible person
believes now in the Devil at all: do they?'

Tom Hickathrift looked very grave. Perhaps he
was not a * sensible person,' but he did believe in the
Devil. Not exactly in a fiend, hoofed and horned, of
the Incjokhhij Legend type ; but in a decidedly personal
and ubiquitous Spirit of Evil, who appeared to him to
be too intimately connected with his religious culture
to be set aside without deep consideration. Religion,

he had always felt, was in some manner like the card-castles
of his infancy. Remove but one card, and the
whole fabric became imperilled ; and much salutary
and fundamental teaching seemed to be founded upon
a belief in Demonology. The question was, how to
tell her this without seeming superstitious or narrow-minded
?

 He used to say,' she went on, before he could
answer, as she looked absently into the fire, and played
with the little silver ring upon her finger, * that though
many people still believed in much that was to him
incredible, no sensible person believed now in the Devil,
the real alive Devil of the olden times, who came down
chimneys, and looked in at windows, and was only
invented by the priests to frighten people. He said
that, if you were to get even a bishop up into a corner,
and to ask him dispassionately, when no one was
listening, he would try at first to turn off the subject,
but that by-and-by he would tell you, quite in a
whisper, that he didn't believe in him a bit  that is,
of course,' she added, * a really cultivated bishop, going
with the times.'

Your poor father had very strange ideas upon a
great many subjects,' said Tom, guardedly ; ' and for
this reason I fancy it must have been many years since
he talked with " a really cultivated bishop." '

Yes ; I don't remember any bishop coming herein
my time ; and the Vladika, or Prince-Bishop of
Montenegro, who was a friend of his, is not, I believe,
a very religious man ; but, on the Rhine, we fell in
with a great many very celebrated doctors and professors
of different persuasions. We used to have long
theological discussions, and on this one point they
seemed nearly all of them to agree.'

I dare say you are thinking of some of those unhappy
German philosophers and professors of chemistry
who believe in nothing,' said Tom, with some
spirit.

I can't imagine that this part of your belief can
make you any happier,' she answered, smiling sadly.

O Tom,' she added suddenly, quite changing her tone,

I am so, so miserable and broken down to-day ! . . .
I have gone through so much ! . . . Much more than
you know of ! . . . All this has made me full of all
kinds of odd fancies  I thought, this morning, that I
was going mad ! '

She clasped her head with both hands, as though to
prevent her senses from taking flight ; and Tom saw
that her eyes were filling with tears.

You are worn out, dear,' said he tenderly, wheeling
himself towards her in his low chair ; * and no
wonder. I wish you would come away and stay at the
Abbey.' 

'Not yet, Tom  not till everything is quite over;'
and she cast an almost terrified glance at the ceiling.

A long pause now ensued. Tom had a great deal
to say with regard to ' everything,' by which she
had evidently intended to indicate the ' filial arrangements
;' but he had not the courage to produce, just
then, the letters contained in his waistcoat-pocket,
which, he feared, would only have confirmed her in her
heresies.

Sophy now left off holding her senses together,
and allowed her hands to fall listlessly upon the arms
of the chair. Tom took one of them in his, quite
gently, and as if by accident. She did not withdraw
it, and by-and-by, still gazing into the fire, she continued
absently, 

Dear Tom, you have always been so very kind 
too kind to me. . I have been thinking about it all
this morning, and of how utterly unworthy I am, and
of how . . .*

Don't say that ! ' exclaimed the young man, interrupting
her eagerly, and stroking her hand. * Who
could I find like you in the whole world ? '

It's very likely a good deal wasted upon me,* she
went on dreamily, ' as most real devotion nearly always
is ; but still, it isn't quires for I know how good, how
really good and kind you are . . .'

Don't! don't!' he protested again. He was holding
her hand to his lips now and covering it-with kisses.
It is J who am not half good enough to sit at your
feet ! '

 Oh, yes, you are ; a thousand times too good, as
every one knows : but I suppose it's always like this.
. . There's a French saying about it, which you
oughtn't, perhaps, understand. One lovcs and the
other submits. Or, perhaps, you love a person with
your whole heart and soul ; and he bears with you,
and accepts it, and forgives you for caring about him.
But he can live without sou ; he can go away ; you are
not necessary to his life ; while, perhaps, some other
dear, kind creature, whom yow only like 'second-best'*
though very dearly . . . But I am forgetting,' she
said, breaking off suddenly. * I wanted to talk to you
about the Devil.'

Yes, Tom would rather she talked even about the
Devil than that she should go on rambling thus, with
this weary, absent look on her face, as if she had quite
forgotten that he was there, sitting at her feet, kissing
her listless hand, and loving her with a love that
seemed to be too deep for words !

Let's talk about the Devil, then,' lie said, rather
"bitterly. ' AYhat do you want to know about him ?
Al l my knowledge is at your disposal.'

Promise first that you won't laugh at me ? ' she
began, raising herself in her chair and scrutinising the
features of her slave.

I promise,' he answered fervently. He had never
felt less inclined to laugh in his life.

"Well, then,' she began, * I determined last night
to sit up in the summer-room tcith him. (She shuddered
here, and looked up at the left-hand comer of
the ceiling.) * Every one advised me not to, but I
would. It was a horrible, horrible night ! '

You ought not to have done it,' protested Tom
warmly * It could have done no good ! '

No, I know that, but I wanted to so much ; and
so I took my things, my knitting, my *' Omar Khay-
yam "  a book you never heard of  and the New
Testament . . .'

I'm glad you took tliat, said Tom, with satisfaction.
* It was what you ought to have read. I'm sure
you found it a comfort.'

Some parts of it calmed and soothed me, and made
me feel happier; but there were others about the
' wrath to come," and "Beelzebub, the Prince of
Devils," which I didn't care for.'

In every hook there are some parts one prefers to
others,' was all Tom could think of by way of reply

Yes ; and then I began to wonder about life and
death, and the after-death ; and m} "Omar Khayyam"
too, had in it something about hell ; and I wondered if
he, my father, who had always been kind to the poor,
and who had harmed no one, could be doomed to be
tormented after his good, sad, quiet life, just because

or

lie couldn't quite think like everybody else ; and I
settled in my own mind that, if there is a just and
good God, he would be forgiven.'

That's a question no one can answer,' returned the
young man reverently. * With God all things are
possible.'

This set me thinking about hell and devils,' Sophy
continued ; * and then a horrid frightening story
came into my head, which was told me by that
Italian who stayed with us in the spring. It was
about seeing the Devil in a looking-glass, and this
made me rather nervous ; and then I thought about
old Farmer Saxby at One Chimney Farm  you know
the story  and how it was said that the Devil tried to
take away his body. Jane had begun to talk about it
downstairs, to prevent me from sitting up ; but she
stopped, for fear of frightening me ; and then I guessed
the reason why Mrs. Weller had seemed to object to
sitting up with him  sJie who is so used to dead bodies
and there was a horrid moaning sound at the window,
and my candle was getting very low . . .'

Tom Ilickathrif t, notwithstanding that he was brave
as a lion, felt as though his blood was beginning to freeze.

And then,' she went on, ' to reassure myself, I uncovered
his face and looked at him, and he didn't look
the same ; and then . I was frightened.'

Overcome by this memory, she hid her face in her
hands and remained for some minutes silent.

You ought never to have been allowed to sit up
there ! ' said Tom earnestly * It was too much for you.
I wish I had been here ! '

You couldn't have stopped me  nobody could ; and
it was just afterwards that the dreadful thing happened.'


'What dreadful thing?' inquired Tom, his hair
seeming almost to bristle with apprehension.

One of two terrible things must have happened
replied Sophy solemnly, and becoming even paler than
she was before. ' Either I went mad, aud fancied. saw,
or else I really did see . . .'

WJ(at .' Tom again demanded, breathlessly.

Either some dreadful black demon coming to meas
he did to old Farmer Saxby's nephew, coming in at
the window, and reaching out with his great black
hands . . .'

Coming in at the window V repeated Tom Hicks
horror-strike.

Yes, and sliding it up quite gently . . . either
tlm or else some one in a mask, like the highwaymen
in the olden time, trying to get in and rob the house,
as there was a ladder so near the window, or, perhaps,
only wanting to get at the pigeons, and not seeing me
because my candle was so low. I have thought sillce,
however, that I ought to hope that I went mad, or that
it was even some evil spirit, for, if it was a man I'm
afraid I must have killed him.'

skilled him /' repeated Tom, in astonishment.

Yes. I caught hold of that gun in my fright 
the gun which was loaded with the golden bullet. . . .
I pointed it at the window and fired, and I heard a
scream, and something heavy, like a man, fell off the
ladder.'

Good God ! ' exclaimed Tom, perceiving at length
a clue to this mystery. * You've escaped some detestable
plot ! That scoundrel must have meant to have
drugged you, and carried you off by force. Thank
goodness, the gun was there, and that you had the
pluck to pepper him. Thank goodness, too, that by

VOL. II. P

or

this time he's half-way to London. We found out that
he'd gone up by the eleven o'clock express.'

How,' asked Sophy, bewildered, ' could a devil go
up to London in a train?'

Sir Thomas then informed her of Stubbcrfield's
discovery in the lower fir-belt, of Carver's wounded
arm, and of the fly-man's story.

She uttered an exclamation of surprise ; but everything
seemed now as clear as daylight. She was relieved,
too, to think that, after all, she had not been
guilty of manslaughter.

And he helped to cast that bullet himself ! ' she
exclaimed, musingly. * He always said it would never
miss its mark.'

 My dear Sophy,' said Tom earnestly, ' you really
mustn't stay on here any longer by yourself. Come
back with me to the Abbey.'

Not now that this is explained,' she answered,
with comparative cheerfulness. ' I assure you, you
needn't be alarmed about me. He was coming, evidently
to carry off Adele. You remember her  that
pretty French girl who was stapng here once, and
whom your mother asked to the ball ? '

Tom was obliged to confess that, though he remembered
the circumstance of her stay, he had no recollection
of her personal appearance whatever. He did
not think that he should know her again. The fact
was, he had no eyes for anybody but Sophy. She was
a little disappointed at this.

*I should have thought that you would have remembered
her,' she said, in rather an aggrieved tone.
She was so very nice and pretty, and she liked you.

Adele having been almost Sophy's only female
friend, and Tom nearly the only eligible young man of

her acquaintance save one), she had always intended 
for most women are born match-makers  that they
should one day marry, and ' be happy ever afterwards
some day in the far future, when Adele had got over
her fancy for the young Professor, and when she herself
had quite done with Tom, and could spare him,
and when he had long since got over his devotion for
her.

Yes, he must have been certainly coming to carry
off poor Adele,' she went on. perhaps in that dim
light he mistook me for her ; for he was near-sighted,
you remember ; he always wore gold spectacles . . . .'

It is some time ago,' said Tom ; * and I think
I only saw him once. I was not here the night he
lectured.'

*Well, he wore spectacles. That used to be her
room, too, when she was here. She corresponded with
him then, although she hated him ; and I've no doubt
she may have described it to him. She had a way of
always beginning her letters by describing the room in
which she was writing. He knew, also, that it was
almost our only guest-chamber, and he slept there
himself when he came.'

But I can't think what his object can have been.'

In the first place,' answered Sophy, ' he was very
much in love with her. You can fancy", can't you,
that if one was in love with anybody one might wish
to carry them off?'

I can, indeed,' rejoined the young man, with
fervour.

Secondly,' she continued, 'Adele was a clairvoyante ;
she could mesmerise people, and go into trances. She
said herself that it was almost all nonsense and make-believe
; but, at any rate, she knew all the tricks of the

trade, and she would have been most useful to him in his
profession. I dare say he fancied that, though she
disliked him now, she might get to like him in time.
Some people do fancy this, I've heard, though I should
think it was a great mistake.' She said this quite
absently, with her gaze fixed upon the fire.

You really think it is ? ' inquired Tom, anxiously ;

and yet one sees Time work such wonders ! '

Not with a hlaclc man, I think,' replied Sophy.
*I fancy the people must be of the same colour.'

Tom had, at any rate, the consciousness that he
was not hlacl'.

All this,' Sophy went on, * makes one milder stand
his reason for wishing to run away nth her. He
thought, too, that she was here ; a letter had come
from him only that morning. . . .'

Did you notice the post-mark ?'

No, but I can easily look ; his letters are all in
this drawer.' She rose from her chair, and went
towards a square oak cabinet "with twisted legs, which
stood in one corner of the room. When opened, it
contained a larger assemblage of drawers than Tom
had ever before seen in a single article of furniture.
From one of these she drew forth a packet of Carver's
letters. The last letter was at the top. * It has the
Southerbourne post-mark,' she said, after examining it.

This is almost a certain sign that he was there. How
stupid of me not to have guessed at once ! '

I don't wonder you didn't guess it. Who could
have thought he would have behaved in this way ? '

Oh, we always knew he had no moral sense. Nothing
in him ought to have surprised me ; but my
mind was filled with foolish superstitions. It was his
black hand that frightened me. If it had been lighter

I should have seen his white nails, and then I should
have known who it was

I still think said Tom, in a serious voice, * that
you have escaped a great danger.'

I am sure,' answered she, * that when he saw that
it was not Adele, but me, he would have gone away.
He was afraid of me ; for he could never mesmerise
me. He used to say I was very strongly magnetic,
and could have mesmerised him. I can assure you, he
only wanted Adele, and those were his motives 
aimless, indeed, he only wished to take her away from
that other man.'

Which other man do you mean ?*

Oh, the man she really liked. We used to speak
of him always as her " second husband." '

Her second husband ! And she has not yet been
married to her first ! '

*No; but this was the man she hoped to marry
some day ; . he was too poor to marry her set.
He was a professor of elocution.'

Girls were proverbially odd in their ideas. Sir
Thomas knew this. He never expected them to think
or act as he did, but this notion struck him as more
than peculiar.

I hope,' said he, looking down upon her in gentle
reproof, ' that 9/ou haven't got two husbands in your
mind at the same time?'

I haven't got one ! she answered, with a little
sigh, at which he did not feel altogether comforted.

Perhaps,' he said suddenly, just as she was about
to shut the outer doors of the cabinet, ' there may be
in some of those drawers papers belonging to your
poor father. Before settling everything finally, we
ought to look if he has left any directions.'

He has, I think, and they are in this box. He
told me so before he died ; ' and she went to the green
despatch-box, and opened it with the little gold key.

Her heart bled as she looked at the objects it contained,
seeming, as they did, to be still warm from the
touch of the dead man. It was filled chiefly with
letters from personal friends of all nations; amongst
which there were several from the Great Prophet,
together with papers bearing upon the Cause. There
was also a passport, a bank-book, a pair of earrings 
which had belonged to Sophy's mother  and a little
money. This was all. The directions were evidently
in a top compartment, into which she never remembered
to have looked. She opened this now, Tom leaning
over her, and came upon two sheets of note-paper.
The edges of both of these had been turned up by
some considerate assistant, so as to form, as it were, a
small paper tray'. This had been done in. order that
the blind man might know the boundaries allotted to
his pen, and form his characters, to a certain extent, in
the centre. Notwithstanding this precaution, however,
it was easy to perceive that they had been traced after
he had lost his sight ; for the sentences had all that
tendency to run up to the right, to which Sophy had
once called his attention. Upon the first sheet of
paper they read the following words : 

Should I die at L. Stillingfleet, it is my desire that the
disposal of my body shall be arranged as simply and inexpensive
as possible, in the manner that will give least
trouble to the living. I have no ambition vhatcver to be
deposited in the vault reserved for my family beneath 
Church, or to have read over me the burial
formula peculiar to any established creed, my own belief not
being of a nature capable of finding expression in any

hitherto-devised form of ritual. Nevertheless, should such
a disposal be deemed advisable by the living, I trust that a
matter so unimportant may not be made the subject of discussion
or delay. Were I to descend now, conscious, into
the earth  my will and predilections strong within me  I
confess I should prefer the familiar soil of my own garden,
and the knowledge that I was surrounded by beloved associations.
But ere this could be, will, predilection, and sense
of association, must have expired ; and of what account will
be the clay that remains ? '

Here followed the signature and the date, beneath
which was inscribed the name of the Great Prophet,
who appeared to have witnessed the document.

You see,' said Sophy, with tears in her eyes, 'how
anxious he was not to give trouble. One sees, however,
what he had at heart.'

Yes,' replied the young man, somewhat reluctantly,
I see that he wished to be buried where you said  in
the garden.'

They now turned to the writing on the second sheet
of paper. It ran as follows : 

I hereby state that I desire to leave the arrangement
of my worldly affairs, and those of my daughter, in the
hands of my friend and neighbour, Sir Thomas Hickathrift,
Bart., of Poynings Abbey, who will, I hope, find everything
in good order. I desire also, should he have no objection,
to appoint him guardian to my said daughter. With regard
to her, whose tenderness and affection have soothed and
comforted me, and who, by the cheerfulness of her converse,
and the brightness of her intelligence, has been as light tome
in my darkness, fair be it from me to point outs rom the
grave the path upon which she is to travel through life. I
will only say, therefore  desiring to give expression to a
hope and by no means to a command  my earnest wish is

that my dear Sophy may some day become the wife of an
honest man, and one who is not hound to her hy the tie of
blood.'

'Ah, there's no fear of that !* she exclaimed, between
the sobs evoked by this reading. ' Fortunately
there's no fear of that now /'

My dearest ! ' was all Tom could, murmur by way
of reply. Her words sounded to him like a renunciation
of Godfrey, and, without undue vanity, he could
not doubt but that, by * an honest man,* Francis St.
Clair had meant to indicate himself.

But Sophy did not seem either to see him or to perceive
his emotion. Her eyes had assumed that hereditary
far-off look peculiar to them at times, whilst her
lips wore almost a smile of satisfaction.

There is no fear of that now ! ' she murmured, as
though communing with herself. ' And so, what
might seem at first to be a misfortune, turns out all for
the best. How could I ever have married a relation
if he bad wished me not to, and written it with his
own poor hand?'

But for her words, which indirectly seemed to have
some reference to the 'honest man,' Tom would have
fancied that she had utterly forgotten his existence ;
and, slave-like, he remained, awaiting her return to
earth from some aerial realm, whither he was unable to
follow her spirit.

She remembered him at last, and held out her hands
tohim with a frank, sisterly smile.

So now you are my guardian, Tom,' she said.
I'm glad, at any rate, that I shall never be very much
afraid of you. Pray take great care of me, for I feel
so odd and so miserable that I can't ever be sure of
what I shall do next.'

I hope, dear, I shall always do my hest for you
he answered, in a faltering voice. ' God knows I shall
try ! ' And he wrung her hand so hard in his earnestness
that her little silver ring almost cut into her
flesh.

She did not cry out, however, fearing to wound the
faithful friend who was so willing to serve her ; but,
drawing away her hand, she commenced re-arranging
the papers.

How hard he worked for this mysterious and
almost imaginary Cause ! ' she exclaimed regretfully,
as she came upon more of the cramped handwriting of
the Great Prophet. 'It was meat and drink to him
latterly, and love, and religion, and friendship, and
warmth, and everything else that can make life bearable
! It would have been a miserable thing for him,
in his blindness, if the grievances of all these people
had been set right, and the Poles, and the Spaniards,
and the Circassians, had all ceased to conspire ! He
always said that he was not an actor, but a " wirepuller
' and "scene-shifter," and that no one would ever
see him or hear of him in the great world, and no one
will miss him now that he is dead ! The stupid
audience will sit on and see no difference in the play,
their eyes turned only on the painted puppets. What
a irastcd life ! '

I remember asking him once,' said Tom, ' when I
was thinking of taking to politics myself, what state of
things he would desire to see established throughout
the globe, supposing he could make everybody do as he
liked.'

'And what did he answer?' asked Sophy, looking
hopeful. Perhaps to a many and one who was likely
some day to enter parliament, where he might even

have furtlicrcd his views, her fatlicr would have been
more lucidly explicit.

He said, as far as I remember, that events had always
revolved in ctjclcs, and that his political scheme
was, to a certain extent, a subversive system  a system,
as I understood him to mean, which encouraged change
everywhere, whatever might be the previous form of
government ; and this would account, of course, for the
fact that one could never class him, as it were, under
any particular head, at any rate with regard to home
affairs, for he seemed to be as much against the Whigs
as the Tories, notwithstanding that he called himself a
Liberal . . . .'

Yes,' answered Sophy, fondly and retrospectively.
I fancy that one had to start with the conviction that
everything was wrong as it is. I wonder  I wonder if
he believed in all this to the last ? '

He told me, too,' continued Tom, ' that this subversive
movement was only what appeared upon the
surface ; but that there was also some kind of undercurrent
not to be perceived by everybody. He spoke of
wheels within wheels," and of reading, as it were,
between the lines of what was openly proclaimed ; and
he said something, too, about a perpetual battle, and
the Tartar race, of which I'm ashamed to say I didn't
quite grasp the meaning. As he said, I suppose I'm
not yet well enough up in politics to understand it.'

Alas,' replied Sophy, as she closed the lid of the
despatch-box, ' I fear no one will ever be able to understand
it ! I can't help wishing that he had devoted his
life to something real. In my hopeful moments I've
fancied that perhaps it was all a metaphor, and that
there was a meaning somewhere, but hidden. I wonder
if we shall ever find out what it was ?'

'Not in the way one would find other things, I
fancy,' said Tom. 'And I've never seen an allusion
to it in any of the newspapers. . . . By-the-by,' he
added suddenly, ' his death was in two of the county
papers to-day. I cut it out.' And he began searching
amongst the letters in his pocket.

Let me see it,' said Sophy, holding out her hand
for the little printed scraps. 'What do they say?'
and she commenced reading them to herself: 

We regret to have to record the sudden death of Mr.
Francis St. Clair, which occurred yesterday morning, at his
residence. Little Stillingfleet, near Poynings, in this comity.
The deceased gentleman, who was the half-brother of the late
;Mr. St. Clair of Dallingridge Park, was an accomplished
Oriental scholar. He had also distinguished himself as a
traveller; and though, of late years, blindness prevented
him from taking any public part in the politics of his
country, he is believed to have held extreme views upon
many questions of foreign policy ; and it is even whispered
that he was a member of several important secret societies
abroad. Mr. St. Clair, who was in his fiftieth year, leaves
issue an only daughter.'

Notwithstanding that this paragraph actually informed
the world of her father's decease, Sophy's first
impulse, after she had perused it, was to run upstairs,
and read it aloud to the dead man.

It would interest him. Perhaps he still may be
able to hear. . It may not be quite too late ! ' Some
such foolish thoughts as these rushed headlong into her
mind before she could prevent them. ' Ah, he is dead ! '
she exclaimed, weeping again. ' It will take me years
to get to believe it ! '

Now,' said Tom, wishing to distract her, ' do read
over the other paragraph. I think, sad as you are, it
may make you smile. It is all full of mistakes.'

Sophy, or

Sophy looked at it, and read through her tears. It
ran as follows : 

" The death of Mr. Francis St. Clair, the wealthy, witty,
and eccentric owner of Dallingridge Park, who was at the
same time church-patron, socialist, carbonaro, and Philo-turk,
occniTcd yesterday at the princely residence afore-named,
and has cast a gloom over the neighbourhood, in
which, both by reason of his social talents and his lavish
hospitalities, he had rendered himself deservedly popular,
particularly amongst the clergy, with whom, notwithstanding
his advanced opinions, he had always lived upon terms of
the warmest cordiality. Mr. St. Clair was, as is well known
to most of our readers, an eminent Oriental and classical
scholar, and some idea of the versatility of his genius in this
branch of knowledge may be gleaned from the fact that he
has translated successfully into Arabic, Hebrew, and Hindostani.
Lord Bacon's Essays, Watts's Hymns, Tom Jones, and
the Confessions of Jean Jacques Rousseau. He represented
the borough of Southcrbourne in the Tory interest, and has
served twice as high-sheriff. Deceased, who was seventy-eight
years of age, married the daughter, we believe, of a
celebrated Dissenting minister, and leaves an only son and
heir, Godfrey, born in 1816.'

Why, it's all an absurd confusion ! ' exclaimed
Sophy.

Yes ; they've mixed up the two brothers together :
but is isn't even correct about one of them, which
shows,' added Tom ingenuously, 'that even what's written
in the newspapers isn't always to be believed. . . .

And now,' he added, ner\ang himself to the effort,
we ought to talk about the funeral. It's a sad subject,
I know. . I fancied I had arranged it all
satisfactorily, too, and that I needn't have troubled
you. I thought Tuesday next Avould be the best day,
or Wednesday, and that yon would have liked a walking

funeral. When my poor father was buried he was-carried
by eight of the oldest labourers on the estate ;
but then, as you know, the church is quite near ; they
couldn't have got a step further. . I counted, of
course, upon this taking place at Dallingridge Church.'

I don't think,' said Sophy, considering sadly,
that we could possibly beat up eight old labourers who
woidd be able to walk so far, certainly not men who
have worked here ; but, perhaps, six might be enough,
and with Abdallah and one of the Stubberfields, and
perhaps the old postman . . . .'

This plan,' interrupted the young man, with some
show of embarrassment, has unfortunately fallen ta
the ground. All sorts of unexpected difficulties have
cropped up. It seems now that it can't be at Callings
at all . . . .'

I am delighted ! ' she exclaimed, with a look of
triumph : ' I am as pleased as I coidd be with anything
at this sad time.'

Even if one is pleased,' rejoined Tom, hesitatingly,
'that his personal wishes should be carried out, one
can't help regretting certain facts  certain unexpected
circumstances  which make the whole thing awfully
complicated and painful . . . .'

He paused and felt nervously amongst the letters in
his breast-pocket. How was he to tell her that both
the Dean and Mr. Pettigrew were for depriving the
blind philosopher of the rites of Christian burial, and
that Mrs. St. Clair, her own aunt by marriage, and the
mother  so far as he was at present aware  of her onlj
surviving male kinsman of that name, had very strongly
objected to the proposal that his remains should repose,
even temporarily, in the vault reserved for the deceased
members of the family ? Objecting, as Sophy had objected,

from the very first, to this Dallingridge burial,
was a different thing from seeing the possibility of it
wrested from one by force, before one had had time to
express an opinion ; and he knew that she would not
be likely to value even the obtaining of her own will at
the price of an insult to her father's memory.

But she was on the alert now, and had guessed the
worst.

Oh, I see what it is ! ' she exclaimed, a strange
light flashing from her dark eyes.  They won't allow
it  these clergymen and that woman  just because he
couldn't think quite as they do ! . . . How cruel, how
narrow, how uncharitable ! How exactly like the
Scribes and Pharisees of the old time ! . . .'

There's perhaps some excuse for it, dear,' interposed
Tom, gently, alarmed at her warmth. * You
remember he never concealed his indifference and contempt
for the Church and for the clergy  I may say,
indeed, for (til Churches.'

And doesn't this prove that he was right?' cried
Sophy, with animation. ' And these people, who would
have me think that they are serving God, what do they
prove ? The soul is gone  so they affirm  to some unknown
place of misery, miles, miles away, to be
punished for ever  according to their theory  for
having held all these opinions of which the'" disapprove
; and yet, not sated in their vindictive rage, these
men and women, who pretend that they are following
Christ, would spurn and trample upon the poor, cast-off
garment which is left behind ! Ah, it is contemptible !
It is like the spite of cruel children. I think, if I were
not so miserable, it would make me laugh.'

She covered her face With her hands and began
sobbing hysterically.

I think,' said Tom, hopefully, * that it may be all
brought right, after all, only I wanted first to consult
you. Your father, whatever may have been his
opinions, has every right to the family vault, and
Pettigrew leaves us a loophole . . /

He drew forth the curate's letter, and, folding down
the first portion of it, so that his companion might not
be wounded at its sense, he glanced towards the concluding
words, which suggested the * loophole.'

The Dean, a staunch, old-fashioned member of the
Church militant, had expressed himself at once candidly
and resolutely upon the subject at issue. * Francis stair
of Stillingfleet ' did not deserve to be buried like
a Christian, and no servant of the Church he had outraged
ought to be tempted, either by the remembrance
of a past acquaintance with him, or by the fear of
causing pain to one or two individuals at most, to forget
himself so far as to read over him, when dead, the consecrating
prayers to which he had attached so little
importance during his life. Pettigrew, on the contrary,
being a man of a less pugnacious nature, and
averse, upon principle, to the giving of a direct answer,
whilst declining to read the service himself at the
grave of the Freethinker, had suggested a compromise,
which was calculated, as he imagined, to satisfy everybody,
and save the pricking of his own conscience.

I feel deeply grieved and concerned,' he wrote, * at
the probable pain which my decision may cause to the
bereaved; but my will is not mine own. I am but "as
clay in the hands of the potter," a humble labourer in
my Master's vineyard. However, I have asked counsel;
I have asked it where it is never withheld; I have
knocked, and the door has been opened into me. In a
word, I have been directed towards a means by which

I may liopc to serve my neighbour-vvitliout offending
my Heavenly Father or sullying my immortal soul. . . .
Unfortunately, in these days of growing infidelity, the
case of the unhappy man who has just been summoned
to his account is not singular, and I have before now,
when occupied in former spheres of usefulness, been
placed in the same painful position in which I now find
myself. The responsibility of the minister, upon such
occasions, is great, vers (jrcat ; but it has hitherto been
my privilege to be guided and sustained in difficulty.
I have prayed for light, and light has been vouchsafed
unto me. My duty as a Christian minister has usually
been pointed out to me as follows : I have avoided any
discussions upon the spiritual bearings of the case, and
I have availed myself, upon a pretext either of ill-health,
or of urgent worldly business, of a temporary
holiday, even when it extends only over the time occupied
by the interment, during the which I have placed
the church at the disposal of any conforming minister
who might happen to be selected as my substitute by the
friends of the deceased ; for it is rare if, even amongst
the tents of the ungodly, there shall not be found one
just man, and a little leaven leavened the whole lump.
In the present instance, I can call to mind no relative
or friend in the family of the deceased who would be
capable and willing to undertake this last office ; but I
cannot help being aware that our worthy and respected
Hector, Mr. Hornblower, has long ceased, by reason of
a failing memory, and other evidences of mind-friable,
to conform precisely to many of the rules which his
conscience may formerly have approved. I doubt, indeed,
if in the present instance he would even fully grasp
the weight of his spiritual responsibility ; and as I
consider that he is still perfectly competent to read the

words of the Burial Service with decency and respect 
even should he fail to comprehend their entire meaning
I venture to suggest that he should officiate in lieu
of myself, always supposing that the interment takes
place at Dallingridgc Church. Pray do me the favour
to present my heartfelt condolences to the bereaved
joung lady, and inform her how willingly, should she
desire it, I will wait upon her in this time of her
trial. The cross is indeed heavy, but I sincerely trust
that strength will be vouchsafed to her to bear the
burden. As, however, the chastening from On High
seldom descend unaccompanied hj a blessing, I can
perceive, even now, in this seeming misfortune, a cause
for the deepest thankfulness. Miss St. Clair will be
removed from the companionship of the ungodly.
'* Enter not'' says the Wise King, " into the path
of the wicked, and go not in the way of evil men.
Avoid it, pass not by it, turn from it, and pass away "
(Proverbs, iv. 14) ; and again, see Gen. xlix. 6, and
Matt. vii. 19, 20.'

Tom Hickathrift had not considered it necessary to
read the text introduced above, and he paused, therefore,
at the place where Mr. Pettigrew had offered his
condolences to the * bereaved young lady.' He had
also omitted one or two other passages in the letter.

You see,' he said, as he returned it to his pocket,
that, after all, old Hornbook could read the service ;
and, with a very little pressure, your aunt will yield
about the vault, particularly when she hears that she
has no real voice in the matter.'

*But he shall not be buried there,' cried Sophy
passionately, ' amongst these horrid, cold-blooded, canting
people I I told him, if I could, I would prevent
it ; and I will, as far as lies in my power. And as for

VOL. II. Q

this clergyman, who says he will come and see me, I
have no wish to know him ; I will not see him ; he
shall not come ! '

I'm sure said Tom, in a conciliatory tone, * Mr.
Pettigrew would only come if you wished it, thinking
he might be of use

Of what use can he possibly be ?' she asked. *And
why should this man preach to me as though he were
my master ? This man, who will not read the Burial
Service himself over a poor dead man, because, deeming
it sinful, he fears for his own soul, and who would yet
allow his friend in his dotage to do so, and bear all the
risk, supposing there is oxij ? Ah, how wicked of these
people to call themselves Christians, doing, as they do,
the very things Christ would have condemned ! '

Tom was sorry now that he had read her an} portion
of the letter. He seemed to have done more harm
than good.

*It shall be as you wish, then,' he said gravely.
We'll give up the idea of Dallingridge. I half expected
this, and so have turned over another plan in
nay mind . . .'

He paused, a little doubtfully, but she signed to
him to continue.

This is quite my own idea, and I haven't yet said a
word about it to a living soul. You know the Abbey?'

Yes,' she answered, wondering what he was about
to propose.

'swell, I believe every part of an abbey is, in
reality, consecrated ground, or hai been, at some time
or other. I believe all church lands were considered
holy in the olden time . . . All that southern slope,
where the kitchen-garden is now, must have been a
burying ground once ; as I told you, the gardeners
come perpetually upon stone coffins . . .'

Yes, you told me interrupted Sophy. ' It's a
horrible idea ! '

*That was hundreds of years ago, though, dear,'
said he, fancying, perhaps, she might be thinking of
the vegetables. * Nearly as long ago as the Norman
Conquest

Yes, I know. I only mean that I shouldn't like to
live in the middle of a burying ground myself, old or
new ; I should be so afraid of ghosts.'

But at any rate,' Tom went on, * we're sure of one
thing. All that southern slope must have been looked
upon once as holj ground, reaching away ever so far.
Now, I could easily rail off a little plot to the left of
the ruined chapel . . .'

Oh, no, no ! ' she exclaimed, perceiving his intention.
*I shouldn't like that at all! He shall be buried
here, as he wished  close to his old home ! '

Tom knew that it would be difficult to turn her
from so deeply rooted a desire ; he set about thinking,
therefore, how it could be gratified without creating
local scandal. At length an idea occurred to hint;

Dear Sophj' he exclaimed eagerly, * you must
never again doubt ; you must try and believe more
what other people do, and that all things are ordered
for the best. Providence seems really to have interfered
here now, and I think we can make it all
right.'

I have only one wish,' she answered, looking white
and determined : ' the wish that was his wish. He
ought to be buried there ; ' and she pointed towards the
spot upon which she had set her heart.

lyell, dear,' said Tom hopefully, ' I think it'll all
come right in the end, and that we can do what you
and he wished, without its seeming wrong, or odd, to

those who really know. You heard what I said just
now about church-lands?'

That they were accounted holy in the olden time?'

Yes. Well, do you know, in the very old maps.
Little Stillingflect is marked down as part of the Abbey
estate ? There's no cfoubt but that, once, all this belonged
to the Church.'

Ah, I see what you mean ! And so you will really

let it be?'

She clasped her hands, and looked up entreatingly
in the young man's face. He felt it would be impossible
for him not to yield to her desire.

It occurred to him that an interment at Stillingflect,
which should be by way of being temporary, might be
arranged under the present painful circumstances. It
could be given out in the neighbourhood that it was
merely pending the return of Godfrey St. Clair, who
would doubtless settle the difficulty about the family
vault. This would satisfy Sophy; and Tom's o\\ti
scruples were somewhat set at rest by the thought that,
once, Little Stillingfleet had belonged to the Church.

I think it can be arranged, after all,' he said
sickly, as after duo consideration. ' Some day I'll
show you one of the old maps  it hangs up just outside
the dining-hall at home  and you'll see that these lands
are included in the Abbey estate. It would be a curious
thing,' he added, looking at her with timid significance,
if the two properties were ever to come together again
in the future.'

It would indeed,' she answered ; but from the
absent look upon her face he felt that she had not attached
any particular meaning to his words.

Very well, then ; we will settle it for "Wednesday
next,' he said, rising to depart.

Wednesday next Soj)liy repeated sadly, as he took
her hand.

Good-bye, dear ; try and rest after your dreadful
night, and don't fuss yourself about the arrangements.
I'll settle everything

Jane Ford appeared in the passage as soon as he
was outside the door.

We had pretty coin's last night wit missy she
said, in a confidential tone ; ' an' neither Nelus nur me
we can't mciike it out nohow. Summit scared her at
d' winder, an' she jest let fly wit dat 'ere ole gun. 'Tis
a queer tale.'

Oh, it turned out to be nothing much, after all ! '
returned the young man, with assumed indifference.
*But it might be just as well not to set it flying allover
the parish. Some one must have climbed up after
the pigeons, but they got so well peppered that I don't
think they'll try it again. However, I'm going to get
Stubberfield to walk round here for a few nights with
his gun, just to make sure ; so if you happen to hear
footsteps, you needn't be alarmed. I didn't mention it
to her,* he added, glancing back towards the sitting-room.


This'U keep Tom Stubberfield away from One-chimney
Farm for some time, at any rate,' he thought
to himself. (Love was transforming him into quite a
diplomatist.) 'The funeral will be on Wednesday next,'
he added aloud. * It will have to be as private as possible
; for it appears, from his last wishes, that your
poor master desired to be buried in his own garden. I
shall be here.'

Sophy had once asserted that Tom * hew that he
was a Hiekathriftj' and in this statement, no doubt, she
had been perfectly correct. His ideas were, to a certain

extent, heal and parochial, as ojposcd to the cosmopolitan
(or metropolitan, even) ; and without being narrower
in his views than many a more experienced man
would have been, had he found himself thus stalled, as
it were, in clover, he could not help realising that his
opinion, like that of the late Sir Peckham, was possessed
of considerable weight in the immediate neighbourhood,
and that when, therefore, he said to Sophy's maidservant,
in alluding to what might have appeared to
her in the light of a somewhat unorthodox proceeding
* / shall he here '  the proceeding would at once
assume quite a different aspect in her eyes. Nor was
he mistaken.

Well now, do it rely be ? * she exclaimed, though
without much apparent astonishment. swell, if that
'ere bent not pore dear muster all over ! Dey did goo
fur to say, too, as how he wouldn't not never bide in
churchyard sile ! '

Tom wondered how many times his ears were to be
assailed with this rustic prophecy. He was prepared,
however, with a satisfactory answer.

*A11 this is Church soil in reality,' he said, with
assumed cheerfulness. * It belonged once to the Abbey
estate, so it's all right.'

Law ! ' answered Jane Ford, opening her eyes.
An' now dat do be strange surely / Dis 'ere all
belonged, did it, to d' Abbey ? . . . an' so 'twill agen,
Sir Tummus, so 'twill agen, of dat you may depend,
one o' des fine days ! . . . How d' Lard do goo fur
to turn everything to 's owt account, surely' added
the ignorant woman.  An' pore muster, as went fur to
fly out in d' f each of his Almighty' I '

Tom nodded to Sophy affectionately as he passed
outside the sitting-room window, and he then walked

round by the greenhouse, and stood under the window
of the summer room. The ladder had been removed,
and the pigeons were cooing and flying in and out of
their house just as if nothing had happened. It was
difficult for him to imagine at first, as he looked up at
the peaceful scene, under its patch of pale-blue sky,
that an incident so dramatic and terrible as that described
to him by Sophy could possibly have taken
place at this spot. But upon glancing from the pigeon-cot
to the ground, he saw, to his horror, that he was
standing in the midst of what must have been a pool of
blood, whilst the grass was crushed and stamped down,
causing the place to resemble the deserted lair of a
wounded wild beast.

To make doubly sure that Sophy's surmises and his
own had been correct, he determined to follow, if
possible, the traces of blood as far as the cottage of the
Stubberfields.

As he passed the house for the second time, Jane
came running to him out of the porch.

If you please. Sir Tummus,' she said, ' missy hasn't
not got no black gown. If you would please to step
over to the !Miss Spearinks an' say as how dey must
come and fit her must thing a-Monday morning.'

To this ingenuous request ' Sir Tummus ' acquiesced,
well pleased. It gave him a delightful sense of ministering
to Sophy's requirements in the minutest details.

With but few interruptions, the traces of Carver's
retreat were continuous. Near to the black gate the
grass was again crushed, as though by a falling weight,
and the blood-stains were more evident.

He must have fainted here,' Tom thought, ' and
then dragged himself on as far as the stem of the
fir-tree.'

On the whole, the young man felt easier in his
mind. Isis lady-love was no man-slayer, oven in self-defence,
and her maternal grandfather had not rendered
himself liable to the chastisement of the law.

'Provided, only, that Stubberfield, with his confounded
officiousness, doesn't get him had up for
poaching ! But it might have been worse I ' And he
then went on to muse, 'Perhaps all this trouble may draw
her nearer to me. . I can never be worthy of her ;
but she may, perhaps, get to like me a little by degrees,
if I can be of some use to her, and to miss me when
I'm not there. . If only she could get to wish forme,
and care for me for my own sale /' And, almost
unconsciously, at the thought of this possibility, he
began to whistle a lively popular air as he opened the
wicket leading to Stubberfield' s cottage.

But, alas ! on the evening of this very same day,
Sophy wrote thus to Godfrey : 

My darling, my father is dead, and I feel most lonely
and miserable. The world is like a desert without you.
Come back to me.'

Chapter XIX.

Sir Thomas Hickathrift and his widowed mother
were seated together in the large drawing-room at Mornings
Abbey. It was Wednesday morning, and at one
o'clock Tom had promised Sophy that he would repair
to Little Stillingfleet to pay the last tribute of respect
to her father's memory, by attending the primitive
funeral ceremony which was to take place in the
garden.

The day was a mild one for the season, damp having

succeeded the recent frosts. The landscape, as seen
from the bay-window, was fraught with melancholy-repose.
The distant woods were shrouded in mist, the
long terrace walk looked sad and funereal, with its
clipped yews and sculptured urns, which, like the
garden-beds, were devoid of flowers, and all Nature
seemed gray and death-like in her unwonted stillness.
The great gilt clock above the mantlepiece chimed
eleven ; and Tom, who had been looking absently out
of window, walked towards the fire and flung himself
back in an easy chair, where he remained for some time,
too much absorbed, apparently, in watching the clock
to converse, or to dip into any of the morning papers
which were lying upon a table close at hand. Lady
Ilickathrift was not sitting, as usual, in the embrasure
of the window. Her chair had been moved nearer to
the fire-place ; a knitted shawl was wrapped round her
gaunt shoulders ; and as she bent forward over her
worsted work, the languor and general depression of her
appearance, combined with sundry'" oft-recurring coughs,
sighs, and sniffs, denoted that, in addition to her recent
bereavement, she was suffering from a severe cold.
Tom, too, coughed now and then, as he fidgeted uneasily
in his chair, and stretched out his long legs in the
leathern spatterdash which he affected in common
with most of his out-door retainers. This cough proceeded
entirely from nervousness, but it furnished his
mother with an excuse for touching once more upon the
subject nearest to her heart.

My dear boy,' she began, looking up from her embroidered
and contemplating her stalwart son through
somewhat misty spectacles, * I have lately heard you
coughing several times ; and this, joined to all the
trouble and anxiety you are now undergoing (not for

your own sake, as I well know), is making me really
exceedingly anxious

Oh, I'm all right, thanks, mother ! ' rejoined Tom
cheerfully. * I'm sure I can't tell why I coughed.
You know I'm as strong as a buffalo-bull.'

I'm not at all sure of that,' returned his mother,
with an ominous shake of the head and its accompanying
trappings. * Not that you inherit any delicacy of
constitution from my family, who, notwithstanding my
present severe attack, have always been accounted
strong. But poor dear Sir Peckham, your father, lost
two sisters, both young  one died, indeed, when quite
an infant ; and the other was, as you may have heard,
a twiuy who are generally very difficult to rear, especially
hoijis : this one, however, was a little girl. BotJi succumbed
to bronchitis ; and I cannot express to you, my
dear, how worried I very often am with regard to your
bronchial tubes (I remarked this the other day to Peacock,
as she will tell you, upon hearing you cough) ;
and then, with all this, is mixed up these dreadful
funeral arrangements, and you, constantly standing
about in damp boots, and this poor girl, for whom, I
assure you, I do feel most sincerely ; and, indeed, had
it not been for this tiresome attack of influenza . . /

I told her that, mother,' interrupted Tom eagerly.
And she perfectly understood. In fact, she's now
so dreadfully knocked up with all this herself, that I
don't think, even if you went to her, she could see you.
. . She only sees me, I'm sure, because she's obliged.
She often says how much she wishes to be left alone
just now ; and, of course, one understands . . .'

Yes, I can understand, my dear boy, that she
should not care particularly to see me* said Lady
Hicks thrift in a somewhat injured tone, as she drew

forth her black edged pocket-handkerchief, and began
trumpeting like a wild elephant. ' I am now no longer
young, and young people, more especially girls, prefer
generally to associate with persons of their own age.
Sophia St. Clair must know, however, that I was young
once and that, like her, I had my troubles, of one kind
and another ; and no one, I venture to think, could
advise her better than / could upon most subjects, particularly
with regard to any engagement she might
wish to form, for, as you know (though perhaps it is
not my place to mention it), I was much admired, and
the very year that my portrait was engraved in the
Book of Beauty . . .'

I am sure Sophy knows how kindly you feel towards
her,' interrupted Tom, who knew the impending
anecdote by heart. * And she's very much obliged to
you. She told me to thank you the other day.'

But Lady Hickathrift felt that she could not waste
time in beating about the bush.

Tom,' she said, suddenly laying down her worsted
needle, and removing her thimble, ' some time ago, yoi*
may remember that I presented you with an old and

valuable ring "When I gave it, my dear boy, I

made known to you my wishes upon the subject. It
was given me, as you are aware, by your poor dear
father, who placed it upon my finger with his own
hand. . I have hitherto abstained from questioning
you with regard to it ; but the moment has now come
when it is impossible to delay any longer, . . . and I
am therefore compelled to ask you, Where is that valuable
family jewel ? Is it, or is it not, upon the finger of
Sophia St. Clair?'

She asked this question in a tragic manner, rendered
all the more impressive by the allusion to Sophy as

Soplila/ a name by which she was hardly ever called,
saving upon extra-solemn occasions.

It's not upon her finger answered the young man
hesitatingly, and with a rising colour. * At least it isn't
there yet. Nothing is quite settled. Her father's death
has put all other thoughts out of her head.'

It was neither vanity, nor the consciousness that *he
was a Hickat/iriff,' which prevented Tom from saying at
once that Sophy had not exactly accepted him. He
dreaded lest the wrath of his devoted mother should
fall upon her innocent head ; and, as he felt now buoyed
up with hopes for the future, he thought it would be
wiser to temporise. But, fortunately, the notion that
Sophy could possibly have refused her son never entered
Lady Hickathrift's mind. Such a supposition would
have seemed to her to be against nature. Nevertheless,
a little maternal experience brought to bear
upon the method of her son's courting would do no
harm. It occurred to her that he might be growing
almost too slavish and subservient.

Sophia St. Clair,' said she, therefore, * although
most sweet-looking, and indeed well-bred, considering
her extraordinary education (as everybody remarked atour
ball), is not yet old enough to know that one should
not treat even the young man one is engaged to exactly
like an upper servant  making him fetch and carry,
and run messages in all weathers, as she does you,
especially a young man of good family, who (but for
the position of the two properties) might do so much
better. I have heard, too, that girls do not always
prefer the men who submit to such treatment.'

I can assure you, mother,' protested Tom, * that
the very little I have done was quite of my own freewill,
indeed it was. She knows how pleased I am to be

of use to lier in any way, otherwise I feel sure she'd
never ask me

All the same,' continued her ladyship, * I have been
told that girls generally prefer people who are not at
their beck and call ; and I am sure this is the case tcith
gentlemen. I have always found, in my own experience,
that whenever I ill-treated any of my admirers, their
devotion invariably increased ; and I have heard the
same thing said by persons whose opinion I value. . . .
A great many years ago, before I became engaged to
your dear father, I might have contracted a marriage
with a personage of much higher rank, and whose personal
appearance equalled, almost, that of Sir Peckham,
who, nevertheless, I even then preferred. . . . The war
was going on at the time, and the militia was called
out. They were quartered, I remember, at Colchester
(I feel almost certain that was the place) ; and I was
taken to a dinner-party given in the neighbourhood.

It was here that this gentleman proposed to me

He was wonderfully handsome, particularly when in
uniform ; and I can perfectly well remember the terrible
state he was in when I refused him. He was excessively
tall, too  so that had I married him, there is no doubt
but that, all the same, you would have been a very
large-framed young man, as you are, dear, at present,
although, as a very celebrated physician once told me,
great height is not by any means a sign of strength. . . .
He was, also, of a most generous and warm-hearted
disposition, but was trepanned  that is to say, a small
piece of silver had been let into a hole in the top of his
head, the result of an accident  and this made him
exceedingly flighty in manner, though he was a gentleman
all over. . . . The more I discarded his attentions
the more pressing he became (which confirms me in my

previous opinion) ; and at last, driven to desperation by
my coldness, he volunteered, and rushed frantically to
the wars, where he placed himself in the front ranks of
his regiment, and insisted on riding upon a white horse.
Being so tall made him an excellent mark for the
enemy ; and, through a remarkable coincidence, one of
the bullets by which he was destroyed entered his head
by the original aperture ; so that, by being driven instill
further towards the brain, the small piece of silver
which had been inserted was partly the cause of his
death, as it had once been the means of his disappointment
in affection ; since, apart from my decided preference
for your dear father, I had made up my mind
never to marry a gentleman who was trepanned, knowing
that they are not always responsible for their
actions, and one (whom I once knew slightly) having
got up in the middle of the night, and attempted to
murder his wife ; and I have often thought, since, what
a misfortune this first accident was for him, though but
slight in itself (the place was no bigger than a sixpence),
changing, so to speak, the whole current of his life, and
eventually depriving him of it. . . . All this was most
extraordinary and remarkable, and caused the greatest
sensation at the time, for he was exceedingly well
known, being in the best possible society. He had not
then come into the title, but would have done so
eventually, by an odd circumstance ; and it was unfortunate
one could not have foreseen this earlier, ashe
was a collateral. I will merely add that, had I
married him instead of poor dear Sir Peckham (as I
used often to tell him), I should be sitting now in the
presence of a Duke. . . . But perhaps I have told you
this before ? '

Yes, Tom had certainly heard of this affecting incident

more than once, but it had always interested him ;
and he often found himself wondering what would have
been his own position and individuality had it not been
for the small piece of silver introduced into the head of
the hero of the romance. Directly one begins to speculate,
however, as to who one might have been, if one's
mother had not married one's father, the brain becomes
bewildered.

It would have been difficult, perhaps, for any one
but an affectionate son, to conceive that so much
despair should have taken possession of even a harebrained
'collateral,' upon being refused by this gaunt old
lady with the high nose, who still dwelt so fondly upon
the memory. Lady Hickathrif t, like most fair women
with large features, had not preserved many traces of i
loveliness after the completion of her tenth lustre ; and
she was now advancing rapidly towards her twelfth.
Tom could not detect the faintest resemblance to the
idealised portrait of a young lady, with saucer eyes
and ringlets, which had once appeared in the Book oj[
Beauty, and of which impressions were to be seen suspended
in every available nook and corner at the
Abbey, as well as in nearly all the cottages on the
estate. Still, some one has said, somewhere, that
everybody's mother has been beautiful ;' the meaning
of which, obviously, is, that whatever charms may be
possessed by a mother are almost sure to be fondly
exaggerated by her children ; so that to Tom, who was
no exception to this rule, the desperation of the presumptive
duke, with the hole in his head, may not
have appeared quite so unaccountable as to the reader.
He was not allowing his mind to dwell upon these
subjects now, however. The hands of the clock upon
the chimney piece were veering round to noon ; and.

or

although Sophy had begged that he would not go to
the trouble of arraying himself in mourning, there
were one or two trifling modifications in his dress
which he desired to make before setting out.

I will go off to the wars, certainly,' he said, rising,
and walking towards his mother, in order to pay the
customary tribute,. 'if you really think she'll like me
better when I'm away. There's something going on
in Afghanistan, or I might go out and fight for the
Carlists.'

Not for worlds, my darling bo' ! ' exclaimed Lady
Hickathrift, in pardonable terror. ' An only son like
you !  an only child, I may says  it is not to bethought
of ! But you might threaten to do it. I am
sure anything to do with a tear always has a great
effect upon girls. You might appear, at any rate, to
be going away somewhere ; and then, from what I
know of yoimg ladies, I think she will at once make up
her mind.'

And say "Yes?' he hazarded, scanning wistfully
the maternal features.

And say '' Yes," of course,' she replied, decidedly.
Indeed, what else could she say to such an offer ?
And, although you might do so very much better, I
shall have some causes for thankfulness. I shall be
glad to know that you are comfortably settled with a
girl to whom I believe you are attached ; and it is
satisfactory to know, too, that Sophia St. Clair is so
well off.'

I hope you don't think, mother,' said Tom, colouring,
' that I should be influenced at all by that V

No, my dear boy, knowing you as I do, I confess I
should be surprised to hear that you had thought of
this matter ; and there is, happily, no need that you

should marry for money, although, with so large a
property to manage, and a house of this size, one can
hardly possess too large a fortune. However, you
have, of course, never considered these things ; but /,
as your mother, am justified in doing so, and I have
lately talked a great deal upon the subject with
Andrew Locke (who is much interested in the estate,
and a most respectable man into the bargain), and he
greatly desires that Little Stillingfleet and the Abbey
lands should be again united, for it seems they were
once a part of the same estate.'

They are so marked down in the old maps,' said
Tom, * and painted-in in yellow, as far as what is now
the fruit-garden.'

His mind clung fondly to this circumstance, which
he looked upon as propitious.

*But besides this,' continued Lady Hickathrift,
there is no use disguising that Sophia St. Clair has
other prospects, upon which (Andrew Locke assures
me) she could even raise money by-and-by ; and there
is a circumstance (a very sad circumstance, indeed, for
those immediately concerned) which seems to point out
that this possibility is no longer so very improbable  
that it is, in fact, quite as likely to happen as anything
else (everything being arranged for us by Providence).
I met Mrs. St. Clair at Mr. Spearing's the other day,
and I had some conversation with her. She is seriously
anxious about her son . . .'

About Godfrey ? Why, surely he was all right
only the other day ? '

Yes ; but the ways of Providence are very
mysterious. They are not our ways. You remember
the most sudden and unexpected death of your blessed
father? . But the young are constantly cut off,

VOL. II. R

as well as those who are in the flower of their
age . . .'

But has anything happened to him, then?* asked
Tom, looking bewildered.

I believe he is still alive,' replied Lady Hickathrift,
recommencing to stitch violently at her embroidery.
But she is extremely anxious about him, as one can
well imagine that a mother would be. lie is abroad,
and I could not quite make out whether it is a fever oran
accident ; for, on account of my cold, and being the
first time I had ventured out (as you know). Peacock
lead insisted upon wrapping my squirrel spencer completely
over my head and ears, begging me, at thei same
time, to hold my muff up to my mouth, and not converse,
and we were not able therefore to enter into particulars.
I have never considered Mrs. St. Clair to be a person
of much feeling ; but she seemed seriously alarmed.'

[* I can only think of one way in which to account
ior Godfrey's persistent absence,' Godfrey's pretended
mother had remarked recently to her friend and
adviser, Mr. Pettigrew. ' And that is, to trump up
some tale about an illness abroad. Should he make up
his mind to behave sensibly and return, one might
easily say it was a false report  some one of the same
name  or something.'

But supposing he does not return ? ' Mr. Pettigrew
lead inquired.

Thence Mrs. St. Clair had answered, ' his illness
may have ended fatally, and carried him off ; and
perhaps this will be the best way out of the scrape.
My impression is, that if that girl at Stillingfleet were
to be married to some rich man, so that there would
never be any chance of her wanting what he so absurdly
wishes to surrender to her, he might come back as if

nothing had happened. He's proud as Lucifer, as j'ou
know, and is capable of giving everybody a good deal
of trouble yet']

Tom Hickathrift, who was far from suspecting anyone
of wishing to set afloat an untrue rumour of such
serious import, experienced a very decided emotion at his
mother's intelligence. His heart, indeed, gave such a
sudden bound, that he could not help pausing to
analyse its significance. Certainly, he would have
despised himself had he discovered that the illness of
his suspected rival afforded him any gratification. It
would be a most shocking thing were Godfrey to be cutoff
in the flower of his youth ; and it would probably,
if what he feared was true, prove another terrible blow
to poor Sophy. He was sure, therefore, that he hoped,
with all his heart, that he might recover. But still,
as he was seriously ill, without blame to anybody,
perhaps it was just as well that he was out of England,
His illness would have been a very great anxiety
to Sophy at this moment, had he been laid up at
Dallingridge House. But, meanwhile, the hands of the
clock were moving on.

I must go now, mother,' he said, as, stooping down,
he paid tribute ; * and I shan't forget your good
advice.'

No, my dear boy ; pray consider it. You ought to
beverymuchlesshumble, I can assure you. . . . Persons
in your position must remember their dignity sometimes,
though it is often disagreeable ; still it is a
necessity, as I was remarking to Peacock only the other
day.'

Lady Hickathrift did not care to confide to her son
to what extent the whole idea and plan of action had
been due to the influence of Peacock, who, owing to certain

* wheels within wheels had been led to take this
particular view of the case. Years ago, when Miss
Peacock first entered Lady Ilickathrift's service, she
had possessed considerable personal attraction. She
was, besides, of a proud and ambitious disposition, with
high notions about the future. The generous living at
the Abbey had gradually dispelled the first of these
attributes, whilst other external influences had combined
to bring about a change in her plans. Upon
beholding Andrew Locke, who occupied the position o
land steward and general outdoor factotum, and who
was, indeed, as she had remarked to herself, * almost a
gentleman,* she had conceived for him a violent
affection, or more properly speaking, an affection for
the notion of becoming * almost a lady,' and for living
in the pretty ivy lodge which was then inhabited by
the unsuspecting bachelor. This was about as reasonable
an ambition as if any ordinary young person had
set her cap at an unmarried Prime Minister or Archbishop
of Canterbury, and she was destined to suffer
for her temerity. Andrew Locke was one of the most
unsusceptible and self-contained of men. He was
essentially practical and unsentimental, and, being
entirely wrapped up in his profession, he had never felt
the least need even of female society in the abstract,
let alone of a wife. Miss Peacock, indeed, soon found
that she was morally battering her head against a wall,
and casting the pearls of her affection before an unappreciative
swine ; and, as is often the case, her
feelings underwent a very violent reaction, her affection
turning forthwith into something very much resembling
hate, although, as Mr. Green, of the ' George,' had
come forward at this moment and flung himself into
the breach, she might reasonably have been expected to

"be more forgiving. In a dull country place, there is
nothing like an active antipathy to set time flying, and
lend excitement and interest to the days ; and such
an antipathy as this Peacock felt for the unconscious
land-steward. She persisted now in running counter
to his inclinations, whenever he chanced to make them
publicly knowai, and in influencing her mistress, who
confided in her blindly, against all his avowed projects.
One of these projects, as she had found out from Lady
Hickathrift, was the reunion of the Abbey lands and
Little Stillingfleet through the marriage of Sir Thomas
with Miss St. Clair ; and notwithstanding that she had
greatly admired Sophy's appearance at the ball, and
that she had been much taken by her charm of manners
the fact that Andrew Locke had been the first to desire
this arrangement, furnished the wily abigail with a
sufficient reason for objecting to it, or at any rate for
endeavouring to show up its disadvantageous side.
Hence it was that Mr. Green, of the 'George,' had
been supposed to have said that ' the whole thing right
down passed his understanding,' when the * young Sir
Tummus ' could * have had the pick of all the county
ladies ;' whilst the Miss Spearings  who had just stepped
into tea at the Abbey, after measuring Sophy for a black
merino dress, with * pipings ' of crape  were understood
to have * passed the remark,' that although Miss St.
Clair was ' a nice-looking young lady enough, with a
very stylish figure,' she was not worthy to black the
boots of ' the young Sir Tummus,' and that the very
idea of his marrying her ' tickled their feelings ' so
exceedingly that they were *fit to crack their sides with
laughter.' Expressing an opinion on her own account,
Peacock informed her mistress that she was sure the
son of the house was * too 'humble and clarified,' and

that a more ' gumption and fallacious' line of conduct
would be far preferable under the circumstances.

It was in consequence of these friendly suggestions
that Lady Hickathrift, who was very much under the
dominion of her maid, had reproved her son for his
humility, and had even succeeded in obtaining from
him a promise that he would make some change in his
future tactics.

After the funeral,* he said, as he quitted the apartment.
* I couldn't possibly seem unkind or hard on
her noh poor little thing ! After all this trouble is
over, however, I might threaten to go away somewhere,
and get her to make up her mind.'

It was now nearly half-past twelve, and quite time
for him to set out for Little Stillingfleet, whither,
therefore, he bent his steps by the short-cut across the
well-known fields, past the figure of the old scarecrow.
But before leaving the Abbey, in spite of Sophy's
injunction, he doffed his shooting jacket for a garment
of a more severe cut, and donned a black wideawake,
instead of the gray one he usually wore, with the row
of woodcock's feathers stuck in the hatband.

Chapter XX.

By half-past two o'clock Sophy's father had been
quietly laid to rest in the familiar earth of his own
garden, hardly a bow shot from the little sitting-room
in which he had passed so many peaceful hours, meditating,
in his darkness, upon those great mysteries of
life and death, which, peradventure, were made clear
to him now.

AbdallaL, who had shared with Nelus the duties of
sexton, pushed back the fez from his brow, and began
cleaning the flat of this spade upon the turf. His bearing
was sad and reverential, with something of the
wistful manner of a dog who has obeyed orders and
awaits more. He would have liked, perhaps, to have
howled, or to have uttered at least the discordant
crowning peculiar to the funerals of his native land,
the absence of which may have made the ceremony
seem, from his point of view, to be wanting in completeness.
Nelus, who felt no particular impression
beyond that of an undertaking achieved, shouldered the
spades and pickaxes and disappeared in the direction of
the stables, whilst Sophy and ' the yoimg Sir Tummus *
walked together sadly towards the house.

Tom had read aloud some portions of the Burial
Service at the grave ; but he would have felt happier
could they have been uttered by an ordained minister
of the Established Church. He yearned for this, as
Abdallah may have yearned for the crooning, feeling
that it would have satisfied some kind of spiritual want
in his nature.

I am glad that this dreadful morning is over at
last,' said Sophy sadly, when they reached the sitting-room
; ' and I am glad, too, that you read what you did.
In the idea of sowing the seed which is to be raised in
incorruption, there is certainly something consoling.
It has been made use of, I suppose, in all the great
religions ever since they were first invented .'

It is the belief and hope expressed in the Christian
religion,' Tom answered. He always seemed to repudiate
the notion of looking upon the * surviving
creeds,' as it were, in the conglomerate.

He thought Sophy looked very beautiful, notwithstanding

her pale cheeks, and he knew too, that, as her
name signified, she was extremely wise ; hut he wished
that she could have felt more respect for what her
father had irreverently termed the * jelly-moulds of
form and doctrine.* Nobody, however, could be quite
perfect.

the black merino dress, which had been hastily
run up * by the Miss Spearings, was, he thought,
singularly becoming. Although composed of simple
material, it was fashioned after a newer style than
either the shepherd's plaid or the blue serge (both old
friends) ; and as it was rather close-fitting, it followed
faithfully the lines of Sophy's graceful figure. He
"would have liked to have inaugurated the new system, to
have talked about going to the wars, and settled his
future then and there. But the occasion, he felt, was
too solemn for love-making ; and he resolved, therefore,
to wait for at least a week before he essayed putting
into practice his mother's advice.

When about this time had elapsed, an opportunity,
as it happened, presented itself. Sophy sent for him
to consult him upon a matter of business, and her messenger
arrived just as he was considering whether or no
it would be too soon to pay her a visit. He had felt
brave as a lion, until he knew for certain that he should
behold the object of his affections. Then he became
suddenly nervous and apprehensive. He determined,
all the same, to obey the summons, and to listen to what
Sophy had to say before he spoke of himself. Through
the praiseworthy, though unusual, expedition of a
London silversmith, he was enabled, also, to present
himself armed with what he hoped might prove an acceptable
propitiatory offering to his divinity. This was
no other than the shell of the ill fated Alexander,

which a cunning artificer had transformed into a real
art-treasure, in the form of a casket with large clasps,
resembling those of a mediaeval missal. The genius of
the mighty and impetuous Florentine himself could
scarcely have conceived a more harmonious design ;
and the inside was almost as tasteful as the exterior,
although here a modern utilitarian element had been
introduced. It was lined throughout with soft blue
satin, the lower portion of the shell being fitted up
with scissors, penknife, bodkin, stiletto, and thimble ;
whilst, upon pressing a small silver spring at the top,
the lid flew open, and discovered a hollow space, beautifully
lined and quilted, which was evidently intended
as a secret receptacle for treasures. Upon the outside
of the shell, in the centre of one of the naturally-designed
squares, Sophy's initials had been inlaid most
artistically, the two S's twisting and twirling themselves
together in silvery wedlock, like two amorous serpents,
until it was utterly impossible to tell them apart. Upon
the edge of the mounting was engraved a short obituary
notice: * Alexander, died Oct. 20, 1838, aged 23 years.*
Eaten hy rats had been added, in pencil, upon a small
scrap of paper attached to the rim, subject to Sophy's
approbation. Tom was not quite sure whether she
would desire that this should be permanently engraved*
Altogether, Alexander had never looked half so handsome
during the period of his incarnation ; and anyone,
excepting an' extravagant fancier of ' Testudinata,*
must have considered him a more desirable possession
in his present phase.

Sophy was very much gratified with this offering,
although she immediately returned the penknife, scissors,
and stiletto, * because,' as she explained, ' all sharp-pointed
presents are supposed to cut loves

About illic bodkin she was a little undecided at first,
but she ended by retaining it, after she had felt that
its point was quite blunt and harmless.

You'll think me very silly, I've no doubt,' she said;
but though I am not what you call religious, I have
two or three little fetishisms of my own, and this is
one of them.'

Tom felt that he could not take umbrage at any
superstition, however foolish, which attested a desire to
retain his affection. He possessed * fetishisms ' of the
same kind himself, and he therefore returned the little
instruments to his pocket, feeling that Sophy's speech
was propitious. Before he ventured to speak of his
hopes, however, he had to listen to what she had to
say.

Since seeing him she had received a visitor. Looking
up one day  as she sat in solitude in the window-seat
 from the book she was trying to read, she was
aware of a brisk footstep upon the gravel walk, and the
figure of a little old woman, dressed in gray, went past
the window very quickly and rang at the bell. Sophy
heard her take off her clogs in the porch, and she knew
also, by the sound, that she had leant her umbrella up
against the wall, with its point in the tray of the
scraper. Then the gray cloak was evidently taken off
and suspended ; and, after a few short coughs, the little
old woman was ushered into the sitting-room by Jane,
and announced as * Miss Hornblower,' by which Sophy
knew that she was the daughter of the old Rector of
Dallingridge, whom she had sometimes seen, in past
days, riding in the direction of Pojnings Abbey towards
luncheon-time.

The animosity Sophy had fostered in herder towards
the ministers 'of the Established Church, which had

lately become intensified by the behaviour of Mr. Pettish
and the Dean, caused this little fog-coloured
woman to produce upon her no very pleasant effect.
She had risen from her seat, book in hand, and stood
confronting her visitor with flashing eyes and distended
nostrils.

How cold your hands are ! ' Miss Hornblower exclaimed
by way of greeting, possessing herself suddenly
of one of her hands before she had time to resist. ' A
good pulse, though,' she added, after a moment's attention.
 You know, my dear, that I am half a doctor.'

Sophy had already heard this. She had heard, also,
that most of this medical knowledge had been acquired
by visiting the poor, and by ministering to their necessities.
As she remembered this, and looked at the
kindly expression which beamed from the keen gray
eyes of the little old maid, her heart warmed unconsciously
towards her. She thawed too, somewhat, in
her manner.

This is rather a cold house in winter,' she said
gravely ; * and I've been sitting for some time near the
window . . .'

Where, I've no doubt, there's a draught,' interposed
Miss Hornblower sharply. 'The house, too, is
built in a hole, and probably upon blue clay. I can
see that the walls are like egg-shells. And what a
miserable fire !'

This room has always been supposed to be warm,'
replied Sophy, taking up the cudgels in defence of her
home. She protested rather feebly, however, recognising
in Mary Anne Hornblower a master-mind, and
having been taken when completely off her guard.
There's a cellar under all this part of it,' she went on,
glancing down at the floor. But Miss Hornblower did

not apparently hear her remark. She had taken off
the guard and was poking violently at the fire, exclaiming,
as she did so, 

Dear me ! Why, this wood is perfectly green !
It goes on singing and spluttering and giving out no
heat whatsoever. With green wood you should always
have a good foundation of coal.'

After she had finished with the fire, Sophy's eccentric
visitor prowled round the room in search of a
comfortable chair. Having found one, she dragged it
forward to the fire before there was time to assist
her.

There,' she exclaimed, as she pushed Sophy gently
towards it, * sit down, and stick your feet on the fender,
and, when I have untied my bonnet-strings, we can
have a little conversation. I want to ask you a few
questions.*

Won't you come a little nearer to the fire yourself
?' Sophy asked, indicating the opposite side of the
hearthrug.

No, no ; never mind me,' answered her guest
abruptly. ' I'll find myself a chair all in good time.
Now then, tell me, what have you had for your breakfast?'


Sophy felt compelled to answer in spite of herself.
Generally she disliked replying to questions which
were jut by persons who had no right to ask them.

I had a poached eg and a cup of coffee, and
some watercresses.'

Not nearly enough for a healthy young woman ;
and I dare say you haven't eaten anything since. They
tell me your poor father nearly starved himself to
death.'

*He had been for some years almost entirely a
vegetarian,' said Sophy, feeling again obliged to rejly.

There are many people who believe that his system is
the right one

There are plenty of born idiots in the world
answered the little old maid quietly. * And, curiously
enough, there are always some clever people ready to
follow their teachings. Your poor father was full of
crazes.'

He was very different from other people,' said
Sophy sadly ; * but he was neither mad nor an idiot.
No one who knew him could say that.'

I didn't mean that he was an idiot, far from it. I
said that idiots made absurd laws and laid down theories
which clever people chose to follow; and as to madness,
why, madness is surely no reproach ! We're all of usa
little mad on some subjects. I have been called mad
myself.'

Sophy felt that she coxild perfectly believe this, and
her visitor continued, 

Great eccentricity, however, prevents positive insanity.
Your father and myself were always eccentric.
I knew him well when he was a young man  a most
fascinating person; and I may say, nous that I was once
most romantically attached to him. He and I were
about the same age.*

Sophy looked a little astonished. Miss Hornblower,
with her wrinkled, nut cracker face and gray curls,
seemed to her to be at least twenty years older than
her father.

The little old maid guessed her thought.

You fancy that I'm old,' she said, glancing at the
reflection of herself in the glass, * because I'm ugly ;
but, in reality, I am much younger than I look. Your
father and I were young people together.'

*And yet afterwards you always avoided him!*
exclaimed Sophy, in a reproachful tone.

Soph, or

It was impossible, on account of the views he
openly expressed, that he could remain upon terms of
friendly intercourse with any of the ministers of the
Established Church ; and what would the neighbourhood
have thought of mc, an unmarried woman and the
daughter of a clergyman, had I visited a house in
which my own father dared not set his foot ? The
house of a jvidoirer, too ! ' she added, bridling.

Sophy did not know what to reply. It seemed as
though the little old maid, with her energetic flow of
conversation, had talked her into a submissive silence.

All tho same,' she continued, ' as soon as one heard
of his sudden death, one's feelings underwent a change.
I wished, then, that I had not been so prudent, and I
am quite vexed about it in my conscience. Had his
illness only lasted a little longer, poor fellow ! I should
certainly have taken up my abode here, bag and baggage,
and helped you to nurse him through it ; for
when I hear that a fellow creature is suffering, I don't
care who he is, nor what are his opinions : my one wish
is to do all I can for him.'

As all danger of this invasion was now over, Sophy felt
that she could afford to thank her for her benevolence.

I'm sure it's very kind of you to have thought of
this,' she said, her eyes assuming a more friendly expression
; ' but it was all over so terribly soon.' And she
looked down sadly, and began playing with the little
silver ring, which seemed somehow to be growing a
great deal too big for her finger.

You see,' continued Miss Hornblower, ' I am, as I
said before, half a doctor, and not all the affection in
the world is equal to a little experience. Now if / had
had the management of your poor father in his last
illness, do you know how I should have treated him ? *

*I think said Sophy, the tears gathering in her
eyes,  * I Jtojje, at least, that I did everything I could.*

I dare say, my dear,' replied her visitor, ' you had
the very best intentions ; but of course you were inexperienced.
You should have given lira a good jorum
of brandy-and-water, and applied a strong galvanic
battery to the top of the spine, after you had rubbed
him all over with a circulating brush

Poor Sophy could not restrain a sad smile. She
was thinking that her father, could he but hear this
conversation, would smile, too, at the notion of such
summary treatment !

*I restored animation once in this manner,* continued
Miss Hornblower, who had now recommenced poking
the fire, * to two newly-born male infants  twins  who
were suffering from collapse. In consequence of an
unfortunate circumstance, one of them was born with a
face resembling an elephant.'

I should have thought,' returned Sophy, who was
always interested, in spite of herself, in the marvellous,
that it would have been better to have allowed it to*
die quietly. It could have had no possible pleasure in
life.'

It could have learnt tricks, and been shown in a
caravan,' replied Miss Hornblower, in a tone of reproof,
*for nothing is created in vain. Or it might have
gone out somewhere as a missionary ; but it only survived
four-ands twenty hours. By means of my prompt
treatment, however, it was fortunately enabled to be
baptized, and named after the Duke of Wellington.
The other one is still alive: a very fine young man,
with a wife and family, working now at hedging and
ditching over at Sir Thomas Hickathrift's.'

Sophy remained silent and absorbed. She was

thinking of the ill-starred elephant-headed infant, and
wondering what would have been its career if it had
been spared. By-and-by Miss Ilornblower continued :

My love for infants, young people, birds, puppies,
calves, and all helilcss and inoffensive creatures, is so
great, that I always fancy I must have been intended to
have been a mother. Heaven, however, has mercifully
denied me this privilege ; but I do assure you, my dear
child, I am ready to behave as a mother to you. My
heart bleeds for you in this time of your sorrow ; and I
have come here to know what I can do for you, to help
you and to make you happier.'

As she uttered these words she rose from her chair,
and before Sophy was aware of her intention she found
herself suddenly folded in her embrace.

I can't help it, my dear ! ' she exclaimed, with an
hysterical sob, 'though I dare say you will think me an
old fool; but the sight of you, sitting here all alone in
your black merino dress, has quite overcome me. You
never ought to have been allowed to stay here by yourself.
Will you come home with me, or shall I come
here and stay with you ? '

Though totally unprepared for this friendly demonstration,
Sophy could not help being profoundly touched
hit.

You are very kind,* she said, in a faltering voice,
for the discovery of unsuspected generosity in another
is always affecting; 'and I like you very much, although
I didn't think I should. But I feel I must stay on
here ; and I don't mind being alone.'

Do you mean to say,' asked Miss Hornblower,
that your aunt has not invited you to Dallingridge ? *

I have heard nothing from Dallingridge, but I'm
very glad of it. I have no wish to leave this place.'

*But you will have to leave it, for awhile, at any
rate ; its quite impossible that a young person like you
can live on here alone. I met your aunt yesterday by
accident ; we began talking about you and your poor
father, and she told me that you would be probably
made a ward in Chancery, and that she should apply
for the charge of you, as your nearest relation, during
sour minority. When she informed me of this, I
inquired if she had been to see you, and was shocked
to find she had not. It then occurred to me to propose
that you should come to me whilst all these arrangements
were pending, or else that / should come and
keep you company here.'

Sophy looked utterly bewildered.

I don't understand,' she faltered, aghast at the
idea of leaving her beloved home. * I had fancied my
father left everything to be settled by Sir Thomas
Hickathrift.'

It is not necessary that you should understand it,
my dear,' replied Miss Hornblower bluntly ; * but it ione
of the laws of your country that minors and their
properties should be protected by the Lord Chancellor.
The Lord Chancellor is not there for ornament, and
this is part of his business. Your aunt will have todo
with your education. If Sir Thomas Hickathrift
was left in any responsible position by your father, it
could only have been with the idea that he should casta
friendly eye upon the property and act for you as a
kind of unpaid land steward or landscape-gardener,
marking the trees and settling about the grazing : he
can act, of course, as your trustee, but so young a man
could have nothing to do with your personal training.
By throwing you thus together, however, your poor
father may have thought it would end in a marriage,

VOL. II. s

which, allow mc to say, my dear (although I have
always maintained that there are other spheres of
usefulness for a woman besides matrimony), would
be, humanly speaking, the best thing that could
happen. Sir Thomas Hickathrift is a thoroughly
straightforward, honest young man, with more brains
than most people give him credit for. He is a very
good man of business, and /, for one, consider him extremely
handsome ; above all, I feel sure that he is
steady, which is a great thing. He has been a most
dutiful son, and I have no doubt but that he will make
you an excellent husband.'

Oh, that can never be ! ' cried Sophy eagerly.
Isn't it possible for one to have a great friend without
people saying these things ?'

It is not possible for a girl of your inexperience
to be thrown much with a rich young man without
attracting attention,' answered Miss Hornblower, in a
decided tone. 'And, indeed, even at my age, it is
necessary for a woman to exercise extreme caution and
circumspection, for we are surrounded by pitfalls. I
am thankful to say, however, that, whatever my enemies
may say against me, behind my back, I have always
retained my good name ; and, although, on account of
my father's advanced age, I have been left, since the
death of my mother, in a very unprotected position,
nobody has ever dared to insinuate a word against my
character.'

As she said these words she drew herself up to her
full height ; and although she did not, even then, attain
to five feet, her air of conscious virtue produced a decided
effect upon her companion.

I wonder whether you had many proposals of
marriage when you were young?' Sophy hazarded at

last, after a pause. ' Of course I haven't any right to
ask ; but I wonder, with, such a kind heart as you seem
to have, that you didn't fall in love with somebody.
Most people do.'

'My dear child,' returned Miss Hornblower decidedly,
'love with me) was always an impossibility where
I could not feel respect as well ; and it was necessary forme
to recognise the superiority of another person before
I could bow down and worship them. This is the
history of my remaining single.'

'You never met any one nice enough to care for?'

Never, my dear child ! if I except the school girl
fancy I once had for your poor father. Men are
nearly always intensely selfish ; and selfishness is the
fault which seems to me the most impossible to forgive,
since it proceeds neither from an error of judgment
nor from the exaggeration of a generous motive,
and deserves none of the charity which should be
vouchsafed to an impulse. It is the result of a cold-blooded,
self concentrated system of calculation, which
narrows the sympathies and degenerates the mental
powers. " When I meet with a thoroughly unselfish
man" (I used to say in the days of my youth), "I
will marry him off-hand  there" But I never met
one, my dear ; they didn't come jmj way ; and so here
I am, an old maid, and quite contented to be one, I do
assure you ! '

I hope men are not all alike,' said Sophy. * My
father, I am sure, was not half selfish enough. He
never thought of himself at all.'

He may not have been as selfish as most of them.
Or, if he was, your affection may have prevented
you from perceiving it. I know, too, that he was one
of those strange people who positively enjoy being

uncomfortable. I have noticed this in other Englishmen
who have travelled, and it is a form of selfishness
in itself, though an unusual one. Perhaps, however,
everything has been really ordered for the best ; and
that the selfishness of the men is intended to bring out
the devotion of the women, and, above all, to show to
what an extent we are capable of enduring and suffering.
It has been the same all over the world, from
time immemorial, and we are constantly reminded of it
in the Holy Scriptures, particularly in that portion
which relates to the Fall. What did the poor unselfish
woman do ? As soon as she had tasted the apple she
handed it over at once to her husband  and why?
Simply because it was good, and, liking the taste of it,
she couldn't enjoy it alone. This is a woman's nature
all over ! But it is my belief, my dear, that if the than
had only tasted it first (at any rate, the modem man),
he would have said nothing about it whatever to his
poor wife. It is my firm convection that he would
never have offered her a single bite of it ; but that he
would have slipped it quietly into his coat-pocket and
sneaked off, and eaten it up in secrecy at his club. In
which case,' added Miss Hornblower, ' it is to be hoped
that the principal curse would have descended upon
the me?}; instead of upon us poor women, who are very
much less capable of enduring it, and who, only too
often, have to bear the male curse into the bargain.'

Sophy had sent off to Sir Thomas as soon as her
new acquaintance had departed, alarmed at the idea of
any impending change : but she did not repeat Miss
Ilornblower's flattering remarks concerning himself
individually, nor this final tirade against mankind in
the abstract.

And in the end,' Sophy explained to her faithful

friend, * I promised that I would think over about going
to stay with her at the Rectory. She seemed so kind
about wishing me to go, and she said that her father is
so old now, and so silly, that he won't know in the least
who I am, and that if he did, he would make no objection.
She says he knew nothing about Mr. Pettigrew's
refusal to bury my father, for he is quite in his second
childhood. If I don't go to her, she would like to come
anal stay here with me for a little while ; but this, I
think, would put her out, though she says she can leave
her father with an old woman who is married to the
gardener, and that he won't find out the difference.
I'm to have a week to think it over. Which do you
think I ought to do ?'

You wouldn't come and stay at the Abbei// Tom
could not help observing, in a reproachful voice. ' But
I'm glad that you should go anywhere for a change,
and I can often ride over and see you.'

'What is this about my being a ward in Chancery
? ' Sophy asked. * And why is my aunt, whoi
knows nothing about me, to be allowed to interfere
with me now?'

I fancy,' said Tom, * that, being an orphan, and
under age, with a good fortune, the Lord Chancellor
will cast an eye on you, and Mrs. St. Clair will probably
apply to him to look after you, with me, as I'm
not yet very old, and a bachelor, and mayn't be supposed
to know much about young ladies. I know,
however,' he added nervously  ' I feel su?'e, indeed 
that your poor father wished me to look after your
interests, and to protect you in every way. . . . He
meant me to be as much to you as possible  as much as
you would allow me to be. . . .'

He paused abruptly, overcome by the intensity of

Sophy, or

his feelings. Surely the moment had come for the inauguration
of his new system I . . .

With the proverbial perversity of her sex, however,
Sophy contrived at once to change the subject of their
conversation.

To be well off she remarked abstractedly  ' at
least, to be rich  isn't, I'm sure, altogether a blessing.
The little money I have possessed hitherto has certainly
always been useful to me ; still I fancy that
a little of a thing often makes one much happier thana
great deal. I suppose, if one had everything one wished
for, and nothing to long for whatever, that would be an
unhappiness in itself ? '

I don't know,' answered Tom, looking down at her
with tender eyes.

Of course, I never have had a very great deal of
money as yet,' she continued, humbly ; * so I can only
judge by other things  things which, I have no doubt,
you'll laugh at. I remember, once, when I was a very
little girl, I picked up a blue jay's feather in the big
fir-wood. It was in the autumn, and when I saw it
lying in amongst the brown leaves, I nearly went mad
with delight, and it seemed to me like the most precious
of treasures. I used to keep it in a locked box, and in
the summer mornings, when I awoke, long before
Janus came to call me, I used to get up and open the
box to look if it was all safe ; for sometimes I dreamed
that horrid demons came with great armies to take it
away. It seemed quite like a friend. I ended b}
fancying that it was almost alive ; and I went wandering
about the woods all day, trying to find it a
companion to live with in the locked box. When I
heard the jays fighting and screeching down in the
orchard, I used to run out breathlessly, even if it was

raining ; but, somehow, I never could pick up another
one '

If you'd only sent over to we,' interrupted Tom, ' I
could have shot you any number of jays.'

Ah, that's just what I feared you would say !' she
exclaimed, looking disappointed. ' It shows me you
don't understand ! Nelus thought like you ; and, seeing
me always going about searching and searching for
these feathers, he started off one morning with his old
gin, and brought back three poor jays. He then
picked out all the blue feathers from their six wings,
and brought them to me in triumph  such a lot of
them !  and hung up their bodies as scarecrows, near
the novella cherries, to frighten away their comrades.
But for these last feathers I didn't care in the least,
because they no longer seemed scarce or unusual ; and
what became of them all I'm sure I don't know. However,
I have still got the first one I found, and it
somehow seems to me still like a treasure ; and when I
look at it I am reminded of ten thousand things. J
intend to keep it now in the top part of my beautiful
new workbox,' she added, looking up gratefully at her
companion's face.

The moment had now arrived, he thought, for an
explanation. It did not much matter, after all, how he
began.

The other day,' he said, looking down at her very
gravely, *I remember your saying something about
first and second-best. I don't fancy that you thought I
was paying much attention. Well, when you talked of
liking somebody second-best . I thought  I dare say
I was wrong  but I couldn't help thinking you meant
mo. Tell me honestly, who is the first ? '

" The first shall be last," ' answered Sophy, with

assumed flippancy, thinking to put him off with a
quotation.

No, no ! ' returned he, sadly, but with more than
usual firmness. ' Tell me the truth, dear Sophy, once
for all!'

Well, then, you arc the second-best,' she answered,
candidly, feeling rather frightened. 'But the nicest
and kindest second-best in the whole world, better
liked than most people's first.'

Yes, I dare say,' returned the young man, in what
seemed to her a somewhat harsh tone ; * I dare say I
may be a very good second. But this kind of thing has
gone on long enough. I've tried to bear it for your
sake ; but I can stand it no longer. Everything or
nothing. I want to he first!'

Tom had begun to speak with his mind full of his
mother's counsels, almost counting his words, and
weighing well the meaning of each of them before utterance.
But as he proceeded he totally forgot his
lesson ; words and ideas came to him naturally, without
the seeking, and he felt that he was pouring forth all
that had been lying deep down in his heart for a longtime.
Sophy had never heard him speak so firmly,
and, as she thought, so sternly, before ; and she was
quite taken aback.

And what are you going to do ?' she asked, in a
faltering voice, as she looked up at his altered face in
amazement.

/ am going aicay' he answered determinedly. * I
am going, perhaps, to India ; at any rate, I shall leave
this place as soon as your father's affairs are settled.
What is there to keep me here ? '

 Going away !' exclaimed poor Sophy, with a sudden
sense of desolation. * What ! are you going to leave
me, too? What shall I do without you?'

And, with no desire to excite sympathy, the tears
rushed unexpectedly into her eyes, from positive self-pity.
This was too much for Tom ; he felt totally
unequal to continuing the new system.

You will not have to do without me, my darling ! '
he exclaimed, misinterpreting the reason of her tears,
and folding her in his arms before she had time to
resist. ' I will stay with you always, (decays ! "We'll
be married and live together at the Abbey ! '

And here, but for the fact that the great Hickathrif t
ring of betrothal was, apparently, irretrievably lost, it
would no doubt have found its way, for the second
time, to Sophy's finger.

Chapter XXI.

Sophy had been so totally unprepared for this sudden
move on her companion's part, that, for a few seconds,
she could not find breath to remonstrate.

Please don't ! ' she said, as she disengaged herself
gently.  Remember that we're no longer children,
and this is foolish.'

As she spoke, the sound of a slight cough made her
turn suddenly. Tom also looked up with a quick movement.
Mr. "Pettigrew was standing in the doorway,
gazing at them with his faded eyes. Apparently, Jane
had ushered him in whilst Sir Thomas was speaking,
and his earnest base tones must have drowned the sound
of the curate's feline tread. At any rate, there he stood
now, confronting them. Both the young people were
greatly discomfited. Sophy, notwithstanding her pure
conscience, felt that she looked guilty and confused ;
Sii' Thomas, too, was blushing like a maiden.

I hope I am not intruding upon Miss St. Clair,'

said Mr. Pettigrew at last, breaking this awkward
silence. ' Perhaps you are engaged with a visitor. . . .
Oh, my dear Sir Thomas ! ' he added suddenly ; ' forgive
me if I did not recognise you at once ! I am, as
you know, exceedingly near-sighted, and you were
standing with your back to the light.'

Ife was near-sighted / of course ! and he generally
wore glasses I Happy thought ! Perhaps he had observed
nothing, after all ! Here was, at any rate, a
straw to cling to, and Sophy felt immediately relieved,

Pray take a chair,' she said, with more cordiality
than she would probably have shown but for her previous
confusion. * You have, perhaps, some message
for me from Miss Hornblower?'

For it Alas only in this manner that she was able to
account for the curate's visit.

My dear young lady,' replied Mr. Pettigrew,
blinking painfully as he encountered the light, ' Miss
Hornblower is so energetic that she is quite competent
to carry her messages herself ; and when she is indisposed,
which seldom happens, there are always village
youths within call who are delighted to run her errands.
At any rate, I am not here to-day at her request ; . . .
I simply came in obedience to a call, to which, I trust,
I have ever been ready to respond . to which, indeed,
all right-minded persons do respond. . I am alluding
to the call of Duty, It is the voice of Duty which
summons me to your side. . In a word, I am anxious
to be helpful to you at this moment of your trial. You
have been tried heavily, my dear young lady, but
strength will, I trust, be vouchsafed to you from on
High to bear your cross.'

Tom Hickathrift had never felt much sympathy for
Mr. Pettigrew, but he had not sought out a reason for

this, until the curate had refused to read the Burial
Service over what remained of Francis St. Clair. He
had then openly avowed his dislike to him, setting this-down
as the cause, and ignoring that an honest nature
shrinks instinctively from one that is covert and disingenuous,
even when there is no visible bone of contention.
Still, his education had taught him to endeavour,
at least, to respect all ministers of the Established
religion of his country, and it seemed, therefore, to be
his duty to try and combat his growing animosity
towards this one. Mr. Pettigrew's motive in seeking
out Sophy now, must be (he thought) good. He had
walked several miles in a November fog to offer her
spiritual consolation, and the young man's heart warmed
towards him in consequence. He hoped he had not
observed anything as he came into the room. His eyes
did, certainly, look almost too poor and insignificant to
be of much service to him. If he had seen Tom kissing
Sophy, it must inevitably have created an impression
against her in his mind, whereas (as Tom knew too well),
she had been no party to the act. Perhaps he might
even have seen into the room from outside, as he was
passing the window. He would try himself, as he
went out ; for, perhaps, it would be better for him to
go now, and leave Sophy with the curate. As this
passed through his mind, he took up his wide awake and
the stout thistle spud which he generally carried in lieu
of a walking-stick.

Good-bye,' he said, as he grasped Sophy's hand
with so much warmth that she winced perceptibly.
Good afternoon, Mr. Pettigrew. I dare say I shall be
this way again in a few days,' he added, as he closed
the sitting-room door.

When he got outside he made a point of looking in

Sophy  or

at the bow-window to ascertain how much could be seen.
Sophy and Mr. Pettigrew were seated at the table in
the centre of the room. There was a looking-glass
over the chimney piece, and, against this, their two
figures were clearly defined. He could even have
counted the bright stripes upon the tablecloth.

I'm afraid he must have seen in he thought.

However, he won't be so shocked when he hears we're
going to be married ; ' and he took his way hopefully
across the large turnip field.

When Sophy found herself alone with Mr. Pettish
she felt, for the first few moments, exceedingly
nervous. Nervousness, however, generally rendered her
talkative ; so much so, that ignorant people could never
imagine why she should consider herself shy. She was
annoyed at Mr. Pettigrew' s visit, and she wished to tell
him this, if possible, without appearing rude.

If I seemed a little astonished,' she said, ' when
you first came into the room, it was because I didn't
expect you. You've lived near us for a long time, and
yet you have never been here before. I had no idea
you cared to know me.'

She drummed somewhat imperiously on the striped
tablecloth as she said these words, and Pettigrew was
not a little taken aback at what he considered her
boldness.

*My dear young lady,' he replied, after a pause,

it is always best to be honest. '* Honesty is the best
policy," you know ; you may very likely have heard
this axiom ? '

Yes, I have heard that before,' she answered, with
dignity.

Well, then,* continued the curate, turning aside
his faded glance and fixing it upon the carpet, * to be

honest and frank with you will be best. It was not
possible for me to visit here in the lifetime of your
unfortunate father. . . . Wretched man ! he has now
gone to his account ! '

I don't know Sophy said, colouring, ' why you
should call my father either 'unfortunate'' or
wretched." " Live and let live" was his motto.
He was an Agnostic  which is really not at all an
aggressive thing. He merely followed out his own
notions, just as you are following out yours ; but he
would never have said of the believer in any other
religion what you have just said of him. He went by
his conscience, and led a much better life than most
people.'

She was speaking in the abstract, but she noticed
that her companion seemed to wince at her last words ;
and she saw in his eye, as it met hers for a moment, an
expression which she remembered to have observed once
in the eyes of a snake.

Oh, I wasn't alluding to yoicr life ! ' she said*
hastily. * I know nothing about the way in which you
live. . I was thinking more of the lives of the
people one reads about in books.'

Mr. Pettigrew bowed slightly, as though in acknowledgment
of her polite intention, and then added, 

Notwithstanding your father's apparently harmless
life, I grieve to say that he committed the only sin
which is spoken of in Holy Scripture as being altogether
unpardonable ! '

I do not know what sin that may be,' answered
Sophy, looking puzzled. ' But I am not anxious about
my dear father. If there is a good and merciful God
He will consider his quiet, innocent life, and let him live
again somewhere pleasantly. If there is no hereafter

Sophy  or

then he is merely aahep ; and I am glad that he should
rest, for he seemed very tired. It is for myself I am
sorry ; left, as I am, without him, and missing him all
day.'

For a few minutes she was too overcome by emotion
to continue. Mr. Pettigrew was silent also. By-and-by
he said, 

Holding, as he did, these terribly infidel opinions
during his life, your father could hardly have supposed
that, after his death, the Church would receive him, and
sanction the interment of his remains amongst Christian
people. His conduct had left me no choice in the
matter. I hope you see that, in the conclusion I was
forced to adopt, I was guided entirely by my own
conscience and by a sense of duttj.

Oh, that was of no importance,' replied Sophy
absently, as she gazed out in the direction of the dripping
laurentius bushes ; ' I bear nobody any malice
for that. It all ended exactly as I had hoped. He
wished to be buried there f and she pointed to the lawn
in front of the window.

Mr. Pettigrew rose and advanced towards it, taldng
off his glasses, through which he was unable to see
distant objects.

So he is buried there, is he ? ' he said, in a tone of
spiritual anguish. ' Dear, dear, how very sad ! how extremely
distressing ! I should think, too, that it would
seriously interfere with the letting of this place in the
future.'

I don't know why you should suppose that I
should ever let it said Sophy, turning upon him
almost fiercely. * It's the very last thing I should ever
-dream of ! '

I should think that it would be a wise thing to do,'

said Mr. Pettigrew, * under Providence. I fancy your
guardians and trustees will probably suggest this
measure. Very great changes are probably in store
for you, my dear young lady, which I earnestly pray
jnaij he beneficial to you  spiritually beneficial, I should
say ; '' for the fashion of this world passeth away," and
mere social advantages are of very little importance.
My prayerful hope is that you may be drawn eventually
to the saving fold, plucked, like a brand, from the
burning. It is to speak to you upon this subject  all-important
as it is  that I am here to-day.'

He paused, adjusted his glasses, and repeated himself
at the table, after giving a little preliminary cough.
Sophy followed his example mechanically, and sat down
too, slightly pursing up her lips, in token of defiance.
She was preparing herself for the sermon she thought
it perfectly natural that Mr. Pettigrew should wish to
preach to her, under the circumstances, and to which,
with the tolerance she prided herself upon, she was
resolved to listen with porte attention.

But she was determined after it was over to place
some of her own opinions. This would be only fair ;
and her position, as a non-assertor, seemed to her to be
too strong to be assailed by any of the platitudes which
the curate might think it necessary to put forward.
Mr. Pettigrew's speech, however well-intentioned, had
not the merit of originality. It resembled most other
discourses, when the discourser chooses his own ,
and closes his ears to all arguments pointing
to a solution other than that at which he professes to
have arrived himself. Sophy, whose mind was particularly
just, considering her sex, was especially
annoyed at the persistent manner in which Mr. Pettish
whilst knowing and deploring her scepticism

with regard to the Holy Scriptures, insisted, nevertheless,
upon quoting them continually in support of his
statements.

'You are really not arguing fairly,' she said, at
length, in a tone of exasperation. 'You can surety
quote other things besides texts in proof of what you
assert ? You must remember that I have been brought
up to look upon the Hebrew Scriptures as merely a fine
old Jewish record. This is the light in which my
father regarded them, and there were portions of them
which he greatly admired. There were other religious
writings, however, which he preferred, as being more
ancient  the Avesta and the Zendavesta, for instance . .'

Once for all,' interposed Pettigrew, holding up
his hands, as though to ward off some imaginary
danger, * let me implore of you not to allude to the
impious ravings of that miserable man, for I utterly
abhor his sophistries.'

Prove to me that your religion is nobler and better
than his was, and I will believe in it, if it is possible todo
so ! ' said Sophy, quivering with excitement. * Oh,
whereWHERE shall we find Truth and Justice, and
real Christianity?' she went on, clasping her hands
appealingly. ' Surely, surely, with the profession of
Christian faith there should be the practice of Christian
kindness ! Ought we not to be just, charitable,
humane  loving God and our neighbours, condemning
no man? Why is it that you Christians are all so
hard and unforgiving, so that /, a heathen  a girl
brought up in no fixed faith, looking on from the outside,
as it were  am able to see Christianity" as it really
was, and Christ as He really was ; whilst you seem
to be blind and mistaken? "What is the use of all
your gods, your saints, your idols, if you are so stern

and embittered, and so opposed to the true teaching of
your Master?'

She paused for a reply, but Pettigrew made no
answer. He was blinking painfully through his
glasses, as though in the act of formulating some more
elaborate refutation than he had hitherto employed.

Surely,' she went on, with the manner, as one
might imagine, of some sort of heterodox and petticoated
St. George, in the act of crushing a conforming
dragon, 'whether as God or as man, your Master
preached to you charity, brotherhood, toleration ?
How, otherwise, do you understand His meaning in
the parable of the Good Samaritan? Does He not
rebuke the sham religion of the time, in the persons of
the Priest and the Levite, and show that the despised
Samaritan was really more religious than either of
them ? Was He not the avowed enemy of cant and
hypocrisy  doing battle, single-handed, against all the
power of the Mosaic religion, backed by the Romans ?
and was He not hunted down at last by a conspiracy
between the State and the Synagogue, and made to die
a martyr's death for His faith and His fidelity ? . . .
But I am forgetting,' she said suddenly, resuming a
calmer demeanour ; 'it is you that are Christian, and
you should tell me of all this ! /, a heathen, have no
right to preach to you upon your own religion ! '

'You must pardon me, my dear Miss St. Clair
returned Pettigrew, in his coldest and most grating
tones, * if I venture to remind you that loss of self-possession,
accompanied by violent gesticulation, does
not constitute sound argument. We, however, are
thoroughly accustomed to meet with this treatment at
the hands of the sceptic. When false arguments are
refuted by the blessed light of Truth, the sceptic

VOL. II. T

almost invariably takes refuge in dramatic gestures
and excited language.'

To Pettigrew, who had identified himself with the
very kind of conservative and traditional piety against
which his so-called Master had been a living protest,
early Christianity ' seemed a most detestable heresy.

C/trisf as Ho rcaJJ]i iras'  the Reformer, the Innovator
 the champion of Humanity against the tyranny
of institutions  would have come to him as a far more
formidable adversary than all the Powers of Darkness
in combination.

But I am not refuted I ' Sophy was protesting
eagerly. *I scant you to refute me, and you can't!
Here am I, open to conviction upon all points, and
ready to be converted ; but your reasoning makes me
only the more determined in my ol opinions ! '

I am but too familiar,' replied Pettigrew, sighing,
*with the specious reasoning of the ungodly; but their
weapons are not our weapons. In one so young as
yourself, this persistency in the wrong path is distressing
in the extreme.'

*Ah, I see that it is quite impossible to argue with
you,' she cried sadly, ' although I have every wish to
talk with you fairly and dispassionately; and this is not
only because you are speaking upon a subject which
you have thoroughly studied, and which I know very
little about, but because you will not talk justly. Don't
let us go on with our discussion ; there are plenty of
other subjects upon which, perhaps, we should agree :
but I will say this, before we conclude  you are wrong
to speak as though you were the Christian and I the
heathen ; and if you look in the Bible you will find
that there is hardly anything about most of the modem
religious people which resembles the real Christians of
the olden time ; though one sees, every day, likenesses

to the Scribes and Pharisees. I quite wonder why they
have not died out in all these years

'A message came to them which they rejected
said Pettigrew. * Pray earnestly that with sou it may
not be the same

But if the message had never come yet, and was to
come now?' retorted Sophy earnestly. * Supposing, in
the next village, this wonderful thing were to happen,
who would be the first people to believe in it ? to listen
to it, at any rate? Some few tolerant and eccentric
and unorthodox people like my poor father, who would
interest themselves in anything that was out of the
common. People Who were dissatisfied with things as
they were, and who were waiting and hoping for the
coming of something better and greater, and eagerly
investigating all new theories, in case they might turnout
to be truths. These 2co2Jle would, perhaps, have
believed the message, as you call it, but certainly not
i/oi(, nor Mr. Hornblower, nor the Dean. You would all
have been highly indignant ; and I feel sure that if it,
had been the fashion to persecute, you would have
wished to stone or crucify the bringers of the message.
I am so certain of this that I can't help saying it ; but
I have no wish to be irreverent. And this is why I believe
that I am much more like the early Christians
than you are : my father used always to say that we
had a good deal of the early Christian about us, though
we professed to know nothing for certain.'

I am inexpressibly shocked at the evil and perverse
spirit which has taken root in your heart,' said Pettish
in a tone of real sadness. ' But I will pray that
you may have the grace to overcome it. How can thisbe,
however, when you obstinately determine to stand
alone, instead of listening to the joyful tidings ? '

With the true spirit of the grand 'surviving creeds*

cradled and nurtured in the East, the home of poetry,
of mysticism, of visionary beliefs, Felix Pettigrew
possessed no sympathy whatever. He represented, in a
supreme degree, what Godfrey had once designated the
European element,* and was incapable, in reality, of
spiritually conceiving or imagining anything beyond
the range of his gold-rimmed spectacles. Sophy, in
fact, for all her heterodoxy, was endowed with a mind
far better constituted for the cherishing of an ideal, and
she could perceive in many of the tenets of the 'English
Religion' a beauty and a poetry of which Pettigrew
was utterly unconscious.

I have told you what my religion is,' she said, as,
exasperated at her perversity, Mr. Pettigrew began
preparing to depart. ' You said that honesty was the
best policy and I have been honest at any rate. I
dare say I may not have got it quite right yet ; but I
shall try and make it perfect by the time I see you
again. It shall be a really Christian Religion  much
more Christian than yours is; but I shall also take
texts, and prayers, and great and wise sayings, out of
other religions as well. Still I mean to call myself an
** Early Christian," and I shall allow no one to join it
who does not think as I do.'

She walked out into the garden with her visitor, and
stood looking after him with the benevolent expression
of a generous victor, as he wended his way between the
avenue of young trees protected by their cradles. When
about halfway towards the Poynings high-road, she
perceived that he encountered a horseman, and remained
in conversation with him for some minutes. She at
once recognised Dr. Dyer, by his rough-looking strawberry
roan. He was evidently on his way to pay her a
visit, and she remained awaiting his coming in the
garden.

The girl is a pretty girl Mr. Pettigrew remarked
to Mrs. St. Clair, when he called upon her that very
afternoon to make his report ; * a hcautijul girl, I should
say, but a regular young pig for obstinacy. She is
clever too, I fancy, with that sort of sophistical cleverness
which comes from the devil. There's no convincing
her, by any amount of reasoning, that she's in
the wrong.'

There she is only a woman ! ' Mrs. St. Clair had
rejoined, with an arch smile. * I am determined, however,
for more reasons than one, to obtain permission to
educate her and tone her doTm. A good increase of
income, I fancy, will go to the person who has charge
of her, particularly if one represents to the Court of
Chancery how she has been neglected hitherto. The
cheapest way would be, then, for me to send her to
school ; to have masters at home would, of course, come
much more expensive, besides which I have no wish to
be hampered with her yet. The increase of income,
however, would certainly be an advantage just now*
"When one has had the spending of 30,000/, a-year, one
feels the "come down" of a jointure. Still, as she
must be at least seventeen or eighteen, one will have to
make hay whilst the sun shines.'

 And what are your plans afterwards ? ' Mr. Pettish
had demanded.

Upon that subject,' answered Mrs. St. Clair, * I
shall have to take counsel. Perhaps with this extra
windfall I could manage a house in tovn, upon the plea
of taking this young savage into society ; and I suppose,
if I hear nothing of Godfrey, I have power to let this
house for a couple of years, which would all be to the
good in the future. A couple of seasons in London
would be an agreeable change after my buried life for
all these years with that old man. The first thing, however,

will be to see the creature, and then to look out
for a school. I think I have one in my eye. You
remember Miss Thornton, with whom I was at school
at Bath?'

Is it likely, Eliza,' said Pettigrew, * that I should
ever forget that time ? '

It is impossible to know,' replied * Eliza,' ' what
men may choose to remember, or what they may makeup
their minds to forget. / remember it all well
enough, and how the breaking-up party was in the
garden, because of the heat, and / wore a gray 
with red spots ; and we sang hymns, and
you held the other side of the hymn-book. . . . However,
let bygones be bygones. . . . Only two months
after that day Mr. St. Clair came to my stall at the
charity-bazaar, and bought three pairs of knitted muff
and a comforter, and asked me to be his wife.'

Is it your intention, then, to send the girl to Miss
Thornton's?'

Miss Thornton is very old now ; she has left off
teaching for many years. But I wrote to her nevertheless
; and it seems she has a friend in the same linea
Miss Pendragon  the name pleases me  who has an
"academy" for young ladies not far from London,
which she is very'' particular should not be designated a
school. I think six months or a year at '* The Cedars "
woidd civilise her a little. But first of all I must look
her over myself.'

I sincerely hope, my dear Eliza,' said Pettigrew,
that your project mays succeed. Should it not do so,
you will, at any rate, have no cause to reproach your
conscience. I should think it would take many years,
however, to eradicate the pernicious influences to which
she has been subjected. The girl seems to me to be

utterly devoid of all moral sense. I should call her,
indeed, immoral in the freest acceptation of the word.
When the maid-servant ushered me into her drawing-room,
I surprised her hugging and kissing Sir Thomas
Hickathrift. But then, to be sure, he is a young man
of property

Chapter XXII.

After greeting the young Doctor, Sophy led the way
to the house. As they passed the green mound, beneath
which her father was buried. Dr. Dyer paused,
and regarded it with seeming interest.

Mr. Pettigrew thinks,' said Sophy, * because that
poor thing is there, nobody would take this place if
one ever wanted to let it.'

I dare say it might prevent some people from
wishing to live here,' answered the Doctor. ' It is,
however, a good way from the house, although, on
account of the rising ground, it looks so near.'

Yes, I can see it from every one of the front
windows,' said Sophy ; ' and it seems like company.'

With time, however,' continued Dr. Dyer, ' it will
become almost obliterated, and then only a few people
will know that it was ever a grave at all.'

Oh, but I intend to have some sort of monument
put over it ! We both decided upon this a long time
ago ! Not a cross, of course, or anything purely
religious, because of his opinions, but still something
pretty, as a memorial  rather a high thing, to break
the line of the distance. My idea was to have a stone
pillar, broken in the middle, to show that he was cutoff
before his time  something ancient. Sir Thomas

is looking out for one ; they dig them up sometimes
at the Abbey

It is a pretty idea, Miss Sophy ; and I agree with
you that it would be more appropriate than any purely
religious symbol, considering the circumstances.'

Yes ; but still it ought to be something very
serious and solemn-looking ; and I've set my heart
upon an ancient pillar. Above all, it must point
upwards, to suggest the idea of some possible future.
Do you remember,' she added, suddenly, * when we
once talked in the harness-room about the " bone
Luz," the germ of immortality which is to grow
out of all this, just like that little early polyanthus,
though that's almost sure to be nipped?' And she
pointed, with her foot, to a pale-pink variety of the
oxlip, occasioned (as Jane Ford had always assured
her) by the planting of a primrose upside down.

I remember,' answered the Doctor, ' a very interesting
conversation we once had bearing upon subjects
which I hardly expected that a young lady would have
considered. The idea of this germ quickening into a
new man is quaint and picturesque ; but it is hardly
possible for a doctor, like myself, to be anything but a
materialist, even when he is possessed of the poetical
temperament : the conclusions arrived at by the man
of science are depressing on the one hand, encouraging
on the other, but (in my own case, at any rate) preeminently
materialistic'

I can fancy,' answered Sophy, ' that this might
be the case ; and that's why I shouldn't like to have
been a doctor, nor,' she added simply, ' to marry one.
I should like to retain some of my illusions, notwithstanding
that the Buddhists, I think, say that the
happiness of life consists in getting rid of them. One

ought to keep on perpetually shedding them, I believe,
like the skins of an onion

And, at the end,' said the Doctor, 'nothing whatever
would remain

There would be the experience,' Sophy answered.

Yes, but only when it was no longer needed, and
a memory, perhaps, in the form of a powerful aroma,
with nobody to smell it ! '

By this time they had become firm friends. Upon
reaching the parlour. Dr. Dyer seated himself at the
table, in the chair which had been lately vacated by
*his brother doctor of the soul.'

It is a sad and solemn thing,' he remarked, as he
took his place, * to watch, as / have watched, the mind
slowly passing away with the body, and to know that
you may dig out the much-vaunted immortal soul with
a scalpel, and fling it upon a dunghill ! '

At these words, Sophy experienced a thrill of
horror.

In the heart of nearly every true woman, notwithstanding
any superficial scepticism, there lurks a hope,
a prayer, a yearning desire, which, by being secretly
nourished, comes to assume the importance of a
pre-existent consciousness : the hope, the prayer, the
desire, to rely upon, and appeal to, the protection of
some Being better, greater, wiser than the beings she
beholds around her, through whose benevolence she
may enjoy some manner of pleasant after-life, to
which she clings rather from a longing to rejoin
those who have called forth her sympathy and devotion
upon earth, than from any actual dread of a
personal annihilation. For this reason most women,
howsoever their actions may belie it, are possessed of
a reserve of conventional faith ; but the yearning often

exists as decidedly in those who have never identified
themselves with any special form of doctrine ; and
Sophy, for all her ' early Christianity,' was no exception
to this almost invariable rule.

It is a terrible thought, indeed,' she answered,
with an uncontrollable shudder ; * and you bring it
home to one in such plain words ! Without quite
believing everything, one can always Jupe*

The conscientious man of science does not hesitate
in his choice of terms,' rejoined the Doctor, ' once he
has established a fact to his own satisfaction. There
are, of course, problems utterly impossible of solution.
Foremost amongst these is the seeming callousness
and injustice of that Power  personal or impersonal 
to whom we are wont to allude as " Providence ;" and,
secondly, the cruelty, the recklessness, of Nature.
The unoffending cripple, born into the world without
arms and legs, or the beast of burden condemned only
to toil and suffer, may well lift up their voices and
rail both at God and at Nature. We, however, who,
fortunately, find ourselves in no position of exceptional
wretchedness, and who are enabled to make a free use
of our reasoning powers, can grope in our darkness incessantly
for Truth, although we may possess the consciousness
that we shall never fall in with her, and
look upon all the accompanying difficulties as training.'

Sophy could not at once understand the precise
meaning of this sentence, but she was impressed with
its dogmatic vagueness, and she determined that she
would incorporate it with the tenets of the new
religion.

When you say that we shall never fall in with
Truth, do you mean,' she asked, 'that nothing is
true?'

Nothing is ahsohitcli/ true,' answered the Doctor,
cheerfully, * out of the domain of Science, and therefore,
although it may be, to a certain extent, ennobling,
there is nothing more unprofitable, as regards our
substantial gain, than the pursuit of Ultimate Truth.
We do not toil, however, from the base motive of an
eventual recompense : in our search after the Impossible
we encounter what may end by affording us infinitely
greater satisfaction. Intermediate truths may be
embraced and cherished, but, above all, we learn,
with the years, to bow with reverence at the shrine
of respectable and convenient Error ! . . . Respectable
and convenient Error is the nymph whom we encounter
in our search after Ultimate Truth, and who ends by
consoling us for the absence of her coyer sister. Our
more recent straining at knowing the Unknowable
are, at the best, but a sorry kind of blundering guesswork
; as well, therefore, conform to the traditions
which have been sanctified by Time and national
custom. The end of all our pretended wisdom, is
merely to show us the more plainly our irretrievable
ignorance. That old scarecrow which I passed just
now on my way to you, or the *' Guy Fawkes " which
the boys will burn tomorrow in the Poynings marketplace,
knows about as much as we do with regard to
Ultimate Truth.'

Oh, don't say anything against the old scarecrow ! '
Sophy interposed, appealingly ; * he seems quite like a
friend to me in my loneliness ! '

*Not for worlds. Miss Sophy! Still you will
admit that he is possibly a little hazy and circumscribed
in his theological views ? '

Yes, I admit t/n(t, of course,' she answered,
smiling ; * though not a bit more so than we are.'

or

That WHS just what I was about to say. I did
not mean to disparage your old friend. I fear that
you must, indeed, be exceedingly lonely living down
here all by yourself

I am often very lonely, certainly ; but that is
better, as the Italians say, than being ** badly accompanied."
Lately, however, I have had quite a bevy
of visitors; and then I have always my thoughts.
When you arrived just now, I was thinking about a
new religion. Mr. Pettigrew has been trying to
convert me to his views ; but I didn't agree with
them quite, and I told him that I would compose a
religion. A great deal of it will be taken from the
Bible, but not all. I mean to have commandments
and texts, and I shall call myself an Early Christian,
because my chief guide will be a Christian text  " Do
unto others as you would thej should do unto you."
Nothing can be better than that, can it ?'

It is, indeed, an excellent moral rule,' replied the
Doctor ; ' but, though it has been called the golden
rule of Christianity, you are wrong in supposing that
it is exclusively connected with the Christian myth.
Confucius, some five centuries before the Christian era,
replied to the question, " Is there one word which may
serve as a rule of practice for all one's life ?" " Is not
reciprocity such a word ? What you do not wish done
to yourself do not do to others." '

Ah, then I was mistaken,' said Sophy ; * and it's a
Confucian text instead.'

Not altogether Confucian, either,' rejoined the
Doctor. 'It is a benevolent rule of conduct which
seems to have occurred to all great thinkers, whatever
was their race or denomination. Thales, first of the
Greek philosophers, taught, " That which thou blames

in another do not thyself to thy neighbour;" and
Isocrates, *' Thou wilt deserve to be honoured if thou
doest not thyself what thou blames in others." '' Let
no man treat his brother in a way he would himself
dislike," is a Sabean maxim, preserved by El Ward ;
whilst in the fourth chapter of the so-called "apocryphal
" book of Tobit, amongst many other excellent
precepts, we read, *' Do to no man what thou thyself
latest;" and in the Jewish Talmud we find, "Do not
to another what thou wouldst not he should do to
thee." This is the sum of the law given as one of
the teachings of the Rabbi Hillel, who died when the
Founder of the Christian faith, according to the
common reckoning, was ten years old.'

Nothing, then, is exactly what it pretends to be ? '
inquired Sophy, in a disappointed tone. * Everything
in the world seems, somehow, to be sailing under false
colours ! '

There are but few absolute realities,' answered the
Doctor. *But, fortunately, things are coloured by our own
imaginations, and become, in a great measure, what we
desire them to be. Hence, what may appear to you to
be a delusion is, perhaps, a saving truth to your neighbour,
and, as such, exercises a genuine moral influence ;
after which it has, at any rate, a claim to our respect.'

Still,' said Sophy regretfully, ' I would far rather
that a thing was real in itself than that we only made it
seem so by believing in it ! It is a fault in my nature,
I've no doubt, but I always feel so angry with shams.
My wish is to unmask them at once.'

Ah, that is not at all an uncommon impulse in
extreme youth ! One is filled then with fiery enthusiasms
and indignations ; injustice seems intolerable tous,
and the thought of hypocrisy rouses us to intemperate

denunciation. It is so, at least, with all those
who can think and feel

*Yes, its very confusing to be a thinker and a
feeler at the same time. The thinkers ought to have
people to feel for them, and the feelers, people to think.
To have to do the two at once is dreadfully tiring ;
it makes one's head and one's heart ache.'

It will, I have no doubt, for some time to come,'
answered the Doctor. * But, at last, a calm, philosophic
spirit will possess you, if you live long enough, and you
will be contented after a fashion ; though nothing can
satisfy, utterly, the cravings of a passionate and imaginative
nature, such as I conceive yours to be. Nothing,
however, can be, to such natures, entirely disappointing,
and the", before all others, are enabled to perceive the
incontestable reality of an existing system of compensation.'


But you don't think,' Sophy asked, again in rather
a disappointed tone, * that everything can ever be made
to come quite right ? '

Nothing can ever come quite rights Miss Sophy,*
answered Dr. Dyer, speaking as though with cheerful
conviction. * But this need not make us despairing.
For my own part, I am by no means a pessimist. The
horizon is not all black ; and even if we are unable to
enjoy happiness ourselves, we may derive a certain sort
of contentment from ministering to the happiness of
others. At any rate, one should never neglect those
good works which fall immediately under one's hand,
to abandon which would necessitate an actual turning
aside from our path. We should remove, if possible,
the burdens from our near neighbours, even if, by so
doing, we have to bear some portion of them ourselves,
for if we all did this, suffering would be much more
equally divided.'

Ah, I see what you mean ; but would not kindness
to one's nearest neighbour be too easy to be really very
good? I fancied all really good actions ought to be
difficult.'

That this manner of philanthropy can be pursued
with very little positive effort is, I think, an argument
in its favour,' replied the Doctor. 'The practice of
benevolence should not be made too much like a gymnastic
performance, requiring a particular garb and
arena, and entailing an aching and straining of the
muscles. When the pursuit of vice is comparatively
easy, virtue should not be made too difficult.'

Here was another maxim, Sophy thought, which
might be worthily enrolled amongst the dogmatic
vagueness of the new faith !

How I wish you had known my father ! ' she exclaimed,
as she looked up earnestly at the Doctor's face.
He would have agreed with you, I'm quite sure, upon
many points, though not, I'm afraid, about medicine.
I regret more than I can say that you should never
have talked with him.'

'You will be surprised to hear. Miss Sophy,' said
the Doctor, ' that I had the pleasure of paying your
father a visit one day upon your account. He was
anxious about you in consequence of your riding accident,
and sent for me when he heard that I had seen
you. He had some difficulty, I believe, to arrange that
you should know nothing about my coming. I suppose,
however, I may divulge the secret now ? '

Sophy was profoundly touched.

Ah, then he really thought about me sometimes ! '
she exclaimed, with tears in her eyes. * He could leave
off planning about all the things he was interested in,
and be anxious about whether I was well or ill ! '

He could, indeed. But after I had satisfied him

that you had fortunately received no very serious
injury, we had some interesting conversation upon
other topics. We spoke about his political views, and
his travels, though we were a little nervous lest, in
spite of all our precautions, you should come in from
your walk and discover me. I Alas particularly interested
in the account he gave me of the Sippikanli,
a tribe of the Yezidis, or devil worshippers . . J

Then there really are such people as the devil-worshippers
? '

There are, indeed ; a very interesting race of
Curds, though they are supposed by some to be connected
with the lost tribes. Their religious centre
is at Sheikh Adi, a village east of Mosul, and their
religion is essentially reasonable, according to mjf
own notions. It is founded upon the idea that there
are two spirits of almost equal power  a spirit of good
and a spirit of evil. At present the good is in the ascendant,
but the turn of the other may come some day ;
and as the good spirit cannot possibly do them any
harm, by reason of his nature, it is of great importance,
they imagine, to conciliate and be on good terms with
the spirit of evil. Surely you must see that there is
method in their reasoning. Miss Sophy ? '

Yes, I didn't know that their religion was half so
sensible ! * she answered, and she then began repeating
to herself the well-known formula  * " He has dwelt
with the Yezidis, or devil-worshippers, and witnessed
their dark rites." . . . They have " dark rites," though,
haven't they?' she inquired aloud.

They have been accused, I believe, of going through
all kinds of mysterious orgies during their nocturnal
religious ceremonies, but your father seemed to think
that the nature of these had been much exaggerated,

chiefly by the Unite Moslems, who detest and despise
them, and who have said the same of the Kizilbash
Curds. They are a predatory people, he told me ; but
not much worse in this respect than many of their
neighbours, and those who know them best have not
spoken of them unfavourably

The 'Yezidis, or devil worshippers,' were, then,
creatures of flesh and blood after all ! Sophy was glad
that they too, had not turned out to be mere phantoms,
evoked from a fertile and imaginative brain, even
if, like the Borgia solution, they were not quite so terrible
as they had been made out to be !

My dear father must have had some moments of
real happiness, talking to you about all these things ! '
she exclaimed, looking gratefully at the Doctor. * And
now, do tell me, what did you think of him ? '

The little I saw of him convinced me that he was
a very remarkable man. lie was remarkable looking too ;
and he spoke and moved in a very peculiar manner.'

Being blind, and accustomed to go about barefooted
or only in Oriental slippers without heels, was what
gave him that peculiar way of walking,' replied Sophy.
I fancy that I can see him now ! '

He was accustomed to go about armed, too, was he
not?' inquired the Doctor, *with knives and pistols
stuck into his girdle ?'

He usually carried an ancient spear or javelin
when he didn't take a walking-stick,' Sophy explained ;
but more as a guide and support than by way of an
arm. He wore, too, generally, some sort of dagger or
short sword, hanging from his belt ; but that was because
he was so very fond of ancient weapons and-armour,
as you see.'

And she pointed in the direction, first, of the three

VOL. II. u

steel warriors, and then to a large sack of flint implements
which reposed upon one of the window-seats.

Ah, yes, yes,' murmured the Doctor, with the
manner of one thinking aloud. * A peculiar gait ; defective
eye-sight ; deep religious convictions ; always
armed to the teeth, as though in anticipation of an
attack ; accustomed (I think I understood you to say ?)
to go about barefoot, and invariably without stockings.
Was it not so, Miss Sophy ? '

He had a very great dislike,' replied Sophy innocently,
' to wrapping himself up, even in the coldest
weather. It was his dream to be natural, and freed
from all artificial restraints.'

*Ah!' pondered Dr. Dyer, thoughtfully. * His
must have been a very interesting case, although it is
not by any means an isolated one ; for this morbid desire
to divest themselves of wearing apparel is common to
most persons of unsound mental temperament, from
the mildest form of the insane neurosis downwards. I
believe it to be occasioned by a kind of aura rpilrptivf,
a strange, unaccountable sensation, beginning in some
part of the body and rising gradually to the brain ; and
hence their impatience to free themselves from everything
which seems to account for these anomalous physical
experiences.'

Good heavens ! I see what you mean ! ' exclaimed
Sophy, looking frightened, and rising from her chair.
You fancy that my dear father was mad ! '

Mad, in the legal sense of the term, he most decidedly
was not replied the Doctor. ' But, speaking
medically, I believe him to have been possessed of a
morbid condition of nerve-element, which, by the way,
may very often co-exist with what is called " genius,"
which I look upon in itself as a manner of insanity.

He was thought to be unlike other people ; and I should
certainly assume, without wishing to say anything
wounding to your feelings, that he came under the
denomination of a ** morbid variety," for we doctors
arrange these cases, according to their affinities, into
groups

This is another dreadful idea ! ' said Sophy, fairly
alarmed. ' But I don't think it would have occurred
to you if you had known him better. I hope you don't
think that /'m mad too ?'

As she said this she opened her large eyes very
wide, and looked earnestly into the Doctor's face. They
seemed, to him, to penetrate to his most inaccessible
mind-centres, and to detect and unmask his own particular
form of neurosis.

I believe it would be difficult to find a family entirely
devoid of some tendency towards the phenomenon
of mental derangement,' he observed, after a pause.
And it is this belief which makes me dwell with great
interest upon what I cannot help terming yon poor
father's symptoms. It is evident, however, that the
tendency towards eccentricity which you may be supposed
to inherit has not assumed, in your case, the
character of mental deterioration, I should saj, from
the little I have seen of you, that you were the very
quintessence of intelligence ;' and he contemplated his
companion with an admiring gaze.

Thank you,' she answered, a little coldly. ' And
yet you seem to think that I come of a mad family !
How am I to answer for myself in the future ? '

Dr. Dyer replied by entering into a minute analysis
of what he designated * the Protean forms of the insane
neurosis,' making use of scientific terms, which had the
effect of causing poor Sophy to feel profoundly ignorant.

She understood him when he spoke of its bearing
upon capital punishment, and discovered that he
viewed the matter very much in the same light as her
father. What was called ' crime he maintained, was
almost always merely a disorder of the mind, for which
it was as unjust to hold persons responsible as for the
evidences of physical degeneracy. Kindly, but firmly,
and without any of the warm zeal of an evangelist, it
seemed to Sophy that, in ten short minutes, the Doctor
had satisfactorily and scientifically disposed of the soul,
the body, and the human will, or reduced them, at
least, to the level of mere transient trivialities of hardly
any account whatsoever. "Wickedness was nothing
more or less than illness, and criminals were only poor,
suffering, misunderstood ' morbid varieties ! '

If nothing in the world is either quite true, or
quite right, or quite wrong, and there isn't any other
life after this one ; if we only imagine most of the
things which we fancy we see, and if all our actions
come from the shape of our heads, about the making of
which we were never consulted ; I don't think it's much
use taking the trouble to invent a religion at all ! '
Sophy could not help exclaiming, at the conclusion of
the Doctor's discourse ; for this * desolate evangel '
seemed to her almost as discouraging as Pettigrew's
Pharisaical denunciations.  I wonder,' she inquired
presently, ' whether your way of looking at things can
make you really happy ? '

Indeed, yes,' answered the Doctor, after a kind of
subdued and contemplative fashion. ' I don't think I
can ever feel particularly delighted or exultant, but
then neither am I liable to give way, or grieve very
bitterly, in adversity'

And then, too, it ought surely to make one very
charitable ?'

It ought indeed, Miss Sophy. But I can see that
you are very charitable already. I shouldn't think you
were half so easily shocked or offended as most young
ladies ? '

I endeavour not to be ; but I'm afraid that I am,
sometimes, no doubt from being ignorant ; and I'm
offended, too, particularly with people I'm fond of. I
often think one is perhaps more disagreeable to these
people than to those to whom one is quite indifferent.'

I dare say ; because one is, perhaps, too sensitive
and over anxious to create a favourable impression.
And now, would it be an impertinent question if I were
to inquire whether " these people'* in your experience,
are exceedingly numerous ? '

Oh, of course, the indifferent people always predominate
! ' she answered ; * there are always plenty of
them : but one can't real/i/ care for more than one or two
people, and even then, one likes them in utterly different
kinds of ways.'

It must be very pleasant, I should think,' said thei
Doctor, * to be liked bi you in any kind of a way ! One
can scarcely imagine, indeed, what such an experience
would be like ; enough, I should fancy, to make one
feel, for once, delighted and exultant, and to turn one's
brain and one's opinions upside down ! '

I don't think,' replied Sophy, with the sigh of one
who has had a past, * that it has ever produced such an
effect upon anybody yet.'

She said this frankly and ingenuously ; but she
was beginning to fear that she was being lured, perhaps,
into saying too much, and she had no desire to
pour confidences into the ears of one who was almost a
stranger, even although he did happen to be a doctor of
medicine.

Talking of eccentric people,' she said therefore,

or

suddenly changing the subject, 'I'm sure, from all I've
heard, my nnclCy Mr. St. Clair of Dallingridge, must
have been quite as peculiar as my dear father, and much
less amiable. A tedious old man, I should think, overflowing
with fine sentiments, which did not, however,
prevent him from being very vindictive.'

He was a wrong-headed man,' answered Dr. Dyer,
if I may say this of your relative without giving umbrage.
He was subject to what might almost be termed
delusions " too, so far removed from reason and the
results of experience were some of his theories. Like
your poor father, he imagined himself to be a reformer,
and he was possessed of the most extravagant ideas
with regard to the regeneration of the human race ;
only, according to his notions, all natural laws were to
be trampled on and set at defiance, whereas your father
was for following them almost too blindly.'

Yes, he was passionately fond of Nature,' said
Sophy tenderly. 'And this fondness, I am proud to
say, I have inherited. He was for following Nature in
nearly everything.'

Often,' rejoined the Doctor, * she has turned out to
be a dangerous guide, or, to say the least of it, an indiscreet
one ; and whilst making her our friend, it is as
well for us to know when she should be resisted. Mr.
St. Clair of Dallingridge, however, went a little too far
in this direction. He was for resisting her upon all
sides. He set everything down to education ; disregarding
all hereditary predispositions ; in fact, according
to his ideas, any parent or guardian having
perfect control over the early training of a child might
positively create a new man.'

And you don't think that this is possible ? '

Not to the extent he believed it to be,' replied Dr.

Dyer, decidedly. * He maintained, for instance, that
children descended from parents who were utterly
devoid of all moral sense  an important link in the
chain of mental degeneration  could be trained so as to
be divested of all criminal instincts; forgetting apparently,
that the inherited structural formation, or
?information, of the brain (for he did not presume to
deny the existence of family likeness) had probably
already branded them with the brand of Cain. It is an
intensely interesting subject.'

Still,' said Sophy, ' I can't help thinking that it's
very disheartening to know that all the good and bad
people are ready-made, and that there's no getting them
right ! We reformers can't take it as good news.*

I confess that I lean towards this opinion,' said
the Doctor. 'All the same, this was just what your
uncle, a much older man than myself, and a great
reader, strenuously denied, and he used to assure me
that he had proved the truth of his own theories. He
knew the case of a youth, he informed me, the child 9f
two persons totally devoid of even the mere rudiments
of moral sense, and of a low order of intelligence besides,
in whom a careful training had so thoroughly
eradicated all criminal tendencies, that the patient became
even more virtuous and conscientious than his
fellows. *' On my honour. Doctor," he would say, " I
know of such a case from my own experience !" and he
used to rap impatiently on the floor with his gold-headed
walking-stick. He was quite a gentleman of the old
school.'

No one, then, is a responsible agent ? ' Sophy inquired,
almost hopelessly. ' Ah, how all the clergymen
must waste their time in preaching to us ! '

There exists in many minds,' said Dr. Dyer, * an

or

intense craving to conform to some definite theological
belief, which to them seems to be synonymous with
spiritual guidance and support ; and provided that the
crutch upon which they lean has an appearance of stability,
there can be no doubt that comfort may be derived
from it ; although, to us doctors, the very notion
of needing a crutch at all, is suggestive of some kind of
infirmity. The so-called spiritual convictions, however,
of our fellow-men, are merely impressions, constitutional,
and in manj cases hereditary ; and this renders it unjust,
in the highest degree, to hold a man responsible
for his conscientious beliefs, however much they may
differ from those of his neighbours. It were as reasonable
to blame him for the external conformation of his
skull as for the arrangement of its contents.'

But surely we can do some good whilst we are
here ?' Sophy inquired, with the manner of one catching
at a straw. * We can do " the good work under our
hand," as you said just now?'

A great deal is possible to us in this way. And
it was this knowledge which induced me to embrace a
profession in which, for an ambitious man, there are
but few prizes. But there are moments of despondency
during which one asks one's self whether even the
pursuit of philanthropy is of much avail. It would
be different were it possible for us to live on for ever,
or even for a reasonable space ; but, as it is, we have
barely time to realise the responsibilities of our existence
before it is at an end. However, I know a
German professor who maintains that the human
machinery is intended to hold out for two hundred
years ; but even that would soon pass by.'

What an immense time ! ' exclaimed Sophy, astonished.
' And would the women live to be as old as
the men ? *

My friend is of opinion that women were intended
to live even longer than men, but then he bases his
theory upon the impossible supposition that everybody
must start fair ; that is, not only with a sound constitution
 a pure mind in a pure body  but also with an
irreproachable ancestry on the score of health.'

*Even then,' said Sophy, * two hundred years would
be a very long time to live ! Fancy ! I might, perhaps,
have seen Queen Anne ! '

Most certainly ; and I might have attended to the
wounded at the battle of Blenheim, whilst my father
might have looked on at the execution of Mary Queen
of Scots. We know that with everything against us in
the past, and when, possibly, we have done much to
shorten our lives in the present, we may yet attain,
occasionally, to the age of one hundred years ; I do not,
therefore, consider that it is altogether preposterous to
assume that, with circumstances more in our favour, we
might double the length of our appointed time. As it
is, however, we may think ourselves fortunate if we
reach even the half-century". /, for one, have the consciousness
that I shall not be a long-lived man.'

*I'm sorry you should think that,' said Sophy,
looking at him with an expression of interest. Dr.
Dyer's philosophe was, certainly, somewhat depressing,
and he expounded his views, she thought, after rather
a prosy fashion ; but, even if he possessed some of the
attributes of the ' bore,' it was sad to think that a man
so full of information should be predestined to an early
tomb !

You are really sorry ? ' he asked quickly. * Why,
we've only met once before ! What is it, I wonder,
that makes me feel as if I had known you all my life ?

One is always sorrj to hear that one's friends are

(f)'

likely to die,' she answered, feeling, she knew not why,
a little embarrassed.

You look upon me, then, as a friend ? '

Yes, certainly ! you have been very kind ; and we
seem to agree, too, in sonne of our ideas, if not in all.*

We do, indeed ; though why I should have touched
upon such subjects with a young lady like you, I am at
a loss to imagine! I rode over just to see how you
were getting on, and to know if I could be of any use ;
and IVe been talking to you as though you had been
one of my German fellow students. I shall now wish
you a good afternoon, and I hope you will overlook the
dryness of my conversation. I'm afraid I've never been
a proficient in small-talk.'

As Dr. Dyer said this, he rose from his chair, and
Sophy and he went together into the porch, where he
took his riding-crop from the tray of the scraper. Ashe
did so, he exclaimed suddenly, as though after some
perplexing mental conflict, 

Miss Sophy I '

Yes,' she answered, lifting her head with a movement
which came naturally to her when conversing
with any one taller than herself.

I want to ask you something. . . . You will probably
think me quite crazy ; but I hope you'll set my
presumption down to a *' neurosis," due to some peculiarity
in the structure of my brain. Just now you said
you looked upon me as a friend. You said this, did you
not?'

'Yes, certainly she replied, wondering; 'I shall
always look upon you as a friend. You have been very
kind

'But it never cotcld happen, under any extraordinary
circumstances whatsoever, if I grew to be famous in

my profession, or lived to be two hundred years old,,
that you could ever look upon me as anything more!*

Oh, no ! never, never, never ! ' answered Sophy,,
understanding him, and shrinking back towards the
scraper ; ' not if we both lived to be two hundred years,
old!'

That's all I wanted to know,' he rejoined quietly ;
and now you've given me my answer. I never
expected any other ; but still it was better to make sure.
Had I been in doubt, it would have worried me, and
interfered with my profession. Good-day to you, Miss
Sophy ; I have to thank you for a very pheasant afternoon.'
And he walked round to the stables to see after
his strawberry-roan.

Sophy held open the garden gate for him, and the
old song about loving and riding away, flitted across
her mind as he passed through it, although she was not
vain enough to imagine that, after so short an acquaintance,
it was possible for him to love her very much. It
was more likely, she fancied, that he had been merely"
trying some sort of experiment upon her, and, perhaps,
even upon himself likewise, for the advancement of
science. He was a clever young man, certainly, with a
calm, serious, conventional manner, which was not
at all unpleasing ; and he was handsome and actively
built, besides, with a good seat on horseback. In a
word, there was nothing about his manner or appearance
which would have been repellent to most young
women. But Sophy felt that, even if Godfrey had
been for ever dead and buried, or her love for him as
irretrievably passed away, she would still have shrunk
instinctively from allying herself with one who could
dig out the * much vaunted immortal soul' with his
scalpel, and * fling it upon a dunghill.'

Upon the night which followed Dr. Djer's visit,
Sophy dreamed a very fantastic and incongruous dream.
Like Dante, she found herself in a realm which, from
impressions previously received, she knew must he the
Infernal Regions. It was peopled with vast crowds of
miserable human beings, one and all of them undergoing
the traditional forms of torture, amongst whom she recognised
several of her own acquaintances, principally
those for whom she had conceived an antipathy, and
who were, for the most part, not even as yet disembodied
the Great Prophet; Madlle. de Cramponayc the elder;
Mr. Carver; the Italian Prince; a figure which strangely
resembled Abdallah, with its head swathed up in a yellow
bandanna; and a weird, wide-mouthed little monstrosity,
fashioned something after the manner of a Chinese Joss,
which was proclaiming itself, in croaking accents, to
be the celebrated * Sufi pipkin.' Dr. Dyer accompanied
her as cicerone, carrying his riding-crop, with which
he pointed out the most remarkable cases ; whilst, in
the distance, she perceived Mary Anne Hornblower,
floundering about in her clogs, and venturing over the
most dangerous places, in her kindly endeavours to
rescue the unfortunate creatures, by holding out to
them the handle of her umbrella to cling to. Whenever
Sophy and her companion approached the lake of
seething and bubbling pitch and brimstone, the poor
wretches stretched their arms towards them, imploring
them pitifully, and endeavouring to hang on to the
Doctor's coat-tails.

We're not in the least bit wicked ! ' they began all
calling out in a breath ; * and we never deserved to be
sent to this dreadful place ! There's been some terrible
mistake, as you'll admit after you've heard our explanations.
. . . Get us released, dear, clever, enlightened,

though somewhat prosy, Dr. Dyer ; and you,
kind, just, tender-hearted, eccentric, free thinking, but
truly Christian, Miss Sophy ! Look here ! How was
it possible for us to help ourselves ? What more could
yon have done in our place ? . . . We're poor, unfortunate
" morbid varieties*' and we were sent forth into
the world with all our '* nerve cells " and " motor-centres
'* turned upside down, and topsy-turvy, in our
"brain hemispheres." We suffered from the insane
neurosis ! We were victims to the aura epileptic!
We were arranged in '' groups! " We were neuralgic,
hysterical, melancholic, imbecile, suicidal, homicidal,
and paroxysmally violent ; but we weren't bad / . . .
Let us out of this horrible place, now do, for goodness*
sake /* . . .

As they went on entreating thus, a harsh, mechanical
laugh proceeded from close to where Sophy and
her friend were standing, and, looking round, she
perceived Mr. Pettigrew, in cassock and bands, armed
with a long three-pronged pitchfork, something like
Britannia's trident.

After adjusting his glasses, he advanced, still
chuckling, to the very edge of the fiery abyss, balancing
himself cautiously, so as not to be engulfed in it, and
commenced prodding viciously at the poor creatures
who were clinging eagerly to the brink, and shoving
them back again into its seething and bubbling
depths.

Ha, ha, ha ! ' he was hissing out triumphantly.
Who was right, after all  eh ? . . . Didn't I tell you
how it would be when you wouldn't take the trouble to
listen to me ? Ha, ha, ha ! Hee, hee, hee ! ' And he
commenced shoving and prodding anew.

But just at this moment there came a sound as of

the rushing of a mighty whirlwind. It shook the
ground, the atmosphere, and troubled and upheaved
the fiery depths of the burning, bubbling, seething
pitch and brimstone. Dr. Dyer paused in his explanation,
and stood wondering, with his riding-crop arrested
in mid-air ; whilst Pettigrew, too, looked up, and gave
over shoving and prodding with his horrid pitchfork.

Then gazing, terrified, in the direction of the noise,
Sophy perceived coming furiously towards them an
army of innumerable horsemen, sitting forward, with
lances in rest, upon peaked Oriental saddles, and followed
by the fluttering of barbaric draperies.

At first she thought that this could be no other
than the great Tartar horde of which she had heard so
often, and she darted an interrogatory glance in the
direction of the Great Prophet. Another moment,
however, and she was undeceived.

To the rescue ! to the rescue ! ' the wild horsemen
were shouting out in strange, guttural tones. ' To the
rescue of the unfortunate, persecuted, morbid varieties,
misunderstood and misjudged ! . . . We are the Sippi-
kali Yezidis, or devil-worshippers, and we are in
reality a most conscientiously religious people ; for all
the base insinuations you have heard against us are the
invention of the Unite Moslems, who have also
vituperated our friends the Kizilbashi ! Mean, snivelling,
hypocritical Pharisee ! ' they continued, glaring
ferociously' at Pettigrew, * meet with thy reward at the
hands of the reformers of Sheikh Adi ! ' And hereupon
surrounding, with one accord, the unfortunate curate,
they impaled him, simultaneously, upon at least a
dozen of their spears, and cast him headlong into the
seething and bubbling pitch and brimstone, where he
remained, sprawling and floundering, like a wasp in

treacle, after lie had been further prodded and tortured
with his own pitchfork.

All the poor persecuted morbid varieties then rose
up, and crawled out of their torment, assisted by the
Yezidis, and by kind, good-natured Miss Hornblower,
who, after helping them with the handle of her umbrella,
began rubbing them all over with a circulating
brush, and applying galvanic batteries to the backs of
their necks, in order to restore animation. This treatment
soon freed their bodies from all impurities ; and
Sophy saw them gradually disappearing up just such
another ladder as that which led, at Stillingfleet, to the
rooms * over the cart-horses,' walking two and two,
dressed like chorister-boys, in beautiful, clean, white
nightgown, and with little wings just beginning to
sprout out through the top gathers.

Chapter XXIII.

The change in Sophy's existence, which had been alluded
to by Miss Hornblower and Mr. Petti grew, occurred
much sooner than she had expected. Indeed,
hardly had she realised that she might possibly be
placed under the tutelage of her imknownaunt, when a
messenger arrived from Dallingridge House, requesting
her presence there, to ' spend Christmas,' as the letter
stated; and by the time she had hastily gathered
together, with the aid of Jane, sundry indispensable
articles of wearing apparel, the large yellow chariot,
with the fat, wigged coachman, and the two fat, gray
horses, came lumbering down the approach to Little
Stillingfleet to take her away.

Thinking that she would probably be back again.

or

before the end of the week, she left all her Lares and
Penates littered about in their old places, and wasted
no time in farewells.

Tell Delia to try and make Abdallah understand
that he is to exercise the horses as usual,' she said to
Mrs. Ford, as she stepped into the great, yellow
chariot. * And look after the cats ; and say good-bye
for me to Nelus. And if Sir Thomas should call, say
that I'm gone over to stay at Dallingridge, but that I
shall be back again very soon.'

The honest serving woman felt pleased that the lady
up at the * great house ' should have taken compassion
upon the loneliness of her orphan niece ; and she was
proud to see Sophy driving ois in the yellow carriage
with the fat coachman and smart hammer-cloth, after
she had been tucked in by the tall footman, for all the
world like Cinderella in the story-book.

The passing rustics in their smock-frocks, and the
noisy boys and girls belonging to the man at the turnpike,
courtesies, or pulled their forelocks, according to
their sex, as the great yellow carriage went rumbling
by  some of them seeming rather surprised when they
perceived who was its occupant, though she noticed
that most of them gazed up, as though awe-stricken, at
the servants, with their cockades and shoulder knots,
and saluted reverently the very badges of servitude.

This must have been the identical yellow carriage
(Sophy thought) in which Godfrey used to go to church,
in the company of the persons whom he supposed to be
his parents. She remembered how he had told her,
when he was quite a little boy, that it was lined with
drab cloth, moth-eaten in some places ; and that he used
to amuse himself by putting his fingers into the moth-holes
and making them bigger, in order to keep ois the

disagreeable sensation lie experienced when sitting
back to the horses with both windows up.

They were down now, however, so that the old
woman who opened the Dallingridge lodge gate was
enabled to get a good look at Sophy as she sat within
in solitary grandeur, and to report afterwards to her
husband that * young missy ' had a nice colour, and a
rare pair of black eyes ; but that, notwithstanding
these natural advantages, she conveyed to her mind the
notion that she was probably a * regular young Tartar.*

Mrs. St. Clair received her niece in the entrance-hall,
just outside the double doors of her own sitting-room,
into which she conducted her after a somewhat
frigid exchange of civilities.

Sophy noticed how well her aunt's mourning-dress
fitted her still graceful figure, how neatly her hair was
arranged  she did not wear a widow's card  how white
and small were her hands, and how large and brilliant
her rings. The general effect (she thought) was harmonious
in the extreme, but somehow, when she looked
at the face, its expression, notwithstanding the regularity
of feature and softness of complexion, did not
prepossess her.

Mrs. St. Clair herself was not a little astonished at
Sophy's composure of manner, her correct pronunciation,
and the general dignity of her demeanour. This
young savage, then, whom she was about to * tone
down' and educate, could actually walk into a room
without tumbling over her own feet, and seemed to be
capable of sustaining a tolerably enlightened flow of
small talk without transgressing any of the established
rules of grammar ! This was a good deal more than
she had expected, and her surprise lasted through the
whole of the first evening.

VOL, II. X

or

Sophy was interested at once in the contemplation
of the family portraits, even whilst knowing, as she
now knew, that they did not, in reality, represent Godfrey's
ancestors as well as her own. They were the
pictures, however, by which he had been surrounded
from his babyhood ; and from their departed originals,
her father, so well loved and so lamented, had been
descended, nay, in some of them she even fancied that
she perceived a likeness to the sad Arab face which was
now hidden from her for ever.

She noticed, too, during the tetc-d-fetc dinner with
her aunt in the oak-panelled dining-room, that same
portrait of Captain Godfrey St. Clair, which has already
been described, and saw and wondered at the chance
resemblance which lurked in the dark eyes.

That is Captain Godfrey St. Clair,' her aunt proceeded
to explain, observing where she was looking.
'It's the very image of my own boy.'

Knowing, as Sophy did, that Godfrey was not really
the son of this woman, and, moreover, that this woman
knew it also, she could not help shuddering inwardly at
this proof of what she considered her aunt's duplicity.

Yes, it's strange that there should be such a likeness,'
she answered, in a marked tone.

Not, after all, so very strange ! ' Mrs. St. Clair
rejoined, preserving an unruffled calm. ' He was, you
see, Godfrey's great-uncle, and he is yours as well ;
likenesses go back very often quite as far as that.'

I have seen them go back a good deal further,'
answered Sophy, who was still looking fixedly at the
portrait ; ' but then it has only been in cats' And
with this remark the conversation about the picture
ended.

Sophy's sleeping apartment at Dallingridge House

was a great contrast to her bedroom at Little Stilling-fleet.
It was, at least, three times as large, and the
four walls, and the high ceiling, seemed to be such a
long way off that she felt no bigger than a mouse in so
much unusual space. Notwithstanding that it was exceedingly
luxurious, with blazing fire, thick carpet, and
drawn curtains, it did not appear to her to be half so
snug and cosy-looking as her own dear little room at
home. It was more like a state apartment in a palace,
she thought ; and as soon as her aunt bade her goodnight
and vanished, she felt as lonely and forlorn as
if she had been suddenly separated from all the rest of
the human race. The bed, which towered in the midst
of this desolate magnificence, was shaped like the tomb
of a Marabout, and large enough, almost, to constitute
a room in itself. It was a gigantic four-poster, with
fluted mahogany pillars, and an imposing canopy, each
one of the four corners of which was ornamented with
the similitude of an enormous acorn, whilst inside, two
beautifully frilled pillows reposed upon a portly bolster.
It looked, in fact, almost too magnificent for an ordinary
human being to sleep in  awe striking, imposing,
splendid, but not a place wherein to court oblivion
and repose. So great and so terrible a bed, Sophy
thought, as she stood tremblingly contemplating it
before climbing into it, must be necessarily full of
memories. Perhaps, indeed, it was even historical . . .
the sort of bed in which an Ambassador might be
supposed to lie down, in full dress, by the side of an
Infanta, after she had been wedded by proxy, with a
drawn sword between them, according to the ancient
usage. Yes ; there was no reason whatever why it
should not be a haunted bed : and musing thus, she
climbed up into it with a sinking heart.

Once within it, it felt certainly very soft and comfortable.
The sheets and pillow-cases were beautifully
fine, and they had been ironed until they were as
smooth and slippery as cream-laid note-paper. Had
it not been for her lively imagination, there was no
reason why she should not have slumbered quite
peacefully.

But the flickering firelight cast strange, weird-looking
shadows upon the walls, carpet, and ceiling.
Through the draped aperture at the foot of the great
bed, too, she could see herself reflected dimly in the
long cheval glass  a sight which is always liable to
give one a creepy sensation in the dead of night. A
small dark head, with a pale face and frightened eyes,
was what she saw, and a slight, girlish figure, sitting
up, in a little white nightgown, surrounded by a sea
of pillows. This forlorn reflected image reminded her
of the frontispiece in a story-book which Tom Hick-thrift
had given her long ago, when she was a little
girl. It was called the Enchanted Crow, and represented
an unfortunate young maiden  a princess 
sitting up in just such another formidable bed, and
staring out of it, in fixed horror, at a Avhole troop of
terrible goblins, who seemed to be fighting and gibbering
upon the hearthrug.

Sophy could not help imagining herself to be like
 this poor terrified princess now, half lost in the formidable
four-poster ; and, despite her contempt for all
superstitious fancies, she began to gaze in the direction
of the bright space in front of the fireplace with wide-open
terror-stricken eyes, half anticipating the coming
of the goblin host.

Then, again, the pattern upon the bed-hangings,
unfortunately for her repose, represented huge long-tailed

birds, with outspread wings, pecking voraciously,
with hooked bills, at great bunches of cherries, and, in
some places, owing to a confusion in the design, caused,
as she perfectly well knew (and this was the most
foolish part of it), by the intervening folds in the
curtain, the beak of one particular bird would be
brought into such close juxtaposition with one particular
cherry, that this last would seem to turn into aji awful
and malignant-looking eye, whilst, the entire body of
the creature being absorbed and swallowed up in the
fold, the tail and wings branching up immediately
above this great eye, formed a kind of barbaric headgear,
like that of a Comanchee Indian, than which it
was hardly possible to conceive anything more alarming
to a sensitive and imaginative young person.

Then, again, there is hardly a house in the whole
of England, of a respectable age, and however large
may be its contingent of cats, in which * the gnawing
midnight mouse ' will not, from time to time, assert its
existence, either by dint of gentle scratching and
nibbling (easily recognisable as mouse-noises, and
therefore not so mysteriously alarming)  in that home
of its forefathers, the wainscoting  or else by other
more ambiguous sounds, like unto the mad charging of
a troop of horse, the regular breathing of a man, or
the pattering of unaccountable footsteps ; for it is
astonishing how boisterously these hidden legions will
demean themselves, considering the insignificance of
their component parts, when stray fragments of lath,
plaster, and even of brickwork, disengaged by their
movements, come clattering dovn suddenly in unex-r
petted places, and add to the turmoil of their nocturnal
revels.

Sounds such as these, exaggerated by reason of her

Sophy,

or

nervous apprehensions of slice knew not what evil, and
mingling with the occasional cracking of some article of
furniture, entirely banished any desire to sleep ; and it
was only after the housemaid had undrawn her curtains,
at eight o'clock in the morning, that she sank
into her first sound slumber, all fears of * enchanted
crows,' Comanchee Indians, and inexplicable midnight
noises, vanishing suddenly before ' the blessed light of
day and the cawing of innumerable rooks.

These were, no doubt, the descendants of those very
same rooks that used to send Godfrey to sleep with
their cawing in the old days, when Mary Parker was
his nurse, and when he used to peep out and see her
mending his socks, through the cane-work of the little
wooden cot, which was now hidden away in the lumber-room
bv the side of the old white rocking-horse with
the flowing tail.

How many changes had come to pass since those
days I . , . So many, that one might almost imagine
that the rooks were talking them over, wondering,
perhaps, at Sophy's arrival, and the elders confiding to
the youngsters all about the family secret !

At any rate they awoke her now, and almost
drowned, with their clamour, the sound of the loud
bell, which clanged out ten minutes before the gong, to
give notice that breakfast was ready.

The morning meal over, Sophy experienced a keen
desire to go forth into the old flower-garden, to pass
out through its wrought ironwork gates, and to take
her way along the shadowy path beneath the fir-trees
with their many rooks' nests, which led towards the
gray park-wall, close to the high-road where Godfrey
had waited in the old time for the passing of Abel
Reynolds's waggon, with its hop-polos and bell-horses.

All the intervening space, between this road and the
house, she seemed to know perfectly well, although she
had never traversed it in the flesh ; Godfrey, however,
had described it to her, and every nook and corner of
what he had once believed to be his home appeared to
her like familiar ground.

But it was Christmas Day ; and the great yellow
chariot, with the fat gray horses, had been ordered to
convey her and her aunt to Dallingridge Church,
wherein she was constrained to pass the best part of
both morning and afternoon, seated * beneath the mildewed
hatchments of her race,' in a curtained pew
ornamented with fine oak carving, and erected immediately
over the family vault.

Mr. Pettigrew read the prayers and lessons appointed
for the day, his voice at times reminding Sophy
painfully of her dream ; whilst the old Rector, notwithstanding
his 'mind-trouble,' managed to preach, 'with
decency and respect,' a printed sermon appropriate to
the occasion : after hearing'which, however, her floating
fund of credulity remained floating still.

CHAriER XXI 7.

Next morning, as soon as breakfast was over, upon
seeing Mrs. St. Clair pass into the sitting-room, armed
with her newspapers and worsted work, Sophy equipped
herself in her walking apparel, with more neatness and
precision than she had been wont to employ in the wilds
of the ' great Sophirean empire.'

She looked, indeed, quite a pattern young person as
she descended the grand staircase with measured and
dignified steps, and, upon unexpectedly beholding herself

reflected in a long mirror, she was quite startled at
lier resemblance to the representations of elegantly-dressed
ladies which she had been shown in the pages
of the Miss Springs' fashion-book, upon the occasion
of the fitting-on of her black dress.

At the foot of the stairs she came suddenly upon
her ait.

Where are you going, Sophia ?' she inquired,
looking up in some wonder at the spick-and-span figure
with the neatly-furled umbrella.

I was just going out for a stroll,' Sophy answered;
and she then added politely, though in a tone through
which there pierced just a] shadow of disappointment,
Perhaps, if you were going out, too, I might walk with
you?'

You are accustomed, I suppose, to roam about in
this way by yourself?' Mrs. St. Clair asked, without
replying to her question. 'It is not the usual thing for
young ladies of your age ; but then, of course, you lost
your mother early ; and, indeed, if your mother had
lived. . . .' (here she paused abruptly, and delivered
herself of a short cough). ' You had no one, in fact,'
she went on, ' who could tell you what was proper and
right.'

Sophy divined at once the cause of both the pause
and the cough. She (Sophy) had lost her mother early,
and this, at first, might appear to be a misfortune ; but,
upon a closer examination of facts, the misfortune was
not so great, after all, the said mother having been
altogether a very inferior person, something between a
gipsy and a common tinker, who could not possibly
have afforded her daughter much information as to the
usages of good society.

Plainly as Sophy was enabled to interpret her aunt's

thought, she was yet grateful to her for not having
given it audible expression.

I have generally gone out by myself she answered
sadly. * Not from choice, but from necessity. ' I have
had no one else to go with.*

At these words, a sudden thought seemed to take
possession of her aunt's mind.

Come in here,' she said, indicating an anteroom to
the left of the staircase ; 'if we talk outside the servants
will hear us, and I want to ask you a question. When
you say that you have generally been alone lately,
during your walks, I fear, Sophia, that you are not
telling the exact truth. Surely,' she went on, with an
attempt at archness which Sophy did not think becoming
in one of her regular type of beauty, * you have seen a
good deal lately of our rich and agreeable neighbour.
Sir Thomas Hickathrift ? His duties of guardian must
have rendered it necessary that he should see you often.
Is it not so ?'

Sophy felt provoked with herself for blushing
foolishly as she replied,

He and I are very old friends. Of course, if we
happened to meet anywhere in the woods, we very
naturally walked together.'

Oh, I dare say it was all perfectly natural  the
most natural thing in the world ! But now, tell me,
ere you sure that you're nothing more than friends ? '

I don't know quite what you mean,' answered
Sophy, colouring again, ' npr why you are cross-questioning
me.'

I mean, that you are not engaged to be married to
him ?' rejoined Mrs. St. Clair, with an affectation of
blunt straightforwardness. 'As your nearest living
relation, my dear, it , is very necessary that I should

know how you stand with regard to your future prospects.
Has sr Thomas ever asked you to marry him ?
It is best to answer me candidly. Truth will always
prevail.'

I thought that was a question nobody need ever
answer said Sophy, looking distressed. * My father
used to tell me that girls ought never to talk about the
proposals of marriage they had had

Dear me ! One would think that you had had
offers from half the county at least ! And pray, my
dear, don't get into the habit of quoting to me the
opinions of your deceased father. There are reasons 
painful reasons  which make it unlikely that I should
ever adopt any of them ; and it is better, perhaps, that,
upon this point, we should come to an understanding at
once : it will prevent disagreeable in the future.'

*You didn't like him, I know,' answered Sophy,
controlling herself with an effort. * But I say to myself
that this is because you didn't know him. He had few
friends, but these few were devoted to him. No one
who ever knew him thought ill of him.'

Perhaps not, but, as you say, I was not amongst
these "favoured few." And now, after all this beating
about the bush, be good enough to answer my question.
Has Sir Thomas ever made you an offer of marriage ?
It is very important that I should know this.'

He has asked me to marry him,' Sophy answered,
goaded to desperation ; ' but though I like him very
much as a friend, I would rather not be his wife. Now
you know all.'

*Do you mean to say that you've refused him?
"Well, you must certainly have strange notions as to
your own importance ! I shall be much surprised if
you ever get so good a chance a second time ! '

Perhaps not replied Sophy resignedly, for she
was determined not to quarrel with this uncongenial
relation, however severely she might be tried ; ' but I
think people are often quite as good, and as happy,.
when they are single. If you have done with me I
will go out now

She moved towards the door as she said this, intending
to put an end to the conversation. It had been
unpleasant whilst it lasted, but the fresh air of the
morning would soon blow away all remembrance of it.

But, to Sophy's aunt, there was nothing more objectionable
than a show of independence on the part of
the young.

*You had better go upstairs and take off your
things,' she said, pursing her lips ; * you can easily ga
out later. I want you now to paint some almanacs fora
bazaar. It is for a charitable object. I believe you
know how to draw and paint ?'

Draw and paint, indeed ! ' . . . Sophy was positively
quivering and glowing all over with artistic
impulses and perceptions, which, but for her incorrigible
habit of day-dreaming, might even have enabled her,
one day, to achieve greatness. It was some consolation
to feel an innate consciousness of this, even if no one
else was aware of it !

Yes ; I can draw and paint a little,' she answered
with the modesty of true genius. * I can go out later,'
she thought, philosophically. *She is quite the most
irritating person I have ever met with, but it won't toto
quarrel with her the very first day ! '

Mrs. St. Clair was astonished at her niece's lamb-like
docility, and by the time Sophy had taken off her
walking apparel, she had arranged the painting materials
upon a small table in the sitting-room. The

or

pattern almanac, for imitation, consisted of a square
piece of wliitc cardboard. There were lines of figures
in the centre of it, and at the top, a landscape, and an
initial letter, painted in water-colours.

Sophy's lip curled slight' at the sight of both
landscape and letter. She knew that she could do
something a thousand times better herself, but she
resolved to keep her superior forces in reserve, like a
wise general, who does not, at the onset, place all his
troops upon the field.

I suppose I had better make a copy of this,' she
said, pointing to the almanac, * rather than begin by
painting something out of my head ? '

Yes ; stick to your copy,' replied her aunt curtly,
until I see what you can do. Here's the paint-box.
You'll find the indigo a little bit green at the top from
having got mixed up with the gamboge  Godfrey never
would clean out his paint-box after using it ; so you'd
better rub a little .on the palette first, only don't waste
it. Be cared of the gold, too, in that mussel-shell, as
I've very little of it left.'

It did not take Sophy long to finish the first almanac.
She dashed it off with no particular regard for the copy,
and her ait, who sat watching her, like a dragon, the
while, was almost alarmed at the rapidity of her execution.
The result was quite astonishing.

That's really exceedingly nice ! * said Mrs. St. Clair
approvingly. ' It looks quite as if it was done by a
drawing-master. Now you must set to work and begin
another. Painting at the rate you do, jon. ought to get
through at least half-a-dozen before luncheon.'

It is always disagreeable to find that one's voluntary
services are taken as a right. Painting in water-colours,
however, came so easily to Sophy, that the idea of the

six almanacs was hot very alarming. She set to work
with a will, and before the return of her aunt, who had
quitted the room to confer with the housekeeper, she
had dashed off the whole of them. The subjects were
the reproduction of images existing already in her
brain, and they had, therefore, only to be evoked, and
set down upon the cardboard as from a copy.

When completed they represented, first, an Alpine
scene, white snow-capped mountains in distance, with
dark pine-trees and chalet in foreground ; secondly,
Vesuvius in state of eruption, Neapolitan peasants in
foreground, by side of enormous aloe ; thirdly, moonlight
in the desert (the atmosphere a greenish-blue,
with large moon, laid in in body-colour), in foreground
Arab sheikhs reposing under palms, representing an.
oasis ; fourthly, English sunset, with black trees against
pink sky, and cardboard left white in foreground for
water ; fifthly, shipwreck, with rolling and surging
waves, floating raft laden with despairing mariners,
gigantic seagull in foreground ; sixthly, bright-blue
sweep of ocean (most probably the Mediterranean),
with capes, bays, and promontories in far distance 
in foreground, white terrace, topped with flower-pots,
upon which two individuals were standing close together,
hand in hand, gazing to seaward.

A series of charming miniatures, in fact, displaying
to advantage the artist's delicacy of touch from the
fact that the space allotted to each was not larger than
that which is occupied by a couple of postage stamps,
and Sophy could not help contemplating the result of
her labour with some satisfaction. She would never
have supposed that she could have got up an interest in
the painting of almanacs, as she disliked, generally, the
idea of occupying herself with things which, under no

circumstances, could blossom forth into future importance,
or lure the mind into new vistas of thought.
Almanac-painting seemed, to her, to rank with those
trivial and contemptible occupations which have been
invented in order to persuade idle people, and fools,
that f/icj/ too, like the best of their fellows, can labour
and create. However, the tiresome things were done
with now, and she would have time to take a nice little
solitary ramble before luncheon.

Mrs. St. Clair appeared to be really gratified at her
industry, but there are some people who arrange that
even their words of commendation shall take the form
of a reprimand.

Dear me ! ' she exclaimed, as she examined each
particular almanac, ' these are really very nicely done !
How provoking that you never told me before that you
were such a good hand at painting ! You might have
finished off the two dozen in a day, whereas that stupid
old Mary Anne Horn blower, to whom I sent twelve this
morning, will very likely spoil them all, after keeping
them for nearly a month ! Its most tiresome ! However,'
she continued, as she opened a drawer and brought
forth another packet of cardboard, * here are six more
of them. Finish them as quickly as you can, and this
time I should like sou to do Scripture subjects. Would
you like some pictures to copy ? '

This was really a case of * spurring the willing
horse,' and Sophy could not help resenting it. She
determined now that she would take no further pains
with her work, but merely get it over as soon as possible
; and with this resolve she set to and had completed
three more of the hated almanacs before luncheon was
announced. A few of these, she hoped, would astonish
her aunt by their freedom of treatment, which was
somewhat after the later manner of Turner.

'You asked me for scriptural subjects she said,
spreading out the three almanacs upon the luncheon-table,
* and here they are. They are taken chiefly, as
you see, from the life of 3Ioses. Here is Moses and the
burning bush. This great flaring red thing is the bush,
and this is meant to be Moses. Then all these little
pictures down the side, in pen-and-ink, are events in
his life. This is Pharaoh's daughter finding him
amongst the bulrushes. That thing in her hand is a
kind of screen and fly-flicker, with which she is generally
painted ; and here's the cradle, with a great big
Cleopatra's asp twisting round it, and trying to sting
the poor baby. Those things sticking up in the distance
are the Pyramids, and that great head in the foreground
is supposed to be the Sphinx. This is to show
that it all happened in the land of Egypt.'

She rattled on thus, with the manner of a showman
displaying his wares, making sure that she was about to
be well scolded for her carelessness, and hoping that the
rest of the painting would be postponed till the morrow.
But either her aunt was possessed of no artistic perceptions,
or else these later performances were even more
excellent than the first.

Dear me ! ' she remarked again, in a tone of irritation,
* this is really too provoking ! I see now that
you do figures even better than landscapes ! I dare say
Mary Anne has not yet begun upon any of the ones I
sent her. I shall send for the whole lot back assailant
then you can paint them all.'

But Sophy's powers of endurance had been tried to
the utmost. She determined that she would be the
slave of no man, ' or woman either ; ' and as soon as
luncheon was over she once more arrayed herself in her
hat and jacket, this time "saith a fixed determination of
purpose.

(>}'

I don't suppose you care to come with me, aunt,'
she said, * as you seem not to like going out, so I shall
take a little run by myself. I shall be back again
before the candles are lighted, so as to finish the rest of
the painting.'

Mrs. 8t. Clair was scandalised at her tone of independence,
and would have accompanied her forthwith,
were it only to show her that it was most unbecoming
for young persons to assume this self-reliant manner.
Unfortunately, however, she felt constrained to remain
at home.

Mr. Petti grew was expected, and as she desired to
consult him upon her plans for the future, she would
have been annoyed to miss him. It was to this circumstance
that Sophy was indebted for the pleasure of
a solitary ramble, and she started off, feeling like a
bird newly escaped from its cage.

To gaze, in solitude, upon scenes which were once
outspread before the eyes of the beloved, or to tread,
alone, the pathways hallowed by the passing of his
feet, is more often productive of sadness than of satisfaction.
The place, it is true, is holy ground; the
pilgrim, with wallet and cockle-shell, has arrived
within the precincts of the shrine. But it is a shrine
godless and deserted. The candles are burnt out upon
the altar ; the sacred image is no longer there, and the
lingering incense-fumes which ascend, cloud-like, to
the domed roof of the temple, serve only to hide, for a
moment, its actual desolation.

Each tree, berry, and blade of grass, recalled
Godfrey's image to Sophy's mind; every voice in
Nature seemed to be crying aloud for him, and, in the
absence of any response, she experienced an intense
melancholy which brought the tears to her eyes. She

congratulated herself, however, upon having been
enabled to indulge in these sad reflections without
interruption, and felt grateful to the accident which
had prevented her aunt from bearing her company.

She was nearing the house as these thoughts
occurred to her, and started by-and-by at hearing a
footstep close to where she was lingering. Looking
up, she perceived the spare figure of Mr. Pettigrew
advancing towards her from the stables. He was
evidently on his way to the house, and was flicking at
the laurel-bushes with his riding-whip as he came
along.

Good afternoon to you. Miss St. Clair,' he said,
holding out his hand. ' I had heard that I might have
the pleasure of seeing you to-day. It must be a nice
change for you to find yourself staying here. Perhaps
you will have the goodness to announce me to your
aunt, should she happen to be at home ? '

Sophy's conscience was, indeed, beginning to be
somewhat sore upon the subject of the almanacs. Daylight
was fast darkening into dusk, and she felt that
her aunt must be awaiting her return to dut3 She
complied, therefore, with Mr. Pettigrew's request, and
they walked together towards the house, through the
thick laurel plantation which separated it from the
stables and outbuildings.

Chapter Xxi.

Mrs. St. Clair looked up quickly when her niece
entered the boudoir followed by Mr. Pettigrew, and a
very strange expression flashed for a moment from the

VOL. IL Y

or

usually placid blue eyes, which Sophy, who was unused
to displays of feminine jealousy or ill-humour, was at
a loss to explain. It proceeded, perhaps, from displeasure
at the thought that six of the tiresome
abnanacs were still unfinished, and that the shades of
evening were drawing in, when ordinary mortals do
not generally paint in water-colours. But then Sophy
was not an ordinary mortal. She coidd paint just as
well by candlelight as by day, being possessed of
excellent eyes, and such a consummate knowledge of
the pigments she employed, that there was no fear of
her mistaking Prussian blue for sap-green, or 
for crimson-lake. She determined, therefore, to
make up for lost time, and to sit down to her task as
soon as she had allowed Mrs. St. Clair and Mr.
Pettigrew to talk over, in private, the parochial matters
in which they were probably interested. Hardly had
she reached her bedroom, however, when she heard a
sharp tap at the door, and before she had had time to
reply to it, her aunt advanced quickly towards her, the
same mysterious expression still lurking beneath the
dark lashes.

I have probably disturbed you,' she said, in a set,
mechanical voice. * After so long a icalk you are very
likely fatigued ! Perhaps you were going to lie down
and rest. If so, pray don't mind me. It seems one
doesn't stand on ceremony with relations !

I'm not at all tired, thank Jou,' Sophy answered,
wondering at her embittered tone. * I dawdled about,
but didn't go really far.'

She wished that her aunt could have explained hers
meaning at once, without all this show of stilted
sarcasm ; but upon looking at her face, she fancied she
perceived, by its expression, that outspoken frankness

might not, perhaps, be easy to her. Mrs. St. Clair,
however, was angry ; and anger, like wine, is apt to
draw forth the truth.

We were speaking this morning,' she said, ' of the
objectionable habit you have contracted, and in which
you seem never to have been checked, of wandering
about the woods with young men. I fancied that we
had quite come to an understanding upon this point,
but I find now that I was mistaken. First of all, it
was with my own son, then with Sir Thomas, and now
with Mr. Pettigrew.'

Sophy felt indignant to her very finger-tips. She was
enabled, however, with an effort, to reply meekly, 

At Little Stillingfleet I was surrounded by woods.
I was obliged to pass through them if I went out walking,
and I was very glad of a companion, if I happened
to fall in with one, young or old. Mr. Pettigrew,' she
added, a little bitterly, ' doesn't seem so very young tome,
and I'd no wish whatever to meet with him ; quite
the reverse.'

Do you mean to insinuate, Sophia, that you have
conceived any unreasonable dislike for Mr. Pettigrew ?'
her aunt inquired, surprised out of her usual calm.

I don't like him,' Sophy answered, frankly. 'And,
as you may know, I fancy that I have a good reason.
I don't believe, however, that I could have liked him
anyhow. He seems to me to be displeasing in every
way.'

Mrs. St. Clair was astonished at her niece's temerity.
So much so, that, for the moment, she could not trust
herself to express her feelings. A long apprenticeship
to an eccentric and uncongenial husband had, at any
rate, taught her the useful art of self-control. The
same strange glitter came again into her almond eyes,

and, without replying, she went hurriedly' from the
room.

Sophy herself felt utterly indifferent to the effect
produced by her words. It is always painful to be
forced into contact with a thoroughly movable nature ;
but to grieve over the inevitable does not improve
matters, so she would endeavour to feel resigned, and
to remember that, as she had never expected to like her
aunt, she ought, at least, not to experience any sense of
disappointment.

She was standing by the muslin draped dressing-table,
in front of the looking-glass, but she was utterly
oblivious to the reflection of her own face. Now and
then she glanced up at the high ceiling and the great
curtained four-poster, but she perceived neither the one
nor the other. She was far away, in a magic realm of
the imagination, wool-gathering and castle-building 
a realm where everybody was possessed of a good
temper and a sympathetic heart, and where no one was
ever bitter, or envious, or tyrannical  an impossible
place, in fact, altogether, evolved entirely from the
inward consciousness of the day-dreamer.

By-and-by she began to wonder  a considerable
time having elapsed since her aunt's resentful exit 
whether it might not be right and proper for her to
descend into the drawing-room, just as if nothing had
happened, and begin painting away again at her
almanacs, or whether it would be wiser, perhaps, to
remain for some while longer standing beneath the
lowering shadow of the great bed ? . . .

Her imagination gaining once more the ascendant,
she was enabled to derive some solace from fancying
herself a prisoner in the Bastille. How slowly the
clock seemed to tick upon the mantlepiece ! Very

gradually the last points of daylight had! vanished from
the tips of the four gigantic acorns . . . When would the
turnkey come round with the customary evening rations
of bread and water ? . . . Stay ! a footfall sounding in
the far distance ! . . . He is probably already upon his
way ! . . . She was still either the prisoner in the
Bastille, or the poor princess of the Enchanted Crow (she
was not quite sure which), when her uncongenial aunt,
who seemed to her to represent both turnkey and
malignant fairy rolled into one, stood before her for
the second time. Her ruffled plumes were quite smoothed
down now, and she was smiling very prettily ; but
somehow Sophy mistrusted her more than ever in her
present sunshiny mood.

Won't you come down, dear,' she said, ' instead
of staying up here alone ? Mr. Pettigrew, your
aversion, is gone ; so you might finish the other
almanacs.'

Whilst the young day-dreamer had been castle-building,
unprofitably, beneath the shadow of the great
bed, Mrs. St. Clair and Mr. Pettigrew had arrived at a
definite agreement with regard to her immediate future.
They had argued for some time, wavered, decided, disagreed,
and decided again, and had come, finally, to tho
conclusion that it would be the best thing for all parties
if Sophy could be packed off, as soon as the Christmas
holidays were over, to Miss Pendragon's academy
a select establishment for the * finishing off ' of yomig
ladies, on no account to be designated a ' school ' 
which was situated in a suburban district not a thousand
miles from Tooting, Wandsworth, and Clapham Rise.

It seems that Tom Hickathrif t has proposed to
her,' Mrs. St. Clair had said to her spiritual and temporal
adviser ; ' and she's actually had the impudence

to refuse him ! What on earth can the girl be made
of?'

Did I not say returned Pettigrew, * that she was
an obstinate young pig ? Depend upon it, Eliza, that
girl will give you some trouble yet ! '

Of course it isn't any affair of mine whom she
may choose to take it into her head to fancy,' Mrs. St.
Clair had rejoined ; ' but of one thing I'm positively
certain,  Godfrey has been secretly carrying on with
her for some time, and I've no doubt that there's an
understanding between them. Looking the other day
for a letter, I came upon some writing in a new .
I held it up to the light, and read a few
words in Godfrey's hand ; not manj but quite enough
to show me the terms they were on. It was addressed
to this girl, and made an assignation with her in the
woods somewhere. If she remains constant to him, he
is pretty nearly certain to come back and blurt out the
whole story of his adoption.'

Would it not be possible to stop his mouth ? ' inquired
Mr. Pettigrew, rather anxiously. ' Every man,
one knows, has got his price ? For a consideration he
might be made to hold his tongue ; and if he married
the girl, who is heir-at-law, the whole matter might be
hushed up satisfactorily. We alone should be aware of
his real circumstances, and I cannot see that this would
do more than give us the whip-hand of him, which
would be surely an advantage ! '

Ah, Felix,' she had answered him, ' with all your
cleverness you are arguing just like a man ! We women
can really see much further than you can. If the girl
is married up to a rich man Godfrey will do one of two
things  never come back here at all (having nothing to
attract him), or else he will make up his mind to return

and say nothing whatever about his true origin.
Piqued with the girl for throwing him over, he too, asa
good-looking young man of fortune, will probably
marry. After that we may be pretty sure that he'll
take care to hold his tongue.*

And so you are all for her marrying Sir Thomas?'

Sir Thomas, or any other man with a good fortune.
So that Godfrey, from his hiding-place, won't get it
into his head that she is in want of money. I wish
him to be comfortable and easy in his mind ; and if
only the girl was married ofF, I don't [despair of his
becoming so. That's why I propose sending her to
school.'

Surely, Eliza, she will not be allowed, at Miss
Pendragon's, to receive the visits of young men?'

Of course not, you dear, stupid creature ! But we
know that she's an arrant flirt, and dreadfully badly
conducted. We know that, don't we ? '

Yes, I know that,' answered Pettigrew, as with
conviction. ,

What you dour know, though, Felix  what no
man living can ever know or realise  is the deadly
feeling of boredom which comes over a girl when she
first finds herself at school : she feels cut off from
nearly the whole male race, and, at the end of a week,
if only to escape from her misery, and triumph over
her companions, she would run away with anything in
the shape of a man, even ivith a penniless arithmetic-master
before he took holy orders  at least, I know that I
would have done so myself ! '

She said this archly and coquettishly ; but Pettish
did not answer, waiting for her to develop her
plan.

Of course,' she went on, * Tom Hickathrift will

write to her. By telling Miss P. that he is a joint-guardian
with me, I can arrange that this shall be
allowed, and I think you'll see that she will say " Yes'*
to him before long. If she doesn't, however, I'm determined,
as I told you, to take her to London  for I
shall enjoy the change myself ; and, in order that she
mayn't commit herself amongst people of taste and
refinement, it's very necessary that she should be
polished up. Last, but not least, / done like her, and it
would drive me wild to have her staying on with me here,
whilst, if I send her back home, it will look unfeeling
to the neighbours. A governess who would do as a
companion would cost nearly as much as the school.
Now do you see my reasons for packing her off ? '

She determined, nevertheless, not to inform Sophy
of her intention until the time for her departure drew
nearer.

One never knows,' she said to Pettigrew, * what
such creatures may do ; ' speaking as though of some
scaled cockatrice.*

Tom Hickathrift, the * joint-guardian,' was also to
be kept in darkness.

 It will be time enough to tell the Abbey people
when she's gone,' Sophy's aunt had decided. ' If they
knew now, they might fuss and advise. The young
man won't dare make any open objection, and I should
think his old mother would be glad to get her away
from the place. And there's another thing, too, about
which I mean to be particular. Jamieson shall bring
me the letter-box before he sends off the letters, in
order that I may see what her game is with Godfrey.
If he comes back of his own accord, well and good ;
but I don't see why he should come at her invitation
! *

Poor Sophy was very naturally taken aback when
she was at last informed of her aunt's educational
projects.

Going to school ! Why, I shall be eighteen this
month ! ' she exclaimed, as soon as she could speak at all.

At Miss Pendragon's jou will find young ladies
quite as old as yourself,' Mrs. St. Clair replied. ' It is
not necessary for girls to come out nowadays till they
are nineteen or twenty ; but it is necessary that they
should be properly " finished " before they appear in
the world. I am sorry, my dear, that you should have
no wish to be placed on a par with other young ladies
of your age.'

But Mrs. St. Clair had altogether mistaken the
cause of her niece's apparent consternation. Sophy
had no desire to remain in what might be considered a
savage and uncultured state. Reading delighted her,
for she possessed a good memory, great aptitude for
learning, and was much interested in many of the so-called
arts and sciences. The distress she experienced
upon hearing of her approaching departure had, therefore,
nothing to do with indolence or incapacity. No ;
she felt that, in the pursuit of knowledge, she could
have borne, terrible as it might, no doubt, appear to herat
first, to be separated from all the many tender memories
and associations of her old home  from the grassy
mound, even, which had seemed to her ' like company '
from Nelus, Jane, the cats, and the two Arab horses,
With their branded flanks and flowing tails. It would
be melancholy enough, certainly, to be torn thus
suddenly from so much that had grown dear and
familiar with the years ; but, in the course of a few
months, or even tcceks, she might hope to return home
again for the Easter holidays. It was the thought of

or

(DiotJicr possiOi/iff/-which made her dread leaving, just
at this time, the scenes of her past life.

Come back to inc,' she had written to Godfrey,
more than a month ago now, in the agony of her heart,
when she first stood face to face with what seemed like
an empty wilderness. She had addressed this bitter
cry, in the form of a letter, to the place to which ho
had informed her he was probably going ; but w/ioi he
would receive it was a matter of uncertainty.

What if it had reached him only now, and if,
melted to compassion by the knowledge of her sorrow,
he was just upon the point of obeying her summons ?
. . Even now, at this very hour, he might be upon
his journey. He might arrive the day after tomorrow,
or two days after, or the day after that, and he would
find her flown  gone to school !

To school / . . . Was not a school a sort of ladylike
substitute for a prison, almost such another prison as
the Bastille.' Did not stern, gray-faced, flat-footed
women, with compressed lips and unsympathetic
natures, march out, like warders, in charge of their
unfortunate pupils, watching every one of their movements
the while with their faded basilisk eyes ? Were
not all letters supervised that were either written or
received? and would not every window, most probably,
have a thing like a meat-cage in front of it, to
prevent the poor young ladies from peeping out into
the street, and from being seen by the people outside?
If, indeed, the school looked out upon anything
half so cheerful as a street, with real men and women.
Walking about in it !

But this school was said to be ' in a suburb

Sophy did not know exactly what a ' suburb' was
like. It was, probably, on the edge of some desolate
common, such as might have been haunted, in the old

times, by Dick Turpin and his comrades, on the lookout
for the London post-chaises ; fringed with mean
stucco habitations, far away from the cheerful bustle of
the town, yet possessing none of the rural charms of
the actual country. Sophy had read in books about
girls' schools, and Adele had told her anecdotes connected
with the establishment at which she, herself, had
been superficially educated ; but she had never been
inside one of them in her life, and her heart sank
now at the idea of having to enter into this gloomy
state of probation, just at the moment when, by some
blessed possibility, Godfrey might be on his Away back
to England.

You will let me go back to Stillingfleet before
I go away?' she inquired, pleadingly, of her aunt,
when she had thoroughly realised the painful situation,
to pack up a few of my things and to say good-bye
to everybody? Will you let me go there tomorrow
morning ? '

Yes, Sophy might go home on the following day.
It was natural that she should have one or two little
matters to settle. If she liked, she could have the
pony-carriage. 'No ; Sophy would rather walk. She
would go home the very first thing in the morning,
before she had had her breakfast. She didn't think
she should feel inclined to eat any breakfast at all ;
but if she did, she could easily have it at Little ,
and return to Dallingridge before luncheon.

Chapter Xxii.

Next morning, shortly after daybreak, Sophy started
off across the high ' mushroom meadows ' of the upper
park like an arrow from the bow. The hoar-frost was

or

\y'\n dull and thick on the grass-blades, making her
footmarks seem as if they were printed upon snow.
The great black oxen in the outer park looked up at
her contemptuously as she passed, hardly taking the
trouble to get out of her way, and regarding her
evidently in the light of an eccentric and harebrained
young person for getting up so early in the morning.

As they stood chewing away at their cuts, "with the
breath puffing from their nostrils like smoke, they
seemed to be saying this to one another out of the
corners of their eyes.

But Sophy did not remark them. For aught she
knew, they might just as will have been so many
stocks and stones, or golden calves, or animals fashioned
out of carven wood, like the toy - beasts of a
Noah's ark.

She flitted along, looking neither to the right nor
to the left, her mind teeming with sad memories of the
past, and still sadder fears for the unexplored future.

At last she perceived the pointed gables of Little
Stillingfleet. Dear, happy, blessed little place, nestling
down peacefully amongst its barns and hayricks in the
sheltered hollow ! . . .

In an instant she had climbed over the gate in her
old * tom-boy ' fashion, without stopping to open it, and
hastened down the narrow path which led through the
hazel-copse.

"What a sense of relief, and of having thrown off
one's * company manners!' Oh, if it could only endure
for ever! . It seemed a year, at least, since she had
been away, to judge by the delight she experienced on
her return !

Her trusty servitors were assembled in the kitchen,
waiting for breakfast, which Jane had been busied in
preparing.

Real first-class servants (gentlemen's gentlemen
and ladies' double - distilled, extra - superfine ladies)
might, perhaps, have appeared disconcerted at this unexpected
and unceremonious entry of their young mistress.
But as these simple folk knew none of the
delicate sensibilities peculiar to the more refined atmosphere
of the 'room;' they experienced only a sensation
of the most unfeigned pleasure and gratification. Jane
Ford wiped her fingers upon her apron, kissed Sophy,
and placed a wooden chair for her by the fire.

Dear, happy, blessed little place ! ' Sophy thought
again, as she seated herself in the chimney-corner.
How nice, and peaceful, and familiar, it all looks ! *
No place has any business to look so nice, and peaceful,
and familiar, when one has only been absent from it for
so short a time. One must .have felt very lonely and
miserable, in the interval, to make it seem so homelike
and pleasant upon one's return ; and Sophy knew that,
during the short period passed at Dallingridge Hqusc,
she had been both lonely and miserable. Yes ; since
she last entered that homely farmhouse kitchen, she
had really suffered a great deal. It did her good to
come back to it ; and, for a little while, she would let
herself go, and revel in the calm enjoyment of the
moment  the morrow might take care of itself !

The dear, homely, old-fashioned kitchen, looked just
the same as usual. Wh}, indeed, in so short a space of
time, should it have looked different? All kinds of
terrible and distressing circumstances might happen,
and yet kitchens, and woodland-benches, and things of
that sort, went on always looking the same. That was
the worst of them ; they were so stolid and unemotional
staring on, round-eyed, as it were, and assisting atour
heart-beatings and aching, and yet seeming to be
saying, just as plainly as words, 

No ; j'ou can't expect )ne to feel for you. I'm only
an old weather-beaten gray bench, set up round a
twisted tree-stem, near to which you were once in the
habit of meeting a rather priggish young man with
dark, unfathomable eyes.' Or, * I'm only a homely
kind of a room, a thing of bricks, mortar, and whitewash.
I see what I see, and know what I know, but
I've no feelings. You seem unhappy, but I can't help
that, and I'm quite unable to sympathise with you.
After all, I'm only a kitchen ! '

This was what the kitchen at Little Stillingfleet
fleeced to be saying to Sophy now.

Yes ; it looked precisely the same as usual. There
were the whitewashed oaken beams, a little blackened
I)y smoke near to the great chimney, coming quite low
down over the place where the breakfast table stood.
The three truck-baskets, of different sizes, which conveyed
the vegetables from the garden, were turned
upside-down as usual, their contents having been
emptied headlong into the old wicker-work cradle,
which still stood in a far corner, and did service now asa
receptacle for bulbs in the rough, instead of babies.
!Nelus had already taken his place at the board, where
he was waiting patiently until Jane had finished
frizzling the bacon, whilst Delia and Abdallah were
occupied in the scullery with conversation and the
washing of dishes.

Sophy sat watching these familiar forms from the
place into which she had fallen, more dead than alive,
on tho night of her terrible adventure. A ghastly and
horrible memory ! And yet not quite so horrible now
that the black apparition had been identified as a creature
of flesh and blood. Memories and all, she would
rather live on here, at Little Stillingfleet, where the
very earth and air were dear to her, than seek fresh

scenes, associations, or even pleasures  in * pastures new,*
amongst unfamiliar people ; for, to a sensitive nature,
there is no place which does not appear to possess an
exaggeration of charm, when every object, living or
inanimate, seems to cry out with a warning voice, 

You are looking on its, 2)er/uq)s, for the very last time ! '

Even Abdallah, whom, until now, Sophy had never
particularly liked, seemed to gain considerably, when
gauged by the test of an approaching separation, which
had every probability of being eternal, since, would it
not be as well, now that she was going to school, to
arrange that he should be sent back again to the land
of Egypt, the which, With its Sphinx, its Pyramids,
and its Cleopatra's ass, there appeared to be but
little chance of her ever beholding, save in such

counterfeit presentments ' as those which she had
herself painted upon shiny cardboard ? Yes ; she
would make out a, list of all the things she desired
should be done, and leave it to be sent, after she
was gone, to Tom Hickathrift, and foremost amongst
these would be the sending home of Abdallah. Still,
even with Abdallah  she discovered now  she would
be very sorry to part. His manner had always
been gentle and respectful, and he had very much
improved in many of his uncivilised ways. Last, but
not least, he had seemed to be really attached to her
father.

She could not muster courage at once to tell her
retainers of the approaching wrench, so, whilst they
were finishing their breakfast, she decided to pack up
her household gods, and lock up her very limited correspondence.
From amongst this, she selected the few
letters which were most precious to her, and which
would serve, when she was away, to bring back to her
the memories of her home. Godfrey's two love-letters ;

ora

solitary pencil scrawl in the fonii of a message from
her father, upon the subject of the Borgia decoction,
with the characters all running up to the right ; and
one of Tom Hickathrift's slavish, true-hearted letters,
not ovci'-claboratc as to composition, nor, even, very-correct
in spelling, but which would be to her, at any
rate, in her desolation, as the speaking voice of a tried
friend;  these treasures, tied neatly together, she placed
carefully in the secret compartment of her silver-mounted
casket  in itself also a treasure  full of memories
as an egg is full of meat, and which was, of
course, to accompany her on her journey into the new
life.

The next thing to be done was to write a paper of
final directions, which Tom would carry out after she
had departed. Nelus could walk over with it to the
Abbey, though on no account was he to do this before
she was gone, lest Tom should ride over to Callings
and offend her aunt's sense of propriety by his
despairing farewells. She disliked very much beholding
the sufferings of others ; and a parting with Tom Hick-thrift
must needs be, for many reasons, distressing
and embarrassing, so there was no need to go through
a parting with him at all.

She next turned to her knitting, which, according
to instructions, had been wrapped up in paper by Jane.
For how long a time had she worked away at this
unfortunate waistcoat  if 'work' was a term that could
be applied to an occupation so desultory  whole months
elapsing, sometimes, between the completion of one
knitted rib and the commencement of another ! She
had better make up her mind, and give it to somebody
before going to school, as it was quite big enough now
to cut up into a waistcoat, no matter for whom. An

hour slipped away whilst she was thus settling and
disposing of her things ; and after a sad pilgrimage to
her father's grave, and a hasty look over the garden
and stables, she went back into the house to break the
news of her departure to her servants. As she had
anticipated, their astonishment knew no bounds, and it
was only by feigning to be, herself, a consenting party,
that she could restrain them from breaking forth into
lamentations. But when the moment came for the real
farewells, she herself was very nearly giving way.

Good-bye, Janus ! Good-bye, Nelus ! ' she said,
with a sinking heart, and tears in her eyes, as she
grasped their outstretched hands  horny and toil-stained,
but loyal and trusty, and, like their honest
hearts, ever ready to do her service. ' Good-bye, Delia !
Give my love to the children when they come home
from school, and say good-bye to them too. . . Take
ware of the cats for me, and don't forget the pigeons ! '

She could hardly speak now, thinking of the pretty
white and graj pigeons, which, with the wings she
envied them, would continue to fly in and out of the dove-scot,
whilst she would be away amongst strange people.

Good-bye, missy ! good-bye, missy ! ' the faithful
creatures repeated, with tears in their voices.

The whole scene was terribly harrowing.

She had intended giving them each some little keepsake,
feeling that it might be quite possible she should
never see them again. Who, indeed, can predict what
the morrow may bring forth ? for, once the even tenor
of one's way becomes disturbed, change is apt to follow
upon change. Abdallah, whom she had almost forgotten
again, came sidling towards her, half crawling, his
body bowed nearly to the ground, in a servile and
despairing attitude, salaaming at every step. She
realised now that she had never sufficiently appreciated

VOL. II. z

Abdallali, who was evidently a faithful, obedient creature,
and quite as much attached to her as the rest.
She had omitted, even, to present him with a personal
.souroiiir, although she had desired Tom to see that a
nice little round sum was given him over and above
his wages. She bethought her now of the predestined
knitted waistcoat. It was Ijing rolled up in a
shiny black hand-bag with a steel clasp, lent to her by
Mrs. Ford, which, as it contained all her dearest treasures,
she was carrying upon her arm.

Here, Abdallah,' she said, in English, as she drew
forth the parcel, *is a little present which I have
worked, and which may sometimes remind you of me
when we are far apart. . I hope you'll often wear
it, and that it'll keep you nice and warm when you
are in the Desert.' And she placed the roll of knitting
in the outstretched hand of the Egyptian.

Afterwards, she remembered that the ' Desert ' was
generally described, by travellers, as a very warm place,
where Arab Sheikhs grew bronzed and parched by
reason of the fierce sun, and where people had little
need of knitted wraps and comforters. But she was
too miserable at the time to think of this, and Abdallah
seemed very grateful for his present.

Metike What-you-call-um understand, Deely,' said
Jane, turning to her daughter, and speaking loudly 
as she always did when it was a question of enlightening
Abdallah  and Deely forthwith proceeded to explain.

In the midst of this interpretation poor Sophy broke
away, quivering in every nerve with restrained misery.
They had unfolded the knitting, and appeared almost
as though they were fighting over it, as they had all
raised their voices and were gesticulating. Sophy took
advantage of their preoccupation. Like the man who
threw his fur pelisse to the wolves, and then galloped

away whilst they were growling over it, she ran down
the path leading to the rustic bridge, and plunged into
the depths of the hazel-copse, fearful lest they should
follow after her and subject her to fresh sufferings.

As she passed under the boughs of the orchard, she
picked up one of the last of the autumnal apples, and
slipped it into the black hand-bag. Not, of course,
with any intention of eating it when, indeed, would
she ever care to eat again), but merely as a little
remembrance. Beneath the old oak-tree, with its
gnarled branches, she sank down upon the circular
bench just to take breath. Here it was that she had
had her last passionate parting with Godfrey ; and it
was here, too, that he had flung away the great Hicks
ring in his jealous indignation. In some chink
or cranny of the earth it was probably lurking even
now, gazing up at her misery with its great dull, red,
cough-lozengy eye ! Would it ever be brought to
light? One of these days, perhaps, long after shcvas
dead, when a new generation had sprung up, and when
Little Stillingfleet had passed into the hands of
strangers, some of these might, peradventure, unearth
the great family jewel, which they would probably
associate, ignorantly, with the occupation of the
Romans, or the battle of Hastings. . . . Here, too,
were the little gray and yellow lichens with their
frilled edges, which clung so tightly to the woodwork
that it was impossible to pick them off whole, however
much one tried ; more of them had sprung up lately,
and the old bench seemed to have grown sadder, hoarser,
and more dilapidated than ever. It felt lonely and
deserted, perhaps, now that no youths and maidens
came there, and chatted and courted, and gave vent to
jealous anger, or breathed harrowing farewells ; and
since no blind, bearded enthusiast traced upon the

ov

groined beneath it, with stalking-stick or sustaiiiiiio
javelin, the mysterious symbols of the Great Cause !

The twisted branches came low down over her bowed
head, leafless now, and yet so tufted with hanging fern-leaves
and velvet mosses that they looked still quite green;
and before leaving the spot endeared to her by so many
memories, she gathered a bunch of fern-leaves, and placed
them in the black bag by the side of her other treasures.

That night sophy experienced no superstitious,
terrors as she lay, wide awake, in the great four-poster.
All fears of Comanchee Indians, enchanted crows, and
animated bed-hangings, subsided into nothing before
an absorbing melancholy, A\'ith which a new-born
anxiety had begun to mingle.

If Godfrey had already started for England, he
would certainly arrive too late to find her still in her
old haunts ; she would have been conveyed away to a
place where it would be difficult, maybe impossible, for
him to obtain access to her. This she had already faced
and considered. But supposing (as might well happen)
he had not vet started on his return journey ? Hc
was intently occupied, probably, in prosecuting most
important inquiries, and he might find it impossible to
depart at once for England. In this case it would not
be too late to inform him, by means of a second letter,
of the impending change in her destiny. Before the
tyranny and supervision of school-life began she would
write him a letter. She would sit up now and write it
in bed ; but how, afterwards, would she be able to post
it ? . . . This was what was exercising and perplexing
her mind now, as she lay restlessly tossing amongst the
snowy-frilled pillows.

The house letter-box, open-mouthed and inviting
to the unreflecting, which she had observed upon a
table under the grand staircase, was naturally to be

mistrusted by the wary. Her aunt might, very
possibly, have command of its key ; and who coidd
be sure whether a letter addressed to Godfrey, and
deposited there, would ever arrive at its destination Y
No, she determined, at this supreme moment, to
commit no act which would savour in the slightest
degree of rashness. Would that the idea of writing
ao-ain had occurred to her earlier  in the coming 
at Little Stillingfleet, when she was amongst her own
people I But it was too late to deplore this now.

Very softly she slid out of the great curtained
temple, fetched her little travelling writing-case, and
began pouring out her very soul upon paper ; the
thought that, perhaps, after all, this letter might never
reach the object for whom it was intended, giving her
an unwonted courage in the expression of her feelings.

As, on the first night of her arrival, she could seethe
reflection of herself in the long glass opposite to
the bed ; the white hand and sleeve trembling Nery
quickly above the open blotting-book ; the only moving
object in that stately and melancholy chamber.
The mysterious cracking and sighing went on around
her as usual ; the ' midnight mouse ' was hard at work
at his nibbling and scratching ; and, lurking amongst
the folds of the bed-hangings, the face of the high-featured
Comanchee Indian still peeped out at her,
his war-plumes branching and waving aloft over the
ferocious red eye. But sadness of heart, and anxiety
for the future, swallowed up all sense of apprehension,
and she went on eagerly with her writing.

It was finished at last ; such a long, long, tender,
miserable letter, so closely written, so charged with
parentheses, and dashes, and postscripts, and little
after-thoughts, crowded up into corners ; and so
blotted with tears ! . . The first jjart of her longing

or

desire was believed, at any rate (she thought), as,
chilled and shivering, she slid down into the depths
of the great bed towards the small hours of the
morning, and sank into a troubled slumber.

Next day, the large yellow carriage was at the door
to convey her away, and her aunt ready to accompany
her to the station, and still her despairing letter was
lying, posted, in the pocket of her black merino
dress. As she passed out of the hall door she looked
round her, like a hunted creature, seeking lor some
last chance of sending it secretly to the post. Several
of the servants were assembled in the doorway, courteous
and attentive, but she dared not entrust anything
so important to these unknown people. Mrs. St. Clair
was close in front of her ; whilst I he maid, who was to
accompany her to 'The Cedars,' was in the rear, giving
directions about the luggage. She felt hopelessly
hemmed in upon every side.

Her aunt might possibly have meant kindly by
accompanying her to the railway-station, but, under the
present circumstances, she could willingly have dispensed
with the attention. Perhaps  perhaps  had she been
permitted to depart alone upon her journey, the opportunity
she desired might have presented itself, but )to}c . . /

When, however, they arrived at the ancient Abbey
town, Mrs. St. Clair's selfish motive became apparent,
and a ray of hope illuminated Sophy's anxious heart.

We are too soon, Sophia,' she remarked, as they
went by the road leading to the station. * I started a
little earlier on purpose, having a jacket-body to fit on
at' the Miss Spearings'. You have got the pattern,
Parkinson?' (turning to her maid.)

Yes, Parkinson had the parcel, tied round with string,
and hugged closely in her arms, like a mute attenuated
balmy. Poor Sophy's heart began throbbing tumultuously.

The two Miss Spearings lived over the paternal
haberdashery establishment, exactly opposite to the
Abbey gateway, and beneath the window of which was
a tantalising ten-inch aperture.

In a word, it was the lt)cal post-office. Mrs. St.
Clair, followed by her maid with the oblong parcel,
descended from the carriage and entered the shop,
leaving Sophy alone.

A thousand mad projects rushed through her mind
as she gazed breathlessly from the window of the
yellow chariot, though some sort of diplomatic instinct,
inherited, possibly, from the departed wire-puller,
seemed to forbid the simple process of stepping out
and posting her letter without more ado.

As she was painfully debating, a tall figure, in a
gray shooting jacket, emerged from one of the lesser
gateways in the old Abbey wall, accompanied by a
black retriever. Sir Thomas had probably seen the
Dallingridge carriage from his window, and forthwith
sauntered slowly towards it, assuming, as he fancied, a
perfectly natural and unconscious air.

Sophy was glowing all over with impatience.

Oh, come here ! plcam come ! * she exclaimed, beckoning
him eagerly to the carriage-window. ' What do
you think ? I'm going to school ! '

 Goinfj to schools he repeated, astonished. 'You
that are so clever? Why, you'd have to teach tJicin V

Oh, no, no ! ' she answered, still speaking hurriedly.
I'm very, very ignorant, and nearly everything I do,
and think, seems to be wrong! Will you do me a very
great favour ? ' and she glanced fearfully from her companion
in the direction of Mr. Spearings' shop window.

AinjtJibuj on this earth!' protested the young man
eagerly, his face brightening.

'Well, then,' said Sophy nervously, for she felt

that she might be about to deal him a cruel blow, * put
this letter into the post, pfcoM. I wouldn't have asked
you, if I could have helped it.'

Tom sighed disappointedly. He had hoped that
she would hav required him to perform some mores
difficult service. '

Look at the direction first,' she felt compelled to
.say,' "wishing to be honest, 'and then, perhaps, you
won't so much like doing what I ask you  what I
implore you to do ! '

Tom guessed her meaning at once.

All right,' he said, in an altered voice. ' Give it
mo now, and I'll post it, so that you can see me do it,
without looking at the address.'

Don't talk so loud, or the coachman will hear ; and
take care of Frederick  he's standing close by with the
rug ! Here it is, . . . Put it into your pocket  quickly I
. . Ah, thank you, thank you ! '

Tom Hickathrift slipped the letter into his breast-pocket,
and patted ia place. To him, the knowledge
that he was doing her a service, however painful to
himself, seemed to bring with it its own reward ; so,
after sadly pressing her hand in token of undying devotion,
he strode across the footway and slipped the letter
into the box. Sophy was trembling all over with agitation,
half fearful lest her aunt should see it from within.

O bless you  bless you ! ' she murmured gratefully,
looking after him With tearful eyes. And at this moment
Mrs. St. Clair issued from the shop, accompanied
by her maid, and escorted to the door by the whole family
of the obsequious Spearings. The two then took their
places in the carriage, and the horses set off at a brisk
trot in the direction of the railway station.

THE END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

3 0112 084210126

XiHy-

y ' *"'7f.< r- /

   .  .'H'y ,. <

OF Thou

Never City

or 

V.3

.

i

'I'riOMAS 1LERY Passer.

Abner HALL.

-\1.K

OR

THE ADVENTURES OF A SAVAGE.

VOL. III.

OR

THE ADVENTURES OF A SAVAGE.

BY

VIOLET FANE,

AUTHOR OF 'dKNZIL PLACE,' 'ANTHONY BABTNGTON,'
the EDAVIN AND ANGELINA PAPERS,'

ETC. E-KL

 IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13 GllEAT Marlborough STREET.

1881.

All rvjhts reserved.

PIllNTEl) DY STKANdEWAYS AND SONS.

Tower Street Upper 8t. Martin's Lane.

SOPHY,

OR THE ADVENTURES OF A SAVAGE.

BOOK THE THIRD.

Religions axe many and different ; but Reason is one '  Confucius.

Chapter I.

Miss Pendragon's academy for young ladies was designated
' The Cedars and there grew, indeed, a large
cedar just inside the iron gateways, which had perhaps
once possessed a brother, or even a yet nearer and dearer
relation of its own species, if the cedar-tree shares in
any of the peculiarities of the palm. Anyhow, at this
particular time, o]ie widowed cedar alone survived, casting
its sombre shadow over the red-brick facade of the
handsome Queen Anne mansion in summer and winter
alike.

Upon the afternoon of my heroines arrival a young
lady of ' some eighteen summers ' was practising at a
rather fatigued pianoforte, in one of the back bedrooms
of this establishment. Most of the bedrooms at Miss
Pendragon's were provided with pianofortes, upon
which the pupils were told off to practise during the
day, whether musically disposed or no, relieving each

VOL. III. B

or

other, from time to time, after the manner of sentries.
Miss Aspenall  such was the name of the youn lady
I am (describing  was possessed of no taste whatever
for music, in the study of which she was not more
advanced than many children of six years old ; but she
was learning it, not merely as a personal accomplishment,
but with the view of imparting it afterwards to
others ; for Fanny Aspenall was poor and an orphan,
and the highest ambition nourished by her well-wishers
was that she should one day develop into an instructress
of youth. She was looked upon and dreaded as
the cynic and misogynist of the school, though, by
reason of a roughness and bluntness of manner, real or
assumed, she was credited by some of the more charitable
of her companions with the possession of a disposition
which might be possibly frank and honest,
notwithstanding that it was certainly somewhat disagreeable.
In appearance she was not prepossessing,
although she was tall and well-grown for her age, with
a figure which, in spite of a certain long-waisted gawkiness,
was almost sure to improve. It was, at any rate,
more pleasing than her face, upon which neither the
freshness nor the ingenuousness of youth was discernible.
Her brow was narrow and unimaginative,
though it sloped up towards her back-comb with some
show of intellectual self-reliance and the consciousness
of ability Her small green ej'es were quick and suspicious,
and, in her expression, sharpness and satiety,
which seldom flourish together, seemed to be curiously
blended. It appeared as though she was provoked with
the actual physical exertion of existing, and yet, as
people had to exist somehow, it was as well to look out
for one's self, and secure, if possible, the best places.
T hose who had not secured them ought to be perpetually

on the look-out for tlieui ; and, in the meantime, it was
always permissible to avail one's self of the noble
privilege of grumbling. This was what the shrewd,
experienced face of the young cynic, seemed to be saying
to the beholder.

As she affected a total disregard for all those adjuncts
and adornments which are supposed to improve
the female form, her dress was as dingy and faded asher
complexion. The afternoon was damp, notwithstanding
that the yellow London fog appeared only to
have advanced as far as the lower end of the garden,
where it lay like a murky demon in ambush, ready to
spring upon all who invaded its confines. Besides this,
it was cold and raw, and Miss Aspenall, who suffered
terribly from chilblains, was practising in red worsted
mittens. Nobody could have admitted more readily
than she did herself her own inaptitude for music.

What an old fool that uncle of mine is to insist
upon my learning the piano ! ' she was muttering noir
in a vicious undertone.  It's a sheer waste of money,
and I'm sure we neither of us have too much of that !
One and, two and, three and, four and ! ' . . . and
she recommenced her practising.

At this moment a pretty little girl, with rosy cheeks
and blue eyes, came bounding into the room. She
might have been about fourteen, or even fifteen, but she
had not yet been promoted to * grown-up ' dresses.
Under her arm she carried a portfolio of music.

Miss Aspenall turned towards her, and said, with all
the dignity with which the elder girls were wont to
address the juniors, 

Oh, it's you, is it, Jenny Jones ? For once
I'm not sorry to see you. Are you coming here to
practise ? '

or

No ; I've just finished. The new girl's come that's
to sleep in your room, Miss Aspenall, and I just thought
I'd run in and tell you.'

What's she like ?' Miss Aspenall demanded coldly.
I haven't seen //rr,' answered Miss Jones ; * but

I've seen her f/iinr/s. They were in jour room when I
went there to practise. I tried on her boots.'

How ///iV you to spend your time prying into other
people's affairs, instead of doing your duty ! What
kind of a foot ? '

Oh, smallish  only just big enough for me, so I
should think she's stumpy. On the dressing-table there
was a black hat and crape veil. She seems to be in
awfully deep mourning, almost like the cooling do-wTi
of a widow.'

I only hope and 2)rai/ she won't be a snivcUc)\' remarked
Miss Aspenall, with asperity, ' like Emily
Spicer, when she lost her " dear mamma." It's too bad
when one's put in a room with snivellers ! '

Emily soon got over it,' remarked little Miss Jones
consolingly ; and she then continued, ' There was a
black bag lying on the piano, with a steel clasp. I
opened the bag.'

How like you, you little wretch ! ' exclaimed Miss
Aspenall again ; ' but, then, sou never had any feelings
of honour. Well, and what was in it ? '

Oh, a whole heap of things ! ' answered Jcnnj Jones
promptly * An apple, a new pair of black kid gloves
with two buttons, an ivory hairbrush, some dead fern-leaves,
a green silk purse with four sovereigns, some
silver, and a five-pound note, a comb, a gold thimble,
a blue scent-bottle, and a queer kind of a thing mounted
in silver, that looked as if it was made out of the skin
of a toad. I opened this thing . . .'

There ! that's just like you again ! You're a
regular little spy! And, pray, what was inside?'

The bottom part was only a workbox, with scissors
and things, and with something written round the
edge  a man's name, '' Alexander'* I think, " aged 23
years," and a date; and then, "JEatoi tq by rats''
Perhaps that's who she's in mourning for. Awful way
of dying, wasn't it ? '

Beast! f/f returned Miss Aspenall, who generally
employed forcible language. ' Well, and how much
further did you carry your prying ? '

There was a sort of secret place at the top of the
workbox,' replied Miss Jones, ' which opened on pressing
a knob. It had some letters in it, tied round with
a black ribbon. I read two or three of these.'

Horrid little wretch ! No wonder we all hate and
abominate you ! What were they about ? '

One of them began, " My own darling," and was
signed '' Godfrey." It was evidently a love-letter.' .

Really !' ejaculated Miss Aspenall, as though with
more interest.  What did it say ?'

It talked about their 'parting" and the 'along
fern," and " the desolate coming years," and a lot more
sentimental stuff and nonsense. It was the most miserable
letter I ever read in my life,' added the little girl,
laughing.

'How sickening!' exclaimed the elder young lady,
with an expression of nausea. ' And now for the
others.'

The next was only a few lines, and seemed more
like a message than a letter. It began, " My fair
Sophia," and said something about the making of
date-wine," which had been put in a bottle marked
Kismet," and was to be well corked. It was signed

or

Schoslioth the Blind," or some such name, and didn't
seem to bo a /o/v-lctter exactly, though it was awfully
affectionate.'

Indeed ! ' retorted Miss Asjenall, with a snort.
'swell, and what was in the next one?'

T/irtf began *' Dearest," and was certainly a love-letter.
It was written on nice thick paper, like officers*
paper, and was signed, '' Yours for ever and ever, uphill
and down dale, through thick and through thin
Tow." She seems to have been awfully mixed up
icifh f/ruf/rmoty doesn't she ?'

*She must be a most horrid creature, I should
think,' remarked Miss Aspenall, with a face of disgust.

I'm sorry, for the sake of your conscience, that you
opened her bag, but that's sour look-out ; Tm not my
brother's keeper, but I can't help being glad to know
what's in it, and for this reason  I can read her character
by it just as well as if you'd cut ojen her head !  If
you weren't such a little donkc}- that jou couldn't
understand, I'd take the trouble to interpret it to you.'

Oh, please do. Miss Aspenall ! ' cried the little girl
eagerly. She was delighted at finding Miss Aspenall
in so affable a mood.

It was the custom (I may as well mention here) at

The Cedars' for the young ladies always to address
one another respectfully as * Miss So-and-so.' The
Principal had insisted upon it ever since some unmannerly
girls, a few years ago, had endeavoured to introduce
a system of surnames only (' as who should say,'

Jones,' 'Spicer,' 'Aspenall,' &c.) ; a most Aoilgar and
reprehensible habit, which had been immediately'
strangled at the birth with an unflinching hand.

Very well, then,' condescended Miss Aspenall,

you shall have my idea of her character ; and if I'm

wrong I'll buy you three-penn'ortli of lemon-kali when
the hot weather comes, if it ever does ! First of all,
then, 

1. Black kid gloves two buttons)

2. Ivor// hairbrush Luxury, extras.

Tortoiseshell comb ., ) balance, love
*4. Gold thimble of display.

5, Blue scent-bottle 

6. Apple Greediness, self-indulgence,

sensuality.

7. Green purse, with gold, silver, five-pound note . . .
Covetousness, miserishness, fondness for money.

'8. Withered fern-leaves Maudlin sentimentality,
stuff and nonsense, idiotic bosh.

*9. Love-letters Vanity, love of admiration,
flirtingness, wickedness, disgraces fulness, disgustingness,
beastliness / . . .

However, I should have hated anybody who slept
in my room,' added Miss Aspenall, drawing a long
breath. * I loathe and detest Emily Spicer, as you
know. By-the-by, I wonder whether the new girl
snores ? If she does, she shall feel the weight of my
shoe!'

Whistling's a very good thing for snorers,' hazarded
little Miss Jones. * It wakes them up, and they don't
find out that it's you. I used to whistle at Rosa
Dupuis, when I slept in her room last half, and it
always stopped her. However, since I've been in with
Miss Netherclifi'e, I have to put up with it. I
shouldn't dare whistle at Isabella.'

I should think not, indeed, little worm ! ' exclaimed
Miss Aspenall ; and she then added, musingly ' I'm
sure I don't know which is the most horrid to have in
one's room  a sniveller, a snore, or a splashed, when

or

one's just having one's nice little morning snooze. All
three are so awfully beastly, that I really can't say
which is the beastliest.'

Neither can I, Miss Aspcnall,' answered little
Jenny Jones, who always made a point of agreeing
with an elder girl to her face. ' And now I've got to
be oE to my German dictation. I'm afraid if I'm late
I may lose my mark. The Dragon and Friiidein are
both in awful tempers.'

Yes, be off for goodness' sake, torment I Don't
fancy / want to listen to your nonsensical chatter !
Thank you for telling me about the new girl ; however,
I don't want to set eyes on her till I'm obliged.
My maxim is. Never meet troubles half way. Goodbye
! Bless you! Mind the step!' And bliss 
recommenced hammering out her unexpired
half-hour ujDon the fatigued pianoforte.

Poor Sophy, meanwhile, little guessed the interest
her arrival excited. She was innocently having her
tea with Miss Pendragon in the parlour, as was customary
with young ladies on their arrival, without foreseeing
that this very parlour would come to be regarded
by her, one day, as a kind of holy of holies, and tea with
Miss Pendragon something like a repast with the Grand
Llama. But, as the respect and terror this lady inspired
were chiefly the result of a traditional and sustained
prestige, Sophy was by no moans overwhelmed
upon the occasion of her first introduction ; on the
contrary, she was even favourably impressed b} Miss
Pendragon's manner and personal appearance.

Miss Pendragon was a lady of uncertain age and
average stature. Her hair, which was of so undecided
a colour that it did not appear to be gray, was arranged
in curls on each side of her square brow, and gathered

up at the back with a high comb. This style of hairdressing,
although it is apt to suggest a suspicion of
some manner of deformity connected with the carefully
concealed ears, had been fashionable in the days of her
youth, and she still adhered to it.

Small, deep-set, gray eyes, a straight nose, and a
firm mouth, with somewhat equivocal teeth, completed
the physiognomy. Her hands were exceedingly white
and well-shaped, and were protected by black silk
mittens. Upon one of her fingers she wore a mourn-lingering
containing hair, and, on another, a large
shell-cameo surrounded by seed-pearls, forming a ring
almost as important as the great Hickathrift heirloom.
Sophy began at once to weave a romance about the
mourning-ring with the hair. She felt so desolate
and hopeless when she thought about herself, that she
was glad to fasten upon any external object as food for
her imagination. Perhaps Miss Pendragon might once
have had a lover, who had either died or deserted her,
and perhaps she still wore his hair in this ring. An
improbable notion, but not altogether impossible, and it
made Sophy feel drawn for the moment towards her
future instructress.

The state of the suburban atmosphere was certainly
not calculated to raise Sophy's fallen spirits. She had
never before beheld a London fog in its fullest phase of
development, and at first she could not help fancying
that it represented some sort of sympathetic shrouding
of the heavens, in consequence of her own particular
despondency.

It must be just like the eclipse that came on when
Mohammed's son Ibrahim died,' she thought, as, sitting
on the very edge of her chair, she nibbled timidly
at some extremely thin bread-and-butter, and glanced

towards the fog-demon in the garden, ' which the people
tried to make out was sent because of his grief

But though cast down and afflicted at the death of
his son by Mary the Copt, she remembered that the
founder of Islam had scouted the idea of a miracle.

The sun and the moon arc among the signs
appointed by God,' he had made answer to the people.
They are not eclipsed on the death of any one.' And
so, however wretched she might now feel, it was not probable
that she was altogether responsible for the fog.

She had no means, of course, just at first, of knowing
whether any of her school-companions were likely to
prove congenial to her. Individually, they were all
strangers ; and collectively, they suggested rather the
idea of a hostile force, since what was iinknoicn had
always seemed to her to be redoubtable.

The society of Fannj Aspenall and Emily Spicer
had, so to speak, been thrust upon her without option,
or rather, hers had been unconditionally thrust upon
tliemy owing to the fact that it had been ordained by
the governing powers that she should share their .
As yet, however, she felt that it would
bo unjust to form any impression as to their respective
dispositions. She could only wait and Jiopc ; seeking
out eagerly for virtues, and blinding herself as much as
possible to the perception of defects. Miss Aspenall's
blunt and conciliatory manner, though somewhat
alarming at first, was jerhajs, on the whole, rather
reassuring, as it seemed to indicate that she possessed
independence of character, and that one saw, as it were,
the worst of her at a glance, whilst Emile Sjiccr, with
her china-blue eyes and pretty doll-face, she felt almost
certain she should become fond of in time.

The room shared by the three girls was very spacious

and lofty. It possessed three large windows and a fireplace,
in which, however, there was no fire, and was
well calculated to accommodate twice its present number
of inmates. Three small beds, with white-dimity curtains
and testers, were arranged in a line at the further
end of it, having the three windows to the right and
three painted wash and stands at the foot of them, for
the ablutions of the three young ladies. In front of
each one of the three windows was a dressing-table and
a deal chest of drawers, whilst between the door and
the foot of the left-hand bed stood a large paper screen,
behind which were arranged three tubs, with three
water-cans, already filled for the morning. Everything,
in fact, seemed to be disposed in threes.

It looks just like the room that belonged to the
three bears in the story-book,' Sophy hazarded timidly,
as they were retiring for the night, wishing to appear
sociable. Miss Aspenall was already in bed ; and
Emily Spicer, in a dressing-gown elaborately laced and
frilled, was in the act of putting up her golden tresses
in curl-papers. An angry growl from Fanny Aspenall,
whilst heightening the fancied resemblance, prevented
Sophy from continuing the conversation, and, after
bidding Emily good-night, she too retired to her little
white bed, which was bounded by the wall on the left,
and on the right by that of Miss Aspenall, whence loud
nasal sounds were now beginning to issue, fatal to sleep,
supposing Sophy, in her present frame of mind, had
expected any such consolation.

She always begins by making that noise,' whispered
Emily, by-and-by, from the further bed, * though she
won't let any one else snore. It's because she's lying
on her back ; but, at about half-past twelve, she'll turn
round on to her side, and then we can go to sleep. I

wish you had the next bed to me, as then we could
talk ; but I'm afraid to now, for fear of waking her.
Good-night, Miss St. Clair.'

Good-night, Miss Spicer,' whispered Sophy, in her
turn.

This first night at school seemed terribly' long.
After some time had elapsed. Miss Aspenall turned
over on her side and left off snoring, b}' which Sophy
concluded that it must be half-past twelve. A still
longer period seemed to go by after that ; and then, by
the noisy entrance of a rough, red-haired handmaiden,
who opened the shutters with a good deal of clatter,
she knew that it must be half-past six o'clock, the hour
at which the young ladies were expected to rise. Sophy
had always been led to understand that terrible penalties
were inflicted at schools if one happened to be late in
the morning. She determined, therefore, to get up
betimes, and she had nearly completed her toilet, when
Emily, looking very sleepy and pretty, notwithstanding
her curl-papers, tingled out of bed with a yawn, and
commenced going through her ablutions with the dazed
manner of a somnambulist. The poor little thing was,
in reality, only half awake.

I'm afraid Miss Aspenall will be very late,' whispered
Sophy presently, glancing anxiously towards the
centre bed. Emily was wide awake now and emerging
from behind the large paper-screen, whence had proceeded
a gentle soit of paddling, for Miss Aspenall's
horror of a 'splashed' had obliged her to use the greatest
precautions with the cold water.

Oh, she never gets up till after the first prayer-bell,'
she answered, likewise in a whisper ; * though
she's very often down before me. Miss Aspenall always
dresses backwards.'

Miss Spicer passed on to her toilet-table ; and Sophy,
who had arrived at the hairdressing stage, remained for
some seconds, brush in hand, pondering over these
enigmatical words.

Emily Spicer's dressing-table was by far the smartest
that Sophy had ever seen. It boasted a handsome dress-increase
with silver topped bottles, a magnificent pincushion
garnished with frills and bows, pretty ivory
brushes engraved with a monogram, and as many little
pots, pans, and powder-pulp boxes as the mind of woman
could possibly desire. In this respect it presented a
marked contrast to that of Miss Aspenall, who evidently
affected a Spartan simplicity. A black hairbrush, a pot
of bears grease, and a patent unguent for the cure of
chilblains, were its only ornaments, and Sophy could
not help fancying that perhaps these tables might be
emblematical of the dissimilarity existing in the natures
of the two young ladies.

Emily's bed, too, was adorned with a portrait of her
favourite brother (Captain Frederick Augustus Spicer
of the 8th Dragoon Guards) in full regimentals, a
drawing of the ancestral home of the Spicer family
(seemingly almost as big as Buckingham Palace), the
wedding-favours of an elder sister, and a beautiful
watch-pocket in the form of an Oriental slipper embroidered
in gold. With all these little knickknacks,
Emily's bed looked, in fact, quite like a shrine filled
with votive offerings.

Yes ; Emily was evidently overfond of pretty
things, of display, of fine clothes, and, notwithstanding
her pleasing manners, she was probably rather vain and
frivolous, whilst Fanny Aspenall, for all her cynicism,
was very possibly really honest and truehearted, a sort
of rough diamond, all the more estimable from the fact

that not everybody could distinguish its sparkle. Sophy
was interrupted by the clanging of the first prayer-bell,
simultaneously with which the subject of her reverie
turned lazily out of the centre bed. She knew now
what Emily meant when she had said, ' Miss Aspenall
always dresses backwards.' Miss Aspenall, in fact,
commenced her dressing at the point where most people
generally finish off. That is to say, she very quickly
donned all her garments, including her gown, after
which she knotted up her ' back hair,' and washed her
face and hands superficially with the soaped corner of a
towel. There was no make-believe of tubbing behind
the large paper-screen. Fanny Aspenall neither splashed
nor pretended to splash.

Life's quite disagreeable enough as it is,' she remarked
philosophically, when she had completed her
simple toilet, ' without dragging in any extras ! Some
people like messing about with cold water upon winter
mornings  / done ; and my uncle, who's a clergyman
of the Church of England, says that it's very unwholesome
to be too clean. When he was young, people
hardly ever washed at all, and they were much stronger.
Hook my frock, will you ? ' she added, backing towards
Sophy, who began, obediently, to fasten up the great)'
and ink-stained mohair dress, after which the three
young ladies descended together to the schoolroom.

Chapter II.

During the twenty minutes which intervened before
the entrance of Miss Pendragon, Sohy, who was always
athirst for information, asked several questions of her
new acquaintance. Miss Aspenall ; and it was perhaps

fortunate that, on lier initiation to this new life, she
should derive her first impressions from one who saw
things with so jaundiced an eye that she was not likely
to represent them in too glowing colours. Sophy and
her companion were seated together near the door, upon
a long deal bench or form. Most of the other girls
were facing them in line, having their backs to the
three windows, before each of which, as she had foreseen,
there was a wire-screen, ' like a meat-cage.' She
observed, too, that all the forms upon which they were
seated were exceedingly heavy, and that they rattled
when moved. They were, in fact, a series of deep
boxes, divided into partitions, and opening with
separate lids. Fanny Aspenall informed her that these
were called 'lockers,' and that each girl had one apportioned
to her own particular use, as a receptacle for
books and other personal property. It was customary,
too, for each young lady, at prayer-time and during the
classes, to sit upon her own locker, which prevented
any objectionable scuffling or scrambling for a place.
On Saturday mornings, Sophy was informed, Miss
Pendragon, followed by the German governess, made
a kind of formal progress round the schoolrooms, and
inspected these lockers, to see that they contained no
contraband goods, and that they were arranged with
neatness.

But very often,' Miss Aspenall explained, * she
only has time to look just at the top, and you can cram
anything you like down at the bottom. Rosa Dupuis
had a tin of bloaters and two bottles of ginger-beer in
her locker for more than a fortnight before they were
found out. By doing their sums for them, or giving
them a few sweets, you can general get one of the
little ones to tidy up jour locker for you if you haven't

or

got time. It' your locker's untidy you lose your
mark.'

Sophy had already heard this mystic phrase. Miss
Aspenall now proceeded to explain its meaning.

Most of the girls are idiotic enough to wish to gain
some kind of prize. There are prizes for French,
German, English, composition, &c., Which are given to
those who get the largest number of marks. These are
set down in pencil on that great bit of parchment
hanging opposite, under different headings. You lose
your mark if you're late in the morning or have a
certain number of faults in your exercise ; and if your
locker's untidy, you lose your mark for good conduct.
As for mc, I've always tried not to get a prize. They're
always books, and books that nobody cares to read,
and the price of them comes out of what our parents
and guardians pay for us. It's really so donkedsh
that it makes one inclined to swear ! All the same, I'm
going in " for a prize this half, even if I get some
beastly thing like Paradise Lost, as probably I shall ! '

And which prize do you think you shall get ?'
Sophy inquired.

Oh, the good-conduct prize ; that's much the
easiest. I don't want it, but I'm determined to get it,
just to spite Isabella. Long before the wish to succeed,
for the sake of pleasing one's friends, comes the delight
of being able to enrage one's enemies. That's the only
reason why I want to get on. I've few friends, because
I'm poor, but heaps of enemies, and I hate them !'

Which is Isabella ?' Sophy inquired, in a whisper,
looking towards the assembled young ladies, most of
whom were lounging sideways upon their lockers,
Bibles in hand, whispering and fidgeting with their
feet. At the head of the line, in the place next to Miss

Pendragon's vacant chair, sat a tall, well-dressed girl,
with handsome clear-cut features, fine gray eyes, and a
general air of command. She was neither whispering
nor fidgeting with her feet.

That's Isabella,' said Fanny', pointing to this young
lady. * Only you'll have to call her "Miss Nether cliff e."
She's the daughter of a prominent " M.p," who's just
been created a Lord, and goes in for popularity, and
Miss P.'s awfully proud of her  dragging her name into
her letters to our parents, when we have any. Her
head's as hard as a cocoa-nut, and she's supposed to
know everything. She positively likes algebra, geometry,
and all sorts of dry things ; and she's tremendously well
up in politics and law. She was sent here as a sort of
mental rest, to be kept back, because she was getting
to know more than her father. Some of the girls
declare she writes all his speeches.'

How very clever she must be!' whispered Sophy,
looking at the tall girl with admiration.

She's a regular blue-stocking,' rejoined Miss
Aspenall. * And she's as priggish and pedantic as she
can well be ; always talking rubbish about ** raising
the tone of the school," and hating me because I don't
want to have my tone raised. She won't speak to you
at all for about a fortnight, or look upon you as a
human being, aimless you happen to be high up in
geometry or Euclid ; then, perhaps, she'll just condescend
to say *' Good-morning," as if she was speaking
out of a top window. As she's quite grown up,
and has been out in London, she looks upon us all as
earthworms. If she'd been a man, she would have been
Senior Wrangler.'

Sophy continued to gaze admiringly towards Miss
Nethercliffe, whose countenance, notwithstanding a

VOL. III. c

certain haughtiness of expression, seemed congenial to
her. Here was, perhaps, a kindred spirit ; but, alas !
how could shCf an untutored savage, hope ever to become
friends with the girl who * knew everything?'

Isabella's been heard to say,' Miss Aspenall continued,
* that she'll take every single prize this year,
without giving herself the least trouble ; but I'm
determined she shan't. I go in at her whenever I canto
take down her conceit, for I'm not a bit afraid of
her. We Aspenalls aren't afraid of anybody. By
looking out a little sharp, I'm pretty sure I can get the
good-conduct prize, for she's not thinking of that so
much, having her eyes fixed upon higher game. She
sits up late sometimes, studying in bed, and has once or
twice lost her mark for not being in time in the morning,
generally lose my mark for saying *' beastly ;"
but I particularly like the word  it relieves my feelings,
and I take precious good care not to say it in Miss
Pendragon's hearing.'

Are any of the other girls nice?' Sophy next
inquired, looking towards the lower end of the line.

Yoi may, perhaps, like them,' returned the C3Tiic.
But I didn't come here to rush into sentimental friendships.
I came here to learn, so as to make my owen
way in the world. I'm an orphan.'

Oh, so am I ! ' exclaimed Sophy, her heart warming
towards her companion.

I don't want your pity,' answered Miss Aspenall
curtly. *I've no maudlin feeling whatever about my
parents. I never knew them, and I dare say I shouldn't
have liked them if I had. Most of the parents who
come here are particularly disgusting-looking creatures.
I merely mentioned that I was an orphan to show you
that I have to look out for myself. My uncle, who is

a clergyman, warned nie against friendships. He said
an xispenall should hold herself aloof.'

Still, it would be nice, surely, for the short time
one is here, to like the people one is obliged to be with ?
/ always get so fond of those I see much of, that I end
by even liking their faults ! '

Then there'll be plenty for you to get fond of here ! *
sneered Fanny.

Never mind ; I shall certainly try and like them ! *
rejoined Sophy, with an attempt at cheerfulness.
Emily Spicer seems a very bright, sunny sort of girl,
and she looked just like an angel in her nightgown.'

Yes, all she thinks about is looking pretty ! ' answered
Miss Aspenall, scornfully, prettiness and
money are her two idols. She's the daughter of a very
rich City man. I think his fortune came out of guano,
or pills, or something to take away bugs or fleas ; but
I can't be sure. All I know is, it was something particularly
beastly. She's rolling in riches, however, and
gets lots of hampers from home with wine and fruit.
That's why the little ones are so fond of her. She
bribes the governesses, too, so that they aren't find
fault with her. Whenever she's been particularly idle
she gives them a present. She gave Friiulein a malachite
brooch with a cairngorm thistle in the middle of
it ; and she's just bought Mademoiselle  who hasn't
come back yet  an ivory Prayer-book and Church-service,
so that, with all her silliness, she's awfully
cunning.'

Perhaps,' hazarded Sophy, * it may be really from
good nature that she gives presents. She mayn't mean
them for bribes, after all.*

The elder girls are fearfully jealous of her smart
dresses,' Miss Aspenall continued. * She has them over

from Paris in cartloads, instead of wearing out her old
things at school, as any really sensible girl would do '
(and she glanced down at her own untidy dress, with
its grease-spots and ink-stains). * That's a brand-new
one she's got on to-day, with the three flounces, only
you can sec, when the flounces blow about, that the
silk doesn't go all the way up. It's only muslin under
the flounces ; so that, with all his love of show-off, her
dear papa has evidently a "frugal mind "! '

'How old is she?' Sophy next inquired. 'She
seems to be quite grown up.*

Grown up ! . I should think so, indeed ! ' rejoined
Miss Aspenall, sarcastically. * And we're always
over head and ears in love. We're in love now with
Mr. Heathcote, the lecturer on history and elocution.
Last half we were in love with Dr. Spriigel, who instructs
us upon Early Art. He's over sixty, and wears
a wig, but we didn't mind that. And we've been madly
in love with the tall curate with the wall-eye, and with
the man with the red beard who sits in the next pew
to us in church. We thought, at first, that he was a
nobleman in disguise, because he wore a fashionable
coat with a fur collar, and looked tall when he was sitting
down ; and we nearly had a fit when we heard
that he was a retired tallow-chandler with a large
family ! '

What ! was she able to be in love with them all at
once?' exclaimed Sophy, astonished. 'And now, tell
me who that very dark girl is with the beautiful ejes,
sitting next to her ?'

The girl like a nigger ? Oh, that's Rosa Dupuis !
Her father's a West Indian planter. Shc\s enormously
rich, too. They've got fiugar-tnines, or something.'

She really has rather a negress look,' Sophy

admitted. perhaps lier mother may have been
one ?'

I dare say answered the cynic ; ' but we don't ask
any questions about mothers.'

Oh, no, of course not ! ' rejoined Sophy, wincing.

There's something very good-natured-looking about
her ; and she and Emily make a very pretty pair, one
being so fair and the other so dark.'

A very pretty pair, indeed! ' rejoined Miss Aspenall;

and what nice sisterly feelings we have one for another
! . . . Rosa Dupuis is always in love, too ; and
she's in love now with the same person as Emily, so
they're at daggers-drawn, and won't walk together,
after having been the most tremendous friends before,
always hugging and kissing each other. They slept in
the same room last half, and the little wretch Jenny
Jones, who slept there too, said it was terrible to see
their hatred.'

'I'm glad I've no quarrelsome girls in my room,*
said Sophy. ' It would be very unpleasant after being
used to be alone.'

Yes, it's very disagreeable having any one in one's
room,' returned Fanny. ' One does get to hate them
so!'

Sophy hastily changed the subject.

What is little Jenny Jones like?' she inquired.

She seems a pretty, merry-looking little thing.'

She's a little beast ! ' answered Miss Aspenall, ' as
you'll find out all in good time. She's the youngest of
the elder lot ; and " the Dragon " makes use of her asa
sort of spy and " sandwich." When Emily and Rosa
were too friendly, she was put into their room to make
a third, and to prevent them from always talking about
their ridiculous love-affairs. Afterwards, she was put

or

there so that they oughtn't tear one another to pieces.
Do look at them now ! Their lockers are close together
; and it's the greatest fun to watch them at
prayers. "When they read their verse they have to
look over the same Bible, and one hobbles it about, and
jerks it up and down, to prevent the other from
reading properly. It's as good as a play ! '

I didn't think,' said Sophy, looking distressed,

that there could be such jealousies and quae rolling ina
school. It must be quite as bad as the outer world ;
and yet, one would think that when a lot of innocent
young girls got together. . . .'

That's just it ! ' interrupted Fanny, sardonically.

It's because we are so young and so innocent ! If we
weventf we should have other things to think about ;
but as it is, all we can do is to quarrel and backbite.
What should we do if that was to be taken from us ? '

Still,' said Sophy, ' I am disappointed. I didn't,
of course, expect everything to be perfect, but I thought
there would be something good. I thought Emily
Spicer's bed looked so nice, with all her treasures
pinned up against it : I took it as a sign that she was
fond of her home and her relations. . . . Even if she
was vain, I thought she might have a kind heart. . . .'

That's all stuff and nonsense ! ' answered Miss
Aspenall, sharply. ' Old Spicer's house in the country's
bigger than most of the other girls' homes, or so she
thinks. He's just built it, and it's like a great hotel ;
and she sticks up the picture of her brother the Captain
because he's an officer, and she thinks he's so
handsome that we shall all die of love for him. When
he's in London she makes him drive down here in his
phaeton, and he takes her out in the Park, where she
says everybody stares at her. Miss Pendragon can't

refuse because he's her brother ; and he likes to come
dowTi, too, to make eyes at the pretty girls. He's sure
to make eyes at yoit because you're good-looking.
Once when I was practising in the drawing-room he
was shown in, and you should have seen his look when
he saw it was me ! . . . I made a face at him, and put
out my tongue. . . . It's all very disgusting and
beastly ! '

Fanny Aspenall ! ' exclaimed the stern voice of
Miss Pendragon, who at this moment entered the
schoolroom, ' how often am I to reprove you for the
very objectionable language you are constantly in the
habit of employing ? You lose your good-conduct mark
for to-day. I have no option in the matter. Fraulein'
(turning to the German governess  a pug-faced Hanoverian
lady, with a defective circulation), Still you
kindly see that Miss Aspenall is deprived of her
good-con duct mark for making use of objectionable
language ? ' 

Miss Pendragon passed on towards her reading-desk,
which was situated near to the place occupied by
Isabella Nethercliffe. All the girls rose from their
seats, as though at the passing of a Royal personage ;
and Sophy could not help feeling intensely awed by
this manifestation of respect, as well as by the clear
tones of her firm, reproving voice. Friiulein took her
seat upon Miss Pendragon's right hand ; and after the
household servants  all of them females  had settled
themselves upon a further bench, the schoolmistress
cleared her throat and commenced reading prayers.

Chapter III.

When Sophy had been for about a fortnight at * The
Cedars,' and when she was just beginning to become
accustomed to habits of discipline, Miss Pendragon
came towards her one morning with a letter in her
hand. It was written upon thick bluish paper, ' like
officers' paper,' and she at once perceived that it was
from Tom Hickathrift. She also perceived that it had
been opened. She had omitted to tell him, in the
hurry of departure, that her letters would be overlooked,
and the dear, foolish, faithful creature, had no
doubt written her one of his absurd love-letters.

Here is a letter for you, Sophia,' said Miss Pendragon,
with marked sternness. ' Following a long-established
custom, I invariably open and overlook all
written communications, except those from the parents
of the young ladies. This one, I find, is from a gcntlc-
oman. I am unable to decipher the signature, but I do not
fancy, from its tone, that it can be from that person  a
baronet  mentioned to me by your aunt in a letter asa
gentleman with whom you might correspond, as he
was engaged in arranging business matters connected
with your late father's property. This is evidently
from a j'oung man, and there does not seem to be much
question of business in it.'

Sophy took the letter, suffused with blushes.

Yes, it is from Sir Thomas Hickathrift,' she explained
eagerly. ' He's my near neighbour and guardian ;
and he is young ; and he doesn't always know how to
spell very hard words : but he's a most true friend.'

Miss Pendragon looked a little uneasy ; but the
frank manner with which Sophy at once began to im-fold
the letter and devour its contents, disarmed her

for the moment, and she moved away in her rustling
silk-dress to another part of the schoolroom. The
letter was, as Sophy had at once anticipated, full of the
writer's own personal feelings  his doubts, his fears,
his aspirations. He wrote of his sadness and loneliness
since her departure ; of the monotony of his country
home now that there was no chance of his falling in
with her during his walks or rides ; of his desire to distinguish
himself, in order to become, perhaps, more
worthy of her affection ; of his intention to seek election
at the next dissolution of Parliament ; and finally, he
returned to the subject nearest his heart: 

I know that you fancy,' he wrote innocently, in conclusion,
' that I haven't ever been up to London or seen life ;
but I have, without your knowing it, and without even saying
anything to my mother. I've been in London sometimes for
more than a week at a time ; and I've been to parties, and
balls, and to the play, and I've seen girls of all sorts. Welland
they're none of them anything as nice or as pretty as you*
are. There's not one of them, dearest, dearest Sophy, fit todo
one of the two things I should like to do at this moment,
viz. to black your boots. As for the other thing, I think you
can guess well enough what that is, without my telling you !
It begins with a K.'

Sophy was very sorry, indeed, that Miss Pendragon
should have read these foolish words. They would give
her quite a wrong impression of the young man, she
thought. Poor Tom was certainly not one of those
heaven-born geniuses who would cause the name of
Hickathrift to re-echo from pole to pole, but he was
possessed of very good common sense, and his letters to
her were by far the most foolish things he ever perpetrated.
It was well known that he very seldom .did
a foolish thing, and he as seldom spoke foolishly, whilst

his opinion, upon some subjects,  like that of his father
before him,  was beginning to assume ' weight ' in the
county. True, these said subjects were, perhaps, none
of the most exalted, springing into being, maybe, at
h)cal horse-fairs and agricultural meetings, where no one
was deemed a better judge than 'theyoung Sir Tummus *
of a cart-horse or a mangold- wurzel ; but then he had
never taken the trouble to comprehend more important
matters. And, indeed, one of the chief reasons why
persons possessed only of average intelligences so seldom
seem to make themselves publicly ridiculous, ma"" be
owing to the fact that a secret consciousness of their
own mediocrity prevents them from venturing upon
what proves, but too often, the prelude to a failure,
namely, the striving after a success.

Tom Hickathrift, however, was going to strive after
a success ere long. He was going to endeavour to get
into Parliament.

On the wrong side of course,' Sojhy said to herself,
remembering the political traditions of the Abbey ; and
she began considering whether she might hope for his
election without doing violence to her conscience.

Besides this allusion to his future intention, there
was only one other mention of business in Tom's letter,
and this was calculated to wound her tenderest susceptibilities.
Mrs. St. Clair had written to him to say that
she had been advised to let Little Stillingfleet, and had
begged him to be kind enough to look out for a tenant
at once ; since, if this was not done immediately, it
would hardly be worth while to let it at all, seeing that
Sophy was just eighteen, and that no one would be
likely to burden himself with the house and farm, unless
he could be sure of occupying it at least until she
attained her majority. Tom knew of a yeoman-farmer

who would be likely to take it, lie thought ; and
he had promised to write to him upon the subject, but
he was sorry about it, feeling how much it would probably
vex her. He had raised no objection, thinking
it would be for her eventual benefit. When he knew
more he would write again.

Sophy pondered sadly over this piece of news as she
passed through the large schoolroom into a smaller
apartment beyond, where the elder girls were preparing
their exercises out of the way of the babble of the
juniors, whilst awaiting the coming of the master for
arithmetic, algebra, and geometry. The great blackboard,
on its easel, was all ready, but the elder pupils
did not receive their lesson until after the little girls
were disposed of, so that they had now a clear half hour
to prepare for the other classes.

I say, look here, you ! ' Fanny Aspenall called out
as she passed by her to take her place at the long table.

Come and help me with my '' general knowledge.' 
You've got more useless information than any one I
ever came across before, so perhaps you'll be able to
answer some of these idiotic questions. This is the first :
*' Tell me all you know of Lucas of Tuy and of Frederic
of Toledo ?" Horrid creatures ! whoever were they?'

I believe that they were somehow mixed up with
the Cid Campeador,' answered Sophy, rather vaguely.

'And who on earth was he? asked Family contemptuously.


 Done you know, Miss Aspenall?' said Isabella,
who 'knew everything,' looking up from her exercise,
as though pained and surprised.

'No, / done know, Miss Nethercliffe ! ' returned
Fanny, mockingly. ' And what's more, / dour care V

Then I shall certainly not tell you, Miss Aspenall ! *

said Isabella majestically, and sho recommenced writing.
She was composing rather an elaborate essay upon the
complex nature of Hamlet's insanity, which was to be
given in, next day, to Mr. Heathcote, and she soon appeared
to lose all consciousness of the ignorant creatures
by whom sho was surrounded,

I don't believe she knows herself ! * whispered little
Jenny Jones, to whom nothing was sacred. * Miss
Nethercliffe's dreadfully disappointing ; one fancies
she's going to tell one something, and she never does,
and yet she knows everything ! '

What's the good of her knowledge, you little nincompoop,'
retorted Fanny scornfully, ' if she never lets
any of it out for the benefit of we inferior creatures ?
It's just like looking at the outside of a hamper, full
of good things, that won't open. What's the use of
knowing that they're all inside ? '

Or like taking out a pencil, to write something in
one's Prayer-book in church, and finding that it's a
s/rie-pencil ! ' suggested the intelligent Miss Jones.

Well, now for the next question ! ' Miss Aspenall
went on, with increasing acrimony. * Look here ! . . .
Of whom were the brazen-footed bulls, which were
given to fetes, king of Colchis, the gift?" . . . Who
knows? Who cares? Miss NetherclifPe I'm sure
doesn't even know! . . . And /, who was sent hereat
great expense by my uncle, who is a clergyman, to
learn really useful and practical things, which would
get me on in after-life ! . . . Bother the beastly brazen-footed
bulls of the still healthier King of Colchis ! Why
shoidd they rise up to torture us poor girls ?'

Miss Nethercliffe, catching these last words, looked
up again from her essay.

Miss Aspenall and Miss St. Clair ! ' she exclaimed

imploringly, ' if, instead of desiring to improve your
hinds, you care only to clatter, may I beg you not to
disturb others who are more conscientious ? We arc
given this half-hour in order to prepare our papers for
tomorrow, and /, for one, am anxious to take advantage
of it.'

Sophy winced somewhat sit being thus associated
with Fanny Aspenall, who was evidently looked upon
by Miss Nethercliffe as a kind of pariah. She took her
place, however, obediently, understanding and sympathising
with Isabella's displeasure. But the pariah
would not leave her in peace.

Look here, Miss St. Clair ! ' she recommenced. * I
believe you are quite as clever as Miss Nethercliffe,
and you're not stuck up, and don't talk to one out of a
top-window. Here's the next question : " Describe,
scientifically, what is comprehended by the term
measly pork.' " . I don't suppose. Miss JSTether-
cliffs, that your ladyship ever tasted the flesh of a pooii
little humble piggy-wiggy, even when he hadn't the
measles ; but if you know anything about it '* scientifically
you really might throw down a few crumbs out
of your vast treasury of knowledge to a poor starving
creature like me ! . . . What am I to do, if I can't
answer one question ? . . . You might tell me, just for
the sake of the tone of the school ! '

Miss Nethercliffe did not condescend to reply, and
Fanny continued, 

Bless me ! what crass ignorance amongst the upper
girls ! And now, I'll be bound, not one of you will be
able to answer the fourth question either : " Give an
account of the geological formations underlying the
principal portions of the beds of the Thames, the
Ganges, and the Mississippi." . . . No answer. . . .WcU,
Miss Nethercliffe, I am ashamed of you ! '

Sophy's sympathies were entirely with Isabella ;
but, as Miss Aspeiiall had predicted, that young lady
had hardly addressed her once since her arrival at ' The
Cedars ; ' and then, to say the truth, in rather what
Fanny had designated a ' top-window ' kind of a manner.
Any open display of her sentiments, therefore,
would have seemed like disloyalty to Miss Aspenall,
who, notwithstanding her inveterate misanthropy, was,
to all appearance, well disposed towards herself.

She had not been very long in discovering that, at
Miss Pendragon's establishment, there were two distinct
sets or parties ; namely, the party representing
order and the fulfilment of duty, and that which, holding
these in abhorrence, took pleasure in idleness, obstruction,
and insubordination. Too late, also, she
discovered that it was "smith this last faction she had
become identified. How it happened, she did not
exactly know. Her natural impulse, upon her arrival,
had certainly been to prefer Miss Pendragon to
most of her pupils. Fanny Aspenall, however, and the
rest of the obstructionists, had scouted the notion that
sympathy or affection could possibly exist between
themselves and their preceptress.

I tell 5ou it can he, you sentimental stupid ! '
Miss Aspenall had declared. * Old Pen's not made of
flesh and blood like us miserable sinners ! She's not
troubled with a heart, bless you ! And if we were all
laid out on our backs, like these two earwigs I've just
squashed in my copybook, she'd no more care than the
man in the moon ! She's a tcaching-macJiinc, and she
knows it, and doesn't expect to be liked. We come,
and we go ; and marry and die ; and go out to India ;
and new generations of us crop up, and she goes on
just the same, and doesn't care one bit, so long as she's

paid ! Can't you tell by her ha)ich that she isn't human
? They're quite white  just like things pickled
in a bottle. Look at the difference between her hands
and mine ! All the Aspenalls have large, honest, bread-winning
hands, with chilblains on them in winter :
it's in our family ! '

So spoke Mephistopheles in the person of Fanny
Aspenall, and something of what she said remained
engraved upon Sophy's sensitive mind. She regretted
that she could not be upon affectionate, or ey en friends,
terms with her instructress ; but, as it seemed impossible
to go against all tradition, she resolved to accept the
inevitable, although she hungered and thirsted more
and more every day for that congenial companionship
which it seemed so difficult to obtain, even amongst
persons of her own age and sex.

And here, perhaps, it will be as well to give a
defined account of the two conflicting parties at ' The
Cedars,' commencing with that from which Sophy now
began to fear that she was permanently excluded.

The Higher Culture, then, was represented by four
young ladies, the first of whom, standing, as she did,
alone, by reason of her superior endowments, has
already been presented to the reader. Next to Miss
Nethercliffe in advancement, though differing from her
in every other respect, were grouped three learned
damsels  of Yere mature age, when considered as
schoolgirls  who, having either tasted of the world's
sweets and found them bitterness, or else, by reason of
their appearance and temperament, not having thought
it worth while even to nibble at them at all, had wisely
taken up the pursuit of knowledge instead of that of
pleasure, and flown to ' The Cedars' as to an oasis in the
midst of a howling wilderness.

or

These younpf persons, who were primed respectively
Miss Goad, liifs Griibbe, and Miss Prov, could not be
said correctly to have been sent to school. They had,
properly speaking  two of them being considerably
over one-and-twenty  went themselves from a genuine
thirst after book-learning and a distaste to their
pleasure-seeking fellows ; and this (as Fanny Aspenall
used to say, with some truth) made the greatest
difference to the way in which they performed their
tasks. They learned eagerly, jealously, rapaciously,
absorbing information from every possible source
within their reach, anxious lest they should bo cheated
by the merest particle of it escaping them, and only
dropping off" from a subject, like gorged vultures, when
they had thoroughly picked it to the bone. Learning
did not, however, appear to make them happier, nor
were they inspired with enthusiasm for any particular
branch of it. It is probable that, once their brains had
absorbed a certain amount of information, a crystallising
process set in, by which they were prevented
from taking in ordinary impressions or giving out a
natural sympathy. All three of them were constitutionally
delicate and unlovely in appearance. Miss
Grubbe was dwarfish and slightly humpbacked ; Miss
Probe had lost the sight of one eye, and wore blue
spectacles ; and Miss Goad, though tall and angular,
walked lame, and had one of her ankles in irons.
Like the three Fates, these young ladies generally
hung together, occupying adjacent lockers during
class time, where they might be seen poring over one
another's propositions, or wrangling for the possession
of keys and dictionaries. No affection existed between
them ; but as they were scarcely feminine enough to
quarrel, the other girls used to class them together in

conversation, and even Miss Notlierclift'o, believing
their interests to be identical, seldom mentioned their
names apart.

according to the system of classification expounded
by Dr. Dyer, Emily Spicer, llosa Dupuis, and little
Jenny Jones, might also be said to form a distinctive
group All three were pleasure-loving, task-eluding,
vain  esteeming fine raiment far above wisdom, whilst
each one of them would have devoured any number of
three-cornered tarts, if (as at Miss Pinkerton's celebrated
establishment) there had been the slightest
chance of discovering even the shortest of love-letters.
Very women, from the tops of their * back-combs ' to
the tips of their pretty little shoes, they were probably
made of about as good stuff as are the majority of the
daughters of Albion ; capabilities for devotion and
self-sacrifice underlying, perhaps, in a dormant state,
their butterfly natures, ready to start forth into life
for husband or children when the occasion should
require.

The atoms composing the faction generally alluded
to as ' the little ones,' presented, also, so many points
of resemblance one to another, that it was impossible
not to regard them rii hoc,  a row of some half-dozen
little girls, who sat on a lower form, whispering aud
giggling rather more frequently than their elders, and
who seemed to possess an extraordinary instinct for
sniffing the coming hamper, and toasting, in consequence,
its fortunate owner. Most of them wore
their hair hanging in plaited ' pig-tails,' or in ringlets
all the way round, instead of being gathered up at the
back with a comb ; and as none had been promoted to
grown-up dresses,' the spectator had the privilege of
beholding their shoes, which were generally down at

vol,. III. 1)

liccl, in order that tlioy Tni<jlit bo more easily kicked
off during class time, and caught again upon the point
of the toe.

They're nasty little things,' the misanthropic
Fanny had remarked, speaking to Sophy of these
children ; 'but it's just as well to keep in with them.
Some of them are very good at sums ; and for a small
return you can get them to do a thing or two for you
now and then. On Sundays, too, when we have to
repeat the Collect, you need never learn it if you just
write it out upon the clean collar of one of these little
brutes, and then get her to stand in front of you.
They're most of them going to stay on here for sometime,
so Miss P. is anxious to conciliate them.*

To Fanny Aspenall, Miss Jacintha Darlington 
the poetess of the school, a spare, sad-eyed, long-nosed
young lady, boiling over with sentiment  and to
Sophy herself, the ' grouping ' system did not so
satisfactorily apply, as, by reason of a marked individuality,
they stood out more after the manner of
ti/pes, or perhaps even of * morbid varieties;' and it
was probably with these original specimens that Miss
Pendragon experienced the most difficulty when desiring
to govern them by laws and edicts which had been
established upon abstract principles for the guidance of
the nonentities. The vain, frivolous, idle portion of
the community, seemed to have fastened themselves onto
Sophy quite spontaneously, without any encouragement
on her part, as though in obedience to the same
law which compels the smaller bubbles in a teacups to
float immediately in the direction of the larger ones.

They had begun after the following fashion : On
the second day after her arrival, as soon as morning
prayers wore over, Emily Spicer, Posa Dupuis, and little

Miss Jones, came smiling towards her. In their hands
they each held a small memorandum-book, to which a
pencil was attached. Fanny, after the manner of * the
Aspenalls,' was holding aloof, laughing sardonically.
Emily's little pocket-book was by far the prettiest.

This pencil-case is real golden she said, holding it up
for Sophy's admiration ; ' and these are real turquoises.
My pocket-book cost five pounds ; it was given me by
my brother Fred, who is an officer, and splendidly
handsome. Are you engaged. Miss St. Clair ?'

Sophy looked at first rather surprised, imagining
that Miss Spicer was desirous of prying into her private
history. Fanny Aspenall condescended to come forward
and explain.

She wants to know if you'll walk out with her one
day ; she doesn't mean anything to do with marriage.
We all walk out here two and two, and write our engagements
down in a book. Once the names are
entered, with the days, woe unto you if you happen to
forget, and to walk with Miss Spicer on the day when
you're pledged to Miss Dupuis ! It's looked upon as a
sort of bigamy if you break your word, and you'll be
punished for it as long as you stay here. It's a beastly
custom ! '

Beastly ' or not, it was the custom of the school,
and by reason of it Sophy found that she had bound
herself irrevocably to walk with Emily Spicer upon
Mondays and Thursdays, with Rosa Dupuis upon Tuesdays
and Fridays, with little Jenny Jones upon Wednesdays
and Saturdays.

And you'd better secure me whilst j'ou can, for
your Sundays,' Fanny Aspenall had chimed in. * Wonderful
to say, I'm still in the market ; and as I'm a
nice, sensible young woman, with sound religious principles,

I'm a very desirable eonipanloii for the Sabbath,
as Miss Nethereliffe, there, will tell you, though she's
never had the good taste to try me herself ! '

Isabella, as it happened, was passing through the
schoolroom at this moment, but she was apparently
deeply engrossed in a book, from which she only lifted
her beautiful ejes for one instant. They lighted ujwn
Sophy, who perceived an expression very lice compassion
in her glance; and she again wished that Miss
NetherclifPe could have stooped from her great height
to become her friend.

The mental and moral shortcomings of Emily, Rosa,
and little Jenny Jones, began soon to re'eul themselves
painfully during the enforced companionship of the
afternoon walk. In the morning the girls were permitted
to wander about for an hour at will in the old-fashioned
garden at the back of the house, and they
only issued once a-day through the massive iron
gateways which separated it from the outer world.
Subjected to a process of concentration, after the
manner of a Liebig lozenge, Miss Emily Spicer's conversation,
on Mondays and Thursdays, consisted principally
of a series of disparaging remarks directed
against ]\Iiss Rosa Dupuis, who, upon Tuesdays and
Fridays, was enabled to retaliate after the same fashion,
at the expense of her hated rival ; whilst the lively
prattle of little Miss Jones, upon Wednesdays and
Saturdays, seemed often to jar even more discordantly
upon poor Sophy's saddened mood. Her Sunday companion
was, on the whole, less insipid. Fanny Aspenall
amused her, notwithstanding her inveterate pessimism ;
but still she could not help often regretting that she
had thus made her choice, and filled up all her days before
she had tested more thoroughly the capabilities of
her so-called friends.

You wish to get rid of us now, I can see that,'
Fanny said to her one day, after she had tried her
walkiiig'-companions in the balance and found them
Wanting. * You would like to be free to walk with
who you chose, to toady the blue stockings, and nibble
at the Higher Culture ! But we're like vampires  ha,
ha !  We'll cling to you for ever and suck your brains !
Poor little wretch ! you belong to us now, body and soul,
and we mean to stick to you ! '

And in imitation of the supposed deportment of a
vampire, Miss Aspenall rolled her eyes hideously, and
began clawing at an imaginary victim with her large
red-listened hands.

This is where I put out my tongue at Captain
Spicer,' she said by-and-by, as though reminded by her
grimaces of the grimaces of the past. ' Emily expects
him down either to-day or tomorrow. He came w.i to
London yesterday to see his tailor  observe, his every
movement is known to me ! If he sees you, I expect
he'll be always here. Perhaps you'll fall in love with
each other. I should think you were one of those girls
who tumble in love at first sight, and go about ever
afterwards with your eyes turned up like a dying duck
in a thunderstorm ! '

As she said this, she leered cunningly with her small
faded eyes. She was probably thinking of the letters
in the tortoiseshell workbox, which had been perused
bj Miss Jones. Sophy smiled sadly, heaving a little
sigh. Had she made answer, saying all that was in her
mind  what love really seemed to her, and what the
dread of love's loss  her companion, she fancied, would
have understood her about as much as though she had
discoursed in Hebrew !

They wore standing near the chimney piece in the

large drawing room, which, being prettily and comfortably
furnished, seemed like an abode of real luxury
after the cari)etle.ss schoolroom, with its bare walls and
wooden forms. There were plenty of soft arm-chairs
and cushions  several of which had been embroidered
by pupils who had emerged into the outer world, as
parting presents to their preceptress  a nice, warm carpet,
and a fluffy hearth rug in front of the fire, which
was blazing brightly.

The two girls had been warming their cold fingers
before this fire. Sophy had just relieved Fanny As-penal,
who had finished her practising  for, now and
then, it came round to the turn of each young lady to
practise in this state-apartment  but she had not yet
unpacked her music. Both girls held a portfolio under
one arm. After toasting her hands and feet for a few
minutes, Fanny went to the centre table, and commenced
turning over the books, and looking at the
visitors' cards in the card-basket.

Do you see that great book ? ' she asked, calling
her companion's attention to a formidable - looking
volume, something like a photograph-book, which reposed
upon a chenille mat opposite to a large Bible,
fringed with gaudy book-markers. ' That's an awful
and terrible volume. It's a sort of Doomsday Book ;
all our names are written down in it, with the dates of
when we come, when we go, who we marry, and when
we die. Your namely be written down, some day,
amongst the S's.' And she began again to assume the
objectionable behaviour of a vampire. Sophy glanced
down at the book with interest, whilst Fanny turned
over the heavy leaves. ' You can read all the names of
the old girls,' she went on, sand a nasty, strait-laced,,
plain-headed lot they were, I should think ; for, yon

sec, very few of tlicm seem to marry, and when they
do, it's generally curates, or doctors, or civil engineers.
Ah, this one's just married a general ; but I dare say
he's very old  a snuffy old thing, I should think, with
a coloured pocket-handkerchief.' And she continued
turning over the leaves.

Now we come to the awful page,' she said at length.

Look here ! doesn't this '' freeze your young blood,
and make each particular hair stand on end"?

Sophy glanced down at the page, and read, under
the initial * F,' the following words, in Miss Pendragon's
clear, legible handwriting : 

Constance Helen Fotheringham, received at the Cedars,
Easter, 1830; expelled Midsummer, 1831, for objectionable
conversation and behaviour

What a terrible disgrace for her ! ' exclaimed
Sophy, looking compassionately at the name of the

old girl.' * I wonder what she did to deserve it ? '*

Something horrible, I should think ; though I don't
suppose she forged, or murdered, or stole jam ; but the
whole thing's wrapped up in mystery and the oblivion
of the past ! . It happened ever so many years ago.
The old gardener (who's dead now) said she was very
pretty, and that she used to wander about, and gather
the flowers, and cry. In the Middle Ages, I dare say
they would have walled her up I '

How dreads ulla' sad ! . . . And afterwards, did
she marry any one, I wonder?'

*If she did,' replied Miss Aspenall, 'her marriage
isn't recorded. But I shouldn't think cwpcUcd girls ever
married. Most likely she died in the workhouse, or
came to some horrible end. Take warning by her fate,
Sophia St. Clair, and don't you go and fall in love with

or

Captain spice, oi" allow lilni lo inak( slieoi)'.s eyes at
you ! '

How silly you arc about Captain Sjnccr ! '
'Well, don't i/oK be silly about him yourself! I
wonder bow this would look ?  I feel really half inclined
to add it in : *' Sophia St. Clair, received at the
Cedars after the Christmas vacation, 1889 ; married,
Midsummer of the same year, Captain frederick Augustus
Spicer, of the 8th Dragoon Guards." A military
name would look so well coming after the doctor's ! '

How absurd you are, Fanny ! '

Or perhaps,' continued ]\Iiss Aspcnall, making a
feint of seizing upon a penholder, * I had better write
this, which, it seems to me, is quite as likely to happen :
"Sophia St. Clair, &c. &c.; walled ifp, March, 1839
(about a fortnight hence), for making eyes at Captain
Frederick Augustus Spicer, and receiving love-letters
from him, wrapped up in raspberry tarts." Hundreds
of sears hence somebody will come upon your skeleton,
with these words pinned on to it ! '

Sophy could not repress a smile. Somebody" else,
close b}, joined in the laugh. It was little Jenny
Jones, who, unperceived, had popped her head in at
the door.

How funny j'ou are, Miss Aspcnall ! ' she exclaimed.
How you do make one die of laughter, to be sure ! '

Now then, little torment, Avhat do f/on want ? '
Miss Aspcnall demanded, as though not caring particularly
to seem funu} to an inferior. 'Listening at
doors and prying through keyhole, as usual ? '

Oh, if 3'ou please. Miss Aspcnall,' answered the little
girl, apologetically, *as I was going through the parlour
just now, I saw two letters for Miss St. Clair lying on
the table; and one had a pretty little picture on it

instead of a seal, with a kind of old gateway in white,
upon a black sky; and the other was a thick letter, that,
looked as if it came from abroad. And may I have the
little picture of the old gateway, if you please. Miss
St. Clair, for my collection, as soon as you've read your
letter?'

A few minutes afterwards the 'little torment' had
slipped downstairs again to Miss Pendragon's sanctum.

Oh, if you please. Miss Pendragon,' she began, in
her pleading infantine tones, 'may I go and practise
up in the drawing-room to-day, where there's a fire, as
my hands are so cold that I don't know Stow I shall be
able to play my new *' Tarantella" in one of the bedrooms
? Fannj Aspenall and Sophy St. Clair aren't
practising. They're turning over the books, and looking
at themselves in the glass, and warming their feet,
and talking about marrying Captain Spicer.'

Another foolish letter from poor dear Tom ! '
thought Soph', with vexation, when she heard of the
little picture' instead of a seal, for most of the Hicks
note-paper was embellished with a miniature
representation of the Abbey gateway, embossed in white
on a black or blue ground ; but as to the * thick letter,
that looked as if it came from abroad,' she dared not
even own to herself what wild hopes were aroused
in her breast at the thought of whom it might possibly
be from.

Charter IV.

Ava. Sophy's anxious heart-beatings, however, were
dispelled, ere long, by the entrance of Miss Pendragon
with the two letters. Her whole aspect was cold, stern,
and unfriendly. Soph' wondered how she could ever

have thought it possible that she could like her, or
imagine that a love-story was connected with her
trumpery mourning-ring with the seed pearls.

You can leave the room, Miss Aspenall,' she said,
indicating the door ; and she then handed the letters to
Sophy, remaining in the room herself.

As Sophy had conjectured, one letter wis from Tom
Ilickathrift ; the other was not, alas! from Godfrey, hut
from the Great Prophet, and it certainly spoke volumes
in favour of the omniscience of the Cause to which he
was attached, that some one of its disciples should have
been enabled to furnish him with her present address.
It had always been impressed upon her, however, that
the tortuous, though invisible, ramifications of this
mysterious scheme, extended in all sorts of unsuspected
directions, the * wire-pullers,' * scene-shifters,' and
stage - carpenters,' being equally qualified for the
blandishments of a court or the drudgery of a kitchen ;
and it did not, therefore, seem altogether unnatural to
suppose, considering how enthusiastically Francis St.
Clair had laboured towards the furtherance of its
tenets, that one of these should have been told off to
keep an eye upon his daughter.

Only in this way, at least, could Sophy explain the
arrival of the letter at 'The Cedars.' Both epistles had
been opened, and the 'little picture' was ruthlessly
mutilated. To Miss Pendragon, in spite of her erudition,
that of the Great Prophet must have been what is
vulgarly termed 'a puzzler.' It was of exceeding great
length and breadth, and ran as follows : 

My Daughter, Marvel not that I address you thus.
Human relationship and human ties of blood are of the body
only ; you are my daughter in the Spirit ; ages upon ages
ago, your thinking part was born from mine, so it always

has been, so it always will be. Action is the child of Soul,
and the Prophetess is the daughter of the Sage's thought.

These things must no longer be mysterious unto you.
Hitherto we have not expounded them, for the brain of the
growing child could not bear them. Now you have attained
development, you must be submitted to the test, in order
that it may be known whether you are a degenerate outcast,
or whether you shall be accomplished, in this your
present existence, which all these long ages have been
labouring to bring forth.

'Know then, that the Great Struggle of millions of
cycles is now approaching its final conflict and its termination.
No one can be neutral now ; you must cast in your lot
with the one side or the other, for in this Struggle, apathy,
frivolity, inertness, or love of pleasure or applause, are the
chiefs leaders of the Host of the Enemy ; and if you are
enslaved by any of these, you become a follower of the
basest and meanest of the powers of Evil.

And now, would you learn what this Warfare is, and
when it commenced '? .! tell you that you may number
the leaves of the trees, the sands of the seashore, and the
stars in heaven, more easily than you could count the centuries
back to the time when it began ! But I will give
you an Epoch, which the oldest of the Veda commemorates.
.

After an Eternity had passed, there came the Gift of
God from Brahm ; until then there had been Silence. That
Gift was Speech. But this Speech was twofold. It included
Truth ; likewise, it included Untruth. Now the Surs and
the Assure (the Gods and the Demons) equally employed
speech ; therefore the Gods and the Demons became' alike.
But the Surs left Untruth and betook themselves to Truth ;
and the Assure left Truth and betook themselves to Untruth
; and Truth said, " When I lived with the Assure, the
Gods left Untruth and betook themselves to Truth, therefore
I will go to the Surs." So, likewise, spake Untruth on his

part, and betook himself to the Assure. Thus, all that the
Sure spake was truth, and all that the Assure spake was
untruth. But the Surs, who spake nothiuj but truth,
became apparently less strong and less prosperous. Hence,
whosoever speaks nothing but truth becomes, also, apparently
less strong and less prosperous ; but assuredly in the
end he will prevail, for in the end the (Nods will overcome
the Demons. So, likewise, he that speaks nothing but \\\\-
truth shall apparently become more strong and more prosperous
; but in the end he shall be confounded, as the
Assure also shall be confounded. Thus it has been from the
beginning, and this is the great underlying Verity of all the
Creeds. The Zcndavesta declares the undying warfare between
Ormazd and Ahrimdn, wherein the Eons of Light
shall battle perpetually with the Powers of Darkness, apparently
in vain, but destined to overcome at the last. This
is the Jewish trial of Job by Satan  the Christian belief in
the temporary triumph of Antichrist. This, in the earliest
and latest of creeds, Islam, is the subjugation of all but the
faithful few by Dedjal, and their persecution, until the hour
when that impersonation of all evil shall meet with his final
overthrow in the Great Battle.

Now has the moment come for you to decide in whose
host you will range yourself! Will you be an apostate to
those Spirits from whom you have derived your being, or arc
you ready to come forward and be purified by trial 1 It is
not now the wild-beast of the arena, as in the times of the
virgin-martyrs of nineteen hundred j'ears ago, nor the
earthly flames which consumed Joan of Arc after her brief
career. The Encni}' changes his weapons and his warfare,
as Time passes on. Bodily torture is .not a powerful enough
implement for him now, and his endeavour is, by subtle
craft, to pervert, to enchain, and to enslave the soul.

There have been countless battles betwixt Sur and
Assur, and now the victory has inclined to the one side  
now to the other.

'The Assure triumphed when, with physical force of conquering
hordes, they overran the plains of Hindustan, and
made the obscene worship of Siva, and the incarnate sanctity
of the Brahmin, lord over the pure doctrine of the yet uncorrupted
Veda. For a time only, the just Buddha swayed
the balance to the other side. Then, again, the Assure
triumphed ; and there followed the days of the Assur or
Assyrian monarchy, when (as the Hebrew books will tell
you) the Great empire of Babylon set up the Golden Image
before which the whole earth was compelled to bow down,
and whose one article of Faith was, "There is no God hut the
Kinr/.''

'This, the champion of the Surs, Cyrus the Mede, overthrew,
when he established the monarchy, whose principle it
was that even the King could not set aside the Law or the
Decree. Then, when his successors (being idolatrous fire-worshippers)
became corrupted, there followed the Macedonian
with his claims to Godhead ; and his successors, who
persecuted the Hebrew race because they would not submit
to worship them; last of all came the Caesar, who pretended
to be divinities upon earth. . . .

'These were the triumphs of the Assure. Afterwards, in
later times, as Buddhism has been overthrown, in one
region, by the success of the Brahminical Assure, and has, in
another, perverted nigh half the human race to a godless,
lifeless, system of priestcraft, so, also, has Christianity, by
the separation of its precepts from its practice, been transformed
into a curse instead of a blessing, energetic only
in its persecution of Musicians, who still hold to the
Truth. . . .

I write these things to you in order that you may not
hesitate upon which side to range yourself; for the Struggle
becomes more terrible than ever as we approach towards the
end.

Know this, thercfoi'c, that Untruth, and that which is
worse than Untruth  fallacy, wrong judgment, false thought.

confused speech, and bedimmed eyesight  now rule in the
world ; and I call upon you to be true to your own ancestral
Spirit, and to arise and do battle against them.

Few in numbers, and apparently feeble in power and
resource, are those of whom /  unworthy though I be  am
one of the leaders ; yet, as the Spirit of Truth is in us, we
possess this power ; it is given \nito us to know. We are
everywhere ; we discover all things ; and as in the human
frame one fragment alone is indestructible (as the Rabbis
say), and from the bone Luz, at the Day of Resurrection,
the whole body of man shall be reconstructed, so, when the
hour has come, to us  the nucleus  shall be gathered the
army to the battle. The Tartar hordes, wandering in the
mental darkness of Buddhism, and endangered and oppressed
on either side, still, at their camp-fires are chanting
the refrain, "Reveal thyself to us again, Timour ! " and,
when the hour has struck, a greater than Timour shall be
revealed ; and the men who first forged the horseshoe, the
stirrup, and the lance-head, and thus trampled the East, as
Attila, the Scourge of God, trampled the West, shall again
ride forth in the later days, conquering and to conquer. . . .
But this time  be it near, be it afar off  is not yet with us ;
and in the meantime we need workers in our cause. . . .
Above all, we need ivomen. This is a time when, for a
Priestess, we require not the mature prophetess of Delphi,
or the mail-clad maiden of Dombey, but a simple child-girl,
like unto yourself, my daughter, who dares to speak the
words of truth, and who can put aside all selfish wishes and
aspirations, and sacrifice her own feelings for the Great Cause.

One little proof I demand of you before your final
initiation. You are my chosen one ; but where my chosen
one is, the Enemy, who knows his danger, has a chosen one
ftlso. AVith prudence, however, he may be defeated.

By what the ignorant would speak of as a chance, you
arc thrown now in constant companionship with the daughter
of one who, by his actions, writings, and orations, has proved

himself an avowed enemy of the Great Cause. With this
child of our opponent you must form what the World and
its Prince would designate a friendship; but beware lest you
are betrayed by your earthly affections ! Throughout your
intercourse with her, you must have but one object in view
the triumph of the Great Cause, and the frustration of its
enemies. If you bear not this in mind, you are false to us,
find you will have fallen into the miserable heresy of the
Yczidis, who court favour with the Power of Evil only from
fear of him.

Isabella is the name of the maiden for whom you are
to pretend an affection. I charge you that you use your
intimacy with her for the good of the Cause ; and as a first
proof of this, I command you to obtain from her a copy of
the draft of that secret agreement, which her father (by
what the world would term an accident, but which the
Surs contrived) left amongst the notes of a speech, which
he desired his daughter to copy out for him before she
returned to your academy, and which is now, without
her knowledge, lying amongst the private papers in her
desk. I know that your spirit has hitherto been enrolled
amongst us ; that it will be so also in the future, I am well
assured ; for you cannot escape your destiny This is, not
to undergo either the feverish or the stagnant life of the
women of this age, upon whom the primeval curse still rests.
Their curse is, to desire and to serve ; it is your privilege 'to
be both a Priestess and a Prophetess ; to undergo, it maybe,
in this world, the dread fate of the murdered Cassandra,
but to rise afterwards to the fullest, highest, and noblest of
rewards ; to place your naked heel upon the neck of the
haughty and the strong, and to behold the accomplishment
of that sublime Scheme for which you laboured during your
pilgrimage on earth.'

Here ended the letter of the Great Prophet. That
of Sir Thomas Hickathrift was much shorter. It

fonucd a miirkod contrast to trio l*r()i)liet's, too, in
every other way. Sophy had not yet written to him,
and lie was therefore still inuiware that any eyes save
hers would peruse his words; and tins, no doubt, accounted
for the fact that some of them may have been a
little indiscreet. His letter ran thus: 

Mv DEAREST SoPHY,  Siuco 1 hist wrote, I find that
Baldwin  the farmer I told you of  won't take Stilliujeet,
lie says, on any account ; and he says others of his class feel
as he does about it. They object, he says, to the fact that
your poor father is buried in the garden, within sight
of the principal windows, fancying that the place may
have become haunted. I explained to him that it was
his own personal wish, vhich we couldn't avoid respecting,
particularly after we found that, on account of his
opinions, the parsons behaved in the disgusting way they
did ; but you know what an ignorant set we all are
about here ! However, as I feel sure you will dislike
the idea of its being let at all, I thought I would just
write and tell you that, at present, there don't seem
umch chance. I hope, dearest, I'm sure, that you're welland
happy. One would like to have had a letter, of
course ; but now that you're pursuing your studies, one
knows that you must be pressed for time. What they can
possibly find to teach thou is what I can't help wondering ;
for 1 should l)c puzzled to name anything that you don't
know already. T hope, dear, that they're all kind to you,
and that the old woman who keeps the school isn't a slave-driver,
and gives all the girls plenty to eat. I'd bet anything
that not one of them's half as pretty as you are! Poor
old Hornblower is dead ; we must look upon it as a happy
release for everybody. Good-bye, dearest Sophy. Send us a
line when you can ; and believe me to be, for ever and ever,
you's most faithfully and devotedly,

Thomas HiCKATHmFT.'

Will 5'ou have the goodness to explain the meaning
of these two extraordinary letters ? * Miss Pendragon
demanded, with a terrible sternness of manner.

I could explain them poor Sophy answered, hopelessly
; ' but it would take a very, very long time, and
afterwards, I don't believe you would be able to understand
! '

She said this in utter desperation, with no thought
as to whether her words would offend. The notion that
she was utterly and entirely misunderstood, weighed
heavily upon her spirit, and she was oppressed with a
sense of injustice, and of her personal inability to set
matters to rights. If the life of the world without,
resembled in any respect this new life of mental and
moral imprisonment, she knew that in such a world she
must pine and languish just as a country-raised plant
must pine and languish in the atmosphere of some
fever stricken city-court. If these unjust suspicions,
shallow friendships, and mean ambitions, were the
results of religion, of culture, of enlightenment, sh
felt that she would willingly forego the fruit of knowledge,
and return, once more, to the old, wild, happy,
pagan days that were gone by.

She knew now, though she had not known it then,
that, in this time of her innocency, all the earth had
seemed to her as an altar whereon to offer up perpetual
praise from her glad heart ; and the whole vault of
heaven like the eye of an ever-present and indulgent
God. Whence came the doubts, the fears, the 
self - questionings of these later and
darker days ? Whence, too, this feeling of interest
solitude and desolation, which, even amidst the babble
of her new schoolgirl friends, transformed the world
into a sort of Crusoe island ?

VOL. III. B

Was it because now that she was severed, as it
were, from every tie of earthly affection this same
religion of Reason, of Nature, of Humanity, had become,
on account of its very grandeur and impersonality, a
conception too vague and abstract to act as an anodyne
for real winds ?

r>uild thee more stately mansions, my soul,
As the swift seasons roll !
Leave thy low-vaulted past !
Let each new temple, nobler than the last,
Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast,
Till thou at length art free,
Leaving thine outgrown shell by Life's resting sea !'

Such, or some such, was the exalted language of
the dispensation under which she had imbibed her
spiritual impressions. Religion, like every other conception
possessed of vitality, was necessarily progressive
; and as the great fabric rose higher and higher
towards completeness, the props and scaffoldings, which
had sustained it at the outset, must be swept away,
lest they should impede the noble grandeur of the
whole. But it seemed to her, sometimes, as if the
temple was too noble, the dome almost too vast for
perfect contentment. She experienced, at times, an
irrepressible desire to stretch out her arms and encounter
Homethhuj ; to turn for consolation to a God
who, with human partiality, could bend down and minister
to the individual heart-aches of His creatures.

These thoughts, and many more, , passed through
her mind as she lay that night in her little white bed,
with no inclination to close her eyes. She felt very
lonely and forlorn, lying thus, wide awake, all through
the long night, in the great room where everything
was disposed in threes; and, almost unconscious.

she found herself murmuring a simple and rudimentary
prayer for guidance and protection to the old-fashioned
God of the sparrows. After repeating it, she began to
think of the dear, happy past life, with all its absurdities
and incongruities, and the tears came welling
into her eyes.

It seemed almost too sad to think that it should
have passed away utterly  never to return ! Surely,
surely, it would be far better if things that were
pleasant could go on for ever as they had begun, or
else that one had not been cursed with this fatal
faculty of retrospection ! The two miseries, combined,
caused pain which was scarcely to be endured; and
her tears flowed thick and fast in the narrow little
dimity bed.

If you go on snivelling like that, Sophy St. Clair
exclaimed the voice of Miss Aspenall, ' I shall be obliged
to let you feel the weight of my shoe ! It's quite impossible
for me to get my natural sleep.'

Poor Sophy had fancied that she was weeping vers
quietly and unostentatiously ; and although her pillow
was quite wet with her tears, she had not heard her
own sobs. She scarcely heard, either, Fanny Aspenall's
sharp-toned remonstrance. She was thinking of her
old home, her dead father, her absent lover, and of the
gray and white pigeons which had probably been
cooing and fluttering all day about the window of
the summer-room without missing her in the least.
!Numbed and deafened by despondency, she had become
oblivious of her actual surroundings ; and when
her ill-natured schoolfellow threw her slippers at her,
as she had threatened, she did not feel them, though
they were sent at her head with some violence.

UnSiTV of 

Chapter V.

All this while Godfrey had been pursuing his painful
investigations in Italy. Piecemeal, and in tattered
shreds, information was brought to him, now by one
person, now by another. Once or twice, he chanced
upon several consecutive links in the chain of evidence
just where he least expected to meet with them.
All through the hot summer months he worked on,
indefatigably ; possessing, bj way of aids to his
purpose, only a few dates, and the stray words let fall
by Pettigrew and Mrs. St. Clair upon the memorable
day when everything had become known to him.

Son of the murderer and the adulteress Pettigrew
had said to him ; and the echo of these terrible words
seemed never to have quitted him since, but to have
remained, ringing and surging in his ears, as he moved
about, pale and careworn, in the Italian sunlight.
Then, again, Mrs. St. Clair had said, 'We were at
Genoa, and we heard of you from a priest called Padre
Anselmo.' Pettigrew, also, had said, alluding to his
real father, * He murdered his brother.'

Who had murdered his brother in the neighbourhood
of Genoa some twenty-three or twenty-four
years ago? Who was this unfeeling mother  Were
pretty, but very bad, too '  who, for a sum of money,
had consented to part with her child ? and who, and
where, was the priest ' called Padre Anselmo,' who had
handed over the Italian infant to be adopted by the
English family ? Upon the solution of these problems
seemed to rest Godfrey's only chance of obtaining a
clue to any further particulars connected with his miserable
story.

Unlike most seekers after the truth, lie was not
buoyed up and encouraged by the hope of any real or
imaginary satisfaction, should success haply crown his
endeavours. Nay, it was only too probable that the
Truth he was pursuing would appear so black and
hideous when confronted, that most men would have
preferred to have left her in the depths of her hidden
well.

Godfrey, however, seemed to derive a grim satisfaction
from toiling for his bitter reward. It was as
though he considered it in the light of a retribution,
following deservedly upon his unjust tenure of luxury
and prosperity.

He had made Genoa his head quarters, treating it asa
centre, whence reconnoitring paths radiated in all
directions, for his plans of action were as intricate as
the meshes of the most experienced spider.

He had taken into his confidence  to a certain
extent  the good-natured, though incompetent, landlord
of the inn at Pegli ; that is to say, he had confided
to him that, for reasons best known to himself, he was
anxious to discover any traces of this tragical story
which might be remaining, and of the persons who had
once been connected with it ; and, after his own
-desultory fashion, the landlord was assisting him in his
search.

Sometimes Godfrey would walk over from Genoa
and dine with this hospitable well-wisher. He had
grown so gaunt and hungry by Reason of a self-imposed
asceticism, that he no longer despised either the greasy
soup or the castellated pasty with the half-Hedged
scavenger sparrows. Since the toppling down of his
unconsciously usurped fortunes, he made no effort to
appear respectable. He lived frugally  hoarding his

or

resources for his one objects  dressed like a mechanic
and avoided all places where he would have been likely
to fall in with English travellers. But, somehow,
respectability seemed to cling to him still, notwithstanding
his fallen fortunes and shabby clothes.

Cover yourselves, my good friends ! ' he used to say
to the peasants who saluted him in his walks ; ' I am
one of you.' But they only smiled incredulously
admiring the affable condescension of the ' Signore
Inf/lesp,' and saluted and respected him all the same.

At last, after he had been endeavouring to piece
together and reconcile the most conflicting evidence,
he chanced, quite unexpectedly, upon the very priest
for whom he was seeking. Through some newly-made
Italian friends this discover'' came to him. He had
long ceased to wonder at what we are wont to term
coincidences.' So many had befallen him since he
left England, and all of them had proved of so much
importance, that he felt more inclined to attribute them
to the workings of an organized, though undiscovered,
natural force, than to the purposeless vagaries of
chance.

Padre Anselmo Giubelei was now well stricken in
years, and confined to his arm-chair b} an incurable
complaint which had almost deprived him of the use of
his limbs. His mind, however, was not in the least
impaired, and, notwithstanding his sufferings, he was
exceedingly cheerful, passing his days contentedly in
the taking of snuff, the knitting of stockings, and the
uttering of pious ejaculations ; his only companion
being a tortoiseshell cat, which he addressed by the
name of 'Ubriacona.'

It is not necessary to describe the mingled emotions
that flooded Godfrey's whole being: at the discovery of

this important clue. It will be enough to relate the
story to which he listened with painful eagerness ; for
not one circumstance connected with it had faded from
the old priest's memory, and he appeared to be particularly
proud of the pah t he had played with regard to
the adoption of the child.

Some six-ands twenty years ago (he began), there
dwelt, in one of the suburbs of Genoa, two brothers 
twins  of the peasant class, who were named respectively
Pietro and Alexandre Santarelli. Notwithstanding
their twinship, they were singularly unlike, both
as regarded their persons and dispositions. Pietro, by
some moments the elder, was of a violent and determined
character, hot-tempered and high-courage, inspiring
fear rather than affection, even amongst his own rough
associates. Early in life he had embraced the sea as a
profession, and had worked as a sailor on board a
merchantman trading between Genoa and the West
Indies. Here he had seen strange sights, and mingled
with wild, lawless people, and he brought back with him,
to his native place, many curious mementos of his
foreign travels.

His personal appearance was not prepossessing.
Short, thick set, and singularly muscular, with tangled
beard and dark matted hair, he looked many years
older than his more comely brother 'Sandro (as he was
usually called), who was the very beau-ideal of a
picturesque young tiller of Southern soil. Folks, said,
it is true, that, in spite of his bright smile and soft
eyes, he would never make his way in the world as
his brother had done ; but he was a happy, good-natured
lad, for all that, popular with his neighbours,
and ardently beloved of the maidens.

Now, amongst these said maidens, there was one

or

who, for beauty and sprightliness, bore away tbc palm.
Her name was Mariuccia, and the Padre had known
her since she was quite a child. For some time
'Sandro, the younger brother, had paid his addresses
to her, and had been received with favour  people even
said that they were already betrothed  when Pietro
returned for good from his seafaring life, and settled
down in his old home. And now a very extraordinary
thing came to pass. Pietro Santarelli fell also in love
with Mariuccia ; and notwithstanding that she belonged
by rights to his brother, he, too, conimcnccd passing her
his court. At first, as was but natural, this fact
occasioned some scenes of anger and disagreement
between the two young men, particularly as, to the
astonishment of everybody, Mariuccia did not at once
repulse the less amiable of her suitors. By-and-by,
however, the easy-going nature of 'Sandro appeared
even to become reconciled to the misfortune of losing
his sweetheart, dreading nothing, seemingly, so much
as turmoil and anxiety. To the outside world he was,
apparently, as careless and contented as ever ; and when,
in a short time, Mariuccia was led to the altar by his
brother (as did indeed come to pass), 'Sandro was by
far the gayest and best-looking lad at the wedding :
nor did he seem at all unwilling to respond to the
attentions of the damsels who were anxious to console
him for his disappointment. Any wise person might
have predicted, however, that this seeming cordiality
between the brothers was likely to be of very uncertain
duration, particularly when (according to the
patriarchal custom in vogue with the peasantry in
these parts) they continued after the marriage to live
on together in the same house. Some said that the
more assured fortunes of the plainer brother, and the

rare presents 'hicll lie had brought with him from oversea,
were what had captivated the maiden, and that her
heart still warmed towards her first love. The Padre
could not says if this conjecture had in it anything of
the truth ; howbeit, of course, there were plenty of
evilly-disposed persons ready to fill the husband's mind
with such stories, and his dislike for his handsome
brother seemed to increase at the same rate as his
jealousy for his pretty wife.

If 'Sandro had been wise now, he would have ceased
to live on with them under the same roof. He would
have quitted the place, and sought his fortunes elsewhere
; at least, this was what everybody had declared 
afterwards. But there were certain difficulties in the
way, and 'Sandro had never been of a nature to deal
with these. Then, again, the house in which they were
living, by a singular chance, considering that 'Sandro
was possessed of no real property, belonged, still, rather
more to him than to his brother, and he was unwilling,
therefore, to abandon it. Perhaps, even, more tend
reasons may have retained him. . . This was how
'Sandro was situated with regard to the house. When,
some time before, there had been a question of his
marrying, he was urged by his friends to obtain some
kind of ] regular employment ; for he had led, hitherto,
an indolent, purposeless existence, running chance
errands, or doing desultory garden work, for any of
the neighbouring peasant-proprietors Who would engage
him. After some difficulty he managed to get the
promise of a very respectable situation. Not far from
his old home was a [grand villa residence, belonging to
a well-known local nobleman, upon whose estate many
persons were employed. An under gardener was required
here, whose wife, also, must be capable of doing

or

some portion of the household washing, and of acting
co)inerf/e at the principal entrance to the villa. In
this appointment was included a pretty cottage, cane-trellis,
and nestling amongst bays and myrtles ; a
shot which seemed destined by Nature as an abode of
love ; and it must have added, at first, not a little to
'Sandro's disappointment, to think that, in losing
Mariuccia, he had lost, also, all chance of inhabiting
this pleasant home, for a washerwoman was as essential
as an under gardener to the conclusion of the agreement.
But, at last, the young man perceived a way
out of the difficulty. Mariuccia, it is true, had married
his brother instead of himself ; but she was not, for
this reason, incapable of performing the simple duties
required. There was ample accommodation for all
three of them in the pretty cottage : so a family
arrangement was concluded, to which the padrone was
agreeable, and, in an evil moment, they took up their
abode together, close to the entrance gate of the grand
villa, the young wife and her brother-in-law entering
at once upon their respective occupations.

For the first few months after the marriage all
seemed to go on smoothly enough. Pietro, too, had
obtained employment. He used to work in the dockyard
near to the port, and might be seen leaving his
flowery home everj morning at the same hour, his pipe
in his mouth, and his shipwright's axe slung on to his
waist belt. . . .

(Godfrey's mother, then, had been a washerwoman,
and his father either a dock-labourer or an under gardener
! With a fatal spirit of prophecy, he foresaw
the tragedy which was to follow upon what the Padre
had called the * family arrangement ; ' and as he
listened, with blanched cheeks, and clenched teeth, to

the old man's words, lie sliuddcrcd instinctively at this
first mention of the shipwright's axe.)

The catastrophe was not very long in coming  only
about a year or so after the marriage ; but the Padre
had a head which was not good at dates. . It had
filled the whole neighbourhood with horror at the time;
perhaps it had even made some of the scandalnongers
repent of their tale-l earing. It was a repetition, under
different circumstances, of the history of the first
murder committed upon earth. , . .

In due course of time Mariuccia gave birth to a son.
Pietro, at first, seemed pleased with the bambino, taking
it often upon his knee when he returned from his work,
and displaying like signs of affection. But, anon, the
demon of jealousy took possession of his spirit. He
became sullen and morose, both to his wife and to his
brother, and no longer appeared fond of the child. A
vice he had contracted during his seafaring life  altogether
foreign to the nature of an Italian, but which,
like other acquired tastes, becomes confirmed by habits
may have aided to encourage his evil passions. lie
was a hard drinker, and, although he did not often become
positively intoxicated, it was observed that, after
his visits to the liquorice, his language was always
violent and his manner excited.

One day he returned in a more than usually ferocious
mood. He was also before his accustomed time, and
finding 'Sandro loitering in the house, instead of occupying
himself without, in the garden, he began at once
to revile him, saying many things of him, and of his
own wife, which it would ill-befit the Padre to reject
to the illustrious stranger. He taunted his brother,
too, with his indolence, assuming that he always spent
his working hours trifling after this fashion ; finally he

left the house, muttering terrible menaces, and only
returned to it quite late in the evening.

One circumstance had not tended to diminish his
ill-humour. Some gossiping neighbours looked in to
see the ban/biao, and were indiscreet enough to discover
that it bore a very marked resemblance to 'Sandro.
This, of course, may have been merely intended as a
compliment, seeing that the j'oung man was so generally
admired for his good looks, and that it is no great
wonder a child should resemble his uncle. Be this how
it may, it had evidently goaded the husband almost to
madness, arousing in him all his most dangerous
passions.

Unfortunately, 'Sandro's labours in the garden were
not of a very arduous kind. In Italian soil, flowers
seem to grow of their oti accord, and the more complicated
mysteries of floriculture fell to the share of his
superior. Beyond sweeping the paths with a broom
made of a date-branch, watering the roses, gathering
bouquets of violets, and helping to collect the olives,
as the season came round, ho had really very little todo
; and hence he could constantly spare time to run
down to the gate-house and coquet with his pretty
sister-in-law, or play with the baby.

Upon one of these occasions Pietro suddenly returned.
It was as though he had acted upon some
secret information, for he entered the house stealthily.
'Sandro had taken the child, which was then only a few
months old, upon his knee, and Mariuccia was bending
over him with her hand on his shoulder. It was a
pretty picture enough, no doubt, with the warm sunlight
streaming in at the open lattice, allfresh from
caressing the violets, but it seemed otherwise to the
infuriated husband. He advanced towards the group

as a murderer would advance  silently, cautiously,
treading upon the points of his toes. Mariuccia was
the first to perceive him. It was as if something in
his face had betrayed his horrible intention ; for, uttering
a sharp cry, she rushed towards him, and endeavoured
to interpose herself between him and his
brother, which, to the miserable man, appeared only as
an additional proof of her guilt.

'Sandro, hearing her scream, looked up suddenly,
leaving hold of the infant, which dropped upon the
floor. It was to this circumstance, probably, that it
owed its life ; since, falling on its face, and being, after
the manner of peasant children, swathed up in swad-
cling-clothes, the board to which it was strapped protected,
to a certain extent, its head. And, in truth, this
protection was needed ! . . . .

All Mariuccia' s entreaties were powerless with one
who was reduced, by frenzy, to the level of a wild-beast.
Spurning her from him with curses, he drew from his
girdle the shipwright's hatchet, and, in a second, it had '
descended, with the force of a giant's blow, upon the
head of his unfortunate brother, cleaving his skull
asunder as though it had been a water-melon.

The infuriated man now turned to the helpless innocent,
aiming a blow at it, as it lay on the floor, which
would most assuredly have destroyed it, but for the
blackboard with which it was protected. As it was,
however, it sustained a deep wound on the back of the
head ; and there had been many persons of opinion,
after being informed of this fact, that, supposing it to
be still alive, it must be either a lunatic or an imbecile.
. . .

Upon hearing these words, Godfrey raised his hand
instinctively to the back of his head. No; . he

or

could discover no cicatrice, and, so far as he could appraise
himself, he was neither a madman nor an idiot.
Better, far better, perhaps, if he had been I . . . Better
still if that blow, aimed at him by an unnatural father,
had killed him outright, so that he might never have
listened to this terrible story ! . . .

And yet (was it, peradventure, because this man was
his father  because this tainted blood was crying aloud
within him ?) he felt (frozen as he was with horror)
some kind of secret compassion for the author of the
crime. He realised, with terrible vividness, the whole
situation. The entire scene, with its actors and their
surroundings, stood out before him like a picture. He
saw the plain, sullen, rough-handed bread-winner,
strong in his affection for his wife, strong in his home-love,
strong to give the labour of his body and the
sweat of his brow, going forth to toil every day in the
dockyard under the broiling sun for his wife and her
child. He heard, next, the poisonous whisper of the
tale-bearer. He saw his brow darkening and his eye
flashing as he listened. He followed him to the wine-shop
 whither he maj have gone, perhaps, to drive off
and exorcise the assailing demon  but there also he
seemed to hear him taunted and maddened by ill-timed
gibes and malicious insinuations. Then, too, it was as
though he beheld the soft, idle young man, at home 
tall, smooth-faced, well-favoured  doing his pleasant
play-work amongst the garden-blossoms, with their
sweet odours, and employing his spare moments in the
indulgence of a lawless love. He saw, gradually, the
brute nature rising up in the plainer and stronger man;
he saw the end ; he comprehended, now, how it had
come to pass ; almost  almost  he could forgive the
murderer ! . . . Ah, God ! was not this because sic, too,

was by nature criminal and degraded  because he, too
(as Pettigrew had cried out in his delirium), bore
ripon his brow the brand of Cain? .

The Padre, like most old persons, was excessively garrulous.
He had become interested in the reminiscences
called up b}'' his own story, and had talked himself into
real eloquence without perceiving the effect he produced.
He was talking still, but Godfrey no longer listened.

It was a mistake (he was saying) ever to allude,
Without due forethought, to the resemblances of children ;
and he had never knoAvn good come of it but once. He
himself was said to bear an accidental resemblance to a
personage considerably above his mother in position,
but with whom she was, nevertheless, acquainted ; and
upon this circumstance having been brought to the
notice of the personage in question, he had generously
conferred his patronage upon him, and had bequeathed
him, in his will, a small sum of money, sufficient to
enable him and his cat Ubriacona' to subsist in comfort
for the rest of their natural lives. But for this one*
case ending agreeably, he could cite many others which
had only been productive of dissensions. .

There was one circumstance (he proceeded to explain,
in conclusion) which had sometimes troubled his
conscience ; and this was that, when he had handed
over the little innocent to the noble English family, he
was in ignorance of the maltreatment it had received.
Of this he had only been informed afterwards.

Often and often, at the beginning, he had expected
that dignified stranger, with his ornatisfinia Signora, to
drive up to his door, and say to him reproachfully,
Padre Anselmo Giubelei, that hamlin, for which we
paid you in true good money, although so beautiful and
engaging at first sight, has turned out only a little piece

of deception ; it is insane,' or ' it is imbecile or ' it is a
bambino with water on the brain But the years had
gone by, and he had removed from his former home,
and no one had ever questioned him about the matter
since, except the illustrious stranger who was doing
him the honour of listening to him at the present
moment.

The child, then, did not die ? It was not killed
by the blow ?* (Too well Godfrey knew what the
answer would be ! )

No ; the child did not die. Fortunately, the screams
of the mother attracted the attention of some peasants
who were passing. The wretched man, once he had
wreaked his vengeance, remained passive and stolid asa
yoked ox. He stood staring stupidly at his handiwork,
and allowed himself to be quietly'' bound and led
away. . . . All this the Padre had heard from Mariuccia
herself. A good many of the neighbours had behaved
to her, after this sad event, with kindness and sympathy;
but there were others, again, less charitable,
who were hard-hearted enough even to accuse her of
being the real cause of the murder. 'Sandro's mother,
for example, shocked at having brought forth a monster
in the person of her other son, reviled her bitterly,
laying all the blame at her door.

The place, consequently, became hateful to her ; and
she made up her mind to depart from it altogether.
She had walked over to Genoa to consult with some
kinsfolk, and here the Padre had seen her. She was
poor and unprotected, and he had helped her with a
little money.

Having heard, privately, of a foreign couple who
were desirous of adopting a child, he had felt it his
duty to wait upon them, and to speak to them upon the

subject of the innocent. Their hearts had appeared
deeply touched at the terrible story. He mentioned to
Mariuccia this chance of providing handsomely for her
offspring, and she replied that she would consider the
matter. Before the day of her husband's condemnation,
she had brought him the bambino. He at once communicated
with the illustrious strangers, who, upon beholding
its engaging countenance, preferred it to all
the children they had seen, for they stated that they
had previously looked at several others. So, then and
there, the bargain was concluded ; the child was handed
over to them, and they departed, the same day, upon
their return journey. Mariuccia never went back again
to her old home. "Whither she went, the Padre was
ignorant. Some years ago, in the market-place, he had
seen a woman who rather resembled her, riding upon
a mule, with vegetables for sale ; but after such a lapse
of time he could not be sure, and, being in a hurry,
he did not pause to inquire. Her husband, Pietro
Santarelli, he had recognised since, notwithstanding his*
shaven head and prison-suit. He was working, only
last year, at Nice, in the stone-quarries near to the
harbour. Fratricide was written on a placard attached
to his back, and he was chained by the ankle to a heavy
piece of rock. The Padre had conversed with him for
some time, and had given him snuff. . . .

This miserable man, then  this homicidal father 
was still alive ! He had not suffered death for his
crime, and Godfrey might even, if he chose, behold
him, and converse with him, in his degradation! . . .

Somehow, he had not been prepared for this news,
and the knowledge seemed to fall upon him almost nth
the force of a physical blow.

The Padre explained that Pietro Santarelli had not

VOL. III. F

been executed. Punishment by death, for anjthin
but a political offence, was extremely rare in Italy ;
and, upon examining into the case, the legal functionaries
had agreed that there had been a good deal of
provocation,  in a word, 'extenuating circumstances,'
and he had been condemned to penal servitude for
life.

Half stupefied with what he had heard, Godfrey
could find no words with which to reply. He gazed
out, through the window, at the scene beyond, and
remained silent. Perhaps the curse of madness, or of
idiocy, which he had hitherto escaped, was falling upon
him now ! . . .

The small house, occupied by Padre Anselmo, stood
some way outside the town of Genoa, on the road to
Sestri, where the country, near to the sea, is arid and
uninteresting ; flat, save for its undulating pink sandbanks
and glaring stucco-walls, and utterly without
shade. When there was a lise, the dust came whirling
along the road in clouds almost dense enough to smother
a caravan. There was a lise blowing now, and the
Padre had carefully closed up every hole and cranny in
his humble dwelling.

During the excitement of listening to the narrative,
Godfrey had not perceived this ; but now the atmosphere
seemed suddenly to become stifling and poisonous, whilst
the purring of ' Ubriacona,' as she sat complacently
upon the window-ledge, sounded as loud as that of the
gigantic cat in the Scandinavian legends, which was
almost lifted by the great god Thor.

As upon the day when he had first gained knowledge
of all this, he said everything, too, with a strange distinctness
: the row of many shaped gourds drying in
the sun ; the wicker birdcage and glazed green flowerpots

outside trio narrow casement; the one pink Judas-tree
beyond  oppressive by reason of its very pinkness
suggestive of no shade ; the white glare of the long,
straight roadway, and the outer margin of treacherous
blue sea,  all these appeared now to close in upon him,
causing his brain to ache and throb.

I must have air ! ' he cried, as, pressing his hands
to his brow, he started up from his place by the side of
the old man ancj turned to the window.

For the first time the Padre perceived his emotion.

Tron di Bio /' he exclaimed, leaning forward suddenly
in his chair, and grasping him by the wrist.
Wherefore this lively interest, this profound trouble ?
Can it be . . . ? But no ; it is impossible ! . . .
Tell me, my son, that my imagination is ill-inspired 
that I am wrong in my suspicion ?'

You are right ! ' cried the young man bitterly, ashe
shook himself free, and flung open the lattice. * That
son of poor and ignoble parents, of " the murderer and
the adulteress," whom, twenty-four years ago, you
handed over to the English family, quel fancifully inflict
era io !'

Chapter YI.

When Godfrey staggered out of the Padre's dwelling,
he felt as if the glare of the sunlight blinded and
stupefied him ; and, as he walked back to Genoa by the
long white road, where no green thing relieved the
monotony, save an occasional aloe smothered in dust,
he was conscious of an almost overpowering sense of
misery and disgrace.

The country people passed him on the road, laughing
and chatting : the black-browed women, in their bright

kerchiefs, knitting away in the teeth of the wind, as
they sat carelessly upon their tasselled mules, whilst
the men walked by their sides, smoking the rank cigars
of the country', well cloaked and muffled, on account of
the hm. Mechanically, he responded to the smiling
greetings of these people ; but it was as though he saw
them not. He could only gaze on blankly at the long
stretch of roadway before him, which, barren and arid,
seemed emblematical of his o"\\ti future.

He was revolving in his mind what should be his
next procedure  how he was to knit together the disconnected
links of evidence, where he was to seek for
this mother who had abandoned him in his tender
years, but who was his own mother notwithstanding.
For he was determined to continue to the bitter end, to
drink his cup of humiliation to the very dregs ; and he
even began to consider which day he should set aside in
order that he might go over to Nice, and behold his
father doing his convict-labour near to the new quays.
He remembered perfectly well having visited the place
when he had passed through Nice in company with
Pettigrew, and he recalled the convicts in their red
caps and prison-dress, manacled together in couples, or
chained to heavy pieces of rock. What changes had
come to pass since that time ! Broken and crushed like
a reed, in the full pride and vigour of his manhood, he
seemed to himself to have become suddenly chilled and
passionless as an old man, and he almost wondered that
he should still appear, outwardly, to be young and in
good health, instead of withering up into some semblance
of the seared and blighted creature that he really was.

Sometimes, since the truth had been made known
to him, he had surprised himself, drifting back unconsciously
to the old life, and revelling once more in its

hopes, fears, and ambitions, just as if this terrible curse
had never descended upon him. It was almost impossible,
at times, not to associate this visit to Italy
with the last, and he was prone, in memento of abstraction,
to confound the two together. He thought
constantly of Sophy, but rather as of some bright and
beautiful influence belonging to a past phase of his existence,
or to the existence of some other man, than as
the woman that she was.

He found himself thinking, too, of the old gray
English country-house, with its many windows looking
out at him, like earnest eyes, from amongst the gnarled
oaks and beeches, with an expression of sad and regretful
sympathy. Notwithstanding all that had happened,
there lingered in his heart a cruel yearning
towards this former home, as towards something which
had been associated with a better and nobler self, before
this loveless, hopeless life, had stretched out beyond him,
like a barren desert, as far as the eye could reach.

Whenever these thoughts came crowding in upon
him, he endeavoured resolutely to cast them from him.
Certainly it required an effort. Not that he desired
especially to become once more the Godfrey St Clair of
the old time. He would have changed places, at this
miserable moment of his existence, with any ?nan, however
poor and unfortunate, who could have looked back
upon an honest and well gotten heritage of respectability,
and who might have worked his way up, maybe,
to a higher social level, without hearing for ever in his
ears the moan of a murdered man and the clank of a
felon's chain.

Considering what had been told of his true origin,
this craving after respectability seemed almost unnatural
; yet there it was, nevertheless, deeply rooted in

or

his bosom ; implanted there, no doubt, by those cold-blooded
conventional English people, who, whilst he was
yet in swaddling-clothes, had bought him, and then
moulded his mind after their own fashion.

Lately he had striven hard to identify himself with
the Italians  his own people, as he said to himself ;
above all, with the peasantry, as the class from which
ho had originally sprung. He had studied their language,
and made himself familiar with their manners
and customs ; but somehow he realised that his sympathies,
his demeanour, and, above all, his prejudices,
were essentially English still. It would take time, no
doubt, to eradicate entirely the consequences of his-early
training !

Upon this particular day, after his interview with
the Padre, he experienced an irrepressible longing for
England and things English. He was so stunned by
his recent knowledge of the terrible details connected
with his early years, that his brain seemed to recoil
from realising his very misfortune for the moment.
For a few hours, perhaps, whilst he was thus dazed
and unnerved, he might cast from him this evil thing,
and imagine that he was still as he had been during hia
former sojourn in Italy. He would walk down the
paved byways, deviating from the principal thoroughfares,
and look in at the windows of the jewellers*'
shops, even pausing at that very one in which he had
bought Sophy a pair of filigree earrings in the old days,
before he went back to his lonely apartment to battle
with his despondency.

On his way through the town he stopped at one of
the picture-galleries. The generous Marchese di Ferrari
had not yet presented to his native town the Brignoli,
or ' Red ' Palace, with its magnificent Vandyke and

valuable library ; but then, as now, there were many
palaces containing public and private collections of
pictures which could be visited by strangers, and, as a
distraction, the young man turned into one of these.
In the inner courtyard, as he glanced through the
wrought-iron gateways, the light and shade fell upon
the marble pavement, forming contrasts as sharply
defined as those of the squares of a chessboard. Pink
daphne and Tangerine orange-trees were flourishing
gaily in their green tubs, and the broken statues of the
old gods appeared to be basking and luxuriating in the
warm sunshine. Inside the palace, however, the atmosphere
was cold and tomblike, and, as he passed up the
black-marble staircase, the chill went to the very marrow
of his bones.

He felt too miserable to care much for the pictures.
He saw enough of them, nevertheless, to convince
him of one fact. He realised that there are
certain phases of the human mind when, no external
objects, however beautiful, can minister to contentment,
by reason of the hopelessness and bitterness of the
inner man, which causes fair sights and bright sunlight
to seem but as deceitful mirages, sent to humiliate and
torment the spirit.

As he went out of the palace, he perceived that he
was in front of the post-office. He had called here
frequently, when he had first arrived, finding, upon
each occasion, nothing of any particular import. But
as the clouds of his sinister destiny had seemed, as it
were, to darken and thicken around him, everything reminding
him of his past life had appeared to him in the
light of an additional reproach, and he now remembered
that it was some time since he had inquired for
what were virtually the letters of another man  of a

or

man who was dead, or rather who had never been born.
Godfrey St. Clair (the second) had never existed.
Would to Heaven,' thought he who had unconsciously
assumed the niime, * that /, too, could pass away into
nothingness ! '

But still, having upon him, to-day, this longing for
England and things English, and finding himself thus
exactly opposite to the post-office, he could not resist
the temptation of asking for letters. He felt, at this
moment, that a line from Sophy, notwithstanding his
renunciation of her, would be as balm to his wounded
spirit, and might give him new courage to go on with
his hard fight. There have been various opinions upon
the subject of love in absence. La Rochefoucauld,
albeit some have assumed that he was incapable of
affection himself, has said his say, and written of the
greater and lesser passion  likening the one to a lighted
candle, and the other to a fire, whilst absence is compared
to the wind, which, though it may extinguish
the first, adds only to the intensity of the second.
Upon the same subject Jean Paul Richter has written:
We often long most for our friends when they are
absent. . In married life, even, love is not diminished
by distance. A man, like a burning-glass,
should be at a certain distance from the object ho
wishes to dissolve, in order that the right focus maybe
obtained.'

Godfrey's acquired nature was essentially self-contained
; and even since he had striven to ' take off his
mask,' he was less capable than most people of those
relieving outbursts of passionate complaint, which no
doubt bring with them some measure of consolation.
It was as though each emotion, and each sorrow seared
and burnt itself into his very soul. From his mind,
ever since he could remember at all, memories were

ineffaceable. It was strong to retain, and to console or
torture him in the retaining ; but for him there could
be no forgetting.

At the post office there were two letters from Sophj
One of them had been there for some time, judging
by the post-mark, the careless officials having, no
doubt, passed it over when he had last inquired. The
other was of comparatively recent date. For a moment
the sight of the beloved handwriting made Godfrey
forget his misfortunes, and, stepping back into a quiet
corner of the street, he broke the seals.

The few lines contained in the first letter went at
once to his heart : 

My darling,' Sophy had written in her desolation, * my
father is dead, and I feel most lonely and miserable. The
world is like a desert without you. Come back to me.'

The other letter was the one she had written at
Dallingridge House on the eve of her departure for
school, sitting up at the dead of night in the great
formidable four-post bed, which was shaped like the*
tomb of a Marabout.

Sophy, then, was lonely and miserable, even as he
himself was, and in this thought there was certainly
much cause for sadness ; but she loved him still, and
longed for his presence, calling out to him in her
sorrow, and herein lay his consolation.

Hoc readily', under ordinary circumstances, would
he have responded to her call ! He would have
hastened to her upon the wings of the morning. No
method, \>y which men are wont to travel, would have
seemed to bear him fast enough upon his journey ; but,
as it was, he hesitated. Love and duty were alike
tugging at his heartstrings. Love had certainly begun
by pulling the hardest; but for this very reason, seeing

or

that it was in kccpiiif with his acquired nature to
/'Csififfhe set himself heroically to listen to the other
voice. Duty whispered (and the idea of 'Duty' seemed
to include that of Honour, Loyalty, Benevolence  every
quality, in i'act, which we may desire in another, and
strive to cultivate in ourselves) that it was not for one
thus unfortunately placed to respond to this call, however
urgent it might be. That Sophy should cry out
to him, thus, in her desolation, was only natural ; but
it was for him to prove the purity and intensity of his
passion by turning a deaf ear to her appeal. In his
present miserable position, he felt that it would be
selfish of him to desire that she should become his wife,
and he had for ever exorcised the demon who had
whispered of a less holy tie when recklessness and
bitterness had at first possessed him. Vn honest and
wealthy English gentleman had already sought her in
marriage, one for whom she entertained a genuine
friendship, and to whose name no terrible stigma was
attached.

Had the fraud, through which he found himself
transplanted to a particular spot in England, never
been perpetrated, he could not doubt but that sophy
would have become, in due course of time, the wife o
Sir Thomas Hickathrift of Poynings Abbey, beneath
the gray walls of which she would probably have lived
peacefully and happily, with one of the most honourable
and amiable of men. Even now this might come
to pass, provided, only, that he could find the courage
to efface himself, or blot himself, as it were, from the
face of the earth, and give no signs of his miserable
existence to the woman he loved best. * God grant,'
he said to himself, * that, with time, this may grow less
hard!'

Having adopted "what he considered was the honourable
course, he continued, with more eagerness than
ever, to search into the past history of his miserable
parents, leaving no stone unturned which might lead to
the discovery of his mother, and endeavouring, by
constant change and activity, to keep off the longing
which was gnawing at his heart. Time after time, he
returned to Padre Anselmo's humble dwelling, and he
succeeded in thoroughly enlisting the sympathies of the
kind old man.

'Ubriacona,' through these constant visits, had
become attached to him, and would go forth to meet
him into the garden, purring, and rubbing her body
against his foot by way of welcome. He felt so forlorn
and desolate, that even the affection of a cat seemed to
count for something.

Over and over again he permitted the old priest to
tell him what he already knew too well, in the hope
that he might let fall some particular omitted hitherto ;
but he only managed to pick up a few stray facts of no
actual importance. One of these, however, although it
threw no light upon his search, struck him as somewhat
remarkable, merely as a coincidence. Upon
inquiring of the Padre the name of the place where the
ill-fated Sandro had met with his terrible death, ho
was informed that the Santarelli family were then
inhabiting the lodge, or gatehouse, belonging to the
Villa Palavacini at Pegli  the long, low, white villa,
with the green shutters, which Godfrey remembered so
well, in the grounds of which were situated the melancholy
piece of water, with its ruined boathouse, fast-crumbling
boat, and mysterious memorial stone : the
spot where he had first met the man who had since
been to him as a benefactor, and the charming woman.

whose little ruby ring was now dangling from his
watchman. lie had never revisited the place since,
although he had often walked over to the hotel, which
was only about a mile from it, but he resolved that he
would do so upon the earliest opportunity. He remembered
perfectly well the bright pink gatehouse,
close to the entrance at which he had turned into the
grounds of the villa. Why was it that no secret voice
had whispered, as he passed through those gateways,
that it was there, in that rosy-hued, cane-trellised
Italian home, that existence, which had since become
so heavy a burden, had begun for him ?

He was inclined, at first, to blame his friend, the
good-natured landlord of the Pegli hostelry, for not
having informed him at once of the catastrophe which
had taken place in the immediate neighbourhood ;
years ago, it is true, but still not so long that it would
be likely to have been altogether forgotten.

He remembered, however, that, although the proud
possessor of the most luxuriant of beards, and of the
most positive and advanced of opinions, the landlord
was, in reality, younger than himself. He had succeeded
a deceased uncle, and, until he had taken
possession of the hotel  only a few years ago  he had
lived almost entirely with his parents at Milan. Inconsideration
of this, Godfrey forgave what at first
might have appeared like negligence, and, for the
future, his friend promised to be more on the alert.
In a few days he was enabled to prove the sincerity of
his words, just as Godfrey had almost made up his
mind to obey Sophy's crl du cauir, and return immediately
to England. He had inquired of the old people
in the neighbourhood of Pegli  of the peasants now
inhabiting the Palavacini lodge, of some persons who
were indicated to him as relatives of its former occupants

 and the result was, that lie had discovered, for
certain, that Mariuccia Santarelli was not only still in
the land of the living, but that she was residing now at
Diana Marina, a small fishing hamlet not many miles
distant.

The object of Godfrey's visit to Italy was, in fact,
achieved. Soon he would be enabled to ascertain
whether there was any real significance in the idea of
natural affection, apart from habit and association ;
whether, upon beholding this woman  poor, ignorant,
and unrefined (as he conceived her to be)  he would,
nevertheless, feel drawn towards her by that subtle and
mysterious affinity which, as some have supposed, is
unconsciously engendered with the *tie of blood?*

The thought as to whether this might, or might not
be, troubled and perplexed him, and he wandered about,
feeling restless and preoccupied, until the following-day,
when he determined to proceed to Diana Marina.

He had made up his mind that he would go there
alone, having first ascertained the precise position of
the house, and selecting an hour at which Mariuccia (as,
far as he could gather from his informant) was likely
to be at home. He looked forward to this interview
with feelings of the most painful anxiety and dread ;
for, now that he stood face to face with what he had
sought for so eagerly, he felt as if he could hardly
summon the courage to confront it.

Upon the night previous to the eventful day, he
slept  or rather rested  atPegli; and, having been told
that the village of Diana Marina was within walking
distance, he set out thither in the morning betimes,
striking a little out of the direct way, in order, first of
all, to revisit the garden of the Yilla Palavacini, which
he entered by the gateway close to the cane-trellised
cottage.

Everything appeared to have remained unchanged
since his last visit. The green shutters of the principal
windows in the long white-stucco villa were still closed;
whilst at those of its dependencies, the wearing apparel
and household linen, hung out to dry in the sunshine,
brightened the foreground with patches of picturesque
colour.

Once again, the young man climbed the gray hillside,
following the winding pathway, bordered by
flowering bays, arbutus, and the luxuriant tree-heather,
which he had remarked upon his former visit. Near
the summit, he paused at the bench by the prie-dieu,
and gazed through the overhanging branches at the
scene below. Over the dome of the convent-church,
beyond the last shadowy line of promontory, he beheld
the wide expanse of the blue Mediterranean, dotted,
near to the shore, with a whole fleet of returning ,
with twinkling sails. The last time he had
been here, he had gazed do"\Mi, thus, through the
clipped evergreens, and beheld the same smiling panorama.
Then, however, with different eyes. Non old
memories came crowding upon him, and, overcome by
the contrast between present and past, he bowed his
head upon the wooden ledge of the prie-dieu and
covered his face with his hands. He was aroused from
his reverie by the jangling bells in the green-tiled
cupola below.

'Twas Easter-day ; and what a day it was !
The sun, like a young giant from the sea,
Strode through a world of blue. From grass and tree
The breath of morning, white as incense, rose ;
And through the matin air a merry noise
Of convent-bells broke on me suddenly.'

Sonnets and Songs, by * Proteus.'

It was not actually ' Easter Day ; ' but Easter was
not far off, and there were preliminary services in all
the churches. The * merry noise ' of the bells sounded
inexpressibly sad. It had seemed sad to him, too, he
remembered, upon the occasion of his former visit.
Perhaps it was here that the first shadowy intimation
had reached him of the evil to come ! . As he mused
thus, the place seemed to him to grow fateful and ill-omened
; and rising from the bench, he passed over the
crest of the hill, and descended by the further side,
pausing awhile at the brink of the melancholy lake.

Here, too, everything was precisely as he had left it.
The ruined boathouse had not been repaired, the Mermaid
still floated near the sedge smothered island, and the
cardinal drake, with his three wives, came swimming
towards the iron railing, as heretofore.

Godfrey remained for some time contemplating the
mysterious memorial. He was trying to adjust it, as
another link, in the chain of evidence, though he had
no reason for supposing that * the body of one who was
tenderly loved ' could have had any connexion with the
body of the murdered under gardener, nor, indeed, with
any member of the miserable family who had once
dwelt so near to the spot. Was it possible that two
catastrophes could have happened in this place during
the same year ?  April Wi, 1816.' . In about a
fortnight's time this anniversary would come roimd
again. He remembered how Lord Henry Davenport
had said that he and his wife always visited this place at
a particular time of year, and he recalled the wreaths of
immortelles which Lady Henry carried upon her arm.
Perhaps, notwithstanding her widowhood, she might
seek this mysterious spot on the 13th of April in the
present year. What should hinder him from being

here, also, upon that day ? Might he not even venture
to write to her, and inform her of this intention ? In
his desolate condition, he experienced a longing to behold
once more this woman who had charmed and interested
him so much. ' On the 13th of April,' he said
to himself, registering a silent vow, *I shall be here.'

lie turned from the place, and, bent upon the fulfilment
of his bitter task, passed on down the shadow'"
pathway between the broken statues. When he emerged
from it, the sun seemed to beat down upon him with
unwonted intensity ; and to avoid the heat, he crossed
the lawn in front of the white villa, and plunged into
an olive-grove to the right, having previously ascertained
that, by this way, he could reach the village of Diana
Marina without proceeding by the dusty high-road.

The rich earth, beneath the shadow of the gray
olives, was literally carpeted with spring flowers.
Violets, anemones, and starch-hyacinths, were crushed
beneath his feet at every step. Sometimes his way lay
through pink almond groves, or orange and lemon
orchards, fragrant with blossom and golden with fruit.
The lizards  green and bronze, and swiftly gliding 
were passing merrily up and down whenever he chanced
upon a sunlit side of stucco-wall dividing the gardens ;
whilst the chattering of the peasants, the clatter of
hoofs, and the tinkling of bells, sounded cheerily from
the stone-paved mule-path hard by.

At any other time Godfrey would have enjoyed this
beautiful walk. As it was, even, he felt constrained to
look upon things in a rosier light. He reflected that
no good could possibly accrue from years passed in useless
despondency, that he was young and hardy, and
that bodily torture, to which so many seem to be condemned
without having merited it, had been mercifully

spared him ; that he could still labour with his hands,
and reason with his brains ; and that his heart was not
yet so numbed by its own sufferings as to be indifferent
to those of others. What was more honourable than
honest toil ? Yes, he n-oiikl work ; on this point he was
decided, although he could not quite make up his mind
as to what profession he should choose. Perhaps he
might teach English or Latin, if he remained abroad,
or set up a riding school, or, if the worst came to the
worst, he could till the rich flower scented soil beneath
his feet, as his parents and grandparents had probably
done before him. . . .

Ere he had arrived at any definite conclusion, a
troop of black-eyed children, carrying faded nosegays
in their sunburnt hands, came pattering towards him
with their bare feet, begging in whining tones  a whole
tribe of yapping mongrels darted out at his heels, and
by these signs he knew that he was approaching the
village.

He made inquiries at the first house he came to,
and, in less than ten minutes, f oimd himself in front of
the dwelling of Mariuccia Santarelli. Certainly, it was
humble enough ! As he stood contemplating it from
the road, his heart beat so fast that, for some moments,
he was unable to proceed.

It was more like a mean stable, or cowshed, than
what would have been styled, in England, a house, or
even a cottage. It contained no second story, the
windows were devoid of glass, and through the door,
which was wide open, Godfrey could see that the flooring
was of pressed mud, and that there seemed to be na
furniture whatsoever. A few lean, long-legged fowls,
were strutting in and out of the cottage ; but, as yet,
he perceived none of its human inmates. To the left of

VOL. III. G

or

the doorway, a she-goat was tethered amongst the sparse
herbage ; whilst, on the sunny side, a goshen mass of
Indian com was spread out to dry, and ripen, upon a
square space floored and bordered with stucco. At the
back, the hie mountain rose abruptly, terraced with
loose stone walls, and cultivated with olives and beans.
A dilapidated trellis of canes covered the front of the
cottage, extending beyond it in the form of a leafless
veranda, from the centre of which a stoic-paved path
led down to an archway, gaily coloured, and sided by a
row of pointed cypresses, powdered, like a miller's coat,
with the white dust of the road. It was against the
inner side of this archway that Godfrey leant, overcome
by conflicting emotions, as he gazed upon the squalid
dwelling within which he expected, ere long, to behold
the mother from whom he had been separated for so
many changing years.

By-and-by, two urchins and a little girl ran past him,
in at the archway. The boys were armed with baskets,
with which they had been scavengers on the highway,
and the little girl carried a faded nosegay. Godfrey recognised
her as having made one of the troop of children
who had begged of him but a few moments ago. They
seemed to be too hurried now to observe him ; one and
all of them pattered up the stone-paved pathway, and
in at the door of the mean dwelling, whence he heard
issuing the shrill voice of a woman, who was evidently
delivering a rating in harsh, angry tones.

Godfrey now walked up the pathway also, bent and
bruised in spirit, some portion of his mental depression
seeming to communicate itself to his gait.

He had made up his mind that he would not reveal
himself at once. He would merely ask a few questions,
and go back by the way he had come. He would see

lier, at any rate, and speak with her. This would
surely be penance enough for one day. In a little
while he would come again, and talk to her about the
Padre, and, perhaps, hear the whole story from her
sown lips.

As he passed under the veranda, near to where the
goat was tethered, he perceived a young man, whom he
had not before observed, stretched lazily upon the
ground, under the olives. His expression was lowering
and forbidding, notwithstanding that he possessed handsome
features and a fine pair of black eyes. A fisherman's
red cap was drawn over his close-cropped head ;
he wore gold earrings in his protruding ears, and a
tattered blue shirt, which, being open in front, displayed
a muscular chest, bronzed by exposure to the
colour of a mulatto. His only occupation seemed to be
that of plucking the tender grass shoots from the ground
beneath him, and chewing them between his white
teeth. Now and then he hurled a lump of earth at the
head of the unoffending goat.

Of this young man Godfrey inquired whether h
could obtain a glass of fresh water and some oranges
at the cottage ; but as he only received, in reply, a
meaningless grin of astonishment and a few unintelligible
words, he concluded that he spoke, perhaps, only
the local 2(ftois, and that pure Italian was unknown to
him. Finding it impossible to make himself understood,
Godfrey passed on. In another moment he had
crossed the threshold of the cottage, and stood in the
presence of Mariuccia. For a while he remained speechless,
unable to find words. The woman, too, seemed to
be surprised into silence by this sudden entrance of a
stranger.

Mariuccia Santarelli was possessed of heavy eyebrows,

high chcck-boiics, and an advancing jaw. Her
hair, which was as coarse as a horse's mane, was matted
and unkempt, and grew low down upon her brow, under
the yellow kerchief with which it was adorned. Her
teeth were white and regular, and her large dark eyes
might have been once beautiful, perhaps, before her
other features became hard and set, and when her complexion
had not yet been reduced to the consistency of
wrinkled parchment, through exposure to the sun. In
figure she was short and thick-set, strength and hardness
seeming at first sight to be her chief characteristics.
Had she been an Englishwoman, one would have supposed
that she was fifty at least, although she did not
possess a single gray hair. In reality, however, she
was but little over forty, her marriage with Pietro
Santarelli having taken place when she was barely
seventeen. Looking at her with eyes that sought
eagerly for some good thing, Godfrey could not perceive
in her the faintest trace of beauty. Her whole
aspect struck him as coarse, slovenly, and unfeminine,
whilst her voice was loud, harsh, and discordant.

Before Godfrey had spoken, the same children who
had passed him at the archway came trooping in from
the back of the house. He explained their existence
by the fact that Mariuccia, since the condemnation of
her husband, had cast in her lot with a fisherman of
Diana Marina; which union, on account of Pietro's cruel
behaviour, was regarded as perfectly excusable. These
kinsfolk (half-brothers and a half-sister of his own, as
Godfrey concluded), who were addressed respectively
as * Beppo,' ' 'Tonic,' and * Serafina,' had all of them
shaven heads covered with bro"Ti nightcaps, round
black eyes, and advancing jaws. They did not strike
him as a handsome family. Their voices were pitched

in the same high key as that of their mother ; and, like
her, they apparently spoke habitually as though addressing
a person at a distance. Serafina, upon perceiving
the stranger, immediately reassumed her former
whining tones, holding out her little sunburnt palms
for soldi. She was evidently quite an experienced
beggar-maiden, and her gesture afforded the young
man a momentary reprieve. He dived at once into his
pockets, and coming upon some small change, hurled
it amongst his juvenile relatives in the direction of
the doorway, earning thereby Mariuccia's thanks and
benedictions.

Whilst the little ones were busy scrambling for the
money, he found voice to ask for some oranges and a
glass of water.

Mariuccia certainly seemed to be a good-natured
woman enough. Now that she was pleased by the
stranger's liberality, her face assumed a much more
amiable expression, and she was all anxiety to obey his
behest. Godfrey gulped down the water with an effort.
It revived him somewhat, and he was enabled to make
an attempt at conversation.

By the time that he had passed out again into the
veranda, every feeling of bitterness nourished against
this poor woman for what he considered her unnatural
conduct, had died away from his heart. As well expect,
in one so simple and brute-like, finely-strung sensibility,
or deep maternal devotion, as in yonder she goat grazing
beneath the olives ! But yet, even the beasts of
the field, or, at any rate, the higher order of beasts,
were known to experience some sort of natural affection
towards their own offspring ! . . .

This woman, therefore, must be of a lower type of organization
than the very animals ? . . .

As these thoughts passed through Godfrey's mind
he came again upon the young man in the red cap, who
was still stretched at full length on the ground, chewing
grass-stalks. lie began endeavouring to explain
the possible relationship of this youth, who seemed to
be about the same age as himself. Mariuccia joined
him as he paused thus in the garden.

Get up, 'Sandro,* she cried, in her harsh, chiding
tones, but with a sudden ray of tenderness in her dark
eyes, * and take off your cap to the 8i(jnovc ! ' Then,,
turning to Godfrey, she added apologetically, and in a
softer tone, 

Quel povero giovanni h mio figlio. Guarcli Signory
com' e infcUcc! QtiancV era bambino ha ricevuto ici colpOy
 da quel tempo eccolo come clisgraziato ! '

Chapter Iii.

Abol'T a week after the events recorded in the last
chapter, Sophy was seated at one of the windows in the
large schoolroom at ' The Cedars.' It was deserted for
the moment, and she was gazing sadly out through the
meat-cage ' at the melancholy prospect beyond.

It was the ' fourth Sunday in Lent,' and all the
girls, with the exception of Sophy and Miss Darlington,
the poetess, had been marched off, two and two, to
the neighbouring place of worship. Miss Darlington
was suffering from what the doctor designated ' a
heavy cold.' She had been forbidden to leave the-house
; and Sophy had asked permission to remain at
home and keep her company, not sorry of an excuse for
absenting herself, for she had observed that she hardly

the Adventures of a Savage. 87

ever felt really ' religious ' in church. Notwithstanding
all her efforts, her eyes would go wandering hither
and thither amongst the congregation, noticing this or
that peculiarity of feature or attire, detecting imaginary
resemblances to absent persons, or guessing at the
ties of consanguinity binding together the occupants
of the different pews. The most trivial and unimportant
objects seemed, somehow, always to rivet her attention
and excite her interest. She surprised herself
noting the formation of the backs of the boys' heads
who sat immediately in front of her (select youths, who
were being educated at a private tutor's hard by),
observing how some of them possessed dark hair with
an inclination to curl, or hair that was wispy and
delicate, or coarse fair hair of the nature of stubble,
which, do what the boy would, insisted upon standing
up straight at the extreme top of his head. Then she
would pass on to a minute consideration of their ears.
Their ears were differently shaped, too, she observed ;
and yet, somehow, all the boys looked very much alike,
as boys of a particular age will probably continue
to look, to the end of time. But these wandering
thoughts seemed only to take possession of her in
church. In the solitude of her chamber, or at times
when that, or any other chamber, became solitary fora
while, she felt * religious,' or, at any rate, serious,
enough. Perhaps, indeed, she even occupied her mind
too much with spiritual matters, though, with regard
to those forms and doctrines which she either failed as
yet to comprehend or to sympathise with, she had become
tolerant in the extreme. Above all, she was preeminently
passive and unaggressive, regarding the
opinions of others as purely constitutional, and receiving
or rejecting whatever it seemed good to her either to

receive or reject without bitterness or heart-burnings.
Perhaps her creed, at this period, niiht be most correctly
described as a * mitigated scepticism,' or a kind
of * academical philosophy,' the adoption of which was
recommended by David Hume.

Notwithstanding her toleration, however, she found
it difficult, at times, to live in perfect harmony with
her present companions. According to her ideas, ignorance,
injustice, and untruth, were very often in the
ascendant ; whilst she could not help perceiving, too,
and deploring, the prevalence of those more insidious
evils to which the Great Prophet had alluded in his
voluminous letter, as being even * worse than untruth'
itself. * Fallacy, wrong judgment, false thought, confused
speech, and bedimmed sight,' seemed to her to be
flourishing atomic her on all sides. It was, she supposed,
merely a continuation of the ' perpetual battle,'
the * great struggle of millions of cycles,' with ' the
victory inclining now to the one side and now to the
other.'

To-day, she had felt in a particularly desponding
mood, to be accounted for, in some measure, perhaps,
by the weather. Spring was late in making her appearance
this year in England ; and whilst Godfrey's
path in Italy was carpeted with flowers, the chilly
London fog was still lurking at the bottom of the
garden at * The Cedars,' and Miss Aspenall had not yet
left off wearing her red-worsted mittens. Lately, too,
there had been an unusual amount of rain  rain, rain,
rain, nothing but an incessant downpour ; and three or
four times, when Emily Spicer had gone out driving
with her brother, the Captain, she had been obliged
hurriedly to return, with the feathers of her beautiful
new Paris bonnet all dripping and out of curl.

As the reader is aware, * The Cedars ' was situated
in a suburb, the name of which has been purposely
withheld. Suffice it to say, that it was very near to the
spot whereat departing citizens are wont to exclaim,
Now we are coming to the country ! ' whilst travellers
bound for the tovn began, generally, to collect their
umbrellas and bandboxes, and to get out their railway-tickets,
with the remark, *Ah, here we are, getting to
London ! '

On this particular morning, as Sophy gazed out of
the schoolroom window, the prospect was melancholy
in the extreme. Beyond the iron railings of what she
could not help regarding as her prison, the Common
was shrouded in a very winding-sheet of yellow mist,
so that she could not even see the walls of the smart
red-brick ' villa residences,' which were being erected
upon its confines. As it was Sunday, and, moreover, a
wet morning, very few vehicles were passing, though now
and then a hackney-coach rattled by, with a steaming
horse, its driver enveloped to the nose in cajDcs and comforters.
The steps of the foot-passengers fell few an
far between, most of the pious inhabitants of the
'suburb' being in church, whilst those less devoutly
inclined were possibly absorbing consolation of another
kind in their own homes.

Within the great iron gateways, the squares of
flowerless garden-beds looked black and desolate. On
the round plot, in the centre of the double drive leading
up to the door, the widowed cedar, with its dark layers
of foliage, rose gaunt and sinister, as one of the weird
trees which have since appeared in some of Gustave
Dore's wonderful illustrations, the winter drip from its
branches having worn away all signs of verdure from.
the circle apportioned to it, with the exception of a few

or

nine tufts of pfriiss frinpi-inf the outer edge. As poor
Sophy contemplated this dreary prospect, she could not
refrain from giving vent to a prolonged sigh.

To her entered, at this moment, Miss Darlington,
the poetess, "with her ostentatious cold. In her hand
she held a rough note-book. Feeling inspired, she had
secluded herself lor a while from her companion, and
had been writing poetry in the little schoolroom.

Jacintha Darlington, as the reader has been already
informed, was a thin, sallow-faced young lady, with
large, hungry-looking eyes, which seemed to be perpetually
rolling in ' a fine frenzy.' Ilcr poetic rffffafus
Alas of so rich and varied a quality, that she not only
composed verses for her own pleasure, but was enabled,
when required and solicited, to write the poetical compositions
of the whole school in whatever metre Mr.
Heathcote chose to select, adapting each poem to the
mental capabilities of the supposed author. Of course,
in the comprehensive phrase, ' the whole school,' it is
not intended to include Miss Nethercliffe, who, besides
knowing everything, could do nearly everything as welland
could write really very creditable verse ; but even
6// had been known, on more than one occasion, to
bend from her pinnacle, and consult with Jacintha
upon the formation of hexameter and centimeters, or
upon the desirability of employing, or discarding, some
questionable rhyme.

'I think,' she said, now, as she seated herself by
Sophy's side, 'that I have succeeded in writing some
lines that will live. Do you ever feel, dear Miss St.
Clair, a sort of inward voice whispering to you that
you will one day be famous ? '

*I cannot says that I have,' Sophy answered. * There
are times, I think, when one gets up in the morning
feeling ambitious, but it generally goes off again.

Don't you think happiness would be more worth 
?'

*Not for nef* answered the poetess, decidedly.
Happiness is general connected in some degree with
loi'(\ and I fear that I shall never meet with a being'
who would fulfil my ideal. Were he not to be my
equal in mind, I should be wretched. No ; give me
fame, fame, fame! . I feel that it is my destiny to
appear some day in print ! '

I should like so much to hear what you have just
been writing,' said Sophy. * Perhaps it might cheer
me up.'

We poets seldom write upon cheerful subjects,'
answered Miss Darlington, with a weary sigh. * How
can we, indeed, feeling as we do ? It is well that
others don't see things with our eyes.'

I wish,' said Sophy, ' that you would some day
write something for me. Something which I feci, but
which I can't express myself. . It comes upon me
particularly when I look at that mangy cedar, and
those poor, starved gooseberry-bushes.'

*I think I know what you mean,' replied Miss
Darlington obligingly, ' and I hope I may succeed in
pleasing you ; but you must give me one or two hints.'

'Yes, of course. Well, it must be about happy
days that are dead, and good things that are gone by ;
and it must go on to say how blighted, and decayed,
and gloomy, and wretched, everything is now.'

Anything about Jove ? ' inquired the conscientious
Jacintha.

Well, yes,' answered Sophy, blushing. ' You can
put in just a very little about it ; but it must be love
that's past and gone, and that turned out all wrong,
and made one wretched ! '

Oh, yes, of course ! ' returned the poetess ; * that is

the only sort of love one ever writes about in poetry
And she began setting down all these hints in a little
note-book.

So23hy continued to gaze dreamily out of the window.
*Ah, Miss Darlington,' she exclaimed at last, 'how
I wish that I could write like you ! What a comfort
it must be when one is unhappy ! '

It is, indeed ! ' replied Jacintha. ' It is a very
great privilege which one has been given without deserving
it, and it often makes one feel a terrible sense
of responsibility. How am I to use my talent for the
good of mankind ? This is what I am continually
asking myself. It seems to me that it would be very
selfish to keep it wrapped up in a napkin.'

Miss Darlington moved away, as she uttered these
words, into the little schoolroom, to write the required
poem.

As has been remarked, Sophy's depression proceeded
in a great measure from the weather, still it was not
altogether atmospheric.

During the last few weeks, several very provoking
circumstances had come to pass, which it will be as
well to set down here in order.

To begin with, then (to make use of an accepted
school phrase), she was  not friends with her roof;' that
is to say, she was not, now, upon speaking terms either
with Fanny Aspenall or Emily Spicer. The quarrel
with Miss Aspenall arose from the following cause :
One Saturday night, after Emily was fast asleep, but
before Miss Aspenall had turned over upon her side,
Sophy, who was lying wide awake, became aware of a
gentle tapping at the door. Jumping out of bed, she
opened it immediately, and perceived little Miss Jones
standing outside it, in her nightgown, with bare feet.
She looked rosy and innocent as a cherub in her white

garments ; very different (so Sophy thought) from
what she. really was ! In her hand she held a letter.

Well, you little wretch ! ' said Sophy (for she had
adopted the tone of the house, having arrived at the
conclusion that the contumely with which Miss Jones
was treated was fully merited). * What do you mean
by knocking at one's door at this hour of the night ? '
ind she looked down upon her as though she had been
an earthworm.'

Little Jenny Jones, however, had become thoroughly
hardened to the treatment she received.

Oh, if 5ou please. Miss St. Clair,' she answered, in
her little servile voice, ' I've brought you a letter from
Miss Nethercliffe ! '

Had Queen Victoria in person descended from her
throne, and advanced towards Sophy, beckoning and
kissing her hands, she would hardly have experienced
more surprise and gratification.

Give it to me ! ' she exclaimed, snatching at it ;
and she steeped out into the middle of the passage, so
as to be under the skylight, through which there shone
a brilliant moon.

Waiting an answer,' hazarded the ' little wretch,'
just as she was in the midst of her reading.

Silence, scorpmi ! ' answered Sophy, with pardonable
vivacity.

She was, indeed, overcome with pleasurable emotion,
as she read the following lines from the head of the
school  the exemplary young lady who * knew everything
: ' 

saturday Evening.

Dear Miss St. Clair,  Miss Darlington, with whom I
was engaged to walk tomorrow, has been obliged to throw
me over, though, to be just, from no fault of her own. She
has, unfortunately, contracted a very severe sore-throat; and

I do not suppose for a moment that she will be permitted to
leave the house for several days. In these circumstances, it
occurred to me that you might possibly be enabled to effect
some temporary arrangement with Miss Aspenall, in which
cease I Write to say how charmed T shall be if you will accompany
me tomorrow during the walk to church. I venture to
send this note to-night to your room by Miss Jones, who will
await a reply, as I should like to get the affair settled before
the morning.

With many apologies for disturbing you, believe me to
be, dear Miss St. Clair, yours very sincerely,

Isabella Nethercliffe.'

It was not, of course, to be expected that Sophy
would decline an honour so marked and so unlooked
for. Returning to her bedroom, she brought out her
faithful writing-case, and wrote, forthwith, her acceptance
of Isabella's flattering proposal, upon the top of a
trunk in the passage, without disturbing Fanny's
slumbers by consulting her.

Upon the morrow, however. Miss Aspenall became
straightway offended with her, characterising her conduct
as ' cowardly,' * toad5ang,' ' dishonourable,' unlike
the possible behaviour of * an Aspenall ; ' finally, as
altogether beastly ; ' and she had revenged herself, ever
since, by addressing her conversation exclusively to
Emily Spicer during the time that was passed in the
sleeping apartment.

Those who are inclined to look upon Sophy, in this
instance, as the aggressor, will, at any rate, absolve her
from all blame with regard to the difference which
sprang up, shortly afterwards, between her and her
schoolfellow Emily ; for, to be perfectly just, the real
aggressor upon this occasion was no other than Captain
Frederick Augustus Spicer, of the 8th Dragoon Guards.

Upon finding himself alone with what he considered
a pretty girl, Captain Frederick Augustus Spicer had
only one method of procedure, almost touching by
reason of its extreme simplicity. It was his habit, invariable
to make a rush at her and endeavour to kiss
her, preluding his attack with some well-chosen remarks
upon the weather, delivered in a tone calculated
to disarm suspicion.

For this attack, Sophy, who, on the occasion of one
of the Captain's visits to * The Cedars,' happened to be
practising in the state drawing-room, was, of course,
totally unprepared. Upon hearing the door open, she
had risen from her place at the pianoforte ; and before
she had fully realised who was the intruder, she found
herself in the middle of the room, facing the Captain,
the maid-servant having gone downstairs, in the meanwhile,
to apprise Miss Pendragon of his arrival.

There is no question but that Captain Spicer would
have been almost classically handsome had he not possessed
a somewhat retreating forehead and chin. Fortunately,
however, not every one is a phrenologist ; angel
as he was of a very tall and commanding presence,
with beautiful gray ejes and heavy yellow moustaches,
he was accustomed to receive a great deal of admiration
from the fair sex, even when he was not in uniform.
"Without exaggeration, it may be said that he had
seldom, if ever, encountered a rebuff; and upon finding
himself alone with Sophy, it was not to be wondered
at if he at once commenced making observations of a
meteorological character, although he had never been
.formally presented to her. To these, Sophy had felt
bound to reply,  timorously, and with downcast lashes,
as it is befitting that a tender maiden should reply to
the observations of a bold dragoon. But lo, in a moment

lie lead made his accustomed rush, and she found herself
strug4iii, lighting, palpitating, warding off, with
might and main, the retreating forehead and chin, and
the heavy yellow moustaches! Another second, and
the two had very nearly overturned Miss Pendragon
herself, who, terrible to relate, made her appearance at
this juncture in the doorway.

Notwithstanding that poor Sophy's frightened demeanour
ought to have appealed in her favour, she was
sharply reprimanded by the schoolmistress, whilst the
Captain, in spite of Emily's entreaties, was very
naturally forbidden the house for the future. No more
delightful drives in the mail-phaeton, with the high-stepping
bays! No more pleasant visits from her
brother Fred, who made all the girls half mad with
love and admiration, because he was so * splendidly
handsome,' and who always wore such fashionably-cut
clothes ! Hence it was that Emily took a dislike to
Sophy, the innocent cause of all this annoyance ; and
she had only spoken to her since, with the view of stabbing
and wounding her with offensive utterances.

I hope you don't fancy,' she remarked, for instance,
soon after the occurrence, ' that my brother
Fred couldn't find otJicr iKople to kiss besides you ; because,
if you do, the sooner you get rid of your mistake
the better. Fred has kissed oceans of girls and they
all of them liked it. He has told me so over and over
again ; some of them were grown-up ladies with
titles ! '

She said this very scornfully, and with the expression
of countenance which is called ' turning up the
nose.' That Emily Spicer should thus display the
cloven-hoof was certainly a painful surprise ; for
Sophy had hoped that she, at any rate, was good-natured,

even if not very wise. But it seemed as
though she was destined, each day, to encounter some
fresh disappointment: it was the old story of the Buddhist
getting rid of his illusions.

Then, again, Sophy had gone through an unpleasant
little episode with Mr. Heathcote, the lecturer upon
English history, literature, and elocution, which, although
it was not at all of a Siberian character, had
annoyed her considerably, as it had offended the very
master who had seemed, before, so easy to please, on
account of the admirable manner in which she had
always written her essays. JVb?r, however, he was
thoroughly incensed against her ; and she was sorry to
perceive that he permitted his anger seriously to obscure
his judgment.

For instance, when she had, perhaps, taken the
greatest possible pains with her exercise, he would write
at the end of it, by way of comment, in spiteful, pointed
characters, with his pocket-pen, ' Very indifferently
written ! ' or, 'A most ingenious method of punctuation ! *
or, 'New and original system of spelling ! ' (for even his
lynx eyes could discover no more serious faults !) whilst
to the papers given in by Miss Aspenall and Emily
Spicer he would append the words, ' Very fair indeed ! '
Subject skilfully handled ; ' ' Considerable progress
shown ! ' ignorant, the while, that all three compositions
had, in reality, emanated from the same brain,
since Sophy, by reason of her enviable command of language,
had been for some time in the habit of writing, to
order, the prose compositions of nearly the whole school,
just as Miss Darlington was wont to indite those in verse.
This is the history of the unpleasant little episode : 

Mr. Heathcote, like Captain Spicer, was exceedingly
handsome, but he was possessed of a more classic type of

VOL. III. H

beauty. One might have fancied, in fact, that he was almost
too good-looking to have been engaged as preceptor
in an establishment for young ladies ; and of this he
was probably aware. Certain it is that he endeavoured,
mercifully, to neutralise his personal advantages, by
the assumption of a haughty and repellent manner,
coming little short of actual brutality ; at the same
time putting, as the French say, * the dots upon the ira*
in a way which not unfrequently caused Miss Pendragon
to blush, and give vent to a peculiar little
admonitory cough, of which all the pupils had learnt to
lino the meaning. He had even been taken to task
upon this subject, and seriously remonstrated with in
the sacred parlour.

I may as well mention here, in passing, that this
was about the time when scholars and antiquarians had
begun their fell destruction of popular historical idols,
tearing aside, as it were, the smooth-faced legendary
jnask, and displaying the real features beneath.

Fair Rosamond, Robin Hood, Anne Boleyn, Archbishop
Cranmer, Charles I., Marie Antoinette, and the
Young Pretender, had each of them been subjected,
in turn, to this salutary, though disfiguring, process;
lout the person of all others whose ideal portrait it had
pleased them the most to blacken and deface was the
unfortunate Mary Queen, of Scots, who, with her flowing
black velvet dress, pearl coif, and becoming ruffle,
had been the darling of many generations of schoolgirls,
and the model selected by most of their elder sistci's,
whenever they had the good fortune to be invited to a
fancy ball. Now, however, not content with having
deprived her of every shred of morality, her inhuman
critics were even endeavouring to cavil at, and dispose
of, the very beauty which had convulsed for so long

nearly the whole of Europe, and caused the freckled,
high-featured, long-waisted Elizabeth, to sit so uneasily
upon her throne!

If my memory serves me, it was during his lecture
upon the ' Casket Letters * that Mr. Heathcote was
supposed to have offended against feminine good taste,
by dwelling too critically upon the relations existing
between the unhappy Queen and the Earl of Bothwell ;
and by raking up several other scandalous adventures,
instead of generously letting 'bygones be bygones.' Miss
Pendragon (who always assisted atthe lectures) had borne,
with surprising fortitude, a somewhat crude examination
into the facts of the Rizzio tragedy, although, no
doubt, she must have winced inwardly. When, however,
the lecturer proceeded to narrate how the ill-fated
Chastened had been discovered hidden under the
Queen's bed, and to comment upon the motives which
actuated him, the wincing took an outward and visible
form. She blushed uncomfortably, fidgeted repeatedly
with her gold jnnce-neZy and finally gave vent to the
peculiar little cough, the intention of which it was quite*
impossible to mistake.

Pulling up abruptly in the full swing of his eloquence,
Mr. Heathcote sullenly resumed his lecture at
another place, leaving the infatuated French poet still
under the Queen's bed ; and, as soon as he had concluded
it, was summoned into the parlour, to receive
his well-merited reproof.

Little Jenny Jones had overheard, not merely the
scolding, but the reply of the scolded.

Mr. Heathcote had stated, in excuse, that the
present lecture had been carefully polished and prepared,
none of the important details connected with the
history of the unhappy Queen having been omitted.

He had delivered it (lie said) not only' in the presence
of the select young gentlemen at the private tutor's
hard hy, hut before large audiences composed of
university dons, enlightened mechanics, and intelligent
working men. Upon every occasion it had been received
with marked approval ; and the subject-matter
was so extremely interesting to himself, that, whilst
reading it, he became utterly oblivious of his surroundings,
and quite lost sight of the fact that he was
occasionally in the presence of * young females.'
Supposing, however, that his method of instruction
did not meet with Miss Pendragon's approval, she
was at liberty to select, in his stead, some one who
would be more competent to study the delicate susceptibilities
of the feminine mind, since it was by no
means his intention to distort or emancipate his lectures
; which, besides taking up too much time, would
utterly destroy their literary value. It remained to
be seen Whether this spirited policy on Mr. Heathcote's
part would result in victory or defeat. Some said that
his days at ' The Cedars ' were numbered ; and Kettle
Jenny Jones had even fallen in one afternoon with a
toothless and snuffy octogenarian, emerging from the
parlour, looking like a professor, with a red wig and
green umbrella, who she fancied might possibly be
destined to succeed him.

There are some who will fancy that the contemptuous
attitude adopted towards the young ladies by
Mr. Heathcote, together with the insulting admission,
on his part, that, when addressing them, he forgot
their very existence and their sex, would speedily have
cured those amongst them who had imprudently made
him the object of a hopeless passion. All persons
possessing any knowledge of the true character of

"woman, however,  of the secret pleasure she often
takes in hugging to her bosom the very cause of her
suffering  kissing, as it were, the hand that strikes
and the foot that tramples,  will not be unprepared
for a contrary result. Had he been uglt/, things might,
perhaps, have taken a different turn ; but as he was,
in appearance, a cross between Lord Byron and the
"Great Napoleon (when First Consul), there was but
little hope for the poor young ladies ; and, as he sat at
the head of the long dining-room table, delivering his
lecture  pale, haughty, and disdainful  there were but
few amongst his hearers Who would not have consented
willingly to blacken his boots, or sew on his shirt-buttons
for life.

Sophy's little unpleasantness had something to do
with buttons. During the wet weather which had
recently prevailed, Mr. Ileathcote (who always walked
from the private tutor's hard by) was wont to arrive
in a picturesque pair of leathern gaiters, buttoned-up
at the side with many buttons, to protect him from the
mud. These it was his custom to remove, in a corned
of the spacious entrance-hall, previously to betaking
himself to the dining-room, donning them again at the
conclusion of his lecture, with one foot placed gracefully
upon a chair. Whilst these two interesting performances
were going on  which usually took sometime
 the pupils were generally in the act of either
descending the broad staircase, with their copybooks
under their arms, or of defiling past the hallowed chair
on their way up again to the schoolroom. Upon this
particular occasion they were preparing to descend ;
Isabella, as became the head of the school, loading the
way, supported by the * Higher Culture ; ' whilst the
Obstructionists ' were loitering behind, giggling and

craninfj; over the balusters, in their endeavours to catch,
a glimpse of the Relentless One, who (the afternoon
having proved tempestuous) had arrived protected by
his picturesque gaiters, which he was now in the act of
removing. Miss Nethercliffe, who was a model of
refinement and delicacy of feeling, used generally to
hang back a little during this process of gathering
and unfaltering, conceiving that, notwithstanding the
disparaging remarks overheard by Miss Jones, it
might, perhaps, occasion Mr. Heathcote some embarrassment
if about twenty * sweet girl-graduates ' were
to brush past his chair before the completion of the
sacred rite : and it was this hesitation on her part
which gave Sophy an opportunity of committing the
indiscretion of which she had afterwards such good
reason to repent.

How lochs he looks ! ' Emily Spicer had whispered,
as she peeped her fair head over the balusters.  Hesse
exactly like Lord Byron, that I'm sure he could
write the most beautified. poetry.'

Lord Byron must have been a hideous monster
compared to him ! ' retorted E-osa Dupuis, also craning
over the staircase. * Get out of my way, you conceited
thing ! ' she added, addressing Emily,  or I shall be
obliged to pull your hair ! '

You foolish little things, he'll hear I ' whispered
Sophy, endeavouring to drag them back by their
skirts.

Look what a beautiful foot he has ! ' sighed
the infatuated Emily. 'How I wish he would goon
unbuttoning his gaiters for ever and ever and
ever ! '

Well, and so he does, I'm suite ! ' exclaimed Fanny
Aspenall, who was amongst the few left unscathed by

the fascinations of the haughty Professor. 'TFe sets
to work directly we start coming downstairs, and it's
just the same when we are on our way iq). It's one of
the beastliest sights I know.'

*I fancy,' interposed Soph", Vvdshing to be quite
just, 'that he has exactly the same number of buttons
On his gaiters as there are steps on the stairs ; so
perhaps it isn't altogether his fault.'

When the dear angel is gone,' said Emily Spicer,
I'll count the steps of the stairs.'

And /,' whispered Rosa Dupuis, * will count the
buttons upon his dear, darling gaiters.'

You shall do nothing of the kind. Miss Dupuis!'
exclaimed Eniil}", fiercely. ' Nobody shall touch his
dear, darling gaiters but me ! I shouldn't think he'd
be very likely to fall in love with a female nigger
whose father had .v(gar-mincs ! '

Si(r/ar,' returned Miss Dupuis, with concentrated
bitterness, ' is quite as nice as guano, or stuff for taking
away hugs and fleas, or even as 7;/// .' And a ray of
triumph flashed from her dark eyes. *

He's certainly a very long time,' Sophy remarked,
placing herself between the two rivals. 'Perhaps he
expects one of us to do his portrait. I could have
drawn him twice over.'

Oh, do, do make a picture of him, dear Miss
St. Clair ! ' cried Emily and Posa in chorus ; for this
was before Sophy's disagreement with Emily. ' You,
who can draw and paint so hcautifHlh/ /'

The temptation was too great to be resisted by one
possessed of Sophy's powers of delineation. The sketch
did not take her two minutes; it was dashed off with
her usual expedition in a spare page of her essay-book,
and there was no mistaking for whom it was intended ;

only, with the view of ciirin;: Emily and Rosa of their
ridiculous infatuation, she had introduced a strong dash
of caricature in the head, and placed the figure in a
somewhat exaggerated attitude.

Oh, do paint it ! ' implored Emily and Rosa, in a
breath. They were too much in love to care about the
exaggeration. * Put in his beautified complexion I '

I'll paint it for you some day,' Sophy answered,
closing her book ; for she perceived that Isabella was
moving on. Mr. Ileathcote had passed into the diningroom
; the sacred rite of unfaltering was over.

Previously to delivering his lecture, it was the
custom of the Professor to glance over the rough notes
which had been taken by his pupils upon the last
occasion. Sophy handed up her book with the others,
quite forgetting the unfortunate portrait, her thoughts
having already wandered off hundreds of miles, as
they constantly did in class-time. She was, however,
speedily recalled to the present.

'Here is a work of art, Miss . . ., ah, . . . Miss
St. Clair,* remarked Hcathcote the haughty, from
the head of the long table,  his words sounding doubly
humiliating, from the fact that he affected not to
remember Sophy's very name until he glanced at the
commencement of her note-book. ' Allow me to return
it to you  as it is evidently a portrait  with the
observation that had you bestowed less attention upon
this performance, and more upon the correction of your
notes, you would probably have expressed yourself with
more felicity, and committed fewer blunders in your
spelling and punctuation. I must also remark, that
though I have but little knowledge of drawing myself,
your own ideas upon the subject seem to be even more
crude and rudimentary'. The legs of this individual

are atrociously out of proportion, whilst the features
are not those of a human being.'

As he said this, he looked fixedly at the author of
the sketch. Only for one moment, but in that time
his whole countenance was transfigured. It was the
face of Lord Byron still, perhaps  but not when in one
of his loving or impassioned moods  writing tender
phrases on the fl3deaf of the Marchesa Guiccioli's
Corne, or penning his pathetic descriptions of Haidee.
It was Lord Byron incensed against poor Lady Byron
and her maid, thirsting for the blood of the Scotch
Reviewers, or swearing with rage and disappointment
at the collapse of The Liberal. Then, as to the
Napoleonic resemblance, the likeness was still there ;
but it was Napoleon when at his sternest, this hardest,
bis most unrelenting;  signing the death-warrant of
the Due d'Enghien, spurning the entreaties of the
mifortmiate Josephine, or ruthless" annulling the
marriage of his brother with Miss Betsy Paterson.

Poor Sophy hung her head as the portrait was
passed back to her down the long table, from hand to*
hand. She dared not meet the eye of Miss Pendragon;
but when, a little later, she happened to do so by
accident, she was surprised to perceive in it what
seemed almost like a slight twinkle. Perhaps the
schoolmistress, * teaching-machine ' though she was,
may not have been above feeling some sort of womanly
satisfaction at the temporary humiliation of the man
who had so lately braved her authority.

After all,' Sophy could not help) thinking to herself,
when she had recovered from Mr. Ileathcote's
terrible glance, ' they are both of them human. He
is evidently extremely vain ; and, whatever he says,
I don't believe he ever forgot for one moment that we
were '* yomi"- females " I '

Chapter Viii.

But all this time I have left Sophy gazing out of
window at the widowed cedar-tree, with the Common
beyond, still shrouded in yellow mist. In an incredibly
short space of time, Jacintha Darlington returned with
her poem. Nay, rather, with several-OGm. ; for, fearing
lest her first inspiration might not meet with her
friend's approval, she had looked out a few others, in
order that there might be a varied choice. As Sophy
had stipulated, they where all of a melancholy and desponding
character ; and, like most of the writings of
extremely young poets, dealt chiefly with the past, or
with an arid and desolate present, teeming with broken
vows, withered leaves, and early tombs. Occasionally,
but not often, a hint was thrown out in the concluding
verse, to the effect that, in some future state, the poet
might, perhaps, hope to meet with his or her departed
love, when far, far removed from the present abode of
wretchedness.

Egotism' (says Lord Macaulay), 'though fatal to
the drama, is the inspiration of the ode. It is the part
of the lyric poet to abandon himself without reserve to
his own emotions ; ' and it was evident, when gauged
by this standard, that Jacintha's natural vocation was
to ' twang the lyre.' Sophy, who was astonished at the
rapidity of her friend's execution, begged that she
would read some of the verses aloud. Nothing could
have given Miss Darlington greater satisfaction, and
she thereupon commenced, in a somewhat sing-song
tone, not altogether free from that quiver of nervousness

which is often perceptible when young authors arc
reading their own compositions : 

When moonlight silvers o'er the scene,
And tips with light the forest-tree,
I think of days that once have been,
Alas, that never more will be! . . .'

Ah, that's exactly what / do ! ' cried Sophy, interrupting
her. ' I'm always, alicaijs thinking of those
days ; particularly when there's a moon ! '

*The moon,' rejoined Miss Darlington, 4s a strange
and altogether mystic planet. / (for one) believe it to
be inhabited by human beings, notwithstanding the
absence of atmosphere, which is said by some unromantic
people to interfere With my theory. "Wait,
however, till you hear the next verse ! In the fourth
line I have introduced a " line-rhymes which I flatter
myself is rather ingenious ; ' and she continued reading
in the same tone : 

' I sit beneath the darksome cloud, *

Which hides awhile the moon's soft rays 
That darksome cloud that seems to shroud
The silvery light of other days ! '

I can't think how you can write so beautifully ! '
exclaimed Sophy, admiringly. ' It's just what I feel
myself, ov\y my stupidity prevents me from putting it
into words ! '

'Don't call it stupidity, dear,' rejoined Jacintha,
taking Sophy's hand sympathetically. * 'rome was
not built in a day." I did not at once become what
I am now ; I have laboured hard for this. . . . But
stay, that was only a specimen ; and it is by no means
my best. You will, perhaps, like this one better;'

and she recommenced reading, still holding Sophy's

hand : 

 Now the shrivelled leaves arc falling,

And bestrew the wintry glade ;
They to mortals are recalling

All that once was bright must fade.

'Gainst the murky clouds of heaven

Stand relieved the naked trees ;
Others, with tlicir branches riven.

Sadly murmur in the breeze.

Birds that used to carol gaily

Now have sought a warmer shore;

From our sight is fleeting daily
All that gladdened it before, 

When the earth was sweet with flowers,

'Neath the sun of other days.
Laved by soft ambrosial showers,

Echoing with songsters' lays.

When, from 'midst the leaves decaying,
Blown long since from winter's tree.

Primroses, their buds displaying,
Shone like stars upon the lea. . . .'

That is indeed charming ! ' exclaimed Sophy, 'and
it's exactly what I wanted. I have never quite known,
though, what "the lea' was.'

Neither have I, dear,' rejoined the poetess ; * but
it is a most useful word in poetry, as one can scarcely
conceive that even the stupidest person in the world
wouldn't be able to rhyme to it. I have always made
a very free use of it myself, and shall continue to do
so. I don't know, indeed, what we poets shoidd do
without it ! '

'I like particularly said Sojliy, HHc part about
the "shrivelled leaves," and the "murky clouds," and
the trees with their branches " riven." It conveys such
a sense of desolation

Yes ; and, you see, I've thought it more consistent
to make an alteration in the season. I have
not laid the scene in spring (as it is now), spring being
generally supposed to be a period of ho2)C. On the
contrary, I have assumed that it is autumn time,
when the aspect of Nature harmonises with unhappy
thoughts

*I am glad of that,' returned Sophy; 'for to me
this miserable-looking early spring seems twice as melancholy
as fifty autumns ! I have been very happy
sometimes,' she added, dreamily, ' even amongst the
withered leaves. Still, the very fact that they are
withered arouses sad thoughts.'

They show us, by their withering, how impossible
it is for anything to continue for very long in a state of
first freshness,' rejoined Miss Darlington ; ' and, after
looking at them, we seem to realise more painfully that
everything here below is transient, and fickle, and
decaying, worthless to retain, and crumbling, when we
grasp at it, into dust and ashes. This is what I try to
set forth in my poems ; it is my sad mission to do this.
But now I will quote to you from another example,
quite in a different metre. In it, a man's name of two
syllables ought, by rights, to be introduced ; but as I
am ignorant of the name of the person to whom you
may be attached, I did not know what to insert. I
have, therefore, used the name of  Herbert y* which I
am particularly fond of myself; afterwards you can
change it to an Althing you like. Both Frederic Ji and
All (Justus ' (she added, with a faint attempt at archness)

would, I am afraid, be too long ; * and lie recommenced
: 

'Twas late in the spring of a bygone year,
When the may was out in bloom,
We sat beside yon streamlet clear.
Amongst the yellow broom.

And still the fragrant hawthorn blows,

The broom is yellow still;
Whilst gently on the streamlet flows

That used to turn the mill.

But where is Herbert? without whom

AVhat charms hath life to me 1
Couldst thou but speak, yellow broom,

And tell me where is he 1

For him, alas ! in vain the year

With lovely verdure blows ;
In vain, for him, the streamlet clear

With silvery murmur flows.

His body dear, alas ! to me,

Is in the dismal tomb ;
His soul, in other realms, may be

Amongst the yellow broom !'

'Herbert, you see,' the poetess explained, *is supposed
to be dead ; and she, poor thing, has gone back to
the spot where they had once been happy together. I
can't help being pleased with the idea, which is, I
think, rather original. It came upon me all at once.'

It is a very sad poem,' said Sophy, whose eyes were
beginning to fill with tears. Somehow, everything
seemed to make her cry now. She had already made
up her mind what name she would substitute for JTer-
her. It should not be FrecUrkh or Augustus, or even.

Thomas. Miss Darlington permitted her to copy out
this poem, together with the previous one, after which
she folded them up and slipped them into her Prayer-book.
Sad as were the thoughts they awakened, there
was, at any rate, some consolation in the knowledge that
Godfrey was not actually dead, though he was removed
from her now by miles of land and sea !

This intimacy with Miss Darlington had certainly
tended to make Sophy feel very much less lonely at
school, whilst her growing friendship with Isabella
Nethercliffe was a real source of comfort and satisfaction.
Of this young lady it might be said with
truth, that ' to know her was a liberal education,' so
broad and evenly balanced was her mind, so keen and
penetrating were her perceptions, and so generous and
unselfish her heart. If with these qualities was mingled
a stronger proportion of self-reliance than is generally
to be found in very feminine characters, it was perhaps
not to be altogether wondered at. Isabella Nethercliffe
had never, like poor Sophy, found herself out and given
herself up ; and she relied, naturally enough, upon the
one person whom she deemed the least likely to fall
short of her own standard of excellence.

During Sophy's first Sunday walk with the * head
of the school,' she had gained a good deal of useful
information respecting the estimation in which the
Obstructions Party' was held by the Higher Culture,
notwithstanding that Miss Nethercliffe took care to
speak guardedlj ' I couldn't help feeling sorry,' she
said, ' when I saw you fall a victim to them so easily.
It's the custom with those who are unpopular to throw
themselves into the arms of unsuspecting new-comers,
and to arrange at once to walk with them. In time,
however, the new girls, if they are intelligent and

right-tliinkiii":, perceive the manner in wliicli they have
been ontra])pe(l, and cease to associate themselves with
so objectionable a set. This is what prevented me from
giving you a word of warning at the beginning ; I had
always observed that, when a ne-comer was worth
anything, affairs righted themselves. It was a great
drawback to you that you were put into the same room
with Miss Aspcnall and Miss Spicer ; it went against
you for some time

I certainly thought replied Sophy, regretfully,
that Emily Spicer was good-natured ; and though
Fann) Aspenall was not very polite, I made sure that
she was honest and straightforward.'

'Ah!' Isabella had rejoined musingly, * because she
was jude you fancied she was honest ! Many people do
make this mistake, and but for this, rude persons
wouldn't be allowed to exist. Their "hearts are in the
right place," you say, whenever they happen to be particularly
offensive; and yet you ))U(st see that rudeness
proceeds from an absence of benevolence. Vhy, if our
hearts are in the right place, should we endeavour to
give pain ? '

One hoped for the best,' said Sophy, looking a
little discouraged ; ' one was afraid of criticising too
severely.'

Ah ! ' murmured Isabella again, reflectively. Even
to the girl who ' knew everything ' life must necessarily
seem full of strange problems.

But iw?c, at any rate,' she continued, ' now that
you've had time to look round you, you sec, don't you,
that it is so? Fanny Asjenall, with her blunt
manners, always reminds me of a person I once laiew
in London. He was extraordinarily honest, most
people fancied, just because he was rough and offensive,

making everybody blush by the rude things he
said. He had a way of finding out all the " holes in
one's armour '* and *' the skeletons in one's cupboard,"
and making coarse jests about them in company ; but
people used to forgive him, because, they said, it was
his " way." He prided himself upon having some sort
of religion, but he was always scoffing at the religion
of others ; and he generally made use of strong language,
and called himself all sorts of bad names, in
order, I suppose, to be beforehand with other people,
and to prevent them from doing the same.'

And did it prevent them ? ' Sophy inquired.

I regret to say, for the sake of human judgment,
that it did. He was continually saying of himself,
A real out-and-out scoundrel like me, for instance,
who'd rob a church, and hasn't got either heart or
morals," &c. Well, and what do you think was the
end of him ?'

I don't know,' answered Sophy, who was becoming
interested. 

Well,' continued Isabella,  he really had neither
heart nor conscience, and he did actually rob a church
that is to say, he was trustee to some charity, and
absconded with the money, and no one has ever heard
of him or his honesty since that day. When I hear
Fanny Aspenall talking, I can't help being reminded
of him.'

I hope Funny isn't as bad as that ! '

I hope so, too, but I can't help mistrusting those
very outspoken people. I'm sorry you sleep) in her
room.'

I suppose, however, the best thing for me to do
will be to try and improve myself whilst I'm here,
without thinking too nmch about the dispositions of

VOL. III. 1

the people who teach me or learn with me. Don't you
think so, Miss NetherclifPe ? '

'Yes, I'm sure this is what will tend most to
your eventual satisfaction. A great writer has remarked,
" The law of culture is, Let each become all
that he was created capable of being ; expand, if possible,
to his full growth, resisting all impediments,
casting off all foreign, especially all noxious, adhesions,
and show himself at length in his own shape and
stature, be these what they may." '

That means, I suppose,' said Sophy, * that if one is
intended to be as tall as a cedar-tree, one ought not to
be contented to remain at the height of a gooseberry-bush?'


They were approaching the gateways of Miss Pendragon's
establishment as she said this, and she was
rather pleased with the metaphor.

Yes ; one couldn't be blamed for being on If a
gooseberry-bush ; but then, though one could never
arrive quite to the height of the cedar, one might try,
at any rate, to be the tallest and finest gooseberry-bush
in the whole world  very different from those wretched-looking
things,' and she pointed contemptuously with
her umbrella to one oF the gooseberry-bushes near to
the iron railings. * You see it has never fulfilled its
mission, even as a gooseberry-bush.'

But how is one to know ic/iich one is ? One might
fancy that one belonged to a higher order of plant than
one really did, and not find out when one had left ofP
growing ! '

Others would find out for you,' answered Isabella.
Though even the world is sometimes strangely mistaken,
you would at least know that you had done your
best, which, to a well-regulated mind, always produces
.a feeling of satisfaction.'

Perhaps,' said Sophy, * I am only a poor 
after all, and that, do what I will, I shall
never be able to tower and soar, and throw out strong
branches, like you. Surely it would be foolish of the
gooseberry to fancy itself a forest-tree capable of producing
timber ! It would be the old story of the frog
and the ox over again.'

If I had thought you were no better than a frog,'
answered Miss Nethercliffe, with a slight toss of the
head, ' I should not have asked you to do me the pleasure
of walking with me on Sundays.' No doubt her
own copious propre had been concerned in her request
for Sophj's companionship, and it was not likely that
Isabella would be mistaken in her estimate of character.

As they crossed the threshold of 'The Cedars' their
conversation upon picture was brought to a close ; but
from that moment Sophy, who was ever eagerly looking
out for, and assimilating, new and congenial ideas, had
become the enthusiastic disciple of Isabella Nether-cliffs,
and she was contented to allow the satisfaction,
derived from this friendship to make up for many a less
agreeable circumstance.

But there were other compensations as well  compensations
which had but lately cropped up, and which
at any rate made school-life seem, for the time, less
desolate and unbearable. Unlike Mr. Heathcote, Dr.
Spriigel, the German professor who had lectured * last
half upon early Gothic art, and who still continued
to discourse every Monday upon very interesting and
congenial subjects relative to architecture, painting,
and early pottery, struck with the pains Sophy invariably
took with the notes and themes relating to his
lectures, had conceived for her quite an affection, saying
an amiable word to her whenever he could find the occasion,
and even one day patting her kindly on the top

of the head when lie hid happened to find himself alone
with her in the dining-room, where he, too, was in
the habit of delivering his lectures. Rightly supposing
that the Professor had arrived at an age when he might
be permitted to praise and pat yoimg ladies with impunity,
notwithstanding that the infatuated Emily was
supposed once to have been in love with him, Sophy
was touched and flattered by his attention, and she and
the Doctor continued secretly to be firm friends.

Perhaps a reason for this sympathy may have been
that Dr. Sjrugel, like Sophy's father, had in his time
been a conspirator, although it was not precisely known
at ' The Cedars ' what had been the nature of his political
machinations, nor against what particular form of
government it had once pleased him to conspire. Personally
he was a tall, burly German, with a homely,
good-natured manner, long hair (which some of the
girls declared was a wig), and a beard, which was
remarkable from the fact that one half oi it was white
and the other black, and that a very romantic history
was attached to the white half. The Doctor was known
in his own country as a very learned and influential
personage ; he had once been actually imprisoned ina
fortress in consequence of disseminating seditious
pamphlets and opinions ; and it was during his incarceration,
in consequence either of his ' sudden fears ' or
of the mental distress he underwent, that half his
beard was supposed to have turned white ' in a single
night,' notwithstanding that Miss Aspenall had declared,
upon hearing the story, that it was much more
probably because he had been ' bundled off to prison
before he had had time to jack up his hair-dye,' in
which prosaic manner she was wont to account for the
premature grajoiess of several historical prisoners. By

-a really miraculous combination of circumstances, almost
worthy of being attributed to the influence of
the Surs, Dr. Spriigel had managed to effect his escape
from prison, whence he had been conveyed by an
intrepid washerwoman, one of the high-priestesses of
his Cause, under the very noses of the sentries, wrapped
up in a bundle of dirty linen ; and he had since obtained
a livelihood in England by delivering lectures at
schools and colleges upon architecture, painting, and
early pottery.

There were moments when Sophy could not help
fancying that perhaps the political scheme with which
the Doctor was connected might be in some manner
identical with the Great Cause ; and that it was perhaps
in consequence of information which he had furnished
that the Chief Prophet had become acquainted
with her address. This was, of course, merely a supposition,
for which there was but slender foundation ;
sand it was more natural to suppose that Dr. Spruce's
interest in her proceeded simply from his natural kindness
of heart, than that it should have arisen from any
cold-blooded political calculation. Besides which, she
-always took the greatest possible trouble with her
papers for his lectures, as she was really interested in
the subjects of them ; and her knowledge of drawing
enabled her to illustrate them with little pen-and-ink
sketches of basilicas, topes, crypts, cupolas, lancet-windows,
flying buttresses, and early pots ; larger representations
of which were displayed during the discourse
for the edification of the young ladies. With
these the Doctor was always much pleased, and she
ended by becoming his favourite pupil. lie never
missed an occasion of praising her ; whilst, when she
looked either sad or preoccupied, he would endeavour

or

to summon a smile to her lips by indulging in a mild
and abortive form of pun, to wliicb, greatly to the
annoyance of Miss Pendragon, he was at times provokingly
addicted.

All this poor Sophy accepted gratefully, as proof of
the * incontestable reality of an existing system of
compensation ; ' and she had had 3'ct another agreeable
surprise, which seemed to bring with it a promise of
future well-being.

When the French governess, who, for some cause or
another, had not returned to ' The Cedars ' immediately
upon the commencement of the term, eventually put in
an appearance, lo and behold, she turned out to be no
other than Adele de Cramponaye, of whom nothing had
been heard for so long  the friend of SojDhy's youth,
the companion of her rambles at Little Stillingfleet, in
the dear old days which she knew now coidd never
return just as they were !

It was very fortunate, as it happened, that when
this mutual recognition took place, Sophy and Adele
were alone ; for the French girl immediately assumed
an air of mystery, and, holding up a warning finger,
I am privately married,' she said to her old friend.
And I am not engaged by Miss Pendragon under ni}
real name, or rather by that hj which it was your habit
to address me ; neither, my child, will it be expedient
for us to appear to have been friends, nor to have, indeed,
any sympathy the one for the other. I am here,
as you see, as a teacher, and it is not possible for me to
seem upon intimate terms with any of the young ladies.
Promise me, dear Sophy,* she added, in a voice of supplication,
' that you will keep my secret ; ' and Sophy,
of course, at once made her this promise. ' And now
tell me,' Adele had hurriedly inquired, ' which of those-two

young men who were your near neighbours have
you finally become attached to ? Is it " the young
man of the tortoise," or the young man we used to call
'' the Prince with the Nose" ?'

Whereupon Sophy had answered, blushing, and
hanging her head, 'Ah, Adore, everything you prophesied
came terribly true ! It is " the young man of the
tortoise," and we have both gone through a great deal
of unhappiness.'

All this, however, is retrospective. At the present
moment Sophy is still looking out at the widowed cedar,
upon the fourth Sunday in Lent, and ni} story has not
progressed one whit since the commencement of the
chaster.

By-and-by she perceived the rest of the girls returning
from church, walking two-and-two, according
to custom, and marshalled by Miss Pendragon and the
governesses. Miss Nethercliffe, as usual, headed the
procession, having for her partner (in consequence of
Miss Darlington's continued indisposition) no more important
a person than Miss Rosa Dupuis, who had
somehow found herself in an unpaired condition when
the girls had commenced sorting themselves for the
morning's walk. The Higher Culture, hobbling and
shuffling because of their personal infirmities, brought
up the rear of the column. The idea that a young person
of Miss NetherclifPe's mental calibre should actually
have been reduced to walk to church with a creature so
insignificant as Rosa Dupuis seemed, by reason of its
incongruity, to be positively comic ; and even Isabella
herself felt that the only attitude to assume would be
one of good-natured amusement. As Sophy, standing
on tip-toe, peeped down over the obstructing * meat-cage,'
she glanced up at her with quite a sunshiny

smile, giving, at the same time, a little backward flourish
with her umbrella in the direction of the blighted
gooseberry-bushes, as much as to say that she had not
been walking arm-in-arm with a cedar. It was certainly
highly gratifying, Sophy thought, to find oneself
thus upon terms of easy friendship with a superior
girl like Isabella.

The parable of the cedar and the gooseberry-bush,
too, had done much towards inciting her to turn to good
account the opportunities for acquiring knowledge which
came dailj within her reach ; and even when it was a
question merely of trivialities, she began to feel that
Isabella's example had been eminently beneficial. Today,
for instance, notwithstanding that she had gazed
for so long a time out of the window, and listened as
well to Jacintha's withering poems, she had taken so
much pains with the learning of her Collect that she
was actually able to repeat it, without a single mistake,
when the dread moment came for saying it over to Miss
Pendragon. Not so Fanny Aspenall. She had, according
to her habit, written out her Sunday task upon the
broad clean collar of a little girl with flaxen pigtails,
whom she had bribed with her usual delusive promise
of ' threepenn'orth of lemon-kali when the hot weather
came, if it ever did,' to take her stand immediately iu
front of her. The mercenary child, however, had been
bought over by Emily Spicer (who, besides having any
amount of shillings and half-crowns at her disposal, was
shortly expecting a hamper), and induced to shift her
position, so that by no manner of straining, craning, or
side-glancing, could Fanny possibly manage to catch a
glimpse of the very words she had been at the trouble
of writing out with her own hand. In these circumstances
(for, as she had not attempted to learn her

lesson, she was pretty certainly predestined to lose her
mark) it was naturally somewhat galling and irritating
to hear Sophy St. Clair (the girl who slept in her room,
and with whom she was not upon speaking terms)
going through her task without the slightest flutter
or hesitation.

Beastly creature ! ' she hissed, in a whisper, putting
out her tongue as Sophy passed by her on her way
from the room. * How I wish you were dead ! '

Chapter IX.

In the short space of time between Christmas and
Easter, several important changes had taken place at
Dallingridge and in its vicinity. Of these Sophy did
not hear all at once. The news of them came to herby
degrees, filtering through the letters of Sir Thomas
Hickathrift, or by means of occasional scrawls from
little Stillingfleet, signed ' Cornelius Ford,' but written
in reality by the local grocer, who, in the course of his
professional rounds, condescended sometimes to perform
the part of a memorial Ista for the benefit of his less
gifted neighbours. In the first place, then, by means
of some mysterious influence which Mr. Pettigrew had
for years exercised over Mrs. St. Clair, Sophy heard
that her aunt had been induced at last to marry him,
and thus to cut herself out of the possession of Callings
House, to the occupation of which she was only
entitled (to quote the posthumous mandate of her late
husband) ' so long as she shall continue my widow.*

No one could understand how it happened that a
woman, who was apparently neither impressionable,
sentimental, nor impulsive, should have made up her

miiul to sacrifice several substantial realities for the
sake of what seemed, in the eyes of the neighbours, to
be no better than a shadow, as (barring the consideration
of any attachment she might possibly entertain for
Mr. Pettigrew) she was in every respect a loser by the
transaction. No doubt, however, he had for years
exercised over her an influence difficult to be explained
by those who, besides seeing things only from the outside,
were blinded and hoodwinked by preconceived
ideas ; whilst worthy Lady Ilickathrift, Miss Peacock,
Andrew Locke, Mr. Green of the ' George,' and eventually
(after much hesitation) Sir Thomas himself, were
of opinion that, perhaps, after all, Mrs. St. Clair had
not intended originally to sacrifice quite so much as she
had been compelled to do by circumstances. That is to
say, although, by reason of this moral, physical, or
spiritual affinity, she might have been ' over-persuaded,'
and induced at last to allow Pettigrew to lead her to
the altar  she had probably arranged that her marriage
with him should have been strictly private, at an} rate
for several years, during which time, it was suspected,
she would have continued to reside at Dalling:rid":e
House just as if nothing had happened.

Supposing this to have been her nefarious intention,
it was thwarted in a manner so remarkable, that,,
as good Lady Hickathrift afterwards declared, it was-really
and truly nothing less than simply providential
; ' and, indeed, the discovery of the union of the
couple was brought about by rather a singular string of
coincidences.

Soon after the commencement of the new year,
Andrew Locke had had occasion to go, for a few days,
to London upon business. Being a very punctually-minded
man, he had arrived in good time at the Mornings

railway station, and, as the day was chilly, he at
once ensconced himself in a second-class carriage instead
of loitering about the platform. Glancing, b}
and-by, from behind his newspaper, he saw the great
yellow Dallingridge famille-coach drive up to the
station ; and, in a few minutes, Mrs. St. Clair, very
much shrouded in veils and mufflers, and seeming,
somehow, not quite so elegantly attired as usual,
entered the train, taking her place in a first-class
carriage not far from the compartment in which he
was sitting. She was travelling alone with very little
luggage ; and Locke, who possessed an active and somewhat
inquisitive mind, found himself Wondering where
she was going, and how long she would remain away.
Upon arriving at Oxbridge (the next station after
Poynings) he perceived Mr. Pettigrew, also cloaked
and muffled, standing under cover of the station boarding,
evidently on the look-out for the train. He wore
blue spectacles instead of his usual glasses, and carried
a small carpet-bag. Something in the manner with
which he grasped this bag caused Locke to imagine
that he was agitated. He sprang hastily into the same
carriage with Mrs. St. Clair (which, after all, was only
natural, considering the two had been intimate for
years, and that Mr. Pettigrew was now Rector of the
parish of Dallingridge, old Mr. Hornblower having, at
length, departed this life, after enjoying for so long
what Gibbon irreverently termed * the fat slumbers of
the Church ') ; what, however, did not strike the
steward as quite natural, was the covert manner in
which the parties seemed to have arranged their meeting.
His curiosity was aroused, and he kept his eye
jealously fixed upon the carriage at each station, as
though he feared that they might get out and elude his.

vigilance. "Wlicn they arrived at London Bridge, both
Mrs. St. Clair and Mr. Pcttigrcw got into the same
conveyance, and, without (as he afterwards declared)
any definite idea of following them, Andrew Locke also
drove off in the same direction with his baggage. He
managed to keep them in view for a considerable time ;
when, just as he was reflecting that he had lost
them, and that it was, after all, only foolish and profitless
to neglect one's own business for that of other
people, he passed the very identical hackney-coach,
which was drawn up at the door of an obscure commercial
hotel in a street leading out of the Strand. It
now struck the land-steward that he himself had made
no arrangements as to where he should pass the night.
As well here as anywhere else,' he thought, as he
looked at the door of the hotel, swithin which he saw
disappearing the forms of his two acquaintances. When
their luggage was disembarked, he ordered his driver
to pull up at the door, and he thus found himself
under the same roof as the mysterious couple. Next
morning he rose betimes, determined that, without
exactly prying upon their movements, he would, at
any rate, endeavour to keep his eyes open. As he was
debating thus, he perceived the objects of his thoughts
crossing the street, arm-in-arm, Mrs. St. Clair, as
before, wearing a thick veil, and Pettigrew also
cloaked and spectacled, like a conspirator. It now-occurred
to Locke that, as it was a fine day, he, too,
ought to be stirring ; so, seizing upon his hat, he
sallied forth into the Strand, quickening his pace, until
he found himself close behind the conspirators (as he
eased his conscience by pretending to imagine that
they were). Without perceiving him (for he, too had
done a little in the way of cramming down his hat, and

pulling up his coat-collar), they very soon crossed the
street for the second time, and, turning up a byway,
went very quickly into one of the side-doors of a
church which took up nearly one half of the narrow
street. It was reached by ascending a steep flight of
steps, and Andrew Locke found himself running up
these before he had paused to reflect upon the cause of
his excitement. In fact, to make a long story short,
Andrew Locke, with his own eyes, actually saw Mrs.
St. Clair, of Dallingridge House, united in marriage
to the Hev. Felix Pettigrew on this particular morning,
in this very church, not far from the obscure commercial
hotel at which, through a curious coincidence,
they all three happened to be staying. By the manner
in which the couple had conducted themselves, he felt
certain (he said) that they meditated mischief, and
that, had he not providentially witnessed the ceremony
of their marriage, it would probably have been kept
secret in the future. He reflected that it would be
difficult, perhaps, to accuse this ladj and gentleman 5f
doing what, after all, they had a perfect right to do,
provided that they avowed it ; and that yet, by allowing
some time to elapse before mentioning it, he might
be actually aiding and abetting them in a fraud.
Under these circumstances he made up his mind to
salute them respectfully upon the very steps of the
church, murmuring, at the same time, a few words of
congratulation, which would leave no doubt in their
minds but that he had been present at the wedding.
He came to this conclusion just as the clergyman was
delivering the final benediction ; and when, after repairing
to the vestry, the newly-married couple walked
unconsciously down the aisle, he strolled out leisurely
in front of them. He took his stand at the door until

they were exactly opposite to him, when, fixing this
keen eyes upon sirs. Pettigrew (us I must now call
her), he raised his hat. A quick look as of foiled and
baffled purpose passed for a moment over her face, and
he observed that she turned pale. Pettigrew, however,
who was, perhaps, a better adept at dissembling, immediately
held out his hand with mock cordiality, smiling
at the same time a faded parochial smile, and giving
utterance to a few platitudes in his patronising clerical
treble.

Ashen Andrew Locke returned to his hotel he sat
down at once, and indited the following letter to Lady
Hickathrift, which he posted immediately afterwards : 

My Lady,  Happening to be in town upon business, I
have this day, by a mere accident, become informed of the
marriage of Mrs. St. Clair of Dallingridge to the Rev. Mr.
Pettigrew ; indeed, I was myself present at the ceremony,
which, it is my belief, the parties would far rather have kept
private, as several advantages pass away from the lady by
reason of it. However, there will be no use disavowing it
now ; and if, as I hear reported, young Mr. Godfrey is either
lying ill abroad, or has met with some other stroke of bad
luck (for so it is Whispered in our neighbourhood), I see no
reason why Dallingridge Park, with the house and all complete,
should not pass over before long to Sir Thomas's young
lady.  With respectful compliments I beg to remain, your
ladyship's faithful servant, Andrew Locke.'

The intelligence contained in this letter caused quite
a flutter of excitement at Poynings and in the neighbourhood.
Lady Hickathrift at once ordered her pony-carriage
and drove over to Dallingridge Rectory to
communicate the news to Miss Hornblower, who was
remaining on for a few weeks longer in her old home,
previous to clearing out of it for the new Rector. She

became, noY, in a fever of anxiety as to whether she
should be required to depart sooner than she had hitherto
expected ; whether her harp, which was already packed
up in a large deal case, and which seemed likely to
become somewhat of a white elephant, might remain
where it was until she obtained another residence, or
whether she would have to hire a room for it at once in
the village ; whether Mr. and Mrs. Pettigrew woidd
purchase her farm-stock, including the poultry, or
whether the crowing of her black Workings would disturb
them at too earls an hour in the morning ; and all
these doubts and suppositions taking voice soon made
the whole neighbourhood acquainted with the marriage.
Lady Hickathrif t's maid, Miss Peacock, was also terribly
excited, having talked the matter over with the Miss
Spearings, and with Mr. Green of the ' George.'

. . . And to go and get married without bordering
a single new gown ! ' exclaimed the elder Miss Spearing
indignantly. ' Meanness is not the word.'

I shall try and persuade her ladyship,' said Miss
Peacock, * to meet her at the Pojoiings station when she
comes back from the 'honeymoon, and put her to shame
by presenting 'er with an 'huge bookay. She can never
dare to keep it a secret after that's

This was, in point of fact, what did really happen ;
for Peacock, having walked over to Dallingridge House
on pretence of seeing Miss Parkinson, to whom, as she
said, she * bowed the civility of a visit,' obtained the
required information as to the day and train fixed upon
for the return ; and upon that day Lady Hickathrift,
acting upon the advice of her abigail, presented herself
at the railway station to welcome the returning bride,
accompanied not only by the * 'huge bookay,' but also by
Miss Hornblower, and several of the gentry of the

neigliboiirliood. Mrs. Pettigrcw would never dare (as
Peacock had remarked) to keep her second marriage a
secret after this ! Perhaps, indeed, it had not been her
intention to do so from the first, and that the most
charitable course "would have been to have given her the
benefit of the doubt, notwithstanding that the fact of
her arriving at Poynings alone, without the bridegroom,
may have tended to justify the gossips in their suspicions.

As regarded the mkno\'n misfortune which, according
to the land-steward's letter, was supposed to have
happened to ' young Mr. Godfrey,' beyond the reports
which had been spread by Godfrey's pretended mother
of his serious illness, followed by a silence of several
months, Andrew Locke had only one reason for his
surmises, and this was a somewhat mysterious one, far
from being altogether reliable.

Only a few days before he had undertaken his
eventful journeys to London, Dr. Dyer, Sophy's instructor
in metaphysics, had received one morning an
anonymous letter, with the Southerbourne post-mark,
written in a hand unmistakably feigned. The Doctor,
who, for so young a man, was remarkably cautious, and
who had a wholesome horror of all unsigned communications,
took the letter over to Andrew Locke, in order
that he might consult him about its contents. These
ran as follows: 

A friend will be much obliged to Dr. Dyer if he will
have the kindness to meet him between the hours of four
and five tomorrow afternoon at the white gate, to the left of
Gladwish's farmhouse, on the Southerbourne Road, as he is
desirous of communicating some facts relative to the disappearance
of the late Mr. Godfrey St. Clair of DalHngridge.'

The Doctor had ' slept upon ' this letter, to which

no address was attached ; and ' tomorrow ' had already-dawned
when lie took it to Andrew Locke.

I should go, Doctor,' said the land-steward, determinedly;
'for I don't see why the fellow should mean
foul play. But if you fancy there's more in it than
meets the eye, and would like to find one that would go
instead of you, I'm your man.'

The Doctor was by no means so inquisitive as his
adviser ; all the same, he felt impelled, on the present
occasion, by a feeling of interest, if not of curiosity, and
he determined to act upon Andrew's counsels.

Upon ordering a horse to be saddled, his only manservant
brought round the bob-tailed strawberry roan
by instinct, as he seldom made use of either of his other
two horses for professional visits ; they had cost him a
long price, and he was chary of their legs upon the
hard turnpike-roads. However, upon this occasion he
was in want of a sweeter steed.

'I think I'll ride the young thoroughbred,' he said to
the man. ' He's a better one to go ; and I'm in a hurry

He glanced at the stable clock as he said this ; and
seeing that it was hard upon four, he lost no time insetting
off as soon as his horse was brought round.

From this ride the Doctor never returned.

I, for one, have the consciousness that I shall not
be a long-lived man,' he had said to Sophy, only a little
while ago, when he and she had conversed upon the
short time vouchsafed to the movements of the human
machinery ; but, when he had thus spoken, he was probably
far from foreseeing the suddenness and violence
of his death.

What happened could only be conjectured from circumstantial
evidence ; but this seemed too clear to be
disputed. The Doctor had, to all appearance, gone

VOL. III. K

or

throufli his interview with the mysterious stranger; he
had learnt (it was to be assumed) all the facts relative
to * the disappearance of the late Mr. Godfrey St. Clair
of Dallingridge ; ' for he had got as far on his homeward
way as the white finger-post which indicated the
three cross-roads to Poynings,]Jallingridge,and Souther-bourne
: but if so, these facts lav for ever hidden in his
bosom.

At this white post  standing up straight and tall
in the growing twilight  the 'young thoroughbred'
must apparently have shied, and thrown his rider, who,
stitching upon his head on the hardest part of the road,
was, according to all probability, killed instantaneously.
Here it was, at any rate, that his body was found a
little later on the same evening,  the face wearing a
calm and hopeful expression, as though he might have
learnt, just at the last, that there was, after all, some
truth in the theory of the ' Rabbinical bone Luz.' His
horse, in happy unconsciousness of having been a manslayer,
was picking quietly at the rank grass under the
leafless hedge; whilst the great white finger-post, with
its wide, outstretched arms, uprose, tall and ghost-like,
above the prostrate figure of the dead man.

One more event  of the greatest possible interest to
the persons concerned  had taken place in the vicinity
of Sophy's old home. There had been a contested
election, and Sir Thomas Ilickathrift, of PoTiings
Abbey, had been returned, with a very large majority,
for the borough of Southerbourne, which his father, the
late Sir Peckham, had represented for so many sears.

On the wrong side, of course,' as Sophy had anticipated.


All the same, she could not help rejoicing at the
triumph of her old friend.

Chapter X.

Meanwhile, at ' The Cedars the war between the
Surs and the Assigns continued to rage as furiously as
ever.

It is disagreeable enough to find yourself mewed up
in the same room with two persons with whom you are
not upon speaking terms, particularly when one of
them is in the habit of putting out her tongue at you,
calling you * beastly,' and informing you, upon the
slightest provocation, that she wishes you * were dead ; '
but, unpleasant as this may have been, it was by far the
most insignificant of Sophy's present troubles.

The latest result of the evil machinations of the
Assure had had to do with a missionary meeting. Ever
since the day when Sophy had indulged in her first
theological discussion in Abel Reynolds's hop-cart, niis-
sio)ia)'ies (taken, of course, in the abstract) had been her
pet aversions. LidividuaUy, she admitted, with that
spirit of justice and toleration possessed by her, and
which is very rare in women, that there were, amongst
their numbers, many heroic and God-fearing men,
who had forsaken all to labour amongst the heathen
in distant lands ; but, looking upon them collectively,
she could not refrain from considering them
still in the old light ; namely, as self seeking and
unscrupulous ' pale-faces,' often the cause of serious
political imbroglios, who fraudulently possessed themselves
of the property of the poor savages, presenting
them, in exchange, with 'the smallpox, and the Bible,
and gin, and brandy, and glass beads.'

What took place at ' The Cedars ' did not tend to
raise them in her estimation, as a body.

Again T am constrained to become retrospective.
One morning, not long after the commencement of
the term, the young hides were officially summoned
to the parlour. Here they found Miss Pendragon,
seated at a table covered with little oblong boxes. All
the girls, with the exception of Sophy, know perfectly
Avell that these were missionary-boxes, and that one, or
more, was about to be dealt out to each young lady, in
order that they might make collections during the term,
and also whilst with their relations in the holidays.
When all the pupils were assembled, Miss Pendragon
repeated the oration usually delivered upon such
occasions, for the benefit of those who had not heard
it before.

*We, at "The Cedars"' she began, 'have always
endeavoured to identify ourselves with the leading
charities of the day, to which the young ladies confided
to my charge have been in the habit of subscribing,
many of them very generously. "We are at
present interested in two highly excellent missions, and
a third charity, which, although unconnected with
religion, in the strictest sense of the word, is founded
upon one of the first principles of Christian benevolence;
namely, kindness and consideration towards those who
are bodily afflicted.

These small boxes,' she continued, indicating with
her white hand the three different kinds of box, ' are
connected, first, with the Propagrdioti of ic Gospel
a))wn(/.st iJir Hcafltoi ; secondly, the CoarcrsioH qff/ie Jeics;
and thirdly, with a society for the Relief of tin; Litigant
Blind. I shall expect that each one of the elder young
ladies, feeling, with me, the importance of associating
themselves with these good works, will take charge of
one of these little receptacles for receiving contributions ;

and, in order to show yon that I am desirous of consulting
your personal inclinations in this, as in every
other respect, I shall abstain from dictating to you in
the matter. You are at liberty, my dear young friends,
to select from amongst these three admirable institutions
the one for Which you feel the most sympathised
to which you will, therefore, the more cheerfully
contribute. Let me prefix to this merely one recommendation
 that you should lock up your money-boxes,
during the holidays, in a place of safety, where evilly-disposed
persons will not be able to obtain access to
them. Now, my dear young ladies, you are at liberty
to choose.'

I should like to contribute to the '' E-clief of the
Indignant Blind," ' exclaimed Sophy, eagerly. In her
haste it was impossible to avoid substituting  indignant
ioT ' indigent.' Somehow, it seemed to come so much
more naturally. She had felt disheartened when she
had heard of the first two charities, which her opinions
would not permit her to countenance ; but here was
indeed a congenial outlet for her benevolence ! ' The
Indignant Blind ! ' . . . Taken literally, what a world
of pathos there is in these words,  of passionate and
impotent protest ! . . . The repining of the * Sufi pipkin
' and his companions are as nothing to it ! . . .

Pray oblige me, Sophia St. Clair,' returned Miss
Pendragon, in a tone of freezing reproof, ' by remaining
silent until those young ladies who are above you
in your various classes have replied to my question. It
has always been my practice at 'the Cedars" to repress
anything like objectionable forwardness, particularly in
those pupils who are backward, unfortunately, in everything
save self-assertion. Miss Nethercliffe,' lie continued,
turning to Isabella, and assuming at once a

totally (different nuinncr, 'to which of these cluirities-
A\()ul(l you desire to subscribe, invoking for it, hit the
same time, the valuable patronise of your numerous
friends r' '

All three charities seem to me to be so thoroughly
deserving of support,' replied Isabella, ' that I should
like to take charge of three boxes, with your permission.'


Thank you, my dear Miss Nethercliffe,' returned
the schoolmistress. 'Believe me, I am extremely
gratified, although it is no more than I expected from
a young lady of your good sense and refinement. ,
I perceive the name of your father, Lord
Nethercliffe, mentioned as one of the patrons of the
Society for the Propagation of the Gospel amongst the
Heathen. You heard from him, I believe, this morning
? I trust his lordship is in the enjoyment of his
usual health ? Pray do not omit, next time you write,
to present my very kindest regards.'

Papa is quite well, thank you,' said Isabella, as.
she stepped forward and took possession of the three
money-boxes.

All that was only said to impress you,' Fanny
Aspenall had whispered, serpent-like, in Sophy's ear.
You're the new girl, you see ; and it's supposed that
you'll be quite overcome and flabbergasted at the mere
mention of a lord. I never knew a lord myself ; but I
believe they're very nmch like other people, and quite
as beastly ! '

This, however, had happened some time ago, and
by reason of it Sophy fomid herself provided with a
money-box for the 'Relief of the Indignant Blind'
(as she could not help still calling it). Emily Spicer
had identified herself with the ' Society for the Propagation

of the Gosjiel/ whilst Fanny Aspenall had
selected that for the Conversion of the Jews ; and
these several boxes stood in a line upon the chimney-piece
in the bedroom, where everything was ordered
in threes. They were covered with coloured paper,
ornamented with an appropriate wood-engraving ; and
as they were placed immediately opposite to Sophy's
bed, her eyes lighted on them the very first thing in
the morning and the last thing at night.

Her own box was covered with bright yellow paper.
It was altogether a sunny, cheerful-looking box, and
possessing, as she did, the happy faculty of interesting
herself in almost anything, she found herself soon
working quite zealously for the charity.

Sir Thomas Hickathrift, hearing of Sophy's * Indignant
' Society, had generously sent her five pounds, and,
in consequence of this munificence, the yellow box was
in a more flourishing condition than any at ' The Cedars.'
She had written to congratulate the young man upon
the result of the election, and managed to acquaint hiju
with the fact that all the incoming and outgoing letters,
except those addressed to, or by, the parents of the
pupils, were overlooked, since which there had been a
marked change in his style ; his letters, in fact, might
now have been read aloud and published from the top
of St. Paul's.

Some time after Miss Pendragon had dealt out the
missionary-boxes  not a week, in fact, from the morning
upon which Sophy and Miss Darlington had conversed
together upon poetry  the preceptress entered
the schoolroom in the morning with an expression so
radiant that her whole countenance was illuminated.
It was not a look of ordinary happiness, but of beatitude.
After reading prayers, which she did in rather

ora

feverish and excited iiuiinier, slice dismissed the servants,
and thus addressed the assembled pupils : 

My dear young ladies,  Some little time ago I
informed you, I believe, that there would be a meeting
at this place connected with one of the missions in
which we are interested. It is to take place, as you
may be aware, this afternoon at the Town Hall ; bv t
when I made you first acquainted with this fact, I was
unprepared for a further privilege which, I have learnt,
we are all of us to enjo3\ Lord Netherclift'e has just
informed me, through a letter to his daughter, that, inconsequence
of the sudden indisposition of the nobleman
who was to have occupied the chair, he himself
has consented to fill the important post in question ;
and, as soon as the meeting is over, his lordship will
partake of tea with us in the dining-room at half-past
six o'clock, previously to returning to London. Is not
this the wish his lordship expresses, my dear Miss
Nethercliffe ? '

Papa thought,' replied Isabella (who, it was easy
to perceive, was wincing under the truckling spirit displayed
by the schoolmistress), ' that he would like just to
look in here and see me for a few minutes, and perhaps
take a cup of tea and a biscuit before going back to
London. As the meeting begins punctually at four, he
hopes to get here by half-past six ; but he begged me
to say that he trusts jou will begin tea without him, if he
can't manage it. He would be wretched if he thought
anybody waited for him. This is what he sap's in his
letter.'

Isabella here folded up the lordly letter to which
she had referred whilst speaking, and returned it to her
pocket. Miss Pendragon seemed still to be unusually
agitated.

Of course, dear Miss Netliercliffe, we shall wait tea
for your clear papa,' she protested, waxing quite affectionate
under the influence of the impending honour.
And I regret exceedingly that I did not know some
days ago of his intended visit. However, we can but
do our best, and I'm sure his lordship will excuse us
if we seem to him to be a little remiss. Do you know,
dear child ' (and she turned appealingly to Isabella),
'whether his lordship is in the habit of mixing any (frecn
"with his tea ? We can easily procure it ; but I fear 
I great J ij fear  that there is none at present in the house.'

Poor Isabella looked terribly ashamed during this
exhibition of snobbishness. She dared hardly raise
her beautiful eyes, fearing either to encounter Sophy's
wondering philosophical gaze, or the little, twinkling,
snake green eyes of the cjTiic.

Papa doesn't care what he drinks,' she said, at
last ; ' and if he thought we made any difference for
him, I know he would be miserable. If he's not hereby
half-past six, I really hope, Miss Pendragon, that
you'll begin tea I '

'All this is most liiud !' returned the schoolmistress;
'it displays the very greatest consideration. I presume,
dear Miss Nethercliffe, that your dear father  that his
lordship  will address the meeting as well as the Rev.
Mr. Mortimer?'

I believe,' answered Isabella, ' that it was papa's
intention to prepare a short speech.'

Then, young ladies,' exclaimed Miss Pendragon
enthusiastically, ' we shall indeed have a privilege !
Lord Nethercliffe, as you are probably aware, is
recognised as the most pious and eloquent nobleman
in England. It is not every day that a similar
advantage could accrue to you.'

'Papa has lead .s(j little time to iiiako his preparations,'
said Isabella, * that what he says upon this
occasion must not be taken as a specimen of his style.
lie meant only to say a few Affords.'

But those words, my dear Miss Xethercliffe, will
be very precious to us,' put in the schoolmistress.
And now, young ladies, I do not think that I need
impress upon jou to be particularly neat in your attire
Ashen you present yourselves this evening at the tea-table.
I have lately observed that some of you are
in this respect, a little too negligent  not that I would,,
of course, encourage anything like personal vanity,
which is, in itself, highly objectionable ; but, as in
nil things, there is a middle course,  a juitc milieu
iicst CO pa, MademokcUe V (and she turned smilingly
to Adle). * I am sorry to have to particularise, or
mention names, but I have remarked, bliss Aspenall,
that your collar and cuffs have not lately been quite
so cleanly as they might be. " Cleanliness, as we
all know, '' is next to godliness." It might, perhaps,
be as well, too, if you were to change your dress-before
attending the meeting, putting on your black-silk
Sundays frock instead of your mohair ; and need
you really  is it, in fact, ahsohitclt/ necessary, that you
should wear those red woollen mittens at all hours and
in seasons ? The" seem to me to be particularly unsightly.'


 If you think that my hands look better without
them,' answered Miss Aspenall, ' I can very easily
leave them off, if you think " his lordship " would
rather see ray chilblains ! '

Isabella winced again at this covert sarcasm, and
Fanny, drawing off her red mittens with ostentation,,
displayed her hands.

Ah ! no, no ! ' Miss Pendragon exclaimed, turning
aside her head with an expression of disgust ; ' you
can retain them, Miss Aspenall ; it will be advisable 
retain them, particularly, at the tea-table. And no\\',
young ladies, we will proceed to breakfast ! Miss
Netherclift'e, my dear, after breakfast you will,
perhaps, be kind enough to step into the parlour,
as I should like to talk over a few final arrangements
before you commence your practising. It is fortunate
that, to-day being Saturday, there are no masters in the
afternoon.'

So saving, and filled apparently with an all-embracing
spirit of benevolence, the schoolmistress
led the way down the broad staircase, Fanny Aspenall,
conceiving that she had achieved a triumph, performing
the * vampire ' gesture behind her back,
greatly to the amusement of the ' little ones,' who
sat down to their coffee and thick bread-and-butter,
choking with suppressed merriment.

At the top of the long table, near to the tea anal
coffee, a sacred covered dish was reserved especially
for the ' Grand Llama.' This contained either a
delicate morsel of frizzled bacon, a poached egg, ora
sausage, which the more greedy and material of the
pupils were wont almost to devour with their eyes ;
for though they were, in a general way, extremely
well fed, there was, upon every day in the week,
except Tuesday, a dismal monotony with regard to
the breakfast-fare. Upon Tncsdai/s, however, most
of the girls, being young and hungry, used to awake
in the morning with the agreeable consciousness that
something (they were usually too sleepy to remember
u-Jiat) of a pleasurable nature was about to take place ;
in fact, that  for some reason or another  the day 'as

a red-letter day, and when this sensation, vague and
undefined at first, came gradually to assume form and
substance, lo ;md heroic, they would straightway
realise that it was * bot-roll morning ' (as the little
ones used to call it) ; and, indeed, for some mysterious
reason, bot rolls were served up for the young ladies
breakfast on Tuesday mornings, and even the * Higher
Culture * never pretended to ignore that this innovation
made an agreeable change.

But to-day was Saturday, and, with the exception
of the covered dish at the head of the table, thick
bread-and-butter was the only luxury provided. Of
this, however, there was enough and to spare. Isabella
Nethercliffe's place at meal times had always been at
Miss Pendragon's right hand, and, in evidence of the
great favour with which this young lady was regarded,
a small portion of the tit-bit contained in the covered
dish was generally presented for her acceptance.
Isabella, however, who was the soul of justice and
high-mindedness, invariably declined the proffered
honour, rightly conceiving that an acceptance of it
would be the occasion of jealous carping amongst
those who were less fortunate ; and, as Miss Darlington
(who sat next, and to whom the dish was
sometimes passed) dared not avail herself of the
privilege, in consequence of the very strong opinion
Isabella bad always expressed upon the subject, the
ceremony of the proffering of the covered dish came
in time to be little better than a hollow form ; and
although Fanny Aspenall had been beard to declare
that, if ever it travelled down the table as far asher
place, it should certainly not escape her, it was
not supposed that even sie would really have ventured
to behave so directly in opposition to all established
precedent.

Upon this particular morning Isabella was pressed,
nay, earnestly' entreated, to partake of the dainty ; as
usual, however, she remained jroof against its fascinations,
and as soon as breakfast was over Miss
Pendragon motioned her to the parlour. Not long
afterwards she reappeared, and made known to the
girls the result of her interview.

Miss Pendragon thinks that, without unsealing
our missionary-boxes, we might, perhaps, collect a
little separate sum especially for this occasion,' she
explained, ' and either give it in at the meeting, or
hand it over to papa when he comes here in the
afternoon. We have drawn up a list, as you see,
with the pupils' names ; how much would you like
to contribute. Miss Spicer ? '

Isabella, who held a slip of paper and a pencil in
her hand, happened, whilst she was speaking, to move
towards Emily and hence it was that she came to ask
her before any of the others,

Is the list seen ? ' asked Emily Spicer, who, as the
reader is aware, was * all for show-off.'

I believe,' answered Isabella, ' that the list will be
seen, and that those who give most will have their
names written at the top. It is very possible that
they may be printed afterwards in the Evangelical
Banner, but at any rate Miss Pendragon will see them,
shave given a sovereign.'

Then I will give one pound ten,' said Emily, as,
with a look of conscious pride, she drew forth her
purse.

And / should like to give tito jwunds, if you
please, Miss Nethercliffc,' interposed Miss Rosa Dupuis,
stepping forward, and ' capping ' her rival.

horrid creatiiro /' murmured Miss Spicer, as she
shrank away, longing to subscribe another sovereign.

Slice's a converted heathen herself,' whispered a
partisan of Emily ; * she's been broiiht up in the
suffer-mines, thousands of feet below the bowels of
the earth. That's why she's so black.'

If we all hated each other as much as those two,'
remarked Fanny Aspenall to her nearest neighbour,
the missionary meetings would get on like winking.'
As the 'cjTiic uttered these words, Isabella, with her
pencil, stood before her.

And now. Miss Aspenall,' she said, courteously,
how much would you like to contribute to the
mission ? '

I'm a poor orphan,' Fanny answered, ' as the man
said who murdered his father and mother ; just tell
me. Miss Nethcrcliffe  you, Who know everything 
how little can I do it for respectably?'

Eeally, Miss Aspenall,' returned Isabella, with
dignity, ' I must leave that question to be solved by
sour own conscience ! '

Well, then,' said Miss Aspenall, ' I detest the
missionaries, I hate Miss Pendragon, and I don't
care a button for Lord Nethercliffe, although he /* a
lord and your father, because I believe him to be a
regular old humbug, who only comes here, like Captain
Spicer, to make eyes at the pretty girls ; and yet I
want to please all three of them. Can I do it for
eighteen pence ? '

No, that you really caiiHot, Miss Aspenall,' returned
Isabella, in a voice of frank disapproval.
'Indeed you can't, for the sake of the tone of the
school ! '

Very well, then, /tere goes ! I'll give two shillings ;
but I'll tell you honestly, Miss Nethercliffe, I don't
like it. I give it through the nose ; and you may tell

his lordship from me she went on, mimicking Miss
Pendragon's pronunciation, *that it does seem rather
hard that, just because he's coming to tea, a poor
orphan like me has to go to the expense of a clean
collar and cuffs and a Sunday frock, and two shillings
into the bargain. If the words wouldn't grate too
harshly upon his lordship's patrician ear, you might
inform him that I thought it beastly ! '

But Isabella had moved away again, only marking
her disgust at such rudeness by silent contempt. She
stopped opposite to the table at which Sophy was correcting
her notes of Dr. Spriigel's lecture.

'How much will you give. Miss St. Clair?' she
asked, tapping somewhat impatiently with her pencil.
Notwithstanding that she had endeavoured to hide it,
Fanny Aspenall's gibes had annoyed her considerably.

I give nothing at all,' answered Sophy, firmly,
with a compression of the lips. * My principles don't
allow me, I'm sorry to say, to associate myself with
the movement ; so please. Miss Nethercliffe, don
think I want to be disagreeable. Please write down,
Sophy St. Clair, 0/. O.s-. 0/." '

Oh, what a screw ! ' exclaimed the same partisan
of Emily who had spoken before.

You see. Miss Nethercliffe,' Sophy continued earnestly,
' I have got my " Indignant Blind " box, and
there's now more than five pounds in it, but I've been
brought up to be against missionaries. Surely charity
begins at home. England isn't much bigger than a
button upon the map, and look what misery there is in
it ! Besides which, my dear father, when he was alive,
was against all these missions.'

I should think,' said Fanny Aspenall, in an audible
aside, ' that her " dear father," as she calls him.

Sophy  or

must have been as mad as a hatter. I wonder people
didn't have him shut up ! '

Sophy became very red under these insulting remarks,
but, imitating the example of Isabella, she refrained
from replying to them, and remained silent,
biting her lips with suppressed indignation.

I wish, dear Miss St. Clair, you could be induced
to make an exception to your general rule upon this
occasion,' said Isabella. ' I think it would please Miss
Pendragon, and be of benefit in that way to yourself.
Any small sum would do.'

Then,' answered Sophy, taking out her purse, * I
will give sixpence. I shall go, I suppose, at the very
end of the list, but I don't mind that. It's better than
being false to one's convictions.'

Isabella took the sixpence with a sigh, and passed
into the further schoolroom to canvass the little ones.
When drawTi up in proper form, and fairly copied out,
the list of the elder girls' contributions ran as follows :

Society for the Propagation of the Gospel amongst
THE Heathen.

Miss Rosa Dupuis .

Miss Emily Spicer .

Hon. Isabella NetherclifFe

Miss Darlington

Miss Goad

Miss Grubbe

Miss Probe

Miss J. Jones

Miss Aspenall

Miss St. Clair

By half-past three in the afternoon the young
ladies were nearly all ready, and assembled in the

entrance-hall. The process of sorting and pairing
generally took some time, during which such sentences
as the following were clearly audible, uttered in a stage
whisper : 

If you please, Miss jNethercliffe, I think this is
the day when I have the pleasure, &c.' . . . *E-osa
Dupuis, you are engaged to me !' .' Where's Miss
Spicer ? Miss Spicer, this is our day.' . * If Miss
Aspenall doesn't make haste I shall have to walk with
Miss Grubbe.' . . . 'Miss Aspenall's boots were so old
that she's gone up to put on some clogs over them.' . . .
Miss St. Clair, I hope you don't mean to throw me
over as you did Miss Aspenall?' &c.

Upon Saturdays, as the reader may perhaps remember,
Sophy was engaged to walk with little Miss Jones
not a very congenial companion at the best of times,
and seemingly less so since she had ' nibbled at the
Higher Culture,' as Miss Aspenall had cynically remarked.
By a quarter to four they had arranged
themselves in double file, and had emerged from the
iron gateways into the high-road, Fanny Aspenall
holding her black-silk dress out of the mud in a
marked manner, as if with the view of troubling Miss
Pendragon's conscience. They arrived in good time at
the Town Hall, and proceeded at once to occupy the seats
retained for them, which were situated in the first and
second row from the platform. The ' show-girls,' in
point of dress and personal appearance, were cunningly
disposed to the front, irrespective of seniority in age or
wisdom ; and thus it was that Sophy, by reason of her
neat frock and pretty face, found herself occupying a
place next to Isabella, with Adele on her left, and only
removed from Miss Pendragon by a few chairs ; whilst
the members of the 'Higher Culture,' and Fanny

VOL. III. L

AspcnuU, iu spite of her Suiidaj' p;o"\vii, were told off to
the hack seats under the surveillance of ' Frilulein/
Miss Pendragon herself, arrayed in a new bonnet, and
a rustling silk dress which would have almost supported
itself on end without human aid, looked positively
handsome through her black-lace veil ; and it
even occurred to So2)hy, whilst remarking upon the
pains she had taken with her toilet, that she might
perhaps have contemplated making an impression upon
the widowed heart of Lord Nethercliffe himself. The
appearance of Isabella's father was greeted with a
suppressed murmur of deference and admiration, which
was wafted through the spacious apartment like a long
sigh. Sophy looked at him with particular interest,
having heard from his daughter of his great mental
powers ; she was curious, also, to observe in the flesh
the man who had been alluded to by the Prophet as an
enemy to the Great Cause.

Lord Nethercliffe was apparently about fifty-five
years of age : what little hair he ]possessed was already
white ; but his head, taken as a whole, was bald and
shiny. In no other way, however, did he display, in
his person, any evidences of the triumph of Time. He
had been fair-haired once, and was still pink and fresh-coloured
as an infant. His nose was aquiline, and his
whole presence tall and commanding. He spoke in
deep, sonorous tones, hesitating a little from time to
time, but only as with a view of selecting the most
appropriate words ; whilst a certain self-complacency
of manner seemed to indicate that he was accustomed
to be listened to, whether he hesitated or not.

Isabella had appeared rather nervous at the beginning
of the parental speech, fearing possibly, that, after
Miss Pendragon's eulogistic remarks, the orator might

not come up to the young ladies' expectations ; but she
was soon reassured by his deep voice and rounded
periods. The noble lord had, however, very little real
scope for his eloquence. He had merely to make a
few introductory remarks previously to presenting the
real hero of the day, the Rev. Salvation Mortimer,
who had not yet made his appearance upon the platform.
There was one circumstance connected with
this gentleman which, as his lordship remarked,
rendered his advent particularly interesting. Not
only had he embraced the perilous and self-sacrificing
career of a missionary (in itself a sufficient plea for his
favourable reception), but he had himself been numbered,
in the past, amongst those very heathens for
whose conversion it was now his glorious privilege to
toil without ceasing ; in a word. Lord Nethercliffe
begged to prepare the meeting for the fact that Mr.
Mortimer was ' a gentleman of colour,' an African by
birth, and for this reason doubly deserving of the
esteem of his Christian brothers and sisters in England.
He had but lately arrived in this country, and his
lordship hoped that, at any rate, the Christian friends
who had so kindly consented to assist at the present
meeting, and who had listened to his own remarks
with so much attention, would give to so valiant a
soldier of the Church Militant a hearty welcome.
Again there was a suppressed murmur of applause,
during which Lord Nethercliffe subsided into an armchair,
after waving his hand towards the curtain at the
back of the platform, whence there emerged a ' coloured
gentleman,' in a black clerical suit and scrupulously
clean tie and shirt-front. He was a tall, middle-aged
negro, burly in figure, with large flat feet, rolling
eyeballs, and white nails.

Sophy and Adelc started simultaneously.
Oh, Adele ! . . /

Oh, Sophy ! . . .'

You see who it is ? . . . Carver ! . . . How
dreadful ! AV'hat shall we do ? '

*Ah, del! cet horreur homme ! . . . What can
possibly bring him to this place?'

One black man seems to most English eyes to be
very much like another, but in the present instance
there could be no mistake. Soi3hy and Adelc were too
well acquainted with every detail of 31r. Carvers
personal appearance to be in doubt for a single
instant ; and the sight of him, awakening, as it did,
the most painful and terrible recollections, rendered
them both almost speechless \dth horror. Isabella,
perceiving that something was amiss with Sophy,
slipped her hand into her muff and touched her arm,
at the same time looking inquiringly in her face.
Miss Pendragon, too, was glancing in her direction
with an expression of mingled concern and annoyance.
Both Sophy and the French governess were staring at
the black figure upon the platform as though they had
beheld a spectre. Lord Nethercliffe, perceiving a
commotion in the front row of places near to where
his daughter was seated, likewise adjusted his eye-glass
and looked towards the two girls. The situation was
becoming terribly embarrassing. Sophy wished then
and there to get up and denounce the impostor ; whilst
Adele, fearful of being recognised bj one who had
persecuted her with his attentions, and who had even
once, as she had since learnt, contemplated carrying
her off by force, was endeavouring to prevent her from
rising from her seat.

Oh, Adele, don't I' Sophy was exclaiming in an

agitated whisper. ' I must . I must unmask him !
Oil, Miss Nethercliffe . . . Isabella ! . All, if
you only knew ! . . .V

Meanwhile, the unconscious cause of all this emotion
was placidly commencing his lecture. He perceived
nothing of the disturbance, his gaze being directed
over the heads of those beneath him, towards the
centre of the hall. The audience, likewise, were
unaware of it, for Sophy and Adele were so thoroughly
hemmed in and encompassed by their schoolfellows,
that the rest of the assemblage were removed from
them by several rows ; so that the tall curate, and the
man with the red beard (who had turned out, as the
reader may remember, to be a retired tallow-chandler),
were unable, by dint of all their staring and straining,
to catch sight of even the crowning plume of Emily
Spicer's best Paris bonnet in the reserved chairs.
Sophy heard scarcely a word of the discourse. The
memories aroused by the sudden appearance of this
terrible black man seemed completely to have deafened
and blinded her to her immediate surroundings ; all
she realised was, that he was apparently giving a
description of his savage and untutored youth, every
word of which she conceived to be false. He was
baptized, he said, at length, having heard 'a call.*
He was christened ' Salvation '  it was a good name ;
it was a blessed name ; it was a name that reminded
him of the precious truths of which he hoped those
present pondered and thought, morning, noon, and
night ; when they arose from their beds to labour in
the vineyard, and when they lay down at night
wearied with good service done, this was what he
fervently hoped and trusted. . . . He praj/cd this
might be the case; . he would give wealth, and

power, and station, if ho were possessed of them, to
assure himself that it might be so. . . . Yes, ' Salvation
' was a good name, a blessed name, a precious and
a glorious name ; he rejoiced in it, he was proud of it,
and he was proud to say that he was proud of it to the
assembled company. . . . Something of all this Sophy
certainly heard, but only as one hears now and then a
few words in the buzzing murmur of a crowd. Adele
was still clinging to her dress to prevent her from
rising, her countenance pale with emotion. After a
while both girls became calmer.

Let us hear on to the end,' Adele whispered ;
Miss Pendragon is observing us. He will not see us
if onlj'- we remain quiet.'

Thus adjured, Sophy resumed her seat, and tried to
listen. By-and-by, in spite of herself, she became interested.


Mr. * Mortimer,' whose lecture was, to a certain extent,
autobiographical, had already related a great many
of his early experiences. He had been converted to
Christianity, and baptized by the name in which he
gloried ; he had become a labourer in the vineyard,
and dwelt amongst upright and God-fearing men and
women : but his heart was bleeding the while for his
own benighted brethren. To them also did he desire
to bring the glad tidings ; and he departed, therefore,
one day, bound for the Gold Coast, to toil as a missionary
amongst the heathen. And here it was that,
according to his own account, he met with a series of
adventures, in the narration of which, whether true or
false, Sophy could not help) feeling interested. He was
describing now, with great spirit, his encounter with
and eventual escape from, the King of Dahomey's
Amazon Guard. A large cartoon, representing these

warlike women  clad only in their national costume of
nose-rings, feathers, and a few strings of cowrie-beads
had completely taken Miss Pendragon by surprise,
causing her to give utterance more than once to her
well-known little deprecatory cough. Upon observing,
however, that * the most pious and eloquent nobleman
in England' had not only focussed the cartoon with
his eye-glass, but appeared deeply interested in its contemplation,
she, no doubt, made up her mind that any
sort of ultra squeamishness might possibly seem to him
old-fashioned, or even middle-class, and forthwith
allowed her gaze to follow the same direction.

The skins of animals (Mr. ' Mortimer ' proceeded to
explain), a rough fabric made of plaited grass, and
beads formed of shells, were, generally, the only article
of personal attire worn by these savage people. Some
of them, however  the chiefs and head men  decked
themselves out with ornaments made of pure gold : for,
in this count r} there was gold in profusion. . . . The
sands of the rivers might, indeed, almost be said to be
golden ; but, alas ! they did not possess the River of
Life  the saving fount wherein the sinner has only to
wash in order that his sins may become as white as
wool. He would, by-and-by, astonish his kind friends
now assembled, by informing them to what singular uses
gold was sometimes applied in this unhappy country 
the precious metal so over-esteemed by the worldly,
but which is but as dross compared to the treasure
which may be laid up in heaven, * where neither moth
nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break
through and steal. . . .'

But, to continue the adventure with the Amazons.
Enraged at the number of converts to Mr. Mortimer's
 earnest teaching, the King of Dahomc}'  a monarch

notorious for his cruelty  decided at length to put a
price upon his head, and caused him to be hunted even
as though he had been a wild beast. For many days
he know not wlicrc to rest his head ; his bed at night
being either amongst the reeds of some poisonous morass,
or on the thorns of an impenetrable jungle. All
this time, however, he was not deserted ; he was
miraculously strengthened and supported, even as Elijah
was supported. By-and-by the hour of his deliverance-drew
nigh. In consequence of having been warned in a
dream, he crept forth, one evening, from his hiding-place.
. . . Sophy was listening now with the greatest
attention. The whole assembly became breathlessly
excited. . . . Lord Nethercliffc, it is true, with his eyeglass
adjusted, continued still to gaze benignantly in
the direction of the 'show-girls;' but, then, it was
more than probable that he may have heard the narration
before. Even Miss Pendragon appeared moved
and diverted. . . . Upon leaving his jungle, then, and
betaking himself to the open, the Rev. Salvation perceived
that he was encompassed upon all sides b}' the
King of Dahomey's Amazon Guard, who had craftily
managed a surprise. Under these circumstances, the
only hope of safety within his reach seemed to consist
in the repetition of a hymn  the very same h'mn, in
fact, in the singing of which he trusted that his kind
friends would join him at the conclusion of the present
meeting. Shortly afterwards he achieved his triumph.
The ferocious Amazons pursued him for a considerable
distance ; but strength was vouchsafed him to outrun
them. They were armed with spears, bows, and arrows,
and some of their leaders with rough flint-and-steel
guns ; and they were all of them remarkably fleetwood
and precise in their aim. Nevertheless, the

spears, and arrows whizzed past without harming him ;
and he was, at length, enabled to reach a deep morass,
into which he fearlessly plunged, favoured by the increasing
darkness. Into this dismal Slough of Despond
his pursuers did not venture to enter, and they
abandoned him to his fate, discharging, before they
departed, a shower of arrows and bullets into his hiding-place
; so that, upon their return, the king should see
that they had made good use of both their weapons and
their ammunition.

And now ' (Mr. Mortimer continued) * I will give
my kind friends an example of some of the strange
uses to which gold is sometimes put in this barbarous
country. One of the shots fired penetrated even into
the place wherein I lay concealed ; but, by a truly
merciful dispensation, the wound inflicted was not
mortal. I was shot in the arm ; the bullet, however,
was well-nigh spent when it reached me, and it was
easily extracted next day by one of the members of a
friendly tribe, with whom I providentially fell in a I
crept forth from my miserable resting-place. This
bullet, ladies and gentlemen, is still in my possession.
I have brought it with me here ujDon the present
occasion, deeming that it may excite some interest
amongst you ; for, as you will observe, it is very different
from most warlike missiles. I will pass it round
for your inspection ; and I think you will admit that
it is a very great curiosity. It is a curiosity which
I intend preserving in my family as a reminder that in
the time of my need I was not abandoned. . . . Ladies
and gentlemen, this bullet, as you will perceive, is a
golden bullet, cast in one of the rude bullet-moulds employed
by these savage people, who possess in such
abundance this so-called precious metal, and who are

or

yet so deplorably poor iiiul needy as regarded true
riches. Here is this strange curiosity, ladies and
gentlemen ; you will be kind enough to return it tome
when you have inspected it.'

Upon hearing these preposterous words, Sophy was
almost paralysed with amazement. It seemed impossible
to realise that even a man of Carver's unprincipled
character should actually stand up before a large assembly
and give utterance to such an ingenious tissue
of falsehood ! Perhaps, however, tic truth, could it be
made manifest, would seem to be more preposterous
still ! She began almost to question her reason, and to
wonder whether, after all, her own version of the story
of the golden bullet would not appear to others like the
reminiscence of some fevered nightmare : the lonely
night passed in the summer-room by the side of the
dead man ; the ghastly form noiselessly lifting up the
window sash with its black fingers ; the report of the
rifle ; the dull sound caused by the falling to earth of
a human body. All this certainly savoured strangely
of melodrama ; almost too sensational to be founded
upon fact ! But there was yet another scene which
flashed back upon her memory  the casting of the
golden bullet. She saw once more, in imagination, the
large, gloomy drawing-room at the De Cramponays',
with its tarnished gilding and greasy Oriental carpet ;
the glowing fire heaped up in the hearth, and the little
crucible in the form of a tripod. She saw the cain,
bloodless face of the blind philosopher; the sceptic,
Avhose floating credulity'' seemed oftentimes so over-ready
to seek sanctuary in strange temples, wearing an
expression half-contemptuous and half-expectant, as he
leant forward upon his thin hand and listened to the
black man's incantations ; whilst Mdlle. do Cramps

dirty white poodle, standing erect upon the
hearth rug, surveyed the proceedings with such an expression
of weird and unearthly intelligence, that, had
its colour been intensified by only a few shades, it
might have sat as a model for the demoniacal poodle in
Faust.

Then came the moment when the bullet-mould had
required feeding ; and when, like Benevento at the
casting of his ' Perseus,' she had seized upon the first
object seeming likely to save the situation  her gold
thimble, which she had drawn forth from her pocket,
and cast headlong into the crucible. This thimble, as
the reader may remember, had been presented to herby
Tom Hickathrif t upon her birthday ; and it so happened
that it was studded round its outer rim with
small garnets, some of which, coming of necessity to
the surface during the process of seething and bubbling,
had somewhat tended to spoil the perfect symmetry of
the bullet.

All this Sophy saw now, as in a glass, and in so
short a space of time, that she had beheld it before
even the golden bullet (which was being passed along
the front row of chairs) had arrived at her place. By-and-by
it came to her turn to examine it, and she actually
held it in her hand. Yes, there were the little
garnets peeping out here and there, like currants in a
Christmas pudding. It was a rough-looking bullet
enough, in all conscience, well calculated to pass
muster as an implement of savage warfare ; but it washer
old friend, for all that ; there was no mistaking it.

Overcome by emotion at the memories it recalled,
she continued to hold it in her palm. Adele, bending
eagerly towards her from the other side, was contemplating
it also. The moment had come when Sophy
could contain herself no longer.

Oh, Mr. Carver!' she exclaimed, as slice started
from her seat and confronted the black man upon the
platform, ' how can you tell all these dreadfully wicked
falsehoods ! Never, never dare to say anything again
before me about the Amazon Guard ! Look at me, Mr.
Carver ; don't you know me ? I'm Sophy St. Clair ;
and you know that I shot you myself I '

Chapter XI.

TiiK presence of Lord Nethercliffe at the tea-table,
and the consequent excitement prevailing in the establishment,
prevented Miss Pendragon from administering
to Sophy her well-merited reprimand upon the evening
after the missionary meeting ; but it was easy to perceive,
from the schoolmistress's manner, that she was merely
gathering together the vials of her wrath in order that
their contents might descend in a concentrated volume
at a more convenient time. Indeed, the only words
she had addressed to Sophy since her indiscreet behaviour
at the Town Hall, bore witness of this intention.


*0n Monday morning, Sophia St. Clair,' she had
said, in her most judicial and formidable tones, ' I shall
have occasion to speak to you very particularly ; and, I
regret to say, upon an extremely painful subject. At
half-past two o'clock, as soon as dinner is removed, you
will be good enough to come to me in the parlour.'

So, there would be two whole nights and a day ta
wait before she received her scolding ! It gave her a
very unpleasant feeling of suspense ; but the decrees of
the * Grand Llama ' were even as those of the Medes-
and Persians.

Next day was Sunday. Sophy arose, pale and
weary, after a sleepless night, and went through the
formality of morning church like a person in a dream.
During the walk, she related to Isabella the history, sofar
as she knew it, of Carver's antecedents, in order
that some explanation of her behaviour might be conveyed
to Lord Nethercliffe.

' For I am sure she said to her newly-made friend,
your father must have thought me quite mad. Miss
Pendragon thinks so, I'm sure, she watches me in such
a curious way ; and sometimes I fancy, myself, that I
can't be quite made like other people. I seem always
forced to do such odd things ! '

I shall certainly write to papa this very afternoon,'
rejoined Miss NetherclifPe. 'This strange story will
interest him immensely ; for, unlike some statesmen
who are only occupied with the public good, papa can
bend his mind to the individual. He is already interested
in you, from what he has heard from me of
your curious life and bringing up.' 

It is very kind of Lord Nether clifPe,' said Sophy
humbly. * I feel sorry, now, that I made such a disturbance
; but I couldn't help telling that horrid man
what I thought of him, and you saw by his behaviour
that I told the truth : you saw that he left the lecture-room
without asking for the bullet back again, which
he said he was going to preserve in his family  he left
it, as you saw, in my hand, so I shall preserve it in nii/
family instead. After all, who has a better right to it
than I have ? '

By this time the two girls had reached the church,
and, according to custom, both of them bowed their
heads and buried their faces in their muffs, although it
is to be feared that in Sophy's case the movement may

have been purely mechanical and imitative. She found,
to her surprise, that the order in which she generally
sat had been changed, and that she was now actually
next to Miss Pendragon, this place having been indicated
to her imperatively upon her entrance into
church, no doubt with the view of subjecting her to
the keenest possible surveillance. Not being, as yet,
quite confident as to the places in her Prayer-book,
particularly with regard to the Collect and Epistle for
the day, she could not help feeling somewhat nervous
at being, thus, in close proximity to the schoolmistress,
and, for a while, this prevented her from indulging in
her usual habit of castle-building:.

During the first Lesson, however, her thoughts
commenced wandering, and by the time she had knelt
down again upon her hassock they had already travelled
many miles, flying as the crow flies, over hedge, ditch,
and highway, imtil they were safely landed in the dear
old haunts. It is true that, with her material ejes,
whenever she chose to raise them from her book, she
could still see the heads of the select young gentlemen
immediately in front of her ; the tall curate was there,
too, officiating ; whilst the red-bearded tallow-chandler,
dressed in the height of fashionable male attire, was
seated in the adjoining pew, and giving himself those
absurd airs of importance which had led the infatuated
Emily to believe that he was a peer of the realm, or an
officer in the regular army, at the very least. All these
people were there, but seeming only like so many unsubstantial
shadows, whose presence did not interfere in
any way with the figures conjured up by her imagination.
The monotonous voice of the clergyman continued
to drone the service, the pale morning sunlight fell in
broad noted beams through the high windows on her

right, gaudy with modern glass-painting, whilst close
in her ear she still heard the clear, distinct voice of the
schoolmistress uttering the responses. But, all the while,
she went on with her day-dreaming. By-and-by, she
took to following Avitli her eyes the course taken by one
of the sunbeams. It was so broad that two or three
heads and shoulders were brightened by it as it descended
through the high-pointed window. It seemed
to stretch like a pale golden bar right across the middle
of the church, and then to stood, and lose itself in a dark
pillar, ornamented with ivy scrollwork, which stood
quite close at hand on her right. Glancing down from
the noted sunbeam to the shadowy side of this pillar,
her eyes lighted upon a figure, the sight of which made
her heart seem suddenly to stand still, and then to race
on with such tumultuous speed that her breath failed
her, and she feared that she must lose consciousness.

Godfrey, her lost love, her comrade and playmate
in the old days, was either leaning against this stone
pillar, not five feet from where she sat, or appeared to
her frenzied imagination to be thus close at hand.

For one moment she looked fixedly in his face
with an expression of eagerness, of longing, of interest
gratitude at the realisation of her heart's desire
after many daj's.' Then the congregation rose up to
sing the first hymn ; and as the tones of the organ
pealed forth, it seemed to Sophy that the face of her
lover grew paler and paler,  like unto death,' and that,
at last, it faded away into the actual stonework of the
pillar, becoming fainter and more shadowy, until she
could only see it through the formal sprays of the ivy
tracery, which appeared to cover the features as with a
network. Her Hymn-book and Church-service fell to
the ground at this moment with much clatter, and she

was aware of Miss Pendragon's keen gray eyes earnestly
scrutinising her face. The whole church seemed to
rock and sway as one might imagine a building assailed
by an earthquake, then a deafness and blindness
came suddenly upon her, shutting off the congregation
as with a veil, and she saw and heard them no more.

When she recovered consciousness, she was sitting
in the little schoolroom in one of the best drawing-room
chairs, propped up by some of the smart cushions,
which had been caught u]) in the hurry of the moment.
Jacintha Darlington, who was still too unwell to leave
the house, was bending over her, and the rough repaired
handmaiden was lurking in the doorway with
restoratives.

You fainted in church, dear,' Jacintha replied to
Sophy's questioning looks ; * and Frilulein brought you
home in a shut-fly. Like me, you are evidently not
strong. People with poetical temperaments seldom are.'

It took Sophy some little time to collect her ideas.

Would you like me to open the window ? ' asked
Miss Darlington kindly.

Sophy nodded assent, and Jacintha thereupon threw
open the window.

As they gazed out through the rusty ' meat cage '
at the widowed cedar, they perceived, under its sombre
layers of dingy green, the forms of the girls returning
from church. Isabella,who had been Sojhy 's companion,
was walking alone, carrying an extra muir upon her
arm, and also the Church service which her friend had
let fall in her emotion.

Miss Darlington now began to remember her sore-throat,
and moved away from the window into the
larger schoolroom beyond, while Sophy still continued

to gaze dreamily at the forms of her schoolfellows as
they defiled in through the iron gateway. Suddenly
she uttered a low moan, and started to her feet. The
same tall figure which she had perceived (or fancied
that she had perceived) in church was passing now on
the opposite side of the road, gazing earnestly in at the
gate, and seeming particularly to scrutinise Isabella
with her two muffs and the superfluous Prayer-book.
Sophy felt an almost irresistible impulse to dash headlong
through the intervening ' meat-cage,' and to land
herself by this means in the garden beneath. Afterwards
she felt she would hardly care whether she died
of it, or became maimed, so long as she could be near
him once more, if only for a moment, to tell him that
he had never been absent from her thoughts for even one
of all these weary days since he had left England ! . . .

As this passed through her mind the young ladies
came trooping into the large schoolroom, and deposited
their Prayer-books in their respective lockers. Isabella
immediately went into the smaller room to inquire
after Sophy, whom she found looking eagerly out of
the window at some object beyond.

How are you now, dear ? ' she asked affectionately.
Better, I hope ? How dreadfully pale you became !
What could it have been, I wonder ? You surely didn't
see that horrid black man again ? I looked about for
him everywhere af teryou were gone, but could see no
trace of him.'

Oh, but surely, dear Miss Nethercliffe,' exclaimed
Sophy breathlessly, * you saw another man ? A young
man, tall and handsome, and very unhappy-looking.
He's walking up and down outside now. Oh, Isabella,
I would give anything in the whole world if I could
say only one word to him ! What shall I do ? . . .'

VOL. III. M

A look of pain passed over Isabella's beautiful face.

My dear child said she, ' it is impossible for you
to go out and speak to a man in the road. If he is a
friend of yours, ho will probably come and call upon you
here quite openly. Perhaps he isn't sure of the house

He would come, I know,' Sophy answered, in the
same excited voice ; * but he's very likely afraid. It's
my cousin, Godfrey St. Clair  I know it is  that is to
say, he used to be my cousin : but misfortunes came
upon him, and altered everything ; and he may not
know that I would be allowed to see him ; after the way
I behaved in church, he may think I don't want to !
Ah, he's gone now ! ' she cried despairingly, after once
more gazing out at the road  ' he's out of sight ; and
he'll never know that I've seen him at all ! '

She buried her face in her hands, and the tears
began trickling through her fingers. Isabella endeavoured
to console her.

Yes, he seems to be out of sight now,' she said,
lajdng her hands upon her friend's shoulder. ' Come
away from the window.'

Her impression was that Sophy had been the victim
of some optical delusion, and that the * tall, handsome,
very unhappy-looking young man,' was the creature of
her frenzied imagination.

Overcome by despair, Sophy allowed herself to be
led into the larger schoolroom, and thence upstairs to
the three-bedded sleeping apartment, where Emily
Spicer and Fanny Aspenall were taking off their
walking-apparel, and preparing for the midday meal.
Isabella, with the utmost kindness and condescension,
removed Sophy's over jacket, and smoothed her disordered
tresses, after which she supported her downstairs
again to the schoolroom. Here the girls were

awaiting the ringing of the dinner-bell, and a line o
them blocked up and obscured each of the windows, so
that it was difficult for Sophy to see out, notwithstanding
all her endeavours.

In the distance, she fancied she observed the figure
of a man standing at the turn of the road; but the
branches of the dark cedar-tree prevented her from
seeing whether or no it was the man for whom she was
so eagerly seeking ; and before she had time to ascertain,
the dinner-bell clanged forth, and the girls went
trooping downstairs to the dining-room.

Sophy lingered purposely on the staircase, so that
when her school-fellows passed into the presence of the
Grand Llama ' she found herself alone in the spacious
entrance-hall. It was for this she had planned. In the
centre of the hall was the front door, the upper half of
which was made of glass, unprotected by anything in
the shape of bars or * meat-cage.' Through this door
Godfrey (if indeed it was he) could at any rate see her;
she could wave her hands to him in greeting, or beckqji
him to her with her impatient arms. There was not a
moment to be lost. She ran hastily to the front door.
Yes, there could be no mistake now ; Godfrey was
standing outside, near the iron gateway, looking wistfully
at the windows of the old house, as though doubtful
as to whether he should enter the sacred precincts. His
gaze was fixed upon the upper windows, and she saw
that he did not perceive her. Vainly she endeavoured
to attract his attention. In despair, she tried the handle
of the door; but it was locked. She dared not raise
her voice to call to him, knowing that it would be heard
more distinctly inside the house than without ; but she
tapped eagerly at the glass pane, and beckoned towards
him with her despairing arms.

'Where is Miss St. Clair?' inquired the. 'Grand
Llama' from the head of the dining-room table.

The girls had all taken their seats, and Sophy's
place was the only one vacant. Isabella glanced
anxiously towards the doorway, fearful lest her friend
might have fainted again.

Go and see where Miss St. Clair is continued the
schoolmistress, addressing Miss Jones.

The little girl immediately arose from her 2:)lace to
obey the command. In a few minutes she returned.

'Oh, if you please, Miss Pendragon,' she said,
Sophy St. Clair hasn't fainted ; she's standing at the
front door, rattling the handle, and tr\dng to get out,
and kissing her hand to a man in the road ; and I
think,' added the incorrigible child, as she scrambled
back again into her place, ' that it must be a man called
"Herbert," who she's made some poetry about that
tumbled out of her Prayer-book, and that I picked up.
It's something about driving with him in a yellow
brougham, and it says if only the brougham could
speak. . . . And there's another man, too, that she's
fond of, called Godfrey ; and another called Tom ; and
another called Alexander, only he was eaten up by rats
She seems to have been awfully mixed up with
gentlemen! . . .'

The ' Grand Llama ' actually rose from her seat and
passed out into the entrance-hall. Such an event had
never happened before ; it was totally without precedent
that she should go thus personally in quest of a refractory
pupil. The girls at the dinner-table held their
breath in awe and consternation ; even those who had
declared themselves on the side of Sophy's enemies
appreciated the solemnity of the situation. By-and-by
the culprit was led into the dining-room. Miss Pendragon

had actually grasped lier by the inside of the
collar, as though she had been a malefactor, and was
dragging her along, with an expression of open resentment
very unusual to one who, in the presence of her
inferiors, was wont to study an Oriental calm. Sophy
took her place at the table mechanically. It was
evident that on Monday a concentration of wrath, long
deferred, would descend upon her devoted head !

The fatal morning dawned at last. Then the dinner-hour
came round again, and then Sophy was sent for
into the sanctum. There had been a council of war, to
which Fraulein had been summoned, and the result of
which became immediately known to Miss Jones, who,
as usual, must have been loitering about the doorways
or listening at key-holes.

I say. Miss Nether clifPe,' she exclaimed, a few
minutes afterwards, as she came dancing into the large
schoolroom in an excited state, * have you heard the
news ? Sophy St. Clair's just been expelled, and they've
sent for her to tell her so in the parlour ! ' 

The intelligence was received with a low murmur of
consternation. Miss Nethercliffe, however, was never
surprised. To avow that she was surprised would have
seemed like an acknowledgment of ignorance.

I fancied that this might perhaps happen,' she
said, in a voice of sad dignity. ' It is a very terrible
disgrace. But she was surrounded by enemies. From
the very first moment of her arrival here she was in a
thoroughly bad set.'

As the head of the school uttered these words she
cast a withering glance in the direction of Fanny
Aspenall, Emily Spicer, and Rosa Dupuis.

Little Jenny Jones was still skipping about under
the influence of pleasurable excitement.

Leave off capering and dancing about in that
foolish fashion, you idiotic little creature ! ' exclaimed
Miss Nethcrcliffc impatiently, as she rapped sharply
upon her desk with her penholder. * How can the
unmerited disgrace of poor Miss St. Clair possibly
affect ijoii ? '

Oh, if you please, Miss xethcrcliffe,' answered the
little girl, * one mai jump and dance about if one likes,
you know, even if one is an inferior creature ! Inferior
creatures have their feelings ; and I'm so dull here,
where nothing ever happens, that I can't help dancing
about when I hear a bit of news, even if it's bad. It w
such fun ! '

I'll just tell you what 7ni/ belief is, Miss Nether-cliffs,'
said Fanny Aspenall, lifting up her voice,
though I dare say you mayn't care to hear it. I believe
that Sophy St. Clair is no better than a raving, raging,
ravaging lunatic, that ought to be shut up and put
in chains ; and it's my belief that me and poor Miss
Spicer have been in danger of our lives, sleeping in the
same room with her ; and that it's a real mercy that she
didn't get up and murder us in our sleep. All I know
is, that she's taken lately to snivel at night, and to
deprive me of my natural rest ; and my uncle has often
told me that there isn't a greater sign of madness out
than snivelling at night ; and it's a well-known thing
in our family that there isn't a living creature upon
earth that requires more natural sleep than an Aspenall.
My uncle requires a great deal of sleep, and he sends
other people to sleep in church, whether they require it
or not. So now. Miss Nethercliffe, you know my candid
opinion about your friend Miss St. Clair, who's given
more bother than she's worth ever since she first
darkened these doors. Amen ! '

As Fanny concluded lier ill-natured speech the tinkling
of the front-door bell, and a heavy footfall in the
entrance-hall, made known to the girls the arrival of
Dr. Spriigel, who always delivered his lecture at three
o'clock upon Monday afternoons. Arming themselves
with their note-books, they, one and all, descended into
the dining-room, and took their places at the long table.
By-and-by the door of the inner sanctum opened, and
Miss Pendragon entered the room, followed by Sophy,
who looked very pale and unhappy, but had evidently
not been crying. She took her place with the manner
of a person in a dream, and commenced arranging her
writing materials. Isabella, knowing the terrible mandate
which had just gone forth, looked compassionately
at her friend's face, and was quite astonished at its
frozen calm. Meanwhile Dr. Spriigel unfolded his
diagrams and commenced his lecture, which was upon
nearly Italian architecture.

Pained at the melancholy expression upon the face
of his favourite pupil, the kind-hearted Professor very
soon endeavoured to provoke Sophy's smiles by the
making of sundry mild puns and plays upon words.

 In the assembly of architects held at Florence in
1420,' he was saying, ' Brunelleschi at last gained his
point : . he obtained permission to construct the new
cupola, which he almost completed. His third
building was the Palazzo Pitt, which was for so long
the residence of the Medici family, and is celebrated
for the beautiful garden of Boboli which surrounds it.
'This garden, when last it was my privilege to visit it,
was in a sad state of disorder. " What a pitt," I can
hear my young friend Miss St. Clair remarking, with
her accustomed sprightliness and penetration, " that
.such should be the case ! " . . .'

Poor * Miss St. Clair,' it is needless to observe, was
remarking nothing of the kind ; she was still pale and
mournful as before, and she even seemed annoyed at
the Doctor's ill-timed pleasantry.

And now, dear,' said Isabella, when the lecture was.
over, and when she and Sophy found themselves alone
together in the smaller schoolroom, * what do you propose
to do ? Before all this happened, where were you
going to spend your Easter holidays ? '

I had hoped,' answered Sophy, * that they would
have allowed me to go home, and spend them quietly
by myself at Stillingfleet ; but it seems there was some
reason against my doing that. My aunt had just
married again  a clergyman, not at all a nice person 
and she has gone off with him on a wedding tour, so
that I couldn't go to Dallingridge. Lady Hickathrift
had invited me to stay with her at Poynings, but I had
a particular reason against wishing to stay there ; soin
the end, it was settled that I should pass the holidays
at Dallingridge Rectory, where, perhaps, my aunt
is going to live when she comes back. An old lady
lives there called Miss Hornblower, the daughter of the-late
Rector ; and it was settled, I believe, that I should
stay with her. She is a very kind person, and I like
her.'

Still, it won't be very lively for you, dear,' said
Isabella, * staying alone with an old woman. I have
got a little plan in my head which, I think, will do
very nicely instead. I want you very much to come
and stay with mc in London. I have written to papa
about it, and he is charmed with the idea. I hope you
will not disappoint us.'

Oh, Isabella, how kind of you ! '

Sophy was, indeed, deeply touched at Isabella's.

S}rmpatli)% and she could not restrain her tears. Before
this she had felt like the ' crushed worm,' but a worm
that was either too weary or too philosophical to ' turn
She had begun almost to question whether all power
of feeling keenly had not been trampled out of her.
Now J however, she knew that her old friend (or enemy)
the heart, was not altogether dead. Isabella permitted
her to weep on for some moments without interruption.

You see,' she said at last, ' I have never had any
brothers or sisters, and papa, as you know, is a
widower. He has often said how pleased he would be
if I associated more with persons of my own age ;
indeed, this is one of the reasons why I came to " The
Cedars." '

With that nice tact which is peculiar to generous
natures, Isabella was endeavouring to persuade her
friend that, in accepting her invitation, she would be
conferring, instead of receiving, a favour.

'But, aftencarch, dear Miss Nethercliffe?' said
Sophy, still hesitating ; ' won't it make Miss Pendragon
very angry, when you return here, if she knows that
you have spent the holidays with an expelled girl V She
uttered these last words in quite a tragical voice. Only
a short while ago, how little did she ever think that it
would come to this !

I shall never return here again,' answered Miss
Net er cliff e, quietly. ' I only came here in order to
study without interruption, and with the understanding
that I should leave when I liked. Lately, I don't
think the school has quite maintained its former high
standard ; the tone is not quite what it was, not quite
what is to be desired : in fact, I have decided that my
schoolgirl days are over. Several new careers are open
to me in the future. My father requires me at home

to entertain this political friends, and to take the management
of his house. . . . You will let me have your
answer, dear Sophy, before post-time ?'

Oh, Miss Nethercliffe, I am so touched by your
kindness that I can't answer at once ; but I should like,
I should very much like, to stay with you. . . .'

Sophy was still weeping, and could only answer
between her sobs.

Very well,' rejoined Isabella cheerfully ; * then I
shall write to papa, and tell him that it's all settled.
And please don't ever call me " Miss I*fethcrcliffe "
again. It sounds so dreadfully formal.'

Oh, Isahelhi /' was all Sophy could reply to this
new evidence of generosity. ' How can I ever prove
how much I thank you ? '

Some day,' said Isabella, smiling, and taking her
hand, ' I shall very likely ask you to invite me to stay
with you ! When I want a thorough rest after the
dissipations of the season, and when you are of age,
and have come into your property.'

Oh, yes, do /' exclaimed Soph", brightening ; * and
then I can show you all the people and the places I
have talked to you about. YouW. 2)t'0)nise to come and
stay with me at Stillingfleet ? "VVe can go out riding
together upon " Gammy" and '' Ash Ash"'

Yes, I promise ; I am very much pleased that this
is all arranged. Next Saturday you must come with
me to Grosvenor Place, where we shall pass the night,
and next day join papa in Somersetshire ; afterwards,
we shall return to London. You will write and tell
your relatives this, and the old lady called Ilornblower.'

Yes, Sophy would do anything that Isabella wished.
She felt like a floating straw upon the stream of destiny,
unable to think or decide for herself ; it was a comfort

to have even so small a portion of her future arranged
for her hy another. It did, indeed, seem as if, of late,
she had had to endure terrible things. The fact that
she had been actually expelled from * The Cedars ' was
one of the very least of her troubles ; but still it was
an annoyance and a disgrace, to say the least of it.
Even the * Grand Llama ' herself had seemed vexed at
having been forced to adopt such stringent measures.

I am deeply distressed, Sophia,' she had said, after
delivering the fatal edict. * Many circumstances connected
with you are deeply distressing. . I was,
indeed, altogether unprepared for them. I have
written this to your aunt to-day. By-the-by, your
aunt has lately remarried, I believe. She has married
a clergyman ; and I trust that, in the future, he will
prove a valuable friend and adviser to you. . I
trust, indeed, that he will. . . .'

She looked down, as she said this, at her black-silk
mittens, and toyed with her seed-pearl ring, as though
unable to proceed.

A letter, which Sophy had that morning received,
had done much towards strengthening the schoolmistress
in her decision. As was natural after what had taken
place on the Sunday, Sophy was anxiously expecting the
arrival of the postman. She hoped, and yet feared, that
Godfrey would write. But the letter which Miss
Pendragon perused, and then delivered to her, was in a
totally unknown handwriting. It was dated from Lewes
Gaol, having been forwarded from Little Stillingfleet,
and ran as follows : 

Madam,  Some weeks ago, we admitted to this gaol a
gipsy, one Reuben Goddard by name. He was charged before
the local magistrates with poaching, accompanied by
violence ; and he is now awaiting his trial at the forthcoming

Assizes. Since he has been here his health has been gradually
failing, and, notwithstanding that lie is an old offender, the
governor has, at my recommendation, been induced, in the
interests of humanity, to relax some of the most stringent
of the prison rules as to diet, etc., in his behalf. There are
several additional comforts, which could be procured for him
with the help of a little money, and he has now begged me
to solicit your interest in the matter, as he tells me that he
has claims upon the family. Your father, the late Mr. St.
Clair, he assures me, married his daughter ; and he states
that during the lifetime of your father he was in the receipt
of a small pension, which has ceased since his death. He is
inter the impression (which, however, is not shared by me,
his medical attendant) that he has not much longer to live ;
and he is desirous, he states, of seeing you before he dies, in
order to make some private communication to you respecting
your mother. Under these circumstances, he begs me to
say that he trusts you will not delay favouring him with a
personal interview, which the governor will be happy to
grant in a case of illness, like the present.

'Awaiting your reply, I beg to remain, madam, your
obedient servant, '

Here followed the signature of the prison doctor.
This letter bore the date of several days ago ; Jane
Ford had evidently waited for the weekly visit of her
mcniorlalistaj the local grocer, before forwarding it.
Who could say what might not have happened, in the
meantime, to Sophy's misguided relative ?

The idea that any living creature, however unworthy,
needed her help, and might even die without knowing-how
ready she was to afford it, troubled her greatly
and added to her daily increasing burden of cares. She
hardly liked to consult Isabella upon the subject. What
was she to do ?

She decided at length. To-morrow, with Miss

Pendragon's permission, she would start for Lewes, and
no one, save the schoolmistress herself, need know
either the object of her journey or its destination. In
the meantime, she would at once send, under cover
to the doctor, a present of money for her maternal
grandfather. She turned all this over in her mind
during the silent watches of the night, and felt more
composed when once she had arranged upon a plan of
action. Still, she found it utterly impossible to sleep.

From the mental contemplation of Reuben Goddard
and his misfortunes, she turned to that of Godfrey, and
to his recent mysterious appearance in church. She
guessed why he had come there. All young ladies'
schools were in the habit of going to church on Sundays,
and, perhaps, not being sure which house was * The
Cedars,' or whether he would be admitted to it, supposing
he found it, the idea had occurred to him of
meeting with Sophy in the very last place in which he
would have expected to find her in the old days. Had
he left the neighbourhood now and gone back to London ?
"Would he return on the following Sunday and appear
again in church ? What had he thought of her extraordinary
conduct ? Had he set down her fainting
fit to its real cause,  to emotion so intense at sight of
him, that it had been to her, for some moments, even
as death ? Where was he now, whilst she was lying
awake thinking of him ? Might it not have occurred
to him to steal, under cover of the night, into the
garden of the house in which he must know that she
felt like a prisoner ? Even now he might be standing
under her window. Her life had been so interwoven
with the romantic and the marvellous that it seemed to
her only natural that he shoidd be there. ' The Child
of Elle,' in the old Border legend, came after this fashion

to bear off Fair Emmeline upon his * steed so tall out
of the power of the * carlisle knight, Sir John of the
north country : ' 

Now day was gone, and night was come,
And all were fast asleep 
All save the Lady Emmeline,
Who sat in her bower to weep.

And soon she heard her true love's voice

Low whispering at the wall :
Awake, awake, my dear lady ;

'Tis I, thy true love, call !

Awake, awake, my lady dear,

And mount this fair palfreys ;
This ladder of ropes will let thee down 

I'll carry thee hence away ! " '

Sir James the Rose,' too, had stood thus under the
window of the fair Matilda, the daughter of ' Buchan's

cruel lord : ' 

And thus began to call :
"Art thou, asleep, Matilda dear

Awake, my love, awake !
Thy luckless lover on thee calls,

A long farewell to take ! " '

So she went on musing throughout the long night,
the desire to get up and look out of the window at times
almost mastering her. Both Fanny Aspcnall and Emily
Spicer seemed to be fast asleep. The rush light, which
was burning inside a kind of perforated temple, cast a
grim-looking shadow upon one corner of the ceiling,
and threw a dim light upon the two white beds beyond
her own. There is something particularly unpleasant
(to an imaginative nature) in the shadow of a rushlight.
Sometimes it seemed to Sophy to take the form of a

malignant and many-eyed monster, gazing down at lier
from above ; then of a human skull ; now it looked like
a gigantic domino, with great lurid yellow spots, instead
of black ones  the kind of domino with which (and with
its fellows) a couple of demons might play a game, down
in the infernal regions, with a human soul for the
stakes ; every shape, in fact, taken by this particular
rush light was disagreeable and suggestive of unpleasant
ideas. How small a thing it was, too, in itself, to cast
such an enormous shadow ! It stood on the mantlepiece,
amongst the missionary-boxes, and Alas very little
taller than her own particular box for ' The Relief of the
'indignant " Blind.' . . . This box would have to be
prematurely unsealed, now that she was to be expelled.
Miss Pendragon would be pleased, at any rate, with its
contents ! When all her misdoings had been summed
up against her in the morning, the fact of her having
only presented sixpence to the improvised collection for
the missionaries was not forgotten, and she had then
been unable to resist alluding to this box with some
pride. Yes, thanks to Tom Hickathrift's generosity
opened it would give forth a goodly sum ; with
her conduct, in this instance, at least. Miss Pendragon
would be satisfied. As these thoughts passed through
her mind, she glanced again in the direction of the
mantlepiece, attracted by a sound resembling the gentle
scratching of a mouse and by a sudden darkening of the
reflection of the rush light. Miss Aspenall was standing
in front of the light, with some object in her hand.
Fanny was usually so fond of her bed, and so chary of
what she was in the habit of designating her ' natural
rest,' that Sophy could not help feeling surprised at
seeing her arise thus in the middle of the night, and
with so much caution. After looking at her for a few

seconds without being able to perceive what she was
about, Sophy, at the risk of offending, called to her ina
Whisper, 

"What is it, Miss Aspenall ? Are you looking for
anything that I can find?'

Fanny started, leaving go of the object she held.

There, now, Sophy St. Clair, you've made me upset
all the missionary-boxes into the fender ! I dare say
all their insides will come out and be lost ! I only got
up to look at my watch by the light of this beastly
thing, as I couldn't sleep. Hold your tongue, and
don't bother!'

Though she spoke so loudly that Emily Spicer immediately
awoke with a start, Sophy was surprised at
her comparatively friendly tone.

*/ can't sleep either to-night,' she ventured to remark.
* It must be something about the weather. I
shall get up, and see what sort of a night it is.'

So saying, she arose and went to the window, opening
a part of the shutters very tenth', and lifting up a
corner of the blind. The old garden, with its clipped
evergreens and straight pathways, looked still and
-deserted. A pale misshapen moon was sailing high up
in the heavens, dark masses of cloud ever and anon
drifting and floating over her face. The night was
wild, stormy, and desolate. No * Child of Elle ' was
standing under ' Fair Emmeline's' window-pane. She
let down the blind, and turned away with a sigh.
Fanny Aspenall and Emily Spicer were apparently both
asleep again. Shivering and miserable, she regained her
little white bed, and waited wearily for the morning.

Next day, just as she was about to consult Miss
Pendragon upon her unpleasant journey, a second letter,

with the Lewes postmark, was put into her hand.
This, too, was from the prison doctor ; and after reading
it she knew that Fate had relieved her of all further
responsibility in the matter of Reuben Goddard. Contrary
to the opinion expressed in the doctor's first letter,
the gipsy had gradually lost strength ; and whilst
Sophy was dutifully purposing to obey his summons, he
had been constrained to listen to a higher summons
himself. The immediate cause of his death (the doctor
informed her) was disease of the heart, generated by
rheumatic fever, from which he had suif red some years
ago. *And' (continued the letter) *it will, no doubt,
relieve you, madam, to know that, through the kindness
of Sir Thomas Hickathrift, we were enabled to provide
Reuben Goddard with all that was needful in his
last illness. Sir Thomas's generosity is all the more to
be appreciated when it is considered that the prisoner
was found poaching upon the Poynings estate, and that
Sir Thomas's head-keeper was the man he assaulted.
Sir Thomas, who happened to be here upon business
visited Goddard frequently whilst he was in the infirmary,
and received from him, I believe, the private communication
which he intended for yourself.'

Sir Thomas Hickathrift,' Sophy said to herself, as
she read this concluding sentence,  seems always to do
what is right, and to do it at the right time. He is a
most dear, good creature ! '

Miss Pendragon received the news that Isabella
was leaving ' The Cedars' for good with expressions of
the deepest regret. At the same time, as she remarked,
she could hardly have hoped that a young lady possessed
of Miss Nethercliffe's varied accomplishments, could
have been spared any longer from the home-circle
which she was so well calculated to brighten and adorn.

VOL. iir. N

*1

Both Isabella and Sophy, before departing, delivered
up their collecting-boxes, to be opened by the * Grand
Llama.' Each one of Miss Ncthercliffe's little receptacles
was well furnished "with gold, silver, and copper.
Sophy's box, when opened, contained two shillings and
ninepence-half penny ! . . .

Miss Pendragon said nothing ; it was no good finding
fault now ; she merely set aside the box, w' with a
low sigh of disappointment. Sophy did not make any
remark either  where would have been the use ? She
hurled one indignant glance at Fanny Aspenall, and
thought of Isabella's blunt, outspoken acquaintance,
who robbed a church.

With Adele Sophy had quite an affecting parting.

I can tell you my secret now,' the French governess
had said, as she embraced her early friend. ' Mr.
Heathcote is the young Professor of whom I used to
talk to you, and we have been married for more than a
year. It was he who first informed me that a French
governess was required at 'the Cedars." Did I not tell
you that he was beautiful as an angel ? If he has
treated you with some severity, you must not think
hardly of him. He is accustomed to be adored, and
your seeming contempt wounded his sensibility, which,
beneath aii appearance of indifference, is extremely
acute.'

Upon the day following after this discovery, Sophy
St. Clair and Isabella Isethcrcliffe quitted ' The Cedars '
together, somewhat after the fashion of the poet Shelley
and his friend Hogg, when they were expelled from
Oxford, except that Miss Nethercliffe, in the present
instance, had done nothing to offend the authorities.
It is true that Miss Pendragon seemed pained and
surprised when she learned that Isabella was about to

receive Sophy as her guest ; she said but little, however
; so that, on the whole, the final departure from
The Cedars' went off much more comfortably than
could have been expected.

A few days after this event, little Miss Jones, who
was spending the Easter holidays with Miss Pendragon,
and who felt dull and unoccupied in her enforced solitude,
happened to find herself alone in the state ,
where, whilst turning over the books upon
the centre-table, she chanced upon the terrible volume
in which the names, and part of the histories, of the
'old girls' were indelibly recorded. Burning with
curiosity, she turned impatiently to the S's, and there
read these words, clearly set down in Miss Pendragon's
well-known handwriting : 

Sophia St. Clair, received at " The Cedars," January
1839 ; expelled, Easter 1839, for highly objectionable conduct,
coupled with insubordination.'

Chapter XII.

Faithful to his self-imposed vow, on the afternoon of
the 13th of April Godfrey betook himself to the garden
of the Palavacini Yilla. When Sophy had spoken of
him as ' tall and handsome, and very unhappy-looking,'
there had been truth in her description ; but he looked
happier to-day. Posy dreams and aspirations were
taking in his heart the place of that gloomy presence
which had oppressed it for months. His bodily frame,
indeed, seemed to be weakened and shattered by what
he had undergone ; strange, feverish pulsations, and
sudden marrow-freezing chills, came upon him now in
almost hourly alternation ; but his inward man was

or

eager and courageous. To-day  yes, probably to-day
he would know whether what seemed to him like a
star of hope upon his horizon was, after all, only a
phantom-fire ; yes, some manner of glad tidings might
come to him this very day ! . . .

He had ascertained at the hotel at Pegli that one
of his suppositions at any rate had proved correct.
The Miladi Inclose,* who made a yearly pilgrimage to
this place, and who, as the landlord stated, ' required
to be furnished with everything of the best,' had
arrived that very morning.

Godfrey had not yet seen her. He had avoided her
purposely, having a superstitious wish that on this day
their first meeting should take place in the Palavacini
garden.

It was now about half-past three o'clock, and,
passing in at the pink gate-house, he made his way at
once to the lake, and sat himself down upon the stone
bench facing the flight of steps which led up from the
shadow" pathway.

since he was last here, he had learnt a great many
details respecting this garden. He knew now the
name of the English family' who had inhabited the
large white villa at the time when the Santarellis lived
at the pink gate-house. He had ascertained the nature
of the catastrophe which was supposed to have happened
by the side of this melancholy-looking piece of
water; and out of all this he had constructed a romance
wondrous as a fairy tale. * Pray Heaven,' he said to
himself, ' that it may not prove to be a mere delusion,
melting away like a mirage upon my nearer approach
to it!'

He had said nothing to Padre Anselmo of the vision
which had grown up in his mind ; neither had he revealed

himself, as lie had intended, to Mariuccia. He
would Avait until events had further developed themselves
; but he had sent to the Padre, and begged him
to come to the hotel two mornings from this day.
Afterwards, it would be necessary to question Mariuccia
Santarelli.

He remained musing by the side of the water
for some time, keeping his eyes fixed the while upon
the pathway beyond. The place was damp, chilly, and
uncanny-looking as ever, notwithstanding that it was
like summer elsewhere ; but, wrapped in his own
thoughts, he took no heed of mere physical sensations.

after all,' he was thinking now, 'whatever happens,
Godfrey St. Clair is dead  he never was born. With
Dallingridge, and all its old memories, I have nothing
whatever to do. It should go to her now  no one can
stand in her way or dispute it. I'm glad I told Dyer
how matters stood. . . . He will see that justice is
done ; and he will prepare people's minds for the
coming change. Godfrey St. Clair is dead ; but a new
man lives and breathes in his place. And she  she
will not be alarmed at any idle rumours. Dyer will set
before her all the circumstances of the case ; besides
which, she has seen me. . . .'

He was interrupted in his reflections by perceiving,
between the two rows of broken statues, the graceful
figure of a woman making her way to the place where
he was sitting. There was no mistaking who it was,
although, as upon the occasion of their previous meeting,
she was veiled and shrouded  this time in sombre
mourning garments. Fearing that he might alarm herby
his unexpected presence if he remained where he
was, he rose from his seat, and went forward to meet
her as she ascended the flight of stone steps.

'Ah, Mr. St. Clair, this is indeed a surprise ! How
little I expected to meet you here again ! *

No doubt she had received the letter in which, when
acknowledging her husband's bequest, he had informed
her that he had nothing to do with the family of the
St. Clairs ; but, cither she had forgotten this now in the
surprise of meeting with him, or else she had deemed it
more generous to ignore it. After all, by what other
name was she to address him ? Yes, he would let her
continue to call him by this name for a little while ; he
would not begin too soon to unravel the tangled web of
his destiny. Now he would merely revel in the charm
of her presence, and listen to her voice.

Yes, Lady Henry, I am here, as you see,' he
answered ; ' and not quite by accident, if you will pardon
the confession. I heard that you were expected at
the hotel, and guessed from what you said last year
that I might find you here. There are many things
about which I should like to speak with you. I had
ventured to write you a second letter, but I do not
fancy you have received it.'

He passed his hand over his brow as he said this.
The strange feeling of languor which he had experienced
lately from time to time was coming over him
again, and for a few moments he was at a loss how to
continue.

'How cold you are!' said Lady Henry, after she had
grasped his hand. 'You look pale and tired. Come and
sit down on this bench.'

They sat down together in the place which Godfrey
had just quitted. Lady Henry still held his hand.

I wonder,' she said at length, * whether you have
been ill since I saw you last, or if any trouble has
fallen upon you? You are so changed!'

*I ought not to speak of my own troubles answered
the young man deferentially. * You have had sorrows,
too, since last we met in this place  one great
sorrow . . . /

Yes ; I have had sorrows all my life ; and now,
Henry is gone ! Everything I love seems to be torn
from me. I dare say that /, too, shall seem to you
changed.'

As she said this she lifted her veil, and Godfrey
saw that, although her face was still beautiful, her hair
was almost entirely white.

Oh,' he cried regretfully, * your beautiful hair ! '

Yes, my " beautiful hair " is beautiful no longer ;
but I have really no right to be quite such an old woman
yet, though I am old enough to be your mother ! No,
it is not always the sears which make us old and unsightly;
it is what they have brought with them.'

As she spoke she readjusted her veil; by-and-by she
continued : 

Yes, we became quite friends last year, you and I,
did we not ? and in such a very little while ! That
proves there exists some sort of sympathy between us ;
and now that I am such a very old woman, with white
hair, I think I need not crush my feelings when they
are so anxious to assert themselves. I should like to
tell you, however, what Alas the first cause of my
interest in you. You know, of course, that sometimes
here in the world one meets with extraordinary chance
likenesses  people who have a look, or an expression,
or a tone of voice, reminding one irresistibly of other
people.  people who bore them no relationship whatever
? '

Yes,' answered Godfrey'' fervently, ' I can remember
a curious instance of this kind myself.'

or

He called to mind the portrait of Captain Godfrey
St. Clair, in his red coat and powdered mg, and, remembering
the singular likeness which existed between
this picture and liinisolf, lie could no longer doubt that
very remarkable chance-resemblances were to be met
with sometimes.

Well, then,' continued his companion, in a lower
voice, * once, a long time ago, before I was married, I
had a brother, but he was not to me what brothers
usually are. He was several years older than myself ;
my father and mother had died when "'c were both
quite young ; and I may say that then  before I had
ever known any other kind of affection  my brother
George was everything to me  comrade, adviser, friend,
nearly all that a man can ever be to a woman. I lived
with an uncle and aunt  quite elderly people, leading
a very dull and quiet life, down in a grand old house in
the Midland Counties. Well, when this boy used to
come back from school, and afterwards from Oxford,
he seemed such a contrast to all my other surroundings ;
he used to bring life and youth, and freedom and
happiness, with him, and turn the old house into a
paradise. Once, too, when he was quite a man, and
just about to go into the Guards, he brought back with
him a college friend  a friend who admired his good
qualities almost as much as I did myself, and who felt
for him the sincerest affection. This friend used afterwards
to come down to see us very often. At first I
could not understand why ; but I found out in time :
just before my brother left England his friend proposed
to me, and we were married ; in a word, it was poor
dear Henry. . . .'

 And your brother?' asked Godfrey, anxious to
divert her attention froid so sad a memory.

My brother,' she rejoined, in a broken voice, * left
England with his regiment, the Coldstream Guards  it
was at the time of the Peninsular War  and I never
saw him again. He was killed at the siege of Burgos.'

For a few moments she paused, unable, apparently,
to continue. Godfrey' also remained silent.

Though this all happened so long ago,' she went
on by-and-by, * you see I can't speak of it without tears
But now I must pass on to the part about the
likeness. When I came up these Avery steps last year
with my husband, and saw you standing at the top of
them, you may have noticed that I started ; for at that
moment you looked so like George that I almost fancied
I saw his ghost.'

And you can think of no reason for this likeness?'
He asked this with a beating heart, and waited

eagerly for a reply.

No ; there is, alas, no reason for it ! Would that
there were ! I am almost alone in the world now ; all
my near relations are dead.'

A near relation of yours died near this spot.' He
was about to utter these words, but he checked himself.
After all, though his fairy castle micjJit only be a delusion,
he would not dash it to the ground too soon !

And now,' said Lady Henry sadly, * I have told
you why you at once inspired me with interest, in order
that you mayn't think that I'm a mad woman. . . .
Let me leave these flowers here, and then let us go back
It's getting damp and chilly.'

She drew from under her cloak a wreath of flowers,
and placed it sadly ujon the white memorial-stone.
Godfrey knew all about this stone now, but he said
nothing. Then, together, they passed down the
shadowy pathway, and so through the gate-house into

ov

the town. Godfrey offered his companion his arm,

which she did not refuse ; as she had said, some sort

of mysterious sympathy existed between them, which

neither the one nor [the other cared, at that moment, to

resist.

 #***

Two mornings afterwards, when Padre Anselmo
arrived at the hotel at Pegli, he found the whole place
in confusion. The young Englishman, who had been
so long in the neighbourhood that (the landlord declared)
he felt towards him almost as a brother, had
been taken mysteriously ill on the previous day. He
was delirious now, and the doctor had ordered him to
be bled, and then to be kept perfectly quiet. He had
had the seeds of this malignant fever about him for
some time, the doctor thought, but he had paid no heed
to it. Like most Englishmen, he was careless about
himself. The MilacU Angles, who had not long arrived,
and who knew this young gentleman before, was deeply
concerned at hearing of his indisposition. She had
begged earnestly to be allowed to see him, and to
minister to his requirements ; but fearing lest it would
agitate the young man, and perhaps retard his recovery,
if this charming lady took upon herself the fatiguing
duties of a nurse, the doctor had not permitted her to
visit him yet. His ravings were in English, only a few
words of which the landlord understood ; but of one
thing he could be certain  constantly he had called out
for Padre Anselmo, as though he desired much to see
him; and even in his calmer moments, when the delirium
was not upon him, he had inquired, with evident
anxiety, ' Where is Padre Anselmo ? He has not yet
arrived ? I had thought that long ere this he would
have been here.' The good old man was beyond

measure touched at these words ; Godfrey, and his misfortunes,
had interested him deeply, and he was sincerely
distressed at hearing of his serious illness.

Santa Maria !  he exclaimed, lifting up his hands
*Povero giovanni ! povero glove ! '

Padre Anselmo Giubelei had been confined to the
house nearly all the winter, and had only lately permitted
himself to take the outer air. Being unable to
walk, on account of his affliction, his usual mode of
progression was by means of a small ' go-cart,' formed
of an oblong wooden box supported upon casters. For a
few soldi he readily obtained some village urchin to draw
him in this primitive conveyance ; and he had arrived
thus at the hotel upon this particular morning, protected
from the rays of the sun by a large blue-cotton umbrella
: for Godfrey, when desiring to confront the
Padre with the English miladi, had satisfied himself
that he could not inflict upon her a visit to his squalid
residence at Sestri.

The urchin who had propelled the go-cart, having
wheeled it under the protecting shadow of the pores
of the hotel, ran off to play with some of his
barelegged acquaintances upon the unsavoury beach,
and the old man was left patiently to await his return.

As he was waiting thus, and conversing with the
landlord, the English lady came out of the hotel. She
was going to sit under the trees in the garden with her
book, in order that she might see and question the
doctor after his visit to Godfrey. Only in one way
could she explain the unusual interest which she took
in this young man, which, she said to herself, would
seem to most people like a mere wanton caprice.

She was anxious that a regular nurse should be provided
for him, having little faith in the ministrations,

or

liowcvtT kindly intentioned, of oilier the landlord or
his housekeeper  the bearded eronc ; and her owu
maid, although quite willing' to place her services at
the disposal of the good-looking stranger, was young
and inexperienced. She was turning this over in her
mind as she came out of the hotel,

'This,' said the landlord, raising his straw hat, and
indicating, with his dirty jewelled hand, the old priest
in the go-cart, * is the Padre Anselmo Giubelei. He is
here at the request of my importunate guest, who now
lies on his bed of suffering. The Padre is his friend.'

Ijady Henry bowed kindly to the old man, and
paused under the archway. Presently she bethought
her that he might be able to advise her. Sisters of
Charity, whose mission it was to go forth and minister
to the sick, were easily to be obtained in Roman Catholic
countries. This old priest might know of some good
woman who, for the love of God, would instal herself by
Godfrey's bedside, and minister to his requirements, she
herself assisting her as soon as the doctor would permit
her to have access to him. Yes ; she would make
inquiries of this old priest.

The Padre knew of the very person that was required
 a worthy woman, a Sister, who had constantly
done service in large hospitals, and who thoroughly
understood the treatment of patients attacked by
fever. He would communicate with this person, and
he would send her forthwith to the hotel, where the
noble English lady should speak with her ; and the
litre would be astonished indeed if all who conversed
with her were not struck with her intelligence and
experience.

This was, at any rate, satisfactory. Lady Henry
determined that she would engage this person, and that
she would not dream of leaving Pegli herself until

Godfrey was well on his way towards recovery. She
was impatient to see more of him, to study his movements,
his voice, his general bearing, and to solve, if
possible, the mystery which hung over him, to which
he had alluded in his letter  a letter she had read carelessly
at the time, for she had received it when crushed
by her recent bereavement, but the purport of which
had been exciting her curiosity ever since. Yes ; when
Godfrey recovered, there were many questions which
she must ask him ; and till then, she Avould remain at
Pegli and watch over him, even an though she had been
elis mother. . . .

As these thoughts passed through her mind, the
doctor came suddenly out of the doorway. He was
walking hurriedly and being in the act of snuff taking,
was not looking before him, so that he nearly upset
Padre Anselmo Giubclei in his little box.

A thousand pardons . . . amico ; but the sunlight
blinded me ! Ah ! it is the Padre anselmo ! '

How is your patient, doctor ? The young Englishman
? Is the attack a severe one ? When will he be
convalescent ? '

The English lady, the landlord, and Padre Anselmo,
asked these questions in a breath. All three were impressed
with the gravity of the doctors face.

There are perplexities,' he said hesitatingly, * very
serious complications ; the English constitution is different
from that of an Italian. I have a friend who
has practised in England, and who happens now to be
staying in Genoa. I am about to ask him to pronounce
upon the Sujnorc. We will see in good time what is
his opinion . . . but I am full of fears.'

You do not mean,' gasped Lady Henry, turning
pale, * that he is in any danger ? . . . that he is going
to die r

She looked imploringly in the doctor's face as she
uttered these words, and he was struck with her
expression of agony.

she is his mother,' he thought to himself, by way
of explanation, * Had I known it, I should have been
more careful of my words. . . . We are in the hands of
God,' he added aloud, ' and must hoje for the best. In
the meantime, I go in search of my friend.'

He passed out into the courtyard, as though anxious
to make his escape. Lady Henry was unable to control
her emotion.

The Padre, too, was already mourning his young
friend as one past hope.

Ah, Bio!' he was exclaiming, as he swayed himself
to and fro in his narrow wooden box. ' Santa Verging !
What a misfortune ! . So amiable a youth . . . ! '

Suddenly an idea seemed to occur to him. Pausing
in his pious ejaculations, he turned eagerly to Lad''
Henry, raising one hand to heaven, as though to
accentuate his words.

Under the influence of excitement, most Southerners
seem to become indiscreet, and certainly, could the
sick man upstairs have listened to his present speech,
he might, perhaps, have had reason to complain of a
breach of confidence.

There is one other woman he said, * noble and
most illustrious lady ! who, besides the Sister of whom
I told 3'ou, should be summoned at once to the deathbed
of this unfortunate young man ; if, indeed, as the doctor
had led us to fear, he is so near his last ! . . Mariuccia
Santarelli  living now at Diana Marina with a fisherman
called Beppo  the wife of that Santarelli who,
nearly twenty-five years ago, murdered his brother not
far from this very place, and who is now working at

Nice as a convict. This woman should be sent for in
all haste to look once more upon him before he dies.
She is his mother ! '

Chapter XIII.

After passing nearly a fortnight in Somersetshire,
Sophy returned with Lord Nethercliffe and his daughter
to London, and took hip her abode in Grosvenor Place.
This was about the time when she had expected either
to go back to Little Stillingfleet, or to proceed to
Dallingridge Rectory on a visit to Miss Hornblower,
but her friends would not hear of her leaving them

yet.

Your aunt is still abroad, dear Miss St. Clair,*
Lord Nethercliffe remarked, when they were talking
over the subject of her departure. * And it may be
quite possible that these new responsibilities, which she
has lately undertaken, may interfere with her taking
you into society this summer. The season has already
commenced, and I cannot help thinking that it Avould
be very unnatural for a young thing like yourself to be
buried in the country at such a time. Of course, if we
have rendered ourselves so disagreeable to you during
your stay with us, that you positively cannot endure us
any longer, that is quite a different affair ! '

As his lordship made this remark, which, it is needless
to inform the reader, partook merely of the nature
of persiflage, he smiled upon Sophy with the greatest
possible urbanity, displaying, as he did so, his even
white teeth, of which his daughter was particularly
proud. Isabella was, indeed, inordinately proud of
everything belonging to, and concerning, her father.

She seemed honestly to consider him one of the greatest
men of the age, and as she desired that all the world
should share her opinion, she let no opportunity pass by
of impressing it upon her friend. Sophy herself, notwithstanding
that she was deeply grateful for all the
kindness which lead been shown her, and that she was
generally much influenced by her friend's ideas, was
unable to feel precisely as she did upon this subject.
To hct'y Lord Nethercliffe appeared to be an ambitious
mediocrity ; a gooseberry-bush, which imagined itself
to be a cedar ; and she had not been in his company
five minutes before she fancied she perceived that he
had long ago finished growing. She fancied, too, that
perhaps he was just the least hit egotistical and self-indulgent
; and she did not feel certain, notwithstanding
the manner in which his daughter adored him, that
lie would have been prepared, had the occasion demanded,
to make any very important personal sacrifices
for her. Being a keen observer, she could not avoid
remarking that, in helping Isabella and herself, at
luncheon or dinner, he would invariably reserve for
himself the liver-wing of the chicken, or the heads
of the red mullets ; had woodcocks been in season, he
would probable have monopolised the legs and the
trail ; whilst, at five o'clock, he would always secure the
first cup of tea  before the pot had been watered  and
the centre lajer of the muffin or crumpet, as the case
might be. He did all this, however, with much apparent
frankness and ingenuousness, and with none of those
covert, uneasy movements, which are usually the accompaniments
of conscious guilt ; so that, after all, Sophy
might have been mistaken.

Isabella, at any rate, was totally blind to the parental
shortcomings. The word * jiapa '  which she had a

way of pronouneiiio' < papr/?r,' just as some people are
wont to allude to the Deity as ' Gaud' thinking, no
doubt, by resonant and sonorous sound, to add glory and
dignity to the name  seemed, in her estimation, to be
synomTiious with Power, Honour, Greatness  in a word,
with Omnipotence.

This was the little hole in Isabella's intellectual
armour, and it would have occasioned Sophy some surprise
had she not remembered that even great minds
are said to possess a vulnerable point. If one could
have believed all Isabella's amiable insinuations. Lord
Nethercliife was in reality the chief governing power
in England, whilst Queen, Lords, and Commons, were
only so many insignificant puppets dancing in obedience
to his will. But it was principally over the City of
London that his lordship (to judge by Miss Nether-cliffs's
assertions) was supposed to hover like a benevolent
genius. There appeared to be no evil or inconvenience,
however great or small, that it was not in his
power to remedy or abolish. 

Pair ' seemed, in fact, to be a kind of universal
benefactor. His name was associated with nearly every
good work in the kingdom ; and it soon became so
familiar to Sophy  printed in large letters upon prospectuses
of projected railways and insurance companies,
as a director of hospitals and ' homes,* and as
the principal contributor to almost every leading charity
that she was only surprised when she failed to perceive
it ; and even Isabella, much as she desired the
far-spreading of his glory, had become somewhat case-hardened
in this respect.

How charming those gardens are opposite ! ' Sophy
exclaimed one morning, when she had gone into her
friend's room before breakfast. It was one of the first

VOL. III. o

or

really mild days ; and Isabella, who was seated at her
dressings table, had opened the window as high as it
would go. From where Sophy was standing the intervening
roadway was concealed, and the grounds of
Buckingham Palace looked green and sylvan in the
spring sunshine. ' I A\'ish we could go over and walk
in them. The Queen might really allow it  not to
eren/bodt/, of course, but to two respectable, harmless
people like us. It would be so nice to run out now
and feed those ducks without dressing one's self up
smartly ; and we would promise never to go when we
saw the Royal Standard floating. Little bridges could be
thrown out over the road from the windows of the privileged
houses ; and those who were admitted might
wear some distinguishing badge, or a kind of order.'

Yes, it would be very nice, and I think you will
see,' said Isabella, as she stuck in her last hair-pin
with decision, * that by this time next year what you
suggest will have come to pass. Papaw, who is always,
as you know, in favour of Reform, is going to agitate
about it in the House. That horrid old tree, too, which
is quite an eyesore, ought to be cut down ; it has been
dead for many years, and it spoils the look of the
gardens. It is a great shame that it should be allowed
to remain there exactly opposite to our windows. Papaw
will see about it when he has time.'

Oh, I like that old tree ! ' exclaimed Sophy regretfully.
' I do hope Lord Nethercliffe won't have it cut
down ! It is so twisted and gnarled and country-looking.
I don't care about its having no leaves. It looks
like an old man stretching out his arms and begging
for mercy ; and it reminds me of some of the dear old
trees down at my own home.'

Isabella had finished dressing by this time, and the

two girls went dovll together into the breakfast-room.
Lord Nethercliffe was already established, reading the
morning papers, in one of the most comfortable of the
easy chairs.

Sophy and I have been looking out of window at
the gardens opposite,' said Isabella, as she advanced to
embrace her father, ' and she says that she hopes, after
all, you won't have that horrid old tree cut down.
Oddly enough, she admires it  don't you, Sophy ? She
says it looks like an old man begging for mercy.'

Very well, my dear,' rejoined his lordship, rising
from his chair, and imprinting a kiss upon the cheek
of his daughter ; ' as Miss St. Clair wishes it, the tree
shall remain. It shall never be felled whilst / have
any influence with the public  there it shall remain,
my dear Miss St. Clair, exactly opposite these windows,
where it will serve to remind us of you when you have
left us : if, indeed, any such reminder is required. And
now, as you seem to have such a kindly feeling for
anything in the shape of an old man, perhaps you will
allow me to avail myself of an old man's privilege  I
don't see, my dear, why, at my age, I should not be
favoured with a kiss  there ! Dear Bella's chosen
friend will always seem to me like another daughter.'

Having thus paternall} embraced the two young
ladies. Lord Nethercliffc seated himself at the breakfast-table,
keeping the papers within reach, in order that he
might glance at them from time to time during the repast.

Ah,' he exclaimed, in a little while, after he had
taken his first look at the Momincj Post, ' poor Wroxeter
has gone over to the majority ! . . . I had heard that he
was not expected to last many days. His brother, Henry
Davenport, has just missed the marquisate, dying, ashe
did, last year. There will be a vacant Garter.'

Sophy was so utterly ignorant of the manners and
customs of the inhabitants of the great world  above
all, so amused to their manner of speech  that she did
not at once grasp the full meaning of the phrase, * Gone
over to the majority,' fancying it possessed merely a
political significance. It took her at least three
seconds, too, to understand about the ' vacant Garter ; *
but at last, without displaying her simplicity, she made
out that Lord AYroxeter (in whom she felt no interest
whatever) was dead, and that his Order of the Garter
would pass back into the hands of the Sovereign. Lord
Nethercliffe, in the meantime, was murmuring, half to
himself, from the Morning Post, 

*"VVe regret to have to record the death of the Marquis
of Wroxeter, Keg., which took place last night at his
residence in BerkeleSquare, after a short, though severe,
illness. . . . The deceased peer, Robert Leos eric Davenport,
third Marquis of Wroxeter, Earl Davenport,
Viscount Dorington, and a Baronet of Nova Scotia,
was born on the 22nd of November, 1772, and was
consequently in his sixty-eighth year. As his lordship
was unmarried, and as his brother, Lord Henry
Davenport, who would have inherited the marquisate,
pre-deceased him only last year, leaving no issue, the
title becomes extinct, whilst the large landed possessions
pass, we believe, to a distant cousin. As Earl
Davenport, the late Marquis represented Dorington
for many years, in the Liberal interest ; and, since
his succession to the family honours, he took, until
quite lately, an active part in public affairs, only
withdrawing from the business of the State when
compelled to do so by his failing health. . . .'

1 wonder who "will have the Garter ? ' muttered his
lordship meditatively, as he finished reading.

I think / know said Isabella, with an arch expression
; and rising from her place, she whispered
something in her father's ear.

Nonsense ! nonsense, child ! ' Lord NethcrclifPe
exclaimed deprecatingly, but looking pleased, nevertheless.
' It is very rarely given to a person under the
rank of an earl, however much he may deserve it

qW., we shall see,  Isabella rejoined, compressing
her lips and buttering her toast in a prophetic manner.
But I know what I think !'

This foolish child of mine,' said Lord NetherclifPe,
appealing to Sophy, and indicating Isabella with a
flourish of his well-shaped hand, * is positively under
the impression, I verily believe, my dear Miss St. Clair,
that I am not only entitled to every honour and dignity
in the kingdom, but that, being entitled to them,
I shall actually have them conferred upon me. For
the two, I must impress upon you, my child, do not
always go together. Assuming my deserts to be even
what you imagine them, it does not by any means
follow that the most meritorious actions are the most
generously recompensed. You two young creatures,
who have so lately imbibed knowledge at the fount (under
the shades of those classic cedars  eh. Miss St. Clair ?),
must have perceived many examples of this national
ingratitude in history. At present I can only call
to mind the somewhat hackneyed example of the
Gracchus, Tiberius and Caius, who, after having done
all in their power to restore the just laws brought
in by Lucilius, were not only unrecompensed by the
ungrateful Romans, but, as Miss St. Clair will no
doubt remember, actually perished by their hands.
Then, again, there is the celebrated case of Miltiades,
who, upon his return to Athens, after gaining so brilliant
a victory at Marathon. . . . Isabella, my dear,

or

the least, lead little drop more tea  no sugar ! Thank
you, a thousand tunes, my dear Miss St. Clair ; I am
ashamed to trouble you. . . . History, in fact, is full
of instances of want of appreciation for services bestowed
upon the State. However, one can but do one's,
duty, and endeavour to study conscientiously every
matter connected with the public weal ! And now,
which of you two dear girls will walk down with me
to the House ? I am on a Committee at twelve o'clock,
and should greatly enjoy the walk. The brougham
shall be there to take back whoever will be my companion.
Ah, I forgot, my dear Bella, it was this
morning that you had settled to ride your new horse ! *

Oh, indeed, papa dear,' protested Miss Nether
e, * I would willingly give up riding for the
pleasure of a walk with you. I can easily put off
my ride till tomorrow.'

But I shall not allow you to do so, my dear child,'
exclaimed his lordship decidedly. ' No ! o one can
say, I trust, that I am a selfish father. I would not for
worlds, my dear Bella, deprive you of your ride. Joseph
will, of course, ride behind you upon " Chancellor." I
may require the cob, perhaps, after luncheon ; and I
can run down to the House by myself, unless Miss
St. Clair would like a little morning walk with an
old fogey ?'

I am sure,' answered Isabella promptly, * that
Sophy will be delighted to go  won't you, Sophy ?
She wanted to run out before breakfast to feed the
ducks in Buckingham Palace Gardens.' And she smiled
affectionately in the direction of her friend.

That will be delightful ! ' exclaimed Lord Nether-cliffs
cheerfully as he rose from the breakfast-table
and looked at his watch. * Yes, and b} starting a

little earlier, my clear Miss St. Clair, we can go and
look at the ducks in St. James's Park on our way to
the House, as you are fond of ducks. Shall we start at
eleven ? That will give us plenty of time ! '

*At any time you like, I shall be ready,' Sophy
answered. She was delighted to think that she could
be of the slightest service to one who had treated her
with such systematic kindness. After the recent
humiliations which she had undergone. Lord JVether-
clitfes affable condescension was in the highest degree
gratifying.

It is very kind of Lord Netherclift'e taking me out
for a walk this morning,' she said, when she was all
ready equipped ; ' and it was so kind of him, too, to
kiss me before breakfast, and to say that he looked
upon me as ' another daughter." Fathers and
daughters don't always care for the same people.
I was a little afraid he might not like me.'

Papa always is kind,' answered Isabella. ' He is
kind and considerate to everybody ; and, as I told you,
he took a great interest in you from the very first. I
wonder,' she added dreamily, ' who will get the vacant
Garter?'

At the moment this was evidently the one thought
uppermost in her mind.

At eleven o'clock Isabella's horse came round, and
she started off for her ride, followed b} the smartest
of grooms in the neatest of liveries. Lord Nethercliffe
and Sophy waited at the front door to see her mount,
and they then walked down Grosvenor Place in the
direction of Buckingham Gate. At the crossings his
lordship offered Sophy his arm, his whole manner
betraying the solicitude of a parent, and nothing could
exceed his good-nature with regard to the ducks.

or

Having made up this huihI, apparently from
Isabella's speech, that Sophy lead a perfect passion
for water-fowl, he had not only started half-an-hour
earlier than he had originally intended, bnt he had
actually provided himself with a quantity of broken
bread and biscuit as a pleasant surprise. In the
middle of the Birdcage AValk they crossed over the
road, and entering St. James's Park, repaired to the
side of the water. The ducks and swans came towards
them at once, and they remained feeding them for
some time. Lord Nethercliffe was positively beaming
with good-nature ; his face looked pinker and shinier
than ever, and he seemed to have quite forgotten all
about the Committee.

In his dress Lord Nethercliife affected a certain
peculiarity of style. His shirt-collars were always
a good deal higher and stiffer than those of other
people, and his coat was cut in a somewhat exceptional
manner. Upon this particular morning he
wore a fluffy white hat, a nankeen waistcoat, and an
extremely bright-blue necktie (his neckties were
generally bright coloured), and his whole aspect was
radiant and distinguished. He looked like either 
precisely what he was  a peer of the realm and a
member of all the best clubs in London, or else one of
the most eminent and confidential of family physicians ;
even the common passers-by perceived at once that he
was no ordinary mortal. Sophy now walked along
by the edge of the water, holding a piece of bread in
her hand. Nearly all the ducks and swans came
swimming after her in a long line, and others were
making their wa' towards her from the distance.
It was quite a pretty sight ; and some ragged urchins,
who were playing by the water, were shouting and

screaming with joy. Lord Nethercliffe, whilst keeping
these children at bay with his cane, in order that
they might not contaminate Sophy by their too near
approach, looked equally delighted. After walking
down almost the whole side of the water with her
piece of bread, Sophy turned, and retraced her steps,
when the amusing scene was repeated. Upon arriving
opposite to the little gate by which they had entered
the Park, she threw the bread as far as she could into
the water, and the ducks and swans, after scrambling
greedily towards it, and gobbling it up, very quickly
dispersed. Lord Nethercliffe, still smiling benignantly,
presented his arm at the crossing, and they proceeded
along the Birdcage Walk in the direction of Westminster
LLall. Before withdrawing his arm, his lordship
pressed Sophy's affectionately.

'What I admire, what I most ixirticulavhj acquire
in you, my dear child,' he remarked, 'is the interest
you seem capable of taking in almost everything.
Believe me, this is one of jour greatest charm \\\
the eyes of others, and you will find it, in afterlife,
a source of intense happiness to yourself. I aman
old man myself ; and to a young creature like
you I must seem even older than I am ; for I amin
reality barely fifty : the Html Booli (by an error
which it is bailly worth the trouble to correct) has
made me out nearly ten years older than I am. To a
young creature like you, as I was saying, I must seem
to be quite an old man ; but one curse, thank Heaven,
has not yet fallen upon me ! I am not yet cursed,
my dear Miss St. Clair, with mtiefi/. My powers of
enjoyment, I am thankful to say, are still, in every
way, unimpaired. . . . sly health is vigorous ; and
though you may perhaps wonder at it, my heart, or

vhat I am " pleased to call " inv heart, is still as
sensible as ever. This is, of course, I cannot help
confessing it, a source* of very great happiness to me,
notwithstanding (and I cannot blind myself to this
fact) that it opens out, also, a possibility of suffering.
. . But I am talking to a young thing of what
she cannot possibly understand. . . .'

He paused as he said this, pressed Sophy's arm for
the second time (they were approaching another
crossing), and adjusting his eye-glass, looked fixedly
in her face.

Fiffi/ doesn't seem at all old to mo'' she replied,
wishing to be pleasant. ' I knew a doctor once  he's
dead now ; he was killed out riding  who said that
the human machinery was meant to last two hundred
years ; and once one looks the idea in the face, one
realises how very soon even that long space of time
would slip) by.'

True, my dear child,' answered his lordship ; 'time,
as you say, slips away fast enough in all conscience,
and I am always saying this to Isabella, I am
naturally anxious that dear Bella should be settled
in life. Marriage is essential to a woman. It is the
one aim and end of her existence ; it opens to her
new vistas and new ambitions : in a word, it reveals
to her Life. But Isabella ought to marry some one
who would be her equal intellectually  no mere
gilded coxcomb of the town ; she ought to marry a
Member of Parliament  some one, if possible, connected
with the Government, of whom she could be
proud, and with whom she might work for the public
good. Pro bono publico, as we say in Latin. This is
what I am always preaching to Isabella, my dear
Miss St. Clair.'

'I think, ' said Sophy, 'that even if Isabella wkhed
to marry, she would hesitate before doing so ; she has
often told me that she could not bear the thought of
leaving you alone : she is so devoted to you.'

Indeed, yes ! ' exclaimed Lord Nethercliffe, sighing
complacently. * Dear girl ! I have really much cause
to be thankful for having been blessed with so affectionate
a child ! Curiously enough (and I never could
tell why) all the women of my household have always
adored me, and other persons too,  ladies with whom I
have happened to become intimately acquainted, but
who were no actual relations ; my dear wife, too, Isabella's
mother ; all my female relatives and friends, in
fact, have combined to spoil me. It has often struck
me as singular.'

They were approaching the place where the drinking
fountain now stands, and there was another crossing
to get over.

I fancy the reason of it must be,' his lordship continued,
as they paused for the traffic to pass by, ' that
I thoroughly understand women. I know exactly what
they require. I flatter myself  nay, I may say that I
linoii\ precisely how to make them happy. But now, as
I constantly say to Isabella, what can a yonn<j man
know of all this ? What can a yoimg man possibly
have to offer to an enthusiastic and cultivated creature
like Isabella ? Can he possess the tenderness, the experience,
the knowledge of the world which belong to
an older person ? I am not alluding, my dear child, to
those men of two or three hundred years old, to those
Titans y of whom you were just speaking : I allude to
men in the full vigour and prime of life  men of
between fifty and sixty, for instance, whoso hearts arc
still impressionable and tender, and who ha'e not, at

or

the same time, that inordinate craving for change and
excitement which is usually the accompaniment of raw
youth. Yes, Isabella should marry a man of the age
and calibre of the Member for Dumbarton.'

Have I ever seen him ? ' Sophy inquired, with
interest. ' Is Isabella fond of him ? What is he like ?'

He is decidedly a rising man,' answered Lord
Nethercliffe. 'And with regard to his looks, you will
be able to judge for yourself, as he is dining with us
to-night. Ah ! . . . our delightful walk is nearly at
an end ! '

He said this regretfully. They were now quite
near to the Houses of Parliament, and Sophy saw the
brougham in which she was to return, already in
waiting.

Oh, how dreadfully late it is ! ' she exclaimed suddenly,
as she caught sight of a clock. ' It's nearly
half-past twelve, and the Committee was at twelve !
I fear it is all my fault. "What irlll they have done
without you?'

She was, indeed, alarmed when she perceived the
time. Who knew what untoward misfortunes to the
State might not have resulted from this accidental
absence of its chief pillar and support at this important
meeting ?

I can get into the brougham by myself,' she was
saying now, as she hurried on towards the carriage.
Please don't let me delays you any more. The Committee
will be waiting.'

'Then,' answered his lordship gallantly, 'it can
wait on for me a little longer ! It was only about a
Welsh railway, and is of no real importance ; the Welsh
people will have to content themselves with coaches fora
few years longer, that's all.'

Oh, I'm so sorry ! . . . I wasted .so miicli time
feeding those foolish ducks ! Ah, there's the brougham I
Now Lord Nethercliffe, please, plcmc leave me, and fiij
into the House of Lords ! '

I shall put you into the brougham first, my dear
child,' answered his lordship ; and, notwithstanding the
presence of a gigantic footman in powder, he insisted
upon handing Sophy into the carriage himself, after
which he remained for some moments at the window.

Good-bye, good-bye ! ' she exclaimed hurriedly.
Thank you so much for walking with me. And now
please go to the Committee. You will be so dreadfully
late!'

'And if I am late,' said Lord NetherclifPc, who was.
still leaning his head in at the window, ' what does it
matter ? I have made up my mind what I shall say to
them if they scold me for being behind time. What da
you think I shall say to them, mj' dear Miss St. Clair ? '

Oh, Lord Nethercliffe, they will never think, of
course, of scolding you /'

Well, this is what I shall say to them, if they do,'
he whispered, as he pressed Sophy's hand confidentially.
" I am late, my lords " (I shall say, if they venture to
scold me),  because I am fond of ducis f '' ' And with this
he relinquished her hand and darted into Westminster
Hall.

Chapter XIV.

Because lie k fond of ducks ? ' Sophy continued to
ponder over these words long after his lordship was out
of sight, forgetting that the tall footman was waiting
for orders at the door of the brougham. From the tone
in which they had been uttered she perceived that they

or

must contain some liiddcn meaning, but lie was not
yet sufficiently'' civilised to know precisely what it was.
By-and-by another tall figure appeared at the carriage
window  the figure of a young gentleman who had just
dismounted from horseback, and whose appearance was
utterly unexpected.

Oh, Tom, where have you come from? "Who would
have thought of meeting you here ?'

I came straight from our old house in Queen
Square,' answered Sir Thomas Hickathrift, for it was
indeed he. * I have been up ever since the meeting of
Parliament ; and knowing you were here too, I've
looked out for you everywhere. To-day I have been
rewarded at last.'

Sophy could not help blushing under the ardent
gaze of her old admirer  the man 'who 'always did
what was right, and who did it at the right time.'

Thank you so much,' she exclaimed, suddenly remembering
his last act of benevolence, ' for all you did
at Lcires'

Oh, ah ! . . . that reminds me I've something to
say to you about that  a message which I promised to
give you. When may I come and call ? '

Perhaps, first of all, I ought to introduce you to
Miss Nethercliffe. I know nothing of what is done in
London ; but wouldn't it look odd if you came to the
house without knowing either her or her father ? '

How am. I to get to know them ?' asked Tom, his
face falling. ' T may have to wait for weeks.'

We are going to ride tomorrow morning in the
Park, I think,' said Sophy, feeling that it would seem
unkind not to help her old friend in his difficulty ;
and, as I see you've got your horses in town, perhaps
you might be riding there too, and then I could introduce
you.'

That will do capitally ! How fortunate that I
caught sight of you ! And I, that was cursing this
tiresome Committee ! '

Are you on a Committee, too ? Everybody seems
to be on a Committee. Lord Ncthercliffe is on one this
morning.'

Oh, mine's at the House of Commons. Was that
old fellow who kept his head in at the window such a
time Lord NetherclifPe ? '

Yes  Miss Nethercliffe's father. I'm afraid I
must go now, or Isabella will wonder what has become
of me. Good-bye ! '

She held out her hand, which the young man
grasped in his usual heartfelt manner, and having
given her directions to the tall footman, she drove off,
and turned down Great George Street, Tom looking
after her with the old love in his honest eyes. As soon
as the carriage was quite out of sight, he, too, passed onto
attend his Parliamentary duties.

In the interval between the afternoon drive and
dressing for dinner, Sophy and Isabella usually occupied
themselves in taking copies of a portion of Lord
Nethercliffe's voluminous correspondence. Like the
Grand Llama,' he possessed a ' sanctum,' or private
apartment, where he transacted his business ; and
Sophy, who was ever anxious to make herself useful,
had been several times pressed into the service by
Isabella as assistant-secretary and precis-writer, on
account of her bold and legible telegraphy. It was
almost impossible to conceive that anybody could have
had a larger incoming correspondence than Lord
Nethercliffe, and he wrote as many letters as he received.
Besides the business connected with the House
of Lords, he was constantly writing to the Treasury,
the Foreign Office, the Admiralty, the War Office, the

Board of Trade, or the Board ofAVorks, as well as to the
Secretaries of Spying-iii Hospitals, Hospitals for Sick
Children, Societies for the retention of Cruelty to
Animals, Military and Naval Orphanages, Homes for
Fallen Women, and Lost Boys, or Hogs, xvithoiit
eountingthe functionaries connected with the 'Indignant
Blind ' Society, with which Sophy was already familiar ;
and copies of nearly all these letters, together with their
replies, were required, for some mysterious reason, to
be preserved. They were then dated and docketed ;
and, having been tied round with 2:)ink tape, were
deposited in the pigeon-holes of an escritoire in the
sanctum. Lord Tethercllffe, who was as neat and precise
in the disposition of his affairs as in the arrangement
of his dress, required that crown the pink tape
enclosing these papers should be tied in a particular
way; and hence it was, that what with copying, folding,
and depositing in pigeon-holes, the two young ladies
found plenty of employment for their spare moments.

At about half-past six his lordship returned from
the House.

Ah, dear children!' he exclaimed, flinging himself
back in an easy-chair, and focussing the two volunteer
secretaries with his eye-glass, ' what an anxious day this
has been ! We have carried our point, however . . .
We have triumphed. . . . And thou too, I see, have
been both as busy as two dear little bees ! . . . Isabella,
my love, it is late for tea ; I know it is late. . . . You
have had yours, and the tray has been removed. . . .'

'Oh, what am I thinking of?' cried Isabella, in a
tone of self-reproach. ' Sophy dear, please ring the
bell ! How cou7(l I have guessed, papa dear, that you
would not have had your tea ? Why, you must be
positively starving ! William' (to one of the tall footmen),

' his lordship will take some tea. . It was not
altogether from forgetfulness on my part, I can assure
you, papa ; we have been occupying ourselves with
you in other ways  haven't we, Sophy ? We have got
through a good deal of real business, too, since we came
in from driving.'

But there is more, my darlings ; there is, unfortunately,
more work for those dear little willing hands !
. . All these private letters are as yet unopened, even.
But, mis dear Isabella, have you observed the time ?
We have a dinner, as you know ; and you, my love,
must be ready to receive the people. I want you to
look your very best to-night.'

Oh, papa, two minutes more, I do implore of you !
I haven't yet got through half the task I set myself
for to-day. Let me, at any rate, pour you out a cup of
tea before I go. Simpkins Avon't take more than two
minutes doing my hair ! '

But I want her to take more than two minutes ! '
exclaimed his lordship, affectionately. * As I said, you
must look your very best to-night. Run, my child, as
I desire you. Miss St. Clair, my dear, there is not the
same need to hurry in your case. Oblige me, my child,
by pouring me out a cup of tea before you go, and give
me my private letters. . . . Thank you, thank you, my
dear young lady  no sugar f*

Isabella left the room reluctantly, and Sophy, after
handing Lord Nethercliffe his tea, took up the packet
of private letters. One of these happened to fall on
the floor, with the direction upwards.

Oh, Lord NetherclifPe ! ' she could not help exclaiming,
as she picked it up ; * here is a letter from
The Cedars." It is from Miss Pendragon ! I wonder
what it's about?'

VOL. Ill, p

or

Open it and road it, my dear,' said Lord Nether-cliffs
cliccrf fully, * and then your curiosity will be gratified.
Come, we will read it together;' and setting
down his cup, he moved towards the place where
Sophy was standing.

Oh, I don't like to do that ! ' said she hesitatingly.
Miss Pen dragon and I were never the best of friends.
I don't think she much liked Isabella inviting me here.
Perhaps she has written something against me ! '

Lord Nethercliffe, however, had opened the letter,
and Sophy could not resist glancing at its contents.

Oh, how very unkind ! ' she cried by-and-by, when
she had read a few words. ' Look ! She is warning
you against me, as if I was a serpent ! '

Lord NetherclifFe placed his hand consolingly upon
her shoulder, and, adjusting his eye-glass, looked closely
at the passage indicated.

There were a. great many "wheels within wheels"'
Sophy remarked, by way of explanation. * My poor
father was interested in several political schemes  he
was a member, too, of a great many secret societies.
One of these schemes was of great importance, or he
fancied that it was so. It had something to do with
the Eastern Question, and with the Balance of Power
in Europe, and was, somehow, mixed up with the Circassians,
and the Tartars, and the black ants of Barbadoes,
and with the introduction of the Turkish bath.
It was not very easy to understand.'

She paused, as though unable to proceed. This was
not the first time that she had felt embarrassed and disappointed
at the utter vagueness of the Great Cause when
it was cither particularised or confronted with facts !

Lord Nethercliffe was still listening attentively,
though with a somewhat bewildered expression.

At the head of this scheme,' she continued by-and-by,
' was a Avery remarkable man, in whom my father
lead the greatest confidence. I would rather not mention
his name ; he is an Asiatic mystic (or that is how
m) father generally described him). My father knew
that he was not infallible in some ways ; but politically
he sat at his feet, believing that the private characters
of great men had no effect upon their political
opinions.'

Quite so ! quite so ! ' acquiesced his lordship.
*When the public character is irreproachable, great
allowance should be made for the statesman in private
life, when, after the tension and restraint necessitated
by constant attention to affairs of moment, his moral
nature requires a certain amount of relaxation. I have
thought it right to prepare Isabella for this, in the
event of her marrying, as I trust she may some day, a
man of distinction  a man, as I said before, of whom
she could be proud, and whose experience would teach
him how to make her happy.'

Well, curiously enough,' Sophy went on, ' this
man  the " Great Prophet," as we used to call him 
discovered, somehow, that I was at school at *' The
Cedars." He found out, also, that Isabella was at the
same place, and that she was your daughter  you, who
have always, it seems, been tremendously opposed to
this scheme, whatever it may be.'

/ opposed to the scheme, my dear Miss St. Clair ? '
exclaimed Lord Nethercliffc, in apparent astonishment.
Wh}, my darling child, until this very moment I
never so much as heard of its existence ! It has never,
surely, been publicly discussed ? No measure connected
with it has ever been brought forward in the
House ? '

Perhaps not answered Sophy, reflectively. 'Still,
those who believed in it fancied that it pervaded everything.
Imagining, then, however wrongly, that you
were one of the chief enemies of this Cause, and having
discovered, somehow, that Isabella had some private
papers belonging to you in her desk, the Prophet wrote
to me at school to ask me to obtain copies for him of
these documents ; and as there was a rule at *' The
Cedars " that all our letters were overlooked by Miss
Pendragon, this one was opened by her, and she read,
of course, this part of it. Shortly after this Isabella
and I happened to become friends ; and now, you see,
from this letter she actually fancies I made friends with
her for this reason : that I am here to find out State
secrets for this man ; and she has taken upon herself
to warn you against me ! However, what I have told
you is the real truth. You may trust me, I can assure
you. Lord Nethercliffe, with any of your private papers.
I should, indeed, be above taking copies of them for
anybody except yourself ! '

She said this vehemently, and with tears in her
eyes. Lord Nethercliffe seemed greatly touched b}'
her fervour.

So it seems,' said he, again patting her shoulder affectionately,
' that all this time we have been nourishing
a dear little viper in our bosoms, a terrible little conspirator,
who is in correspondence with all sorts of
dangerous revolutionary characters ! We must be
careful  poor Isabella and myself  we must be .r-
ceccUngl}/ careful ! '

As his lordship) said this, he placed his arm tenderly
round the waist of the * dear little viper,' as though
about to nourish it in the manner described.

It's very unkind of Miss Pendragon to think so

badly of me,' lie was murmuring, in a broken voice.
But then, from the very first day that I was there, she
took a dislike to me

Old cat P exclaimed Lord Iethercliffe, with more
warmth than Sophy deemed befitting in so exemplary,
a nobleman. ' Fancy anybody being able to dislike
iiou I '

Chapter XY.

Who was that young man to whom our dear little
friend introduced us in the Park just now?' Lord
Netherclifie asked this question of his daughter, after
they had returned upon the following day from their
morning ride, and whilst Sophy had gone upstairs to
take ofl: her habit. 'Bather a distinguished-looking
young man, upon a verj handsome animal. His face
seemed familiar to me, but I did not catch the name'*

Oh, Sir Thomas Hickathrift : he's the Member for
Southerbourne. I believe he's enormously rich, and
has a large place somewhere down in Kent or Sussex.'

Really ! He struck me as particularly gentlemanlike,
and well informed ; his manners, too, were decidedly
less vulgar and presuming than those of most
of the young men of the present day. I hope we may
become further acquainted with him. You might have
invited him to luncheon.'

His lordship was perhaps thinking that the Member
for Southerbourne, although unfortunately young, and
consequently raw and inexperienced, might do almost as
well for a son-in-law as the Member for Dumbarton.

I think he will be at Lady Southampton's ball this
evening,' said Isabella, ' and I have no doubt that he

will bo dcliglitcd to como and call if we give him the
slightest encouragement. To tell you the truth, papa
dear,' she added, confidentially, and with an arch smile,
a little bird has told me that he is a great admirer of
Sophy's/

LordNethercliffe's countenance underwent a peculiar
change.

Indeed ! ' he remarked, drily. ' So Miss Sophy
has got followers and admirers already, has she ? I've
no doubt she thinks it quite a fine thing to have
attracted the attention of this young coxcomb ? '

I don't know about that,' answered Isabella, afraid
from her father's altered manner, thither indiscreet speech
might have prejudiced Sophy in his estimation. ' Dear
Sophy is not in the least a flirt, but of course  so lovely
as she is  it's onh' natural she should be admired.
Every one was asking who she was to-day in the Park.
I think she has known Sir Thomas a long time  they
were brought up together, I fancy, or something of the
sort : at any rate, I know they are near neighbours in
the country.'

I dare say they may be,' rejoined his lordship, still
in the same tone. ' But surely, you must understand,
my darling Bella, that, neighbours or no neighbours,
I cannot, placed as I am, with only a young creature
like yourself at the head of mj household, permit this
young man to be lounging about the house at all hours
dropping in here morning, noon, and night, and
treating us to the honour of his company, whilst he
amuses himself flirting with Miss Sophy ! The custody
of a young lady like your friend involves always, m}
dear Bella, a very grave responsibility I find myself
acting, as it were, for the time being, the part of a
parent towards her ; and this part, however arduous it

may be, you, who know the manner in wliicli I have
always endeavoured to discharge any trust confided tome,
cannot imagine that I should shirk or overlook.
How do I know whether the intentions of this young
man  this Sir Tompkins Thingumajig  are honourable
or the reverse ? He may be merely trifling with your
friend's affections, and how can I, occupied as I am
with public affairs of the gravest importance, find time
to exercise over this young creature the proper amount
of surveillance which would be prudent, nay, even necessary,
absolutely necessary, under the circumstances?
No! had your dear mother been alive, affairs would
have been different  but as it is, you must see, my
dearest child, how very unwise it would be to encourage
Sir, Sir  whatever his name is  before we are quite
certain that we are justified in so doing. Were I to
abuse a trust confided to me, I should never forgive
myself. In this respect, I am aware I am somewhat
old-fashioned in my notions, and consequently peculiar.'


Poor Isabella was overcome with remorse at what
she considered her indiscretion. If there was one thing
of which she had a horror more than another, it was
the idea of anything like treachery or disloyalty between
female friends. She had constantly heard in the
world of the backbiting and slandering of women 
women who, whilst professing, and perhaps even ///wy/,
a considerable amount of affection one towards the
other, could not resist aiming, from time to time, the
little poisoned feminine arrows which they seemed to
have always in reserve. The love of such women 
Isabella had frequently said to herself  was more to be
dreaded than their honest hate : if, indeed, there could
be anything honest about them at all; and she had

always rejoiced in the conviction that, in point of
loyalty, discretion, and true-heartiness, her own
friendship, once it stood truly revealed, resembled more
that of a man for his chosen comrade than the shallow
and unstable thing which these women had chosen to
dignify by so sacred a name.

But now, wherein had she proved herself superior
to these despised persons ? With the best possible intentions,
had she not somehow conveyed by her words
an unfavourable impression of Sophy's character to her
father's mind ? Lord Nethercliffe was evidently annoyed
with Sophy, and she (Isabella) had been the
cause of it, and all because the tongue (more especially
the female tongue) was an ' unruly member ! ' She had,
in fact, inadvertently of course, proved that she was no
better than a chattering, gossiping busy-body, and for
almost the first time in her life Miss Nethercliffe felt
deeply humiliated.

His lordship seemed to be still ruffled.

No ! ' he was exclaiming, as he drew himself up to
his full height and patted his nankeen waistcoat
violently. ' No, my dear Isabella ! Were I to abuse
so sacred a trust as has been placed in me by the relatives
and guardians of this young creature, I can assure
you I could never forgive myself ! The remembrance
of my conduct would haunt me like a nightmare  in
this respect, as I said before, I am aware that I am
somewhat singular.'

The sound of Sophy's footstep here put an end to
the discussion, and after a short interval the three proceeded
downstairs to luncheon. At the conclusion of
the meal it was evident, from his lordship's manner
and from several hints which he dropped to his
daughter, that he would have liked to have spoken

privately to Sophy in the sanctum  presenting a
sudden influx of business, with which he proposed that
the two young ladies should assist him  Isabella going
upstairs to dress first for the afternoon drive, and returning
to relieve Sophy as soon as she was ready
equipjDcd. To this arrangement Isabella was perfectly
agreeable ; she was, indeed, anxious that some explanation
should be arrived at relative to her friend's intimacy
with Sir Thomas Ilickathrift, the result of which
would be, she felt certain, highly satisfactory and reassuring,
and she at once afforded the necessary opportunity
for a confidential talk by proceeding upstairs
herself.

Sophy, however, had apparently misunderstood the
object of his lordship's remarks, lor, upon looking in
the direction of the door, after he had entered his own
room, he perceived that, instead of following him, she
had gone upstairs in the wake of Isabella, and was
already nearly out of sight. Delicacy of feeling ]prevented
him from calling her back, and thus seeming
to spur so willing a steed as she had always shown
herself to be, so there was nothing left for him todo
but to adjust his eye-glass and gaze regretfully at
her retreating form, after which he closed the door of
the sanctum upon his disappointment.

He was far from guessing, however, the true cause
of Sophy's seeming density of perception. Her perceptions
had, on the contrary, been suddenly and
unexpectedly aroused, and, not having heard his
lordship's eloquent discourse upon the sacred nature
of his trust, and his anxiety lest he should not fulfil
it to the very letter, she had purposely avoided going
with him alone into his study, the fact being that she
had somewhat lost faith in Lord Ncthercliffe's absolute

infallibility ever since ho lead called Miss Pendragon
an 'old cat,' and stated that he was 'fond of ducks.'
In the sanctum, after the tension and restraint consequent
upon close attention to affairs of moment, the
moral nature of the senator was  no doubt necessarily
in a state of relaxation, and hence it was, perhaps,
a place to be avoided.

Before starting for the ball, Isabella deemed it only
fair to give her friend a few words of warning advice,
and the opportunity was afforded her when Sophy,
already caparisoned, knocked at her door, in order that
Miss Simpkins, who had kindly condescended to lend
a helping hand from time to time, might give a few
finishing touches to her toilette.

'Oh, Simpkins!' exclaimed Miss Nethercliffe, just
as Sophy entered the room, 'would you, please, have
the goodness to go down into his lordship's study, and
either there on the writing-table, or on the piano in
the drawing-room, or in the each drawing-room behind
one of the sofa-cushions, or perhaps under the table in
the dining-room, you will find the white-and-gold fan
which I used last night at dinner ; please bring it, as
it goes better with this dress than the blue one.'

Isabella made this speech with so much calm
dignity, that Sophy was not aware until after Simp-king
had departed that it was merely a runic whereby
to get rid of her for a moment. Even great minds
are sometimes obliged, from benevolent motives, to
stoop to innocent deceptions !

As soon as the two girls were alone together,
Isabella began her pre-arranged discourse. She did
not find it very easy to commence.

My dearest Sophy,' she said, placing her hand
upon her friend's shoulder, 'you know how ver)

fond of you I am  you must see this, I think  and
how anxious I am that everybody should like you as
much as I do myself, and how glad I was when I
saw that papa seemed to care for you, and to get on
with you so well. All this, I'm sure, you must know
by this time?'

Indeed, Isabella, as I have often told you, I don't
know how I ever can thank you enough for all you
have done  and Lord Nethercliffe, too. If I have not
said all I ought to say about it, it's because I can
really find no words ! '

She said this gratefully and tearfully. It was,
indeed, no more than she felt.

Nonsense, darling ! ' exclaimed Isabella. * Of
course we are delighted to have you with us  it is
to us that f/oic are doing a kindness, and it is i/oii who
deserve the thanks  but I was thinking this evening
that, as it is the first time you have ever been out in
London, and as people are often very ill-natured
particularly when a girl is pretty and nice, and well-dressed,
as you are  and as papa, although he likes
you so much, has a perfect horror of anything approaching
to a flirt, or of what is spoken of here as
''fadneHH " '

Surely, dear Isabella,' said Sophy, in astonishment,
'Lord NetherclifPe can't think me either a flirt or a
"fast" girl?'

No, dearest, of course not I Papa couldn't suppose
such a thing for a moment, and, as I was saying to
him, it's only natural that you should be very much
admired  you will be admired, I am sure, at this ball
to-night  all the young men, I feel certain, will want
to dance with you.'

But I really don't think, Isabella dear,' said

Sophy, looking perplexed, ' tliiit I now any London
young men ! The people I have met here, as you
know, are generally much older men  judges, and
ministers, and celebrated authors  men, in fact, whose
conversation I really prefer to that of most j'oung
men. Of course, to-night I shall see sir Thomas
Hickathrift. . . /

'Yes, dear,' interrupted Isabella, quickly. * There
will be sir Thomas Hickathrift. Well, promise me,
dearest Sophy, that you will be very careful with him ;
that you will not flirt with him, or rather, seem to flirt
with him. Young men are often very different from
what we imagine them to be ; many of them, I have
been told, look upon women as their natural prey 
and, under these circumstances, it is, of course,
necessary to be ro'i/y Ten prudent and particular.
You will understand what I mean. I should not have
said this much were it not for something joppa spoke
to me about just now.'

Surely Lord Nethercliffe could find nothing to
say against Sir Thomas Hickathrift ? '

No, dear, of course he couldn't ; and for this
reason, that, as you say, I don't suppose there was
anything that could be said, and had there been, papa
is far too good-natured to say it. But it seems that
young men don't always reveal themselves to us in
their true colours ; there is a great deal, in fact, in
the world, Which neither you nor I are as yet quite
able to understand. There is a great deal of wickedness
and misery, and most of it, I have heard, is caused
by young men ; so you will promise me, darling Sophy,
that you will be very, very cautious and guarded tonight
with this Sir Thomas Hickathrift ? You will
not dance with him more than one dance V

*May I even dance with him at all?' asked Sophy,
with an amused smile. * Really, Isabella, you talk as
if poor Tom was a lion, or a bear, or a laughing hyena,
and would bite one, or do one some bodily harm,
whereas  as I am sure you will find out when you
know him better  ho is in reality the most kind and
amiable and honourable of men. However, if you
don't like, I won't dance with him at all.'

Yes, dearest, you may dance with him once, but
perhaps it would be better not to do more than this ;
and now I am sure you will forgive me for having
spoken to you. You know that I could have no
motive but your own good, don't you ? '

The entrance of Simpkins here put an end to all
further discussion.

If you please, miss, I can't find your fan, not
anywhere, though I've searched for it high and low.'

No, Simpkins,' answered Miss Nethercliffe,
quietly.  I am so sorry to have given you tHe
trouble of going do'sTistairs ! Here it was, all the
time, behind the looking-glass. Just give me my
gloves, and put some scent on my handkerchief.
Thank you, Simpkins ; and now, my dear Sophy,
are you quite rcad} to start ? '

Chapter Xii.

Miss Nethercltffe was looking extremely handsome.
She work a white dress, ornamented with gold embroidery,
which suited her regular and somewhat
haughty type of beauty, whilst a golden diadem lent
to her features a truly imperial air. Sophy, on the

contrary, presented the appearance of a wood-nymj:)]!,
who lead been captured, rather in spite of herself, and
arrayed in civilised female attire of the newest fashion.
Her dress, like Isabella's, was white, but instead of the
golden diadem, she was garlanded with wild flowers.
A suppressed murmur of admiration greeted the two
young ladies as they walked together up the broad
staircase at Lady E,oeham2)ton's, immediately behind
Lord Nethercliffe. He seemed to be quite restored to
good humour now, and he had more than once complimented
his daughter and Sojhy upon their appearance
during the drive to the ball.

Look ! ' whispered Sophy to her friend, when they
had proceeded about half-way upstairs, ' there's that
terribly dangerous wild beast leaning over the top of
the staircase on the look-out for us ! Look at his
savage and ferocious expression ! ' and she nodded
smilingly towards Tom Hickathrift, who, with a countenance
as inoffensive as that of one of his own ' South-downs,'
was waiting for them near the entrance to the
ball-room.

'Ah, Sophy;' answered Isabel, somewhat regretfully,
you are in one of your flippant moods to-night, when
you laugh at everything ; but I've noticed that you are
never for very long in the same humour, and that you
are subject to wonderful reactions ! Take care that, before
the evening is over, nothing happens to make you cry

'Oh, Isabella, dont! Sophy whispered, looking
frightened ; ' some people's words are prophetic' And
with this the two girls entered the ball-room.

Anxious to take time by the forelock. Sir Thomas
Hickathrift advanced towards them, drawing on his
gloves, and after a few words of greeting to Lord
Nethercliffe and his daughter, invited Sophy to dance.

*Ask Isabella first murmured Sopli}'', anxiously.

Miss Nethercliffe, may I have the pleasure ? '
I shall be delighted.'

As Tom and Isabella moved off to take their places
in a quadrille, Lord Nethercliffe, assuming a very peculiar
expression, said confidentially to Sophy, 

I should think your friend, Sir Thomas Hickathrif t,
must be a remarkably clever man ?'

He is clever in a great many ways,' answered
Sophy, who, as the reader will have discovered ere this,
Alas the most loyal of friends, ' without being exactly a
genius. He is nearly always right upon almost every
subject, and is full of real common sense.'

*Ah, I thought so ! And he is enormously rich too, is
he not?'

'He has a very large property, but I don't know
what his income is ; the place he lives at is what is
called a " show place." '

She made this statement guardedly. After all, what
business was it of Lord Nether cliife's what Tom Hicks
t had a year ?

'And I am perfectly sure,' his lordship continued,
still with the same expression of countenance, ' that he
is amiability itself. I should fancy that he was an
example of almost every one of the cardinal virtues ? '

 Oh., he is  indeed Sophy exclaimed enthusiastically,
for she could speak with certainty upon this point.
He's the kindest creature in the world  I have known
him for a very long time, and he's such a true friend!'

I was convinced,' remarked his lordship, ' that he
must be possessed of every excellent quality under the
sun to make nj) for his being so damnahhj ugly l

Sophy gave an involuntary start, and shrank several
paces from Lord Nethercliffe's protecting wing. She

was honest' and conscientiously shocked. Not that
these words would have shocked her had they been
uttered by another, but it was terrible to see people
willingly outraging their own moral code. To * the
most pious and eloquent nobleman in England ' the use
of the word ' (hinuHihhj ' must have seemed almost equivalent
to sheep-stealing. It must have lowered him
irrevocably in his own estimation, and this, Sophy had
already realised, wasfar more humiliating than the stupid
censures of the crowd. she was not angry with him,
nay, she even felt a considerable amount of pity, but
another illusion had been dcstrojcd.

Several good-looking young gentlemen, very carefully
combed and clothed  ' gilded coxcombs of the
town,' as Lord Nether cliff e wovdd probably have designated
them  were now led up and presented to her by
the hostess. One and all of them invited her to dance,
so that her card soon became almost covered with their
autographs. Out of loyalty, however, she had kept the
next dance free for the young man who was * so
damnably ugly.' Amongst the ranks of these gilded
youths Sophy failed to perceive the tall figure of
Godfrey, for which  foolishly, perhaps  she had been
on the look-out ever since she came to London. There
was no reason, of course, why she should expect him to
be at this particular ball, but then, neither had there
seemed, at first, to be any reason for expecting to see
him in an obscure suburban church. The same cause
which had then attracted him might lure him here also.
He might have heard that she was in London. He
would laiow that, when there, she would probably go to
balls, and he might have got himself invited, in the
hopes of seeing her, to this particular ball, which, it
was predicted, would prove one of the most brilliant of

the season. Whenever she found herself in a crowd
she surprised herself looking out for him eagerly ; at
balls and parties, at the opera, amongst the riders and
loungers in the Park, and then again in church. A
feverish impatience to meet with him, and an expectation
that this might at any moment be rewarded,
haunted and pursued her everywhere, lending new zest
and excitement to what would have seemed, under ordinary
circumstances, to be only irksome and fatiguing.
She had made up her mind that Godfrey must be certainly
in London. He had been to Italy, she concluded,
and completed his investigations there, and he had now
probably returned to London, the great centre of business,
to pursue them still further. She hoped that he
had kept an eye upon her movements, and hearing,
perhaps, from some of the county neighbours  for she
did not doubt but that he had kept up some manner of
communication with Dallingridge and its vicinity that
she was now on a visit to the NetherclifPes, what more
likely than that he should endeavour to meet with her
and her friends in public, before presenting himself at
the house as a visitor ?

This was the theory that, in her ignorance of
existing facts, she had made out to her . own satisfaction,
and hence it happened that she was for ever in
alternating states of anticipation and disappointment 
very conducive to those rapid changes of humour to
which Miss Nethercliffe had alluded upon Lady Southampton's
staircase.

The ' gilded coxcomb of the town,* who had invited
her to dance, was an amiable and good-looking youth.
He was agreeable, too, according to his lights, and it
was not altogether his fault if Sophy felt but little
interest in his conversation. The quadrille was over at

VOL. III. Q

last, and in few minutes she found licrsolf upon trio
ami of lier old friend.

I can only dance once with yon,' she said, as he led
her off, * so I hope it will last a good long time. It
seems that in London one ought not to dance often with
the same person.'

This is a valse,' rejoined Tom, 'and it will be very
soon over ; but we'll go down to supper, and sit out
several dances and talk  there's no harm in that ; and
then come up and have our valse afterwards. I've a
great deal to tell you.'

So have I, and first I must say how grateful I am
for all you did at Lewes ; I think, in fact I'm fiurOj that
you did it more out of kindness to me than to him, poor
man ! and I thank you for it with all my heart.'

Ah, by-the-by, he gave me a message for you ;
unfortunately he put it off till the very last, so it was
difficult fully to understand it, but from what I could
make out your mother was no real child of his ; he got
hold of her somehow, it seems, hoping a reward would
be offered for her recovery, but the women of his tribe
became too fond of her to part from her, and either her
true parents died about that time, or failed to act as
they were expected to ; perhaps she was an orphan.
Heaven only knows, dear, but from what he said I feel
sure she was not his own daughter, and I thought this,
at any rate, would please you.'

'Yes, I'm glad of it, indeed,' answered Sophy,
thoughtfully ' though it opens out a new field for
speculation, and destroys several deeply-hooted fancies.
I was just getting used to my gipsy blood. It seemed
to excuse so many things in me for which I should
otherwise have been responsible ! '

They were comfortably established, now, in a corner

of the supper-room. Although she did not feel inclined
to eat, Sir Thomas suggested that, just for the sake of
appearances, it would be better to provide themselves
with some manner of food.

Give me a cup of coffee, then ; it will keep me
awake.'

Surely you don't feel sleepy, now ? ' Tom could not
help saying, in somewhat a reproachful tone.

No, dear Tom, of course I'm not sleepy ; I'm too
interested in all you've been telling me : but, still, I
should like some coffee. Don't yov. remember, at my
first ball, you gave me a cup of coliee, and I fed you
with the sugar ? '

Having said what was necessary with regard to her
unfortunate relative (who seemed, now to be no relative
after all), she hoped to be able to lead the conversation
round to Godfrey. Tom would be almost sure, sloe
thought, to have heard the last news of him. He would
know what rumours were floating about in the neighbourhood
of Poynings and Dallingridge; but she would
introduce the subject very delicately, so as not to womid
his sensibilities, for it was but natural, perhaps, that, at
this moment, he should prefer to forget the existence
of his rival. He had not said his say, however, upon
the subject of the gipsy.

It's very odd,' he was murmuring, as he stirred his
coffee reflectively, 'but I always felt convinced that
man couldn't possibly be any relation of yours. I'm
sure, too, that your poor father had great doubts about
it. He always spoke of your mother as of a person
equal, if not .superior, to himself. Andrew Locke saw
her when she was taken ill, and when they made up a
bed for her at Great Stillingfleet, at the shepherd's, and
he said he was sure she was no gipsy woman. Besides

boing beautiful, she laid about her a rofiiiomcnt which
clung to her in spite of her rough life. Everybody
who ever saw her noticed it.'

At this moment Sophy perceived the figure of Lord
Ncthercliffe in the doorway. He was evidently seeking
for her, but, as she knew that the carriage had not been
ordered until a quarter to tAVO, she concluded that ho
Alas actuated only by officiousness, and she wa? determined
not to return to the ball-room before she had
obtained the information she desired.

Lean back ! ' she whispered, therefore, to her companion,
*or Lord Nethercliife will see us, and fancy
that we're flirting. He has a perfect horror of girls
who flirt with young men, Isabella says.'

She crouched down behind an ample pink tarlatan
skirt which happened to be in front of them, and, after
adjusting his eye-glass and looking towards the end of
the room, his lordship passed rapidly through some
folding-doors into an apartment beyond, and Sophy and
Tom were left to pursue their conversation.

All the same,' the young man continued, taking
up the thread of his previous discourse, ' though I was
quite certain he was not your grandfather, I hope, dear,
you don't think I had anything to do with getting him
into trouble. All I could do to prevent it, I did, and he
might have gone on poaching and getting at the birds'
eggs, for ever, if it had only depended upon me, but
that confounded Tom Stubberfield took it into his head
that he was sleeping in the old barn at One-Chimney
Farm  the house that's said to be haunted  and nothing
would satisfy him but to set a trap for the gipsy.
As it happened, Tom was right, and they caught the
old fellow at last ; but he fought like a lion, and I expect
Tom will carry the mark of his claws to his grave.'

How dreadful ! However, he's dead now, and
several other things have departed with him. You see
what an impostor I was, with my pretended gipsy-blood,
my long hair, my black eyes, and my gift of prophecy ! '

You seem in very good spirits to-night.' As Sir
Thomas said this, she fancied that he put on rather a
reproachful look. Now that she came to examine his
face, she observed, too, that its expression was sorrowful
and perplexed.

You are very different from other people,' he
resumed, after a short pause. ' Different, of course,
from being a great deal nicer, but sometimes I wonder
whether you have much heart ! Don't be angry with
me for saying this, please.'

Ah, you are going to deprive me of my heart as
well as of my romantic origin ! In the end you will
transform me into quite a well-conducted young person,
very carefully brought up, and dressed in the height gf
fashion ! '

As she said this she looked down at her fresh white
ball dress and toyed with the sprays of wild flowers
which adorned it. She spoke lightly and flippantly,
but the heart of which Tom was going (as she said) to
deprive her, had begun beating tumultuously.

In the doorway she had perceived a bevy of * gilded
youths ' whose countenances were new to her. Some of
these were tall, some short, and others of middle stature.
Sophy only looked at the tall ones. Notwithstanding
the lateness of the hour, new guests were arriving, and
there was still a ray of hope that Godfrey might be
amongst their numbers. It would be a real coincidence
she thought, if, on this occasion also, he surprised her
sitting in a corner pretending to sip coffee, with Tom
Ilickathrift gazing into her eyes, as in the old time ;

and she was always thoroughly prepared for a coincidence
!

The voice of her companion recalled her wandering
spirit, and caused her to withdraw her gaze from the
doorway.

I see, dear,' said he, in a somewhat solemn tone, aa
he glanced down at the bunches of coloured wild-flowers,
upon her ball dress, ' that you are not in mourning.'

No, certainly I am not in mourning ! Do you
think, really, that for a man like that I ought to have
put on a black dress ? Had I known him, and liked
him, it would have been different, of course ; but I only
saw him twice in my life, and each time he very nearly
frightened me out of my-wits. Besides, you see, he
has turned out to be no relation.'

Oh, I wasn't thinking of him'' answered the young
man, looking uncomfortable. ' Of course one couldn't
expect that.'

Then who were you thinking of?' Sophy asked,
eagerly, as she gazed at her companion with startled
ejes. ' What other relation ought I to go into mourning
for ? Tell me, please : you've made me feel cold allover
from fright ! '

I suppose you don't know,' said Tom, hesitatingly.
Never mind ! I can tell you tomorrow. A ball isn't a
place to talk of sad things.'

Oh, but sou nid tell nic, now that you've begun !
You couldn't let me go away without telling me. I can
bear anything  (an/tJting, better than suspense I'

She leant forward as she said this, and placed her
hand upon his arm appealingly. Those amongst the
bystanders who perceived the movement, imagined, na
doubt, that a flirtation of no ordinary kind was ffoing:
on between the tall young man with the high nose and

the pretty girl in the dress trimmed with buttercups
and daisies.

Tom Hickathrift seemed to be drawing himself
away from her touch, an experience entirely without
precedent.

No, no, dear,' he was sajng; * not now, not here 
not at a hall ! '

Ah, Tom ! don't be so unkind, so cruel, so terribly
stern and hard ! Of course, with so few relations, I
shall think the very worst ! I shall dream of nothing
else all night  though, of course, I shan't sleep
enough to dream ! Has anything happened to my
aunt?'

'No,' said Tom, y\lo was now looking really distressed.
' I believe, when she was last heard of, she was
perfectly well.'

*Ah ! then it must be . . . .'

She could not continue the sentence. Tom Hicks
felt constrained, after her entreaties, to do so for
her.

'Your cousin,' he answered, dolefully. He would
have gone through a good deal to have been spared the
pain of having to tell her this !

Godfrey ' ' the name escaped somehow through her
blanched lips. She was as white, now, as her flowery
ball dress.

Yes, Godfrey St. Clair. Why have you made me
tell you this? How could I know that you hadn't
heard it ? '

What has happened to Godfrey St. Clair ? / have
a right to know She uttered this last sentence in a
hard and altered voice. To the young man it sounded
like a command.

There is a report that Godfrey St. Clair is dead,'

he answered, slowly, * and I fear very much but it maybe
true. He is said to have died in Italy.'

'Godfrey  dead ? sie felt dazed and stupefied,
and utterly unable, for the moment, to realise the
meaning of Tom's words.

'How long ago?' she asked, by-and-by, with the
same bewildered air. ' When did it happen ? '

Lately, I believe ; that is, comparatively lately 
not a month ago.'

'But I mw Tim then, Tom I' she exclaimed, (eagerly,
her whole aspect suddenly brightening. ' It's a nuidc-
up story  I feel sure of I saw him as plainly as I

see you  in church, on the Sunday before the holidays.
He came down to my school

'Ah, yes,' muttered Tom, thoughtfully, ' that must
have been about the time. . . .

'The time of what?'

'About the time he is said to have died, for, as yet,
we know none of the particulars. Your aunt wrote to
my mother about it only the other daj'  I suppose she
was afraid of telling you at once, for fear of spoiling
your season.'

But I aatr him ! ' she exclaimed again, somewhat
impatiently ; ' I saw him in church. He was leaning
against a stone pillar, and afterwards he followed the
school back to " The Cedars," and stood outside, looking
in at the gate. I saw him  as I see you now.'

I'm afraid,' returned Sir Thomas, gloomily', ' that
it couldn't have been him, rcalli/ ; it must have been
one of those things one reads about in books.'

Here, indeed, was a ghastly explanation of the
circumstance upon which she had pinned her forlorn
hope !

What she had seen in church was merely a confirmation

of her most terrible fears ! It was a wraith
a ghost  an apparition ; the shadowy semblance of
the man, as he had been in life, making itself manifest,
at the moment of his dissolution, to the woman he loved
best upon that earth which he was about to abandon
for ever  in a word, * one of those things one reads
about in books ! '

She remembered how pale and unsubstantial lie had
appeared to her, and how his figure had melted away
until it had become blended and moulded, as it were,
into the very substance of the massive stone pillar
against which she had fancied he was leaning, and
how, at last, the ivy tracery had seemed to grow allover
his face like a net-work. She recalled the fact
that Isabella had not, apparently, observed the tall
young man who walked back behind the school-girls on
their return from church, and her whole soul sickened
with a terrible fear. *

Take me away ! ' she said at last, looking up at Tom
with haggard e3'es. * Get me away from this place !
Ask for the carriage ! '

The young man rose sadly to obey. He came back
in a few minutes with Sophy's cloak.

'Lord NetherclifPe's carriage isn't ordered till a
quarter to two, and it's not quite one yet.'

Never mind ; get me a hackney-coach  let me go
home. . . .'

Tom's honest heart was bleeding for her sorrow.
He led her to the door, and in a few minutes the coach
was procured. Once within it, she could only sob and
moan. He felt that it would be useless even to fri
to console her.

At a quarter to two Lord Nethercliffe's carriage
was called for at Lady Southampton's, and Isiibclla,

or

knowing liuw nuicli her father disliked unpunetualit)%
was standing cloaked in the entrance-hall, all ready to
depart. His lordship had gone back to scour the ballroom
once more, in a last despairing attempt to light
upon Sophy. She was not, however, to be found, and,
deeply rushed and concerned, the father and daughter
were obliged to depart without her. Upon arriving in
Grosvenor Place, Lord Nethercliife anxiously questioned
the family butler.

If you please, my lord,' answered that functionary,
Miss St. Clair was took faint at the ball, and was
brought back by a gentleman in an 'hackney-coach 
a tall young gentleman, with rather an 'high nose.'

Chapter XVII.

By the following autumn Sophy found herself once
more established at her old home, amongst scenes so
lainf uUy fraught with living memories, that the very
trees and stones seemed like conscious and intelligent
beings. A great sadness had fallen upon her ever since
she had heard the terrible news of Godfrey's death.
She had suffered as she had never suffered before, in
altogether an unusual manner, dumbly and patiently,
without the relief of spasmodic and impulsive weeping.
Her whole nature seemed suddenly to have undergone
a change. There was no use in warring with the
inevitable, or in hurling anathemas at Fate. Like a
creature addicted with an incurable disease, she felt
that she must bear this weary pain to the end of her
days. She acknowledged it, and accepted it, and knew
that it would be vain to complain ; but it was not

natural, or possible, for lier to be like one who was whole.
Still there were moments, even in the midst of this
bitter heart-sickness, of comparative satisfaction  moments
when, abandoning the hopeless contemplation of
self, she could plunge, with a certain degree of interest,
into the affairs of others, and endeavour to alleviate
suffering and sadness which were less permanent and
irrevocable than her own.

Out of her life had gone all hope and heart-beating
and fine weather, but this was not the case with the rest
of the world. The one thing worth living for now
seemed to be the good of one's neighbour  the averting
of impending clouds which were advancing upon
brighter destinies  the satisfaction resulting from the
success of some benevolent scheme, and the cultivation
of nobler and broader ideas amongst the poor and
ignorant.

In consequence of all the trouble which had fallen
upon her, she had made but little progress in the formation
of the new religion. Dr. Dyer, too, who might
have helped her in the matter, had, as the reader is
aware, been suddenly hurried into eternity, and she
realised that it would be extremely difficult for her to
create and develop new theories without some sort of
male assistance and support.

One sentence, however, which the Doctor had let
fall upon the occasion of his last visit had not been
interred with his bones.'

At any rate,' he had said (and the fact of his premature
and tragical death seemed now to endow his
words with a particular importance), * one should never
neglect those good works which fall immediately under
one's hand, to abandon which would necessitate an
actual turning aside from our path. We should remove,

if possible, the burdens from our near neighbours,
even if by so doing we have to bear some
portion of them ourselves : if we all did this, suffering
would be much more equally divided.'

To the hollow-eyed ascetic in his hair shirt, who
regards the flagellation and maceration of his own flesh
as peculiarly pleasing in the sight of a benevolent
Creator, Sophy's religious code might have seemed to
be somewhat too facile and rudimentary, but it calmed
*and satisfied her for the time being, and her aching and
bleeding heart might count as an equivalent for the
hair shirts of her possible detractors.

Thus it was that in these, the days of her adversity,
she came to be, as it were, a queen over her humble
and limited kingdom, for the * Great Sophirian Empire '
of the old time, since she had seen more of the outer
world, seemed to have become strangely dwindled and
shrunk. Fortunately, however, by reason of this limitation
of space, her subjects were few, and, to a certain
extent, tractable and easy to govern, perhaps in consequence
of the very ignorance and inexperience with
which she was for ever waging war. There were not
brains enough, indeed, in the whole community to
make up one average intelligence ; but they were, on the
whole, well-disposed and virtuous, and even when they
were not so, their very vices took an amiable and Arcadian
form. Above all, they seemed to live in good-fellowship
and harmony with their surroundings, hating
and wishing evil to no man. Occasionally, however,
they loved, rashly and impoliticly  unmoralh/, even, from
the point of view of the wearers of the hair shirts.

The laws of propriety,' remarks Schiller, ' are
foreign to innocent nature ; only the experience of corruption
has given origin to them. But as soon as that

corruption lias taken place, and natural innocence has
'N'aniybcd from manners, the laws of propriety are
sacred They have the same validity in an artificial
world as the laws of nature have in a world of
innocence.' Sophy's woodland home, it was evident, when
looked at from this point of view, had not been tainted,
as yet, with ' the experience of corruption.'

Witness, in example of this, the loves of Deely and
Abdallah. Upon arriving at Little Stillingfleet, after
her stay in London, Sophy had been surprised to find
that the Egyptian had not returned to his native land.
He had been paid his wages, and had been given,
according to her directions, a good round sum over
and above what was his due, but still he had not
departed. He did not wish to receive payment, he said
(through Deely, his interpreter), but he desired to
remain on where he was. He had grown a lighter
colour from his exposure to English winters, and he
suffered still occasionally from influenza, but he had
become an institution at Little Stillingfleet. It was
not long before it transpired that Deely was his chief
attraction. She was now a fine young woman, with a
high colour, blue eyes, and a thick waist  an improvement
upon her mother in her best days, and she seemed
to be as active and good-tempered as she was well-favoured.
Jane Ford explained the situation to Sophy
a day or two after her return from London, when she
happened to go into the kitchen to give an order.

You see, missy,' she said, ' What-you-call-um  hebe
only a pore heathen creature, he be ; still, he bennet
not near so unlearned now as he wur in pore muster's
time (your pore dear par, missy). He gets along well
enough now, he do, and he bennet not near so stooped,
he beiin't, and so he and our Deely '

or

And so hv and Dcoly arc going to be married, I
suppose?' interrupted Sophy. Like a benevolent Lady
Bountiful, she-was pleased that her young men and
maidens should marry and be given in marriage, notwithstanding
that she herself was vowed to a perpetual
widowhood.

Well, noa, missy,' Janus had answered, looking a
little uncomfortable. ' Day bent not a-gone to church
yet, dey bent. You see de Dean, up at Pojoiin's, he
ses, ses he, " Dat 'ere be only a pore heathen creature,"
he ses ; " 'an be what church be he a-going' to marry
your darter, mum ? " ses he, a-looking at ,
who begins fur too parley-voo away in his
gibberish. An' Parson Harnbloor he wur a-getting'
wu)\f/ feeble, he wur  t'wnr well-nigh time fur d' Lard
to think o' teiikin' Parson Harnbloor ; an' Muster Pettish
over at Dallin'ridge, he ses, ses he, "I wotin'tnot
goo fur to lev no deelin's in d' matter, Mrs. Foord," ses
he ; an' he good on fur te art who What-you-call-um
worshiped, an' what church he belongs to ? an' I ses,
ses I, *' Ne'er a one as I knoiis on, Muster Pettigrew ;
he be only a pore heathen creature, he be, wot good fur
to lay down a strip o' carpet when he ses his prayers,
an' don't not shake hands ; an', when must he comet,
wouldn't not goo fur to eat no passengers," ses I; " but
he eats 'um now, an' seems moor Christian-like," ses I,
*' in all his deelin's." An' all dis 'ere while, time kep
a-going' on, a-waiting' fur no man, and our Deely she
always irur a contrary', headstrong little puss, she auras
you knows, missy, and so, and so. ."

And here Jane cast down her eyes and began toying
with the strings of her apron.

And so thc} are not married yet, after all ? ' said
Sophy, rather severely. She had glanced round suddenly
in the direction of the old cradle, attracted by a strange

sound, and lead beheld, sitting up in it, and watching-them
with large beady black eyes, a weird, coffee-coloured
baby, with dark hair and a wide mouth, who
began crowing and laughing hoarsely, as though its own
appearance upon the scene had been nothing more or
less than a capital joke. The fact spoke for itself, but
the circumstance wao not so entirely without precedent
as to excite Sophj's surprise.

Well, I hope they will be married as soon as all
these religious differences can be settled,' she contented
herself with sajng. * The baby seems very flourishing
how old is he ? '

*Yes, he do thrive, he do!' exclaimed Jane, with
the fatuity of a grandmother, glad to divert the conversation
from the erring parents of the mongrel. ' Hebe
risen' a five month ole, he be, artful creature ! An'
he do laugh an' crow, he do, little termagant ! An' his
par he do ness an' hold to un', he do, sure/// / ' And she
commenced clucking and making odd faces at the outlandish
baby, of whom it was evident that she was
extravagantly fond.

Well, I do hope they'll soon make it all right,'
Sophy felt called upon to repeat, without showing ensigns
of softening towards the strange creature.

Oh, dey'U goo to church, right enough, one o' desc
fine days, dey will ! ' answered Mrs. Ford, carelessly.
Trust un fur that, missy, one o' these 'ere fine days ! '

fany persons, beholding Sophy's zeal for the welfare
of her peasantry, mistook her philosophical benevolence
for the promptings of a newly awakened spirit of orthodoxy
 a very natural reaction consequent upon her
pagan training.

'How contrary things do goo, sure////' old mrs.
Weller had remarked, up at Great Stillingfleet. ' Hero
wur pore Muster Frank young missy's own par.

01'

as went fur to fly out in d' fcacc of lira Almighty, and
wouldn't not hold to his gospel-truth, and was ne'er a-
buried in churchyard sile, an' here be missy, for all her
poor rearing', jest like any other decent-living Christian,
a-nussin' of his, and approaching to us, as fine as
parson, and a-readin' his gospel-truth moist foornoons
as she behind a-ridin' a horseback, to our Moises, as is
took paralytic, like my olc gentleman, and as behind
not envied a good day's health since he wur bit in de
arm of un by a deaf order ! '

Sophy was, indeed, in the habit of reading occasionally'
to Moses AVeller from the Scriptures. The young
man had become a hopeless invalid, and had been for
several months confined to the chimney-corner. Reading
to Moses Weller was, in fact, the good work Which
fell just then immediately under her hand, and
(looked at merely from a philosophical point of view,
independently of all theological bias), she admitted that
no book was so well suited to the requirements of the
poor as the Sacred Volume, of which her father used to
speak as 'a fine old Jewish record.'

To read, as yet, to her peasantry from an} work
containing the outcome of modern thought, would, she
realised, have merely puzzled and bewildered their
clouded intelligences. With the histories in the Bible,
however, they seemed all of them to be partially acquainted,
and, like children, they preferred hearing
repeated to them the stories they already knew by
heart, to comprehend the meaning of which required
much less mental effort than the assimilation of new
ideas. Moses Weller, had he been interrogated, could
not have stated at what precise period of his uneventful
life he had ' must heard tell ' of Adam and Eve and the
apple, Cain and his brother Abel, Moses iu the bulrushes,

Joseph and his brethren, David and the giant,
Jonah in the belly of the whale, Daniel in the lions'
den, or Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-ncgo, and ' Nebuchadnezzar
the king ; ' all he knew was that the names
and histories of these personages seemed, somehow,
to have been always more or less familiar to him, as
were those of the Prodigal Son, the Unjust Steward,
Judas Iscariot, and Pontius Pilate, in the New Testament.
He had seen them represented, too, in the rough woodcuts
of Family Bibles, and upon the sides of the ancient
carved-oak linen-presses, which were to be met with in
some of the cottages, so that they had become quite like
old friends.

In her reading, Sophy always selected passages
which contained either interesting narrative matter or instructive
precept, being careful to avoid anything bearing
upon form and dogma. She omitted, too, all episodes
descriptive of blood-shedding and spoliation, as calculated
to familiarise the mind of Moses Weller with
notions of cruelty and vengeance. Salutary precept she
conveyed to him chiefly from the Gospels ; the books
of Samuel, Kings, and Chronicles, provided him with
exciting incident, whilst she endeavoured to imbue him
with a love of poetry from the pages of Proverbs and
the Psalms. She read to him also the lovely story of
Ruth  in itself a poem  and told him again how
David slew the giant with his sling, how Moses, his
namesake, was nurtured by Pharaoh's daughter, and
how the Preacher saith that 'all is vanity

That she might be confirmed and strengthened in
the true faith was her constant and heartfelt prayer
to the great, unknown, and invisible God, but as she
prayed she made invariably a mental reservation. She
did not desire to be either confirmed or strengthened in

VOL. III. ]i

what might merely seem to be the true faith to her
neighbour, however much this might contribute to the
general satisfaction of the community.

It will thus be seen that, notwithstanding her
devotion to good works, Sophy's spiritual opinions had
not undergone any very material change since the days
when, catching up, parrot-like, the words which had
fallen from her father's lips, she had described herself
to Godfrey as ' an early Christian who did not exactly
believe in Christianity.'

There were other words, too, which she foimd herself
continually repeating and musing over in her solitude
 the last words of the blind philosopher, spoken
just before his lips were sealed to everlasting silence.
This is a great truth,' he had murmured, ' the Zenda-
vesta declares it. . . . Ormazd and Ahriman . . . the
perpetual battle . . . and afterwards . . . Rest, surely
Rest . . . perhaps Light . . .' And it seemed to Sophy,
at times, that this was a great truth indeed.

Great pressure was being brought to bear upon herat
about this time, with a view that she and Sir Thomas
Hickathrift should marry, and ' be happy ever afterwards,'
like the good prince and princess in a fairy tale.
Sometimes this pressure seemed to become positively
atmospheric, emanating, as it were, from each of
the four points of the compass, until it appeared as
though it would be madness on her part to attempt
to resist it.

Tom Hickathrift was, indeed, the only living
creature (capable of sympathy and affection, and endowed
with a certain intelligence) connected in anyway
with her dead past. The very sight of his tall
form called up a thousand memories. He was the
connecting link between the past and the present, and

circumstances had lately combined to make her occupy,
in his life, a similar position.

Lady Hickathrift's bronchitis had assumed a fatal
form in the middle of the London season, and only a
few days after Sir Thomas had conveyed Sophy home
from Lady Roehampton*s ball, he had been summoned
to a house of mourning and lamentation. She had
died with one desire in her heart, that her son Thomas
should marry speedily, and that Sophy St. Clair, his
old friend and neighbour, should be the object of his
choice. Lady Hickathrift had been essentially kindhearted,
and by no means more worldly-minded than
most people ; she had taken a natural interest in Sophy,
by reason of her beauty and amiability, and in consequence
of her son's marked preference for her ; still, it
would be absurd to deny that the reported death of
Mr. Godfrey St. Clair, of Dallingridge,' had had
something to do with this last reiteration of her wishes.
If Godfrey was indeed dead, Sophy was not only one of
the richest heiresses in the county, but in all England
to boot, and Lady Hickathrift' s devotion to her only
son prevented her from being quite blind to this consideration.
Since her death, Tom, who during her lifetime
had been a devoted son, had canonized her in his
faithful heart, and her last wishes were to him as a
sacred and imperative command, which he felt might
even have caused him to sacrifice his own inclinations,
had there been any need for so doing. He was too
much in love to be influenced by any ideas of territorial
annexations, but these had all been carefully
represented to him by his well-wishers, and thus it
was that every circumstance seemed, as it were, to be
tending only towards one end. It was as though the
two yoimg people had suddenly been dashed upon a
desert island, and that the waves, in receding, had

borne away all their former comrades. To whom
were they to cling for support, in their present desolation,
if not to one another ?

Sophy perceived all this as plainly as Tom did.
She even thought it possible that, at some future da",
she and her faithful neighbour and friend might go
through the form of marriage ; if he would be contented
with a * hollow shell ' instead of a living woman
with a living heart, and if her lost lover did not rise up
from the dead to call that heart back again to life.

She felt too sad and weary, now, to struggle against
what appeared like destiny, whilst a knowledge of her
own weakness and of life's capricious mutability, prevented
her from endeavouring to fortify herself by
rashly uttered vows, which, by the workings of fate,
might be rendered null and void in the future. Besides
which, it would fit in with her plan of universal
benevolence to marry poor Tom ; it would be a true
example of the philosophic maxim, * The greatest happiness
to the greatest number.' Only one person, indeed,
was not in favour of it, and this person was herself 
but self, according to her newly-acquired ideas, ought
to be immolated, and this alone, might perhaps insure
a blessing, or at any rate the melancholy satisfaction
which she had heard was to be derived from some
manner of penance ; a feeling akin almost to that
experienced by the wearers of hair shirts.

It has been maintained by some writers that no man
should come to the woman he loves as a suppliant, but
rather as a victor, on the way to fresh conquests, seated,
crowned, and sceptred, upon his triumphal car, its
wheels rod with the blood of immolated victims. Yet
it is only to some women that he should come thus. To
Sophy, in whom * the quality of mercy ' was * not

strained the exulting and self-confident suitor would
almost certainly have pleaded in vain, whilst in poor
Tom's reproachful melancholy there was something preeminently
touching. It would be some consolation to
her, in her present wretchedness, if she could summon
a smile to that sad face! "Would that she could do so
at the cost of fewer heart-burnings!

Chapter XVIII.

One afternoon, when Sophy had been turning over all
this in her mind, Sir Thomas loomed suddenly upon
her in the narrow pathway leading through the adjacent
alder wood, not far from the historicalblack gate.
She was on her way to minister to the requirements of
some member of the Stubberfield family, and carried on
her arm a large basket, more useful than ornamental.
Sir Thomas, on account of the recent death of his
mother, was in deep mourning, and his figure stood out
in bold relief against the surrounding branches. To a
tender and sympathetic nature there is always something
pathetic and affecting in seeing a faithful and
devoted friend clad in the sombre garments of woe, and
upon coming now upon her old admirer Sophy realised
that she was thus affected.

Which way are you going ? ' he asked, after he
had taken her hand. * May I walk with you ? And
please let me carry that great basket ; it's much too
heavy for you.'

Sophy handed him the basket without protest or
resistance, and they walked on together up the narrow
pathway. The sensation that they were both of them

clinging together alone, upon some desolate Crusoe
island in mid-ocean, had taken to-day a firmer hold of
her imagination than usual. By-and-by they came to
the black gate. Here Tom stopped, as she had felt
certain that he would, and leaning his back against it,
gazed sadly down the pathway by which they had ascended.
The idea of the desert island  of the road of
life which they had, as it were, trodden together, until
their other companions had one by one fainted upon
the journey, occurred to him, as it had occurred to
Sophy, though he felt unequal just then to clothing the
metaphor in appropriate language. She guessed, however,
what thoughts were in his mind, and made no
effort to dispel them.

This afternoon reminds me,' he said at last, * of
that day, more than a year ago, when we stood together
by this gate ; when you gave me a kind of half-promise,
and when I put that ring on your finger. Don't you
remember ? '

*Ah, Tom ! how can I ever forget ? ' she answered,
m a broken voice, as she, too, looked down the dewy
pathway upon which two pairs of footprints alone were
visible.

The young man was encouraged by her words.
She seemed to be in one of her tenderest and softest
moods, and he felt that he might hope for more chance
of success now than when she was stronger.

There was, indeed, a marked resemblance between
this day and that other day, seeming now so long ago,
upon which he had first asked her to become his wife.
sow, as then, the gray sea-fog had crept inland, and
the reddening leaves of the surrounding alders were
frosted over with rime. Tom could not put into words
the thousand emotions that crowded upon him when he

thought of the changes which had come to pass since
that day.

Ah, Sophy ! ' he said, as he gazed down passionately
into her face, ' don't keep me waiting all my life!
Give me a whole promise now ! DOy for God's sake ! '

Sophy was overcome by emotion, and, for the moment,
felt unable to reply.

Encouraged by her silence, he continued, 

I think, dear Sophy, though I feel beneath you in
every way, that, because of my great love for you, I
could make you happy.'

Oh, no, you couldn't ! ' she exclaimed, tearfully.
Nobody could ! You'd try to, I know, but you
wouldn't be able to : it isn't possible now, and the
kinder you were the more unhappy I should become !
I've heard of people being " killed by kindness," and I
know now what it means. In the end  you would see
I should die !'

My darling, you could ! I shouldn't let you! I
should take such care of you ! '

Oh, yes, I should! You couldn't help it! I should
pine away and shrivel up  I feel it  and the taking
care of me would only make it worse ! It woidd prevent
me from feeling free, as I do now, notwithstanding
my loneliness. However, it's not that I should
mind dying. . . .'

I wonder what it can be,' said Tom, thoughtfully,
* that makes you wish not to be married, when
most other girls arc always so anxious ? You are
thinking of him, I suppose,' he added, after a little
pause ; * and perhaps that's quite natural. However,
you know, dear, that he is dead. When he was alive,
and after I saw that you cared for him, I tried never
to bother you.'

Ah, Tom, I don't want to say anything unkind, but
you have been *' bothering " me, as you call it, nearly
all my life ! Of course it was good and Ind of you
to pick me out, and, as you say, there are a great many
girls who would be anxious . . . /

Oh, Sophy, you know I didn't mean that ! You're
a thousand times too good for me ! I meant that you.
were so different from all other girls, and that you
never seem to want to go anywhere, but only to live on
here quietly with your own thoughts, without caring
for balls, or dress, or vanities ; and I dare say,' he
added, gaining possession of her hand, which she
yielded him without resistance, 'this is one of the
reasons why I have been, as you say, in love "with you
nearly all my life, even before I danced with you at my
poor mother's ball  years ago, in fact.'

Ah, don't talk about it ! ' exclaimed Sophy, harrowed
by the memory. ' It makes me cry ! ' And leaning her
head upon the top bar of the gate, she covered her face
with her hands.

I can't put into words what I feel,' she said in a
little while, looking up at him with wet eyes. * You
fancy I don't value your kindness, but I do, much more
than I can say. But the past rises up and looks me in
the face, and seems to tell me that I can never be happy
again. All the people I care for are dead. Sometimes
I fancy that I am only half alive myself. I seem to
pass all my days walking about with ghosts, and talking
to them.'

And it's this that's so bad for'you,' put in Tom; *no
one can say that it's a natural kind of life for a pretty
girl like you.'

(* She's losing her looks,' he thought to himself, ashe
gazed down tenderly at her, and saw how pale and

wan she had become. * Her great beauty is gone, but
for me her face is still the loveliest in the world ! ')

Nothing seems to be right she went on, by-and-by,
looking up again from the black gate. 'Everything
seems twisted and distorted, and turned upside down. I
wonder whether there is really any other place where
all this will be set right ?'

I hope so, dear,* said Tom, who had always possessed
a reverent and venerating mind.

They remained for some time longer without speaking.
It was so still that not a twig stirred, and that
when a bird flew by they could hear the gentle fluttering
of its wines. The heads of the ' Serene
Highness ' and his companions in adversity still
clung to the gate-posts, reduced now to mere
crumbling shreds of mortality, and only recognisable,
one from the other, by Sophy herself. Hallowed as
they were by a thousand memories, these ghastly objects
seemed eminently pathetic.

Look,' said Sir Thomas, at last, pointing towards
the pathway ; ' you see that road by which we have
both reached this gate. It seems to me just like the
road of our lives. No one treads it now except us two.
You see our footmarks quite plainly, side by side ; if
nobody else passes over them to-day to rub them out, I
shall take it is a good sign  as a sign that you and I
were meant to make our lives together in the future.'

Ah, Tom!' cried Sophy, looking frightened, * don't
make any rash vows, or pretend to go by portents !
Such a sign wouldn't be fair in a lonely place like this.
Hardly any one passes here, as you know, except the
Stubberfields, and when Tom comes home to tea he will
come the other way, from Poynings.'

Never mind, I shall keep to my sign,' said he,

smiling down upon her sadly. * And now Sophy, tell me,
for pity's sake, that you will make me a real promise 
give me at any rate some kind of hope  tell me to wait
if you like. Shall I wait for a year ?'

I cannot believe,' she answered, * that Godfrey is
really dead. The hope that perhaps he lives, after allis
the only thing that seems to keep my heart from
breaking. Surely you wouldn't care to marry a woman
so sad as I should be ? Think how dull it would be for
you at the Abbey I '

It's dull enough for me there now,' Tom replied,
gloomily ; ' but with you it would seem very different.
I shouldn't expect you to like me all at once, as you
liked Jwn, but I think in time I might end by making
you care for me a little. Why should his mother give
out that he was dead if he's alive ? Where has he been
hiding all this time? and what can have been his object
for keeping away and frightening everybody ?'

*I fancy,' said Sophy, 'that he may have had some
good reason, and that they (my aunt and Mr. Pettigrew)
might have their own motives, too, for making him
out dead, at least for some time. There were things
of which you knew nothing, and if he came back
now there woidd have to be explanations and revelations
which neither my aunt nor her husband would
much like. I think she knew we were fond of each
other, and she fancies he may come back unless I'm
married off to somebody else. That's why she's so
anxious that I should marry you  apart from its being,
of course, so good a marriage  and that was why, I
think, she let me stay in London "w with the NetherclifPes,
hoping I might meet some one there. As you know,
Mr. Pettigrew has exchanged his living at Dallingridge
with a London clergyman, so they will not live there 

that looks as if they wanted to be out of the way of the
explanations when Godfrey comes back. This is what
I have made out in my own mind, and it gives me a
ray of hope.'

And why doesn't Godfrey come back ? '

Changes have happened to him, and misfortunes,
and he started off to try and set things right  unexpected
things  which came upon him suddenly. He
hoped for the best, but everything looked very black
when he left England. If he sees no hope of brighter
days for himself, he is so honourable and unselfish that
he wouldn't like to come back and do me harm, as he
would fancy. He would think it right, at any rate, tolet
some time pass first, so that I might have a chance
of forgetting him, and of marrying you, if I liked.
This is why I don't wish to do anything in a hurry,
dear Tom, because I still have this hope.' She said
this very earnestly, and, as she concluded, looked up appealingly
in his face.

I will do anything you like,' answered Tom Hicks
resignedly ; ' but if Godfrey doesn't come back ina,
year . . . ?'

I should still hope that he was living. A year is
a very little while to a person travelling abroad.'

Well, supposing we say two ? Will you marry mein
two years ?'

Do you mean to say, Tom, that you would wait forme
two years ? '

TcHy if you liked ! ' answered the young man, passionately,
* if I could really be sure, afterwards, that we
should make our lives together. Shall we say two
years?'

In two years, then, if you like, and if Godfrey does
not come back.' She spoke wearily, and with a sense

of the uselessness of warring against * Kismet Perhaps,
if she had ever read the then unwritten poem of
Enoch Artois she might have quoted to her importunate
wooer the words of Annie, when the well-to-do
miller was pressing her to marry him, 

Can one love twice 1 Can you be ever loved
As Enoch was 1 "What is it that you ask 1 '

Whilst Tom could have replied to her, sincerely, in the
words of Philip, 

I am content,' he answer'd, * to be loved
A little after Enoch.'

In two years, then,' said Tom. * Heaven forbid
that I should wish any man dead ! If, however, he is
(as we all think here, except you) dead already, I can
say with a clear conscience, '' God grant that you maybe
my wife ! " '

As he said this, he bent down and kissed Sophy
upon the forehead. Feeling still like a floating straw
upon the river of destiny, she did not resist.

 What was that noise?' she asked, suddenly, with
startled eyes.

Oh, it's only the beagles,' answered Tom, looking
over the gate in the direction whence the sound proceeded.
* It's Tom Stubberfield calling them off your
woods. I told them they might have a run with them
to-day, and keep what they got.'

The halloos continued, and, in a few moments, the
wood beyond the black gate was full of men and dogs.
Most of them were rustics in smock-frocks, but Sophy
caught sight of the darker garments of Andrew Locke, the
new doctor, the lawyer's clerk, and Mr. Green of the
George.' The little brindled beagles, with their noses

to the ground, and their quivering white tails, lent a
cheerful aspect to the autumn woodland.

Oh, they'll all see us ! ' whispered Sophy, blushing,

standing here together, leaning on this gate, just like
sweethearts ! '

I don't care if they do,' replied Tom. * Why should
I seem ashamed of what I'm so proud of ? '

Let them come through, then,' said Sophy, opening
the gate.  What's the use of talking about my woods
now ? Some day we'll have this horrid gate taken
away ! '

Never ! * exclaimed Sir Thomas, as he helped her to
push it open. * It shall stand on here always, to mark
the place where you have made me happy ! I shall
remember to-day always  the last day of September.'

As he spoke, some dozen of the men and boys came
running through the gate, touching their hats, as
they passed, to Sir Thomas and the young lady. Many
of them, however, preferred to scramble through the
thick underwood. Andrew Locke, upon beholding the
young couple, fell back, as though ashamed of being
seen taking part in so childish an amusement. His
shrewd face relaxed into a smile of satisfaction as he
seemed to behold the fulfilment of his favourite project.

You see,' said Sophy, after they had all passed by,

that they've quite rubbed out our footmarks ! '

*Ah, was that why you wanted them to come
through?'

No, indeed  I couldn't have been so unkind ! I
didn't think of it ; it was " Kismet." '

I shall hopCy all the same,' said the young man,
cheerfully. Now that he seemed so happy and triumphant,
a great part of Sophy's tender sympathy melted
away.

I wish,' she said, suddenly, * that you would marry
Isabella instead of me. She's coming to stay here on
Monday.'

Thank you ! * he answered, smiling  he was becoming
positively playful. ' With all due respect and
admiration for Miss Nethercliffe, I hope I'm not quite
a weathercock ! '

Good-bye !  give me the basket  I think I would
rather walk on by myself ! '

She felt angry with him now  angry, indeed, with
every thing and every body  with herself, the day, the
portentous black gate, and with the innocent people
following the beagles. Tom's unfortunate mention of
the word * weathercock ' had not improved matters.
"Was she not behaving very like a weathercock herself ?

Tortured by a thousand conflicting emotions, she
walked off with her basket in the direction of the
Stubberfields' cottage.

Sir Thomas turned down the pathway by which
they had ascended. It was impossible for him to help
feeling intensely hopeful. Almost unconsciously, a
kind of psalm of thanksgiving rose from his heart, and
then a prayer  that things might be ordered as he
desired.

Although, as he had said, he did not wish any other
man dead (least of all, inter ordinary circumstances,
his old neighbour and schoolfellow), it was very difficult,
as matters now stood, to prevent his desires from
assuming, in spite of himself, a somewhat homicidal
form, since the return of Godfrey, safe and sound,
before the expiration of the two years, must inevitably
dash to the ground his fondest hopes.

He saved his conscience, however, by putting his
prayer into a vague and impersonal shape. ' God

grant he prayed, fervently, 'that it may all come
right in the end!' And, as he lifted up his heart in
anticipator' gratitude to Providence, he felt happier
than he had been for many a long day.

I think I will have a run home with the beagles,'
he said to himself, quickening his pace so as to come
up with them. It was but a natural reaction after
the earnest prayers fulness of the last half-hour ; besides
which, as Sophy's father had once remarked, ' Ferreting
and religion' (and probably 'beating' also),
are very apt to coexist in the same individual.'

Chapter XIX.

It was true, as Sophy had informed Sir Thomas, that
on the following Monday she was expecting a visit
from her friend, Isabella Nethercliffe, to which she
was looking forward with pleasure, xot that she objected
to her loneliness, far from it ; there were bus
few persons whose society, at this sad period of her
life, would not have wearied and embarrassed her, but
Isabella was one of these persons. From a contact
with the calm self-reliance of her friend, she had
always experienced a sensation of support, and she
was glad, also, in some humble measure, to repay the
kindness and hospitality which had been shown to her
in London, by acceding eagerly to Miss NetherclifFe's
proposal to honour Little Stillingfleet with her company
for about a fortnight.

There had been sundry important ' wheels within
wheels ' relating to, and even accelerating, Sophy's
departure from London, about which Isabella, with all
her cleverness, had known absolutely nothing. With

her beautiful eyes fixed continually upon the most
exalted aims and ambitions, she was liable, at times,
to observe but little of what lay in her immediate
path ; whilst her open and courageous nature, unless
aroused b} any very exceptional circumstance, was
thoroughly opposed to the nourishing of those vague
suspicions, which seem to be indigenous in most inferior
female minds. Hence it was that poor Isabella,
during the last week of Sophy's sojourn in London,
had been literally existing, unconsciously, upon the
very brink of a volcano. These were the facts of the
case ; happy Isabella to have been so dutifully blind !

Upon the morning which followed after Lady Roe-hampton's
ball. Lord Nethercliffe had expressed himself
with some warmth upon the subject of Sophy's
indiscreet behaviour. The statesman and his daughter
were seated together at the breakfast-table, the culprit
not having yet made her appearance, and the vehemence
of his lordship's manner, as he repeatedly smote the
bosom of his nankeen waistcoat, would have recalled to
any one, save so devoted a child, that of an indignant
turkey-cock in the act of what is termed ' gobbling.'
Poor Isabella was doing her very best to pacify him, by
reminding him that her friend, besides being young
and inexperienced, had been brought up in such an
exceptional manner that one could hardly judge her
actions by the ordinary standard.

Indeed, dearest papa,' she concluded by saying,
*I'm convinced that she really and truly meant no
harm. Had / acted in the same way, after the care
you have bestowed upon me, it would have been quite
a different matter. I fancy she must simply have felt
sleepy, and ordered a hackney-coach, thinking it was
the right thing to do, when of course her partner would

have offered to escort her home. Something of this
sort occurred, I feel sure ; but I trust you will see her
yourself about it, and hear her owt explanation.'

After some apparent hesitation, his lordship consented
to do this, and early in the course of the afternoon
Sophy was sent for to the sanctum. Here she found
Lord Ncthcrclilfe in quite a judicial attitude, seated at
his writing-table in the most important of the armchairs.
He was, as usual, carefully and elegantly
attired, and his gold eye-glass was already adjusted.
Pale and trembling, poor Sophy advanced towards him.
At first she was too much overcome to speak, and could
only cling for support to the edge of the escritoire. By-and-by,
however, she found words.

She had no desire, she declared, to behave imprudently.
At the ball she had heard bad news  the
death of a relation  and she had begged her partner,
a very, very old friend, to take her home at once, as it
was too soon for the carriage to be at the door.

Upon hearing this explanation, his lordship seemed
to thaw at once to a softer mood. In a word, he became
mentally and morally relaxed.

He, too, he said, had a confession to make. The
strong man, the statesman, the peer of the realm, appeared
troubled and confused ; and then it was that a
strange and wonderful thing came to pass, such as
Sophy could never have foreseen in her most extravagant
dreams. The confession to which his lordship
alluded was made, suddenly, unexpectedly, without, as
it seemed to her, a word of previous warning. At first
she was almost too astonished to understand. By-and-by
she realised that he must be making her a proposal
of marriage. He could have meant nothing else, as,
kneeling at her feet, and clinging, like a suppliant, to

VOL. III. s

her gamicnta, he likened himself, in his emotion, to the
gnarled oliii-trcc which her compassion was to preserve
from destruction, and implored her to have compassion
upon himself also  * an old man pleading for mercy

Sophy was terribly distressed and embarrassed.
IIow dreadfully tiresome it is,' thought the poor child,
innocently, ' that all these people will insist upon wanting
to marry one, whether one likes it or not, making
one feel cruel and hard because one can't care for them
and say '' Yes ! " What misery I seem to bring with
me wherever I go ! '

His lordship, however, had prudently said nothing
which could have been construed by any one, save a
mere novice, into an actual proposal of marriage. No
doubt this would have followed in due time. As it
was, he offered her his heart, reserving that of his hand
for some future occasion, and addressed her in the exaggerated
language habitually employed by despairing
suitors when their affections ore deeply engaged. He
called her a ' darling,' a ' houri,' a ' peri,' an ' angel,'
and, finally, returning to his old web-footed simile, a
'duck.' All the while he appeared to be intensely
miserable. Lord Nethercliffe, in common with some
few of his sex, was possessed of a gift which he had
always found invaluable when brought to bear upon
tender-hearted females. He was a ready weeper, and
could produce at will the facile and ever-effective tear,
whilst seeming, at the same time, to be dissimulating
it. The tear which rises at the narration of a noble
deed ; the earnest, parental tear, accentuating a moral
axiom ; the sympathetic tear, rained upon the white
hand of some confiding lady friend ; the reluctant tear
of the strong man, wrung from him by his agony ; all
of these he could summon without any perceptible

effort, and lie had learnt to know and appreciate their
value. It was to the last-named category that the tears
belonged which he was summoning now, and they had
the effect of making Sophy feel profoundly uncomfortable.


The situation was unexpected, unsought, unendurable.
She felt that she could command no manner
of reply which would not wound and humiliate ; and
she was in terror, too, lest, by some untoward chance,
Isabella should enter the sanctum and behold her
parent's self-abasement. A blind fear took possession
of her, and disengaging her dress from the grasp of
the lordly suppliant, she hastened, sobbing and palpitating,
from the apartment. Before she had quitted it,
however. Lord Nethercliffe thrust into her hand a small
paper parcel with a red seal, which in her confusion
she retained.

Just outside the door she * cannoned ' against one
of the tall footmen. He was about to usher irfto
the sanctum a deputation from the Society for the
Protection of Women and Children, and she positively
shuddered as she reflected how narrowly Lord
Nethercliffe had escaped being surprised by these
people in the humiliating position he had chosen to
assume.

Once inside her bedroom she locked the door, and
began to consider what would be the wisest plan of
action. It did not take her long to decide. To have
remained in London after this dcnoumoit would, she
felt, have been utterly impossible. Like most women,
she was capable of concealing her feelings, if such
concealment was absolutely necessary for what Lord
Nethercliffe might have termed ' the public good ; '
but deception was distasteful to her, and she feared

that, after acting a part for several days, the desire
to throw off the mask inio-ht become almost irresistible.
And yet, it would be kinder to conceal all this from
Isabella. Instinctively, she realised that the knowledge
of her father's infatuation could only be painful
to her. She realised also, that, notwithstanding
Isabella's affection for herself, she would not, probably,
have tolerated her in the position of a stepmother,
and that yet (so strangely is human nature
constituted) she might not have been altogether pleased
with her for seeming to treat with contempt the chance
of enjoying what would appear to her as so great
an honour. Under the circumstances, ffig/tt seemed
to be the only alternative, and she had now but too
plausible an excuse for hastening her departure.

Since the terrible news delivered to her at Lady
Southampton's ball, London was to her a city of the
dead. Stunned in spirit and widowed in heart, the
ostensible object of her visit had ceased to exist. It
would have been too terrible, in her present frame of
mind, to mingle in any of the gaieties and dissipations
which were going on around her; yet wherefore
should she sadden with her society those whose
existences had not been blighted like her own ? To
play the part of ' Spectre at the Feast ' would have
been but a poor return to Isabella for her kindness !
No ! she would leave London ; she would write to her
aunt and tell her simply that she was about to return
to Little Stillingflcet, and start off before she had
time to receive her answer. In this, at any rate,
she might act for herself. After all, she was no
longer a child !

As she was collecting her belongings upon the
morning of her departure, her eye lighted upon the

small paper parcel with the red seal, which she had
placed abstractedly upon the dressing-table. She
unfolded it languidly, without impatience, and discovered
an oval-shaped medallion locket, composed
of carbuncles and seed pearls. It contained a compartment
destined for hair, and was of imposing-appearance,
though of but small intrinsic value.
Before leaving the house Sophy returned this jewel
to its original envelope, and addressed it to Lord
Nethercliffe with a note, in which she protested,
ingenuously, that she had done nothing whatever to
deserve so valuable a gift, and that she could not,
therefore, dream of accepting it.

Chapter XX.

Sophy's aunt, Mrs. Pettigrew, had behaved in rather
a mysterious manner with regard to the reported death
of her supposed son ; and it was when reflecting upon
this, after the first shock of horror had allowed her
to reflect at all, that Sophy found herself indulging
in a hope that perhaps Godfrey might not be really
dead, and this hope, as she had assured her faithful
friend and guardian, was the only thing that kept her
heart from breaking.

Mr. and Mrs. Pettigrew, very soon after their
marriage, had made up their minds to go abroad.
The fact that they had kept their matrimonial projects
so profoundly secret, had not been deemed
complimentary by their country neighbours. Theirs
implied  it was agreed  a decided . want of
confidence, which seemed likely to be returned to

thorn With interest. At their first home-coming they
had received but a lukewarm welcome ; the visiting-cards
which had been deposited at their door would
not have filled the most diminutive cheese-plate, and
the number of personal visits had been fewer stilL
In these circumstances Mr. Pettigrew suddenly developed
an aggravation of the dry, hacking cough,
which had served him faithfully, upon occasions, for
years ; whilst his wife professed to be more than ever
disturbed at the unaccountable disappearance of her
son, and at the sinister rumours which were being circulated
by all manner of mysterious side-winds. Just
as they appeared to be somewhat undecided as to their
future projects, Sophy had received an invitation to
pass some time in London. A friend was discovered
who would take Mr. Pettigrew's duty for three months,
and the newly-married couple, relieved, for the
moment, of these two anxieties, flitted away to the
Continent without entering into too many useless
explanations as to their destination.

In order, however, that she might not be reproached
for neglecting her duties, by leaving so
young a creature as Sophy without some kind of
mature feminine mrvpiUancc, Mrs. Pettigrew had
arranged that, in the event of her leaving the I*ether-
cliffs before her own return from abroad, Miss Hornblower
 the old Rector's forlorn daughter  should
repair upon a visit to Little Stillingfleet, where she
was to remain in the capacity of duenna, receiving
for her services a trifling consideration. This arrangement
would, Mrs. Pettigrew foresaw, achieve a twofold
purpose. Mary Anne Hornblower would be
finally dislodged from Dallingridge Rectory, to which
she seemed to be clinging with the tenacity of the

limpet, whilst the public sense of the * fitness of
things ' would also be satisfied, and all suspicions of
neglect strangled at the birth.

It may be that this woman, who had for so many
years played the part of a mother, experienced indeed
an honest desire to find out what had become of the
young man who had passed as her son, if not from
any tardily-awakened affection, at least from a wish
to make herself acquainted with his future plans, in
order that she might be forewarned and forearmed in
the event of any public scandal. If the family secret
was ever to be revealed by Godfrey, it would be better
for her to take the bull by the horns, and pave the
way for it by some plausible story. He could not wish
to injure one who had, after all, acted towards him
only as a benefactor. It would be as well, perhaps,
now that the first surprise of Pettigrew's revelation
had had time to subside, to talk over the matter with
him dispassionately, if she could discover his whereabouts,
and they could then settle between them what
particular form this plausible story should take, for it
would be best to be agreed upon this point.

Surely, too, Godfrey himself had something to
conceal ! He could not desire that his real origin
should be made known to his former neighbours.
Perhaps, if Sophy were to be comfortably married off
to somebody else, he would either be induced to remain
altogether abroad, or he might even come back again
and behave as if nothing had happened, which would
be much more satisfactory for all parties, for, now that
she had cut herself out of the occupation of Callings
House by her second marriage, she felt that he
might just as well inhabit it as another. It was
foolish and ungrateful of him, she thought, to attach

so much importance to what could not now bo altered,
and, just when everything seemed to have turned out
so propitiously, to make, as it were, this * storm in a
teacup.'

As for giving up to Sophy what he had been led to
suppose was his own birthright, this was no doubt ii
highly chivalrous idea, quite worthy of a knight-errant
of the Middle Ages ; but perhaps, if he could know that
the lady of his heart had not only forgotten all about
him, but was in the enjoyment of both wealth and prosperity
 married, for instance, to one of the richest menin
the county  his sense of justice with regard to the
division of property would prevent him from still further
augmenting her rent-roll, and thus 'carrying,' so to
speak, ' coals to Newcastle.'

Mrs. Pettigrew was essentially practical, and she
could not conceive that anybody should ever be troubled
with unnecessary scruples. It even seemed strange to
her that, after the first surprise had subsided  (for, of
course, it was only natural that the whole thing should
have been a surprise)  Godfrey should not have felt
gratified at the contrast existing between his position
as it was, and that which he might have occupied but
for his providential adoption. She was totally unable
to realise the nature of his affection for what he had
looked upon as his home, and the toppling down of ten
thousand youthful dreams and fancies counted to her as
nothing.

He had a fine enough time of it, for all these years,
goodness knows I ' she remarked to her new husband.
No trouble or expense was spared for him, as we know
to our cost ! He turned out remarkably well, and I
really believe Erskine ended by being quite fond of
him, as illustrating his pet theory about crushing hereditary

vice by education : and then, too, lie was so
extraordinarily like that picture ! '

Mrs. Pettigrew had, all her life, been in favour of
what is now termed a 'peace-at-any-pricc' policy, particularly
with respect to the domestic circle, and by
reason of this system she had been enabled to  get on'
admirably with her first husband, a man unsuited to
her both in age, tastes, and disposition, and for whom
she had not the slightest affection. Scenes, explanations,
public scandals, she held in utter abomination,
and sympathising sincerely with the philosophy of
Tartuffe,

Le mal n'est jamais que dans Eclat qu'on fait,
Le scandale du monde est ce qui fait offense,
Et ce c'est pas pecher que pecher en silence 

it was not wonderful that she should desire nothing
better than to hush up what, far from being, in her
eyes, a peche appeared to be a highly benevolent
action.

It was this sentiment which induced her to hope
that Sophy would make haste and marry somebody,
and there were moments when she almost blessed the
memory of ' Francis St. Clair of Stillingfleet,' for having
arranged that she should be thrown so constantly in the
society of * the Prince with the Nose,' that it seemed
impossible for matters to end in anything else but a
marriage, unJcm Godfrc} happened to come home at the
wrong time and turn everything upside down !

Ah, Felix ! ' she ended by exclaiming, reproachfully,
* if only you hadn't let the cat out of the hag /'

In Italy, whither the newly-married couple had
repaired, Mrs. Pettigrew heard no news of her pretended
son. * Italy' is a wide world, and perhaps,

notwithstanding her protestations of anxiety, she did
not search for him very carefully. At Genoa, where
she and her husband had remained one day, she had
certainly made inquiries, but these had not resulted in
any discovery. Both she and Mr. Pettigrcw possessed
only a very limited knowledge of Italian, and they
could not, consequently question the class of persons
with whom Godfrey had made a point of associating*
during his stay there ; namely, persons of the peasant-class,
and some of the lesser Italian bourgeoisie, engaged
in commercial or artistic pursuits. He had avoided,
too, whenever it was possible, calling himself by his
former name, to which he considered that he had now
no right ; and hence it was, perhaps, that so superficial
a search brought forth no result.

On their homeward journey', however, they had
fallen in with a very agreeable stranger. He was an
Italian doctor, but one of his chief merits, in their eyes,
consisted in the fact that he spoke English like a
native. He was, in fact, on his way to England, and it
happened that for several days they had travelled in his
company This traveller was no other than the second
doctor who had been called in to pronounce upon Godfrey
at Pegli, and upon the name of St. Clair being
accidentally mentioned, he at once stated that he had
but lately visited a young man of that name who was
apparently in a dying condition, for it had not been
possible for Godfrey to assume a new name at a place
where he had been known in the days of his prosperity,
and he was still spoken of by his friend the landlord as
il Sifjnorc Inglcsc, il Signore St. Clair.*

Mr. and Mrs. Pettigrew had plenty of time, during
the homeward journey, to question this doctor. From
his description, it was impossible to doubt that the

unfortunate young Englishman, to whose death-bed ho
had been summoned, was indeed the Godfrey St. Clair
of the old days, and, for a moment or two, the pretended
mother was struck dumb with surprise at what seemed
to her like an interposition of Providence. Pettigrew,
indeed, in the secrecy of their chamber, did not hesitate
to express a belief that Heaven had assisted them in
their dilemma, and concluded by quoting, with much
unction, the final portion of the second commandment.

Joined to the fact that Godfrey had given no sign
of life for so long, this evidence did, indeed, seem almost
conclusive. It was, at any rate, sufficient to justify a
confident belief in his death, and in a letter which Mrs.
Pettigrew addressed to Lady Ilickathrift at about this
time, she did not hesitate to say that her worst fears
respecting her *poor boy' had been, unfortunately,
confirmed. Whether this statement was, or was not,
somewhat premature, she did not pause to consider.
Anything which cleared the way for Tom Hickathrif unsuccessful
wooing might be the means of preventing,
or, at any rate, of delaying, the disclosure of ' the
family secret ; ' if, indeed, it was not already buried in
Godfrey's early grave !

Nor were the inmates of Pojnings Abbey at all
unprepared for this news. The mysterious message
received by Dr. Dyer, some time before, had beeiL
particularly impressed upon the public mind, in consequence
of his tragical death ; and good Lady Ilicka-
thrift firmly believed, in her last moments, that Godfrey
St. Clair had passed before her into the unknown land.

Tom, too, believed, honestly, that his old schoolfellow,
neighbour, and rival, had ceased to exist, and
he accounted to himself for the absence of details in a
manner which he woidd have died rather than have

confided to Sophy. Both liiidy Ilickathrif t and himself
had been struck with the confused statements made by
the Pedigrees on their return to England, their repugnance
to enter into particulars, and the manner in which
they had both appeared to evade the subject of Godfrey's
decease.

 You may depend upon it, my dear boy,' Lady
Hickathrift had remarked, * that the unfortunate young
man has done something to disgrace his family. It is,
indeed, a painful, and very deplorable supposition, but
upon these subjects I am seldom, if ever, mistaken. I
feel convinced that he has either been stabbed in some
gambling dispute, or that he has committed suicide by
throwing himself out of window or into the sea, or been
killed by some French Count in a duel for running away
with his wife. I know it by his mother's distress of
manner. But the St. Clairs were always an eccentric
family.'

Without going quite so far as his mother, Tom certainly
believed that there had been some manner of
catastrophe in Italy, particularly since Sophy herself
had alluded to Godfrey's mysterious 'misfortunes.' Intime,
he fancied, the particulars would ooze out. It
was very natural that, just at first, Mrs. Pettigrew
should shrink from making public anything of so disagreeable
a nature. As for himself, all that remained
for him to do was to bide his time, hopefully and grates
idly, still praying that all ' might come right in the
end.'

mary Anne Hornblower, upon receiving Mrs. Pettish
letter, had repaired almost immediately to Little
Stillingflect, though she had emphatically declined to
accept any remuneration for ' pleasing herself,' as she
expressed it. From the first moment of their meeting

she had taken a deep interest in Sophy's welfare, and
she was only too glad to be of the slightest use to her.
Now, however, Mr. Pettigrew had effected an exchange
of his living with that of the clergyman who had
temporarily undertaken his duty, upon the pretext
that, as a suburban Rector, he woidd have what he
termed ' a larger sphere for pulpit usefulness,' and the
benevolent little old maid had departed for awhile from
Little Stillingfleet in order to pack up her belongings,
and finally clear out of the home of her youth. She
was to return about the same time as Isabella. This
was, perhaps, the moment at which Sophy herself
could the most easily have dispensed with her services,
but it was thought essential that Miss Nethercliffe,
upon her arrival, should find her young friend living
according to the strictest canons of propriety, and Mary
Anne Hornblower was the last person to fail at the
time when she was really required. The black Workings,
and the celebrated harp, for which a comfortable
home had been anxiously looked for ever since the
death of the old Rector, were to accompany her on her
return. Sophy had no doubt but that Isabella, who
knew everything, could play upon the harp, though she
did not remember to have seen one in Grosvenor Place;
but at any rate, whether or no, it would do no harm,
and might, on the contrary, have rather an imposing
effect standing up, tall and shrouded, in front of the
three men in armour, in the bay-window.

Sophy was very anxious that, upon the occasion of
Isabella's visit. Little Stillingfleet should look its
very best. It struck her now, that perhaps, when at
Miss Pendragon's, and when she had had no idea
that Isabella would ever behold it, she might have
somewhat exaggerated its beauties, as one is apt to

nr

cxaofgorate the good points of sono beloved friend who
has been years since either dead and buried, or settled
so long at the antipodes that one has no fear of his returning
with his honest plainness to give one's words
the lie.

From Sophy's descriptions, Isabella might possibly
anticipate a deer-park, with an ancestral avenue ;
or she might expect that a carriage-and-four, with
powdered lackeys, and a coachman in a curly wig,
would be sent to meet her at the station instead of the
rickety Po}Tiings fly. It is true that, ever since she
had knoATi of the impending honour, she had striven
as much as possible to tone down the glories of her first
descriptions, but still, as the expected day drew nearer,
she certainly felt very nervous about Isabella's first
impressions. She was nervous, too, about the first impressions
of Miss Simpkins, Isabella's maid ; what she
would say to having dinner in the kitchen instead of
the room '  whether, indeed, it would not be possible,
perhaps, to improvise a * room,' where Miss Simpkins
might feed in solitary grandeur ; how she would comport
herself to Abdallah ; and whether she was likely to
be very much scandalised at sight of * the mongrel ' (as
it was now commonly called), sitting up, crowing and
laughing, in the old wicker-work cradle.

All this was occupying and worrying her just now.
She wished, too, that Isabella could have chosen a more
sunshiny season for her arrival. To hrr, her old home
looked beautiful always; but then, she could revel in
the memories of the past. Isabella might not know
how bright the garden-beds had been all the summertime,
until these first chilly, damp days had scattered
the geranium petals and blackened the heliotrope. Today,
as she looked out at the prospect, everything

seemed particularly cheerless. It was bitterly cold and
raw. The gnats and bluebottle flies, which had survived
the warm weather, were so weak and tame that
one could stroke them with ease as they clung feebly to
the chilly window-pane, and pretended to buzz and
pirouette as in the old dajs. The road winding between
the young trees, fenced round by their wooden
cradles, looked like a huge silver serpent, glistening as
it was with moisture, and with quite deep water lying
in the cart-ruts. It was to be hoped, she thought, as
she gazed at it, that Isabella would come provided with
a pair of good, thick boots, and some really sensible
walking-dresses, and that she would not expect to see
much company !

From the road she glanced sadly in the direction of
her father's grave. What a delightful companion for
Isabella he would have been ! Upon how many political,
philosophical, and scientific subjects might he
not have conversed with * the girl who knew everything
! ' But the gentle philosopher was gone. Daisies
and meadow-grasses waved over his quiet resting-place
on the lawn, near to where * Alexander ' used to be
tethered in the old days ; and Little Stillingfleet had
lost one of its chief attractions.

By-and-by, as she continued to gaze from the
window, she perceived what seemed quite a large concourse
of people making their way down the glistening
serpentine road. Surely, she thought, her whole heart
sinking within her, Isabella could not have mistaken
the days and this could not possibly be the Poynings
fly ? How, if so, would she ever be able to make ui for
what must have appeared to be so chilly a welcome ?
But no, it was evidently not the Poynings fly, although
some manner of four-wheeled conveyance of unusual

divisions was making its way towards lier. Could it
be the lonpr-oxpcctcd harp, liailiiijj from All in bridge
Rectory, with its attendant pioneers and outriders?
Another moment, and she perceived that Tom Hicks
was one of these pioneers : he appeared, in fact,
to be directing the whole cavalcade. As they approached
the garden-gate, she guessed what new benefit
she was to receive at his hands.

This was dug up yesterday at the Abbey,' he said,
pointing with his whip to the contents of the four-horse
waggon. ' And I thought it might do. It's an
old pillar of some kind, broken off, as you wished, in
the middle. I thought you might like it put up
before Miss Nethercliffe came, so these men are hereto
do it.'

The waggon stopped opposite the grass-plot, and
Sophy went up to it to examine the pillar.

'It's got some writing on it,' said Tom, *but it's
in some language that nobody is clever enough to
understand.'

Ah,' cried Sophy with tears in her eyes, ' that's
just like what was in his mind ! Nobody could understand
quite what it meant ! This writing will do to
stand for a description of the Great Cause, and the
Tartar horde, and the war between the Surs and the
Assure ! I am so pleased to put it over his grave ! '

I dare say you could find some text in the Bible
which would do to add in under this writing,' said
Tom ; ' it would make it look more like a tomb : and
there are texts in the Bible that arc suited to nearly
everything.'

That very same evening, Sophy set to work to look
for an appropriate text, and her search was rewarded.
In the 132nd Psalm, and the fourteenth verse, it is

thus written  ' TLifi is my rest for ever : here will I
dwell, for I have desired it.' As Tom livid said, ' there
are texts in the Bible that are suited to nearly
everything ! '

She was, indeed, as much pleased with this broken
column as it was possible to be with anything so sad.
She was touched, too, at Tomes kindness in arranging:
that it should be placed over her father's grave before
Miss Nethercliffes arrival. Perhaps Isabella, with her
wonderful cleverness, might even be able to decipher
the mystic characters engraved upon its base ; the
writing which nobody else had been * clever enough to
understand ! '

Chapter XXI.

True to her promise, Isabella NetherclifPc arrived at
Little Stillingfleet on the following Monday. It was
evident, from her manner, that she came prepared t(J
admire and appreciate everything. She did not even
mind the rickety Poynings fly, whilst the flyman, with
whom she had entered into conversation, she pronounced
to have been ' perfectly charming.' Just at this period
she was interesting herself in the old English dialects,
and she discovered that the flyman spoke a really
purer English than that of the ' gilded London coxcombs.'
She had written down, in her journal, several
words which were incontestably Saxon, whilst others,
again, she perceived to be of Danish or Norman origin.
I he a-going,' she felt certain, was really far more
grammatical than * I am going,' and there were many
other sentences which she considered it would be desirable
to adopt in polite conversation. She was charmed
with the rustic simplicity of Little Stillingfleet. and

VOL. III. T

loud in her admiration of * Cammy ' and ' Ash Ash *
when Sophy ventured to take lier over the stables. In
order that there might be nothing to conceal, she proceeded
from the stables to the kitchen, entering by the
back-door. * You see,' she said, turning apologetically
to Miss Sim2)kins, vrho accompanied them, whilst Nelus
was carrying up the baggage, * I have no housekeeper's
room. I'm very, very sorry, but it can't be
helped. I have thought of building one.'

I shall be very much disappointed in Simpkins if
she is foolish enough to mind such trifles,' remarked
Miss NetherclifPe, glancing somewhat severely at her
maid. * Oh, what a very curious-looking baby ! '

We call it " the mongrel," ' said Sophy, with an
expression of feigned disgust. * Don't look at it,
Isabella: it ought never to have been born!'

No, that it didn't never ought to ! ' chimed in Jane
Ford, who came clattering out of the bakehouse to
take a look at the London young lady. ' It didn't
never ought to, in no misteiike ! '

They always turn against each other in that way
down here,' said Sophy in an undertone. * In reality,
she's fonder of the creature than its own mother.'

In consequence of the embarrassing scene which
had taken place between Sophy and Lord Nethercliffe,
she had been almost surprised that he should so readily
have permitted Isabella to pay her a visit. His whole
manner at the last had conveyed an impression of
resentment and wounded vanity, and she could not help
fancying that the friendship and interest he had
professed for her at first had been permanently withdrawn.


Whilst Simpkins was unpacking upstairs, Sophy took
her friend into the sitting-room, where tea had been

prepared, and here Miss Netliercliffe confided to Lethe
real reason for lier departure from home at this
particular time, apart from the desire she had long felt
to visit * the Great Sophirian Empire.'

It appeared that Lord Nethercliffe had taken into
his service (merely as an experiment), as assistant secretary
and precis-writer, a well-educated and intelligent
young person hailing from the ' Refuge for the Fallen,'
and the experiment had not been productive of
happy results. Isabella would say no more, and even
this much was uttered with heightened colour and a
quivering lip. Sophy did not venture to make any
further inquiries. She ascertained, however, that the
young person in question continued still to occupy the
post of secretary and amanuensis to Lord Nethercliffe, 
that he had presented her with many valuable presents,
amongst others with a carbuncle and pearl ornament
of great price,  and that, in consequence of her insupportable
arrogance, and absence of tact, Isabella had
deemed it expedient to run down into the country for
change of air.

Papa's mind,' she concluded by remarking, * is not
quite what it used to be. It is not, of course, that he is
old. But he has had lately such an immense amount of
mental strain.'

Like the conscientious Buddhist, poor Isabella was
evidently gradually shedding her illusions !

The old lady of the name of Hornblower ' arrived
 few days after Miss NetherclifPe, accompanied by
her harp, together with all things necessary for the
manufacture of wax flowers, cork castles, leather-work,
and skeleton leaves. Of course Isabella knew how to
play the harp. Miss Hornblower was quite astonished
at the graceful manner in which she swept

the strings, making melody with her firm white
fino'crs ; and she took, too, a kind and condescending
interest in the results of the modern minor accomplishments.
Besides the pleasure she derived from the
study of ancient English provincial dialects, Isabella
delighted in riding and walking ; she was an excellent
shot with a pistol, sketched very creditably, and, not
content with dabbling both in geology and in botan',
was at the present moment bending her great mind
to a classification of the lesser species of indigenous
British snail-shells. She was, in fact, only anxious
to please and to be pleased, and this made her
most welcome and agreeable as a companion. She
seemed, too, to have quite overcome her distrust of
Tom Hickathrift, although, upon the occasion of his
next visit, Sophy thought fit to adopt a somewhat
apologetic tone. * You thought ill of him in London,
dear Isabella,' she said. ' But you'll soon alter your
opinion when you see more of him. He's such a true
friend I We used always to call him " the Prince with
the Nose." '

His nose is like the nose of Slawkenbergius,' replied
the girl ' who knew everything,' ' and I consider
that it gives him a very distinguished air. Most great
men,' she added, thoughtfully, ' have possessed large
noses. It was a thing to which Napoleon Bonaparte
attached the greatest possible importance, regarding it
as an unmistakable sign of ability.'

Poor Sophy, who had never heard either of Slaw-energies
or his nose, did not know to what extent the
comparison might be considered complimentary, but she
was pleased with the part of Isabella's rejoinder which
had reference to the opinion of Napoleon Bonaparte.

Oh, how nice it wovdd be,' she remarked, soon

afterwards, to Miss Hornblower, ' if Tom would only
.fall in love with Isabella ! '

I don't think that is very likely, my dear,' replied
the spinster, without raising her eyes from her work, 
a battlemented fortress, which she was constructing out
of old corks glued on to a piece of stiff card-board.

He is much too devoted to you.'

Oh, I don't know ! ' said Sophy, hopefully, and
looking very wise. ' Men are sometimes so odd ! '

Perhaps so, but I have never had much to do with
them,' replied the little old maid with a half sigh.

Oh, no, of course not ! ' returned Sophy, hastily
fearing lest she might have awakened some painful
memory. * And, really, I don't think they make one
much happier,' she added, sighing too.

Like a truly lojal friend, she also did everything in
her power to prepossess Tom in flavour of Miss Nether-cliffs,
by calling attention to her numerous perfections.

I think you must admit,' she would say, ' that oiie
couldn't easily find so many good qualities united in
any other person. Besides which, Isabella is wonderfully
handsome ; you can't help seeing her good looks
I'm sure  nobody could.'

She's certainly very handsome,' Tom answered,

and she seems to be wonders idly clever. She seems to
know nearly everything.'

Ah, she does, indeed ! Like the Princess in the
fairy-tale, she can almost see the grass grow and hear
the flies sneeze ! '

Really ! ' said the young man, looking down, as
though afraid of encountering what Sophy sometimes
spoke of as her * basilisk eye.' In her presence he was
always to a certain extent shy and embarrassed.

Yes,' continued Sophy, anxious still further to

or

impress him. ' And she's quite extraordinary at geometry,
and algebra, and arithmetic  things which tome
arc as sealed books. This is the kind of sum she
will do  only, as I know fo very little about these
things, I may not get it quite right. Supposing a man
walked eight miles, seven furlongs, six rods, poles, or
perches, five and a half yards, two feet, and eleven
inches in a day. . . .'
*Well?'

And stopped at ten public-houses and a half (oh
no, of course he couldn't do that !), and stopped at ten
public-houses  drinking at each of them four gallons,
three quarts, two pints, and one and a half gills of
beer . . .'

What an enormous quantity ! ' Tom could not help
exclaiming.

The quantity does not signify'. . . . Supposing he
did this, and drank the same quantity every day, how
much would he drink in nine hundred and ninety-nine
years, eleven and a half months, three weeks, six days,
thirteen hours, and fifty-nine seconds ? '

I haven't the slightest idea ! ' said Tom, smiling.

Neither have I, but Isabella could tell you in five
minutes.'

I dare say she's very clever,' he answered. ' And
I admit she's wonderfully good-looking. But neither
cleverness nor beauty makes one lovey particularly if
one's already fond of a person who seems cleverer than
any one else in the world, and more beautiful too. It's.
all a matter of fancy.'

I suppose it is,' answered Sophy, dreamily.
Whatever it is, it's a very curious and mysterious
thing ! '

Yes, it is indeed ; and some people seem to have

the power of making every one fall in love with them.
I was talking about this with poor Dyer, just before he
was killed, and he said  I may tell you, now that he's
dead  *' There's one perfect woman," he said, " in this
neighbourhood, who is well worthy of a good man's
love, and that's Miss Sophy down at Stillingfleet : "
which shows you, dear,' he added simply, * that what I
have so often told you is true ; and that every one who
sees you can never get jou out of their heads afterwards.'

Poor Dr. Dyer ! How sorry I was to hear of his
death ! He said he wouldn't be a very long-lived man.
I wonder how he knew ?'

People have presentiments, I think, very often,'
rejoined Tom, ' when anything disagreeable is going to
happen to them. I know / often have, and I can count
pretty certainly, too, on anything pleasant. To-day
for instance, as I was coming here, I saw one magpie.'

And that was  good or bad ? I forget which.'

Bad ! Of course, it's only a superstition, bit,
oddly enough, I've never known it to deceive me.'

And so you've always gone by magpies ?'

Yes, I never like seeing one much, when I've got
any particular jlan in my head. It always seems to go
wrong afterwards. If I see two, I'm quite confident
and light-hearted. Of course, it's only an old woman's
tale!'

/ see two nearly every day. Happy creatures !
they seem always to go in pairs, and yet I haven't felt
confident and light-hearted for a long time. I don't
believe in magpies ! '

As she said this, they came up with the rest of the
party. They had all been for a long expedition into
the enemy's country of the old days ; passing through
the upper park above Great Stillingfleet, until they

or

had arrived in front of what was once Godfrey's home.
Sophy had often spoken to Isabella of Dallingridge,
and she wished her to sie it as it really was.

The old gray house, with its many windows and
closed shutters, could not fail to awaken sad memories.
Shrouded in autumn mist, and surrounded by hoary
oaks and funereal evergreens, it seemed like the most
formidable of those ghosts with whom Sophy had said
that she was perpetually holding communion.

As the'' stood looking at it, honest John McBean
came out of the orangery upon the terrace, locking the
door after him. The days was so still that, though he
was some way from them, they could hear the sharp
click of the key as it turned in the key-hole. He
looked aged and shrunken, and walked a little im-steadily,
as Scotch gardeners with certain proclivities
have a tendency to walk during the protracted absence
of their employers. With this exception, everything
was silent, forlorn, and deserted. No hospitable curl
of blue smoke rose from the massive chimney-stacks.
All the garden-beds were brown, bare, and desolate,
and the stone statues on the terrace looked like a row
of spectres ; so that, though Miss Nethercliffe expressed
it as her opinion that she had seldom seen a
finer specimen of a grand old Tudor mansion, Sophy
turned from its contemplation with an aching heart.

It was impossible for her, now, not to realise that,
some day, this melancholy-looking old house might
become her own ; if, indeed, it was not, legal', her own
already. How was it possible (she thought) that she
could ever exist, either alone, or hurried to any other
man, in a place so teeming with memories of a former
love ? Surely it would be almost less dreary, after all,
to bow to destiny and live out her allotted time at the
Abbey !

Already people were beginning to treat her as the
future possessor of Dalliugridge. She had received
visits both from the agent and from the family lawyer,
whilst Tom Hickathrift had even had a letter upon the
subject signed by the Lord Chancellor himself. She
had entreated, however, that everything might be left
in abeyance for the present. The rents must be collected,
of course, and paid into the banker's hands, but
she steadfastly refused to touch them for two years.
At the end of that time a new life might dawn for her,
and then, and not till then, would she begin the hard
task of bursting her past : but for two years she would
wait . . . and hope !

Upon reaching the middle of the hazel-copse, Isabella
and Mar" Anne Hornblower paused at the circular
bench. * I fancy,' said Miss Nether cliife, as she examined
the back of the scat with attention, 'that this is the
sort of place where I shall be likely to find a variety" of
the Julius ionia, the Biilwms ohiscurua, for which I ans
now searching  ah, jes ! . . . here they are I Several
of them are double growths ! '

Sophy now perceived that a portion of the woodwork
of the old bench was covered with small spiral
snail-shells ; some of these were almost twice as long as
their companions.

Those are the double-growths,' explained Isabella.
They are a very remarkable freak of nature, only here
they don't grow half so big as in Ital3\ I have found
them there on the walls of the lanes, in the country, of
really enormous size. Curiously' enough, though they
are precisely the same shell as these, the' would not
live in England. I endeavoured to introduce them at
Nethercliffe, choosing my situation with the greatest
possible care ; but the experiment proved a complete
failure. Our climate destroyed them.'

or

How very sin<;ulai' I ' exclaiinecl Miss Ilornblowcr,
looking through lier spectacles at the tiny snail-shells.
What even you must have, my dear Miss Netherclift'e,
to be able to see such little bits of creatures I It is
really most delightful to observe the pleasure you
takes in everything belonging to the country. I had
formed quite a different opinion of London young
ladies ! '

'Ah, Miss Ilornblower,' returned Isabella, * if you
call these shells small, what would you say to another
species, which I have no doubt is to be found here ? It
is barely visible to the naked eye, being smaller even
than the Can/cJiium minimum, and yet it is snow-white,
and beautifully formed, with a lip as perfectly developed
as that of the Ilclix ohvoluta ! So small is it,
indeed, that (though, of course, it has probably always
existed) no one discovered it until / did. I found it
amongst some decaying leaves, as it might be here, and
papa wrote about it to a celebrated conchologist, who
was good enough to call it after me  the Julius
JVet/icrcliffii. I must tr} and find one, so that you may
see how tiny it is. I came upon the same variety
amongst some refuse washed up from the Lake of
Geneva, but the snail was dead. It is a most interesting
study.'

It must be, I should think,' said Tom, smiling at
her enthusiasm. ' But are you sure you won't get cold,
all of you, sitting down here under this damp tree ?
It's a nasty, misty afternoon.' As usual, he was anxious
for Sophy's well-being.

I don't feel it at all cold,' Sophy answered, * though
it certainly is damp. Isabella, I've no doubt, can tellus
the reason of these fogs.'

'The height of the atmosphere,' returned Miss

NetherclifFe, quickly, * is, as we all know, about fortyfive
miles, and the density of it diminishes very rapidly
as we recede from the earth, the lower strata being
compressed by the upper ones so as to contain a much
greater weight of air in the same volume. . . . Ah !
here is a very fine specimen of the Scolopendrium
misgave . . ./'

The Scolopendrium ruhjarc was, as Sophy did not
know until that moment, the * hart's tongue' or 'spleenwort'
fern. Large tufts of it grew from the gnarled
bark of the oak-tree, after the manner of a parasite.
Isabella was delighted with these natural treasures.

This is one of the most charming places in the
world ! ' she exclaimed, enthusiastically. ' Never did I
see a country I admired so much ! I should really like
to live here for the remainder of my life ! '

Tom and Sophy walked quietly on, leaving Isabella
and Miss Hornblower raking and peering amongst
the leaves. From time to time cries of discovery
reached them, when they turned back to inquire
what new botanical treasure had yielded to their
researches.

Oh, it's the Osmitnda regales ! such a beauty ! ' or,
It's the Trichomancs speciosiimf' Isabella would exclaim
perhaps, and then recommence delving and scratching
anew. By-and-by, a louder and more triumphant cry
of discovery broke on their ears.

Oh, Sophy ! Oh, Sir Thomas ! do come ! Look
what I've just dug up under this tree ! '

Sophy ran towards her in all haste, Tom following
more deliberately.

Oh, Tom ! ' exclaimed Sophy in a moment, beckoning
impatiently towards him, ' come quickly and look !
Isabella has found the great Ilickathrift ring  the ring

or

with which all the ladies of your family have been
betrothed ! '

Isabella, indeed, during her excavations in search
of ferns and Bh/nn/ NrtJicrcIiffii, had actually chanced
upon the celebrated family jewel, which she had placed
at once upon her finger. To Sophy this action seemed
portentous in the extreme. Sir Thomas, too, as he
advanced, and beheld the hereditary ring of betrothal
upon her strong white hand, could not help starting, a
little uncomfortably.

'That ring,' said Sophy, with solemnity, 'belongs
to Sir Thomas Hickathrift. Whenever a Hickathrift
marries, he puts that ring upon the finger of his wife ;
and no Hickathrift likes to marry at all unless he can
betroth the lady of his choice according to hereditary
precedent. If this ring hadn't been found, poor Sir
Thomas would have had to become a kind of monk ! '

Isabella, hearing Sophy's mock heroics, blushed
deeply, and tried hard to pull off the ring. It had
been much too large for Sophy, as the reader may
remember, but Isabella's hand, though white and well-shaped,
was of a more powerful make. She had placed
the ring, too, upon her thickest finger, and, in consequence,
whole seconds elapsed before she could finally
withdraw it, and present it, not without embarrassment,
to its legitimate owner.

Tom blushed as the heirloom was returned to
him; and Sophy could not help thinking that this
episode might be fraught with mysterious significance.
Tom, also, was deeply impressed by the circumstance
; not, perhaps, altogether agreeably, for ashe
walked home across the deserted turnip-fields he
found himself somehow associating it in his mind with
the one magpie.

Near the Abbey gateway lie perceived Andrew
Locke awaiting him. Tom noticed at once that the
expression of his countenance was troubled.

*Has anything" gone wrong?' he inquired, as they
passed together under the lofty archway.

A very strange thing has happened, Sir Thomas,'
answered the land-steward, gravely. 'A letter has
arrived at the post-office which has set the whole of
Pojnings in a flutter, as well it may do. Old Spearing
doesn't quite know what to do about it, and would be
much obliged if you would just step across the street
and advise him.'

Upon hearing this the young man turned, and, crossing
the market-place, walked into old Spearing's shop.

Here is the letter. Sir Thomas, which has taken us
all by surprise,' said the post-master ; * and I thought
you might be pleased to advise me, being a magistrate.'

Tom took up the letter and examined it attentively.
It was a foreign letter, directed to Dr. Dyer, and was
unmistakably in the handwriting of * the late Mr.
Godfrey St. Clair of Dallingridge.'

Good heavens ! ' said he, turning pale, as he handed
it back to the old man : ' it's a letter from the dead
to the dead ! '

Chapter XXII.

Some months before the time of which I have been
writing, the young man whom we have known hitherto as
Godfrey St. Clair was lying at Pegli, upon what seemed
likely to be his death-bed. A woman was sitting at
his side, her ej'cs haggard with watching. This woman,
who had nursed him all through his dangerous illness

or

Tvith the devotedness of ii mother, had no reason to
regret her display of maternal solicitude. A hope  a
dream  the dream of a * mad woman,' as she had once
called herself, had been realised, and she knew now,
with hardly the possibility of a doubt, that he was her
son indeed.

Mariuccia Santarelli, summoned by Padre Anselmo
to Pegli  she knew not wherefore  had been overcome
with terror and confusion when she was told that the
English lady with Avhom she was to be confronted was
the widow of Lord Henry Davenport, who, in the year
1816, had occupied the Villa Palavacini. By Godfrey's
bedside these two women had met for the first time
after more than twenty-four years. At sight of the
pale, worn face of the sick man, who seemed about to
quit for ever the scene of his troubles, and of the sad
and beautiful Englishwoman, whose hair had grown
white from sorrow, the rough-handed daughter of toil
stood silent and abashed.

You are the noble ladj of the Yilla Palavacini ? '
she asked at last, in a faltering voice, as she toyed
nervously with the ends of the yellow kerchief forming
her head gear. * What would you with poor Mariuccia
Santarelli?'

I am, unhappily, the person you name,* Lady
Henry answered. She had heard Padre Anselmo's
story, to which she had been enabled to supply many
additional details ; and she found it difficult now not
to look with loathing upon the cause of so much misery
to herself and others.

 . . . E quest giorane ? ' the woman now asked,
glancing in apparent bewilderment towards the bed.
The Padre had sent to her to hasten, with all speed, to
minister to the requirements of a near relation, who
was nigh unto death ; but her clouded intelligence had

failed at once to grasp the situation, or to divine to
whom lie might possibly refer.

That young man,' returned the Englishwoman,
slowly, 'was, twenty-four years ago, a happy child,
well loved and cared for. One day his nurse held him
in her arms near to a piece of water, in a garden. She
left him for a moment to the care of another woman . . .
After that he was lost. His parents mourned him as
dead. . In a word, this is the child you sold to an
English family at Genoa, on the 13th of April, 1816 . . .
Ah, Mariuccia ! ' she cried, suddenly breaking down,
and bursting into tears. ' Were we not kind and
compassionate to you when you were in your trouble?
What had we done that ''ou should have dealt us this
blow?'

Overcome with emotion, she sank upon her knees at
the side of Godfrey's bed, and buried her face in her
hands. The peasant-woman stood for some moments
staring at her blankly. By-and-by she, too, knelt down,
sobbing and beating her breast. 

Fearing lest the sound of her noisy lamentations
should disturb the patient, the English lady rose from
her knees, and led her gently into the adjoining room,
where, after sending for the Sister of Charity" to watch
at Godfrey's bedside, she waited impatiently for any
confession which the pricking of a tardily-awakened
conscience might possibly elicit.

It came at last, in words broken by sobs and tears,
and with many an invocation to Virgin Mother and
patron saint. The grief of the ' Signora Liglcsc' had
touched the rough heart beating beneath the blue
home spun bodice and crossed handkerchief of gaudy
colours. Mariuccia' s story, freed from tears, prayers,
and interjections, was as follows : 

Some twenty-five years before, as has been already

or

related, the Santarcllis, Ly mutual consent, and from
motives of economy, agreed to live tofcther under one
roof, in the grounds of the Villa Palavacini. It is
unnecessary to repeat an account of the terrible circumstance
by which this 'family arrangement' was brought
to an abrupt termination. Tip husband's growing
jealousy of his brother had turned to a fierce and uncontrollable
frenzy  the shipwright's axe had been
raised ; it had descended upon its victim : in a word, the
crowning catastrophe had come to pass, and mother and
child were left desolate in the pink vins-trellised gatehouse.


It was at this point that Mariuccia began her narrative
At first, she declared, she was as one stunned
by a thunderbolt from heaven. For some time she
could not even feel pain. Over and over again, during
the same day, did she beat her breast and strike her
brow in anguish, but her blows fell as on one already
dead. By-and-by, however, there came upon her a
great anxiety for the future well-being of her child.
Yes, this woman, who had seemed to Godfrey more
callous than the \Qr\ she-goat tethered at her door, had
yet, in common with most animals, some maternal
feelings.

Perhaps  though this was rather to be inferred
than expressed in her story  the suspicions of her
brutal husband might have had some origin in fact,
and the infant for whom she was thus solicitous may
even have been, as the ill-natured gossips supposed, the
child of the well-favoured and good-for-nothing 'Sandro,
the first love of her maiden heart Suppositions of this
nature generally remain shrouded in uncertainty, and
it is better for the peace and tranquillity of the community
that they should so remain. It had occurred to

Mariuccia, however, that any resemblance to 'Sundry
which might develop in this child, would, peradventure,
be jeered at, and taken amiss b} the neighbours,
after the murder ; and the desire took possession of her
to remove it from the supervision of prying eyes.

But how was she to obtain the means, poor and
friendless as she now found herself, to quit the scene of
the catastrophe  abandoning the work Which produced
her livelihood, and make for herself a new home ?
It is true that the English family inhabiting at this
time the large, white Palavacini Villa, had protected
her from the insults of the villagers, besides furnishing
her with money and food; but a day would
come when these kind and compassionate friends
would go back to their own country, whilst the
former improve would return to his abode, to hear
this terrible story of jealousy and murder. How would
it fare with her then ? she was perpetually asking
herself. Far better to leave the place before she was
dismissed, maybe, from the pink gatehouse, with curses
and well-merited reproaches for the scandal wrought
by hel' folly!

Just about this time she went over to Genoa, and
fell in with Padre Anselmo. Upon informing him of
her trouble, he opened to her mind new hopes and
ambitions. He told her of the noble English family
who were seeking to adopt a child. He named to her
the sum they were willing to pay for the possession of
the innocent. Placed as she was at that moment, she
was sorely tempted by the proposal which the good
father had made her  with no thought of doing anything
but a benevolent action to a poor wretch bowed
down by suffering and remorse. Nevertheless, she demanded
two days for reflection. As it happened, how-vol.

III. t]

ever, slice did not pause to reflect. Only when she had
washed and dressed the innocent, and made it look
more beautiful than ever, did the power of reflecting
return to her. Before this it had seemed as though
her mind was incapable of judging between good and
evil  between what would be the wisest course to
pursue, and the course which, besides being unwise,
was altogether against nature.

As she was passing through the garden, probably
for the last time, these thoughts came upon her. She
had made every preparation for her departure, although
she had said not one word of it to any one. The hamhiuo
was in her arms  it was asleep. Almost did it seem as
though dead, with its still face, and the long eye-lashes
resting on its pale cheek. As she looked at it, the tears
came into her eyes. She remembered the blow it had
received at the hands of her miserable husband ; she
called to mind the sinister predictions of the neighbours,
to the effect that the results of this blow might
influence its whole existence  that it might have to
encounter sickness and suffering in a strange land,
amongst strange people, without the solace of a mother's
tender affection. Santa Verging I why had she never
thought of all this until now ? Why had her powers
of reasoning, and of reflection, returned to her thus 
at the eleventh hour; in a word, when they came too
late? .

Nays but after all, Kan it too late now to change her
mind and to let the Padre know of her intention ? . . .
But then, the money  the price to be paid her for this
child which she had found out now was so precious to
her ? . . .

A prey to these conflicting emotions, which, for the
moment, had the effect of rendering her well-nigh dish



straight, she passed up under the avenue of arbutus,
sided by the broken statues of the old gods, until she
came to the melancholy piece of water cleft, as it were,
from the bosom of the hill. God alone knew what
desperate intention, taking suddenly possession of her,
induced her to turn her footsteps in the direction of
this desolate place ! In the cool depths of these
shadowy waters she might, at least, find peace ; an
immunity from suffering for herself and her child ; and
the Holy Virgin, who had known, when on earth, the
pains and tribulations of maternity, might graciously
deign to accord mercy to her soul ! In the end, however,
she was saved from so melancholy a fate, though
it seemed as if Providence merely changed the form of
lier temptation. It was evident that, on this particular
day, her guardian angel had abandoned her, and that
she was destined to commit some manner of mortal sin.
The place was not desolate, as she had expected; on
the stone bench, close to the wrought-ironwork gateways,
a nurse was seated, resting for a while in the
shade, holding in her arms the only child of the noble
English lady who, with her husband, inhabited the
villa. This nurse, an honest Shropshire woman, had
leon kind to Mariuccia during her great trouble. The
child, a boy, was only a few weeks older than her own.
These circumstances had naturally drawn the women
together, and they had become friends, as far as it was
possible with two persons of different race, who were
unable to converse together save by signs and blundering
words. Whilst this woman went to the house to
deliver some message, she had asked Mariuccia to take
care of the child. For a Awhile the Italian woman had
lain down her own baby upon the stone bench, whilst
she held the strangers' child in her arms, and gazed

or

attentively at its features. As she sat thus, comparing
the faces of the two infants, a temptation came upon
her with so much force that to resist it was impossible.
It occurred to her that she could possess herself, then
find tlicre, of this child, and that, after dressing it in
Italian fashion, she could deliver it up to the English
family instead of her own.

No sooner did this plan suggest itself to her, than
she proceeded to put it into execution. There was nota
moment to be lc>st. Hastily tearing from the head of
the English hamhuio the expensive hat of lace and satin
which would have furnished a clue to discovery, she
cast it amongst the tangled reeds of the lake, and made
off with her double burden. At the moment she did not
reflect what terrible suspicions the finding of this list,
floating thus upon these gloomy waters, might arouse
in the mother's breast. She did not reflect, either,
upon what should be her course of action supposing the
English family did not approve of the himhino, and
passed it over for another. No doubt, had this happened,
the destiny of the infant would have been
materially changed. All that had been stipulated,
however, was, that the child should be a hoj/, strong
and healthy, and with as fair a promise of good looks
as could be perceived in an infant of such tender age.
Both children seemed to fulfil each one of these conditions.
Most mothers will readily pardon Mariuccia
for the exalted opinion she entertained of her baby's
personal appearance. The English child, too, was beautiful
as an angel. The idea, therefore, had never occurred
to her that it could be possible either one or
other of them would be refused by the persons who
seemed to be so eagerly seeking for a living object
upon which to lavish their spent-up parental affection.

Arrived at Genoa, she confided lier project only to
one person  to a young fisherman, Beppo by name,
who had been one of her admirers in the old time,
before she was married, and who would even now feel
proud to be chopped up for her into a saline. With
the help of this young man, under the shadow of his
little fishing boat upon the sunshiny sea-beach, she had
dressed uj) the English baby in the coarser garments of
her own child, and taken it straightway to the residence
of Padre Anselmo. Everything passed off satisfactorily,
and, with the money she obtained, she had returned to
Beppo and stated ofi" with him and her baby upon a
fishing expedition to the coast of Corsica.

Here she had succeeded in obtaining a tiny residence
upon the sea-shore, in which she dwelt for more
than five years, doing all in her power to repay the
kind-hearted fisherman for his devotion to her cause,
and so happy in the possession of her own child that
she thought but seldom of the misery she had inflicted
upon the occupants of the Villa Palavacini. If there
had been any hue and cry, after her departure, she had
never heard of it. Padre Anselmo, too, it now appeared,
had been summoned away at about this time to attend
the death-bed of the wealthy man who had bequeathed
him an easy competence. All trace, in fact, of her evil
deed seemed buried in obscurity, but a punishment,
which she had dreaded from the first, had fallen upon
her. 'Sandro, the boy for whom she had risked so much,
had proved, as he grew older, of little comfort or assistance
to her. Either, on the contrary, was he a hindrance
and an incumbrance, and there were moments
when Beppo (with whom she had now cast in her lot)
expressed his regret that she had not handed him over
to the strangers for adoption, and retained for herself

or

the other child, who might possibly have turned out
more satisfactorily. These words would often sting her
to the quick, for, in truth, the poor lad could not help
his misfortune.

He was, in fact, a living example of the Scriptural
dictum so often, and so unctuously, quoted by Mr. Pettish
The sin of the father had been pitilessly visited
upon the child ; for, owing, it was supposed, to the blow
he had received from the shipwright's axe, Alexandre
Santarelli grew up  coiue disgraziato : in other words,
he was an idiot.

As the years went on, Bcppo and Mariuccia returned
to their old haunts, although they avoided taking up
their abode actually at Pegli itself. Some few miles off
stands the fishing-hamlet of Diana Marina, and it was.
here that they had made their home. She had other
children now to console her for 'Sandro's short-comings
'Beppo,' "Tonic,' and 'Serafina'  little demons of
mischief and good-humour, but her heart still clove to
'Sandro, her eldest born, notwithstanding his affliction.
Living thus in the neighbourhood of her old home,
she had fallen in with several of her former acquaintances.
Many of them, however, had either died or
departed to other places, and time had so toned down,
the unpleasant memories of the past, that she had experienced
no disagreeable results from any of their
recognitions. It was thought perfectly natural now,
by those who were old enough to trace the likeness,
that 'Sandro should resemble his dead uncle and namesake,
in both face and figure  as, indeed, he did resemble
him, save for the affliction of his mind ; and it
was also looked upon as pardonable that Mariuccia,
having now, virtually, neither husband nor male relative
to protect and support her, should have set up

house with Beppo, so long as he, too, was agreeable to
the arrangement.

Later on, impelled by morbid curiosity, she had
gone over to Nizza, and taken a look at the miserable
Pietro, as he toiled wearily at his convict labour, knowing
that he could now do her no harm. Nay, she had
even told him how she was situated with regard to
Beppo, who had been known to him in the old time.

Penal servitude had done much to tame Pietro
Santarelli's tiger-nature. He was greatly changed and
broken, she thought ; he had become, in fact, quite an
old man, quiet and inoffensive ; and it was strange,
considering how little affection she had felt for him
when he was her husband, that upon beholding him
thus she had been unable to restrain her tears. Tears,
however, are very unreasonable things, and have often
a way of appearing when there is the least occasion for
them.

Since you are living now with Beppo,' Pietro had
said to her, ' recall to his memory that I was one
amongst his friends ; and make that he should send me
some tobacco, for the love of God ! '

This was all he had said to her, and Beppo, the
most good-natured soul upon earth, had sent him the
tobacco. .

As Mariuccia reached this joint in her narrative,
the Sister of Charity stole gently from Godfrey's bedside.


He is talking in his sleep,' she said, * wildly and
passionately, but in English  in a tongue unknown tome
; come and hear what he is saying.' And the two
mothers passed together into the inner chamber.

If he should be given back to me only to die ! '
the Englishwoman murdered with clasped hands and

(tr

hag-gard eyes ; 'now that I know he is really my own !
It were better had he been lost to nie, as I fancied,
years  years ago I Fuit this is like the sorrow oi his
death twice over I '

But the son thus discovered, ' after long years,' was
not torn a second time from his mother's arms. About
a month from the time at which the doctors had despaired
of his life, the * Godfrey' of this story  now
well-nigh told out  found himself once more in the
garden of the Villa Palavacini, which seemed to have
been so mysteriously interwoven with his fate. He
looked still worn and pale from the effects of his long
illness  a mere shadow of the Godfrey St. Clair of the
old days ; but his heart was unburdened of Avhat had
been to him, even more than it might have been to
another, a weight of intense suffering. He knew now,
with what strange accidents and combinations his existence
had been interwoven and involved, and, as he
turned back to the memories of his Past, it seemed
to him as though he was contemplating scenes and
passages in the life of some other man. He realised
by what mere freak of circumstance it had come to
lass that he had been identified with the family of
the St. Clairs, and he found himself wondering what
would have been the nature of his sympathies, his
opinions, and his ambitions, had the persons who
adopted him proved other than they were. Above all,
he wondered whether there would have been a ' Sop//// '
in his life, whatever his life had been. A presiding
influence in woman's form  called, perhaps, by some
other name  speaking, even, another language, but still
leading on like a beacon-star to high endeavour, to
purer and nobler thought ; an image of all that seemed

true, and good, and beautiful ; a guardian angel, who
yet trod the earth, and loved him once, and brightened,
through his knowledge of her love, his darkest daj's.
These thoughts came upon him as he passed under the
avenue of bay and cypress which led to the shadowy
piece of water. By his side was the woman he now
knew to be realty his mother, and with her he mused
upon these strange possibilities.

Arrived at the ornamental lake, he perceived that
the memorial stone had been removed.

What was the use of it now ? ' Lady Henry asked,
as, standing by the side of the water, she took both his
hands in her own. ' I have had it taken away. But
you see something )must be let in to fill up the place.
AVe shall have to think of some words  a text, or a
poem  telling of a great sorrow surpassed, and of
love, and hope, and thankfulness for an unlooked-for
blessing. People passing by will never guess what it
really means ; but I should like them to know, at any
rate, that something very precious was once lost hers,
and then found again, by the strangest of strange
chances, in the very same place.'

A few days later, mother and son took their homeward
way together, by easy stages. First of all, they
halted at Nice. Here, impelled by he knew not what 
a spirit either of pity or of curiosity  Godfrey rose one
morning betimes, and visited the Port. He had previously
provided himself with an ample supply of
tobacco. Upon inquiring for the convict Santarclli, he
Alas shown a man of a debased moral type, crouched
down upon the sand by the sea shore. He was chained
by the ankle to a largo piece of rock, under the shadow
of which he was endeavouring to protect himself from
the rays of the sun. He appeared patient and resigned

Sophy,

orin

doincanour, and to l)c in the enjoyment of excellent
physical health. His hair, which was close shaven,
grew low down upon his forehead, and was untinged
with gray, whilst his throat was as thick and sinewy as.
that of a bull. Isis 'facial and frontal angles' displayed
a lamentable deficiency of moral sense, and from
what JSo23hy would have termed ' the outside of the
platter,' it was not difficult to predict that its contents
would be tainted and unsavoury. Predisposition to
crime had evidently counted for something in the
affair of the murder, and the late Dr. Dyer would probably
have branded Santarelli as a ' morbid variety *
from his birth. To the same piece of rock was fastened
another criminal, of a more refined organization  a
singularly handsome man, with an intellectual head,
melancholy eyes, and a delicately' modelled jaw. Unlike
Santarelli, this man seemed crushed and depressed by
the sense of his ignominious position ; he seldom raised
his eyes from the ground, and appeared to shrink from
the indiscreet scrutiny of strangers. As he bent forward,
Godfrey perceived, by an inscription attached to
his back, that he was a wife-murderer, and fell to wondering
whether it was through the infidelities of a
Messalina, or the treachery of an ago, that this man
now found himself doomed to so miserable a fate. Both
convicts employed their moments of relaxation in carving
rude knickknacks in horn, bone, and betel-nut,
rosaries, crucifixes, needle-books, which, when sold to
the charitable, where the means of insuring for the
unfortunate men a few extras in the shape of food, etc.
Godfrey at once purchased a rosary and a needle-book,
and, his heart overflowing with sadness and compassion,
he drew forth the tobacco. For one moment, an
expression of pleasure lit up the eyes of both the murderers,
as they clutched eagerly at the gift.

May the mercy of God descend upon the illustrious
stranger ! ' ' May the blessed Virgin protect him from
all evil ! ' * Mays the holy saints watch over him, and
direct him ! ' With these, and blessings of a like kind
ringing in his ears, the young man departed from the
Bagnc, carrying with him his rosary and needle-book.
These two simple objects, he said to himself, would
preach him a sermon on humility, whenever he chanced
to cast his eyes upon them, for there might come a
time; when, under the demoralising influence of power
and prosperity, a pharisaical spirit might rise up in
his heart. Then, the remembrance of these two poor
criminals, and of the tie which he once believed had
connected one of them with himself, would act as a
proper and salutary ' take-down ' to his pride ; if, indeed
pride of position, riches, or estate, or of anything that
had not been acquired through sacrifice or honest toil,
could ever animate him again ! And Sophy (if all
went well, and he found her in the same mood as Ashen
he had parted from her)  Sophy, along with the pearls,
diamonds, and star rubies which he meant to lay at her
feet, should receive, also, the little betel-nut needle-book
 onhj, he concluded by admitting, lie was far too
sweet and humble-minded ever to be in need of a
sermon against pride, whatever might be the circumstances
of her future life !

With regard to Sophy, he could not help avowing
that his heart was filled with misgivings  so long a
time had elapsed since he had either seen her or heard
from her. At the moment when the clouds overhanging
his destiny seemed to be of the blackest, he
had felt that it would have been inconsistent with the
dictates of his better nature had he endeavoured, through
the influence he knew that he possessed over her, to seal
her to himself, linking her existence, as he then

Soph,

or'

believed, with poverty and disgrace. He knew now,
and lie was grateful for the consolation afforded liii
bj such knowledge, that this 'better nature'  seeming
to him, then, like a mere accidental efflorescence of pure
blossom], budding out, as it were, from a degenerate
stem  came to him, in reality, by reason of the sound
moral training administered from father to son, through
long generations of upright and honourable progenitors.
Believing what he had believed, since Pettigrew's revelation,
until within about a month of the present time,
there were moments when what seemed to be his own
self-evolved and unaccountable probity had proved even
a surprise to himself.

Now, however, all this was changed. Honour,
intelligence, large-heartiness, had descended to him
by inheritance. The'' were, justly and honestly, his
birthright. But he possessed other privileges and
advantages as well ; undeserved  nay, even, perhaps,
to be condemned as vain and unprofitable by the more
enlightened of his fellow-men.

From amongst the great mass of toilers and spinners,
he, with a few others, had been singled out to bethe
recipient of wealth, prosperity, and worldly honours ;
to rest, whilst weaker men laboured ; to feast, whilst
many of his brethren fasted, and, under the \erj eyes
of the naked, to pass on his way decked out in purple
and fine linen : in a word, he found himself suddenly
triinsiormcd into a ruler and a mighty man in Israel,
girt round with power and responsibility, and it occurred
to him now, that, if he abused any of these privileges, his
present exaltation would prove far more degrading to
him than his previous abasement.

Something of all this he confided to his mother at
Nice, on his return from the Port. Being ' only a

woman,' although a very amiable and attractive one,
she was at a loss to comprehend some of his scruples.
You see, dear,' she said, in a tone of gentle remonstrance,
' these differences in rank and position seem
always to have existed in civilised countries, and I
don't fancy that the people who have tried to do away
with them have made things much better. But I
can see that you take after your uncle, the second
marquis, who held very liberal opinion's, and drove
about in a carriage without a coronet, and insisted upon
being addressed simply as " Mr. Davenport." I really
think that many people would be convinced of who jo\i
were by this likeness alone ; fortunately, however,
everything can be proved. But you will see that,
placed as you are, it won't do merely to say, " This
young man has hitherto been called Godfrey, but his
real name is George." We must go to England and
put the case into the hands of lawyers, who will set
everything right and as it should be ; besides which, I
am very anxious to make the acquaintance of Sophy.'

Chapter XXIII.

It was in * chill October ' that the Godfrey of my
romance journeyed one ever to-be-remembered morning
from London to Poynings, by the lately completed
railway, which now went direct to the venerable Southeastern
Abbey-town without the co-operation of an
intermediary coach. It was nearly three o'clock by the
time he arrived there, and, declining all officious offers
from the newly-established flymen, he took his way on
foot along the well-known turnpike-road, having sent

on his servant, with his portmanteau, to Southerbourne,
whore he purposed passing the night. * To Stilling-fleet
and Dallingridge Park' was written upon that
portion of the white finger-post which pointed due
south, and it was by this road that he went.

Chill October and yet not, after all, so very
chilly, even to one newly-returned from a more genial
clime ! Though it was now three hours after midday,
the sun of a very St. Martin's summer was glowing
and glistening over the land ; the birds were chirping
as merrily as if it had been spring-time, and the watch-dogs,
too, and the cocks, in the neighbouring homesteads,
seemed to be baying and crowing their very
utmost by reason of the crispness and the brightness of
everything. There was something in the day which
was particularly stimulating and exhilarating. Eager
and excited, the young man's awakened spirit was
struggling with a great impatience in anticipation of
the crowning of a heart-felt desire, which caused him
to feel as though he was treading upon air.

I have heard tell of isles, out far beyond the uttermost
visible line of ocean, where, b} reason of the
wondrous ratification of the atmosphere, it is impossible
ever to be really miserable. Here, Hope, of a truth,
springs eternal in the human breast, regardless of impending
disaster, and so some breath of this enchanted
air gain access to the felon through his grating, he may
while away" the time pretty pleasantly, even in a condemned
cell, previous to his implement, or what not.
The denizens of this delightful country live happily
and die young, perhaps through beating out, with too
much impetuosity, their allotted number of heart-beats
 strangers for ever to that hydra-headed and
leaden-e3ed brood begotten of indigestion and * dull

scare.' Surely it is thitherward that what Mr. Carlisle
has called  a heavy-laden, high-aspiring, and much-suffering
man,' should steer his bark, prepared, however,
upon his arrival, to change his type and order of
classification as entirely as did that celebrated * living
skeleton ' who, starting once for exhibition in foreign
parts, grew so corpulent upon the voyage that he was
shown afterwards as a fat man upon the opposite
shore !

To-day, upon setting forth, Godfrey had felt like an
inhabitant of this enchanted country ; so much so, that,
mistrusting his very hopefulness, he began, ere long, to
experience a sense of disquietude, lest, in the short
time which is needed for the blighting of a dream,
some unfortunate change might have come to pass.

Never before had the roadway appeared so long, and
yet his impatience had lent him, as it were, the speed
of seven-leagued boots.

Ah I . . . at lad / . . . There was the well-known
white windmill, with the two clipped jew-trees at tlfe
door of the miller's house ! Then, some bright red
cottages of mushroom growth, and seeming like trespassers
upon sacred ground, because of their newness ;
then, the turnpike-house, its small window crammed, as
in the old time, with gingerbread and wrinkled apples ;
and, then . (at last ! at last !) the road leading domi
to Little Stillingfleet, unchanged (thank Heaven for
that !), except that the hedge on either side of the gateway
looked higher by reason of the new shoots it had
put forth in the spring.

Arrived thus far, he paused, irresolute, hardly
-daring to proceed. How little would it need now to
turn this seemingly fair-omened day into one of darkness
and disappointment ! . . .

In consequence of his len;tlicno(l stay abroad, and
his recent illness, the news of Dr. Dyer's sudden death
had only reached him lately. It had shocked and disconcerted
hiui, over and above the grief he had felt at
the loss of a friend; for, by reason of this lamentable
accident, he was, to a certain extent, in the dark as to
Sophy's present sentiments towards him. On the day
iijDon which the unfortunate Doctor had met his doom,
he had seen and conversed with him near the gate of
Gladwish's Farm. During this interview he had
thoroughly unbosomed himself; he had informed him
of his apparently hopeless position as regarded worldly
affairs, of his affection for Sophy, and of his determination,
notwithstanding that he had renounced all
claim to her hand, to see her once more, vere it only
for one moment, before again leaving England ; and he
had departed on the day after he had appeared to her
in the suburban church, having, indeed, beheld her but
once, for he had failed to perceive the pale, eager face
that yearned towards him through Miss Pendragon's
'meat-cage,' at 'The Cedars' or the beckoning of helpless
hands at the window of the front door.

With Dr. Dyer he had left sundry important messages
and instructions with regard to Sophy. Without
encouraging her to cling to a shadow in the face of anymore
substantial chance of happiness that might appear
on her life's horizon, the Doctor was to stand Godfrey's
friend upon all occasions, and to keep an eye upon the
lady of his heart. The reader will have concluded,
from Dr. Dyer's speech to Sophy some time before,
near to the scraper in the Little Stillingfleet porch,
that he already entertained for her a deep and sincere
admiration, but any good offices he might have performed
for the young couple had been nipped in the

bud b}' the hand of death ; and Godfrey having found
nobody to interrogate as to 'how the land lay,' felt
suddenly oppressed by a spirit of doubt and uncertainty.

He came to the conclusion, now, that to appear
before Sophy suddenly, without a word of immediate
warning, would be, perhaps, unwise. The letter he
had addressed but a short while ago to the unfortunate
Doctor, in which he had inquired as to how she stood
with regard to his old friend and rival. Sir Thomas
Ilickathrift, was Ij'ing, unclaimed, at the Poynings
Post-office. Supposing (for events had a strange way of
happening at wrong times) that, on this very day of his
return, she and Tom, notwithstanding recent complications,
had plighted their troth after all? Ought not
the same honourable feeling which had prevented him
from addressing her personally until his social position
was permanently assured, to dissuade him, now, from
troubling what two people might, finally, have come to
look upon as their happiness ?

Then, again, supposing that Sophy, having no one
at hand to disabuse her of her fears, had really believed
in the resort of his death ? It would hardly be fair to
appear before her thus unexpectedly' and dramatically,
like the ghost of 'Alonzo the Brave,' to frighten her,
peradventure, almost out of her senses !

No ! . . . Notwithstanding that he had settled to
come upon her by surprise, Prudence whispered to
him now that such a course, when pursued by husband
or truant-lover, had generally been accounted rash.

He would, therefore, prepare her for his return by
the scribbling of a few lines, which he might easily get
a passing rustic to convey'. By waiting where he was
for a few minutes, some labourer would be sure to
come b}, who would act as his messenger ; and,

VOL. III. X

(}r

liaviii<j decided thus, he tore ii k>af out of his pocket -
"book and drew forth a penciL After he had written
his short note, he leant his elbows upon the top-bar of
the gate, and gazed down upon the ' great Sophirian
Empire with the fair landscape of plough, pasture,
and russet woodland, which was mapped out beyond.
The whole scene had been familiar to him from his
babyhood. The sunlight, already slanting away from the
hollows, cast a lurid light upon the red-tiled face of
One-Chimney Farm, which, with the great black barn
adjoining it, stood upon the rising ground to the left;
of the low fir-belt. The nearer fields were almost all
of them in shadow, except those closest to the roadway ;
in the foremost of which he perceived the well-knon
figure of the old scarecrow, impaled awry upon its
stake as usual, with its long arms outstretched as
though in affectionate greeting, and wearing, as it
had worn, ever since he could remember it, the discarded
hat and coat of the departed 'wire-puller.'
Apparently the birds were no more afraid of this
familiar object than Godfrey himself ; for, as he was
contemplating it, a whole flight of starlings, after
whirling about for some time in undecided fashion,
settled themselves complacently upon arms, shoulders,
and hat-brim ; utterly doing away with the original
outline of his old friend. Looking over to the rig) it
of what, then, could only be termed a scarecrow by
courtesy, he beheld once more the extensive woods of
Dallingridge Park, which sloped down at this point
as far as the red and white hop-cowls of Great Slily
How well-known and remembered "vas
everything that now met his A'iew, and how intimately
it had been blended and interwoven with the emotions
of what seemed to him, now, almost like a pre-historic

age ; not so much on account of its remoteness, as by
reason of the moral and mental landslips and upheavals
which had since convulsed his existence ! What ages
and ages ago did it seem, for instance, since the sunburnt,
bare-legged little Sophy, of the old time, had
sat perched upon the top-bar of this very gate, waiting
for the passing of the great lumbering yellow chariot
which had conveyed him from home upon the occasion
of his going to school I

Good-bye, cousin Godfrey !' she had called out to
him, waving her weird, sunburnt arms. ' I hope you'll
like Eton ! Give my love to Tom Hickathrift, and try
and come back soon, before we turn into great, grand,
grown-up people ! '

What changes had taken place since that day! . . .
since that other day too, long afterwards, when he had
driven away from this same spot, crushed and broken
in spirit ; the love of this woman, whom he had come
back now to claim, seeming the only one good thin
that was left to him !

xVs he stood thus, listening to the far-off sounds
which came floating towards him over the brown fields
with a strange distinctness, his Avhole being was flooded
with conflicting emotions ; for the most part sad,
tender, and retrospective, notwithstanding his errand,
and imbued with a painful consciousness of the mutability
of all things sublunary.

Had it been Sophie who was standing, as Godfrey
was standing now, leaning thus over a five-barred
gate, after the Working of many changes, and gazing
down at a familiar and well-remembered scene, I
might, perchance, have some hope of being able to
convey to the reader the impressions of her hidden self.
But /, who write these lines, am ' only a woman,' and.

do what I will, T am not sure that my poor powers of
feminine pen-craft can ever translate faithfully the
outcome of sentimental male musings. It is true that
we women, with regard to inveighing, protesting, disclaiming,
and the writing of letters, are possessed of a
dangerous facility ; but I am upon my guard against
this vcr' efflorescence of expression. Terse, crisp, and
concentrated, the emotions of a man who is capable
of feeling at all, are poured forth spontaneously from
the treasury of his inmost soul, and I dread lest, in
endeavouring to describe them, I should be turning
the gold of his profounder thought into the shillings
and sixpences of mere feminine effusiveness.

Yes, . . . changes enough had come to pass since
last he stood at this spot I Some of them, no doubt,
had been what must be considered changes for the
better. The Godfrey St. Clair of the seemingly prehistoric
age was of a truth dead, or had undergone,
at any rate, some strange metempsychosis. It was as
George Davenport, Marquis of Wroxeter, that his
spirit had returned to its old haunts, the owner of half-a-dozen
other titles besides, and of broad unfamiliar
lands and noble castles, some of them almost as gray
and venerable-looking as Pojnings Abbey itself. He
had not yet heard of stone coffins having been dug up
in any of his kitchen-gardens, nor of the discovery
upon his estates of ancient flint implements of warfare,
lance-points, and arrow-heads; but even this
honour might be yet in store for him ! In a word, he
found himself, to quote the blind philosopher's favourite
lines, a 'Triton 'mongst the minnows of the mire,
wandering to mould'ring feudal sophistries ; ' or, at ans''
rate, in a position to pander to them if it seemed good
to him to do so.

But, now, what would Sophy think of all this ?

There was a possibility that she might not even
have heard of it yet, and that he himself would be the
first to break the news. It is true that there had been
paragraphs in nearly all the leading journals, describing
the return of a long-lost heir to take possession of his
inheritance ; whilst in several places forming a part of
it, there had been bonfires, presentations of addresses,
and ringing of church bells ; but then he Alas aware
that levy few newspapers ever found their way to the
peaceful hollow beneath him, and that when they did
they were not often read. Sir Thomas Hickathrift
took in at least a dozen newspapers at the Abbey, and
through him she might have heard the romantic story ;
but even this was not quite a certainty. Everything, in
fact, seemed at that moment to become suddenly clouded
over with doubt ; a natural reaction, perhaps, due to his
having set out in too triumphant a mood. It seemed to
him, also, that he might appear to Sophy, with these new
honours, almost in the light of an alien, removed frontier
by reason of the very pinnacle upon which he was
now placed ; for the girl who had offered to fly with
him when he seemed plunged in the lowest depths
of poverty and degradation, was not likely to be too
favourably impressed by this sudden vision of 
; and he found himself repeating over andover
again the text, ' Let him that thicket he standeth
take heed lest he fall.'

As he was meditating thus he was aware of an
approaching footfall, and, looking round, perceived,
coming along the road, a likely messenger for the
conveyance of his note  a middle-aged man, with an
honest expression of countenance, dressed in a black
suit, such as is worn by labourers when out for a

for

holiday, and carryliif a bundle at this back. lie advanced
towards the gate, and, somehow', his face seemed
to be familiar.

Lard I it do seem pleasant, after London, to look
down at a sight like dis 'ere ! ' lie exclaimed, as etc, too,
gazed down at the autumnal landscape.

By the * r/o seem' and the ' f/i-s 'rrr;' Godfrey (as I
shall Continue to call him) recognised at once a South-countryman,
with an accent slightly deteriorated
through a residence in town.

You are from these parts, master ? ' he inquired
thinking he might, perhaps, glean some local news.

Time o' my young days I was, sir answered the
newcomer. * But I bin settled in London for many a
year now, carrying' on business as a seedsman. Howsomever,
I jest comes down, time to time, an*
casts an eye upon de ole place, I do. Time o' my
young days I done garden-w'uck up at Dallin'ridge
House, nigh here, under Muster McBean.'

Godfrey could not avoid a sudden emotion at the
mention of these familiar names. He made answer,
however, with self-possession, 

Oh, you worked up at Dallingridge House, did you ?
I used to know the family well, myself, and the old
place, too. They tell me there have been a good many
changes there.'

So I've heard tell ; but my business wasn't not with
the great folks. I jest walked over to see Muster
McBean. Lard ! /n> be took, now I '

What ! poor John McBean dead ? '

Yes ; an' Mary Parker, she be gone too  as John
he kep company with, as you may mind, sir. When
she see old John goo, she jest took bad herself, an' dey
"was carried to church same da'  moor's a fortnight

goo now ! They wasn't not never harried as you may
mind, but was jest' same as if they was. Gone on, it had,
many a long year I Ilowsomedever, it be over now ! '

As he said this, ho looked beyond the five-barred
gate, with an expression which, in a more refined nature,
might have betokened sentimental regret. Possibly
sic, too, after his simple fashion, was realising
and lamenting the mutability of things human !

So Mar' liker is dead, too ! ' said Godfrey,
sighing.

'Yes, she be gone ! ' rejoined the wayfarer, sighing
likewise. ' She took it badly to heart when young
muster he went to forming parts, an' wasn't not heard
on no moor ; an' when John, he wur took, the regular
finished her ars. Leastways, so dey tell me at d'
*' Black Horse," where I bin pulling' up to have a bit o'
dinner.'

You remember the young man up at Dallingridge
House, I dare say ? '

Only as a bit of a tit like, when I myself "\vs
quite a young 'un. He'd jest peep his head outside
the door, he would, when me and Muster McBean was
after filling' the wood-baskets.'

Well, and now, master, if it's not asking too much
of you, which way are you going ? My reason for
wanting to know is, that you can oblige me by leaving
a note, if you happened to be passing by Little Stilling-fleet.'


I'm your man, sir ! I be a-going' close by, to put
up with an old neighbour o' mine. Muster Stubberfel 
jest's well goo dis 'ere way as up by the fur gate.'

Thank you,' said Godfrey, feeling in his pocket
for half-a-crown. ' So Tom Stubberfield was a neighbour
of yours in the old time ? '

He weir, sur : toimo o' my youii days I You
be too youii*!;, I reckon, to miiid old Farmer Saxby,
as lived over at Oiie-Chimblev Farm, as you see
above dem trees r* Joe Crosby's my name, an' I be a
navvy o' his, on's wife's side. lie wur a queer old
gentleman, surely / But I owe's im notbin' but goodwill,
I don't, fur when I was a pore young feller, as
wur only a navvy o' bis on's wife's side, be used to
house me, an' sec after my scboolin,' be did, time o'
my young days ! '

Well, Crosby, I remember yo/, though you seem to
have forgotten me: but then, we youngsters change most
in our looks. Here's half-a-crown for you ; and be so
good, please, as to take this note down to Little Stilling-fleet
Farmhouse ; just ring the door-bell, and say it's
for Miss Sophy, and don't answer any questions. Good
afternoon to you ! '

Chapter Xxii.

It was only by chance, as it happened, that the rivals
of long standing did not meet at the entrance to Little
Stillingfleet, for Tom Hickathrift had set out thither
immediately after his solitary luncheon, only he had
turned in at what Farmer Saxby's ' navvy ' had termed
the * fur gate,'  which, to him, was the nearest, 
and taken his way by Stubberfield's cottage, and so
through the alder-wood. The pockets of his shooting-jacket
were positively crammed with newspapers.
Newspapers in each of Which there was an account
of the romantic discovery of the lost heir, and of the
claims which were about to be supported by indisputable
evidence, and the depositions of many witnesses.

There was a description, too, more or less detailed, of
the lighting of bonfires, the presentation of addresses,
and the ringing of church bells. With a sinking
heart, Tom had gathered all this information together
in order to acquaint Sophy of it. When he presented
himself at lier door, however, he was told by Jane
Ford that she had gone out walking, but that if he
would be pleased to * step in,' and wait, she would
probably return shortly. Miss Hornblower was at
home, Mrs. Ford had added, as he went into the
house, and ' the London young lady.'

Upon entering the parlour he found Miss Nether-cliffs
sitting over the fire, engaged in reading a letter.
She rose upon perceiving him, with a start of surprise
and a slightly embarrassed air. After passing her hand
hurriedly across her eyes, however, and giving a little
backward shake to her well-poised head, she recovered
her imperial calm.

Sophy is out,' she said, as she held out her hand.
 But she's been gone some time, so I'm sure she won't
be very long now, if you don't mind Awaiting. Miss
Tlornblower will be do\vn in a few minutes. Pray take
a chair.'

Sir Thomas, who was not at all disposed to ' jaw
the ground,' as it were, in his impatience to behold
Miss Hornblower, notwithstanding his respect for that
estimable woman, seated himself on one side of the
hearth ; Miss Netherclilfe, too, resumed her place.

How beautiful the weather has been this week.
Miss Netherclift'e ! ' he remarked ; ' so different from
last ! I'm so afraid I may be keeping you at home I '

Oh, no ! indeed you're not ! I went out for a
long walk this morning. Sophy wouldn't allow me
to go with her just now, and I found out it was

or

l)ccausc she wMs l)OHt on performing" a good action
and didn't wall it to be known I She is reading the
liable to a jjoor man clod Weller, but she seemed a
little aslianied of it. You know how quaint and
original she is I '

Yes, she's very unlike other people in all her
ways. I fancy she puzzled the old lady at the
school ?'

They didn't understand her there in the least; and
indeed, it takes some time to know her thoroughly.
She happened to get into an objectionable set on her
arrival, and they made use of her as a sort of revolutionary
agitator.'

'Ah I' rejoined Tom, fondly, 'she must have liked
that!'

Yes ; but of course it got her into trouble with
the authorities, and she ended by becoming a regular
scapegoat. "Wise men, however," says Macaulay,
when speaking of Machiavelli, "have always been
inclined to look with suspicion on the angels and
demons of the multitude." '

Yes ; that's an awfully good rule to make ! I'm
sure no one could know her well without liking her.'

I'm certain they could not ! And that power she
has of seeing the funny and the sad side of a thing
both at once, makes her so amusing as a companion I
She says of herself that she is a " Thinker and a
Feeler," and that it is a happiness and an unhappiness,
at the same time, to be so.'

I dare say it cuts both ways,' said Tom. ' I'm
afraid, for my owen part, that when I'm unhappy I
don't see anything funny about it.'

'Neither do I,' returned Isabella, with a quick
little sigh, which seemed to point so evident' to some

particular cause of present sadness, that Tom felt
justified in remarking, 

I shouldn't have thought. Miss Nethercliffe, that
i/ou would ccev have felt sad or unhappy ! '

I don't know why you should wish to deprive me
of the privilege of possessing human feelings ! ' she returned,
in a tone of melancholy archness. Evidently,
upon this particular afternoon, Isabella was in a very
softened mood.

Oil I didn't mean fJicif ." replied Tom, colouring
I only" meant that I could hardly fancy it possible that
a young lady like you, possessed of everything in the
world to make her happy, could ever feel really
sad.'

Ah ! . . .' answered Isabella, with another little
sigh, full of veiled import. she did not condescend to
explain, however, but changed the subject at once, in
rather a forced manner, by saying, ' Well, at an" rate,
dear Sophy is a charming companion, whether she is-sad
or gay, and I shall miss her very much when I Ja
home next week.'

I'm sorry to hear that you're leaving us so soon ! '
He used the word ' ?.s* ' in the sense of a kind of benevolent,
though half-feudal, appropriation, or ,
of the whole neighbourhood ; but to-his
sensitive ears, quickened by the pricking of conscience,
it seemed, after he had made use of it, to
possess a sort of conjugal ring, which Miss Nethercliffe
might possibly deem ill-timed and unseemly. ' I mean,'
he added, therefore, *that I'm sorry to hear you are
obliged to go away so soon, AVe shall miss you very
much, I'm sure.'

The ' ?re ' sounded almost as bad as the * .s,' but
lie stood so terribly in awe of Isabella, having heard

from Sophy of her high intellectual powers, that trio
very notion she was listening to him caused him to
flounder in his speech.

I am exceedingly sorry to go, too,' she replied,
looking dol musingly, and toying with the open
letter in her lap. ' But I feel I ought not to remain
away from papa any longer. He is so occupied,  so
much that is really important, to so many people, devolves
upon him, that even the very little assistance I
am able to render him is valuable. . . .'

I can understand, indeed, that it would be. It's
not every one, who, like Lord Nethercliffe, has a
daughter clever enough to be of the same use. Still, I
should have thought, in your absence some one might
have been found  not, of course, to take your place,
but to help your father in his affairs. There are so
many well-educated young men now, who, for a consideration
. . .'

I am aware of this,' cut in Miss Nethercliffc
quickly ; ' and, indeed, during my absence, papa has
been receiving help. . . . nothing would have induced
me to leave him entirely alone. . . . He possesses an
amanuensis,  a person who writes at his dictation and
takes copies of his papers. . . . He has had a good deal
of extra work lately in consequence of the intended
marriage of the Queen . . .'

Ah, yes, naturally,' replied Tom, who had been
thoroughly impressed with Lord Nethercliffe's importance
to the State. *But now, won't this enable
you to prolong your stay down here ? '

'To tell you the truth,' returned Isabella, again
sighing and looking pained, ' I hardly fancy that this
person  a lady  is equal to the serious task she has
undertaken. She is young, and without nmch experience.

I dread for her too much pressure of
business. . . . Papa requires some one upon Avliom
he can lean. . . .'

What an invariable person our friend upstairs
would be for the place I ' ventured Sir Thomas, as with
{I sudden inspiration. ' Miss Ilornblower  a thoroughly
well-educated woman  with a head on her shoulders.
I fear, too, that she's anything but well off. I don't
know a better woman of business.'

How strange ! ' exclaimed Isabella, with animation,
' that you should have suggested this ! The
same idea occurred to me as soon as I discovered her
many excellent qualities. A natural delicacy prevented
me, at first, from speaking to her upon the subject,
till I discovered, from Sophy and from herself, that
she was in extremely straitened circumstances, and
that she was actually in search of a situation of this
kind,  that of lady-housekeeper, secretary, and amanuensis,
to a widower of position.'

It was a capital idea !' said Tom, warmly ; * and I
shall be glad to know that poor old Mary Anne is
settled so comfortably.'

Unfortunately,' answered Isabella, rather gloomily
my little project has fallen to the ground, and you
can perhaps understand, though it is very foolish and
wicked of me, that I can't help feeling put out. There
air people whose generosity and unselfishness amount
to a posit ire fan /f, and papa is one of those people. He
so dreads the thought of giving trouble, or of interfering,
in any way, with the arrangements of others. . . .
Hard work and perpetual self-sacrifice, this has always
been his rule of conduct. He even begs me, in this
letter, not to hurry my return; but I feel  I Jaiow 
that /, too, should learn to be more unselfish ; and

<n'

iniiL'li as I enjoy Lein*- in this learning 2)lacc, with
dear Sopli} Conscience tells me that it is my duty not
to neglect paja.' She cast down her fine eyes, and
appeared, as Tom fancied, more distressed than the
occasion warranted.

He was touched at her filial devotion, and at the
almost confidential tone she had adojDtcd towards himself,
but was just then far too deeply concerned for his
own future to sympathise much with the irritation
caused by what seemed to him merely a crumpled
rose-leaf. Perhaps, had he known the real state of
the case, he woidd have felt more compassionate.

Anybody, indeed, but the noble-hearted Isabella,
would have perceived, from his lordship's letter, that
he was more than satisfied with his present amanuensis ;
that he had no intention of changing her, least of all
for one who was old and ugly ; and that, far from
pining for his daughter's immediate return, he could
very well dispense with her company for some time
longer.

Once before, during the period of her residence at
The Cedars,' this plausible and fair-spoken nobleman
had succeeded in ridding himself of his too-devoted
daughter, and he had even felt, upon her return,
slightly oppressed by the ' high tone ' which Isabella
always imported into the society she graced with lier
presence. With this exemplary young lady at the
head of his establishment, he had found it somewhat
difficult to indulge in those periods of ' moral relaxation
' so requisite to the statesman, ' after the tension
and restraint necessitated by constant attention to
affairs of moment ; ' and hence it was that in Isabella's
absence his lordship experienced some of the exuberant
sensations which are supposed to be known to the
mice * when the cat is away.'

Poor Isabella was still happily ignorant of this ; and
even if she perceived some particle of the sense of his
lordship's letter, it was but as 'through a glass, darkly,'
and wild horses would not have torn from her a confession
of her rising doubts. Sophy, however, to whom
the letter was shown, had read, at once, between the
lines, and was really anxious for the future of her
friend.

A somewhat awkward silence now ensued. Mary
Anne Hornblower, with that Christian spirit which
characterised her every action, upon hearing from Jane
Ford the name of the visitor, had decided to leave the
young people to themselves, and had refrained from
coming downstairs.

We might go aid meet Sophy, if you liked,' observed
Miss jNethcrcliffc at last. 'As you say, the
evening is beautifully fine.'

Sir Thomas, of course, assenting, she put on her
hat and cloak, which she had thrown upon the divan
after her morning walk, and the two left the house
together.

On getting out into a brighter light, Tom perceived
that Miss Nethercliffe had evidently been weeping.
The thought that so proud a spirit should actually condescend
to shed tears impressed him profoundly, and
had the effect of revolutionising several of his preconceived
notions respecting her character.

As they passed the broken pillar on the centre of
the lawn, they both glanced simultaneously towards it .

*I wish I had known him!' Isabella remarked,
regretfully. ' He must have been such a strange, kind,
simple, clever creature I'

That's just what he wasl' rejoined Tom. ' He had
more cleverness and simplicity, and belief and unbelief,
all mixed up together, than anybody I ever met with.'

or

So Sophy has told me. I suppose,' she added,
almost confidentially, * that he was rather mad?'

I think he-seas  a little,' whispered Tom, as though
he feared that the very trees should Overhear him; 'but
he was much more charming than a great many sane
people. The neighbours couldn't understand his religion,
and branded him as an Atheist. lie himself
used to say he was an Agnostic.'

I forget,' remarked Isabella, 'whether it was Hume
or Locke who said that Agnosticism was an incapacity
to discover the indispensable conditions of either positive
or negative knowledge ? '

I forget, too,' answered Tom, with the manner of
one who could have remembered once.

'And Jcnowlrdffc,' pursued Isabella, 'has been defined,
I believe, as " the perception of the agreement or
disagreement of two ideas," but again I am not quite
sure whether by Hume or by Locke ? '

I fancy,' returned Tom, with pardonable hypocrisy,
that it is by Hume.'

They now walked on for some way in silence,
through the flower-garden, across the rustic bridge,
into the hazel-cojDse, and so up the woodland pathways
towards Great Stillingfleet.

Upon reaching the spot where the great Hickathrift
ring of betrothal had been lost and found, Isabella,
with a heightened colour, quickened her pace. Tom
glanced down at her just then, and thought that 
though, of course, she was not to be compared to Sophy,
she was, after all, an exceedingly handsome girl, and a
very agreeable companion too, if only he could get over
being so terribly afraid of her, on account of her extraordinary
cleverness.

I can't think,' she said at last, when they drew

I

near to the ending of the wood, ' what can have happened
to Sophy ! I fancied we should have met her
long ago ! '

This was what had happened to her. She had
stolen forth alone, as Isabella had informed Tom, to do
'the good work under her hand,' taking her way
through the woods to the old shepherd's cottage, with
a basket upon her arm containing sustenance for the
body and soul of Moses Weller. As she heard the
dead leaves rustling beneath her tread, memories of
other autumns came back to her ; and being, as she had
said of herself, both a ' thinker and a feeler at the same
time,' her ideas began to take a somewhat melancholy
turn.

It is the end of another year,' she said to herself ;
and though a year is only a little moment of time,
parcelled into shape by the mind of man, God has
marked it too with the recurring seasons. The years
pass on in their appointed course, with but little varia-%
tion in the manner of either their beginning or their
ending. . It is ice alone who change  in our visible
selves, as in our hidden impressions ; and each fresh
year the miracles of Nature, from the first white snowdrop
bud to the last red leaf that quivers on the naked
bough, teach us more plainly the great lesson we
ought all of us to learn by heart.'

Some such meditations as these possessed her as she
sauntered up to the shepherd's house, where she went
through her appointed task. The honest Weller family
knew none of the ' diseased self-listenings, self questionings,
impotently painful habitations, all this fatal
nosology of spiritual maladies' *  the penalty paid by
the * thinker and the feeler' for the possession of a dual

 Carlyle.
VOL. Il , Y

faculty. To them the first white snowdrop bud and
the last quivering red leaf said no more than * the primrose
b) the river's brim* said to Peter Bell ; and yet
this could not have proceeded from the fact that they
ignored the Inevitable decree. In Mrs. "Weller's opinion
a burial was a burial, just as a wedding was a wedding.
They were, each of them, pleasant occasions for social
meetings, tcith a difference and she liked to be bidden
to both the one and the other.

'I'll lay you a guinea, Jerry, as our Moises gets
took, now, afoot you, if so be as you doiint not look out
sharp ! ' she had just remarked, playfully, to her husband,
in the hearing of the invalid ; to which the old
shepherd had answered, peevishly, and ' very complaining,'
as though with a sense of being slighted, 

De Lard 's bin an' gain an' last 's calculations
about my eiige, Martha, as I ses to you last hopping' !
Dat He have, surely /'

To whom Moses, from his arm-chair, had replied,
with a sickly smile of triumph, 

'Lay you a guinea, father, as I good must, if you
dont not look out sharp, now ! '

After leaving the cottage, Sophy wandered on past
the fish-ponds in the direction of Dallingridge Park.
Out beyond the Abbey woods the heavens were aflame
with a glorious sunset, which made the water look like
patches of sky fallen earthward by accident. Already
the trees were beginning to grow dark and mysterious.
Of all others this is the hour most conducive to
meditative self-communion, for at the ending of everyday
a lesson is preached to us as eloquently as at the
ending of the year.

Looking away suddenly from the red sunset, as she
reached the confines of the high beech-woods, she saw

Godfrey coming towards her along the shadowjqathway.
There could be no mistake, notwithstanding the uncertain
light. She would have known him, she felt,
from amongst thousands and tens of thousands of
men. An instant of wild heart-beating, and they were
together. Sophy did not speak, because no known
words could have given expression to all that was in
lier soul ; because, too, they were folded heart to
heart so closely that not even the slightest word could
have had room to glide out from between their lips.
At such moments the heart alone speaks, and that
loudly.

When words could come they were but few. Godfrey
had turned into the high beech-woods to his right
soon after he had despatched his messenger, meaning to
proceed to Little Stillingfleet by the longest way, and
thus afford Sophy more time to recover from her surprise.
At the shepherd's cottage he had hoped, too, to
glean some news of her. He was no longer an outcast
and a pariah ; he might ask now for her love without

shame and self-reproach This much he told her

as, hand in hand, they walked back together by the way
Sophy had come.

At the entrance of the hazel-copse they came upon
Tom and Isabella. Isabella was the first to perceive
them. The glow from the pink sunset illuminated
their faces ; they looked radiant as one might imagine
two inhabitants of the enchanted isles.

Who is that with Sophy ? ' Isabella inquired of her
companion.

Tom Hickathrift looked up quickly and read his
doom.

Then, after Sophy had murmured something which
was intended for a presentation of Godfrey to Isabella,

the two couples shook hands simultaneously, and, as it
happened, cross-wise, a certain sign (so say the wise
folks) that each one of the four hand-shakers will be
married before the expiration of a year.

Sophy, notwithstanding her tumultuous heart-beating,
realised at once that there was something prophetic
in their having come upon one another all ready paired
off thus into couples.

Chapter Xxi.

One morning, about a month after the events recorded
in the last chapter, in a country parsonage in the North
of England, a plain young person, arrayed in a greasy
mohair dress, and with her hands protected by retorted
mittens, entered what was, apparently, the
breakfast-room. Notwithstanding the inclemency of
the weather, for a drizzle  half rain, half sleet  was
falling from the leaden sky, the apartment was fireless.
The grate, indeed, bore evidences, in the shape of a
lio-ht green arrangement in cut-paper, and some specimens
of petrifaction from a neighbouring tourist-haunt,
of not having been used, at any rate, this winter.
Neither were there any more substantial signs of breakfast
than a teapot of base metal, a tea-caddy, and half
a loaf of stale bread. The table-cloth, however, which
was exceedingly coarse and dirty, bore traces as though
the family were in the habit of occasionally indulging
in eggs, so that, possibly, there may have been some
now in due course of preparation. Nothing could be
more cheerless and uncomfortable than the appearance
of the room.

The window, which opened to the ground, displayed

only some portion of a desolate-looking kitchen garden,
filled with decomposing vegetable matter, and with a
glimpse of gravestones appearing beyond the head of
the furthest cabbage, from which they were only separated
by a low wall. The carpet, originally a thin
fabric of many colours, had become, through old age,
as grey and leaden-hued as the sky, except where it
was protected by a black horsehair sofa, which vith
the table, a few chairs, and a bead fly catcher, completed
nearly all the furniture of the apartment.

Upon the table, beyond the area of the egg stained
cloth, were lying a few books, for the most part faded
and dilapidated in appearance. A large Bible occupied
the place of honour opposite to the teapot, whilst, on
either side, were disposed books of sermons, two numbers
of the Keepsake, in ragged red silk covers, and a
volume of the Peerage, at least thirty years old.

To this plain young person there entered, presently,
a younger, and, if possible, a still plainer person-evidently
a handmaiden  begrimed with soot, and
bearing in her red hands a newspaper, which had been
passing to and fro in the parish for very nearly a week.

If you please, miss,' said the begrimed one, after
she had set down the newspaper, ' what would you be
so good as to order for dinner ? Butcher says he's
completely out of tripe.'

Oh, he's out of tripe, is he ? ' rejoined the first
young person, speaking in a loud and commanding
voice. * But surely, Sarah, he's got pork ! Pork  the
refuge of the destitute,  rusty pork, measly pork ! anything,
so long as its cheap ! '

Butcher says, if you please, miss, as how he's got
a large white and-black lop ear rabbit, as lived tame ina
hutch as belonged to his little boy what's going back

to school and wouldn't require it  as followed him
about like a daw<>  as he can let you have cheap,' said
the begrimed one all in a breath ; ' and an old hen, as
has quite given over laying.'

How generous and noble of the dear butcher ! *
exclaimed the young lady in a sarcastic tone. ' Either
of them will do beautifully, whichever costs least, only
not old '' lop-ear" for choice ; or, if so, mind you smother
him up in onions, Sarah, for goodness' sake ! and let me
try and forget what he was like during his life ! '

Yes, miss,' answered the handmaiden, as she curtsied
and withdrew, leaving a trace of her fingers upon
the handle of the door.

As soon as she had departed, the yoimg person
in the red mittens (in whom the reader will have
recognised our former acquaintance. Miss Aspenall),
sprawled herself down in a chair by the side of the
empty grate, and commenced kicking viciously at the
fire-irons.

When I was at school,' she began, for she had
contracted the dangerous habit of soliloquising aloud,
I used to pretend that, at home, I got better things to
eat, and turned up my nose at everything. All the
girls did. It was the right thing to do, and I dare say
some of them did get pretty decently fed by their relations.
All I know is, / didn't ! and I verily believe, if
this sort of thing goes on much longer  this lop-eared,
barn-door, measly-pork system of diet,  I shall die
young, just like my poor mother, who, they say, was
the very living image of me, temper and all ! AVell, I
must says poverty 's beastly, and being an orphan 's
beastly, and having an uncle who screws one down and
tramples on one 's beastly ! I feel just like a Babe in
the Avoid, or one of those poor little princes smothered

in onions  (Bother ! I mean in the Tower  I was
thinking of old lop-ear ! ) . . . Ah ! what's this in the
paper? . . . " Ilolida} engagement.  Wanted a young-lady
(English) of prepossessing appearance and agreeable
manners, who would be willing and competent to
superintend the studies of two little girls, aged respectively
eight and ten sears, during the forthcoming
Christmas vacation. The advantages of a refined home,
without salary. Washing included. Church of England,
and fondness for children indispensable." '

** Fondness for children !" ' repeated Fanny, with
a demoniacal laugh, when she had finished reading,
** Prepossessing appearance and agreeable manners ! "
The place seems regularly cut out for me ! . . . " No
salary ''  Ah ! well, I didn't expect that ; but " washing,"
at any rate, and " Church of England ; " and no
taunting and trampling, and feedings ujDon old hens,
and lop-ears, and measly pork ! . . . Halloa ! What's
this? . . .'

Before, however, she had had time to peruse the
new paragraph to which she had turned, a crusty-looking
old gentleman entered the apartment. He
wore shaven gray whiskers ; and an unwonted abundance
of teeth, or the similitude of teeth, lent to his
countenance a somewhat shark-like appearance. His
expression, altogether, suggested that of some manner
of carnivorous fish, and his head had an air of brandished
up upon his remarkably high gills as upon a
salver. From a certain family" likeness to Fanny, it
was evident that he was * an AspenalL' He was, in
fact, her paternal uncle  the 'clergyman of the Church
of England,'  to whom she used so constantly to allude
when at ' The Cedars.'

'How now, Fanny!' he exclaimed, after he had

inspected the teapot. ' Lolling about, reading the
news before you've wetted the tea-leaves I'' Pay for
your keep, my dear ! pa" for your keep, and bestirring
! '

He spoke with a gobbling, spasmodic eagerness, and
was afflicted with some manner of (lura opUvptka, which
caused him to clutch frequently at his stock, as though
in dread of strangulation.

I was only just looking out for a situation, uncle,'
answered Fanny, with mock humility, ' and I've seen
something that's nearly taken away my breath. Don't
you remember my telling you about a horrid girl who
slept in my room at school; who snivelled at night, and
splashed in the morning, and thought no small beer of
herself, just because she was pretty, and "svo was
expelled for kissing her hand out of window to men in
the road? Well! if she hasn't gone and married a
marquis! Isn't it beastly?'

You see, Fanny, you were educated regardless of
expense. You can say, in future, that you once shared
your sleeping apartment with a distinguished member
of the aristocracy,' answered Mr. Aspenall, drily. ' I
trust you will endeavour to make a grateful return.'

She shared my sleeping apartment,' rejoined Fanny
bitterly, * and many a time has she had these shoes at
her head ! ' and she glanced down reflectively at her
well-worn slippers.

Well, Fanny,' said the reverend gentleman, who
was evidently' not without a touch of caustic humour,
you can now" have the satisfaction of reflecting that
the shoe of an Aspenall has been hurled at the head of
a marchioness I Truly, a sublime thought ! . . . Unfortunately,
however, it does not diminish the price of
butchers' meat. . . . What is the young lady marchioness
of V

Wroxeler/ replied Miss Aspenall, sullenly, * wherever
that may be ; but her husband's got a whole lot of
titles besides.'

Fetch me the Peerage, Fannj' said her uncle, producing
his spectacles, and wiping them with a coloured
pocket-handkerchief ; ' and look out Wroxeter amongst
the Ws.'

Fanny opened the sacred volume, and did as she
was bid.

Ah, yes ! ' muttered the old gentleman, as he
adjusted his glasses and looked at the place indicated.
' " Wroxeter, Marquis of (Davenport). Robert
Leofric, Marquis of Wroxeter, co. Salop; Earl of
Dorington, &c. &c. &c. ." (This must be the
grandfather, or, possibly, the uncle of your friend's
husband, our Peerage being an old one.) . . . Ah, I
thought so ! . . . '' His lordship is patron of eight
livings ! " Here, at last, is a chance of promotion !
After breakfast, Fanny, you shall write a letter to yoiy:
young friend, the marchioness, at my dictation, and
wish her every kind of happiness, and tell her how distressed
you are about the little affair of the shoes. And
now, my dear, wet the tea-leaves, and ring the bell for
prayers. Pay for your keep, my dear ! pay for your

keep ! '

*swithin

only a few months from this day. Miss
Aspenall's breath was ' nearly taken away ' for the
second time, in consequence of reading the announcement
of another marriage, which appeared in a later
number of the same newspaper. It ran as follows : 

*0n the 15th inst., at Poynings Parish Church, Sir
Thomas Hickathrift, Bart., M.P., of Poynings Abbey,
to the Honourable Isabella Nethercliffe.'

Upon the occasion of their marriages, both Sophy

and Isabella received congratulatory letters from their
former instructress, Miss Pendragon, accompanied by
an appropriate gift. Sophy's present consisted of a
formidable-looking tome, Blair on the Pentateuch  expensively
bound in crimson morocco, and With an
inscription to the effect that it was ' Presented to dearest
Sophia upon her marriage, with the heartfelt congratulations
and good wishes of her attached friend, Maria
Jane Pendragon.' The letter, too, was brimming over
with affectionate felicitations, and contained what
seemed almost like an apology for Sophy's expulsion
from ' The Cedars.' This much was, at any rate, satisfactory.
To another wedding-present, likewise a book,
Sophy turned with far more interest than to her Blair.
 Soul-icritJiings  a little volume of melodious, though
heart-rending verse, was sent to her by her friend and
schoolfellow. Miss Darlington  bound (as the young*
poetess informed her) ' in a cover of the colour of a
jacinth. Did I not always tell you' (she added in her
letter) ' that I felt confident I should some day become
famous, and appear in print ? '

Fanny Aspenall, through what appeared almost like
a miraculous interposition of Providence, was married
soon after Sophy and Isabella, just when a final rupture
between herself and her uncle appeared to be inevitable.
She espoused a neighbouring curate  an austere and
hollow-eyed ascetic, of slender means and unprepossessing
exterior, who, disappointed of preferment in England,
sailed, shortly after his marriage, for South Africa.
Like the Reverend Salvation Mortimer alias Carver),
he had heard ' a call,' and, 

. . . . braced in Faith,
He turn'd to tell the naked African
Of Sin and Retribution ;'

taking with him his amiable wife as assistant-ministering
angel. "Wien last heard of (for it is as well to
penetrate, as far as possible, into the future), he was ina
fair way of becoming a colonial bishop.

Don't 5ou pity the poor "heathen" with Fanny
looking after their spiritual welfare?' Isabella could
not refrain from observing to her friend Sojhy when
this piece of news was made kno"svn to them.

I. am enabled, also, to inform the reader, that the
happiness of one other young lady. who has figured in
these pages, bore, ere long, every promise of being
permanently secured. Miss Emily Spicer was led to
the altar by a wealthy, influential brewer of 
; and Sophy came upon her, a little while afterwards,
at her first drawing-room (at which both ladies
were presented to Her Majesty upon the occasion of
their respective marriages), wearing a magnificent terry-velvet
train, embroidered in silver, and surmounted by
a necklace and tiara, composed of emeralds almost a
big as new potatoes. Captain Frederick Augustus
Spicer accompanied his sister, glittering and clanking
in the gorgeous accoutrements of the 8th Dragoon
Guards. Notwithstanding this martial array", however,
the gallant officer, who had ' kissed oceans of girls 
some of them grown-up ladies with titles'  became,
when he beheld Sophy, actually suffused with blushes.
He was recalling, possibly (as sic was, too, at the
moment), the hand-to-hand tussle in the drawing-room
at * The Cedars,' when the two had very nearly overturned
the 'Grand Llama.' The meeting between the
youthful brides was one of the utmost cordiality upon
both sides Bygones were permitted to be bygones,
and Emily's husband now supplies Sophy's establishment
with beer.

CONCLUSION.

So Isabella is at the Abbey, whilst Sophy has so many
houses and castles to live in that, as extremes meet,
she says, sometimes, that she feels quite nomad and
homeless.

Oitce, and once only  in all the first thoughtlessness
and arrogance of a new and long-prayed-for happiness
she had ventured, playfully, to taunt her former
guardian with being * a weathercock deeming that he
too, had good reasons for being well pleased with his
lot. But, a moment afterwards, she had repented her
of her flippancy.

What can the weathercock do,' he had answered
(and in so sad a voice that it haunted her afterwards
for many a day), ' when the wind will always blow the
wrong way?' And Sophy could not say, at once, what
the weathercock should do.

I think,' she said at last, kindly, though with the
consciousness that her metaphors were, perhaps, in some
degree confused, ' that it ought to try to be happy and
contented, and to forgive the wind.'

And, indeed, happiness and contentment, of a sedate,
decorous, and undemonstrative kind, seem to hold undisputed
sway at Poynings Abbey. Sir Thomas, having
identified himself with certain agricultural questions, in
connexion with which his voice is even occasionally
heard in the senate, is looked upon as quite a public
character in the county, where his opinions, like those
of his father before him, are supposed to possess very
considerable 'weight.' He is gaining weight, too, in
other respects, and promises one day, notwithstanding
the immense amount of outdoor exercise in which he
indulges, to become almost as heavy, physically, as the

late Sir Peckham. In a word, he is contented, prosperous,
and respected by all who know how to appreciate
true nobility of character. He is proud, too, of
the talents of his handsome and accomplished wife ; but
there are moments when he says to himself that no
woman will ever be able to make him, again, thoroughly
and entirely miserable. One did once (a sure indication
of a sincere passion in a man), and she was not
Isabella !

Sophy's earlier friend, Adele, also, is, to all appearance,
happy in the possession of her haughty Byronic
Professor, the * second husband' of the old time, who,
by a series of propitious circumstances, came to be the
first,' after all ! Sophy frequently receives letters
from her, and she has even been the means of procuring
for Mr. Heathcote a lucrative and permanent appointment,
though the recollection of the affair of the caricature
prevents her from ever feeling perfectly at ease
in his presence. Hence, the intimacy is chiefly confine
to the two ladies.

Mademoiselle de Cramponaye the elder,' in consequence
of some awkward disclosures ensuing upon a
claim for professional attendance which, at the decease
of her ' last victim,' the ' proprietor very rich, but deaf,
from the Pays de GaUcs (I am quoting from one of
Adele's letters), she had had the imprudence to press
upon the notice of the executors, was obliged to quit
London in rather a summary manner ; and the apartments
in Wimpole Street were occupied, during the
daytime, when last I heard of them, by a flourishing
American dentist, who refused to perform the simplest
operation for less than ten guineas. He took the furniture
and fixtures with the rooms, so that the Turkey-carpet
is probably still there, amongst the deep pile of

or

which the bones, half-gnawed, by Mademoiselle de
Oramponayc's dirty white poodle, wore wont to repose
undisturbed ; and also the high, gilded mirrors, which
reflected once the faces of Sophy and the blind philosopher
during the spiritualistic, mesmeric, alchemic, and
generally occult period of their existence. The same
gilt pemhtlr, too, which Adele described in one of her
letters as 'regarding' her 'sadly in the face,' is still, I
believe, ticking away in the centre of the tarnished
furniture de chemin ; ' and it occurred to me, the last
time I beheld it, that, perhaps, after its hands had
pointed to the 'witching hour,' and when the dentist
and his family were comfortably tucked up in bed in
their suburban residence, the spirits of such of the
former frequenters of these apartments as were already
disembodied might, possibly, take it into their heads to
revisit their old haunts, where I can picture them holding
all sorts of mystic orgies and seances, and ' playing
Old Gooseberry' with the dentist's abominable instruments
of torture ! This, however, is only an idea of
my own. Anyhow, I should not much like to find
myself accidentally locked inside these gloomy, old-fashioned
rooms, after most of the inhabitants of the
great city were plunged in slumber ! There was
another house, some few j'-ears ago, in Paris, in an
obscure street leading out of the Hue clc la Ferrotien'e,
beyond the quartier des Halles, where, by ascending the
steps conducting to the entresol, the following inscription
might be read upon a brass-plate above the
bell-pull of the left-hand doorway :  ' Monsieur et
Madame de Cramponane-Carver, Astrologues ; VAceuir
par les Cartes; Salon-depilatoire, Epicures, etc. etc. etc. ;'
whilst, from a rudely-painted design over the entrance,
representing a joimg woman carrying an infant, it was

to be surmised that the female practitioner occasionally
combined with the above-mentioned professions that of
a 'baby farmer,' or \fai.sci(sc dnujCH. And, indeed, the
etc. etc. etc.* upon the door-plate seemed  to judge by
the varied aspect of the visitors who presented themselves
 to be possessed of the very widest significance.
!Nurses, who entered carrying babies, and made their
exit without them ; men and women, who went in old
and gray-haired, and came out young and blooming ;
dark persons, M'ho departed fair ; and fashionably-dressed
young gentlemen, accompanied by beautiful
young ladies (as far as might be seen through their
thick veils), who, from the agile manner in which they
were wont to alight from their fiacres and trip up the
staircase, did not, certainly, appear as if they required
to be ministered to in the last capacity mentioned upon
the brass door-plate.

Our old acquaintance Mr. Carver, in point of fact,
l:)affled in his endeavour to 'annex' Adele, either by
persuasion or brute-force, was obliged eventually sto
content himself with ' Mademoiselle de Cramponaye
the elder ;' and the couple had finally established
themselves in this out-of-the-wa} corner of the French
capital, where they might be professionally consulted
(either together or separately), upon Sundays as well as
week-days, between the hours of five o'clock and ten-thirty,
p.m.

The romantic story of Godfrey St. Clair's sudden
transformation into an hereditary legislator of great
wealth and social importance, very naturally created
.some sensation at first in the neighbourhood of Callings
and PojTiings. Jy reason of this very social
importance, however. Lord and Lady Wroxeter found
themselves, to a certain extent, beyond the reach of the

cacklinjs of the multitude ; besides which  with the
exception of Sir Thomas Ilickathrift (who had always
been renowned for his discretion), Andrew Locke, Mr.
and [rs. Green (;/ Peacock) of the ' George '  there
were, in reality, very few people to cackle. Those who
would, probably, have been the most interested in the
affair,  * Francis St. Clair of Stillingflect,' Sir Peckham
and his lady, Dr. Dyer, and possibly the old Rector, in a
lucid interval  had all of them departed beyond the
reach of scandal.

Mrs. Pettigrew laid the whole blame of the adoption
at the door of * the old squire,* and none of the neighbours
had felt themselves sufficiently aggrieved by the
transaction to be desirous either of exhaling him or of
burning him in effigy. Hence the event proved little
more than a nine-days' wonder.

His name turned out to be George,' Sophy generally
explains, when questioned upon this subject by persons
who have no right to inquire, as she waves her hand
with the old familiar movement towards the distant
horizon ; ' but I always call him Godfrey I have no
time to tell you the reason, for if I tried I should have
to talk for as long as the Sultana Scheherazade in the
Arabian tales. It's a very, very long story; quite a
romance ! '

And indeed, what with seasons in London, shooting
parties at Wroxeter and Dallingridge, and now and
then a mad rush up to the Highlands, or over to Paris,
time flies quickly enough in all conscience ! So quickly
that (as Sophy thinks, at moments when she has leisure
to think at all), everything will be over so terribly soon,
that it seems almost absurd to allow either joy or sorrow
to interfere with one's philosophic calm. The evenings
and controlling of the emotions ought merely to be

looked upon as 'training'  a preparation for some more
endurable future phase of existence, be it a life bearing
any semblance to this present individual life, or only
the more abstract and intangible fusion or absorption of
the spirit in 'Brahm or Universal Being.' Even Grief

Should be

Like joy, majestic, equable, sedate ;

Confirming, cleansing, raising, making free ;
Strong to consume small troubles ; to commend
Great thoughts, grave thoughts, thoughts lasting to the
end.' *

It is to this result that she is endeavouring to school
her warm and enthusiastic nature, when sie Lias time.

She has striven, too, earnestly and conscientiously 
if only for the sake of appearing to be more like other
people  'to bow with reverence at the shrine of respectable
and convenient Error,' the 'nymph' who (according
to Dr. Djer) ends by consoling us ' for the absence of
her coster sister.' But, do what she will, Sohy feels
that she cannot be thus consoled. Deep down in her
heart, as long as that heart shall continue to beat, there
must ever lurk an intense and passionate yearning after
'Ultimate Truth,' and there are even moments when
she can scarcely conceal her indifference to many of
the traditions which have been sanctified by time and
national custom.' Doubtless this springs from some
radical defect in her nature, and it is one for which
she has often been made to suffer, surrounded as she
is by the shifts and compromises of a fashionable
life.

This life, with its varied movement, its social fetters,
and its hornet-swarm of conventional frivolities, is

aubrey de Vere.
VOL. ITT. Z

And, thus, there is compensation for Sophy, even
upon her social Alp.

We are going into the country for a little while
sto uncivilised ourselves she says, from time to time, to her
numerous (too numerous !) friends and well-wishers, and
then she and her husband depart, forthwith, to the
peaceful hollow in which is situated the Avhite-gablcd
farmhouse where the many-coloured roses climb and
cluster in the summer time, and where she can behold,
as she looks from her window, the broken column
scored over with the mystic writing which ' nobody can
understand.*

At Eli, with its whispering grove of palm,

And clustered wells in cool abundance springing,
Israel encamped  their sighs exchanged for singing,

And March's murmurs for a gladsome psalm ;

Earth has its Elinis still, of shadowy calm 

Sweet homes, with gentle vines about them clinging'*

And, to Sophy, Little Stillingfleet seems to be some
:such home. It inspires her, too, with a delightful sense

Richard Wilton.

the Adventures of a Savcuje. ?)?>S)

of repose, as though Time, who seems to be rushing on
so madly to his appointed goal, pauses at least here
for a little while, and allows breathing-space 'hcrcin
to realise and to enjoys

For, at Little Stillingfleet, everything is almost precisely
in the same state as it always was. Hardly anything
appears to be affected by the laws of change and
progression ; not even ' Janiis's ' culinary talents. Out
of three poached eggs she invariably breaks two
in the cooking, and she continues, perse ver in ugly, to
dish up * half the gravel walk ' with the spinach ; but,
then, this makes quite an amusing variety after the
faultily faultless ' cuisine of an accomplished chef, and
a whole troop of white-ventured nianiiitoNS !

It is true (speaking of changes and progressions)
that the coffee of Abdallah's complexion seems, as it
were, to gain ever" year an addition of milk, b} reason
of the sunlessness of our Northern clime. His Oriental
wardrobe, too (never very extensive), has gradually
become exhausted, and he has now almost entirely
adopted the dress of the South Anglican chawbacon 
fustian jacket, corduroy small-clothes, yellow spatter-dashes,
and cat-skin cap. A little while, and he will
probably hie him to the Poynings cobbler, and order a
pair of those ' beds of Procrustes,' the 
(man's size). The day of this crowning humiliation
has not yet dawned, however  a large suppl'
of heelless and easily-discarded Oriental slippers (once
the property of the departed Sire-puller ' ) having
passed into his possession ; and Sophy even perceived
him shuffling about one day in a pair which had been
sanctified by the foot of the Great Prophet. He is
still hailed as * What-you-call-um ' by his English
acquaintances, and, no doubt, if any of them merci

sufficiently cultivated to correspond with him, their
letters would come addressed to him in this name. By
some law, human or divine, Delia Ford and the accommodating
Egyptian have been joined together in holy
matrimony.

I hope that they've made it all right ? ' Sophy
had inquired of Jane, upon returning to her old
home after a somewhat longer absence than usual ;
and upon INIrs. Ford replying, * Bless your soul and
living' body, missy, de?/ be right enough!' she had
deemed that it might be wiser to ask no further
questions. Whether Abdallah became a renegade,
and abjured the ancient faith of his fathers for
that of the accursed Giaour, and thus silenced forever
the clerical and un-Christian bickering  whether
Deely had turned Moslem  whether the new clergyman
(for whom Sophy has constructed a new house,
so that Mary Anne Hornblower may continue to
occupy her old home), ignoring all difference of
creed, had merely married them off-hand, without
asking any questions  or whether they had united
themselves by some more primitive method, such
as the smashing of a tumbler or the jumping over a
broomstick, must remain henceforward enveloped in
mystery. Perhaps, after all, they were only following
in the footsteps of poor John McBean and Mary
Parker, and merely * keeping company ' with persistent
determination ; ' anyhow ' (as Sophy had once said,
when quite a little girl), ' it had ended in kittens '
quaint, moon faced, wide-mouthed, beady-eyed creatures,
who came cropping up year by sear, like yellow
toadstools ; and Sophy, who inherited from her dead
father a lively interest in all questions of race, began
seriously to fear, that when the time came for them to

intermarry with their kinsfolk (the other descendants
of Nelus and Jane Ford), the yellow-toadstool strain
of blood might militate considerably against the comeliness
of the local chawbacon of the future.

The casual allusion, just now, to the slippers of the
Great Prophet, reminds me of the Great Prophet himself.
The beginnings and endings of most of the noted
seers of the earth have been generally interwoven with
the marvellous, and, hence, it is only consistent with
the semi sacred character of this personage that his
disappearance from these pages should be enveloped
in mystery. In a word, then, Sophy has heard no
tidings of him since her marriage ; and as she is now,
by reason of her wealth and influence, in so glorious
a position for furthering the interests of the Great
Cause, she can only surmise that, failing a possible
translation to heaven in a chariot of fire, he may have
been sealed up in a copper flask and cast into the uttermost
depths of the sea  like the genius in the Arabia //
Tales  by some Czar, Shah, or Padishaw jealous of "his
omniscience.

Be this how it may, he appears to have vanished
from the face of the earth ; the long letter he addressed
to Sophy at ' The Cedars ' was even as the death-note
of the swan, and Europe and the East seem to bear
with surprising equanimity this extinction of the
grand centre luminary of the Great Cause.

The little moments which Sophy passes at her old
home  moments of emancipation from the cares, the
duties and (what are often more irksome than either) the
enforced amusements of her new life, are, to her, like a
foretaste of what, as slice says guardedly, she hopes that
'heaven will be like, if there is a heaven.' Isabella,
up at the Abbey, knowing her friend's feeling upon the

subject, geiu>nilly puts off going to see her till within
a few days of her departure to more civilised regions.

sophy is such an odd creature, you know I ' she
says to Sir Thomas : * she likes to have her husband all
to herself, and to sec nobody else I How curious that
she should be so dreadfully in love with him still ! and
what a pity it is that she has no children I ' Upon
which Sir Thomas, who, it may be, is just in the act
of annotating the margin of a pamphlet upon the
enlightened culture of the mangold-wurzel, or the
merits of some new species of guillotine for the more
consummate slicing of turnips, generally looks up for a
moment, and says with a quick sigh, of which rien
Isabella (who 'knows everything') would be puzzled
to divine the exact significance,  ' Ah ! . . . she always
(lid do everything very differently to other people ! 
and then returns to the perusal of his pamphlet.

As Isabella observed of her friend and neighbour,
it is a pity that she has no children. Sophy is, unfortunately,
childless ; and so there is just a note of
sadness in the midst of her prosperous life, making it
seem almost pathetic to the on-looker, and divesting it
of all appearance of insolent self-complacency. The
one unsatisfied longing which, if the truth were but
fathomed, must lurk at the root of all human prosperity
; hidden away, perhaps, and buried out of the
sight of the vulgar, but existing nevertheless, to teach
us that we may not soar to the bliss of the immortals,
has assumed this form in her case ; so that the gipsy-woman's
prophecy in the old time about the ' pigeon
pair' was even *as sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal.'

Only children,' as Lady Henry Davenport had
once remarked to her son, ' very often run in families.'
Godfrey' (as his wife still continues to call him) was

an only child, so also was Sophy herself. The families,
it may be, were in process of dwindling towards extinction,
like the caste of the Iximayan ' sacerdotal,' and
this may account for the calamity. But then, Tom
Ilickathrift, too, had been an only child, and yet, since
his union with Isabella (likewise an only child, so far as
I am aware), little Hickathrifts have sprouted up in
quick succession at the Abbey:  1. Peckham Brambles
Nethercliffe. 2. Thomasina Isabella sophia (to
whom a friend and neighbour stood sponsor). 3.
Twiselton Sattherthwaite. And others, whose names,
with the ages of the boys, will be found duly enrolled
in the pages of Sir Bernard Burke.

They are rosy good-tempered, noisy, merry-making
children. All day long thej romp, and shout, and
play games ; driving themselves about like horses,
with reins and bells, fleeing kites, flinging balls,
and spinning tops. The vaulted roof of the ancient
crypt re-echoes with their laughter, and the grand
staircase with their little [pattering footsteps. The
"ghosts of the old Carthusian are either exorcised
altogether by these merrier inmates, or else, having
taken them under their benevolent protection, wink
good-naturedly at their quips and cranks, watching
them, maybe, in amused silence, as they play hide-and-seek
in the passages, and scramble in and out of
the large oblong flower-stands upon the landing, in the
depths of each one of which (if they only knew it)
there is ' a round hole scooped out for the monk's head.'
Their father is fondly devoted to them, and perceives,
not without satisfaction, that one and all of them
possess, in a rudimentary stage, the Hickathrif't nose.

How is it, then, that my Sophy may not know the
joys of maternity ? Is it by reason of some spiteful

freak on the part of jealous Fortune, or that Nature,
having created what Dr. Dyer would have termed two
morbid varieties,'  morbid by reason of their very
superiority,  has paid them the compliment of breaking
the moulds in which they were fashioned, in order that
they might be the more irrevocably separated, and distinguished
from such creatures as the propagators of
the yellow toadstools ? . . . Either this, or else it is
merely one more convincing proof of ' the incontestable
reality of an existing system of compensation.' At
any rate, the distant Davenport cousin, who, by the
resurrection of the ' rightful heir,' way ousted of a very
considerable fortune, is still in a position to raise
money upon his expectations.

So the years fly onward; keen Spring time seeming
still, as in the old days, so full of budding promises ;
green, leafy Summer ; Autumn, with its falling leaves
and garnered memories, and barren Winter, chill" with
binding frosts, and cheered by glowing fires. These
seasons, in quick and still quickening succession, pass
Sophy by, in their appointed order, with the revolving
of the year ; whilst, with the philosophical Spirit
inherited from the departed ' wire-puller,' she seems
to watch their flight from her place by the wayside,
where she is waiting yet for some grander and fuller
revelation.

As she remains thus, the pageant of life passes her
along the highway ; those who take part in it, tricked
out in Jill the bravery of garland and breast-knot, or
slinking barefooted and tattered, from the glance of
their merrier companions. Bright-haired children,
youths with their maidens, the hot bigot, the warrior.

the student, the pale ascetic, the reigning beauty, the
young man of promise ; all these defile before Sophy's
philosophic gaze, like the changing forms upon the slides
of a magic-lantern. Sometimes she even wonders that
the'' do not appear to be more real. Now and then,
a true map, or true ico)))(iii, broad-browed, just, noble
in endeavour, constant in love, stands out from the
throng ; rcA'ealed, as it seems to hei', by some manner
of luminous aureole, such as one sees surrounding the
heads of the saints upon a cathedral window. With
these men, and with these women, whenever she
chances to become acquainted with them, Sophy has a
longing to swear brotherhood ; holding on as it were
to the girdle with the left hand, whilst the right is
uplifted in testimony to Allah, ' or his latest scientific
substitute.' These are but rare exceptions, however,
morbid varieties,' passing but seldom along the highway
of life.

It does not often happen, now, that Time, in this
relentless course, impels her patient spirit with Ae
flutter of his wing. Like her father before her, she is
endeavouring to act ujd to the maxim of Saint Veuve,
Etre, et rider en dehors de toutes and, every hour, the
endeavour becomes less difficult  a calm, contemplative,
analytical mood having succeeded to the wild heart-burnings
 the strivings, the fiery enthusiasms and indignations
of the bygone days. It seems to her, now,
that she must have grown, beyond measure, old, and cold,
and wise, and indifferent to every sort of dangerous
impulse ; and yet, at thought of some of the old follies,
outlived, repented of, and over})assed, the warm tears
rush unbidden to her eyes.

What is the meaning, she often asks herself, of
these irrepressible tears ? . Are they tears of regret,

of longinus, of disappointment ? Bitter tears at trio
shattering of un idol,. or tears of joy at the crowning
of a heart's desire ? . . . There they are, at any rate,
always in readiness ; and even Sojihy herself does not,
sometimes, know why they fall.

Whilst contemplating, thus, the briefness, and smallness,
and incompleteness of all earthly things, she often
wonders how it is that her fragile woman's heart can
contain a love so absorbing and intense as that which
she experiences for her husband. She wonders, too, if
this love is returned to her, in any sort of like measure,
by the Dream King with the dark, unfathomable eyes,
who still loolxS so much, and mys so little ; ho little , as
compared to what she foolishly desires that he would
say, JiHiidreds and hmid/'cds of ti)))cs in a day, and repeated
over and over again I

About the extent of Godfrey's affection she is continually
questioning herself, and making surmises ;
wondering whether it might not be quite possible for
him, notwithstanding his goodness, and tenderness, and
patience towards her, to stand alone, or join himself
to some other woman, if she should cease to exist y
Whether the love of a man, whosoever he may be, can
ever possess the intensity, the passion, the rapacity of
that of a woman, when she loves to the fullest limits of
her twofold nature ? . . . . Perhaps these are questions
Which no wise woman should ever inquire into. * 1
think,' says Shelley, in a letter to Leigh Hunt, ' one is
always in love with something or other ; the error, and
I confess it is not easy for spirits cased in flesh and
blood to avoid it, consists in seeking in a mortal image
the likeness of what is, perhaps, eternal.' And it is for
this likeness, possibly, that Sophy, unknown even to
herself, may be fruitlessly seeking in one who is, in

spite of her increasing devotion to him, only u ' mortal
image' after all I She herself, too, she has thoroughly
realised, is neither a Cassandra nor a Joan of Arc,
Priestess or Pythoness  she is none of these. Notwithstanding
the eulogies of the Great Prophet,
she is onh/ a woman ;' one upon whom 'the primeval
curse still rests' (to quote from his letter) ; whose
destine it is ' to c/esirc and to serve,' and to hide awaj-
from those nearest and dearest to her many of the
dreams and aspirations of her innermost soul, which,
like the mystic characters written upon the broken
pillar at Little Stillingfleet, ' nobody seems clever'
enough to understand.'

She has become aware, also, that it is unwise for a
woman to expect too much from the man she loves. Is
it not enough that he has made her know the joy, the
gratitude, the all-embracing charity, which should arise
out of the consciousness of a great affection ? With these,
it is true, there must mingle always a great fear  the
fear of a possible separation, either through death or a
changed heart ; but a wise woman will not obtrude tot)
often such gloomy thoughts upon the being who inspires
them. For man  the lord of creation, made by God in
His own image  requires to be cautiously and tenderly
dealt with. He requires of woman that she should
minister to his comfort, his contentment, his continual
well-being. After all, it is little enough that he
demands of her ! no more than he asks of his pipe or
his easy-chair; whilst woman  a real Avoman  one
who, like Sophy, is a ' Thinker and Feeler' at the same
time  what does she not hope for, and long for, from
the man she adores? . It is better, however, that
she dance and sing before him, like the daughter of
Herodias, even if she demand of him the head of an

occasional Baptist, than that she should jar upon his
complacent moods with her far-reaching yearnings
and trepidations. All this no woman can learn in a
dav !

So the years fly onward, and yet the Sophy of my
story  even should silver threads come to mingle with
her auburn tresses  will never be really old. Imagination
is hers  that gift of the gods  the true philosopher's
stone, transforming into gold all baser metals,
and, so, she can be young again whenever she likes ;
and these frequent returns into the fantastic realm
of her childhood have caused her still to retain the
hopeful, ingenuous look in her dark eyes. She can
return, too, in spirit, to days which were less congenial
to her.

I am going back to school again,' she says, sometimes,
to her husband, and takes up, forthwith, the little
volume in the * cover of the colour of a jacinth,' and it
is then (as Mr. Watt Whitman has said, in hie Soni/
of the Broad Arc) that 'the shapes arise Miss
Pendragon in her rustling brocade ; Heathcote the
haughty and his gaiters ; kind-hearted Dr. Spriigel,
with his parti coloured beard and feeble jokes ; Emily
Spicer hi her smart frocks and bonnets ; Fanny
Aspenall and her red mittens, with her affectation
of brutal candour ; and, lastly, herself, as she must
have appeared when gazing out sadly through the hated
meat-cage,' at the rusty iron gateways beyond,
and the widowed cedar tree, with its black underlying
circle, divested of all wholesome verdure. These
shapes arise before her whenever she loses herself fora
few minutes in the little volume of heartrending
poems.

When one is very happy,' she says to Godfrey, ' it

is <oocl for one to be reminded, sometimes, of darker
days ! ' And hence it is that Jacintha Darlington's
virgin effort has never yet been relegated to what
Lord Macaulay has termed * the dust and silence of
the upper shelf.'

It will be perceived, thus, that with regard to
many things which are accounted conducive to wisdom,
Sophy has improved and mellowed with the 3''ears,
though there are still moments when, to her secret self,
she stands revealed as 'an Orson in petticoats,' notwithstanding
that the said petticoats may be fashioned
of less homely stuff than our old friends the shepherd's
plaid and the brown-holland, or even the black merino
with the 'pipings' of crape, which was once hastily
run up ' by the two Miss Spearings of Poynings.

As she once remarked, however, in a letter to Adele,
she does not make quite so much progress icith Iter
religion. That is to say, she is still unable, as yet, to
adapt her mind, honestly and conscientiously, to absorbing
and assimilating the spiritual opinions of ot/m'.s.
Her own religion  founded upon a belief in the goodness
and mercy of God, as perceived in His works bj"
the light of that reason which He has vouchsafed to
her  has become confirmed and strengthened, though
this does not prevent her from being still, to some
extent, 'a picker of the plums out of the surviving
creeds.'

The religious sentiment called Faith cannot guide,'
says the Rabbi Isaac Wise, 'for it is evidently uncertain.
Whence the various and contradictory views
of the Christian sects, all claiming the guidance of
Faith, if it is reliable ? By Faith, crusades were organized,
inquisitions instituted, autos-da-fe celebrated,
tens of thousands were massacred Imagination

Ol'

cannot invent a doctrine revolting; to reason and conscience
which at one time or other has not been adopted
by Faith as a divine precept. . . . reason  the understanding
 is the guide which God has given us ; the
highest and hist arbiter in all matters human and
divine. Reason is the supreme authority, and there

is no appeal from its decisions With tlu

progress of reason, Faith and Conscience are purified,
Humanity is elevated, and the ethical feeling sanctified
But if I speak of reason as the highest

authority' (he goes on to say), 'I do not mean ;y///
reason or your reason ; I mean Reason itself, universal
and eternal, in which, and through which, the human
family is a unit, and God is revealed to man.'

All this Sophy has come to understand, and she has
chosen Reason as her guide rather than Faith, or that
accommodating impostor, Conscience.

The notion, however, of moulding the minds of
others to her will, or of tearing the masks from the faces
of the hypocrites, has died a natural death. Unwillingly,
with disappointment and humiliation, she has
abandoned the thankless task of converting and regenerating
the hmnan race. Men and women, however
incapable they mays be of so doing, are inclined to
think, act, and believe for themselves : she realises
this at last. Religion  or, rather, the possibility of a
conscientious belief in certain spiritual mysteries  is,
as Francis 8t. Clair was wont to affirm, in a great
measure constitutional, and beyond the control of the
human will ; and since in all civilised communities
there must needs be some hypocrites, let them, in all
conscience, go masked, so that we see not their hideous
faces ! . . . This is the wisdom that has come to her
with the years.

And so I will leave lier, at Tittle Stillingfleet once
more, her 'Elini of shadowy calm,' looking out dreamily
over *the enemy's country' of the old time, which is
now her own, or up towards Tom Hickathrift's dark
fir-belt, beyond the large cornfield, in the middle of
which the old scarecrow is still standing. The pink
sky (for it is sunset) is scattered over with gray and
violet clouds, golden-bordered,  which go floating onward,
onward, as with a fixed determination of purpose
almost unaccountable in mere nebulous bodies. Some
of them  as on that saddest of sad evenings, when she
had gazed out at the sunset from the window of the
summer-room  are shaped like dragons, lions, winged
angels, and horsemen upon rearing steeds Sometimes
the dragons, and the lions, and the horsemen, seem to
be pursuing and overtaking the angels, and putting
them to confusion, out beyond the uttermost edge of
the horizon ; sometimes it is the angels that pursue
and conquer.

It is the conflict (Sophy tries to imagine) of ic
Surs and the Assure  the perpetual battle between
Ormazd and Ahriman, the powers of good and of evil,
which shall continue into all time, with the victory
inclining now to the one side, and now to the other ;
and at thought of this, the memory of her childish,
barefoot days, of her dead father, and of the Great
Cause, with its contradictions, absurdities, and incongruities,
comes crowding back upon her, and sends
the warm tears to her eyes, notwithstanding that she
is so happy ! . . .

Her youth has, indeed, gone by very, very quickly,
with its many heartaches and bright gleams of sunshine,
and, by-and-by, will come the end.

My story, too (if ' story ' this medley of fact and

fiction  but of fact for the most part  can be called),
has likewise arrived at its termination. It has taken
lonfi, too lonp, perhaps, in the tellin<i ; but the longest
tale must come to an ending some day, as must the
leisure of all tale-tellers and singers of songs, whose
breathing-space, betwixt seed-time and harvest, is, at
the uti|iost, but brief I 

Cool, and palm-shaded from the torrid heat,
The young brown tenor puts his singing by,
And sets the twin-pipe to his lips to try

Some air of bulrush-glooms where lovers meet.

swart musician ! time and fame are fleet ;
Brief all delight, and youth's feet fain to fly !
Pipe on in peace ! To-moiTow must we die?

What matter, if our life to-day be sweet !
Soon, soon, the silver-paper reeds that sigh

Along the Sacred River, will repeat

The echo of the dark-stole bearers' feet.

Who carry you, with waiHng, where must lie
Your swathed and withered body, by-and-by.

In perfumed darkness with the grains of wheat'*

Eut yet, it may be, not utter darkness for all that; and,
(fftenrard.s, ' Rest  surely Best ! perhaps . . . Light I *

Edmund W, Gosse.

Tick KM).

LONDON:
I'rintcd by STUvNafcWiTS A Sojjs. Tower Street, Upper St. Mart  Lane

fl.

3 0112 084210118
