Chapter I.

THE 30th hussars' BALL.

And peradventure had he seen her first
She might have made this and that other world

Another world

but now
The shackles of an old love straightened him."

Elaine.

Midnight had struck, and "the lamps
shone o'er fah women and brave men; "
for the ball given by the 30th Hussars
]had reached its height, and was universally
acknowledged to be a most brilliant
success.

Given a good floor, room, and music,

VOL. 11. 18

excellent champagne, courteous hosts,
and pretty women, it was little wonder if
this entertainment were destined for ever
after to take a high place amongst the
annals of such festivities ; and as Alan
Dering and Miss Dumaresque paused to
rest for a while, turning an unheeding
ear to the "Or et Azur's " entrancing
notes, it needed no close observer to
fathom that here could be found two of
the very happiest hearts of even all the
many happy ones now beating time to
that gay valse tune.

Eosabel Dumaresque was the acknowledged
beauty of the evening, and though
her cousin's monopolising attentions of
late had rather damped the ardour of
sundry would-be adorers at that same
damsel's shrine, still they seemed one
and all to have recovered their spirits
to-night, and rallied round her with renewed
and ostentatious vigour.

'shave you promised all your dances,
Eosabel ? " inquired her partner, suddenly
recollecting his own remissness in
not having as yet secured permission
from the favoured beauty to enrol his
name on her card more than once.

"It serves you quite right that I have
given them all away," answered Eosabel,
pouting. " You did not care to ask for
more than one, and so I did not keep
more than one for you."

'' That's a story. What are those
blanks left on every other line all down
your card ? "

'well, if they are blanks," and a
merry laugh rippled forth from the beautiful
red lips, " they are not reserved for
you," she said mischievously.

'' That we'll see about when the time
comes. At present we will go into the
tea-room and refresh our bodies and

minds by a little rest, whilst the good
people here dance the lancers.' "

But I think I am engaged for them,"
hesitated Eosabel ; ' and to your Colonel,
too."

"That's awkward; hut still it's na
reason you should not drink a cup of tea
in the most deeply secluded corner we
can manage to find."

"Very well;" and the conspirators
departed from the hall-room with an
ostentatious "we're going to return " air,
which would be quite sufficient of itself
to condemn them.

As they passed out they encountered a
rival pair entering in to the doorway  
Teddy Graham and his blonde goddess.

"Alan, I want to speak to you presently,"
whispered his friend as they
passed each other.

All right ; " and Captain Bering wondered

to himself what could have brought
so serious an expression to Mr. Graham's
cheery countenance. 'the flout of a
lord' interfering again, I suppose," he
murmured, as each passed on their way.

The night wore on, and still Alan
Dering devoted his time and attention
most assiduously to the lovely Miss Du-masque.
Involuntarily he seemed to
relinquish the idea of quiet tetes-d-Utes,
though lucy he could scarce himself have
told ; but, somehow, they never seemed
to have anything to say under those circumstances,
and instead, they danced a
-sufficient number of dances with each
other to cause the eyebrows of all discreet
matrons to raise themselves in
pained surprise, and even Teddy Graham's
faith in his brother officer's anti-matrimonial
precepts sank to a very low
ebb indeed.

In the ball-room, surrounded with
crowds, glitter, and excitement, Eosabel's
beauty had an all-absorbing effect on the
man so constantly beside her ; but in
quieter moments all seemed to vanish
into thin air, and she was merely to him
the pretty plaything and sweet little
cousin of his earlier years once more.

The first deep tone of music which
had sounded in pretty Eosabel's nature
made her humbly aware of her own deficiencies
in being unable to give back the
re-echo of an answering chord ; and so
she avoided all seriousness, or what she
herself called  talking grave," and
gave the rein to her light merry laughter
and bright girlish spirits, until Alan
Dering felt himself fascinated and enthralled,
not only by her marvellous
loveliness, but also by her gay sweet
tones.

' We've danced quite often enough
together, I think," she laughed merrily,
'' and I must do some duty dances, now,
if you please ! "

'every well; then I will go and speak
to Teddy Graham, who, I believe, wants
me ; " and Alan left her side with what
Miss Dumaresque considered to he evidently
somewhat scant regret. So she
bit her rosy-red lips, and beat a " devil's
tattoo" on the floor with one little satin-shod
foot, and considered herself to the
last degree insulted and slighted ; consequently,
one of the many other adorers,
who were waiting to pick up such crumbs
of kindness as fell to their share, found
himself suddenly raised to quite an elevated
pinnacle of most unlooked-for
happiness, and the possessor of at any
rate quite sufficient crumbs to make a
fair-sized quartern loaf.

But vainly did his fair cousin gird inwardly
at lier late partner's neglect, and
quite lost were the direful and indignant
glances which she occasionally flashed at
him, alternating with the looks of melting
approval which were now being cast
at her present adorer. For Captain Dering
and Mr. Graham stood earnestly
conversing, with apparently no thought
for anything save the topic of their converse.


' I've got some bad news for you, old
boy," began Teddy Graham, in so grave
a voice as to make Captain Dering lookup
quickly, with a hasty exclamation of 

What the devil's up now ? "

' Well, don't you miss a certain young
man who should have been here tonight
? "

Geoff Dumaresque ? " questioned
Alan, hastily.

* Exactly. And do you know ivhj lie
is not here ? "

'*No; I heard to-day by chance that
he had applied for a fortnight's leave and
had got it ; but what of that ? "

 Simply this : he has gone off with
 the little circus-rider ' at last ! "

 Good God, what a fool!"

 Just what I think," returned Teddy,
calmly ; and unable to resist the luxury
of saying, 'I told you so," he added:
How about that young woman's charming
sentiments and promises noio my
boy?"

Alan remained silent. He felt various
at the apparent deception of which he
had been made the tool, and deeply hurt
to think of the terrible blow which the
news would prove to both the father and
sister of this foolish, hot-headed boy, who
had set the world and all its prejudices

SO much at defiance. Would they altogether
absolve himself too, he wondered,
for not having warned them in time of
the threatened danger ? And yet he had
done all that friendship could entitle
him to, in a case which apparently had
such slight evidence to support it.

' Who hould trust a woman ? " he said
bitterly; and so savage was the glance
which reached even his blue-eyed enchantress,
as she twirled and pirouetted,
in an adjacent  Ladies' Chain," that
the said damsel felt quite restored to
good humour in thinking how dire had
been the punishment inflicted by her
latent encouragement of those other
adoring worshippers.

'' Who told you of this, Teddy ? Does
every one know it ? "

Not a soul as yet. The Colonel himself
told me, and wished it to go no

farther at present, for the sake of Miss
Dumaresqiie, you see."

''I think nothing can he done until
tomorrow," said Alan decidedly.  Then
I will try to find out every particular
and must go to my uncle and break it
to him. To he on the spot might
possibly save that fool of a hoy from any
rash vengeance which the old man might
take into his head."

 I must say, you take a deal of trouble
to stand in the way of your own prospects
! But of course you're right, old
boys, and good luck go with you!" rejoined
Teddy, making off once more to
where his blonde goddess sat in state,
surrounded by a devoted bevy of '' shawl-carriers,"
as Mr. Graham irreverently
termed her staff of admiring satellites.

Captain Dering remained where he was
for many minutes, pondering deeply over

the lately heard intelligence. Had his
cousin really married this girl ? and if
so, when and where had the marriage
taken place ? These were the problems
to he solved.

There was no one there to tell him of
n certain little church in one of the very
shabbiest and poorest parts of the great
metropolis, where, more than a month
ago, on three several Sabbaths running,
the banns had been solemnly published
between ' Geoffry Haughton Ducked,

bachelor, of parish, Middlesex, and

Madge Lee, spinster, of Brighton, Sussex;
" and where, on one dark November
day, a plainly dressed young pair stood
before the altar, whilst the curate in
charge read out to the surrounding
clerks and pew-openers, that he 'geoffrey
Haughton" was willing to take her,
' Madge," to be his v\edded wife ' until
death should them part."

But of this Captain Dering knew
nothing, and so he could only make the
wildest conjectures concerning his relative's
faiix-'pas the extent of which was
lost in doubt. Still, as a vivid remembrance
crossed his mind of the expression
on Madge Lee's face when she had so
bravely defied his doubts and questions
on the first and only occasion they had
ever met,  in spite of appearance, in
spite of common sense, and all other
praiseworthy reasons and things,  Alan
Dering felt that he trusted this girl yet,
in spite of all and everything. Could
thoughts but travel, how dear to at least
one proud, aching woman's heart would
have been the knowledge that the selfsame
trust which she had so prayed for
was hers, even now !

At last Captain Dering aroused himself
from his meditations and bethought him

that surely he must have missed one, if
not several, of the remaining dances for
which his name had been written down
on the beautiful Eosabel's card. Hastening
to redeem his apparent neglect, he
encountered that young lady herself just
re-entering the ball room, and one glance
at her so lately bright face, now clouded
and sad, was sufficient to convince him
that his unintentional rudeness had most
assuredly been regarded in the light of
a very capital offence indeed,

' Forgive me, Isabel," he whispered,
taking possession of her arm in his own
and leading her off with an air of proprietorship
most galling to the young
sub-lieutenant with whom she had just
danced, and which caused muttered words
of strange import to proceed from the
mouth of that extinguished but smouldering
junior officer.

' Come to the conservatory, dear,
where it's quiet," said Alan kindly, 'for
I have something to tell you which you
ought to know, which I viicst tell you."

Eosahel's Httle heart beat quick, and
her rosy lips trembled woefully as she
seated herself on a low sofa, shadowed
over with palms and ferns, by her cousin's
side.

Chapter 11.

A woman's yea.

Nay, too steep for hill-mounting ;
Nay, too late for cost-counting ;
This downhill path is easy, but there's no turning back""

*' Eosabel," began Alan Dering gravely,.
' I'm afraid it's not a very pleasant thing
I have to talk to you about ; but I can't
help it, dear."

'' No, oh no ! "

'' I can't bear to be the means of bringing
pain or sorrow to your bright little
heart, but I must speak; so forgive me,
will you?"

There's nothing to forgive," murmured
Miss Dumaresque brokenly, the

quiver in lier soft voice telling of an effort
at the calmness which was belied by her
twitching hands and lips.

' Can she know already ? " thought her
cousin to himself, in great surprise, and
the doubt became a certainty as Eosabel
continued 

''Of course it was very wrong; and,
oh ! I am so sorry, Alan. But how could
one know you would care ? "

I not care, Eosabel ! You must be
mad, child. Why, one would hate to see
even an utter stranger, with whom one
had no connexion, playing the fool like
that ! " exclaimed Alan indignantly.

No answer from Eosabel, only a suspicious
trembling became visible in the
averted little head ; and Captain Dering
continued 

It isn't as if there were any real
strength of feeling or love to trust to ;

VOL. II. 19

but in such a case as this, where the
acquaintance has been so short, what is
one to judge by save outward appearances,
and certainly they don't tend to
give one much confidence," he added,
bitterly.

But he started in untold dismay as a
piteous sob burst forth from his companion's
lips, and she cried out passionately


'' How could I know that you realty
cared for me? How could I tell that I was
making you angry when those stupid boys
hould dance with me, for you never
showed it the least bit ; you looked as if
you hardly ever saw me. Oh, Alan  dear
Alan, you must forgive me ! Now that I
know you really do love me, I would goon
my bended knees to show you how
humbly I regret having made you angry,
dear!" And a warm, clinging hand is

laid on his own, whilst hot tears of
mingled sorrow and happiness roll down
his young cousin's beautiful, rose-leaf
face.

To accurately describe Captain Bering's
feelings at this supreme moment, no
words would prove sufficient. His first
concise thought is, that there are other
fools in the world besides his cousin
Geoff ; his second, sincere shame for this
thought itself. Whether he had ever
decided on ultimately marrying his pretty
cousin was strongly doubtful ; but that
he has accepted all the devotion of her
loving little heart he cannot even to himself
deny ; and truly the Fates have well
avenged her faith in him !

Being a man of the world, he reads the
girl's innocent mistake clearly enough,
and loves her all the better for the
glimpse which it has given him into her

soft, trusting heart. Being a gentleman,
he sees but one course to pursue, and so
pursues it.

'Eosabel, little darling," he says tenderly,
' it is for me to ask forgiveness?
not you. But don't let our first happy
hour together be marred by even the
sound of such a word as that. Let us
forget as well as forgive, and remember
only that we are happy now."

Do what he will, Alan Bering's voice
was strangely joyous for that of an
accepted bridegroom ; but what man was
ever proof against tears, when the latter
are shed for the first time ? And so he
puts a protecting arm round Isabel's
mignonne figme, and draws her little fair,
"fluffy" head down on to his shoulder,
and tries not to wonder what people
will think and say at sight of the swelled
eyelids and the nose of somewhat roseate

hue, which stress of feeling has implanted
on the lovely face of his inamorata.

What is this low, soft, dreamy air
which the beautiful band of the 30th
Hussars is doing full justice to in the
ball-room far away ? It steals out at the
door, it comes wailing up the corridor,
and pealing into the conservatory, where
rest the new-found fiances dreaming of
happiness to come. Its low, sad notes
reverberate in the heart of the man resting
there, until it opens to their touch
as it had not done for either a fair
woman's love or tears !

Once more he sees before him the pale
and noble face of the only true love his
life has ever known ; and as the beautiful
valse tones rise and fall with slow sad
rhythm, echoing in his ears lille some
far-off call from a spirit-land,  his mind
conjures up the vision of a dark proud

head crowned with Eucharis Hies, and
the steadfast look in the deep grey eyes
when he told her the name of the valse,
and she had said, *'I shall not forget."
Did she remember it still ? he wondered.
Where was she,  what doing ?

Over his soul there swept a very agony
of longing to see her once again, were it
only for a moment, to clasp her hand
once more, again to meet the kind true
glance of her honest eyes ; and a low
despairing murmur of ' Mon rev, mon
rev ! " broke forth, as Alan Dering forgot
for an instant where he was, what
doing, and gave himself up to the tide
of past recollections which now swept
over him with irresistible power.

eyes, that is  Mon Eve ' which they
are playing now," said Isabel, sitting
up and smoothing her pretty hair; ' and
I'm engaged for it, I'm afraid; and oh,

dear me, what did become of your Colonel
and this  Lancers ! '"

" I should think he did without it,"
answered her cousin laughingly, trying
to shake off the feeling of utter unreality
which was making itseK so forcible to his
senses at large. 'As those lancers'
took place about an hour ago, you can
hardly wish him to be wearing the willow
still, can you? "

'" No, certainly not. But have we
really been away so long Alan ? What
ivill everyone think and say? "

'let them think, and let them say,
my daring ! Are you not my future wife,
Eosabel?"

The girl glanced shyly up at him, but
failing completely to understand his
nature, she only wished he were less
grave, and could feel more like herself,
a very ray of sparkling, happy sunshine ?

More than one significant glance certainly
does greet them on their re-entrance
into the ball-room, and still the same feeling
of unreality clings to every thought,
word, and deed in Alan Bering's mind.
Like one in a dream he sees Isabel seat
herself beside Mary Graham, and notes
the bright smile and blush with which
she answers the latter's rather grave and
questioning look. He understands and
returns the kind congratulatory pressure
of Mary's hand when he takes her to the
carriage later on, and he observes the
many half pleased, half mischievous
glances cast in his direction by his
friends and brother officers. Even when
Teddy Graham inquires eagerly, shave
you told her?" he nods his head in
vague assent, quite forgetting the real
news which he had had to break to
her.

Aid so the night wears on. The ball
is over, the lights are out, the good-nights
have all been said, and Alan
Dering stands in his own room at last
alone, trying to think over the events of
the past hours. But after several fruitless
efforts to arrange his thoughts clearly,
and to judge deliberately of the wisdom
or folly which the record of those past
hours laid before him, he gives up the
process with savage impatience ; and
consigning the world at large, and himself
in particular, to many strange and fearsome
localities, he proceeds to take the
only really wise step under the circumstances,
and to go to bed.

A letter, lying on the table before him,
catches his eye, and he takes it up.
Giving a perplexed glance at the scratchy,
bad handwriting, smeared with blots, and
the almost illegible London postmark, he

opens and reads the missive, which is
short enough :

' Don't think worse of me than you

can help, Captain Bering, though things

look very, very bad, I know. But honour

bright I have kept my word, and you may

tell Geoff's father and all of them that

I am not his wife, so they must forgive

him and love him still. Maybe a good

time will come some day, but  I do not

know!

"Madge Lee."

That self-same day a strange scene of
woman's courage, and man's weakness
is being played out to the bitter end.

It takes place in the small comfortable
sitting-room of a quiet London hotel,
and two actors alone are there ; one, a
woman, stands leaning her arm on the
marble chimney-piece, with a proud look

of unconquerable love and devotion on
lier face,  the other, a man, sits opposite
to her in a low arm-chair, with an expression
of mingled relief and shame on

his 0\TL.

''I tell you it's best so, Geoff," and
the clear decisive tones are those of
Madge Lee." ' Besides, haven't I already
\Titten so to Captain Dering ? It's
too late to alter it now."

'But it's so d  d hard on you Madge! "
says her boy-husband, in a weak irresolute
voice.

'It would seem very hard to me if I
were not your wife, Geoff! " and the fire
in her dark eyes blazed up for an instant
like summer lightning. But a beautiful
soft look conquered the flame, as in a
voice shaken by deep feeling the girl
continues hurriedly: *' Oh, my dear, my
dear, what would I not do to shew you

how grateful I am to yoii for marrying
me ! Now I can stay with you, hive with
you, watch over you, never leave you,
and yet can know in my heart that in
doing so I sin against neither God norman
! "

' There's nothing to thank me for,
Madge," and Geoffry Dumaresque's voice
sounds forced and husky, like that of one
who speaks the truth in spite of himself.

Surely now too late does the memory
reproach him of a false part played; of
banns called and of register signed it is
true, but the name given and signed
was that of Geoffry Haughton DunJceld,

'nothing to thank you for!" echoes
Madge, crossing over and laying her
hand on his shoulder. " Nothing to
thank you for in that you have stood
by me and loved me though all the world
was against you ? Aye, and far more

than that, Geoff! Is it nothlmj do you
think, that such as you should marry me,
Madge Lee ?  giving me as proud a
place as any lady in the land, and, above
all, giving me your love and honour and
respect as your true wife ? Oh, Geoff,
daring Geoff, is'nt it a small enough
sacrifice to give up my claim on the
world's respect, so only I keep yours ?
What is it to me, if I let your uncle and
all the world think evil of me, so it will
help them to make excuse for you 'I "

Geoffry Dumaresque answers no word,
and the girl continues more quietly :

I know they must of course hate me ;
and had I known earlier how wearily
sore my heart would ache some day for
yom' sake, God knows I would never
have become your wife. But I knew
nothing until Captain Dering spoke to me
that day by the sea shore, when it was
too late ! "

 Yes, it is too late now," assents lier
hearer slowly.

But Geoff, it will be all right, now
that I'm going to give np my claim to
be recognised as your wife ? " urges
Madge eagerly.

"Of course it will. But Madge," and
Geoffry Dumaresque turns his head and
looks up into her face with a strange
expression of dawning reverence on his
own, "how will you bear the sights and
insults which the world may give you,
and which I cannot shield you from ? "

T shall bear them bravely, as I would
any torture on earth, for your sake,
Geoff; " and the girl's beautiful dark face
is laid down on his own with a caress full
of the most passionate love and tenderness.


What are the words which Geoffry
Dumaresque' s good angel whispers now

in his ear  pleading for truth and honour
as if for life and death ?

For an instant he hesitates, but only
for an instant; the next, he glances up
into her face, and then lays his head
down on her breast with a deep-disown
sigh of utter happiness and content.
What matters truth or untruth, so long
as victory is his ? "

CHAPTEK III.

A MEMORY OF THE PAST.

A love large as life, deep and changeless as death,
Lay unsheathed : and that love, ever fretting its sheath.
The frail scabbard of life pierced and wore through and

through.
There are loves in man's life for which time can renew
All that time may destroy. Lives there are, though, in

love,
Which cling to one faith, and die with it ; nor move,
Though earthquakes may shatter the shrine."

Lucile.

More than two years had passed and
gone, and many a change had come and
gone with them. Directly on Geoffry
Dumaresque's departure had followed his
sister's marriage to Alan Bering; and,
hy a strange coincidence, the same newspaper
which gave a long and eulogistic
account of that most important and

fashionable ceremony, contained also the
short and simple announcement of the
death of Sir Francis Kuthven at Nice.

A little later, and death's hand touched
one more victim, and John Dumaresque,
of Beechwarden, was carried to his long
home, deeply and deservedly regretted."

When his son, who had been hastily
summoned home from abroad in time to
take his last farewell of a most kind and
indulgent father, stood, by virtue of his
sad right as chief mourner, beside the old
man's coffin, and listened to the solemn
words: 'We give Thee hearty thanks,
for that it hath pleased Thee to deliver
this our brother out of the miseries of
this sinful world ; " for the first time, perhaps,
he realized how great in truth was
his own especial cause for thanksgiving.
Not a word had the old man ever heard
of Madge Lee ; not a syllable had been

VOL. II. ' 20

breathed to him of his son's folly; and
so he died at peace with all the world,
and with his hand close in that son's
clasp, and Madge Lee felt that her renunciation
had not been in vain.

As soon as all things could be arranged,
Geoffry Dumaresque returned once more
to Italy for just six months or so," he
said vaguely, in answer to any questions
from anxious friends ; and his name soon
died away and was forgotten, as those
months sped by, and no sign of any
return home was evinced by the new
master of Beechwarden.

It was a hot, sultry day in May, far
too hot for so early in the year, and Alan
Dering turned in under the cool archway
which shadows the entrance into Burlington
House, with a sigh of relief at
his temporary escape from Phoebus's all
too scorching rays.

' It'll be hotter still inside that Pandemonium
! " groaned Captain Dering discontentedly,
as his glance rested on the
crowd of carriages which were  taking
up " and '' setting down " before the
entrance of the great building containing
our yearly national contributions to the
fine arts.

But Alan was honestly fond of pictures,
and of all classes of drawing, from
the highest to the lowest; and so not
even any consideration for his personal
comfort could deter him from a visit to
the well covered walls of the Royal
Academy.

After tacitly surrendering his pet ,
though not without some
misgivings as to ever beholding that
treasured article again, and after slowly
mounting the dark staircase which leads
to the realms of art above, he at

last found himself, catalogue in hand,
solemnly entering upon the business
before him. "'No. 1  Portrait of Mrs.
Plantagenet Jones.' By Jove ! I hope
Plantagenet Jones had a will of his
own, else he must have had a rough
time of it with that lady, to judge by
her affable countenance ! " soliloquised
Captain Dering, after a careful study
of the dame in question's portraiture 
''No. 3  The Alps, from the balcony

of the Belle Vue Hotel at Gr , a

sketch taken after sunset.' Hem ! and
after dinner too, I should say, to judge
by the apparently rosy view which the
artist took of life. 'No. 4  Apollo
and the Nymphs.' Well, even in this

weather "

'' Halloa ! Dering, who would have
thought of meeting you here?" and
Alan's pictorial studies and meditations

were suddenly interrupted by the
arrival of a genial, if somewhat boisterous,
ai-tis friend.

'Do come and act showman to me,
my dear fellow," implored Alan languidly.
' This heat is trying to even the 
constitution that I can boast
of, and it '11 save me a world of trouble
if you'll come with me and tell me what
I ought to admire, though I reserve to
myself the right of doing so in reality
or not."

'well, of course you've seen Ans-dell's
' Shorn Lamb, with the wind
untempered, Mrs. Butler's ' Out at
Bul's Eun,' and Pointer's 'Gilded
Innocence,' haven't you? No? Then
you must come at once to see those !
And there are a few very charming
pictures by nobody knows who, which
are quite worth looking at, though the

colouring is too vivid and inharmonious
and the whole work of course crude."

Before many minutes had passed
Captain Dering was fain to confess that
he had made a sad mistake in enlisting
the assistance of his active and energetic
friend in 'doing" the pictures properly;
and involuntarily he began ere long to
turn an almost deaf ear to the copious
flow of criticism and information which
the latter dealt forth to him unmercifully
and without ceasing.

'' What a wonderful expression that
face has ! " murmured Alan sotto voce
at last, attentively studying a half-length
picture which hung in an obscure
corner of one of the rooms.

'that? Oh yes, that is one of the
pictures painted by ' nobody knows who,'
which I told you of; only in this case
one does know who painted it, for she

belongs to your world-par excellence y
the world of rank and fashion," returned
Alan's friend, with his jolly Bohemian
laugh.

The picture under discussion, obviously
intended for a sketch of Joan of Arc, is,
though fanciful, powerful in the extreme.
The foreground consists of a bright 
riante landscape in sunny France ; and
in the centre of the picture, on a low
ruined wall, rests the tall upright form
of the Lorraine peasant-gui. In her
hand she holds a shepherd's staff, but
involuntarily she holds it as would one
who grasps a sword; and on her grand
heroic face there gleams an unearthly
light, "the light that never was on sea
or land."

The glorious sad eyes, with their rapt,,
devotional expression, half woman's and
half saint's, are fixed on the far-distant

horizon, where the first icays of dawn
begin to show; golden bright do they
appear at first, Hke a glorious promise
of might and honors, receding in the
far distance to a fierce, fiery red, which
involuntarily recalls the vision of a
burning stake and of a martyr's crown;
and, faintly looming through that lurid
colour, tower high the spires of Notre
Dame de Rouen. Underneath the picture
stand only four words : ' The Dawn
of Fate."

' Yes, the depths of passion and yet of
asceticism in that face are simply marvellous,"
commented the artist, taking a
critical survey of the picture which had
apparently so fascinated his friend. '' It
gives one a rare idea of the brave, devoted,
but self-sacrificed woman-hero, the
 maiden warrior ' whom our countrymen
 tried as by fire ! ' "

'' Who is the picture by ? " asked Alan,
unaccountably interested in that strangely
pure, fanatic face.

 By the young Lady Kuthven."

' Who and Captain Dering felt quite
surprised himself at the vehemence of his
sudden interest.

Lady Kuthven. She is a young-widow.
I think her husband died somewhere
abroad about two years ago, and
she Ives in London now. All the time
she was abroad, and whilst in mourning,
she studied painting almost night and
day ; but this is the first picture of hers
which has ever been honoured by being
hung here. It's a picture which is full of
faults, but it possesses something which
to my thinking condoned nearly every
fault  and that is power."

'rand I fancied she could not feel''
muttered Alan to himself, taking one

more farewell glance at the brave, strong
face of the warrior maiden, whose weird,
sad eyes seemed looking and longing for
the far-off future, which to her would so
surely bring a deathless fame.

Absently enough did Captain Dering
continue to make the round of each
pictured wall, and, for once, it was from
a sheer sense of duty and not one whit of
pleasure that he completed his task. So
much in fact had his thoughts wandered
from the present, that on arriving at the
end of the last room, he mechanically
sauntered into the very first one once
more, and was unconsciously just about
to begin his torn' all over again, when
a hand was laid on his shoulder, and
Teddy Graham's voice broke in on his
meditations.

Why, Alan, you look a bit moonstruck
to-day. What's the matter, old
boy?"

' Nothing," answered Alan Dering
curtly, for with him as with most mena
sentimental frame of mind invariably
produced a correspondingly vile temper.

*' Then for heaven's sake don't look so
sadly cheerful, for it's enough to give one
the darkest of blues to look at your affable
expression of countenance. Now, if you'd
had the broiling which we poor devils had
in the Long Valley this morning, you'd
have some reason to look glum ! It quite
weighed on my spirits, so I put myself
into the train for London town."

'You don't look exhausted, Teddy,"
answered his brother officer laughing :
'but I know that this morning was not
altogether suitable for the 'great lone
land ' of the Long Valley."

I assure you it was worse than even
you have ever seen it. The sun seemed
hotter, the dust more choking, the colonel

more fussy, and my boots tighter than
ever ! " moaned Mr. Graham, refusing to
he comforted.

' Well, forget it now, my dear hoy, if
you can, for we'll both have a benefit of
it again on Monday. Come and look

at the little house in L Street, which

I have just taken for two months, and
give me your opinion on it."

 Taken a house up here? Oh, I forgot
though, you've been given leave for a bit,
haven't you, after next week ? "

 Yes ; and as Eosabel wished to see
more of her friends than she possibly
could at Aldershot, you know, I thought
it easier to take a house for a few weeks
than to live in an hotel."

*how does Mrs. Dering like the idea
of going out to India in the autumn ? "

' Oh, she doesn't mind anything,"
answered Alan quietly, and there was

perhaps a shade of impatience in his voice
as he spoke.

' Where shall we go this evening?"
resumed Mr. Graham after a pause.  If
it wasn't so long and so serious I should
rather like to go to the opera to-night,"
he added doubtfully.

'' Well, let's go ; what is it to-night ? "

*' Only the everlasting old * Trovatore' ;
but it's such a comfort to know all the
tunes, for you see one can feel quite
at home then."

 Yes, I see. Very well, we'll attend
at Co vent Garden to-night, so that's
settled ; and now, here we are at my new
mansion."

Chapter lY.

NON TI Cedar DI ME."

Meanwhile, I was thinking of my first love,

As I had not been thinking of aught for years,
Till over mine eyes there began to move
Something that felt like tears.

And I swear, as I thought of her thus, in that hour,
And of how, after all, old things were best,
*****
I turned and looked. She was sitting there,

In a dim box over the stage ; and drest
In the dress that I knew  with that full soft hair,
And that jasmin in her breast.

*' But the smell of that jasmin flower !
And that music ! and the way
That voice rang out from the donjon tower
Non ti scorner di me,

Non ti scorner di me ! ' "

Yerdi's music was ringing through the
house, when Captain Dering and his
friend made their way, stepping dexterously
over trains and toes innumerable,

to their allotted stalls. 'La Diva's"
brilliant soaring voice was holding her
hearers spell-bound as usual, and Mademoiselle
S 's glorious deep contralto

filled up each pause like a distant clarion's
cal.

For many minutes Alan Dering looked
neither to the right nor to the left, but
sat drinking in those exquisite tones withall
the devotion of a passionate lover of
music. The face of the 'joan of Arc,"
which he had that day seen in the
Academy, haunted him strangely still, he
knew not why ; and it was with a feeling
of real impatience at his own folly that
he aroused himself to answer his companion's
comments, as the curtain fell at
last.

"There's nothing like music to make
one feel full of soul," observed Mr. Graham,
pathetically.

* There's nothing like a good dinner 
such as I'll admit yon gave us to-night,
Teddy  to make one feel on good terms
with all the world, my dear hoy," returned
Alan, satirically.

 Now, that's so like you, Alan ! Just
as I'm getting sentimental and working
myself up to the proper frame of mind
for a tragedy, you go and snub me," said
Mr. Graham, much injured.

But his companion neither answers nor
turns his head. His eyes are steadily
fixed on the stage-box nearest to them,
and there is an odd look of constrained
anxiety on his face.

' Teddy," he says slowly, 'scan you
tell me who it is that sits in the lowest
box over there ? " and the speaker's head
gives a slight nod towards the place mentioned,
though he never once removes his
gaze from the locality in question.

' Oh. yes, it's Lady Borrowdale, the
biggest magnate round Grahamstown.
She was the old earl's second wife,
and he left her everything  castles
and country houses without end. Did
you ever see such diamonds as she's
got?"

''No, no; I don't mean her, I know
her ; but who is that with her, a tall
woman in black, sitting almost behind
the curtain, and facing this way ? ' '

Even as he asks the question, the
wearer of the black robe leans forward
into the light and gives him a quiet smile
of greeting, and Alan Dering and Cecil
Euthven have met again at last.

Half an hour later, Mr. Graham, much,
against his will, found himself seated
beside the somewhat overpowering form of
the Lady Borrowdale; whilst a little in
the background were his friend and Lady

VOL. II. 21

Euthven, actively engaged in trying to
find the broken threads of their lives to
rejoin them once more.

'I don't know how I recognised you,
Lady Kuthven," Alan was saying in his
low quiet voice ; * for you are much
altered."

It would not have been like Cecil to
make any answer which implied a desire
for complimentary speeches, and so she
merely said :

You see, I am getting on in life; I
am eight and twenty now, and when you
knew me first I was only a child, or at
least a child in everything except years,
perhaps."

Could this beautiful, self-possessed
woman really be the shy, proud Cecil of
days gone by ? Was it possible that the
clear soft tones which were stealing into
his mind like an intoxicating draught,

were the same which had so coldly said
him 'nay" long years ago? And the
little white hand lying idly on her lap,
was that the ideal of all his dreams, long,
long ago ?

Silent and perturbed he sat there, his
gaze riveted on the face of the woman
he had once loved so well, and with the
terrible conviction growing each moment
stronger in his heart that his true first
love must prove his only one, for ever and
aye.

Sad and solemn proceeds the music of
the "Miserere,"  the clear high voice of
"La Diva" ringing out Hke a silver bell
at eventide. And as the answering
notes of "A che la morte " peal forth
in the tenor's sweet full tones, Alan
Dering unconsciously envies the power
which music gives to breathe foii:h a
heart's wild sad longing in glorious,

LIBRARY

passionate sounds that can reach to the-very
hearts and souls of men.

* Non ti scorner di me ! " The notes
ring in his ears with a strange significance.
Has she forgotten, he wonders ?
But at this instant Cecil Kuthven turns
and meets his eyes at last, and her own
fall with a half shy, and yet half-proud
look of gladness, such as for sure he had
never seen there in days gone by. But
with the wild glad thought ' he has not
forgotten!" came another, driving out
the first with loyal and sorrowful justice :
 she does not know all, it is for me to tell
her!"

He thought of pretty Isabel, his wife,
whom he had tried so honestly to honour
and to cherish, but for whom his love had
proved so fleeting.

(Poor little Isabel ! even now she is
sitting in Mrs. Graham's drawing-room,

entertaining that lady and her daughter
with an account of the dresses and
bonnets purchased by herself that day,
and in which her innocent soul delights
to revel, and here was an inexorable
Fate advancing down on her and hers
with steady relentless strides.)

But Fate was doomed to defeat this
time, vanquished by a truer, purer, and
higher power than its own, the might of
' barren honour ! "

"Lady Euthven," and Cecil starts at
the tone of the speaker's voice, "may I
some day soon introduce you to my
wife?"

Your wife ? I did not know, I had
not heard;" the pleading look in the
sorrowful eyes which meet her own,
agitates her strangely, but she reads the
meaning at once with all her usual clearness
and truth, and it is in the kind

frank tone of old that lie goes on to
say:

'' Oh yes, I should like it very much
indeed ; when can it be ? "

' Are you engaged tomorrow nighty
Lady Kuthven?" interposes Teddy
Graham, who has overheard both the
question and answer, and has drawn his
own conclusions from the same ; 4f not,
do dine with tiny mother, for Alan and his
wife are coming too. I know that my
mother would be so glad to get a chance
of seeing you again, Lady Euthven, for
she is always talking of you, and she
shall send you a note in all proper form
tomorrow morning," urges Mr. Graham,
with a tact for which his brother officer
blesses him most heartily in his own
mind.

* I shall be delighted to come," says
Cecil frankly. '' That is, if you are sure

I shall not prove one woman too many
for the symmetry of your mother's dinner-table?"


'' I can answer for my mother," returns
that long-suffering lady's much-indulged
son, and so the matter is concluded.

*'I have been looking at your picture
to-day. Lady Kuthven, in the Academy,"
said Alan Dering a little later on, when
another fall of the curtain gave him a
chance of further conversation.

'eyes? Wasn't it good of them to
take such an amateur's picture ? Do you
like it?"

'* Like it ! It has haunted me all day,
I can't forget that girl's look. Where
and how did you learn to paint such an
expression on any mortal face ? ' '

"I don't know," said Cecil dreamily.
** I think I just thought and thought it
all out, what it would be Hke to feel a

great heaven-sent power growing in one,
and a still greater determination to brave
all tidings in life and in death, sooner
than prove disloyal to the might of that
glorious power! "

 You have succeeded," answered Alan,
in the short concise words of one who
feels that asseverations are not needed.

' Not to my own satisfaction. In faces,
as in most other things, I suppose, we all
have our ideal, and we all fail to reach
it!"

The deep tone of sadness in which she
spoke was surely little like the Cecil
Euthven of days gone by; it unconsciously
revealed the secret of yet
another soul's search for  the blue
rose," which is as uncontrollable as it is
vain.

 Where do you live in town? May
I come and see you ? " was Alan Bering's

sole response ; intuitively he read the
longing for kindly sympathy, which had
caused that almost bitter cri de coeur to
break forth.

'ein C Street, I have a small house

of my own there. But I work very hard
at my painting, and am often at Kensington
for whole days together, copying
heads and figures in the Gallery there,
as studies."

'then you must let me know when
I shall find you at home, Lady Euthven ;
for I am not anxious to stop short at
depositing a little piece of pasteboard at
yom door."

Cecil laughed, and promised in course
of time to appoint an hour when she
should be at home, and as the opera was
about concluded. Captain Bering and his
friend proceeded to escort the two ladies
down the crowded staircase to their

As many a glance of unconcealed admiration
was levelled at the tall, graceful
figure, and beautiful high-bred face
of the young Lady Euthven, Alan Dering
felt his soul thrill painfully with the
thought, that to any one of those careless
hearts she might some day be all in all,
whereas to his tenderly-loving and sorrowing
one she must for ever be a
stranger.

*well, Alan, I hope you think I did
my duty to-night," grumbled Teddy,
savagely, as arm-in-arm they pursued
their way together. another time, if
I am expected to make one of a partie
carries' I hope you'll provide me with
some one a little more entertaining to
devote myself to. Lady Borrowdale hasher
good points I've no doubt ; but she's
as ugly as sin, and not half so pleasant ! ' ''
wound up Mr. Graham aggrievedly.

'cheer up, Teddy. Everything lias
gone wrong with you to-day, I think.
Why, man, there's many a worse world
than this one of ours ! " and Alan
laughed out gaily.

'rit's not the world itself, it's the
people in it that annoy me," answered
Mr. Graham, philosophically. " But
you're in rare good spirits to-night, my
boy," he added, looking critically at his
friend's usually quiet face.

"Yes; I feel a little off my head, I
think ; " and Alan laughed as lightly as
most gamblers do when playing for the
highest stakes.

Take care that you don't lose your
head," said Teddy Graham, with quiet
significance, standing still on the steps
of the club to give more force to his
words. "Alan, it's no business of mine,
I know, but there are women and women

in this world; some, one remembers for
about a week,  but some, one remembers
for many a year ! Now let's have a
brandy and soda."

CHAPTER V.

Diana WAKEN SLEEPING DOGS.

"However, when I reflect upon this woman, I do not
know whether in the main I am the worse for having loved
her : whenever she is recalled to my imagination, my youth
returns, and I feel a forgotten warmth in all my veins. This
affliction in my life has streaked all my conduct with a
softness, of which I should otherwise have been incapable.
It is owing, perhaps, to this dear image in my heart, that
I am apt to relent, that I easily forgive, and that many
desirable things are grown into my temper, which I should
not have arrived at by better motives than the thought of
being one day hers, I am pretty well satisfied such a
passion as I have had is never well cured."  Spectator,

*' Lady Ruthven," was announced in
solemn tones, to the large assembly-gathered
together under Mr. Graham's
hospitable roof on the following night,
and many curious eyes were turned in
the direction of the new arrival.

Mary Graham, advancing cordially to
greet her, felt profoundly struck with the
change which a few years of life had
wrought in the unsophisticated maiden
'of the North Countries," whom she so
well remembered coming to her first
party at Grahamstown House, now so
long time ago.

Cecil Kuthven never wore colours, but
she had given up wearing positive mourning,
and her pure white dress, with no
ornaments save one large diamond star
at the throat, suited singularly well with
the pale face, dark hair, and deep grey
eyes of the wearer.

' Oh, yes, indeed, I do remember Gras
and all your kindness to me
there ! " said Cecil, heartily, in answer to
Miss Graham's cordial welcome; and
then she stood there for a minute, the
unconscious centre of interest to everyone,

acknowledging each fresh introduction
with a graceful and courteous
smile, and shaking hands brightly with
old Mr. Graham and his granddaughters,
who clustered round her.

 Mrs. Dering  Lady Euthven," said
Mary Graham's voice in introduction,
and Cecil found herder face to face with
Kosahel.

Her first impression was one of profound
admiration for Mrs. Bering's perfection
of pink and white loveliness, set
off as it was by the delicate pale blue
shade of one of her most bewitching
toilettes ; the next instant she seemed
to read through and through the vapid
inanity of poor little Isabel's mind and
character, and a soft look of pity stole
over her face as she frankly extended
her hand to her new acquaintance, with
the courteous words :

"Your husband and myself are old
friends, Mrs. Dering, so I hope you will
some day consider me the same ? "

And Isabel lost her heart then and
there to the beautiful new-found friend,
and forthwith presented her with all the
trust and respect of her kindly shallow
little soul, a trust which was destined
never hereafter to be shaken, for verily
was it founded upon a rock.

Alan found himself sitting opposite to
Cecil at dinner, and in spite of the attentions
expected of him on one side by
a languid beauty, and paid to him on
the other by 'tune jolie laide'' he found
many opportunities of listening to the
conversation of his vis-a-vis.

After all, she seemed the Cecil of olden
days once more ; frank and true in
speech, kindly and courteous in manner,
and withal, a face which embodied the

ideal of time-honoured words : *' sans
peiir et sans reproche."

*' She is a woman who would make a
rare friend," thought Alan, watching
how her face changed and strong earnestness
of purpose crept into her eyes
as she spoke with Mr. Graham of the
 dreams forgone," and  deeds forlorn,"
such as the daily records of each newspaper
so often hiring forth.

And as he so thought, a bright vision
crossed his mind of a future, in which
this woman should share all his thoughts
and feelings, should guide him, strengthen
him, help him to redeem his hitherto idle
and wasted life, and be unto him the
guardian angel of which he had so often
vaguely dreamed. But would this be for
her good ? And yet, save when the words
' non ti scorner di me " had seemed to
call up an answering tenderness for one

VOL. II. 22

instant into the far-away grey eyes (that
instant ere she knew all), he could not
certainly call to mind any wise or potent
reason why Cecil Euthven should wish
to gainsay him her friendship.

And so, when dinner was over, and the
superior and inferior sex were once more
gathered together, he adroitly established
himself on a sofa beside Lady Euthven,
and ere long they were talking merrily
and happily of Ercildoun and old Davie
and Janet ; or conjuring up reminiscences
of Cecil's first appearance in society, on
that never-to-be-forgotten day of the
garden party at Grahamstown House.

You are not so much altered since
those days as I at first thought, Lady
Euthven," said her companion.

No ? And yet I must have altered a
good deal too," answered Cecil quietly.

 Why so''

shave I not lived my life out?" responded
Lady Euthven gravely.

' No ! People think so sometimes,
when they feel down in their luck, or
lonely and sorrowful perhaps ; but it's
not true. It is only those who may
never look on sunshine again that have
the right to feel they have lived out their
lives, and to cry out that utter darkness
covered all."

'But how can any one tell, when the
sun has set and sunk below the sea,
whether it ever in this world may rise
again? "

One can't tell for certain, but all the
laws of nature, philosophy, and commonsense
make one believe that it will."

Cecil was gravely dreaming and pondering
over his words, and her thoughts
had wandered to the past. Truly her
married life had been a great failure.

The puir delicate boy" soon degenerated
into a fretful and selfish, invalid,
with whose heart and mind she had no
thought or feeling in common. And so,
ere long, the little love there ever had
been was merged into a deep and profound
pity ; and though no more patient
or kinder nurse could have been found on
the face of the earth, than the true and
faithful wife who tended young Sir
Francis Euthven through the last few
years of his ill-fated existence, it were
impossible to deny that the depth and
strength of loving which such a nature
as Cecil's was capable of feeling, had
never for one single instant been
awakened in her heart.
Her companion continued speaking :
'for some of us in this world, the sun
may rise again in all his glory ; for many
it can but set ! "

The tone of the speaker's voice, more
than his words, perhaps, unconsciously
told that here was another searcher after
the

blue flower, which Brahmins say
Blooms nowhere but in Paradise,"

and Cecil's kind heart was instantly
touched, and in her low, clear voice she
said :

*' Do you remember my once telling
you in my young, rash ignorance, that
there must be life hidden somewhere in
the world, and it should not be wasted ? '
I have become a sadder and a wiser
woman since then, but I hold to the old
faith still. Have you not a profession to
work at, and many interests in life to
work for ? So long as this is the case,
your life is one to be envied."

Envied ! Well, perhaps. Lady Kuth-
even," answered Alan quietly. Then,

after a slight pause, lie looked up at lier
with the question : ' I want to"ask yon a
great favour, may I ? "

'Of course."

' May I come and talk to you sometimes,
quietly and as a friend? I don't
think I am a * society man,' orjof much
good in a crowd at the best of times ; but
if it will not bore you too much, I should
like to come and be lectured over my indolence
and all other crimes by you . In
fact I'll invent fresh ones for the pleasure
of having them exorcised, if you will
consent?"

Of course I'll consent," laughed Cecil,
and added honestly: ''I also should like
you for a friend, because we're such old
acquaintances, and you are about the
only person left in the world who can
talk to me of Ercildoun and the past life
there."

** You don't regret that life, surely ?
You speak almost as if you did."

*' I wouldn't dare say so to any one
else, for they'd think me crazy, but I do
regret it sometimes. I don't mean to say
that it wasn't miserably lonely, and those
long cold winters, when I couldn't live
out of doors, were inexpressibly dreary
perhaps ; but, I don't know how it is,
that Hfe seemed  life ' to me far more
than this one  this is ' existence.' "

' You'd hate it now, though, if you
had to live that life again. Perhaps the
secret lay in the fact that then you knew
no better."

I dare say that was it," agreed Lady
Euthven frankly. ' But if ever I am ill,
or lie awake at night (not that this happens
often, for I work too hard), I seem to be
haunted by the cry of the sea-birds, and
the thundering of each wave on the

rocks, as they resounded night and day
under the windows of the great hall at
Ercildoun, don't you remember ? I can
never get that sound out of my ears,
somehow."

As she spoke in her dreamy low voice,
her hearer's fancy conjured up a vision
of that grand old ruined * castle by the
sea," on its spray-covered cliff, and with
wreaths of mist and sea-fog shrouding
ifs gloomy turrets, as he had last seen
it on the morning of his departure from
Ercildoun, and involuntarily he exclaimed,

No ; it's not a place to be very easily
forgotten ! "

Cecil looked pleased, and said eagerly :
' If you too can understand this, you may
imagine how its memory must cling tome,
who lived there nearly all my life ! "

' Yes, I can. But surely you are
happier here. Lady Euthven, with thousands

of friends and many pleasures, than
you could have felt there, where you had
neither ? I know you too well to think
that these alone could satisfy a nature
with such energy as yours ; hut even work,
your painting for instance, all this is also
to he had in your present life."

 Work ! Ah yes, there you are right.
My painting is all in all to me ; hut
friends who are one's friends ? "

'I should have thought that you had
only too many," said Alan, half bitterly.

 Indeed I have not. I have many
acquaintances whom I am very fond of,
and very kind and good they are to me
too ; hut the fact that they would perhaps
do me any  good turn ' they could, just as
surely as I should do the same to them,
does not constitute what in my mind is
friendship."

' Tell me your ideal of it."

'' Briefly this : nothing but united
trust. Half the friendships of the world
are broken by simple want of faith ; and
where there is often found endless pity,
love, admiration, or sympathy, there still
too often lacks faith."

'' Faith gets broken, sometimes ! "

* The faith of lovers may, but never
that oi friends'" said Cecil in her clear
decisive voice.  Jealousy, coldness,
pride, fickleness, all these may come
between us and our heart's ideal; but
real true friends should, like Gallic, ' care
for none of those things.' "

'- You rank friendship higher than
love or any other feeling, then ? "

* Yes," answered Cecil slowly ; '' I
think I do. If one cared very much
about anybody, and they did the same
you see it would be so easy to make
sacrifices for them and to forgive all their

faults, for one would get the same in
return, all fair. But any day one maybe
called upon to do all this for a friend
and yet to receive no thanks, and often
to know oneseK even quite forgotten."

You speak sadly. Lady Kuthven; I
should have thought that any one you
honoured with your friendship would
scarcely prove to have a short memory."
And Teddy Graham's words came back
vividly to Alan's mind, when he had
said,  some women one remembers for a
week, and some for many a year.' "

** True enough," he thought inwardly
and then said :  I quite agree with you
in all you've said as to that much abused
feeling called friendship. Lady Euthven.
I, too, think that it stands highest of all
in some ways, for where there is no
passion, there is no unrest ; where there
is no love, there should be no jealousy ;

and where there is a thorough and yet
exacting faith, there can be no broken
Vows. Well, will you promise me, Lady
Kuthven, that if ever I can prove myself
worthy of being your friend, you will try
me?"

"I will try you now," answered Cecil
quickly, and then hesitated, as if about to
say more, when Mary Graham came upto
them with some photographs of Gras
and its surrounding scenery,
for her visitors' inspection, and no more
was said. Only when later on Alan
Dering escorted Cecil to her carriage he
simply remarked 

*' I shall claim your promise soon, Lady
Kuthven, so I hope you will not forget
it."

Chapter VI.

Since all that I can ever do for thee
Is to do nothing, this my prayer must be,
That thou may'st never guess or see
The all-endured this nothing-done costs me."

The Last Wish.

Several weeks passed, and the Derings
were still in town, Alan running down
occasionally to Aldershot when a stern
fate called upon him to remember his
duties as a soldier.

Eosabel was in the seventh heaven of
bliss, and inspected and pmxhased garments
and millinery of every description
throughout the livelong day. The impending
departure to India of her husband's

regiment gave her an extra excuse
for a careful selection of * outfit ; " and
the patience of Lady Euthven, to whom
she had taken a strong fancy, and of even
good-tempered Mary Graham, was often
sorely taxed to preserve an unflagging
interest in the narrative of each fresh
acquisition to her wardrobe.

And yet Kosabelwas so soft and pretty,
and so charming, that no one had the
heart to gainsay her the sympathy and
applause she craved ; least of all young-lady
Euthven, who, to her kindly liking
for the little soft-hearted soul, added a
most genuine admiration for her marvellous
pink and white loveliness.

She had also drawn a rough portrait of
Mrs. Dering, which pleased that little
lady much, for she saw herself etherealised
therein into a positive dream of beauty.
The large and somewhat vacant blue

eyes had been deepened and brightened
by skilful touches of the painter's brush ;
the beautiful complexion had full justice
done unto it; and the crisp,  fluffy "
hair had been artistically reduced into a
crown of soft golden braids, the whole
completed by a fanciful dress of cloudy
grey and white. One day it was destined
to take its place in a certain picture on
which most of Cecil's time and interest
was at present centred  an artist's realization
of Tennyson's ' Dream of Fair
Women"  and Eosabel's sweet face was
to be immortalized on canvas as

that Rosamond, whom men call fair,

If what I was I be."

In spite of the quiet life which Lady
Euthven led, generally working or studying
hard at the occupation which to her
was now almost a profession, Alan Bering
saw more of her than is the fate of most
friends during the London season.

By dint of carefully avoiding those
hours when he felt sure that a conclave
of visitors would be assembled in Lady
Kuthven's cool, shady drawing-room, he
was perforce admitted by virtue of old
acquaintance to her far hotter and decidedly
more uncomfortable painting-room ;
and many an hour he spent there talking
to her whilst she worked on steadily,
never once lifting her eyes from her easel,
and therefore perfectly ignorant of the
unconsciously steady observance which
her visitor took of each change of expression
on her ever varying face. Now
grave, now gay, now bright, now tired,
now laughing, now sad; there was no
single look on that face which Alan
Dering had not learnt by heart ; and yet,
with that strange soul-blindness so often
to be observed where the heart's innermost
depths have been sounded, he

honestly thought that what he felt for
this woman was true friendship alone,
whereas it was in reality love so pure and
full of reverence, that scarce any earthly
passion was as yet mingled with it ; and
so his eyes were blinded that he could
not see the rock on to which his ship was
drifting.

There are only two sorts of love in this
world ; one, light, and gay, and transient,
and much the happiest, hut which ends
as all such things end, in either bitterness
and loss of respect on loth sides, or else
in a careless indifference which redeems
nothing; the other, strong and deep and
lasting, alle from sheer truth and strength
to forgive and forget when wanted, and
to see gold instead of glitter through the
might of the old faith.

To Cecil Kuthven, also, the danger was
all invisible. Her frank, independent

VOL. ir. 23

nature made her naturally less subservient
to les convenances than many a
more worldly woman would have been ;
and to her the friendship of an old friend
seemed simply a matter of course, even
though that friend had once upon a time
tried to turn this friendship into love.
But Cecil was one of those women who
can sometimes forget their beauty, their
power over mankind, and even their
vanity, and try to prove attractive and
pleasant companions for the simple pleasure
of knowing that they are so. She
was conscious, too, that the last few years
had done much in forming and bringing
out what powers nature might have
granted to her ; for let the mind be
whose it may, it cannot but be strengthened,
though it must be saddened, by
intercourse with the world.

Conversing with clever men or women

is like the whetstone wliicli polishes the
steel ; the quality of the metal is already
there, its shape may be beyond all praise,
but it serves to sharpen and to smooth
the steel, and so render the whole work
more perfect.

Therefore, Lady Euthven accepted in
all honesty and earnestness the position
of Alan Bering's friend and oftentimes
companion, especially as Eosabel too
made her her confidante to a far greater
extent than even her husband did, and
many a friendly evening did all three
spend together at each other's houses.
But the Derings' sojourn in town had
almost come to an end now, and Cecil
too ere long was going to the north for
several weeks, with the Grahams; so
already the half melancholy pleasure of
"last days" had begun to shed a chastened
shadow over each happy hour.

Captain Dering happened on one of
these days to be lunching with some
friends living in the South Kensington
district, and whilst he was there, a discussion
arose anent the painter of some
picture exhibited in a certain Gallery
close by. Some said it was by Jones,
others said by Robinson, whilst the most
ignorant, and therefore the most obstinate
connoisseur there, swore to its being
the work of that rising young artist,.
Brown.

*' It's only a step to the Gallery, let's
go and see it for ourselves," suggested
the wisest and most energetic of the
party, and so a straggling start was
effected, and without quite knowing how,
Alan found himself straying with the rest
into the dingy and rather cheerless rooms
apportioned to art in the Gallery.

Being fond of pictures, he devoted his

attention for some time exclusively to
the walls, and with careful courtesy tried
not to interrupt the work of the sundry
artists who were here and there engaged
in copying some especial painting.

As he stept backwards, with his eyes
heed on a picture that had been most
unkindly ' skies" almost out of reach of
human eyesight, the sound of a weary
little sigh which seemed strangely familiar,
caught his ear, and looking hastily
round he saw Cecil Euthven standing
before an easel, and studying attentively
the picture on it, quite unconscious of
his own or any one else's observation.

Her hat was pushed back from her
forehead, leaving the pale, clear-cut face
fully exposed to view, and a vexed, disappointed
expression was on it as she
glanced from her easel to the wall and
back again many times, beating an impatient

tattoo with the obviously offending
paint-brush.

Alan Dering watched her for long, but
she neither moved nor turned her head
save to take a cursory glance at the party
of whom were his late companions, and
whose somewhat noisy remarks and criticisms
only served to deepen the look of
vexation on her expressive face.

' You look perplexed, Lady Kuthven,"
and Cecil started at the sound of Alan's
familiar but unexpected voice.

Could he feel otherwise than rejoiced
as he noted the [sudden brightening of
her face, and the frank look of joy in her
eyes as she exclaimed 

 Oh, I'm so glad you've come ! I've
been working and working all the morning,
and have just arrived at the stage
of being thoroughly disheartened with
my work, and 'perhaps you can help me."

'what is it?" asked Alan, watching
her face and not the picture as he
spoke.

'' Well, it's a sketch I am making for
the principal figure in my picture, ' The
Dream,' you know." Alan nodded ; did
he not know by heart each subject of
interest to hers? 'rand I thought I
could idealise that lovely face on the wall
there, into hers who said of herself,

I had great beauty : ask thou not my name :
- * * *

Where'er I came
I brought calamity."

"And so 3'ou have. Lady Kuthven,"
answered Alan, turning his attention at
last to her picture ; " that's the most
unearthly loveliness I ever saw, and one
which I could easily imagine might
bring calamity.' "

"Do you really like it? Oh, I'm so
glad," exclaimed Cecil, eagerly. "You

see, I had looked and looked at it so
often and so long, that I couldn't make
out at last whether the face itself had
grown idiotic or whether I had ! "

 Then I should say it was quite time
that you gave up painting for to-day, and
went home," answered Captain Bering
decisively.  Really, one would think
you were working to support a whole
tribe of aged and bedridden parents, to
see the way you devote all your energies
to daubing on canvas."

'now don't scold me;" and Cecil's
sweet smile softened his indignation ina
moment ; and he watched her gather
up her brushes and paints, and prepare
for departure, with the strange dumb
fascination of a dog as it watches each
movement of its best loved friend on
earth.

'i'll get you a cab, or is your

brougham coming for you?" asked Alan
as they proceeded to leave the room.

Oh, the brougham will be here ; at
least I ordered it at half-past three.
Yes, there it is, so good-bye until this
evening; you and Isabel dine with me
sou know ? ' '

' I shan't forget."

 And I feel so grateful to you for
having sent me home happy, and with
renewed faith in the realisation of my

Dream,' " she said laughingly.

"I only spoke the truth." And as
Alan lifted his hat to her, when the
carriage rolled away from the door, he
murmured sadly to himself, ' your

dream ' is more likely to be realised
than vine can ever be. Oh God ! how
it haunts me still  ' mon revel mon
river''

CHAPTEK VII.

Good-bye,

*' I may be worse than friends would prove.
Who knows the worst of any man ?
But, whatsoe'er it be, my love
Is not what they conceive, nor can."

One Morning.

"Let me thank you for that which ennobled regret,
When it came, as it beautified hope ere it fled, 
The love I once felt for you. True, it is dead,
But it is not corrupted."

Lucile.

'You left lis all nicely in the lurcli
Captain Dering, at the Gallery yesterday
! " and Alan found himself confronted
in the park next morning by a member
of the previous day's party.

The speaker was one of those women
whom every one feels bound to turn and

stare at by virtue of her somewhat no-
nonce style of dressing, and her own vivid
colouring, slightly embellished by art,
but whom no human being of refined
taste could seriously have admired. For,
as a defeated but more patrician rival
once sarcastically said of her, " if
Nature had sat up all night to do it,
she could never have made that young
woman a lady."

Captain Dering did the only thing to
be done inter the circumstances, and
tried hard to hint that lie had felt the
aggrieved party, and the one who was
4eft out in the cold."

*' No, no, that won't do. We all saw
you talking to a mysterious female in
black, whom you escorted out of the
room with as much solemnity as if she
were a princess. Now, tell me who it
was ? "

In addition to a decided and most
cordial dislike to his questioner, Alan
Dering felt a positive loathing against
mentioning Cecil's name in any conversation
of this sort; but he knew the
woman he had to deal with too well to
make any mystery about so simple a
matter, as the faintest suspicion of any
other woman being attractive besides
herself would, he knew, be like a firebrand
thrown on her overweening and jealous
vanity. So he merely answered, ' It
was an old friend of mine, a Lady
Euthven, who painted that picture of
Joan of Arc in this year's Academy, you
know."

''No, I don't know. Oh, she's an
artist then ? " And apparently this fact
proved a very uninteresting one to the
fair speaker, or else the unconcealed
glances of admiration levelled at her by

the 'golden youths" leaning over the
rails, proved more interesting, for to
Alan's great relief she dropped the subject
apparently satisfied, and he T\'as
allowed to proceed on his way unmolested.


But the words so lightly spoken had
taken root ; the ordinary chatter of
society had struck home where it was
scarcely meant, and to Alan Dering lay
suddenly revealed the undeniable fact,
that the dream of his youth was also
the dream of his manhood, and that his
first love would be his last, let Fate do
what it might.

He thought over the past few weeks,
the events of each day, and the dreams
of each night ; the quiet and perfect
happiness of those hours which were
spent beside her, the wasted excitement
and feverish unrest of those which were

spent apart. He could feel that the life
he had lately been living had not done
him much good, morally or physically;
but that was no fault of hers, no fault
of any one's save the goddess Fortune.
(Perhaps it shewed kindness on the part
of the ancients to represent that same
goddess as blind, for at least she was
spared from witnessing the many wrongs
and sorrows wrought in her name ! ) And
India, too. A separation of many months
stared him in the face ere long ; how
should he, how could he, live without
her ? Never to meet her bright smile,
never to clasp her hand, never to hear
her voice for long weary years ! How was
it to be borne, how even lived through ?

Alan Dering had woke up to a sense
of his danger at last, and he tried to
look it bravely in the face. There could
be no doubt that to leave England as

soon as possible was the wisest course
to pursue under the circumstances, in
fact the only right one ; but knowing her
to be heart-free, feeling sure that the
bitterest pang Iter heart could know
would, undoubtedly, be parting with her
friend and companion, made him hesitate,
and finally resolve to bear any torture on
earth sooner than rob her of even the
smallest pleasure which it was in his
power to afford her.

She was happy and heart-whole ; then
what need to think of him ' How should
she know that from henceforth each kind
word or smile would be a torture like
unto that of Tantalus' cup to this man ?

' God knows I would do far more than
that for her if I could," thought Alan
to himself, with the reckless, unselfish
generosity of a love which is deep and
true enough to count no cost.

'' My dear fellow, this is the third time
I've spoken to you, and nothing but a
dig in the ribs with my umbrella is left
to me now ! " and the speaker suited
action to word.

' I beg your pardon, Teddy, but my
wits were wool-gathering, I suppose."

 That's a way they have of late," observed
Teddy, drily. ' Well, when's
your leave up, and when do you rejoin
us parboiled mortals at Aldershot ? "

'To-morrow. I shan't get much of
that Pandemonium though, for we'll be
sent to Colchester soon, ' previous to embarkation
for India,' as the papers say."

' Ahemnecl good job too, else there'd
be very little of me left, I can tell you,
if I had to disport myself much longer
in that anti-heaven yclept the Long
Valley."

'' It's a turn of luck for both of us that

Hamilton doesn't want to go to India,
and has sent in his papers."

' Yes, you'll be a 'would major ' then,
and I shall be a proud ' casting.' I've
ordered extra suits of clothes at my
tailors' already, on the strength of it.
Tailors are good fellows, really, if you
take 'em the right way ! " added Mr. Graham
in a burst of enthusiasm. 'i'm
sure I hope they'll get a Promised Land
some day, for at present they get a deal
more of ' promises ' than anything more
substantial."

That evening, the last evening they
were all to spend in company for many a
weary day, Alan Dering, for the first time
in his life, felt distrait and ill at ease in
the society of Lady Euthven. Since he
had discovered the secret of his own
reckless folly it seemed to him almost
impossible but what every one else should
VOL. II. 24

discover it too ; and therefore he naturally
ran into the opposite extreme, and was so
cold and reserved in demeanour that
Cecil's frank eyes opened wide in astonishment
at last, and her laughing challenge
of his being in the most indigo
of blues " was made in a half vexed spirit
of disappointment at the unusual taciturnity
of her generally so pleasant companion.


I do think that as this is our last
evening all together you might help me
to make it a recollection of brightness,
and not of dullness," she said entreatingly,
in a low voice, under cover of Mary Graham's
brilliant fantasia on '' Scotch Airs"
in the distance.

Ah ! how often do we unconsciously
make others  pull the chestnuts from
the fire," unfeelingly and unthinkingly,
and it is only when some day our own

hands are sadly burnt and scarred, that
the memory strikes home to ns of what
they too must have suffered !

' I am sorry, Lady Enliven, if I am
assisting to spoil the festive spirit of your
last dinner-party ; but, somehow, I do
feel a bit down in my luck to-night, I'll
confess it to yoii.  Last nights' are
never very cheery things, do you think?"

'Oh, no; " and Alan, as he watched
her, felt an unreasonable joy at the deep
and grave regret in the far-away grey
eyes, which accompanied Cecil's answer.

*' But I shall see you before you sail ? '*
she asked eagerly. ' Isabel says she
must come to town the week before, just
for a few last * shoppings,' " added Lady
Ruthven, smilingly.

Of course she must. No, this won't
be quite 'good-bye' yet," answered Alan
slowly, Hke one in a dream.

'swell, that is to be in November,
isn't it? I shall be in town then too,
for my long holiday will be over and I
shall be anxious enough to get to work
again."

I envy you your work. It will bring
you occupation, triumph, even forgetfulness
; " and there was a tone of pain in
the man's voice that struck to Cecil's
heart.

'And you, too," she said quickly; 'you
will have plenty of work, and change of
scene, and change of faces. It is true
that I have had a small share of success
in my way, which may be the promise of
more to come in the future ; but that
doesn't bring perfect happiness. Else,
why should laurels taste bitter ? "

She spoke in the low dreamy tone he
liked best, for a careful observation had
assured him that unconsciously it was

never used save when speaking to himself.


At this moment Eosabel claimed her
hostess's attention to settle some trifling
dispute with regard to a colony, and the
minutes flew by, and the time of farewell
arrived without Alan Dering exchanging
another syllable with her.

The Derings were to leave town early
next morning, and many were the last
words and injunctions given and exchanged
between Eosabel and Lady
Euthven, with regard to their' next short
meeting in the autumn, ere the gallant
30th Hussars would leave then native
shores for India's coral strands.

Mrs. Graham and her daughter are
surrounding Eosabel at the last minute,
for these three are not to meet again,
and Alan crosses hastily over to where
Lady Euthven stands somewhat in the

background, delicately afraid of being in
the way of those affectionate and kindhearted
relatives.

' Cecil," and his voice sounds forced
and unfamiliar,  I must thank you for all
you have been to me, have done for me.
In giving me your friendship, your companionship,
so frankly and truly, you unconsciously
exorcised a madder devil than
man was ever yet possessed of. I cannot
explain or say more, I can only say,  God
bless you, dear, now and ever! ' "

CHAPTEK Viii.

WHAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN.

' But may there not be
A friendship yet hallowed between you and me ?
May we not be yet friends  friends the dearest? '

'Alas!'
She replied, ' for one moment, perchance, did it pass
Through my own heart, that dream which for ever hath

brought
To those who indulge it in innocent thought,
So fatal and evil a waking. But, no ;
For in lives such as ours are, the Dream-tree would grow
On the borders of Hades : beyond it, what lies ?

To your eyes, friend of mine, and to your eyes alone,

That now long-faded page of my life hath been shown.

Which recorded my heart's birth, and death, as you know,

Many years since, how many ! A few months ago

I seem'd reading it backward, that page ! Why explain

Whence or how ? The old dream of my life rose again.

The old superstition, the idol of old !

It is over.

*****

I bury it here by the sea
Which will bear me anon far away from the shore,
Of a land which my footsteps shall visit no more.
And a heart's requiescat I write on that grave'"

Lucile.

November has come, and to one person
in this world it seems as if the end of
all things had come with it.

Strangers say that Alan Dering looks
worried and ill, but Isabel sees it not,
and only answers pettishly, ' so like
people to try and make a man think
he's ill, before he ever tries the climate
even! "

But great and serious was her dismay
when one day her husband gravely
broached to her the possibility of his exchanging,
and not going out to India after
all ; for Eosabel had set her little heart
on the Hfe of flattery, admiration, indolence,
and comfort, which she felt sure
awaited her on those far-off eastern
shores.

 Not go to India ? Not go out at
all ? " and tears rolled down the lovely
pink and white cheeks copiously. They

had arrived in town the night before,
and were breakfasting previous to Mrs.
Bering's final raids on dressmakers and
outsiders in general.

Alan did not answer. His bad angel
had got the best of him at last, and he
was conscious of but one wild desire left
on earth, i.e., never to leave the land
where dwelt the one and only love of his
life.

*sand to think of all my thin clothes,
trimmed with real lace too ; how am I
to wear them in this detestable climate ?
Oh, it's too hard, Alan ; what can you be
doing it for?"

* I hate going, now that it comes to
the point," he said shortly.

'But you must have some reason V
persisted his wife not unnaturally.

None, save what I tell you." Truly
he had no reason for his folly !

From tears Mrs. Dering changed abruptly
to hot indignation.

 I shall go to Cecil at once, and tell
her what you say ! I'm sure she'll agree
with me as regards your folly."

' Of course she will," answered her
husband, quietly and sadly.

'* But then why do it, Alan, if you
yourself think it is folly ? Listen to me.
I know I'm not clever, and never can
give any one good advice, but go to
Cecil, do go to Cecil, and see what she
says," urged Isabel, with tearful persistence.


' I will, if you wish it ; " and inwardly
he thought grimly how little likely was
such an expedient to have the desired
result.

' Well, when will you go ? " asked
Mrs. Dering, with feverish impatience.

I can't go till yq o'clock this afternoon,

for the chief wants me, I think,
until then."

Well, I shall go and see her at once,"
said Isabel, complainingly ; ' and I hope
that by the time you do come, she will
be better able to persuade you to do your
duty than I am ! ' ' And a fresh remembrance
of the lovely ethereal trousseau
prepared for those hot eastern climes,
added a tenfold pang to her aggrieved
spirit as she departed indignantly on her
errand.

Vaguely and wearily did Alan Dering
struggle through the manifold duties of
that day; never before had his colonel
seemed so fussy and exacting ; never had
he himself felt less capable of understanding
the simplest subject. Everything
resolved itseK in his mind into two
momentous facts  that once more he
should meet Cecil before the day was

done, and that then and there he must
make up his mind either never to see her
again, or never to leave her.

At last he was free ; and, quite forgetting
that he himself had stated five
o'clock as the earliest hour when he
should make his appearance at Lady
Euthven's house, he started off for thereat
once, and received a positive shock of
astonishment when the servant who
opened the door calmly said, Not at
home," to his first inquiry.

But being a well-known visitor, some
further information was vouchsafed to
him in the words 

'' Her ladyship left word that she'd beat
home for certain by five; and I believe,
sir, she's gone to Kensington."

' Of course, to the Gallery, no

doubt; " and Captain Dering sprang into
a hansom and ordered himself to be
driven to that locality at once.

The first person he encountered at the
entrance was Lady Euthven herself, and
her joyful exclamation, ' Oh, I am so
glad to see you," gave him time to recover
himself and to answer with discreet
indifference.

*I was going home, for Kosahel told
me you were coming to see me at five
o'clock, and it's got so dark I can't see
to paint any longer."

She spoke loth fast and nervously, two
very unusual things with Cecil, and it
was with a strange feeling of warding
off some unknown pain that she proposed
to him to walk home to her house, instead
of loth driving.

* I've a weakness for walking in London
through a gaslit fog," she said,
trying to speak lightly, as they made
their way into the park by Prince's Gate.
But Alan scarcely answered, and long

and pre-occupied silences took the place
of the usual steady flow of talk which
these two friends had, as a rule, maintained.


At last Lady Euthven's house is
reached, and both the firelight and
pleasantly shaded lamp look bright and
cheerful after the gloom and fog outside.


Not so the faces of those who now
sit facing that fire-light, each one wondering
how soon the other will broach
the important subject.

 You saw Eosabel this morning ? "

Yes."

 And she told you of my change of
determination as regards going out to
India?"

*eyes; but I cannot see ivlmj you
should change your mind ? "

He looks keenly at her, but troubled

as her face appears, her eyes are as clear
and true as a child's.

'then I will tell you;" and Alan
Dering draws a deep breath, then goes
on speaking steadily: ' I don't want to
leave England, because there is but one
human being to me on earth, and lie
lives there. Cecil, Cecil, are you so
blind as not to have seen it all along ?
And yet, why should you, for was I myself
not equally blind ? How could I
tell that the love I felt for you long years
ago would come back to me now tenfold,
nay, a thousand-fold stronger than
before ? Oh, my darling ! my darling I
I cannot live without you ! I cannot
toil through all the long weary days and
hours alone, without your dear eyes to
strengthen and help me. I cannot ! Oh,
God, I cannot I ' '

A deathly silence reigns throughout

the room, save for the flicker of the
flames, and the monotonous ' ticktack"
of Cecil's little French clock. A
still more deathly silence reigns over
Cecil Enliven's soul, for at last she
knows full well the meaning of that
strange and dreary ache at her heart,
which she has felt through all the past
months; at last she realises the sorrow
and unutterable despair of the words,
' too late!"

And lie J too. Before all things she
must think of him ! It was true enough
that her influence over him was very
great ; how best could it be used  by
forsaking him, or staying by him ? Truly,
there are some natures over whom the
power of good has sometimes a stronger
temptation than the power of evil ;
natures which are as proof against the
assaults of sin and temptation, as a

strong calm rock, which throws hack
the sea-foam that dashes vainly against
it, hilt which may yet go down before
the power of a great faith and love, oran
unselfish dread of dealing pain to
others.

There is one strong desperate struggle
in her soul, the struggle between happiness
and misery, right and wrong ; between
strength and honour, and a woman's
love and weakness ; then, the strong high
sense of honour which breathed forth
in every fibre of her nature asserts itself,
the old nature wakes up again at the
first call of pain or trial, and the woman
of the world is as stern in her uncompromising
justice to her own faults, as
the wild uncultured girl was great in her
unselfishness and savage honour so long
ago.

'' It is all my fault, Alan, not yours ; "
VOL. II. 25

and her voice sounds strange and hoarse,
and unlike itself, nor will her eyes meet
his. *I ought to have thought of it, I
ought to have seen the danger, hut I was
so happy that I did not."

' Hush ! I will not hear you reproach
yourself for what is only my wild folly.
How could you tell that each light word
or smile of yours sank into my heart like
an ineffaceable record ? Cecil, you can
guess, if you do not know, at the dreariness
of my life, the loneliness of my
heart, the weary suffering of each day
and hour. Only let me breathe the same
air as you do, meet you sometimes in the
crowd, clasp your hand as a friend, and I
am content ; aye, more than content ! "

' It cannot be." And something in
that stern, hut most ineffably sad voice,
recalls to Alan's mind an old man's
prophecy long years ago : * My daughter

is a Euthven, aud will aye be true to her
troth."

'rit is easy for you to say so," bursts
out her listener in hollow, despairing
tones. '' You never heeded, you never
cared, years ago, when you scorned and
rejected me, though T loved you so truly,
so dearly ! Why should you care more
7101U, when I have only the self-same love
to offer you which I gave you tlmi true
and loyal to you at least, if to nothing
else on earth."

Did she not care ? What means the
trembling of body and soul, the agonized
longing of a breaking woman's
heart to tell the truth, and the awful
temptation to say 'eyes" where honour
to God and man compel her to say "No " ?
Sometimes one may wonder, ivill there
ever be a mete reward for all the pain
suffered on earth? for it must surely bea

stupendous one if it can drown all remembrance
of the agony which went
before !

'you are right, I do not care;" an
involuntary shiver runs through the
speaker's voice, but each word is slow
and distinct; so don't waste a thought
on me. Remember, you have your life
and all its duties before you. Remember
that there is a future as well as a past.
Forget this wild folly of to-night, and let
us be the true good friends we always
have been. Oh, Alan, dear Alan, do go
away and live out your life happily and
truly, with no thought of me, for what
can I bring to you now save sorrow and
suffering ? "

' Sorrow ! suffering ! Those are household
words in my life not ! "

' Why exchange a sorrow which has
been wrestled with in many a sore strife,

and has been conquered and trodden
under foot, for a sorrow the height and
depth and strength of which you know
not, and cannot know ? "

'I should be near you'' is the man's
only answer.

Two sentences from a book which she
had read that day rise before Cecil
Euthven's mind, and sound in her ears
I'ke some prophetic spirit's muttering :
' Dans tes bras je perds le sens de tout,
meme Honneur ! " and the steadfast
answer: * N'importe, je men souviendrais
pour toi."

If she prove weak now, what chance
is there for him' What hope here and
hereafter ? What shadow of happiness in
all days to come ?

'alan, it must be, dear. There is no

other course for us save to say good-bye."

'' How can I say it, when it means

death in life to me ? My darling, were
it for your happiness you were pleading,
then indeed would I listen. But what
does it hurt you if I choose to throw
away my life in worshipping an old
dream? "

Cecil starts and turns round abruptly,
facing him at last.

' Alan, if I told you that it was for my
good, for my peace's sake that I wished
you to go away, would you do it ? "

The honest eyes meet his as trustingly
as of old, but the world of loyal love and
faith in them almost unman him.

'What do you mean; what is it,
Cecil?" he falters.

' I do ' care ' Alan ; God alone knows
how much ! Now, will you go away, for
my sake, to help me ? "

'' Yes, so help me God ! "

Solemnly are the words spoken which

sound a death knell to Alan Bering's
heart, and with a feeling of unutterable
reverence and love he takes the small
white hand in his which he has coveted
so long, and draws her gently towards
him.

"Good-bye, Cecil; good-bye, my only
love on earth, my first love and my last.
Yon have conquered, child, and I will do
all you tell me now. I would face years
and years of endless torture here and
hereafter, for the sake of knowing that at
least you love me at the last ! Cecil, I
feel I ought to pray that you may forget
me, but I cannot. Oh, God, but it is
hard to give you up ! "

"It is hard, bitterly hard ; " and a low
moan breaks forth from the girl's white
set lips; "but, Alan, it is right ; we
must ask no more. Will you promise me
one thing only' ? "

'iVny thing on this earth."

I won't ask you to forget me ; natures
such as yours and mine cannot forget.
But I do ask you for my sake to live a
true and loyal life, and never to despair.
Will you do this ? "

a'lltry."

"mind now, good-bye." Her strength
was failing her fast she felt ; it must begot
over soon.

'Good-bye," he answered mechanically,
and in a strange hoarse voice ; then, ashe
reached the door, he turned and came
back hastily, took both her hands in his,
and brushed her forehead with his lips
in a caress which was like a mute farewell
to love, life, all things ; then, the
sound of a closing door rings in Cecil's
fast deafening ears, and with a low wail
of sorrow the conqueror in that hour of
strife falls on her knees, with face hidden

in her hands, trying vainly to realize the
price at which that victory has been
gained, and the sorrow which no future
years will ever efface from out her heart.

CHAPTER IX.

BEECHWAEDEN.

A man's first care should be to avoid the reproaches of
his own heart ; his next, to escape the censures of the world."
Addison.

If you break your plaything yourself, dear.
Don't you cry for it all the same ? "

*ris this home at last?" and the
speaker's bright gipsy face lit up with
excitement as the carriage, which had
been sent to the station to meet Geoffry
Dumaresque and his wife, turned in
under the old stone archway, grim and
grey, which commanded the entrance into
Beechwarden.

*' It's strange, Geoff, but I seem to
remember this place ! " exclaimed Badges

with a sudden and superstitious shiver, as
she glanced up at the massive stonework
above her head. The arms of the Duma-rescues
and the Derings looked down
more impassively than ever, in calm contempt
at this storming of their stronghold
by a nameless waif and stray ; and the
girl's wistful gaze had something strangely
beseeching in it, as she glanced up at those
time-honoured monuments of pride of
both, almost as if imploring their forgiveness.


'you caiiH have seen it, Madge,"
answered Geoffry pettishly. ' What in
the world should take you to Beech-warden?
"

'nothing. Unless I had passed it by
travelling," answered Madge hesitatingly.
Those days of yore were a most uncongenial
subject to Geoffry Dumaresque's
mind.

'* Nonsense. Why can't you let those
past days alone, Madge ? You're always
thinking of them, and you know how I
hate their very remembrance ! Try to
forget them in those of the present."

Madge Lee did not answer, but looked
out into the fast gathering darkness with
a weary feeling of disappointment in her
heart ; so many illusions had been dispelled
lately, so many a golden dream
turned to grey. Was this long anticipated
*home coming" to prove a
failure too ?

Above the roll of the carriage wheels
and the tramp of horses' hoofs resounded
dreary rustling and whispering amongst
the branches of the old beech trees all
around, and to the gipsy girl's wild
superstitious nature, there seemed almost
a sound of warning in that low sad
moaning.

But all fears and all ills seemed to
have vanished as if by magic, when a
few hours later the travellers found themselves
seated at dinner in the cosy little
*' breakfast room" of the mansion, considered
more befitting to a Ute-astute
entertainment than the huge, oak-panelled
dining room which was used on state
occasions. Both were in the best of
spirits, blest with youth, health, and
strength, and each apparently fully satisfied
with the other ; what more could
any young couple want ? And yet there
was an expression on Geoffrey Duma-rescue's
face now which had not been
there before, a deeper look than his weak
and vacillating features had once worn
but, withal, a sadder look too.

As he passes his slight thin hand
lovingly over his wife's dark hair, whilst
she kneels beside him in the firelight, it

needs no great power of observation to
fathom that the love which the boy so
rashly ventured in the folly and hot
haste of youth, has strengthened, not
weakened, as the years went on ; and that
the one true deep chord in Geoffry
Dumaresque's weak and facile nature is
his passionate devotion to the girl he
walls his wife.

What would he not give novo to undo
the past, to dare to claim the love of his
life honourably and nobly as a man
should, to shield that slight form against
the storms and tempests of a weary world ?
And yet he, her most loved and trusted
friend on earth, has proved himself her
bitterest enemy ; and there is no chance
of retrieving past errors now !

Well may Geoffry Dumaresque dread
the inevitable discovery of the truth
which the light of each day may perforce

bring forth, and small wonder is it
that his wife's bright hopeful words, when
speaking of the future and all its joys to
come, should make his heart sink within
him, and his spirit to quail in utter and
impotent despair.

"If it were not for the child, I should
not care so much," he said to his
own feeble, miserable heart. '' But when
that is born, she must know all, and then,
God help us both ! "

* Geoff, dear, you look tired and badly
to-night," says a sweet low voice anxiously
; and laying one arm around his
neck, Madge rests her little dark head on
his shoulder lovingly.

"It's nothing, Madge. I suppose one
does get a bit tired after travelling so
long ; and I haven't been here for so
many years that it makes one tliinli a
bit, somehow."

Yes, I quite understand," says the
girl quickly and sympathetically.

'And I don't know how it is, but I
seem to feel the loss of the good old man
who is gone, more to-night than I ever
did before. I wish to God I hadn't vexed
and crossed him as often as I did, in days
gone by ; " and the tardily repentant son
stares moodily into the fire with sad and
anxious gaze.

*' But Geoff," pleads the loving voice
beside him once more, " you never
vexed him much dear, you never did
anything really bad except when you
married me, and lie never knew that I
was your wife." Do what she will, a
tinge of sadness and regret creeps into
the girl's voice.

''' You don't repent your sacrifice,
Madge?"

'never! It was a little enough price

to pay for what it bought. But why talk
of all that now, Geoff? Aren't all the
dark days over? and isn't my 'good time'
coming at last ? ' ' And Tith a tearful
laugh of deep happiness, Madge lays her
head against his knee and kisses the
slender, effeminate hand which lies carelessly
on it.

'poor little woman! It doesn't take
much to make you happy, Madge," says
her lover, tenderly.

"Not mucli'" re-echoes Madge, lifting
up her head now and speaking sith
fast and passionate utterance. " I
tell you it is just ' life ' itself which
you have given me, Geoff, and without
you I would sooner die ! But don't
let's talk of dying, dear, for we are
both young, and there is no fear of
that yet a bit, unless," and the girl's

voice becomes hushed and low, " I
VOL. II. 26

may chance to die when my baby is
born."

Geoffry Dumaresque's heart stood still
with fear and dread. How could he realize
a life without her in it ?  and yet how
could he drown the voice crying out in
his innermost soul with impotent anguish,
'' 'Twere best so ! "

' Madge, don't talk of such things,
dear," he says huskily, and involuntarily
drawing that dear head nearer to him,
in vain protection against the relentless
Nemesis which is pursuing him in
thought both night and day.

' Well, I won't, dear boy," answers
Madge brightly and caressingly. *' Suppose
you tell me something about your
own people, Geoff, for, maybe, I shall
know them soon now, you see."

Geoffry stirs uneasily in his chair, and
then answers absently 

'' Oil, I've only got one sister, and no
other relation in the world scarcely, save
her husband."

'rand who is he?"

You know him. Alan Bering."

Captain Dering ! Oh, did your sister
marry him? I am so glad, for now he'll
know all about me, and will know, too,
that I kept my word to him true enough,
for all that I seemed so wicked and bad."

The girl's face is rendered gloriously
beautiful by its expression of radiant and
proud satisfaction now ; but the man
beside her seems to take little heed of its
surpassing beauty, nor does he even seem
to hear the triumphant ring in the clear,
low voice.

And is there no one else ? " she continues
eagerly. " I know your people
won't like me at first, Geoff, dear, but
perhaps they will some day, don't you

think ? " and the loving brown eyes plead
timidly for their imagined and long-coveted
rights.

perhaps," answers young Mr. Duma-rescue
shortly.

He evidently feels sure that they
never will," thinks the girl sadly in her
own heart. *swell, so long as I have
7wm, what does all else matter?" and
it is with a sunny and untroubled mien
that Madge pursues her questionings.
' Whose house did you say that was
which we passed just before arriving
here ?  that pretty little cottage, with a
stream running at the foot of the
garden ? "

' You mean Eiverside, as it is called.
That belongs to young Lady Kuthven,
I believe, but she has always let it for
the fishing ever since it became hers at
her husband's death."

' I'm sorry.  Young Lady Kiithven '
sounds Eke some one who would be a
nice friend," says Madge with speculative
frankness. A friend to /er P Where
would lie find a friend of any sort to give
her a kind hand clasp or even a friendly
greeting ?

' I've heard that she is very charming,"
says Geoffry Dumaresque absently.

For a long time there is a deep silence,
then Madge speaks again :

Geoff ! I have a great favour to ask
of you, a veris great one."

' Speak out, dear," and he smiles at
her gravely anxious face.

There was a girl in our troupe, I
mean in our company, you know," and
Madge blushes hotly as she sees a frown
gather on her young husband's face,
who was a great friend of mine, and
I should so like to see her again," says
Madge, wistfully.

'sand I should so much like to ask
her to stay with me some day, if I might.
She's as good and honest and true as the
day, Geoff, and she nursed me once when
I was very bad with fever, and oli, she
was so kind to me ! "

' That may be ; but you can show your
gratitude to her in some other way. By
giving her a handsome present for instance,
or something of that sort."

' Give her a present / ' and the dark,
gipsy eyes blazed with indignant fire.
' How could any present this world
might give, equal what she gave me ?
No ; let me ask her to come and see my
grand home  to share my bright days,
even as she shared my dark ones, and let
her know that Madge Lee never forgets
old kindnesses, even though she may be
so proud and happy that there seems

scarce room in her heart for any other
joy save her o\ti."

*well, well, let it be as you like,
Madge," answers Geoffry Dumaresque,
unwilling, but still half conquered by the
beauty of the imploring face raised so
eagerly to his own.

'soh, thank you again and again, dear
Geoff!" she exclaims delightedly. *sit
seems just like a beautiful fairy tale," she
pursues more soberly and with a grave
reflective face; ' to think that I shall
be able at last to return the kindnesses
of others, and brighten their' lives by
sharing with them a bit of my own bright
glory;" and the girl laughs aloud from
pure joy and gladness, as she revels in
the blissful thoughts which her mind has
conjured up.

But the ring of that clear, joyous laugh
seems to sound as a knell in the ears of

Geoffry Dumaresque ; for he starts up
with a troubled countenance and proposes
to shew his companion anything and
everything on which his perturbed mind
can lay hold as an excuse, and so the
dangerous conversation drifts safely over
this time, and the hand of Fate is stayed
for a while.

Chapter X.

A SUMMER Morning.

The woman who loves should, indeed,
Be the friend of the man that she loves. She should heed
Not her selfish and often mistaken desires.
But his interest, whose fate her own interest inspires ;
And, rather than seek to allure, for her sake.
His life down the turbulent, fanciful wake
Of impossible destinies, use all her art
That his place in the world find its place in her heart,"

Lucien

this occasion Mr. Geoffry Diimaresqiie
made a mistake, Yflien he gave it as his
opinion that the pretty cottage known to
the neighborhood in general as Riverside,
was let to strangers. That it was
ordinarily so let was true, but at the
present time the late tenant having taken
his departure, and a new one not yet

having been found, Lady Kuthven herself
was in occupance of the pretty mansion,
and enjoying country air and country life
to the full, after the wearily hot London
season had drawn to a close.

To a casual observer there was little
change in the pale earnest face which
now looked out on the bright August
sunshine, as its owner stood in the rose-covered
porch of the cottage this summer
morning, trying to solve the important
problem where and how the next few
hours of idleness should be spent. Buta
change there was, and a great one too,
though no stranger's eye might mark it ;
for the change lay deep down in the
woman's very heart and soul.

For days and weeks after her last parting
with Alan Dering had Cecil striven
nobly to fight down all dangerous memories,
all weak regrets, and to be her own

true loyal self. Feverishly, iimveariedly
she toiled at her ' work," her occupations,
even her amusements, trying to
drown in a ceaseless life of action the
still small voice of ' what might have
been."

And slowly and surely the succour
came, came with returning health and
strength, with hardly-won peace and rest ;
and now, on this August morning, though
in the depths of her heart she realizes
how impossible it would be ever really to
forget the past, her brave spirit is joyous
and at rest at last, for she feels that the
struggle is over now, the victory won.

Cecil Euthven was a woman who when
she loved, gave all as women do once
and once only in their lives, lavishly, ungrudgingly,
and never counting the cost ;
but who, did she lose that all, had power
to do the hardest thing which life can

give to mortal man to do, i.e. not to
* forget," but to '' live down."

"Forgetting" is often but another
name for hurt vanity, lowered pride,
and the temper which shews itself in
extra emphasized " dead cuts," only to
be revenged by weeping and wailing in
softer moments, when some chance meeting
again brings the old sorrow face to
face. But when a life's story is "lived
down," after many months or years of
honestly acknowledged and weary strife
against its power, then and then alone
comes rest, for there is no peace like unto
that of the dead !

And so a soft bright look rests on Cecil
Ruthven's face to-day, as once more she
peruses the long Indian letter which this
morning's post has brought her. It is
from Alan Dering ; and though here and
there a stray word in the epistle tells an

unconscious tale of sadness and loneliness
to the woman who can so well read every
vague thought or idea of his, on the
whole the news contained in it is cheery
enough, and Lady Kuthven's heart feels
happy in her friend's welfare.

A dreamy chain of old memories draws
out its slow length before her gaze, and
as the letter lies idly' on her lap, her
thoughts wander far away to the sunny
Eastern climes, where its whiter is even
now obeying the behest so earnestly
urged upon his remembrance long years
ago:  there is the world, and there is
life hidden in it somewhere,  it must not
be wasted."

She sighs half sadly as the reflection
crosses her mind how widely sundered are
their several interests now ; and vaguely
she envies poor pretty Eosabel the grace
which a kindly fate has accorded unto her

of sharing that loved one's life wheresoever
its destiny may lead him. And
Isabel seemed to value all this so little !
A new dress or a new trinket would have
power perhaps to rouse her soul unto
enthusiasm, but she seemed either wilfully
or unconsciously blind to the great and
untold well of happiness which the love
and respect of such a man as Alan Dering
must assuredly have brought her had she
cared to keep it.

For Lady Ruthven, in the rash and
unthinking judgment which we so often
mete out to others, never doubted that
this man's love had once been all Rosa-bel's
; and in her true honest heart she
grudged the latter not one whit a treasure
which had been so fairly won. How
often in this world it is the second in the
race which has fought the bravest fight
and striven against the heaviest odds !

Cecil put ou lier hat, and collected her
book, sunshade, and other necessaries for
the enjoyment of an idle summer morning,
and strolled along the smooth trim
lawn, to where a clear trout stream
bordered the small domain.

Helter-skelter rushed the brown trout
and silvery minnows in every direction
in the water, as on its surface became
reflected the vision of a white-clad young
woman, sheltered by a large green sunshade
; and even an old water-rat, possessing
much stability of character, not to
say most unblushing effrontery,  sprang
off his pollard root nth a splash and
betook himself hastily to the opposite
bank, at sight of so unusual an apparition.


Lady Kuthven sauntered slowly on
through the wicket-gate at the end of
the lawn, and into the great green

meadow beyond, and finally through the
glaring hot cornfield which now alone
lay between her and the cool shady
mass of beeches that marked the boundaries
of Beechwarden.

It was becoming most oppressively
hot, and though gathering poppies in
the corn " has a most bewitchingly rural
sound, Cecil was mindful of the fact that
this process is usually accompanied by
sticky fingers and a crick in the back,
so she let those  scarlet ladies" flaunt
on in peace, and hastened her steps until
a high wooden stile led her safely into
the park of Beechwarden.

Here there was no glaring sunshine,
here all was cool and still, and an indescribable
feeling of rest stole over Cecil
Kuthven's heart. It was a joy even to
live on such a day, she thought, as each,
step on the soft yielding moss, sprinkled

vith fallen beeclinuts, seemed to stir up
fresh fragrance from earth and flowers.
On and on she wandered until at last,
upon reaching a sudden opening in the
wood, she found herself standing by the
edge of a small deep pond hinged with
alders and willow-trees. Close around it
towered the great beech-trees, shutting
out every gleam of sunshine which sought
to reflect itself on the water's dark bosom,
and even the water-hies floating in its
midst seemed less pure and white than
usual, as if nothing innocent or bright
could flourish in so dark and weird a
spot.

Involuntarily Lady Euthven shuddered,
and the thought crossed her mind, how
appropriately melodramatic this dreary
place would be for the commission of
some deed of darkness or the haunt of
some ghostly victim of crime ; and as she

VOL. II. 27

sat down on a fallen tree to take a few
moments' rest, involuntarily she looked
furtively towards the reassuring sight of
a tall pile of chimneys with columns of
smoke issuing therefrom, betokening the
near vicinity of man, and which could
plainly be distinguished through the
farthest grove of beech trees.

evidently the owner of Beechwarden
has come at last," thought LadyKuthven
to herself, and straightway fell to wondering
what this brother of Isabel Bering's
would be like, and whether all the stories
told of him and his escapades were true ;
above all, whether rumour had erred in
saying that when he returned home at
last he had not returned alone.

But her thoughts soon flew back to
the past once more, and old memories
crowded over her thick and fast. Once
more, the water-lilies before her seemed

like unto those which even now were
floating in sumptuous and peaceful content
in the marble basin of the well-remembered
conservatory at Grahamstown
House; again she heard the trickle of
the cool water, dropping slowly on to the
ferns and the leaves, again the drowsy
sweetness of the orange-blossoms seemed
lulHng her heart and mind into dreamy
oblivion, and once more she heard Alan
Bering's low soft tones murmuring in her
ear.

Cecil Euthven was no dreamer on life's
great battle-field, for her was there no
drifting down the stream from sheer lack
of courage to take out the oars. But
there are times when one is tired of
rowing, and weary of always looking
ahead, when it is very sweet to gode into
the sunshine and rest, and dream of
sunny memories gone by.

Her reverie ends abru23tty, for a sKglit
figure, dressed somewhat fancifully in a
pale creamy colour, much ornamented
with deep crimson ribbons, has suddenly
advanced to the edge of the water on the
Beechwarden side, and with a start of
surprise, stands looking at Lady Euth-
even's recumbent figure with dark eyes
full of curiosity and interest.

Cecil rises to her feet, and with an
involuntary haughty grace entirely her
own, advances to the new comer and
says apologetically :

*i'm afraid that I am intruding, but
being a near neighbour to Beechwarden,
I strolled in here to get a little rest and
shade just now. Can you tell me if Mr.
Dumaresque has returned home ? " she
adds hesitatingly, wondering who her
new companion can possibly be.

'eyes, he returned home two days.

-ago," answers the other quietly, seating
herself on the fallen tree from which
Lady Ruthven has just risen, and from
sheer lack of energy to do anything
else, or from a dread of appearing uncourteous,
Cecil also repeats herself, and
each woman looks furtively at the other
with some admiration and a decidedly
rapid growing interest.

Chapter XI,

LADY EUTHVEN S CONQUEST.

** Where the storm in its wrath hath lighted.
The pine lies low in the dust ;
And the corn is-withered and blighted,
Where the fields are red with the rust ;
Falls the black frost, nipping and killing,
Where its petals the violet rears,
And the wind, though tempered, is chilling
To the lamb despoiled by the shears.

The strong in their strength are shaken.
The wise in their wisdom fall ;
And the bloom of beauty is taken 
Strength, wisdom, beauty, and all ;
They vanish, their lot fulfilling,
Their doom approaches and nears.
But the wind, though tempered, is chilling
To the lamb despoiled by the shears."

AsMaroth.

** You say that you live near here"'
inquired Madge Lee, for it was none
other than she who now sat sharing the

impromptu bench, created by a forest
giant's downfall.

'* Yes, at Eiverside."

*'01i! then you are Lady Euthven,"
exclaimed Madge frankly. ' I'm so glad,
for I quite longed to see you."

*eyes?" And Cecil marvelled more
and more who this girl could be, with
the beautiful flashing face and rich dress,
and yet with a strange accent which
scarcely bespoke pride of birth.

*ewe came home two days ago, and my
husband had to ride over to his agent's
this morning, so I came out to get a
little fresh air by myself. And I am so
glad, for now I have seen ?sow."

The ring of bright, unconscious flattery
in the speaker's voice went far to disarm
Lady Kuthven's gradually growing
mistrust ; it was impossible to help
responding to" such frank overtures, made

with that honest smile and bright loving
gaze, though Cecil shrewdly suspected
that the person before her was none
other than the half-credited, half-doubted
wife of Beechwarden's new possessor.

For many minutes they talked on; of
the country around them, of the trees
and flowers before them, and of the many
trifles which strangers use as a means
of becoming en rapport with those to
whom they converse ; and on the mind of
each was left one dominant impression:
that on Madge Lee's being deep and
sincere admiration for the noble-faced,
courteous-mannered woman beside her,
and that on Cecil's, an overwhelming
pity for the loving, honest child's heart,
so freely spread out before her.

'And so you live all alone?" mused
Madge in some wonder, as she unconsciously
realised how many could surely

be found only too anxious to invade this
enforced solitude of the pale proud
woman beside her. 'rare you never
lonely?"

'not often," but a quickly repressed
sigh somewhat beheld the speaker's
words.

"I coiilcMt live alone, and that's all
about it," laughed Madge gaily. 'why
it would be Hke living in this dark, dreary
place here, with never a ray of sunshine
to warm one's heart," she added gravely.

So you value the sun beyond all
else ? " asked Cecil, m the vague dreamy
tone so often used by those who Overmuch
alone.

"Indeed I do. That is," and the
bright gipsy face softened quickly, "I
value the sunshine which others can shed
on my life, for it will surely bring me a
good time some day too ! "

Cecil glanced curiously at the bright
hopeful face, and said half sadly 

My experience is, that it is not well
to depend too much on someone else for
the sunshine of one's life ; the day may
come when the sun will set, and darkness
reign over all ! "

 That can never be for me not''
exclaimed Madge involuntarily, and then
stopped and coloured crimson at her own
apparently incomprehensible speech.

For a moment she debated in her
mind whether she should tell this newfound
friend who she herself was; but
no, she dared not. What if the other
turned from her with that cold, stony
glare, before which so many Christian
matrons abroad had made her ofttimes
wince ? Little recked she of them, but
this, this was different,  and unshed tears-rose
to Madge's eyes as she pictured to

herself a stern, contemptuous look on
that pale, sweet face, which now glanced
at her so kindly and lovingly'.

As she turned her head again, she
caught the earnest pitying gaze which
Lady Euthven's deep grey eyes involuntarily
wore, and ere she could speak a
word, Cecil's hand clasped hers with
quiet force, as she said 

' I am a good many years older than
you, so perhaps there is less sunshine forme
in life than I hope and pray there
may be for 3'ou ; but if ever your sun is
behind the clouds, and those clouds look
thick and dark for want of a friend's hand
to tear them aside and let the Hght shine
through, will you come to me and let me
try to help you then ? And now, goodbye."


Something rises in the gipsy girl's
throat and chokes her utterance, and

something else rises to her dark eyes
and obscures her vision ; but though she
answers never a word, and only waves
her hand in farewell to the tall, slight
figure in white, which is once more returning
from whence it came, long does
she stand there watching the eddies and
ripples on the dark, dank waters before
her, as her mind travels over and over
again through each moment and incident
of the bygone hour.

That night at dinner, after the servants
have left the room, Madge comes
out with her great piece of news :

' Geoff, I saw Lady Euthven to-day."

* Did you, little woman ? And is she
as pretty as they say ? "

'I thought not at first; but directly
she spoke to me, she seemed lovely  I
never saw a face so fascinating."

 SpoJve to you?" echoed Geoffry 

in surprise ; then recollecting
himself, lie added, *but where on earth
could you have met Lady Kuthven ? "

' Oh, I went out for a walk this morning
after you had started for Mr. Drainer's,
and I rather lost my way, I think, for I
got thicker and thicker into the trees,
and at last reached the most gruesome,
desolate-looking pond I ever saw in my
life,  oh, a horrible place ! "

' I know; it's called the Found Pond,
and is supposed to have already been the
watery grave of two or three suicides,"
laughed young Mr. Dumaresque.

Just what it looks Hke," exclaimed
Madge, shuddering; ' but, to go on with
my story, what should I see sitting on a
fallen tree close to the water's edge, buta
lady dressed in white, with a big, green
parasol."

'I suppose you thought it was the

ghost of one of the Eoimd Pond's victims?"


'' No, I didn't ; my nerves are too good
for that ; but I loss surprised when she
came over and spoke to me, so kindly
and nicely too 1 " Poor Madge, the latter
experience had seldom been hers at the
hands of her own sex.

' And what did you talk about ? " asked
Geoffry, curiously, wondering in his heart
how much, or rather how little Lady
Euthven could have known of her interlocutor.


So Madge recounted all, and as she
finished her recital, and with broken
voice told how Cecil had taken her hand
and spoken words of kindness and promised
help, should such ever be required, 
Geoffry Dumaresque realised that Lady
Euthven must surely have divined to
whom she was speaking ; and as he noted

the gleam of womanly satisfaction which,
flooded poor Madge's dark face at the
recollection of those same kind words so
gently spoken, a fervent blessing went
forth from his very heart and soul in the
lowly muttered words ' God bless her;
she must be a good woman, I think ! "

CHAPTER XII.

SUNSHINE BEFORE STORM.

I desire your good,
But, plot as I may', I can find no way-how
a blow should fall, such as falls on men,
Nor prove too much for your womanhood."

The Worst of It.

The hot August sun blazed down with
undiminished vigour next day on the
heads of Mr. Dumaresque and his young
wife, when an hour after koch found them
starting for a long drive, with the intention
of inspecting the county town, and
other objects of interest to local residents.
Madge was charioteer, and her early
training in the haute ecole stood her
in some stead, for she found little difficulty

now in carrying the thoroughly-broken
stepper which had been bought
for her especial use. Moreover, she
looked well driving, plainly dressed in
neat grey homespun from head to foot ;
and as the showy, well-bred chestnut
horse she drove, bent beneath her Hght
hand on the reins and stepped with
additional vigour, as if proud of his new
owner, Geoffry Dumaresque was fain to
acknowledge to himself, with almost a
sigh, no fairer woman ere was seen"
than this, his wife.

' Geoff, how grave you look!" exclaimed
Madge's joyous voice. '' You're
enough to give one bad spirits for ever
and a day. Very different to my little
swill o' the Wisp' here," added she,
patting with her whip the restless little
chestnut who was shying and dancing at
every real and imaginary object which he

VOL. II. 28

met en route, *' for he's quite determined
to have a ' good time ' to-day and so
am I."

' So I see," answered Geoffry, smiling
back at the brightly beautiful face turned
to him.  But take care, Madge; he's
rather a treacherous brute is this little
chestnut, and though all he does is from
fun, it is decidedly * horse play ' sometimes.
He gave me plenty to do yesterday
morning when I drove him to the
station, and had I known of his lighthearted
disposition before, I should not
have bought him for you, I can tell
you."

*0h nonsense, Geoff, he's a charming
little beast, and I won't let you speak
evil of him. It'll soon take his spirits
down, dragging me about these nasty
heavy roads, I'm sure ! "

swell, as long as he doesn't tke you,

or make you nervous, I don't care," said
the young husband with solicitude.

'nervous," laughed Madge, gaily;
'I never was that in my life except
once, when the big drum behind him
frightened a new piebald leader just in
the narrow streets of a town, and he
backed bodily into a jam and tart shop.
And then I only trembled for the windows
and the tarts, because I feared
having to pay the damage out of my
salary."

Geoffry looked as gloomy as any allusion
to her past Kfe of toil, which the girl
so honestly and innocently prided herself
upon, usually made him ; and with quick
intuition his companion changed the subject
at once.

' Geoff, did you say that some one was
coming to see you tomorrow ? "

* Yes, our family lawyer is coming over

from Hevershani to see me tomorrow
morning ; " and again young Mr. Duma-rescue
sighed involuntarily as lie remembered
for whom the provision was to be
made, the arrangement of which necessitated
the man of law's presence.

' How vexing ! I wanted you to take
me to the keeper's cottage on the other
side of the big wood tomorrow morning,
to see all the yoimg pheasants you told
me about."

'* Never mind, dear. We'll go there
later in the day, after Parchment has
gone; it will be cooler then for walking
too. You don't seem to take a bit of
care of yourself, Madge," he said with
anxious reproach.

'* Every bit as much as I'm worth,"
laughed the girl, righting "Will o' the
Wisp" with a judicious touch of the
whip, as he showed symptoms of wheeling

bodily round at the sight of an unoffending
ass led by an old woman in a
poke bonnet.

*ras much, as she was worth to him?
Ah, how could words or thoughts ever
define tliat'' thinks the man beside her,
with all the fervid devotion of his weak,
loving heart.

They drove through the streets of
Heversham, and though she remembered
it not, Madge looked once again on the
very spot where her childish heart had
throbbed with the pride and pleasure of
a first success so many a year ago, and
where, all unknowing, the very man who
now sat by her side, had lost his youthful
heart to the little fairy rider on her snow-white
pony, never to find it again in this
world.

 The very names of the streets seem
familiar to me, Geoff, though I can't

think why. And that old stone cross in
the market-place has appeared to me in
my dreams I'm certain, for its face
looks Hke that of an old friend ; " and
Madge leant eagerly forward to scan
the said antiquarian remain with deep
interest.

* Nonsense, Madge. You're always
fancying that sort of thing now," answered
Geoffry, in the indulgent tone one
uses to an invalid or a child. In truth,
this idea of hers only struck him as a
fanciful whim.

'' No, it's no * make-believe ' of my
own," said Madge, shaking her head
gravely; but just then, a series of renewed
frivolities on the part of the little
chestnut turned her attention to other
matters.

After a long drive, which had embraced
every place or thing worth seeing far

many a mile round, Mr. Dumaresque and
his wife were nearing the turn off the
high road to Beechwarden, when, in
passing by the white wicket-gate belonging
to the little cottage called Riverside,
they saw a lady standing with her arms
leant idly on it, apparently wrapt in
serious meditation.

' That's he' ! " whispered Madge, in
ungrammatical eagerness; and at sound
of the quick-trotting hoofs and rolling
carriage wheels, Lady Euthven started
and looked round.

'what a glorious face ! " thought Geoffry
to himself; '' and yet it's not a happy
one," he added, after another fleeting
glance.

And when Cecil,  instantly recognising
in the bright dark face looking so
earnestly and anxiously towards her, the
stranger of the Bound Pond,  waved back

a brief and kindly recognition, Geoffry
Dumaresque lifted his hat with almost
reverent courtesy to the woman who, by
that one small act of kindness to the girl
he loved so well, had raised her whole
sex in his eyes more than he himself
could perhaps have realised.

Cecil, too, felt all the happier, as she
walked slowly back to the cottage, and
sat down once more before her easel, upon
which stood a picture that she fondly
hoped might even some day be admitted

within the sacred walls of B n House

itseK. For it was a striking picture
enough, though as yet rough and unfinished
; but the power of the conception
stood out boldly and clearly, and to an
artist's eye condoned much that was left
undone.

The scene pictured was the celebration
of vespers in some monastery chapel, and

it seemed as if its key-note yere the same
as that of Gustavo D ore's well-known
*' Neophyte," though there the resemblance
between the two pictures ceased.
Here was a dim, shadowy aisle with
vaulted roof, and a long row of dark and
motionless kneeling firm-es, with hands
clasped and faces hidden, all save one.
That one face is raised, and is looking up
eagerly at the flood of light which pours
down on it from the high, narrow window
above, with a wild longing in the miserable,
passionate, dark eyes for light somewhere
 only light !

He is but a boy, and earth looks very
bright and sweet to him still. Is this
living tomb really necessary for salvation?
and can only the death of his
heart gain the life of his soul ? The
answer seems to stand out in letters of
fire on every side, in the motto and

formula of his order: 'brother, we must
die!"

And written on a scrap of paper, pinned
to the canvas, were a few words in Ladj
Knthven's handwriting, words which had
evidently given the first vague idea of
the young monk's despairing soul-agony 
'for we wrestle not against flesh and
blood, but against principalities, against
powers, against the rulers of the darkness
of this world, against spiritual wickedness
in high places."

Chapter XIII.

THE Storm Breaks.

Tot on tard tout se salt."

Meme. de Gentis.

Der Menscli erfurt, er sei aucli wer er ma,
Ein letter Gliick, und linen letztcn Tag."

Goethe.

*'I WISH that good, prosy old man would
take his departure," thought Madge to
herself next morning as luncheon time
drew near and there were still no signs of
the long interview between her husband
and his lawyer, Mr. Parchment, drawing
to a close. It had been held too with
closed doors and much solemnity, and
Madge was beginning to feel '' out in the

cold " morally and physically, and to long
for some one or something to talk to. So
she sat on the window-sill of the hall and
waited impatiently for the first sound of
an opening door or a dearly-loved footstep
and voice ; and as the moments flew by,
and none of these came to her rescue, she
began to consider her sad case only a
few degrees less dark than hers of the
 Moaned Grange," who at least had the
advantage of being apparently able to
express her woes in perfect metre and
rhyming verse.

When luncheon was announced shortly
after, Madge rose languidly to obey the
summons for mere form's sake, but the
instant she was left alone the old listlessness
crept over her, and an impatient * I
do lush he would come," showed that one
advent alone, could brighten her heart and
face. Weary of waiting, after a time she

strolled into the billiard-room, wliicli led
out from the room where she was, and
finding a sofa behind the entrance door to
look most inviting and comfortable, sat
down on it to rest and wait, listening
intently for any sounds of approaching
footsteps.

But, sad to say, this modern mariana "
did not possess the exhaustless fount of
patience and of tears which so distinguished
her time-honoured example,
and so, after a time she fell asleep, and
dreamed of old days when she was still
a little child in a tattered frock, wandering
along hot, dusty highways, and
leaning her weary little head against a
cool, great stone archway to rest, whilst
the murmur of many voices seemed
rusting in the surrounding trees.

With a start she wakes. Surely that is
a real voice now, and no dream ? Yes, it

is lier husband's, speaking in the room
next to the one she is sitting in, and for
an instant she stays quiet to hear whose
may be the answering voice.

It is said that on the eve of some great
crisis or misfortune, the future sufferers
ofttimes feel a strange foreboding of the
danger to come, and are conscious of a
sad prophetic warning of their coming
doom. But no warning was there now
for Madge Lee ; and the stride from sunlight
into darkest shade was but a man's
step.

A clatter of plates, an hospitable '' Try
some of this brown sherry. Parchment ; "
and hearing this Madge rises to her feet
with a smile on her laughing mouth, and
smooths her ruffled brown hair preparatory
to making her appearance.

Again Geoffry Dumaresque's voice is
heard. * I need not tell you. Parchment,

how anxious I am that Mrs. Dumaresque
should know nothing of all we have
spoken of, until the child is born ; the
shock might kill her almost."

I see no reason why she should know
it, Mr. Dumaresque," and the answering
voice falls sadly and gravely on the
listener's ear.  Until the child is born
there can be no legal necessity for declaring
matters. But have you thought of
another thing? Why not go to Mrs.
Dumaresque, and tell her all which you
have told me, and have the marriage
ceremony quietly performed in London,
whilst there is yet time ? "

show could I tell her?" and Geoffry
Dumaresque's fair young face looks the
picture of despairing irresolution.

'you ought to tell her," answers his
good angel's kind grave voice. ' I'm an
old man, Mr. Dumaresque, and I've

daughters of my own, just the age of
that poor lassie yonder, and I judge for
her as if she were one of them."

 I wish to God I had told her long
ago ! " bursts out the lad in his bitter
repentance. *but I feared at first that
she would leave me, if she knew all, and
that I should never see her again; and
afterwards, lately, I was afraid for her own
sake to tell her."

stake the advice of an old man, Mr.
Dumaresque, and do it noiu though so
late. Even let the shock prostrate herat
first, she will try to rally for her child's
sake and be strong to save it. Trust to
her love for you and for it, and speak
whilst there is yet time ? "

I cannot'' groans Geoffry Dumaresque
with a shrinking look of fear in his blue
eyes. * How can I tell her, so proud as
she is, that all this while she has been

no wife ? I tell you, that ever since the
day when she so unselfishly offered to
sacrifice name and fame for sake of my
interests alone, and I realised the wrong
I had done her, which could never again
he righted, I have not known one
moment's peace ! "

' It's a had business, but don't make it
worse, Mr. Dumaresque, if you'll pardon
my plain speaking. Go to her, tell her
that the marriage ceremony was invalid
and must at once be gone through again,
and trust to her true noble heart to forgive
you all. A woman who could voluntarily
suffer as she must have done, for your
sake, will be equally strong in bearing involuntary
suffering, or I mistake me
much ! "

A strange low inarticulate sound breaks
forth from behind the half-closed door
beyond, but so low that neither man

VOL. n. 29

hears it. It is like the cry of one suffering
from the effects of some horrible
dream, struggling vainly to find voice to
speak, but the words will not come.

*'I know you are right. Parchment,
and I'll take your advice, I think," says
Geoffry Dumaresque at last, in a tone of
steady decision.

You won't regret it, Mr. Duma-rescue,"
answers the lawyer kindly.
'sand of course I shall be prepared to
act instantaneously in the way of making
every necessary preparation when you
once tell me to begin doing so," he adds
rising.

'rare you off? I'll drive with you to
Heversham I think, and sign those things
you want at once. Mrs. Dumaresque is
out  at least she is nowhere in the house
that I can find, and to tell you the truth,
I'd sooner not meet her until I tell her
all."

'but you icill tell lier ? " Geoffry's
evident despise for procrastination makes
the lawyer a shade suspicious of his
probable strength of mind.

I swear I will, Parchment. She is
all the world to me and if I lose her now,
God help me ! But I will be true and
honourable at last, and trust to her to
forgive me."

Again that low inarticulate cry, full of
a soul's wild speechless agony ! Ah, why
cannot it penetrate to Geoffry Duma-rescue's
ears, that he may tm*n and seethe
agonised entreaty of the outstretched
arms and pleading face ? But Madge
Lee has neither power to move or cry
out, the shock has seemingly stilled the
very life in her body, only the heart is
living on in its dire agony.

There comes to her the sound of a
closing door, and of receding voices, a

cry of ' Madge ! Madge ! where are you?"
re-echoes through the house, and she
dumbly answers it by a weak, piteous,
effort to rise, but all in vain. She hears
the sound of a carriage on the gravel
drive before the hall door, the clattering
of hoofs and scattering of gravel, as
'will o' the Wisp" is evidently indulging
in his old tricks once more, the fast
receding sound of carriage-wheels disappearing
into the far distance, and then
with a low moan of impotent anguish
she falls prostrate on the floor, mercifully
insensible to all things bad or good.

A great quiet reigned over the old
house of Beechwarden,  the lull before
the storm. Outside, flowers bloomed,
birds sang, the sun shone, and the drowsy
sweet-scented summer air pervaded heart
and soul with serene content; inside, there
seemed a deathly stillness, befitting the
last weary struggle of a dying heart.

But the peace was soon broken. A
message came in lot haste, telling of
a terrible accident to Beechwarden's
young master,  a confused account of a
frightened horse, an overturned carriage,
and a young man lying on the road with
white still face and blue eyes closed for
oyer, and that was all.

All? But who was to tell her? the
servants whispered to each other, fearfully
; and even as they spoke, a girl with
white wan face and despairing eyes,
passed by them like a shadow.

"Can she know?" was the silent
wonder of all, but none spoke.

"What is it?" says Madge, turning
round at last to face the crowd of
frightened faces. More than one there
present notices the strange want of
interest and absence of fear which is
apparent in her tone.

'ma'am, there has been an accident,"
stammers the old housekeeper hurriedly
'' Mr. Dumaresque has been thrown out
of the carriage;" the woman stops and
her voice dies away in a sob.

"Will none of you tell me what it all
means?" says Madge, in the same odd,
constrained tone as before.

"Well, ma'am, you see, it was just as
we got near the railway station," begins
a groom, whose livery is torn and covered
with dust, and whose face looks shocked
and terrified beyond words ; " and that
little chestnut 'horse, 'e took fright at the
London express which came by just then
and bolted down a side-road, and ran into
a coal cart standing there. And the dogcart
tilted over, so that master fell outright
on 'is 'eat, you see, ma'am."

For a moment there is no answer.
The wondering servants cannot comprehend

this strange unnatural stillness,
and look at each other in fear. How
can they know that the heart which
they essay to fathom is already broken?
There is a limit to human suffering
beyond which even fresh xain can leave
no mark.

'Is he dead?" the dreaded question
comes at last.

'eyes, yes, my dearie," murmurs the
old housekeeper, taking Madge by the
arm and leading her away like a child ;
but she need have feared no resistance
from the passive swaying form of the
miserable girl, for once more a merciful
oblivion stole over her senses and lulled
the terrible aching agony in her heart,
and she lay hour after hour, in a state of
semi-unconsciousness, knowing nothing,
hearing nothing, feeling nothing,  blind
even to all pain and sorrow.

Chapter Xii.

THE Found POND.

** Gone ! wholly gone ! How cold and dark,
A cheerless world of hope bereft,
The beacon quenched, and not a spark,
In all the dull grey ashes left.

** Ay, if the cup be crushed and spilt,
More than the sin, the loss I rue ;
And if the cloud was black with guilt
The silver light of love shone through.

And though the price be maddening pain.
One half their raptures to restore,
And live but half those hours again,
I'd pay the cruel price once more.

Dreams ! dreams ! Not backward flows the tide
Of life and love. It cannot be.
Well ! thine the triumph and the pride.
The suffering and the shame for me."

Void.

It was past midnight when at last Madge
awoke from her almost unconscious sleep,
and she sat up in bed and stared

blankly around her. The sound of some
sleeper breathing near attracted her
attention, and her eyes fell on an impromptu
couch arranged at the foot of
her bed, whereon lay quietly sleeping the
young housemaid who as yet had been
Madge's own attendant since her arrival
at Beechwarden. The girl had feared to
leave her mistress all alone, and so had
evidently taken off her dress and lain
down on the sofa to snatch what rest she
could, relying on being easily aroused by
the first sound or sign of movement on
the part of the latter.

But, weary with the excitement of the
past day, and rendered heavy and drowsy
by the many tears which her kind heart
had caused her to shed, she heard
nothing, saw nothing, when a small,
trembling figure crept stealthily out of
bed, and began to dress in hot haste. 

There was no one to mark the feverish
agony in the wild dark eyes, the unnatural
strength of the hands, as they
tore rather than Hated each garment as it
was wanted in turn ; no ear heard the
incessant mutter, '' I must go, I must go.
"We shall have no right here, neither my
child nor I. Oh, the shame ! the shame ! "
in despairing heartbroken accents over
and over again.

With the quick, cunning instinct of
her gipsy blood, Madge throws aside her
richer garments and dons the plain cotton
dress of the sleeping girl beside her.
Then with a large grey shawl wrapped
close around her, she glides noiselessly
out of the door, down the stairs, and past
the very room where lie now lies, stiff and
stark ; but in her feverish madness she
remembers this not, neither heeds, and
the sad moaning creak of the big hall

door, as it revolves slowly on its hinges,,
is the only sound of farewell which accompanies
Madge Lee out into the darkness
of the night.

For a few hours after sunrise all was
wonder and confusion in the household at
Beechwarden ; then their mistress's disappearance
was more or less explained to
them as the secret of her true position
there became unavoidably disclosed.
Even Mr. Parchment, though his kind
heart sorrowed much for the desolate
girl, and he took every pains, for sheer
charity's sake, to ascertain where she was
to be found, felt powerless to do much in
the matter; for the deed prepared the
very day on which Geoffry Dumaresque
came to an untimely end, had never been
signed, and so no provision had been
made for the future of either mother or
child, and the next heir to Beechwarden

Alan Dering, was far away in India, and
out of reach of all consultation.

So, though there were many to wonder,
there were few to care what became of
poor ill-fated Madge, and even Lady
Euthven's anxious zeal on her behalf
met with but little help or encouragement.


What mattered it to the world at large
that not twenty miles distant, on a pallet
bed in the workhouse of a large manufacturing
town, lay a mother and her
newly-born child ? or that the pale wan
face, tossing to and fro in restless delirium,
was the face of Geoffry Duma-rescue's
idolised love ? It was but one
more miserable woman, one more act in
the tragedies of this world ; what need to
lament over so very common a case 
would not the hours bring .many more
such ?

And so she struggled back to life once
more, though scarce to reason ; and
when the time came, that, with a small
pittance in her hand, Madge Lee was
bidden to depart and go on her way, with
her baby at her breast,  a strange and unconquerable
desire took possession of her
to have one last look at the scene of her
past happiness.

At first the hot sun and the glaring
chalky highway seemed to dazzle and
perplex her ; and, though fairly strong
now, her limbs seemed to have lost all
their old freedom and elasticity, and she
dragged herself wearily along like one
who carries a burthen almost too heavy
to bear.

And yet the burden was light enough.
A little pinched, fretful, baby face peered
out from under the grey shawl now ; a
low, melancholy, crooning cry made itself
heard incessantly.

' Hush, liusli 1 " murmured the girl
fondly, patting the ugly little head with
gentle hand ; but the wail ceased not,
and neither did the sun allay its scorching
heat, and yet Madge Lee tramped on
resolutely and untiringly.

 What a pretty girl!" remarked a
gentleman to his wife, as they drove past
her on the road.

eyes; but how ill she seems, and her
eyes look so wild, too," answered his
companion pitifully.

But Madge neither saw the kind look
nor heard the kind words ; her brain was
dulled and deadened now, and the only
sound which seemed to penetrate it vas
the fretful and ceaseless wail of the child.

Three times she stopped and sat down
by the wayside to rest, and as often staggered
once more to her feet and held on
her way determinedly. The hard training

of her youth stood her in good stead
now, and the tireless endurance of her
race kept her energies unfledged, her
strength exhausted. Towards evening
she neared Beechwarden at last, and
looked towards its distant line of trees
with the agonised gaze of some hunted
animal which sees in the far distance a
sanctuary.

Lady Kuthven, plapng softly to herself
in the summer twilight, little knows or
guesses ivlio is now leaning against the
little white wicket-gate, so near by, and
Hastening to the music with dreamy, uncomprehending
ears.

She was good to me, she said she'd
help me ; " murmured the white wan lips
yearningly, and for an instant the girl
hesitated whether to enter.

But the remembrance of the past drove
her back, for her proud, gipsy blood felt

maddened beneath the taint of shame,,
though in the days when she had felt
sure of her own innocence, this taint had
seemed scarce worth a thought if suffered
for his sake. What the world's harsh
condemnation, or her fellow-mortals' cruel
words and deeds had failed to do, the
knowledge of her unconscious shame, so
innocently horn, had achieved at last ;
for the proud, desolate young heart was
almost broken now, the light in the fearless
eyes was quenched for ever ; the gay,
laughter-loving mouth would never smile
again.

Across the meadow and over the stile,
she wanders on, each step growing more
faltering and weaker than the last, whilst
the baby's voice wails on and on in a
feeble moan of pain.

She forces her way through briars and
thorns, unheeding and unknowing; she

lays the child down on the grass at last,
and sitting a little way apart, puts her
fingers in her ears, to try and still that
terrible ceaseless cry which seems eating
into her very brain.

No food all day, and the girl's weak
frame seems almost spent now; but her
eyes shine like coals of fire in the dim
starlight, and she rocks herself to and fro
in restless, wakeful misery ; and still the
dying baby's pitiful cry, wails on and on
ceaselessly.

Two hom's she sat there, hugging the
child to her bosom, and staring before
her with glazed, unseeing eyes, and its
Httle cries grew fainter and fainter at last,
its waxen face grew whiter, its little
hands almost ceased to struggle.

When the moon rose in all its quiet
glory, and its silvery Hght penetrated
even through the thick branches sur-vol.

II. 30

rounding the lonely Round Pond at
Beechwarden, its rays shone down on a
sad and pitiful sight.

On the bank, by the water's edge, knelt
a despairing woman, from whose white
lips burst forth a heart-rending cry :  Oh
my baby, my Httle baby ! It was all I
had left me now!" and on the moonlit
water, floating peacefully amongst the
sweet white water-hies in their unsullied
purity, was the body of a little child,
whose waxen face upturned to heaven
looked even as pure and innocent as
they.

When morning broke, with the instinct
of a brain almost verging on insanity,
Madge Lee fled from the desolate spot,
and going to a farmhouse, begged for
food. All day she wandered about in
lonely fields and copses, but the wail of
a dying child still sounded in her ears.

Vainly she strove to drive away the
sound ; despairingly she threw herself on
the ground and clasped her clenched
hands to her head, in a vain effort to
shut out all sense of hearing ; the weary
little voice wailed on, ever on, now louder,
now fainter, hut never ceasing.

Night saw her once more tottering
towards the spot where she had left her
child's body, its fancied cries seemed to
urge her footsteps back to the place
where lay the last thing left her on earth
to love, and like a hunted animal that
when night falls flies back to its murdered
offspring unseen by man, the gipsy
girl bent her steps again to the fatal
place where lay buried the last and only
hope which this world had given her.

Swaying, staggering, gesticulating like
one demented, she walked faster and
faster, breaking into a feeble run as she

neared the fatal Eonnd Pond at last, and
still in her ears rang the cry of her child,
wailing on ceaselessly.

My God! if it should be gone!"
bursts forth a hoarse cry, and the wild
savage blood of her race rises in her veins
at thought of being robbed of even that
one last look her mad heart was now so
set on, and the sweet, laughing face
wears an expression strangely akin to
that of a tigress robbed of its whelps.

But no. Amongst the water-lilies
there les one poor little broken flower,
the love of which will never gladden
human heart again.

Lady Kuthven, as she strolls out in
the calm September night, so refreshingly
cool after the burden and heat of
the day, turns her steps by chance towards
Beechwarden, and approaches the
stile into the wood. Leaning on it, she

pauses, for a strange wish lias come over
her mind to see the weird and desolate
Eoimd Pond by moonlight, divided by a
very distinct womanly fear of so dark and
ghostly an expedition.

At last, with a laugh at her own
childish folly, she crosses the stile and
enters the wood, making her way to the
well-known spot. It is scarcely more
than nine o'clock yet  too early for
possible poachers or other nocturnal
marauders to be about, she assures herself.


But as she nears the Found Pond, a
stranger and more startling sight than
poachers or midnight marauders greets
her eyes ; for on the edge of the sedgy,
reed-covered bank, stands the tall and
helmet ed form of a myrmidon of the
law, and opposite to him is kneeling a
girl, whose face wears an expression only

of utter and apathetic despair, whilst
between them both, lying wet, cold, and
still, in the moonlight, is the body of a
little child, with a spray of water-lilies
entangled in its arms.

Chapter XV.

JUDGE NOT.

There's a "bonny wild-rose on the mountain side,

Mary Hamilton.
In the glare of noon she hath drooped and died,

Mary Hamilton.
*****
There's a lamb lies lost at the head of the glen,

Mary Hamilton.

Lost and missed from shelling and pen,

Mary Hamilton.
*****
The mist is gathering ghostly and chill,

Mary Hamilton.
And the weary maid cometh down from the hill,

Mary Hamilton.
*****
Too late for the rose, the evening rain,

Mary Hamilton.

Too late for the lamb, the shepherd's pain,

Mary Hamilton.

Too late at the door the maiden's stroke.

Too late the plea when the doom hath been spoke.

Too late the balm when the heart is broke,

Mary Hamilton."

The county town is Ml to overcrowding,

for it is the week of the Assizes, and
more than one important trial is expected
to take place. A pale, anxious face looks
out of an hotel window in a quiet street,
gazing listlessly at the passers-by as they
hurry to and fro.

Lady Kuthven, for it is she, has left
no stone unturned on behalf of the unhappy
girl who this day is to stand forth
and take her trial at the hands of her
countrymen, for the murder of her own
child.

Ever since the night she was arrested
has Madge Lee preserved the same unbroken
stupefaction of heart and soul,
always silent as the dead, never weeping
or moaning. Vainly has the prison chaplain
exhorted her to confess, if need there
be for confession ; vainly does her counsel
urge her to at least state something
upon which he may build his defence;

vainly does Cecil Euthven weep and
plead to her, to listen and to speak, were
it but one word.

The iii hears all with ears that hear
not, sees everything with eyes that see
not, and is as one bereft of speech or feeling
; a dumb animal simply, but in dire
pain.

Lady Euthven has exerted herself to
the utmost to secure a good counsel for
the unhappy ghi who seems so utterly
deserted and friendless, save for her own
true self; and hour after hour, whenever
allowed, does Cecil sit with her, striving
in all loving-kindness to arouse some
sense of feeling in that poor, numbed,
and frozen heart.

The trial of Madge Lee is expected to
come on this very morning, and though
unwilling to be present in court. Lady
Euthven has determined to remain somewhere

within its precincts, to be near the
unfortunate girl should occasion require
it, and is even now waiting for a promised
escort to take her there.

It is three o'clock in the afternoon, and
the trial is almost over. There have been
so few witnesses to examine in the case
that it has only taken one-half of the
usual time, and when the very last of
these has left the witness-box, all attention
is riveted on the opposing counsel.

From first to last the prisoner has sat
unmoved, with the same weary, hopeless
look on her small childish face, which no
longer sparkles in bright, laughing mirth,
but is pale and sad, and deathly quiet.

A murmur of unwilling admiration had
greeted her first appearance in court, but
she heeded it not ; nor did the pitying
words of many a kind-hearted man and
woman in the crowd reach the ears which

were deafened to almost every earthly
sound. Silent and pale she remained
there like one in a dream ; only an occasional
quick glance round the court from
her wild dark eyes, like some hunted
animal looking eagerly for an outlet by
which to escape, gave notice that hers
was still a living, breathing human life.

No shadow of a change crossed her face
when the learned Q.C., who conducted
the prosecution, made his able and eloquent
speech, which seemed to shut out
all hope of her innocence. Link by Hnk
he forged the awful cham of evidence
which would see her doomed ; word for
word he recapitulated the narrations
which swore her young life away.

As his solemn, powerful words resounded
to the farthest limits of the
court, perhaps the only unmoved person
there was the beautiful, wan-faced gui,

almost child, who confronted him so
quietly,  the prisoner at the bar.

The case for the prosecution is now
closed, and the prisoner's counsel rises
for the defence. He is a young beginner
only, and this is almost his first great
case, though rumour speaks more than
highly of his previous efforts. His heart
is in his work now, partly from ambition
to distinguish himself, and partly from
a great pity for his beautiful, friendless
client, whose innocence he cannot doubt.

For nearly half an hour he has spoken
his young, earnest face lit up with zealand
pity; and every word which falls
from his lips is listened to eagerly and
attentively. He draws a vivid picture of
Madge's first days of happiness, of the
love borne her by her boy husband, and by
all those beneath her, of her own sweet,
bright self. Anon he passes to the

terrible day of Geoffry Dumaresque's
death, when the prisoner's mind had
so surely become unhinged ; and he
recounts her sudden midnight flight and
long disappearance from the few good
friends who sought her sorrowing.

Then his voice sinks low, and quivers
from strong excitement, as in touching
accents he draws another picture of a
poor distraught gui wandering to and fro,
with her wailing and dying baby clasped
to her breast. Carefully he makes the
most of even the smallest bit of evidence
which can tell on his hearers ; and many
a sob is heard in court as he describes the
bitter despair of the lonely young soul,
struggling hard in its death agony.

For the first time now, a change has
come over the prisoner's face, such a
change as has never been seen there since
the day of Geoffry Dumaresque's death.

The wild, wandering look has left her
large, dark eyes, the colour deepens on
her face, a soft, loving smile plays round
her mouth, and once more she looks a
child again, the sweet Madge Lee of
long ago.

Not a glance does she give to the
crowded court, its sea of faces is hid from
her sight ; but as one in a dream she
listens to her counsel's stirring words,
her eyes never leaving his face for one
instant even, drinking in each syllable as
one who hears a tale of strange, vital
interest.

At last, when he reaches that part of
his sad story, where the heart-broken
young mother had wandered into the
cold, dark wood, still carrying the wailing
burthen whose cries were driving her to
the very verge of insanity, and appeals
to all there present to picture to themselves

a mother's agony over her child's
death struggle in the dark and silent
night, a cry rang forth, an exceeding
bitter cry; and the prisoner's head is
buried in her hands as she moans out in
heart-broken accents, ' Oh, my baby!
my little baby ! It was all I had
left ! "

There was a sound of suppressed sobs
throughout the comet, and even the grave
stern face of the judge looked pityingly
down on Madge's bent head, as she continued
to weep convulsively.

Her clever young counsel saw the
chance given him, and seized it at once.

'gentlemen of the jury," he said, in
his clear earnest voice, ' this is no acting
on the part of the prisoner, no well-timed
display of emotional thought and feeling ;
it is the cry which comes straight from a
mother's heart ! Cast your eyes for one

instant on that slight, shrinking girl,
almost child, before yon; does site look
like a cruel, implacable murderess ? Think
of the days and nights of ineffable torture
which she had endured, of her weary
wanderings to and fro on the face of the
earth, homeless, houseless, friendless, an
outcast from society, and can you wonder
that her brain should have reeled at last ?
Think too of how her miserable soul
must have writhed in sorest anguish to
witness the pain and suffering of her
little innocent child ; think of the agony
with which each small feeble cry must
have re-echoed in the mother's soul, and
condemn her not ! Ye who are fathers,
husbands, can ye not feel for this young
child in her deep despair and agony, can
ye not believe that if crime there was
committed, it was committed when all
reasoning power had fled ? And was the

crime truly committed? Can any one
say of that weeping child yonder :  there
stands that most terrible, most unnatural
of earth's abortions, a mother without
a mother's love and mercy, a dread infanticide
? The medical evidence laid
before you shows that the infant's Hfe
must have almost, if not quite, ebbed
out, ere ever its body was placed in the
water ; how dare we to judge of minutes
or seconds, where a human life is at
stake ? No having eye looked on at those
last sad hours of this poor infant's life,
save that of a woman from whose distraught
mind all reason had fled ; who
can say at what exact moment its little
life was required of it ? Gentlemen of
the jury, I have no more to say. For
the sake of justice and right, for the sake
of mercy, an ye have hearts in you, I
entreat for mercy to be shown to this

VOL. 11. 31

child. But so convinced am I of her
innocence, so sure am I that all the
world will re-echo the fiat of ' not guilty,'
which I pray to God I may hear this
morning given forth, that I leave her
case in your hands, gentlemen of the
jury, with all solemn trust and confidence
in your mercy, and may God defend the
right ! "

A great stillness reigns over the court.
The jury have not left their places, but
sit whispering together earnestly, and
before many minutes have elapsed, the
foreman of then number intimates that
they have agreed upon their verdict.

Then is heard the sonorous voice of the
Clerk of Arraigns, as he puts the momentous
question : ' Gentlemen of the
jury, do you find the prisoner guilty of
murder, or not ? "

And midst a breathless silence, the

foreman's answer rings out solemnly and
clear : ' Not guilty, my lord."

An almost sob of relief breaks forth
from the listening crowd, but is instantly
hushed as the judge's clear calm voice is
heard speaking his short confirmation of
the jury's verdict, and adding a kind
word of advice and encouragement to the
pale and silent prisoner at the bar.

Perhaps of all the persons there assembled,
the one who looks least interested
in all going on around her is
Madge Lee herself. As soon as she had
succeeded in controlling the bitter fit of
weeping which the past reminiscences,
called up by her counsel's stirring words,
had brought forth, her attitude and
manner were as calm as before. Everything
seemed but as a vision seen in the
fire, or dreamt of between the Hghts, to
her dazed, half-blinded senses ; and even

the words, ' not guilty,' which to others
were fraught with such deep and thankful
significance, to her sounded only as a
fragment of some waking dream.

Her dark eyes fixed themselves on those
of the judge with almost painful intentness,
as he spoke his few solemn words
full of kindness and warning, hut the
blank expression of her beautiful face
told plainly enough that the shock of
the past terrible weeks had never as yet
passed away, and though striving eagerly
to see light, her whole soul was still in
darkness, weighed down almost beyond
recall by the shadows of the past.

Only once, at the very last, did a more
human look cross Madge Lee's face,
brought there by a simple act of kindness.


The attendant gaolers motioned to her
kindly to leave the court, that she was

free ; but Madge looked from one strange
face to the other crowding round her, and
shrank back involuntarily towards her old
captors.

Her young counsel came forward
hastily and exclaimed, Has she no one
to take care of her, no friend in all this
wide world? "

Yes, she is imp friend," answers a
clear, low woman's voice, as a tall figure
in black advances to Madge's side and
puts one arm protecting round her.

The girl looks into the new-comer's
face with an intently anxious gaze, as if
trying to recall some lost memory of long
ago ; and then a new light, the dawn of
recognition, beams in the wild dark eyes,
as with a low sobbing cry of, 'lady
Kuthven ! oh, I'm so glad you've come at
last ! " she throws her arms round Cecil's
neck like a worn out and tired child which
has gained a haven of rest at last. 

CHAPTEK XVI.

There VISIONS.

Where the houseless shall seek a shelter, the lonely shall

find a friend,
Where the heart's desire shall be granted, that hath trusted

and loved to the end ;
Where there's fruit in the gardens of heaven, from hopes

that on earth were betrayed,
Where there's rest for the soul life-wearied, that hath

striven, and suffered, and prayed."

Soul Music.

The scene changes to eventide in a far-off
Eastern clime, and the soft light of the
gloaming is battling silently but surely
with the last rays of the fervid Indian
sun which are still lingering over a wide
sandy plain, where the only shelter for
many a mile is a little grove of plantain
and of palm trees, under the shade of

which is now grouped a small party of
men and horses.

They are evidently returning from a
hunting expedition farther up country,
and to judge by the bronzed faces of the
few Europeans who are amongst their
number, and the jaded look of the wiry
little horses which are stamping their
hoofs impatiently at the end of their
picket ropes, the toil has perhaps on the
whole proved almost equal to the pleasure.
Still, one man there, at least, looks little
exhilarated at the prospect of approaching
civilisation, for on Alan Bering's face
rests a weary, saddened look, not alone
the result of a long day's march over a
hot and dusty plain, under the rays of an
Indian sun.

For many a year now has that selfsame
look rested on his dark handsome
face ; so long, that few can say when first

it came there. And yet, to-night, it is
surely blended with another of strong,
but sternly suppressed anxiety and suspense,
the look of a man who awaits
some messenger that brings almost life
or death in his words, to whom he
were fain to cry aloud in his fear, as
did the Israelitish king of old, * Is it
peace?"

Fast fell the shades of evening, and
already the bright moonlight threw out
in bold relief the delicate tracery of each
palm-leaf and flower, as it became reflected
darkly upon the glittering sand ;
and one by one, each man there, native
or European, had sunk into a wearied
slumber, dreaming of many a pathless
tangle of forest and jungle, where the
wild beasts of earth take their stand ina
world-long struggle against mankind.
One man alone was waking there, waking

and watching ceaselessly ; and yet even
those many sleepers lying all around him
dreamed not such visionary dreams as
were flitted through his thoughts now !

He dreamed, in his waking dream, of
England and of home ; of an old mediaeval
mansion, amidst a mass of glorious
beech trees shining all russet and golden
in an autumn sunlight  Beechwarden 
now in truth his home. And visions rose
thick and fast before his mind of life in
England, the life of mingled work and
sport which all men love ; of the swirl
and swish of the line on a rippling trout
stream in the  merry month of May;"
of the purple, heather covered hills in
August, and the whit of each pack of
grouse as it rises in affrighted obedience
to the warning '' luck, luck, luck " of
some old patriarch of his tribe ; of the
tramps over stubble and turnips in 'the

golden harvest time ; " of the cheery sound
of the horn, and the joyous music of
hounds' voices on a dull November day,
when the face of all nature looks hlack,'*
and when the flash of scarlet is reduced'
by the exigencies of time and pace into
one 'thin, red line," and the powerful
swinging stride of a well-bred horse seems
carrying us away from all trouble and
sorrow for ever.

Hark I was he really dreaming ? And
that sound now trembling on the still
night air, was it only the wailing bark of
a hungry jackal prowling around ? Colonel
Dering stirred restlessly, and looked
anxiously out across the desolate moonlit
plain, but all to no purpose ; and, with
a sigh of impatience, he once more
resumed his waking dream.

A change had come o'er its spirit now,
and he thought of his dead wife lying at

rest in her quiet grave under the Neil-cherry
Hills; poor little Isabel, who
had drifted out of life as happily and
aimlessly as she had drifted through it.
He thought, too, of the woman who had
so loyally helped him to make that same
feeble and aimless life at least a happy
one ; and he blessed her in his heart even
as he had done oftentimes before, ever
since that belong, long ago."

It would indeed be passing strange if
he thought not of her to-night. Might
not each minute now bring the long expected
messenger h-om a station which
was distant but a day's march, and to
where his letters had been forwarded, one
at least of which would bring him a
moral life or death. Which would it be ?
And over and over again he repeated to
himseK the few short hues whose answer
was now to come : 'write me one line.

Cecil, to say if I may come home. If it
be eyes,' then shall I start for England
without so much as one hour's delay ; if
it be  no,' I dare not even think of what
the future will be to me ! "

Yes ! surely that rapid, regular beat
can be but one thing on earth, the stroke
of a horse's hoofs at full gallop? And
Colonel Dering rises eagerly to his feet
as the sound draws nearer and nearer, and
the moonlight now plainly reveals an
advancing figure on horseback. The
sleepers arouse themselves to bid a low
welcome to the new-comer, who, after
handing a packet of letters to his colonel,
leads his panting little flea-bitten Arab
away; and Alan Dering stands there
alone with an open letter in his hand and
in his eyes the light of a dawning happiness,
unfathomable as the sea.

*****

On this self-same night, at this very
hour, the turbulent North Sea is dashing
itself high in foaming strath against the
cliffs of Ercildoun ; and the grey, ivy-covered
towers look more desolate and
weird than ever, as they rear their heads
above it in stately pride, each turret
shining like silver under the rays of the
harvest moon.

All is still, save for the clamour of the
sea-birds, which rest not day or night,
and the ceaseless sound of many waters ;
all is dark in the old building, too, save
for one light brightly burning in the
ruined chapel which overhangs the sea,
the last resting-place of ill-fated Helene,
Lady Ercildoun.

Far out at sea the fishermen see the
light, and murmur to each other in superstitious
fear, 'It is the lady who still
keeps watch and ward, praying for her
lover's return from over the sea''

Perhaps there was greater truth in
their low-muttered words than they
dreamt of in their philosophy; for a
woman with pale, noble face kneels before
the altar there, praying to meet him once
again, who inst cross so many a weary
mile of land and sea ere his hand clasps
her own once more.

One more vision, and then the tale is
nigh told.

The scene lies in the simony Hieland,
where vineyards crown the slope of each
hill, and meek-eyed dun cattle browse in
the fields, and rosy, flaxen-haired children
laugh and cry with each alternating
moment's fate.

But a sad and dreary change has come
over the sunny landscape now ; the vines
are torn down and lie ruthlessly trampled;

the meek-eyed dun cattle have been confiscated
by the foe ; the children have
fled, or else have no longer the heart to
laugh and play.

Truly, " an enemy hath done this."
And it is the result of deadly hatred and
national animosity which fills that roughly
organized military hospital on yonder hill
with wounded and dying soldiers.

For the Franco-German war is at its
height. Within a dozen miles from this
very place the  Bed Prince's " heavy
cuirassiers only yesterday have utterly
annihilated a small band of heroic men,
fighting to the last against overwhelming
odds in defence of their tri-coloured flag.
That flag, torn and rent, is now in the
hands of their enemies ; and they, too,
almost as torn and rent as itself, are lying
wounded or dead in a military hospital in
this sunny Hieland.

The hospital wards are crowded to
suffocation this same evening, and endless
rows of hastily arranged beds are
filled with an indiscriminate mass of
wounded soldiers of either nation, and
of all ages. Many are silent enough;
some, sleeping the sleep of returning
convalescence,  some the sleep that
knows no waking.

Here, the rough-bearded face of an
Uhlan raises itself up from the pillow in
dire agony, and wondering vaguely at the
calm stillness of the comrade who lies
beside him, a trumpeter in the light
cavalry brigade, for whom the last call
has already sounded. There, a delicate-looking
boy in his teens, the little
drummer of a French light infantry regiment,
calls aloud on his mother's name in
heart-rending accents, and yet not even
her beloved face could have looked down

on his sufferings with more loving tenderness
than can be read in the beautiful,
dark face of the woman who now bends
over him. And when, soothed and tranquil,
his cries die away in sleep at last,
she who has tended him so long and
so unweariedly, crosses over to a bed
whereon lies the sleeping form of a little
peasant child, accidentally trodden underfoot
by some restive troop-horse, and
throwing herself down on the floor by
its side, she pillows her tired head against
the little one's couch, and sinks into the
dreamless rest of utter exhaustion.

All night long the moans and cries
continue to resound at fitful intervals, but
towards morning's dawn everything becomes
more still ; and when the hospital
surgeon, accompanied by what small
assistance he can procure in his arduous
work, comes to go his rounds,  a strange

VOL. II. 32

sight greets him in one corner of that
great fever-stricken ward.

A ray of bright sunshine Hghts up the
curly golden hair of a little child, sitting
upright in its bed, with the light of
returning health in its blue eyes, and a
half-smile on its rosy lips ; another ray,
gleaming through the high, narrow hospital
window, rests lovingly on the dead,
still face of a weary woman, to whom
death has brought peace at length; for
verily to Madge Lee has the *good
time " come at last 1

CHAPTEK Xiii.

IN THE GLOAMING.

Will they forget us when we drop behind them ?
When we have done with fair and stormy weather?
When there is nothing further to remind them
Of all we thought, and did, and spoke together ? "

In the gloaming, oh, my darling, when the lights are dim
and low.
And the quiet shadows falling, softly come and softly go,
When the winds are sobbing faintly with a gentles unknown
woe,
Will you think of me, and love me, as you did once long
ago?"

Two months later, and towards the close
of a dull autumn day, Colonel Dering was
sitting by the fire in the billiard-room at
Beechwarden, with much the same expression
on his face as it had worn when
last we saw him waiting and watching.
But it was a happier face which turned

to greet Mary Graham as she entered the
room shortly after, though still it wore
the self-same look of eager um-est, a look
which would probably rest there for ever
now, until Alan Bering's dream should be
fulfilled.

Mrs. Graham and her daughter were
Colonel Bering's guests at present, having
principally come to play the joint part
of hostess and chaperon to all whom
it might concern, and on the strength of
this, a hurried telegram had been dispatched
to Lady Euthven at Ercildoun,
begging her to come and join them all at
Beechwarden without a minute's delay.
Eiverside having again been let, rendered
this arrangement the best for all concerned.


*' I've got a telegram from Cecil at
last'' exclaimed Mary Graham, bustling
into the room with effusion.

'what does she say?" Colonel Dering's
face looked lined with a strange,
wistful anxiety, which spoke of a strength
of love and longing known to himself
alone.

That she will be here now very soon.
It seems, her first telegram was never
sent off, through some mistake ; for this
one, you see, has been despatched from

W , and that is only two hours'

journey from Heversham."

'' Then she may be here any moment,"
observes Alan, in a dazed, wondering
tone, which causes Mary Graham to
glance at his face curiously.

But she can read nothing there, and
goes on speaking presently 

"I took the liberty of speaking to Mrs.
Keys, Alan, as I came to this room, just
to beg her to get Cecil's rooms ready at
once. Was that right ? "

' Quite right," answers her companion,
in the same dreamy, absent tone. He
was thinking how strange it seemed that
Lady Euthven should he coming to stay
with him.

Mary thinks to herself,  Well, he
doesn't seem to care as much as I
thought, so perhaps they never mean to
be anything but friends after all," and
goes away quite disappointed at the
failure which her news has after all
proved.

* Mother," she said, seating herself by
the fire in the drawing-room, and arousing
that estimable old lady from a siesta,
the more sweet because stolen, *' do you
know, I almost think we were all wrong
in believing that Alan and Cecil would
ever care a bit about each other."

* My dear, what makes you think so ? "
inquired Mrs. Graham, in the dismayed

tone suitable to a national misfortune.
It was very evident that these two ladies
had been plotting for such an event
assiduously.

 Why, when I went in a great hurry
to tell Alan just now that Cecil had
accepted, in fact would be here very
soon, he didn't look a bit glad," said
Mary, indignantly.

'perhaps hQ felt glad, though," observed
Mrs. Graham meekly; and her
remark irresistibly suggested the idea
that  a post sometimes points out the
right road."

* I always thought that Cecil Kuthven
seemed cut out to be Alan's wife," maundered
on the old lady, addressing her
remarks partly to her daughter, as the
latter wandered restlessly about the large
room, and partly to her own knitting-needles
; ' and I never could see what

made him marry my niece, Eosabel,
never ! "

* Poor Eosabel ! " sighed Mary.
' Neither her brother nor herself were
fated ever to enjoy this grand old place ;
it seems hard."

 My dear, it can't be in better hands
than it is," responded the old lady,
always keen in defence of Alan Dering,
for whom her king had only grown
stronger with successive years.

*' I don't say it could, mother," said
Mary, smiling; ** only it makes me sad
to think of that handsome young brother
and sister dead and gone, poor things ! "

Mary," and Mrs. Graham pushed up
her spectacles in her excitement, and
spoke in a tragic, half fearful whisper,
* Mary, do tell me, my dear, what became
of Aer?"

Of whom, mother ? "

Of her  of she  I mean of Madge
Lee," stammered the old lady, with a
prim mixture of modesty and desire for
knowledge.

Mary had no such modest scruples,
and spoke out frankly, ' She's in heaven,
mother, if anybody is, I think."

*' Oh, my dear, you mustn't say that,"
exclaimed poor Mrs. Graham, aghast.
Kindly and good as her nature was, she
had a code of her own on such subjects, a
code which admitted not of black sheep
mingling with the white.

' Well, it shall be as you like, mother
dear," said Mary, quietly; 'but I shall
keep my faith in that idea through all
time. Poor Madge Lee ! how hard she
worked to redeem the past, when Cecil
Ruthven got her started as nurse in that
London hospital."

Poor Madge, indeed! Even now she

is not credited with the truth and honour
which so surely should have been hers !

'' And when and where did she die, my
dear ? " asked Mrs. Graham half fearfully,
for the subject was to her as alarming as
it was engrossing.

'' At E , a little village in Germany,

and only about a month ago, mother.
They had arranged a rough sort of hospital
there for all the poor wounded
soldiers, but could hardly get nurses
or doctors enough at first to do the work.
And they say that Madge Lee worked
day and night with the strength of ten,
and neither fever nor any other danger
had power to touch her, for she seemed
to bear a charmed life. But at last the
end came. There were three days of
terribly hard work in that hospital, for a
disastrous skirmish between the French
and German regiments near there had

filled the whole place with dead and
wounded; and Madge Lee never rested
night or day, but worked amongst them
hour after hour. And towards evening
on the fourth day she complained of
feeing very weary, but there was no one
to take her place, and when the doctors
came in the morning they found her dead,
with her head resting against the bed of a
little child."

Yes, yes, my dear, she must be in
heaven ! " exclaimed Mrs. Graham, tearfully,
convinced even against her strictest
precepts.

'' God grant it," said Mary, gently ;
and then, anxious to turn her mother's
thoughts fi'om such sad events, she went
to the piano and began playing.

Lost in her own thoughts she played on
and on, whilst the old lady dozed gently
in her chair, and she played so long that

she never even heard the sound of
carriage-wheels, or that of an arrival at
the hall-door, which lay at the farthest
extremity of the old grey mansion.

Some one else besides Mary Graham
also fails to hear these sounds. Alan
Bering is wrapt in dreams of the past and
of the future, and so can spare no time
for the present; therefore the distant
clang of doors as they open and shut falls
as meaninglessly on his ear as do the
far-off strains of Mary's music, or even
the voice of some servant speaking his
master's name in the hall beyond.

But now a light, firm tread is heard
crossing the adjacent room, the door
opens gently, and as Alan starts up from
his seat by the fire, almost he thinks himself
a boy again, and returned by some
strange stroke of fate to the boyish days
of long ago.

By the doorway, in the light of the
gloaming, stands a woman, on whose face
the world has set its seal in giving toit
an expression of deeper and nobler
thought than perhaps had once been
there; but in little else is she changed
from the Cecil Euthven of long ago. The
same hae-proud, half-shy glance is there
now, with which she had first met Alan
Bering's gaze in the Grahamstown garden
so many years gone by ; the same royally
fearless eyes meet his again, which urged
him on to duty and to right when the
strife was sore and the struggle long.

' Alan, you wanted me, and so I have
come," says a low, clear voice, the echoes
of which have so often closed Alan
Bering's ears to all other music.

' At last ! Oh, my darling, my dream
has come true at last ! " exclaims a deep,
passionate voice in answer, as Alan

Bering's arms close round her fast and
sure ; whilst a tender, dreamy strain of
music comes floating down from the far-off
distance in echo of his low, murmured
words,  Mon rev, mon rev ! "

