VOL. I.

The spring began early last year in Borne.
Towards five o'clock one sunny afternoon
in March, a stream of foot passengers
was moving steadily up the two broad
walks which lead to the Pincian Hill,
while the long glittering line of carriages
defiling slowly before the music made it
difficult to cross the road.

The younger Italians were gathered for
the most part in two closely-serried ranks
in front of the band. Behind them was

B 2

that open space commonly called the
Piazza. It was here that many carriages
paused for a little, giving much
opportunity for comment, anecdote, and
recognition to the critical Eoman crowd.

At the extreme end of this enclosure,
a man of about five-and-forty, dressed ina
rough gray shooting-coat, stood leaning
against a tree and smoking. His face
and general appearance marked him out
at once as an Englishman. The absence
of all acquaintance on his part with any
of the occupants of the various carriages
showed him to be a stranger. He had

CD

been one of the first to arrive that afternoon.
He stood facing toward the
Trinity de Month, looking down the road.
He could see each carriage a long distance

off; he watched each new arrival
with the same quiet intentness of observation.
Once or twice when a closed
landau passed him he even moved forward
sufficiently to look into its windows
as it drove by, but his curiosity had
thus far been rewarded only by the sight
of some portly dowager wrapped in furs,
or, as in one instance, by meeting the
oblique, impassible glance of a priest.

This persistency had ended by attracting
the attention of the man who stood nearest
to him, whose first look of inquiry had
rapidly deepened into a continuous stare.
For a few moments he seemed to hesitate,
but presently turning, he asked his neighbour
for a light. The Englishman took a
box of matches from his pocket and handed

them to him without speaking. His neighbour
lighted his cigar deliberately, and
then raising his hat :

"I thank you, Signor Lesseterre," he
said.

Lexeter looked up abruptly. Was there
not something familiar to him in these
brilliant black eyes d fleur de tete, the
yellow skin and heavy coarse moustache
of his interlocutor?

As his mind went confusedly back,
seeking to classify this face among old
memories, the gentleman smiled again.

You do not remember me ? It is
many years ago, but I have an excellent
memory  una memoria stipends. I am
Cavaliers Borgia  Marcantonio Borgia, at
your service."

He went on smiling, and extended a
thick yellowish hand. Lexeter took it
without any corresponding enthusiasm.

I have met you very often at Galli's
in the country  nine years ago. You
remember Madame Lalli ? Ah, Cesco is
my very good friend. A friendship of
youth, one does not lose that. A friend
of youth, that is precious, that does not
easily replace itself, eh, Signor Lesse-terre
? "

"Undoubtedly," said Lexeter, looking
at his stick.

You have not forgotten your Italian ?
That is good  that is wonderful  stupendous.
You have never been back again since
then?"
Never."

Gi, gid. Of course. But one always
returns to Rome."

He took off his hat to a passing carriage.
The lady within bent her head vaguely,
in answer to his salutation. She was
young ; she was pale ; she looked chilled.
Her listless glance wandered heavily
and blankly across the crowd. Many
other men took off their hats to her.

"The Duchess of . A charming

woman  sciatica, stipends." The cavaliers
ran his yellow fingers through his hair.
You do not know her ? No ? Not even
by sight ? " He himself had been presented
to her the day before, at the end of an
Embassy ball, where he had spent the
night in a corner, speaking to no one and
completely unknown.

He bean now to give some details of
her private history, until, growing conscious
that Lexeter was according him the smallest
possible amount of attention, he stopped
short in the midst of a sentence, shrugged
his heavy shoulders :

Gia ! these are follies  follies. But
what is life without them, Signor Lesse-terre
? Life in Italy ? Ah you English !
As I said to my friend Cesco when he
took an English wife "

Lexeter did not move, but his face
darkened.

"Madame Lalli is American," he said
shortly.

American  English ; it is all the same.
A cat is a cat even when he is gray.
Principles, they have principles enough,

die diavolo ! Now a woman like the little
duchess Basta /"

He took out his handkerchief and shook
it. A strong smell of patchouli filled the
air.

You have not seen the Lallis ?  my
friend Cesco and his wife ? " he asked
abruptly.

This time Lexeter looked at him.

I have not seen them."

Ah ! You are here, perhaps, only fora
little while ? "

For a day merely."

The music  they were playing a Strauss
waltz  ended with a clash of instruments.
All at once the confused murmur of voices
became more audible. There was a thinning
of the crowd. Many carriages moved

away. The sun, which had been under
a cloud, just above the dome of St. Peter's,
shone out again, gilding the rapid wheels
and turning the fine dust into a soft
powdery golden haze. Some children were
chasing each other about among the roses.
A great many women passed by slowly,
dragging their dresses in the dust, laughing
and talking beneath their large white
parasols.

"Is  do you happen to know if either
of the Lallis is in town ? " asked Lexeter
abruptly.

Che diavolo ! but you have not seen
them then," his companion answered, with
the air of propounding an entirely new
idea. "Yes, they are both here for a
day or two. Only a day. They live

near Albano now, farther up in the
mountains. Madame Lalli has a place
there. They call it  wait a moment 
Che diavolo ! am I losing my memory ?
She is benevolent ; she teaches children
the alphabet ; how to knit stockings."
He laughed and shrugged his shoulders.
Cesco is here constantly. Apparently he
does not care for life at Villa  Villa  ?
"Wait, I have it."

Lexeter knew the name perfectly. He
had returned that very morning from
Albano. He had been shown all over
the villa in question by the servant left
in charge. He had even visited the
school. But he did not choose to say
so. He even hesitated fastidiously at
receiving information from this man. He

would not ask for Lalli's town address,
although he derived a distinct sensation
of disgust from reflecting that this man
undoubtedly knew it. All information
grew distasteful coming from this channel.

And your friend, the young man who
was always with you, signor  il Signor
Hardinge ? " Borgia went on, with a certain
maliciousness of emphasis, " is he too come
back to Borne to meet my good friend
Cesco ? "

Lexeter glanced sharply at him, and
made no answer. A moment later there
was a movement about the music-stand ;
the musicians took up their instruments.

Good-morning," said Lexeter suddenly,
touching his hat with two fingers.

He moved away across the road as the

first notes of the overture to " Tannhauser"
stole tremulously out. There was something
peculiar about his way of walking.
He was slightly lame. Borgia had forgotten
this circumstance. He remarked
it now, and it gave him a certain feeling
of satisfaction. Our neighbours' personal
defects are often apt to strike us in the
light of compliments.

Lexeter turned to the left. He passed
through some scattered shrubbery into a
broad path, screened from the road on
one hand by a row of wide-spreading
larches. The low parapet on the other
side is the Pincian boundary wall. A
hundred feet below in the shadow the
tangled treetops of the Borghese Villa
looked like a delicate cloud of dun-coloured

smoke. Here and there a
stone pine made a dark round spot.
The sky was cloudless and limpid  a
vast pale expanse of blue suffused with
golden light. Away to the west the
cypresses of Monte Mario made a distinct
silhouette against that clearness. The
sun was still shining on the white walls
of the villa.

Lexeter thought himself alone. The
crowd had streamed back to the music.
He was not an even-tempered man. He
leaned over the parapet and looked
down.

"Confound the fellow!" he said
savagely. He struck the open palm of
his hand against the stone.

But almost at the same moment he

was conscious of the presence of another
person  a woman dressed in black, seated
on a bench at a little distance from him,
and talking to a child. Her back was
towards him and he could not see her
features. When he first caught sight
of her, her head was bent down ; she
was looking at something she was holding.
The child pressed forward eagerly to see
it too.

"Be careful, Guido," the lady said
with a laugh.

At the first sound of her voice Lexeter
turned hastily. His face changed. He
started to his feet and there stood still,
irresolute.

"Ah, I was afraid so. It is dead. You
have killed it. Poor butterfly ! Take it

away, dear. Go and bury it over there
among the trees," she went on gently,
in her full, even, caressing tones.

She rose as she spoke ; she drew the
black lace closer together about her
throat, and walked slowly over to the
parapet, a few yards away from Lexeter.
He could see her face now. That face
was paler  it seemed to him the line
of the cheek was fuller than when he
had last seen it. She had not noticed
his presence. She stood with one gloved
hand resting on the stone, looking
vaguely off at the horizon.

Lexeter cast one rapid glance in her
direction, he half turned his back upon
her, he did not wish to be recognised yet.
At that moment his strongest impression

VOL. I. C

was one of unreality. For years past, incertain
moods, the thought of this possible
meeting had had the power of moving him
with indescribable tenderness and expectation.
But after the fashion of things
which have been long and ardently pre-imagined,
it seemed to have lost the definite
outline of reality. A few paces
farther down, where the walk ended, a
marble statue was shining in the last level
rays of the sun. The circular strip of
grass about its feet was all powdered over
with small pink and white daisies. Lexeter
fixed his eyes upon these stupidly, and
waited  he did not know for what. It
seemed to him the most natural thing in
the world that he should be standing so.
The afternoon was very still. There

was no wind. It was too far off to hear
the music ; only the more strident notes
reached them at irregular intervals, detached,
and without modulation. Presently
there were footsteps, the quick
pattering footsteps of a child crunching
upon the gravel of the walk. The sound
faltered and ceased in front of Lexeter.
He looked up. A little boy was watching
him curiously.

What is the matter with you ? What
makes you stand like that ? Why don't
you walk about ? " he demanded boldly,
fixing his great dark eyes upon the
strangers face. "Perhaps you are ill and
you can't walk," he suggested gravely ;
shall I go and tell mamma ? " Lexeter

smiled down at him.

c 2

"So you are little Guido Castella?"
he said, and held out his hand. The
child came forward without the slightest
hesitation and put his little warm fingers
into it.

"Are you one of the people who knew
me when I was a baby?" he asked confidently,
with the air of referring to some
well-known period of history. "Are you
the gentleman who gave old Prince to
my mamma ? And did you have him
when he was quite a puppy ? Tell me
all about him when he was a puppy."

Guido," said Lexeter abruptly, " go
and say to  your mother," he hesitated
over the word, " that an old friend of
hers is here and would like to speak to
her."

The child ran off with the promptness
of a habit of loving obedience. Lexeter
followed slowly after him. His heart was
beating perceptibly. " At my age ! " he
said to himself with a sort of stupefied
irony. But the irony was only lip deep 
the tribute we all render mechanically to
the fetish of habit. Never in all his
experience, never at any time of his
youth, had he been possessed by deeper
emotion than at the sound of those first
low words of greeting from Barbara.

She had changed very much in these
nine years. It was almost the first shingle
noticed distinctly about her. He had
been right in thinking her cheeks had
grown fuller ; but there were new lines
about the mouth, the contour of the

chin was more defined, the whole face
had undergone an indescribable change.
He told her so after a moment.

Yes," she said simply. " It is all
such a long long while ago." She looked
at him, and her beautifully cut lips suddenly
parted in a smile  that well-remembered
smile ! " It is so like you to
tell me I have grown an old woman."

Lexeter smiled too. He took off his
hat and passed his hand over his forehead.
He was all at once conscious of
a singular feeling of satisfaction  of happiness
even. He drew a long breath, and
leaned back against the parapet.

"I have been watching for you all the
afternoon, over there," he said, indicating
the Piazza with a motion of his eyes.

You have been here and I did not

know of it ? " she repeated regretfully,

with something of the same full Sweeten


ness of intonation she had used in speaking
to Guido. "If I had only known
it ! But I seldom go near the music.
Crowds  I think they frighten me. I
dislike crowds, you remember."

I remember," he said gravely.

"And more than ever now. I come
here so seldom. We live almost entirely
in the country now, beyond Albano."

He thought again of the lonely villa
he had seen there.

"And we are going back to-night,"
she added suddenly. " I wish I had
known. Oh, why did you not come here
sooner ? I shall hardly have seen anything

of you at all ; and I had so much
to ask you," she said, in a child-like tone
of disappointment.

Lexeter turned his brown eyes slowly
towards her, and did not answer. He
was thinking of the days he had wasted
searching for her home.

I  I wish I could ask you to come
and see me," she added, speaking very
low.

Lexeter moved uneasily.

"How is Count Lalli?" he asked
abruptly, after a silence.

"Very well."

 Is he ? "

He thrust the end of his stick under
a loose pebble, and buried it deep in the
soft earth of the walk. "I saw  I have

been talking with an old friend of yours,"
he said. The word " friend " slipped out
quite unintentionally. He was speaking
at random.

"Yes?"

Barbara rested one gloved hand upon
the other and looked at him.

Oh, I only meant that man Borgia 
Cavaliers Borgia," said Lexeter hastily,
with a forced laugh.

Her heart seemed to stop beating for
an instant, and then contracted painfully.

"Oh, I know him so slightly," she
said. Her lips trembled. At that moment
Lexeter fairly hated himself.

I am so sorry not to see more of you,"
she went on rapidly after a moment's
pause. " You must have so much to tell

me about yourself all these years ; and I
should like to show you my schools.
You did not know that I had a charity
school now ? We have two  one on each
of Count Lalli's places ; and Guido helps
me' she said, looking down and resting
her hand on the boy's shoulder. He
pressed nearer to her, and rubbed his
cheek slowly against the fur on her
sleeve.

We were to have had a small fever
hospital  some of the harvesters suffer
terribly, and Kome is so far to go.

But that would have cost I mean

there are so many claims. One cannot
always do what one thinks would be for
the best without hurting other people 
people one must not hurt. It is quite

terrible sometimes to think how one may,
so easily, be adding to the pain in the
world."

She spoke in a hurried way, with a
sort of sob in her voice. It seemed as if
some new experience were giving vividness
to the images in her mind.

And that  that is the way you spend
your life," said Lexeter bitterly.

"Mr. Lexeter "

Their eyes met for a moment, and
rested there with a grave and mournful
avowal. It seemed to them both that
so much had been asked and answered
in that brief interval.

Presently she turned her head and
looked away past him to the faint sunny
outline of Horace. Gradually the agitated

look passed from her face ; her large
full-lidded eyes fixed themselves upon the
distant line of mountains with an expression
in them as of an habitual and
accepted want.

Barbara ! "

The sun was setting now. Even here,
among the trees, the spaces were filled
with a reflected light. The musicians
were playing the last notes of the last
waltz. The wind which had risen with
the sunset brought these in fuller cadence.
It brought with it as well the perfume
of the violets which Barbara wore on
her breast. She was standing close beside
him. Again he was conscious of that
overpowering sense of expectation. His
heart began beating thickly. Involuntarily

he half put out his hand and drew it
back

Barbara ! "

She looked at him gently. Her eyes
were moist with tears, but she smiled.

There is always Guido," she said
under her breath. " And to give thanks
is good, and to forgive"

Lexeter stared at her hard for a
moment. His hope sank suddenly  like
a candle that has been blown out.

"Yes, you are right; you are always
right," he said.

The words held no meaning for him.
His mind was filled with a certain vague
feeling of contempt for himself. He suddenly
felt that he had grown old. Just
then Guido came up to him, taking firm

hold of his hand to swing himself back a
little, looking up into his face.

"They thought old Prince was going
to die last year," he said earnestly, with
the air of resuming an interrupted story,
and mamma cried. Should you have
cried when you had him if he had
been going to die when he was a
puppy ? "

Lexeter put out his other hand and
silently smoothed the curly hair back from
the boy's forehead.

I think it was a gentleman called
Mr. Hardinge who gave that dog to your
mamma, my boy," he said after a moment.
He turned to Barbara. " Walter was in
town last summer for a day or two. I
saw him there. I dined with him at his

hotel. He has hardly changed at all. He
looks  'exactly the same'

"Yes. I always imagined "

She shivered slightly. A faint flush
passed over her pale cheeks. She pressed
the tips of her gloved fingers against her
lips. Lexeter glanced at her sideways
and looked down.

Hardinge has been making a great
name for himself  writing some papers
on political economy. I can send them
to you if you like. There is some chance
now I think of his going into Congress.
I hope he will, dear old boy. I always
look upon "Walter as upon some of the yeast
which is to leaven the whole loaf. Walter
was born successful. "

She moved slightly, but did not answer.

Her hands were clasped together. He did
not see her face.

He was in town only for a few days,"
said Lexeter slowly. At that moment
it seemed to him that he had come to
Eome merely to say this. He made a
distinct effort to put more life into his
voice. He felt like an actor who was
garbling his part. " He was there  alone.
Mrs. Hardinge had stayed with the children
in America."

How is Octave, do you know ? "

I think," he said, " she .was very well ;
just as usual."

"And they still live at his place on the
Hudson?"

"Yes."

"And in the winter they go to Washington
? "

I believe so."

I have not heard from Octave for
years," said Barbara, still a little tremulously.
cf At first she used to write tome,
but people drift apart. We are
neither of us good correspondents. And
people drift apart." Her eyes suddenly
filled with tears. " I am glad to have seen
you. You are very good to me," she said.

"II Not at all," said Lexeter, automatically.
It gave him a certain feeling
of impatience to hear himself thus spoken
of. What was the use of it? Everything
had been said.

She turned to go. "Come, Guido."

Your carriage is waiting for you ?
Allow me to see you as far as your carriage,"
he said, with the same sensation

VOL. i. D

of reciting a prearranged part. They
walked down the broad alley in silence.
They turned to the left, following the
division wall. The sun had set ; this
part of the promenade was entirely deserted.
Already the radiance was gone
from the sky. The trees of the Ludovisi
Villa were all in shadow ; the colour of
the fields was growing uniform, with here
and there a darker line of cypresses.

There were many marble busts  heads
of poets, of senators, of soldiers  standing
in pale relief among the shrubbery.
Lexeter looked up at one of these as
they passed. It was the head of
Leopardi. " It was here that I met you
one morning," he said in a low voice.
And each of them remembered that day.

When they came within sight of the
carriage, which was waiting by the ,
Guido ran forward and climbed
up joyously beside the coachman. " I
shall drive. I want to drive all the way
home," he said.

Barbara started at the sound of his
voice. It was then she turned and gave
both hands to her companion.

I have been so glad  I want you to
believe how glad I have been to see
you," she said earnestly. "You do believe
this ? "

He looked at her fixedly, and a curious
sort of smile passed over his pale face.

"Good-bye!"

But you do believe it ? " she persisted
timidly.

d 2

Lexeter put her into the carriage and
shut the door. He spread the fur rug
carefully over her knees.

"Are you quite warm enough?" he
asked.

"Quite warm, thank you."

He stood there irresolute a moment,
still holding the handle of the door.
But when had it been possible for him to
resist that pleading tone in her voice ?

"I do believe it," he said abruptly.
"You were always a good girl, Barbara.
You have a tender heart."

He stepped back and lifted his hat.

"I shall send you those reviews when
I get home to England." The same
dubious smile contracted his lips. "Drive
on, coachman."

"Drive on!" repeated Guide joyously,
clapping his hands.

Lexeter did not stand looking after the
carriage. On the contrary, as soon as
Barbara had driven off, he turned immediately
about and began retracing his
steps to the promenade. Under the
ilexes in front of the French Academy,
half-a-dozen ragged children, who were
dabbling their fingers in the water of the
fountain, ran up to him and begged fora
sou. The eldest of them was a flower-girl,
who followed him for some distance,
offering the contents of her half empty
basket. At first Lexeter paid no attention
to her. She was continuing her importunity
mechanically and with no idea of
a sale, when, just at the entrance-gate,

he turned suddenly, threw a piece of
money into her basket, and without
looking at her, took up a bunch of violets
which he fastened in his coat.

"But I have no change, signore," the
girl said deprecatingly, closing her dirty
fingers promptly over the note.

"Then you have no business to be
selling things at all," said Lexeter sharply.
"Never mind that now. You may keep
whatever you've got."

He had intended crossing directly over
the hill, but it was the hour at which
everyone leaves the Pincian. The narrow
side-walk was crowded with people on
their way home to dinner, strangers and
Italians, black-gowned priests in couples,
loudly chattering files of lads in the

scarlet robes of the German College, and
heavy nurses in Albans costume,
dragging small wailing infants by the
hand.

Lexeter took the first short cut out of
all this confusion. He walked on, not
caring very much where he went. Atone
moment he stood still and struck
his stick sharply clown upon the ground.
So that is over," he said aloud. And
then again he laughed and looked about
him. But there was no one there to overhear
the words ; he was quite alone. And
again the sentiment of a deep lassitude
possessed him. He thought only languidly
of Barbara. His mind wandered away
from her ; his attention drifting aimlessly
about, catching upon such small details as

the position of a statue or the colour of
green leaves against the sky. He was
in that state of being in which apathy is
consciously a mere preface to suffering ;
and Sorrow may have her voice, Despair
his own exceeding bitter cry, but Misery
is dumb. At that moment Lexeter was
most miserable.

He walked on until he reached the spot
where they had paused before the bust of
Leopardi. There was still light enough
in the sky to throw the white-hooded
figure into pale relief. Lexeter stopped
here. He stood still, looking at the
marble face in the shadow with a curious
feeling of comradeship. "And you, too,
you experienced this," he thought. He
glanced at the bench in front of him. He

remembered a morning, long ago, when
here at this very spot he had met a
young girl on her way to her first tryst
with her lover. And certain old words
came back to him :

natura, o natura,
Perche non rends poi
Quel che prometti allow 1

In the twilight the bitter immutable
mouth of the dead poet seemed to smile
with implacable negation from its forgotten
corner among the clustering leaves of a
new spring.

But when at last he wandered out from
among these trees the changed look of
the world was fairly enough to startle
one. For behind St. Peters, where the
sun had set, the light was like a shining

silver flame. The horizon was the colour
of the heart of a rose ; and away to the
east, away across the waste of the Campagna,
the purple shadows were slowly
darkening on the hills.

He walked over to the farther esplanade
and looked down. Already a pale
thin mist was creeping over the houses.
The city lay at his feet, gray and fawn-coloured,
like some heap of huddled shells.
Everything was in half-tints, and over
against him rose the dim rounded darkness
of the dome. The wind blew past
him in soft pulsations like a breath 
airs from the Eden of youth." The
serene silence of the limpid bending sky
struck upon the senses like the vast primeval
caress of a mother world.

Lexeter took off his hat with a feeling
of relief. There was no one left here but
himself. He leaned against the balustrade
; he looked down at the creeping
mists drawing nearer. The penetrating
odour of the violets he wore in his coat
reached him from time to time, burdened
with all the clinging sadness of regretful
memory.

And these are some of the things which
he remembered.

It was at the charity ball at the 
that Barbara Floyd first met the
man she was to marry. It was indeed a
memorable evening to her, even in other
ways than this. For one thing, it washer
first official introduction into Anglo-roman
society  into any society. And it
is quite possible that there may have been
some slight trepidation underlying her
usual self-possessed manner as she stood,
ready dressed, before the dim old-fashioned
swinging-mirror in her own room. She

contemplated the tall slender reflection
dressed all in white quite gravely and
even anxiously for a minute or two, and
then an amused look began to steal into
the clear candid eyes.

I wonder if I shall do ? If Octave
will approve of me ? " she said lightly.

At that moment there came a knock
at the door.

Come in' the young girl answered,
without turning her head. "And have
you come to take a look at me, Margherita
? " she went on, addressing the
thick broad-chested reflection which joined
hers in the glass. " And is the carriage
waiting ? "

Miss Octave was not to call for
you before ten o'clock," the old woman

answered in Italian. " And, indeed, it is a
good sight to see you dressed for a ball
like other young ladies, Miss Barbara.
I was telling the buttermilk about it only
this morning, when I went in to see
about the eggs for the signore's breakfast.
And come in at what hour you like, I
said, it is always the same ; there sits my
young lady at her books, and read  read
read ! And if it is a question of a
walk, when was it ever : ' Margherita, we
will go for a turn on the Corso ; ' or,
6 Margherita, the sun is shining, let us go
and hear the music on the Pinch and
see all the fine dresses ?' No ! What I
hear is : e Margherita ! to-day I shall walk
to the gate or c to the galleries or ' to the
blessed Vatican where the Holy Father

lives, and there is nothing to look at but
the English foreigners counting up the
statues to see if they are all put 'down in
the little red books ; and not a young
man in the house from one Carnival to
the next ! Madonna mia ! we thought of
other things when I was a girl, I said.
And the signore with his head in the air
and always thinking of his pictures "

Come here and fasten in these flowers
for me, you silly old woman," said Barbara
good-naturedly. " Now, look here,
Margherita, I am going to give you a
piece of advice. The next time you go
in to buy your groceries, and the pizzi-
carlo asks after me, or the pizzicaruolo's
wife begins to gossip "

Ah Holy Virgin ! but it will be a

long time before the poor woman has a
word to say for herself again, the saints
be with her ! And have you not heard
the news, Miss Barbara ? But, indeed, how
should you ever hear of anything ! And
it was last night that the pizzicaruolo came
home from the drinking-shop where he had
been having a glass with a friend or two,
poor man! And they had been talking as
men will ; so when Giacomo came home and
his wife was not there the drink began to
go to his head, poveretto ! and he took
his knife and waited behind the door.
And when she came in  perhaps he did
not mean really to give her a cut, and perhaps
the wine had made his hand heavy

and then, seeing the blood "

The girl turned pale. She put out her

hand suddenly and caught at the frame of
the mirror. " Is the woman dead ? " she
asked in a very low voice.

Dio ce ne guard ! "

Margherita shrugged her handsome shoulders
until the long gold earrings swung
against her cheek. " They have taken her
to the hospital of the Consolazione. And
as for him, poor fellow ! what would you
have ? It was all jealousy. Not a bit of
malice in it  all pure jealousy. We are not
like you others, Miss Barbara, when a passion
takes us, we Italians ! Basta ! I have
seen them of all colours when I was a girl
in Genzano. There was my own brother,
now. He was killed in a quarrel at fair-time.
That was under the old government,
and they took the man who stabbed him

VOL. I. E

and sent him to the galleys. Very well.
And then my father bought himself a new
knife and waited. Those were the good old
days when prisoners were sure of their pardon
 prisoners who never spoke against the
Holy Virgin or the Government. And there
is a proverb which says ' Ten words are not
worth one blow.' And it is a very good
proverb, that ; there are crosses all along the
road to show what it means. I have heard
my father say that many a time  good old
man ; he was always so fond of his children.
Well, as I was telling you, signorina, one
day  perhaps it was a year later  one morning
when my father was in his shop "

But by this time the girl had begun
to recover herself. The colour came back
to her lips. Only there was a great sadness

still in her eyes as she spoke. " I
will not hear the end of that story," she
said, speaking very seriously ; " and, Margherita,
tomorrow we shall go to the Consolazione,
you and I. And you will see
that there is something ready."

Very well," the old woman said shortly.
She had been kneeling down to make
sure of the fastening of the white satin
rosette on her young mistress's shoe ; hut
now she rose up, folding her arms across
her ample bosom. " Very well," she said,
in rather an offended manner ; " but it
is glad I am to see you going out to
enjoy yourself, Miss Barbara, with something
better than my old stories. And
glad enough I am that Miss Octave has

come back. And will you have on your

b 2

S\Vt OF ILL

cloak now, Miss Barbara, before you goto
the studio ? The signore is waiting

to see you. He sent me to tell you

so."

Papa kept waiting all this time ! "

She gathered the soft white folds of
her dress in a heap around her, and went
quickly out of the room. There was no
light in the large low-ceiling parlour,
but the moon was shining in at the
windows. She passed lightly and rapidly
through that room and the next, and
down a narrow passage, lit by a swinging
lamp. At first there was no answer to
her timid rap. She knocked again.

Come in, Barbara," a voice answered.
She opened the door and went in.

It was not a cold night, but Mr. Floyd

was standing with his hands behind his
back, staring at the fire. He turned round
and looked up at his daughter's entrance.
They called this place the studio, but
it was really nothing but a small and
rather crowded room. The air was overheated
and smelt of paint and of old
leather. And indeed this was little matter
for wonder, for the place was full of
every kind of nondescript lumber. The
walls were covered with tattered and
dingy canvases. There w T ere easels standing
about with pictures on them in every
stage of incompletion. The table was
littered with loose papers and old books,
and long rows of leather-covered volumes
stood ranged side by side upon the floor.
There was a book open now upon the

mantelpiece among the dusty bottles, but
Mr. Floyd had not been reading.

So you are all ready for your ball ? "
he said slowly, looking a little curiously
at this white apparition. And then, after
a pause : " You are looking very well,
Barbara."

Yes, papa," the girl said shyly.

But somehow he did not look as if he
had sent for her merely to compliment her
about her dress.

Yes, you are looking very well  very
well," he repeated slowly.

He was a small rather thick-set manfully
half a head shorter than his daughter.
His face was clean-shaved ; he wore neither
beard nor moustache. His eyes were large,
like hers, but of the lightest shade of blue ;

and, as his face was also large and flat,
and very much darkened and reddened by
the sun, these keen pale eyes were the
first thing you noticed about him. He
turned round now, and suddenly and
vigorously attacked the fire.

If you are all ready to go, you have
no jewels to wear," he said.

His daughter looked at him with some
astonishment.

Any jewels, papa ? " She was hardly
sure of what he said, he was making so
much noise with the fire-irons. "Why, I
have none. I don't want them ; I "

The log of wood snapped suddenly across
in the middle, and the ashes were scattered
all over the hearth.

cc Let me do that for you," she said.

Go away, Barbara. Take care ! you
will only ruin your dress," her father
answered rather sharply.

He threw down the brush he was holding,
went over to the table, and began to
rummage among his papers.

' There ; you may have that ; take it
away. It is yours, and everything in it,"
he said without looking up. He pushed a
small sandal-wood box towards her. The
lock was evidently broken. It had been
forced open at some time, and the cover
was secured by a bit of black ribbon. He
drew a chair up to the table, sat down, and
opened a book. It was certainly a curious
way of making a present.

But perhaps the manner in which she
accepted it was more curious still. For

there was nothing in her face of the pleased
surprise of a girl over a sudden windfall of
new ornaments. Presently she drew nearer
to the table. She rested both hands
upon it.

Papa," she said.

He kept his head bent down.

"There, child, take it and go. I am
busy. Can't you see that I am busy ? " he
asked fretfully.

But the hand which was holding his book
was not so steady as usual. He got up
again and went and stood before the fire.
The diamonds in there are family jewels,"
he said suddenly ; " the Floyds have always
had them. My mother wore them at her

wedding; so did It  it has always

been the custom in the family for years.

You will be careful of them, Barbara. As
for the rest of the things "

He glanced sideways at his daughter, and
then looked down again at the fire, and fell
to biting his nails. " You won't find anything
else there of much intrinsic value, I
imagine," he said with a short laugh.

She came up close beside him rather
timidly and laid her arm across his bent
shoulders without speaking. She stood so
for nearly a minute, without his moving or
giving any sign of being conscious of her
presence. At last she said in her soft full
voice :

"lam so sorry you should have pained
yourself to give me these."

She would have said more but that something
seemed to rise up in her throat which

made her voice tremble, and warned her
to be brief. Her father could not endure
crying. He showed his usual dislike to
scenes now by the manner in which he
again requested her to leave him.

"I have some work  important work 
to do," he said a little impatiently. But
when she bent down to kiss him he did not
make any objection to it ; on the contrary,
he put up his hand and patted her cheek.
It was burning hot.

There, there ; run along, child. Go to
your ball and enjoy yourself. And, Barbara,
you will not forget to give Mrs. Damon
my compliments and best thanks for her
kindness in taking charge of you. I shall
do myself the honour of calling upon her
tomorrow to thank her in person."

But in spite of this new gentleness, when
his daughter had gone, he lost no time in
making fast his door. He turned the key
in the lock with a sharp snap  Barbara
could hear it, going down the passage 
and went back to his old place before the
fire.

He stood there a long while  a short
middle-aged figure  still biting his fingernails
angrily, and staring down at the glowing
bed of coals which were slowly turning
to white ashes. But what is this picture he
is continually seeing there  the small bright
country church full of the sunshine of some
far-off summer morning, and all about him
a crowd of familiar and friendly faces ?
And who is this girl who stands beside him,
with a gleam of diamonds about her whitethroat,

and diamond stars in the marriage
veil which covers her beautiful hair ?

At that moment Barbara was looking at
those very diamonds. She had gone back
to the empty drawing-room ; there was a
lamp lighted there now. She placed her
box upon the table and unfastened the
knotted ribbon ; the lid fell off its broken
hinges with a jar. As her father had said,
it was a motley collection of trinkets. The
diamonds were in a case by themselves ; she
glanced at them rather carelessly and pushed
them to one side. There was a quantity of
loose coral beads rolling about, the thread
which bound them had been snapped in two ;
the fine cameo bracelet she next took up had
lost its class). The things seemed all to have
been thrown in together hastily and left.

But quite at the bottom of the box, among
the loose beads, she came upon something
which suddenly made her heart beat faster
and brought quick tears to her eyes. It was
merely a thin old-fashioned locket with a
glass face. On the back were engraved some
initials and a date, and under the glass was
a soft fair lock of hair  the hair of a very
little child.

She touched it with the gentlest, the most
indescribable emotion. Nothing else had
ever given her this same feeling of nearness
to the mother she had never known. A
whole experience of loving companionship
seemed revealed to her by the sight of this
carefully cherished remembrance of her own
babyhood. This was 'something her mother
had done, with her own hands, in the tenderness

of her love and pride. And in what
far-off day had this small pale curl been
treasured, and why ?

Oh mamma, mamma ! " the girl said
passionately, with trembling lips.

She swept everything else back into its
place and stood looking at this which she
held in her hand. She still kept the bit of
black ribbon between her fingers. It fell
against her white ball-dress like a visible
sign of the sorrow which must always make
a silent difference between her experience
and that of others. But she was not thinking
of this.

It was characteristic of Barbara that at
this moment, with her mother's whole history
brought freshly before her, all the power of
her imagination should go out in an idealising

attempt to realise the lost love of which
here was the evident token. The more
obvious personal and social consequences of
that loss failed to impress her, except as they
affected her father. And this was probably
even more the result of temperament than
of ignorance. She had spent too much of
her young life in boarding-schools, where a
high moral standard is one of the things
specified in the prospectus, to make it probable
that this indifference to lower calculations
should be the result of education.

But now the door opened.

Miss Octave is there. The carriage is
waiting," said Margherita, from the outside.
She stood still, with her hands rolled up in her
apron, watching her young mistress gathering
together her cloak and handkerchief and

gloves. But when she saw the girl pass by
her and go to the door without speaking,
and still with that preoccupied look on her
face : " And are you not going to give me
something to carry down for you, Miss
Barbara ? " the old woman asked reproachfully.


She seized upon the lamp, and was
especially careful of Barbara dress in
passing the door.

Adamo! Courage, Miss Barbara! It
is not to confession you are going, but to a
ball. I am a stupid old woman, with my
stories. And you will not be leaving the
key with the porter, for I shall sit up for
you until you come home," she said penitently,
halfway down the stair.

Sit up for me ? Nonsense ! Go to bed

TOL. I. p

and to sleep as quickly as you can," the girl
said, in a kindly absent sort of way. She
was looking back and upwards, so that the
light fell full upon her face and on her white
dress, making a luminous spot against the
dusky background of the dark old palace stair.

The carriage was waiting in the courtyard
at the foot of these steps. There was someone
standing in the moonlight, beside the
open door, who took off his hat as she
passed him.

Well, Barbara dear  at last ! " said
Octave, bending forward with a soft rustle,
and putting out a small tightly-gloved hand.
And then a place was made for her beside
Mrs. Damon, and Octave leaned forward
again and held up a smooth cheek to be
kissed.

"I am sure I am very sorry if we have
kept you waiting, Barbara "

Nonsense, mamma ! as if Barbara ever
expected me to be punctual ! Punctuality
is a soldier's vice  do you bear, Count
Lalli ? And are you going to stand there
all night with that door open ? Do get
in. I am freezing to death' said Miss
Damon, with an affected shiver of her pretty
shoulders.

A thousand pardons, mademoiselle ! "

I don't think you know my friend, Miss

Floyd ? Count Cesco Lalli, Barbara. As

for mamma, she never thinks of introducing

anybody. She would let the poor man sit

there all the evening. Oh, he doesn't speak

English," said Octave carelessly. " You can

say what you like. And speaking of liking,

f 2

what do you think of the way my hair is
done ? " She bent forward a little so that
the light of the street lamp they were
passing might shine upon her dark curly
head. " Fillets, you know. The Greek sort
of thing. So you think it is becoming ? "

"Everything you do is becoming," said
Barbara, looking affectionately at her.

Octave impressed her more than ever
to-night like some delightful inexplicable
inhabitant of another sphere  a sheltered
world, in which there entered no questionings,
no perplexity, no pressure on account
of other people's mistakes, but where life
meant chiefly the certitude of being charming,
and the delight of being petted in consequence.
There was not a year's difference
in their age, but Barbara always thought of

herself as immeasurably the elder. She had
that sympathetic and imaginative faculty of
entering into other existences which makes
the standard of actual years a merely conventional
formula. This is not a faculty
which belongs to happy lives. She was fond
of Octave with that sort of tenderness which
makes no demand upon companionship
other than the mere comradeship of agreeable
presence. Octave, on the other hand,
was in the habit of saying " Barbara is
so clever ; " meaning by that chiefly that
Barbara was addicted to reading books
which had no story in them, would go of
her own impulse to picture galleries or to
listen to classical music, and actually enjoyed
talking to friends of her father's, quite
old men, who would go on speaking about

Cavour's policy, or the new project for draining
the Campagna, without the slightest
apparent recognition of her presence or
presumable interests.

I never can  I never shall imagine what
it is you care about in those people," Octave
had said to her one day not long before.
"Now that horrible Herr Miller with his
spectacles, talking about the proportions of
the human figure as calculated by the comparative
tablet in the temple at Rom Ombos !
What is the temple at Rom Ombos ! And
I don't think it is nice in a man of his age,
who takes snuff, to be talking about the
proportions of the human figure. It all
comes from your going to those horrid
statues at the Vatican, Barbara. I never
could see that the Greeks had such particularly

good figures myself. And then that
Monsieur Simon "

Well, what is the matter with poor
Monsieur Simon's figure?"

"Oh, he's horrid!" said Octave comprehensively,
arching her eyebrows.

He was in Lyons in '51. He was on the
barricades."

Perhaps that is where he lost all his
pocket-handkerchiefs ? "

"Sometimes when he is here I look at
him and try to imagine the things he has
seen. Octave, I wish you would read ' Les
Miserable. ' Fancy," said Barbara, letting her
work fall on her knee and leaning forward
with slowly brightening eyes, "fancy just
the handful of men there against all the
world, and fighting for what they know

could never come for them or even in their
own time ; dying just to show that there are
things in life worth dying for."

"Oh," said Octave coolly, "but you see
it wasn't so bad as that. People always
exaggerate. Look at Monsieur Simon ; he
escaped. And I don't see that a man who
talks through his nose is any less unpleasant
because he is a hero, Barbara. After all, it is
the daily habits that one cares about. If
one must be doing things all the time, at
least I should rather be doing them while I
was young, like Cesco Lalli. He was in the
Papal Zouaves, you know, until last year,
and they gave him that medal for doing
something or other  defending a bridge
against a company of Garibaldi's troops with
only ten men, while General Lamoriciere got

away with his staff. He had his shoulder
cut open with a sabre, and all his men were
shot but two. But at any rate it was not
so stupid as building barricades," said Octave
calmly, getting up and strolling over to the
looking-glass. "And at all events Lalli
doesn't take snuff," she added, turning about
and showing a rose-pink dimple in either
cheek.

And Barbara laughed. It was the way
in which their discussions commonly ended.

I shall introduce Count Lalli to you.
Only I'm afraid there is no chance for him,
poor fellow ! He is too handsome ; you
would never admire him," Octave had said
with pretended melancholy.

All this had taken place some two or

three days before. To-night, in the carriage,
Barbara seemed entirely to have forgotten
her supposed curiosity.

She leaned back in her corner and was
silent. Her eyes were fixed on the window,
but the dark narrow streets through which
they were rattling seemed alike unfamiliar.
They passed the Eoman Forum; at any
other moment she would surely have roused
herself to look at this, but now the still
moon-whitened columns and archways affected
her merely as a fantastic, meaningless
background to the stress of intense personal
feeling which was forcing itself upon her.
She had fastened her mother's locket in her
dress, and now she put up her fingers to feel
for it.

Why, Barbara, what are you thinking

of ? You have not even put on your gloves,"
said Octave with dismay.

Barbara started. " I had quite forgotten,"
she said, a little confusedly.

And then Count Lalli spoke for the first
time.

Will you allow me 1 "

He had drawn off his own gloves, and
held her wrist lightly between his fingers
as he fastened the long gauntlets with the
other hand. He secured the last button as
they drew up before the palace gate.

"Thank you. Oh, that will do perfectly.
Thanks," said Barbara, a trifle impatiently.
And then in getting out of the carriage she
had to give him her hand.

They went into the cloak-room together.
I hope I am all right, I'm sure. It is impossible

to see anything of one's self in such
a crowd' Mrs. Damon remarked plaintively,
putting up her hand to her hair. It was not
curly wavy hair like Octave's, but smooth
and dark. They each had the same clear
brown eyes, the same long throat, and there
was a striking likeness in the carriage of the
small round head ; only in the mother's case
there were some deep, and apparently quite
irrelevant, lines about the temples, and her
skin had lost that look of delicate rosy transparency
which was one of Octave's greatest
charms. Next to her daughter, Mrs. Damon
looked not unlike a wax flower. " I'm so
glad we brought a gentleman. I told you
what a crowd there would be, Octave."

She put her hand on Count Lalli's arm.

I hope the princess has not yet gone,

I'm sure. Keep as close to me as you
can."

The two girls followed her into the ballroom.


Ah, there is Mr. Hardinge talking to
Clifford Dix. We are sure of partners as
soon as they see us, Barbara. Not that one
can even think of dancing in this crowd.
But where is mamma going ? Ah Mr. Dix,
how are you ? You are the very person I
want. You know Miss Floyd, don't you ?
Barbara, let me introduce Mr. Dix. He can
tell you who everybody is in the room. I
am afraid of him myself. He writes novels,"
said Octave, showing all her dimples as she
spoke.

I call this cruel, Miss Damon."

Oh, I prefer talking to Mr. Hardinge.

He adapts his conversation to my capacity'
she said, moving away and turning her long
throat to look at him over her shoulder.
Barbara smiled involuntarily, watching her,
Octave's prettiness being of that softly
youthful type which is perpetually surprising
one with the familiar and ever-fresh
surprise of new flowers and returning
springs.

"Your friend seems to interest you,"
Mr. Dix remarked after waiting a moment.
Yes ; you see she is my friend."
But that is precisely the thing which
makes your interest surprising, don't you
see ? " Mr. Dix continued in rather a languid
tone.

He was not in the habit of manufacturing
conversation for the benefit of every girl
who was thrown in his way. He was a man
consciously capable of extremely refined
pleasures, which he afterwards described
with curious nicety of epithet. His mind

was kept anxiously on the alert for the
most appropriate emotions. His critics
accused him sometimes of considering
existence like a series of brilliant magazine
articles, and contributing his own share
with perhaps too vivid a realisation of clear-cut
impression and epigram. But these
were probably the same people who complained
that he wrote like a man who
examined the passions through an eyeglass.
His books were impartially international.
He was carefully cultivated; he had spent
all his life in examining great things ; and,
in point of fact, he was certainly quite unerring
in his accuracy as to those differentiated
details of dress, card-leaving, and
speech which are the final cause of American
civilisation. He was invariably just in his

strictures. He had a social reputation of
being very severe. He had indeed at various
times made several cutting remarks upon
the American continent ; but in commenting
upon this fact the best people always added :
But he has been so much abroad, you
know."

He was silent for a moment, and then,
Do you dance, Miss Floyd ? " he asked.

Sometimes.'

"Are you fond of dancing ? "

"Very."

You are not enthusiastic. I asked the
same question of a girl at the English
Embassy last night, and she told me she
considered dancing quite too awfully jolly.
But then she admitted that she was too
awfully particularly devoted to Strauss."

VOL. I. g

Do you think she could possibly have
imagined she was e adapting her conversation
' ? " said Barbara, looking at him with a
sudden smile.

Her full direct glance was as unconscious
as the look of a handsome boy.
It amused him ; it pleased him on reflection.


Have you been out very much ? I
mean, is this your first season ? " he asked.
He spoke rather quicker and with much
more friendliness of manner.

It is my first ball. Mrs. Damon was so
kind about it. I came with Octave. My
father is busy ; he does not care for
society' said Barbara simply.

I see," a dim recollection of some story
connected with the name of Floyd coming

back to him. "Shall we not have a turn
before the music stops ? " he said.

At that moment the doors of the next
saloon were thrown open ; there was a
general rising and rustling of dresses, and
a blonde young woman all in white walked
rapidly in, followed by several ladies of the
Court. The crowd parted before them,
leaving an empty space.

Uncommonly well the princess is
looking to-night," said Mr. Dix approvingly.
As he spoke the lady in question dropped
her fan, there was a general rush forward,
but a young man who had stepped out of
the crowd was the first to touch it.
He presented it to her with a low bow.
He drew back again and resumed his
position against the wall.

Q 2

Who is that man, do you know ? I
must have seen him somewhere. Good-looking
fellow too. He folds his arms like
the hero of a French novel."

Oh," said Barbara, turning her eyes in

that direction, " I know who he is. He

came with us to-night. His name is Count

Lalli."

"Roman?"

I don't know. I suppose so. He was
in the Papal Zouaves, Octave told me."

Ah, that accounts. But the genre is
antiquated. It is the jeune premier of five
years ago," said Dix indifferently, dropping
his eyeglass. " Shall we not have turn ?"

But the next time they stopped dancing
Mr. Dix mentioned him again.

I have made a discovery. Your friend

with the eyes is watching us," he said.
Observe that I say ' us,' and not you,
Miss Floyd. I flatter myself that this is
generous, particularly at this moment when
he is approaching us with evident designs of
tearing you away."

How very absurd," said Barbara lightly,
her face still bright with her childlike
pleasure in the dancing.

Octave passed on the arm of a gentleman
and nodded to them. The lights, the
measured pulsing of the music, the very
sense and movement of the crowd were
working upon Barbara's quickly-touched
sympathies. A perfectly new desire for
amusement was waking in her. She turned
to Lalli when he approached her with the
same confident smile.

"I am sent by Madame Damon to beg
you not to engage yourself for the cotillon,
signorina," lie began, speaking in Italian
and with an air of great deference. He
glanced at her partner. " Madame Damon
is sitting in the next room, where it is
cooler "

Did she ask you to bring me to her ?
Oh, thanks," said Barbara carelessly, putting
her hand on his arm.

They walked halfway down the long hall
without speaking, then Lalli asked in a low
voice, and bending his head towards her :
Are you happy to-night ? "

Very' said Barbara, looking up with
a slight surprise.

Their eyes met, and for some inexplicable
reason the girl felt suddenly embarrassed. In

an instant she had grown conscious of herself,
of her hands, of the way she was standing,
of the very dress she wore. She looked
away with a perceptible effort.

11 1 do not see Mrs. Damon," she said.

"No. If you are happy now you were
not happy in the carriage, I knew that. I
know your face so well. I knew it when I
saw you coming down those steps, all in
white, with the light shining on your face ; I
said to myself c There is something troubling
her to-night.' "

But, Count Lalli "

"Ah," he said, keeping his eyes fixed
upon her, and in the same low voice, "I
could tell you things which would astonish
you. I could tell you where you have been
every day for the last month. Yesterday

you drove out with Miss Damon ; on
Thursday you were in St. John Lateran at
vespers. You had with you an old woman
whom you called Margherita. You stayed
for the benediction. You wore a dark
green dress trimmed with fur, and there
was fur and something shining  it looked
like steel  on your hat. As you were
coming out you stopped to speak to an
old lady."

But  but this is absurd! " said Barbara,
flushing and feeling bewildered. It seemed
to her that she was angry as well.

Is it true or not ? "

"I cannot see what possible interest "

It is true then?"

She dropped his arm and threw back her
head a little, and looked at him rather

proudly. " Anyone might have seen me
coming out of church' she said. But it
is impossible to say why she should have
selected this precise moment to remember
the story Octave had told her about this
man. There was a scrap of red ribbon in
his button-hole. Was that the ribbon of the
medal he had won ? He was so tall and
well set up. How must he have looked,
standing at the head of his men, defending
the narrow bridge ? He had seen curious
things to be so preoccupied with the small
movements of a girl's daily life.

She opened her fan and shut it.

If Mrs. Damon "

I will go and look for Mrs. Damon, if
you wish me to," he said instantly. " If
I can find a place to leave you." He

looked about him with a wide keen glance
which seemed to take in every face in the
room. " There should be a window-seat
behind that scarlet curtain," he said.

And there was a seat. The window
looked out upon the low wide stairway of
the Capitol. The moon was shining on the
silent square. It was shining on the statue
of Marcus Aurelius. It was after midnight.
The wind was hushed. Not a shadow
moved. Only the dead emperor was mounting
guard over his sleeping city, in his old
free familiar companionship with the night
and the changeless stars.

She sat down and turned her face to
the window with a sudden revulsion of
mood.

"Ah," she said softly, with a quick

sigh of pleasure, "how beautiful that
is ! "

Lalli waited a minute. She had quite
forgotten he was to leave her. He waited
with the folds of the curtain in his hand.
He gave another quick searching glance
around him. He let the curtain fall; he
stepped into the recess ; he came and stood
silently beside her.

"It is quiet enough now. But do you
know the last time I was here, Miss Floyd?"
he said. " It was a year ago in September
a year and five months ago. We had
been all the morning at the Porta Pia.
Later, I was sent down here with despatches.
The Italian troops were entering ; my colonel
kept me here. You cannot imagine what it
is like to be in the Campidoglio again. I

remember this room," lie said, and stopped
abruptly. Barbara turned her head and
looked at him. "Do you see that line of
light beyond the statue ? between the two
lamps ? We made a barricade of mattresses
just there ; and we waited. At every instant
the cannon were firing ; at each gun a piece
of the city wall  of the walls of our city 
of our Eome  was falling. And they made
us wait. They told us to be patient. And
we were young men, Miss Floyd, and
soldiers, and this was our city they were
taking. Oh yes' he said, and he laughed,
and there was a curious look on his face ashe
said it ; "oh yes, we were very patient."
But she was paying very little attention
to his appearance. She had taken off her
gloves. She was bending forward with

parted lips. The moonlight fell full upon
her face.

Go on," she said.

"Oh," he said sullenly, " what is the use ?
You were here. You know what happened.
"We waited; we waited until the troops
came. I climbed up there on that statue
and looked over. There were a hundred of
us at least. We had ammunition, and the
square was packed full. There were women
there  to see us surrender ; and children,
who were being taught to laugh. If I had
had my way," the young man said, his face
darkening suddenly, " they should have
been taught to jeer at us. Only I think
not many of them would have gone
home."

Barbara clasped her hands together ; her

eyes moved uneasily. " Please do not say a
thing like that."

Why not ? They said we were
frightened'' He bit his lip and stared
gloomily out of the window. u After all,"
he said, turning to her suddenly and speaking
in French, " D'etat de la canaille, tout ga.
It was the populace who had come to see
their masters, the gentlemen, surrender."

It was liberty coming into Italy," the
girl said, looking at him fearlessly, " Count
Lalli But everything seems so difficult,"
she said. " There was our own war at
home ; that was ten years ago. I was ten
years old when it began. I remember it as
if it were yesterday. They sent me away
from home. We are Southerners, you know ;
and we were in the wrong, just as you were

here. We were fighting against other people's
rights. It was all wrong; and yet when
you remember how the people you care the

most for have suffered for it It is so

difficult to see how things are right when
they hurt people you care about."

Vce victim. And there is one thing left
for ns now, and that is silence' said Lalli
rather bitterly, folding his arms and looking
down. He had not understood very much of
what she was saying. Possibly his ideas
may have been somewhat vague on the
subject of the American Civil War. " After
all it is something to be silent," he said,
turning his dark melancholy eyes upon
Barbara, and smiling at her. He looked
very noble as he said it.

Another waltz had begun.

I wish I could ask you to dance," said

Lalli; "but since I was hurt " He

touched his shoulder.

Oh," she said eagerly, " I don't want to
dance. I should never have imagined you
would dance  here." She hesitated. " Do
you know I wonder a little," she said
shyly, " I wonder at your coming here at
all  an old soldier of the Pope. It is very
fine to be an Italian Hke that  to love Italy
better than one's own personal pride."

There was nothing in Lalli's past experiences
 and he was not a man wanting
in experience  there was nothing to prevent
his making a mistake here.

I knew that you were coming. I came
because I wanted to see you," he said
impressively.

Barbara flushed a little and drew back.
It did not need the sudden stiffness in her
manner, nor the tone of her voice as she
said : " I beg your pardon. I thought we
were speaking seriously," to show him that
he had miscalculated the effect of his words.
He was not a man accustomed to making
such blunders. But here was something
new. And there was something attractive
too about this girl who talked to you at a
ball as if you and she were fellow-students
in some musty class-room ; who turned red
and white over old stories of men fighting ;
and looked as calmly at you, with those
large clear candid eyes of hers, as if she
were  your younger brother ! He glanced
at Barbara's unloved hand which was lying
upon her lap. Perhaps the thought crossed

VOL. I. H

his mind at that moment that it would be
pleasant to feel the shy touch of that delicate
hand seeking his. He belonged to a school
whose creeds were very simple. And then
the first part of this evening had been dull
worse than that, he had been overlooked.
In interfering to take Barbara away from
her partner  Barbara, who had never once
noticed him in the carriage  he had enjoyed
the assertion of his claim to a degree which
would somewhat have astonished that
gentleman. But with all these mingled
motives for speaking there was hardly an
appreciable pause before he answered :

"You would have a right to be angry
with me if that were simply an impertinent
compliment. It is nothing of the kind."
He hesitated an instant. The women he

had known were not averse to compliments.
Things  everything around me has
changed of late," he said abruptly. " A
year ago I was an officer in the finest service
in the world. We defended the Church.
Life was opening out in every direction
before me. I was young, sure of promotion,"
he glanced quickly down at the girl's
averted profile, " and I was madly in love,"

he said. "Now You are looking at

those old steps, Miss Floyd ; but let me tell
you it is not only our ancestors who have
dragged their prisoners to their triumphs
on the Capitol."

But surely  surely you might have
taken service again," she suggested rather
timidly.

Yes ; I could have taken service under

h 2

the orders of men who had insulted us. I
might have allowed some little Piedmontese
farmer to give me orders  to me, a Eoman !
I had a religion, Miss Floyd, and they have
defamed it. I had a sovereign, and they
have put him in prison. You may call that
liberty if you like ; I call it the desecration
of all I have ever believed in ; of what I

learned as a child  of what Basta !

I should ask your pardon for wearying
you with my poor affairs," he said. He
folded his arms and stood leaning against
the wall with his gaze moodily fixed upon
the ground. But he was very well aware of
the change which had come over the expression
of her face. His plastic southern
temperament was already becoming responsive
to the charm of this new influence.

Above all tidings he wanted to make her
lean forward and look up at him again with
that clear direct glance, as she had looked
when he was telling her about the taking of
the town. There would be something decidedly
satisfactory in receiving such a
look for one's own merits. And there was
really no insincerity worth speaking of in
this account of his situation. The accidents
of our own lives naturally impress us as
striking and picturesque, as the smallest
feature will seem full of interest in limited
and much-studied landscapes. Probably
there is no person more appreciative of small
natural beauties than the owner of a perfectly
flat tract of land. There is many an
artificial mound in a Dutch burgomaster's
garden which has excited more pride of

professorship than the Alps. It seemed to
Lalli quite simple that Barbara should
be impressed by the importance of these
revelations.

And then," he went on presently as if
speaking to himself, " when I have lived to
see the end of everything  of love, and
religion, and ambition  when I am tired of
life and of all it does not bring me, I see a
face which seems to mean something to me
among all the other indifferent unmeaning
faces. I meet a privileged being  un sere
privilegiato delta vita  and for one moment
I forget the forms of ceremony. I say to
myself: Here is someone who will let you
speak to her frankly, from your inward self,
who will understand your dreams, your
disappointments ; who will give you courage

to go on living by the mere fact of letting
7 ou know her, and who, some clay perhaps,
will say to you : The whole world abandoned
you, but I never abandoned you. And there
is my hand, and you may take it safely. It
is the hand of a friend. "

He glanced at Barbara's flushed and
downcast face.

Vce victim ! I have said it before and I
say it again. I have made a mistake. It
shall be the last. And I beg your pardon,
mademoiselle."

"Oh," said Barbara impulsively, in her
full tender voice, " if I thought that really
if I were sure it made any real
difference "

Something curious happened just then.
They were standing, as I have said, in the

recess of a window. The curtain which
Lalli had dropped had been pushed to
one side by the dancers, but now as the
music stopped stray couples began promenading
up and down. The first who
passed glanced curiously in at the occupant
of the window-seat, but before the next two
rejoined them  and indeed these were Octave
in a flutter of rose-coloured ribbons and Mr.
Dix  before these two passed by, Lalli had
pushed the heavy folds together carelessly
with his foot so that only he himself could
be seen, Barbara was entirely hidden behind
the crimson drapery. It was a scientific
little manoeuvre, and very well executed.
He turned complacently to Barbara for approval.
But it was evident from her unconscious
look that she had noticed nothing;

indeed, lier whole mind was possessed with
a vivid imaginative pity before the spectacle
of this baffled life. The smile vanished
instantly from his features.

You simply could never know what
your friendship would be to me," he said beseechingly.
" No woman has ever cared forme
in that way  since my mother died."

Ah  yes ! " said Barbara, clasping her
hands and looking at him. All the emotions
which had made this evening memorable
seemed to rush together and centre on this
point. They had had this great experience
in common. It never occurred to her to remember
to what widely different results the
same experience may lead in diverging
natures. She looked at Lalli : perhaps one
would need to be a girl of twenty again

to realise how thoroughly she believed in
him.

They said very little more to each other
after that. He had gained his point, and was
satisfied. And indeed it was not more thana
few minutes before Octave came up and
joined them. She was looking radiant.

I want to introduce Mr. Hardinge to
you, Barbara. And Mr. Lexeter," she said.

The two gentlemen bowed.

"The princess is gone. Mamma thinks
we had better not stay for the cotillon. Do
you mind, dear ? Have you been dancing
much ? " Miss Damon asked.

She looked rather sharply at Lalli's impassive
countenance when Barbara answered
she had not been waltzing. Otherwise she
made no comment.

People are going already' she said carelessly.
" Clifford Dix left you his compliments.
He seemed quite cut up by your
leaving him. He said he never yet had
understood what Italians found to talk about
to American girls. I promised I would ask
you. Nonsense, Barbara ! I told you of it
before. He doesn't understand a word of
English. Oh Mr. Lexeter ! You know
people. Who is that man over there  the
tall man with curls ? There, he is speaking
to that lady in black."

"That man?" said Lexeter. "He is
an Englishman. His name is Perkins 
Archibald Douglas Perkins. I've seen his
card. I wonder you don't know him,
Miss Damon. He is an authority on all
the fine arts, including the lost art of

selling pictures. Did I tell you lie
painted ? Oh yes, he is a professional
painter. He is very successful they tell me.
But I wouldn't give much for his character,
if his pictures are the least of his crimes."

 f I did not know he was an artist."

"There ought to be another word invented,"
remarked Mr. Hardinge lazily;
"something to describe the fellows who
pursue their Art, as they call it, for the
sole sake of picking her pockets."

"Ah," said Octave, smiling and shaking
her head ; " you are not in a kind temper
to-night."

"This morning, if you please, Miss
Damon. It is half-past two by my watch
which is Lexeter's watch, by-the-way;
and it is always slow."

Count Lalli had been following the
pantomime attentively.

Grid" he said, taking out his watch
and looking at it; " after half-past two."

"Well, we will hope mamma has been
enjoying the evening," said Octave rather
carelessly.

They all came out of the cloak-room
together to look for the carriage, and
Barbara had taken Mr. Hardinge's arm.
He shook hands with her in quite a
friendly manner at the door.

There is something well-bred and
simple about that friend of Miss Damon's ;
she pleased me," he remarked confidentially
to Lexeter, as they paused to light
their cigars before starting down the hill.

"She has a fine face, certainly  a very

impassioned face," the elder man said
slowly. He pulled up the collar of his
ulster about his ears.

So she pleased you, you young pasha,"
he repeated, looking at the lad with an
odd ironical smile. "But let me tell you
that there won't be many things which
will have it left in their power to
please or to displease you either, my boy,
if you persist much longer in walking
about Kome at night in a greatcoat
of the thickness of a sheet of letter-paper.
There is such an action possible
as making use of a little common sense,
Hardinge. Let me recommend the fact
to your notice."

"Oh' said Hardinge carelessly, "nothing
ever hurts me. Come on."

He thrust his hands in his pockets,
and they started down the hill together
in the moonlight. The older man walked

o

as if he were slightly lame.

Meanwhile Mrs. Damon's carriage was
driving home in an opposite direction,
rattling past the still solitary-looking
ruins  solitary in the midst of all the
crowding alien life, and down dark silent
streets. The heavy doors of the Palazzo
del Governor Vecchio were made fast.
Lalli sprang out and knocked. The
hollow vibration sounded far down the
street and the horses started at it.

"The porter must be asleep," said
Octave idly, after waiting a moment.

Let me get out. Mrs. Damon will
be catching cold with that open door,"

said Barbara. "Are you tired, Mrs.
Damon ? You have been so very kind."
She stooped and pressed her lips against
Octave's smooth cheek. "I shall see you
again tomorrow, dear."

Lalli knocked a second time.

"I hear someone coming," he said.

He stamped his feet hard against the
cold stones and looked at Barbara.

"Pull that cloak closer up about your
throat," he said smiling; and what an
amount of confidence and solicitude there
was expressed in the curt familiarity of
his speech.

"Barbara looked very well to-night,"
remarked Octave lazily, glancing out at
the white clad figure in the moonlight.

"Ah," said Mrs. Damon, speaking ina

muffled voice from behind the handkerchief
she was holding before her mouth;
poor Barbara ! She always needs a little
more trimming."

"You really ought to speak to Mr. Floyd
about his porter, mamma. It is outrageous.
Ah, I see the door opening at last."

There is the light coming," Lalli was
saying at the same moment.

"Yes. I am sorry you were kept
waiting. Good-night," said Barbara,
putting out her hand. The motion
loosened some flowers fastened in her
dress. They fell to the ground.

Oh, that is nothing  only some
withered violets," she said hurriedly.

He held her hand close in his firm warm
grasp.

vol. i. r

The girl in my dream spoke differently
when she gave me her hand' he said in a
low voice.

She disengaged her fingers and turned
away abruptly without answering. The
sleepy porter handed her the light and a
massive key. She took them both automatically.
As she turned she saw Lalli
stoop down, pick up the flower which had
fallen, and put it away carefully in the
breast-pocket of his coat. Then she went
upstairs. She unlocked the barred and
iron-bound door. There was a light burning
on the drawing-room table. She came forward
slowly, her white cloak falling in long
straight lines about her, and set her candle
down, and rested her gloved hands upon
the edge of the table and looked around

her. The quick rattle of the carriage
sounded far down the street, and then all
was silent, with the peculiar warm close
stillness of a sleeping house. There was
a litter of her own things upon the table 
a disorder of gloves, a fan, some flowers she
had meant to wear, still tied together in a
glass. She looked at them with bright
dilated eyes. They had not had time to
fade while so much had happened.

She pulled off her gloves slowly. She
walked over to the window and opened it.
The night air rushed in, cool and sharp.
The moonlight lay cold like snow upon
the whitened house-tops. The stars were
shining frostily against a dark clear sky.
She looked up at them with a curious thrill
a curious exultant sense of changed 

2

prince. Life, not the life of books, not
the sympathetic entering into another
being's past, but life as keen personal
experience seemed drawing nearer to her.
And youth awoke in her triumphant;
expectation started into being, full grown;
and the voice that was calling to her
was confused and luring and irresistible
as the voice of the treacherous sea.

It was a pleasant house to lunch at  the
Damons'. There was always a bright wood
fire in the small drawing-room. There were
flowers on the table. Octave's piano was
standing open ; Octave's birds were chirping
by the window ; it was Octave herself who
attended to many of the details of this
small and dainty housekeeping. She sat
at her own place now, pouring out black
coffee, and the sunlight was shining on
her rose-red ribbons, and making a nimbus
of dusky gold about her dark curly hair.
A lap-dog was shivering before the hearth,

but there was also a thin blue haze
suggestive of cigarette-smoke to counteract
the strictly feminine character of the room.
It was three o'clock in the afternoon of
the day after the Charity Ball. Perhaps
it was the most natural thing under such
circumstances that one should be discussing
one's friends.

The Floyds ? " Mrs. Damon was saying,
poising her spoon upon the edge of her
coffee-cup, and turning her dark eyes
meditatively towards Lexeter. " I have
known about them all my life. Mr. Floyd
you have never seen him ? Well, he is
from Beaufort, South Carolina. I suppose
even an Englishman knows what that
means. The Floyds had very large estates
before the war."

M Which presupposes that they have lost
them since ? n said Harclinge idly. He was
watching Octave pour cream into her saucer
to feed her dog. It was impossible for a
man with eyes in his head  and his were
keen young eyes  it was impossible not to
notice the short exquisite curves of the
girl's chin and throat as she laid her cheek
down against the little creature's head.
Perhaps it was equally impossible to resist
the impulse to lean forward and stroke that
glossy head a moment later. " An illustration
of the force of a bad example," he said
in a stage aside.

"Mamma says we look alike, Vix and
I ; two useless creatures with curly heads.
Do you see the likeness ? " Octave asked in
the same tone, lifting the dog up on her

shoulder and pressing his black nose against
her dimpling cheek.

He has been unfortunate, poor Mr.
Floyd." Mrs. Damon lowered her voice,
and glanced at the two young people complacently.
" His wife ran away and left
him. She is dead now  but such things
leave a stain. It is very unfortunate for
Barbara. It makes a prejudice. It is
certainly very unfortunate for Barbara. But
I never blamed her for it, I'm sure."

Well, hardly," said Lexeter, successfully
suppressing a smile.

He poured himself out a glass of water
and drank it.

"Man is said to be the only animal
afflicted with an appetite for irrelevant
knowledge. I wonder if that can have

anything to do with one's anxious scrutiny
of the reasons which cause our neighbours'
wives to run away ? "

Oh, I never knew her' said Mrs.
Damon quickly. " It was a long time ago.
Why, Barbara was a mere baby then, and

they have been living in Koine at least

Octave, when did Mr. Floyd tell us he came
to Eome ? Do you remember ? "

Ten years ago, at least. When the war
began. But Barbara has only been here 
let me see. Barbara left school when she
was fifteen, and she is a year older than I,
so she must be twenty now. Barbara has
been here five years," said Octave carelessly.

"I am admiring your arithmetical mind,
Miss Damon," said Hardinge, leaning back
in his chair and lighting another cigarette.

It was an open question if she were not even
more charming so ; her head thrown back and
her lips parted with that air of pretty, positive
wisdom. "And as for what we should call
at Oxford your powers of ratiocination "

The Floyds are such terribly proud
people," said Mrs. Damon, thoughtfully.
Poind fallir, that is their device. Such
things seem to run in some families."

Or to run away from them," suggested
Lexeter, looking at the crest on his
fork.

Ah ! you are severe," said Mrs. Damon,
smiling languidly.

But there was real kindness in the impulse
which made her add : " I have always heard
that there was no blame attaching to Mr.
Floyd. He was desperately in love with

his wife, and he made the mistake of living
alone with her on the plantation, with his
old books and stuff. She was a gay handsome
girl, fond of pleasure  and he is not
at all a Southerner in his tastes. You have
never seen him ? Ah, he is very ugly, poor
man ! But a thorough gentleman, of course.
He has the real Southern courtesy ; we
hardly know it in the North." She looked
down and fastened the clasp of her bracelet
pensively. " Yes ; one cannot help feeling
sorry for poor Barbara," she said.

But no one meeting Barbara accidentally
that morning would have found it easy to
realise that here was a subject for compassion
in this tall healthy-looking girl, who
was walking so lightly down the street, with
the sun shining full upon her pale and somewhat

haughty face. It was a face which
underwent many transformations in the
course of a day, and now, as they turned
out of the Corso into a quieter street, she
began talking carelessly to her companion,
who was carrying a small basket, and there
was a very eager and well-pleased look in
her large clear eyes.

For you know, Margherita," she was
saying rather confidentially, " it has been my
dream all these years to go out riding on the
Campagna. And I never could have done
it without Octave. We always rode at home
at my own home, in the South. I can
remember going all over the plantation on a
pony before I was six years old. But papa
does not like doing the things now he did
then," she added half to herself.

Grid 1 said Margherita affirmatively.
The signore padre is not so young as lie
was' she said, crossing her yellow handkerchief
more tightly over her handsome
shoulders. " One can see by looking at him
he is not strong:. "

Papa has always looked like that," said
Barbara quickly.

The old woman shook her head. " My
eyes may not be so young as yours, but they
have seen more things, Miss Barbara," she
said emphatically. She felt the keen dramatic
interest of the people  that interest
which has never been dulled by reading  in
all possible calamities.

Oh, but that is all nonsense, you know,"
said Barbara hastily, putting up her gloved
hand to her lips with a motion which was

habitual to her in moments of mental
excitement.

But the very suggestion had brought a
cloud over her face. She was still preoccupied
and inclined to be silent when they stopped
before the high iron grating of the hospital
gate. Margherita rang the bell. The door
was immediately opened by a man in a blue
apron, who inquired their errand, and conducted
them across the court. The girl
glanced rather timidly around at the bare
gravelled space set about with orange-trees
in pots.

I have a permission to see the woman
who was brought here yesterday," she said.

Their guide nodded and rang a bell.

"Female ward," he explained briefly to
the white proved inferior who answered

the summons. He leaned against the doorpost
and looked idly after Barbara, with his
hands in his pockets, and holding the end
of a straw between his thick good-natured
lips.

They went in under a low archway, and
up a broad shallow flight of stairs. The
walls were painted of a dull yellow colour.
There was a long bare corridor with a line of
doors opening out on either side.

If you will wait here a moment I will
call the sister," their conductor said, and left
them. They waited. The building was
perfectly silent. The air was damp and lifeless.
The light seemed to creep reluctantly
in at the small square windows near the
roof. The sordid yellow walls seemed to
shut out every remembrance of the joyous

world of sunshine and breezy blue skies they
had just left.

It is like a prison, this," said Margherita,
crossing herself and speaking under her
breath.

One of the doors near them suddenly
opened, and an attendant came out carrying
a pile of bandages on a tray. He glanced
curiously at the strangers, but made no comment,
passing on and leaving the door still
open behind him.

"Look, signorina," said Margherita, plucking
suddenly at her dress.

There was a cot drawn up close to the
entrance. The man who was lying on it
had his face hidden ; his arm, all swathed in
bandages, was fastened to a cord descending
from the ceiling, it swung there helpless, with

a curious look of disconnected suffering, as
if its owner had long since ceased to feel
much personal interest in that piteous inert
weight.

And now a rosy-cheeked sister of charity
joined them  a little plump woman with a
bunch of keys rattling at her girdle, and a
perpetual smile playing under the frilled
borders of her cap. She listened to Barbara's
explanation with her head on one side, and
her round eyes sparkling like the eyes of
some small attentive bird.

"Benissimo, benissimo. It is number
thirty-nine you want  number thirty-nine.
The woman who came in yesterday," she
said briskly.

They followed her down another passage
and into a long, bare, whitewashed room.

VOL. I. K

One or two nuns in short black dresses were
moving up and down between the double
row of narrow cots ; they looked with a dull
curiosity at the visitors ; once or twice
their guide, who seemed to be a person of
importance, stopped as they passed to give
an order or make a remark.

Number thirty-nine was a small black-haired
woman, with a decent and anxious
face. She half lifted her heavy eyelids when
the nurse bent over and spoke to her, but
there came no light of recognition in the
tired eyes.

That is what I told the doctor. I said
it the moment I set my eyes upon her, as
the men were bringing her in. She will
never last the two days out, I said," the
sister commented, rubbing her keys thoughtfully

and looking down upon the narrow-bed.


Well, the Lord have mercy upon her
soul. And on his too, poor man. He was
always so full of his jokes, poveretto ! always
a pleasant word for whoever went into his
shop. This will make a difference in the
street," said Margherita regretfully.

But is there really nothing one might
do for her ? It seems  it is impossible she
should be dying," said Barbara, her face
flushing suddenly.

At that instant there had come to her a
sharp remembrance of having seen this poor
creature a week  but was it so much as a
week ?  ago, standing at the door of her
little shop, playing with her child. She
looked down with a quick sharp pang of

K 2

compassion at the honest hardworking hands
lying listlessly upon the white counterpane
of the bed. Their work was over, the woman
was busy dying now ; her familiar insignificant
face grew suddenly absorbed, dignified
by a look of strange remoteness. Barbara
looked down at the dying woman, at the long
line of livid commonplace faces, of white and
rigid forms. Between each bed a small black
crucifix was fastened against the wall. There
was not the sound of a voice, not a movement,
in all the length of the clean white
room. Each motionless figure lay self-centered
in its own experience of pain ;
isolated and apathetic ; silenced beneath the
weight of this unintelligible world.

She stood a moment there looking at it
all with her clear grave eyes. It was a

moment which had its effect on Barbara's
later action. It brought its own revelation
of ardent and world embracing pity ; that
pity, which, after five-and-twenty, is perhaps
the predominant passion of really imaginative
natures.

Ah, but it must be strange, living here
always ? " said Margherita curiously.

Eh ! " The sister shrugged her little fat
shoulders expressively. "It is a life like
another. The doctors are a trial, certainly.
The food is not bad. But you get accustomed
to everything ; the water ends by
passing under the bridge with time." She
glanced at Barbara and lowered her voice.
Your young lady is a foreigner ? Si vide!
I knew it by her dress. Ah, that is English,
I said to myself. She is English, perhaps ?'

Other than English. My patron are
great people in the country that is farthest
away of all' said Margherita, spreading her
hands dramatically. After that a map
seemed but a mean measure of distance.

The novelty of this experience had filled
the old woman's mind with quite a pleasant
tumult of ideas adapted for speedy communication.
She was talking eagerly all the
way down the stairs, and after they had
passed out into the cheerful bustle of the
sunny street.

Jesu Maria ! but one had quite forgotten
the colour of the blessed sun," she said,
looking up at the expanse of fresh moving
blue and white sky between the palace roofs.

They had come out again on the Corso,
near the Piazza del Populo.

I must go up for a minute to see about
Miss Maclean' Barbara had said.

They climbed up another narrow, dark,
interminable stair. At the top of the tall
house there was a small square landing.
A spotless cotton curtain hung before the
single window, shutting out the view of
the huddled innumerable house-tops, with
here and there a tower rising above them,
and here and there the black swaying
cypress of some quiet convent close. Across
the bridges and the yellow river, the
flag was fluttering, a mere red spot in
the sunlight, above the massive roundness
of St. Angelo ; higher up against the sky,
there was another roundness, the dark
tops of the pines of Monte Mario. Today
Barbara never drew aside the trim spotless

curtain. She rang the bell. A loud
pleasant voice called out :

Chi e?" And then an iron plate was
shot back in the door, and somebody stooped
to look through the peep-hole.

"Eh, miss, the Lord be gude to us, but
this is a bonny sight for sir been ! "

The door was thrown open suddenly, and
a decent elderly Scotchwoman appeared in
the entrance, smiling a broad welcome and
smoothing her white apron with both hands.
"Eh, but the eddies will be fine and vexed
to miss seeing you, Miss Barbara, and you
coming up all those stairs."

Never mindthat, Jessie, tell them I shall
come again very soon. And how is Miss
Janet ? " said Barbara smiling.

"Fairly well, the day. And to think

that I should have called to you through
yon mouse-traps' said Jessie, looking reproachfully
at the door, and beginning to
polish off the plate with her apron. "Eh,
but it's an ill work changing the custom in
this Papist country, Miss Barbara."

Barbara laughed.

Don't forget to give Miss Janet my
love," she said, turning to go, not without a
feeling of relief. Speech, just then, seemed
at once difficult and superfluous. She walked
on rapidly towards home, her mind still
wholly absorbed in a vivid reproduction of
the faces she had just seen. It even occurred
to her at that moment, that here in the hospital,
might be the opportunity for the simplest
and most direct expression of that yearning
good-will towards her fellow-creatures, which

had been growing up in her from her earliest
childish days. It is surely a prejudice
which leads us so exclusively to connect the
idea of philanthropy with middle-aged
gentlemen, and well authenticated bank
accounts. No spirit could have turned
with more ardent importunity to every
possibility of impersonal action than that
which was animating this young girl as she
passed along these old gloomy Eoman
streets. For those earliest impressions of
hers were all inextricably interwoven with
enthusiastic recollections of a larger ideal
of life and devotion and duty than commonly
falls to a girl's share. She had
grownup in the midst of a great national
struggle, at a time when the heroic possibilities
of life had become passionately

present ; the stories of her childhood had
been stories of chivalric endeavour ; a belief
in the likelihood of contemporary heroism
was as much, and as unconsciously, a part
of her experience, as her vision of the early
lilacs in spring, or the light of morning
skies over the summer fields, through which
her childish feet had passed. Her large and
loving heart had never entirely lost this
early sense of fellowship with all effort and
all disappointment.

This morning she looked a little wistfully
at the many faces of strangers which she
passed, the thought coming and then
returning involuntarily again and again, that
she knew of no one on whose sympathy in
these things she could count. On that
March morning the world was still more

than nine years behind its present point of
satisfactoriness. Even had Barbara's school
education not been of the slightest possible
texture, it was only in the highest centres of
civilisation that young ladies had begun substituting
the mastery of the Greek irregular
verbs to the attempted coercion of eligible
suitors. There was no one in the Eoman
set of those days who would have listened to
any expression of a girl's impulse towards
some form of life-long sacrifice without
recommending matrimony.

I know so well how it would be," she
was thinking, as she walked on homewards,
turning at the street corners automatically,
and lending an inattentive ear to Margherita's
unwearying strain of gossip, "if I should even
speak of the hospital, Mrs. Damon would goto

papa and suggest the urgent need of my
entering society. Society ! as if what I wanted
was the opportunity of showing my new
dresses to the most eligible young men who
have come to Kome for the winter. And yet,
after all, what else is there for me to do ? "
she went on thinking, a little sadly. " Papa
has his books "

They were passing under the great
shadow of the Pantheon. Barbara looked
up involuntarily ; her eyes fell upon a face
she was conscious of having seen before;
she looked again. The gentleman smiled
and took off his hat. It was Mr. Lexeter.
He came slowly up the steps and spoke to
her.

The gate is opened. Are you too old a
Roman to come in ? " he asked.

Is it not rather a sign of stupidity to
grow accustomed to great things ? " said
Barbara, looking at him gravely.

There were candles lighted on the nearest
altar. Margherita kneeled down before them
and crossed herself in a business-like
manner.

I have been lunching at Mrs. Damon's,"
said Lexeter, looking attentively at the tall
slender figure in the tight fur-trimmed
dress walking carelessly beside him, and
remembering Mrs. Damon's remarks. " I
left Hardinge there, settling something
about a riding-party; I hope you mean
to be persuaded to join us, Miss Floyd."

Her eyes grew suddenly bright. "Oh,
but I should like it of all things," she
said.

Is there any part of the Campagna
which you particularly care to see 1 " her
companion asked carelessly enough. He
was swinging his stick in his hand and
looking up at the blue circle of sky above
them.

Oh, do you think we might go to
Ostia ? I have not seen a pine-forest
since we left home." Her face flushed a
little. " But it would take all day ; perhaps
Mrs. Damon "

Mrs. Damon shall be reasoned with,"
said Lexeter confidently, looking at her with
a smile. It occurred to him it would be
worth taking some trouble to give this girl
a pleasure. Of a sudden, and without
clearly understanding how it had happened,
he found himself speaking to her as to an

old friend whom he had not met for years.
"But you know  you know all about it," he
was saying constantly.

Yes ; I know," Barbara answered
simply. She looked at him from time to
time, and already there was a pleasant
sense of familiarity about the peculiarity
of his gait. She was amused at first, but
presently she began to like his somewhat
imperative way of expressing his opinions.

I cannot imagine how it was that I
mistook you for an American last night,"
she said abruptly.

"It is Hardinge's fault. Hardinge has
been educated at Oxford, il est plus royaliste
que le roi ; no mere Englishman would have
the chance of a show beside him," Lexeter
said, with rather an amused look.

They had nearly completed the circuit of
the great gray dome. There was service
going on at that farthest altar. They
paused, half-idly, to listen to it. The
thin nasal chanting of the priest reached
them but indistinctly at this distance ; the
blue film of incense-smoke was lost somewhere
in those sombre depths ; the sunshine
poured in through the great round
skylight ; from time to time the shadows of
a cloud passed over the time-worn, marble of
the floor. They looked at each other and
smiled with a sense of common pleasure in
the stillness, in the glisten of the light
along the old polished columns and on the
empty shrines.

By Jove ! " said Lexeter, with a sudden
air of disgust, pointing to the tinselled
VOL. i. l

gewgaws and artificial flowers on one of
these altars, "it's enough to make a man
turn Communist on the spot ! By Jove,
Clough is right :

All the incongruous things of past incompatible ages
Seem to be treasured up here to make fools of present
and future.

I never come in here without vowing I shall
never look at the place by daylight again.
There is something irritating about the
embodied patience of those walls ; I want
them to fall."

"Ah," said Barbara, shaking her head
playfully, " I am afraid you would make a
very poor public monument."

He was frowning, and this unchecked
evidence of bad temper seemed to give the
last affirmative touch to the assurance of

liking and sympathetic understanding which
had sprung up between them.

I am sure Margherita thinks you have
been scolding me," Barbara said, turning with
a smile to give him her hand at the door.

The smile was still on her face as she
passed down the street. Things seemed
to be growing easier. Now these riding-parties,
for instance ; if one wanted to show
any particular friendliness to a person in
trouble, what would be easier than to invite
him to join one of these excursions ? "It
was certainly a great mistake not to have
been more explicit with  with Count Lalli
last night." It was so awkward, the girl
reflected gravely, when things were left so
that they absolutely necessitated another
interview. She looked slightly defiant as the

l 2

necessity of this further explanation began
forcing itself more urgently upon her mind.
Lalli's words and look recurred more vividly
to her imagination. She was living over
again the scenes of last night, for  the
thought would obtrude itself almost like
a regret  it would probably be some time
before they met again. Indeed, all that
depended upon Octave ; certainly he knew
their house, but nothing had been said about
calling.

In one of those very streets through which
she was passing two young men were seated
together in one of the highest rooms of a tall
dingy house. But, notwithstanding their
elevation, there was nothing pinched or
poverty-stricken about the aspect of these
rooms. To be sure there was no fire in the

small iron grate, but an elaborately-embroidered
screen hung down from the mantelpiece
to hide this absence. There were various
carefully-arranged trophies of pipes and
daggers and shining firearms suspended from
the wall. The small hard sofa bore marks of
frequent usage. A liqueur case stood, half-opened,
in one corner ; the set of swinging
shelves was fairly crowded with paper-covered
novels ; a few French books had even found
a temporary resting-place on the corner of
the small toilette-table in the inner room,
before which Count Lalli was standing. To
Anglo-saxon eyes there might have been
something a trifle absurd in the contrast between
the keen soldierly face of this tall
athletic-looking young man and the elaborate
array of small pots of pomatum and
perfumes and microscopic brushes of which

he had evidently been making use. His actual
companion is clearly not of this opinion.
Indeed he has thrown more than one glance
of respectful interest at all this display since
first he took up that position, which seems
to combine at once perfect personal comfort
with a frank disregard of outline, upon the
corner of the bed.

It seems rather hard, per Banco ! that
you should have been the one to meet her,"
he says presently, without removing the
cigar from his mouth, and with the air of
continuing a previous conversation. " Rather
too hard, by Jove ! "

Oh," said Lalli deliberately, walking
over to the fireplace and beginning to look
for a match, " you would not have stood a
chance in any case." He lighted a cigarette
and puffed at it slowly. " By-the-way,

there is something you must do for me," he
added with affected carelessness.

 Such as ? "

"It is only keeping that confounded
tongue of yours quiet. The fact is, I  well,
I made use of the valuable information you
had given me. You have kept me so much
au courant of the fair Barbara's movements
you must admit I have been a patient
listener, caro mio  that I found myself in
the position of being able to give her a very
fairly accurate report of the various places
she has been to this week. Women like that
sort of thing, as I've often told you."

Do you mean to say," said Borgia, sitting
up abruptly and glaring at him; "do
you mean to say you told her this about
yourself 1 "

Exactly, my dear boy."

That you made her believe that it was
you who had been admiring her ? You who
had been going to every blessed church in
Home on the chance of meeting her ? You
who "

"I  myself. Precisely. She seemed
quite pleased by it' said Lalli, laying
down his cigarette and smiling reflectively.
"And why shouldn't I have done it ? " he
said, turning with sudden sharpness upon
his companion. " "Wouldn't you have done
it yourself in my place ? Wouldn't you have
done it? Eh? Tell the truth for once.
(Di'la verity) Wouldn't you have done it ? "

Borgia's jaw relaxed. "I call it a confounded
shame. That's all," he said sulkily,
kicking the rug aside with his foot, and
looking sullen defiance at his leader.

But for all that they parted on the best of
terms within five minutes.

I shall see you to-night at the theatre
of course ? " Cesco suggested quite cheerfully,
taking some half-faded violets out of a
glass on his writing-table and pinning them
carefully into his coat. And although
Borgia could not refrain from glancing
rather viciously at these flowers, and saying :
That is what you got for betraying me, I
suppose," in an aggrieved tone ; still it
was with a comparatively resigned manner
that he watched his friend hail a passing
street cab and drive off in it at the breakneck
pace he habitually affected.

We all have our ideals. It is possible
that even our least worthy actions may
arouse some admiring and imitative echo in

some subordinate mind. Cesco Lalli was
Marcantonio Borgia's ideal. The gallant
presence of the dashing and discontented ex-officer
reigned as paramount over his weaker
imagination as the solitary statue of some
Polynesian god, standing supreme upon his
uninhabited island, if one may still be
allowed to call an island uninhabited when
it is peopled by monkeys ?

This is how it happened, that when
Barbara reached home she heard the sound
of voices in the drawing-room. A tall
figure sprang respectfully to his feet as
she entered, and the first thing she was
conscious of was the fretful tone in her
father's voice as he said :

Barbara ! don't you recognise your
friend, Count Lalli ? "

She gave him her hand without a moment's
hesitation.

Oh," she said, looking at him with some
slight surprise, but speaking quite cheerfully
; " it is curious to see you ; I was
thinking about you only a moment ago."

"You were thinking something complimentary,
I hope ? "

Well, I am not sure," she began a little
doubtfully, looking up at him with the
dawning of a smile. " I "

Her eyes fell suddenly upon the bunch of
withered violets in his coat. Her cheek

flushed and she was silent. She sat down
rather hurriedly and began taking off her
gloves.

"Count Lalli has been giving me much
information about the Campagna. He has
been telling me of certain places of interest
I have not visited as yet," observed Mr.
Floyd, turning with explanatory courtesy
to his daughter. " For instance, he
mentioned "

Gid ! I was speaking of Bracciano," the
young man interrupted rather eagerly ; " I
was telling you about it, Mr. Floyd, was I
not?"

Mr. Floyd assented gravely. It was
impossible to say what he thought of the
interruption, or, indeed, to understand in
the least in what light he was contemplating

this new and audacious visitor. He sat well
back in his old red armchair, with his short
legs crossed one over the other, and the
tips of his fingers pressed together. He
conversed with perfect civility. From time
to time he turned his keen pale eyes upon
the young man's face and let them rest
there with deliberate scrutiny. That was
all. Not even his daughter could have
detected any trace of annoyance or even of
fatigue in the tone of his soft and somewhat
monotonous voice.

"I was speaking of Bracciano. The
castle is something stupendous. You ought
by all means to see it. It is a part of the
country which strangers do not often visit.
I wish I could persuade Signor Floyd to
come and have a look at it. Imagine,

signorina, a castle of the tenth century ;
perhaps even earlier. Tenth century ! One
does not see a thing like that every day."

"Of the fifteenth, I fancy," said Mr.
Floyd quietly. "Bracciano was built by
the Orsini family in fifteen hundred and
something. I am not sure about the
precise year."

"Well, then, a fifteenth-century castle.
It's very much the same sort of thing, you
know," said Lalli, looking at Mr. Floyd
with unruffled equanimity. " I know the
place very well. I have often ridden out
there. I have relatives who live in the
town. There is the lake, too; the lake is
worth seeing; and the country is pleasant
now that spring has come." He looked at
Barbara. " I am sure you would enjoy it."

"Perhaps  I think I should," the girl
said a little shyly.

Ordinarily she found very little difficulty
in talking to her father's visitors, or at least
in listening to their talk with evident signs
of interest. She was quite well aware now
that her father was regarding her with an
expression which implied disapproval of her
constrained manner, when he said :

Barbara, will you kindly ring the bell ?
Margherita has brought no wine."

This reproof of her inattention to the
wants of her guest did not prevent a sense
of relief in the excuse it furnished forgetting
up and moving across the room ;
although the next instant the change of
position brought its own rush of intense
self-consciousness.

She gave her orders briefly to the servant,
but she did not immediately return to her
old place. She walked over to the writing-table
and altered the position of some
papers. The sense of the tacit understanding
between herself and this stranger was
like something in the air. It was all the
more oppressive for its indefiniteness. It
had been forced upon her. It was intolerable.
She bent down lower over the papers,
and there was a quick indignant look of
resentment in her eyes, which boded no
especial good to Lalli.

The chief, I might almost say the only
difficulty would lie in the distance ; in the
distance from Kome, you know," she could
hear her father saying ; and a child might
have seen how his disapproval of his

daughter's conduct was beginning to influence
him favourably towards the innocent
victim of such inhospitality.

The distance is not more than twenty
miles well, a long twenty miles' the
young man argued rather eagerly ; "we
could easily go there and get back in the
day. If staying there overnight is out of
the question "

Quite out of the question "

Oh, but there is nothing simpler than
coming back. We are not in winter now,
che diavolo ! The days are growing long.
Look here, Mr. Floyd ; say we start in the
morning. We are off by eight o'clock.
Say it takes us two hours and a half to get
there "

It will be nearer four."

VOL. I. M

Well, say three hours  three hours and
a half," said this obliging young man 
"we are there by eleven or twelve o'clock
at latest. We lunch at my aunt's house 
we lunch at the inn if you prefer it  we see
all the castle ; by five o'clock the horses are
rested and we are ready to start back for
Eome. And you have seen something
stupendous  out of the way. I am sure
you would like it," he said, turning suddenly
to Barbara.

She had been listening with brightening
eyes ; but now, at this unexpected appeal,
she turned away and began busying herself
with the wine-glasses.

If papa chooses to go, I daresay it will
be interesting," she said, beginning to pour
something rather recklessly out of a decanter.

Lalli rose at once, and politely relieved
her of the burden.

Shall I offer you some of your own
wine, Mr. Floyd ? " he asked gaily. He
was placing himself quite on the footing of
an old habitue of the house. But there was
surely a certain restlessness in his glance
which kept continually seeking Barbara's.
Her face had grown a little pale ; she never
looked at him. It was curious how little
this seemed to affect his cheerfulness.

By the way, Mr. Floyd, you who are
interested in painting, you should see the
collection of portraits there, at Bracciano 
family portraits. And in the great hall
there are frescoes  something wonderful 
by  I forget the man's name. Zu  Zu 
Zucchetti ? "

By Zucchero, perhaps ? " said Mr. Floyd,
with a sudden gleam of interest. " I have
an old woodcut of one of them. Very
poor work  atrocious ; but interesting as
being a fine example of the groping of a

man's mind when Wait. You know

the originals ? "

Oh, I saw them the last time I went
over the castle with my cousin," said the
young man carelessly, holding up his wineglass
against the light.

I can show you the cut I speak of,
if you will excuse me a moment," said
Mr. Floyd, rising briskly from his chair.

He closed the door inadvertently behind
him.

For a moment there was not a word
exchanged between the two young people

lie had left together. Then Lalli put down
his glass and leaned forward and spoke.

Will you tell me what I have done to
make you angry with me ? " he said gently.
His voice had altogether changed from the
formal tone in which from time to time he
had addressed her in her father's presence.

She was quick to feel the significance of
this transformation. The colour sprang to
her cheeks resentfully. Her voice was
trembling a little, as with suppressed anger,
as she said :

I wish to tell you  I wished to meet you
to tell you of it  I will not be spoken to as

if I mean You have nothing to

say to me which you cannot say before papa,"
she concluded, irrelevantly.

Lalli did not answer for a moment. He

was puzzled. He could see that something
had gone wrong, but it never occurred to
him  his mind glancing far and wide for an
explanation  the idea never suggested itself
to him that an outraged sense of probity
could have anything to do with this inexplicable
emotion. For an instant he even
thought of asking if there had been anything
in his manner calculated to arouse Mr.
Floyd's suspicions ; but, on consideration,
this did not seem probable ; " I am not a
schoolboy to betray myself' he reflected
quickly. He fixed his dark imperious eyes
more entreatingly upon her.

Will you not tell me what I have done
to make you angry ? " he repeated gently.

He spoke in the tone he would have used
in speaking to a frightened child. She had

taken up a paper-cutter ' from the table and
was playing with it nervously, but he could
see that her fingers were trembling. Perhaps
he was inclined to interpret this agitation as
something favourable to himself.

I did not think you would be vexed with
me for coming so soon," he said tentatively.
I thought that after what I told you last
night ."

Her fingers suddenly tightened their grasp
upon the toy dagger she was holding, and
her lips parted, but she said nothing.

Perhaps I made a mistake in coming at
all ? "

Still she said nothing.

He looked at her, and for an instant a
keen and cruel light, a light as keen as the
flash of a sword-blade, gleamed in his bold

and arrogant eyes, but he said humbly
enough :

It was the first thing I thought of this
morning. It came to me when I woke. I
knew that there was some good thing had
come to me, and then I remembered our
agreement of last night."

She flushed and let the paper-knife fall to
the ground and sat up-straight in her chair.

"But, Count Lalli " she began in a

low voice.

He gave her no time to continue.

"Do you know that I have been out on
the Campagna since before daybreak ? I
slept for half an hour, while they were
saddling my horse. I had to ride all over the
tenura to give my men some orders about 
oh, about the draining and that sort of thing.

You would riot understand it, and it is a
wonder how they managed to understand it,
poor devils, for do you know what I was
thinking of out there ? I thought that
perhaps fate had grown weary of persecuting
me. I said to Destiny : ' Do what you like
now, for as for me, I have got a  a new
friend.' "

He hesitated and shot a rapid glance at
her flushed and troubled face.

"You should have seen the way old
Giant Baptista stared at me," he said.
Giant Baptista, the old attire, who was
already overseer of the farm in my father s
time. I had him up and out before daylight,
and if you could have seen his expression
when he heard that I meant to be back
in Borne this afternoon ! "

He took up her glove, which was lying on
the table, and looked at it, and laid it down
again : " I have thought of nothing else
since last night, of nothing but of coming
and seeing you again," he said vehemently,
and if the assertion was rather a rash one
that is not to be wondered at. It was
literally the first time in his life that he had
ever been left, alone, in an authorised tete-tete
with a young girl.

She threw back her head a little at that
and looked him squarely in the face.

Surely your own judgment should prevent
you from saying such things to me,
Count Lai," she said, rather proudly.
We are strangers to each other. Why
do you try"  she hesitated for a second
or two, and then went on bravely, but the

colour was burning on her cheek  " why
do you try to make me feel as if there were
some  some secret understanding between
us ? I do not know you. I  I do not
understand "

To her inexpressible confusion and bewilderment
her eyes filled suddenly with
tears. She sprang up hastily and walked
over to the nearest window. In her intense
desire to conceal this humiliating weakness,
she quite forgot the importance she had
attached to this explanation. " Papa seems
to be a long time in finding that print. I
wonder if it is mislaid ? or if I should go
and help him look for it ? " she said, with an
attempt at speaking quite carelessly.

Lalli had thrown himself back in his chair
and was looking earnestly at the contents of

his wine-glass. His quick ear had caught
the sound of the distant closing of a door.

"This is excellent Velletri of yours, Mr.
Floyd' he said almost immediately, rising
to receive the old-fashioned woodcut which
was offered to him, and pretending to examine
it with much interest and attention;
but I think I could give you the address
of a wine-shop where you would get some
red wine that would astonish you. It comes
to Eome in sealed barrels. I know the
man at whose signa it is made. And it is
a pagan wine, too, for it has never been
baptized at the city gates. I will give you
the address."

Oh, you are very kind. But we don't
drink much wine here," Mr. Floyd said,
taking back his discoloured print and looking

fondly at it; "I seldom care for it myself,
and my daughter  my daughter prefers white
wine to this, I believe."

Foreign wine, perhaps ? Some people
are very fond of the Thine wines. I don't
care for them myself, but perhaps you like
the Thine wine better, signorina ? "

There did not seem, to Mr. Floyd at least,
to be anything offensive in this simple
question. Indeed, it was uttered with quite
a marked expression of formality and respect ;
but Barbara seemed scarcely grateful to her
guest for this polite attempt to include her
in the general conversation. She was still
seated by the farther window, her eyes were
downcast, she was looking pale.

On the whole, I think then we may as
well go tomorrow. The weather seems

settled, and the day in the country will do
my daughter good after the fatigue of her
first ball," she heard her father say. She
understood the implied explanation of her
own lack of cordiality. She gave Count
Lalli her hand, when he approached her to
say good-bye, with an air of quiet and proud
negation. At that moment the chief impression
connected with him in her mind
was a fervent wish not to meet him, not to
be with him again.

She rose as soon as he had left the room,
and began putting her gloves and one or two
things together.

We shall start at seven o'clock ; you
had better tell Margherita," her father said
presently, adjusting his woodcut carefully
in its place in a somewhat dusty portfolio.

"Very well, papa."

"You do not seem pleased," he said
rather impatiently ; "I thought you were
always so pleased at the prospect of a day
in the country ? However, you have yourself
to thank if this does not satisfy you. I
suppose that is a friend of Octave Damon's
that rather stupid young man ? "

Octave introduced him to me," said
Barbara slowly. In spite of that instinctive
scorn of all the minor forms of deception,
which from time to time had shocked
Mrs. Damon into a regretful conviction of
Barbara's unconventionality, it cost her a
distinct effort now to add : " I  I am not
sure that I like Count Lalli, papa. I do not
like his manner. I think he "

The remembrance of the tone in which he

had said, " I have thought of nothing but
seeing you again' silenced her by its
cutting suggestion of ingratitude. Her
eager prefiguring imagination seized upon
the fact of his disappointment in her ; she
seemed in some measure to become responsible
for his embittered way of en-visiting
daily life. To her generous and
sympathetic nature any urgent appeal came
with the force of a moral claim. She
hesitated, and looked down, and was silent.
"Well," said Mr. Floyd, tying the last
string of his portfolio, " I saw nothing amiss
in his manner myself. You cannot expect
an Italian to talk to you as an Englishman
or an American would. It is not the custom
of the country. This young man has not
probably met many strangers. You must

remember that he thinks he is paying you
a compliment by treating you with great
formality." He got up from his chair and
put his portfolio under his arm. " I should
be pleased to see you a little more cordial
in your manner tomorrow, Barbara. For
the time being, I consider this young man
as our guest."

"But, papa " the girl began desperately.


And then Margherita came in and began
making a disturbance among the decanters
and glasses.

And if you please, sir, the man has been
again about those frames," she said, pausing
in front of Mr. Floyd as she was carrying
out the tray.

The deuce he has ! " he said, opening

VOL. I.

the door hurriedly. " Where have they
been put then ? Where have you put
them ? "

Oh," said the old woman comfortably,
"he said, 'Tell your master said he, 'that
one of my men has been ill ; and one has
won a prize in the lottery ; and last week '

there were two festus last week Eh,

Miss Barbara, but the signor padre is in a
fine temper this afternoon ; Madonna mia !
but it is true that that frame-maker is a
liar, poor man. Come si fa ? Poor people
must live, and have their little bit of
pleasure."

She set the tray down on the table in an
incidental manner, and crossed her arms
thoughtfully.

"It is a pity we took the trouble to go

there this morning, Miss Barbara. They
say it brings evil fortune to have been so
near a dying person. The porter has just
come up and told me of it ; the pizzicaruolo's
wife is dead."

The girl started, and looked up.

Dead ! "

"Ah," said Margherita regretfully, "they
say it always brings evil fortune." She
considered a moment. "But I shall play
the number of her bed in the lottery," she
added more cheerfully.

Barbara looked at her and said nothing.

She went to her own room and shut herself
in. She sat down on a low chair by
the side of the bed and looked at the ground.
She had still her hat on as she had come in
from her walk ; her attitude was one of

N 2

weariness and discouragement. She seemed
to have lived so much within the last few
hours. The livid, commonplace countenance
of the woman in her hospital-bed
seemed only a sign, an expression, of all the
unnoted sorrow of the world. She turned
with a half sob from this image to every
thought of tenderness and warm human
kindness. The remembrance of Lalli's gentleness
and care of her touched her with
an exquisite pain. She put up her hand to
her lips with a movement which was habitual
to , her. " If one could only feel safe from
the necessity of giving pain."

She had been sitting so for some minutes
before her attention was aroused by a small
continuous tapping at her window ; her eyes
turned mechanically in the direction of this

sound; some tame pigeons were strutting
up and down the outer ledge, waiting for
their accustomed food. She rose languidly
enough to get it for them. She stood leaning
against the open casement looking idly
out. One of the pigeons was eating greedily,
the other was more watchful, taking its food
in sudden rushes, observing her movements
warily with round and shining eyes. It was
curious in after years how vividly she recollected
that moment  its absolute stillness ;
the look of the convent roof against the
quiet blue of the afternoon sky ; the softness
of the spring wind in her face ; the restless
rustling and cooing of the doves. She
looked back to it with a curious, a melancholy
interest  as a man who has narrowly
escaped death by shipwreck might remember

his first slight, half-careless uneasiness at
sea.

To dream of noble possibilities, to awaken
in the tightening mesh of petty and inescapable
circumstance  surely this is no
such new experience ? And hers was no uncommon
destiny. It was but one of countless
other existences  a life ardent in desire,
enthusiastic in purpose, but insignificant in
result and full of extreme sadness. But it
had a purpose. And circumstance is an
inexorable god. Surely it is well with us if
even  if only  in supreme moments of emotion,
we are yet capable of attaining to
motives of action too high for reach from
flat and common paths of life.

Count Cesco Lalli had been making his
reflections. As he sat in his accustomed
place at the Valle Theatre that night his
attention was sorely wandering. He was
looking, it is true, at the stage, where for
the fourteenth time in five weeks they were
playing the "Belle Helene" of Offenbach,
but what little he heard of the dialogue
served merely to suggest long rambling trains
of reminiscence. His past life came back to
him in vivid detached fragments, as life
often comes on the eve of some moral crisis.
Some actor spoke of a school  he saw himself

again a lad in the military college. He
remembered the long damp corridors, the
crowded class-rooms, the vast empty court
with its rows of leafless trees  hacked,
stripped, denuded by countless restless
hands ; he thought, for the first time for
years, of the high stone gates, the walls
that had shut in so many years of his boyhood.
He remembered the thin severe face
of the officiating priest on the first occasion
he had been selected to serve at mass ; he
remembered his own confusion over the
responses, the half-curious half-defiant feeling
with which he had knelt in full view of
all his familiar comrades ; he had forgotten
a hundred other things, and the look of that
priest's face and the smell of that incense
were still vivid. He remembered twenty

different schoolboy pranks, old escapades,
quarrels, a crowd of forgotten faces ; the
face of his greatest ally ;  he had married
since ; he had passed captain ; he was shot at
Solferino ;  Marcantonio Borgia's face while
they were still boys together. He turned
and stared at his companion.

That little Teresa is not a bad little
actress, che diavolo ! not a bad little actress
But there is nothing like a ballet, after all,"
said Borgia complacently, putting up two
yellow fingers to smooth his moustache.

Lalli burst out laughing. " If old Padre
Giacomo could hear you ! " he said.

What ! old Padre Giacomo the Jesuit I
The old boy we used to confess to at the
Academy ? " Borgia asked, opening his eyes
wider.

Lalli did not answer. Old Padre Giacomo !
Ah, they had been afraid of him once ! He
remembered later days  old holidays down
in the country, old visits to Bracciano. Then
manhood. The day when the great gates
opened. His first uniform ; his horse ; the
click of the spurs, the rattle of the sword
when he entered a cafe' and the girl behind
the counter turned to look at him ; the life
with the regiment ; his first love ; his first
duel  how far off it all seemed ! He was
only thirty now. He stared hard at the
stage. What a life it had been ! and lately
what a blank ! He thought of himself, the
dashing cavalry officer of two years before,
and now His thoughts turned suddenly
to Barbara, and he smiled. He rose
when the others did; he too lounged back

against the opposite stall, and stroked his
moustache and surveyed the boxes between
the acts with a disdainful and critical air.
But it was noticeable that at intervals that
same indefinable smile crossed his lips, and
his dark and arrogant eyes glittered at
moments with an indescribable assurance of
dominion and victory.

But it was not in this mood the next
morning that he approached Barbara. She
was alone for the moment, but it was with
a great show of gentleness and self-restraint
that he wished her good morning. He
apologised for the liberty he had taken in
appearing before her in his rough shooting-dress.
He did not offer to shake hands.

I have been thinking about  about
yesterday," he said in a low voice. He

could see without looking that her face was
more than usually serious and constrained.
I have been thinking that you were right
in saying that you did not know me.
Sometime when you do know me, perhaps
you will give me some other flowers to take
the place of  this."

He drew out an elaborate card case,
emblazoned with his arms and monogram,
and opened it. There was a bunch of
withered violets in an inner pocket. He
laid them on the table.

Sometime, when you know me better,"
he said.

He stepped back and stood before her  a
tall soldierly figure in dark green. He had
on high top-boots, which reached to his
knee ; he held a light fowling-piece in one

hand, and there was a feather in his hat.
At another time Barbara might have been
amused at the somewhat theatrical completeness
of this costume ; but now she
hardly looked at him.

You are very good to me," she said
shyly. She took the flowers from the
table and threw them rather hastily into
a drawer. Her, fingers were trembling a
little.

"And now I am forgiven and we are
really friends," said Lalli watching her.
The colour rushed to her pale cheeks, but
she smiled too in a pleased sort of way, and
she lifted her clear candid eyes up to his.

Yes, really friends," she said. She
stood silent, fingering the books upon the
table for a moment, and then  perhaps

a recollection of her father's hospitable
maxims came back to her : " You have had
no breakfast. Very well, then. But at
any rate I must give you a cup of tea' she
said.

She walked over to the small and dainty
table, and he followed her.

There is a chair, and will you have tea
or coffee ? " she asked gravely.

Coffee, please."

He watched her white hands busying
themselves about his cup with a perfectly
new sensation of amusement and pleasure.
There was something infinitely attractive
and fascinating to the Italian in this touch
of careless familiarity. He glanced about
the large low-ceiling room with a feeling
of being at home, an impulse of liking

which extended even to the heavy old-fashioned
chairs and Barbara's bowls of
flowers on the tables.

"You don't have anything yourself"'
he said, looking at her. She was standing
opposite him buttoning her gloves. Her
eyes were downcast.

I have had my breakfast," she said
quickly.

Margherita came in ; her arms were full
of wraps. The girl turned to her hastily.
She felt very happy, but she was embarrassed
as well. She insisted upon loading herself
with more cloaks than she could carry ; she
protested that there was no weight to speak
of ; but when Lalli took half of them away
from her again she made no objection. She
stood patiently and let him arrange them as

lie pleased. She looked up into his face
again as he bent over her while she thanked
him, and they smiled at each other with a
quick simultaneous sense of pleasure in  in
what ?

It will be a delicious day for the
country," Barbara said confidently, looking
back and nodding emphatically at the two
men following her down the palace stair.

It was not yet seven o'clock. The shops
were still closed ; the shutters barred in all
the houses. The few foot passengers they
passed stopped short to stare at the smiling
faces of this holiday party. The horses
rattled their bells and shook the gaudy
trappings of their harness ; the driver
straightened himself up and waved his whip
with an air of importance as he answered

Bracciano !" to the question of the
custom-house soldiers lounging about in
the early sunshine at the city gate.

It was a clear cool morning ; the sky was
still pale and colourless. The carriage-wheels
made fresh tracks in the light dust which
lay over the road ; from time to time a bird
flew out of the bare budding hedges; the
grass was drenched with dew, and the sun
was still red upon the hills and tree tops.
They tramped with a steady swinging trot
up the short stony incline of the Ponte
Molle ; the calm, broad surface of the
Tiber was gleaming in long, silvery streaks ;
a breath of wind blew over them from the
shadowy water, the sun had not yet warmed
those brown and heavy banks.

Perhaps of all the many Campagna ways

VOL. i. o

that road to Bracciano is most desolate.
For miles they drove through utter solitude.
The great city behind them sank lower
between the grassy foldings of the hills;
the gray dome of St. Peter's glittered for
an instant in the early morning sunlight,
and Kome had faded away like some strange
vision of heavy silent walls. They were
driving across old battlefields, and the confident
little daisies were lifting up a million
fresh, round, dew-washed faces to the sun.
They passed the burial-place of cities, whose
very names strike thinly on the ear, like
hollow wandering ghosts ; but it was only
to hear the voice of unseen larks calling
through the stillness like the voice of the
delicate-footed spring, wakening with sweet
insistence the melancholy plain.

They talked and laughed lightly enough

as they drove along in the pleasant morning

freshness, and the horses rattled their bells,

and the sun grew warm upon their faces, but

the silence of the Campagna never changed.

The wheels rattled over the rough pavement

of La Storta ; a man was standing in the

doorway of the old posting inn ; a dog

barked after them as they passed, and some

fever-stricken children raised a shrill and

ineffectual shout. The road turned to the

left, the houses vanished, the feeble flicker

of human life was gone, blotted out of

remembrance by the vast majesty of this

immemorial calm. Mid-sea is not more

lonely, or more inexorable ; the tossing

waves of the Atlantic have known no wilder

storms than the fierce flood of conquest

o 2

which broke and raged and passed away
among these peaceful hills. And now, when
the larks are singing, the silence there is
like the silence of death ; the great grassy-hillsides
lie bare to the tranquil sky, but the
sunlight shining on them is as the sunlight
on a grave.

It was nearly eleven o'clock before, the
road rising a little, they saw a narrow
silvery line beyond a row of trees.

Ah, there is the lake ! " said Lalli, rising
suddenly to his feet. He steadied himself
with one hand on the box, while he pointed
out to her the different houses of Bracciano.

My aunt is expecting our visit ; I wrote
to them yesterday," he said, as they entered
the shadow of a narrow street. He looked
about him with an air of amused recognition,

and nodded good-humouredly to a
group of men sitting on chairs before the
cafe door. " I was stationed here once
with a company of Zouaves. "

I suppose you found it dull. I observe
that Italians in general avoid the country,"
said Mr. Floyd, looking eagerly up the
street past the yellow lichen-covered roofs
to where he could catch a glimpse of high
gray castle walls.

Oh," said Lalli, glancing imperceptibly
at Barbara, "I amused myself."

He led the way into a narrow house and
up some old winding stairs. A feeling of
damp fell on them from the bare stonewalls
; their voices sounded hollow. They
had to grope their way in the dark after the
first turning.

Give me your hand ; I know the way,"
said Lalli pausing.

He rang a bell sharply. The feeble tinkle
died away; then came a sound of listless
footsteps, and then a door opened in the
darkness, and a girl's voice asked :

"Who is it?"

Lalli dropped Barbara's fingers.

"It is I, Cesco, with my friends. Did
you not know I was coming ? Did you not
get my letter ? "

There was the rustle of a dress ; Barbara
was near enough to hear the sound of a
quick catching of the breath on the part of
some unseen person.

"Perhaps, if they do not expect us, papa ?
we had better not go in," she said in a low
tone, and in English.

It's only my cousin," said Lalli hastily,
and at the same moment the voice which
had spoken before added :

Come in, Cesco."

They followed the young girl into a
large light room, where other people were
seated.

This is my cousin, Regina," Lalli said.

The young girl fixed her magnificent eyes
upon Barbara and said nothing. She went
and stood beside the window, where the
light fell full upon her heavy disordered
hair. She was dressed in a sort of loose
faded 'peignoir, dragged open at the throat.
Her skin was of the warm golden tint of old
marble. Her forehead was low and square
with thin arched eyebrows, her red disdainful
lips were severely beautiful, like the

mouth of a Greek goddess  but of a living
goddess.

Barbara turned involuntarily to look at
Lalli. He was speaking to his aunt ; the
other lady was introduced, and seats were
found and explanations were exchanged
about the missing letter.

The signorina speaks Italian ? Ah, I
hear. My nephew tells me he has brought
you to look at our castella," the elder lady
said.

There was a highly coloured row of lithographs
 the wars of Napoleon  hanging up
near the ceiling around two sides of the
room. The chairs were ranged neatly
back against the walls. There was a vase
of artificial flowers on either end of the
chimney-piece, and a clock which ticked

audibly in the pauses between Barbara's
remarks.

Gil. You have come to see our castle.
Gid ; I understand ; " the Confess Lalli
repeated thoughtfully.

The clock measured out the moments ; a
cock crowed shrilly far down the village
street. Cesco Lalli was explaining again
the mistake of the postman. He gesticulated
more, and his voice was louder than
it had been in speaking to them at home.

My daughter, Eegina, is gone to get
you some cake and wine. You must take
something before you go up to see our
castle," the confess said impressively.

Barbara glanced anxiously at her father ;
they had often laughed at these formal visits
in Italian houses, but when had she ever felt

this apologetic uneasiness  this desire to
account for, and conceal, deficiencies, before ?

Eegina returned. She had changed her
dress in the interval ; her superb hair was
smoothed and rolled over cushions which
doubled the size of her head. She was
dressed in some woollen stuff of a bright
hard blue, with very white cuffs, which were
pulled down to cover half her hand ; she
had put on a chain and locket, which rattled
against her stiff open collar when she turned
her head. And with all that she was superbly
beautiful. She came in carrying a small
round tray in her hand ; she presented the
cake and wine to Mr. Floyd without a smile,
with the air of a captive princess.

"Let me take that for you," said Lalli
rising, and coming behind her.

She took no notice of his presence ; she
made no answer. Her delicate nostrils
quivered for an instant, and she half shut
her eyes involuntarily. That was all. Mr.
Floyd, who was helping himself to cake, saw
absolutely nothing.

Let me take that tray, Gina."

Let me pass," she said in a very low
voice. Her mother and aunt were watching
her, and she smiled as she said it. She
lifted her shining eyes to his for an instant
still smiling

Ah ! " said Lalli, involuntarily stepping
back. Not all the novels of Paul de Rock
could prevent that instinctive movement of
his hand to cross himself.

Eegina mia, the signorina will have some
more wine " the old confess said. She

leaned forward and smoothed her daughter's
dress complacently. " What were you doing
in your room, Jiglia mia? Why did you go
back there ? Your aunt heard you going up
the stairs a second time," she asked in a low
voice.

I went back  to light the candles before
the Madonna," the girl said dutifully.

"Bene, that will be in honour of your visit,
Miss  Miss Floyd. She is such a child yet,"
the mother said looking tenderly after her.
I like to know what she does. It is not so
with you foreign ladies, who are all so reasonable,
and so  so emancipated."

Why not ? " said Barbara absently, looking
over at Mr. Floyd, and then she started
and sat up straighter and blushed a little at
her own inattention. " I mean of course not.

People are brought up very differ en try," she
said in her clear candid voice, turning her
head to look at the confess.

The Signora Lalli did not seem surprised
by this incoherence ; conversation
implying any continuous line of ideas
would by the very nature of things
have ceased to be a pleasure, and this
was essentially a visit of pleasure, and
curiosity. " Naturally you will never see
her again. Still, you had better talk to that
young lady while you are showing her the
castle, Eegina," the mother said when her
guests had taken their departure. "She
comes from outside, da fuori, she will know
the fashions."

I thought Cesco seemed very attentive,"
suggested the aunt, straightening the 

upon the table. There were
other books there as well  a prayer-book
with a gilt cross on the cover, and Eegina's
name on the title-page ; there was also a
much-worn copy of the Book of Dreams 
for finding lucky numbers in the lottery.
Between two of the leaves there was a
sonnet printed on rose-coloured paper; it was
addressed : "To my Illustrious Friend and
Fellow Citizen, the noble Pietro Cesare Lalli,
on the Auspicious Occasion of his Recovery
from an attack of acute Bronchitis which
threatened to End his Days." The words
Pietro Cesare Lalli" and " his Recovery "
were printed in different coloured inks.

Those foreigners are always rich," the
confess said thoughtfully.

Probably she is Protestant."

They seldom have any religion," said
Madame Lalli calmly. She had been as far
as Milan on her wedding tour, and her
sister-in-law seldom contradicted her on any
but household matters.

Apparently there were no such serious
considerations to disturb the harmony of the
little party wandering out there in the sunlight.
They had stopped at the small inn
to order their luncheon. Barbara looked
rather anxiously at her father as they
lounged about the courtyard, waiting for
Lalli to rejoin them.

"I hope that you were not too much
bored, papa ? They  well, perhaps they are
not very intellectual people, and all that,
but they seemed very kind and anxious to
please us," she said.

My dear child, you are growing very
exacting. That girl was charming ; I don't
know when I have seen such magnificent
eyes. Ah, here comes our friend. Luncheon
is ordered, is it ? And now for a preliminary
look at the castle," said Mr. Floyd briskly,
striking the stones with his stick.

And now everything they looked at
seemed to have the power of communicating
some new pleasure to the girl. She
called their attention to a hundred different
chance effects of light and shade and colour.
She looked at the narrow picturesque ways,
at the quaint outer stairs to many of the
houses, at the steep tiled roofs with a sincere
and evident delight. Perhaps there was
something a trifle abnormal in such enthusiasm.
Those old yellow lichen-covered

walls had seldom been looked at with such
caressing admiration before. And even at
the rough little inn everything seemed to
have conspired to give Barbara pleasure.
She made friends with the landlady on the
spot. She fed all the dogs who followed
them gravely up the narrow stair. If the
table had to be spread in an upper bedroom,
to escape the intolerable noise of a band of
festive carriers, at least the handful of spring
flowers she had gathered in their hasty walk
sufficed to give it an air of grace and home
comfort. Mr. Floyd was very much amused
by the exhibition of his daughter's evident
wonderment and satisfaction, but even he
had to admit that the thing had been well
managed when their hostess placed on the
table a tall tapering bottle of Rhenish wine.

VOL. I. P

I knew that you preferred it, and  and it
is very good of you not to mind roughing ita
little," the young man said rather hastily.
It was well worth having taken a little
trouble to be looked at with such pleased
and friendly eyes.

When at last they did go up to the
castle, there was a fine breeze blowing the
clouds about across the deep blue of the
sky. The lake was rippling in the sunlight.
From the castle terrace they could hear the
faint lapping of the water against the old
gray stones. Eegina joined them at the
archway. She would make no response to
any of Barbara's advances ; indeed she
hardly spoke. She followed them silently
up the paved causeway, through time-stained
passages cut in the solid rock.

It is strange," Mr. Floyd said seriously,
leaning upon his stick and gazing earnestly
about him as they entered the inner courtyard,
"at that first entrance the architecture
seemed purely mediaeval  quite unaffected
by any local influence. One might
have believed oneself in any old Scotch
castle. Here, on the contrary  look at
that loggia, Barbara  the spirit of the
place is strictly Italian  a fine example of
fifteenth century gothic, very fine."

Did you notice that too, papa ? All
that outer entrance is like one of Sir Walter
Scott's novels," said Barbara eagerly.

Eegina Lalli looked at her with an
expression of undisguised contempt.

They explored long suites of bare half-furnished
rooms ; at every step the old

p 2

severe-visaged housekeeper unbarred some
heavy shutter ; the light streamed in on
high bare walls, on blackened pictures,
gaunt empty carved oak bedsteads, and
rows upon rows of white-shrouded chairs.
Here and there a mediocre family portrait, in
eighteenth-century costume, looked down
with faded eyes upon them ; at every
window-seat cut in the thick old walls
they lingered to look out over the sunny
breezy expanse of the lake. Once, as
Barbara passed with her quick light step
from one of these window-niches to the
next, she came rather unexpectedly upon
Lalli and his cousin. He turned about
hastily.

"You who have read so much, you should
know the legend about the lake there," he

said. "I was telling it to my cousin.
There was another town here in old Roman
times, Abate, and the lake has covered it
over. Only the fishermen say that on a
clear day, as you sail across the water,
you can look down to the bottom and
see the old towers still standing." He
shrugged his shoulders. "It is a fable,
si caprice"

"I believe it," said Barbara smiling. She
turned to Eegina ; " and you ? "

"I don't know," the girl said sulkily
enough.

They went down again to the terrace ;
they strolled together down the hill, between
the hedges along the quiet country road.
Behind them the grim old castle towered
heavily against the changing sky. The

ground beneath their feet was soft from
recent rainfalls. Seen from this height the
foldings of the Campagna were green with
the short new grass. In this sheltered lane,
away from the wind, the air was warmer.
The shifting clouds floated whitely by, trailing
soft shadows over lake and road. The
tepid afternoon was full of a sense of the
sweet irresponsibility of the spring ; the
full red tree-buds glistened everywhere in
the sun, and Barbara was constantly stopping
to fill her hands with frail star-like
blossoms clustering thickly about the wayward
thorny hedges, which will not wait for
leaves. Once, as she stopped to pass her
fingers lovingly over some small yellowish
folded ferns, Eegina fixed her sombre gaze
upon her cousin.

Are you going to marry  that girl ? "
she asked imperiously.

He made no answer. He stood with his
arms folded, looking at the ground.

Listen ! " said Barbara, calling to them
softly. She lifted her hand, and a smile
passed like a gleam of light over her
sensitive face, as from across the lake on
the farther shore, from out the gray stone
mass of an antique convent church there
floated a faint and careless sound of vesper-bells.


The shadow of the castle was deepening
over the village street as their carriage
rolled sharply over the stones. Before long,
night had fallen. Looking back, the pale
gold of the sunset had faded to a single
silvery streak ; a lonely ruined watch-tower

rose in blackest silhouette against the
clearness ; before them they could just
distinguish the paler outline of the road.

At that moment, in the town they had
left behind them, a girl was crouching upon
the floor in her own room before a painted
image of the Madonna. She had been
weeping passionately ; possessed, shaken,
mastered by gusts of fierce resentment  a
burning sense of impotent despair. In a
moment of wilder desolation she had raised
herself up suddenly and blown out the
lighted candles of the shrine. Now, as she
lay there moaning helplessly, her grief had
assumed the form of an unreasoning terror
at this horrible darkness which seemed the
visible sign of all the ruined blackness
of her life. The conviction that Cesco no

longer cared for her returned with intolerable
keenness. Her mother's room
door stood ajar. She pressed her head
hard against the bed-clothes to deaden the
sound of her sobbing. She was delivered
over to the passionate wordless vehemence
of her anguish, like some dumb creature
stricken in the dark, enduring suffering for
which it sees no cause.

Out there, on the Campagna, it was still
light enough for the travellers to distinguish
the pale outline of each other's faces. The
horses were moving more slowly ; from time
to time the driver whistled and spoke to
them in the silence. Mr. Floyd had wrapped
himself in his cloak, and leaned back in the
corner of the carriage. At first Barbara
thought he was asleep, then she heard him

sigh. Heaven knows what old, old memories
had been evoked by the charm of
this soft, transparent night. She laid her
hand rather timidly upon her father's. He
did not reject it, and there was something in
the unusual tenderness of the action which
touched the girl in a quite indescribable
way. She, too, leaned back, and was silent.
It was a shadowless, moonless night. She
looked up at the pale luminous sky above
her ; the air grew damper, and there was
a sound of running water ; they climbed a
hill, and the wind blew keen and fresh.

You are not cold ? " said Lalli, bending
solicitously near.

"No."

She could think of him better if he did not
speak. Again they passed the houses of La

Storta. A solitary light was burning in an
upper window. A clog rushed out at them ;
they could hear him barking far down the
road : the sound grew faint and fainter, and
died presently away. There was nothing
now to jar upon this perfect silence ; nothing
to check their onward moving, farther and
farther, along the unseen road.

It was with a distinct sense of annoyance 
a feeling of having been forestalled, that
Lexeter listened to an account of this
Bracciano expedition. He heard of it first
at the Floyds' house one afternoon when he
was calling ; it had become a habit with him
to go there of late, and yet Lexeter was a
man who lived very much by himself. He
was at once irascible and sensitive ; he had
all the temperament of a poet  a poet of
meditation and sentiment, without the gift
of expression. He was ambitious, and in
his youth he had suffered from a degree

of poverty which his pride had rendered
intolerable. He had acquired a habit of
sufficing to himself, but it was only a habit ;
it was something argued out  the result of
deliberate conviction. Walter Hardinge,
with all his frank careless manner, his
ready friendliness, his apparent impression-ability,
was gifted in reality with a hundred
times more self-reliance,, more power of will
than this other man so much his senior in
years and in experience. To one of them the
world was a thing to be denied, derided,
and never quite forgotten, and passionately
desired. To the other it was the most
natural, the most enjoyable, the most
subordinate of possessions. Hardinge's
imagination was never troubled beyond the
pitch of delight ; he was born for success, for

vivid sympathies, for clear beliefs and definite
confidence of action. One of them could see
distinctly what the other believed. One
contemplated life, the other thought about
living. Perhaps it was this which had made
them friends in the first place ; but there
was a fascination about Hardinge, about
his young enjoyment of all the worn old
detail of existence, which was quite irresistible.
His mind was ardent, courageous,
objective. He had the rarest, the most
attractive of qualities  he was alive, keenly
alive, and he was satisfied.

But Lexeter was not easily satisfied. It
would perhaps have been difficult for him to
have explained, even to himself, the attraction
he found in the long hours he spent in
the Floyds' apartment, smoking reflectively,

or discussing old books with Mr. Floyd, and
varying editions. He was an indefatigable
book collector.

It is the brutal good sense of my own
contributions to the British newspaper which
has driven me to this' he said to Barbara
on one occasion. He had a small parchment-covered
volume in his hand, which he had
bought on his way to the house. " This
quaint complacent elaboration of trivial
learning gratifies my sense of the eternal
equilibrium of things. I even begin to
believe my own leading articles may be
forgotten  in time." He turned over a few
of the brown discoloured pages. " I like
the thin, remote, high-bred latinity of these
sonnets. They are so bad, so delightfully,
execrably bad in style  and so useless.

They are the merest ghosts of spent and
artificial force."

"Do you know at one time I believed
that all the men who wrote for newspapers
were such wise people, with such well-disciplined
minds," said Barbara smiling,
and lifting up her eyes from her work.

It always gave him pleasure when she
looked at him. Sometimes he did not
speak to her twice in the course of an afternoon.
She went in and out of the room,
busied about a hundred different trifles.
Sometimes she asked his advice about reading.
Once she had even told him something
about her visit to the hospital. Of late she
had grown more silent ; she would sit for
hours by the high old-fashioned window,
apparently absorbed in her work. The

light streamed in upon her pale round
cheek, upon her white moving fingers, upon
her soft ash-coloured hair ; from time to
time she would look up or speak to her
father, and what a frankness, what a sense
of security there was in that look ! Mr.
Floyd himself was slightly puzzled by
this sudden abstraction and quiescence in
Barbara, but it was quite in keeping with
her sensitive impressionable nature that
some chance word of his own had effected
this change. From whatever cause it came,
it pleased him. It separated her personality
from the remembered insistent image of her
mother ; he spoke to her with far more
freedom than was his wont. In after days
Barbara often remembered those peaceful
afternoons of spring. The weather had

VOL. I. Q

broken on the very night of their return;
a week of rain had set in  of soft sirocco
rain and luminous gray skies. Sometimes
from her seat by the window she could see
deep drifts of storm-darkened clouds blow
blackly in from the Campagna.

It will soon rain," she would say, her
clear young voice breaking in upon their
never-ending argument ; and then perhaps
Lexeter would stroll over to the window,
and together, and with something of the
same secret thrill of exultation, they would
listen to the wild rush of the hail on the
casement and watch the reluctant swaying
of the cypress-trees, defiant, if wind-shaken,
against the livid sky.

In the lulls of the tempest Lexeter would
look slowly and scrutinisingly about the

room. There was not a detail in it with

which he was not familiar, or which he

would have changed. It was rather an ugly

room, large and low-ceiling, with faded

gilding on the heavy cornices and faded

crimson hangings. He had seen very

different interiors in his London experience,

but there was something about this which

suited him. He liked the large shabby

seats. There was a sofa in one corner on

which no one ever sat, and a carved chair

whose arm dropped off when one moved it

abruptly. He liked these details ; it seemed

to him characteristically southern. He took

pleasure in them as he took pleasure in

watching Barbara move carelessly about the

room, putting away her books, or passing

her finger-tips caressingly over her flowers.

Q 2

Very often he did not speak to her for
hours, and yet nothing could have deepened
his conviction of the nobility and simplicity
of her nature  and its goodness. Once,
when she was consulting him about some
book, he looked at her in such a way that
she paused astonished.

' 1 do not believe that you have heard a
word of what I was saying, Mr. Lexeter."

Not much, perhaps," he said, smiling a
little ; " but I like to hear you speak."

He took the volume from her hand, and
glanced at it, and laid it on the table.

I wish you would go on with that sewing
stuff," he said discontentedly. " Let those
books alone. Your work-basket humanises
the room."

She took up her work obediently and

without an answer. She treated him with
something of the affectionate trust she
showed her father. The constant companionship
of a man nearer her own age
might have troubled her ; between these two
she felt so confident, so safe. Lalli had
called more than once during that week ;
his visits w T ere thoroughly commonplace,
and each one left behind it the intense
mental vision of some look  a word spoken
to herself alone  which made a difference in
all her day. He had asked for her friendship,
but there was something ill-defined
about the term. Once when she w r as putting
some violets he had brought her into water,
she had let a few of them fall. He had
leaned down as if to pick up the flower at
once, but he had given her nothing. She

did not know if lie had kept it, and the
doubt brought a touch of colour to her
cheeks, and made the hand which held the
flowers tremble. Lexeter noticed it at once.
It was unusual for him to remain therethrough
one of Count Lalli's visits. "I do
really believe Mr. Lexeter is jealous of poor
Cesco," Octave suggested one day with her
pretty innocent smile.

The two girls were alone together in the
drawing-room after dinner.

Jealous ! Please don't say such things,
dear," said Barbara, turning her head suddenly
and looking at her.

Octave clasped her hands behind her curly
head and looked up at the ceiling and smiled.

How often has Mr. Lexeter been here
this week ? "

Nearly every day. He comes to talk to
papa about his books. I like Mr. Lexeter
so much."

So does " she moved her head a

little to one side and looked at Barbara, " so
does Mr. Hardinge. I don't think myself
that he is  dangerous."

"Don't be wicked, Octave."

(t Oh no ! I should consider it a decided
proof of his good taste if he were to fall in
love with you. But he is too old for you,
Baby. And he hasn't any money. I don't
believe he could marry if he wanted to.
You know he writes for that newspaper."

Yes ; he told me so."

Mr. Hardinge says he is immensely
clever. I daresay his friends are all people
who do things, and who expects you to

admire them. But you would not mind
that."

Mind it ? No ! But, my dear child,"
said Barbara, looking down at her with an
amused expression in her clear, grave eyes,
"you are talking such extraordinary nonsense.
Why, Mr. Lexeter " She took up

a small glass of tea-roses from the mantlepiece
and smelt them. " He brought me
these to-day ; wasn't it kind of him ? Here !
you may have that pink bud to put in your
hair, although you don't deserve it. If you
only saw more of him, I am sure you would
like him as I do," she said quite calmly.

Well, I don't know," said Octave doubtfully.
" You are such a dear old simpleton.
You believe what everybody tells you. And
you are always wanting to do things for

other people. Some clay you will marry
some man simply to oblige him, and he won't
be a bit grateful to you for it, Barbara. You
will be miserable, and he will feel it to be a
criticism upon his own powers of entertainment.
It will be very unpleasant."

Barbara laughed. " Poor man ! I begin
to feel sorry for him already. It will be
quite a judgment upon him for being so
grasping. And think what a bad housekeeper
he will have ! Tell me, Octave 
speaking seriously  don't you think there is
a little, just a little, improvement, in that
respect ? I saw you looking at the saltcellars,"
she said, smiling ; " but all that
severity was wasted. They are old, very
old silver. That black is not meant to
come off."

Margherita certainly waits at table
better' said Octave with a judicial little
frown. " I think you have improved  a
little. You never, you know, will be what I
call a good housekeeper."

Ah, but you are so clever at things,"
said Barbara, looking at her affectionately.

I should like to know," said Octave
suddenly, " exactly what you think of Cesco
Lalli ? "

Barbara started. She put the glass of
flowers she was holding carefully down ; it
struck against the edge of the mantlepiece
with a clear ring.

"What do I think of of Count Lalli ? "
she repeated.

"Yes, exactly what you think of him?
Do you like him ? Does he interest you ?

I know that lie raves about you' said
Octave carelessly ; " but that counts for
less. What I want to know is your
opinion."

Barbara was silent.

I suppose that you like him  since you
have him to the house''

I never asked him to come," said Barbara
quickly.

But you like him, nevertheless ? "

Oh  I don't know. I wish you would
not tease me so' said Barbara, with a
sudden sharp movement of irritation.

The words had hardly passed her lips
before she began to regret them. For how
was it possible now to offer any calm explanation
of her compact of friendship with
Lalli which should not sound like an apology ?

She stood irresolutely, fingering the fringe of
the mantlepiece, for a minute or two, and
then she walked over to the window and
looked out. There was no curtain, and the
wooden shutters were open. She looked out
on a dark and starry sky. The wind seemed
to have changed ; the clouds were high and
thin, and drifting to the south. She leaned
her forehead against the cool glass. It was
too late ; it was impossible to explain things
now to Octave. She was conscious of feeling
a certain sense of relief at this thought.
She shrank instinctively from any voice
which might give the definiteness  the irrevocable
quality, of a spoken word to her
inward impulse and apprehension. Already
she felt that the charm of unconsciousness
was broken, and was there not something

cowardly  something ungenerous towards
LalH in this hesitation about pronouncing
herself ? Octave would not understand, that
was obvious. But if he had been questioned
in her place She faced about

quickly.

"Octave!"

Ah," said Miss Damon sleepily, " I was
thinking about Lent."

She sat up and passed her hand once or
twice over her hair. Her hands were the
poorest thing about her ; they were large
and not well shaped, and her wrists were
too thin.

"Ash Wednesday is on the twentieth
this year, Barbara." She hesitated and
looked grave. " I wish I could get you to
come to early service."

Oh," said Barbara, with something
between a laugh and a sob; "why not?
I don't mind."

She turned again to her window. She
was relieved, but at the same time she felt
checked and baffled. The very lightness
with which Octave had changed the subject
was like a tacit reproach. " I was going to
say something rather different  something
more important  at least I think so." She
felt the blood rush to her cheeks.

Nothing could be more important than
early service," began Octave, in her clear
imperative treble, and then the dining-room
door opened and the gentlemen came in.
Mr. Lexeter and Walter Hardinge were both
dining there that evening. They were both
in particularly good spirits. They stayed

late. About nine o'clock Mr. Clifford Dix
was announced. He seemed a little surprised
at first, and then chagrined at finding
himself only one of a large party.

"I did not know that this was your
reception-night, Miss Floyd," he said, ashe
got up to take a cup of tea from Barbara.

Will you have cream and sugar ? We
never have any reception nights, you know.
Only sometimes people happen to call," she
said, glancing over at the clock.

He observed that she was looking a little
pale ; she smiled, but her eyes remained
troubled. He saw her look at the clock ;
was she expecting anyone who had not
come ? He put down his tea-cup with a
slight feeling of annoyance. He turned
about on his chair and began to contradict

Lexeter. Presently someone asked Octave
to sing. She rose at once, and Hardinge
followed her over to the piano.

Sing something that I know, or at least
that I can understand," he said.

She looked down at her own fingers
resting idly on the keys ; she hesitated for
an instant, and then she began playing a
low monotonous accompaniment. She lifted
up her face a little and began to sing.
Hardinge crossed his arms on the top of the
piano and looked down at her. Her voice
was a singularly true and flexible soprano,
of no particular strength, but of very great
compass. Her higher notes were particularly
good  clear, piercingly sweet, and
unstrained, like a bird's. When she sung
her face became more serious. She turned

her eyes towards Hardinge between two of
the verses, and her glance met his. She
coloured suddenly and violently, and bent
her head down with a quick movement of
her round white throat. He could see the
half-opened rosebud stuck carelessly in her
hair, and it seemed hardly more flower-like
than her face at that moment with this
sudden flush of colour passing like a wave
under the delicate and transparent skin.

The song she had selected was the old
fi Stornello Pisano." The monotonous familiar
air  monotonous as passion  the wild directness
of the words  seemed to awaken a hundred
new instincts in Barbara, to quiet a
hundred doubts. For years after she could
never hear the brave old Italian words
without the keenest pang of remembrance.

VOL. I. It

It came to her like a gallant and devoted
appeal, which stirred profoundly the more
chivalric issues of her spirit. She rose with
quite another expression on her face to take
part in the conversation which followed
Octave's singing. When Miss Damon had
gone into the next room to put on her hat
Barbara accompanied her ; she looked at her
quite simply as she said :

You wanted to know about Count Lalli.
Well, I have been thinking about him, and
I am sure  that is, I think  I mean I hope
we shall see a great deal of him. Do you
know, Octave, poor fellow ! he has almost
no friends. All his old comrades are gone,
either home again with the French troops 
you know, he has been intimate with so
many Frenchmen  or they have taken service

with the Italians, and that he will not
do. I can understand that. At first I
thought it was a mistake on his part, but
now  don't you see how fine it is to be
living up to all one's own old beliefs and
purposes, when everything else has changed
and crumbled away about you ? I think " 
her voice lowered a little, and she put her
hand suddenly up to her lips  " I think
there is something heroic in that," she
said.

My dear child, the man has places in
the country to look after, his tenura ; have
you never heard him speak of that ? The
Lalli family are like half the other Romans,"
said Octave, carelessly, looking in the glass
and adjusting her hat, " his grandfather 
Cesco's grandfather  the one who was made

R 2

a count by the Pope  began it, and since
then they have always kept those farms.
He has another place, you know, near
Bracciano."

She put her head on one side and smiled,
and hummed a few notes of the "Stornello."

This has been such a pleasant evening,"
she said, showing all her dimples. " So you
and Cesco are going to be great friends,
Miss Barbara, eh ? I thought as much.
But oh, Barbara, was not Mr. Dix amusing ?
I will tell you something your Mr. Lexeter
said to him; they were talking about modern
novels, and Mr. Lexeter said that in English
novels the characters all seem to be walking
about in their ulsters, they are so thick, and
practical, and material ; but in American
books they are like so many Scorches. They

are all so beautifully dissected and demonstrated,
they have not even their natural
skin. I don't think Mr. Dix quite liked
it."

She finished fastening her cloak, and put
up her smooth cheek to be kissed.

Good-night. "

But at the door she turned and looked
back.

"Barbara."

Well, dear ? "

"Try and not make Mr. Lexeter too
jealous, won't you ? "

Try and not be too absurd, won't you ? "
said Barbara, smiling and looking at her
with her chin resting upon her clasped hands.
She sat so for a lone while after Octave had
left her. The house was perfectly still ; the

lamp burned steadily upon the table ; from
time to time a wilder gust of wind sent a
sudden dash of rain against the window.
When she raised her head at last her eyes
were more brilliant than usual. She got up
from her seat and began walking rather
quickly up and down the room ; her hands
were clasped together with the arms thrust
straight down ; her head was thrown a little
back ; the long train of her white dress followed
her steps with a quick soft rustle ;
the whole expression of her being was one
of eagerness and readiness, an ignorant
devoted readiness to meet the claims of any
future.

It was, I believe, the very next day that
she called upon Miss Maclean with Mr.
Lexeter. They had met accidentally upon

the Corso, near Miss Maclean's door. The
wind had fallen again, the weather had
changed, the sky overhead was of an uniform
silvery gray, with here and there a
darker loosely-floating cloud ; the air had
suddenly turned warm and soft ; half the
people they met were wearing flowers, and
shallow baskets heaped with dark violets
were being offered for sale at every street
corner. They had walked along for some
little distance together, and then :

I am going in here to see Miss Maclean'
Barbara said, stopping. She held out her
hand. " But wait ; don't you want to come
with me ? They are such dear old ladies.
Come in, and Miss Janet will get her sister
to play to you ; and it will be such a pleasure
for them to see a new face."

Oh, but I never make calls, you know,"
said Lexeter, in a protesting voice, and then,
and much to Margherita's dissatisfaction, he
followed her slowly, but resignedly, up the
many stairs. Margherita objected to Mr.
Lexeter. If it had been a tall, straight,
gallant-looking young man like Count Lalli,
now, or even like that other young forester,
this one's friend ! But a man of at least
five-and-thirty, with a decided halt in his
walk ! She looked at him with the severe
personal criticism of a Eoman ; but, then,
if he were rich ? Providence had a quite
unaccountable way of providing' these hard-visage,
dull-eyed foreigners with money.

Miss Maclean and her sister Miss Janet
were two of Barbara's greatest friends. She
had often spoken of them to Lexeter; he

was quite prepared for their precise and
formal welcome. He saw Barbara take one
white-haired old lady after the other by the
hand and kiss her soft withered cheek ; the
smile which lighted up their placid, highbred
faces pleased him ; he listened with a
certain curiosity and interest to their quaint
and gentle speech.

The whole character of the little drawing-room
accorded well with its inhabitants.
They seemed lifted away here from any
contact with the actual world ; here, at least,
life implied neither haste, nor uncertainty,
nor forgetfulness. The calm of a faithful
habit was all about them like the air they
breathed. Everything had its own place
and its own remembrance ; there was not a
speck of dust on any of the curious bits of

china, on the faded Indian screens, the small
blackened frames of the round, old-fashioned
mirrors, the group of faded miniatures
hanging in their accustomed circle by Miss
Maclean's own tall and straight-backed chair.

The portrait in the centre is that of
our father," the old lady said in her thin
gracious old voice, seeing Lexeter's eyes
turn in that direction.

It was a small oval miniature representing
a young man with a smiling face and
melancholy brown eyes, dressed in the
costume of the last century. He wore a
white rose in the lappet of his high rolling
collar.

"Taken at Paris, at the age of twenty,
when our father was a page in the service
of His Majesty, Charles Edward," said

Miss Janet, rising briskly and coming forward
; " and that bonnie lassie on the other
side is my sister Elizabeth, painted in Highland
costume as she went to her first ball.
Dear, dear, to think how I can remember
that evening ! I was a bit of a bairn in
the nursery still, and Elizabeth was ten
years older. Dear, dear, how I did envy
her going out. And that is sixty years
ago."

"But isn't it a lovely portrait, Mr.
Lexeter ? And I always think that one can
see the likeness now," said Barbara, looking
from the slim smiling girl in the miniature
to the proud-faced old lady with the silvery
hair.

"Ah, but you'll not see such beauties now
as my sister Elizabeth," said Miss Janet,

briskly, with a triumphant smile on her own
dear honest work-a-day face. " I mind me
yet of the way the young men crowded
about her at the Duchess's ball, at Brussels,,
the night before Waterloo. Dear, dear, and
to think how all those bonny lads went
marching away the next morning; and
Elizabeth up there on the balcony looking
at them, still in her ball-dress and with a
red flower in her hair. Dear, dear, and
how they did turn their heads to look up
at her as they went marching by with their
music playing. And there was many a one
of them that the last thing he remembered,
poor laddie, will have been that last look
at my sister Elizabeth. "

Have done, Janet, ye silly woman,"
Miss Maclean said rebukingly. She folded

her beautiful old hands together complacently,
and looked at Lexeter with a faint
conscious colour in her soft old cheeks.
Here you are, chattering like a magpie
about the beauty of an old woman in a cap,
and all the while that feckless lass, Jessie,
has never offered our visitors so much as a
drop or a crumb. I think shame of your
carelessness, sister."

"Dear, dear; to think that I should have
forgotten," said Miss Janet penitently,
trotting away briskly on her willing old
feet.

She returned presently, followed by a
squarely-built middle-aged woman, whose
honest hard-featured face lighted up with a
broad smile at sight of Barbara.

"Eh, but it is a guile sight to see our

young lady here again, Miss Elizabeth.
Whiles I thocht you had clean forgotten
us," she said.

"Come, come, Jessie; put the tray down,
woman, and don't fill Miss Barbara's head
with nonsense," said Miss Janet sharply

She poured out the wine herself into the
small old-fashioned glasses. Lexeter detested
sweet wine, but he drank it submissively.
The room was warm and smelt
vaguely of lavender and spices. Miss Janet
had a small withered apple stuck all over
with cloves in the square embroidered bag
which hung by its faded ribbon from the
arm of her straight-backed chair. One of
the windows looked out on the Corso ; it
was half filled up with flowering plants in
pots.

"Your roses always get on so much
better than mine," Barbara said, looking at
them.

The noise of the street was only a confused
murmur at this height. The small smouldering
fire burned discreetly upon the immaculate
hearthstone, without a flame or a sound.
The two old ladies sat in their accustomed
seats on either side of the fireplace, looking
with gentle expectancy at their guests ; every
line of their fine old faces expressed a feeling
of pleased hospitality and calm. A stray
gleam of watery sunlight passing over the
little row of faded portraits was like another
pale smile of welcome  an invitation to rest
in the profound serenity of these blameless
lives.

Dear Miss Janet, I wonder if you would

show Mr. Lexeter your precious glove ? "
said Barbara.

It was Miss Elizabeth who kept the keys.
Once, ten or fifteen years before, a political
refugee had spent a day and a night concealed
in their peaceful house. It was Miss
elizabeth who had protected him. "What!
would ye turn the man out to be taken by
his enemies ? " the proud old lady had said
when the other women had hesitated, appalled
by the danger they were running. " Is that
your Highland hospitality ? And have you
forgotten what was done for Maclean of Mull,
in the Forty-five, when he too had to go into
his hiding ? I think shame for you, Janet,"
.said the old Highland woman.

"With her own trembling hand she prepared
the fugitive's supper. They kept him for a

day and a night, until lie could communicate
with his friends ; a poor cowering wretch he
was ; a mere shop lad implicated in some
foolish conspiracy ; but they waited on him
themselves with their own hands ; Miss Janet
pale and tearful, but following her sister's
lead without the thought of a remonstrance ;
and gave him money out of their own scanty
store. He had left some compromising
papers behind him, treasonable documents,
which they hid deep in their linen-chest,
under the folds of their fine worn old clothes.
The dangerous documents were there still ;
they had never disturbed them. Many a
night Miss Janet had thought of them, lying
timidly awake, hearing the heavy step of a
Papal gendarme in every sound of the wind
upon the creaking stair. But they had

VOL. I. S

never thought of burning them  the old
Jacobite instinct was too strong for that.

"It is not the first secret the Maclean
have held fast," Miss Elizabeth would say
proudly, turning her old white head to look
at her father's miniature upon the wall.

Miss Janet had never forgotten her sister's
conduct on that occasion. The plot was
outlawed now ; its object  the very name of
the conspirators  forgotten. But they had
never troubled themselves about that.
What we keep we hold fast," had said the
brave old lady. The papers still were safely
locked away, in company of old letters, old
manuscript books, old memoranda, old flowers
and locks of hair  a whole host of dusty
memories, loves, hopes, defeats.

Miss Maclean took out her keys now.

She unlocked a wooden box ; inside there
was a glass cover, and under it, fastened
to a piece of crimson velvet, a small
embroidered glove.

This was Queen Mary's glove ; she wore
it on her flight from Holyrood. She gave
it to the chief of the Maclean  for good
service rendered," the silvery-haired, placid
lady said proudly enough.

They all looked at it with a curious
eagerness. What a reward  and for what
gallant service !

Have you been living many years in
Eome, Miss Maclean ? " Lexeter asked
respectfully.

Five-and-twenty years this last time.
Our father died here when we were girls.
He never left Italy after the death of the

Cardinal of York," said Miss Janet briskly.
We came back in the Forty-five, I always
tell my sister' she said, with her sweet old
smile.

Before they left, Barbara begged Miss
Maclean to play for them. " There is
nothing," said Miss Janet, " like the Highland
music my sister Elizabeth plays."

Dear Miss Janet," said Barbara, " I want
to show Mr. Lexeter your beautiful view.
And indeed it has quite stopped raining.
May I open the balcony-window a
moment ?"

Surely, my lassie."

They stepped out upon the narrow iron
balcony together. It was at the turn of the
afternoon. Recent showers had left the
wall glistening wet and mottled with rose-red

spots, against which the green of the
little stone-plants, growing between the
bricks, was fresh and vivid like a jewel.
Far down below them was the sunless, well-like
court ; a woman was drawing up some
water ; they could distinguish the rattle of
the chain. They were looking across a world
of curious huddled roof-tops, unexpected
silhouettes, a confusion of fantastic chimney-pots,
and high loggie, and the dark tops of
the convent cypresses. Beyond this was the
river. It had stopped raining ; the sky was
almost blue in places. The air blew soft
and coolly after the closeness of the repeated
room. There was a distinct movement
among the great floating masses of
clouds overhead ; a sudden dazzle of light
burst at the horizon, and mounted up,

pillar-like, above the mist-covered plain.
A few Luge warm drops of rain fell ; they
glistened on Barbara's cheek and touched
Lexeter's bare hands, but neither of them
thought of going in. The potent ineffable
charm of the spring was upon them. They
were both silent. And still the music went on
a wild and plaintive strain. The old Highland
woman began bravely enough with the
gallant, stirring, cavalier airs, such as her
sister loves. How is it now that the old
white head is bending lower over the keys,
and what memory of her youth is stirring
as her fingers wander into the sad wild song
of the dying, " Oran an Aoig," the lament
of the battle-field ? To Lexeter this afternoon
has been like a revelation of inviolate
and soothing calm. This quiet household

of women, living in an atmosphere of old
romantic memories, unknown and undisturbed
of the world, was like the very sanctuary
of peace. He looked out over the
crowded life of Koine, and the confused
murmur of the city streets died away a
meaningless murmur at his feet. The
charm of long 'continuance was upon him ;
the absence of expectation ; the unaspiring-peace
which passeth understanding. His
thoughts went back to the old stories he had
been hearing, to that line of faded miniatures
 so many years of life and all to end
here ! His restless, unsatisfied spirit was
stricken dumb in presence of this calm, this
placid acceptance and forgetfulness.

Forgetfulness ! but what heart forgets ?
what passion wholly dies ? what past is not

the sharpest accent of the present ? The
music went bravely on through the tranquil
twilight. The player's head was white and
tremulous, but the ghosts of half a century
back were communing with her spirit. When
Miss Janet lifted her gentle old eyes from
the smouldering embers, it was with a great
awe and tenderness that she saw the trace
of tears upon her sister's cheek.

The sun was setting now behind St.
Peter's, and the clouds which lay in horizontal
folds above the hills were tinged
with a dull coppery red. The river ran
pale beneath its heavy bridges ; the pines
of the Pamphili Gardens seemed a darker
procession than ever against the colourless
sky.

"I must go," said Barbara, moving

her arms from the balustrade upon which
she had been leaning.

As they were shaking hands at the street-door,
Lexeter stopped her for a moment.
He wanted to consult about the fittest day
to choose for going to Ostia on horseback as
they had already planned. It flashed across
her mind once or twice to ask him if he
intended to invite Count Lalli. But they
parted without mentioning his name. She
had assured him that she would be his
friend, and in all good faith she had
believed it ; but there was something about
Lalli which repulsed while it excited her
imagination. Abstractly considered, she
was very sorry for him ; he preoccupied
her. She quite unconsciously endowed him
with a depth and tenacity of emotion which

VOL. i. t

was her own, not his. She thought of him
as suffering. " At least one can be silent,"
he had told her on that first night of their
meeting ; and the phrase had opened before
her a world in which she had felt fervently
alive  eager for loving service. She had
been moved with a sense of surprise  a
delicious thrill of triumph  by the consciousness
of his admiration and liking ;
and yet, for all that, she was ever dimly
aware that should any insurmountable circumstance
arise now  without delay  to
separate them, her feeling of regret would
not be unmixed with a sense of relief.
The realisation of this feeling was like a
lowering brand of ingratitude. She would
allow herself no opportunity of influencing
Lexeter. She knew that if he invited the

count it would be entirely from an idea of
giving her pleasure ; and as she walked
slowly homeward her mind was filled with
a certain scorn of her own selfish weakness.
When Lope de Vegas and his men first
exchanged their glass beads for the gold-dust
of the Indians, it is quite possible
there may have been some among the
natives afflicted with this same generous
shame at the disproportion of their return
for those glittering gifts.

END OF VOL. I.

VOL. II.

And of course Lalli went. They were a

party of seven or eight when they finally

started  Mrs. Damon and Mr. Floyd in a

carriage by themselves. It was a warm

gray day ; from time to time the flickering

tempered sunlight gleamed through the

softly unquiet mass of clouds ; wherever the

wild soft wind parted that silvery radiance

the sky seen through these rifts was of the

faintest blue.

There is, properly speaking, no beginning

B 2

of spring on the Koman Campagna. In
September the land lies dying  a blank
expanse, fever-stricken, burnt to the heart,
and very still. The skies are paler above it ;
the earth is cracking in long shuddering
gaps ; the blanched lines of aqueduct seem
more than ever organic  the natural culmination
of the desert  and there is no coolness
in their heavy shadow. The shepherds
have gone to the hills ; and the few horsemen
who pass here at long intervals ride
by muffled in cloaks, pallid-faced, and
shivering in the sun. An implacable hungry-eyed
spectre sits crowned and solitary among
these ruins; the blood-red sunsets do him
tribute ; a paean of unclean triumph rises
in his honour, hoarse and ceaseless, from the
pestilent pools of the Pontine Marsh ; and

at night the monotonous creak of the
cicala's voice is like the dry persistent
delirium of a fevered thirst.

The land dies, but in the night there is
resurrection. The full autumnal rains sweep
down in wild white gusts, with sighing
winds  stern white-winged angels of deliverance
 born of the sea and mountains. A
hundred small green lives awaken in the
sheltered side of ruins ; the earth grows
ruddy ; in December the strong-lipped
daisies are red and white everywhere beneath
the stubble of last year's asphodel. This
same stubble is the surest measure of the
passing seasons. On the coldest tramontana
day, when the blue of the sky is hard like
enamel, when the sheep huddle closer
together, and the immutable ilexes writhe,

dark and desperate, in the icy clutch of the
wind, these bare delicate stalks are like a
warm rosy flush running above the foldings
of the ground. Flowers are continually
springing up beneath this ghostly shelter 
small pale crocuses, blue-veined and low ;
yellow marigolds ; and strangely-coloured
orchids, dull in hue and faintly perfumed,
like the grotesque tenement of a beautiful
soul. By the end of January, when the
warmer rains have washed these mouldering
stems into the pale brown earth, the violets
are blooming everywhere in the villas, and
out here, on this perfumeless waste, a yellow
mist of delicate wild turnip-flowers bends and
dances in the wind. In another week or so
the first almond-tree will blossom palely
behind some sheltered convent wall ; already

the Campagna has lost its noble monotone
of colour ; the long lifting lines of plain are
green beneath the grayer olives of the hills ;
the sweet impatience of the flowers stars all
the lanes and hedgerows while yet the trees
are budding, and the white foam of blossoms
breaks over a summery land and beneath a
summer sky.

As they rode down to Ostia this morning
it was difficult to say precisely when and
where this demarcation of the seasons had
been overcast. There were rose-red peach-trees
clustering against the gray walls of
the city ; the small young leaves overhead
were of a pale shining green ; the fragrant
freshness of early morning blew in their
faces as they trotted sharply along over the
soft damp ground.

And now they had walked their horses
down the hill by the Basilica, and saw the
river running broadly between low-lying
fields. The empty road followed the lonely
Tiber. The larks sang all about them in
the meadows, and the delicious floating
odour of wild-growing plants (" that comes
and goes like the warbling of music") was
on the air. It was a day for all delicate
effects of colour. Once  the wind had
loosened the clouds, the gray vapour floated
languidly against a sky of pale and limpid
blue  they passed a solitary shepherd, a
Campagna shepherd, dressed in rough skins,
and leaning on his staff. All about him his
sheep were feeding in the transparent shadow
of a cloud, while beyond them, to the river's
verge, the fields were afire with yellow

marsh flowers  a resplendent sea of gold.
And once, looking down a wet and narrow
lane, crowded, as far as one could see, with
a huddled flock of sheep, the sunlight
touched the woolly backs to a winding
silvery streak ; on either side brown banks,
and overhead the delicate shining stems of
poplar-trees. It was an impression like
listening to the sound of flutes  clear, thin,
silvery, evanescent.

Barbara had checked her horse for an
instant, lingering behind the others to look
at this ; when she turned her head Hardinge
was waiting for her.

"Do you think that they are standing so
expressly for your pleasure V he said, smiling
at the look of delight that was shining in
her eyes. " Miss Floyd, I know that you

are possessed by a perfectly irrational desire
to give that man something. You are conspiring
against the fundamental rule of good
government ; you are establishing an arbitrary
system of rewards. Admit, now, that
you have been regretting that you had not
your purse with you ?"

Well " began Barbara, looking down

and playing with the reins between her
fingers.

Hardinge laughed.

"Fortunately Lexeter is out of sight.
Political economy is supposed to be my
strong point at Oxford, Miss Floyd." He
took some loose silver from his pocket and
tossed it cleverly enough into the shepherd's
hat. " And there is nothing like acting upto
one's principles," he said.

"Why is it that some casual look or tone
will fix itself upon the memory until that
and that only will grow to represent the
person who uttered it ? Barbara had met
this young man a dozen times already, but
she never forgot his look as he spoke those
few careless words  the kindly look in his
eyes as he turned in his saddle with the sun
and the wind in his face.

A big white cloud floated by overhead
and covered them with its shadow. Beyond,
the larks were singing in the sunny water-meadows.
The horses stamped impatiently
upon the soft earth, and fretted and pulled
at their bridles.

"Shall we ride on ? " Hardin ge suggested.

They began speaking of England, then of
Oxford.

I shall go back there in the autumn to
take my degree," Hardinge said; "and then
I go home. It is four years since I left
America."

Then you will not come back to Eome
again," she said, a slight touch of disappointment
crossing her mind at the
idea.

I don't know. I am like Adam after
the fall. The world is all before me whereto
choose," he made answer, smiling and
touching his horse's neck with the end
of his whip. " My habits lie here ; only
it is an article of faith with me to go
home."

After Oxford ? "

Ah, that was a mistake undoubtedly.
One stands over on this side and listens,

and one is fairly deafened by the clamorous
culture of America. And then your true
American never admits superiority, which
would naturally seem to exclude oneself.
And yet," he said, looking at her again,
I fancy they will make a place forme.


But what are you going to do, really ? "

Oh, reform the universe."

I do not see any particular reason why
you should not be successful," said Barbara,
with an answering smile.

"I see none myself. Lexeter would say
that therein lies the essence of all failure. I
disagree with him."

Oh, but you will not fail," she said rather
earnestly. " I don't mean about reforming
the world and all that, but in whatever you

attempt to do. I think there are some
people who are born so. They are in harmony
with the world from the beginning.
That is why they are useful  and delightful, "
she added quite simply.

And you yourself; which planet do you
belong to, Miss Floyd ? "

Oh, I am out of tune very often. Incompatible
things attract me, and I am
always surprising myself by finding out the
necessity of what I did not mean to do. And
then other people call you inconsistent."

Ah yes ; those terrible other people,"
said Hardinge quietly. "I think I shall
begin by suppressing them. Not that I
exactly agree with you about them. I understand
what you mean, but I never could see
why it should be such a source of misery to

be out of harmony, as you call it, with the
ideas which influence Tom, Dick, and Harry.
The whole object of life does not seem to me
to be cohesion, and the advancing of business.
Really, unless one is a predestined muff, I
do not see why the fact that all one's neighbours
are out of sympathy with one should
not tell chiefly against one's neighbours ? I
am tired of social cement, and the rubbish
that is talked about the enthusiasm for
humanity. If I see a man in trouble and
help him, why is that not enough ? I don't
see why his claim upon my benevolence is
to interfere in any degree with my right to
consider him a fool."

He looked at her again. He saw her face
in profile. The sun was shining upon her
delicate cheek and lips, and on the soft fine

hair at her temples. She wore a low crowned
felt hat which gave her something of the air
of a young boy.

I know that you do not agree with me 3
he said.

They were walking the horses up a little
hill. It was at the edge of the wood, the
larks were still singing by the river in the
flat sunny meadows, but near at hand an
indistinct humming sound, the voice of insects,
the dry tapping of bare branches, and the
rustle of small leaves rose about them.
There was a sudden smell of the earth and
the warm heavy odour of beds of young fern
in the sun.

I do not see the use of living unless one
can care for the people about one," said
Barbara a little slowly. Her eyes were cast

down, and she was apparently examining the
buckle of her reins.

I did not say one was not to care for
people. I draw the distinction between
people and their opinions. And I do not see
how life could not be worth the wear and
tear to one's temper of living. Why, merely
as a naturalist, one would find humanity
interesting," said Hardinge, smiling. He
looked about him and took off his hat and
let the wind blow upon his resolute subjoined
face. " And there is all this beside,"
he said, glancing around him comprehensively.
They were drawing nearer to Ostia. From
the crest of the hill they overlooked a waving
expanse of reeds  the first indication of the
Marsh. To the left, that dark matted line
of tree-tops was the beginning of the Castle

VOL. II.

Fusano woods. On the right a tall gray
tower rose, bare and solitary, above the
crowded and sterile life of the Marsh. They
looked across the tangled tops of a forest of
brushwood, of myrtle chiefly, and phillyrea,
bay-trees, and here and there a stunted ilex,
its branches dragged and bowed by the salt
winds of many winters  a mass of grays and
ruddy browns streaked and spotted with
green. Beyond that, low at the horizon,
was a still and glittering sea. The round
massive outline of the castle of Ostia rested
heavily against this motionless field of
light.

It was only for a moment, then they reentered
the wood. They rode on. They
joined the others of the party. Lexeter had
some white narcissi in his hand.

They are the first I have seen this
year," he said, and gave them to Barbara.

Thanks ! "

She put them in her dress and looked
down at them, and touched the white stars
softly with her fingers. Lalli was watching
her from the other side of the road. He
had a curious expression on his face which
struck Barbara the instant she looked at
him. She turned her head to speak to him,
and felt suddenly embarrassed.

Count Lalli " she said.

He checked his horse abruptly, hesitated,
and then brought him across the road.

You wanted me ? "

Oh, it was nothing particular," said

Barbara quickly. She heard Hardinge's

voice behind her, and, a moment after,

c 2

Octave's laugh. They were not ten yards
away from her, but she had all the sensation
of being irrevocably excluded. " Are you 
are you tired ? Are not these flowers
lovely ? " she said, putting up her hand to
the white blossoms in her breast.

Lalli stared at her fixedly for a moment,
and the same singular contraction passed
over his features.

So that is what you wanted ? " he said
abruptly.

He laughed, and threw back his head.
His nostrils quivered and whitened. " I am
not a judge of flowers. Ask Mr. Lexeter,"
he said indistinctly between his clenched
teeth. She hardly understood the words,
but there was no mistaking the look which
he threw at her as he turned sharply about

and struck his spurs into his horse. The
animal was a quiet enough Koman hack,
not unaccustomed to strange theoretic
riding, but this was surely a more wanton
affront than usual. Lalli was an exceptionally
good horseman, but for a minute
or two there was a very pretty little
struggle for mastery upon the stones of the
sunny causeway.

What the deuce ! steady there, Miss
Damon ! Shall we charitably imagine that
our Italian friend has gone mad ? or what is
the meaning of this piece of circus riding,
Miss Floyd ; " said Hardinge, riding up to her
with a smile.

I don't know," said Barbara quickly.
Her eyes were cast down. Her face was
quite pale.

They were entering the Marsh. A paved
road stretches straight and white across it.
The blue-green reeds rose straight and sharp,
like an army of spears, as far as the eye
could see. At the first glance the plain
presented the aspect of a solid field of
rushes ; looking more closely, one was aware
of openings in this greenness  the sunlight
glittered upon water, and the mind realised
with a shock that all this thick-set show of
verdure is in fact the merest covering for
the lagoon. Denuded of vegetation, the
Stagno would be desolate ; in its pestilential
luxuriance it becomes terrible. The hidden
water suggests treachery. In the midday
silence there are inexplicable disturbances 
quick sudden darting and struggling deep
down under cover of the rushes  dumb indications

of strange and repulsive forms of
life  the life of slime and obscurity and
secrecy. The mind follows these furtive
movements with a fascinated disgust,
imagining all curious tragedies of lower
creations  wild crippled sea-birds dragging
themselves painfully about under shelter 
fierce battle for existence between snake and
frog and newt.

At midday this expression of a crowded
sterility is at its highest. In the early
morning there are mists hanging about the
horizon ; at sunset a whiter exhalation rises
slowly, the chill forerunner of fever and
slow death ; darkness covers it ; at night
the stars are reflected in a thousand motionless
pools. But at midday the Marsh
asserts itself. In the perfectly clear air the

straight reeds glitter like sword-blades
with a pitiless distinctness. The sea is
silenced. The dim sunlight presses heavily
down upon an absolutely changeless form
of desolation. In the winter these reeds
will be stiff and dry, blanched and rattling
in the restless sea-wind. All the power of
the summer can only modify their colour
to a barren bloom. In a hundred years the
Marsh will not have altered by an inch.
The whole character of the waste implies
immutability. The handful of peasants,
half-naked and silent, toiling along that
sand-bank to the right, are workers in
the salt mines founded by Marcus Annius
twenty-five centuries ago. That blanched
and solitary tower is the campanile Dante
chose as resting-place for weary shades

waiting to be ferried over to the melancholy
shores of Purgatory. The hoarse lugubrious
croaking of the frogs rises eternally like
the malign rejoicing of all the lower powers
of evil over this barren fulfilment of some
primeval curse.

For a few steps outside the town there
were shattered capitals of columns, fragments
of headless statues lying among the
thistles by the road. They went in under
a massive stone gateway all covered over
with deeply-carved scutcheon and device.
There was a bare paved courtyard inside,
and a small and unpromising inn. The
horses' feet clattered noisily over the stones ;
an old woman came and looked at them out
of an upper window, and pulled the rude
shutter close with a bang. They were

so near the battlemented tower of the
castle they could distinctly distinguish the
slight stirring of the wind among the stiff
blue-green masses of wormwood crowning
the bastion. Nothing else seemed alive in
all the desolate place.

They had all dismounted; the horses were
standing together with drooping heads.
Lalli alone had remained in the saddle ; he
was taking his horse up and down a short
bit of the road, putting him through all
his paces, and apparently deriving some
pleasure from the restive resistance he met
with.

"What is Count Lalli doing ?" asked
Octave, innocently pulling off her glove.

The two young men looked at each other
and did not answer.

I thought that we were to meet mamma
and Mr. Floyd ? "

Oh, they have gone on to the woods
with the trap, and the luncheon too, worse
luck."

Just look after those horses, Lexeter,
there's a good fellow. We shall have them
all imitating that idiot out there before we
know where we are' said Hardinge in a
low voice. He walked over to the stable-door
and looked in. " Hallo ! I say, wake
up there, can't you ? I'll be hanged,
Lexeter, if there are not two stablemen
in here, and the beggars fast asleep."

"And what comes next? Are there not
ruins or something ? " said Octave, gaily
rolling up her gloves together and tossing
them into the air like a ball. "It is really

a most dreadful spectacle to see you lose
your temper in that way, Mr. Hardinge.
Why should not stablemen sleep ? I
should  I should sleep all day long if I
were living in this awful place ; and then
I suppose you would be enraged at me ? "
looking at Hardinge with a sudden dimple
in each cheek. She rose from the stone on
which she had been sitting, and flicked some
dust from her habit with the end of her
whip. " And oh Barbara, what would you
give for a drink of milk  delicious cool new
milk  before we start ? " she said.

The ruins of the old town are at a
distance of some ten minutes' walk clown the
road. They strolled there leisurely across
a low grassy plain. The temperate sunshine
filled the air with a pleasant warmth, they

crushed wild thyme beneath their footsteps
as they sauntered idly over the short warm
grass ; the wind tasted salt upon their lips,
blowing across the wide-mouthed Tiber from
the sea. They came upon the paved
and shadowless street ; on either hand low
brick-built houses ; there were flowers and
small green plants growing in the crevices,
and shy brown lizards basking upon the
sunny stones, worn into deep ruts from the
long pressure of old chariot wheels. At the
end of each street was the same expanse of
brown river, low horizon, and flat and empty
marsh.

The soft white clouds floated by overhead
against a sky of summer blue. It was a day
for lying down on grassy plains, for idle talk,
and the satisfaction of living in the sun. They

had wandered down through many ruined
courts to the foot of a small open-air altar.
Octave seated herself upon its lower step.
She took off her hat, the wind ruffled her
curly hair upon her forehead, she threw back
her head and her delicate throat and chin
looked more flower-like than ever against
that background of gray stones.

I suppose you know that that was one
of the altars to Pan. Some fellow was
telling me about having been down here
when they uncovered the mosaic inscription,"
said Lexeter lazily, clasping his hands behind
his head.

You mean David, I suppose V said
Hardinge, glancing at Octave.

He picked up a small glittering fragment
of glass grown iridescent from long

burial, turned it over curiously in his hand
for a moment, and threw it carelessly at the
nearest lizard. It fell wide of its mark and
struck Barbara lightly on the wrist. She
started and looked up.

"I beg your pardon," the young man said
smiling ; " I did not mean to begin stoning
you. It is an appropriate place for a
martyrdom ; but I did not mean to make a
martyr of you."

"St. Monica died here," said Octave,
smelling at a flower. " I've seen a picture of
her at Ostia ; or a print."

"You mean Mary Schemer's picture. St.
Monica and St. Augustine sitting at 'a
curtain window ' ? " said Lexeter. " I know
it. Mary Schemer is a bore."

Mr. Lexeter ! "

I will tell you something better than
that. All the great Eoman expeditions
sailed from here. Scipio Africans  I
always thought he was a little like you,
Hardinge  started from Ostia for Spain. I
believe he started from those very steps
where Miss Floyd is sitting."

Of course," said Barbara, lifting up her
clear eyes and smiling at him.

And Caesar Borgia  am I right in saying
that there are traits in common between him
and Lexeter ? "

Thanks."

"Don't mention it, old fellow. Caesar
Borgia was imprisoned in the castle over
there. I wonder how he liked it?" said
Hardinge ; " I was sorry he never left us his
opinion of the Marsh. It reminds me of

him," the young man said, turning his eyes
towards the flat and shining fen.

A pleasant suggestion for Mr. Lexeter !"
"Oh, those fifteenth-century fellows had
the pull over us in one thing. At least they
were individuality," said Lexeter, pulling
his hat down over his eyes ; " and they
knew exactly what they wanted. It is a
great privilege to be born unscrupulous.
We don't do that sort of thing well nowadays.
Modern unscrupulousness is merely
vulgarity  the hankering after other people's
goods and chattels ; or brute selfishness. At
the best our mental freedom is purely relative,
bounded on all sides by religious fragments
and traditional ditches  like horses
turned out in a paddock to graze until it is
time to put them into harness. I know

VOL. II. D

there is Hardinge, for instance, who has all
sorts of ideas about moral independence, and
all that kind of thing. Wait ! Some day,
some woman or other will come to the gate
of the paddock with a neat little halter ; up
trots Hardinge, hereditary instincts and all,
and the end of that man "

"Is worse than the beginning? "Wait!"
said Hardinge cheerfully, looking up at
Octave with a smile. "I may turn out
as untractable as Count Lalli's refractory
steed."

Ah poor Cesco ! But I wonder what
has become of him, you know," said
Octave, with her quick transparent blush.

You see  I know very well you don't
agree with me  but don't you see yourself
how this morbid modern scrupulousness

runs through every act and feeling, and
spoils the more impulsive part of it ? Why,
take those two lines of Matthew Arnold,"
said Lexeter, turning to Barbara ; " don't
you remember, where he is telling the girl
that he loves how

A sea rolls between us
Our different past ?

Now is there any mood one can understand
more easily ? Have we not, each one of us,
experienced it at one time or another ? It
is perfectly sincere sentiment. But will you
try to imagine what a Caesar Borgia, what
a fifteenth-century Italian, would have
made out of that ? And take the commonest
everyday experiences. Suppose  suppose
a man wants to marry a girl, and has no
money. Of course men without money are

L> 2

a blunder, upon the face of things ; we all
know that. But hath not a Jew also
feelings V

But I thought Jews always had money "
said Octave, arching her delicate eyebrows
and looking at him.

Hardinge laughed. A cloud passed over
the sun. He took off his hat and threw it
down beside him on the short thyme-sweetened
grass.

"I must say I agree with you there,
Lexeter. The tendency is to complicate
things quite unnecessarily. Imagine, for
instance  well, let us say marrying a
foreigner; a representative of alien traditions
and influences. Can you not conceive
how, after a while, all the little variations
which attracted one would come to symbolise

the most dividing differences ? I never
could marry any woman  not in spite of
your neat little allegory, Lexeter  no
woman, no, not if I adored her," the
young man said, laughing ; "no woman
who had not associations with the rhymes
of Mother Goose."

It was the mere idle talk of a summer
day. Barbara sat listening to it, pulling
the short grass up by its roots and looking
at it before she threw it away.

"Ah, there is Count Lalli at last. The
horse is conquered," said Octave suddenly,
lifting up her head.

They could see him a long distance off  a
tall dark figure crossing the solitary plain.
He came straight towards the spot where
they were resting. For some reason they

were all silent. A large gray winged sea-bird
flew by overhead.

"That is not a gull, surely?" said
Hardinge, following it with his eyes.

The sound of Lalli's firm footstep and
the click of his spurs were distinctly audible
as he strode down the narrow sunny street.
For one moment it seemed as if he would
pass them.

We are here," said Barbara, rising and
looking at him across the crumbling partition
wall.

It was as they were walking across the
fields on their way to Castel Fusano that
Lalli asked her to let him speak to her
alone for a few minutes. He made the
request with a constrained formality which
could not fail to surprise her.

"But I will speak to you whenever you
like," she said at once, looking at him
rather anxiously with her grave and
beautiful eyes. " Surely you remember
that we are friends ? "

He made no answer. They were crossing
the 2rrass-grown bridge which leads over the
last arm of the Stagno. He turned his
head aside and looked down at the
treacherous sluggish water. A thousand
discordant voices rose harshly from the
confines of the Marsh. When at last his
glance met hers she was struck with the
extreme pallor of his face.

Mrs. Damon and Mr. Floyd had driven
onward to the wood, after a very brief
pause, with something of the fatalistic
resignation characteristic of the American
parent.

I hope Octave will not be too tired, I'm
sure. It was very foolish of her to ride 
very. She is quite certain to over-exert
herself," Mrs. Damon remarked rather plaintively,
putting up her hand to pat her smooth
dark hair, and looking with dark and melancholy
eyes at her companion. The carriage
was standing before the small inn door.

They had met no one on the road down
here, and that road had been dusty ; the sun
was hot. The country had the power of
irritating Mrs. Damon. She was secretly
conscious of annoyance against this stupid
iteration of meaningless hedgerow and field.

I quite envy you your  your unconcern
about poor dear Barbara," she said, a trifle
sharply. " And so popular as she is with
the gentlemen too. I'm sure Count Lalli
is most devoted. It is most gratifying, of
course. And perhaps I am foolish, and it is
only a mothers anxiety "

She stopped short and lifted her flexible
eyebrows. " But dear Barbara is very attractive,
of course. So clever," she added
hastily. She smiled in an embarrassed sort
of way, and passed her handkerchief across

her lips. " I think I will go upstairs for a
moment. I daresay these people can give
me a room where I might wash my hands
and get rid of a little of this dust ? " she
murmured almost inaudibly.

Allow me to assist you' said Mr. Floyd
slowly, turning his large pale face blankly
upon her, and offering her his hand. He
stood, leaning against the carriage-door,
biting his nails absently; turning his
quick keen glance from time to time upon
the men busied about the horses, while she
toiled up the narrow stair. " How could I
have been so stupid ? " she asked herself
with a half-frightened half-amused look.
I shall tell Octave. What ! have you no
better room than this, my good woman ?
Go and fetch me some hot water then.

Mind, not tepid water ; hot," she said, sinking
languidly down upon the vacant chair,
and looking about her with an expression
of some curiosity and contempt at the
small and not over-clean room. There
was a highly-coloured counterpane on the
dubious bed. An equally-brilliant lithograph
of Our Lady of Sorrow hung by
the window, simpering placidly above the
seven wounds. By a bold metaphor the
artist had represented the Madonna's eyes of
a vivid purple. Their gaze seemed to follow
Mrs. Damon's movements about the room as
she slowly adjusted herself before the glass.
That dim cracked surface had apparently
the power of insinuating new wrinkles. She
took off her hat, and looked at herself close
and anxiously until the muscles grew

strained, the lines deepened, about her
mouth and eyes. She smiled at her own
reflection, but her great hollow eyes never
lost that look of sombre anxiety. She
rested her chin upon her hand.

So old already ! " she said with a half-inaudible
sigh.

Something like a look of terror passed
over the pretty, faded, foolish face.

The next moment she started and looked
hastily around at the abrupt entrance of the
patron.

"Why  why don't you knock before
coming into people's rooms ? " she asked
with some asperity.

The Italian woman looked at her calmly,
.almost indifferently. She was a strongly-built
young peasant woman of perhaps thirty.

There is your hot water," she said.
We have none hotter."

She set the jug down upon the table, and
folded her arms contemplatively, and stood
gazing at Mrs. Damon with the deliberate
scrutiny of a curious animal. Her bony
hands, curved and flattened by hard labour,
hung down in an irresolute way from her
wrists.

Where are the towels ? I suppose you
have towels," said Mrs. Damon presently.

Certainly. We have towels."

Then go and get me some  instantly,"
the widow said petulantly. It was only
habit which kept her from stamping her
foot. " Oh dear," she said helplessly, " I
wish Octave were here with me."

The flies buzzed noisily and incessantly

against the ceiling. She could hear Mr.
Floyd's voice in the courtyard giving an
order to the coachman.

The gentleman wishes to know if you
would like to wait here for the other
signori ? " the woman asked, coming back
with a towel over her arm.

Certainly not."

Mrs. Damon hesitated a moment. She
looked about her, she put her hand in her
pocket and drew out a small ivory box of rice-powder
and a dainty pink silk puff. She
powdered her cheeks carefully, looked at
herself, put on her hat again and gave a
little nod.

I suppose you wonder what I have been
doing ! Ladies have to do that, you know,
otherwise their faces would get quite black

in the sun," she explained graciously, turning
to the peasant with a half apologetic
smile.

The woman laughed stolidly, and Mrs.
Damon felt her cheeks reddening suddenly
under all their careful artificial bloom.

But these people are terrible, quite
brutalised, I assure you," she said to Mr.
Floyd, picking her way daintily across the
stones to the carriage-step. She was rested
and refreshed, her spirits rose with the
sensation of comfort. She talked pleasantly
to her companion. The carriage-wheels rolled
noiselessly over the soft grassy lane. She
looked with approval on either hand at fields
of yellow marshy bloom. The short forest
turf stretched without a break to the very
doorstep of the Chili shooting-lodge. Single

pine-trees, straight stemmed and tall, rose
from the grass. Mild white oxen fed slowly
in the sunshine, or stepped together with
patient strength, dragging huge loads of
wood. The crack of their driver's whip
sounded long after they had disappeared
from sight among the trees. And across the
clearing rose the forest, a goodly army of tall
pines, dark serried trunks, and deep uplifted
murmurous crowns of shade. There were
yellow daffodils in the sunlight in the moist
meadow where the oxen were feeding.

They never do attack one, I suppose ? "
Mrs. Damon suggested rather nervously,
glancing doubtfully at the formidable curve
of their horns.

Mr. Floyd turned his face slowly towards
her. He pushed his hat to the back of his

head and pressed his finger-tips together in
an attitude of attention.

"You were speaking of Barbara a short
time ago ; if I am correct in my impression, I
gathered from your remark the idea that
this young Count Lalli "

Oh, but you must not expect me to
reveal young ladies' secrets," said Mrs.
Damon promptly, poking at the grass with
her parasol and then shaking her head at
him playfully. "What I know is only what
a little bird has whispered to me ; and it is
a little bird that never speaks to gentlemen. "

Perhaps Miss Octave "

Now, Mr. Floyd, as if these poor dear
children were not to be allowed to have
their own little secrets ! Why, when I
was a girl " She looked down, and

YOL. II. E

fingered her dress with a conscious smile.
"My little bird never reveals secrets to
gentlemen '

Well, well ! " said Mr. Floyd, looking
down at the ground with a sigh. He drew
out his cigar-case automatically, and then
restored it quickly to his pocket. The old
southern planter never smoked before " the
ladies." He did not avail himself now of
Mrs. Damon's permission, putting aside her
entreaties with a formal wave of his hand.
As the party of the young people approached
them Barbara was walking beside Count
Lalli. Mr. Floyd sighed again as he looked
at his daughter. She came up to him and
took hold of his arm.

"Are you tired, papa? Have we kept
you waiting ? "

But he only turned away his head. " It
is to Mrs. Damon you must all make your
apologies," he said slowly.

"There are no depths of humility to
which I will not descend for the sake of
getting some luncheon, Mrs. Damon ; I
place myself unrestrictedly at your mercy,"
said Hardinge, laughing and throwing himself
down on the grass at the widow's feet.

She smiled ; turning upon him a full

cordial look of liking, which seemed at once

to remember and include everything about

him  his family, his social standing, his

personal appearance  within the same

measure of approval. Mrs. Damon was

always more enthusiastic in her judgments

than her daughter. For one thing, she was

physically much stronger ; she knew nothing

e 2



SITY0FILUN09

by experience of the feeling of intense
lassitude, the silent distaste of the effort
of daily life, which was common experience
to Octave. The strong caressing affection
between mother and daughter existed quite
independently of any such mental familiarity.
There was nothing in this fact to disturb
their intercourse. There is perhaps one
mind in a hundred in which a vivid interest
in the ornaments and futilities  the ribbons
and trimmings  of life, cannot coexist with
a depressing conviction of the insignificance
of existence viewed as a whole. Octave was
indisputably far stricter in the observance of
religious formulas than her mother, Mrs.
Damon being at times guiltily conscious of
many shortcomings in the matter of attending
early service and general church

discipline in Lent. It was Octave who
superintended all details of housekeeping
in their small and dainty menage, and who
from time to time was subject to cautious
remonstrance, for the widow was fond of a
good table. Outwardly, indeed, she submitted
without a murmur to much severity
of decision on the part of the young
neophyte ; consoling herself possibly with
reflecting vaguely that such keenness for self-sacrifice
was not destined to survive any
lengthy experience of matrimony. Religious
restrictions which extended to the ordinary
and familiar days of the week were like
rigid rules laid down for hours of work or
the practising of music  something only
permissible in a household of women, and
where the comfort of " the gentlemen " was

not concerned. Nine years ago such ideas
were still possible in the minds of attractive-looking
women, moving gracefully and with
recognised success through life, looking with
an agreeable feeling of superiority and contempt
upon their more unsatisfied sisters, and
deducing infallible condemnatory opinions
of social agitators from the objectionable
character of their dress.

It was not until after luncheon that anyone
proposed walking to the seashore. The
afternoon light threw long slanting shadows
from the wood ; the gray walls of the
solitary castella had lost something of their
forbidding aspect ; even the grotesque
Saracen's heads, carved in stone long years
ago, when life was more episodic in character,
and the peremptory visit of seafaring marauders

a distinctly possible experience 
even these timeworn defenders seemed to
lose something of their grimness under the
delicate persistent warmth of the March sun.
Their half-human gaze followed the party of
young people to the green and mysterious
entrance of the wood. A straight wide road,
paved with huge blocks of lava, has cleft the
forest to the shore. For a mile the bare
undeviating causeway runs straight forward
as an arrow's flight, piercing the deepest
recesses of the pines  cool fragrant places
where the bright cyclamen grow in the sand,
under thickets of sturdy laurel; and there
is abundance of wild blue rosemary and the
white moon-faced laurustinus flower  all
wild, strong, close-petalled, blossoming
things, " born of the sea and the bright day."

It was still early; the shadows fell but
softly across the causeway ; the whole wood
seemed penetrated with a feeling of lightness
and spring warmth ; there was delicate
pleasure in the tempered touch of the sun.
In the quiet afternoon light the tall plumy
softness of the Mediterranean heath glimmered
palely among the sombre trees ; the
forest was full of its fragrance, mingling
with the warmer scent of the pines ; down
far green glades they could see its branches
softly waving like the beckoning hands of
the white-armed dryads of the wood.

It was an afternoon for much delightful
leisure. " The kind of afternoon which
makes one believe in Boccaccio," Hardinge
said, throwing his head back lazily to watch
the slanting flight of a sea-hawk across the

fringe of pines. " I should feel it an
anachronism to wish for a gun ; but there
is a capital shot to be had, you know, at
that fellow."

They had left the wood behind them, and
crossed the high bare dunes. The tide was
coming in silently ; there was no belt of
rock to vex the water into resistance. The
flat shore was stretched defenceless before
the glittering, creeping, restless sea. At
some little distance a small low hut made a
black spot of shadow on the sands.

I wonder what that place can be  if
anyone lives there ?" asked Barbara idly.
She looked up, and her eye happened to
catch Lalli's glance.

Were you speaking to me ? " he said,
looking at her rather fixedly. " You must

pardon my not answering ; I do not
understand English."

Oh," said Barbara, flushing ; " I beg your
pardon. It was very stupid of me to forget."

Is that the only thing you have forgotten,
then ?" asked Lalli quickly. He
turned his face as he spoke towards Octave,
who was saying :

It really is entirely Mr. Hardinge's
fault, who pretends that he can only speak
French to one person at a time."

The French plurals are so irregular,"
said Hardinge calmly. ' c All foreign tongues
should be reserved for a tte--tte, where
the interests are identical."

Nonsense ! 'Mais quant d moi, comte, je
vous demande mille fois pardon"

"Mais, mademoiselle, je vous enprie "

Barbara had been quite silent. She looked
up now.

I was only asking you about that house
over there," she said, pointing with her
hand, She hesitated for an instant, as
Lexeter observed. " I think I should like
to walk down there. Will you walk with
me ? " she said.

The three left behind were silent for a
moment. Miss Damon looked at her companions.
"I don't think that you are a
great admirer of  of Italians, Mr. Lexeter V
she suggested demurely.

On the contrary, I admire an infinite
number of Italians. It is not my fault,
surely, that they are all in their graves ? "
said Lexeter, smiling a little at her pretty
look of mischief.

And of course, Count Lalli being a
living contemporary "

He is certainly a fine-looking fellow,"
said Lexeter quickly, glancing at the tall
soldierly figure crossing the sands. He saw
Barbara stand still for a moment ; her companion
bent forward as if to pick up something
which had been dropped. "It is all
such  such confounded rubbish, this talk
about Italians being romantic," he broke
out suddenly. " It is a superstition which
came into fashion with Garibaldi and his
legions. The situation was romantic, if you
like. There was a mystery about it then.
If you look at a bare turnpike road at midnight
you may get at a sense of romance
and mystery."

And this is the man who never rested

until he had brought me to Italy ! " said
Hardinge, laughing, and clasping his hands
behind his head.

Italy ? My dear fellow, you don't mean
to say that you believe that Italy, our Italy
what we mean by saying Italy  belongs,
or has belonged, or ever will belong, to men
of this calibre ? " His eyes turned again in
Cesco Lalli's direction. " Material Italy
may, perhaps, when they have turned a few
more churches into barracks, and copied the
Boulevard Haussmann, and canonised the
Tiber, and  and whitewashed the Coliseum.
That will be ' Italy for the Italians,' with
a vengeance. What we find here  our
Promised Land, whose slightest memory
is a joy and a possession, whose very name
is dear as desire  what have they had todo

with it ? what pleasure do they get out
of it ? Have you ever heard an Italian
speak enthusiastically of anything beautiful
in nature ? Can they see it, except through
an effort of complacence, even when it is
pointed out to them ? And how often have
you met a Roman in a picture-gallery ? "

He frowned and pulled his hat farther down
over his eyes.

You have been here longer than I have,
Miss Damon "

"Well, but I think, you know," said
Octave, " that they are very nice, and  and
attentive."

Ah," Lexeter said, glancing at her from
under the brim of his hat.

I don't know that I quite agree with
you, my boy," began Hardinge doubtfully.
I remember Mazzini "

"Yes, there is Mazzini," said Lexeter
slowly ; " and there have always, in all
countries, been starlike souls akin to his,
as high and shining and solitary ; august
orbs rising in the murkiest midnight to prophesy
the new birth of a new saviour among
men. I was not thinking of such as these.
I was speaking of the average Italian, a
being as passionate as he is shallow ; a creature
uncultivated and sonorous, unscrupulous
and prudent ; a man who uses the most
beautiful language in the world to express the
most banal ideas, as he uses the most beautiful
country to illustrate the most barren modern
doctrines  an overgrown unproductive army
and the ideals of a popular parliament."

"You can't deny their common-sense  
began Harclinge.

They are the most practical-minded of
individuals, if you come to that."

and if ever I take to ecclesiastical

architecture," the young American said,
glancing at Octave with a smile, "I shall
build an altar to commonsense. Not that
commonest form of commonsense, which is
merely prevalent and classified stupidity ;
but an altar to the unknown god, to the
faculty one pretends to be surprised not to
find in the lowest classes and which is really
the final expression, the resume* of the finest
highest civilisation. The Greeks knew it,"
Hardinge said, raising himself slightly,
resting his elbow upon the sand and turning
his keen and resolute profile to the sea 
41 they knew this temperate, flexible, dispassionate
condition of the mind."

He might have passed for a young Greek
himself at that moment. As far as temperament
goes he was certainly quite Hellenic.
There was an expression of vitality about
Hardin ge which was really extraordinary.
His laugh was contagious, his enjoyment
of life a positive pleasure to everyone who
knew him. I think he never himself w r as
aware of the number of his friends. When
he was pleased, his good-humour was irresistible
as the sunshine. "Confound the fellow!
I believe he thinks he is born into a perfectly
fresh world every morning ! " . someone had
said in describing him ; and indeed I fancy
the observation was not far wrong.

Lexeter looked at him now for a moment
in silence. He shook his head ; he got up
slowly to his feet and thrust his hands into

yol. n.

his pockets and walked away. His head was
bent down.

Poor Mr. Lexeter," said Octave, looking
after him, " he walks as if he were tired.
It must be very disagreeable to be lame in
that fashion."

Poor old boy, he is the best fellow I
know  taking him all round  is Lexeter,"
said Hardinge lazily enough, and still looking
at her.

His eyes were dark and not large, but
extraordinarily brilliant ; their ordinary expression
was one of an intelligent, rather
satirical amusement. Some man at his
college had given him the nickname of the
Social Naturalist," by way of defining and
resenting the mental attitude which he
commonly adopted. He had told Miss

Damon of the sobriquet ; she remembered it
now, as she sat with her long dark eyelashes
lowered, the delicate transparent colour
coming and going on her cheek. The high
sand-dune above them was crested with a
low sturdy growth of rosemary and laurel.
Their branches were swaying stiffly ; from
time to time the leaf-shadows rested upon
her hands and hair. The sea before them
lay still and glittering.

Barbara must have gone farther than
she intended," said Octave.

There was no sign now of anyone moving
along the sands. Lexeter had rejoined
Mr. Floyd. They had strolled back towards
the wood together.

I want you to do something for me, if
you will," Mr. Floyd had said. He had a

great liking for Lexeter. " I shall pay you
the compliment, sir, of not apologising to
you for troubling you with an account
of my private affairs," the old gentleman
began, formally enough, leaning both
wrinkled hands upon his old-fashioned cane,
and standing with his hat pushed well back,
turning his large pale joyless face upon
Lexeter. "You know this young fellow,
Lalli ? " he asked.

I have met him at your house, and seen
him half-a-dozen times at a cafe."

Well, well ; you know him as young
men know each other," the older man said
testily.

His request was very simple. Mrs.
Damon had pointed out to him the fact of
Lalli's evident intentions. " These facts are

plain enough to lookers-on, sir. They are
made a common subject of comment. It is
only those nearest concerned who are to
be kept in ignorance  tricked and blinded
until all is over, that the fools may not be
disappointed of their cursed idiotic laughter.
Well  this has nothing to do with my
daughter," Mr. Floyd said suddenly, fixing
his light piercing glance upon his companion's
face. " The child is only following
out a woman's first instinct of concealment.
It's inevitable ; I don't blame her. And
perhaps indeed the secret has not been such
a close oue. You may have observed it
yourself, sir, although you have not considered
it wise or necessary to give me
warning ? "

I should certainly not have presumed to

speak to you about Bar  about Miss Floyd,"
Lexeter said quietly, taking out a cigar and
beginning methodically to light it. He had
received an impression which many subsequent
trifles only tended to confirm, that
the proud old Carolinian had never known
how to forget the woman he had loved,
and who betrayed him. In the bitterness
of his resentment he would have destroyed
every association and memory of his youth.
Was it his pride or his heart which had
experienced the fiercest pang ? In either
case the fact remained that his daughter
was now the only visible token left of that
past, to recall the humiliation of those days
their impotent rage ; their despair. And

his daughter

Whatever I can ascertain about Count

Lalli I will tell you. I fear it will be very
little. I know nothing against him. I
know almost nothing of the men with
whom he associates," Lexeter said. " If we
have not more things in common I daresay
it is as much my fault as his. I am an unsociable
brute in a general way. I get along
well enough with Walter Hardinge ; but he
is an exception. I will find out what I can
for you, but I fear you have made a poor
selection of a diplomatic agent," he went
on, looking down with a curious sort of
smile. " And, candidly, I don't think the
count is ever likely to make me many confidences.
We are not sympathetic to each
other. Why ? upon my word I have nothing
to say against him ! He is very good-looking.
I have heard Miss Damon express

great admiration for him. She says he is
interesting. I don't know. I am a much
older man than he is. I have a different
life ; very different occupations. It is
perfectly reasonable that we should find
next to nothing to say to each other." He
raised his head and looked about him with
eyes which noted but little of the quiet
loveliness of the afternoon light among the
pine stems. And yet, long after, it was
curious's how he remembered the details of
this day. "I am very much older than
Lalli," he repeated.

"And I suppose Barbara likes his good
looks, and all that sort of thing ? "

Lexeter made no answer.

It would have been more friendly of
you, Lexeter I should have taken it more

kindly of you, sir  to have warned me of
this before' Mr. Floyd said again. " I
am not in the habit of expecting much
frankness from the majority of men. Tis
human nature to think first of one's own
interest. But we have been friendly
together "

Should you have spoken in my place ?
I do not think you had the slightest right to
exact that from me," the young man said
quite respectfully. He thrust his hands
deep down into his pockets. " Lalli has
some money, I believe. He has a house
somewhere in the country, and there is this
place of his  this farm that we are all
going out to. I believe that he is well off
for an Italian."

Yes  Mrs. Damon had intimated as much.

"It will be a proof of his disinterestedness,
marrying Barbara. My daughter
has but very moderate expectations. Her
husband must necessarily be provided with
an income. Tis true there may be something:
coming to her later. There is some
small property left by  by Mrs. Floyd. I
shall be forced to go to America to look
after it if indeed there is any prospect
of this marriage. You see some of the
pleasures of paternity, " he said, looking up
at Lexeter with his worn expectant smile.
You never married, Lexeter. I would not
be understood to say anything disrespectful
of the ladies ; they have their own way of
doing things. But perhaps you are wise,
sir, you are wise."

cf There is such a thing as the wisdom of

necessity," said Lexeter, rather curtly. He
was conscious of that sort of speechless irritation
which comes from having our deficiencies
accepted as patent facts.

They said nothing more to each other.
Presumably Mrs. Damon will have finished
her siesta," Mr. Floyd observed. Lexeter
watched him moving away through the
wood  a short, heavy, middle-aged figure.
His gray head was bent down a little ; all
that joyous tenderness of summer light and
shadow only served, by contrast, to make
the elastic step seem heavier, the expectant
face more dull.

Lexeter stood looking after him with a
curious mingling of liking and compassion.
He felt as a man feels towards his old friend
and companion on the eve of a final separation

; lie was moved by an impulse of
extreme indulgence and toleration. " And
so poor little Barbara marries her handsome
soldier lover, and  and that is the end of
the old story' he thought. He looked up
at the full budding exuberance of fresh life
about him. Spring had come ; it was time
to break up the winter encampment. The
new season had prevailed over the old, he
told himself with an indescribable pang of
regret  of fruitless longing. His next action
was not insignificant of that complex mood,
half cynicism half sentiment, which characterised
the man. He took a note-book out
from his pocket and jotted down a list of
figures on the page. They were old calculations
; he viewed them now with the accustomed
bitterness of an old enemy. " I

wonder what Mr. Floyd would say to such
an income as that ? There is no fool like
an old fool, but I defy Folly herself to sail
far out of her course with such an anchor
dragging," he said, shutting up his notebook
and restoring it to his pocket absently.
He began thinking of Barbara. He began
asking himself how it was possible that she
should care for that fellow ? " Damn him !
he is like a moral advertisement  all his
attractions thrust upon the public."

But this did not make him doubt the
probability of Barbara's fascination. At
Lexeter's age a man is not apt to consider
moral incongruity as the kind of barrier to
an eligible marriage, which will be patent to
other eyes than his own. The fellow can
afford to marry her, he thought  and if she

has got to care for him already  poor little
Barbara !

Perhaps there was something contagious
in Mr. Floyd's hopeless fatalism. It seemed
to him impossible now that this marriage
should be prevented.

There were flowers growing in the short
grass at his feet. He stooped down and
plucked one of them  a white narcissus,
such as he had given Barbara a few hours
earlier. He held it in his hand irresolutely,
looking up the road. It seemed to him quite
possible that he should see her coming down
there towards him between the trees. All
that green and golden wealth of tremulous
light and. shade seemed only a fitting background
for the gracious young figure. She
should come to him with the sunlight falling

on her white hands, and a smile in those
clear trustful eyes. And then  then  the
flower dropped from between his fingers.
It fell on the bare stones of the pathway.
He looked down at it  "Absit omen!"
He attempted to smile, but it was at best a
dubious sort of contraction which passed
over his face. He shook his head impatiently;
presently he too thrust his
hands back into his pockets and walked
away. He was walking towards the sea.

They had gone some little distance from
the others before Lalli spoke to her.

Possibly  probably, you are wondering
why I asked you to come ? "

Not at all. It was careless of us all to
have been speaking English. I do not
know how it happened. I am sorry'
Barbara answered absently. She had been
walking along with her face to the sea, she
turned it now towards him. "I think it
was I who asked you," she began, smiling.

Whatever it was she saw in her companion's

face it had the effect of silencing
her.

The fisherman's hut rose close before
them, an empty shed, thatched with the
dead reeds of the Stao;no. Some storm had
blown the rude door from its hinges ; it lay
broken and rotting in the shadow on the
sand.

After all there was nothing to see here,"
she said, looking down.

Her own voice sounded uncertain, strange ;
but she was conscious of nothing distinctly.
The wide plain of sea, the unfamiliar open
look of things about them, gave to this
moment something of the vivid arbitrary
quality of a dream. The very feeling of
the hot loose sand under foot seemed to
remove them to an infinite distance from

VOL. II. g

the Eoman streets. A gull flew by overhead,
the shadow of its wings making a
dark moving spot across the sand ; the light
restless wind blew more freshly in their
faces.

I am tired ; and there is nothing to
see. Shall  shall we go back ? " said
Barbara, standing still and raising her eyes
with a palpable effort to his face.

Lalli turned his head with a slight start,
as if some oppressive spell had broken.

No. Why should we go back ? " he
asked slowly, gazing fixedly at her. The
sea-bird flitted past again, its shrill cry
sounded faintly from a distance.

Oh, as you please," said Barbara, looking
down again with an effort.

She moved her hand, and the glove

she was holding fell upon the sand at
her feet. He stooped to pick it up for
her ; it was at that moment Lexeter was
watching them.

"Why should I tell you what you
know already ? But it is impossible you
should know how much I love you," he
said.

Her hands closed suddenly upon each

other. It was the first time in her life that

any man had spoken to her such words.

She bent her head ; involuntarily she moved

on a few steps towards the shelter of the

ruined hut. Across the intense personal

consciousness of that moment there flashed

the conviction that this was a crisis, her life

could never be quite the same again ; it had

been touched from the outside.

g 2

She moved on mechanically to the shadow
and sat down on the broken planks. A
high sand-dune rose behind the gray weatherbeaten
building ; in this sheltered corner
the coarse sea-grass had spread an inextricable
knotted network down the hillside.
There was a dark semicircular line of seaweed,
the dead drift of some forgotten
storm, on the sand at her feet. She sat
looking at this. Lalli was standing in front
of her. He was saying :

I think I must have loved you from the
first moment I ever saw you. Do you
remember that night you went to the
ball ? You came down the stairs all in
white, and Margherita was holding up a
light behind you."

Ah ! " said Barbara, bending her head

lower. She remembered confusedly what
he had told her that first evening ; of how
he had watched her for months in the
different churches ; but perhaps he had
forgotten ? A ray of sunlight passing
through the cracks in the weather-beaten
boards fell upon her hair as she moved, and
on the warm delicate whiteness of her chin
and throat.

I have always loved you," said Lalli,
looking down at her. " I have no right to
say so. I have nothing to offer you "

She lifted her hand slightly. " I wish
you would not "

I have nothing. And you  you are

rich " Barbara looked up quickly.

You have friends. You are beautiful.
You  you have all your life before you

Lalli said, turning his face abruptly to the
sea, his voice going up into a thin high
falsetto with excitement. " I am a doomed
man. Who shall struggle against fatality ?
I am fated ; I told you so that first night.
Whatever I touch goes wrong. Whatever I

attempt fails. Whatever I wish for "

He stopped short, grinding his heel into the
sand. " ; Tis fatality," he said again, looking
down at Barbara with a white face and wild
gleaming eyes. " I am a man pursued by
destiny. (Sono un homo jpevseguitato dal
destiny.) I submit."

Barbara lifted her face quickly \ he was
not looking at her.

Do you suppose I have not seen things
and understood things ? " he broke out incoherently.
" I know that your father hates

me. I know that lie only tolerates my presence
in the house. And as for that Mr.
Lexeter, do you suppose I cannot see through
his pretext of not speaking French ? Not
speaking French !  the coward ! he did not
dare say so before me."

"Mr. Lexeter is not a coward," said
Barbara flushing suddenly.

A liar then ! "

And it was not Mr. Lexeter at all ; it
was Mr. Hardinge who said that, as a joke,"
she went on gravely, not noticing the interruption,
but with a sudden pang of distaste
and disappointment. Why would he persist
in using such words ? in showing himself in
such a light ?

And you say this to me ? " Lalli demanded
shrilly. "You defend those men tome

? They had better be careful. I  I am
not used to so much, patience." He took a
sudden step forward, and his voice dropped.
I have borne with so much in these last
weeks only to see you  only to be near
you," he said imploringly. He bent down
and touched her clasped hands with the
utmost gentleness. "I do love you so,
Barbara  dearest ! " he said.

She started at the word ; he could see her
lip tremble.

I would go through it all again, every
moment of it, for the chance of feeling your
hand in mine  my dearest ! " he said hotly,
watching her face with eager supplicating
looks. " Did I ever do you any harm,
Barbara ? You  you are like ice to me 
like stone. I put all my life in your hands,

at your feet, and you Sometimes I

think you have no more feeling in you than
that ! " he said, striking his hand against
the rough splintered wood. His voice
dropped again. " You  you are making me
suffer horribly."

"But, Count Lalli Oh! I am so

sorry ! " she said helplessly, hiding her face
in her hands.

He hardly noticed her distress. "Two
years ago I had a magnificent career before
me. That is over. Since then I have been
living the life of a dog. I don't know why
I haven't shot myself through the head;
twenty times over I have been on the point
of doing it. I am sick of life. Son stuff
di quest vita. And because once I have
trusted to somebody ; because for once I

have believed that a woman It is

quite as well that you never cared for me,"
he said sullenly, crossing his arms over his
chest and hanging his head. " I bring misfortune
with me. And how should you have
cared ? You have youth, you have beauty,
you have friends  what have I to give you ?
To be unfortunate is, to be deserted, as this
world goes. I bring misfortune. 'Tis
fatality."

He turned his head away sharply.

I suppose I don't know why I

should want to hear you say it "  with a
short nervous laugh  " but  you don't care
for me at all ? I have given you my life.
But you don't love me, Barbara ? "

The wind stirred uneasily in the blackened
weeds. " You don't love me ? " he demanded

again, staring down at her with
wild incredulous eyes.

I  cannot," said Barbara, lifting up her
face. Her sweet voice had grown husky.
His words had conjured up a vision of herself
standing aloof, refusing help when
assistance was wanted. Her own reluctance
to answer him seemed the basest form of

selfishness, and yet She looked at

him, helplessly, like a child. Her cheek
was still red from the pressure of her
fingers. "I thought  that when you said

we might be friends " she began. She

hesitated. She put her hand up to her lips
in an uncertain way, and was silent.

Don't cry," the young man said hastily,
still looking at her. It was almost the first
word he had spoken which sounded as if he

were aware of anything outside of his own
smarting vanity, his stinging disappointment.
His own eyes filled with tears as he spoke,
He never thought of hiding it. " I would
not grieve you," he said more gently. He
waited for her to speak, perhaps ; but she
was silent. " You talk of friendship," he
went on presently, with growing vehemence,
" of friendship between you and me ! You
affect to believe that it was possible ! Friendship
! Why I have loved you since the first
moment I knew you. And you "

I thought it was possible," said Barbara,
turning pale.

He never for an instant believed her. I
do not imagine it even occurred to him that
she was speaking truth. " I had a sister
once, who died," he said slowly, finding that

she remained silent. " She died in my arms.
I was only nineteen, and she was my friend
my confidant. It nearly broke my heart."
He put out his right hand. "Take her
place, Barbara' he said. " You do not love
me  'tis fatality. Be my sister then ; let
me feel that you could come to me as to a
brother. Trust me  depend on me." He
held out his hand, it was torn and bleeding
where he had struck it against the rough
splinters of the wall. " I don't ask you for
anything ; I devote myself to you. Only
give me your hand, to show that you trust
me," he said. The delicate white fingers
were trembling as he took them into his.
You are not afraid of me ? You are as
safe with me  you would be as safe with
me anywhere  in the midst of a desert  as

if as if you were the blessed Madonna ! "
he said, sighing, and looking at her with wild
reproachful eyes.

There was something in his tone and in
the sight of his bleeding hand which touched
and moved her quite unaccountably.

Please take my handkerchief. Here, I
will tie it up for you," she said hurriedly.
Her face flushed a little, as she held it bent
down, her fingers busy in binding up the
scratch. " I would trust you ; but you said
you did not want my friendship," she said
in a low voice, and smiling, although she felt
her eyes filling as she spoke.

Non e vero ! I never said it ! " he answered
hastily. He bent down and kissed the fingers
which were fastening the knot of the bandage.
He held her hand in his ; she did not draw

it away ; she was anxiously willing to prove
to him her passionate sense of gratitude for
his devotion. She raised her eyes rather
timidly and looked at him. He was watching
her with his head thrown back, with an
indescribable look of melancholy and tenderness
softening the lines of his handsome
arrogant face. With his wounded hand he
looked indeed like some devoted cavalier.
She stood looking up at him ; her eyes were
dark and wet, and two tears were glittering
on her cheek. She put up her left hand 
he was still holding the other  and brushed
them away and smiled. The wind blew
restlessly in their faces. The tide was
coming in with a slow soft sound of lapsing
waves. It was a very happy moment for
them both.

They walked back along the beach still
hand-in-hand, their lengthening shadows
moving on before them, across the wave-indented
sands. It was long years before
Barbara appreciated the full significance of
that interview  its influence in shaping all
her future life; and yet they had been
away so short a time that the sail which
Hardinge had spoken of was still in sight, a
mere white cloud against the sunny sky.
She watched it lessening, fading away in
the horizon, following its unknown course
with who can tell what vague swift dreams ?
But she started, and a look of trouble came
over her face again as-galli asked abruptly :
Who gave you those flowers ? "
He was looking at the bunch of white
narcissi which Lexeter had gathered for her,

and which still hung, crushed and drooping,
where she had fastened them in her dress.

u Throw the things away, I beg of you.
I will not have you wearing that man s
flowers," he said vehemently, speaking with
the most curious mingling of irritation and
entreaty in his voice. He seemed to attach
an importance to the request that was quite
incomprehensible, returning to it again and
again, protesting when she refused  and at
first she refused almost indignantly'  that
he meant to imply no disrespect to the
giver. " Only do it for me. It is a little
thing ; what can it cost you to do it ?
Only do it for me. Throw them away,
to satisfy me, Barbara, By heaven, you
would not have to ask me for a thing
twice ! " Count Lalli said passionately.

VOL. II. H

Hush ! There is Mr. Lexeter himself
coming to meet us. Oh, please, hush,"
said Barbara, looking anxiously towards the
wood. Intentionally or not, the flowers fell
from her dress as she moved rapidly forward.
She put out her hand. "Are you
ready ? Have we kept you waiting ? I  I
hope we have not kept you waiting, Mr.
Lexeter?" she asked rather incoherently.
It was with a feeling of relief that she
greeted his friendly melancholy face.

Had he heard anything of what they had
been saying ?

"The others have gone on through the
wood' he said, looking at her in his quiet
kindly way; and it was then, and with a
certain pang of regret, that she noticed his
gift of blossoms lying bruised and broken

upon the path. " Miss Damon proposed
that they should stroll back slowly and
wait for us near the carriage." He glanced
at Lalli. " I hope Monsieur le Comte was
satisfied with his inspection of the house ? "

"I  oh, we did not go into it," cried
Barbara hastily, looking from one to the
other of the two men.

They walked back through the pine-wood

almost in silence. The shadows reached

now far across the causeway. It was only

the pine-tops which still glowed, a mass of

deep-bronzed green, in the warm evening

light. Barbara walked on rather quickly.

She carefully avoided looking at Lalli;

indeed he seldom addressed her, and when

he did so it was with a marked formality of

manner which made the girl's heart beat

h 2

painfully. She felt more than usually-grateful
to Lexeter for the suggestion when
he proposed her taking the empty place in
the carriage.

You are tired, and it will be no trouble
for me to lead your horse home now," he
said.

"You are very good to me," the girl
answered thankfully. Lalli was walking ina
line with them but on the farther side of
the road.

The night was warm and still. Even
Mrs. Damon made no objection when the
coachman proposed to leave the carriage
open. At first, on leaving Ostia, she
had begun talking in a languid way to
Barbara, but before long the easy steady
motion, the dim light, and the unusual

fatigue of many hours spent in the open air,
proved too strong for her. She opened her
eyes wide, asked a question about Octave,
and without waiting for an answer, she
wrapped her fur-lined cloak more closely
about her and closed her eyes and slept.

The light faded slowly away from the
west ; the hedgerows became blurred and
shapeless ; here and there a pool of water
glimmered softly in the low-lying meadows,
reflecting the starlit shadowless sky. There
was no sound audible but the muffled tramp
of the horses.

From time to time Lexeter rode up to
the side of the carriage ; he rode beside it
with his hand resting upon the open door.
Barbara hardly spoke to him ; she turned
her eyes slowly from her father's face to his

with an indescribable feeling of safety and
protection. She too rested her head against
the cushions, but it was not to sleep. A
charm as softly penetrating as the spell of
this calm spring night was upon her. Lalli's
words : " I ask you for nothing ; I devote
myself to you," were like some influence in
the air about her, and life was noble and
very sweet. She made no more resistance.
She felt herself surrounded by love; she
felt inexpressibly safe.

Mr. Floyd found a telegram waiting for
him when he returned that night. It was
a summons to meet an old friend at Perugia,
he told his daughter briefly. There was to
be a private sale of some valuable manuscripts
and books ; it was probable that he
should be away from home for several days.
He left Kome by an early morning train.
Don't get up for me ; I can have my
breakfast at the cafe at the station. Don't
get up. It is nonsense your getting up at
that hour," he said to Barbara.

Afterwards she was always glad to remember

how fully she had intended to
disobey him.

I am too tired to tell you all about it
to-niidit " she said. She stood in the doorway
with a candle in her hand, looking at
him as he sat with his back to her, writing
a note. The light was shining upon his
gray head  she noticed how gray his head
had turned of late. There was an old seal-ring
upon his finger, which she idly remembered
having played with when she was
a child ; she had seen it every day since then,
and never remembered it before. She went
slowly towards him and put her hand upon
her father's shoulder.

Are you waiting for anything ? Goodnight,
good-night again," he said, without
looking up.

After all, what difference could it make ?
She could speak to him about Cesco Lalli in
the morning. "What difference could it
possibly make ?

She went to her own room. The
window was open. She set down her light
upon a table, and walked over to the
casement and looked out. It was her
favourite place and attitude ; she was
familiar with every dark silhouette of roof-top
and convent belfry against the sky.
It was early yet, but Eome at night is of
all cities the most silent. She looked down
upon darkened houses and scattered lights.
The wind blew fresh and softly in her
face, stirring the loose hair upon her forehead.
She laid her head down upon her
clasped hands, looking up at the clear quiet

sky. She was not consciously thinking of
Count Lalli. She remembered what Mr.
Hardinge had said to her on their ride out.
And then the cadenced sound of the horses'
feet, as Lexeter rode home beside the
carriage ; and how kind he was to her.
Poor Mr. Lexeter ! Poor fellow ! She
could not have told you herself why she
pitied him, except that at that moment
there seemed no limit to the goodwill and
tenderness she felt towards all her little
world. Looking up at those stars, life seemed
so full of fine possibilities. Life ! She was
still child enough to look forward, half-hopefully
half-humbly, to life as to some
great fact, an opportunity which was approaching.
And she meant to do so
much

And then she went back again to that
half-hour by the fisherman's hut on the sands.
She felt the strong warm pressure of Cesco's
hand on hers. How noble he was ! How
chivalric ! "I want nothing. I ask you for
nothing. I devote myself to you," he said.

Very nearly at the same time Lalli was
sitting at a corner-table  his usual place 
at the cafe behind the old post-office, opposite
the House of Parliament, on Monte
Citric. He was not alone  Marcantonio
Borgia was with him. The worthy cavaliers
looked troubled. " Che diavolo ! one does
not know what to say exactly," he began
again with hesitation.

Say ! Don't be a fool ! " said Cesco
sharply, raising his savage moody eyes from
the floor.

He put both elbows upon the greasy
marble table, between the empty coffee-cups
and cigar ash, leaning halfway across it in
his eagerness, and pouring out a wild incoherent
mixture of love and wounded
pride and jealousy.

Not marry that girl after what had passed
between them  after his having committed
himself ? ' e Her father hates me," he said,
bringing his hand down heavily upon the
table and staring hard at Borgia's stolid and
massive face  " her father hates me ! " He
was quite mistaken in making this statement.
Mr. Floyd's feelings towards the
young Italian had never before to-day been
even definite enough to be classed as dislike.
But Lalli would not have believed
this to be possible ; we may speak of  we

so seldom realise  the indifference with
which we are regarded. " Her old father
hates me ; and as for that d  d Englishman
that Lexeter "

Lesseterre ! Is that the young one ? 
the one who smiles ?  with the blue eyes ? "

Don't be a fool ! " said Cesco again,
impatiently.

He sat biting his nails and staring out at
the dull empty piazza. A few drops of rain
began to fall, making the worn old stones
glisten in the gaslight. Some men were
quarrelling in the opposite corner over their
coffee and dominoes. An officer, an old
acquaintance of his, passed by him and
nodded. " Have you seen the evening
paper ? Here, waiter, a glass of brandy.
There is nothing new. I see that little

Eaimondi is dead. Yon remember him ? 
A little fellow, went as mad as a March
hare. He used to be in your old regiment,
poor devil ! Hallo ! what's the matter with
yon, Borgia? What are yon making such
eyes at me for ? If you are talking secrets,
why can't you say so, and be done with it ?
Go on then. I've lived too long with my
wife not to learn the virtue of deafness,"
the newcomer said good-naturedly. He
got up and carried his glass to another
table, opening the paper with an ostentatious
parade of interest.

I love that girl, you know. Confound
it all ! I do love her," Lalli said suddenly,
lifting up his head. All the sullenness, the
air of commonness which ill-temper developed
in his face, had passed out of it. He

looked very noble and handsome as he
spoke. "I shall marry her, you know,"
he said, still watching Borgia with bright
confident eyes. " I shall marry Barbara."

He sat up straighter, and laughed as he
spoke  a joyous boyish laugh, which made
the dame du comptoir look up with languid
curiosity from the account-book she was
verifying. "You seem happy to-night,

signor conte. Can it be But there,

via r one should not ask for reasons from a
young man," she said as the two friends lingered
a moment beside her counter, waiting
for change. Lalli answered her with some
idle compliment. I do not know what it was.
Something probably which no more seemed
incongruous to him than the fact of his
discussing Barbara at such a time and place.

The woman laughed. " Divine ! but
one sees that you are mad, both of you. A
nice pair, upon my word ! No, no, signor
conte. One has heard all that before.
Until he has sold them, the oranges never
grow stale in the fruitajolo's basket. Che
vole ? One has heard all that before ! "

She looked after them with a quick
Italian smile  a flashing of eyes and lips 
as they passed out into the wet and silent
street.

Cesco," said Borgia, taking his arm,
don't cut up rough now, there's a good
fellow  but  but  oh, hang it all, I say I
How long is it since you have been to
Bracciano ? "

Lalli stopped whistling and looked at
him.

I  haven't been to Bracciano," he said.

"Ah. Ah yes; I see."

Precisely so. The observation does you
infinite credit. But would you mind explaining
what it is you see ? Not that I'm
particularly curious. I ask for the sake of
information chiefly."

All right ! " said Borgia sulkily, shrugging
his heavy shoulders. " As you please.
Only it strikes me as being rather late in
the day "

It is a quarter to twelve precisely," said
Cesco, politely taking out his watch.

for foolery of that kind. As if, first

and last, I did not know very nearly as
much as yourself about la bella Eegina.
Ah, talk about a beautiful face, if you
like "

YOL. II. I

The beautiful face had better not be
talked about too much just now, my good
fellow," said Cesco deliberately. They had
come to the door of his house. He took a
latch-key from his pocket, and led the way
up the dark narrow stair. He struck a
match as he entered, leaving the door wide
open behind him. He lighted the lamp on
a small side-table, and sat down on the sofa
and looked up at Borgia standing in front
of him.

You apparently do not know  you
seldom do know anything before I tell you
of it, my poor friend  that the dear cousin
is on the verge of taking unto herself a
husband ? It's a fact, I assure you. It is a
very good match, says my aunt  I had a
letter from my amiable aunt only this

morning. She was always so fond of her
nephew ! He, Beginaa's husband I mean, is
the new depntato, Cardella. He is from
Pistoia ; he is forty ; he goes to mass every
Sunday ; and now he is to marry my cousin
Gina, almost immediately."

The devil he is ! " said Marcantonio
Borgia.

Lalli only laughed.

He continued to sit there for more than

an hour, his hat on his head, and his feet

thrust straight out before him. The lamp,

flickering in the draught, threw curiously

varying shadows of himself now up on the

ceiling and now against the wall. " Yes ;

I am in love again," he thought, and an

imperceptible smile of satisfaction passed

rapidly over his face. He looked interested

i 2

puzzled and yet triumphant. Any looker-on
might easily have been justified in concluding
that here at least was a man to
whom good fortune had shown itself in unexpected
places. The most experienced
actor, after a lifetime spent, say, in merging
his own personality in that of the young
Hamlet, Prince of Denmark, might yet be
pardoned some slight shock of surprise at
finding his royal commands of actual force
and meaning. And Lalli was by no means
unprovided with a defensive armour of that
cheap scepticism, which we are apt to dignify
by the name of experience. But now, for
the moment, he was only conscious of being
uplifted and borne along by a strong current
of outside influence. He made no struggle
against it ; on the contrary, he resigned

himself luxuriously to this new emotion,
which promised to differ in quality, if not in
kind, with much that he had known before.
When at last he roused himself from his
abstraction, he still moved across the room
languidly and with a preoccupied air. But
presently he lit a cigar, and unlocked his
desk, and took out from it a folded paper.
It was a letter which he had received from
his cousin that morning, a letter written on
highly-glazed and perfumed paper, in small
and feeble characters, as if with the point of
a pin, and enclosed in an envelope further
ornamented by a coloured wreath of flowers.
He read it through twice carefully, and then
for a moment it seemed as if he were about
to answer it, for he half-reached across the
table and drew a blotting-book nearer to

hint. But it only ended in his throwing
himself back in his chair with an impatient
gesture. Poor Gina ! it was, perhaps, the
first time that she had ever succeeded in
making him thoroughly uncomfortable, and
it was not probable that he would forget it,
although, just now, any outside appeal
sounded vague and irrelevant  like the
precise wording of a late king's epitaph
amidst the coronation festivities of his successor.
A woman never will understand
when a thing is ended ! he reminded himself
half wearily. But any such consideration
seemed of very slight importance as
compared to the question of what attitude
Mr. Floyd was likely to assume ?  above
all, of what Barbara was likely to have
said to her father ? He recognised instinctively

that with Barbara's character it
was idle to count upon her having judiciously
suppressed all reference to the
change in their relative position, or even
upon her having presented the facts to
Mr. Floyd with any reference to his presumable
wishes. The idea that by remaining
silent she might possibly be escaping
blame, would be, he knew, the very incentive
needed to urge her into fuller confidence.
The fact seemed unaccountable
from any known theory of motives, but
he accepted the inconvenient frankness as
regarded her ; it seemed a part of herself,
like her delight in all out-of-door pleasures,
or that wide-eyed seriousness of glance
which separated her in his imagination from
other women.

But in fact Barbara had never spoken.
She had awakened late from a heavy sleep
to find the rain beating against the window,
and hear Margherita's account of how the
signor padrone had started off in all that
storm  and as for stopping to think twice
about his rheumatism, not he. It was as if
new life had come into the house since the
day the young signor conte, bless his handsome
face ! had come to fetch the signor
and the signorina to Bracciano. Not that
she, Margherita, was one to hold that any
young man was good enough to have the
run of the house  like the Signora Damon,
who  she knew it from the signora's own
cook, Rosalie  would go out of the room,
while young forester were calling, and never
think twice about leaving Miss Octave to

talk to them by herself. No, the saints be
praised ! that was not her way of looking at
it. Although, se sa ! youth will be youth,
and as for shutting oneself up in a convent,
if the Lord wanted the good-looking women
to give up the world and pleasing themselves
then what were the ugly ones made
for, she would just like to know ?

It was a long empty day. In the morning
she had intended to go to Octave, and
instead of that she had taken up some
needlework and seated herself by an open
window, listening to the soft slow falling of
the rain. The hours too seemed to pass
softly. Before she could realise it the whole
day was gone. It was growing dusk. She
let her work slip from her knee to the
ground, and rose and began pacing up and

clown the long room in the twilight. As
she passed each window she could see the
heavy clouds moving slowly in the wind.
A bell rang sharply and suddenly from
the convent across the way. Margherita
was bringing in a lamp, she stopped and
crossed herself ; it was the Ave Maria.

And there is a book for you, signorina,
brought by the signor conte's own
man," the old woman said abruptly, putting
a package down before her on the
table.

It was a popular history of Greece, a
large square volume with little old-fashioned
woodcuts, representing such things as
Alcibiades and his dog, or Socrates drinking
the hemlock. Many of the passages were
marked with feeble pencillings, and on the

flyleaf was recorded, in a boy's handwriting,
that this book was presented to Maria Lalli
on her fourteenth birthday, as a mark of
affection, by her devoted brother Cesco.
And then followed a date of some ten years
back. Immediately under this were added
the words "To my other sister," and the
word " Ostia " several times underscored.
She sat up until nearly midnight turning
the pages over. They were the old stories
which she had learned as a child, and there
was something in the simplicity and homeliness
of the gift, which was like a link
between her own and this other childhood.
A whole world of association was growing
up around her as she sat there alone in that
silent room, turning over the yellow leaves
of this shabby old school-book, and listening

half unconsciously to the soft ceaseless
dropping of the rain.

When Lexeter came in to call one afternoon
two or three clays later, this book was
the first thing he noticed lying on the
table beside Barbara's work. He picked it
up and glanced at it inquiringly, but laid it
down again almost immediately, and without
making any comment.

That is  Count Lalli sent me that to
read," she said presently, seeing that he was
not going to speak.

"So I imagined," said Lexeter indifferently.


He stayed there for perhaps half-an-hour,
saying very little. The afternoon light fell
full upon Barbara's bent head as she sat in
her accustomed seat in the window. He

watched for a little the calm regular movement
of her white hands busied about her
embroidery, and then his glance wandered
idly about the large familiar room. The
noise of the city was scarcely perceptible
in that old-fashioned quarter, where every
detail seemed invested with the charm of
peaceful continuity, from the sunlight falling
on the old parlour walls to the sparrows
twittering in their nests, and the soft cooing
of Barbara's doves on the convent roof
across the way.

When he rose to take leave he stood still
for a moment looking around him, like a
man who is bidding some familiar spot
farewell.

I shall see you again ?  soon ? " said
Barbara, giving him her hand and smiling at

him affectionately. She was so accustomed
by this time to his varying moods that she
hardly observed that he did not answer her.
But, I think, if she had seen the look in his
eye as he went out of the door she would
have called him back, and then, who knows ?
between these two simple and loyal-minded
people there might have been some explanation.
But evidently this thing was not
to be.

She saw Count Lalli twice in the week
which followed. The first time was at the
opera. She was there with Mrs. Damon
and Octave. There were several other
people in the box  Mr. Clifford Dix
among others. He came in late ; he had
been dining at the Costanzi Hotel with
a party of Americans, and among other
things he had told them that he looked
upon Boston, Massachusetts, as upon the
literary junk shop of England. When he
came in he took a place behind Barbara's

chair and began talking to her. He was in
exceedingly good spirits.

I went to see ' Suicide ' last night, the
new play. You should get Mrs. Damon to
take you, Miss Floyd. It is wonderfully
clever. By the way, I saw you there,
Hardinge."

I only stayed through the second act.
I had another engagement. But suicide
is not an argument' said Hardinge, " at
the best it is only a retort."

An unanswerable one, you must admit,"
said Mr. Dix, taking up Barbara's opera-glass
and slowly adjusting the lenses.

Ah," observed Lexeter, "it is a curious
thing, but all modern Italian literature
seems written for men under five-and-twenty.
It is the creed of a sous-lieutenant.

It is not the youth I object to ; but one is
always so conscious of the regimental, restrictions.
No, it is not the youth ; for, ina
way, youth alone is original. After all,
youth is the gift of the gods ; experience is
only the lesson of life."

"I have met in my time some dull
scholars," Clifford Dix remarked carelessly.
By Jove ! I thought I knew that fellow.
The back of his head has been puzzling me
for the last five minutes. I am looking at
jour favourite Italian warrior, Miss Damon.
The ex-papal Zouave. Lalli ?  Lalli ? 
what is his name."

Oh, he is Barbara's warrior, not mine,"
said Octave quickly, taking her fan from
Hardinge and shutting it up with a
pretended severity.

VOL. II. K

But in the next entrance she took some
trouble to attract Lalli's attention as he
stood up in his stall surveying the house.
"He will be here presently' she said,,
putting her little gloved hand on the back
of Barbara's chair. "I am quite sure he
has recognised us, although it is odd that I
cannot make him look up."

But on the whole it was a relief to
Barbara that he did not seek to approach
them. She would unquestionably prefer not
to meet him again for some time to come.
Perhaps she was afraid that he might door
say something which should jar upon
her idea of him. It is very possible. The
pleasure she derived from thinking of him.
was a very real one ; she was fascinated and

interested; but she was not sure. There
was something uncertain. It was  if Lalli
had but known it  the propitious moment
for him to press his claim. While the
others were talking she sat looking at the
stage. The music seemed to her nearer
than their voices. The actors came and
went, and she sat there watching them
with grave beautiful eyes, leaning forward
a little, her hands folded upon her knee.
No one else had accorded more than the
most casual notice to Lalli's presence there
that night. But she was aware of the
difference. She began to be intensely aware
of slowly dividing wishes, and interests
foreign to all the people around her. Their
idle happy talk grew more and more a thing

K 2

outside, something apart from her own experience.
She felt excluded, but the feeling
did not pain her as it might have done.
She felt rather like someone waiting to be
called upon for great and devoted service.
She had so much to give, that giving seemed
the natural explanation of her being  la
raison d'etre.

When the music stopped and the curtain
fell, for an instant she did not change her
attitude. She sat still, looking earnestly
at the silent stage. The others had risen.
There was a perceptible pause while Miss
Dix looked at her, with her opera-cloak in
her hand.

"It is devotion to high art," Octave
affirmed with her little treble laugh. She

leaned over an empty chair and touched
Barbara upon the shoulder. " My dear
Barbara, you are accomplishing wonders.
You are convincing Mr. Dix that an
American girl can understand Rossini's
music. He will have to write another
story ; he will have to put you in a
book," she said. She was smiling still as
she took Hardinge's arm to go down the
stair.

No, I am not laughing at Barbara," she
affirmed in answer to his question; "at least,
not exactly. Yes, I am amused. Men are
so stupid."

And young ladies are so candid. No,
please don't apologise ; don t modify what
you have said. You have been the cause,"

said Hardinge, looking at her with playful
solemnity, " the cause of my making an
entirely new and unsuspected estimate of
your sex'

She gazed at him fixedly for a moment,
and then the smile faded off her face. She
hesitated for an instant. "Why do the
wrong things happen ? Why don't the
clever people care for each other ? " she
demanded.

My dear Miss Damon, what a question !
Am I not, then, devoted to Mr. Dix ? "

"I think," said Octave petulantly, "I
think that if I were a man I should know
ivhen to be serious."

"Ah," he rejoined, with an instant change
of tone, " you have never tried me. I am

serious. I can be serious." He looked
down at the long dark lassies resting on her
cheek. " I can be anything you please."

There was a crowd about the door, and
the carriages drove up slowly.

Here, let me take you out of the
draught; let me put you in that chair in
the corner," the young man said, looking
about him promptly. He put her in the
only available seat. " I should like to
know what you were thinking of ; I am
interested. I am profoundly serious. I
think that you owe me an opportunity for
demonstrating how serious I am."

"You are clever enough to do it, but 
no, it is impossible to ask you ; it is too
absurd. Let us eo ; I am sure the carriage

is waiting. I shall not speak of it again,
but  ah, no ! I am sure the carriage is
waiting."

"The carriage will not "be there for
another five minutes ; there are twenty
people waiting to drive off first. Why
won't you tell me V Hardinge said, bending
over her and picking up her fan. " You
know," he said, " you know very well that I
am entirely at your service."

"Ah," said Octave, looking away, with
a little soft catching of her breath. He
represented so many things to her at that
moment. The Damons were poor ; they
had an income which sufficed mother and
daughter to live on abroad, but the late
Mr. Damon had only partially illustrated
the traditions and institutions of his country.

Octave remembered him dimly as the kindest
of men, always overworked, and always
good-natured  especially good-natured. But
after losing one fortune, much to his own
surprise he had died without making
another. It was living abroad within very
exact limits.

Octave leaned back a little farther
in her chair. She looked down at ' the
bracelet on her wrist. Her delicate little
chin just rested on the swans clown border
of her cloak. There was always a dainty
precision, a deft and delicate definiteness
about her movements and her person *
amity generally. If the charm was not
bewildering, it was none the less real. It
was quite possible to analyse it, but, when
all was said and done, there it remained,,

unaltered. Lexeter had observed once that
little Miss Damon reminded him at times of
some old minuet music of Le Clair's  something
gentle and joyous; a little chilly;
a little thin in quality, perhaps, but always
suggestive of willing restriction  the ordered
curious charm of restriction and rule. As
she sat there in her soft white fur, in the
midst of that noise and confusion, she
looked like some exquisitely-finished flower.
It was impossible to avoid smiling at her
prettiness, with something of the same
feeling of wonder and pure pleasure that
one would feel on looking at apple-blossom.
And she all the while was so perfectly conscious
of what young Hardinge represented !
It needed only a wish on the part of this
clear-eyed and decided young man to fulfil

every desire of which she was capable. And
she felt herself capable of so much. She
was quite capable, for instance, of never
caring for any other man to the same
degree. Yet there was not an appreciable
pause before she answered :

"I am vexed about Barbara. You would
never guess it ; I told you that men are
stupid. But I am very vexed about Barbara,
indeed. I am so fond of Barbara, Mr.

Hardinge. I am " She looked across

the hall to where Lalli was standing under a
gas-lamp. " I admire her very much," she
said softly.

Miss Floyd has a fine nature. I admire
her exceedingly," said Hardinge.

Yes." Count Lalli was speaking to
someone now. She could see his head and

shoulders towering above the crowd. He
was looking furiously angry. When he was
sullen he looked common, but to be angry
suited the character of his face. He carried
himself well, with a certain air of arrogance.
She was watching him all the time she spoke.
I admire her very much, but sometimes I
am a little afraid of her ; now, for instance.
I do not like to ask her what she is going
to do about  that man ! " Hardinge's eyes
followed the direction of hers. " If I were
to ask her she would tell me at once, I know
that very well. But I am afraid to ask
her."

"My dear Miss Damon, you surely do
not propose that I should ask her such a
question myself ! "

I do not suppose that you could," said

Octave gravely. " Mr. Lexeter might, possibly
; Barbara has a great confidence in
Mr. Lexeter."

You evidently do not feel any particular
confidence in me !" said Hardinge, beginning
to laugh again.

No," said Octave, looking at him.

He hesitated a moment before answering.
< ' I assure you I am very much to be
depended upon. I have an unlimited confidence
in myself."

You can easily find an opportunity of
illustrating that ! " She rose from her seat.
The five minutes are over. I know that
the carriage is waiting." She took his arm
and stood still for a moment. " I tell you
I don't want this sort of thing to go on. I
don't want Count Lalli to marry her. Oh

yes ; I know. She will do as she pleases
about that. But that is just where you do
not understand Barbara ; she will do as
somebody else pleases. She has no will.
She is like a man ; she thinks herself the
stronger of the two and she is always giving
up!"

"Do you call that a fault ? I shall remember
it the next time you ask me to No ;

but, Miss Damon, I am serious. Seriously ! "

They were moving on now with the
crowd.

I wish so much that you would do
something to help me to prevent it," said
Octave rapidly, lowering her voice and
glancing back over her shoulder. "No, I
don't think Count Lalli stupid. Why should
I ? He is very nice ; I like him. We saw

a great deal of him when we were in Borne
three years ago, mamma and I. I was only
sixteen then, and he was very attentive tome.
He was the first gentleman who was
ever very attentive to me. Like it ? Yes,
of course I liked it ; why not ? He used to
bring me flowers, until mamma objected,
Mamma thought I was too young for gentlemen's
society."

"Ah, Mrs. Damon is so very judicious I"
Hardinge exclaimed softly.

Do you think so ? I know I was awfully
vexed at the time. That was one reason
why we went away from Eome that winter ;
because mamma was so  judicious ! "

"But you did not regret it?" said Hardinge
quickly.

She smiled, putting up one tightly-gloved

little hand to adjust the rose-coloured ribbon
in her hood.

I regretted his horse. He used to ride
the most delightful horse, when we met
him every day on the Pinch. That was
when he was an officer in the Zouaves.
We knew him very well. I had a great
deal of influence over him in those days.
Even mamma had to admit that my influence
was very good. I made him give
up riding on Sundays. He used to come
to us instead. He always rode on Sunday
after going to mass. He is very religious,
you know."

My dear Miss Damon, the man is a
prodigy ! "

Do you really think so ? But I don't
believe that he ought to be allowed to marry

Barbara. She always has ideas about things
poor Barbara ! She is sure to make
mistakes. It is like that old story of the
astronomer who kept looking at the stars
and tumbled into ditches. Barbara is always
looking out for stars. I think stars are all
very well in their way, but I don't like
ditches. "Why do you laugh ? I learned
that story at school. I don't remember
anything else that I learned there, but I
remember that. I wish you would go and
call on the Floyds oftener. Tell Mr. Lexeter
to call. You were so delightfully rude to
Cesco Lalli the other day at Ostia, about
speaking French. And I am sure Mr.
Lexeter does not like him. I want you
both to go there a great deal. I want you
to help me to take care of Barbara." ,

YOL. II. L

A movement of the crowd had thrown
them close together.

<e What is that, dear, that you are saying
about taking care of me ? Mr. Dix has been
looking after me. I am quite safe, you
absurd little person," said Barbara, in her
full and caressing voice  a voice which
made you turn your head and look at her if
you caught its tone, through the confused
chatter of a crowd  and laying her hand
affectionately upon Octave's arm.

Hardinge looked at her attentively for a
minute.

Ah, you had better speak to Lexeter,"
he murmured.

But Octave's remarks had had the effect of
giving a significance to Count Lalli's movements.
Hardinge felt interested. The next

time they all met, a few evenings later, was
at the house of a certain Madame Raymond,
a bright-eyed Scotchwoman, who had once
written a Primer or Introduction to the
Study of Political Economy ; after which
she drifted to Rome with the intention of
studying art, and ended by marrying an
Italian sculptor with a magnificent beard
and an uncertain reputation. There was
some story connected with their marriage,
some opposition on the part of her friends,
which gave an air of fictitious juvenility to
the whole affair. Madame Raymond was
about forty ; she led an extremely busy life.
In the daytime she wore an unvarying costume
of black and crimson, which was always to
be seen prominently in the foreground of

every one of those assemblages of amateur

l 2

archaeologists which, all winter long preserve
the Eoman ruins from acquiring a bad
social reputation for silence and solitude. In
the intervals of her studies she painted semi-nude
classical figures on the panels of her
doors. She delighted in discussing the true
proportions of the human figure. Her greatest
ambition was to attend the life school in the
Via Marietta, which her husband, however,
prevented. "What he could not prevent washer
rolling up her sleeve on one occasion at
a dinner-party, to support her argument by
the actual illustration of a foreshortened arm
in movement. She had a fine round arm,
and small plump hands. Her only other
claim to personal attractiveness was in the
whiteness of her throat. She always wore
square cut bodices in the evening, and her

flat red face with its high cheek-bones looked
not unlike a mask above the fairness of her
neck. She never missed going to the Scotch
church on a Sunday morning. She was a
very kind-hearted woman, very fond of
getting up concerts and charitable bazaars.
At other times she devoted herself to giving
Anglo-Italian conversazione apparently for
the purpose of proving how little her numerous
friends desired to make one another's
acquaintance.

She came up to Barbara now, immediately
upon her entrance. l

There are whole hosts of people asking
after you, my dear child. Ah Octave. What
a pretty dress  pink, of course. I call it
sweet champagne colour. It is a pleasure
to see some girls who have at least the sense

to speak Italian. I have no patience with
these people here. Why can't they talk in
French then ? "

"Ah madame, sails manquent detain donnez
leur done de la galette" said Hardinge,
looking over her shoulder with a smile. " I
cannot shake hands with you, Miss Damon,
the presence of extraneous matter forbids.
I can only offer to direct your course to the
tea-room from afar. Madame Eaimondi has
only invited her most intimate friends this
evening. I think we are something less than
five to the square inch."

Go away, Mr. Hardinge, I will not have
you monopolising Miss Damon. Go away
and make yourself agreeable to the marchesa
de Sanctus. I introduced you to her
for that express purpose. I told her you

were charming. She is a lovely creature,
look at the way her head is put upon her
throat ! And she will have a dowry of a
hundred thousand lire. I know it is a
fact."

I am not mercenary," said Hardinge,
lauCThinof. " And then Mademoiselle de
Sanctus has a mamma. There is always
a dragon watching over hidden treasure.
Did you know that that is the authentic
derivation of the great institution of the
modern chaperon, Miss Damon ? It is
indeed. And to some scientific minds
the difference between a dowager and a
dragon "

"Miss Maclean  Miss Janet Maclean 
was asking for you a moment ago," said
Madame Eaimondi to Barbara; "what a

wonderful old woman the sister is ! I declare

she does not look Ah cavaliers,

buoncik. sert. You will allow the to-present
to you the Cavaliers Marcantonio Borgia,
Barbara dear? Miss Floyd speaks Italian
like an angel." ' /

All angels speak Italian* You have
proved it to us, signora," the newcomer
said, bowing gravely over his opera-hat.

Barbara glanced quickly at him and
looked away again. Like all imaginative
people she was capable of sudden antipathies.
And it was impossible to suppose that there
could ever be anything in common between
oneself and a thick-shouldered-young man
who paid stupid compliments, and who
asked such questions as, How the signorina
liked Eome ?

I don't know. I have been here so long
I forget what I think of it."

Ah, that explains the wonderful Italian.
Una cosa stipends. Gid, gid. Then the
signorina has been here a long time ? "

Barbara shut her fan and looked across
the room at Miss Maclean.

It is a fine city, Borne," the cavaliers
added, putting up two yellow fingers to
stroke his moustache. " A very interesting
city. And there are many monuments of
antiquity."

"A great many," said Barbara, feeling
that to hear the average Italian speak of
those monuments was like looking at the
Coliseum on a mosaic breast-pin.

Gid. All built by the old Eomans 
nostri padre. All English are fond of

monuments. The signorina is undoubtedly
English?"

American."

Americana ! is it then possible ? " said
Borgia dramatically  it was some months
now since he had taken pains to inquire
very minutely into Miss Floyd's family circumstances
and presumable fortune. " Ah,
that too is a fine country. I know much
about America. I have a cousin who has
been to Nova York."

"I am going about with a roving commission.
I have orders to take you into
the next room to listen to History's recitation.
But before that I must ask the
lady with the three green feathers in her
hair if she will have a cup of tea," said Hardinge,
passing close in front of .them and

looking: down at Barbara with a confidential
smile.

"I often see that young forester at the
Cafe* di Roma," remarked Borgia ; " I see
him speak to my friend Cesco Lalli. You
who so well understand Italian, you should
know my friend, Cesco Lalli, signorina."

He was apparently intent upon examining
the lining of his opera-hat as he said this,
and before he had time to lift his eyes to
observe the effect of his shot, a hand was
laid upon his shoulder, and a voice said,
close behind him :

You are talking about me? I am indeed
too much honoured. Miss Floyd, I have the
pleasure of wishing you good-evening."

It was Lalli himself suddenly appearing
in the doorway.

Barbara looked up and smiled without
speaking. She was surprised and bewildered
to feel her heart beating so precipitately that
the commonest expression of greeting failed
her; and the consciousness that he would
see this made her blush hotly over cheek
and throat, and say rather more quickly
than usual :

"Oh, I was not speaking of you. Mr.
Borgia just mentioned that you knew Mr.
Hardinge. He was here a moment ago.
He is coming back for me."

Shall I go at once?" asked Cesco with
some bitterness. He threw back his head
and there was an ominous twitching about
his nostrils. The cavaliers had turned away
and was examining a photograph album.

Oh, please do not speak in that way.

You promised me not to speak in that way.
And it is such a long while since I have
seen you ; surely you do not mean to begin
by quarrelling with me ? " said Barbara,,
again feeling that she was being hurried
into saying all the wrong things and not
knowing how to regain her equipoise,  the
sisterly confidence and frankness which Lalli
had asked for, which she had eagerly promised,
and which was surely inconsistent
with feeling like this ? It was a miserable
way of spoiling their first meeting under
the new condition of things. It was almost
a relief when Hardinge rejoined them, and
offered her his arm to move away. To
Cesco's eyes she seemed to accept this,
change of companions without a moment's
hesitation. She did not even turn her head

to look back, and how was it possible for
him to divine the keenness of the disappointment
which had brought that brightness
to her glance and fixed the flush upon
her cheek ? She could not so much as
classify the feeling herself. She was only
conscious of an intense depression, a blankness
 as of suddenly coming upon a dead
wall in the place of the expected familiar
outlook upon sea and sky. And the very
inexplicableness of the feeling gave her
force to thrust it from her for the moment,
banishing it as we banish all unexpected
emotion which is strong enough to wait, to
gather strength and importance by the very
fact of its wilful suspense.

Her clearest formulated wish was the
desire to see Lalli again, and alone, if it

were only for a moment. It seemed as if
the merest word, a look even, would be
sufficient to dissipate this wretched sense of
discomfort, which was like something in the
air. It prevented her now from listening
in any appreciable degree to History's reading
of Leopardi's Hymn to Italy. At any
other time that cry of impassioned and resolute
despair would have touched her "like
the strong broken spirit of a wave," with
power to stir her ardent imagination to all
far-reaching impulses of pity and enthusiastic
devotion. Now the Avoids seemed
meaningless and remote as the ceaseless
roll of carriage wheels outside a sick-room.
There could, one would imagine, be no more
condemnatory criticism of the quality of a
personal emotion than this  that it has shut

one apart from the influence of what is vital
to other human beings.

She did not see Lalli again that night.
At the very moment that she was sitting
there, her soft round cheek resting upon her
hand, her eyes fixed upon the bunch of
flowers on her lap, while her mind busied
itself with constructing the most satisfactory
detail of their next meeting later on  for
naturally they would be thrown together
again in the course of the evening  Lalli
was walking rapidly away through the silent
moonlit street. . .

He was walking into the very heart of
old Kome ; past the deep-set silent spaces
of the Forum, filled at this hour with a wan
reflected radiance, so that* the groups of delicate
fluted columns rose lightly as if by

enchantment into the silvery light, and the
wild cloud-shadows of the windy March
night flitted rapidly like ghosts across the
worn marbles of the floor. He passed the
Palace of the Caesar ; a nightingale was
singing in the gardens. It was in the years
before the Government had acquired an intelligent
interest in antiquity, and there was
still a double row of trees left standing
where now we have the privilege of gazing
upon an excavated road, and being confirmed
in all our previous conceptions of Eoman
highways. Here, too, on that spring night,
the wind was astir in the branches, and
the shadows of the young leaves filled
the long rustling avenue with a transparent
shade. He stood beneath the Arch of Constantine
; there was light enough to follow

VOL. II. m

out the worn tracery of the triumphal bas-relief.
Lalli sat down with his back to it.
He could hardly have explained himself why
he had chosen to come there. It was, he
felt vaguely, what would have been appropriate
to the hero of a French novel. But
the Frenchman would undoubtedly have
extracted some satisfaction  moral, immoral,
or purely artistic  from the contemplation
of the vast broken sweep of the Coliseum,
seen under that effect of wildly shifting
sky. Lalli looked at it with quite unaffected
indifference. If anyone had been
there to see him he would have been perfectly
aware of the picturesque relief of his
handsome arrogant profile against the moon-whitened
stones, but he was far too simpleminded,
at once too primitive and too practical,

to have felt at any time the propriety
of adopting a mental pose. He was sensitive
and responsive only in matters of personal
contact. He had never in his life
conceived of an impersonal emotion. He
stood unmoved before this great gaping ruin
this hungry old mouth of death ; this
visible type of Eome  blood-stained and
empty. And to him it signified simply
nothing ; this place of fierce pleasures, this
place of great agonies was like any other.

If you will not pity him for this insensibility
 and what exile can be more tragic
than this complacent acceptance of the
lesser impressions of life ?  it may be well
to remind you that he still had one potent
claim left upon your sympathy  he was very
much in love with Barbara, and he had begun

M 2

to despair of ever counting for anything in
her life.

He had taken off his hat and laid it down
upon the stones beside him. He stayed
there for a long while, not knowing exactly
where else to go. Everything seemed alike
idle, distasteful, miserable. It never for an
instant occurred to him to rebel against the
sensation. Being in love, and hopelessly,
seemed to him as much a fact calculated to
disturb the ordinary tenor of his existence
as if he had broken his arm in falling
from his horse. He was indeed extremely
unhappy.

Hardinge was sauntering slowly down the
Via del Vent Septembre. It was a
favourite walk of his. He liked the quaint
simplicity of some of its little churches ;
he found pleasure in its long straight line
of perspective, its suggestion of repose and
exclusiveness. To him there was some
secret and peculiar charm in the high-placed
orange-trees of the Barbarians villa, and in
the blind walls and silent convent-doors.
The pleasure he took in it was something
purely personal. For it is interesting,
no doubt, to be walking easily on a soft

spring afternoon along the very line of
Nero's panic-stricken flight, past the high-walled
gardens where Cardinal Bembo and
the Humanists of Eome met and discoursed
of all the bright new enthusiasms of the
Renaissance, and in those early April days
the Koman stillness had yet the added
charm of contrast ; and to drive to the
Porta Pia, to look at the scars and breaches
made by the Italian cannon, was still one
of the ordinary duties impressed upon the
tourist mind. But to Hardinge's fancy the
attraction lay farther on. A dozen yards
beyond the brown old gates the pavement
begins again. The walls are lower ; if one
is idle one can sit down upon the parapet
and look across fields of corn and cane to a
far blue range of hills and away and across

the great rolling sweep of the Campagna.
Hardinge had spent hours in this fashion.
He liked lounging upon the low stone wall
in the sunshine, within hearing of the lazy-talk
of the soldiers and custom-house officers
standing about the city gate ; he liked looking
up the broad road to Sant Agnes. It
is a quarter for priests and convents. At
times a cardinal's carriage would roll heavily
by; Hardinge liked to watch it; he liked
to observe the measured opening of the
carriage-door, the slow descent of the blackened
ecclesiastic, the decorous mien of the
sable-clad attendants. He found a delightful
quality in the impression such a group made
upon him. He did not resent the existence
of the state of things implied as Lexeter
would have done ; his keen practical mind

derived a certain pleasure from the contemplation
of the machinery of the Church. It
interested him. When, in the course of his
walks, he came across such a little procession
defiling blackly across the sunny open
road he greeted it with an air of friendly
amusement. "I bow to the established
order of things. I take off my hat to
method and organisation," he said to
Lexeter one day when they were walking
together. He had made friends in the
course of his wanderings about Eome with
a certain Padre Bonifazio, one of the professors
at the Propaganda, who had been
recommended to Hardinge as a remarkable
Greek scholar. Padre Bonifazio was from a
little country town near Perugia. He was
a man of about forty, with a fat and rather

common face, full of a certain simple good-nature,
and large brown eyes, pathetic and
beseeching like the eyes of a dog. He often
went to Hardinge's rooms to read with him.
Often Hardinge would do nothing but talk.
Padre Bonifazio belonged to a church whose
revenues had been confiscated by the Italian
Government. He was reduced to extreme
poverty, which he endured with the patient
stoicism of a peasant. His great passion, after
Greek, was shooting. When he was describing
some expedition after snipe across the
Campagna marshes, or a day's cluck-shooting
and the supper at night in a little sterna
celebrated for its white wine, his eyes would
fill with golden light, his face beamed with
broad good-natured smiles, he thrust back his
hanging black sleeves, and  " The water

was so deep," he would say, gathering up
the worn skirts of his shabby cassock, " and
cold. Eh, eh ! but those were good times,
Sign or 'Adding."

The young man was in the habit of keeping
him for dinner. He amused himself by
making tea for his guest in the evening.
The padre considered it in the light of a.
medicinal beverage ; he took a childish
pleasure and pride in absorbing huge quantities
of it, emptying the sugar-basin into
his cup, and taking a pinch of snuff between
each swallow. Sometimes Lexeter, coming
home late at night, would still find the two
sitting before the fire, the padre perhaps dozing
gently, with his blue and white checked
pocket-handkerchief spread carefully over
his knee, his fat hands folded softly together,

and a placid air of satisfaction  the effect of
unwonted food, and warmth, and light 
pervading his whole being. Hardinge would
be seated in the opposite armchair, smoking,
or buried over some book ; from time to
time he lifted his eyes from its pages, and
his keen and somewhat sarcastic glance
would fall upon his companion's large unconscious
form, and rest there with a curious
expression of mingled amusement and
reflection.

I call you an argument in favour of the
endowment of Research. You are not a bad
sort of fellow after all, Hardinge. It is not
every social naturalist who provides for his
insects after pinning them," Lexeter observed,
coming in later than usual one
evening. Lexeter was always late in his

hours. His entrance was the signal for
Padre Bonifazio's departure. The good-natured
priest was ill at ease with
Lexeter. If they spoke much together he
became confused; he would stand smiling,
rubbing his forehead gently with the blue
checked pocket-handkerchief while Lexeter
made the most inoffensive remarks.

Gia, gia. But I depart. I remove the
obstacle ; gli leo Incommode" he said,
at the first possible opportunity.

I don't call the dear old boy an insect ;
he is my favourite sea-anemone. You find
him a little gray spot of hardness ; you
don't know how he blossoms out in safe
quarters," Hardinge observed, laughing.

It was a matter of course to this young
fellow that he should be liked wherever he

was known ; it was nothing new, it was a
common fact -like the daylight. He was
continually aware of giving pleasure. And
to be young, to be not yet three-and-twenty,
to be conscious of a degree of cleverness
which gave one the right to be critical
concerning the quality of one's experiences,
to feel oneself an interesting  a delightful
ingredient of life  and yet to be free from
all uneasy conceit, all sense of straining
effort, what could he have asked for more ?
Lulled by the warm fitful stirring of the
wind, his eyes filled with the colour of the
spring day, his thoughts moved about easily,
seeming only made to rest upon agreeable
objects, and that lightly. For instance, he
thought of Octave, but she would hardly
have been gratified could she have seen the

incipient smile which filled his eyes as he
remembered some words which he had been
reading.

Francesco Sforza was used to say that
there are three cases in life wherein human
wisdom availed little," he murmured softly,
looking towards a waving patch of golden-tinted
canes. " Should one desire to take
unto oneself a wife, to buy a horse, or invest
in a melon, the wise man will recommend
himself to Providence and draw his bonnet
down over his eyes."

He looked confidentially over at the reeds
rising straightly up into the burning sunshine.
" I am King Midas. I am growing
classical," he thought. Octave would certainly
not have liked it, but there was perfect
contentment upon the young fellow's face

as lie lounged upon his sunny wall that
afternoon. Sometimes he lay back, clasping*
his hands behind his head in his
favourite attitude, and staring up at the
deep limpid softness of the sky ; sometimes
he turned his eyes towards the peaceful blue
lines of the hills. At one moment the sound
of footsteps on the road made him change
the direction of his glance ; even at this
distance there seemed something familiar in
the air and gait of the approaching figure.
He looked again, and rose lightly to his feet
with some slight exclamation of surprise.
He had recognised Miss Floyd in this
solitary quick-stepping pedestrian.

She was walking rapidly along, with her
face turned away from him and her eyes
fixed upon the distant fields. He was

standing close beside her, lie spoke before
she was aware of his presence, and then she
started suddenly and stood still. The colour
rushed to her face.

"Did I frighten you? But I am glad
I met you. I was waiting for the gods
to send me a companion. We can walk out
towards Saint Agnes together," he said confidently,
thrusting his hands into his pockets
and looking at her with a pleased and
friendly air.

He had always liked Barbara. He had
only heard Lexeter speak of her once; but
even on that solitary occasion he had been
struck by his tone of admiration and respect.
And since Octave's confidences at the opera
he had always felt a little curious.

He suggested now that they should have

a walk through some lanes which he had
lately discovered and which were close at
hand.

I came out by myself," began Barbara,
looking at him doubtfully.

The fact was that Margherita had been
making some observations to which it had
not pleased the young girl to listen. Now,
as she remembered them, her cheeks flushed
again. Hardinge stood looking at her.
After all, we are Americans, you know,"
he said smiling.

The lanes to which he led the way turn
sharply off from the Porta Pia, passing
under the high old city walls. For two or
three minutes they walked on in silence,
then the narrow road took a sudden turn ; a
feeling of freshness, the breath of damp

VOL. II.

earth, the smell of a wood filled the air
about them. They walked between branching
hedgerows, and trees leaned from the-high
steep banks until the branches met.
The damp cool road was full of shadow-loving
growths  great flat green leaves, ivy,
and beds of rank coarse fern. And farther
on, where the sunlight dappled the ground,
the cyclamen grew in the moss, and there
were violets. They had passed out of Eome,
out of Italy, into the very heart of a leafy-english
lane.

Ah ! " said Barbara, drawing a long
breath of satisfaction.

They moved on more slowly through the
cool transparent shadow. It was all so still.
A thrush was singing somewhere in the
coverts.

It was Carson who discovered the place
one day out sketching ; young Carson, the
painter I was telling you about the other
day."

I know," said Barbara ; " the man from
some little place out West."

Ah," said Hardinge, thrusting his stick
into the rotten stump of a tree, " he is uncommonly
clever, I can tell you ; I should
like to show you some little things he has
done. There is a particular bit of distance
a little farther on "

They had come out upon higher ground.
Behind them were the mossy stone gates of
a farm. They went on a few paces, the road
narrowed to a mere footpath. They were
halfway up the side of a hill. They looked
off upon miles of Campagna  a great sunny,

N 2

grassy sweep of rolling land. Beyond this
rose the pale luminous profile of the Allan
mountains, still snowy crested above the olive
groves. Here and there a white-walled
village nestled in some folding of the hills.
Nearer at hand were scattered villas, and
formal avenues of cypress, and slender flattered
pines. And above them rose a limpid
stainless sky. The wide landscape was
bathed and drowned in light  pure light  a
tempered splendour.

Barbara had taken off her hat and gloves.
They sat by the roadside together ; Hardinge
had flung himself down on the long deep
grass at her feet.

Confess that you are glad that I brought
you here ! " he demanded.

I am glad," said Barbara softly.

A loose branch of wild rose was swaying
in the wind above her uncovered head.
The little leaves made shadows on her
neck and hair. Hardinge looked up at
her and smiled. They spoke together in
undertones. He had begun telling her again
about young Carson, and then their talk
drifted away to a peasant who was labouring
in the fields below them  the solitary bit of
human life visible  a patient bowed figure
of toil.

There are some things I can never
understand," Hardinge remarked reflectively.

He picked up a bit of grass and examined
it and began twisting it about his finger ashe
spoke. " Why expect gratitude and self-control,
the supreme result of a tempered
civilisation, from the lowest orders ? People

are so horribly hard on each other. For
myself I devoutly believe in the division of
the world into a question of temperaments."

He put out his hand and caught one of
the swaying branches of the rose-tree ; he
began stripping it mechanically of its leaves.
Barbara glanced at him and half put out her
hand and drew it back. He went on speaking.

"I believe too in the existence of the
artistic temperament  the powerful impulse
towards margin, luxury, the need of sensation
 without the remotest hint of artistic
expression. The same passionate feeling for
life which makes a poet of one man can make
a drunken navvy of another. I have seen a
workman as extravagant on five shillings as
his betters on a thousand pounds. I could
never understand why extreme penury was

expected to include all the virtues ? But
people will never allow for differences of
temperament below a certain income. Personality
to them represents a taxable luxury 
like powdered hair. No one cares to distinguish
shades of difference in the drab-coloured
dreariness of poverty."

"But are you never insensible yourself?"
said Barbara, arching her eyebrows playfully.
She looked at the scattered leaves on the
ground. "See what you have been doing! and
it was so happy growing there in the sun."

11 Ah," said Hardinge, " if I had not been
with you, I should have walked on and left
the rose-bush growing. But two happy
people always imply the misery of some
shadowy third. That is one of those little
beneficent arrangements "

He stopped short and turned suddenly
and .broke the rose off close to the ground.

Give it to me. I will take it home and
put it in water."

And prolong its agony ? But of course
you will, because you see it suffering. The
chief result of having suffered a great deal
seems to be the capacity for suffering more."

"At least of suffering for others," said
Barbara softly.

He looked at her. The ineffable languor
and charm of the spring was all about them,
in the warm fitful wind, in the stainless sky,
in the very smell of the new grass at her feet.
He looked at her. " The day is so beautiful!
Is that wise ? "

He began speaking of self-sacrifice  of
its futility. " I am an outsider, a Philistine ;

Lexeter is always telling me that I am a
Philistine. I am the advocate of all the
bourgeois facts and virtues' he said ; and
then they both laughed. They felt very
happy.

The afternoon slipped away as if by
enchantment. " I must be going soon ; I
promised Octave to stop there on my way
home," Barbara observed at last. But even,
then it was some time before they moved.
The sky was growing roseate at the horizon,
and the pines cast long slender shadows on
the grass. There was a sound of bells from
the far white belfry of a convent ; and the
voices of the labourers returning homeward
came cheerfully across from the nearest
farm.

The nightingales were singing loudly now

in the thickets. They stood still to listen.
There was a sound of light wheels, the slow
footfall of a tired horse drawing nearer. " I
did not know that anyone ever passed
here," Barbara observed idly. She neither
changed her attitude nor turned her head
to look.

The man who was driving came up
slowly behind them. He had seen and
recognised them from a long distance.
There was a break in the hedge now; a
flood of golden light was pouring in, shining
on Barbara's white hands, on Hardinge's
uncovered head as he strolled along by her
side. She was still holding the long trailing
branch of leaves. The red dazzle was full
upon both their faces as they turned and
stood back to let the carriage pass them.

There was a rattle of wheels, a jerk, and the
light trap rolled quickly away over the
jagged cart-ruts.

"But  was that not ? Surely 

surely I know that man's face. It was
Cavaliers Borgia. And he must have
recognised us ? " Barbara said slowly.

She was silent for a moment, and then
the colour rose to her cheeks. " Do you

suppose I wonder if he thought there

was anything out of the way in my
walking here with you, alone ? Italians
don t, you know," she said, looking gravely
at him with an air of serious childlike
confidence.

But we are Americans," said Hardinge
promptly, meeting her glance of inquiry
with perfect seriousness. Inwardly he was

raging at the impertinence to which she had
been exposed.

He made a great effort to continue the
conversation on its former footing ; but
it was difficult not to speak with more
warmth. The slight which had been offered
her seemed to demand a certain counterbalancing
emphasis of personal admiration.
He insisted upon seeing her to the very-door
of the Damons' house. He walked
away down the street, after bidding her
farewell, tingling all over with fervid respect
for this sweet gentle-natured creature, and
a desire to go out and do battle for her
sake. He was but three-and-twenty, remember
; and to fulfil the code of a lofty
chivalry was one of the requisites necessary
to his easy princely pleasure in being.

Barbara did not stay long at the
Damons'. But something else had reached
home before herself, and was awaiting her
arrival.

There is a letter awaiting the signorina,"
Margherita explained ceremoniously,
standing in the doorway with her hands
wrapped up in her apron, and an ostentatious
air of making an important statement.
It was left by Luigi, the manservant of
the Signor Conte Lalli. I know no more.
I have asked no questions. Since the signorina
prefers walking alone and leaving me
to spend hours in looking out of window
for her, with my heart in my mouth, not

knowing what might happen But,

basta cost! I have nothing more to say.
And to think of the poor dear signor

padrone away there in Florence, little

dreaming of the dangers the signorina

But I say no more ; no, not if I were
asked in the confessional. Not another
word. I hope I know my duty to the
signorina better than to weary her by
complaining.

She rolled her hands tighter in her
apron, and the sentence ended huskily ina
sob.

Don't, Margherita, there's a good woman,
don't cry. I was not walking alone, Mr.
Hardinge was with me. I was quite safe.
And Mrs. Damon sent me home in a cab,"
Barbara added rather hastily.

She sat down and pushed the soft loose
hair back from her forehead, eyeing the letter
on the table beside her. She felt no particular

disinclination to read it ; but for the
moment Lalli and all which concerned him
seemed to have lost something of its actuality.
She had been living in another mental atmosphere,
on another side of her nature. It
required an effort to return to the exact
focus of interest in him.

But now she broke the seal. The note
ran briefly as follows :

I cannot come to your father's house
after his treatment of me. Yet I should
like to see you once more to say farewelL
After what has passed, you will not be surprised
to hear that I am going to fight a
duel ; and something tells me that I shall
not escape with my life. I am glad of it.
I am sick of existence (sono stuff di quest

vita) ; you alone could have made it tolerable,
find you would not. I do not reproach you
'tis fatality ; but I should like to see you
once again. After that, what matters ? I
would give you my life to amuse yourself
with, as I would give you anything else
which I had.

I shall be on the Pincian tomorrow
morning at seven o'clock. Later than seven
it ivill be too late.

Cesco Lalli."

She laid the paper down very softly. She
turned abruptly away, and walked over to
the window and stood looking down into
the street. It was growing dusk, but the
sky was still reddened above the convent
roof. A bell rang suddenly and sharply

from the convent belfry. She could see its
black vibrating silhouette against the rosy
flush of the sky. And, possibly, at this

same hour tomorrow night She

pressed her hands, suddenly, hard against
her face. She had just remembered that
her father was away in Florence. Barbara
was alone.

Wot. II.

One of Mr. Floyd's few personal friends was
a certain Monsieur Simon, an old Frenchman,
an ex officer of infantry, compromised
in the emeute of '48 in Lyons, and now
settled in Rome and teaching Latin and
French at twenty sous the hour. No one
knew his precise age ; he was probably about
sixty, very large and robust. One could
imagine that he had been handsome as a
young man ; his eyes were dark and steady,
and his thick gray hair was brushed away
in heavy sculpturesque folds. A bitter and
impotent sense of injustice had moulded all

his features. He contemplated the world
with the unchanging despairing scorn of a
tragic mask. He had always been in the
right, and had always contrived to appear in
the wrong ; it was partly perhaps the fault
of his intense and overbearing manner; in
his own regiment he had been personally
unpopular. When he was acquitted by
court-martial, not a man stepped forward to
shake hands with him. He left the court-room
in the midst of an absolute silence.
He spent a day and a night shut up in his
quarters, with what thoughts Heaven only
knows. At the end of that time he
sent for his orderly to carry to the colonel
his letter of resignation. He was still under
forty when he sent in his papers and left the

army, a marked man. For a little while he

o 2

remained in Lyons. Occasionally his old
comrades met him in the streets, but he was
never known to have given one of them the,
smallest sign of recognition. After some
months he disappeared entirely  absolutely,
like a stone dropped into deep water. Some
people said that he was dead, others that he
had gone to Algiers and enlisted as a Zouave
under a false name. In fact, he had come
to Italy. The journey there had exhausted
what was left of his small savings. He
tried many means of supporting himself.
His exactitude, his perfect loyalty, his
incorruptible honesty made of him a most
valuable assistant, but his violent and
suspicious nature invariably finished by
rendering all relations to his employers
intolerable. He ended by giving lessons.

His chief pupils were a family of little boys,
the sons of a French wine merchant. He
gave himself an incredible amount of trouble
over his lessons, but he had not the gift of
teaching. His daily bread was bread of
bitterness.

He had never married. He lived alone in
one large empty room at the top of a steep
and dirty Koman staircase. What little
attendance he required was given him by
his landlady, but for the most part he did
the greater share of the work himself;
rising very early in the gray morning to
make up his bed, and sweep out his room,
and prepare the coffee for his scanty breakfast.
The tragic absurdity of his position
was never more apparent than at these
moments. To see him solemnly proceed to

dust his chamber, an old foraging-cap upon
his head, a narrow and faded dressing-gown
buttoned tightly about him, without relaxing
a muscle or changing for an instant the
gloomy defiance of his severe countenance,
it was impossible to avoid laughing. For
all his life the old man had never been able
to do anything easily ; his deepest misfortunes
were never allowed to rise above
the level of the ridiculous. As a rule he
carefully avoided meeting any of his countrymen.
The only house which he frequented
was Mr. Floyd's. On Sunday he brushed
his coat more carefully than ever. He
always went to the Protestant Church. He
had been brought up as a Eoman Catholic ;
his family at one time had been possessed
of some interest in the Church, but in that

as in everything else, he had gone against
the current. He read the Bible constantly.
He had also an edition of Racine ; some
volumes of music, of which he was passionately
fond; and a complete collection of
Victor Hugo's works. A little cracked
plaster cast of the poet as he appeared in
'48, and a violin, were almost the only
records the old ex-officer had left of his
former life.

Lexeter was the first stranger who had
ever been admitted to his room. They had
met in the beginning at Mr. Floyd's house,
and Lexeter had soon acquired the habit of
dropping in at odd hours to light his pipe
and talk. Monsieur Simon never smoked.

On one of these occasions lately Lexeter
had found the old man sitting before his

little work-table gazing helplessly and painfully
at the pile of blotted copy-books he
held in his swollen and trembling old hands.
He had had an attack of fever in the night,
but had risen as usual, and was even now
laboriously striving to accomplish his daily
task-work.

It was not without difficulty that Lexeter
persuaded him to return to his bed. For
several days he violently and successfully
opposed calling any doctor in, but at the
end of that time he suddenly collapsed.
His old dogged determination gave way in
one moment. It was one night when
Lexeter was sitting by his bedside ; the old
man had been lying speechless and motionless
for more than an hour. Above his bed
there hung a small framed photograph of

Barbara, taken when she was a child. It
was the only ornament in the room. Lexeter
was looking at it musingly, lost in thought,
when a sudden movement in the bed attracted
his attention. The old man had
half risen on one elbow ; his steady piercing
eyes were fixed on Lexeter.

She is good," he said painfully. " It is
a true heart, a faithful soul."

He lifted one heavily-veined hand from
the coverlet ; he raised it feebly, still looking
at Lexeter.

"Vous Vaimez bien, n'est ce pas? And
you, too, love her ? " he murmured.

Lexeter hesitated a moment.

Yes," he said gravely.

Monsieur Simon contemplated him for an
-instant in silence. An ineffable expression

of sweetness had come over his rugged
features. "Mile est si bonne. Je Vai bien
aimed, moi" he murmured again, sinking
back upon his pillow.

When next he spoke it was to ask that a
doctor should be summoned. To Lexeter's
astonishment he proved a most docile
patient. Even in delirium the old soldier's
instincts of obedience and punctuality never
entirely forsook him.

Once or twice, when the fever was at its
worst, Lexeter remained with him until
daybreak. The night of the day on which
Barbara and Hardinge walked in the lanes
together was one of these occasions. It was
after six o'clock when Lexeter left the old
man's room. The fresh morning air tasted
like wine after the strain and fatigue of the

night's watching. Lexeter directed his steps
towards the Pincian hill. It was a crisp
cool morning. The air was chilled and
vivified by the rain. The. sky looked blue,
intensely blue, like enamel, stained with
large white clouds, clear-edged, as if they
had been painted there. The sun shone
brightly on the vacant spaces and deserted
gravel walks ; here and there a gardener
was already awake and at work among the
bushes. Small birds were hopping about
the garden-paths ; they flew away with
a quick flutter of wings at Lexeter's approach.
All the spring world was fresh and
alert and vital. The coolness of the dawn
still lingered on the leaves.

Lexeter threw himself down on a retired
bench in front of a bust of Leopardi. He

began by taking off his hat and lighting a
cigar. He had a late copy of the newspaper
for which he wrote in his pocket. He
unfolded it leisurely and glanced up and
down the columns, but a singular deadness,
a flatness as of a worn-out tale seemed to
pervade its pages. He began to think of old
Simon ; of Barbara's photograph ; of what

the doctor had said

A young German couple, come to spend
their honeymoon in Eome, passed close before
him. They were taking an early constitutional
preparatory to a day's work among
the museums. The girl was rather pretty.
She looked at him with shy kindly blue eyes
from under the broad rim of her hat. There
was something in her smile which reminded
him of Barbara. It was three days now, he

reflected, since he had been to call at the
Floyds'. He would go there this afternoon.
The commonest politeness required as much
as that of him. He would go about five
o'clock, when he was sure of finding her in.
He would go to carry her news of Monsieur
Simon. The old man's look and tone of
tenderness recurred to him. "Ah, yes, elle
est bien bonne" he murmured.

He stooped to pick up the paper which
had fallen, rustling, from his knees to the
ground. As he lifted his head, the first
person his eyes rested upon was Barbara
herself. She was alone, she was coming



rapidly towards him. Her face was very
pale. She was looking straight at him and
smiling. He had time to see all this as he
rose to his feet.

She stood still in front of him. She did
not give him her hand. The smile seemed
fixed upon her lips.

"I was crossing over there," she said,
without any preliminary greeting, raising
her hand for a moment and then letting it
fall heavily to her side. She kept her large
clear eyes upon his face. " I saw you from
the farther side. You did not see me." She
hesitated for an instant. " I did not like to
be here without you knowing it. I did not
expect to see you."

I am going away," Lexeter said hastily.

He carefully avoided looking at her.
What he felt was an indescribable mixture
of pain, of humiliation, and sorrow.

I did not know you came here in the
morning," Barbara went on. There was a

slight tremor in her low full voice which
thrilled through him like a touch of physical
anguish. He told her how he had been
spending the night.

She clasped her hands together quickly,
For the first time the fixed smile left her
pale lips.

"And you do not believe he will get
better ? "

Better perhaps. I hope so  I believe
so. But probably he will never he quite
himself again. Practically, he has done
with life. It is a hard world. It has been
a hard world for him," said Lexeter, with
sudden bitterness.

She stood silent for a moment, looking at
the ground. When she lifted her face her
lips were quivering.

  I should like you to know, Mr. Lexeter
I wish you would believe  oh, don't you
understand ? I saw you a long way off, and
I came to tell you that I was here," said
poor Barbara, putting her hand up to her
lips and looking at him appealingly. " I
cannot tell you why I am here. It is not
my secret. But I thought it was best. I
had to come." She turned her head away
abruptly. "I thought that you would
understand," she said.

Ah ! " said Lexeter, making an involuntary
movement backwards. The revulsion
of feeling was so strong that fora
minute he could find no terms in which
to express himself. He took her hand in
his, and, for the only time in his life, he
kissed it.

There is nothing which you are capable
of doing or thinking which I do not approve
of, my dear," he said simply. And then
with sudden uncontrollable passion of regret
and infinite tenderness : " God bless you,
little Barbara ! " he said.

He purposely avoided looking after her.
He stood, when she left him, staring at
the bust of Leopardi. Here, in this
presence, the most passionate desire of
his life had fallen down  dead. The mute
marble gaze of the dead young poet
seemed watching him as he turned and
passed away.

Barbara crossed over to the opposite
avenue. Lalli was seated there on a bench
waiting for her. He rose at her approach.
He too was pale, but at the sound of her

VOL. II P

footstep a smile of triumph had passed like
light into his eyes.

"Barbara!"

Their eyes met. Barbara began to tremble
violently. This was not what she had
expected.

"Take my arm. You are frightened.
There is nothing to frighten you, dearest."
He drew her hand under his arm. " I will
take you to where there is no chance of your
being seen," he said.

He led her to a seat farther away, on the
hillside. Here there was a clear space of
grass, and then a ring of fir-trees shutting in
the round shallow basin of a fountain. The
wind scarcely stirred the dark tops of the
pines. There was no sound but the sound
of their own footsteps on the freshly-laid

gravel. The water of the fountain rose and
fell again in one smooth, glittering, noiseless
arch. She followed passively, as in some
dream. The very fact of their being there
together, alone, at that hour of the morning,
cast a spell of unreality about her. It was
impossible to speak.

They sat down. Barbara was holding her
closed parasol with both hands. After a
moment he took it gently away from her,
still without speaking. He laid it down
upon the bench beside him, and turned and
covered her cold and trembling fingers with
his own warm hand.

"Dearest!"

She lifted her eyes slowly to his*

face.

I knew that you would come.  Because

p 2

you love me," Lalli murmured, with a long
pause between the words.

"I /'she disengaged one hand abruptly

and pressed it hard against her lips. Why
was she here then if she did not love him ?
She fixed her gaze upon the glittering sinuous
motion of the fountain. She tried to collect
her thoughts, but they glided imperceptibly
away from her ; she could realise nothing,
feel nothing, but the power of his dark
appealing gaze.

There was a nearing sound of voices, but
Lalli did not change his attitude. An elderly
man and his wife, Italian shopkeepers by
their appearance, emerged suddenly from
between the trees. The woman was holding
the leading-strings attached to a little child,
her grandchild apparently. The little boy

ran forward with a cry of delight to the
glittering water. He was dressed in a
knitted costume of blue-and-white wool. Ashe
stood with his back to them Barbara
could see that his sturdy little legs were
encased in stockings of different colours.

Animo. C'e gente. Veni, Peeping,
nonfar il captive ! (Don't be naughty," the
grandmother said, with an admonitory tug
at the strings. The toddling creature passed
close in front of Barbara. Lalli had not
moved his hand. The child stood still,
gazing at them with round expressionless
eyes.

Animo ! " the woman repeated. The
old man was resting leaning on his stick.
He started at the word like a horse which
feels the whip.

The little procession passed away behind
the trees. They neither of them referred toit,
and yet each felt tacitly that the commonplace
passage of these people had been an
event.

Barbara was the first to speak.

"I came because you wrote to me.
Because you were in trouble. I came to
help you. You  you wrote to me that you
were going to fight a duel' she said, with
increasing agitation.

He did not answer immediately. He
appeared to ignore her agitation.

"You are so beautiful. I know that you
love me. Say that you love me, Barbara ! "
he said entreatingly.

And then, for an instant, she realised how
utterly circumstances had passed beyond her

control. For the first time she was aware
of the crushing pressure of a stronger and
more unscrupulous nature. Two large tears
rose slowly to her eyes. She turned to him
instinctively, like a frightened child.

But indeed I believed that I could help
you by coming. You know you said that I
could be to you like your sister," she said
entreatingly. But she felt herself the
futility of such pleading. What had she to
oppose to his tenacity of will ? " Pray,
pray tell me what has happened to you,"
she said.

I have insulted Borgia. He said that
he had met you outside of Eome, walking
alone with Hardin ge at nightfall. I
gave him the lie," Lalli answered half
indifferently.

But it was true. Oh, what can I do ! "
she said, looking at him helplessly. She
felt that all her future could only be decided
by his answer.

What does it matter now ? " he asked.

He took both her hands into one of his,
and with the other he pressed her cheek
gently down against his shoulder.

You know that you love me, Barbara 
Barbara mia" he said.

Half an hour later, as they were parting,
she unfastened a ribbon about her throat,
and drew from under her dress a large old-fashioned
gold locket.

It is my own hair when I was a baby.
Mamma put it there. It is like giving you
all my old life as well, Cesco," she said
softly.

He paid no attention to what she was
saying. He was looking at her flushed face
with a passionate delight.

You are so beautiful ! " he told her,
stooping down to kiss the soft white
hands fastening the trinket to his watch-chain.


Already there was difference in their
emotion.

But as they stood hand-in-hand, looking
at each other, it was difficult not to believe
in future happiness for these two young
creatures. Each was so sure of the other.
It was a sacramental moment of life.

IX DEEP WATERS.

Ah, then we awoke with a sudden start
From our deep dream, and saw, too late,
How bare the rock, how desolate,
On which we had cast our precious freight."

Browning.

. . . " Ce que vaut un tel rev,
Et quel est le meant d'un aveuir fini! "

Victor Hugo  Ode a Napoleon.

Disappointment is not hardest to bear in
its first moments. It is not while newly
awakened energy is strong to struggle that
loss is least endurable. Surely to know the
very bitterness of sorrow it must be resting,
a lifeless weight, upon the life it crushes.
For trouble is perhaps never so intolerable
as when it is taken for granted ; one's own
acceptance of deprivation growing more
difficult in mathematical proportion to the
acquiescence of one's neighbours. And let
us not fall into the common error of estimating
suffering by its apparent intensity ;

I think it highly probable that there have
been martyrs who would have found it impossible
to submit to chronic rheumatism.

I chose therefore to show you Barbara
again, when more than a year has elapsed
from the time of her marriage, rather than
to ask you to contemplate with me those
earlier months of mental doubt, and stress,
and slow readjustment. On this breathless
August afternoon, when we find her again,
in her favourite resting-place, beside the
willow-bordered stream which flows past
the door of her new home, it is probable
that, of all the circle of people whom her
marriage in any way affected, she is the only
one left who still considers that any vital
change can yet take place in her experience
and view of life.

And to Barbara's eyes the subtle deadening
spell of habit has already begun to
weave its charm about her, making her
find companionship and a sense of common
association in the murmur of the water and
the familiar roundness of the grassy hills.

The Lallis had only spent one month in
Eome since their marriage. It had been
Barbara's wish that they should settle at his
house in the country. On one occasion  it
was some two or three weeks before the
wedding-day  they had ridden out with
Mr. Floyd to look at this place, half manor-house
and half farm, which had belonged to
Cesco's mother. It was a long, low, stone
building, enclosing three sides of an empty
courtyard. The house had once been painted
white. At one end a flight of wooden steps

led up to a wide verandah, with four
wooden pillars, painted to imitate marble,
from which the stucco had long since peeled
away. From this verandah you entered
directly upon an immense hall, with cross-beams
overhead, and innumerable small
windows. One end of this hall had been
partitioned off years ago, as a sort of
boudoir. A heavy faded silk curtain hung
across the entrance, and within were faded
chairs of the style of the Empire, and a
narrow straight-backed sofa and working-table
drawn into the embrasure of the
farther window. A row of family portraits
hung high up against the wall; the most
noticeable among them was the portrait
of a young woman with dark eyes, in the
dress of forty years ago. The artist had

painted lier against a background of blue
sky, smiling agreeably and looking at a
rose.

That was my mother ; it was done
before her marriage," Cesco said, following
the direction of Barbara s glance.

Ah ! Do you know she reminds me a
little of your cousin, your beautiful cousin
whom I met at Bracciano ; don't you remember
? There is certainly a family likeness.
Or don't you see it? Perhaps you
know your cousin's face too well to understand
what I mean ? "

"Beginaa is married now," Lalli said.
And then he added hurriedly: "But you
have only to tell me what changes you will
have made. Here is my mother's private
oratory."

VOL. II. Q

He opened the door of a very small
whitewashed room. The altar had been
stripped of all its decorations ; there was
only a series of square marks on the wall
where the sacred images had hung ; and in
one corner the dead woman's prie dieu was
resting with its face to the wall.

I remember the last time I came here.
I have not seen this place since I was a
boy. What will you do with it ? It will
be of no use to you like this."

I should like it kept as your mother
left it," Barbara said softly. She went up
and laid her hand upon the bare boards.
The dust lay thick beneath her fingers. The
sun-warmed air came in at the open doorway
like the living breath of a younger
world.

"You shall do what you like with that
with me  with everything," Cesco said,
looking into her face and laying his strong
hand for a moment upon hers.

I shall do what you like," Barbara said
shyly.

He clasped her hand more firmly across
the empty altar. Neither of them knew
how long they stood in that way. Who
can measure the duration of a pulse of
happiness ?

But presently, when they had strolled
out again into the tepid spring afternoon,
Lalli began to speak more in detail of their
future plan of living. "As for myself, I
should ask for nothing better than to live
with you on a desert island for all the days
of my life," he said. " You are all I can

ever wish for. But in this dull place, you
will feel the change, Barbara."

He looked down absently at the stream
flowing past their feet. They were standing
in a small grassy enclosure, which had been
planted out as a sort of summer bower in
the days of Cesco's grandfather. There was
still a formal circle of ilexes, which yet
showed traces in their uncouth shapes of
years of former clipping ; there was a stone
bench yet standing, and a round stone table
supported by a griffin, and in one corner of
the enclosure the broken statue of a nymph
leaned over the discoloured marble basin
of a fountain, into which a few drops of
water were for ever trickling from the shattered
urn. The trees and underbrush had
been cleared away to the water's edge ;

across the little stream, as far as one could
see, were rolling waving fields of wheat,
whitening and shining with the sun and
wind.

I have told your father that I did not
care for any dowry  any money," Lalli
added suddenly, sitting down on the edge
of the table and looking up at her.

"No," said Barbara simply. And then
she added, turning her eyes towards him
gratefully : " You knew that my father
would have to go to America for that, and
that there would be some business arrangements
connected with poor mamma's fortune
which  which would hurt him. It is very
good of you to spare him. It is so good to
feel that our happiness does not mean
anyone else's pain, is it not ? "

You are an angel ! " said Cesco, looking
at her passionately. It made very little
difference to him what she said. Any words
spoken in those soft caressing tones were
adorable. And as for Mr. Floyd's money,
he felt that he had comported himself
throughout that interview in a manner
which would have appeared striking and
chivalric to any audience. He had acted
en vrai gentilhomme. And, later on, such
affairs always arranged themselves. For
one thing, time reduced them to questions
of business. But that was no reason for
depriving oneself of the pleasure of having
expressed noble sentiments. But perhaps
the greatest drawback to disinterested
eloquence lies in the memories of the
hearers. For instance, that same morning,

in speaking of some of his new arrangements,
Lalli had mentioned Marcantonio
Borgia.

"Because he was once your dearest
friend, I wish I could help disliking him,"
Barbara said thoughtfully. And then some
sudden impulse made her ask : " Did it ever
occur to you that he was in love with your
beautiful cousin  with Eegina ? "

Why ? " asked Lalli calmly.

Oh, from the way he spoke of her once.
And she is so very beautiful. I think I
never saw anyone so beautiful. I should be
in love with her myself if I were a man."

You see all men are not of your opinion.
I am in love with you" said Lalli playfully.
But," he added, " you need not see Borgia
again unless you like."

But I thought he was your best friend.
And surely you will not let me come
between you and the people you have
always cared about ? " she said earnestly.

Is there any friend like you ? " Lalli
asked, standing up, bending his handsome
head, and kissing the palm of her hand.

And then, as they walked together towards
the house, he added carelessly : " You
know I have told you that my cousin is
married. Her husband is one of the new
deputies. They will soon be living in Eome.
See, there is your father looking for us !"

These were some of the words Barbara
.remembered. However changed their relations
to one another, moments such as these
had existed between them, moments of
sacramental faith and enthusiasm. This

memory served now as warning. Those
emotions indeed were dead  they were
ghosts ; but ghosts can act as guardians
to a tomb.

To Barbara's loving and loyal nature it
seemed sufficient that such things had been.
The light of that spring morning was not
more irrecoverable. But she dreaded nothing
now so much as what might seem to desecrate
that past.

For the last two or three days, she had
been alone at the tenura. Lalli had driven
into Borne  on business. It had become
his custom to go there more and more frequently
of late. And Barbara was glad of
anything which seemed to provide him with
interest and occupation. She was expecting
his return : from where she sat she could see

a small distant piece of the road by which
the carriage must pass. Everywhere else
her eye rested upon great rolling fields of
grain. It was mid-August. The afternoon
sky was of a hard purplish blue. The trees
were dark, and thick, and motionless. On
the opposite hill, in the sunshine, the corn
was ablaze with scarlet poppies, and dusky
patches of lupin, and rank-white daisies of
the second growth. Under the willows the
little stream ran low, half-choked with the
rank exuberance of the water-flags. Nature
was in one of her practical housewifely
phases ; at this season she ceased to be a
goddess. The sweet irresponsibility of spring,
the glad rioting of early summer, were alike
forgotten ; a healthy, steady, unbroken intention
of growth, and abundance, and repletion

was expressed by all the country side. The
woods about the house were the only trees
for miles around. There was no village insight
 only one field of ripening grain
following another.

In this afternoon silence, Barbara could
hear the voices of the men about the stables,
the voices of two peasants trudging along the
road on the opposite side of the river ; the
distant barking of a dog. Then silence again,
the heavy silence of prosperous inaction.
There was nothing now to do but wait until
the harvest was ripened.

Once the stillness was broken by the sound
of slow-moving wheels. A yoke of oxen,
huge white creatures with long, shining,
curved horns, "serene moving animals, teaching
content," such as she had often seen in the

streets of Eome when she was a girl, passed
close beside her bower, dragging an empty
hay-cart. The driver touched his battered hat.

"A beautiful day for the crops, signora
confess ! "

And then again all was silent but the hot
buzzing sound of a bee beyond the ilex-trees,
in the sunshine, and the monotonous
drip, drip of the fountain watched over by
the broken-armed nymph.

I suppose that the others are living
somewhere ? " she said to herself once or
twice vaguely. But there was nothing in
her surroundings to awaken any desire for
sharing in a fuller, sense of life. What
could the meeting of her old friends and
companions lead to but a more perfect
understanding of the limitations of her

future ? Each time she had seen her father
of late it had been more difficult to part
from him composedly. And she shrank
with terror from any question which might
lead to criticisms of the past.

What I care for, more than I care for
anything else, is to keep that safe," she
thought, clasping her hands together and
looking down at the silent brown water.
She choked back a half sob, but there was
no one to hear her. There was no one to
see how piteously childish she looked with
the great tears gathering slowly on her
lashes. "This has only come to me while
I am very young. That is all the difference.
Sorrow comes to everyone. I have always
known that. Why, even Mr. Hardinge
told me that," she said, half smiling.

But the recollection of that careless, happy
companionship of theirs, under the spring
trees, on that memorable walk, made the
present contrast too poignant. It was like
looking back at all possibilities of tender
devotedness and ardent admiration from
across a grave. Hardinge was inextricably
associated in her mind with all the ideals
which at one time had seemed to give life
its meaning. One day, not long after their
marriage, Lalli had offered to show her an
old packet of love-letters  the relics of one
of his dead-and-gone passions. She had
refused with a sort of terror to look at
them, and since then she had always
sedulously tried to forget it, but at moments
like these the remembrance returned with a
sickening force.

"But all men are not like that. They
are not ! " she protested to herself with
passionate conviction. And Hardinge's
clear-eyed, resolute young face rose up
distinctly before her. There was something
in the recollection of it which seemed
to give a bright, disdainful, smiling denial
to the conclusion that all men were alike
base and forgetful. And then in keen reaction
came the frightened sense that it washer
own husband she was judging. She sat
quite still, striving to check her sobs, as if it
were some other woman's pain which she
was watching. It was only wise to give up
expectation. It was enough if she could
still keep some hold of habit, some affection
born of common interest, upon his heart.
She was not anxious for herself; she felt no

personal dread of disloyalty; for her, life
was too completely ended. But she dreaded
some new movement of her husband's which
should shatter at one blow past and present,
and poison even memory with doubt. It
was turning the sacredness of life into a
hideous farce if he ceased to love her.

Hitherto she had been saved from that
bitterness of soul which is the one irreparable
curse of life  the sin against the Holy Ghost
within us. She waited now, until the warm
air had dried the tears upon her cheeks,*
and then she arose slowly and walked
towards the house. It seemed easier to
meet her husband there, in the first impulse
of this new rush of tenderness, than where
every sound and sight served to remind her
of her effort. In this hot weather, the old

confess's faded boudoir was still the coolest
room in the house. They habitually sat
there now in the evening. She looked up
from force of habit as she drew back the
curtain at the portrait of Lalli's mother on
the wall. The two faces made a curious
contrast  one warm and living, all flushed
and tremulous with tears, the other simpering
agreeably through its dimmed paint,
and gazing at a rose with rococo philosophy.
But, just then, Barbara felt that even a
portrait might be a misrepresentation.

VOL. II.

When her husband's carriage drew up at
the door she did not hurry forward to meet
him as had been her custom, not caring to
expose herself to the curious eyes of the
groom. And perhaps it was well that she
hesitated, for the delay gave her time to
catch sight of the face of a second arrival.
She saw another man get down heavily from
the caret, and heard his voice making
some casual remarks about the horses. It
was the face and voice of Cavaliers Borgia.

She rose with an impulse of uncontrollable
indignation, and walked halfway across the

room ; then stopped. Where was she going ?
She sat clown again with her back to the

o

door, so as to avoid having to look up asher
husband entered.

He knew by her very attitude how she
was disposed to resent the breaking of what
had been a tacit understanding between
them from the first ; and even as he bent
down to kiss her he had time to resolve that
he would have no explanation on the subject.
He knew that Barbara could be trusted not
to make a public exhibition of her displeasure
; and he was desirous of keeping
quite clear of anything which would force
him into asserting his mastery unpleasantly.
He had several requests to make of his
wife.

I have brought you a visitor, Barbara

B 2

mia. You have not forgotten Marcantonio
Borgia ? " he said aloud.

It made very little difference to him that
she turned pale and shrank away imperceptibly
from his kiss. Life was spectacular
to Cesco ; and when he had seen the same
play too often it bored him. It was his
wife who bored him now. But, to do him
justice, there was no indication whatever of
this in his manner at the present juncture.
When Barbara looked at him she was struck
at once by what seemed on his part like a
return to a former condition of things. His
air, the tone of his voice, his dress even,
had undergone modification. He looked
younger, handsomer, more alert than she
had seen him look for months past. There
was a general trimness about his appearance
which suggested the ex-Papal officer. He

brushed a speck of dust carefully from off
his white immaculate cuff ; while Borgia was
speaking he smiled agreeably ; he watched
his own reflection in the small tarnished
square of looking-glass which ornamented
the back of the chiffoniere at the farther
end of the room.

While they were still standing in the
boudoir, one of the servants who had
accompanied his master to Eome entered
the room rather hurriedly. He spoke to
Cesco :

Scusi, Signor Conte. I pray for a
thousand pardons ; but the little parcel
which the Signora Cardella put into the
carriage "

That will do. It's all right ; I have it,"
Cesco said, speaking impatiently. The groom
disappeared, and Barbara turned to her

husband with some slight gesture of surprise.
You did not tell me you had seen Eegina.
Is she in Eome ? How is she ? " she asked
in her clear candid voice. It was Borgia
who answered.

"I met him there," looking over at
Lalli. "I have known Cardella for years.
He is deputation from my part of the country.
They are just leaving Eome. I went thereto
pay my respects to the signora and the
baby. She is well. She is beautiful,
divine !  more beautiful than ever ! "

Ah," said Barbara, just letting her eyes
rest upon him for an instant, and then looking
pointedly away. She felt confirmed in
her old impression that some unavowed sentiment
existed between this man and her
husband's cousin, and there was something

peculiarly distasteful to her in knowing any
details of his private life. It seemed hard
enough that she should be called upon in

l o

upon

any way to recognise his existence.

But she said nothing of this to her husband
when they were alone together before
dinner. She felt that worst, most paralysing
fear of all  the dread lest she might furnish
him with the opportunity of doing or saying
something past forgiveness. So that when
he remarked : " I am afraid you do not like
having Borgia in the house. But the fact is, I
needed him. He is useful to me  about
business," she only said quietly : " I am
glad if he can be of any assistance to you."
She had long ago given up expecting that
Cesco's past protestations could be any
indications of what he meant to do now.

You know we have always been great
friends," Lalli added more insistingly. And
then, as his wife continued to be silent, he
strolled over to where she was standing by
the window, and half put his arm about her
waist. "He is very easily offended 
Borgia. And I particularly wish him kept
in a good humour just now. He is  useful
to me."

She still made no answer, and his brow
darkened perceptibly. The lines about his
mouth began to harden. It required a
distinct effort on his part to say in a conciliatory
voice : " I remember our discussing
this very point one day before our marriage.
You said then that you had no wish to come
between me and my old companions. But
perhaps you have forgotten."

She could have shown him the very spot
in which the words he quoted had been
spoken. But now she contented herself with
answering : " I will do all I can to make
Cavaliers Borgia comfortable, and his visit
here  pleasant. Since you wish it." And
after a moment she added : " Is he likely to
stay long ? "

"Oh, I don't know," said Lalli carelessly,
letting his arm fall, and thrusting his hands
into his pockets. " A day, two days, three
days ; I did not ask him for any particular
length of time."

Presently he added, with determined
carelessness : " By-the-way, I saw your
father in town. He has returned from
Siena. And I had some conversation with,
him."

Dear papa ! How is he ? How is lie
looking?" Barbara asked, turning away
from the window, and walking back into
the room.

Oh, he is well enough ; you need
not concern yourself about that. He is
quite well enough to look after his own
comfort," Lalli said in a tone of biting
irony. He was evidently referring to something
which had taken place. But he
offered no further explanation. He had
his reasons for not continuing the subject.

After dinner the two men sat down to
cards in the little boudoir. All through
dinner Barbara had been aware of the
increasing likeness of manner between
Borgia and her husband. It seemed as if
the very points of character which the

cavaliers had selected to copy were becoming
dominant in Lalli's nature. And now,
as they sat together with the light of the
candles upon their faces, she even fancied
that she could detect a certain similarity of
expression between them.

It was a hot still night. For a long while
the only sound in the room was an occasional
brief word from one of the players. At
last Borgia looked up with a petulant
exclamation.

"Tertio ! this is too much ! It is luck
in cards and love as well ! " he said angrily,
standing up and pouring himself out another
glass of wine. And then turning with
rather a foolish laugh to Barbara : " The
signora confess must excuse me. It is only
natural to envy Cesco."

All ! " said Lalli, smiling imperceptibly,
and shuffling together the cards*

"But I fear for you the draught from
this open window. The season of fever
approaches. If you would but allow me to
close "

"Thank you. I am just going away,"
said Barbara, rising immediately.

She passed out into the hall ; the windows
were all closed and barred. She hesitated a
moment and then turned and opened the
door of the disused drawing-room. At the
farther end a glass door opened out upon a
small iron balcony and a narrow flight of
stairs leading into the garden. Barbara
stepped out upon the balcony.

Her first sensation was one of extreme
relief. It was enough for a time to stand

here motionless, feeling the wind blow in her
face, and looking out at the clear serene
darkness of the summer night. But presently
the desire for change  any change  which
had brought her here, grew stronger. She
caught up a light wrap which was lying on
the back of a chair and twisted it about her
neck, and passed down the narrow iron staircase.
She moved forward a few steps
uncertainly. She entered the little plantation
of young beech-trees which encircled the
house. The wind struck the branches softly
against each other; there was no rustle of
leaves, only the light tapping of the wood
grown dry with the great heat. It was a
very still night. The very brook seemed
hushed ; swollen at this point by the intersection
of another water-course, it glided

past, dark, wide, silent ; only by the moist er
air, by the odour of wild mint, by the bitter
smell of the water-plants crushed beneath her
feet, could she know of its nearness. At the
far edge of the wood the trees grew smaller.
She came out upon the open fields. Close
at her feet, the tall wheat bent and rustled ;
farther yet the low rounded hills lay bare
beneath the clear darkness of the night. The
wind was cool ; she passed her hands over
her face, and the freshness of her skin felt
unfamiliar. It was like touching some other
person.

She sat down at the foot of a tree by the
edge of the thicket, and little by little her
ear grew accustomed to the apparent stillness,
as her eye had grown accustomed to the dark.
She began to detect very faint far-off sounds,

the thin bark of a dog in some distant farmyard
; the plaintive cry of some wild creature
from the hills, and all manner of small
creeping and stirrings in the wood and in
the wheat.

In this part of the Campagna, where the
land is fertile, it is possible to ride for miles
without passing a sign of human habitation.
Here are no shepherds ; in time of harvest,
troops of labourers descend from the mountain
villages. The fields belong, for the
most part, to the great landed proprietors, to
the Borghese, the Torlonias, the Pallavicini,
and are let by them to various merchants di
campagna living in Eome. It is a peaceful,
lonely country. At other points  in
the great breeding farms, for instance 
there are watchmen riding about all through

the night, silent muffled figures, riding in
pairs, armed with long shining carbines,
mounted on strong unkempt horses; men
scant of speech and suspicious of danger.
But here, after nightfall, there is never a
step or voice to break the vast tranquillity
of the fields.

The melancholy, puissant charm of the
summer night had fallen upon Barbara ; her
soul was tranquillised, her spirit liberated.
Thought surrendered to emotion ; her life,
too, became absorbed, a part of all that
hushed, expectant nature ; expectant, for, as
she turned again towards the house, the late
moon was rising above a gap in the low
rounded hills, rising divinely flushed and
fair, as Diana may have looked in some far-off
night upon the grassy top of Patmos.

And now the solitude had found its voice?
and far and near the short plaintive cry of
the civet owls called and answered across
the lonely meadows.

Barbara had not the courage to return to
the house ; she wandered to and fro in the
garden, among the leafy bushes of syringa.
One by one she saw the lights going out in
the windows ; at last there was only one lamp
left burning, in the room where Borgia and her
husband were still sitting over their cards.

When she did enter Lalli glanced up
sharply as if about to speak ; then his face
changed. He looked at his wife, but said
nothing. The room was fall of the smoke
of cigars ; the windows were closed, the
candles had burnt down almost to their
sockets.

VOL. II. S

I began to fear that the signora confess
had deserted us entirely' said Borgia,
smiling agreeably, and looking up from his
game.

You abandoned us early, my dear,"
Lalli added curtly. He had never spoken
to her with so little pretence of affection in
his tone before. Barbara was startled.

"I did not mean to be long away.
I was walking ; and it is cooler in the
garden 5 she said gently, looking anxiously
at her husband. She sat down near him.
Presently a card fell from the table ; she
stooped to pick it up, and as she gave it to
him their hands met, but he kept his eyes
resolutely turned aside. The days were
distant indeed when such an accidental
contact would have had power to waken

all the tenderness of his nature  those early
days, when life in common was nothing less
than a succession of endearing experiences,
falling with the unheeded loveliness of the
early shadows in a wood.

She sat quite silent for several moments,
watching the motion of his strong, 
hands. He had a new ring
on one of his fingers she noticed. Borgia
turned his bright dark eyes inquiringly
towards her once or twice, but no one
spoke.

She began to realise that she had never
known what utter helplessness was like
before.

END OF VOL. II.

VOL. HI.

But that first feeling had time to pass
away ; she had even, to a certain degree
become reconciled to Borgia's presence perpetually
between them, before Lalli in anyway
confirmed her dread of some new
painful experience in store for her.

One hot morning she had left both the
men busy over letters which they had
received and were answering, and had
carried a book and some embroidery-work
to a seat a little off the road and up the hill

B 2

in front of the house. It was a bit of steep
and stony bank which she had chosen. The
deep intervals between the fallen rocks were
filled with a tangle of blackberry vines ;
wild strawberry leaves stained blood-red, or
yellow freckled with brown, grew closely
together in all the cracks and crannies of
the great gray boulders ; and against the
sky, crowning the ridge of the solitary rock
beneath whose shadow she was sitting, a
fringe of golden rod and aster stood boldly
up in the sun. She had not been therefor
many minutes before her husband
joined her. He was smoking as he came
slowly up the road, with his hands in his
pockets.

It was a part of Cesco Lalli's accepted
philosophy that married life must sooner

or later become, as someone has said, a
question of " Shall we engage a butler, or
will the parlour-maid do ? " But it has
been found, curiously enough, that the
material difficulties of life are scarcely to
be simplified by the rejection of an ideal.
It annoyed him unspeakably now to be
forced into this practical interview with his
wife. Still he spoke kindly.

This is like old times, Barbara."
He threw away the end of his cigar, and
sat down on the grass beside her. She was
working. " You are always doing something,"
he said, bending his head to look
at the embroidery.

She lifted her face suddenly, and their
eyes were nearly on a level. " Gid, you are
always doing something with those pretty

white hands of yours," he repeated, smiling
reassuringly.

Then, after a moment's silence : " But
even to be always busy does not imply good
luck. Dl la veritas (tell the truth), it is sois
it not, Barbara ? "

Yes," said Barbara, wondering.

He glanced at her, still keeping the end
of her work between his fingers. " As forme,
I am sick of this life of continued
annoyance (Sono stuff di quest ingenii
eterni). I have just had another most unpleasant
experience. A man to whom I had
advanced money on a promissory-note  but
never mind the details ; you would not
understand them. It is enough for you to
know that I absolutely require that you
should help me."

He sat up, and the bit of silk dropped
from his hand. "It is your father who
ought to help us now," he said, in a
complaining tone.

Barbara sat perfectly still for a minute
or two, keeping her eyes fixed upon the
nearest rock. " Have you asked papa
for money yet?" she asked in a very low
voice.

No  yes. I did not suggest it asa
favour to myself. I said that you
were coming to speak to him about recovering
your mothers dowry. It is
only just. It is what anyone else would
have insisted upon long ago," said Lalli
slowly.

Each sentence was spoken with increasing
intensity. He expected an outbreak of

passionate remonstrance. But she only
said, after an interval of silence :

I suppose that you have not forgotten
under what conditions my father must claim
the money ? And when we married you said
that you would prefer not to take it. And
I should like papa, to have been spared

pain if possible. He " She put her

hand quickly up to her lips, which began
to tremble. " I think it hard that he
should be made to suffer in consequence
of  us. He was not desirous of our
marriage."

He was not," Lalli assented sullenly,
looking away at the blank road.

And  indeed, Cesco, you said you
would not clo it," said Barbara, rising too

and laying her hand pleadingly upon his
arm.

He moved his eyes uneasily from side to
side, looking past her.

I said it  I said it ! "Well, yes, I did
say it. And much good it did me ! As
if it made any difference what a man
said ! I would have said anything 
then."

"Ah ," murmured Barbara.

The very force of her scorn reacted upon
her like a stimulant. She bent down and
picked up the book which had fallen to the
ground and brushed off some particles of
moss adhering to its covers. " Shall you
wish me to go to town at once ? or will
it do if I wait until we move to Kome

next week ? I should prefer not to write
to my father unless you especially desire
it."

Oh, wait till next week," said Lalli
quickly. "It is really very good of you not
to make more objection. But, of course,
when you come to think the matter over

quietly And you will see that, as I

have already suggested to him, it is far
more natural that the request should
come from you. But it is quite the same
thing."

Oh  quite," said Barbara, feeling as if
there was nothing left in the world worthy
of an explanation. And even in this case
did not she and her husband unite in the
doing ? How could any further action be
feasible which should not express them

both ? Even at that moment she felt the
impossibility of disavowing his purposes to
her father, for what blame was possible
which should not reflect backwards ? And
it had been her own desire to marry him.

Then that is all right. Begone" said
Cesco cheerfully, drawing himself up and
spreading out his hands. The look of
anxiety fell away from his face. A smile
came into his eyes, he began whistling softly
in an undertone.

I see them bringing out my horse. I
told Gianbattista he would find me here. I
am going over to the lower farm," he remarked
presently, breaking off in the middle
of his tune. He looked at his wife. " You
were reading, were you not ? What is it ?
Anything interesting ? "

Oh, it is English. You would not
understand it," said Barbara, still with the
same careful precision of manner. She felt
was if all impulses of relenting tenderness were
crushed for ever.

Well  good-bye for the present ! " said
Lalli, looking at her and then slightly
shrugging his shoulders. He had meant
to tell her some news he had heard about
friends of her own as a sort of reward for
her obedience, but now he could see no
particular reason for caring to give her
pleasure.

He turned away, and went whistling down
the hillside, jumping from rock to rock.
She heard his loud animated voice speaking
to the groom and then to his horse, and presently
he cantered past on the road, with his

dog circling and barking at the horse's heels.
There was a tendency to massiveness in
Lalli's physique which made him always
appear to greatest advantage when seen in
the open air and engaged in active exercise.
Well mounted, one could have imagined him
riding; out of one of Dumas' novels. There
was promise of adventure in his aspect. Ashe
turned out of the highroad now into a
leafy lane overrun with eglantine and honeysuckle
in flower, he checked his horse to
gather a wild rose from the hedgerow. He
adjusted it carefully in the button-hole of
his riding-coat. He smiled to himself ashe
did so, humming the while some words of
an old operatic song. He had begun of late
to find life interesting. He cut at all the
hanging branches with the end of his whip

as he rode along. It amused him to see his
horse start and swerve at the sound. The
financial calculations which crossed his
mind from time to time had acquired
a sudden new cheerfulness. He felt
almost sorry now that he had not
told his wife about meeting Hardinge.
After all she might have been much more
disagreeable about speaking to her father 
confound him ! And, after all, the important
point was gained when she consented
to do what he chose. For, with all
his own characteristic looseness of relation
between statement and fact, Lalli had
gradually acquired an absolute confidence in
Barbara's word. And it was, he reflected,
a comfortable quality to have secured 

in one's wife. On the whole, he was
not particularly dissatisfied with his
marriage.

Barbara had remained for some time
where he left her. She had resolutely taken
up her book ; it was a volume of Darwin's
Origin of Species' which was comparatively
new then, and which Hardinge
had lent her. She had put it aside for a
long time, finding it difficult reading; but
now, under the stimulating rush of indignation,
it was astonishing how easily her
mind moved, receiving new facts with a
prompt flexible intelligence, which seemed
like something apart from her usual self,
some separate force.

She read persistently until her watch

warned her it was nearly time for luncheon.
She walked back to the house with the same
feeling of defying emotion, going to her
room and ringing for her maid to help her
change her dress.

But the signora confess's gown is still
perfectly fresh. It only came from the
washerwoman this morning," the maid
remarked in some astonishment. She was
not accustomed to these sudden whims on
the part of her mistress.

Oh, get me something I have never
worn before. Give me the new white
dress," said Barbara, sitting down before
the glass and beginning to arrange
her hair. She wanted everything to be
different.

Per ubbidirla, signora," said Nanna, reflecting

rapidly that it was true the Cavaliers
Borgia was staying in the house, and had
not Tomaso, the groom, brought back some
queer stories about the way the master
went on in Rome ? Madonna mia, but it
was a shame ! little Nanna thought sympathetically,
kneeling down to adjust the train
of the new dress. And if that was the way
'Maso expected to go on after their own

marriage-the

signora should always wear white.

The signora confess looks like an angel in

white. And with that pink colour on her

cheeks," she said aloud. Bio ouono ! but it

was dull out there in the country ! It

was small wonder if the signora wanted a

little amusement.

It is possible that this was also the
vol. in. o

Cavaliers Borgia's opinion. He had asked
permission after luncheon to smoke a
cigarette beside her in the garden. It was
a large old-fashioned garden laid out d
Anglaise, with clipped yew-trees, and much
gravel walk and stone seats half buried now
under the untrimmed thickets of syringa.
At the farther end from the house stood a
group of old black cypresses. The ground
was bare of everything but moss beneath
their shadow. There was a bench here on
which Barbara sat down; on the opposite
side of the walk were two stone animals,
sphinxes or lions, it was difficult to speak
decisively.

Barbara sat down here.

It is hot. "When it is hot one finds it
fatiguing to walk far. You are tired, confess,

non e vero ? " the Cavaliers Borgia
observed.

He was in the habit of making statements
of this nature. Before Lalli's marriage he
had indulged in much admiration for this
fair-haired girl ; he thought her " lively and
full of judgment " (vivace e plena di giudizio),
and it had struck him as unaccountable,
under the circumstances, that she should
fail to feel some similar attraction towards
himself. Later on, he had attributed
this inattention to the fact of her being
in love with Cesco ; but now, and especially
after seeing more of Cesco, it seemed
not improbable that her mind would be
more open to the claims of unobtrusive
merit.

Meanwhile, he proposed to try an expert

2

ment. After one or two remarks about the
heat  a thunder-storm was coming, up he
said suddenly: "For we Romans, of course,
it makes less difference. And we count you
as one of ourselves now, signora. Una vera
Komana, you are a true Koman. But I was
surprised to meet other friends of yours in
town at this hot season."

Ah," said Barbara listlessly, " Miss
Maclean does not like the trouble of
travelling. They often stay all . the
summer long."

Borgia looked puzzled.
Miss Maclean ? That is the old lady
with the sister ? But I speak not of her. I
speak of that young man  he whose friend
was lame  who was a friend of. your
father."

"Mr. Hardinge ! Do you mean Mr.
Hardinge ? " she asked, with a sudden
change of tone. Her eyes brightened.

Mr. Hardinge. Sicuro  Mr. Hardinge.
"We met him at the cafe. He is staying at
the Hotel angleterre. He has been travelling.
He has been staying at Sorrento with
the Signora Damon. He is at the Hotel
angleterre. waiting for a friend to join
him," said Borgia slowly. He sat down on
the bench  hitherto he had been standing  -
and looked steadily at her. " Is it possible
that Cesco did not speak of this?" he
asked.

No," said Barbara, the colour deepening
a little on her cheeks. She added quickly ;
"Probably he' forgot it." Speaking the
words seemed to give them reality.

Borgia shrugged his shoulders heavily.
"You think that probable?" He hesitated
for an instant; he looked up. Barbara's
eyes were turned away from him, her hands
were lightly clasped together on her lap.
The sudden illumination passing away
from her face marked more clearly than
usual the difference which this last year
had wrought in her expression. And after
all Borgia was something more than merely
a thick-shouldered and rather stupid young
man. There were kindly instincts to
be awakened in him ; he was, for instance,
an excellent and devoted son.
He was moved now by a real impulse of
compassion.

It is  yes, tertio !  it is too much to
ask of a man that he should stand by

calmly and see you treated in this
fashion ! "

Signor Borgia 1 " said Barbara, looking
up with incredulous wonder. It was a new
experience to her that any outsider should
have presumed to make her life a subject for
private speculation.

What does it matter?" asked Borgia,
standing up and crossing his arms. (She
had often seen Cesco assume that attitude.)
You would not listen to me ; I know
it. If I were to say to you that I
care for nothing in life but being of
some use to you, what would it matter ?
I have always cared for you, and you
knew it when you chose to marry Cesco.
You must have known it. Why it was
I who spoke to Cesco first about you.

I had told him all about you the day
you met  at the Quirinal Ball. It was
I who had followed you everywhere for
weeks ; who knew all your movements.
Cesco had never heard about you, except
from me, before that day. And then you
chose him."

It is not true ! " said Barbara passionately,
standing up and looking at him from
under her eyelids with a scornful slightness,
as if she could hardly admit the fact that he
was indeed there.

It was enough to turn compassion into
a smarting desire to make her feel his
presence at any cost. Borgia's eyes
sparkled. " You don't believe me then ?
Ask Lalli," he said with significant
concision.

All ! " said Barbara, sitting down assailant
letting her hand fall heavily against
the stone of the bench. She felt sick at
heart.

How was I to suppose that you did not
know of it ? You were easily deceived ! ""
said Borgia, still speaking with much bitterness.


She did not move, and, after a moment's
silence, he added in a softened tone : " But
I did not mean to hurt you. You have
enough to trouble you without that. Only
how was I to know that you still cared for
him % "

Barbara did not answer.

I must go now, I suppose. I shall
leave a note for Cesco, to say that I was
called away on business. I ask you for

nothing ; but whatever happens, you
know that you can depend on me 
to the death," he added. His voice
trembled; he was much moved by the
sound of his own words. " Good-bye 
Barbara ! "

He looked at her hand, but his courage
failed him. He did not dare to touch it.
I am going. Tis not your fault. 'Tis
fatality. I am going ; good-bye ! " he repeated.
He added : " I shall write to you
from Kome."

Good-bye," she said automatically.

The very words he used  Cesco's old
phraseology  fell like a chill paralysis upon
the faith she had been struggling to keep
alive. At that moment the past grew empty
and ironical as the placid stone visage of

some broken idol. She leaned her head back
against the rough trunk of the tree behind
Er, feeling faint. She heard Borgia's
slow heavy footsteps crunching on the
gravelled walk, and she knew that he
was gone; but his absence made little
difference. What she had heard about
Cesco had burnt out all meaning from his
other words.

"Not even then  he was not loyal even
then," she said to herself over and over
again. For the first time since her marriage
she gave her fear an articulate utterance.
And to have thrown away her life  all its
possibilities  for this !

She did not weep. She sat looking with a
sort of stupefied wonder at the grotesque
forms of the moss-stained sphinxes across

the path. It was the first time in her
existence that Barbara had known  had
recognised  the inexorable clutch of experience.
In all which had gone before,
in her girl-visions of life, in her pleasures,
in her love for Lalli even, she had
been conscious of personal effort  of a
willing effort  but yet conscious that
she herself had somewhat to do with the
result obtained. But now  she faced the
inevitable. Here was knowledge of sorrow
that was hereafter and always to be a part
of her. It was not even a question how
she might submit to it. The privation was
absolute.

A few drops of rain fell slowly on her
hands and on her white dress. She rose,
with the feeling that it was incumbent

upon her to do nothing to provoke
remark, and went back into the house.
The afternoon had almost passed away
as she sat meditating. It was growing
dusk now inside the ffreat hall. She
passed into her boudoir. The storm
was coming up rapidly ; the thunder
broke in a long clattering peal overhead
; there was a banging of window-shutters,
and a hurrying of footsteps ;
presently she heard her husband's step
on the stair. He had ridden his horse
around to the stable and come in by a
back door.

What is all this infernal nonsense of
Borgia's?  Look at my luck ! look at what
I have escaped, will you ? " he said coming
in with his hat still on his head and an open

letter in his hand. He pointed with his
whip at the blinding sheet of rain. " A
deluge  and just a day before the corn
wants cutting! It is the devil's own
invention !  But what is all this about
Borgia ? What made him go ? He said
this morning he should stay until tomorrow."


He threw his hat down onithe table and
stood looking at Barbara.

"I did not ask him to go. It was
his own proposition' she said after a
silence.

It is very curious then," said LalK dryly,
tapping the table with his whip and continuing
to look at her. "Very curious
indeed."

She rose, moved by some uncontrollable

emotion. She walked over to the
window and looked out. With her eyes
fixed upon the white driving sheets of
rain, it seemed easier to ask certain
questions.

Cesco "

"Well?"

"Do you remember  before we were

married  you wrote me that letter

I have always wanted to ask you about

it "

Well ? " asked Lalli again, seeing that
she paused. He threw himself down on the
sofa and took out a cigarette, and began
feeling; for his match-box.

I wanted to ask you  about that duel
with Cavaliers Borgia," said Barbara resolutely.


The wild gust of wind and rain which
beat against the window seemed to shut
them in more completely alone. She crossed
the room and went and stood before her
husband. "About that duel. Do you
remember ? " 

Oh yes, I remember," said Lalli calmly,
turning his dark eyes towards her without
moving.

Tell me ! " said Barbara beseechingly,
kneeling down suddenly beside him and
putting her hand on his arm. He contemplated
her for an instant in silence.
It was  it was true, was it not ? " she
asked in a very low voice, laying her cheek
down against his hand.

Lalli smiled imperceptibly.

My dear Barbara, as if you needed to

be told that all is fair in love and war !
And I was very much in love with you
in those days, my dear." He smiled and
brushed back his moustache. "I assure
you I remember the morning perfectly."

Then you did not mean it," said Barbara
slowly.

She rose and seated herself by the table.
She turned her face away from him and
looked at the smiling portrait of the old
Confess Lalli ; it was the lightest object
in the room. " Then it is true  I am riffht
in supposing  that what I imagined to be a
a crisis for you was only a farce ? You
wrote me that story about the duel because
you knew that was the way to make me
come '? "

I knew that was the way to make you

VOL. III. D

come certainly," said Lalli complacently.
But it was quite true that I had challenged
Borgia on your account. Poor Borgia ! I was
really in the devil of a temper that day ! I
daresay I should have shot him if we had
gone out together. I don't know' he said
musingly, throwing his arm back over the
head of the sofa, and knocking off the ash
of his cigarette. "Perhaps we should
have shaken hands over it in any case
even if you had been stony-hearted
enough to resist my appeal. We have both
been out often enough, not to need to give
a proof of courage under fire. And then,
being old friends made it easier to arrange.
Fra amici. It is possible to come to an
understanding between friends."

He looked over at his wife inquiringly.
"You never asked me about this before,
cam mia. What is the matter ? What has
made you so curious 1 Has Marcantonio
been reminding you of old times ? "

He stood up and rubbed his hand carelessly
over his hair.

I don't suppose that you expect me
to feel disappointed that I did not let
myself be shot at pour tes beaux yeux, eh,
Barbara ? "

I ? I expect nothing," said Barbara in
her clearest voice.

At that moment she stepped aside morally,
judging her husband as if he belonged to
another world from her own. In the bitterness
of that isolation there did not seem

to be left even so much as a memory in
common. And it had always been so
from the first. She had always been
mistaken. There seemed nothing left in
the world worthy of love ; life had grown
hateful.

Once, travelling in the Italian Tyrol with
her father, they had spent the greater
part of a summer day driving beside the
barren rock-strewn expanse which at times
was the bed of a stream. She remembered
the arid iron-bound look of those mountains ;
in another way it seemed to her that she
was seeing it all over again. And was it
altogether Cesco's fault that she had never
understood a southern nature ? Had he
ever pretended to be otherwise than he was ?
She thought of that Italian stream ; and the

full pouring surging tide of his passion 
breaking resistance and overwhelming retreat
 where was it now ? There was left
to her a bare and sun-scorched wilderness
in the extremity of summer.

An Englishman of normal health and
spirits never compares himself to anyone
else. At the utmost  when he is ill, or after
half a lifetime of foreign travel  he compares
other nations to his own," observed
Mr. Clifford Dix sententiously. "I don't
mean," he added after a pause, "that the
remark applies particularly to Lexeter."

No," said Hardinge lazily, clasping both
hands together under his head and staring

up at the sky ; " certainly not ; not to
Exeter."

When do you expect him here ? "

Oh  any time tomorrow. I am not ina
hurry. I don't mind waiting when I have
everything else I want," looking away at a
distant line of stone pines. What darkness
against limpid light those broad-roofed
pines lifted against the sky ! He
gazed at them for several moments in
silence. " Why should one ever leave
Borne ? Eome in summer."

Fever," said Dix, yawning.

Han the fever ! You had much better
make up your mind to stay. Stay and
travel up to Venice with us when Lexeter
is ready to go on. I think of stopping-several
days in Venice."

Can't. I have promised to meet some
people in Florence ; cousins of mine. One
of them is very pretty  the same sort
of type as little Miss Damon. By-the-way,
what has become of the
Damons? You saw them, didn't you, at
Sorrento ? "

"They are very well. They are just
as usual," said Hardinge, smiling confidentially
at his row of pines. He looked
up at the sky again. " You had far
better join us and throw over your
cousins."

One of them, the elder one, has never
been out of America before. She is a
wonderful specimen of the New England
type  one of those New England women

who lack a little wholesome sin to make
them efficiently human. She is like someone
whose only conception of fire is sitting
over a hot-air register. "

Oh," said Hardinge, " I did not understand.
Of course, if you are looking forward

to a new intellectual experience That

settles it. I daresay we shall all be grateful
when your next novel comes out."

Ah," said Dix. " But speaking of new
experiences, I saw that Italian fellow
the other day  Belli  Lalli ; the man who
married Miss Floyd. What has become of
her ? Nice girl that. I should like meeting
her again. I fancy she was just the sort
of girl who would come out tremendously
strong after her marriage' He added, after

a pause : "I always fancied that Lexeter
was rather hit in that quarter, do you
know?"

Lexeter ! "

"Well, I don't pretend to be infallible."


They are coming up to town this week.
I met Lalli the other day at a cafe, and he
told me so. I half offered to ride over to
call on his wife, but he said they were
coming up."

That sounds promising for Lexeter,"
said Dix, yawning again and looking at
his watch. " Odd thing, though, that
it should always be one's friend's wife
who teaches one to fall in love with
virtue !  Nearly seven, by Jove ! and
there is still all that confounded packing

to look after. "Well  good-bye, old
fellow. I shall see you again somewhere
I suppose ? "

I will walk down to the gate with you,"
said Hardinge, putting on his hat.

They had been lounging away the greater
part of the afternoon in the Villa Albans.
Hardinge's permit was for an off-day. The
Villa was empty save for the presence of the
custodian, his workmen, and his family. And
what a place it was, and what an afternoon !
Outside these walls Eome lay like a thing
dead, sun struck and silent. But here was
leafy coolness ; here were statues, busts,
fountains, vases, black cypresses, motionless
ilex-groves, and formal walks of box, and
bright parterres of flowers surrounding
columned pavilions from whose walls Greek

masks look out with tragic glare or grin
in comic horror. Here are bas-reliefs by
Phidias and Polyclete ; here is the famous
bas-relief of Anxious holding the lotus-flower,
his beautiful brows knitted with
pain. But even this is not the supreme
thing in the Villa Albans. 

The supreme thing is the Greek marble
bas-relief of Orpheus and Eurydice. Hardinge
stood looking at it for a long time. He
often came to see it  this simple, grave,
sweet thing, witness of a lost art of naturalness,
of propriety of gesture, of harmonious
lines and beautifully-filled spaces ; a work
in which line and mass are more than detail,
in which everything is just in emphasis
and large in impression, and apart from
imitative or realistic art.

The summer afternoon seemed made for
looking at this warm-tinted, soft-texture,
Pentelican marble. He found himself
in a world of graceful, harmonious, and
beautiful things, images from a past life
and an old worship -the worship of
beauty and the life of nature ; a plastic
world, which bears no trace of Christian,
or mediaeval, or modern sentiment ; a
summer world, fresh with the sound of
water falling under leaves.

And for one moment imagine yourself in
his place. Look at delightful fauns piping
dancing, at leering satyrs, at reeling
Silenus ; look at sleepy, languid, white-armed
Bacchus ; at well-knit Mercury ; seethe
nymphs, the bacchantes, the menaces,
and the marble Venus herself, and confess if

this is not to feel like an exile ? to look
with alien eyes upon these shapes from the
old world of smiling existences  a world to
admire, a world that has something in it to
release one from the stress and torment of
business and religion ? Aliens and exiles
that we are, how close can we get to Greek
ideals ? Baffled, as before something different
to us, remote from us, we gaze and
use our critical sense, employ our understanding,
and do not surrender to emotion.
We miss, before the very images of
supreme Greek life and beauty, the
blithe, free, open spirit of pure, and
conscienceless, and elemental enjoyment
to which they best appeal  from which
they were born.

We look, as Hardinge did that night, past

statue and bust and column, past cypress-grove
and avenue of ilex, to the wide campagna,
now warm coloured and glowing
with ripened miles of grass and grain ; we
look at Monte General, pale and ghostlike
; we look at the faint and waving line
of the Allan hills ; we see the rising August
moon in spaces of filmy cloud, the sighing
pines, the masses of oleander letting fall
their flakes of blossoming fire. And then,
and only then, do we surrender to emotion ;
sadness and charm possess us ; for nature is
greater, closer, more potent than art to the
modern man.

The sky grew darker ; there was a rolling
mass of thunder-cloud heaped up at the
horizon in the direction of Bracciano. It
was the storm that we know of, breaking

among the hills. But the evening was
cloudless at Eome. While Barbara was
standing by the window, Hardinge was idly
watching the same storm, and from a
distance. His thoughts went back to
Sorrento. Presently he rose and strolled
down the path with his hands in his
pockets. His way led him past the
blossoming oleanders. The flower reminded
him of Octave ; the last time
he had seen her she had worn one in her
dress. He stood still, looking down at
the soft rosy clusters ; their exquisite
flush of colour was like a message, a confession.
He put out his hand and drew one
of the branches gently towards him. He
would not pluck one  no ! he would not
pluck one for the world. He sat down

on the edge of a marble sarcophagus and
looked over at the flowers. The vision-like
beauty of the evening, the perfume of the
oleanders, the solitude, were all a part of an
exquisite explanation. He understood now
why he had returned to Italy.

VOL. III.

It was not until the following week that the
Lallis arrived in town. Hardinge never
forgot those intervening days. He spent
them chiefly alone, in cool deserted galleries,
in churches, or stretched out at full length
in the shade under the pines of some villa.
And wherever he went he carried his new
secret with him. It followed him through
the empty and echoing corridors of the
Vatican : he felt it in the warm touch of

the wind, he heard it in the cool, dripping,
splashing sound of the fountains. Once, in
the course of that week, he wrote to Mrs.
Damon, inquiring about their plans. What
was their next move to be ? It was quite
possible that he might have the pleasure of
joining them again before long. He sent
no especial message to Octave. He waited
he was hardly impatient  for her mother's
answer. He was existing in a charmed
space of life ; any action, even the most
ardently desired, would be interruption.

But this feeling did not prevent his calling
upon Barbara. It was the day after her
arrival, and as he entered the old familiar
fortune of the Palazzo Vecchio, and ran
lightly up the broad dark steps, it seemed
difficult to realise much of change in her sure

2

*'0,

soundings. It was Margherita who opened
the door to him, with a " Bentornato,
ignoring ! " which made her black eyes flash
again with welcome. Was the Signora Lalli
at home ? Ah, that she was, thanks to the
blessed Madonna, and a rare sight it was to
see the clear young lady in her own place
again. She had nothing to say against the
sho-nor conte, not she ; a handsome young
gentleman, if there ever was one, and a
tongue to coax the birds down off the trees

when he was so minded, but Via !

she was a stupid old woman; she was
keeping the ignoring waiting in the
passage ; and what with the luggage
the Signor Floyd was taking with him,
and the signora's own boxes not yet half
unpacked

Is Mr. Floyd going away ? " Hardinge
asked with some surprise, glancing at the
pile of packing-cases.

He goes Santissima verging ! but

he goes to America' said Margherita, throwing
open the drawing-room door. She
looked in : " "With, permission. A visitor for
the signora confess ! "

Barbara was seated at the writing-table
near the window, her cheek resting on her
hand. She looked up abruptly at the
sound of Maro'herita's announcement, half
turning around in her chair ; and then,
as her eyes fell upon Hardinge, the whole
expression of her countenance altered.
Something like a wave of reflected sunlight
passed suddenly over her face. She
held out her hand : " Ah, how good of you

to come so soon. I am so glad to see
you again."

I should have come still sooner. I
should have come yesterday, but I thought
you would be tired. I thought you would
not want me. And I fear I am interrupting
you as it is' said Hardinge, shaking
hands with her and glancing at the writing-table.


How was I to know that it was you ?
I thought it was some tiresome caller' said
Barbara playfully.

She drew away her hand and pointed to
a chair. "You shall have your old seat,"
She sat down herself with her back to the
light, "I am really so very glad to see
you again' she said simply.

Hardinge looked at her. Her eyelids

were a little red as if she had been crying*
not long before, and the smile of pure gladness
which was playing about her lips gave
her something of the look of an unhappy
child at school receiving an unexpected
visit.

Hardinge looked at her with a sudden
accession of interest. There had always
lingered in his mind some touch of association,
some remembrance of the walk they
had taken together, which gave him
a peculiar sentiment about what concerned
Barbara. He was at all times
especially tender and chivalrous in his
thoughts about women, but in this instance
the feeling was even stronger. He would
have liked to take both her hands in
his to try to comfort her. In default of

anything more satisfactory to say, he
contented himself with asking after her
husband.

Count Lalli is very well, thank you.
He will be sorry not to see you. He has
gone to the bank to see about some business
with my father ; otherwise they would not
be out in this heat." She looked down at
her hands lying on her lap. " I think,
probably, he will be going to Venice before
long."

Who will be going to Venice ? Your
father?"

"No. I mean Cesco."

Ah, I am going there myself before
very long. Perhaps I may see him," said
Hardinge, moving slightly and throwing his
arm over the back of the chair. He was

privately determined to do nothing of the
kind.

"Why, everybody is going away. Papa
is going' said Barbara, speaking rather
sadly.

Yes ; Margherita told me so. She said
that Mr. Floyd was going to America.
Don't yon long to go with him ? I mean 
you will find it rather lonely here, I am
afraid. Particularly while Count Lalli is in
Venice," added Hardinge sympathetically,
turning his eyes away lest it should embarrass
her to feel that she was being
looked at.

The colour deepened perceptibly along her
cheek and throat. She turned her face
aside and looked at the ray of light stealing
in through the shutters.

I suppose it will be rather lonely," she
began, and then something hot seemed to
gather in her eyes and blind her. She could
only sit quite still, hoping that Hardinge
would notice nothing. Do not blame her
for it; it was the first time for so many
months that anyone had been solicitous
for her. The words that he used were
commonplace enough ; but there was
no mistaking the feeling of friendliness
and liking which prompted them. And
Barbara was being taught that value
of the safe and common good of
life which is the mark, perhaps the
compensation, of suffering. And sorrow
would be intolerable but that it brings
wisdom and deepens love. She had
never felt more passionately the need

of devoting her life in service to something
admirable and worthy. The mood
of intolerable despair of all things good
which had fallen upon her after listening
to Borgia's revelations in the garden
was, after all, only a mood. It was
impossible with a girl of Barbara's
temperament that the longing, clinging
desire for something to love should not
in the end subdue all merely personal
considerations. Lalli was not what she
had imagined him to be. He had never
been what she imagined him to be ;
the knowledge was a part of her
daily being, but surely that made only
one more reason for striving ardently
to fill up all the blank between them
with more and more of self-devoting

faith ? But it was a relief to see someone
with whom no effort was needed.
She looked at Hardinge with a sense of
absolute confidence.

You will forgive my being so  so
stupid. But things have gone wrong. I am
troubled about papa s going. And things
have a way of being troublesome at times,"
she said, with a half smile.

I know," said Hardinge quietly. It
was impossible to say more than he
expressed by the tone of that simple
assurance.

He got up from his chair and wandered
restlessly about the room, fingering Mr.
Floyd's old china and stuff.

How are you off for new books ? " he

asked presently, stopping before the bookcase.


I have several things to lend you "
he turned and looked towards her 
things that you will find easier than
Darwin."

"Oh, I have finished that now," said
Barbara, looking up with an answering
smile. There was a contagious sense of contentment
about Harclinge ; she felt happier
than she had done for a lone time.

Lexeter is bringing me out a lot
of new books from England. Curious
idea, his coming down to Eome in
August, is it not? But he could not
get away this year at any other
season."

I am glad he is coming. Only I wish,
that it was not necessary that you should
go away so soon ! " said Barbara, looking
at him frankly.

Oh, I am not gone yet," said
Hardinge, hastily, standing up and passing
his hand over his hair. He added :
I think you must let me stay for a.
while and see if I can be of any use
to you. Perhaps I might be of some
service to look after your luggage and
all that when you go to Venice to
rejoin Count Lalli ? And when Lexeter
comes we must see if we cannot get up
some more of our old riding parties. I
daresay it would not be too hot after six
o'clock. And there must be people left
in town whom one knows''

Don't try to make things too pleasant.
Remember, I have been living in
the country. I am not used to such
dissipation," said Barbara playfully.

"It is all the better for you then.
Such very good people are all the
better for being spoiled," said Hardinge,
taking up his hat to go. As he opened
the door he caught sight of the packing-cases
outside. "I want to see Mr. Floyd
so much before he leaves. I want him
to call on my mother if he stays anytime
in New York. I wish you would
ask me to come back to dinner ? " he said,
laughing.

"I hear papa coming in. He shall
ask you himself," said Barbara, leaning
back contentedly in her chair. It

was like a change in the weather
to have Hardinge's bright presence in the
house.

When he went away that evening Cesco
Lalli was the first person to make any
comment upon him.

I am beginning to like young Hardinge
rather. He amuses me. I used to think
him conceited." He walked over to the
empty fireplace. " It is a pity he is such
a little fellow ; he wouldn't be bad lookin
or otherwise," he said, squaring his own
broad shoulders and looking at himself
complacently in the glass v

Barbara had seated herself at the writing-table.


"I am going to write to Octave Damon.
Mr. Hardinge says the Damons are still

at Sorrento. I am going to ask Octave
to come and stay with me for a few
clays, if it makes no difference to you,
Qesco?"

What difference should it make ? "
asked Cesco, shrugging his shoulders
slightly.

He fixed his dark eyes meditatively upon
the ground.

"Apropos, I met Borgia to-day."

Barbara did not answer.

"I asked him to come in this evening,
and he said he was encased."

Well ? " said Barbara, after a pause, and
without turning her head. She was contemplating
a spot on the wall. "What
then ? "

Oh, nothing," said Cesco, looking at the

VOL. 11T. F

back of his wife's head. She wore a large
silver comb in her shining hair. "That
is pretty," he said, coming up behind her
chair and touching the comb with his
ringer. She sat quite still. Her mind
was moving rapidly over the many ways
in which it was possible to give him
some clue to the meaning of Borgia's
attitude towards her. "By-the-way, I
shall want you to speak again to your
father before he leaves about that money,"
Cesco continued, turning away and throwing
himself clown upon the end of the
sofa. He reached over and picked up a
French novel which was lying on the
nearest table, opened it, ran the palm of
his hand over the leaves, and let it fall

with, an exclamation of perfect ennui and
weariness.

Barbara took up her pen again and went
on writ ins;.

One day  it was during the first few
months of their stay at the villa  she had
been attracted to the window by the sound
of repeated shots from a gun. Below her,
in the courtyard, were Lalli and his intendant.
Lalli was holding the gun.
He was aiming at something fastened
to a pole at the extreme end of the
court ; something alive, which ran from
side to side, and struggled, and flapped a
broken wins;.

Oh, it is nothing to make a fuss about,"
he called out cheerfully, throwing back

f 2

his handsome head and turning his face upto
his wife's balcony. " Come down and
see it. It is only the wild hawk that
was taken in the nets this morning.
I have been trying the range of my
new gun. Look here, that is not so bad
for such small shot at that distance 
eh Vista ? " he said, turning to the old
intendant. " Look here  and here." He
picked up the dying bird by its broken
wings and turned over its feathers.
"You could cover the places with a
sou. That's something rather different
from the scattering of that blessed old
gun of yours."

But oh, Cesco, won't you kill it ? Look !
oh please, won't you kill the poor thing
at once," said Barbara, clasping her hands

imploringly as the bird began struggling
convulsively in his clutch. "See there 
oh see, it is alive still. I know it is
alive."

"Alive? I should rather think it was,"
said Cesco with a laugh, throwing it down
on the ground carelessly and turning
on his heel. "It takes something; to
kill a hawk, eh Vista ? Why that fellow
has at least twenty pellets in him
now."

"Twenty at least," said the old man
assenting, bending down and pushing the
bird about with his foot. " Eh, signor
conte, but that is one who will do no more
mischief in the world."

Gia ! e vero" said Cesco indifferently,
taking out his handkerchief and brushing

a fleck of blood off the back of his
hand.

Barbara never forgot the expression of his
face at that moment. The whole scene
remained photographed on her mind  the
look of the courtyard, the blue of the
afternoon sky, the figure of the old man
moving away with bowed back across
the line of sunshine, the absolute weariness
and apathy with which her husband
stood examining the lock of his gun while
the tortured creature was slowly dying
in the dust at his feet. It was not so
much positive, active cruelty; it was not
that he took any especial pleasure in inflicting
pain, it was merely that he did not
care. There was no affectation and no
determination in it  he absolutely did not

care. She never forgot it, and she never referred
to it in the most distant manner. The
scene remained in her mind like a nucleus
around which other impressions gathered.
Each event was very slight in itself, but not
slighter than the series of impressions and
impulses which had culminated in her
marriage to Lalli. It was merely the same
process reversed.

When she had finished her letter, she rose
from the table to fetch a photograph of
herself which she wished to enclose to
Octave. Cesco had fallen asleep. His
head was thrown back and his lips
parted ; the nickering light of the candles
made him look as if he were smiling, his
lips seemed to move. The air of ennui
which had been growing upon him of

late had quite disappeared. He was sleeping
as lightly and peacefully as a tired
boy. One of his arms was thrust under
his head, clutching his curly hair  the
other had fallen at his side, the open palm
and relaxed fingers were hanging over the
edge of the sofa. Barbara bent down softly
and lifted this hand gently back. Some
impulse made her refrain from waking
him ; he looked so peaceful, so kind. She
blew out all the candles but one, and
placed that one high up on the mantelpiece,
where the light should not shine on
the eyes of the sleeper. And then she
drew her own chair near the open window,
and leaned her cheek upon her hand and
looked out.

She looked upon the same old familiar

silhouette of chimney-pots and tiled roofs.
Opposite her window was the convent ; its
small round belfry made a black line against
the sky, and in the open spaces between the
rafters she could see the outline of the bells.
Beyond the convent-roof was a garden
with straight, black cypresses ; beyond that
another mediaeval tower. It was a very
hot, still night ; the air in the street felt
breathless. The moon had not yet risen,
but beyond the city the horizon was
lighted up in places as if from the reflection
of a fire. The lamps in the streets
looked like fallen stars; they did not
seem to radiate light, they merely glittered.
At this height there was just wind enough
to fill the white muslin curtain ; it stirred
backwards and forwards, brushing against

the polished floor. The only other
sound was the low regular breathing of
the sleeper.

It seemed such a good world just then
to Barbara. All her life long she had
let herself be moved by considerations,
swayed by influences outside of her own
personal wishes and griefs. The serene
tranquillity of this limpid summer night
was like the strengthening presence of a
friend. There seemed reason for trying
to be good in a world which was so
beautiful.

The convent-bell rang out sharply. Lalli
moved and muttered something in his sleep.

Are you awake, dear ? " asked Barbara
softly, turning her head.

The candle flickered and smoked in the
draught on the chimney-piece. Lalli did
not answer, he was breathing heavily.

She changed the position of her arm, it
was growing cramped with leaning on the
window-sill. She sat up, looking straight
out before her. Things which Harding had
said kept coming back ; once or twice she
smiled ; there were so many things she
wanted to talk to him about, the next time
she saw him  tomorrow. All the intellectual
side of her nature had been appealed to, was
awakened. And this had been done by a
man in thinking of whom she had need
of no mental reservations, no fear of
coming upon dark corners and baffling
walls. And she was glad of it, she told

herself, clasping her hands together, and
looking up, with eyes which suddenly
grew dark and moistened, at the clear
starry vault of the sky. She was glad,
it was good, that she should have known
absolute honesty and faithfulness. It was
good to be saved from doubt, not to grow
hard and unloving because

And having reached this point of enthusiasm,
she pressed her hand suddenly hard
against her lips and began to cry. The
tears rolled slowly, one after the other,
down her cheeks ; she did not brush them
away.

The curtain waved regularly to and fro.
She could hear the ticking of the clock
in the next room, the sound of Cesco's

breathing. And she was so young  and
so terribly lonely.

The feeling of pleasure, success, the
thrill of gratified ambition, the large
peace of noble endeavour, these may all
come into loveless lives  but not satisfaction.
And to have lost that  at one-and-twenty


Cesco stirred uneasily again. He moved
his hand and sighed heavily once or twice.
Then his lips parted, he half opened his eyes
and spoke :

"Beginaa!"

Barbara's heart seemed to stop beating.
She sat perfectly motionless, looking at the
opposite wall.

There was a moment of intense silence.

The curtain rustled and was still again.
Lalli had closed his eyes instinctively, but
the sound of his own voice had awakened
him, and he knew that he had spoken. At
the end of two or three minutes he moved ;
he sat up, and passed his strong hand
slowly through his hair.

By Jove, I believe I have been
asleep ! "

He stood up and settled the collar of his
coat about his neck.

"I believe I have been asleep. I was
dreaming. I was dreaming about my cousin
about Regina."

Cesco ," began Barbara.

She checked herself abruptly, and her
head drooped a little forward.

Her husband looked at her sideways.
He took the candle from the mantelpiece.
His eyelids were heavy and swollen
with sleep. " I am so tired, I do not
know wdiat I am talking about. Come,
Barbara, it is long past your bedtime.
Your face is quite white. You
will not be fit to do anything tomorrow."


He held the door open for her to
pass.

He laid his hand for an instant on her
shoulder as she passed by him ; their two
faces were very near together, and Barbara
smiled faintly, but she did not speak.
How much would it be possible for her
to believe of his answer ? She wanted

nothing so much as that he should not
speak.

When his wife had left the room, Lalli
stood quite still for some moments meditating.
After a little consideration he
walked over to the writing-table and sat
down. He began three or four times
to write a letter, but after scribbling
a few lines he tore each copy into the
smallest shreds. Finally, when the
dawn was beginning to grow gray
behind the housetops, he succeeded in
completing what he had to say. After
all it was not a long letter. He
addressed it simply "To the Signora
Cardella," without adding any number or
street.

The next morning at breakfast he announced,
rather suddenly, that he was going
to Venice.

"I thought," said Mr. Floyd, putting
down his newspaper, and turning his un-expectant
glance full upon his son-in-law,
"I fancied that I had understood you to
say that you should remain in Eome until
the end of August."

Oh, Barbara can stay as long as she
likes ; I don't wish her to come before
she is ready," said Cesco, pushing away
his coffee-cup and rising from the
table. He took up his hat to go out,
and added, looking at his wife : " On
the whole, I think you will find staying
here pleasant. I shall have a lot

VOL. III. G

of business to look after for the first
two or three weeks ; perhaps I shall
have to go to Turin. And here you
will have Margherita and Miss Damon
to take care of you. And Hardinge
might bring you on to Venice when he

comes."

In those clays it occurred to Madame
Eaimondi to give a picnic. "I want to
see, my dear, who is left in Eome when
everybody has gone out of town," she said
to Barbara confidentially. " Of course you

are coming, both of you " (It was the

day after Miss Damon's arrival. She was
sitting in the window, sewing, in the
freshest of morning gowns  all over pink
frills.) " I am counting upon Octave's reg

2

appearance as a pleasant surprise ; and oh,
my dear child, cannot you bring your
cousin, Count Lalli's cousin ? I saw her
the other day walking with your husband.
There is not another such a head and throat
in Eome. And what eyes ! I wish I were
a man ; it's the only thing which ever
made me wish it," said the flat-faced little
Scotchwoman, poking at the rug with her
parasol.

Dear me ! Do you really think she is
so pretty as all that ? " asked Octave
placidly, putting her curly head on one
side and looking critically at her work.
Pretty ? My dear Octave ! "
There can be no doubt about Regina's
beauty' said Barbara in her clear, full,
steady voice. Her cheeks flushed a little.

But I think  I am not sure  but I think
that the Cardellas are not in town. I
went to call there the other day and
the servant said that either Eegina or the
baby  I forgot which  w T as not very well ;
and Signor Cardella had insisted upon
taking them to the country."

"Oh, the husband is a stick. Enrico
knows him " (Enrico w T as Signor Kaimondi),
the elder woman said carelessly ; and then,
curiosity prompting her, she added : " but
I hear also that he is a stick with a meaning
of his own, Quite a baton de chef orchestra.
He means to give the tone to the
whole proceeding. And they say that he
is frightfully jealous of his wife."

Oh, I hope not ! " said Barbara ardently,
leaning forward and clasping her hands.

Well, well ; we all hope not. It's a
cheap wish, as wishes go. And it rather
gives one a reason for investigating deeper
into such matters," said Madame Eaimondi
with a short laugh, rising from her chair
and adjusting the folds of her scarf. She
put out her plump hand, and all the
bangles and dangling things which she
wore about her fat white wrists rattled
and clashed against each other. " Well,
good-bye, my dear, for the present.
You are coming to my picnic, you know.
And you won't tell the count that I
have been talking scandal about his
cousin ; talking scandal about Queen
Elizabeth, eh?"

I won't tell him. But Cesco is in
Venice," said Barbara, rising too.

And does that absolutely prevent your
writing to him ? " said Madame Eaimondi,
looking at her with bright eyes. " Dear me !
I should never have given you credit for
so much philosophy, Barbara. Why, I
always imagined that devoted young
creatures like yourself were in the habit
of writing by every post. "Well, well ;
I suppose a great deal must be forgiven
you because you have loved much. Why
it seems only the other day that all
Eome was talking of your romantic
love - match. You must tell me all
about it some day, my dear. I have
always meant to ask you more about it.
You know I've adopted you quite as
one of my own set of girls since you
married an Italian. I only wish you would

get Miss Octave over there to show as
much sense."

"Octave prefers making frills, thank
you," said that young lady quickly. And
then she added calmly, almost before their
visitor was out of earshot :

I don't know what you think about
it, Barbara, but I consider that woman is
growing perfectly insufferable. Her impertinence
is always breaking out in new
spots, like something that has begun to
grow mouldy. I wonder," she said, looking
meditatively at the needle she was
threading, "I wonder if she wears that
hideous red scarf under the delusion
that it takes the colour out of her nose ?
And / should consider such a profile a
judgment."

And then a minute or two later she
made some excuse for leaving her place.
She leaned over the back of the chair,
and laid her soft cheek gently against
Barbara's. Barbara put up one hand
and pressed her face closer. For a
moment they stood so without speaking,
and then Barbara rose from her seat
abruptly and walked straight out of the
room.

Poor dear Baby ! " said Octave softly,
looking after her. She picked up her work
again and sat down on the lower step in the
window seat. A single ray of sunlight
came in between the closed shutters, and
turned her rough dark hair to a sort of
dusky gold incubus about the little head ;
it shone on some large white roses on the

table, and was reflected on the polished
floor. The whole room smelt of roses.
A bell rang somewhere, and Margherita's
voice sounded shrilly from the kitchen.
It might be another visitor, Octave
thought, and her heart began beating a
little faster.

It was the grove of Egeria which Madame
Eaimondi had selected for her picnic. The
carriages were to meet there at five o'clock.
There was to be the boiling of a kettle
under the trees  " in gipsy fashion," as
Madame Eaimondi herself explained to the
Cavaliers Borgia, leaning on his arm, and
waving her hand in the direction of the two
or three servants in livery who were collecting
sticks from the underbrush with much
dignity of gesture.

It was a very breezy afternoon. The
wind blew steadily across the open country.
The large, rounded, white clouds moved
rapidly along overhead from south to north ;
the rest of the sky was of a dark stainless
blue.

Madame Raymond had collected a laro;e
party. They sat on the ground, at the
edge of the grove, about a table-cloth
spread out on the grass ; it was so hot
that the grass broke like straw when one
walked over it.

Barbara was seated beside a fat old lady
whom she had never seen before, but who
looked at her with interest, and asked
questions about her father.

I know Mr. Floyd ; I knew him
years ago, years before you were born or

thought of, my dear. And so you are
Douglas Floyd's little girl ; and you
are married. Dear, dear, how time goes !
How very romantic ! I should like
to have seen your father. And which
is your husband, pray ? Show him tome
; I should like to see him. What
what did you say ? You must speak
clearly, my dear ; this hot weather makes
me a little deaf. Which of those young
gentlemen is it ? Not the one who is flirting
so hard with that pretty girl in pink,
I hope?"

Oh dear no. That is Mr. Hardinge, a
friend of ours. My husband is not here ;
he is in Venice."

In Venice ? How very romantic ! And
you are going to join him there, of course ?

But pray tell me, nry dear Confess Lalli"
she put her hand impressively upon
Barbara's arm  "you said Hardinge, I
think. What Harding are these ? Is
this young man one of the New York
Harding V

I think Mr. Harding's mother
lives in New York. He has just left
Oxford."

"Educated at Oxford ? Indeed! it sounds
very romantic. I have been to Oxford
myself; I took my niece there as we were
passing through England. And tell me  I
don't think you mentioned this young man's
christian-name ?"

Walter," said Barbara ; " Walter
Hardinge."

She spoke very softly ; she had never

called him by his name before. But
evidently this old lady's hearing was
capricious.

"Walter," she repeated briskly, putting
up her double eye-glass. Harding looked
quickly across the table at the sound
of his own name. " Ah, yes, I thought
so. Now that he has moved I see the
likeness. He must be the son of old
Admiral Hardinge ; his name was Walter,
I remember. Dear me, Walter Hardinge's
son ! A very good family that, a very
good family to belong to. Riches and
religion  two very good things ; and you
can't have too much of either, as m)
poor dear husband used to say. And
so your little friend seems to think," she
added languidly.

My friend ? " said Barbara.

The little pink girl. She came with
you, did she not ? Ah, I thought so. Well,
I should say, judging from appearances, you
know, that she is quite well aware of what
an eligible young man she is talking to.
You don't agree with me ? Ah, well, I
daresay you know best ; we are all fallible
in this world, especially in such weather."
She passed a perfumed handkerchief across
her lips. "Is that my vinaigrette lying
beside you ? Ah, thanks ; a thousand
thanks. But you are looking quite pale
from the heat, my dear ? I am afraid
the coming here has been too much for
you ? Really that Madame Eaimondi is
a most injudicious person ; very well-intentioned,
poor soul, but so injudicious.

And to drag us out here at this season
of the year. I detest picnics of all kinds.
Really I do not see how people can be
so selfish."

"I hope you have everything you want,
and are quite comfortable, dear Mrs.
Van Ness ? " asked the lady in question,
bending across the table.

Oh quite, quite. It is really quite too
romantic," said Mrs. Van Ness graciously,
putting up her eye-glass and smiling at the
landscape.

Madame Eaimondi was attired for the
occasion in a short white gown with
scarlet bows. The sleeves of her dress
only came down to her elbows. She
had wide black velvet bands about her
wrists to indicate moral simplicity, and

she carried a small basket of fruit on
her arm.

My clear Barbara," she said, " you
are eating nothing  positively nothing. I
shall have to write to Count Lalli myself
if you do not take better care of yourself
than that. Let me send you some
of Cavaliers Borgia's delicious peaches.
Cavaliers, you shall have the pleasure
of offering these to the Confess Lalli in
person."

Oh, thank you, no. Indeed, I don't
want anything," said Barbara, rising as
she saw the cavaliers approaching. Her
getting up was the signal for a general
movement. People had finished luncheon ;
they began walking about in groups
and pairs ; many of the younger men

VOL. III. H

lighted cigars ; there was a general
intention to go down and look at the
fountain.

In the confusion Barbara had moved
away a few steps. Borgia accosted her.
"You never answered my letter," he said
reproachfully.

Barbara was silent for a moment.

I never read it."

Ah," said Borgia, throwing back his head
and looking at her from under his eyelids.
It was a familiar action of Cesco's. He turned
very red, and his large hands began to
tremble. "But you will excuse me if I

observe Allow me to remark, signora

confess "

Are you going into the grove ? or with

the others to look at the fountain ? Come
and sit down in the shadow. It is cooler
there, and you are looking horribly tired,"
said Hardinge, joining them, and speaking
in English.

"Yes"' said Barbara instantly, turning
towards him, and laying her hand upon his
proffered arm. She moved away without
looking back at Borgia. But she was no
longer frightened. When Hardinge had
found her a place in the shadow, she seated
herself and leaned back against a tree, and
drew off her gloves with the feeling that this
was rest.

I saw you being devoured by a horrible

old woman," said Hardinge, laughing. " Miss

Damon introduced me to her after luncheon,

h 2

but I fled. She said that she was an old
friend of our family. I felt like reminding
her that discretion is the better part of
friendship. What on earth were you
talking to her about all the time those
people were feeding ? "

Oh, about you. She was asking questions
about you," said Barbara, colouring
and reflecting quickly that if indeed things
had been as  as Mrs. Van Ness hinted, he
would hardly have concerned himself so much
about the movements of his neighbours.
It was impossible not to feel happier at the
thought.

Talking about me, was she ? I fancied
I heard my own name  the old wretch ! "
said Hardinge comfortably. He threw

back his head, and clasped his hands
behind his neck, and looked up at the
ilex-branches above him. " I remembered
her perfectly  who she is and all that
the moment Miss Damon mentioned
her name. That is the worst of Eoman
society ; it is like a rag-bag, it includes
everything that has been rejected elsewhere.
I remember Mrs. Van Ness at
my mother's house when I was a little
chap ; she used to bully us all round. She
had a husband then, a very handsome man,
who had been all smashed to pieces in some
railway accident. "

Ah, she began telling me about that,"
said Barbara.

I believe myself that it was all a

dodge on the poor man's part  an artless
attempt at suicide. I should have made
it a case of conscience to assist him
in carrying out his views had I been
present at the time," said Hardinge,
breaking out into his irrepressible boyish
laugh. His face too had changed in
this last year. Just now he was very
much sunburnt, and it made him look
older.

Presently the voices of the rest of the
party were heard drawing nearer.

"They are coming up the hill," the
young man said, looking down between
the black ilex-trunks. " Shall we go
out and meet them?" He offered
her his hand to assist her in rising.
"We do not want a mob, headed by

Mrs. Van Ness, in the 'unwonted grove of
the gods "

For they were standing nearly in the
centre of that strange circular group of
ilex-trees which crowns the hill. The
sunless ground, stricken with immemorial
shadow, was bare of grass or flowers.
The strong steady wind swept over
the shuddering black branches with a
sound like the moaning of an organ.
These trees are never silent. There is
always wind among these branches ;
and to stand among them is like
listening to the mighty melancholy voice
of the Campagna itself  the voice of
one crying in the wilderness  the very
voice of Rome.

As they went forward to meet the others,

Hardinge said : " I shall come to call on

you tomorrow evening, if I may  and

bring Lexeter. I expect him to arrive
tomorrow."

Octave was very silent during the drive
home. She went early to her room, complaining
of headache. She came down late
to breakfast in the morning. It was a long
colourless morning. Neither of the two
girls felt entirely at ease, and yet each
had a great desire for the society of the
other. They laughed and talked much
more than was their custom. Octave began
describing minutely the life she expected to

lead in Paris with her mother ; Mrs.
Damon was already on her way to Paris.
And in the midst of her description she
stopped short, and came up to Barbara
and put her arms about her neck and
kissed her.

I do love you, Baby," she said, with
irrelevant fervour, blushing all over her
delicate throat and cheek.

Barbara noted the blush, and her heart
contracted painfully. For a minute or two
she was silent, and when she did speak it
was only to say : " Dear, dear little Octave ! "
But the tone in which she spoke made the
words sound like some passionate pledge of
loyalty.

After luncheon Octave went out to drive
with Madame Eaimondi, who was to take

her to the theatre in the evening. After
leaving her at the door, Barbara had
herself driven to the church of Santo
Sterno. It was a place which she always
associated with Hardinge. They had met
there once, in the early days of their
acquaintance, on one of the first occasions
that Lalli had singled her out
from the others and drawn her apart.
There seemed to be a sort of fitness
in going there now ; it was like revisiting
a turning-point in their lives. As
she was driven over the narrow stony
byways she was living over again,
with an ardent mournfulness, all the
hours which she had ever spent with
Hardinge. She could see quite clearly
how that first feeling of liking and confidence

had deepened and strengthened
with time and knowledge until now it
seemed the only unchecked part of her
soul. All the rest was under restraint ;
silenced because no room had been made for
it. She thought of their parting, perhaps
for ever, in a few more days; and the
knowledge that he would never certainly
know how much his presence had signified
in her life, counted for nothing in that
moment of discovery. All that she asked
for was to keep an untroubled undimmed
impression of him before her eyes. Failure
in life is to have no ideal. She felt
that Hardinge had saved her from that
experience.

But she had not reckoned upon the
effect which the sight of that familiar

place would have upon her. She got
out of her carriage and walked to the
door, past the narrow beds of carnations
in bloom. The door was locked. It was
late in the season for strangers. The
old custodian looked at her curiously; he
fumbled at the key with trembling twisted
fingers. " It is the fever," he said, shaking
his head dolefully ; " the fever, the fever,
the fever."

Barbara went in alone. There was a
worn stone step at the entrance ; she remembered
stumbling over it once before,
and Lalli's outstretched hand. The church
was cold ; it struck one with a chill on
entering. All the light came from above ;
it fell on cold circular walls, on pictures
of forgotten martyrdoms. It was like

passing from one life into another, to
step out of the warm, living, impressionable
summer day into this very sanctuary
of death. There was an air of faded
brutality about it all ; a sense of dull
cruelty and futility, which reduced life to
its meanest elements. The stupid violence
depicted was like a brutal epigram on all
enthusiasm.

A crushing feeling of weariness crept
over her. It was one of those moments
when the mind turns away, sickened, from
any idea of effort or sacrifice, and old watchwords
sound empty. As she sat there
meditating, a bell rang sharply somewhere
overhead. She counted the strokes. Four,
five, six o'clock already. And Hardinge

had said that he was coming that evening
to talk to her.

She would not go directly home. She
had herself driven to call upon Monsieur
Simon, Lexeter's old and dear friend.
She found him sitting up in a large
basket-chair, playing at dominoes with
his nurse. His face brightened a little
with the pleasure of seeing her. She
told him that Lexeter was coming soon
to call on him, and the old man nodded
smilingly.

Mais oui, oui. C 'est un bon coeur celui
la. II est bien malheureux" he said,
turning his eyes mechanically towards the
place on the wall where her photograph
had been accustomed to hang.

She imagined that he did not understand
her. "What was there to make Lexeter
malheureux f

In lifting his hand, Monsieur Simon had
knocked one or two of his dominoes off the
table. He did not observe it, but when
Barbara stooped to pick them up he
apologised. He thanked her with all his
old punctilious deference of manner. The
severe lines of his face were scarcely
altered ; the eyes had only grown a
little dull under his heavy projecting eyebrows
; but when he spoke his voice
sounded like a child's. He seemed quite
contented now.

Lord bless you, madam, the poor old
gentleman was never more comfortable nor
peaceful in his life," the nurse said complacently,

smoothing down her apron and
following Barbara to the door.

She drove home in a mood of discouragement,
in which it seemed as if all the tragic
realities of life were conspiring together
to close in around her. She felt suffocated
and entrapped. To reach the house she
had to pass before the Hospital of the
Consolazione. Once before she had been
in there, with Margherita, to see after a
woman who was hurt. I think she had
almost forgotten the circumstance, but, as
she passed before the long silent building,
it all came back upon her with a rush. She
remembered the look of the ward, the
sickening stillness of the place. There
was one man in particular, with his
arm fastened up above his head by a

VOL. III. I

pulley  she remembered it all as if it
had been yesterday. That helpless swinging
arm was like a symbol of all the
inevitable helpless misery in the world,
and, for the first time, she rebelled at
the idea. After all, what one wants
most in this world is happiness. We all
begin by wanting it for ourselves ; most
of us, at least while we are young, expect
it. After a time one gives up a good deal
of the expectation, but I have never yet
found that this materially affected the
want.

It all comes in the end to a question of
unselfishness ; but the impulse towards self-sacrifice
is like very many other human
emotions, and subject to eclipse. And, as
Hardinge observed once, there are days

when the chief result of having denied
one's own wishes and suffered a great deal
seems to be the extended capacity for
suffering a great deal more. It was one
of those days for Barbara.

Dinner was ready and waiting when she
entered, but she sent it away untouched.
When Margherita remonstrated she said
simply : " I am not hungry. I cannot
eat."

The old woman looked at her with a
curiously persistent anxiety.

It  there surely can be no bad news
which the signora confess has heard ? " she
asked, bending down her head and pretending
to arrange the folds of her
apron.

Certainly not. I am only tired," saidi

2

Barbara, smiling faintly. She added
presently: " What possible bad news could
I have heard ? "

"Eh, Miss Barbara, my dear," said
Margherita, slipping back into the old
way of speaking, " it's a hard world for
everybody at times. And some days, the
Lord forgive me ! but I wonder if the blessed
saints are growing deaf up above there?
But come si fa ? mia cava signorina, with
time and patience the mulberry-leaf becomes
silk  and very poor-wearing silk it
makes, the Lord knows," she muttered,
going out of the room and back into her
kitchen.

Barbara had not changed her walking-dress.


It was the hottest night of that summer.

Every window and door in the great old
palace stood wide open ; one could even
hear voices of people talking on the stairs.
She heard a clock far off striking the quarter ;
she looked at her watch  it was after
nine o'clock. Surely if Hardinge were
coming at all he would not be much later
than nine ?

There was no perceptible wind, but every
now and then the room was filled with the
heavy scent of orange-blossom. There was
a festa of some kind, a saint's day, being
celebrated at the small drinking-shop near
the corner. To the end of her days Barbara
will remember the airs that they were
playing, the mechanical tinkling iteration
of the dance-music that night. The 
rang out another quarter. The

sound of voices on the stair suddenly
grew hushed, and then broke out again
much louder. There was a quick heavy-step,
and then a sharp peal at the bell.
Barbara turned suddenly and walked over
to the sofa at the farther end of the room
and sat down. It was not her usual place.
She sat quite still, waiting. The band went
on playing its silly teasing waltz  la-la,
la-la, la-la-la. And then it began allover
again. One of the violins was always
making a blunder on the second bar.
Barbara remarked to herself quite composedly
that that was always the way with
those street musicians. You see they
depend entirely upon playing by ear.
Now that is all very well, so far as

it goes, but when you once begin making
mistakes

Somebody was speaking in whispers in
the next room. And there was not another
sound in the house.

It was Margherita who came in. Barbara
had always known it would be Margherita.
She never moved ; she only turned her eyes
towards the old woman and waited. After
all she had never really expected anything
else.

1 ' Ah signorina, signorina wiia ! " the
woman cried out pitifully. She wrung her
two honest hard-working hands together,
and spread them out dramatically straight

before lier in a superbly simple gesture of
despair.

Barbara, looking at it, reflected quickly
that nearly every Italian is a born tragic
actor. It is only the Latin races who have
that element in their blood.

Well ? " she said. She spoke louder than
she had intended, but that was only because
her lips were dry.

"Ah, signorina mia, it is  it is the
Signora Regina. Oh, the poor Signora
Eegina. I remember her a little child
on the Pincian hill with the other
children. It seems only the other clay.
And when she used to look at me
with those great eyes of hers, and say :

'Please  good Margherita ' And such

little hands ; no bigger than that. And

such coaxing ways about her; who ever
had the heart to refuse her anything ?
And now to think of her lying there as
good as dead, santissima Verging! as good
as dead, and not even her husband with
her!"

Well ? " said Barbara again.

"It is the fever, signorina, la pernicious.
Ah, you do not know what that is, you
others. It is only the Eomans who know
it. It is the fever that never spares ;
they all die of it, some in one day,
some in two ; never more than two. And
to think of the Signora Eegina with
her little baby. It was yesterday night,
signora, that she started. She took nobody
with her but the boy to drive
the horses, and he was too young to do

anything but what he was told to do,
poveretto! And all night long they
drove across the Campagna ; and when
they got into town they had to lift
her out of the carriage, Pietro says, and
all day long she has been lying like somebody
in a trance. And no one knows
when the Signor Cardella is coming, ah,
power homo ! they say he is quite mad
with jealousy about his wife. He worships
the very ground she treads on. And the
doctor is with her now, and the sisters.
They say she will not pass the night,
povera signorina! and, if you please

signora, Pietro has come to ask for

They have sent "

She stopped short and looked irresolutely
at her young mistress. The band at the

corner went on playing its variations : la-la,
la-la, la-la-la.

"And so," said Barbara, speaking quite
calmly and in the tone of a person finishing
an old story, "and so they have sent
here for my husband."

She got up, still with that air of absolute
self-possession, and walked straight
across the room. There was a book lying
open on one of the tables. She closed
it gently and pushed it back into its
place.

"Will you fetch me my hat, Margherita ?
And send someone downstairs to call mea
carriage. I shall not take you with
me on account of Miss Octave ; but
stay. Is there anybody here waiting

? any messenger from the Signora
Regina ? "

There was a shuffling of feet, and
someone coughed discreetly behind the
door.

"There is Pietro, the Signor Cardella's
own man. But  but oh, signora mia, per
Valor di Dio, you are not going there 
without knowing. The Lord forgive me !
but if I had the judging of the Signor
Cesco "

"Don't," said Barbara quickly, lifting her
hand.

She stood still, looking down at the floor
for a moment.

When Miss Octave comes home  don't
cry, Margherita, it does no good, and I

want you to help me in this. When
Miss Octave comes home you will tell her
that I have been called out, suddenly,
to see a sick person. And you will
see that she has something to eat before
she goes to bed. And if Mr.
Hardinge should call this evening,

you will tell him " She lifted up

her eyes and looked at Margherita.
"Say that I am sorry not to have seen
him," said poor Barbara gently.

She went down the long stairs like
somebody in a dream. A man walked
in front of her, carrying a light. It was
the same man who helped her into the
low carriage.

"It is only a country trap, not fit for
the city. But the Signora Cardella chose

it because it was so light for the horses.
And I hope the signora confess will
excuse it. No one will see the signora, it
is so dark."

Barbara thanked him, and got in mechanically.
She did not hear a word of what
he said. But long afterwards she remembered
that the horses wore bells to their
collars like Campagna horses. She was
positive about this because she heard them
jingle. The man too was familiar to her.
It was a one-seated trap, so that she sat
next to the driver ; as they passed under
the first gas-lamp she looked at him  she
knew his face at once. She had noticed
some peculiarity about it the only time
she dined at the Cardellas'. She remembered
that dinner perfectly, and how

Cesco had talked to her on the way
home. They had been married three months
then

The servant saw that she recognised him,
and touched his hat.

The poor signora is very bad, very
bad indeed," he said gravely. " The signora
confess will be very much shocked to see
her. The doctor was there when I came
away."

"Yes," said Barbara automatically. Regina
had looked so very beautiful at that dinner.
She remembered speaking of it to Cesco
as they came away. She remembered his
laughing at her for being so enthusiastic,
and saying

The carriage stopped with a jerk at the
door of the Cardellas' palace. There was

another groom waiting here, who ran forward
with a lamp. The driver looked at
her as he helped her out of the carriage,
and she reflected quickly that he must
know all about it. Probably, for he was,
after all, only a kind-hearted country lad
whom the Signor Cardella had taken from
the farm into his service ; probably, he was
sorry for her.

She thanked him again and went upstairs.


There had only been two old servants
left in the house to look after it, and both
had departed. Italian servants never stay
where anyone is dying. It is considered
unlucky. There was no one left in charge
but the grooms in the stable and the Sister
of Charity, whom the doctor had brought

VOL. III. K

with him. It was an English doctor whom
she knew, and his face brightened up at the
sight of her.

"Indeed, I am very glad to see some
responsible person. You are going in?
You are not afraid of the infection ? Well,
I think you are quite right myself. I
don't hold with this theory of the pernicious
being contagious. In ninety-nine cases out
of a hundred you will find it brought on
by imprudence, the most reckless imprudence,
as with that poor lady in there.
Very shocking case, very. I never saw a
sadder. And not a soul to look after the
place ! "

Is there no hope then ? None ? Is
there nothing more to do for her ? Nothing
that "

She paused between every question, and
stopped at last ; she could read the answer
in his face. She sat down suddenly and
buried her face in her hands.

There was a moment's silence, and then
she heard the tinkling of a glass against a
decanter, and some wine was held to her
lips.

My dear lady, you are overwrought.
Come, come, Signora Lalli ; why this
is not like you. This won't do at all.
"Why, my dear lady, don't you know
that I am always holding you up to
my patients as an example of the one
young woman in the world who can
control her nerves ? " the old doctor said
encouragingly, patting her on the shoulder
like a child.

She swallowed a mouthful of the wine
obediently. In a moment or two she
moved her hands away, and said : " I beg
your pardon. I did not mean to be troublesome.
But it is all so sudden. And my
husband is away. Eegina is his cousin

they were brought up together "

Her voice began to tremble again, but
she looked up and smiled faintly at the
doctor.

Just so. Exactly. And a very fortunate
thing it is for her that you have
come." The servants had been as reticent
in their conjectures as Italian servants
are wont to be, and Doctor Vincy had not
been living thirty years in Kome for
nothing.

He turned his keen, steady gray

eyes upon Barbara's face for a moment.
"H  m," he said, frowning until the
bushy eyebrows nearly met across his
forehead.

He opened a door softly. " Don't be
alarmed at whatever she may say. She
will not recognise you."

But when they went in there did not
seem much occasion for this warning.
Eegina was lying on the bed with her
eyes closed. Her cheeks were flushed to
a dark purplish red. One round white
arm was stretched out over the coverlet.
It was a blue silk coverlet with a long

o

fringe ; her fingers kept plucking at the
fringe.

H  m," said the doctor, looking down

at her.

He held her hand in his for a moment,
and then laid it gently back upon the
pillow. The ringers began contentedly
plucking at the pillow.

H  m," said the doctor again, shaking
his old head.

He went away into a corner of the room,
and began talking to the nurse in a low
tone. Barbara sat down in the chair by
the bedside.

How long she sat there she never could
tell. But perhaps it was not many
minutes before the doctor came back.
He no longer spoke under his breath, and
there was something hopeless in the very
fact that such words could be fearlessly
spoken.

"You will stay here for the remainder

of the night ? Or at all events until 
until there is no necessity for further
attendance ? "

Yes," said Barbara just audibly.

Ah ! That is, I think, the best arrangement.
It is, indeed, all we can do. I will
not trouble you with any directions ; the
nurse knows what is to be done  the
stimulant, when she can be got to take
it. And this ice can be changed on her
head." He took a pair of glasses out of
his pocket, and began fitting them on
slowly. " I shall return about four o'clock.
It is not likely that there will be any
change sooner. And I shall bring Dr.
Guastalla with me. It will always be

satisfactory to the family I have

taken upon myself to telegraph to Signor

Cardella. He can hardly be here before
the morning train from Naples, but if

he should arrive I fear, from

what the servants say, that this poor
lady left home somewhat in defiance of
his wishes, and he In case he

comes

shall be here," said Barbara simply,
laying her own cool hand protecting
upon the clutching fingers, and looking
up at the doctor with a clear solemn
gaze.

I have never heard old Dr. Vincy
quoted as a man of imagination before
or since, but it is an undoubted fact
that he told his wife subsequently that
the Confess Lalli had looked at him
with the face of an angel.

"Pooh, my dear," said Mrs. Vincy
promptly. She had known Barbara Floyd
in the days when she wore short frocks,
and she had no patience, not she ! with
a girl who married an Italian.

Perhaps the very strangest thing about
totally exceptional events is that they seem
so simple when they happen. Barbara
never could recollect afterwards how long
it was, but it seemed a long time that this
silent vigil lasted. Once the nurse got
up and went to the door. There was
some whispering, and when she returned
to her place she said something about
sending for the priest to administer extreme
unction.

Oh, not yet ! " said Barbara fervently.
It seemed like giving up the last hope.

"The signora confess is not, I imagine,
of our religion V the sister asked gravely.
After that she seemed less inclined to
converse. She sat quite motionless, with
bent head, telling over her rosary. From
time to time she rose noiselessly to freshen
the cloths with vinegar. After a while
she looked up quietly and said :

"If the signora has anything especial
to say to the Signora Cardella she had
better be ready. She is waking now ; "
and even as she spoke Beginaa's heavy
eyelashes quivered. She sighed once or
twice, and asked for water. Barbara took
a glass from the nurse and held it to
her lips. Her hand trembled so that
great drops of the medicine fell and stained
the sheet.

"Dear Regina, do you know me? I
am Barbara' she said.

Eegina opened her wild mournful eyes
and looked at her. At that moment,
with her flushed face, and her bare arms,
and her heavy hair unbound upon the
pillow, she was so gloriously beautiful
that even the nurse was startled.

She said : " I want Cesco."

Barbara turned white to the very lips,
but she answered at once, trying to
speak slowly and clearly : " Poor Cesco
is not here ; he is very far away  in
Venice. He will be very sorry when
he knows. But if there is anything
that you want to say to him, and you
will tell me, I promise you that I will
repeat it. You can trust me  indeed

you can trust me. I am so sorry for
you "

Her voice had grown as urgent as some
inarticulate cry for help. She was only
conscious of living through her own and
Regina's suffering.

Regina looked at her now with a sort
of apathetic wonder.

"It was a cruel letter' she said slowly.
And then, after a long pause : " Mamma
would never let us meet. Sometimes I
could speak to him on the stairs  the old
stairs at home.  And Hugo will not let me
see him.  Cesco "

She suddenly raised herself up in the bed
and stretched her arms straight out before
her. The movement was so unexpected
that the sister had not even time to put

her arm behind her and assist her rising.
She said :

1 want Cesco. I blew the candles  out
before the Madonna  and ifc is  dark 

on the stairs "

Regina Oh, I cannot bear it. My

heart will break' Barbara said passionately,
and speaking English. She took hold of
both the dying woman's hands : " Beginaa,
my poor girl, have you not a word to
say  nothing  for your husband, for your
little child ? Good God, it is impossible,
impossible that she should die like this.
Eegina ! "

There was an instant of absolute breathless
silence.

She is goings off ao;ain " the nurse said
significantly, feeling the weight grow heavier

on her shoulder. She lowered her arm
cautiously, and as she did so Regina looked
up into her face with that resplendent wide-eyed
glance of hers, and laughed. She
laughed aloud, like a child, as Barbara
had never heard her laugh before. In what
little intercourse there had ever been
between them, the Italian girl had always
acted on the defensive ; Barbara had seen
her reticent, sneering, sulky ; she had never
in any way connected the idea of simple
joyousness with that magnificent beauty.
And now, even as they leaned over her, her
eyelids drooped and a changed sharpened
look came over her face. They laid her
back on the pillows and waited.

The Cardellas' house was a very old palace
at the corner of what is now one of the

new boulevards of modern Borne. It faced
a street running directly across the city
from one to the opposite gate. Towards
morning, Barbara was aware of a faint,
distant, continuous noise  something unjustifiable
: a noise which at one moment
seemed sharp and at another muffled, which
swelled and decreased in volume without
ever absolutely ceasing, and which was
distinctly drawing nearer. When she first
realised that she was hearing it, she had
already been unconsciously listening to it
for many minutes. It had already begun
to assume a definite form, to divide itself
into two clearly defined sounds, the muffled
footfall of a myriad feet and the shrill
incessant multitudinous cry of a crowd
of animals.

It is the sheep changing pasture," the
nurse said, laying down her rosary and
listening.

It was a flock of sheep being driven
from one part of the Campagna to another,
and crossing the city in the dead of
night. For nearly a mile the narrow
street was blocked with a dim moving
mass, now dark and struggling, and
now nearly white, as it was lost in the
shadow of the houses or emerged into
the dim moonlight of the cross-streets.
There were thousands upon thousands of
them, herded by silent dogs and watched
over by mounted shepherds, clothed
in shaggy goatskins, and armed with
long lances to which their lanterns were
fastened.

In a very few minutes the room was filled
with the growing strident bleat of the
sheep. The air grew impregnated with a
wild musky smell. In a moment, out of
the silent summer night, there had arisen
the cry of thousands of struggling creatures.
The noise which they made was like nothing
describable, nothing imaginable. It did away
at once with all civilisation. It was like
something born of the night, something
alien, inarticulate, wild, and strange beyond
description.

And all this time Eegina never moved.

The clamour died away slowly like the
passing of the wild train of some witches'
sabbath. By - and - by the doctors came
again. There were two of them now.
They came into the room and went out

VOL. III. l

again, and Barbara answered when they
spoke to her.

After a time someone touched her on
the shoulder gently. She looked up ;
there was a man followed by a boy
standing in the doorway, and the man
was dressed like a priest. And then
somebody asked Barbara to wait in the
next room.

She went in, and the door was shut
behind her. She went and stood by the
window ; the morning sky was turning
gray. Beginaa's bird was awakened by the
glare of the paling candle ; he hopped
restlessly about his cage. Presently he
began to sing.

And then Dr. Vincy came in.

She half rose from her seat and looked

at him. " My dear lady' he said, coming
up and taking one of her hands in his;
"my dear young lady "

And she never spoke again ? She
said nothing ?  nothing ? " asked Barbara,
with a sickening prevision of what was
coming.

Nothing," the doctor said ; "she went
quite quietly ; she hardly suffered. There
was not a chance of saving her from the
very first."

Barbara had reached the utmost limit of
all power of resistance. She could do
nothing now but sob helplessly and let herself
be taken care of as they chose. She had
begged to be the first who spoke to
Signor Cardella; but when they brought
him to her, she could only hold out her

hands to him in helpless pity, crying
out :

I wish I could have done something
for her. I wish that I could have got
her to speak to me."

It was nearly twelve o'clock before the
doctor would let her be driven home. As
they drew near her own house, he noticed
that she began to tremble violently. He
looked out of the carriage - window and
saw a young man stepping rather quickly
across the street. The old doctor looked
at him hard for a moment.

Ah," he said, " I thought I recognised
that youngster. There goes young Hardinge.
Now I wonder what he is doing
in Eome at this season?"

It was a good-natured attempt to divert

the poor young lady's melancholy thoughts.
But Dr. Yincy was not astonished that
she did not answer. He was accustomed
to a lack of self-control in women.

It was the fact of the Florence train being
an hour late which had prevented Hardinge
from calling on Barbara. By the time
Lexeter had washed off some of his travel-stains
and eaten a leisurely dinner it was
too late for anything but a stroll out into
the moonlight  " If you are sure that you
are not too tired, old fellow ? "  said Hardinge,
stopping to light his cigar in the
hotel-passage.

They stepped out into the street
together.

Which way ? "

Oh, Capitol," said Lexeter, thrusting
his hands into his pockets and turning
down towards the Corso.

It was nearly eleven o'clock, but the
street was still crowded with slowly-passing
Eomans. Light summery dresses flitted
constantly past them. The air was full
of light laughter and quick voices, and the
tripping, tinkling sound of the mandoline
from every little wine-shop.

"And to think that I was sitting in
chambers in London three days ago," said
Lexeter, looking contentedly around him.

"Ah! town won't be very cheerful
now."

About as cheerful as a locked-up trunk.
And if you could have seen the fog the
day I left. Good Lord! Well ! "they
had got to the foot of the Capitoline hill,
and Lexeter stopped deliberately and seated
himself on one of the lower steps of the
stairway  " I never feel myself thoroughly
out of England until I find myself reclining
picturesquely upon a public monument.
And to sit without one's hat in the public
thoroughfare  well, I should not like at
this moment to be called upon to define
the privileges of a Briton. Go on, old boy,
you were saying "

Oh, nothing particular. I say, Lexeter."

"Well?"

"You haven't half asked after your old
acquaintances. By-the-way, one of them is

gone. Old Floyd  you remember him ?
You used to be awful pals. Well, he
sailed about a fortnight ago for America."

Ah ! and have you  have you happened
to see any of the others lately ? "

I was to have called on the Confess
Lalli to-night, you know. I told you
so."

No, you said nothing of the kind," said
Lexeter slowly.

"Ah well, I meant to. It comes very
much to the same thing," said Hardinge,
beginning to whistle. He looked up at a
star precisely above him. "Jolly night,
this. As I was not saying, then, there is
one character in history, now happily
defunct, for whom I have always entertained
the liveliest sympathy  and that

is the last young lady who was chained to
the rock before Andromeda. I fancy her
relatives and friends must have had a very
slight opinion of Perseus."

Lexeter looked at the ground.

"There are moments when I am absolutely
convinced that women are merely
the creatures of accident. "

Hardinge glanced at him quickly, remembering
something which Clifford Dix
had hinted.

"Not all women. There are exceptions
here and there," he said rather awkwardly.
He threw away the end of his cigar. " Come
along to the top and have a look at old
Marcus Aurelius."

The hollow square of the palace was
all in shadow. As they came up the

steps, the imperial horseman and horse
of bronze were merely a darker shade
upon the shadowy background of the
piazza. On the loggia of each facade,
antique figures of Greek gods and Koman
deities lifted in various attitudes of grace
and dignity against the limpid moonlit
sky. All else was darkness. They could
not even see the fountain, they could only
hear the cool sound of its falling water
plashing into the wide, shallow, brimming
marble basin at their feet.

Hardinge went forward a few steps :
By Jove, Lexeter, look at that ! " Rising
into the tepid air, against the fleecy
drifting clouds of an Italian summer
night, they looked up at the great statue
of the emperor. It rose between them

and the moonlight, a muffled figure with
outstretched arm and outspread hand
coming dark and distinct against the sky.
Centuries of life seemed to fall away ; it
was indeed the imperial hand of Marcus
Aurelius, imperious but benignant, a hand
to urge and restrain  a hand of command
and clemency, raised, as if in solemn
warning, over the merciless sleeping city,
across those blood-sprinkled steps of the
Capitol, at whose base life and liberty
have sunk so often, unpitied and incarnadine,
in the dust.

They stood looking at it in silence
for a minute or two, and then Lexeter
said abruptly : " Look here, Hardinge.
You were speaking of Andromeda. Did
you mean anything in particular? I

mean anything about Miss Floyd that
was."

I don't know what possessed Hardinge.
"No," he said, after a moment's deliberation.
He consoled himself afterwards
with reflecting that this was not altogether
a falsehood. I do not understand where
he saw the difference myself.

"I ask the question," Lexeter added
calmly, "because of the great, the very
great liking and admiration, which I have
for Barbara. As you said a little while

ago, I am her father's friend "

Hardinge raised his eyebrows and looked
at Marcus Aurelius.

I happen to know  I am not at liberty
to tell you how  that she was particularly
in love with her husband. Mr. Floyd

talked to me about it weeks before their
engagement. At a picnic down at Ostia;
I daresay you don't remember it. And it
would distress me very much to hear that
her marriage was a failure."

"My dear fellow, if I wished to be
cynical  which I don't  I would answer
you that every marriage in a certain sense
is a failure. No woman ever marries
exactly the man she fell in love with;
especially not an imaginative and generous-natured
girl like Miss Floyd. I've no
doubt she looked upon Lalli as the embodiment
of honour and courage and
chivalry when she married him. I don't ;
but then that is a mere matter of private
opinion. I don't know of anything against
him, mind you. But I don't like his

style. I don't like the men lie associates
with. That fellow Borgia, for instance.
I consider Cavaliers Borgia, dispassionately
speaking, a cad. The opinion is quite dispassionate,
for I don't think I've ever
exchanged six words with him in my
life."

He drew out his cigar-case and lighted
another cigar.

Smoke ? you won't find them so badin
their way. The fact is, Lexeter, the
most damning thing I know about Lalli
is what I have heard you say yourself 
that all his good qualities are thrust upon
the public like so many advertisements.
I quite agree with you there. And so
does Miss Damon," he added in a lower
voice.

Ah ! " said Lexeter. He took out a
match and struck it. " Have you seen
.any English papers lately ? Seen that
last row at Berlin about Alsace-Lorraine ? "

The next day he went out early in
the afternoon, and called on the Confess
Lalli. Margherita opened the door to him,
and informed him blankly that the signora
did not receive.

About an hour afterwards Hardinge
called on the same errand. But instead
of letting himself be sent away, he asked
for Miss Damon.

Miss Octave had gone out for a few
moments, but if the signore cared to wait

in the drawing-room ? The signore

expressed his entire readiness.

He had been waiting some quarter of
an hour or so in the cool flower-scented
room ; he had had time to walk about
and look at Barbara's books, at Octave's
music scattered over the piano ; he was
standing by the table fingering the
odds and ends which filled Octave's work-basket
when the door opened rather
suddenly. She had come home.

Why have you bought so many pairs
of scissors since you left Sorrento, Miss
Damon ? "

Oh," said Octave, putting out both
hands, " I am so miserable ! I am so
glad that you have come ! "

It was the first time that he had
ever seen her in trouble. The sight

VOL. III. m

of her trembling lips was like the
signal for the awaking of all the tenderness
in his nature. He spoke quite
abruptly.

"Will you tell me all about it? Tell
me, Octave ; tell me ! " He took both
her little gloved hands in his, and kissed
them one after the other devoutly.

Octave remained quite passive. She
stood looking at him for nearly a minute
without speaking.

Presently he said : " Will you come
and sit on the sofa? And may I take
off your hat ? Will you let me touch
your beautiful hair ? My dear, my love !
I don't know how to say it to you. Words
are not good enough. I should like to

kneel down before you. I love you. I
worship you. May I tell you how I love
you, Octave ? "

She laid her two hands softly together,
and turned her face towards him. They
sat in this way looking at each other
for another minute or two, and then
Hardinge moved and put his strong arm
gently about her.

I should like to be allowed to devote
all the rest of my life to you. I should
like to spend my life in making you happy.
My dear, will you let me try if I can
do it?"

Yes' said Octave, dropping her eyes
gravely and sighing.

He put his hand gently against herm

2

cheek, and lifted up her face towards
him. He hesitated for an instant, and
then bent down and kissed her on the
lips.

It was some time before Hardin ge thought
of saying : " You were in trouble when
you came in, and you have not told me
why. May I not be allowed to help
you?"

It was about poor Baby. Oh, I had
forgotten her. She was asleep when I went
out. I will go and see if she is awake
now."

And you will come back soon ? Otherwise

I shall not let you go," said Hardinge
playfully.

She came back in the course of two or
three minutes.

She is asleep. I did not awake her ;
I only opened the door and looked in."
She had not heard yet of Beginaa's death ;
she only knew that Barbara had been
sitting up with her ; she began telling
Hardinge about it. " Poor Barbara ! she
is so good  I don't think there is anybody
better than Barbara. And yet she is always
making mistakes. "Walter ? "

Yes, dear."

I wonder if I ought to tell you something
? "

Yes ; tell me," said Hardinge, taking
up her hand and kissing it.

It is a secret, you know. Nobody
knows of it but you. But  but Cesco
Lalli asked me to marry him once ; ages
ago."

He did, did lie ? By Jove, I "

"Hush. I told you you were not to
be angry. And I did not want to marry
an Italian," said Octave softly. " It was
different with Barbara. She always had
ideas. Poor Barbara ! "

Everywhere about the room there were
flat dishes filled with large white roses.
Octave's gown was the only other light
spot in the semi-darkness. Far down the
hot street they could hear the strident cry
of some fruit-seller. " I should like," said
Octave, " to tell no one before I see mamma
about  this." She rested her smooth

cheek contentedly against his shoulder.
"And now that Barbara looks so unhappy
I don't think  I am afraid Count Lalli
is not very kind to her. And it would
seem so unkind to tell her just now
about  us."

Then you shall tell her when you like,"
said Hardinge. What would he not have
promised at that moment? She was so
sweet, so shy, so precious ; he hardly dared
do more than look at her. He touched
her reverently, with an exquisite yearning
pang of tenderness as one would touch a
flower. This keen-eyed, determined, and
rather careless young man found himself
suddenly transported into an entirely new
world of sensations. A fortnight ago he
might have spoken perhaps of Octave

as of a charming and pretty girl. She
was his queen now, set above all meaner
praise than that of silent and impassioned
service.

For all these hours Barbara had been
lying on the sofa in her dressing-room.
She was not asleep, as Octave had imagined.
The first horror of shrinking from the
implacable clutch of this anguish was
over. She gazed now at her sorrow in
the face ; she recognised it as a companion.
When Octave opened the door and looked
in, she had reached a stage of passive exhaustion.
The first cruel force of her
indignation  her outraged pride  was
spent. She could think almost calmly
now of meeting her husband. She was
beginning to pity him rather than herself.

After a long while she heard a bell ring
sharply ; the sound aroused her. She sat
up and pushed back her loosened hair. A
moment later she heard Octave's step in
the passage, and she sank back among
her pillows ; she was not ready to see
anyone yet. But the thought of Octave
same to her like a living touch. Dear
little Octave, poor child ; knowing nothing
as yet of the cruel branding experiences
of life ;  from the depths of her own
grief Barbara felt like stretching tender
protecting arms about her. She began
little by little to merge her own sorrow
in a growing sense of human fellowship.
She saw again vividly before her the expression
of blank despair on Hugo Cardella's
austere countenance ; and she reproached

herself with not having done more for
him. She lay quite motionless, with her
pale cheek resting on her hand, and her
clear mournful gaze fixed upon the opposite
wall ; but what she was really seeing
w r as a continually increasing multitude of
claims and duties  all the sorrow of the
world stretched out helpless hands towards
her. It was an hour of solemn initiation ;
one of those impassioned moods whose
duration is measured by moments of intolerable
enthusiasm, leaving landmarks
for a whole life's direction. It was one of
those experiences which make us strong
and which make us dumb. High tides
or an earthquake are not continuous manifestations,
and yet there is more evidence
of their passage on the land than of all

the smiling fruitful years. Duty  fatal
implacable tyrant ! nobler than emperor,
more insatiable than Caesar  let those who
know what it is to stand beside the
grave wherein lies buried all thought of
personal good and joy ; let those who
have renounced  the world's nameless
martyrs, looking forward to no resurrection
dawn  let those about to live salute
thee.

She rose, steadying herself by the back of
a chair, for she was chilled with exhaustion
and giddy with lack of food. She rose
and walked languidly over to the window
and pushed open the blind. It seemed to
her that days had passed since she entered
that room, and it was yet afternoon. The
joyous blue-ands white sky was still full of

sunshine and light. It was like ofo-incr back
into life. The first sickening sense of isolation
in her sorrow was past. She began
languidly to re-arrange her hair ; presently
she rang for her maid to come and help
her. She would go out and speak to
Octave now ; she would send for Hardinge.
They would be ready to accept what she
told them. And Regina's name was safe.
And it was a great deal to have the
friendship of those two  she thought of
each of them apart. Mrs. Van Ness's
words remained like nothing more than an
uneasy memory. It was impossible  when
she had nothing else to love in the world
impossible that anything could occur to
widen the distance which must for ever
remain between herself and Hardinge. She

knew perfectly well now that she loved
him, and there was a mournful delight
and pride in the thought that she cared
above all for what was highest in him,
with a love that could only be intensified
by time and privation. And courage was
easier when she thought of this. She was
ready to renounce all the desires, all the
exigencies of love, so that she might still
go on loving him. She did not expect
personal happiness ; she only clung to the
belief that he would not change as everything
else had changed about her. And
even this seemed much. For she herself
was changed. She was as one who has
looked for some ineffaceable instant upon the
head of the Medusa, who has seen and
touched the darker possibilities of life  to

whom for ever after the spring fields and
the untroubled laugh of children shall
come fraught with a sense of passionate
significance and loss.

ANArKH.

It is hard to lose the dream of a life ; and when that
dream Las drawn all its lustre from virtue, when joy has been
conceived only in the loving service of the noblest being, the
highest ideal we know, then if a man sees his ideal crushed
before his eyes, and feels that honour itself has turned against
him, and that because he has disdained base things he has lost
all  then shall it be known if his virtue is a derivative and conquerable
thing, or has in it an inbred energy that is incapable
of despair. If he can raise his head to fight anew, he will
find all fighting easy now. The worst has come to the worst ;
henceforth can no man trouble him; he bears in his spirit the
tidemark of its highest woe."

Frederic Myers.

vol. ill.

One October afternoon we were sitting in
the inner porch of the church of San Marco
at Venice, and we were talking. To us
presently appeared a small party of
three : husband, wife, and unmistakable
courier.

"Fellow-Britons abroad," observed my
companion resignedly ; and we sighed and
looked.

They stepped out of the sunshine into

N 2

the shadow of the atrium, and the lady
opened her hand-bag and produced a
book.

We need not go in ; we have seen
this place already, my dear," she remarked
triumphantly after consulting some
entry.

Do you think so, my love ? It looks
very pretty. But I have no recollection
of it really," said her husband very mildly,
gazing about him with a polite and deprecatory
air.

"I am sure of it. Because it is crossed
out in my book," his wife continued, shutting
up her bag with an emphatic snap,
and forthwith they departed, followed by
an impassive courier, and I trust spent
the remainder of that autumn afternoon

profitably in the purchase of many glass
beads.

And then we went out and sat down
at the foot of the loggia of Sansovino, and
gazed at our beloved church. It rose
before us like a thing of the dawn and
of the sunset ; strange, fantastic, beautiful.
From the dawn had come its colour and
from the night its mystery. Like the
gorgeous fabric of a dream we saw it ;
lustrous with the glitter of gold ; rich
w T with slabs of veined and coloured marble
and curious Byzantine sculptures ; sheeny
like a dove's neck ; delicate and lovely
in tone like a shell ; low-domed, column
upon column, florid arch upon florid arch ;
pale and gleaming and splendid with
the spoils of centuries of conquest. Set

above the Adriatic tides which come and
lave its marble slabs and lapse away sighing
to the sea, St. Mark's Church, sea-washed,
sea-worn, a thing of the sea
and sky, is for ever touched and transfigured
by the changes of both, gleaming
under the one, and reflected in the
shallow pools of the other  pools which fill
its very porches in the high tides of early
spring and autumn.

As we sat watching all this we saw a
beautiful and intelligent collie-dog, who
had been lying patiently for some time
past with his nose between his paws and
his wistful eyes fixed upon the church-door,
spring to his feet and make a rush
at a man crossing the piazza.

Hallo, Prince ! " we heard the man

say ; " why, what are you doing here ?
Where is your master, sir ? "

The dog whined and barked and fawned
in the shape of a comma about the man's
legs.

I know that man," observed Lawrence,
his name is Lexeter. He writes for the

Review. He is a capital fellow. If

he comes over here I'll introduce him to

you."

But Lexeter did not come toward us ;
he turned into the church. He was
evidently looking for someone, and presently
he caught sight of her in the
person of a tall, rather sad-faced girl
who was seated on the marble bench at
the foot of one of the pillars. There
were only a few people left in church ;

the organ was playing for the benediction.
She appeared to be listening to
the music ; her lips were slightly parted ;
she was looking at the blue-robed angel
of the mosaic overhead, and there was
something in her action and expression,
and in the way the light fell upon her
upturned face, which recalled the face
of Titian's Madonna in the great Assumption
picture at the Belle Art.

She did not observe Lexeter until he was
very near her, and then it was beautiful to
see how her whole look changed. She
turned to him gladly, holding out her hand
with a full cordial smile.

You have come back ? I am so pleased.
We did not expect you back until tomorrow."


Oh, Rimini was hot," said Lexeter, " and
it became a personal question between
myself and the landlord whether I should
be driven up to inspect the Republic of
San Martin. It was quite useless my
assuring him that I object to all republics.
And then I thought I would come and see
Hardinge off'

"He goes to-night," said Barbara,

"He is not coming back again to
Italy ? "

"No."

The organist began playing the Ave
Verum of Pergolese. The red sunlight stole
higher up the golden dome ; it touched the
angel's folded hands.

Do you remember what Thackeray
says somewhere, I think it is in one of

his ' Roundabout Papers about success ? "
asked Lexeter abruptly. " He says there
is something which justifies itself, something
godlike, in all success. Well, I
am beginning to believe the contrary, or
rather "

He hesitated.

Barbara turned and looked at him.

I believe," said Lexeter, " that to
accept failure nobly is to surpass success."

She was silent for a moment.

Why do you say this to me, Mr.
Lexeter ? "

Her voice had a way of changing ;
when she spoke impulsively it had at
times the clear colourless ring of a child's
voice.

Oh," said Lexeter almost harshly,

who does not end by accepting less
than he asked for ? We begin by claiming
happiness, we end by being thankful when
we are not hurt. And people call that
experience. There is a man here  Denis
Lawrence, I saw him a moment ago on
the Piazza  who used to have a favourite
saying : On wait demi-dieu et Von ment
epicier"

"But don't you think  don't you really
think it is something to have recognised
and wanted the best ? " said Barbara.

Ah," said Lexeter. He got up and
stood before her ; he was not looking at
her, he was looking past her and overhead
at the great golden and blue - and - white
angel. " It seems odd, does it not, that al]
our particular Roman set of a year ago

should be so scattered ? There is yourself
married, and Clifford Dix gone to America,
and  and Hardinge "

The organ stopped playing with a
sort of jerk It is very much out of
tune ; all the church organs want tuning
in Italy.

"Do you know how soon Hardinge is
going to marry Miss Damon ? " Lexeter
asked.

He went on without giving her time to
answer : " Generally one does not mind
much about a man's marriage. But one can
never help taking a peculiar interest in
what concerns Walter. I never liked any
other man half so well. And I really
believe he is doing the best thing for himself
possible  now. Under all that easy

way of his he has a very devoted nature.
If he had fallen in love with  with any
woman he could not marry, it would have
gone very hard with Walter. Some men 
oh, some men," said poor Lexeter, " are
made to bear that sort of thing. At least,
they have to take life pretty much as it
comes to them. But Walter "

Years after Barbara remembered the
action of his hands as he was speaking.
He was standing in front of her, and his
hands were gripped together so that each
vein and muscle stood out under the skin.
It was like the wordless confession of some
supreme struggle. Barbara thought it was
because he was so kind and so sorry for
her. Perhaps it was.

She stood up now and looked at him

full in the face. " Listen ! " she said. " I
did not know this before. You were right
in thinking that I did not know it, and
I am glad that you have told me. I want
you to remember this always. I was glad
I will be glad of all the happiness that
comes to Walter and  and Octave. We
shall miss him, you know  but However
dear people may become, one must
be glad when they find their own happiness
even away from us.

She was speaking under the force of
an emotion which made her forget everything
but what she was saying. Lexeter
had ceased to be a man and a comparative
stranger ; he had lost all individuality;
she was speaking to him as from one

human soul to another. And lie felt tins
perfectly.

God bless you, Barbara ! " he said.
He took her hand in his. " If I do not
see you again I want you to remember
this  that I did not believe very much
in women when I first knew you ; but
you have taught me to think of all women
better for your sake. I don't suppose it
makes very much difference to you what
I think," said poor Lexeter; "but perhaps
some time you will be glad to remember

that I said this. And  and " He

looked at her hand which he held, and
then at her face, and then up at the
splendid winged angel against the gold
mosaic. Afterwards he thought, with a

pang of regret, that lie might have kissed
her hand and that he did not do it.

And so  God bless you, my dear ! "
he said.

That was how they parted.

There was a new piece being given at
the Opera that night, and the Lallis had
a box. Hardinge had promised to come
in and say good-bye to them there ; he
was leaving with the Trieste boat at
eleven o'clock. He joined them rather
late ; the first act was nearly over.
He carried some flowers in his hand  for
Barbara.

There was some little talk about the

VOL. III. o

new music when lie first came in, and
then Lalli said :

But you are really going this evening,
Signor Hardinge ? "

Naturally' said Hardinge, looking at
him with some surprise. He was struck
by the peculiar expression of Cesco's
countenance.

"And you will not return again? We
shall not have the pleasure of welcoming
you back again to la nostra bella
Italia f You really abandon us ? You
leave us desolate ? " Cesco persisted.

Oh, as for being desolate But

I really wish that I could persuade you
to come for a little while to Vienna. Why
should you not ? The journey is nothing,
and you like travelling," he said, looking

at Barbara. He added in a lower voice :
"You know the Damons will be there.
It is unkind of you not to come when
we all want you. Why will you not try
it  just for a little while ? "

Oh hush, please ! You know you
must not talk now. You must listen
to the music," said Barbara, smiling
faintly and turning her face to the
stage.

But the picture which his words had
conjured up was too much for her. All
the time that the tenor was singing his
great aria her lips and cheeks were growing
whiter. "When the song was ended
she rose while the theatre was still ringing
with applause.

You are ill ? " asked Hardinge, looking

o 2

and starting to his feet. "Do sit down
again. Let me go and fetch you something."


The best thing for her would be to
go home' said Lalli, speaking at the same
moment. " And fortunately I told the
gondolier to wait at the door. I will go
and see if he is there."

He took up his hat and went out into
the corridor.

"I do so wish you would let me get
you something ?  do something for you ? "
Hardinge persisted, looking at her anxiously.
At least, may I not put your cloak about
you?"

He wrapped the white fur-lined thing
gently about her shoulders, and she looked
up at him and smiled without speaking.

She would have liked to die at that
moment.

And then the door opened and Cesco
came in again.

All right, Barbara. You can comedown
when you are ready. Gently now.
Hardinge, will you give my wife your arm ?
You will be quite well as soon as you
get into the open air. It is nothing. It
is only a little faintness."

He led the way down the stairs to the
gondola  the music had begun again, and
there was another burst of applause  and
handed her in.

Hardinge will see you home," he
said.

He gave an order to the men, and the
boat pushed off.

It was an absolutely black night. The
water glittered like ink ; the light of the
lamps seemed to slip over its surface as
over something hard and polished. The
wind was blowing up for the beginning of
the equinoctial storm ; the boat could
hardly make headway against the roughness
of the smaller canals. The troubled
water beat heavily against her bows, every
bit of woodwork creaked and strained
as the wind seized hold of the else.
There was not another boat to be seen
moving across the lagoon. And all about
them, from far and near the air was
filled with the lonely cry of the wild
sea-birds blown in by the storm. The
cries came all from overhead, from the
house-tops.

Curlews' said Harclinge to himself
under his breath.

The Lallis had rooms on the Eva de'
Schiavoni. They crossed a bit of the open
lagoon, keeping close to the edge of the
shipping. The fishing-boats moored to the
riva were knocking against one another.
They passed close under the bows of a
small steamer riding uneasily at anchor.
It was the Trieste boat, getting up steam.

Barbara had not moved or spoken since
they started. She sat leaning back in
the corner, so that her face was in deep
shadow. The light shone in at the window
on her hands and on the flowers she
held.

This is rough work for you. You
are not frightened ? But it seems more

dangerous than it really is. It almost
needs a miracle to upset one of these
flat-bottomed boats," Hardinge said once.

She shook her head. She was not
frightened.

The wind seized hold of her light
dress and blew it tightly about her
as she stepped out of the boat on the
landing.

"May I come upstairs with you'
Hardinge asked ; "I have three-quarters
of an hour still before my boat leaves,
and I should like to come in and say
good-bye to you if I may."

They went into the room together, and
Barbara walked over to the table and
turned up the lamp. She sat down with
her cloak still falling in straight white

folds about her : she had taken a seat
near the window.

Hardinge came and stood beside her.

"There is nothing I hate so much assaying
good-bye to people. And we have
been such friends. You have been so
awfully kind to me. I shall always think
of you when T remember Eome. You are
mixed up with the very happiest part of
my life," he said, looking at her with his
boyish smile while all his face flushed and
softened. It seemed very hard that Octave
would not allow him to speak.

Yes. We shall always remember each
other," said Barbara, in her clear tender
tones. Her voice shook just perceptibly.
She was the first to notice it, and she
rose instantly and crossed over to a writing-table

which stood against the wall. She
opened one of its drawers and took out a
jewel-case. " I want you to do something
for me," she said, turning and walking
back towards him with this box in her
hand. "You must not be angry with me
for knowing. I want you to give this forme
to Octave. Tell her that it was my
mother's, and say I sent it to her with
my dear love."

Hardinge had risen too. "Will you let
me tell you how glad I am you know this ?
I have always felt that I was missing
something in missing your sympathy with
our happiness."

And you are very happy ? "
"Very happy," said Hardinge gravely.
And then his face broke up into a smile

as lie added : " But that is always your
way. You demoralise one. You make me
talk about myself until it needs all the
accumulated experience of years to convince
me that I am not the most conceited
fellow living. And see ! you are doing it
now, and yet there are a hundred things
I want to ask you about yourself  what
you are going to do, and all that. I wish
you would tell me. You will write  you
will write to Octave of course. But there
is so much one does not say in letters."

"Oh, how can I tell what I shall do?"
said Barbara, walking up to the window
and looking out at the night. There
were lanterns moving about now, and
people coming and going by the gangway
of the Trieste steamer. She was conscious

of the cold touch of the glass and of the
black and stormy night all the time, and
yet it seemed as if every nerve in her
body were strained with the effort to keep
back any word which might grieve him.
Never in any way to have hurt the
creature we supremely love  after all that
is something.

But her voice must have been less under
her control than she imagined, for Hardinge
looked at her doubtfully.

"Do you know, it is not like you to
reject anyone's interest, even when it is
stupidly expressed interest," he began. And
then the door opened quietly and Cesco
Lalli entered.

He looked from his wife to her guest.

I am glad to see you so much better,

my dear. It was really hardly worth
while, it was a pity to make our friend
Hardinge lose all the music for such a 
temporary  indisposition."

I was very much obliged to the confess
for letting me come home with her,"
said Hardinge, promptly taking his hat from
the table. He looked about the room and
his eye fell upon his own bunch of flowers.
"May I have one of those roses, for
Octave ? " he asked, looking at her and
speaking English. And then he put out
his hand. " I will say ait revoir to you ;
I will not say good-bye."

Good-bye," said Barbara, putting out
her hand also.

And then a moment later the door closed
and he was gone.

Lalli was sitting on the sofa, with his
hat still on his head. The table was in
front of him, and a round lamp with a
shade. Barbara looked away from him.
There were more boats crowding about
the Trieste steamer, the light from the
lanterns shining on the glistening steel
prows, and making little broken tracks
of gold across the black heaving water.
The steam began to pour out of the
funnel more quickly, in short, angry, white
puffs.

Cesco sat and watched his wife for
several moments in absolute silence. The
dull stupid look which crept over his face
when he was angry began to make itself
manifest. He breathed quickly. They
made a curious picture those two, a curious

contrast ; and there was something in the
very immobility of her attitude which urged
him to violent speech and action. He got
up on his feet at last, moved by an incontrollable
fit of passion. He went and
put his arm on the mantelpiece and looked
at her.

When you have quite finished watching
the departure of your lover, perhaps
you may find time to listen to what I
have to say," he began.

Barbara gave a slight, almost imperceptible
start. It was as if a stab had
entered into her soul. She could feel the
hurt, but the pain had not yet had time
to make itself fully felt. She was only
conscious of a sudden sickness at heart ;
it was more benumbing surprise than actual

grief. But lie had gone on without giving
her time to answer.

"I will not be made a fool of in this
fashion. If you think to deceive me 
I tell you I will not be made a fool
-of;" he stumbled over his words, and
his voice went off into falsetto. "I tell
you that man shall never enter my house
again. Damn him !  with his English
voice and his manner, as if there were
not three people in the world fit to bespoken
to. I forbid you to speak to him.
Do you hear me, Barbara ?  I forbid you.
Or to that other fine friend of his,

Mr. Lexeter. By I will be master

in my own house. Do you hear me,
Barbara ? "

I hear," said Barbara wearily, looking
down at her own hands.

And then there was a horrible silence
between them  a cruel blighting silence,
in which all the murdered memories of
the love, the tenderness, the confidence
there had been between these two people
rose from their graves to look with sad
reproachful eyes at Barbara's bruised and
outraged heart. All the effort, all the belief
of her life, went into that one minute which
followed. She rose and stood facing her
husband, with her hands clasped, hanging
straight down before her, and her face
upraised.

Cesco "

He was still standing with his back
against the mantelpiece.

VOL. III. P

Non e vero. It is not true ; I do
not believe you. You dare not deny
that that man  that Hardinge is your
lover ? "

"I deny it absolutely. And it is impossible
that you should not believe me,

"I do not believe you. You know
that you love him. Do you think I am
blind ? Have I not seen the look in
your face since the day he came here ?
You dare not say that you do not love
him!"

No," said Barbara ; " I do love him
very very dearly." She did not change
her attitude, and her voice never trembled.
He does not care for me, Cesco. And
he is going to marry Miss Damon. He

has never said a word to me, never
once, that all the world might not hear.
I think he could not do a base thing ;
it is not in him." She spoke with a
mournful sincerity, like some young martyr
reciting a creed.

"And you  you have told him  this 
I suppose V s asked Lalli, almost in a
whisper. He removed his arm slowly
from the mantelpiece, and took a step
towards her. His face was absolutely livid.
He had reached a point of passion in
which all control over himself was lost.
He was only conscious of the wild beast
instinct of tearing to pieces whatever
opposed him. Barbara looked into his
face and trembled. His eyes had a dull,
restless look, as if they saw nothing

p 2

clearly, and he moved them from side to
side.

He repeated his question.

And you have told him this, I suppose
? "

"No," said Barbara faintly, and putting
out her hand by sheer force of
instinct.

He came a step or two nearer, as if
he had not heard her speak. And then
all at once his face changed. For him
the crisis was past. He felt that this
other man had never had the luxury of
considering him ridiculous ; he had never
at any time been pitied by Hardinge.
He threw himself down on a chair by
the table and covered his face with his
hands. In this bewildering reaction of

feeling he felt faint with exhaustion. He
began to sob like a girl.

Presently he was aware that his wife was
speaking.

Perhaps you do not believe it ; you
do not realise it yet, but some time, I
am very sure, you will be sorry for
these things that you have said to me.
And I am very sorry for you that you
have said them. It is cruel"  her voice
faltered a little, but she steadied it and
went on  " it is a cruel memory for both
of us. It is miserable. I do not want
to be unjust to you, God knows I do not

want to be unjust, but See, Cesco ;

once, a long long time ago, at Ostia, you
asked me to marry you, and, because I
did not care for you then, and I told you

so, you asked me to be to you like your
friend and your sister. And I believed in
you. I meant what I promised. Well,
you know how that ended. I think," said
Barbara, with inexpressible mournfulness,
"I think there is nothing in which you
have not changed. And  and since our
marriage    "

She was silent. The hoarse puff of the
steamer grew more continuous ; they could
both hear it distinctly now.

Oh," said Barbara passionately, " I
meant to have been of so much use to
you. I thought that you were unhappy,
that you needed me. And oh, it is all
so difficult to understand ! I have tried
so hard  so hard to do what is best for
others. And now "

She turned to the window, and pressed
her forehead against the cool glass. The
lights had moved away. The Trieste steamer
was gone.

Some of these things Lexeter remembered.
Some had been told to him. Others he
only guessed at dimly, drawing his conclusions
from what he knew of Barbara's
character and history.

He lingered on the Pincian Hill that
night, long after every other promenade
had departed. He stayed until the policeman
in charge stepped up to him, civilly
enough, and touched his hat and intimated

that it was time the gates were
closed.

And even then he could not make up
his mind to go to his hotel. The very-idea
of table d'hote was repugnant. He
went and dined by himself at the corner
table of a little trattoria somewhere near
St. Peter's. It was a small cheap place,
much frequented by artists, and with some
reputation for its wine. He had dined there
once or twice in the old days with Hardinge.
There was still the same stout comely
Eoman matron behind the little counter.
Nine years had hardly done more than add
another fold or two to her ample chin.
But the man who waited upon him was
a new man. And perhaps his palate had
grown more dainty in the interval : the

wine had lost something of the old
flavour.

Eh ! cosa vole, signore f We are not
immortal. And it is true the taxes grow
heavier every summer' the patron said,
shrugging her round comfortable shoulders
philosophically, and running the knitting-needle
she held through her hair. It was
an old gesture, which Lexeter remembered.
He laughed, and walked out of the shop
into the street.

To St. Peter's. At this hour the great
square in front of the church was quite
deserted. He walked all the way up under
one of the colonnades, and then turned back
and went and sat down at the foot of the
small obelisk between the fountains. He
sat down and thought. In these nine years

Lexeter's own position had altered very
much for the better. He had worked hard.
He had made a certain reputation for
himself; what he wrote was held to be
worth accepting, or at least worth refuting.
It was the sort of success which he valued ;
he had no reason to be dissatisfied. And
yet, at his age, the sight of a girl's face
had had the power to make all the rest of
his life seem valueless ; the sound of a girl's
voice, the touch of her hand, the smell of
the flowers she wore, were potent enough
to make all this hard-won success seem a
mere makeshift, the simulacra of what he
had wanted  and missed.

Lexeter was not what is commonly called
a religious man. Indeed I think it was he
who first described Positivism as the only

religion without perquisites. His creed was
that creed of brave souls who have sought
refuge from pain neither in the bitter drugs
of scepticism nor in the gentle anodynes of
Christianity. He was a Positivist ; but
lie was above all a man of sentiment ; a
mind open to all fine issues. As he sat
there on that calm spring night, hearing,
as in a dream, the soft splash of the
fountains, looking up once more at the
limpid sombre blue of the Italian sky, he
felt more intensely than ever before how
much of all that is best in us can be summed
up by one word  renunciation.

He thought of Barbara. He saw her
sweet face rising out of the darkness, the
one face in the world which he loved, a
face " ennobled by a vast regret." He

thought of her as of one of those who
dared beyond their strength, and hazarded
against their judgment, and in extremities
were of an excellent faith ; " their only
reward an ardent belief, a passionate hope,
that the sum total of existing good maybe
greater for all bravely-borne anguish,
for generous effort, for patience, for self-sacrifice,
for all austere devotion, to great
and unattainable ends.

And then again he thought of the life
she must be leading. Many of us are
called to self-denial, there is nothing new
surely in the fact. But upon this girl
while she was very young had fallen the
necessity of foregoing love. He thought
with passionate tenderness of all that life
might have been made to her. It was

worse than useless, but the thought clung
to him persistently. He thought of what
her daily life must be in that lonely
Italian villa, with a child for her companion,
looking after the lives of a
handful of rude peasants, because  the
remembrance flashed across him suddenly
that had been one of Hardinge's dearest
theories in the old days, that education
of the lower class.

I think myself that he was unconsciously
exaggerating the bareness of her existence.
Because, after all, in all work honestly done
there is to a certain degree satisfaction ;
because there are good moments in every
life, however joyless ; moments when the
sun shines and winds are warm, and there
is solemn meaning in the great marshalling

of the clouds ; moments when the soul of
the world, the presence of the great Mother
Earth is with us, bringing deep comfort and
rest from pain. And Time is inexorable.
There is no cry of agony in the world that
with time does not grow first hoarse and
then dumb. Lexeter too was aware of this
growing numbness.

It was late, very late, when he returned
to his hotel. The house w T as all shut up ;
there was only one light left burning in the
hall, and one of the under-porters sitting up
for him  a sleepy lad, who came blinking up
the stair after him to see that he had the
key of his room. Lexeter was apt to be
rather imperative in his manner to servants,
but he spoke kindly enough to this
boy. He caught sight of their two faces,

this curly-haired lad's and his own, in
the glass which hung over the chimney-piece,
and he laughed ; it was rather grim
laughter.

"And that is the face of a man who
can spend a whole night sitting sighing

at the moon like a  like a Oh well,

you know, if this is the sort of thing

one is coming to " He blew out his

candle savagely, and tried to sleep. It
was quite useless. The odour of those
violets haunted him ; their clinging perfume
seemed full of uncertain promises ;
there was all the intoxication in it and
all the sadness of youth.

Towards morning he fell into a troubled
sleep. He woke late. There was a particular
call he wished to make before leaving

Home, or else he used this intention as
an excuse to himself for remaining a day
longer. It was hard to decide what was
his principal reason for staying. He seemed
to have nothing very important to do.
In the morning he read several of the
English papers. He went out for a long
walk, in the course of which it occurred
to him to go and have a look at some
frescoes recently finished in the Church
of San Lorenzo. He remembered having-seen
a mention of the painter's name,
and it was a name he knew.

There was an old man raking away the
dead leaves and rubbish from one of the
cemetery walks as he left the church, and
for some reason Lexeter stopped and began
talking to him.

VOL. III. Q

"Ay, it is a fine place of its kind,"
the old fellow said, straightening his back
and glancing with some complacency around
him. "Take a deal of keeping in order,
do graves. Most people think o' them
as quiet enough places ; but, lor' bless
you, sir, garden plots is nothing in comparison.
And so particular as some of
the people is. Not but what that doesn't
generally wear off in a, year or so. We
drops tea-roses and takes to monthlies
after the first year as a rule." He took
up his rake again and moved off a few
steps. " Not as they're all alike, even
in that. Some o' them Italians shows
much the same feeling' like as if they were
born and bred in old England. There's
one gentleman as comes occasionally to

look after that stone, for instance " (he
pointed out the place with his rake) ; " you
wouldn't believe how that gentleman do
look after it. And it must have been
here a good while. It was put up before
my time, I know, and that's going on for
nine years now. He's a quiet-looking
gentleman too. You wouldn't give him
credit for so much feeling, to look at
him."

Lexeter glanced in the direction indicated.
It gave him a curious feeling to see
a name he was familiar with. So this was
where they had buried Eegina Cardella,
little Guido's mother ? He remembered her
glorious beauty. There was a little bird
perching on the edge of the headstone, who
new away at his approach. He read the

date ; she would have been thirty now
if she had lived, the same age as Barbara.
He looked down at her grave with the
strangest feeling of compassion. He knew
very little about her except that she was
resplendently beautiful, and that Barbara
had been with her the night she died.
Probably, he reflected, she had had no particular
history. They were utter strangers,
and yet he felt sorry for her. It was a
pity to have lost that much beauty out of
the world.

The call he wished to make was on two
old ladies, on Miss Maclean and her sister,
Miss Janet.

It was the same servant who opened the
door to his ring. Lexeter would have been
disappointed to have found the servant

changed. But here at least nothing was
altered. As he entered the warm close little
drawing-room the last nine years seemed to
melt away like a dream. There before him was
the same small fire burning noiselessly and
discreetly under its ashes ; the sunlight fell
in the old way on the same neat rows
of flowerpots in the window, the same
old circle of precious miniatures on the
wall. The two white-haired old ladies
were sitting one on either side of the
fire, dozing peacefully through the quiet
afternoon.

Of the two, Miss Janet, received him with
the most cordiality. Miss Elizabeth looked
upon Lexeter as no longer young enough
to be attractive. She wondered somewhat
at Barbara's taste in selecting this middleman

for a friend  and she too with
a fine young husband like Count Lalli !
But even Miss Janet could not conceal some
slight surprise at the unexpectedness of
his visit ; Lexeter himself began to feel
embarrassed.

And yet he felt no impulse to go. The
old charm of this place, the charm of peace
and long continuance was upon him. He
looked with a pleased amused tenderness
at all the small, old, carefully-kept ornaments
about the room. He listened to
Miss Elizabeth's sweet, thin, gracious, old
voice ; he looked at the sunlight falling
upon her shining white hair, upon her
soft old hands, peacefully folded, upon
the stiff formal folds of her gown. The

proud old head was a little more bent,
the hands more tremulous.

There are not many people that my
sister would play for now," Miss Janet
said, looking at the little piano ; " but
there is no one plays music like my sister
Elizabeth."

They had shown him all their little
treasures : their father's miniature, the
glove of Mary Stuart, the portrait of Miss
Maclean attired for her first ball. It was
Miss Janet who showed these things and
gave the explanations, while Miss Elizabeth
looked on with dignified interest and made
conversation for their guest.

He asked her to play for him " in memory
of old times," and she consented graciously.

We don't often make use of the balcony
now, but if you would like to step out on it,
Mr. Lexeter ? " Miss Janet added briskly :
"Barbara  the Confess Lalli I would be
saying  was always of the opinion that one
heard my sister's music better from the
balcony."

The door was rusty now ; it grated on its
disused hinges.

Lexeter stepped out on the narrow
balcony. He saw the well-remembered
view  the river, the bridges, the cypresses ;
St. Peter's, and the pines of the Pamphili
hill. It was a gray tepid afternoon. He
was tired. He leaned against the railing,
listening vaguely to the thin and
melancholy tone of the old piano  some of

the notes were dumb, some of the strings
broken ; it seemed as if the poor old
instrument was protesting against being
disturbed. And all about him the divine
unrest of the spring was in the air. He
looked at the same sky and the same blue
line of mountains : there was nothing

to

changed here  nothing changed but himself.
For Lexeter had lost his youth. He
thought of Barbara still, but he thought of

-o   -  -  j   feller
as a man thinks of some dear and distant
memory. Life had stepped in between
them. And after all, he asked himself 
and the feeble worn-out notes of the old
piano seemed to make a sort of tinkling
refrain to the question  after all, was this not
the better part, to accept without murmuring

VOL. III. R

what seemed like the failure of her purpose
? Failure in life is to have no ideal.
Barbara had never lost hers.

He went into the room again, closing the
creaking door gently behind him.

Miss Elizabeth had left the piano now;.
she was sitting with folded hands beside the
fire.

She looked up with a start as he entered.
She had almost forgotten his
presence there.

And are you going the day, Mr.
Lexeter ? and are you not coming back ? n
she asked gently.

"No," said Lexeter, taking her soft old
hand in his, " I am not coming back
again."

He looked behind him as lie passed
through the doorway; it was his last
memory of Kome  a memory of old age, of
faithfulness, of resignation  a memory of
peace.

